CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

FIFTH BOOK.

Chapter Page

XXXVIII. HEAR THE LAWYER - - - 3

XXXIX. LISTEN TO REASON - - - 11

XL. KEEP YOUR TEMPER - - - 22

XLL MAKE THE BEST OF IT - - 35

XLII. TRY TO EXCUSE HER - - 46

Xlii KNOW YOUR OWN MIND - - QQ

XLIV. THINK OF CONSEQUENCES - - 79

XLV. LOVE YOUR ENEMIES - - 95

Xlvi NIL Desperado - - - 109

Xlvi BETTER DO IT THAN WISH IT Dons 124

Xlvi. BE careful! - - - 143

XLIX. KEEP THE SECRET - - - 153
L. FORGIVENESS TO THE INJURED DOTH

BELONG - - - - 16G

CHAPTER I'Af;E

LI. DUM SPIRO, Sperm - - - 17-1:

Lii. homme propose, et dieu dispose 183

LIII. THE LARGEST NATURE, THE LONGEST

LOVE - . - , 19S

LIV. LET BYGONES BE BYGONES - - 210

LV. LEAVE IT TO THE CHILD - - 225

AFTER THE STORY - - 247

FIFTH BOOK.

VOL. III. 38

HEAR THE LAWYER.

*' Mr. Herbert Linley, I ask permission
to reply to your inquiries in writing, because
it is quite likely that some of the
opinions you will find here might offend
you if I expressed them personally. I can
relieve your anxiety on the subject of Miss
Sydney Chesterfield. But I must be
allowed to do so in my own way  without
any other restraints than those which I
think it becoming to an honourable man to
impose on himself.

'* You are quite right in supposing that
Miss Chesterfield had heard me spoken of at

382

M

Mount Morven, as the agent and legal
adviser of the lady who was formerly your
wife. What purpose led her to apply tome,
under these circumstances, you will
presently discover. As to the means by
which she found her way to my office,
I may remind you that any directory
would give her the necessary information.


* Miss Chesterfield's object was to tell
me, in the first place, that her guilty life
with you was at an end. She has left
your protection  not to return to it. I
was sorry to see (though she tried to hide
it from me) how keenly she felt the parting.
You have been dearly loved by two sweet
women, and they have thrown their hearts
away on you  as women will.

*' Having explained the circumstances sofar,
Miss Chesterfield next mentioned the

motive which had brought her to my office.
She asked if I would inform her of Mrs.
Norman's address.

' This request, I confess, astonished
me.

*' To my mind she was, of all. persons,
the last who ought to contemplate communicating
in anyway with Mrs. Norman.
I say this to you ; but I refrained from
saying it to her. What I did venture todo
was to ask for her reasons. She
answered that they were reasons which
would embarrass her if she communicated
them to a stranger.

' After this reply, I declined to give her
the information she wanted.

Not unprepared, as it appeared to me,
for my refusal, she asked next if I was
willing to tell her where she might find
your brother, Mr. Sandal Linley. In this

case I was glad to comply with her request.
She could address herself to no person
worthier to advise her than your brother.
In giving her his address in London, I told
her that he was absent on a visit to some
friends, and that he was expected to return
in a week's time.

*' She thanked me, and rose to go.

' I confess I was interested in her.
Perhaps I thought of the time when she
might have been as dear to her father as
my own daughters are to me. I asked if
her parents were living : they were dead.
My next question was, * Have you any
friends in London ?' She answered : ' I
have no friends.' It was said with a
resignation so very sad in so young a
creature that I was really distressed. I ran
the risk of offending her  and asked if she
felt any embarrassment in respect of money.

She said : ' I have some small savings from
my salary when I was a governess.' The
change in her tone told me that she was
alluding to the time of her residence at
Mount Morven. It was impossible to look
at this friendless girl, and not feel some
anxiety about the lodging which she might
have chosen in such a place as London.
She had fortunately come to me from the
railway, and had not thought yet of where
she was to live. At last I was able to be
of some use to her. My senior clerk took
care of Miss Chesterfield, and left her among
respectable people, in whose house she
could jive cheaply and safely. "Where that
house is, I refuse (for her sake) to tell you.
She shall not be disturbed.

'' After a week had passed I received a
visit from my good friend, Sandal Linley.

*' He had on that day seen Miss Wester-field.

She had said to him what she had
said to me, and had repeated the request
which I thought it unwise to grant ;
owning to your brother, however, the
motives which she had refused to confide tome.
He was so strongly impressed by the
sacrifice of herself which this penitent
woman had made, that he was at first
disposed to trust her with Mrs, Norman's
address.

Reflection, however, convinced him
that her motives, pure and disinterested as
they undoubtedly were, did not justify him
in letting her expose herself to the consequences
which might follow the proposed
interview. All that he engaged to do was
to repeat to Mrs. Norman what Miss
Chesterfield had said, and to inform the
young lady of the result.

'ein the intervals of business, I had felt

some uneasiness when I thought of Miss
WesterfielcVs prospects. Your good brother
at once set all anxiety on this subject at
rest.

' He proposed to place Miss Chesterfield
under the care of an old and dear friend of
her late father  Captain Bennydeck. Her
voluntary separation from you offered to
your brother, and to the Captain, the
opportunity for which they had both been
waiting. Captain Bennydeck was then
cruising at sea in his yacht. Immediately
on his return, Miss Chesterfield' s inclinations
would be consulted, and she would no
doubt eagerly embrace the opportunity of
being introduced to her father's friend.

I have now communicated all that I
know, in reply to the questions which you
have addressed to me. Let me earnestly
advise you to make the one reparation

to this poor girl which is in your power.
Design yourself to a separation which is
not only for her good, but for yours. 
Samuel Sarkazin/'

LISTEN TO REASON.

Not having heard from Captain Benny-check
for some Httle time, Kandal thought
it desirable in Sydney's interests to make
inquiries at his crib. Nothing was known
of the Captain's movements there. On the
chance of getting the information that he
wanted, Kandal wrote to the hotel at
Sandyseal.

The landlord's reply a little surprised
him.

Some days since, the yacht had again
appeared in the bay. Captain Bennydeck
had landed, to all appearance in fairly good

health ; and had left by an early train for
London. The sailing master announced
that he had orders to take the vessel back
to her port  with no other explanation
than that the cruise was over. This
alteration in the Captain's plans (terminating
the voyage a month earlier than his
arrangements had contemplated) puzzled
Kandal. He called at his friend's private
residence, only to hear from the servants
that they had seen nothing of their master.
Sandal waited awhile in London, on the
chance that Bennydeck might pay him a
visit.

During this interval, his patience was
rewarded in an unexpected manner. He
discovered the Captain's address by means
of a letter from Catherine, dated '' Buck's
Hotel, Sydenham'* Having gently reproached
him for not writing to her or

calling on her, she invited him to dinner at
the hotel. Her letter concluded in these
words:  'you will only meet one person
besides ourselves  your friend, and (since
we last met) our friend too. Captain
Bennydeck has got tired of the sea. He is
staying at this hotel to try the air of Sydenham,
and he finds that it agrees with him."

These lines set Sandal thinking seriously.

To represent Bennydeck as being *' tired
of the sea," and as being willing to try,
in place of the breezy Channel, the air
of a suburb of London, was to make
excuses too perfectly futile and absurd
to deceive anyone who knew the Captain.
In spite of the appearance of innocence
which pervaded Catherine's letter, the true
motive for breaking off his cruise might be
found, as Sandal concluded, in Catherine
herself. Her residence at the seaside, helped

by the lapse of time, had restored to her personal
attractions almost all that they had lost
under the deteriorating influences of care and
grief; and her change of name must have
protected her from a discovery of the Divorce
which would have shocked a man so sincerely
religious as Bennydeck. Had her beauty
fascinated him ? Was she aware of the
interest that he felt in her ? and was it
secretly understood and returned ? Sandal
wrote to accept the invitation ; determining
to present himself before the appointed hour,
and to question Catherine privately, without
giving her the advantage over him of
preparing herself for the interview.

In the short time that passed before
the day of the dinner, distressing circumstances
strengthened his resolution. After
months of separation, he received a visit
from Herbert.

Was this man  haggard, pallid, shabby,
looking at him piteously, with bloodshot
eyes  the handsome, pleasant, prosperous
brother whom he remembered ? Sandal
was so grieved, that he was for a moment
unable to utter a word. He could only
point to a seat. Herbert dropped into
the chair as if he was reduced to the last
extremity of fatigue. And yet he spoke
roughly ; he looked like an angry man
brought to bay.

*'I seem to frighten you'' he said.

'* You distress me, Herbert, more than
words can say."

'give me a glass of wine. I've been
walking  I don't know where. A long
distance ; I'm dead beat."

He drank the wine greedily. Whatever
reviving effect it might otherwise have
produced on him, it made no change in

the threatening gloom of his manner. Ina
man morally weak, calamity (suffered
without resisting power) breaks its way
through the surface which exhibits a
gentleman, and shows the naked nature
which claims kindred with our ancestor
the savage.

'' Do you feel better, Herbert ?"

He put down the empty glass, taking no
notice of his brother's question. ** Sandal,"
he said, *' you know where Sydney is''

Sandal admitted it.

* Give me her address. My mind's in
such a state I can't remember it ; write it
down."

'' No, Herbert."

'* You won't write it ? and you won't
give it ?"

** I will do neither the one nor the other.
Go back to your chair; fierce looks and

clenched fists don't frighten me. Miss
Chesterfield is quite right in separating
herself from you. And you are quite
wrong in wishing to go back to her. There
are my reasons. Try to understand them.
And, once again, sit down."

He spoke sternly  with his heart aching
for his brother all the time. He was
right. The one way is the positive way,
when a man who suffers trouble is degraded
by it.

The poor wretch sank under Sandals
firm voice and steady eye.

' Don't be hard on me," he said. **I
think a man in my situation is to be pitied
especially by his brother. I'm not like
you ; I'm not accustomed to live alone.
I've been accustomed to having a kind
woman to talk to me, and take care of
me. You don't know what it is to be

VOL. III. 39

used to seeing a pretty creature, always
nicely dressed, always about the room 
thinking so much of you, and so little
of herself  and then to be left alone as
I am left, out in the dark. I haven't
got my wife ; she has thrown me over,
and taken my child away from me. And,
now, Sydney's taken away from me next.
I'm alone. Do you hear that ? Alone !
Take the poker there out of the fireplace.
Give me back Sydney, or knock out my
brains. I haven't courage enough to do it
for myself. Oh, why did I engage that
governess ! I was so happy, Kandal, with
Catherine and little Kitty."

He laid his head wearily on the back of
his chair. Sandal offered him more wine ;
he refused it.

** I'm afraid," he said. ** Wine maddens
me if I take too much of it. You have

heard of men forgetting their sorrows in
drink. I tried it yesterday; it set my
brains on fire ; I'm feeling that glass I took
just now. No! I'm not faint. It eases
my head when I rest like this. Shake
hands, Sandal; we have never had any
friendly words; we mustn't begin now.
There's something perverse about me. I
didn't know how fond I was of Sydney till
I lost her ; I didn't know how fond I was
of my wife till I left her." He paused, and
put his hand to his fevered head. Was his
mind wandering into some other train of
thought ? He astonished his brother by a
new entreaty  the last imaginable entreaty
that Sandal expected to hear. '' Dear old
fellow, I want you to do me a favour. Tell
me where my wife is living now ?"

'' Surely," Sandal answered, " you know
that she is no longer your wife ?"

392

'Never mind that ! I have something
to say to her."

** You cant do it."

*' Can you do it ? Will you give her a

message ?"

'' Let me hear what it is first."
Herbert lifted his head, and laid his hand
earnestly on his brother's arm. When he
said his next words he was almost like his
old self again.

Say that I'm lonely, say that I'm
dying for want of a little comfort ask
her to let me see Kitty."

His tone touched Sandal to the quick.
I feel for you, Herbert," he said warmly.
'' She shall have your message ; all that I
can do to persuade her shall be done."
'' As soon as possible ?"
Yes  as soon as possible."
"And you won't forget? No, no ; of

course you won't forget' He tried to rise,
and fell back again into his chair. ' Let
me rest a little' he pleaded, '' if I'm not in
the way, I'm not fit company for you, I
know; I'll go when you tell me."

Kandal refused to let him go at all.
*' You will stay here with me ; and if I
happen to be away, there will be somebody
in the house, who is almost as fond of you
as I am." He mentioned the name of one
of the old servants at Mount Morven, who
had attached himself to Sandal after the
break-up of the family. '' And now rest,"
he said ; ** and let me put this cushion
under your head." Herbert answered :
*sit's like being at home again"  and
composed himself to rest.

KEEP YOUR TEMPER.

On the next day but one, Kandal arranged
his departure for Sydenham, so as to arrive
at the hotel an hour before the time appointed
for the dinner. His prospects of
success, in pleading for a favourable
reception of his brother's message, were
so uncertain that he refrained  in fear of
raising hopes which he might not be able
to justify  from taking Herbert into his
confidence. No one knew on what errand
he was bent, when he left the house. Ashe
took his place in the carriage, the newspaper
boy appeared at the window as usual.

The new number of a popular weekly
journal had that day been published.
Kandal bought it.

After reading one or two of the political
articles, he arrived at the columns specially
devoted to '* Fashionable Intelligence."
Caring nothing for that sort of news, he
was turning over the pages in search of
the literary and dramatic articles, when a
name not unfamiliar to him caught his eye.
He read the paragraph in which it appeared.

** The charming widow, Mrs. Norman, is,
we hear, among the distinguished guests
staying at Buck's Hotel. It is whispered
that the lady is to be shortly united to a
retired naval officer of Arctic fame ; now
better known, perhaps, as one of our
leading philanthropists''

The allusion to Bennydeck was too plain
to be mistaken. Sandal looked aofain at

the first words in the paragraph. '' The
charming widow !" Was it possible that
this last word referred to Catherine ? To
suppose her capable of assuming to be a
widow, and  if the child asked questions 
of telling Kitty that her father was dead,
was, in Sandal's estimation, to wrong her
cruelly. With his own suspicions steadily
contradicting him, he arrived at the hotel,
obstinately believing that '' the charming
widow " would prove to be a stranger.

A first disappointment was in store for
him when he entered the house. Mrs.
Norman and her little daughter were out
driving with a friend, and were expected
to return in good time for dinner. Mrs.
Presty was at home ; she was reported to
be in the garden of the hotel.

Sandal found her comfortably established
in a summer-house, with her knitting in her

hands, and a newspaper on her lap. She
advanced to meet him, all smiles and
amiability. * How nice of you to come so
soon !" she began. Her keen penetration
discovered something in his face, which
checked the gaiety of her welcome. * You
don't mean to say that you are going to
spoil our pleasant little dinner by bringing
bad news !" she added, looking at him suspiciously.


'rit depends on you to decide that,"
Sandal replied.

'' How very complimentary to a poor
useless old woman ! Don't be mysterious,
my dear. I don't belong to the generation
which raises storms in tea cups, and calls
skirmishes with savages, battles. Outwith
it !"

Sandal handed his paper to her, open at the
right place. '' There is my news," he said.

Mrs. Presty looked at the paragraph, and
handed her newspaper to Sandal.

' I am indeed sorry to spoil your dramatic
effect," she said. ' But you ought to have
known that we are only half-an-hour behind
you, at Sydenham, in the matter of news.
The report is premature, my good friend.
But if these newspaper-people waited to
find out whether a report was true or false,
how much gossip would society get in its
favourite newspapers ? Besides, if it isn't
true now, it will be true next week. The
author only says, * It's whispered.' How
delicate of him ! What a perfect gentleman
!"

' Am I really to understand, Mrs. Presty,
that Catherine "

'* You are to understand that Catherine is
a widow. I say it with pride, a widow of
my making !"

** If this is one of your jokes, ma'am "

** Nothing of the sort, sir."

'* Are you aware, Mrs. Presty, that my
brother ''

Oh, don't talk of your brother ! He's
an obstacle in our way, and we have been
compelled to get rid of him."

Sandal drew back a step. Mrs. Presty 's
audacity was something more than he could
understand. ' Is this woman mad ?" he
said to himself.

*' Sit down," said Mrs. Presty. '' If you
are determined to make a serious business
of it  if you insist on my justifying myself
 you are to be pitied for not possessing
a sense of humour, but you shall have your
own way. I am put on my defence. Very
well. You shall hear how my divorced
daughter and my poor little grandchild
were treated at Sandy seal, after you left us."

Having related the circumstances, she
suggested that Sandal should put himself
in Catherine's place, before he ventured on
expressing an opinion. *' Would you have
exposed yourself to be humiliated again in
the same way ?" she asked. *' And would
you have seen your child made to suffer as
well as yourself ?"

' ' I should have kept in retirement for the
future," he answered, " and not have trusted
my child and myself among strangers in
hotels."

Ah, indeed ? And you would have
condemned your poor little daughter to
solitude ? You would have seen her pining
for the company of other children, and
would have had no mercy on her ? I
wonder what you would have done when
Captain Bennydeck paid us a visit at the
seaside ? He was introduced to Mrs.

Norman, and to Mrs. Norman's little girl,
and we were all charmed with him. "When
he and I happened to be left together he
naturally wondered, after having seen the
beautiful wife, where the lucky husband
might be. If he had asked xjou about Mr.
Norman, how would you have answered him ?"

*I should have told the truth."

' You would have said there was no Mr,
Norman ?"

eyes."

Exactly what I did ! And the Captain
of course concluded (after having been
introduced to Kitty) that Mrs. Norman was
a widow. If I had set him right, what
would have become of my daughter's
reputation ? If I had told the truth at
this hotel, when everybody wanted to know
what Mrs. Norman that handsome lady was
what would the consequences have been

to Catherine and her Httle girl ? No ! no !
I have made the hest of a miserable situation
; I have consulted the tranquillity of a
cruelly injured woman and an innocent
child  with this inevitable result ; I have
been obliged to treat your brother like a
character in a novel. I have shipwrecked
Herbert as the shortest way of answering
inconvenient questions. Vessel found bottom
upwards in the middle of the Atlantic, and
everybody on board drowned of course.
Worse stories have been printed ; I do
assure you, worse stories have been printed''

Kandal decided on leaving her. '' Have
you done all thi? with Catherine's consent ?"
he asked as he got up from his chair.

'' Catherine submits to circumstances,
like a sensible woman."

'* Does she submit to your telling Kitty
that her father is dead ?"

For the first time Mrs. Presty became
serious.

*' Wait a minute' she answered. ' Before
I consented to answer the child's inquiries,
I came to an understanding with the mother.
I said, ' Will you let Kitty see her father
again T "

The very question which Sandal had
promised to ask in his brother's interests !
*rand how did Catherine answer you ?"
he inquired.

** Honestly. She said : ' I aren't !'
After that, I had her mother's authority for
telling Kitty that she would never see her
father again. She asked directly if her
father was dead *' 

*that will do, Mrs. Presty. Your
defence is thoroughly worthy of your
conduct in all other respects."

* Say thoroughly worthy of the course

forced upon me and my daughter by your
brother's infamous conduct  and you will
be nearer the mark !"

Sandal passed this over without notice.
** Be so good," he said, ' as to tell Catherine
that I try to make every possible allowance
for her, but that I cannot consent to sit at
her dinner-table, and that I dare not face
my poor little niece, after what I have
heard."

Mrs. Presty recovered all her audacity.
*A very wise decision," she remarked.
*' Your sour face would spoil the best dinner
that ever was put on the table. Have you
any message for Captain Bennydeck ?"

Sandal asked if his friend was then at
the hotel.

Mrs. Presty smiled significantly. '' Not
at the hotel, just now."

'where is he ?"

** Where he is every day, about this time
out driving with Catherine and Kitty '

It was a relief to Sandal  in the
present state of Catherine's relations towards
Bennydeck  to return to London
without having seen his friend. He took
leave of Mrs. Presty with the formality due
to a stranger  he merely bowed. That
incorrigible old woman treated him with
affectionate familiarity in return.

** Good-bye, dear Sandal. One moment
before you go ! Will it be of any use if
we invite you to the marriage ?"

Arrived at the station, Sandal found that
he must wait for the train. While he was
walking up and down the platform, with a
mind doubly distressed by anxiety about his
brother and anxiety about Sydney, the train
from London came in. He stood, looking
absently at the passengers leaving the

VOL. III. 40

carriages on the opposite side of the platform.
Suddenly, a voice that he knew was
audible, asking the way to Buck's Hotel.
He crossed the line in an instant, and found
himself face to face with Herbert.

MAKE THE BEST OF IT.

For a moment the two men looked at each
other without speaking. Herbert's wondering
eyes accurately reflected his brother's
astonishment.

' What are you doing here ?" he
asked. Suspicion overclouded his face ashe
put the question. '' You have been to
the hotel-he burst out; 'you have
seen Catherine ?"

Sandal could deny that he had seen
Catherine, with perfect truth  and did deny
it in the plainest terms. Herbert was
satisfied. " In all my remembrance of

402

you," he said, '' you have never told me a
lie. We have both seen the same newspaper,
of course  and you have been the
first to clear the thing up. That's it, isn't
it?"

eyes."

'I wonder who this other Mrs. Norman
is ; did you find out ?"

''No."

** She's not Catherine, at any rate ; I, for
one, shall go home with a lighter heart."
He took his brother's arm, to return to
the other platform. "Do you know,
Sandal, I was almost afraid that Catherine
was the woman. The devil take the thing,
and the people who write in it !"

He snatched a newspaper out of his
pocket as he spoke  tore it in half  and
threw it away. '' Malcolm meant well,
poor fellow," he said, referring to the old

servant, " but he made a miserable man of
me for all that."

Not satisfied with gossip in private, the
greedy public appetite devours gossip in
print, and wants more of it than any one
editor can supply. Sandal picked up the
torn newspaper. It was not the newspaper
which he had bought at the station.
Herbert had been reading a rival journal,
devoted to the interests of Society  in which
the report of Mrs. Norman's marriage was
repeated, with this difference, that it boldly
alluded to Captain Benny deck by name.
*' Did Malcolm give you this ?" Sandal asked.

Yes ; he and the servant next door
subscribe to take it in ; and Malcolm
thought it might amuse me. It drove me
out of the house and into the railway. If
it had driven me out of my mind, I
shouldn't have been surprised."

' Gently, Herbert ! Supposing the report
had been true ?"

'* After what you have told me, why
should I suppose anything of the sort ?"

'' Don't be angry ; and do pray remember
that the Divorce allows you and Catherine
to marry again, if you like."

Herbert became more unreasonable than
ever. ' If Catherine does think of marrying
again," he said, ' the man will have to
reckon first with me. But that is not the
point. You seem to have forgotten that
the woman at Buck's Hotel is described asa
Widow. The bare doubt that my
divorced wife might be the woman was
bad enough  but what I wanted to find out
was how she had passed off her false pretence
on our child. That was what
maddened me ! No more of it now.
Have you seen Catherine lately ?"

*not lately."

* I suppose she is as handsome as ever.
When will you ask her to let me see
Kitty ?"

* Leave that to me," was the one reply
which Sandal could venture to make at the
moment.

The serious embarrassments that surrounded
him were thickening fast. His
naturally frank nature urged him to
undeceive Herbert. If he followed his
inclinations, in the near neighbourhood of
the hotel, who could say what disasters
might not ensue, in his brother's present
frame of mind ? If he made the disclosure,
on their return to the house, he would be
only running the same risk of consequences,
after an interval of delay ; and, if he
remained silent, the march of events might,
at any moment, lead to the discovery of

what he had concealed. Add to this, that
his confidence in Catherine had been rudely
shaken. Having allowed herself to be
entrapped into the deception proposed by
her mother, and having thus far persevered
in that deception, where the
chances in favour of her revealing her true
position  especially if she was disposed to
encourage Bennydeck's suit ? Sandal's
loyalty to Catherine hesitated to decide that
serious question against the woman whom
he had known, trusted, and admired for so
many years. In any event, her second
marriage would lead to one disastrous
result. It would sooner or later come
to Herbert's ears. In the meantime, after
what Mrs. Presty had confessed, the cruel
falsehood which had checked poor Kitty's
natural inquiries raised an insuperable obstacle
to a meeting between father and child.

If Eanclal shrank from the prospect
which thus presented itself to him, in his
relations with his brother, and if his
thoughts reverted to Sjdney Chesterfield,
other reasons for apprehension found their
way into his mind.

He had promised to do his best towards
persuading Catherine to grant Sydney an
interview. To perform that promise appeared
to be now simply impossible.
Under the exasperating influence of a
disappointment for which she was not
prepared, it was hard to say what act of
imprudence Sydney might not commit.
Even the chance of successfully confiding
her to Benny deck's protection, had lost
something of its fair promise, since Sandal's
visit to Sydenham. That the Captain
would welcome his friend's daughter as
affectionately as it she had been his own

child, was not to be doubted for a moment.
But that she would receive the same unremitting
attention, while he was courting
Catherine, which would have been offered
to her under other circumstances, was not
to be hoped. Be the results, however,
what they might, Sandal could see but one
plain course before him now. He decided
on hastening Sydney's introduction to
Bennydeck, and on writing at once to
prepare the Captain for that event.

Even this apparently simple proceeding
required examination in its different
bearings, before he could begin his letter.

Would he be justified in alluding to the
report which associated Bennydeck with
Catherine ? Considerations of delicacy
seemed to forbid taking this liberty, even
with an intimate friend. It was for the
Captain to confirm what Mrs. Presty had

said of him, if he thought it desirable to
touch on the subject in his reply. Besides,
looking to Catherine's interest  and not
forgetting how she had suffered  had
Sandal any right to regard with other
than friendly feelings a second marriage,
which united her to a man morally and
intellectually the superior of her first
husband ? What happier future could
await her  especially if she justified
Sandal's past experience of all that was
candid and truthful in her character  than
to become his friend's wife ?

Written under the modifying influence
of these conclusions, his letter contained the
few words that follow : 

' I have news for you which I am sure
you will be glad to hear. Your old friend's
daughter has abandoned her sinful way of
life, and has made sacrifices which prove

the sincerity of her repentance. Without
entering into particulars which may be
mercifully dismissed from notice, let me
only assure you that I answer for Sydney
Chesterfield as being worthy of the fatherly
interest which you feel in her. Shall I say
that she may expect an early visit from you,
when I see her tomorrow ? I don't doubt
that I am free already to do this ; but it
will encourage the poor girl, if I can speak
with your authority."

He added Sydney's address in a postscript,
and despatched his letter that
evening.

On the afternoon of the next day two
letters where delivered to Sandal, bearing
the Sydenham postmark.

The first which he happened to take up
was addressed to him in Mrs. Presty's handwriting.

His opinion of this correspondent
was expressed in prompt action  he threw
the letter, unopened, into the waste-paper
basket.

The next letter was from Bennydeck,
written in the kindest terms, but containing
no allusion to any contemplated change in
his life. He would not be able (he wrote)
to leave Sydenham for a day or two. No
explanation of the cause of this delay
followed. But it might, perhaps, be excusable
to infer that the marriage had not
yet been decided on, and that the Captain's
proposals were still waiting for Catherine's
reply.

Sandal put the letter in his pocket, and
went at once to Sydney's lodgings.

TRY TO EXCUSE HER.

The weather had been unusually warm.
Of all oppressive summers a hot summer in
London is the hardest to endure. The
little exercise that Sydney could take was,
as Sandal knew, deferred until the evening.
On asking for her, he was surprised to hear
that she had gone out.

' Is she walking," he asked, '' on such
a day as this ?"

No : she was too much overcome by the
heat to be able to walk. The landlady's
boy had been sent to fetch a cab, and he

had heard Miss Chesterfield tell the driver
to go to Lincoln's Inn Fields.

The address at once reminded Sandal of
Mr. Sarrazin. On the chance of making a
discovery, he went to the lawyer's office.
It had struck him as being just possible
that Sydney might have called there for the
second time ; and, on making inquiry, he
found that his surmise was correct. Miss
Chesterfield had called, and had gone away
again more than an hour since.

Having mentioned this circumstance,
good Mr. Sarrazin rather abruptly changed
the subject.

He began to talk of the weather, and,
like everybody else, he complained of the
heat. Receiving no encouragement so far,
he selected politics as his next topic.
Sandal was unapproachable indifferent to
the state of parties, and the urgent necessity

for reform. Still bent, as it seemed, on
preventing his visitor from taking a leading
part in the conversation, Mr. Sarrazin tried
the exercise of hospitality next. He opened
his cigar-case, and entered eagerly into the
merits of his cigars ; he proposed a cool
drink, and described the right method of
making it as distinguished from the wrong.
Kandal was not thirsty, and was not inclined
to smoke. Would the pertinacious lawyer
give way at last ? In appearance, at least,
he submitted to defeat. 'you want something
of me, my friend," he said, with a
patient smile. " What is it ?"

"T want to know why Miss Chesterfield
called on you."

Sandal flattered himself that he had
made a prevaricating reply simply impossible.
Nothing of the sort ! Mr
Sarrazin sipped through his fingers one.

more. The unwritten laws of gallantry-afforded
him a refuge now.

'' The most inviolable respect," he
solemnly declared, *sis due to a lady's
confidence  and, what is more, to a young
lady's confidence  and, what is more yet,
to a pretty young lady's confidence. The
sex, my dear fellow ! Must I recall your
attention to what is due to the sex ?"

This little outbreak of the foreign side of
his friend's character was no novelty to
Kandal. He remained as indifferent to the
inviolate claims of the sex as if he had been
an old man of ninety.

'did Miss Chesterfield say anything
about me ?" was his next question.

-Slippery Mr. Sarrazin slid into another
refuge : he entered a protest.

*' Here is a change of persons and
places!" he exclaimed. 'ram I a witness

VOL. III. 41

in a court of justice  and are you the
lawyer who examines me ? My memory
is defective, my learned friend. l:on mi
ricardo, I know nothing about it."

Kandal changed his tone. ** We have
amused ourselves long enough," he said.
* I have serious reasons, Sarrazin, for
wishing to know what passed between
Miss Chesterfield and you  and I trust my
old friend to relieve my anxiety."

The lawyer was accustomed to say of
himself that he never did things by halves.
His answer to Sandal offered a proof of his
accurate estimate of his own character.

** Your old friend will deserve your confidence
in him," he answered. *' You want
to know why Miss Chesterfield called here.
Her object in view was to twist me round
her finger  and I beg to inform you that
she has completely succeeded. My dear

Sandal, this pretty creature's cunning is
remarkable, even for a woman. I am an
old lawyer, skilled in the ways of the world
and a young girl has completely overreached
me. She asked  oh, heavens, how
innocently !  if Mrs. Norman was likely to
make a long stay at her present place of
residence."

Sandal interrupted him. '' You don't
mean to tell me you have given her
Catherine's address ?"

'* Buck's Hotel, Sydenham," Mr. Sarrazin
answered. " She has got the address down
in her nice little pocket-book."

'' What amazing weakness !" Sandal exclaimed.


Mr. Sarrazin cordially agreed with him.
*' Amazing weakness, as you say. Pretty
Miss Sydney has extracted more things,
besides the address. She knows that Mrs.

412

Norman is here on business relating to new
investments of her money. She knows
besides that one of the trustees is keeping
us waiting. She also made sensible remarks.
She mentioned having heard Mrs.
Norman say that the air of London never
agreed with her; and she hoped that a
comparatively healthy neighbourhood had
been chosen for Mrs. Norman's place of
residence. This, you see, was leading upto
the discovery of the address. The spirit
of mischief possessed me ; I allowed Miss
Chesterfield to take a little peep at the truth.
Mrs. Norman is not actually in London,'
I said ; ' she is only in the neighbourhood.'
For what followed on this, my experience
of ladies ought to have prepared me. I am
ashamed to say this lady took me completely
by surprise."

*' What did she do T

'fell on her knees, poor clear  and
said, * Oh, Mr. Sarcasm, be kinder to me
than you have ever been yet ; tell me where
Mrs. Norman is!'  I put her back in her
chair, and I took her handkerchief out of
her pocket and I wiped her eyes."

** And then you told her the address ?"
** I was near it, but I didn't do it yet.
I asked what you had done in the matter.
Alas, your kind heart has led you to promise
more than you could perform. She had
waited to hear from you if Mrs. Norman
consented to see her, and had waited in
vain. Hard on her, wasn't it ? I was
sorry, but I was still obdurate. I only felt
the symptoms which warned me that I was
going to make a fool of myself, when she
let me into her secret for the first time,
and said plainly what she wanted with Mrs.
Norman. Her tears and her entreaties I

lead resisted. The confession of her motives
overpowered me. It is right' cried Mr.
Sarrazin, suddenly warming into enthusiasm,
" that these two women should
meet. Remember how that poor girl has
proved that her repentance is no sham. I
say, she has a right to tell, and the lady
whom she has injured has a right to hear,
what she has done to atone for the past,
what confession she is willing to make to
the one woman in the world (though she ts
a divorced woman) who is most interested
in hearing what Miss WesterfiekVs life has
been with that wretched brother of yours.
Ah, yes, I know what the English cant
may say. Away with the English cant ! it
is the worst obstacle to the progress of the
English nation !"

Sandal listened absently : he was thinking.


There could be little doubt to what
destination Sydney Chesterfield had betaken
herself, when she left the lawyer's office.
At that moment, perhaps, she and Catherine
were together  and together alone.

Mr. Sarrazin had noticed his friend's
silence. ** Is it possible you don't agree
with me ?" he asked.

*'I don't feel as hopefully as you do, if
these two ladies meet."

*' Ah, my friend, you are not a sanguine
man by nature. If Mrs. Norman treats
our poor Sydney just as a commonplace
ill-tempered woman would treat her, I shall
be surprised indeed. Say, if you like, that
she will be insulted  of this I am sure,
she will not return it ; there is no expiation
that is too bitter to be endured by that
resolute little creature. Her fine nature
has been tempered by adversity. A hard

life has been Sydney's, depend upon it, in
the years before you and I met with her.
Good Heavens ! What would my wife say
if she heard me ? The women are nice,
but they have their drawbacks. Let us
wait till tomorrow, my dear boy; and let
us believe in Sydney without allowing our
wives  I beg your pardon, I mean my wife
to suspect in what forbidden direction our
sympathies are leading us. Oh, for shame !''
Who could persist in feeling depressed
in the company of such a man as this ?
Sandal went home with the influence of
Mr. Sarrazin's sanguine nature in undisturbed
possession of him, until his old
servant's gloomy face confronted him at the
door.

* Anything gone wrong, Malcolm ?"
** I'm sorry to say, sir, Mr. Herbert has
left us."

** Left US ! Why ?"

*' I don't know, sir."

'* Where has he gone ?"

*' He didn't tell me."

'' Is there no letter ? No message ?"

'' There's a message, sir. Mr. Herbert
came back "

** Stop ! Where had he been when he
came back ?"

*' He said he felt a little lonely after you
went out, and he thought it might cheer
him up if he went to the club. I was to
tell you where he had gone if you asked
what had become of him. He said it
kindly and pleasantly  quite like himself,
sir. But, when he came back  if you'll
excuse my saying so  I never saw a man
in a worse temper. ' Tell my brother I
am obliged to him for his hospitality, and
I won't take advantage of it any longer.'

That was Mr. Herbert's message. I tried
to say a word. He banged the door, and
away he went."

Even Sandal's patient and gentle nature
rose in revolt against his brother's treatment
of him. He entered his sitting-room in
silence. Malcolm followed, and pointed to
a letter on the table. ' I think you must
have thrown it away by mistake, sir," the
old man explained; 'I found it in the
waste-paper basket." He bowed with the
unfailing respect of the old school, and
withdrew.

Sandal's first resolve was to dismiss
his brother from further consideration.
* Kindness is thrown away on Herbert,"
he thought; 'I shall treat him for the
future as he has treated me."

But his brother was still in his mind.
He opened Mrs. Presty's letter  on the

chance that it might turn the current of his
thoughts in a new direction.

In spite of Mrs. Presty, in spite of himself,
his heart softened towards the man
who had behaved so badly to him. Instead
of reading the letter, he was now trying to
discover a connection between his brother's
visit to the club and his brother's angry
message. Had Herbert heard something
said, among gossiping members in the
smoking-room, which might account for his
conduct ? If Sandal had belonged to the
club he would have gone there to make
inquiries. How could he get the information
that he wanted, in some other
way ?

After considering for awhile, he remembered
the dinner that he had given to
his friend Sarrazin on his return from the
United States, and the departure of the

lawyer to his club, with a purpose in view
which interested them both. It was the
same club to which Herbert belonged,
Kandal wrote at once to Mr. Sarrazin,
mentioning what had happened, and acknowledging
the anxiety that weighed on
his mind.

Having instructed Malcolm to take the
letter to the lawyer's house, and, if he was
not at home, to inquire where he might be
found, Sandal adopted the readiest means
of composing himself, in the servant's
absence, by lighting his pipe.

He was enveloped in clouds of tobacco-smoke
 the only clouds which we can trust
never to prove unworthy of our confidence
in them  when Mrs. Presty's letter caught
his attention. If the month had been
January instead of July, he would have
thrown it into the fire. Under present

circumstances he took it up and read
it:

** I bear no malice, dear Sandal, and I
write to you as affectionately as if you had
kept your temper on the occasion when we
last met.

* You will be pleased to hear that
Catherine was as thoroughly distressed as
you could wish her to be, when it became
my disagreeable duty to mention what had
passed between us, .by way of accounting
for your absence. She was quite unable to
rally her spirits, even with dear Captain
Bennydeck present to encourage her.

** * I am not receiving you as I ought,'
she said to him, when we began dinner,
 but there is perhaps some excuse for me.
I have lost the regard and esteem of an old
friend, who has cruelly wronged me.' From

motives of delicacy (which I don't expect
you to understand) she refrained from
mentioning your name. The prettiest
answer that I ever heard was the answer
that the Captain returned. * Let the true
friend he said, ' take the place in your
heart which the false friend has lost.'

*' He kissed her hand. If you had seen
how he did it, and how she looked at him,
you would have felt that you had done more
towards persuading my daughter to marry
the Captain, than any* other person about
her, myself included. You had deserted
her ; you had thrown her back on the one
friend left. Thank you, Sandal. In our
best interests, thank you.

*' It is needless to add that I got out of
the way, and took Kitty with me, at the
earliest opportunity  and left them by
themselves.

' At bed-time I went into Catherine's
room. Our interview began and ended in
less than a minute. It was useless to ask
if the Captain had proposed marriage ; her
agitation sufficiently informed me of what
had happened. My one question was :
Dearest Catherine, have you said Yes ?'
She turned shockingly pale, and answered :
I have not said No.' Could anything be
more encouraging ? God bless you ; we
shall meet at the wedding."

Sandal laid down the letter, and filled
his pipe again. He was not in the least
exasperated ; he was only anxious to hear
from Mr. Sarrazin. If Mrs. Presty had
seen him at that moment, she would have
said to herself: '*I forgot the wretch was
a smoker*'

In half an hour more the door was
opened by Malcolm, and Mr. Sarrazin in
person answered his friend.

' There are no such incorrigible gossips,"
he said, ' as men in the smoking-room of
a club. Those popular newspapers began
the mischief, and the editor of one of them
completed it. How he got his information
I am not able to say. The small-talk
turned on that report about the charming
widow ; and the editor congratulated himself
on the delicacy of his conduct. ' When
the paragraph reached me,' he said, ' the
writer mentioned that Mrs. Norman was
that well-known lady, the divorced Mrs.
Herbert Linley. I thought this rather too
bad, and I cut it out.* Your brother
appears to have been present  but he
seldom goes to the club, and none of the

members knew him even by sight. Shall
I give you a light ? Your pipe's out."

Kandal's feelings, at that moment, were
not within reach of the comforting influence
of tobacco.

** Do you think your brother has gone to
Sydenham ?" Mr. Sarrazin asked.

Sandal answered : "I haven't a doubt
of it now."

VOL. III. 42

KNOW YOUR OWN MIND.

The garden of the hotel at Sydenham had
originally belonged to a private house. Of
great extent, it had been laid out in excellent
taste. Flower-beds and lawns, a
handsome fountain, seats shaded by groups
of fine trees at their full growth, completed
the pastoral charm of the place. A winding
path led across the garden from the
back of the house. It had been continued
by the speculator who purchased the property,
until it reached a road at the
extremity of the grounds which communicated
with the Crystal Palace. Visitors

to the hotel had such pleasant associations
with the garden that many of them returned
at future opportunities, instead of
trying the attraction of some other place.
Various tastes and different ages found
their wishes equally consulted here. Children
rejoiced in the finest playground they
had ever seen. Remote walks, secluded
among shrubberies, invited persons of reserved
disposition who came as strangers,
and as strangers desired to remain. The
fountain and the lawn collected sociable
visitors, who were always ready to make
acquaintance with each other. Even the
amateur artist could take liberties with
Nature, and find the accommodating limits
of the garden sufficient for his purpose.
Trees in the foreground sat to him for
likenesses that were never recognised ; and
hills submitted to unprovoked familiarities,

422

on behalf of brushes which were not
daunted by distance.

On the day after the dinner which had
so deplorably failed, in respect of one of
the guests invited, to fulfil Catherine's
anticipations, there was a festival at the
Palace. It had proved so generally attractive
to the guests at the hotel that the
grounds were almost deserted.

As the sun declined, on a lovely summer
evening, the few invalids feebly wandering
about the flower-beds, or resting under
the trees, began to return to the house
in dread of the dew. Catherine and her
child, with the nursemaid in attendance,
were left alone in the garden. Kitty found
her mother, as she openly declared, not
such good company as usual." Since the
day when her grandmother had said the
fatal words which checked all further

allusion to her father, the child had shown
a disposition to complain, if she was not
constantly amused. She complained of
Mrs. Presty now.

**I think Grandmamma might have
taken me to the Crystal Palace," she said.

My dear, your Grandmamma has
friends with her  ladies and gentlemen
who don't care to be troubled with a
child."

Kitty received this information in a
very unamiable spirit. '' I hate ladies
and gentlemen !" she said.

** Even Captain Bennydeck T' her
mother asked.

** No ; I like my nice Captain. And I
like the waiters. They would take me to
the Crystal Palace  only they're always
busy. I wish it was bed-time ; I don't
know what to do with myself."

'* Take a little walk with Susan."

'' Where shall I go ?"

Catherine looked towards the gate which
opened on the road, and proposed a visit
to the old man who kept the lodge.

Kitty shook her head. There was an
objection to the old man. *' He asks
questions ; he wants to know how I get
on with my sums. He's proud of his
summing ; and he finds me out when I'm
wrong. I don't like the lodge-keeper."

Catherine looked the other way, towards
the house. The pleasant fall of water in
the basin of the distant fountain was just
audible. " Go and feed the gold-fishes,"
she suggested.

This was a prospect of amusement which
at once raised Kitty's spirits. *' That's the
thing!" she cried, and ran off to the fountain,
with the nursemaid after her.

Catherine seated herself under the trees,
and watched in solitude the decline of the
sun in a cloudless sky. The memory of
the hajpy years of her marriage had never
been so sadly and persistently present to
her mind as at this time, when the choice
of another married life waited her decision
to become an accomplished fact. Remembrances
of the past, which she had such
bitter reason to regret, and forebodings of
the future, in which she was more than
half inclined to believe, oppressed her atone
and the same moment. She thought
of the different circumstances, so widely
separated by time, under which Herbert
(years ago) and Bennydeck (twenty-four
hours since) had each owned his love, and
pleaded for an indulgent hearing. Her
mind contrasted the dissimilar results.

Pressed by the faithless man who had

SO cruelly wronged her in after years, she
only wondered why he had waited so long
before he asked her to marry him.-
Addressed with equal ardour by that other
man, whose age, whose character, whose
modest devotion offered her every assurance
of happiness that a woman could desire,
she had struggled against herself, and had
begged him to give her a day to consider.
That day was now drawing to an end. As
she watched the setting sun, the phantom
of her guilty husband darkened the heavenly
light ; embittered the distrust of herself
which made her afraid to say Yes ; and left
her helpless before the hesitation which
prevented her from saying No.

The figure of a man appeared on the
lonely path that led to the lodge gate.

Impulsively, she rose from her seat as he
advanced. Impulsively, she sat down again.

After that first act of indecision, the flutter of
her spirits abated ; she was able to think.

To avoid him, after he had spared herat
her own request, would have been an
act of ingratitude : to receive him was to
place herself once more in the false position
of a woman too undecided to know her
own mind. Forced to choose between
these alternatives, her true regard for
Bennydeck forbade her to think of herself,
and encouraged her to wait for him. Ashe
came nearer, she saw anxiety in his
face, and observed an open letter in his
hand. He smiled as he approached her, and
asked leave to take a chair at her side. At
the same time, when he perceived that
she had noticed his letter, he put it
away hurriedly in his pocket.

** I hope nothing has happened to annoy
you' she said.

He smiled again ; and asked if she was
thinking of his letter. *sit is only a
report' he added, *from my second in
command, whom I have left in charge of
my Home. He is an excellent man ; but
I am afraid his temper is not proof against
the ingratitude which we sometimes meet
with. He doesn't yet make allowances
for what even the best natures suffer, under
the deteriorating influence of self-distrust
and despair. No, I am not anxious about
the result of this case. I forget all my
anxieties (except one) when I am with

you."

His eyes told her that he was about to
return to the one subject that she
dreaded. She tried  as women will try,
in the little emergencies of their lives 
to gain time.

** I am interested about your Home,"

she said : "I want to know what sort
of place it is. Is the discipline very
severe ?"

** There is no discipline* he answered
warmly. ' My one object is to be a friend
to my friendless fellow-creatures ; and my
one way of governing them is to follow the
teaching of the Sermon on the Mount.
Whatever else I may remind them of, when
they come to me, I am determined not to
remind them of a prison. For this reason
though I pity the hardened wanderers of
the streets, I don't open my doors to them.
Many a refuge, in which discipline is
inevitable, is open to these poor sinners
already. My welcome is offered to penitents
and sufferers of another kind  who
have fallen from positions in life in which
the sense of honour has been cultivated ;
whose despair is associated with remembrances

which I may so encourage, with
the New Testament to help me, as to lead
them back to the religious influences under
which their purer and happier lives may
have been passed. Here and there, I
meet with disappointments. But I persist
in my system of trusting them as freely as
if they were my own children; and, for the
most part, they justify my confidence in
them. On the day  if it ever comes  when
I find discipline necessary, I shall suffer
my disappointment and close my doors."

Is your house open," Catherine asked,
*' to men and women alike?"

He was eager to speak with her on a
subject more interesting to him even than
his Home. Answering her question, in
this frame of mind, his thoughts wandered :
he drew lines absently with his walking-stick
on the soft earth under the trees.

*the means at my disposal' he said,
** are limited. I have been obliged to
choose between the men and the women."

** And you have chosen women ?"

*eyes."

*why?"

*' Because a lost woman is a more friendless
creature than a lost man''

*' Do they come to you ? or do you look
for them ?"

*' They mostly come to me. There is one
young woman, however, now waiting to seeme,
whom I have been looking for. I am
deeply interested in her''

*' Is it her beauty that interests you ?"

*' I have not seen her since she was a
child. She is the daughter of an old friend
of mine, who died many years ago."

** And with that claim on you, you keep
her waiting?"

' Yes'

He let his stick drop on the ground, and
looked at Catherine ; but he offered no
explanation of his strange conduct. She
was a little disappointed. *' You have
been some time away from your Home,"
she said ; still searching for his reasons.
** When do you go back ?"

'*I go back," he answered, *when I
know whether I may thank God for being
the happiest man living."
They were both silent.

THINK OF CONSEQUENCES.

Catherine listened to the fall of water in
the basin of the fountain. She was conscious
of a faint hope  a hope unworthy of
her  that Kitty might get weary of the gold-fishes,
and might interrupt them. No such
thing happened; no stranger appeared on
the path which wound through the garden.
She was alone with him. The influences of
the still and fragrant summer evening were
influences which breathed of love.

** Have you thought of me since yesterday?"
he asked gently.

She owned that she had thought of him.

** Is there no hope that your heart will
ever incline towards me ?"

*'I aren't consult my heart. If I had

only to consider my own feelings " She

stopped.

'' What else have you to consider ?"

** My past life  how I have suffered,
and what I have to repent of."

** Has your married life not been a happy
one ?'' he asked,

<' Not a happy one  in the end," she
answered.

** Through no fault of yours, I am
sure ?"

'' Through no fault of mine, certainly."

** And yet you said just now that you had
something to repent of?"

*'I was not thinking of my husband,
Captain Bennydeck, when I said that.



If I have injured any person, the person
is myself."

She was thinking of that fatal concession
to the advice of her mother, and to the
interests of her child, which placed her ina
false position towards the honest man
who loved her and trusted her. If he had
been less innocent in the ways of the world,
and not so devotedly fond of her, he might,
little by little, have persuaded Catherine to
run the risk of shocking him by a confession
of the truth. As it was, his confidence in
her raised him high above the reach of
suspicions which might have occurred to
other men. He saw her turn pale ; he saw
distress in her face, which he interpreted asa
silent reproach to him for the questions
that he had asked.

I hope you will forgive me T' he said
simply.

VOL. III. 43

She was astonished. *' What have I to
forgive ?"

** My want of delicacy."

*'0h, Captain Bennydeck, you speak of
one of your great merits as if it was a fault !
Over and over again I have noticed your
delicacy, and admired it'

He was too deeply in earnest to abandon
his doubts of himself.

*' I have ignorantly led you to think of
your sorrows," he said ; '* sorrows that I
cannot console. I don't deserve to be
forgiven. May I make the one excuse in
my power ? May I speak of myself ?"

She told him by a gesture that he had
made a needless request.

' The life I have led," he resumed,
*' accounts perhaps, in some degree, for
what is deficient in me. At school, I was
not a popular boy ; I only made one friend,

and he has long since been numbered with
the dead. Of my life at college, and afterwards
in London, I dare not speak to you ;
I look back at it with horror. My school-friend
decided my choice of a profession ;
he went into the navy. After awhile, not
knowing what else to do, I followed his
example. I liked the life  I may say the
sea saved me. For years, I was never on
shore for more than a few weeks at a time.
I saw nothing of society; I was hardly
ever in the company of ladies. The next
change in m} life associated me with an
Arctic expedition. God forbid I should tell
you of what men go through who are lost
in the regions of eternal ice ! Let me only
say I was preserved  miraculously preserved
to profit by that dreadful experience. It
made a ne,, man of me ; it altered me (I
hope for the better) into what I am now.

432

Oh, I feel that I ought to have kept my
secret yesterday  I mean my daring to
love you. I should have waited till you
knew more of me ; till my conduct pleased
you perhaps, and spoke for me. You won't
laugh, I am sure, if I confess (at my age !)
that I am inexperienced. Never till I met
you have I known what true love is  and
this at forty years old. How some people
would laugh ! I own it seems melancholy
to me."

'No; not melancholy."
Her voice trembled. Agitation, which
it was not a pain but a luxury to feel, was
gently taking possession of her. Where
another man might have seen that her
tenderness was getting the better of her
discretion, and might have presumed on the
discovery, this man, innocently blind to his
own interests, never even attempted to

take advantage of her. No more certain
way could have been devised, by the most
artful lover, of touching the heart of a
generous woman, and making it his own.
The influence exerted over Catherine by
the virtues of Bennydeck's character  his
unaffected kindness, his manly sympathy,
his religious convictions so deeply felt, so
modestly restrained from claiming notice 
had been steadily increasing in the intimacy
of daily intercourse. Catherine had never
felt his ascendancy over her as strongly as
she felt it now. By fine degrees, the warning
remembrances which had hitherto made
her hesitate, lost their hold on her memory.
Hardly conscious herself of what she was
doing, she began to search his feelings in
his own presence. Such love as his had
been unknown in her experience ; the luxury
of looking into it, and sounding it to its

inmost depths, was more than the woman's
nature could resist.

** I think you hardly do yourself justice,"
she said. " Surely you don't regret having
felt for me so truly, when I told you yesterday
that my old friend had deserted
me?"

*'No, indeed!"

' Do you like to remember that you
showed no jealous curiosity to know who
my friend was ?"

"I should have been ashamed of myself
if I had asked the question."

*' And did you believe that I had a good
motive  a motive which jou might yourself
have appreciated  for not telling you the
name of that friend ?"

*ris he some one whom I know ?"

*' Ought you to ask me that, after what
I have just said ?"

** Pray forgive me ! I spoke without
thinking."

*' I can hardly believe it, when I remember
how you spoke to me yesterday.
I could never have supposed, before we
became acquainted with each other, that it
was in the nature of a man to understand
me so perfectly, to be so gentle and so considerate
in feeling for my distress. You confused
me a little, I must own, by what you said
afterwards. But I am not sure that I ought
to be severe in blaming you. Sympathy  I
mean such sympathy as yours  sometimes
says more than discretion can always approve.
Have you not found it so yourself ?"

*' I have found it so with you."

'rand perhaps I have shown a little too
plainly how dependent I am on you  how
dreadful it would be to me if I lost you too
as a friend ?"

She blushed as she said it. When the
words had escaped her, she felt that they
might bear another meaning than the simple
meaning which she had attached to them.
He took her hand ; his doubts of himself,
his needless fear of offending her, restrained
him no longer.

*you can never lose me," he said, if
you will only let me be the nearest friend
that a woman can have. Bear with me,
dearest ! I ask for so much ; I have so
little to offer in return. I dream of a life
with you which is perhaps too perfectly
happy to be enjoyed on earth. And yet, I
cannot resign my delusion. Must my poor
heart always long for happiness which is
beyond my reach ? If an overruling Providence
guides our course through this world,
may we not sometimes hope for happier
ends than our mortal eyes can see ?"

He waited a moment  and sighed  and
dropped her hand. She hid her face ; she
knew what it would tell him ; she was
ashamed to let him see it.

**I didn't mean to distress you," he said
sadly.

She let him see her face. For a moment
only, she looked at him  and then let
silence tell him the rest.

His arms closed round her. Slowly, the
glory of the sun faded from the heavens,
and the soft summer twilight fell over the
earth. '*I can't speak," he whispered;
*' my happiness is too much for me."

*' Are you sure of your happiness ?" she
asked.

** Could I think as I am thinking now,
if I were not sure of it ?"

* Are you thinking of me ?"

* Of you  and of all that you will be tome

in the future. Oh, my angel, if God
grants us many years to come, what a
perfect life I see !"

** Tell me  what do you see ?"

*'I see a husband and wife who are all
in all to each other. If friends come to us,
we are glad to bid them welcome ; but weare
always happiest by ourselves'

** Do we live in retirement ?''

** We live where you like best to live.
Shall it be in the country V

' Yes ! yes ! You have spoken of the
sea as you might have spoken of your best
friend  we will be near the sea. But I
must not keep you selfishly all to myself.
I must remember how good you have been
to poor creatures who don't feel our happiness,
and who need your kindness. Perhaps
I might help you ? Do you doubt it ?"

*' I only doubt whether I ought to let you

see what I have seen ; I am only afraid of
the risk of making you unhappy. You
tempt me to run the risk. The help of a
woman  and of such a woman as you are
-  is the one thing I have wanted. Your
influence would succeed where my influence
has often failed. How good, how thoughtful
you would be !"

'' I only want to be worthy of you," she
said, humbly. '' When may I see your
Home r'

He drew her closer to him : tenderly and
timidly he kissed her for the first time.
*' It rests with you," he answered. ' When
will you be my wife T'

She hesitated ; he felt her trembling.
*' Is there any obstacle T' he asked.

Before she could reply, Kitty's voice was
heard calling to her mother  Kitty ran up ,
to them.

Catherine turned cold as the child caught
her by the hand, eagerly claiming her attention.
All that she should have remembered,
all that she had forgotten in a few
bright minutes of illusion, rose in judgment
against her, and struck her mind prostrate
in an instant, when she felt Kitty's touch.

Benny deck saw the change. Was it
possible that the child's sudden appearance
had startled her ? Kitty had something to
say, and said it before he could speak.

** Mamma, I want to go where the other
children are going. Susan's gone to her
supper. You take me."

Her mother was not even listening.
Kitty turned impatiently to Bennydeck.
Why won't Mamma speak to me?" she
asked. He quieted her by a word. '* You
shall go with me." His anxiety about
Catherine was more than he could endure.

** Pray let me take you back to the house'
he said. '* I am afraid you are not well."

*'I shall be better directly. Do me a
kindness  take the child."

She spoke faintly and vacantly. Benny-deck
hesitated. She lifted her trembling
hands in entreaty. 'I beg you will leave
me!" Her voice, her manner, made it
impossible to disobey. He turned resignedly
to Kitty, and asked which way she
wanted to go. The child pointed down the
path to one of the towers of the Crystal
Palace, visible in the distance. *' The
governess has taken the others to see the
company go away," she said; '*I want to
go too."

Bennydeck looked back before he lost
sight of Catherine.

She remained seated, in the attitude in
which he had left her. At the farther end

of the path which led to the hotel, he
thought he saw a figure in the twilight,
approaching from the house. There would
be help near, if Catherine wanted it.

His uneasy mind was in some degree
relieved, as he and Kitty left the garden
together.

LOVE YOUR ENEMIES.

She tried to think of Bennydeck.

Her eyes followed him as long as he was
in sight, but her thoughts wandered. To
look at him now was to look at the little
companion walking by his side. Still, the
child reminded her of the living father ;
still, the child innocently tortured her with
the consciousness of deceit. The faithless
man from whom the law had released her,
possessed himself of her thoughts, in spite
of the law. He, and he only, was the
visionary companion of her solitude when
she was left by herself.

Did he remind her of the sin that he had
committed ?  of the insult that he had
inflicted on the woman whom he had vowed
to love and cherish ? No ! he recalled to
her the years of love that she had passed
by his side ; he upbraided her with the
happiness which she had owed to him, in
the prime and glory of her life. Woman !
set that against the wrong which I have
done to you. You have the right to condemn
me, and Society has the right to
condemn me  but I am your child's father
still. Forget me if you can !

All thought will bear the test of solitude,
excepting only the thought that finds its
origin in hopeless self-reproach. The soft
mystery of twilight, the solemn silence of
the slowly-coming night, daunted Catherine
in that lonely place. She rose to return
to light and human beings. As she set

her face towards the house, a discovery
confronted her. She was not alone.

A woman was standing on the path,
apparently looking at her.

In the dim light, and at the distance
between them, recognition of the woman
was impossible. She neither moved nor
spoke. Strained to their utmost point of
tension, Catherine's nerves quivered at the
sight of that shadowy solitary figure. She
dropped back on the seat. In tones that
trembled she said : ' Who are you ? What
do you want ?"

The voice that answered was, like her
own voice, faint with fear. It said : ' I
want a word with you."

Moving slowly forward  stopping 
moving onward again  hesitating again 
the woman at last approached. There was
light enough left to reveal her face, now that

VOL. III. 44

she was near. It was the face of Sydney
Chesterfield.

The survival of childhood, in the mature
human being, betrays itself most readily in
the sex that bears children. The chances
and changes of life show the child's mobility
of emotion constantly associating itself
with the passions of the woman. At the
moment of recognition, the troubled mind of
Catherine was instantly steadied, under the
influence of that coarsest sense which levels
us with the animals  the sense of anger.

' I am amazed at your audacity," she
said.

There was no resentment  there was
only patient submission in Sydney's reply.

"' Twice I have approached the house
in which you are living ; and twice my
courage has failed me. I have gone away
again  I have walked, I don't know where,

I don't know how far. Shame and fear
seemed to be insensible to fatigue. This
is my third attempt. If I was a Httle
nearer to you, I think you would see what
the effort has cost me. I have not much
to say. May I ask you to hear me ?"

" You have taken me by surprise, Miss
Chesterfield. You have no right to do
that ; I refuse to hear you."

*' Try, Madam, to bear in mind that no
unhappy creature, in my place, would expose
herself to your anger and contempt
without a serious reason. Will you think
again ?"

'' No !"

Sydney turned to go away  and suddenly
stopped.

Another person was advancing from the
hotel ; an interruption, a trivial domestic
interruption, presented itself. The nurse -

442

maid had missed the child, and had come
into the garden to see if she was with her
mother.

'' Where is Miss Kitty, Ma'am T' the
girl asked.

Her mistress told her what had happened,
and sent her to the Palace to
relieve Captain Bennydeck of the charge
that he had undertaken. Susan listened,
looking at Sydney, and recognising the
familiar face. As the girl moved away,
Sydney spoke to her.

'' I hope little Kitty is well and happy''

The mother does not live who could have
resisted the tone in which that question was
put. The broken heart, the love for the
child that still lived in it, spoke in accents
that even touched the servant. She came
back ; remembering the happy days when
the governess had won their hearts at

Mount Morven, and, for a moment at least,
remembering nothing else.

** Quite well and happy, Miss, thank
you'* Susan said.

As she hurried away on her errand, she
saw her mistress beckon to Sydney to
return, and place a chair for her. The
nursemaid was not near enough to hear
what followed.

Miss Chesterfield, will you forget what
I said just now ?" With those words,
Catherine pointed to the chair. *' I am
ready to hear you," she resumed,  *' but I
have something to ask first. Does what
you wish to say to me relate only to
yourself V

*' It relates to another person, as well as
to myself."

That reply, and the inference to which it
led, tried Catherine's resolution to preserve

her self-control, as nothing had tried it
yet.

*' If that other person' she began,
*' means Mr. Herbert Linley "

Sydney interrupted her, in words which
she was entirely unprepared to hear.

* I shall never see Mr. Herbert Linley
again''

' Has he deserted you ?"

'* No. It is 1 who have left /ww."

'' You !"

The emphasis laid on that one word
forced Sydney to assert herself for the
first time.

'* If I had not left him of my own freewill,"
she said, '* what else would excuse
me for venturing to come here ?"

Catherine's sense of justice felt the force
of that reply. At the same time, her
sense of injury set its own construction on

Sydney's motive. ** Has his cruelty driven
you away from him ?" she asked.

*' If he had been cruel to me' Sydney
answered, ** do you think I should have
come here to complain of it to You ? Dome
the justice to believe that I am not
capable of such self-degradation as that.
I have nothing to complain of."

** And yet you have left him ?"

*' He has been all that is kind and
considerate : he has done everything that
a man in his unhappy position could do to
set my mind at ease. And yet I have left
him. Oh, I claim no merit for my repentance,
bitterly as I feel it ! I might not
have had the courage to leave him  if he
had loved me as he once loved you."

** Miss Chesterfield ! You are the last
person living who ought to allude to my
married life."

** You may perhaps pardon the allusion,
Madam, when you have heard what I have
still to say. I owe it to Mr. Herbert
Linley, if not to you, to confess that his
life with me has not been a life of happiness.
He has tried, compassionately tried,
to keep his secret sorrow from discovery,
and he has failed. I had long suspected
the truth ; but I only saw it in his face,
when he found the book you left behind
you at the hotel. Your image has, from
first to last, been the one living image in
his guilty heart. I am the miserable
victim of a man's passing fancy. You
have been, you are still, the one object of
a husband's love. Ask your own heart if
the woman lives who could say to you,
what I have just said  unless she knew it
to be true."

Catherine's head sank on her bosom ;

her helpless hands lay trembling on her
lap. Overpowered by the confession which
she had just heard  a confession which
had followed closely on the thoughts inspired
by the appearance of the child  her
agitation was beyond control ; her mind
was unequal to the effort of decision. The
woman who had been wronged  who had
the right to judge for herself, and to speak for
herself  was the silent woman of the two !

It was not quite dark yet. Sydney could
see as well as hear.

For the first time since the beginning of
the interview, she allowed the impulse of
the moment to lead her astray. In her
eagerness to complete the act of atonement,
she failed to appreciate the severity of the
struggle that was passing in Catherine's
mind. She alluded again to Herbert
Linley, and she spoke too soon.

** Will you let him ask your pardon ?''
she said. ' He expects no more."

Catherine's spirit was roused in an
instant. '* He expects too much !'' she
answered sternly. 'Is he here by your
connivance ? Is he, too, waiting to take
me by surprise ?"

'* I am incapable. Madam, of taking
such a liberty with you as that ; I may
perhaps have hoped to be able to tell him,

by writing, of a different reception "

She checked herself. *' I beg your pardon,
if I have ventured to hope. I dare not
ask you to alter your opinion ''

*' Do you dare to look the truth in the
face T' Catherine interposed. ' Do you
remember what sacred ties that man has
broken ? what memories he has profaned ?
what years of faithful love he has cast from
him ? Must I tell you how he poisoned

his wife's mind with doubts of his truth
and despair of his honour, when he basely
deserted her ? You talk of your repentance.
Does your repentance forget that
he would still have been my blameless
husband but for You ?"

Sidney silently submitted to reproach,
silently endured the shame that finds no
excuse for itself.

Catherine looked at her and relented.
The noble nature which could stoop to
anger, but never sink to the lower depths
of malice and persecution, restrained itself
and made amends.  I say it in no unkindness
to you," she resumed. '* But
when you ask me to forgive, consider what
you ask me to forget. It will only distress
us both if we remain longer together*
she continued, rising as she spoke, '' Perhaps
you will believe that I mean well,

when I ask if there is anything I can do
for you ?"

 Nothing''

All the desolation of the lost woman told
its terrible tale in that one word. Invited
to rest herself in the hotel, she asked leave
to remain where she was ; the mere effort
of rising was too much for her now.
Catherine said the parting words kindly.
*' I believe in your good intentions; I
believe in your repentance."

* Believe in my punishment !'* After
that reply, no more was said.

Behind the trees that closed the view at
the farther extremity of the lawn, the
moon was rising. As the two women
lost sight of each other, the new light,
pure and beautiful, began to dawn over the
garden.

NIL Desperado.

No horror of her solitude, no melancholy
recollections, no dread of the future disturbed
Sydney's mind. The one sense left
in her was the sense of fatigue. Vacantly,
mechanically, the girl rested as a tired
animal might have rested. She saw
nothing, heard nothing ; the one feeling of
which she was conscious was a dull aching
in every limb. The moon climbed the
heavens, brightened the topmost leaves of
the trees, found the gloom in which Sydney
was hidden, and cheered it tenderly with
radiant light. She was too weary to sleep.

too weary even to shade her face when the
moonbeams touched it. While the light
still strengthened, while the slow minutes
still followed each other unheeded, the one
influence that could rouse Sydney found
her at last  set her faint heart throbbing 
called her prostrate spirit to life again.
She heard a glad cry of recognition in a
child's voice : 

Oh, Sydney, dear, is it you T'
In another instant her little pupil and
playfellow of former days was in her arms.
 My darling, how did you come here ?"
Susan answered the question, *' We are
on our way back from the Palace, Miss. I
am afraid," she sais timidly, 'That we
ought to go in."

Silently resigned, Sydney tried to release
the child. Kitty clung to her, and kissed
her ; Kitty set the nurse at defiance. *' Do

you think I am going to leave Syd now I
have found her ? Susan, I am astonished
at you !"

Susan gave way. Where the nature is
gentle, kindness and delicacy go hand-in-hand
together, undisturbed by the social
irregularities which beset the roadway of
life. The nursemaid drew back out of
hearing. Kitty's first questions followed
each other in breathless succession. Some
of them proved to be hard, indeed, to
answer truly, and without reserve. She
inquired if Sydney had seen her mother,
and then she was eager to know why
Sydney had been left in the garden
alone.

'* Why haven't you gone back to the
house with Mamma ?" she asked.

"Don't ask me, dear," was all that
Sydney could say. Kitty drew the inevitable

conclusion : ** Have you and
Mamma quarrelled V

'' Oh, no !"

'' Then come indoors with me."

*' Wait a little, Kitty, and tell me something
about yourself. How do you get on
with your lessons ?"

*you dear foolish governess, do you
expect me to learn my lessons, when I
haven't got you to teach me ? Where
have you been all this long while ? J
wouldn't have gone away and left xjou /"
She paused ; her eager eyes studied Sydney's
face with the unrestrained curiosity
of a child. *' Is it the moonlight that
makes you look pale and wretched ?" she
said. *' Or are you really unhappy ? Tell
me, Syd, do you ever sing any of those
songs that I taught you, when you first
came to us ?"

*' Never, dear !"

* Have you anybody to go out walking with
you and running races with you, as I did."
**No, my sweet! Those days have
gone by for ever."

Kitty laid her head sadly on Sydney's
bosom.  It's not the moonlight," she
said ; * shall I tell you a secret ? Sometimes
I am not happy either. Poor Papa
is dead. He always liked you  I'm sure
you are sorry for him."

Astonishment held Sydney speechless.
Before she could ask who had so cruelly
deceived the child, and for what purpose,
the nursemaid, standing behind her chair,
warned her to be silent by a touch.

*' I think we are all unhappy, now,"

Kitty went on, still following her own little

train of thought. '* Mamma isn't like what

she used to be. And even my nice Captain

VOL. III. 45

hasn't a word to say to me. He wouldn't
come back with us ; he said he would go
back by himself."

Another allusion which took Sydney by
surprise ! She asked who the Captain was.
Kitty started as if the question shocked her.
*' Oh, dear, dear, this is what comes of your
going away and leaving us ! You don't
know Captain Benny deck."

The name of her father's correspondent !
The name which she vaguely remembered
to have heard in her childhood ! ** Where
did you first meet with him ?" she inquired.
'' \t the sea side, dear !"
** Do you mean at Sandyseal ?"
' Yes. Mamma liked him  and Grand-mamma
liked him (which is wonderful) 
and I gave him a kiss. Promise me not to
tell ! My nice Captain is going to be my
new Papa."

Was there any possible connection between
what Kitty had just said, and what
the poor child had been deluded into believing
when she spoke of her father ? Even
Susan seemed to be in the secret of this
strange second marriage ! She interfered
with a sharp reproof. *' You mustn't talk
in that way, Miss Kitty. Please put her
off your lap. Miss Chesterfield ; we have
been here too long already."

Kitty proposed a compromise, '' 111 go'*
she said, 'if Syd will come with me."

' Ism sorry, my darling, to disappoint

yon."

Kitty refused to believe it. 'you
couldn't disappoint me if you tried," she
said boldly.

** Indeed, indeed, I must go away. Oh,
Kitty, try to bear it as I do !"

Entreaties were useless ; the child refused

452

to hear of another parting. *'I want to
make you and Mamma friends again. Don't
break my heart, Sydney ! Come home with
me, and teach me, and play with me, and
love me !"

She pulled desperately at Sydney's dress ;
she called to Susan to help her. With tears
in her eyes, the girl did her best to help
them both. *' Miss Chesterfield will wait
here'' she said to Kitty, " while you speak
to your Mamma.  Say Yes !" she whispered
to Sydney ; *' it's our only chance."

The child instantly exacted a promise.
In the earnestness of her love she even dictated
the words. ** Say it after me, as I
used to say my lessons," she insisted.
' Say, * Kitty, I promise to wait for you.' "

Who that loved her could have refused to
say it ! In one form or another, the horrid
necessity for deceit had followed, and was

still following, that first, worst act of falsehood
 the elopement from Mount Morven.

Kitty was now as eager to go as she had
been hitherto resolute to remain. She called
for Susan to follow her, and ran to the
hotel.

*' My mistress won't let her come back 
you can leave the garden that way' The
maid pointed along the path to the left, and
hurried after the child.

They were gone  and Sydney was alone
again.

At the parting with Kitty, the measure
of her endurance was full. Not even the
farewell at Mount Morven had tried her by
an ordeal so cruel as this. No kind woman
was willing to receive her and employ her,
now. The one creature left who loved her
was the faithful little friend whom she must
never see again. *' I am still innocent to

that child," she thought  * and I am parted
from her for ever !"

She rose to leave the garden.

A farewell look at the last place in which
she had seen Kitty tempted her to indulge ina
moment of delay. Her eyes rested on the
turn in the path at which she had lost sight
of the active little figure hastening away to
plead her cause. Even in absence, the
child was Sydney's good angel still. As she
turned away to follow the path that had
been shown to her, the relief of tears came
at last. It cooled her burning head ; it
comforted her aching heart. She tried to
walk on. The tears blinded her  she
strayed from the path  she would have
fallen but for a hand that caught her, and
held her up. A man's voice, firm and deep
and kind, quieted her first wild feeling of
terror. * My child, you are not fit to be

by yourself. Let me take care of you  let
me comfort you, if I can'

He carried her back to the seat that she
had left, and waited by her in merciful
silence.

** You are very young to feel such bitter
sorrow'' he said, when she was composed
again. ** I don't ask what your sorrow is ;
I only want to know how I can help you."

** Nobody can help me*'

Can I take you back to your friends ?"

** I have no friends."

' Pardon me, you have one friend at least
you have me."

'' You ? A stranger T

'' No human creature who needs my sympathy
is a stranger."

She turned towards him for the first time.
In her new position, she was clearly visible
in the light. He looked at her attentively.

'*I have seen you somewhere' he said,
before now''

She had not noticed him when they had
passed each other at Sandy seal. * I think
you must he mistaken," she answered.
'* May I thank you for your kindness ? and
may I hope to be excused if I say goodnight
r

He detained her. *' Are you sure that
you are well enough to go away by yourself
?" he asked anxiously.

'* I am quite sure !"

He still detained her. His memory of
that first meeting at the seaside hotel, reminded
him that he had seen her in the
company of a man. At their second meeting,
she was alone, and in tears. Sad
experience led him to form his own conclusions.
*'Ifyou won't let me take care of
you," he said, " will you consider if I can

be of any use to you, and will you call at
that address ?" He gave her his card. She
took it without looking at it ; she was confused
; she hardly knew what to say. *' Do
you doubt me ?" he asked  sadly, not
angrily.

*' Oh, how can I do that ! I doubt myself
; I am not worthy of the interest you
feel in me."

** That is a sad thing to say," he answered.
' Let me try to give you confidence
in yourself. Do you go to London
when you leave this place ?"

'' Yes."

*' To-morrow," he resumed, * I am going
to see another poor girl who is alone in the
world like you. If I tell you where she
lives, will you ask her if I am a person to be
trusted ?"

He had taken a letter from his pocket,

while he was speaking ; and he now tore
off a part of the second leaf, and gave it to
her. ** I have only lately' he said, '* received
the address from a friend'

As he offered that explanation, the shrill
sound of a child's voice, raised in anger
and entreaty, reached their ears from the
neighbourhood of the hotel. Faithful little
Kitty had made her escape, determined to
return to Sydney  had been overtaken by
the maid  and had been carried back in
Susan's arms to the house. Sydney
imagined that she was not perhaps alone in
recognising the voice. The stranger who
had been so kind to her did certainly start,
and look round.

The stillness of the night was disturbed
no more. The man turned aofain to the
person who had so strongly interested him.
The person was gone.

In fear of being followed, Sydney hurried
to the railway station. By the light in the
carriage she looked for the first time at the
fragment of the letter and the card.

The stranger had presented her with her
own address ! And, when she looked at
the card, the name was Bennydeck !

BETTER DO IT THAN WISH IT DONE.

More than once, on one and the same day,
the Captain had been guilty of a weakness
which would have taken his oldest friends
by surprise, if they had seen lira at the
moment. He hesitated.

A man who has commanded ships and
has risked his life in the regions of the
frozen deep, is a man formed by nature and
taught by habit to meet emergency face to
face, to see his course straight before him,
and to take it, lead him where it may.
But nature and habit, formidable forces as

they are, find their master when they encounter
the passion of Love.

At once perplexed and distressed by that
startling change in Catherine which he had
observed when her child approached her,
Bennydeck's customary firmness failed him,
when the course of conduct towards his
betrothed wife which it might be most
becoming to follow presented itself to him
as a problem to be solved. "When Kitty
asked him to accompany her nursemaid
and herself on their return to the hotel, he
had refused because he felt reluctant to
intrude himself on Catherine's notice, until
she was ready to admit him to her confidence
of her own free will. Left alone,
he began to doubt whether delicacy did
really require him to make the sacrifice
which he had contemplated not five minutes
since. It was surely possible that Catherine

might be waiting to see him, and might
then offer the explanation which would
prove to be equally a relief on both sides.
He was on his way to the hotel when he
met with Sydney Chesterfield.

To see a woman in the sorest need of all
that kindness and consideration could offer,
and to leave her as helpless as he had found
her, would have been an act of brutal
indifference, revolting to any man possessed
of even ordinary sensibility. The Captain
had only followed his natural impulses, and
had only said and done what, in nearly
similar cases, he had said and done on
other occasions.

Left by himself, he advanced a few steps
mechanically on the way by which Sydney
had escaped him  and then stopped. Was
there any sufficient reason for his following
her, and intruding himself on her notice ?

She had recovered, she was in possession
of his address, she had been referred to a
person who could answer for his good
intentions; all that it was his duty to do,
had been done already. He turned back
again, in the direction of the hotel.

Hesitating once more, he paused halfway
along the corridor which led to
Catherine's sitting-room. Voices reached
him from persons who had entered the
house by the front door. He recognised
Mrs. Presty's loud confident tones. She
was taking leave of friends, and was
standing with her back towards him.
Bennydeck waited, unobserved, until he
saw her enter the sitting-room. No such
explanation as he was in search of could
possibly take place in the presence of
Catherine's mother. He returned to the
garden.

Mrs. Pre sty was in high spirits. She
had enjoyed the Festival ; she had taken
the lead among the friends who accompanied
her to the Palace ; she had ordered
everything, and had paid for nothing, at
that worst of all bad public dinners in
England, the dinner which pretends to be
French. In a buoyant frame of mind,
ready for more enjoyment if she could only
find it, what did she see on opening the
sitting-room door ? To use the expressive
language of the stage, Catherine was " discovered
alone"  with her elbows on the
table, and her face hidden in her hands 
the picture of despair.

Mrs. Presty surveyed the spectacle before
her with righteous indignation visible in
every line of her face. The arrangement
which bound her daughter to give Bennydeck
his final reply, on that day, had been well

known to lier when she left the hotel in the
morning. The conclusion at which she
arrived, on returning at night, was expressed
with Roman brevity and Woman eloquence
in four words : 

'' Oh, the poor Captain !"

Catherine suddenly looked up.

' I knew it," Mrs. Presty continued, with
her sternest emphasis ; ' I see what you
have done, in your face. You have refused
Bennydeck."

** God forgive me, I have been wicked
enough to accept him !"

Hearing this, some mothers might have
made apologies ; and other mothers might
have asked what that penitential reply could
possibly mean. Mrs. Presty was no matron
of the ordinary type. She welcomed the
good news, without taking the smallest

VOL. III. 46

notice of the expression of self-reproach
which had accompanied it.

' My dear child, accept the congratulations
of your fond old mother. I have never
been one of the kissing sort (I mean of
course where women are concerned) ; but
this is an occasion which justifies something
quite out of the common way. Come and
kiss me."

Catherine took no notice of that outburst
of maternal love.

*' I have forgotten everything that I
ought to have remembered," she said. *sin
my vanity, in my weakness, in my selfish
enjoyment of the passing moment, I have
been too supremely happy even to think of
the trials of my past life, and of the false
position in which they have placed me
towards a man, whom I ought to be ashamed
to deceive. I have only been recalled to a

sense of duty, I might almost say to a sense
of decency, by my poor little child. If Kitty
had not reminded me of her father "

Mrs. Presty dropped into a chair : she
was really frightened. Her fat cheeks
trembled like a jelly on a dish that is
suddenly moved.

'' Has that man been here ?" she asked.

'whitman?"

'' The man who may break off your
marriage if he meets with the Captain. Has
Herbert Linley been here ?"

'certainly not. The one person associated
with my troubles whom I have seen
to-day is Sydney Chesterfield."

Mrs. Presty bounced out of her chair.
"You  have seen  Sydney Chesterfield ?"
she repeated, with emphatic pauses which
expressed amazement tempered by unbelief.

Yes ; I have seen her."

4(i- -2

 Where?"

** In the garden."

'' And spoken to her?"

'' Yes."

Mrs. Presty raised her eyes to the ceiling.
Whether she expected our old friend "the
recording angel " to take down the questions
and answers that had just passed, or whether
she was only waiting to see the hotel that
held her daughter collapse under a sense of
moral responsibility, it is not possible to
decide. After an awful pause, the old lady
remembered that she had something more to
say  and said it.

*' I make no remark, Catherine ; I don't
even want to know what you and Miss
Chesterfield said to each other. At the
same time, as a matter of convenience to
myself, I wish to ascertain whether I must
leave this hotel or not. The same house

doesn't hold that woman and Me. Has she
gone ?"

* She has gone."

Mrs. Presty looked round the room.
*sand taken Kitty with her ?" she
asked.

' Don't speak of Kitty!" Catherine cried
in the greatest distress. "I have had to
keep the poor innocent affectionate child
apart from Miss Chesterfield by force. My
heart aches when I think of it."

"' I'm not surprised, Catherine. My
granddaughter has been brought up on the
modern system. Children are all little angels
no punishments  only gentle remonstrance
 ' Don't be naughty, dear, because
you will make poor Mamma unhappy.' And
then, Mamma grieves over it and wonders
over it, dien she finds her little angel disobedient.
What a fatal system of education !

All my success in life ; every quality that endeared
me to your father and Mr. Presty ;
every social charm that has made me the idol
of society, I attribute entirely to judicious
correction in early life, applied freely with
the open hand. We will change the subject.
Where is dear Bennydeck ? I want to
congratulate him on his approaching marriage."
She looked hard at her daughter, and
mentally added: "He'll live to regret
it!"

Catherine knew nothing of the Captain's
movements. " Like you," she told her
mother, *' I have something to say to
him, and I don't know where he is."

Mrs. Presty still kept her eyes fixed on
her daughter. Nobody, observing Catherine's
face, and judging also by the tone of
her voice, would have supposed that she
was alluding to the man, whose irresistible

attractions had won her. She looked ill at
ease, and she spoke sadly.

' You don't seem to be in good spirits,
my dear," Mrs. Presty gently suggested.
** No lovers' quarrel already, I hope ?"

'' Nothing of the kind."

*' Can I be of any use to you ?"

'' You might be of the greatest use. But
I know only too well, you would refuse."

Thus far, Mrs. Presty had been animated
by curiosity. She began now to feel vaguely
alarmed. * After all that I have done for
you," she answered, *'I don't think you
ought to say that. Why should I refuse ?"

Catherine hesitated.

Her mother persisted in pressing her.
*has it anything to do with Captain
Bennydeck ?"

'' Yes."

** What is it?"

Catherine roused her courage.

' You know what it is as well as I do,"
she said. ** Captain Bennydeck believes
that I am free to marry him, because I ama
widow. You might help me to tell him
the truth."

'' What ! ! !"

That exclamation of horror and astonishment
was loud enough to have been heard
in the garden. If Mrs. Presty's hair had
been all her own, it must have been hair
that stood on end.

Catherine quietly rose. ' We won't discuss
it," she said with resignation. "I
knew you would refuse me." She approached
tie door. Her mother got up
and resolutely stood in the way. *' Before
you commit an act of downright madness,"
Mrs. Presty said, *' I mean to try if I can
stop you. Go back to your chair."

Catherine refused.

I know low it will end' she answered ;
** and the sooner it ends the better. You
will find that I am quite as determined as
you are. A man who loves me as Ue, loves
me, is a man whom I refuse to deceive."

** Let's have it out plainly' Mrs. Presty
insisted. ' He believes your first marriage
has been dissolved by death. Do you mean
to tell him that it has been dissolved by
Divorce ?"

'I do."

'' What right has he to know it ?"

*' A right that is not to be denied.
A wife must have no secrets from her
husband."

Mrs. Presty hit back smartly.

** You're not his wife yet. Wait till you
are married."

** Never ! Who but a wretch would

marry an honest man under false pretences
?"

'' I deny the false pretences ! You talk
as if you were an impostor. Are you, or
are you not, the accomplished lady who has
charmed him ? Are you, or are you not, the
beautiful woman whom he loves ? There
isn't a stain on your reputation. In every
respect you are the wife he wants, and the
wife who is worthy of him. And you are
cruel enough to disturb the poor man about
a matter that doesn't concern him ! you are
fool enough to raise doubts of you in his
mind, and give him a reproach to cast in
your teeth the first time you do anything
that happens to offend him ! Any woman
I don't care who she may be  might envy
the home that's waiting for you and your
child, if you're wise enough to hold your
tongue. Upon my word, Catherine, I am

ashamed of you. Have you no principles
T'

She really meant it ! The purely selfish
considerations which she urged on her
daughter were so many undeniable virtues
in Mrs. Presty's estimation. She took the
highest moral ground, and stood up and
crowed on it, with a auricle in her own
principles which the Primate of all England
might have envied.

But Catherine's rare resolution held as
firm as ever. She got a little nearer to the
door. " Good-night, mamma," was the
only reply she made.

' Is that all you have to say to me ?"

"' I am tired, and I must rest. Please
let me go."

Mrs. Presty threw open the door with
a bang.

'' You refuse to take my advice ?" she

said. ' Oh, very well, have your own way !
You are sure to prosper in the end. These
are the days of exhibitions and gold medals.
If there is ever an exhibition of idiots at
large, I know who might win the prize."

Catherine was accustomed to preserve
her respect for her mother under difficulties ;
but this was more than her sense of filial
duty could successfully endure.

 I only wish I had never taken your
advice," she answered. " Many a miserable
moment would have been spared me, if I
had always done what I am doing now.
You have been the evil genius of my life,
since Miss Chesterfield first came into our
house."

She passed through the open doorways 
stopped  and came back again. ' I didn't
mean to ofibnd you. Mamma  but you do
say such irritating things. Good-night."

Not a word of reply acknowledged that
kindly-meant apology. Mrs. Presty 
vivacious Mrs. Presty of the indomitable
spirit and the ready tongue  was petrified.
She, the guardian angel of the family, whose
experience, devotion, and sound sense had
steered Catherine through difficulties and
dangers which must have otherwise ended
in utter domestic shipwreck  she, the
model mother  had been stigmatised as the
evil genius of her daughter's life by no less
a person than that daughter herself ! What
was to be said ? What was to be done ?
What terrible and unexampled course of
action should be taken after such an insult
as this ? Mrs. Presty stood helpless in the
middle of the room, and asked herself these
questions, and waited and wondered and
found no answer.

An interval passed. There was a knock

at the door. A waiter appeared. He said :
' A gentleman to see Mrs. Norman''

The gentleman entered the room, and revealed
himself.

Herbert Linley !

BE CAREFUL !

The divorced husband looked at this mother-in-law
without making the slightest sacrifice
to the claims of politeness. He neither
offered his hand nor made his bow. His
frowning eyebrows, his flushed face, betrayed
the anger that was consuming him.

*' I want to see Catherine," he said.

This deliberate rudeness proved to be the
very stimulant that was required to restore
Mrs. Presty to herself. The smile that
always meant mischief made its threatening
appearance on the old lady's face.

'Wliat sort of company have you been
keeping since I last saw you ?" she began.

* "What have you got to do with the
company I keep ?"

Nothing whatever, I am happy to say.
I was merely wondering whether you have
been travelling lately, in the south part of
Africa, and have lived exclusively in the
society of Hottentots. The only other
explanation of your behaviour is that I have
been so unfortunate as to offend you. But
it seems improbable  I am not your wife."

Thank God, for that!"

** Thank God, as you say. But I should
really be glad (as a mere matter of curiosity)
to know what your extraordinary conduct
means. You present yourself in this room
uninvited, you find a lady here, and you
behave as if you had come into a shop and
wanted to ask the price of something. Let

me give you a lesson in good manners.
Observe : I receive you with a bow, and I
say : How do you do, Mr. Linley ? Do you
understand me ?'*

** I don't want to understand you  I want
to see Catherine. "

'' Who is Catherine T

*you know as well as I do  your
daughter."

** My daughter, sir, is a stranger to you.
We will speak of her, if you please, by the
name  the illustrious name  which she
inherited at her birth. You wish to see
Mrs. Norman ?"

** Call her what you like. I have a word
to say to her, and I mean to say it."

**No, Mr. Linley, you won't say it."

'' We'll see about that ! Where is she ?"

'' My daughter is not well."

** Well or ill, I shan't keep her long."

VOL. III. 47

*' My daughter has retired to her room."

Where is her room ?"

Mrs. Presty moved to the fireplace, and
laid her hand on the bell.

' Are you aware that this house is an
hotel ">." she asked.

*sit doesn't matter to me what it is."

'' Oh, yes, it does. An hotel keeps
waiters. An hotel, when it is as large as
this, has a policeman in attendance. Must
I ring ?"

The choice between giving way to ]\[rs.
Presty, or being disgracefully dismissed, was
placed plainly before him. Herbert's life
had been the life of a gentleman ; he knew
that he had forgotten himself; it was
impossible that he could hesitate.

*I won't trouble you to ring," he said;
** and I will beg your pardon for having
allowed my temper to get the better of me.

At the same time it ought to be remembered,
I think, in my favour, that I have had some
provocation."

*' I don't agree with you," Mrs. Presty
answered. She was deaf to any appeal for
mercy from Herbert Linley. *' As to provocation,"
she added, returning to her chair
without asking him to be seated, 'when
you apply that word to yourself, you insult
my daughter and me. You provoked ? Oh,
heavens!"

'' You wouldn't say that," he urged,
speaking with marked restraint of tone and
manner, 'if you knew what I have had to
endure "

Mrs. Presty suddenly looked towards
the door. '* Wait a minute," she said ; '* I
think I hear somebody coming in."

In the silence that followed, footsteps
where audible outside  not approaching the

472

door, however, but retiring from it. Mrs.
Presty had apparently been mistaken.
Yes ?" she said, resignedly, permitting
Herbert to proceed.

He really had something to say for himself,
and he said it with sufficient moderation.
That he had been guilty of serious
offences he made no attempt to deny ; but
he pleaded that he had not escaped without
justly suffering for what he had done. He
had been entirely in the wrong when he
threatened to take the child away from her
mother by force of law ; but had he not
been punished when his wife obtained her
Divorce, and separated him from his little
daughter as well as from herself ? (Xo :
Mrs. Presty failed to see it ; if anybody had
suffered by the Divorce, the victim was her
injured daughter.) Still patient, Herbert
did not deny the injury ; he only submitted

once more that he had suffered his punishment.
Whether his Hfe with Sydney
Chesterfield had or had not been a happy
one, he must decline to say ; he would only
declare that it had come to an end. She
had left him. Yes ! she had left him forever.
He had no wish to persuade her to
return to their guilty life ; they were both
penitent, they were both ashamed of it.
But she had gone away without the provision
which he was bound in honour to offer
to her.

*' She is friendless ; she may be in a
state of poverty that I tremble to think of,"
Herbert declared. *' Is there nothing to
plead for me in such anxiety as I am suffering
now ?" Mrs. Presty stopped him there ;
she had heard enough of Sydney already.

' I see nothing to be gained," she said,
*' by dwelling on the past ; and I should be

glad to know why you have come to this
place to-nights'

'* I have come to see Kitty."

' Quite out of the question."

'' Don't tell me that, Mrs. Presty ! I'm
one of the wretchedness men living, and I
ask for the consolation of seeing my child.
Kitty hasn't forgotten me yet, I know. Her
mother can't he so cruel as to refuse. She
shall fix her own time, and send me away
when she likes ; I'll submit to anything.
Will you ask Catherine to let me see
Kitty r

''\ can't doit."

' Why not?"

*' For private reasons."

What reasons ?"

"For reasons into which you have no
right to inquire."

He got up from his chair. His face

presented the same expression which Mrs.
Presty had seen on it when he first entered
the room.

*when I came in here," he said, "I
washed to be certain of one thing. Your
prevarication has told me what I wanted to
know. The newspapers had Catherine's
own authority for it, Mrs. Presty, when they
called her widow. I know now why my
brother, who never deceived me before, has
deceived me about this. I understand the
part that your daughter has been playing 
and I am as certain as if I had heard it, of the
devilish lie that one of you  perhaps both
of you  must have told my poor child. No,
no ; I had better not see Catherine. Many
a man has killed his wife, and has not had
such good reason for doing it as I have.
You are quite right to keep me away from
her."

He stopped  and looked suddenly towards
the door. *' I hear her," he cried. ** She's
coming in !"

The footsteps outside were audible once
more. This time, they were approaching ;
they were close to the door. Herbert drew
back from it. Looking round to see that
he was out of the way, Mrs. Presty rushed
forward  tore open the door in terror of
what might happen  and admitted Captain
Bennydeck.

KEEP THE SECRET.

The Captain's attention was first attracted by
the visitor whom he found in the room. He
bowed to the stranger ; but the first impression
produced on him did not appear to
have been of the favourable kind, when he
turned next to Mrs. Presty.

Observing that she was agitated he made
the customary apologies, expressing his regret
if he had been so unfortunate as to
commit an intrusion. Trusting in the good
sense and good breeding which distinguished
him on other occasions, Mrs. Presty anticipated
that he would see the propriety of

leaving her alone again with the person
whom he had found in her company. To
her dismay he remained in the room ; and,
worse still, he noticed her daughter's absence,
and asked if there was any serious
cause for it.

For the moment, Mrs. Presty was unable
to reply. Her presence of mind  or, to put
it more correctly, her ready audacity 
deserted her, when she saw Catherine's
husband that had been, and Catherine's
husband that was to be, meeting as strangers,
and but too likely to discover each other.

In all her experience she had never been
placed in such a position of embarrassment as
the position in which she found herself now.
The sense of honour which had prompted
Catherine's resolution to make Bennydeck
acquainted with the catastrophe of her
married life, might plead her excuse in the

estimation of a man devotedly attached to
her. But if the Captain was first informed
that he had been deceived by a person who
was a perfect stranger to him, what hope
could be entertained of his still holding himself
bound by his marriage engagement ? It
was even possible that distrust had been
already excited in his mind. He must certainly
have heard a man's voice raised in
anger, when he approached the door  and
he was now observing that man with an air
of curiosity which was already assuming the
appearance of distrust. That Herbert, on
his side, resented the Captain's critical
examination of him was plainly visible in
his face. After a glance at Benny deck, he
asked Mrs. Presty ' who that gentleman was."
*' I may be mistaken," he added ; *' but 1
thought your friend looked at me just now
as if he knew me."

*' I have met you, sir, before this." The
Captain made the reply with a courteous
composure of tone and manner which apparently
reminded Herbert of the claims of
politeness.

** May I ask where I had the honour of
seeing you ?" he inquired.

We passed each other in the hall of the
hotel at Saijdyseal. You had a young lady
with you."

** Your memory is a better one than mine,
sir. I fail to remember the circumstance to
which you refer."

Benny deck let the matter rest there.
Struck by the remarkable appearance of
embarrassment in Mrs. Presty's manner 
and feeling (in spite of Herbert's politeness
of language) increased distrust of the man
whom he had found visiting her  he
thought it might not be amiss to hint that

she could rely on him in case of necessity.
** I am afraid I have interrupted a confidential
interview," he began ; ** and I ought
perhaps to explain "

Mrs. Presty listened absently ; preoccupied
by the fear that Herbert would provoke
a dangerous disclosure, and by the difficulty
of discovering a means of preventing it.
She interrupted the Captain.

*' Excuse me for one moment; I have a
word to say to this gentleman." Benny-deck
immediately drew back, and Mrs.
Presty lowered her voice. * If you wish
to see Kitty," she resumed, attacking Herbert
on his weak side, '' it depends entirely
on your discretion."

** What do you mean by discretion ?"

*'Be careful not to speak of our family
troubles  and I promise you shall see Kitty.
That is what I mean."

Herbert declined to say whether he would
be careful or not. He was determined to
find out, first, with what purpose Bennydeck
had entered the room. ' The gentleman
was about to explain himself to you," he
said to Mrs. Presty. '  Why don't you give
him the opportunity ?"

She had no choice but to submit  in
appearance at least. Never had she hated
Herbert as she hated him at that moment.
The Captain went on with his explanation.
He had his reasons (he said) for hesitating,
in the first instance, to present himself uninvited,
and he accordingly retired. On
second thoughts, however, he had returned,
in the hope

'' In the hope," Herbert interposed, *' of
seeing Mrs. Presty 's daughter ?"

'' That was one of my motives," Benny-deck
answered.

*sis it indiscreet to inquire what the
other motive was ?"

*not at all. I heard a stranger's voice,
speaking in a tone which, to say the least
of it, is not customary in a lady's room ;
and I thought '*

Herbert interrupted him again. *' And
you thought your interference might be
welcome to the lady ! Am I right ?"

'' Quite right."

'' Am I making another lucky guess, if I
suppose myself to be speaking to Captain
Bennydeck V

* I shall be glad to hear, sir, how you
have arrived at the knowledge of my name."

' Shall we say, Captain, that I have
arrived at it by instinct ?"

His face, as he made that reply, alarmed
Mrs. Presty. She cast a look at him, partly
of entreaty, partly of warning. No effect

'was produced by the look. He continued,
in a tone of ironical compliment : *' You
must pay the penalty of being a public
character. Your marriage is announced in
the newspapers."

**I seldom read the newspapers."
*' Ah, indeed ? Perhaps the report is not
true ? As you don't read the newspapers,
allow me to repeat it. You are engaged to
marry the ' beautiful widow, Mrs. Norman.'
I think I quote those last words correctly ?"
Mrs. Presty suddenly got up. With an
inscrutable face that told no tales, she
advanced to the door. Herbert's insane
jealousy of the man who was about to become
Catherine's husband had led him into
a serious error ; he had driven Catherine's
mother to desperation. In that state of
mind she recovered her lost audacity, as a
matter of course. Opening the door, she

turned round to the two men, with a magnificent
impudence of manner which in her
happiest moments she had never surpassed.
*' I am sorry to interrupt this interesting
conversation," she said ; *' but I have
stupidly forgotten one of my domestic 'duties.
You will allow me to return, and listen with
renewed pleasure, when my household business
is off my mind. I shall hope to find
you both more polite to each other than
ever, when I come back." She was in
such a frenzy of suppressed rage that she
actually kissed her hand to them as she left

the room !

Bennydeck looked after her, convinced

that some sinister purpose was concealed
under Mrs. Presty's false excuses, and
wholly unable to imagine what that purpose
might be. Herbert still persisted in trying
to force a quarrel on the Captain.
VOL. III. 48

'' As I remarked just now," he proceeded,
'* newspaper reports are not always to be
trusted. Do you seriously mean, my dear
sir, to marry Mrs. Norman ?"

'' I look forward to that honour and that
happiness. But I am at a loss to know
how it interests you."

' In that case allow me to enlighten you.
My name is Herbert Linley."

He had held his name in reserve, feeling
certain of the effect which he would produce
when he pronounced it. The result took
him completely by surprise. Not the
slightest appearance of agitation showed
itself in Bennydeck's manner. On the contrary,
he looked as if there was something
that interested him in the discovery of the
name.

You are probably related to a friend of
mine," he said quietly.

* Who vs your friend ?"
'' Mr. Sandal Linley."
Herbert was entirely unprepared for this
discovery. Once more, the Captain had got
the best of it.

'' Are you and Sandal Linley intimate
friends ?" he inquired, as soon as he had
recovered himself.
** Most intimate."

*' It's strange that he should never have
mentioned me, on any occasion when you
and he were together."

* It does indeed seem strange."
Herbert paused. His brother's keen
sense of the disgrace that he had inflicted
on the family recurred to his memory. He
began to understand Sandal's otherwise
unaccountable silence.

** Are you nearly related to Mr. Sandal
Linley ?" the Captain asked.

482

*' I am his elder brother."

Ignorant on his part of the family disgrace,
Bennydeck heard that reply with
amazement. From his point of view, it was
impossible to account for Sandal's silence.

* Will you think me very inquisitive,"
Herbert resumed, 'if I ask whether my
brother approves of your marriage ?"

There was a change in his tone, as he put
that question, which warned Bennydeck to be
on his guard. ** I have not yet consulted
my friend's opinion," he answered shortly.

Herbert threw off the mask. " In the
meantime, you shall have my opinion," he
said. *your marriage is a crime  and I
mean to prevent it."

The Captain left his chair, and sternly
faced the man who had spoken those insolent
words.

*' Are you mad ?" he asked.

Herbert was on the point of declaring
himself to have been Catherine's husband,
until the law dissolved their marriage 
when a waiter came in and approached him
with a message. ' You are wanted immediately,
sir."

' Who wants me ?"

*' A person outside, sir. It's a serious
matter  there is not a moment to lose."

Herbert turned to the Captain. '' I
must have your promise to wait for me,"
he said, '* or I don't leave the room."

*' Make your mind easy. I shall not stir
from this place till you have explained
yourself' was the firm reply.

The servant led the way out. He
crossed the passage, and opened the door of
a waiting-room. Herbert passed in  and
found himself face to face with his divorced
wife.

FORGIVENESS TO THE INJURED DOTH BELONG.

Without one word of explanation, Catherine
stepped up to him, and spoke first.

*' Answer me this," she said  ' have you
told Captain Bennydeck who I am ?"

'' Not yet."

The shortest possible reply was the only
reply that he could make, in the moment
when he first looked at her.

She was not the same woman whom he
had last seen at Sandyseal, returning for her
lost Look. The agitation produced by that
unexpected meeting had turned her pale ;

the overpowering sense of injury had
hardened and aged her face. This time,
she was prepared to see him : this time, she
was conscious of a resolution that raised
her in her own estimation. Her clear blue
eyes glittered as she looked at him, the
bright colour glowed in her cheeks ; he was
literally dazzled by her beauty.

*' In the past time which we both
remember," she resumed, '' you once said
that I was the most truthful woman you
had ever known. Have I done anything
to disturb that part of your old faith in
me r

' Nothing."

She went on: "Before you entered this
house, I had determined to tell Captain
Bennydeck what you have not told him
yet. When I say that, do you believe
me r

If he had been alle to look away from
her, he might have foreseen what was
coming ; and he would have remembered
that his triumph over the Captain was still
incomplete. But his eyes were riveted on
her face ; his tenderest memories of her
where pleading with him. He answered asa
docile child might have answered :

** I do believe you."

She took a letter from her bosom ; and,
showing it, begged him to remark that it
was not closed.

 I was in my bedroom writing," she
said,  when my mother came to me and
told me that you and Captain Bennydeck
had met in my sitting-room. She dreaded
a quarrel and an exposure, and she urged
me to go downstairs and insist on sending
you away  or to permit her to do so, if I
could not prevail on myself to follow her

advice. I refused to allow the shameful
dismissal of a man. who had once had his
claim on my respect. The only alternative
that I could see was to speak with you
here, in private, as we are speaking now.
My mother undertook to manage this forme
; she saw the servant, and gave him
the message which you received. Where
is Captain Benny deck now ?"

*' He is waiting in the sitting-rooms'

'' Waiting for you ?"

Yes."

She considered a little before she said
her next words.

*'I have brought with me what I was
writing in my own room," she resumed,
'* wishing to show it to you. Will you
read it T'

She offered the letter to him. He hesitated.
'' Is it addressed to me ?" he asked.

* It is addressed to Captain Bennydeck,"
she answered.

The jealousy that still rankled in his
mind  jealousy that he had no more lawful
or reasonable claim to feel than if he
had been a stranger  urged him to assume
an indifference which he was far from feeling.
He begged that Catherine would
accept his excuses.

She refused to excuse him.

*' Before you decide," she said, *you
ought at least to know why I have written
to Captain Bennydeck, instead of speaking
to him as I had proposed. My heart
failed me when I thought of the distress
that he might feel  and, perhaps, of the
contempt for myself which, good and gentle
as he is, he might not be able to disguise.
My letter tells him the truth, without concealment.
I am obliged to speak of the

manner in which you have treated me, and
of the circumstances which forced me into
acts of deception that I now bitterly regret.
I have tried not to misrepresent you ; I
have been anxious to do you no wrong.
It is for you, not for me, to say if I have
succeeded. Once more, will you read my
letter ?"

The sad self-possession, the quiet dignity
with which she spoke, appealed to his
memory of the pardon that she had so
generously granted, while he and Sydney
Chesterfield were still guiltless of the injury
inflicted on her at a later time. Silently,
he took the letter from her, and read it.

She kept her face turned away from him
and from the light. The effort to be still
calm and reasonable  to suffer the heartache,
and not to let the suffering be seen 
made cruel demands on the self-betraying

nature of a woman possessed by strong
emotion. There was a moment v/hen she
heard him sigh while he was reading. She
looked round at him, and instantly looked
away again.

He rose and approached her ; he held
out the letter in one hand, and pointed toit
with the other. Twice he attempted to
speak. Twice the influence of the letter
nn manned him.

It was a hard struggle, but it was for her
sake : he mastered his weakness, and forced
his trembling voice to submit to his will.

*' Is the man whom you are going to
marry worthy of tlihV he asked, still pointing
to the letter.

She answered firmly : " More than
worthy of it."

*' Marry him, Catherine  and forget
Me."

The great heart that he had so sorely
wounded pitied him, forgave him, answered
him with a burst of tears. She held out
one imploring hand. His lips touched it
he was gone.

DUM SPIRO, Sperm.

Brisk and smiling, Mrs. Presty presented
herself in the waiting-room. "We have
got rid of our enemy'' she announced ; "I
looked out of the window, and saw him
leaving the hotel." She paused, struck
by the deep dejection expressed iu her
daughter's attitude. "Catherine!" she
exclaimed, " I tell you Herbert has gone,
and you look as if you regretted it ! Is
there anything wrong ? Did my message
fail to bring* him here ?"

"No."

'' He was bent on mischief when I saw

him last. Has he told Bennydeck of the
Divorce?"

*No.''

"' Thank Heaven for that! There is no
one to be afraid of now. Where is the
Captain ?"

* He is still in the sitting-room."

** hy don't you go to him ?"

 a aren't!"

** Shall I go ?"

*' Yes  and give him this."

Mrs. Presty took the letter. '' You
mean, tear it up," she said, ' and quite
right too."

** No ; I mean what I say'*

* My dear child, if you have any regard
for yourself, if you have any regard for me,
don't ask me to give Bennydeck this mad
letter ! You won't hear reason ? You
still insist on it ?"

*' I do."

*' If Kitty ever behaves to you, Catherine,
as you have behaved to me  you will have
richly deserved it. Oh, if you were only a
child again, I'd beat it out of you  I
would !"

With that outburst of temper, she took
the letter to Bennydeck. In less than a
minute she returned, a tamed woman.
' He frightens me," she said.

** Is he angry ?"

** No  and that's the worst of it. When
men are angry, I am never afraid of them.
He's quiet, too quiet. He said, ' I'm
waiting for Mr. Herbert Linley ; where
is he ?' I said, ' He has left the hotel.'
He said,  What does that mean ?' I
handed the letter to him. ' Perhaps this
will explain,' I said. He looked at the
address, and at once recognised your handwriting.

* Why does she write to me when
wee are both in the same house? Why
doesn't she speak to me ?' 1 pointed to
the letter. He wouldn't look at it ; he
looked straight at me. ' There's some
mystery here,' he said ; * I'm a plain man,
I don't like mysteries. Mr. Linley had
something to say to me, when the message
interrupted him. Who sent the message ?
Do you know ?' If there is a woman living,
Catherine, who would have told the truth,
in such a position as mine. was at that
moment, I should like to have her photograph.
I said I didn't know ; and I saw
he suspected me of deceiving him. Those
kind eyes of his  you wouldn't believe it
of them !  looked me through and through.
I won't detain you any longer,' he said.
I'm not easily daunted as you know  the relief
it was to me to get away from him is not

VOL. It. 4to

be told in words. What do you think I
heard when I got into the passage ? I
heard him turn the key of the door. He's
locked in, my dear ; he's locked in ! "Weare
too near him here. Come upstairs."

Catherine refused. " I ought to be near
him," she said hopefully ; ' he may wish to
see me."

Her mother reminded her that the 
was a public room, and might be
wanted.

** Let's go into the garden," Mrs. Presty
proposed. We can tell the servant who
waits on us where we may be found."

Catherine yielded.  Mrs, Presty's excitement
found its overflow in talking
perpetually. Her daughter had nothing
.0 say, and cared nothing where they
went ; all outward manifestation of life in
her seemed to be suspended at that terrible

time of expectation. They wandered here
and there, in the quietest part of the
grounds. Half an hour passed  and no
message was received. The hotel clock
struck the hour  and still nothing happened.


**I can walk no longer," Catherine said.
She dropped on one of the garden chairs,
holding by her mother's hand. "Go to
him, for God's sake!" she entreated. 'I
can endure it no longer."

Mrs. Presty  even bold Mrs. Presty 
was afraid to face him again. ** He's for 1
of the child," she suggested ; " let's send
Kitty." '

Some little girls Vvere at play close by
who knew where Kitty was to be found.
In a few minutes more they brought her
back with them. Mrs. Presty gave the
child her instructions, and sent her away

492

proud of her errand, and delighted at the
prospect of visiting the Captain by herself,
as if she " was a grown-up lady'

This time the period of suspense was
soon at an end. Kitty came running back.
*' It's lucky you sent me," she declared.
** He wouldn't have opened the door to anybody
else  he said so himself."

'' Did you knock softly, as I told you ?"
Mrs. Presty asked.

'' No, Grandmamma, I forgot that. I
tried to open the door. He called out not
to disturb him. I said, 'It's only me,'
and he opened the door directly. What
makes him look so pale, Mamma ? Is he
ill ?"

'' Perhaps he feels the heat," Mrs. Presty
suggested judiciously.

*' He said, 'Dear little Kitty,' and he
caught me up in his arms and kissed me.

When he sat down again he took me on his
knee, and he asked if I was fond of him,
and I said, * Yes, I am,' and he kissed me
again, and he asked if I had come to stay
with him and keep him company. I forgot
what you wanted me to say," Kitty acknowledged,
addressing Mrs. Presty ; ''so I
made it up out of my own head."

'what did you tell him ?'

I told him. Mamma was as fond of him
as I was, and I said, ' We will both keep
you company.' He put me down on the
floor, and he got up and went to the window
and looked out. I told him that wasn't the
way to find her, and I said, ' I know where
she is ; I'll go and fetch her.' He's an
obstinate man, our nice Captain. He
wouldn't come away from the window. I
said, ' You wish to see Mamma, don't you ?'
And he said Yes. ' You mustn't lock the

door again,' I told him, 'she won't like
that ;' and what do you think he said ?
He said, ' Good-bye, Kitty !' Wasn't it
funny ? He didn't seem to know what he
was talking about. If you ask my opinion,
Mamma, I think the sooner you go to him
the better."

Catherine hesitated. Mrs. Presty on one
side, and Kitty on the other, led her between
them into the house.

homme propose, et dieu dispose.

Captain Bennydeck met Catherine and lier
child at the open door of the room. Mrs.
Presty, stopping a few paces behind them,
waited in the passage ; eager to see what
the Captain's face might tell her. It told
her nothing.

But Catherine saw a change in him.
There was something in his manner unnaturally
passive and subdued. It suggested
the idea of a man whose mind had
been forced into an effort of self-control
which had exhausted its power, and had
allowed the signs of depression and fatigue

to find their way to the surface. The
Captain was quiet, the Captain was kind ;
neither by word nor look did he warn
Catherine that the continuity of their
intimacy was in danger of being broken  
and yet, her spirits sank, when they met
at the open door.

He led her to a chair, and said she
had come to him at a time when he
especially wished to speak with her. Kitty
asked if she might remain with them. He
put his hand caressingly on her head; *' No,
my dear, not now."

The child eyed him for a moment, conscious
of something which she had never
noticed in him before, and puzzled by
the discovery. She walked back, cowed
and silent, to the door. He followed her
and spoke to Mrs. Presty. '' Take your
grandchild into the garden; we will join

you there in a little while. Good-bye for
the present, Kitty." Kitty said good-bye
mechanically  like a dull child repeating
a lesson. Her grandmother led her away
in silence.

Bennydeck closed the door, and seated
himself by Catherine. *' I thank you for
your letter," he said.  If such a thing
is possible, it has given me a higher
opinion of you than any opinion that I
have held yet."

She looked at him with a feelings of
surprise, so sudden and so overwhelming,
that she was at a loss how to reply. The
last words which she expected to hear
from him, when he alluded to her confession,
were the words that had just passed
his lips.

*you have owned to faults that you
have committed, and deceptions that you

have sanctioned," he went on  *' with
nothing to gain, and everything to lose, by
telling the truth. Who but a good woman
would have done that ?"

There was a deeper feeling in him than
he had ventured to express. It betrayed
itself by a momentary trembling in his
voice. Catherine drew a little closer to
him.

You don't know how you surprise me,
how you relieve me," she said warmly 
and pressed his hand. In the eagerness of
her gratitude, in the gladness that had
revived her sinking heart, she failed to
feel that the pressure was not returned.

"" What have I said to surprise you ?" he
asked. '- What anxiety have I relieved,
without knowing it ?"

* I was afraid you would despise me."

'' Why should I despise you ?"

'* Have I not gained your good opinion
under false pretences ? Have I not allowed
you to admire me and to love me,
without telling you that there was anything
in my past life wiicli I had reason to
regret ? Even now, I can hardly realize
that you excuse and forgive me ; you who
have read the confession of my worst faults ;
you who know the shocking inconsistencies
of my character "

* Say at once," he answered, " that I
know you to he a mortal creature. Is there
any human character, even the noblest,
that is always consistently good ?"

"" One reads of them sometimes," she
suggested, "in books."

*' Yes," he said. " In the worst books
you could possibly read  the only really
immoral books written in our time."

** Why are they immoral ?"

"For this plain reason, that they deliberately
pervert the truth. Clap-trap,
370U innocent creature, to catch foolish
readers ! When do these consistently good
people appear in the life around us, the life
that we all see ? Never ! Are the best
mortals that ever lived, above the reach of
temptation to do ill, and are they always
too good to yield to it ? How does the
Lord's Prayer instruct humanity ? It commands
us all, without exception, to pray
that we may not be led into temptation.
You have been led into temptation. In
other words, you are a human being. All
that a human being could do you have
done  you have repented and confessed.
Don't I know how you have suffered and
how you have been tried ! Why, what a
mean Pharisee I should be if I presumed to
despise you !"

She looked at him proudly and gratefully
; she lifted her arm as if to thank him
by an embrace, and suddenly let it drop
again at her side.

*' Am I tormenting myself without cause?"
she said. ** Or is there something that
looks like sorrow, showing itself to me in
your face ?"

*' You see the bitterest sorrow that I
have felt in all my sad life."

'ris it sorrow for me ?"

''No. Sorrow for myself."

Has it come to you through me ? Is
it my fault ?"

It is more your misfortune than your
fault."

Then you can feel for me ?"

I can and do."

He had not yet set her at ease.

I am afraid your sympathy stops somewheres'

she said. *' Where does it
stop r

For the first time, he shrank from directly
answering her. '* I begin to wish I had
followed your example," he owned. "It
might have been better for both of us if I
had answered your letter in writing."

Tell me plainly," she cried, *' is there
something you can't forgive ?"

'' There is something I can't forget."

What is it ? Oh, what is it ! When
my mother told poor little Kitty that her
father was dead, are you even more sorry
than I am that I allowed it ? Are you
even vivre ashamed of me than I am of
myself?"

No. I regret that you allowed it ; but
I understand how you were led into that
error. Your husband's infidelity had shaken
his hold on your respect for him and your

sympathy with him, and had so left you
without your nati-al safeguard against Mrs.
Presty's sophistical reasoning and bad example.
But for that wrong-doing there is
a remedy left. Enlighten your child as you
have enlightened me ; and then  I have no
personal motive for pleading Mr. Herbert
Linley's cause, after what I have seen of
him  and then, acknowledge the father's
claim on the child."

" Do you mean his claim to see her ?"

'* What else can I mean ? Yes ! let him
see her. Do (God help me, now when it's
too late !)  do what you ought to have done,
on that accursed day which will b" the
blackest day in my calendar, to the end of
my life."

* What day do you mean ?"

'* The day when you remembered the
law of man, and forgot the law of God ;

the day when you broke the marriage tie,
the sacred marriage tie, by a Divorce !"

She listened  not conscious now of
suspense or fear ; she listened, with her
Avhole heart in revolt against him.

*' You are too cruel !" she declared.
' You can feel for me, you can understand
me, you can pardon me in everything else
that I have done. But you judge without
mercy of the one blameless act of my life,
since my husband left me  the act that
protected a mother in the exercise of her
rights. Oh, can it be you ? Can it be
you?

**Itcan be," he said, sighing bitterly;
' and it is."

*' What horrible delusion possesses you ?
Why do you curse the happy day, the
blessed day, which saw me safe in the
possession of my child?"

For the worst and meanest of reasons,"
he answered  ** a selfish reason. Don't
suppose that I have spoken of Divorce as
one who has had occasion to think of it. I
have had no occasion to think of it ; I don't
think of it even novv. I abhor it, because
it stands between you and me. I loathe
it, I curse it, because it separates us for
life."

** Separates us for life ? How ?"

* Can you ask me ?"

*' Yes, I do ask you !"

He looked round him. A society of
religious persons had visited the hotel,
when it was first opened, and had obtained
permission to place a copy of the Bible in
every room. One of those copies lay on
the chimney-piece in Catherine's room.
Bennydeck brought it to her, and placed it
on the table near which she was sitting.

VOL. III. iso

He turned to the lew Testament, and
opened it at the Gospel of Saint Matthew.
With his hand on the page, he said :

*' I have done my best rightly to understand
the duties of a Christian. One of
those duties, as I interpret them, is to let
what I believe show itself in what I do.
You have seen enough of me, I hope, to
know (though I have not been forward in
speaking of it) that I am, to the best of my
poor ability, a faithful follower of the
teaching of Christ. I dare not set my own
interests and my own happiness above His
laws. If I suffer in obeying them as I
suffer now, I must still submit. They are
the laws of my life."

*ris it through me that you suffer ?"

* It is through you'

** Will you tell me how?"

He had already found the chapter. His

tears dropped on it as he pointed to the
verse.

*' Eead/' he answered, *what the most
compassionate of all Teachers has said, in
the Sermon on the Omit."

She read : ** Whosoever shall marry her
that is divorced committed adultery."

Another innocent woman, in her place,
might have pointed to that first part of the
verse, which pre-supposes the infidelity of
the divorced wife, and might have asked if
those words applied to her. This woman,
knowing that she had lost him, knew also
what she owed to herself. She rose in
silence, and held out her hand at parting.

He paused before he took her hand.
*' Can you forgive me ?" he asked.

She said : "I can pity you."

** Can you look back to the day of your
marriage ? Can you remember the words

502

which declared the union between you and
your husband to be separable only by death ?
Has he treated you with brutal cruelty ?''

'never!"

Has he repented of his sin ?"

'eyes."

Ask your own conscience if there is
not a worthier life for you and your child
than the life that you are leading now."
He waited, after that appeal to her. The
silence remained unbroken. " Do not mistake
me," he resumed gently. " I am not
thinking of the calamity that has fallen on
me in a spirit of selfish despair  I am
looking to ]jour future, and I am trying to
show you the way which leads to hope.
Catherine ! have you no word more to say
to me r

In faint trembling tones she answered
him at last :

*' You have left me but one word to say.
Farewell!"

He drew her to him gently, and kissed
her on the forehead. The agony in his
face was more than she could support ; she
recoiled from it in horror. His last act
was devoted to the tranquillity of the one
woman whom he had loved. He signed to
her to leave him.

THE LARGEST NATURE, THE LONGEST LOVE.

Mrs. Pre sty waited in the garden to be
joined by her daughter and Captain Benny-deck,
and waited in vain. It was past her
grandchild's bedtime; she decided on
returning to the house.

*' Suppose we look for them in the sitting-room
?" Kitty proposed.

*' Suppose we wait a moment, before we
go in ?'' her wise grandmother advised.
** If I hear them talking, I shall take you
upstairs to bed."

Why?"

'because we mustn't interrupt them."

Mrs. Presty favoured Kitty with a hint
relating to the management of inquisitive
children which might prove useful to her
in after-life. *' "When you grow up to bea
woman, my dear, beware of making the
mistake that I have just committed. Never
be foolish enough to mention your reasons
when a child asks, Why T'

*' Was that how they treated ijou Grand-mamma,
when you were a child yourself?"

"Of course it was V

*why?"

They had reached the sitting-room door by
this time. Kitty opened it without ceremony,
and looked in. The room was empty.

Having confided her granddaughter to
the nursemaid's care, Mrs. Presty knocked
at Catherine's bedroom door. '* May I
come in ?"

** Come in directly ! Where is Kitty ?"

** Susan is putting her to bed."

*' Stop it! Kitty mustn't go to bed.
No questions. I'll explain myself when
you come back." There was a wildness in
her eyes, and a tone of stern command in
her voice, which warned her mother to set
dignity aside, and submit.

'* I don't ask what has happened," Mrs.
Presty resumed on her return. *that
letter, that fatal letter to the Captain, lias
justified my worst fears. What in heaven's
name are we to do now ?"

*' We are to leave this hotel," was the
instant reply.

*when?"

*' To-night."

** Catherine 1 do you know what time
it is ?"

** Time enough to catch the last train to

London. Don't raise objections ! If I
stay at this place, with associations in
every part of it which remind me of that
unhappy man, I shall go mad ! The shock
I have suffered, the misery, the humiliation
 I tell you it's more than I can bear.
Stay here by yourself if you like ; I mean
to go."

She paced with frantic rapidity up and
down the room. Mrs. Presty took the only
way by which it was possible to calm her.
*' Compose yourself, Catherine, and all that
you wish shall be done. I'll settle everything
with the landlord, and give the maid
her orders. Sit down by the open window;
let the wind blow over you."

The railway service from Sydenham to
London is a late service. At a few minutes
before midnight they were in time for the
last train. When they left the station.

Catherine was calm enough to communicate
her plans for the future. The nearest hotel
to the terminus would offer them accommodation
for that night. On the next day
they could find some quiet place in the
country  no matter where, so long as they
were not disturbed. '* Give me rest and
peace, and my mind will be easier''
Catherine said. " Let nobody know whereto
find me."

These conditions were strictly observed
 with an exception in favour of
Mr. Sarrazin. While his client's pecuniary
affairs were still unsettled, the lawyer had
this claim to be taken into her confidence.
# * # *

The next morning found Captain Benny-deck
still keeping his rooms at Sydenham.
The state of his mind presented a complete
contrast to the state of Catherine's mind.

So far from sharing lier aversion to the
personal associations which were connected
with the hotel, he found his one consolation
in visiting the scenes which reminded him
of the beloved woman whom he had lost.
The reason for this was not far to seek.
His was the largest nature, and his had
been the most devoted love.

As usual, his letters were forwarded to
him from his place of residence in London.
Those addressed in handwritings that he
knew were the first that he read. The
others he took out with him to that sequestered
part of the garden in which he had
passed the happiest hours of his life by
Catherine's side.

He had been thinking of her all the
morning : he was thinking of her now.

His better judgment protested ; his
accusing conscience warned him that he

was committing, not only an act of folly,
but (with his religious convictions) an act
of sin  and still she held her place in his
thoughts. The manager had told him of
her sudden departure from the hotel, and
had declared with perfect truth that the
place of her destination had not been communicated
to him. Asked if she had left
no directions relating to her correspondence,
he had replied that his instructions were to
forward all letters to her lawyer. On the
point of inquiring next for the name and
address, Bennydeck's sense of duty and
sense of shame (roused at last) filled him
with a timely contempt for himself. In
feeling tempted to write to Catherine  in
encouraging fond thoughts of her among
scenes which kept her in his memory
  he had been false to the very principles
to which he had appealed at

their farewell interview. She had set
him the right example, the example
which he was determined to follow, in
leaving the place. Before he could falter
in his resolution, he gave notice of his
departure. The one hope for him now was
to find a refuge from himself in acts of
mercy. Consolation was perhaps waiting
for him in his Home.

His unopened correspondence offered a
harmless occupation to his thoughts, in the
meanwhile. One after another he read the
letters, with an attention constantly wandering
and constantly recalled, until he opened
the last of them that remained. In a
moment more his interest was absorbed.
The first sentences in the letter told him that
the deserted creature whom he had met in
the garden  the stranger to whom he had
offered help and consolation in the present

and in the future  was no other than the
lost gh'l of whom he had been so long in
search ; the daughter of Eoderick Wester-field,
once his dearest and oldest friend.

In the pages that followed, the writer
confided to him her sad story ; leaving it
to her father's friend to decide whether
she was worthy of the sympathy which he
had offered to her, when he thought she was
a stranger.

This part of her letter was necessarily a
repetition of what Bennydeck had read, in
the confession which Catherine had addressed
to him. That generous woman
had been guilty of one, and but one,
concealment of the truth. In relating the
circumstances under which the elopement
from Mount Morven had taken place, she
had abstained, in justice to the sincerity
of Sydney's repentance, from mentioning

Sydney's name. *' Another instance," the
Captain thought bitterly, as he closed the
letter, " of the virtues which might have
made the happiness of my life V

But he was hound to remember  and he
did remember  that there was now a new
interest, tenderly associating itself with his
life to come. The one best way of telling
Sydney how dear she was to him already,
for her father's sake, w 1 be to answer
her in person. He hurried away to London
by the first train, and drove at once to
Sandal's place of abode to ask for Sydney's
address.

Wondering what had become of the postscript
to his letter, which had given Benny-deck
the information of which he was now in
search, Sandal complied with his friend's
request, and then ventured to allude to the
report of the Captain's marriage engagement.

' Am I to congratulate you ?" he asked.

Congratulate me on having discovered
Eoderick Chesterfield's daughter."

That reply, and the tone in which it was
given, led Sandal to ask if the engagement
had been prematurely announced.

'' There is no engagement at all,"
Bennydeck answered, with a look which
suggested that it might be wise not to
dwell on the subject.

But the discovery was welcome to
Sandal, for his brother's sake. He ran the
risk of consequences, and inquired if
Catherine was still to be found at the hotel.

The Captain answered by a sign in the
negative.

Sandal persisted. *' Do you know where
she has gone ?"

'' Nobody knows but her lawyer."

*' In that case," Sandal concluded, *' I

shall get the information that I want."
Noticing that Bennydeck looked surprised,
he mentioned his motive. ** Herbert is
pining to see Kitty," he continued ; ** and
I mean to help him. He has done all that
a man could do to atone for the past. As
things are, I believe I shall not offend
Catherine, if I arrange for a meeting
between father and child. What do you
say r

Bennydeck answered, earnestly and
eagerly : ' Do it at once !"

They left the house together  one to goto
Sydney's lodgings, the other on his way
to Mr. Sarrazin's office

VOL. III. 51

LET BYGONES BE BYGONES.

>Vhen the servant at the loclgmgs announced
a visitor, and mentioned his name,
Sydney's memory (instead of dwelling on
the recollection of the Captain's kindness)
perversely recalled the letter that she had
addressed to him, and reminded her that
she stood in need of indulgence, which even
so good a man might hesitate to grant.
Penny deck's first words told the friendless
girl that her fears had wronged him.

' My dear, how like your father you
are ! You have his eyes and his smile ; I
can't tell you how pleasantly you remind me

of my dear old friend." He took her hand,
and kissed her as he might have kissed
a daughter of his own. *' Do you remember
me at home, Sydney, when you
were a child? No: you must have been
too young for that."

She was deeply touched. In faint
trembling tones, she said : "I remember
your name ; my poor father often spoke of

Job."

A man who feels true sympathy is never
in danger of mistaking his way to a woman's
heart, when that woman has suffered.
Bennydeck consoled, interested, charmed
Sydney, by still speaking of the bygone
days at home''

I well remember how fond your father
was of you, and what a bright little girl
you were," the Captain went on. *' You
have forgotten, I dare say, the old-fashioned

512

sea-songs that lie used to be so fond of
teaching yon. It was the strangest and
prettiest contrast, to hear your small
piping child's voice singing of storms and
shipwrecks, and thunder and lightning,
and reefing sails in cold and darkness,
without the least idea of what it all meant.
Your mother was strict in those days ; you
never amused her as you used to amuse
your father and me. When she caught
you searching my pockets for sweetmeats,
she accused me of destroying your digestion
before you were five years old. I went on
spoiling it, for all that. The last time I
saw you, my child, your father was singing
The Mariners of England,' and you were
on his knee trying to sing with him. You
must have often wondered why you never
saw anything more of me. Did you think I
Lad forgotten you T'

**I am quite sure I never thought
that!"

'' You see I was in the Navy at the
time," the Captain resumed; *' and we
were ordered away to a foreign station.
When I got hack to England, miserable
news was waiting for me. I heard of your
father's death, and of that shameful Trial.
Poor fellow ! He was as innocent, Sydney,
as you are of the offence which he was
accused of committing. The first thing I
did was to set inquiries on foot after your
mother and her children. It was some
consolation to me to feel that I was rich
enough to make your lives easy and agreeable
to you. I thought money could do
anything. A serious mistake, my dear  
money couldn't find the widow and her
children. We supposed you were somewhere
in London ; and there, to my great

grief, it ended. From time to time  long
afterwards, when we thought wee had got
the clue in our hands  I continued my
inquiries, still without success. A poor
woman and her little family are so easily
engulphed in the big city! Years passed
(more of them than I like to reckon up)
before I heard of you at last by name. The
person from whom I got my information
told me how you were employed, and where'*

*' Oh, Captain Bennydeck, who could
the person have been ?"

*' A poor old broken-down actor, Sydney.
You were his favourite pupil. Do you
remember him ?"

' I should be ungrateful indeed if I
could forget him. He was the only person
in the school who was kind to me. Is the
good old man still living ?"

*'No; he rests at last. I am glad to

say I was able to make his last days on
earth the happiest days of his life."

' I wonder," Sydney confessed, ** how
you met with him." 

** There was nothing at all romantic in
my first discovery of him. I was reading
the police reports in a newspaper. The
poor wretch was brought before a magistrate,
charged with breaking a window.
His one last chance of escaping starvation
in the streets was to get sent to prison.
The magistrate questioned him, and brought
to light a really heart-breaking account of
misfortune, embittered by neglect on the
part of people in authority who were bound
to help him. He was remanded, so that
inquiries might be made. I attended the
court on the day when he appeared there
again, and heard his statement confirmed. I
paid his fine, and contrived to put him in a

way of earning a little money. He was
very grateful, and came now and then to
thank me. In that way I heard how his
troubles had begun. He had asked for a
small advance on the wretched wages that
he received. Can you guess how the
schoolmistress answered him ?"

'* I know but too well how she answered
him' Sydney said; 'Iwas turned out of
the house, too."

* And I heard of it," the Captain replied,
from the woman herself. Everything
that could distress me she was ready to
mention. She told me of your mother's
second marriage, of her miserable death, of
the poor boy, your brother, missing, and
never heard of since. But when I asked
where you had gone she had nothing more
to say. She knew nothing, and cared
nothing, about you. If I had not become

'acquainted with Mr. Sandal Linley I might
never have heard of you again. We will
say no more of that, and no more of anything
that has happened in the past time.
From to-day, my dear, we begin a new life,
and (please God) a happier life. Have yoM
any plans of your own for the future ?"

*' Perhaps, if I could find help' Sydney
said resignedly, '' I might emigrate. Pride
wouldn't stand in my way ; no honest
employment would be beneath my notice.
Besides, if I went to America, I might meet
with my brother."

** My dear child, after the time that has
passed, there is no imaginable chance of
your meeting with your brother  and you
wouldn't know each other again if you did
meet. Give up that vain hope and stay
here with me. Be useful and be happy in
your own country."

*' Useful ?" Sydney repeated sadly,
** Your own kind heart, Captain Benny-deck,
is deceiving you. To be useful
means, I suppose, to help others. Who
will accept help from me ?"

*' I will, for one'' the Captain answered.

'' You !"

** Yes. You can be of the greatest use
to me  you shall hear how."

He told her of the founding of his Home
and of the good it had done. *you are
the very person," he resumed, *' to be the
good sister-friend that I want for my poor
girls ; you can say for them wdiat they
cannot always say to me for themselves."

The tears rose in Sydney's eyes. '' It is
hard to see such a prospect as that," she
said, " and to give it up as soon as it is
seen."

*' Why give it up ?"

** Because I am not fit for it. You areas
good as a father to those lost daughters
of yours. If you give them a sister-friend
she ought to have set them a good example.
Have I done that? Will they listen to a
girl who is no better than themselves T'

*' Gladly! Your sympathy will find its
way to their hearts, because it is animated
by something that they can all feel in
common  something nearer and dearer to
them than a sense of duty. You won't
consent, Sydney, for their sakes ? "VYill
you do what I ask of you, for my sake ?"

She looked at him, hardly able to understand
 or, as it might have been, perhaps
afraid to understand him. He spoke to her
more plainly.

I have kept it concealed from yoa," he
continued  '' for why should I lay my load
of suffering on a friend so young as you

are, so cruelly tried already ? Let m
only say that I am in great distress. If
you were with me, my child, I might be
better able to bear it."

He held out his hand. Even a happy
woman could hardly have found it in her
heart to resist him. In silent sympathy
and respect, Sydney kissed the hand that he
had offered to her. It was the one way in
which she could trust herself to answer him.

Still encouraging her to see new hopes
and new interests in the future, the good
Captain spoke of the share which she might
take in the management of the Home, if
she would like to be his secretary. With
this view he showed her some written
reports, relating to the institution, which
had been sent to him during the time of
his residence at Sydenham. She read
them with an interest and attention which

amply justified this confidence in her capacity.


*' These reports' he explained to her,
* are kept for reference ; but as a means
of saving time, the substance of them is
entered in the daily journal of our proceedings.
Come, Sydney! venture on a first experiment
in your new character. I see pen,
ink and paper on the table ; try if you can
shorten one of the reports, without leaving
out anything which it is important to know.
For instance, the writer gives reasons
for making his statement. Very well expressed,
no doubt, but we don't want reasons.
Then, again, he offers his own opinion on
the right course to take. Very creditable to
him ; but I don't want his opinion  I want
his facts. Take the pen, my secretary,
and set down his facts. Never mind his
reflections'*

Proud and pleased, Sydney obeyed him.
She had made her little abstract, and. was
reading it to him at his request, while he
compared it with the report, when they
were interrupted by a visitor. Sandal
Linley came in, and noticed the papers on
the table with surprise. *' Is it possible
that I am interrupting business ?" he
asked.

Bennydeck answered with an assumed
air of importance which was in itself a
compliment to Sydney : '* You find me
engaged on the business of the Home with
my new secretary."

Sandal at once understood what had
happened. He took his friend's arm, and
led him to the other end of the room.

*' You good fellow !" he said. " Add to
your kindness by excusing me if I ask for a
word with you in private."

Sydney rose to retire. After having
encouraged her by a word of praise, the
Captain proposed that she should get ready
to go out, and should accompany him on a
visit to the Home. He opened the door
for her as respectfully as if the poor girl
had been one of the highest ladies in the
land.

'*I have seen my friend Sarrazin,"
Sandal began, *' and I have persuaded him
to trust me with Catherine's present address.
I can send Herbert there immediately, if
you will only help me."

*' How can I help you ?"

' Will you allow me to tell my brother
that your engagement is broken off?"

Benny deck shrank from the painful
allusion, and showed it.

Sandal explained. *' I am grieved," he
said, *to distress you by referring to this

subject again. But if my brother is left
under the false impression that your. engagement
will be followed by your marriage, he
will refuse to intrude himself on the lady
who was once his wife'

The Captain understood. ** Say what
you please about me," he replied. ' Unite
the father and child  and you may reconcile
the husband and wife."

'shave you forgotten," Sandal asked,
' that the marriage has been dissolved ?"

Bennydeck's answer ignored the law.
*' I remember," he said, 'that the marriage
has been profaned."

LEAVE IT TO THE CHILD.

The front windows of Bridgewater Cottage
look out on a quiet green lane in Middlesex,
which joins the highroad within a few
miles of the market town of Uxbridge.
Through the pretty garden at the back runs
a little brook, winding its merry way to
a distant river. The few rooms in this
pleasant place of residence are well (too
well) furnished, having regard to the limits
of a building which is a cottage in the
strictest sense of the word. Water-colour
drawings by the old English masters of the
art ornament the dining-room. The parlour
VOL. III. 52

has been transformed into a library. From
floor to ceiling all fom- of its walls are
covered with books. Their old and well-chosen
bindings, seen in the mass, present
nothing less than a feast of colour to the
eye. The library and the works of art are
described as heirlooms, which have passed
into the possession of the present proprietor
one more among the hundreds of Englishmen
who are ruined every year by betting
on the Turf.

So sorely in need of a little ready money
was this victim of gambling  tacitly permitted
or conveniently ignored by the
audacious hypocrisy of a country which
rejoiced in the extinction of Baden, and
which still shudders at the name of .Monaco
that he was ready to let his pretty cottage
for no longer a term than one month certain ;
and he even allowed the elderly lady, who

drove the hardest of hard bargains with him,
to lessen by one guinea the house-rent paid
for each week. He took his revenge by
means of an ironical compliment, addressed
to Mrs. Presty. * What a saving it would
be to the country, ma'am, if you where
Chancellor of the Exchequer!" With
perfect gravity Mrs. Presty accepted that
well-earned tribute of praise. ' You are
quite right, sir; I should be the first official
person known to the history of England
dio took proper care of the public money."

Within two dajs of* the time when they
had left the hotel at Sydenham, Catherine
and her little family circle had taken possession
of the cottage.

The two ladies were sitting in the library,
each occupied with a book chosen from the
well-stocked shelves. Catherine's reading-appeared
to be more than once interrupted

522

by Catherine's thoughts. Noticing this
circumstance, Mrs. Presty asked if some
remarkable event had happened, and if it
was weighing heavily on her daughter's
mind.

Catherine answered that she was thinking
of Kitt}, and that anxiety connected with
the child did weigh heavily on her mind.

Some days had passed (she reminded
Mrs. Presty) since the interview at which
Herbert Linley had bidden her farewell.
On that occasion he had referred to her
proposed marriage (never to be a marriage
now !) in terms of forbearance and generosity
which claimed her sincere admiration. It
might be possible for her to show a grateful
appreciation of his conduct. Devotedly
fond of his little daughter, he must have
felt acutely his long separation from her ;
and it was quite likely that he might ask

to see Kitty. But there was an obstacle in
the way of her willing compliance with
that request, which it was impossible to
think of without remorse, and which it was
imperatively necessary to remove. Mrs.
Presty would understand that she alluded
to the shameful falsehood which had led the
child to suppose that her father was dead.

Strongly disapproving of the language
in which her daughter had done justice to
the conduct of the divorced husband, Mrs.
Presty merely replied : ' You are Kitty's
mother ; I leave it to you ''  and returned
to her reading.

Catherine could not feel that she had
deserved such an answer as this. * Did
I plan the deception ?" she asked. ** Did
I tell the lie ?"

Mrs. Presty was not in the least offended.
*' You are comparatively innocent, my dear,"

she admitted, with an air of satirical indulgence.
' You only consented to the deception,
and profited by the lie. Suppose we
own the truth ? You are afraid."

Catherine owned the truth in the plainest
terms : '' Yes, I am afraid."

'* And you leave it to me ?"

'' I leave it to you."

Mrs. Presty complacently closed her
book. ** I was quite prepared to hear it,"
she said ; *' all the unpleasant complications
since your Divorce  and Heaven only knows
how many of them have presented themselves
 have been left for me to unravel.
It so happens  though I was too modest to
mention it prematurely  that I have unravelled
tlm complication. If one only has
eyes to see it, there is a way out of every
difficulty that can possibly happen." She
pushed the book that she had been reading

across the table to Catherine. " Turn to
page two hundred and forty," she said.
'* There is the way out."

The title of the book was '' Disasters at
Sea ;" and the page contained the narrative
of a shipwreck. On evidence apparently
irresistible, the drowning of every soul onboard
the lost vessel had been taken for
granted  when a remnant of the passengers
and crew had been discovered on a desert
island, and had been safely restored to their
friends. Having read this record of suffering
and suspense, Catherine looked at her
mother, and waited for an explanation.
' Don't you see it ?" Mrs. Presty asked.
"= I can't say that I do."
The old lady's excellent temper was not
in the least ruffled, even by this.

'quite inexcusable on my part," she
acknowledged; ''I ought to have remembered

that joii don't inherit your
mother's vivid imagination. Ae has left
me in full possession of those powers of invention
which used to amaze your poor
father. He wondered how it was that I never
wrote a novel. Mr. Presty's appreciation
of my intellect was equally sincere ; but he
took a different view. ' Beware, my dear
he said, ' of trifling with the distinction
which you now enjoy : you are one of the
most remarkable Women in England  you
have never written a novel.' Pardon me ;
I am wandering into the region of literary
anecdote, when I ought to explain myself.
Now pray attend to this :  I propose to tell
Kitty that I have found a book which is
sure to interest her ; and I shall direct her
attention to the lamentable story which you
have just read. She is quite sharp enough
(there are sparks of my intellectual fire in

Kitty) to ask if the friends of the poor shipwrecked
people were not very inch surprised
to see them again. To this I shall
answer : ' Very much, indeed, for their
friends thought they were dead.' Ah, you
dear dull child, you see it now !"

Catherine saw it so plainly that she was
eager to put the first part of the experiment
to an immediate trial.

Kitty was sent for, and made her appearance
with a fishing-rod over her shoulder.
I'm going to the brook," she announced ;
** expect some fish for dinner to-day."

A wary old hand stopped Catherine, in
the act of presenting the *' Disasters at Seato
Kitty's notice ; and a voice, distinguished
by insinuating kindness, said to the child :
*' When you have done fishing, my dear,
come to me ; I have got a nice book for
you to read.  How very absurd of you,

Catherine," Mrs. Presty continued, when
they were alone again, ' to expect the chill
to read, and draw her own conclusions,
while her head is full of fishing ! If there
are any fish in the brook, hi won't catch
them. "When she comes hack disappointed,
and says : * What am I to do now ?' the
Disasters at Sea ' will have a chance. I
make it a rule never to boast ; but if there
is a thing that I understand, it's the management
of children. Why didn't I have a
large family ?"

Attended by the faithful Susan, Kitty
baited her hook, and began to fish where
the waters of the brook were overshadowed
by trees.

A little arbour covered by a thatched
roof, and having walls of wooden lattice-work,
hidden by creepers climbing over them
inside and out, offered an attractive place of

rest on this sheltered side of the garden.
Having brought her work with her, the
nursemaid retired to the summer-house and
diligently plied her needle, looking at
Kitty from time to time through the open
door. The air was delightfully cool, the
pleasant rippling of the brook fell soothingly
on the ear, the seat in the summer-house
received a sitter with the softly-yielding
submission of elastic wires. Susan had
just finished her early dinner : in mind and
body alike, this good girl was entirely and
deservedly at her ease. By finely succeeding
degrees, her eyelids began to show a
tendency downward ; her truant needlework
escaped from her fingers, and lay
lazily on her lap. She snatched it up with
a start, and sewed with severe resolution
until her thread was exhausted. The reel
was ready at her side ; she took it up fora

fresh supply, and innocently rested her
head against the leafy and flowery wall of
the arbour. Was it thought that gradually'
closed her ejes again ? or was it sleep ? In
either case, Susan was lost to all sense of
passing events ; and Susan's breathing
became musically regular, emulous of the
musical regularity of the brook.

As a lesson in patience, the art of angling
pursued in a shallow brook has its moral
uses. Kitty fished, and waited, and renewed
the bait and tried again, with a command
of temper which would have been a novelty
in Susan's experience, if Susan had been
awake. But the end which comes to
all things came also to Kitty's patience.
Leaving her rod on the bank, she let the
line and hook take care of themselves,
and wandered away in search of some new
amusement.

Lingering here and there to gather

flowers from the he's as she passed them,

Kitty was stopped by a shrubbery, with a

rustic seat placed near it, which marked the

limits of the garden on that side. The path

that she had been following led her farther

and farther away from the brook, but still

left it well in view. She could see, on her

right hand, the clumsy old wooden bridge

which crossed the stream, and served as a

means of communication for the servants

and the tradespeople, between the cottage

and the village on the lower ground a mile

away.

The child felt hot and tired. She rested
herself on the bench, and, spreading the
flowers by her side, began to arrange them
in the form of a nosegay. Still true to
her love for Sydney, she had planned to
present the nosegay to her mother ; offering

the gift as an excuse for returning to the
forbidden subject of her governess, and for
asking when they might hope to see each
other again.

Choosing flowers and then rejecting
them, trying other colours and wondering
whether she had accomplished a change for
the better, Kitty was startled by the sound
of a voice calling to her from the direction
of the brook.

She looked round, and saw a gentleman
crossing the bridge. He asked the way to
Bridgewater Cottage.

There was something in his voice that
attracted her  how or why, at her age,
she never thought of inquiring. Eager
and excited, she ran across the lawn which
lay between her and the brook, before she
answered the gentleman's question.

As they approached each other, his eyes

sparkled, his face flushed ; he cried out
joyfully, *' Here she is !"-  and then
changed again in an instant. A horrid
pallor overspread his face as the child
stood looking at him with innocent
curiosity. He startled Kitty, not because
he seemed to be shocked and distressed,
she hardly noticed that ; but because he
was so like  although he was thinner and
paler and older  oh, so like her lost father !
'* This is the cottage, sir'' she said to
him faintly.

His sorrowful eyes rested kindly on her.
And yet, it seemed as if she had in someway
disappointed him. The child ventured
to say : ''Do you know me, sir ?"

He answered in the saddest voice that
Kitty had ever heard: "My little girl,
what makes you think I know you ?"

She was at a loss how to reply, fearing

to distress him. She could only say :
** You are so like my poor Papa."

He shook and shuddered, as if she had
said something to frighten him. He took
her hand. On that hot day, his fingers
felt as cold as if it had been winter time.
He led her back to the seat that she had
left. 'i'm tired, my dear," he said.
*' Shall we sit down ?" It was surely
true that he was tired. He seemed
hardly able to lift one foot after the other ;
Kitty pitied him. "I think you must be
ill ;" she said, as they took their places,
side by side, on the bench.

No ; not ill. Only weary, and perhaps
a little afraid of frightening you." He
kept her hand in his hand, and patted it
from time to time. " My dear, why did
you say ' /9oor Papa,' when you spoke of
your father just now ?"

**My father is dead, sir."

He turned his face away from her, and
pressed both hands on his breast, as if he
felt some dreadful pain there, and was
trying to hide it. But he mastered the
pain ; and he said a strange thing to her 
grey gently, but still it was strange. He
wished to know who had told her that her
father was dead.

** Grandmamma told me."

'' Do you remember what Grandmamma
said r

*eyes  she told me Papa was drowned
at) sea.

He said something to himself, and said
it twice over. *' Not her mother ! Thank
God, not her mother!" "What did he
mean ?

Kitty looked and looked at him, and
wondered and wondered. He put his arm

VOL. III. 53

round her. " Come near to me," he said.
*' Don't be afraid of me, my dear." She
moved nearer, and showed him that she
was not afraid. The poor, man seemed
hardly to understand her. His eyes grew
dim ; he sighed Hke a person in distress ;
he said : * Your father would have kissed
you, little one, if he had been alive. You
say I am like your father. May I kiss
you r

She put her hands on his shoulder, and
lifted her face to him. In the instant
when he kissed her, the child knew him.
Her heart beat suddenly with an overpowering
delight ; she started back from
his embrace. *' That's how Papa used to
kiss me!" she cried. ''Oh! you arc.
Papa! Not drowned! not drowned!"
She flung her arms round his neck, and
held him as if she would never let him go

again. *dear Papa! Poor lost Papa'*
His tears fell on her face ; he sobbed over
her. *' My sweet darling ! my own little
Kitty!"

The hysterical passion that had overcome
her father filled her with piteous surprise.
How strange, how dreadful that he should
cry  that he should be so sorry when
she was so glad ! She took her little
handkerchief out of the pocket of her
pinafore, and dried his eyes. '* Are you
thinking of the cruel sea, Papa ? No !
the good sea, the kind, bright, beautiful
sea that has given you back to me, and to
Mamma !"

They had forgotten her mother !  and
Kitty only discovered it now. She caught
at one of her father's hands hanging helpless
at his side, and pulled at it as if her
little strength could force him to his feet.

532

*' Come' she cried, '* and make Mamma as
happy as I am !"

He hesitated. She sprang on his knee ;
she pressed her cheek against his cheek
with the caressing tenderness, familiar to
him in the first happy days when she was
an infant. '' Oh, Papa, are you going to
be unkind to me for the first time in your
life r

His momentary resistance was at an end.
He was as weak in her hands now, as if he
had been the child and she had been the
man.

Laughing and singing and dancing round
him, Kitty led the way to the window of
the room that opened on the garden. Someone
had closed it on the inner side. She
tapped impatiently at the glass. Her
mother heard the tapping ; her mother
came to the window ; her mother ran

out to meet them. Since the miserable
time when they had left Mount Morven,
since the long unnatural separation of the
parents and the child, those three were
together once more !

That a woman of my wife's mature years
should be jealous of one of the most exemplary
husbands that the records of
matrimony can produce is, to say the least
of it, a discouraging circumstance. A man
forgets that virtue is its own reward, and
asks, What is the use of conjugal fidelity ?

However, the motto of married life is (or
ought to be) : Peace at any price. I have
been this day relieved from the condition of
secrecy that has been imposed on me. You
insisted on an explanation some time since.
Here it is at last.

For the ten-thousandth time, my dear,
n our joint lives, you are again right. That

letter, marked private, which I received at
the domestic tea-table, was what sou positively
declared it to be a letter from a lady
a charming lady, plunged in the deepest
perplexity. We had been well known to
each other for many years, as lawyer and
client. She wanted advice on this occasion
also  and wanted it in the strictest confidence.
"Was it consistent with my professional
duty to show her letter to my
wife ? Mrs. Sarrazin says Yes. Mrs.
Sarrazin's husband says No.

Let me add that the lady was a person
of unblemished reputation, and that she
was placed in a false position through no
fault of her own. In plain English, she
was divorced. Ah, my dear (to speak in
the vivid language of the people), do you
smell a rat ?

Yes : my client was Mrs. Norman ; and

to her pretty cottage in the country I
betook myself the next day. There I found
my excellent friend Sandal Linley, present
by special invitation.

Stop a minute. Why do I write all this,
instead of explaining myself by word of
mouth ? My love, you are a member of
an old and illustrious family ; you honoured
me when you married me ; and you have
(as your father told me on our wedding
day) the high and haughty temper of your
race. I foresee an explosion of this temper,
and I would rather have my writing-paper
blown up than be blown up myself.

Is this a cowardly confession on my
part ? All courage, Mrs. Sarrazin, is
relative : the bravest man living has a
cowardly side to his character, though it
may not always be found out. Some years
ago, at a public dinner, I sat next to an

officer in the British army. At one time
in his life he had led a forlorn hope. At
another time, he had picked up a wounded
soldier, and had carried him to the care of
the surgeons through a hail-storm of the
enemy's bullets. Hot courage and cool
courage, this true hero possessed both. 1
saw the cowardly side of his character.
He lost his colour ; perspiration broke out
on his forehead; he trembled; he talked
nonsense ; he was frightened out of his
wits. And all for what ? Because he had
to get on his legs and make a speech !

Well : Mrs. Norman, and Sandal Linley,
and I, sat down to our consultation at the
cottage.

What did my fair client want ?

She contemplated marrying for the second
time, and she wanted my advice as a lawyer,
and my encouragement as an old friend. I

was quite ready; I only waited for the
particulars. Mrs. Norman became dreadfully
embarrassed, and said : ** I refer you
to my brother-inlaw''

I looked at Kandal. *' Once her brother-in-law,
no doubt," I said; 'but after the

Divorce " My friend stopped me there.

After the Divorce'' he remarked, " I maybe
her brother-in-law again."

If this meant anything, it meant that
she was actually going to marry Herbert
Linley again. This was too ridiculous.
"If it's a joke," I said, "I have heard
better fun in my time. If it's only an
assertion, I don't believe it."

*' Why not ?" Sandal asked.

Saying I do want you, in one breath 
and I don't want you, in another  seems
to be a little hard on Divorce," I ventured
to suggest.

' Don't expect me to sympathize with
Divorce," Kandal said.

I answered that smartly. *' No ; I'll wait
till you are married."

He took it seriously. *' Don't misunderstand
me," he replied. ** Where there is
absolute cruelty, or where there is deliberate
desertion, on the husband's part, I see the
use and the reason for Divorce. If the
unhappy wife can find an honourable man
who will protect her, or an honourable man
who will offer her a home, Society and
Law, which are responsible for the institution
of marriage, are bound to allow a
w-oman outraged under the shelter of their
institution to marry again. But, where
the husband's fault is sexual frailty, I say
the English law which refuses Divorce on
that ground alone is right, and the Scotch
law which grants it is wrong. Religion,

which rightly condemns the sin, pardons it
on the condition of true penitence. Why
is a wife not to pardon it for the same
reason ? Why are the lives of a father, a
mother, and a child to he wrecked, when
those lives may be saved by the exercise of
the first of Christian virtues  forgiveness
of injuries ? In such a case as this I regret
that Divorce exists ; and I rejoice when
husband and wife and child are one flesh
again, re-united by the law of Nature,
which is the law of God."

I might have disputed with him ; but I
thought he was right. I also wanted to
make sure of the facts.

' Am I really to understand," I asked,
 that Mr. Herbert Linley is to be this
lady's husband for the second time V

''If there is no lawful objection to it,"
Sandal said  'decidedly Yes."

My good wife, in all sour experience you
never saw your husband stare as he stared
at that moment. Here was a lady divorced
by her own lawful desire and at her own
personal expense, thinking better of it after
no very long interval, and proposing to
marry the man again. Was there ever
anything so grossly improbable ? Where is
the novelist who would be bold enough to
invent such an incident as this ?

Never mind the novelist. How did it
end?

Of course it could only end in one way,
so far as I was concerned. The case being
without precedent in my experience, I
dropped my professional character at the
outset. Speaking next as a friend, I had
only to say to Mrs. Norman : *'Tlie Law
has declared you and Mr. Herbert Linley
to be single people. Do what other single

people do. Buy a Licence, and give notice
at a church  and by all means send
wedding cards to the judge who divorced

you."

Said ; and, in another fortnight, done.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Linley were married
again this morning ; and Sandal and I
were the only witnesses present at the
ceremony, which was strictly private.

2.  r/ie Lawyer's Defence.

I wonder whether the foregoing pages of
my writing-paper have been torn to pieces,
and thrown into the wastepaper basket ?
You wouldn't litter the carpet. No. I
mays be torn in pieces, but I do you justice
for all that.

What are the objections to the divorced
husband and wife becoming husband and
wife again ? Mrs. Presty has stated them.

VOL. III. 54

in the following order. Am I wrong in
assuming that, on this occasion at least,
you will agree with Mrs. Pre sty ?

First Objection : Nobody has ever done
such a thing before.

Second Objection : Penitent or not penitent,
Mr. Herbert Linley doesn't deserve it.

Third Objection : No respectable person
will visit them.

First Reply : The question is not whether
the thing has been done before, but whether
the doing of the thing is right in itself.
There is no clause in the marriage service
forbidding a wife to forgive her husband ;
but there is a direct prohibition to any
separation between them. It is therefore
not wrong to forgive Mr. Herbert Linley,
and it is absolutely right to marry him
again.*

Second Reply : When their child brings

hin home, and takes it for granted that her
father and mother should live together,
because they are her father and mother,
innocent Kitty has appealed from the Law
of Divorce to the Law of Nature. Whether
Herbert Linley has deserved it or whether
he has not, there he is in the only fit place
for him  and there is an end of the second
objection.

Third Reply : A flat contradiction to the
assertion that no respectable person will
visit her. Mrs. Sarrazin will visit her.
Yes, you will, my dear ! Not because I
insist upon it  Do I ever insist on anything
? No ; you will act on your own
responsibility, out of compassion for a
misguided old woman. Judge for yourself
when you read what follows, if Mrs. Presty
is not sadly in need of the good example of
an ornament to her sex.

542

The Evil Genius of the family joined us
in the cottage parlour when our consultation
had come to an end. I had the
honour of communicating the decision at
which we had arrived. Mrs. Presty
marched to the door ; and, from that commanding
position, addressed a few farewell
remarks to her daughter :

*' I have done with you, Catherine.
You have reached the limits of my maternal
endurance at last. I shall set up
my own establishment, and live again  
in memory  with Mr. Norman and Mr.
Presty. May you be happy. I don't
anticipate it''

She left the room  and came back again
for a last word, addressed this time to Sandal
Linley.

** When you next see your friend,
Captain Bennydeck, give him my compliments,

Mr. Kandal, and say that I congratulate
him on having been jilted by my
daughter. It would have been a sad thing
indeed, if such a sensible man had married
an idiot. Good morning."

She left the room again, and came back
again for another last word, addressed on
this occasion to me. Her better nature
made an effort to express itself, not
altogether without success.

*' I think it quite likely, Mr. Sarrazin, that
some dreadful misfortune will fall on my
daughter, as the punishment of her undutiful
disregard of her mother's objections.
In that case, I shall feel it my duty to
return, and administer maternal consolation.
When you write, address me at my
banker's. I make allowances for a lawyer,
sir ; I don't blame You."

She opened the door for the third time  

stepped out, and stepped back again into
the room  suddenly gave her daughter a
fierce kiss  returned to the door  shook
her fist at Mrs. Linley with a theatrically-threatening
gesture  said, '* Unnatural
child !"  and, after this exhibition of her
better nature, and her worse, left us at
last. When you visit the remarried pair
on their return from their second honeymoon,
take Mrs. Presty with you.

3.  The Lawyer's Last Word.

'' When you force this ridiculous and
regrettable affair on my attention " (I think
I hear Mrs. Sarrazin say), '* the least you
can do is to make your narrative complete.
But perhaps you propose to tell me personally
what has become of Kitty, and
what well-deserved retribution has overtaken
Miss Chesterfield."

No : I propose in this case also to communicate
my information in writing  at
the safe distance from home of my office
in Lincoln's Inn Fields.

Kitty accompanies her father and mother
to the Continent, of course. But she
insisted on first saying, good-bye to the
dear friend, once the dear governess,
whom she loves. Sandal and I volunteered
to take her (with her mother's
ready permission) to see Miss Chesterfield.
Try not to be angry. Try not to tear
me up.

We found Captain Bennydeck and his
pretty secretary enjoying a little rest and
refreshment, after a long morning's work
for the good of the Home. The Captain
was carving the chicken ; and Sydney, by
his side, was making the salad. The
house cat occupied a third chair, with her

eyes immovably fixed on the movements
of the knife and fork. Perhaps I was
thinking of sad past days. Any way,
it seemed to me to be as pretty a
domestic scene as a man could wish to
look at. The arrival of Kitty made the
picture complete.

Our visit was necessarily limited by a
due remembrance of the hour of departure,
by an early tidal train. Kitty's last words
to Sydney bade her bear their next meeting
in mind, and not be melancholy at only
saying good-bye for a time. Like all
children, she asks strange questions. When
we were out in the street again, she said to
her uncle :

''Do you think my nice Captain will
marry Syd ?"

Sandal had noticed, in Captain Benny-deck's
face, signs which betrayed that the

bitterest disappointment of his life was far
from being a forgotten disappointment yet.
If it had been put by any other person, poor
Kitty's absurd question might have met
with a bitter reply. As it was, her uncle
only said: **My dear child, that is no
business of yours or mine."

Not in the least discouraged, Kitty
turned to me.

'' What do ]you think, Samuel ?"

I followed Sandal's lead, and answered,
*' How should I know ?"

The child looked from one to the
other of us. ** Shall I tell you what I
think?" she said, 'I think you are both
of you humbugs."

