CHAPTER I.

THE BEGINNING OF THE FRAY.

Ned Hales and L 'Estrange lead not been idle on
the day when that memorable council was held,
nor before it. Sir John Mayney having before
distinguished himself in the first war, as also Sir
William Compton , had been appointed to high
commands. I cannot tell you whether the Lady
Anne did interest herself in their favour or not.
Various other commissions were given out to command
troops of horse and companies of foot.
But after the grave news brought by Thornhill
and Peyton 'twas plain that the night must be
passed industriously. There was no time for
sleep when such perils menaced. After midnight
I went into Ned Hales his chamber to ask per-lord

William Compton's commission runs as follows : 
Rochester, May 29th, 1648. Ordered that Sir William Compton,.
Knt., take the command of a Regiment of horse, consisting of
500, as Col. of the said Rest.  Given under our hands the day
and year above. (Signed), Phil. Ward, Mayor, Ed. Hales, Robt
'J'rewe, James Darrell, Francis Clerk, John Darrell, Geo .
Newman."

VOL. III. B.

mission to accompany Sir William Compton, who
was to go to Dartford and desire Sir John Mayney
and all the petitioners resting there that night, to
fall back on Rochester. Imagining that there
might be some skirmishing like what they had at
New Cross, I was desirous to participate. Alas !
I little knew what a business it was to be.

The reply of Ned Hales sounded strange.

''I fear," says he, when he had heard my request,
" I have no power to order you. I have
just received a letter informing me that the Commissioners
desire a commander of experience, as
we are now likely to come to blows, and that they
have invited the Make of Richmond to accept the
supreme charge of our forces."

"Now a plague on them ! " cried T, " when you
have advanced all the money for arming the
country."

For though old Gray had procured only half the
sum he had promised, Crisp had made it up to the
rapidly increasing requirements, so that one way
and another Hales was answerable for 100,000!

Hush ! " says Hales, " the walls are thin, and
you may be overheard  and after all," he adds
with a something mortified air, "perhaps they are
right  and yet I would have done my best ; verily,
I think Roger LLEstrange is more displeased than
I ; he hath violently broken his fiddle, and is gone
to bed in a huff."

Said I, " I hope notwithstanding, Ned Hales,

that remembering all you have done, the
petitioners will generally decline any other commanders'


Here enters L'E strange in his night-gown and
night-cap, which last methought seemed to give
him an air of more supreme wisdom.

Hearing voices," says Estrange, " I did conceive
that an answer might have come from
Cobham," (this was where the Duke of Richmond
then was). " Has Ned Hales told you this strange
intelligence. Admiral ? "

"Yes," said I, "and I am grieved to hear it."

"death, if it had not been that I am now on
the King's quarrel," says Estrange bitterly, "it
had cost that braggadocio, loud-voiced bravo
fellow. Sir Richard Hardress, a bloody coxcomb,
when he taunted me with being absent from mine
own county when there are risings there. But
'twould have been waste of choler yet he sometimes
winced when I touched his withers about
his former friends of the Committee of Kent.
Well, 'tis an ungrateful world ! And Colepepper,
too. to fall away ! But 'tis plain at whom they
drive when they would ease themselves of you,
Ned Hales. Should the King come in again, however
as I yet trust he will  I will take care that
neither you, Ned, nor I are forgotten  nor you,
honest Rupert  here's your healths ! " (and he
seizes a flagon of Rhenish and a glass that were
on the table, and fills and drains a brimmer).

"Where's Sir William Corapton?'' he asks,
smacking his lips.

Lyiiif asleep on his bed' says Hales, "booted
and spurred, and in his buff doublet; he is to be
called in half an hour from this."

I was desirous of goings with him," said I, with
a disappointed air, no doubt.

And what is to hinder thee ? " asked
Estrange.

'' I told him," says Hales, " I had no power to
command him thither."

Pshaw ! " says Estrange, " you are not out
of the command yet. The Duke of Richmond
hath compounded once, and will not care to
venture it  so a little bird tells me."

Wherefore did you break your fiddle, Master
Estrange V " said I.

*' Break my fiddle? " said he, looking at Hales,
' 'tis not broken  it had a fall  but a good fiddle
may fall seven times. 'Tis like the King his cause
let it be into fifty pieces it will come together
again, and in better tune than before."

Here a servant of that inn, distract with so
much work, comes in with sense enough left to
announce to Hales, that a man was below with a
letter which he would deliver himself.

It proved to be Geoffry, Halos his under-steward.
The letter was from the Lady Anne. It contained
the news that one of her carrier doves
which Sir William Compton a week before had

taken to the Isle of Wight, had flown back with
a letter.

Hales dismissed Geoffrey with a message.
Estrange went to awake Compton, who came in
presently.

' See ! from Carisbroke ! " cries Hales.

Compton snatched and looked at it.

"Where the plague have I left the cipher?"
says Compton. ' In my knapsack, or where ? Wait
a while."

He soon returned. The letter ran thus : 

"Carisbroke, Sunday, 28th, 12 of the clock at
night. All is ready for the attempt. The bar
of the chamber window is eaten through with
mercury water  friends are gone to attend below
the window that looks forth on the bastion. The
King will endeavour to be at Blackheath by 10 of
the clock on the day nanied.""

Who sends that ? " says Estrange.

I am bound to secrecy," replies Sir William.
Compton.

Estrange then said to Hales 

Your fair lady hath made the best hit of all.
'Twill be an eternal shame if her husband is
robbed of his command."

I have several quotations to prove that this was planned.
As for Sir William Compton, it is certain he was employed on a
mission to the King of a special nature.

' 'Tis almost a pity' said Compton, " to order
back the men from Dartford."

But if the army should interpose ? and the
King be received not by tis," cries Hales, ' but
by his deadly enemies at Blackheath ?"

Our hearts fell like our faces.

It inst not be,' says Compton, " it shall not
be ! What ! ' he cries, clapping his hand to his
forehead,  'tis tomorrow ! "

*' Nay, to-day " said I, " for 'tis one of the clock.
I heard it clang from Rochester Cathedral a
minute or two ago. This is the sooth of May."

Again 1 made my petition to go forward to
Dartford.

You had best let him, said Compton. " He
can take the letter from the Commissioners to
Fairfax as well as I could. I shall not now have
time ; besides I am the only one who knows the
road His Majesty will come by."

Then all of a sudden 'twas remembered what
danger I should run of being recognised. But
that argument I could not entertain.

Ned Hales had six good horses of his own in
Rochester. He ordered the fleetest and the best
for Compton. Word was despatched to lower the
drawbridge on Rochester bridge. In less than ten
minutes' time we did clatter over it. The air felt
fresh and cool as we flew along. It is seldom
quite dark at the end of May. We could see the
furze blossoms on Adds Hill. We drew nob

bridle till we reached Dartford. All was still except
that sparrows did chirrup wonderfully. The
sun had not risen yet, but 'twas quite light.

Stand ! " cries a sentinel at the court of guard.
He would know our business. When he knew it,
he directed us to the principal inn of the town.
Sir John Mayney sat at the open window ; he had
not slept.

'* You have a heavy nightcap, Sir John," cries
Compton. For Sir John, indeed, sat there armed
cap-a-pie, and in his pot.

"We have a beauteous morning for our march''
says Sir John  whose appearance before me reminded
me of Bocton Malherbe, and how the
Lady Anne was lost to all three of us now.

' What makes you here in such a sweat ? " asks
Sir John.

'another horse, for God's sake ! " cries Compton.
" I shall sweat more ere I am done. I have
to go forward, but you to go back."

To go back ? Whither ? " says Mayney.

To Rochester. Black Tom and all his redcoats
are coming down on us."

'* The devil ! '* cries Mayney.

In three minutes more, I gave the written order
of the Commissioners to Mayney. In five or six
more Sir William Compton was mounted on a
fresh nag. I was fain to gallop away with him
and the letter I had to deliver to Fairfax, but he
said 

There is no iiee<l for you to use such speed.
OKI Simpleton has the gout, hind I hope will not
rise before ten."

I, however, did not delay long. Sir John gave
me particulier instructions to call in the advance
guaril. He laughed at the pretence thereof.

'Tis a parcel of poor prentices' he said,
making me feel a little abashed, '' who were for
taking London if Skippon would let them  though
there be but two muskets amongst them."

When he described the commander of these
prentices, I began to think it must be Jack Gayer,
whom I had not seen since we parted at Sandwich.
I said as much.

''By my faith," says Mayney, '' I think, indeed,
you are right. I told him to hold the hill till I
came, scarce dreaming that we should be played a
trick like this."

After a morning draught and some cheese and
biscuit, I rode away  thinking how Sir John had
forgotten the Lady Anne; but he was far from
that, though the business he was on diverted his
thoughts.

Never was such a lovely morning. The sun rose
red over fair Kent ; throstle and nightingale sung
in the woods ; wild rose, sweetbread, and eglantine
sparkled with dew; and laburnum scarce yet
faded, drooped over white-thorn hedge. I had
orders to turn back all who seemed petitioners 
except the guard at Craford bridge under Major

Childss, which, was to stand fast.* I found near
the place, six score petitioners under Master Mills
of Canterbury, and Master Cold f of Sevenoaks,
covered with dust, asleep, and tired, in a meadow,
having, some of them, marched nigh thirty miles
the day before. Childss said he would keep them
to guard the bridge. Childss was keeping up his
spirits with a pipe and a can of beer with one
Master Phipps by the roadside. Not very long
afterwards five hundred men with a standard before
them, decked with laburnum encountered me.
At first I thought 'twas the enemy, but the inscription
of

King Charles ! and Kent ! " 

showed what they were. Several hundred prentices
II 'escaped out of London came behind  their
hats well garnished with flowers. 'They had

" The Kentish men forced back from Deptford, Greenwich,
and Blackheath resolved not to fight but to hold the
passes." Bloody News from Kent, 1648.

t ** Geo. Cold, of Ash six charges " (against him) " preferred
by John Abel, In actual arms in the insurrection, and through
his persuasions and threatening, divers were forced to serve
and drawn into the wicked design against the Parliament," &c.
Uncalendared Papers, State Paper Office.

I " One Mr. Phipps, very active in the insurrection," says a
diurnal, describing the affair at this place.

 "A butchers' regiment from London," says another, "joined
the Kentish gentlemen ; colours, red ; motto, ' For King Charles
and Kent,' and a butcher's steel in white. Colonel Cook the
Colonel." " Eight hundred cloth workers, butchers, dyers," &c.,
mentioned elsewhere.

II "To Kent," says Heath, " resorted many hundreds of London
apprentices, the chief and flower of the youth thousands
more would have gone, but that all the ways were so laid."

crossed the Thames below Woollage sic) not without
difficulty. They told me that they had heard
that Fairfax was at Blackheath, and that he had
forced the people to clear away the trees at the
entry* of the heath, which were felled to stop
the way. They also asked the meaning of a white
flame: which I carried. I told them I was with a
message to Fairfax. They said they were chiefly
butchers and did desire to fight.

I did order them all to Eochester. They went
on their way singing 

For we know we shall never have peace
Till all the Roundheads bo down 

When the army's well banged,

And the Parliament hanged,
Then the rest will be true to the Crown. f

Anon 1 came upon more of the same. The sun was
high when 1 reached the top of Shooter's Hill, but
ere I caught a distant sight of the square J tower of
Paul's, a voice called me to stand, and I saw Jack
Gayer, ready with his old matchlock propped on
his linstock, and blowing his match. I believe he
knew me well enough, but desired to show how
nimble he was. He was glad to hear the news
that the petitioners were like to have a fight for
it. His fellows were both tired and dirty. They

Two thousand Kentish men possessed themselves of Dartford
Bridge and planted some ordnance upon it, and upon the
halfway house at Greenwich, cut down trees and barricaded tho
highways.

t TluH is not a modern imitation but a ballad of the time.

I The steeple of Old Paul's was down long before this.

were famished. Jack Gayer and I had a little talk
over Margaret, who refused to see him ere she left
Sandwich  of Cornelius Evans, whom he thought
I should have cuffed  and of my wondrous success
with the fleet, which amazed him. He then
desired me to hold his guard for him, and to lend
him something to buy victual with. He had to goto
WooUage ere he could find aught. He returned
with bread and two bottles of ale, after so long an
absence that I had begun to be impatient to depart
for Blackheath. When he came back, I
ordered him to be gone to Dartford with his guard.
He desired to eat a little first and to give me some
ale. Just then, my horse which T thought fast to
a tree, broke loose, and would have a run into the
wood. When I had caught him, and had just
mounted, I heard Gayer challenging. There appeared
to be no answer, but I thought I saw the
flashing of burnished steel through the trees and
bushes between me and the road. Heavens !
could it be that Fairfax his men were really coming
on. I had supposed I would find them at Black-heath.
I rode out of the wood. Scarce had I
done so, when I perceived six fellows fenced with
steel coming up the hill, all of a row.

*hold, Gayer for God's sake!" I cried,,
seeing what he was going to do. But it was fcoa
late. Gayer had levelled his old matchlock, from
whence there comes a flash, smoke, and an explosion.
The right-hand man of those six falls for-

sward on bis horse's neck, and then pitches over
on to the fround.

He was shot into the head, and died presently.

The rest, who were put into some disorder,
fearing an ambush, wheeled about suddenly ; and
then changing their minds turned again, and
gripping their broadswords  for they were cuirassiers
 were about to gallop up and slash us to
pieces  when a voice behind called out to halt;
and a dark-visaged man rode forward with his
hand raised, and forbad them to stir.

'' Oh, Jack ! Jack ! " said I, in a low tone, ' what
have you done ? ''

He made no answer.

I believe he was more amazed at the discipline
of those soldiers, than he would have been if they
had ridden him down. He did not attempt to
load his piece again. I was as amazed as he was,
but from another cause. M} mission was to be
suddenly accomplished. For he who had prevented
the soldiers from revenging the death of
their comrade, was no other than the General of
the Parliamentary forces, and it seemed a bad entrance
to my business.

'* Surrender every one of you on pain of instant
death ! " says he, while twenty more files galloped
up and surrounded us.

Gayer's firelock was dragged from his hand ;
the whole of his companions were instantly bound
with match. I was myself seized.

You must not lay hands on me ! " said I,
holding np my white flag. "I come with a letter
from my general'

"What general?" cries the trooper contemptuously.


I perceived that two or three other officers were
with the Lord Fairfax.

They looked at one another, and then at me.

It is some deceit," says Fairfax.

For which this fellow of the white flag deserves
to be suddenly put to death," says another
of a solemnly devilish countenance as I thought 
and then immediately remembered him to be
Commissary General Ireton.

Happily the Lord Fairfax did not remember me.

"Sir," said I, addressing the Lord Fairfax, 'I
am innocent of deceit; my horse was loose," and
I was handing him the letter when Ireton
snatched it out of my hand and read it.

He then whispered something to the General.

Go back and tell those who sent you," says
Fairfax, " that I am in a better position to fight
than to treat. "

 "We desired a pass," says a, Letter from Rochester, 31st May,
1648, " that twenty men might be permitted to offer our petition
to the two Houses ; and to this purpose desired a pass yesterday
by a trumpet from the Lord Fairfax. But the trumpet was
menaced, and the pass denied us." The letter from the Commissioners
at Rochester is preserved in the Bodleian Library. It
appears to be in the handwriting of young Edward Hales. But
it is also signed by Hardness. Brockman, T. Colepepper, il
Colepepper (? R. Wilmington), John Darrell, and James Darrell.

"What! your Excellency," cries Ireton, "will
you send this fellow away again ? Truly, I think,
by your leave, he hath forfeited his liberty notwithstanding
his flag  what say you Colonel
Eich?"

'* I know not," says Rich, looking at me vindictively
; '' but I know I have lost one of my best
men."

"Where is your next guard, fellow?" cries
Fairfax.

At Craford bridge, sir," said I.

1 deem it fitting to detain you," says Fairfax,
stammering over it, "until  until I  examine into
this business."

** The General will send an answer by a trumpeter
of his own," says Ireton. " Bring all these
prisoners after us," adds he, as they all turned to
go down the hill whence they came,* " the
General is for Etiam."

" As the General was inarching up Shooter Hill i.e,
Shooters," says a h utter from Rushworth to tLe Speaker, "to
gee how the enemy had placed their guards, a trumpeter came
from them, desiring my lord to grant a pass to their commissioners
to treat, according to the order of Parliament, signed
Peyton. The trumpeter said Squire Hales was their general,
Sir Thomas Ireton, Lieutenant-general, and Sir John Many,
lajor-General. His Excellency returned answer by a trumpeter

of his own Major Husbands was sent with a party

of horse (lo Dartford) The General quartered this

night (3()th May) at Eltham." MS., Bodl., Oxford.

Another letter says, "Colonel Rich and Colonel Bedstead
possessed themselves of the heath betimes" i30th May). " Tho
enemy is on thither side of Shooter's Bill. They have killed
one of Colonel Rich's men, and we have taken thirty, with their
arms, but hurt nous."  Ibid.

Two of you remain with Sergeant Lobo's
body/ says Colonel Eich ; '' and when you have
taken off his armour and clothes, make some of
these clowns help you to bury him in the woods
Major Husbands, when you have settled a guard
here you are to go forward with the advance
towards Dartford, and destroy all you meet in

Another letter in a diurnal says, ** They shot one of our
troopers, who is dead, as gallant a stout man as any in the
army. We neither killed nor wounded any of them, but took
about thirty prisoners, and them the soldiers changed clothes with,
and brought them away bound with matches."

The Kentish Independent, a few years ago, reported the discovery
of a skeleton in Shooter's Hill wood, and advanced a
theory that it was some victim of Dick Turpin. It seems just as
likely to have been the " trooper" in question.

To

LADY FILMER.

VOL. III.

TO THE RENDEZVOUS OF KENT.

The soldiers were without humanity ; but what
could we expect after killing one of them outright
? We were stripped  of most of our clothes ;
these they disposed of to sutlers who presently
came up. We were then taken to Eltham through
paths in the wood  some of those soldiers being
familiar with the ways. We were sufficiently
terrified, not excepting Jack Gayer, for they told
us a proportion would be shot. About Eltham
the fields were full of horse and foot bivouacking.
We went to the palace of Eltham, whither the
General had gone before in his coach  for having
a fit of gout coming on he could no longer endure
Diis riding boot.

This palace, like many other palaces, had been
ruminated by these reformers. The ancient hall,
where kings and court ladies had oft feasted, was
now too foul and dilapidated for aught but horses
and prisoners. We found there more wretched
companions, and learnt that many hundreds more

" Our soldiers stripped those they took, but saved their
lives."  News from Kent. But a diurnal mentions "two young
gentlemen brave, in gold and silver lace, slain  with them the
Soldiers changed clothes."

had been taken about Blockhead, and cither sent
to London or put on board ships in the Thames.
The Lord Fairfax his charging horses, and those of
Ireton, were in that hall, well fed; but we were
left with empty bellies.

There were some old soldiers who told me to
appeal again unto Fairfax  that it was unheard-of
treatment for a flag of truce ; but I could not
get access to him.

At four next morning we were roused up ; and
found ourselves shortly marching in rear of
Berkstead his regiment through what were the
Lord Rivers* his woods, which had been wholly
destroyed all but the stumps of the trees. We
perceived the soldiers had lain all night in the
fields a few officers only having tents. When
we had gone about a mile we were eased of our
bonds, but merely to have burdens imposed
instead. For every soldier took off back, breast,
and pot, which we had to carry. J We soon got
faint with hunger, but were obliged to continue;

1 find tbo following :  " Sir S. Simpleton had the Honour of
Klthani given bien  it was the Earl of Dorset's  the middle park
and a house that was Mr. White's, and cut down i,'J,UUO worth of
timber ; but bath scarce one left of his own to bus a gibbet." 
mystery oftlte Good Old Cauc, 1()48.

t The diurnal inform ns that" the Lord Fairfax was at Eltham
(both Away), his men lying in the fu Id all night (iUstj,"

X It is probable that this was a common practice when forced
marches were male.  See Whit cluck's Memorial, uniier date 20th
August, 1()51, where this passage occurs, *' 4,(HX) of the (jenoral'a
foot march in their shirts 20 miles a day " (against Charles II.
and the Scots), " and have their clothes aud arms carried by the
country."

however, some of the soldiers gave us bread oat
of their knapsacks. These I accosted concerning
my unwarranted detention, but they told me
'twas my own fault for getting mixed with the
party that did murder one of theirs. But the real
reason was, I am sure, that 'twas designed to take
the Kentish men by surprise.

So on they go marching like lords  each soldier
having his armour-bearer after him. And many
foolish petitioners were among those beasts of
burthen, for being met coming without arms in
their hands towards London out of Kent, in behalf
of peace, they from time to time had the answer of
Jehu given to them 

What hast thou to do with peace ?  turn thee
behind me."

At Meopham were few besides old men, women,
and children. For by degrees the country 
hearing of the approach of soldiers  if they could
not burrow like rabbits, did flee away like bares ;
and houses both of gentry and commonalty were
found without an inhabitant. But the march was
hurried on at such a pace that there was little
time to spoil.* Here we did hear that Craford
bridge was forced by Major Husbands ;t but they

There was, however, a good deal of plundering, as the proclamations
of Fairfax shew.

t A Parliameiuarian diurnal gives the following particulars : 
Major Husbands and 300 horse, who mounted 200 foot behind
them, attacked a bridge that the Kentish men had fortified. The
enemy tired thick, but Husbands' men fell on. The horse swam
through the water j then they fled. Major Child's horde shot ;

dared not to enter Dartford, though the petitioners
were gone, it being towards night.

I had almost forgot to mention that Jack Gayer
was no longer with me ; and that he had by some
unaccountable means escaped from the palace at
Eltham, much to the disappointment of the
soldiers who desired to have the shooting of him.
And they did declare that none but the dive himself
could have got away so secretly. I was put
in some fear by their talk of the dive having
appeared in Kent, and at the Counters, lest I
should have been remembered to have been one
of those who rose in the City. I could not discover
that Jack Gayer had again personated the
Evil One, and I knew he had not the dress  for
Parson Dixon had got it away from him for a sum
of money.

I was anxious lest Jack Gayer should be found
on our march. Another thing did trouble me 
which was, that Compton must have found it im-his

Bon shot in tho back; twenty slain and thirty prisoners.
The enemy's party consisted of countrymen, seamen, and London
apprentices. One, Mr. Phipps, very active," etc.

Another, Mercurius, says, " Carts barricaded the bridge and
harrows tho ioord. Colonel Jackson gives no quarter, bat a
kinsman lead it. A major swore and drank upon it that no
Roundhead should have quarter or can be permitted to live anymore
in England, Feeing asked why they cried ' Hey, for King
Charles,' when they charged, some said they would die in ling
cause, ' &c.

So says a letter from Trustworthy

As Leiulall finds no explanation, it is as well to state that
there is a subterranean passage from tho hall to tho fosse round
Elthum Palace.

possible to reach the place where His Majesty was
expected to arrive at with Fairfax interposed.

We left Meopham * very early in the morning
of the 1 st of June, and were made to halt again
at a certain place for the space of half an hour.
'Twas said Colonel Berkstead was on a private
expedition. Anon he appears with a score or so of
horses with saddles, and pistols in holsters and
other furniture. We were to be turned into
dragoons. I say we, for I got mounted because
an officer of Berkstead's regiment having fallen
off his beast  he being a foot soldier and not used
to dragooning it  was glad to let me mount in his
stead, and bestowed my burden upon a prisoner
they had just taken. And, indeed, I found that
colt so very unruly  trying to break away, and
also springing all at once into the air without
any notice whatsoever  that I had much ado not
to follow that officers example.

The said officer was now to search for information
concerning the Kentish men ; and we did
visit divers houses of divers persons who were to
give it, and were to communicate all to Colonel
Berkstead again. At Birling inquiry was made
about some who were said to know somewhat of
the counsels of the petitioners ; we then went
toward Woodlands.

I have told you I have good sight. The land

"The Lord General at Meopham last night (Mayest); meu
lying about the fields''  Diurnal.

near Birling lies liigli, and you can see thence
Tery easily the high ground * on the further side
of the Medway, which lies between Maidstone and
Rochester. A part of that ground is marked with
white tracks of chalk up the face of the hill-side.
Looking above this, and rather to the left of those
tracks, I thought I did perceive somewhat. 'Twas
not trees, and yet looked like plantations. Anon
it was hid by a shower  fur that morning was
showery  and then again it did appear. I perceived
motion in it ; and at last was convinced
'twas horse and foot in great numbers, the stands
of pikes having been mistaken by me for fir plantations.
A short while later a cry of 

"There they be!" broke from Berkstead his
men.

Ten thousand petitioners did stand upon that
distant hill. They were Esquire Hales his men
collected in a body. 'Twas the rendezvous of
Kent!

I think Berksteads men were troubled at the
sight. As for me, I was so overjoyed that I did
ahiiost shed tears. We turned back into Birling.
Some men were for killing those who they conceived
ought to have told us. But Colonel
Berkstead by-and-bye appearing all was quieted ;
and to my great surprise he took that small
party of horse at a good speed in the very direct

Heath above Oldham, on tho right bunk of the
Medway, and about two miles from Rochester.

tion of that force on the hill. But he had ascertained
that there was no Kentish forces on that
side of the Medway. He made no inquiry as tome
; but, supposing me to be a lacquey, told me
to take care of that horse I was on, for he wanted
to reserve it for his own use.

We went to one Gjles," at Snodlands, who had
been employed in the casting of ordnance there,
and had a good house. The soldiers who came

I found the following record of Fairfax's march amongst
the uncaleiidared MSS. in the State Paper Office:  "Peter
Hester, of Billing, husbandman, sworn (15th March, 1<)51),
earth  ' That upon Thursday morning early, being ye 1st day of
June, in ye year 1(148, ye same day ye fight was at Maidstone,
several hundreds of 3'e Lord Fairfax his forces marching through
Birling aforesaid, where this depth. house was, and where he
there was in hys bed, called at hys house and told this ext.
that he must get him a horse and shew them ye way to John
Gyles his house at Snodlancls, were to have some pasture for
ye horses. Whereupon this dept. saith that he did take up his
horse and shevv them ye way to John Gyles his house accordingly,
where they called for ye said Gyles, who putt hys head
 out of a chamber window and spake to them, who asked him
if he had a cup of good beer. He answered yt. they should
have such as he had ; there being not alcove twenty of them they
staled at yes. Gyles hys house, but what became of them attds.
this dept. knoweth not, he leaving them at ye sd. Gyles hys house
and set. home.'- before the Committee at Maidstone

Robert Austen, of E. Mailing, labourer, sworn and ext.,
ut supra, saith as follows:  ' That ye Tuesday before ye fight at
Maidstone, in ye said insurrection in this co., he was sett by
Stephen Tomlyn, constable of ye handled of Garfield, upon ye
road there to watch and ward ; and af tds. was taken by ye Ld.
Fairfax hys souldiers, and brought to ye rendezvous at E.
Mailing Heath, where was brought ye sd. John Gyles of Scotland
by some souldiers, who said they fetched him out of hys
house, and this ext. saith that ye sd. Gyles and himself were
discharged by ye Ld. Fairfax as ye souldiers told this ext.'

Robs. R. Austen,

hia X mark."

there first approaches, craftily asking for drink.
He gave them some, and in return they presently
tell him he is in some danger, and must speak the
truth.

I know nothing whatsoever about nothing,"
says Gyles.*

At that instant up comes Berkstead himself.

'* Ye lie ! ye lie ! " says he ; " ye was all day
yesterday with Esquire Hales, Francis Lovelace,
Augustine Skinner, and one Strange, viewing the
passes of the river."

Huw amazed was I to hear that Berkstead knew
such a thing as this !

Down goes Gyles on his knees and prays for
mercy.

I am innocent of aught against the honourable
Parliament! ' cries he.

Berkstead says nothing, but catches at his ear,
and pulls as he would pull Gyles his head off.

You gave out two new brass culvers out of the
Parliament stores, which are now planted on
Aylesford bridge," says he.

'' I swear I did not, gentlemen," says Gyles ;
they were but old iron minions, and honeycomb

 The political bias of John Gyles is more clearly indicated
by the following information against him :  " John Gyles did
carry himself with much inveteracy and calico against tho
Parliament, and against all honest, godly, and well-affected
people in the last rising of tho Kentish enemy in ye year of
our Lord God lOtS. at that tine when ye Lord Goring and
Esq. ILilcs was in arms for ye late King against yo Parliament."
 Uncalcndarcd AIi>. State Paper Ottice.

also, and the gents did take them from me with
force and violence. A poor honest man  oh, bj
your leave, sir, do not span your pistol at me 
knows not what to do in these times. ' Sign the
petition cries one, ' or I will stab thee in the
belly ; '  Arm for the Parliament says another,
'or I will shoot thee into the head.' "

'what hath been done to Aylesford bridge
besides ? ' demands Berkstead, with his pistol still
pointed.

'' Oh, Lord, sir, it is stockade and a half-moon
in front of it."

"And to Maidstone?"

The like, sir ! Have mercy !  and a murdering
piece thereon. '

And to Farleigh ? "

Master Skinner undertook it, sir-tis to be
destroyed, sir."

Berkstead here lowers his pistol, but he asks
about all the fords, which he appeared to know
accurately.

There be harrows and sharp stakes there'' is
Gyles his answer to each question.

"Are those forces on the hill yonder drawn from
Rochester or Maidstone ? "

From both, please your worthy honour."

"Your memory is indifferent good, friend
Gyles," says Berkstead, putting his pistol back
into his holster ; " 'tis my design, therefore, to-carry
you before the Lord Fairfax."

Gyles scared, says nought.

Some had dismounted from their horses while
this talk went on. The people that were about
us, I could see, would have cut those soldiers'
throats if they dared. Most of Berkstead's men
were quaffing of beer. It seemed an opportunity.
Ned Hales and all the men of Kent were on the
heights on the further side of the Medway, not
three miles off. Wherefore should I not hazard
an escape.

An old farmer stood near me with a whip. I
signified my condition to him and my desire to begone
by signs and looks, which he presently understood.
He secretly passes his whip into my hand.
We were in the orchard beside Gyles his house.
It was toward the river and begirt with wooden
pales. The colt I was on had mettle, as I told
you. I turned him to the pales. He would not
jump.

I saw 1 was observed.

'* Stand ! will ye ?'' says I.

I put him straight at the pales, and slacking my
rein instantly cut his hinder quarters with the
whip. Over he flies bravely !

** Not touched ! " muttered I, as the small shot
rattled through the apple and pear trees, which
somewhat screened me Iron my guards  but that
was all they did, except to roar at me, Berkstead
loudest. I was through the thin hedge of the next
held, over a wall, and so into the Medway plump !

and none seemed to follow. It was high, tide ;
and though I had further to go, no current to
battle with. My nag and I scrambled up the
bank on the further side. But now I found I was
no more the master. He was a runaway, and
cared for nothing whatsoever. He ran desperately
up the white track of the Pilgrims' Way," and
catching sight of the horse on the hill, neighed,
altered his course, and carried me through furze
and brushwood to the rendezvous of Kent, among
squadrons of horse, plumps of pikes and partizans,
and pennons and standards of divers blazons. An
unanimous huzza seemed to greet my arrival,
though, having been despoiled of the fine suit
which Ned Hales had given me, I was but poorly
clothed for so brave an assembly.

See Dean Stanley's highly interesting work The Memorials
of Canterbury for allusions to the Pilgrims' Way at this identical
place.

OP THE RENDEZVOUS AND HOW I LEFT IT.

"" Hold, sirrah ! Stay your beast ! ' " Ride not over
the General ! " " What the plague is this ? '' Such
"vivere the next expressions which were addressed
to me, as I glanced with some violence against a
great Flanders horse, whereon an ancient gentleman
in half-armour sat bowing and waving his
hand as if the salute was meant for him.

I looked for Ned Hales to see if I had ridden
over him ; but I saw him not, therefore I understood
not well those cries. The huzzahs were not
unreasonable to salute one who had brought over
the fleet to the King, and whom doubtless they
imagined to be lost, as he had not returned with
any letter from Fairfax. I had not much time to
consider such matters, for my colt made no halt
there, but sweeping a circuit of the multitude 
which was indeed an army, quite amazing to look
upon, stopped in the centre where the horse stood
thickest.

The huzzahs by this time had died away', and 1
foimd I was quite mistaken as to their cause ; and
that indeed I attracted little notice.

When I came to observe where 1 was, I perceived

that I was close to Ned Hales his troop,
which I knew by their red doublets, and the
standard of the royal arms which the beloved
Lady Anne had broidered with her own hands,
Ned Hales himself and Estrange were in front
of it. The ancient gentleman began an oration
which lasted not long. T heard him say that " he
doubted not but that by their means the King
would be restored to his throne ere the week were
out," or something to that effect. Then came
more huzzahs, after which Ned Hales rides forward
with Estrange, and I made towards him ; but
as he seemed to have business with the ancient
gentleman, I halted at a little distance. I soon
discovered the explanation of the whole matter.
The ancient gentleman was the Earl of Norwich,
who had accepted the command of the armed
petitioners of Kent, the Duke of Richmond
having declined the same. Those cheers were
therefore not for me, but, sad thought ! for the
Earl who had ousted Ned Hales of his command !
My lord," said Hales, with a somewhat sad
countenance. "I yield unto you not only my

" They" (i.e., the gentlemen of Kent) " appointed a rendezvous
the next day " {i.e., June List), at Farnham Downs (i.e., Durham),
 three miles distant from Rochester towards Maidstone ; when the
Lord Norwich was proclaimed General at the head of the army''
&c.  See T7'ue Relation, p. 67.

The old Lord Goring being that day proclaimed General at
the head of their army, on the hill near Aylesford, where we saw
their body drawn up which as their prisoners do confess, and they
themselves gave out, consisted of 8,000 men, besides those in
Maidstone and Aylesford," &c.  Letter of Fairfax.

command, but mine own regiment of horse. I
pray you however to preserve it as his Majesty's
life guards, should King Charles shortly arrive
amongst us as is possible, since for his Majesty
that force was designed, which for that reason is
clothed in red and hath its standard a royal
scutcheon."

The Earl prayed Hales to accept the post
of Lieutenant-general, but Ned Hales declared
his friend Sir Thomas Peyton worthily filled
it ; and in fine  notwithstanding all the Earl
his polite remonstrances and entreaties  declared
his intention to fight as a volunteer. I
heard L'Estrange" following his example, and

Estrange describes the suppression of younger Hales, and
the rendezvous at Burham Heath, where he says " We mastered
near 10.000 horse and foot. I was offered," says he, *' a very
considerable command, but perceiving the people against me, I
asked pardon, if I not only quitted what I had, but declined any
other ; but if my person might be thought of any use in the
action, 1 should be ready upon all commands and occasions to
Kcrve my Prince. At the same time blaster Hales also delivered
up his command, and presented the General with his own immediate
regiment." Estrange observes that *' the reception of
the Earl of Norwich was good. He doubted he wanted not forty-eight
hours of giving the King his crown again. At one,"
continues L'KHiraiigo, " we drew off the Heath . . . particular
charges were given to secure the rivers, and parties commanded
to watch the enemy hovering indifferently between Rochester
ftjul Maidstone."

' Hales," says Carter, "constantly continued with them till
this night, when having seen the army in such a state as that
day's rendezvous, anil the appointment of a general, took it for
an absolute solution of his engagi'im-nt, and resolved that night
to go home only to accommodate himself the bettor with money
and other necessaries for a longer march, and to return the next
morning's 7Vuc Jieladon, p. 73.

declining all preferment. Ned Hales then turns
and rides to his troop, and with tears in his eyes,
addresses a few words recommending them to
obedience to their new commander. Estrange
attending with a mock cheerful air, which was
sad to behold. Then did I present myself to Ned
Hales to whom I incontinently determined to offer
no expressions of pity  for that is an ointment
that smarts.

Why ? 'tis Eupert Lendall ! " says he, looking
at me with some wonder, and truly my dress was
as if I had been making a camisado. Doublet I
had none, nor hat either. A shirt black with dirt,
tattered leather breeches, and old boots much too
large, was all I had gotten from the soldiers in
exchange for the handsome suit Ned Hales had
given me. A few words explained all to Hales,
my delivering the letter, being taken prisoner
and escaping. He at once brought me before
the Earl of Norwich, who was surrounded by a
multitude of gentlemen, all proposing divers
things. There were many strangers besides
Hardress, Peyton, Mayney, Colepepper, Brock-man,
Godfrey, Hammond, and the rest I have
mentioned before. But all listened with attention
to my story. Nor did Skinner and Garland
late of the Parliament party decline to lend an
ear, but methought 'twas but a poor part they
played to turn away from their friends at the
last moment yet I hoped they might be sincere.

VOL. III. D

Oue who had succeeded Estrange as Quartermaster
General, was of opinion that a considerable
force was hovering indifferently between Rochester
and Maidstone (and indeed there had been a feint
on Stood) but none believed that the headquarters
of Fairfax his army had got as far as
Meojiham, nor was I able to assure them that he
had been there himself, or what proportion of his
force had left it, for Berkstead's men had marched
before the others.

'Tis just as I said," cries one, "they are but
small detached parties ; but let us send a good
party of horse towards Meophara."

Your horse will be spent ere you need them,"
says another, " if you use them so."

Estrange and Hales urged that all the passes
of the river should be better guarded.

Aylesford is safe," says Darrell.

"We will answer for Maidstone," said Sir
William Brockman ; which Sir Gamaliel Dudley
did second.

Farleigh bridge shall be destroyed at the last
moment' said Skinner.

Colepepper proposed to march the whole army
over Rochester bridge and attack a considerable
body said to be at Add's Hill.

Newman thought Rochester should be our
citadel.

Hardress was for going elsewhere.

It seemed to be the notion of the Earl of Norwich

that Fairfax would not be in a mighty hurry
to attack a county so unanimously opposed to
him ; and that the message which Fairfax had
sent by a trumpeter of his own, offering pardon 
to those who would lay down their aims, was buta
bravado which he dared not follow up.

If King Charles should suddenly appear at
Blackheath," said he, "the City will rise, and
Fairfax will be between two fires. And though
this young man, says he, " can give no tidings
of Sir William Compton  his name is not on the
list of prisoners Fairfax sends for exchange. So
I trust that the mission so ably designed by
Master Hales will be successful  but I will demand
of the said Fairfax his explanation for treating a
flag of truce with such contempt."

By your leave, sir," said I, " I shall be happy
to revenge the insult myself  if I have but the
addition of a sword, and a scarf of the King's
colour. I have a great desire to take Colonel
Berkstead prisoner ; and I doubt not he is not yet
gone far from where I left him."

At this several bold young sparks whose fathers
had fought for the King, but who had till now been
too young, caught fire and pressed to be allowed
to go.

None was offered to their leaders. " His Excellency returned
answer by a trumpeter of his own " (to the letter delivered on
Shooter's Hill) that " if they would lay down their arms, and
disperse, he doubted not of the mercy of Parliament to them that
are abused and deluded ; and of their justice against such as
shall appear to have been the chief and most eminent actors in
this rebellion."

*' If this knave," added one, *' will be our
guide."

You must not speak so of a late vice-admiral
of the fleet," says the Earl of Norwich, smiling.

In another minute some twenty or thirty persons,
mostly very young gentlemen very well
mounted  collected. I determined to shew that
though they mistook me for some common fellow,
I was going to prove their leader. I doubted not
but that my horse would worthily second his rider,
and that I should not be last in the race after
Berkstead, though he had been somewhat blown
by galloping up hill.

I was furnished with a scarf of the King's
colour, also with a sword and a hat. I refused all
else.

"Come along! " said I.

They started off with me. But the General by
somebody's advice altered his mind. We had not
gone far when voice and trumpet called us back.
Those young blades for the most part obeyed. As
for me, I could not. My colt after running away
up hill, chose to go down at a like pace. The
trumpet sounded  as I thought angrily  once
more. I found myself alone in frantic gallop leaping
bush, pit, gripe, whatever came in my way.
Away I did fly the road I had come.

And so I arrive at the bank of the river which
my colt declined, and careers about refusing: also
to return to the rendezvous, which indeed at this

time was breaking up, and the men going into
quarters by troops and companies. When I endeavoured
to force my colt towards Burham he
did rise and paw the air. Then I perceive some
coming down from the rendezvous. They approach
and tell me they have been sent now to accompany
me. We are to go no further than Snodlands, and
to be circumspect, not running too much risk.
But " wherefore did I go at such a speed ? " and
is it " true that I am he who played vice-admiral
on board the ' Reformation ? ' " &c.

I invite the rest. My nag adventures the Medway
once more. But no sooner safe on the other
side, than he snaps the bit in his teeth, and looking
round on me with an evil eye, seemeth to say 

What ho ! Will ye indeed catch Colonel
Berkstead ?  i' faith, and so ye shall ! " and scours
through Hailing.

" liilloa ho ! hi ! hi !  softly, Vice-admiral ! '

But 'tis in vain. I am off like a tornado in the
tropics  the rain which had begun again, all this
time pouring in my face. Did I know whither I
was going ? By no means. But my nag had no
doubts. He preferred skirting of the Med way.
My friends did not overtake me. I passed the
Friary  only 'twas, of course, on the other side of
the river. The white ensign and cross of St.
George did float on the top. " But," thinks I,
'' as I am now alone, and perhaps near the enemy,
I had best throw off my king's scarf." Next comes

Aylesford bridge well barricaded  a demilune oF
sods in front with two pieces of ordnance peering
out  the bridge crowded with musketeers and pike-men
 the windows of the old tower on the further
side of the river filled with faces. Something between
a hiss and a groan from many voices  as to
a dog which is scorned, greets me as I pass. I
was not pleased to receive such a welcome ; but
Hwas soon explained. They took me for an enemy.
There is a way to the right hand ; my colt turneth
into it. As destiny would have it, these are the
very new-made dragoons I have parted with, only
their prisoners are not with them. They have on
their pots and armour ; and withal, are at a fine
speed running away from Aylesford, which they
had been viewing. Two things I may mention 
first, the poor prisoners had gone another road ;
second, there was no horse in Aylesford, otherwise
the Kentish men would have assaulted those
new-made dragoons. I spun-ed my colt, for stop
him I could not. I believe these soldiers feared
me until I was past them ; and then the fools
snap pistols at me, but too late. On I go, not
knowing where, but hoping towards friendly
quarters, as I was now quite alone. "When lo ! I
come upon more steel caps, more cuirasses, and
more swords, also pikes, a whole regiment of foot,
part of the train, two pieces of reliance, and
nigh a whole regiment of horse ! Now farewell
valour and welcome discretion. I would be a

countryman on a runaway nag. I fling my sword
over the hedjje amono the ladies' smocks and
cuckoo-buds. I gain the van of those men, receiving
nothing worse than a solemn curse, or a
cut that misses me. And now my brute choose
to walk, and will not pass that van where is one
whom I recognise as Colonel Rich, who had had
to do with putting down the rising of the
prentices of London  with him is an older colonel
whose face I did not at first see, and oh ! but my
heart died within me to see his third companion !
for 'twas no other than Berkstead again  Berk-stead
whom I had rashly thought to make a
prisoner of !

Neither he nor his two companions observed me.
I could not halt my brute nor yet urge him forward.
I believe they took me at first for a
friendly country fellow. Berkstead was telling a
story.

While these 20 unarmed were drinking healths
to King Charles in the parlour," says he, "we
seized their horses  this I ride on is one  ready
saddled and bridled in the stables, with the pistols
in the holsters all ready for them to mount to ride
to Blackheath with their silly petition."

Ha ! ha ! " laughs the cracked voice of the
third man.

*so," continues Berkstead, "we took them all
prisoners and made them walk t'other way; all
except the old fellow that sat at the head of the

table, who having snatched down an old rusty fox
broadsword from the wall, and made resistance
was despatched"*

At this moment Berkstead makes a sudden
motion, which was indeed a start, though not born
of fear. Doubtless not knowing that the colt was
a runaway, he marvelled that I had been mad
enough to come back.

By  ! " cries he, and then corrects the oath.
* Seize this fellow and bind him, and write him
down also to be Tindalee " (which was the name
I altered myself to for security) " he is the
prisoner who escaped, and he rides one of the
beasts I speak of."

It was indeed the very fellow of that whereon
Berkstead then rode, which may account for my
colt choosing to walk at that worst of all places
for his rider. Enemies did abound. Colonel
Eich recognised me. The mad lieutenant was

Though much has been said about the excellent discipline of
the Parliament armies, acts of violence and plunder were frequently
committed by them. The following petition at tho
Restoration furnishes an instance :  " To the King's Most
Excellent Majesty  The humble petition of Thos. Brewer humbly
fiheweth  That your petitioner's father . . . was in his own
house most barbarously slain and plundered of all his personal
estate for his ready engagement with the petitioners and other
your Majesty's loyal subjects in the county of Kent, who in tho
year 1(148 did take up arms for restoring your Majesty's late
father of glorious memory, from the barbarous restraint and imprisonment
he at that time underwent'' etc.  (Copied from MS.
in State Paper Office.)

there to seize me ; and he of the cracked voice
having turned to regard me attentively cries 

"Tindale?" Nay, tis the rascal Lendall that
betrayed the fleet of the Parliament's ships, and
hath besides committed all manner of mutinies.
No other is he as sure as my name is Liveseyey "
(for Liveseyey it was). '' Slay him not, but keep
him fast, Miriam ! The scum is of value. The
Derby House will give a thousand pounds for him.
And thou, Miriam, shalt have a share of a third
with myself,' adds Liveseyey.

'' Of a fourth ye would say, quoth Rich, " 'twas
I who first catched him''

Where ? " says Liveseyey.

*' On Shooter's Hill, where his companion  who
hath, I know not how, escaped  shot one of my
best soldiers."

I will resign my share of the money," says
the firm and solemn Miriam, when Rich ceased
speaking, " provided his blood flows as an expiation
to appease the Lord's wrath."

You will have enough of blood presently,"
says Berkstead, 'without his. tis for the Parliament
to hang him up and not for you to slash
him down."

Although I now gave myself up for lost, I was not
displeased to find that Miriam May was not let to

Several histories mentioning our autobiography call him
Tindalee.

be my jailor. I was, however, secured; my hands-tied
behind me, and my feet fastened with a cord
under the coitus belly, while a trooper on each side
did guide the colt.

Just about this time one of the advance gallops
back and calls out 

Way stopped ! '

A turn of the road explained that mystery.
Trees are across the road, and we are not far from
them. The sound of an axe is going, and another
tree is being felled.

Jasper ! come away for the love of heaven ! "
cries a voice ; and another, " Captain Pearson !
Captain Pearson !  they are on you ! ''

But the man of Kent will finish his work. One
more stroke, and down falleth tree, a goodly green
elm with many great boughs  slowly down ! and
away skips Pearson over the other prostrate trees.
I caught sight of him, and remembered to have
seen him at the " Shooter's meadow."

His men (Courthope's f Wrotham train band)

 I found the following amongst the nncalcndarod MSS. in the
State Paper Office. (Depositions on oath before the Committee
of Kent) :  "Jasper Pearson, E. Mailing (an other) didcutt down
trees and laid them across the highways to block up the passage
against ye Lord Fairfax his army in 1(>48."

t Captain Francis Courthojx' (I think of Court Lodge), one of
the leaders of the Insurrection lliiH. The following a mention
of him associated with our friend John CJyles :  *' Francis Wybiirn,
of Wrotluuu, in the county of Kent, yeoman, sworn, &c., saith 
that ho hath known John Gyles, of Scotland, by ye space of lion
and upas., and yt. he hath been of ye traiuc-band called y-
"Wrotham baud, under Capt. Frae. Courtoi)})."

discharged their shots*  then all mount and
away.

"Well done my brave boys ! " thinks I, " Rich
his regiment is stopped for ten minutes at least."

But, indeed, 'twas not so long. What can stay
an army prepared for all things ?

I find no account of any "shooting "at Parliament troops.
There is an account of " Christopher Gardiner, of E. Mailing,
being killed bj the Parliament soldiers, early on the List of
June'' but the MS. is torn off at the bottom.

THE RENDEZVOUS OF FAIRFAX.*

The cords were tight on my wrists, and the constrained
posture of my legs caused me some pain,
and you may well believe I was in a deadly state
of fear, and did each moment bewail my folly in
leaving Burham Heath, which I learnt was the
name of the place where the men of Kent had
assembled.

'Twas not long ere I overheard we were bound
for East Mailing,! but ere we got there we found
more trees felled, and other impediments. At
last we reached a clear, open space, and there I
perceive at once the full scope of the Parliament
design  planned vengeance upon Kent !

The whole heath did swarm J with sturdy, well-fed,
and well-armed soldiers, and more still did

BnrliaiuKeath, formerly a comniou, was cucloscd early in trio
present century.

t " The Lord General will make a halt at East Mailing, where
orders will be given ont."  Diurnal.

\ The forces of Fairfax numbered probably six or eight
thousand. The diurnal mention the following? regiments : 
Fairfax's liorso. Commissary-general Ireton's, Whalley's, Fleetwood's,
llich's, half Colonel Scope's, Colonel lesson's and Bedstead's
foot, the Tower Regiment , and half another regiment."
*' Captain Freeman's and Barrington's troops came up and joined
those that lay toward llochcstor."

pour in  headpiece, breast and back armour rusty
with the rain, which all this time was falling. Nor
was there wanting a field train, whose gaping
mouths seemed ready to spit forth their venom
against walls whether of flesh or stones Fires
were already lighted, the blue smoke crawling
rather than rising, by reason of the heavy atmosphere.
But they are presently ordered to be put
out. The poor petitioners of Kent must have as
little notice as possible of what is prepared. A
coach and eight horses appears. I remember it to
be that of Fairfax, and he now suffers worse
twinges of his gout. Hath he no twinges of conscience
for to come down thus and devour a peaceful
land ? I think not, for Ireton is at his elbow with
his bloody texts to keep His Excellency from
wavering, and besotted Tom thinks he understands
" the mind of the Lord " in this business.
I am taken off my colt, but my hands are still
fast. And now the prisoners herding under divers
shepherds are driven into a collected flock. Ere
this they were relieved of all their burthens, for
horse and foot must come with their arms and furniture
ready for use to the Lord General's rendezvous.
It is rumoured that that army is to fall

*The confidence of this well-equipped veteran army is well expressed
in the following :  '' Nerves from Kent. From the rendezvous
at E. Malkin. . . . Every man is three men in courage ;
God appears when man forsakes . . . some said that . . . the
Kentish men are but ciphers. It is hoped their estates will not
prove ciphers."

suddenly upon a town, and is to be as usual first
prepared by preachers. Soldiers receive a dose of
strong waters to fortify them against the wet, and
horses being tied to stakes with ropes stretched
between the dismounted troopers ; as well as the
foot , are packed together to hear a sermon. For
from the top of a box of grandees and other fireworks,
on a waggon of the train  shadowed over
by a great painted cloth which makes both church
and council chamber for the grandees  the
great pulpit buffoon  spared by Cromwell for the
purpose, and despatched a very long way, commences
his oration. A kind of suppressed roar of
satisfaction did greet his appearance.

He looketh to Black Tom, whose face is dismally
seen in his coach, the curtain next the
preacher being drawn a little apart, and begins
to read his text from his pocket Bible with gilt
leaves. And that text is Exodus xxii. and 27th
verse, " Put every man his sword by his side, and
go in and out from gate to gate through the camp,
and slay every man his brother, and every man
his companion, and every man his neighbour."

Gallant soldiers," says he, " ye see me here
having my sword girt about my loins " (and indeed
he was both armed and cross-belted), '' but
it is with the sword of the Spirit I would smith

Of coarse the chaplain to tho train, Hugh Peters, whose
harangues were both humorous and inflammatory, is hero intruded.


this day. The Lord hath at this time a great
work to perform, namely , wrath to the ungodly,
but a feast of wine upon the lees to those that are
true of heart. Ye shall see garments rolled in
blood  gallant soldiers of the Gospel !  as ye have
ofttimes seen before. A thousand shall fall on
your right hand, bat it shall not come nigh unto
you. It hath been revealed unto me that your
victory this night shall be complete. Ye shall go
through the land as a whirlwind and as a tempest
oh ! righteous cause !  to punish the backsliding
and rebellious. Gallant soldiers, ye shall possess
the land. And now 'tis meet that I should touch
upon the cause of quarrel that the Lord hath with
this land  I speak now of the Lord Fairfax  who
hath this some time been our Joshua, leading us
from Egyptian bondage into a blessed Canaan  a
land of goodly heritages and possessions  where
we enjoy the glorious liberty of the children of
Zion ! For who now dare to lay anything to the
charge of the elect ? We are a peculiar people,
zealous of good works. We have grace to observe
the Sabbaths, and we are given to ride upon the
high places of the earth. We sit in honour and
our enemies are made our footstool' (here he
turns to the Lord Fairfax) ; " therefore ride on,
my lord, because of the word of meekness and
of righteousness, and thy right hand shall teach
thee terrible things !

But now, as I said, as to the controversy His

Excellency hath with this people. And truly I
must tell you it began with their rebellion at
Christmas in Canterbury, when they rose to oppose
the godly Parliament and Committee, and worship
their idol. They have continued in divers
mutinies since, insomuch that they could now
bring back that other idol whom ye have locked
up in Carisbrooke, whom, in our late petition for
no more addresses,' ye did desire wholly to lay
aside. Oh, my friends, can such a thing be
tolerated at all ? Truly I think it not a matter
of a Nebuchadnezzar gone mad with self worship,
to be turned among the beasts of the field, but a
Dagon to be broken, and an enemy to be destroyed
for ever. Shall the reign of saints be interrupted
by a few sorry petitioners ? I trow not, and we
have finely rolled them back whence they came.
The few poor sheep we have captured are scarce
worth the slaughtering, but if it be His Excellency's
good pleasure to make an end of a proportion
of them, here is good Master Boreman and
Master Belcher, chaplains to the Committee,
ready to give them such preparation as brief
time will permit. But oh ! gallant soldiers, when
I think how the godly Committee of Kent have
toiled in vain to sow the good seed in this backsliding
county, I could weep as many tears as the
clouds have this day rained drops ! For what
have we seen but treachery everywhere  ships,
towns, castles magazines, betrayed or surprised

by the enemies of the truth ? The godly Committee
have, however, informed themselves in all
matters necessary for the punishment of these
backsliders. They know the passes ; they know
the ways ; they know the weak parts of the towns.
Noble Kenrick is fast in Dover Castle, which he
will not render up, but I see gallant Sir Michael
Liveseyey, and Master Bix, my worthy friend, and
when the work before us is finished it shall be said
in all modesty to the vigilant Sir Anthony 

* Well done thou good and faithful servant ;
enter thou into the joy of thy lord ! ' "

And again this blasphemous villain looks to the
Lord Fairfax, and some hardened fellows perceiving
the jest, are moved to mirth.

' But to return," says he. " Are we safe to
leave the cause of the Lord unavenged?  to go
back without doing the work which has been put
upon us ? The army is insulted ; your godly
general is mocked at. Know ye, that in their
scandalous petition  which the Parliament hath
caused to be burnt by the hangman  these petitioners
do pray that the army of His Excellency
may be disbanded. The poor children of the
kingdom to be cheated of their reward for cleansing
the land of sin and ungodliness. The heathen
dogs would snatch the bread out of your mouths.
And the Kentish men desire to be the first promoters
of that wicked design."

Here this pulpit juggler, casting his eyes aloft,

VOL. III. E

happened to descry adoveflyin*, through the air,
and comines up from the south-westward.

Hold ! " says he. " Yonder flies a messenger
of peace, but were it sent from Heaven to these
backsliders I would turn it back thither, for the
time of mercy is past, the time of long-suffering
hath come to an end ! "

At this some fanatic soldier, having raised a
loaded matchlock and pointed it, shoots ; that
dove turns a little in his flight, shedding, I think,
a few of his breast feathers, but after a little
wavering: continues his former course.

'' Lo ! I take up my proverb against these backsliders,"
continues the preacher, "against these
men of Kent, to whom yon messenger of peace
flies in vain. For thus and thus do I speak to
these rebels  art thou come for to take a spoil and
to take a prey ? Get ye up ye young lions of the
army ! Blow up the trumpet ! Roar at them !
run at them !  tear them !  trample on them !
Away !  the Med way is your Jordan. Kent is
your promised land. If it flows not with milk
and honey there are other things as good. It is
boastful ; it is proud. Its heathen motto boasts
it never to have been conquered. But by yon sun
that now gleams forth yonder, I swear to you
Kent shall have a fall. March, then, whithersoever
the Lord shall direct you ; march like mighty
men of war. March through Kent and harry the
nests of the malignant. Let us hear no idle

prate about Magna Charta, English liberties,
brotherhood, and such-like vain words of man's
wisdom. Reason not at all, but strike hard and
spare not ! Our kingdom is not of this world. We
have another banner than they wot of to follow,
and we must follow it to the death. What are
kings to us ? Quit ye like men ; be strong, be
vigilant. Remember it is written, ' Cursed * is he
that doeth the work of the Lord negligently ! '
*Put every man his sword by his side, and go in
and out from gate to gate throughout the camp,
and slay every man his brother, and every man his
companion, and every man his neighbour ! ' "

So ended this blasphemous buffoon who hath
most constantly and diligently blown the trumpet
of rebellion, stirring up poor unlearned knaves to
frenzy and madness, till they imagine that to shed
the blood o their kindred is doing a service to
their Maker  at times throwing in a jest to
catch the favour of the crafty villain, who, serving
for pay and plunder, believes not at all in the
frantic doctrine garbled from the Warrior Jew his
books ; at other times, with clenched fist, blazing
eyes, and roaring voice, lashing himself into such a
fury that you would verily believe that not one but
seven raging divers possessed him.

A fierce hum or rather roar answered this
preacher's last thunders; and snaphaunce, sword,

*This passage of Scripture was, I think, used by Harrison,
at the sack of Basing House as he slew Robinson the player.

Library



and pike, rattled as their bearers clutched them
with vengeful purpose. And then in answer to the
hoarse voice of command, they are swiftly marshalled
for the advance into great squadrons and
squares, where horses neigh, and pikes cluster like
pine plantations, with musketeers on their flanks.
And now they remain grim and silent, awaiting
the General's order. But he waited for news
from his scouts.

I and the other prisoners, now full of deadly
fears for Kent and for ourselves, were kept herded
as I told you, and not very far from Fairfax his
coach. The council of war  Ireton, Whalley,
Rich, Berkstead, Hewson, Cobbett, &c., having
conferred together, Cobbett calls us up. This
was that Cobbett whose hand was dipped in all cruel
businesses, the suppression of the rising of the
prentices, the Surrey massacre, and who afterwards
crowned all by seizing the King in the Isle
of Wight to drag him to his mock trial in London.
1 he frightened herd are brought nigh to Fairfax
his coach.

We are incommoded with the number of prisoners,"
says Ireton, " 'twere well to fix their
doom. They have all rendered to mercy. 'Tsvere
most convenient to dispose of them suddenly. If
it shall please your Excellency we can slay a proportion,
and despatch the rest to divers prisons."

The voice of Fairfax was inaudible from his
coach. The council were noting of us; Fairfax

still talking and hesitating. Hewson he had but
one eye ; yet he did ofttimes see as much as others
with two. He levels his finger at me.

That knave was a ringleader in the prentice
riot on the 10th of April," says he ; " come hither,
sirrah ! "

I walked forth. He accused me again.

I am not bound to convict myself," said I, " 1
desire to speak to his Excellency."

I was brutally refused, and then buffeted ; but
I would not be so put down. I raised my voice
and spoke 

I demand to be liberated. I carried a flag of
truce. Wherefore am I to be treated like a common
felon ? "

Fairfax heard me. I was called up. Ireton reminded
him of the affair on Shooter's Hill. Rich
complained of the loss of Sergeant Lobo. I defended
myself. Fairfax lying in his coach, with
his gouty leg swathed in flannel, turns uneasily,
and drags back the curtain of his coach to have a
better view of me. Then he shakes his fist.

What a pother you make," says he, *' so
great a criminal cannot be covered b} a flag of
truce."

He is our prisoner," says Berkstead, " please
your Excellency  that is, Liveseyey and Rich having
a hand therein  for this fellow is the notorious
Tindalee "

Lendall," says Liveseyey who came up with

Weklon  " Lendall, who betra3'e(l the fleet now
in the Downs " 

And a friend of the chief conspirator of Kent,
Esquire Hales," adds Sir Anthony Weldon, *rand
was also at the surprising of Aylesford, when he
insolently brought Hales his rebellious message.
I have other matters against him besides."

So all my enemies appear at once ! Fairfax
could not contain himself for anger.

'thou rascally knave ! " says he "dearest thou
to accost me forsooth, and talk of flags of truce ?
Think thyself lucky to be spared an hour of th'
worthless life " 

'* twere no harm to despatch him at once,
your Excellency' suggests Ireton, " with some
formality , while we await the return of Watson
his scouts."

You may well believe my blood curdled, to hear
those cruel words of that remorseless rebel who
never flinched at aught.

*' Nay, by your Excellency's leave," interposed
Weldon, " I would propose his being sent to Leeds
Castle, which I expect Captain Franklin still holds
or which if rendered we shall soon regain. For
this rogue should be disposed of, I humbly suggest,
by the Committee of Kent to be an example of
terror to this county and to the rebellious ships."

The arrival of the scout-master-general his men
at a gallop  prevented any further consideration.
Those colonels  who were, I forgot to mention.

not at all incommoded by the rain, having each
an oilskin coat,* hurried into the covered place to
hold debate as to what was to be done. I was
sent back amongst the trembling herd, who asked
what was to be their fate. I could not inform
them. Our guards smoked quietly, taking little
notice of our desperate dilemma.

On a sudden there is a general movement ; those
colonels call up divers officers and give orders.
And we received ours. We were to go towards
Farleio'h Bridge in rear of all the rest. I remembered
that this was the bridge which Skinner
(formerly' of the Committee) had with the help of
Garland, undertaken to destroy. I was not much-relieved
to see that fanatic Lieutenant Miriam May
come up and look at me, and then inform the
officer in charge of us that twas Berkstead's order
that I should go with him. He had two files with
him , who like himself were mounted. He attaches
a long cord for to lead me as I were a dog.
Whether he had any such order I know not. I
think he had been directed to lead the way which
he knew , being a Kentish man. I was forced to
run along by the side of his horse. He went at a
good pace. But as soon as we got in sight of the
Medway, word is sent from behind that he is to
halt. He then dismounted, and bids those files
with him hold his horse, and await there bis re-these

were used by the officers of the Parliament Army.
See Ludlow's Memoirs.

turn. He then bids me come on, and down lie
goes towards the river.

"What is this fori pray?" said I, not much
assured by his demeanour.

I would have a word With thee in secret," says
he with more quietness in his tone than customary.

I coukl not choose but obey, for I was wholly in
his power; my hands were fast; he was armed;
no help was near except those two men who had
seemed rather disposed to mock than to aid me.
I was, however, at that time somewhat callous
from fear ; considering my doom one way or the
other as fixed. And now I perceive the bridge of
Farleigh, which I remembered to have crossed before,
riot destroyed as had been promised by
Skinner. On the contrary, twas clear for the
passage of the army of Fairfax. I saw Farleigh
Church with its spire of wood to the right, and I
remembered Hwas not three miles from Maidstone.
What was May going to do with me ? I began to
suspect 'twas his intention to hang me like a dog
over the bridge, for which the long cord he drew
me by would serve very well. In anger and despair
1 was about to stand and resist, when he
moves aside, and slackening that cord, invites me
to descend to the bridle-path by the side of the
river, which flows darkly and silently there. I
think I see that place. We were below the bridge
'tis of grey stone of four pointed arches which
are ribbed underneath. We stood on the bank of

the Medway where was rich grass, sweet meadow,
and alder bushes drooping into the water.

"What mean you to do here?" said I, fixing
my gaze steadily on Miriam, which I had heard
was the best way of subduing madmen and wild
beasts , for now it occurred to me that he would
drown me in that stream.

*' A good work," replied the lunatic , with a firm
glance, which showed he was not to be so overpowered.
'' Hearken," said he, "you are nowin my
power." (We were out of sight of his men.) " I
give thee one chance for thy life. There is a band
of devoted saints who have sworn to bring Charles
Stuart to account for the blood that he hath shed,
and for his continual malice against the poor
people of God. He is to be suddenly seized and
made an end of." Some of the chief officers of the
army are privy to this design, for there is to be an
end of all the kingdoms of the earth, that the
throne of the Mighty may be set up, and the reign
of saints commenced. I have sat under the
ministry of that Arminian blinded priest of Babel,

That this is no exaggeration, but quite in accordance With
the designs of the fanatical part of the army afterwards accomplished,
is shown by the following broadside published some weeks
later.  A discovery of the intentions of the army  Words used
by an agent of the said army to an honest and loyal subject 
the words are these, ' That if the King were now in the army they
would murder him. That when the army hath beaten Colchester
and all the rising counties, they will go to the House of Commons,
and pull out 100 of them, and put in others of their own
choosing ; and then will they divide and share the kingdom between
them.' "

Robert Dixon, but I have loiij renounced this
heresies, and mean to doom him to death for his
wickedness and blasphemies towards the saints, as
I will also doom his patrons Squire Hales and his
wife. If thou wilt forsake the wicked multitude
that do clamour to set up the idol of the Kin
again ; and now swear unto me an oath to join
the band of king-destroyers, I will save thee alive
and answer for it."

*' And what will happen," said I, " if I refuse ? "

Farleiph Bridge shall see the doom," replied
the bloody fanatic, " and the Medway shall hide
thy body. As the prophet hewed Aga in pieces
before the Lord in Gilgal, and as the priests of
Baal were slain by the brook Kedron  so shalt
thou perish with none to help thee."

I charge you Master May," said I with a very
fierce earnestness, "to consider your own soul,
and the guilt you are heaping up. No deceitful
handling of the Scriptures can excuse disobedience
to the command. Thou shalt do no
murder / "

*' It is a righteous act to slay * the enemies of

This homicidal doctrine was evidently accepted by Cromwell.
Vide his account of his nephew's death at Marston Moon*, in
which ho seems to find the assurance of his nephew's being, "a
glorious saint in Heaven," from his dying observations. " Before
his death," writes Cromwell. " lie was so fill of comfort that

h(> could not express it A little while after he said

on f /tin// 1(11/ i/jfij/t elis s/>irif. 1 dskcd him what it iras lo told
me if was that dod had nut suffered him to he any vere the
executioner of His enemies' bee Carlyle's Cromweirs Letters
Ac, i. 251. Ed. Boo.

the Lord' returns Miriam, coolly drawing Ms
sword, " and the godly are also obliged thereto,
as ministers of God's wrath'

Are you a man ? ' said I, " you pretend to bea
Christian. But however godly you may be, 'tis
a base and cowardly act to assault an unarmed
person. Loose my hands however, and you may
keep the sword if you like."

Will you repent of your opposition to God's
kingdom and saints ? Once more, and for the last
time  will you take the oath of enmity to the
King and all his accursed party ? "

I saw he was about to conclude his murderous
business ; and I confess I was hesitating, under
fear of death, whether I might not take an oath,
with a reservation to decline altogether all observance
thereof  when I happened to notice some
smoke coming out of the stones on the further
side of the Medway, and remembering what
Augustine Skinners had proposed to do, concluded
'twas about to be accomplished. Whereupon
I called out in a lusty voice 

Look at the bridge, 'tis going to blow up ! " A
natural fear of death, which few saints or madmen
are wholly without, caused Miriam to divert his
glance, which was fixed on me, to the smoke ; so
that as I darted away from the danger he let go
the cord. At that same instant came the clatter-augustine

Skinner had a house near East Farleigh, Tuttle-sham
or Tolerating

of horses, and Berkstead a little in front, with
Hewson and some foot soldiers running beside
them, comes down the hill toward the bridge, and
calls out: 

What the plague art thou doing with my
prisoner yonder, bring him straightway up here,
and "

The rest of Berkstead his instructions were lost,
for by a desperate effort, I managed to wrench my
hands out of the cords by which they were bound,
and plunged incontinently into the river, diving
nearly to the bottom of it. I came up again under
the drooping alder bushes on the opposite side.
But my hat came up in the middle of the stream,
and they fired shots at it. Berkstead in the meantime
storming and raging and telling all that there
was no danger as to the bridge (and indeed some
friends of the Parliament had wetted the powder,
as Berkstead knew).

I swam securely for some distance under those
drooping alders ; and before they could cross and
get through an intervening thicket, I was out of
the water unperceived, and running like a hare
through woods and hop-yards to Maidstone.

To

THE MARQUIS OF WINCHESTER.

MAIDSTONE Assaulted

Near death , and yet escaping it. After all 'tis
but the everyday life of man. But this last was
as narrow a 'scape as mortal could have and I
freely confess I did vow vengeance against this
madman if ever we did meet again. In a fairfield
I would shew him no favour mad as he was,
for a mad dog ought not to be spared. It was
one-eyed Hewson, his regiment that did march
across the bridge. Where was the horse then?
Had it passed through Farleigh? But my
thoughts revert to the madman. Was this a new
plot or the old one ? Ah, poor king, beset by so
many foes ! But all was not yet lost. Though
yon fanatic preacher said somewhat in his
harangue about plots defeated, I trusted that
King Charles might yet head his Kentish army.
What if, baffling the watchfulness of his foes, he
should be at this moment at Blackheath and the
country there rising about him ?

About seven o'clock, orders were given for the storming: of
Maidstone, and after some exhortation was given to the soldiers
to prepare them for this great and desperate service, they began
ito shout and with great violence to storm.  Rush worth's Historical
Collections.

I still kept the woods and fields. Though the
rain still fell, all was lovely as Kent ever is when
merry May hath newly passed. That memorable
evening was the List of June. The fields full of
flowers, the woods full of song. Cuckoo answered
cuckoo, the corn-crake creaked in the meadow, the
peaceful dove cooed in the grove. And yet, and
yet, fair Kent was that night furrowed with tracks
of war. Brave and loyal Kent was about to be
stabbed to the heart by rebellious, and bloodthirsty
swords !

It was but seven of the clock when I got into
Maidstone. All was hasty preparation. The way
towards Gabriel Hill was barred b}' some felled
trees, a rude stockade and a half-finished earthen
forts where the innocent white flag f of loyalty
hung sadly in the rain with the red wound of the
cross on its snowy breast  emblem of trial and
suffering  was wrapped from sight. Maidstone
knew it was menaced, but did not know how near
the enemy was !

I found gallant gentlemen in the earthwork
toiling in their shirt-sleeves with the commonalty.

At the entrance of the town, near the place where the work-lions
now stands, were some slight fortifications cast np, some
remains (;f which were to be; seen not many years agro, but these
gave them (i.f., the soldiers of Fairfax), very little interruption.
Newton's 7//.s7orj/ of Maidstone, 1741, p, 14'). (An old plan
shows this to be at the bottom of Gabriel's hill on the Toil and
Farleigh road.)

t The Standard of the Petitioners bore the very pregnant motto
of Reis et Populi Liberated.

I told them of the great rendezvous at East
Mailing ; of the fanatic preacher's discourse ; of
the bridge not blown up; of Eich's, Berkstead's,
Hewson's, and other regiments marching, as I
conceived, straight upon the place. Brave Sir
William Brockman believed what I said, though
some others would scarce give credit to it. He
straightway gave orders for drums to beat up and
trumpets to sound, and bade me go to the " Star'*
which was the head-quarters, and tell my story to
Sir John Mayney and Sir Gamaliel Dudley. I
paused an instant to ask for Hales and Estrange.
Sir William said he knew not where LLEstrange
was, but Hales had gone away to Tunstall to procure
money, for war cannot be made without that
commodity, and half-starving Royalists had flocked
in in great numbers from London  gentlemen
Cavaliers, prentices, watermen, and seamen The
pay of the privates was twelve pence per diem and
five shillings in advance. |

Haste on thine errand, vice-admiral of strange
escapes,' sajs Brockman, "for there is not a
moment to lose. I wonder that our forlorn hath
reported nought of this."

Just as he spake, a horse with the saddle and
holsters turned round, and the bridle broke, came
wildly galloping up, swerved at the obstacles near

So say many accounts.

t Papers found on the prisoners prove this statement.

VOL. III. F

it, and ran round to find an entry at another part
of the town.

It was the first notice that Fairfax, or shall
we sa' Ireton, had sent. The forlorn had been
surrounded and killed to a man.

I guessed that this horse belonged to the regiment
which Ned Hales had raised for to be his
Majesty's guard, for my eye caught the red
riband rosette in the headstall, which I knew to
be the work of the Lady Anne.

I passed the first barrier, which was at the
bottom of Gabriel's Hill, and the second, which
was at the top, near the Market cross. I ran into
the Star. They were mounting in the yard. Sir
John Mayney was amazed to see me, and so was
Dudley. I had been given up for lost. There
were others there that I knew, Sir Thomas
Godfrey amongst the rest. Ned Hales' gallant
regiment of horse marched away in hot haste.
Sir Gamaliel Dudley stirred himself with the town
defences. The Market cross  which is in the
centre of a cross formed by the principal streets
of Maidstone  had culvers and drakes in it
pointing down the four ways. There was likewise
a reserve of horse drawn up in High Street, and
foot Companies to line the houses.

** In the iiipjlit the lord Fairfax with hie whole body marching
down towards WaicJptono, and finding? the river slightly
,Miarded about Farley J'.ridge, beyond the town two miles, easily
'ot over, and with strong,' party fell upon the town before those
in it were alarmed," &c.  True Rdatioii, p. 7-.

Every door, window, and roof was to be defended
when the army of Fairfax should come. But so
sudden was the alarm, that the town was thrown
into confusion. Few had believed that the enemy-was
so near, and many thought that perchance
they would not be visited at all. But now women
and children wailed and wept for the trouble that
was coming upon the place ; and many a fair
maid of Kent, with whitened cheek, did vtdldly
clasp her dear loved swain, as the news ran round
like wildfire that the terrible army of the Parliament
was about to fall upon that uncalled and
peaceful town.

I stayed scarce five minutes at the "Stars' Returning
to the earthwork on foot, I saw Hales his
regiment of horse drawn up in advance of the
felled trees to await the onslaught  Sir John
Mayney riding in front.

There were some old Cavaliers in that earthwork.
Some did look exceedingly grave, knowing the
danger we were all in ; others did jest, to keep up
their own spirits and those of their fellows. And
there was Mitchell, the boatswain, now lieutenant,
and other of my former companions in trouble ;
but Andrew was brisk, skipping about the ordnance
of which he had charge, regulating his powder
casks with wet blankets over them, and his case
and key-shot.

'i'll warrant you we'll pepper them, Master
Kendall'' says he ; " the spirit of Captain Burley

is in this place. While there's a shot in the locker
these men of Kent will stand to it."

About this time forth rides " Away-within "
Washington, ready to do what he can. With
him goes Sir William Compton, who had made
his way back that morning, and a choice band of
nigh one hundred volunteers, young men of noble
families chiefly, but a horse, a sword, a leathern
doublet, and some fences of steel is almost all
they can now call their own ; for the Commissioners
of Haberdashers and the Goldsmiths' Hall
now rack the estates of their friends and relations.
A loud cheer from those in the earthwork and at
the other defences bid them God-speed. How far
they went I know not, but I heard they did
gallantly, extorting praise from even their enemies.
But what can they do against so many. Besides
they had been on hard duty all that day and the
day and night before towards Dartford.

They were forced on a retreat, and in about
quarter of an hours time were to be seen with
diminished numbers retiring behind Hales his
regiment  or rather troop it should be called 
their courage not abated, but their horses spent.
At the same time came suddenly the terrible
apparition of Rich's horse in fierce pursuit, issuing
out of the road from Toil and Farleigh. Fast

Various accounts of the Kentish business aprcc in stating
that many }()un<j:('r eons of noted Royalist families took part in
this brief cami)aipi. Alien the State glaciers of the Interregnum
have been calendar probably more light will bo thi-owu on this
subject.

they came up, halting in a compact line about
one-eighth of a mile from ours. Mitchell and I
could shoot but two bullets at them  case nor
key-shot we could not use, for fear of hurting our
own men.

I pray you image to yourself the good steel caps
and breast armour, as well as the fine horses of
this picked regiment of Colonel Eich, while you
read what follows.

And now their trumpet sounded a warning note.
Rich his horse moves forward with a gradually
increasing pace  then an angry note, and with a
great shout on they come like thunder.

Hales' small regiment of yeomen, scarce yet used
to move together at all  with horses clumsy and
untaught, advance to meet Rich's furious roaring
fellows, but advance in a wavy line, some lagging
a little behind the rest , and none obtaining the
required speed. For one yard they make their
opposers make three. Both meet in dreadful shock !

Hales his regiment (who could expect other
fate ?) is tossed back and overthrown. And yet
the remnant form again and try to stand, while
some firelock men do what they can to gall the
victors. But lo ! a second line, coming up at the
same terrible pace  while the first turns by sixes
and gallops to the flanks, clearing the way for the
second onslaught.

Alas ! alas ! The flower of the Kentish horse
is destroyed. Sir John Mayney is down, and
with him the red standard with the blazon of the

royal arms, worked by the limpid of the beloved
playmate of my youthful days."

Rich's horse would pursue the victory, but are
stopped by the felled trees which bar the road up
Gabriel's Hill, and a poor and hastily framed
stockade.

Ere we can well recover our surprise at the sad
disaster to our horse, up comes a Parliament
regiment of foot, loosely running as it were a race
which should be first. The foremost carry axes
and tools to destroy the stockade ; those behind
carry partizans and pikes. A proportion of musketeers
on the flanks rattle away more leisurely.
All shout with fury as they run. Our drakes are
loaded J and case-shot flies among them ; for now
what was left our poor horse, except the wounded
and dead on the ground, had gotten through the
sally-port of the stockade.

But I have not time to follow all the combat,
and tell you how we sent a bullet clean through
Berksteads square battalion of pikes which, with
its attendant musketeers, did approach  how we
then showered parcels of good slugs upon the
assaulters of the earthwork  how Hewson's men
did waver after many repulses, and forced Black
Tom in his coach painfully to draw a split boot

" Onr forlorn liopc of liorso," writes l?ush-\vorth to Lenthall,
j?avi' lilt' ml uttnnUird of hunv as 'allaiit a cliar'c as ever was
seen, which is said to be (Joel. hales his troop"' Another account
Bays, " Our horse gave them a thorough charge, and did that
execution upon them that it is thought there was not a man of
tljo enemy's ]party that was not slain or wounded."

on to his bandaged right leg, and mount his
charging horse and lead them himselfe up to the
barrier that nearly stopped the tide of rebellion
and robbed his sanctissimus of his high command
and his wife of her great state,, and anticipate the
great day of restoration by twelve years.

But an all-seeing Providence had, doubtless for
the future good of this nation decreed a long
period of further trial and suffering to poor
Royalists. An entry was gained at King Street by
stratagem. "We, in the redoubt, warned that we
were about to be taken in rear, had only time to
nails the vents of our ordnance, and retire upon
the Market cross by way of Gabriel's Hill. Prom
thence our horse and foot charged the enemy that
had broken in upon us. But I must describe
something of our defences inside of the town.

High Street, Maidstone, is as wide a street as
you shall find in all Kent  the width a little
diminished near the upper end by the row of
houses called Middle Eow. At the top of the said
High Street is the cross I speak of. It is an
ancient structure, open at the bottom, supported
by buttresses and pillars. The cross rises from its
roof. It stands, as 1 before said, where four ways
meet  High Street, Week Street, King's Street,
and Gabriel's Hill.

See Heath's Chron , Ludlow's llemrs.

t Spike.

X See view of this cross, now no longer in existence, in Baver-stock's
Account of Maidstone :  " It stands in the centre of the four
principal streets," says Newton, " and appears to have been very

This cross was hastily barricaded round with
openings left for several pieces to sweep the four
streets. Into this we rushed ; our reserves under
Sir Thomas Godfrey with his own troop of horse
to lead having come out of the Hifh Street and
desperately dispute the passage that had been
forced, insomuch that Fairfax his men were nigh
driven out of the town. Anon the reserve finishes
back, leaving the way clear for the discharge of
our ordnance.

All this time the sky did pour down its showers,
and being obscured by a pall of clouds, an unusual
darkness did prevail ; but not in this part of
the town, where blazing bonfires and flaring torches
did throw a strange red glare over the scene. And
it now could be perceived by us that all was not yet
lost, if a will to fight on to the last could aught
avail. For figures were seen at every door and
window, and on every roof where there was standing
place. And their illumined faces were seen
looking out for their cruel foes, and their hands
clutched eagerly their firelock. With bullet in
mouth and matches lighted they were ready for
the invaders. We had run into the cross, and the
enemy had, as I said, retired  but only, as all
well knew, to fall on more furiously than before.

larcro ; but only a part of it is now rpiiiaininf? " (P1741) " which
is handsomely covcicd with had, and used as a fish market . . .
near it is a con(hiit . on tho top is a clock, or dial, which is
called tho ' fish bell,' it being always rung when fish is brought
into the market."

Then was the watchword of the night  which
Tied also been used when our ruthless foes did first
assail us  pronounced again.

Sir William Brockman having sent another
messenger to Rochester for relief  ascending by a
ladder goes out upon the upper part of the cross,
and waving hat and plume, calleth out 

For King and Kent ! "

Caught up at door, window, and roof, the watchword
lieth afar to the outskirts of the assaulted
town. '' For King and Kent ! hurrah ! ' cry all
the defenders of Maidstone.

But an answer came from our enemies. A voice
had repeated the word which Fairfax gave forth
at his rendezvous. The men whose trade was war,
and who were little used to be baffled, bursting the
barriers that kept them out, come running in with
shouts that swell to a roar like that of an advancing
deluge.

'' D  n their shouting ! " cries the hardy
Mitchell. "Here goes a brimmer for his Majesty
give fire ! "

And two pieces are let off upon them.

"For His Highness the Prince of Wales ! 
charge again ! " cries the ex-boatswain of the
Reformation."

But ere we could load our drakes we were
assaulted at close quarters.

" Their word at the engagement was ' King and Kent,' ours
Truth.' " Letter of Lord Fairfax, 4th June, 1648.

THE FIGHT IN THE TOWN.

An endeavour made to assault the enemy with the-remains
of the horse led by the volunteer gentlemen,
and assisted by companies of foot prevented
the second discharge of our ordnance. For friends
and foes were mixed together both in King Street
and in the street called Gabriel's Hill. And up
comes one-eyed Hewson,* than whom a bolder
rebel was not to be found in all their army.
Though presently knocked down, he rose again undaunted,
and was by me a second time laid flat, by
an application of the rammer stave of the drake I
stood near. He was borne away senseless, but
contrived to recover and return the third time,
only, however, to see a score of his men rolled
into pieces down Gabriel Hill by the discharge
of one of the drakes  among the rest Captain
Price  Captain Carter having also been killed at
the redoubt.

But such numbers now came on to assault us
that we were at push of halberds and partizans,,

" The men . . . for a good while were unable to make any
considerable progress, till Col. Hewson with his regiment opened
a passage into one of the streets, where the dispute growing hot,
he was knocked down with a musket ; but recovering himself, he
pressed the enemy so hard that they were forced to retreat," &c.
Ludlow's Mer.

and fierce and deadly thrusts and cuts were given
on both sides ; pistol and musket shots filling up
the intervals, and after a horrible struggle,, fighting
till the place was so slippery with blood that
we could scarce stand, we were obliged to nail
the guns and quit the cross with a revengeful
cheer against their skilled cannoneers, who
found their captured ordnance was of no present
use to them.

Now was a cry for relief, but none came,
though messenger after messenger galloped to
Eochester.

I was driven into Week Street with Mitchell,
where about 800 men did strive to block that way
while the greater body of the Roy lists were standing
to it as well as they could, ranged across the
High Street, where torches and bonfires had now
been mostly extinguished though there was still
light enough to show something of the progress
of the fight or rather defeat.

Foot by foot our more numerous and better
armed enemies did gain upon us, forcing doors as
they came along, and violently assaulting all within
ofttimes catching those on the roofs by surprise,
and flinging them off three stories into the streets
on to the pikes of their fellows. Oh ! horrible !
horrible !  the sights of that terrible evening are
burnt into the tablets of my memory.

After an hour or more of this, when we had been
driven back about eight score yards from the Cross
there was heard a noise approaching from the way

of Rochester, and we began all to vent our joy in
huzzahs  when lo, a rush of fugitives headed by
about 200 prentices, from the same point, shewed
too clearly that we were deceived. For oh !
dreadful truth it was Rich's regiment driving all
before it like a whirlwind. We were being
hemmed in to destruction.

'' Retire ! retire ! " cries a voice I knew, " the
town is entered at all points."

It was the voice of Jack Gayer, I saw him for
an instant. There seemed one chance of escape.
We turned out of Week Street and ran down St.
Faith Street in an attempt to get to the High
Street, where we believed the mass of our friends
to be. But when we got into another street, we
found a number of Berkstead's men, forcing the
doors of the houses there, led on by some natives
of the town with torches  shining lights of the
party, doubtless. Instantly perceiving what we
were they spread into a line across the street, and
levelled their halberds, and their firelock men are
about to fire, when they observe Rich's horse pursuing
us. Some poor boys of our party sent up a
piteous cry for quarter, others prepared for such
resistance as could be made. We were like unto
a herd of deer where many are but few tines, forced
to bay and running over each other, as they huddle
to a stand. When I tell you that this fatal street
hath since received the name of Havock Lane
'twill prepare you in some sort for what is to
follow.

On comes Eich's horse, plain to be seen by the
light of the torches, and plainly discerning their
prey. And at the head of them, clanking along
with his heavy broadsword dripping gore, is
Miriam May, acting as guide and pioneer, for he
knew the town.

'' Fall on ! Fall on ! " cries this furious persecutor
of the loyal, " give no quarter, hew them
down  trample on them  slash and destroy  let
not one escape ! "

And cruelly and remorselessly he began his
devilish work, which his men seconded with
butcher-like zeal, for escape was impossible.

Some of us fought desperately. I called out fora
rescue, hoping that friends might hear. It drew
particular attention on myself instead. Two
troopers rode at me to quiet my noise.

Forbears' quoth Miriam, whose restless eyes
had caught sight of me, as he was wrenching out
his sword from the body of one he had spitted.
' Forbear  'tis my prey ! '

I carried a small rapier by my side  the ash
rammer-stave of my drake in the cross, in my
hands. With this I had managed to parry a
thrust of one of those three troopers. Miriam
May careering on his war-horse beareth the rest
away.

Now shalt thou not escape me ! " says he,
with a ferocious smile. " The Lord hath a second
time delivered thee into my hands ! "

I was with my back to the wall of the street. I

had been given a change of clothes at the " Star'*
but neither buff-coat nor fence of steel. The
furious fanatic lifted his great sword high in the
iii, and stood up in his stirrups for to bring down
the blow with all his force and weight upon my
head which had no better protection than a
common beaver. I darted nimbly aside as the
blow came down hissing through the air, and withall
my force struck him with my rammer stave on
the side of the head, and he fell off his horse.
About the same instant the street became dark,
for something had drawn away the men with the
torches and Berkstead's foot, and such of my companions
as were left unmingled, made a sudden
attempt to run for it in divers directions, pursued
again by the troopers of Rich. I caught the bridle
of Mays ridei'less charger, mounted on his back,
called out Jack Gayer's name, but there was no
reply, save the faint groans of the desperately
wounded. More Parliament horse came sweeping
through the lane, I could do no good by remaining.
After a while I found myself in High Street,
in another melee, borne away by a crowd which
did fight while it retreated. Brockman and Dudley
bravely rallying their men; Washington and
Compton ant about-iOO horse doing what they
could. Godfrey and his now-thinned reserve struggling
manfully. The cry was " To the church ! '*
for these buildings in time of peace, the resort
of the religious to prepare their souls, become
in time of war, the last refuge of soldiers to protect

heir bodies. Sir William Brockman, Sir Gamaliel
Dudley, and about 1,400 others rode and ran into
the churches The doors were barred, and muskets
pointed from the windows. But this was not accomplished
without all imaginable opposition from
Fairfax his men, and copious discharges of firearms.
Sir Thomas Godfrey's horse and those
under Lisle and Compton protecting the retreat
into the church, found themselves cut off from
their friends within, and also from each other.
Each party had to shift for itself. We saw Godfrey,
who had concluded to make for Dover and
join Hardress (who had already gone thither),
cutting his way through the enemy. And the
word was passed amongst us for to charge, and
try to get clear of the town. With an " Away
with it ! " it was done, Washington and Compton
leading, with something of the same success they
had at Bristol and divers other places. About
200 persons, of which fortunate number I was one,
made good their retreat from Maidstone.

When we got half-way up the hill on the
Rochester road about where the Druids Altars is
to be seen, drums and trumpets did sound dismally
behind us. We stopped to listen.

Newton says, " The Royalists being quite overpowered, by the
numerous reserves that continually advanced, were forced to
retreat till at last they came to the churchyard, and from thence
to the church, where after a long fight they were obliged to make
the best terms they could for their safety." Newton mentions
that this church (All Saints), is the largest in the county. Sir
John Manse, Chief Justice of England temp. Hen. Iii), was
rector of itt

Kit's Cotta House.

"They are those of Fairfax," says Compton,
who had heard those sounds before. " 'Tis to call
stragglers together, muster the living, and approximate
the number of the slain. Broekman
hath made terms of surrender , and he had no
other course."

A mile or two further we were overtook by
Colonel Newman, who confirmed our anticipations.
He had been let away by the favour of, 1 think.
Colonel Berkstead, with whom he had formerly
served, and who knew how hardly he would have
been dealt with had he been retained as a prisoner
for Newman had once been a Parliament officer.
Soldiers how cruel and ferocious soever they be to
their enemies are ofttimes kind and generous to
their friends.*

Rushworth in his letter to Lenthall says of tin's affair : 
The fight began about seven p.m., a mile from gladstone. and
before wo could beat them from hedge to hedge and get in at the
barricades, it was past nine ; and after-vve had entered, the town
was disputed at every street and turning. Tlu-y had eight pieces
of cannon which they discharged twenty times on our men in the
Streets ; but by God's mighty help and assistance overcame
them between twelve and one o'clock at night, bring every minute
of all that t ime firing upon their horse and foot, it being extremely
wet weather during all the time of the engagement."

Lord Fairfax also writes:  "Through the goodness of G(m1 our
men made their entrance, and became masters of the town after
four or five hours' hot service ; the town being strongly barricaded,
through the darkness of the night, and our ignorance of the town,
they disputed the barricades and places of advantage with our
men, playing hiird with their cannon union them. In wliieh service
bdtli lithe and foot did exceedingly well, and particularly I
cannot but take notice of Colonel Hewson, whose regiment had
the hardest task, Major Carter being hurt, and Captain Vice
slain, Ac. The best of their forces were there, whereof many-were
Cavaliers and London apprentices," &c.

i

I REPORT TO THE EARL OP NORWICH.

As we rode towards Rochester, we remarked with
some surprise that no attempt to succour Maidstone
by sending reinforcements was made. I
shall not discuss the whj and the wherefore.
Perchance if Ned Hales had not been robbed of
his command it would have been otherwise. But
I would not asperse the Earl of Norwich. tis well
known that he did propose to quarter* the whole
army in the field that night between Aylesford
and Maidstone. Had that been done Maidstone
might have been relieved. But perchance it had
only added to the slaughter ? What can all the
zeal in the world do against those who have taken
their degrees in the art of war ?

At this time I could scarce persuade myself of
the truth of what Sir W. Compton, with the rest,
had resigned himself to , viz., that Maidstone was
lost. I had left them on the road, for their horses
were somewhat spent, whereas I found means to
make the regicide Miriam's horse fly with speed
to Rochester. I found the Earl of Norwich and
many of the Council there, amongst the rest

Carter, p. 71.
VOL. III. G

Colepepper, Estrange, Sir Bernard Gascoigne,
and divers others in the Dean's house, seated
round the table, belted and spurred, with pistols
and rapiers to their sides,, drinking a sorrowful
glass.

The Earl bade me be seated, but he had already
been advertised of the loss I had come to report.
I was amazed that he took the matter so quietly,
and after relating what I had seen and done
almost reproached the ancient gentleman on the
score of apathy ; but I did not then clearly understand
how little control he had, or how great was
the difficulty of reassembling together a body of
tired and somewhat disheartened men, quartered
too far apart, who had already made at least one
retreat in the last twenty-four hours. I am sorry
I went so near disrespect to the Earl and that
council. They knew I was but a boy. and were
magnanimous enough to shew no sign of resentment.


They had not without reason decided that
nought could be done, and had earnestly debated
the matter; my Lord of Norwich having been
nearly as far as Maidstone himself, which I did
not know till Master LLEstrange informed me of
the fact.

By-and-bye Estrange, who said not a word
before, helps himself to a glass and thus speaks 

My lord," said he " you know I did lately
decline the command you were pleased to offer

me, as did my friend Ned Hales also. From the
news we have heard we can no longer doubt but
that Maidstone is irrecoverably lost, and what
the fate of the petition may be also !  Who
knows ? '

All bent their eyes upon the table, but it did
appear to me that all did very well conceive what
was coming.

"My friend Ned Hales," says Estrange, '' hath
embarked his whole fortune on this venture 
having, as you know, shipped it in the little bark
of the petition. It hath cost him a matter of
100,000. He hath also ventured his name,
having been at first received as the commander,
or general-in-chief, of the said petition. And,
therefore, hath perilled his liberty; yea, and
probably his life ! I do not know what view the
Lord Fairfax may take in his heart  if he have
any  of this petition. But he hath certainly
played the game of the Independent faction in
his hasty and cruel assault upon Kent. This most
pleasant garden of England hath this day been
dismally invaded. This gallant youth's relation
of what hath happened in the heart of the un-walled
town of Maidstone  where the blood of
poor loyal men who would have their King released
out of prison hath flowed in vain  will affright
all Christendom. The fight at the Cross of Maidstone
hath left a stain upon the breast-plate of
St. George. It is the martyrdom of loyalty. Not

only all Kent, but all England shall weep for it."
(Here L'E strange did shed some tears himself,
wiping them away with his napkin.) '' The petition,
my lords and gentlemen, is lost ! "

' Nay, nay, nay ! " cry all those gentlemen, the
Lord of Norwich leading the chorus. But there
was somewhat of faintness in their chorusing  as
if they rather wished than did really think favourably
(f the future.

Estrange continued 

' To revert to my friend Ned Hales  he hath,
as I said, my lord, perilled his fortune and his
life. He hath lately gone to his house at Tunstall
for money for the expedition. Whether there or
here he will now, my lord, be diligently sought forby
Fairfax his men."

If yoii counsel him to fly,' said one of those
present, " 'twill give a fine encouragement to the
rest of us."

I crave your pardon, sir," quoth Estrange,
' but I conceive Master Hales hath done enough to
have spent 100,000 and risked his life upon the
throw of a court card. My Lord of Norwich hath
been already a courtier. J crave your lordship's
pardon, but I think you can judge what Master
Hales is likely to gain now."

Estrange was here interrupted by expressions
of disapprobation. He was thought to hit at my
Lord of Norwich. But the Earl did very well
perceive what Estrange did drive at  scilicet.

that Hales being robbed of his command would
now incur the risk of what had been done, but not
gain the credit of any redemption of misfortune ;
and said that he saw much wisdom in Estrange
his observations, and that 'twould be well if
Esquire Hales were speedily advertised of the
posture of affairs.

Estrange, hastily drinking off another glass,
invited me to join him in a ride to Tunstall ; to
which I did signify an eager consent, for I began
to entertain dismal fears for the safety both of Ned
and the Lady Anne. I could not help perceiving
that Estrange's departure was not very favourably
viewed by the rest. Something of jest even
passed about his possibly speedily going beyond
the seas, which he bore as one who, somewhat resenting,
is yet obliged to bear.

As we passed through Eochester and Chatham,
we did perceive that none seemed in haste to
be gone to their beds. Folks, mostly armed, did
gather round the doors in the streets, and did
demand of all comers the news from Maidstone.
Estrange would not have me communicate anything.
Once out of the east gate of Rochester,
he prevented all further inquiries by spurring his
good horse. I followed his example. Scarce at
all did we draw rein till we reached Tunstall.f

t Roger Estrange gives his recollections of this memorial
as follows :  " Towards evening we received intelligence that
Maidstone was alarmed, and that the enemy were drawn tip
before it j by-and-bj that they had assaulted it. Thus advertised

His Excelled." (i.., the E. of Norwich) " resolved for maidstone,
upon him waited Sir Bernard Gascoipne and myself  in
all eight persona ; by the way we encountered more fugitive
their messengers all upon the spur, and tho word was for relief.
At last two miles from the town we found that the enemy had
passed the river (which we little expected) and possessed all
the avenues. Hereupon my lord determined for Rochester again,
and to send immediate succour. There arrived, it was consulted
what to do. Col. Colepepper proposed to draw out horse and
foot to a man incontinently and fight ; then some cried 'twas too
late, and others that their men were weary, and some that their
men were lying too far apart that they could not get them
together. In a word, they rejected wholesome counsel. It was
then demanded what they would do ? It was answered, what they
could. About midnight we received tidings that the town was
forced ; that the foot had stood very gallantly and repelled
them, the horse not so well. Sir Will. Compton, Sir John
Mayne, and Sir Gamaliel Dudley most eminent in the action," 4c

To

THE COUNTESS OF Denmark.

A Farewell TO Dunstable

is not yet abed' said I perceiving a light
to come from the window of Ned Hales his study."
*' Tou shall speak, Master Estrange ; I know not
what it is, but I tremble all over.'

Was it any wonder when I had gone through
so many strange events on that day to finish with
a long adieu to Ned Hales and the Lady Anne ?
for I felt that was the upshot !

We entered the room . I saw there the beauteous
Lady Anne.

She was somewhat pale with watching and
trouble. Upon the table before her were parcels
of her jewels of divers kinds, which she was assorting
 as we presently learnt  to be turned into
money for the army of Kent. At the table also
sat Ned Hales in his leathern doublet  his
cuirass, steel cap and sword on a chair beside
him  writing of letters, with a heap of papers and
some bao's of gold coin in front of him. By the
fire sat Sir Anthony Aucher, melting of lead for
bullets  piles of the same which he had been casting
were on the hearth. He, too, was in his

The use of this word is not an anachronism.

soldier's dress. That they had not had the least
notice of what had happened to the army was clear.
They were overjoyed to see me.

*' Ah, dear friend," said the Lady Anne, 'ewe
feared you had been taken''

I could not speak.

*' Alas ! Roger," cried Ned Hales, " look what
I have received ! "

Both L'Estranore and I imagined that the letter
he held up contained tidings either of some fresh
disaster or of the loss of Maidstone. It proved,
however, to be only a furious letter from Sir
Edward Hales his grandfathers casting him offhand
declaring that he would make any chance
beggar out of the street his heir sooner than liii.

And my wife," said Hales, '' hath also gotten
a cruel letter from her mothers So'' he added,
with a faint laush, " we are both in the same boat.
However, should our petition yet prosper, my
grandfather, who is only in fear of the Parliament
on his own account, will sing another tune. But
this news of the King " 

Of the King ! " said I. " What of him ? "

Estrange, with a very doleful countenance,
was occupied with reading Sir Edward Hales his
letter.

Alack ! " said the Lady Anne, '' King Charles
is again betrayed. About eight of the clock the
messenger bird did arrive, carrying a little despatch

 See Clar. UisL, Book x. t Ibid.

which told us that he was almost gone  out of the
window of the castle of Carisbrooke when one
Captain Rolfe, with a pistol in his hand, and divers
other soldiers were perceived below, instead of the
friends he expected. And," added the Lady Anne,
with her eyes full of tears, " ill augury for our
persecuted King ! the messenger, my poor dove,
did suffer like violence on the road from cruel men !
He flew into my chamber dripping blood, wounded
in the breast, and like a Cavalier faithful unto
death, his loyal service gallantly but painfully
performed, presently closed his poor eyes to open
them no more ! "

I inwardly wepfc for the King and for the dove,
and above all for the Lady Anne.

' Thou art ill \'' said the Lady Anne quickly,
and turning suddenly paler, observing how wan
were my looks. " Oh, Ned ! " cries she, " he hath
perchance received some hurt ! '

And hastily pouring some wine into a cup, she
carried it quickly to me.

"No," said LLEstrange seriously, "like myself
he is ill rather in mind than in body, and no marvel
Ned Hales and Lady Anne, fortify yourselves for
ill news !  Fairfax hath surprised us, the army is
half destroyed, and Maidstone is lost I ""

Almost as when the news of the sudden eternal

This attempt, which was the last, took place early on the
morning of the 29th of May, 1618. Clarendon has given all
the particulars. Captain Rolfe figured conspicuously.

departure of a near and dear relation is brought to
those who cannot bear to believe it  such was the
carriage of Ned Hales and the Lady Anne. For
an instant they seemed turning to stone, and then
cried out 

Maidstone lost ! Maidstone lost ! Oh, Roger !
Maidstone ?  the army ? "

*' It is but too true ! " cries LLEstrange. "Here
is one'' (signifying me) "who was in the fight,
and escaped not till it was finished."

The sight of the Lady Anne's countenance was
too much for me. I had determined to put a good
face on the matter, but a vi"vdd recollection of
seeing the colours she had wrought with her own
hand falling in the dust amidst the wreck of Hales
his own regiment of horse, together with the multiplied
misfortunes of the hour, affected me so, in
my then weak and agitated state, that I burst into
tears.

Poor boy ! he hath ridden much and fought
hard," said Roger Estrange, adding in a broken
voice, *' Alas ! I am inclined to weep myself."

Ned Hales, with horror still in his countenance,
demanded particulars.

Estrange replied briefly. Suddenly Hales ran
where lay his cuirass and steel cap.

Let us to Rochester at once," says he. '' The
disaster may yet be retrieved. Oh ! that I had
been with my poor regiment to have borne my
share or perished."

Ned Hales' said Eoger, " I charge sou to go
no further in this affair at present. The blame of
this ill-fortune cannot rest with sou. Those who
did slight your advice, and did not submit to jour
authority, are responsible. But enough! 'tis your
business now to look after yourself and your wife.
Besides, it may now be impossible to reach
Rochester. Maidstone is lost these two hours ;
and should your enemies suspect you to be at Tun -
stall 'twill be an easy matter to take you at your
house," and pulling forth his pocket dial he starts
up. " Good Lord ! " says he, " I am mistaken ; it
is three of the clock. Look ! it grows to daylight.
Delay not an instant; if you will not think of
yourself, think of the Lady Anne ! "

Ned Hales, arrested by the force of this reasoning,
stood a moment irresolute, and then, calling
to his servants, gave sudden orders for the coach
to be got ready, and his charging horse to be
saddled.

The Lady Anne sat pale, silent, and agitated.
Anon a tremor seemed to seize her frame, and tears
began to flow.

Oh, Ned, Ned ! " says she, " it is I who have
brought this ruin upon thee by my own hasty and
foolish zeal ! "

I could not bear to see her tears, and forgetting
everything but sympathy for my playmate of old
days I fell on my knees before her and kissed her
hand.

Oh ! Lady Anne ! " said I, " it is not your
noble loyalty, but the cruel wickedness of rebels
that hath caused these misfortunes. Oh ! I beseech
you, lose not an instant, but prepare for
flight'

Then I rose hastily and made way for Ned Hales,
who approached his wife.

Thy foolish zeal? " said he, kissing her affectionately
; " nay, my sweet Nan, it was rather
mine ! '

'' Blame rather me," said Estrange, '' for I
did urge ye both to the business."

Blame rather the Committee of Kent, the Parliament
and army, and the evil times in which we
live' said Sir Anthony Aucher.

Ah," said the Lady Anne, " I cannot, I cannot
put off on others my share in these disasters which
have fallen on thee, Ned ! I ever harped on the
cord, but oh ! I never thought it would sound an air
so doleful. I thought of honour for my husband,
of succour for the King, of Freedom for Kent 
for the nation. 'Twere better I had only prayed
instead ! "

Elaborate est orare,' said Roger Estrange.
Though Kent hath fallen this time, resurgat, she
shall rise again, to mount like a phoenix. Our
defeat is more glorious than the enemy's triumph.
Nay, (heir victory is their eternal disgrace."

Nevertheless," said Hales, " I will go and help
to retrieve the disaster that hath overtaken us.
Farewell, sweet, sweet Nan ! "

So saying, lie embraced her with the embraces
of love.

Anne wept bitterly. She was torn by inward
strife. The thought of letting her husband go
where honour and duty seemed to call, and the
thought of the terrible dangers he would ran,
these did balance in her mind. But love did fling
its weight into the scale.

Oh ! Ned, Ned ! " she cried, '' let me accompany
thee  I will mount on a pillion or ride behind
thee  I will share thy dangers. Oh ! let me
go ; I cannot bear to part with thee."

"Excellent Lady Anne's said Estrange,
rather persuade Ned not to return to an army in
which he hath no duties, having resigned the command
thereof. He hath done more than enough
by perilling his fortune. But if you are still resolved
to sacrifice all you have left for the King,
transfer your bounty to the fleet, wherein His
Majesty s best hopes now lie. Ned, go aboard the
Vice Admiral, and take your wife and her jewels
with you.'

'Tis prudent advice," said Sir Anthony Aucher.
Ned Hales, if you take it, I will myself accompany
yoUj for I see there is naught to be done on
shore at present. I told you what Palmer said 
that the fleet would want monies."

Anne, seeing a ray of hope, was recovering her
serenity. But Hales said 

"Alas! I fear as I can no longer dispense bounties
I should be of little use either here or there,

and my poor Anne ought now to keep her jewels
for herself, for until the King shall enjoy his own
again, and pay us back what we have spent, we are
now but a beggarly pair."

Ah, Ned ! '' said the Lady Anne, " so as I can
be near thee I care not what may befall."

Oh, go with her Ned, I beseech you," said I,
and take Master LLEstrange's advice."

I warn you," said Estrange, " that you have
not a moment to lose ; I am prepared to accompany
you, for I see not that I have any further business
in Kent."

At this instant the Rev. Robert Dixon came
running in breathless.

'' I have dreadful news," said he ; " Maidstone
is lost."

Alas ! we have heard," was the reply.

*sand further you must fly hence instantly.
Master Hales  the Lady Anne too. A dozen or
so of horsemen are returned sorely slashed to .
I have prayed over Thomas Love the
joiner; he bled to death before my eyes. I*arhaui
the postmaster is badly wounded amongst others.
He told me he was pursued by the mad fanatic
Miriam May, and a party of Parliament horse,
who, he thinks, are coming to carry you off. Their
horses were somewhat spent, and so Bashan
managed to escape."

By this account I [perceived that I had not settled
iSliriam May as I had imagined.

I told you what would happen' said Estrange.
" There will be 1 ,000 upon your head.
We were mad to delay as we have. Away ! away !
I hear your coach coming round, Lady Anne."

Parson Dixon superadded his entreaties.

Come, dear Lady Anne' said I ; " step into
the coach and away Ned ! We will bring her
after you."

Whither? " said the Lady Anne.

To my house first, and afterwards to Sandwich'
says Aucher.

"And you. Master Dixon," says the Lady
Anne, " what is to become of you ? "

I have prepared for flight," replies Dixon,
and will find a hiding place at Edgar."

We forced Ned Hales to mount, and sent him
galloping away. Anne begged Roger Estrange
to follow her husband, so that she might know
where he was. He complied.

It was by this time daylight  a calm and beautiful
summer morning ; laburnum drooped in front
of the windows, and hawthorn and lilac rose above
the bright flowers in the Lady Anne's parterre. It
was so still that nothing was heard but the carols
of the birds. But in Runs tall House all was agitation
and confusion. The whole household was in consternation,
and running to and fro with blanched
cheeks and tearful eyes. All the wenches did
desire to fly with their mistress, but she could
only take her own tiring maid with her, nor were

VOL. III. H

the men at all easy in their minds. And things
were yet to be worse, for before the Lady Anne,
with my assistance, could pack up one quarter of
her jewels, another alarm came. Geoffry had
sent out a scout, who had galloped in to say that
he had had a prospect of a score of Parliament
troopers coming Maidstone way  their steel caps,
as well as some of their horse furniture, decked
with May blossoms for their bloody victory  and
that they were also very near the house !

There was now nothing but instant flight to bethought
of. We dared not take either the money
or the jewels with us for fear of being overtaken
on the road. A small quantity only was put in the
coach, the faithful Geoffry undertaking to conceal
the rest, and bring them after us when he could.
The Lady Anne got into the coach. She was very
fearful that I would be captured, and wanted me
to go before, for she said she had little fear for
herself, as she thought they would neither have
the will nor the power to molest her. I was
not so sure, and insisted on riding beside the
coach, which was not a very wise resolution.
Two mounted servants accompanied the Lady
Anne ; three more were left to protect the house
or to make the best terms they could ; but two of
them ran in a panic of fear into the woods with
the maids (so it is said) as soon as their mistress
had left. The third was captured in his bed, either
asleep or feigning to be so.

What became of poor Geoffry you will learn
presently, and of Dixon by-and-bye.

The sun was shining scarlet upon the red
walls of Tun stall House when we lashed the farm
horses into a gallop which drew the Lady Anne's
coach ; I assisted at that exercise. It is true there
was orreat risk of the coach beings overturned from
the speed we went at, but 'twas certainly expedient
to run it when a mad, murderous, fanatical
officer and a score of bloody troopers were perchance
on our track.

Adieu to Tunstall House  the old ivied church
with its ancient trees about it ! Adieu to the
Shooter's Meadow  fresh after the rain  to
the orchards with blossoms scarce gone off  to the
groves and bosquets whitened here and there with
horse-chestnut blossoms  gilded in patches with
laburnum's fading gold, or flowering with rich
lilac paling to the advance of June ! Yes, adieu
to Tunstall  along adieu for the Lady Anne and
presently for me ! After that day never did I
see the place again. As for her  but I will not
sadden you by what I could say. Consider,
however, both the suddenness and extent of her
misfortune and that of her husband, and reflect
upon the miserable results of civil discords
which ofttimes demand as a sacrifice the noblest
and the best, and drive into beggarly exile
those who rather deserve to be greeted as
queens and kings, with uncovered heads, joyous

shouts of welcome, and flowery arches of honour \
The fields they have planted  the gardens they
cherished  the houses that were their hospitable
abodes these are left behind  to be wasted by
savage marauders or defiled by the cunning
harpies who did plan the ruin that seems accidental
! *

That Kendall's account of the flight from Tanatall is strictly
correct will be seen from the following ext-act from the writings
of Roger Estrange :  " . . . Missing Hales, upon inquiry I
heard that he was gone to his house for money . . . for public
money, gentlemen, and let me tell you his bounty was the best
string to your bow. Hereupon I rode over to him, told him
Maidstone was lost almost three hours since, from whence
upon the least notion it was but an hour's work to take him at
his house. Upon due consideration he concluded for Sandwich
with his lady, and from thence to play the after-game as he
should see occasion. Sir Anthony Aucher there with him persuaded
him to go before," &c.

FURTHER ADVENTURES.

It was not long before the clear sky became
again overcast, while the sad downpour of the
rain commencing once more, seemed to weep the
fate of afflicted Kent. That morning many did
mourn over the loyal slain, who lay thick in the
streets of Maidstone, or over the miserably
wounded, who had crawled into the woods and
hop yards beyond the towns to sigh away a few
hour's of pain  while others, scarce more fortunate,
trying to conceal themselves, were ferreted
out, and marked for sature punishment. Ah, sad
desolation ! Children did grieve for their fathers,
fathers and mothers for their sons, sisters for their
brothers, wives for their husbands maids for their
lovers ! In the evening, and tomorrow, and next
day, they shall come from greater distances.

Far over this fair shire, the garden of England,
and from places still further off, they shall come,
riding and running, to look for the missing.
London shall send forth her hundreds ; for some

"There were about 1300 prisoners," writes Lord Fairfax,
(" many of them being taken next morning early in the  woods,
hop yards and fields, where they fled in time of the fight."

t Newton mentions, that for some time after this affair, a remarkable
number of widows were married in Maidstone.

of the very pride and flower of her youth lie stark
and silent on the stones and flags of the county
town.

But the Parliament shall orders a thanksgivings
and the heroic soldiers shall be rewarded that have
done the bloody business, and trampled upon the
rights, and upon the bodies of their countrymen.
And it shall be piously recommended that God f
shall have all the glory of this great mercy !

My Lord Fairfax, I hope you will long have
cause to remember with pleasure and pride the
1st of June, 1648, when you did so very effectually
oppose the petition of Kent.

We went along the road towards Faversham ina
veritable deluge of rain  which, perchance was
so far favourable, in that it cooled the ardour of
pursuit even of a madman ; yea, and perhaps kept
others of the roving troopers who were now discovering
Kent, under cover, after the fatigues of
massacre at Maidstone.

The farm horses which Geoffrey had procured 
all Ned Hales his stud being enlisted for the war
were so swelled out with grass, that we were
forced to come to a brief pause, some few miles
from Tunstall  Sir Anthony Aucher and I much

Mentioned in the diurnal, &c.

t*'I have sent Col. Rich to Dover" (;.. aijainat Sir R. Har-dress)
"with a party of horse and foot' writes Fairfax, after the
affair of Maidstone, " where I trust wo shall lind the same pre-once
of God as hitherto hath been. My further prayer (o the
Lord is, that His great mercy may bo further improved to Isis
glory and this kingdom's good."

concerned for fear of pursuit, the Lady Anne not
80 much, and rather occupied to refresh her guard
out of the window of the coach, while the rain
pattered loudly upon the roof  her tiring maid, a
sensible wench having put into the said coach
good store of wine and viands for sustenance by
the way.

Under such treatment my exhausted spirits revived
; and I rather began to desire that Miriam
May should overtake us in order that I might
more effectually crack his headpiece, and put an
end to his bloody fooleries  for boys are prone to
hazardous exploits, and require some experience
ere they gain wisdom. Miriam May, however, did
not appear, and our meadow-fatted team was persuaded
 after a bottle of beer apiece, given them
at an ale-house, to proceed on their journey and
ours. But ere we reached Faversham, we were
somewhat disturbed by the apparition of horse
coming up in our rear. Sir Anthony Aucherwas
for flight, but I perceived firstly, that it would be
difficult to escape them, and secondly as they
seemed like our own people, that there was no
necessity. It proved to be the gallant Colonel
Hatton who had not been ordered into Maidstone,
and therefore possessed his regiment untouched.
He was moving to the relief of East Kent, having
left Colonel Hammond foot on the road between
Eochester and Sittingborne. You may be sure
his kinsman Aucher was glad to see him. Colonel

Hatton was accompanied by one of his daughters,
pretty Mistress Hatton, whom I was glad to see
again, also by his wife, who would have passed
very well as the sister of her fair offspring. All
these did ride after the troop  so full of loyalty
and bravery that they could not at all concede that
the cause their relations had enlisted in was anything
 or at least much prejudiced by what had
occurred at Maidstone. They were going for
Canterbury, which they intended to help to hold
until London city should rise, as was very confidently
expected by them.

The Lady Anne was a little alarmed to learn
from Colonel Hatton, that notwithstanding the
supposed departure of Ned Hales for Sandwich,
he had been met by Hatton going the other way.
He was not with him ; whereupon I did declare to
the Lady Anne my intention to follow and over-tale
liii, Colonel Hatton promising to guard the
Lady Anne the rest of the way. Scarce had this
been agreed to when we were called to a halt.
Colonel Hatton's son, the lieutenant of the regiment
or rather troop, having been in advance,
came back and reported that forces were coming
up against us Canterbury way. I never did see
ladies more brave than Colonel Hatton his wife
and daughter, who remained near the Lady Anne's
coach exceeding pale, but yet determined to face it
omit.

Colonel Hatton's music sounded the signal, and

yet a hundred yards' distance from the enemy a
strong troop of Parliament horse he commenced
to run at them. I concluded to charge with him,
so did the mad lieutenant's horse which I still retained,
and which was found evidently accustomed
to such business. I could scarce keep him from
getting ahead of Colonel Hatton and his lieutenants
a thing which neither good manners, nor my own
wishes, after my late runaway experiences did
prompt me to. Colonel Hatton shouted and
flourished his sword, so did the lieutenant, and so
did I. " Hurrah ! " cried all his men. We went
at a fine pace. The Parliament men were unable
to withstand the shock. After a little they one
and all turned tail, and were soon seen scattering
along the road in a retreats It was the most decided
victory that the poor army of Kent had
achieved. The ladies were less zealous for warlike
operations when they perceived the dead and
wounded upon the place, of which there were a
few.

Ah ! great is the kindness of women ! If those
poor rebels had been blood relations, the gentleness
and goodness of the Lady Anne and of the Lady
Hatton and her daughter could not have been exceeded.
Good Dr. Pyle  who came upon me like
an apparition, being chirurgeon to Hatton's troop,
was worthily assisted by them, and indeed the
Lady Anne did produce some of her best laced
See Carter, p. 78.

I had disembarked  there was no trace of the
ship. You may very well imagine the state of
apprehension 1 was in, considering that I had very
good proof on my return journey that the enemy's
forces were pouring into all places on my side of
the river, quartering in large or small bodies in
every hamlet, village, and town, and treating the
inhabitants as rudely as they pleased, t

"Ourbretherenof Kent," says a Eoyalist diurnal, "resolving
to petition, but fearing a Surrey welcome arm for their defence
against the army. And instead of receiving their petition, they
delude them with treaties and wiles, till they had got the rebell
army into the county amongst them and then they send their
orders to fall upon them and slaughter all that desire to have an
old King and a new Parliament, which was sufficiently observed
by the soldiers; for none could pass the road uncut or unstript ;
and when they came into quarters they would with drawn swords
and spanned pistols swear and curse, and tell the women they
would have roast meat or they would broil a piece of their husbands'
heads. Neither were they content to feast whilst they
stayed, but at removal, let cellars of beer upon the floor, knock
out the bottoms of milk vessels, and spoil all."

f The following piece of curious information from a publication
of the year, 1780, throws light upon one of the incidents in this
chapter : 

At a little distance from the ruins " (i.e., of Tunstall House),
is a small coppice, or as we call it a shave, where in January,
1738, several hundred pieces of gold were dug up. The boy
before mentioned, Thomas Love, led the way to this discovery;
for, turning aside as he was going on an errand, he perceived four
or five of these pieces lying on the ground, which he took away
with him; but not knowing what they were, and carelessly playing
with them at Daniel Wood's, a farmer at Highstall forestall.
Wood got knowledge of the place where they were found ; and
going thither made himself master of a very handsome treasure ;
but not being able to keep the secret he refunded 624 of the
broad pieces for the use of the Crown, though Sir John Hales
claimed the whole, it being thought that his ancestor had concealed
them there during the civil wars.

Mrs. Tysoe, mother-in-law to the Rev. Mr. Tysoe, vicar of
Bredgar, was visiting at Sir Edward's house, when they were concealed,

and very well remembered the hiding of them ; it was
immediately after the defeat at Maidstone. She said also that a
large parcel of jewels were deposited in the same shave, then
called the Gascony walk ; I suppose from cherry trees of that
name which might grow there. Upon the credit of Mrs. Tysoe's
account those jewels have been often searched for, but hitherto
without success."

The same work quoting from Walker's Sufferings of the
Clergy, confirms the account given by Lendall of the Rev.
Robert Dixon's peril: 

He " {i.e., Dixon), " was sequestered from this living " (i.e.,
Tnnstall), "when a Parliament party came for him at midnight, swearing
they would c\d him as small as herbs for the pot ; but a servant
of Sir Edward Hales, Bart, (who was just before in the same night
taken out of his bed from his lady and carried away prisoner),
having given private notice of their approach, Mr. Dixon
escaped into Atwood, not far from his house, where for about a
week he lay night and day for fear of his life, and was there
supplied with small matters privately sent him, until in a lay
habit he fled and so escaped that storm. But his house was rifled
and plundered, and by degrees he and his family quite undone and
banished the country. Great sums of money were exacted out
of him while he had anything, by sequestrated, committee men,
and such-like. . . . The crimes laid to his charge were his
loyalty to King Charles I., and his refusing to take the oath
called the Solemn League and Covenant, which he never took," &c.

You have spent," said lie, " all sour money
Master Hales '' (Hales * had dispensed his last
bounties to those men in Frindsbury fields, and
was now penniless, except for the matter of the
jewels and bags of broad pieces which had been
left under the care of Geoffry) 'there will be a
price set on your head  our further success with
the petition is by no means well assured  the fleet
requires assistance  I cannot but second the advice
which Master L'Estranoe, as I understand
did intend to give you  namely, to put yourself
aboard of the Vice Admiral, and see what chance
there may be of rescuing the King out of prison."

"I think," said Hales, "that perhaps your
lordship is in the right. I will so far yield to your
persuasion, as to take my departure for Sandwich
for the present " 

Ah ! Master Hales," said I, '' our retreat is
already cut off  Sir William Compton hath by
this time destroyed the bridge."

' It is even so," said one who at that moment
came up breathless from the waterside, "and
Captain Sir John Mennes of the ' Swallow,' f is
anxious to set sail, for it is said that Fairfax and
all his men are marching straight upon Rochester,
and the town is already in a panic fear; and the
people have already begun to destroy the fortification

7 rue Reciting. p. 80.

t Tho "Rainbow" had been moored above the bridge, tho
Swallow" below, to defend Rochester.

tions ; and Master Pet of the King's Yard hath
sent word that in spite of all he can do, he knows
that the ordnance there will be seized, and turned
upon such of the revolted ships as be in the medway,
which can make no fight of it, all their
ammunition being run out."

Begone ! Master Hales, I beseech you," cries
the Earl of Norwich, 'rit is sheer madness to
remain."

'' Have you seen aught of Estrange ? " says
Hales turning to me.

Nay," said I, " I did suppose him to be with
you. He is without doubt gone * forward to
Sandwich."

To finish the matter Sir William Compton now
appears on the scene, and reports that Rochester
Bridge is impracticable for friend or foe. He adds
his entreaties to those of the Earl of Norwich,"and
Hales now consents to depart and get aboard of
the " Swallow."

'' Sir," says Sir William Compton to me, '' weare
very short of horses here, and as, I think, you
will be better employed in attending upon Master
Hales, I will recall my request to you to serve in
my regiment, and beg of you to sell me that
mettled charger which you are now mounted
upon."

It is plain by referring to Carter, p. 80, that Estrange was
in error when he supposes that Hales went direct to Sandwich
(" I waited only for a stirrup and within six minutes followed,
but could not overtake him ").

* Sir' said I, taking my decision to accompany
Ned Hales, and moved to a generous action I could
ill afford, 'I will beg your acceptance of the
horse, which is indeed only plundered from the
enemy."

But Sir William, notwithstanding the old score
he had against me, gallantly refuses the gift, and
in another instant I am afoot with thirty broad
pieces in my pouch.

Ned Hales shakes hands with Compton and the
Earl, and turns to depart. Doubtless if those
men who were all around had been less occupied
by their own troubled thoughts, they would have
given him a parting salute of small shot, or at
least a hearty round of cheers. As it is, however,
he departs without notice. And thus are great
services sometimes rewarded ! Those men had
been armed and clothed principally by his bounty,
and yet  but I have not time to dilate upon these
sort of shortcomings just now, and any notion of
their ingratitude I am persuaded never entered
into that young man's head. He was thinking of
how little use he would be to the King's revolted
ships.

Alas ! Rupert," he said to me, " I am now a
beggar, and can do little either ashore or
afloat ! "

We walked to the waterside. He seemed in
great trouble, and I was in as much trouble as he

WclS.

Ned Hales' said I, as soon as we were in
the long boat of the " Swallow," " I trust that
affairs will turn out better than they now
promise."

He did not seem to pay any attention to this
remark, but said to himself rather than tome


'' I hope Geoffry will be able to send me presently,
in some convenient manner, those jewels
and gold pieces which we had not time to carry
away."

Then did an idea flash into my head.

*' Ned Hales," said I, " I pray you land me a
little further down the river , and I will adventure
it to Tunstall, and with the help of God bring you
that money and those jewels."

At first Hales scouted such an idea, but his
urgent necessities pressing him he at length lent
an ear to them; and, in fine, upon Captain
Mennes promising that if I did not delay above
three hours, he declared he would lie to opposite
Milton  provided that the wind shewed no indication
of changing; and thus I might perchance
bring at least a part of the treasure which was so
very much wanted. The next thing was that Ned
Hales wanted himself to accompany me on my
errand, but I swore 1 would not consent to his
running such a risk. Whereupon, having arrived
at a convenient place, I landed, receiving the
warm thanks of Hales, and a tribute of admiration

from those few officers of the * Swallow " who wore
cognisant of my undertaking, among whom was
Sir Robert Newcomen.*

When I was fairly started, I confess I had some
fears, which were increased when I got as far as
Sittingborne. Ned Hales had made me promise
to go secretly to Master Barham at the postoffice,
and negotiate my undertaking by the help
of some wenches of the town. But on reaching
the place I found that the same panic fear had
obtained there which had been reported at Rochester,
and I had great fears that I should be seized
myself. Barham was in hiding, and so were many
more ; only women being to be met with. Furthermore,
it was reported that more soldiers had come
to Tunstall, and were searching of every corner for
to find Ned Hales, who was thought to be concealed
thereabouts. I shad changed my soldier's
apparel for a pair of green breeches, a waggoner's
frock and a Monmouth hat much the worse for
wear; and not being able to get any wench to stir
in my errand, I determined to adventure it myself,
and so concealing a pistol under my frock and
shutting my face the better to disguise myself, I
went out of the town by the bridle path to Tun-stall
(the very same whereon I had been startled by
the apparition of a dive and no dive). This I

Sir Beverly Ncwcoincn, his brother, had formerly commanded
the " Swallow," hut was drowned at. passage, car
WaterfunI, 25th April, 1837. See Burke's Gencaliffies.

soon quitted for the more obscure part of the
wood, which, a little way from Sittingborne,
grows on both sides of the path. If you ask
why I did so, I shall answer that you would
have done the same yourself if you had heard,
as I did the clatter of hoofs in Sittingborne
street, and a Parliament trumpet sounding a
march !

So," said I to myself, "there is now an enemy
in rear as well as in front of me."

However I was determined not to give up the
object I had come for.

But how to accomplish it I knew not ; and I
perceived that the three hours alloted for the
purpose would be wholly insufficient. Perchance,
however, the ship would wait for me. I cautiously
continued my progress, and at last came in sight
of the church. Thinks I 

'' By this time they will be busy with the
windows in which there is some squirrels and
arrows, &c., represented in painted glass (a thing
abhorrent to rebels), and also some crows  being
the arms of Hales, Comer, and Squire. But
doubtless deeming them superstitious they will befor
destroying them."

But all was quiet in that old churchyard, and
apparently there was no one near it at all.
Between the church and the Shooter's Meadow and
the house, &c., are great orchards of cherries, and
the view of the house is somewhat intercepted.

VOL. III. I

But I liGiird the crackliiif of flames and saw
smoke curling up.

' The miscreants have set the house afire ! "
said I.

But it was not so, but indeed they had hired the
parsonage, and it was, I found, far gone towards
being Avliolly burnt.*

I was seized with fear for the fate of Parson
Dixon, whom I had not thought of till now,
though I ought to have remembered the hatred
which Miriam May bore to him.

I cautiously approached Grove, the steward's,
house, and even went part of the way into the
shrubbery. But perceiving some Parliament
soldiers smoking at the parlour window which was
open, I retreated as fast as I could. The rain
which all this time was falling heavily was in my
favour, and kept some of those rebels within
doors. I now went in the opposite direction,
and at length got a clear view of the house over
the Lady Anne's parterre. Oh ! how sad did it
seem to think that that hospitable dwelling was
now without its kind mistress ! I had not much
time to indulge in such sorrowful reflections, for
something I saw diverted my attention. Out of
the house comes one trooper after another with
books and pictures. Under the great red thorn
they go, and then I perceive they have already

Since 1648 the Rectory of Tunstall has been several times
rebuilt, and each tinto the site has been changed.

lighted a bonfire, which they are feeding with,
rarities from the house. I made no doubt but
that the fanatical Miriam was the commander of
those men, though I could not see him. I had no
sooner observed this than I was alarmed by somebody
whooping loudly, and being answered by
others whooping. Thinking that I was the object
of pursuit, I took to my heels, and then seeing a
conveniently thick tree clambered nimbly up 
something after the fashion of his present Majesty
into the oak.

Well was it that I did so, for though I soon
found they were after other game, they would
undoubtedly have minced me on the spot,
if they had then caught me, for lo ! no other
than Miriam May himself passes close under the
tree where I was hid  which vv'as not an oak but a
fine spreading cypress.

I will cut him as small as herbs for the pot ! "
said Miriam, grinding his teeth.

If you wish to know who was meant to be thus
dealt with I can tell you that it was no other than
the Rev. Robert Dixon, whose retreat to his hiding
place at Bredgar was cut off. This was presently
made plain, for a fellow whom I could not
see, but believe to have been one of the menservants
is conducted up. Miriam is disappointed,
for it was not the person he wanted. However,
he sets to work to make him tell all he knows.
I heard the fellow assure him that he did not

know where Parson Dixon was hiding ; and also-tell
very circumstantially the departure of Ned and
the Lady Anne and the rest of us. All of which
May seemed to know, for he returns to his inquiries
after the parson.

*' I do assure you, sir, that I know not where his
! '' says the servant, beginning to blubber.

"We will soon discover that," says Miriam.
Tie the villain to a tree."

Then more piteously does the poor wretch entreat
for mercy, believing, I daresay, that he was about
to be forthwith harquebusiered ; and he is told if
he continues his noise that shall presently be
done.

'' It were well," says one of Miriam's troopers
(there were three or four in all there), " if this
fellow were made to tell what became of the money
and the jewels that were on the table at the moment
these malignant did depart."

Oh, sir," says the man, '' I do assure you I
know not at all where it is. Geoffry, the understand,
took it away with him in a sack ; and
moreover, said he would kill whosoever followed
him ; and he had a blunderbuss for that purpose
loaded and cocked."

*' I will know where that son of perdition,
Robert Dixon, lies hid first of all," says Miriam

TiCiidall says nothing more of Miriam May. I find, however
in tlu- State Paper Ottico letters about his fanatical designs after
tljo RcHionition  how ho collected both men and arms to upset
the Government.

*' Now that this fellow is fast to the tree, tie me a
piece of match between his finger and thumb, and
set a light to it."

Oh ! to hear that poor wretch roar with pain,
when the match being set alight to began to seize
his flesh ! Oh ! 'twas pitiful ! Whether he said
anything I know not , for I had to stick my fingers
in my ears to prevent me hearing the dreadful
sound. But suddenly it was stopped, for one
comes to sap' that one of the maids had been
caught in another place.

What they did to the maid I cannot tell you ;
but it is certain they released the man who was
tied to the tree, and he went away with them.

I now perceived that unless I could find
Geoffry himself my errand was in vain, to say
nothing of the difficulty I should have in getting
back to the place where the ship was. In the
meantime I thought it prudent to come down from
my hiding place, and get a little further from the
house. This I did, and soon found myself near
the bridle path which leads to Sittingborne. I was
considering whether to make a circuit of the
house beyond the Shooter's Meadow or to hide
somewhere till dusk, in the hope of finding out
whither Geoffry was gone, when I heard the noise
of a broken winded jade galloping hard on the
other side of the paling. Before I could look
through to see what it was, the said jade comes
suddenly to a dead stop. I, thinking it was one

in pursuit of me, take myself off as fast as I can
But as I did so I began to imagine that the horse
and rider had fallen together, instead of the rider
dismounting in the more usual way for to pursue
Die. On considering the sounds I now heard I
made sure that it was so, and ventured to look
over the paling which was about a foot higher
than my stature.

*'0h ! GeoiFry, Geoffry, art thou hurt?" cried
I, for lo ! it was the very man I was thinking of!
And there he lay on the path as if he had not
only fallen heavily, but had also been rolled upon
by the broken-winded jade, which I now saw to bean
old blind brood mare belonging to Grove, the
steward.

Without ffivini time to set an answer, I

too t5 "

scrambled over the paling. There hiy poor Geoffry
still quite motionless. The mare had now got onto
her legs again, and merely shaking herself,
began to eat the grass on the side of the bridle
path.

1 knelt beside GeoiFry.

Speak to me, Geoffry," said T, '' for God's
sake I I hope thou art n(t seriously hurt. I should
fain know where thou hast bestowed the Lady
Annie's jewels, and thy master's money?"

Alas ! alas ! poor Geoffry could give no reply.
T opeui'd his doublet, undid his shirt at the bands,
tri d to raise his corpulent form to a sitting
posture, but all to no purpose. It was too plain

that the secret I wished to discover was Lost. For
alas ! poor Geoffry was stone-dead ! 1 could not
find any cut on his head, but it is my belief that
his neck was broke. Finding that his heart had
ceased to beat and that he was already growing
cold, I searched his pockets in the hope of finding
something which might shew how he had disposed
of the treasure ; but beyond a few crowns and an
odd sixpence or two there appeared to be nothing
concealed about his person. And now hearing
some come rushing in pursuit I thought it
high time to leave the inanimate corpse of that
faithful servant  for faithful I am sure he was,
though there are not wanting some who will tell
you that he had played his master and mistress
false, and had caused the jewels and money (which
could nevermore be found) to be conveyed away
privily by some accomplice to be presently devoted
to his own use.

My mission being now ended  though by no
means in the manner I had hoped  I had no plea
for delaying further, and took to my heels, discarding
the notion of aiding my flight by mounting
on the sorry blind jade which had killed the
person who, of all others, I desired at that moment
to be let live.

I will not weary you by describing my long and
perilous journey back to the riverside. Suffice it
to say that when I got there six hours after the
time agreed upon  that is to say, nine hours after

I had disembarked  there was no ti-ace of the
ship. You may very well imagine the state of
apprehension I was in, considering that I had very
good proof on my return journey that the enemy's
forces were pouring into all places on my side of
the river, quartering in large or small bodies in
every hamlet, village, and town, and treating the
inhabitants as rudely as they pleased, f

"Our lirelheren of Kent'' says a Eoyalist diurnal, "resolving
to petition, but fearing a Surrey welcome arm for their defence
against the army. And instead of receiving their petition, they
delude them with treaties and wiles, till they had got the rebell
army into the county amongst them and then they send their
orders to fall upon them and slaughter all that desire to have an
old King and a new Parliament, which was sufficiently observed
by the soldiers; for none could pass the road uncut or unstript ;
and when they came into quarters they would with drawn swords
and spanned ]pistols swear and curse, and tell the women they
would have roast meat or they would broil a piece of their husbands'
heads. Neither were they content to feast whilst they
stayed, but at removal, let cellars of beer upon the floor, knock
out the bottoms of milk vessels, and spoil all."

f The following pieces carious information from a publication
of the year, 1780, throws light upon one of the incidents in this
chapter : 

At a little distance from the ruins " (i.e., of Tunstall House),
is a small coppice, or as we call it a shave, where in January,
1738, several hundred pieces of gold were dug up. The boy
before mentioned, Thomas Love, led the way to this discovery;
for, turning aside as he was going on an errand, he perceived four
or five of these pieces lying on the ground, which he took away
with him; but nc)t knowing what they were, and carelessly slaying
with them at Daniel Wood's, a farmer at Ilighstall forestall.
Wood got knowledge of the place where they wire found ; and
going thither made himself master of a very handsome treasure ;
but not being able to keep the secret he refunded 1)24 of the
broad pieces for the use of the Crown, though Sir John Bales
claimed the whole, it being thought that his ancestor had concealed
them there during the civil wars.

Mrs. Tysoe, mother-in-law to ilw Rev. !Mr. 'I'ysoe, vicar of
Bredgar, was visiting at Sir JMward's house, wlicn they were concealed,

and very well remembered the hiding of them ; it was
immediately after the defeat at Maidstone. She said also that a
large parcel of jewels were deposited in the same shave, then
called the Gascony walk ; I suppose from cherry trees of that
name which might grow there. Upon the credit of Mrs. Tysoe's
account those jewels have been often searched for, but hitherto
without success''

The same work quoting from Walker's Sufferings of the
Clergy, confirms the account given by Lendall of the Rev.
Robert Dixon's peril: 

He " {i.e., Dixon), ' was sequestered from this living " {i.e.,
Tunstall), "when a Parliament party came for him at midnight, swearing
they xvould cut him as small as herbs for the pot ; but a servant
of Sir Edward Hales, Bart, (who was just before in the same night
taken out of his bed from his lady and carried away prisoner),
having given private notice of their approach, Mr. Dixon
escaped into Atwood, not far from his house, where for about a
week he lay night and day for fear of his life, and was there
supplied with small matters privately sent him, until in a lay
habit he fled and so escaped that storm. But his house was rifled
and plundered, and by degrees he and his family quite undone and
banished the country. Great sums of money were exacted out
of him while he had anything, by sequestrated, committee men,
and such-like. . . . The crimes laid to his charge were his
loyalty to King Charles I., and his refusing to take the oath
called the Solemn League and Covenant, which he never took," &c.

To

THE COUNTESS OF ABERDEEN.

TOWARDS LONDON WITH THE PETITION.

I DO not care to recall the painful thoughts of that
night. All was dismal black and melancholic.
I had failed in what I had attempted. I was wet,
hungry, and tired. I was in peril. But worst of
all, I felt that I was in some sort deserted by my
friend. By the friend, too, who had been my successful
rival in the affections of that one, only fair
whom I truly loved ! Could he not have contrived
to have left some one by the waterside to receive
me on my return from a most dangerous expedition
undertaken solely on his account ? What is friendship
in this world ! thought I to myself  and
what is love ! But this brought up the image of
the peerless Anne ; and I , had more than half
a mind to brave the enemy who I now knew
possessed Kent; and wearied and faint and hungry
as I was, to make my way towards Bourne or
Sandwich to find her. For I knew she, at least,
was my faithful friend, and it would be pleasurable
to die in her service. For the Lady Anne had
never deceived or disappointed me. She had ever
been my sincere and faithful friend ; and thinking
of her I was in some measure diverted from my

own sad contemplations when I remembered the
misfortunes which had fallen upon her.

And now some alarm for my own safety began
to affect me. A Parliament trumpet sounding a
march had been for some time haunting me, and
was now more plain to be heard, being that of
some troop moving towards Queenborough, where
indeed Mrs. Logwood and others had plotted to
carry the King, should he have escaped, out of
Carisbrooke.* I had in my pouch the broad pieces
which Sir W. Compton had given me ; and there
appeared at that moment a fellow in a boat coming
forth from a small creek for to dredge for
oysters, which about here are plentiful. Him I
accost, and prevailed upon to land me on the
farther side of the Medway. For I now determined,
since I could not find the Lausanne
jewels, to endeavour to overtake the army of the
petitioners on their march towards London, for as
the Lady Anne dearly wished the success of that
petition I began to think I had better help to advance
it or perish in trying to do so.

I found that the fellow in the boat was
desirous to keep out of the way of the Parliament
soldiers, which was his chief reason for attempting
to dredge for oysters at that time of the night,
for it was already past sunset, lie confessed that

TlnH was trio jilac-o wliitlior the Kiiif? was to have been brought
by relays of lutrscs from trio coast of Sussex. Lady Sherwood
was bis agent, and was tu bay been bis assistant.

lie had signed the petition, and expressed the
most sincere hatred of the Committee of Kent and
all the friends of the Parliament party. He also
landed on the opposite shore with me, and brought
me to a little blind alehouse, where, having regaled
myself and him, and having gotten directions for
pursuing my way to Blackheath, I left him, and
went forward in better heart than an hour before
I had deemed possible.

Fairfax his men had not yet crossed over
Rochester Bridge, so I continued my journey all
that night without molestation, and arrived at
Dartford before daybreak, where I learnt that the
army of the petitioners had halted for a short
time a few hours before. This made me hasten
forward to overtake them. But after this, everywhere
on the road I heard alarming rumours of
the approach of Parliament troops from all
quarters, though indeed I saw none. But when I
reached Blackheath, I was seized with great apprehensions,
for instead of any rendezvous of loyal
men which I had expected to see, lo ! the heath
was bare and not so much as one man was to be
seen there at all.

Anon, however, I discover that they are all in
Greenwich Park, and entering the same from the
gate on to Blackheath, after passing through the
grove of chestnuts planted in the time of Harry
the Viii., I have a prospect of the Palace, and of
the winding Thames, and what I most desired, of

the army of Kent in the plain between the river
and the hill. Though much diminished since
the rendezvous near Waltham, they were a
j'oodly body still, and their various ensigns and
glancing pikes and halberds, as well as the pennons
of the horse, made a fair show which half the town
had come into the park to admire. Sir William
Compton, who at first did not know me in my new
disguise, was much amazed to see me, and seemed
to think it strange that Hales had neither waited
for me nor left a messenger to explain why he had
not. He however commended my spirit in rejoining
the army, which I had recently agreed to quit.
He told me that my Lord of Norwich had gone
alone across the water into Essex to find out what
correspondency there was there ; also that a letter
had been written from Dartford, and sent up to
the Mayor and Common Council of the City of
London, demanding their assistance, or at least
their concurrence to our passing through the city
for to present the petition at Westminster. To
this there had as yet come no answer, and what
disquieted the petitioners was that sundry persons
had arrived from a near view of the city, with the
intelligence that the gates and avenues thereof
were all closed and guarded and no persons except
officers of the Parliament army allowed to pass
either in or out. In fine, anxiety was on every
countenance ; and further baleful rumours of the
approach of the Lord Fairfax his horse to cut us

up began to spread. Strange to tell, I was less
disquieted than others, and so little fatigued that
after sitting a while on the root of a fir tree with
some of the officers, and partaking of some bread
and cheese and beer which Sir William Compton
had ordered to refresh the army, I felt inclined for
some further adventure, and so proposed to try and
get into the city to see whether London would rise
or no.

I must here confess that some of those gentlemen
 so far as their then depressed state of spirits
did permit  made themselves merry at my expense,
admiring my comical disguise, my waggoner's
frock, my old green breeches, and my face covered
with smuts. They could scarce recognise " the
Admiral ; '' this was, as you know, the name I
generally went by since the revolt of the fleet.
However, this disguise now appealed very heartily
to their good sense in favour of my attempt which.
I proposed of observing the humour of the city.
And Colonel Colepepper incontinently swore, that
if I would adventure it, he would do the same, and
indeed go as my mistress ; that is, I was to be his
servant, and he was to disguise himself as a
citizen's wife. There were those there who thought
he did but jest. But others knew Colonel Cole-pepper
to be capable of any enterprise. Up he
starts and will go straight to a barber to trim his
hair for it, and to borrow a housewife's gown, cowl,
apron and what not.

VOL. III. E

But when I saw him tricked out, and heard his
talk, and saw his carriage, I perceived that it was
quite impossible to know that he was not what he
now feigned himself to be.

He decided to go by water to London, there
being now a good breeze up the river, and his
pretence was that he was a godly woman from
Clerkenwell, whose son had run from her to join
the mutineers of Kent; and that she had been
down as far as Woollage to look for him. And
this story, though we were often accosted by those
guarding the stairs of the river and other places 
for Skippon had taken every precaution against
doubtful strangers  this story I say imposed on
all. We found the city very much aghast at the
sad disaster of Maidstone, and secretly very furious
against the grandees of Parliament and arni}, and
also against Hammond for preventing the King's
escape  but alas ! all their sympathy was worth
little, for we found that it was but too true that
the ports were sealed against us. Strong guards
were at every gate, and no person was allowed
either in or out without being first strictly examined,
and those who could give no clear account
of themselves were detained as suspicious personages,
and imprisoned forthwith as malignant.
None but zealots where allowed to possess
arms, and the train-band service was confined to
them. It was further said that Cromwell and the
forces with him in Wales were marching with

speed upon London. Notwithstanding we found
the freemen of the city rushing to the Guildhall
and clamouring for the Kentish petitioners to have
entrance, much to the alarm of Warner Fowke,
Atkins , Gibbs, Wollaston, Allen, and the rest of
that fraternity whom I have already mentioned in
my account of the rising of the prentices.

The Common Council put them ofP, but they
declared they would have a common hall in spite
of them, and that the Parliament should be forced
to vote for the King to be brought to London in
honour and safety, &c.

Colonel Colepepper did what he could to inflame
the freemen when he discovered that the Common
Council had basely sent  our General's letter to
the Parliament rogues at Westminster in place of
replying to it. To conclude we returned again by
water with the ebb tide to Greenwich. Colonel
Colepepper again baffling all questionings alleging
that he was for Greenwich sind WooUage once
more to make a second search for his foolish boy,
so larding his conversation with pious expressions
that I think he would have deceived Noll Cromwell,
or even old Nick himself.

'away! good Admiral Green-breeches," says
he, when we jumped ashore at Greenwich once
more, 'tell my lord William Compton what we

So says Carter and others. "Colonel Culpepper," says
Heath, " negotiating and pressing their speedy resolution and
declaration for the King and kingdom at the Guildhall to his no
little danger and honour."

have seen and heard, while I restore the barber
what I had borrowed of him*'

When I got into the park I found that discipline,
which is the very life of an army, was now
utterly failing  the officers perceived that all
attempts at enforcing orders would soon be futile.
Fear and rage, doubt and anxiety, filled every
mind. Menaced by a powerful enemy which they
were wholly unable to cope with  disappointed by
their friends  with no place of safety to retreat
upon, and threatened with overwhelming destruction
if they advanced, the position of these poor
loyal men, whose homes were now the spoil of
marauding rebels, was desperate indeed ! It was
now dusk, and to make matters worse, instead of
clinging to one another in adversity they began to
contend, each violently arguing in favour of advancing,
retiring, or staying where they were.
Now there was a rush towards the heath, to find
the open country, and now another towards the
river, to get into boats. And these attempts
others would check by force or by threats of discharging
their matchlocks on their brethren !

'' Sir," said 1 to Sir William Compton, '' it will
soon be dark, and it is said that Rich's horse is
speeding up against us, and what condition we are
in to resist, a fool may see. Under favour, sir,
would it not be wise to join our friends in Essex,
who have already, by their printed declarations
as well as by word of mouth from Sir Charles

Incas and others, engaged themselves to stand or
fall with us?"

When my lord of Norwich returns," says
Compton, " and lets us know if there is good correspondency
there, we can do so."

1 will answer for the Lord Capell," said I,
I know him well, and will stake my head that
he will not fail us. I doubt not he hath already
raised the county of Herts, and is coming to London
by way of Essex as agreed upon."

And still that direful suspense and uncertainty
continues, and the oflB.cers catching the infection
of the men, commence to dispute among themselves.
Only Colepepper, whom they all looked
upon as somewhat mad, supports my proposition.
A false report that Whalley's horse was approaching
from Shooter's Hill decided us.*
Amidst great opposition from some, we moved
to the riverside, Sir William Compton and many
others doing their best to preserve quiet amongst
those soldiers who between fear and rage were
out of their senses.*

To Essex ! to Essex ! " was the general cry,
which the officers rather echoed than originated.
But so eager was the desire to cross the Thames
that Compton and the other leaders who desired
to be the last, found that if they meant to sail

Carter says that " one riding into the park in the night told
the soldiers that they were in very great danger ; that the officers
wished then to shift for themselves, which . . . encouraged
the distraction " &o.

over at all, they must try to be first. For the
rush to seize boats wherever they could be found,
was one of the strangest things that could be
witnessed. But in fine 2,000 officers and soldiers
were accommodated  some of whom by unskilful
ferrying  for they either had no room or would
not wait for the watermen to come on, were
carried by the tide some distance away from the
rest. About 2,000, I say, crossed the Thames.
The horse soldiers swimming their horses in rear
of their boats, the officers doing likewise.

It was a strange sight in the summer twilight
to see this exodus from Kent, and also a
wild and a sad one, when it was considered that
we were desperate men, whose safety was by no
means assured by the step we were taking. All
Greenwich turned out to look at us, multitudes
of women and children flocking to the waterside
in fear and wonderment.

THE MARCH INTO ESSEX.

Farewell to all peaceable intentions ! Though
we had marched towards London with the
petition in one hand and the sword in the other 
we had not been destitute of all hope that the
schismatic Parliament would have the courage to
shew an English spirit, and consider our just and
lawful desires for the restoration of the ancient
government and known laws of the realm. But
now that hope was gone." We were no longer
petitioners, but soldiers  soldiers alas ! in most
desperate condition  marching we knew not
whither, whose only thought was how to defend
ourselves from the vengeance of our cruel and
numerous foes.

Scarce had we landed on the opposite shore of
the Thames when we were put to dispute it. For
there was cowardly Gale and those very trained
bands that had provoked the prentice rising, as
you may remember, in the Moorfields. Sir
William Compton forced him to a favourable
treaty, which he treacherously broke ; and being

" The Kentish men," says a diurnal, " went to the I. of Dogs
and Blackwell, ferrying and swimming their horses. The City
deaf to Goring's desires to pass through it. Skippon very active
and wary."

seized by me, we marched him a prisoner defiantly
through his own men. The diurnal will tell
you of the fights at Stratford and Bow ; and how
we turned fiercely upon Whalley's horse and
dragoons, and beat them back, causing an alarm
to the farthest confines of the city.*

But further troubles did await us, for we soon
found that the disaster of Maidstone had so
terrified the loyal party in Essex that they were
inclined wholly to fall away from their engagement
to assist us  which the Earl of Norwich,
riding about without sleep or rest, soon discovered
; and returning after two days, was more
amazed than encouraged to find we had crossed
the Thames. But now back he goes to Chelmsford,
where things were now worse ; for the
rumour was that the Lord Fairfax had crossed the
Thames at Gravesend with his whole army 
which, indeed, was quite true. And this did
encourage the Committee of Essex to come forth
from their hiding places to force the train-bands
and auxiliaries to muster their forces against the
loyal party.

But brave Sir Charles Lucas did so stir up the
loyal gentry of the county to a sense of doing

" The enemy," says Carter, *' kept on their flight in pn'oat
disorder, which, as I was informed, gave an alarm to the whole
city as far as Temple lear." See True Relation, by which it
appears that young Lord William Compton deserves the credit of
having saved the Kentish party from ruin. From papers 1 have
Been in the State Reaper OlUce, it would appear that Compton had
property at Erith in Kent.

something for the vindication of liberty that they
suddenly became as furious and desperate to keep
their engagement made with Kent as they had
before been lukewarm; so that in a very gallant
manner they rose and seized that Committee of
Essex."

Upon this my Lord of Norwich sends to Compton
to march forward to Chelmsford , where on the 8th
of June we arrived, not without continued alarms
in our rear from Whalley's horse, which pursued us
as far as Bradford, but was there somewhat
overawed by the augmentation of our forces by
a gallant body of Essex horse. And now we
rendezvous in the Duke of Bucks his park  where
appeared a party of gallant gentlemen who had
ridden all together from London to join us. There
also came my Lord of Loughborough and Sir
Charles Lucas his men. And as each party appeared
they were greeted with huzzahs ; but perhaps, the
men of Herts received the loudest, when 'twas
perceived they were headed by Arthur Algernon,
Lord Capell, with his standard of lions ramping in
that red field, and with those crosses which did so
well tally with his undaunted carriage in a
glorious but desperate cause.

As soon as the marshalling and numbering of
these different bodies was completed, and the

" And were so furiously incensed against them," says Carter,
that some would immediately have killed them, had not others
rescued them . . . and placed a guard over them."

leiidinn lords and gentlemen had finished thfiir
consultations as to our future proceedings, I
waited upon ins Lord Capell, and was received
very graciously ; and when I had described to him
the honourable disaster which had happened to
Kent, and my own part therein, he so compassionate
mo as to appoint me his assistant-secretary,
with very good pay, and yet I was
allowed to serve also in the capacity of a combatant,
as will by-and-bye appear.

On our further march  for it was necessary to
draw away from Fairfax, as we were in no state to
fight his powerful army  we paid my Lord of
Warwick's house a visit, and seized his armoury.
As he had long enjoyed the high post of Lord
High Admiral of the Fleet  which he was at this
moment trying to reduce to the obedience of
Parliaments  he could very well spare it, also the
venison we did hunt in his park, about which his
steward made a fine pother, though, indeed, there
were as many Parliamentarians (who did rendezvous
there also) in that chase as loyal persons.
Methinks my Lord of Warwick had been as well
employed in killing the dun cow as in siding with
the destroyers of the kingdom ; but, doubtless, as
his great ancestor had been a king-maker the
memory thereof did influence him to support conic

" lie went from Gravesend in the ship ' Nicodemus ' to try
perHunHivo offcctH uj)oii trio twelve revolted ships in the Downs,
but couhl not," says a Letter of Intelligence ; "his lieutenant
received the answer with tears."  Clar. Mss., Bodl., Oxford.

bastions which might tend to some imitation of
that example.

Out of the Earl of Warwick his wardrobe I did
procure an exchange for my sorry doublet and
green breeches, namely a fair suit of laced buff,
which did prove very serviceable wear.

But on, on we must go. For the whirlwind is
behind us  Fairfax is coming up with speed.
Yet we did rest Sunday at Braintree, and my
Lord CapelPs chaplains did read the disused
Prayer Book service in a field before our army,
which was after more orderly divided into troops
and companies. At nine that night we marched
again, our design being to get further away from
the enemy, and proceeding by forced marches
through divers counties, in which my Lord Capelle
had authority to enlist soldiers and give out commissions
to gather up an army which might either
stand and dispute it with Fairfax or go forward
and join Sir Marmaduke Langdale in the North,
and the loyal Scots, now coming over the border
under Duke Hamilton.

The order of our march was  the Essex forces
first, with Sir Charles Lucas leading. Next came
Kent and Sir William Compton. Herts and the
Lord Capell last. And in rear of all rode my

Qy. Ed. Simon.

t The " Commission to Lord Capell to command the risings in
Norfolk, Suffolk, Huntingdon, Cambridge, and Hertford (signed),
Charles P. (dated), St. Germans, 15th April, 1648," is in possession
of his direct descendant and representative Lord Essex.

Lord Capell that night to resist the pioneers of
Fairfax. But we had happily outstript them.
The Lord Capell did me the honour to converse
with me, not only about the Kentish business,
Hales, the Lady Anne, and so forth, but also about
State affairs in very admirable discourses.

To

THE COUNTESS OF ESSEX.

THE LORD CAPELL CONCERNING THE KING.

Very admirable, indeed, and very learned were
the Lord Capell his observations upon how the
prosperity of a state may be best advanced ; and
he did beguile the dim twilight road  where
somewhat incommoded with dust, there being a
dull air which allowed it to hang after the army's
march  we rode along at a walking pace, with an
examination of the ancient Hebrew, Grecian,
Roman, and other systems of government. At
times, it is true, nodding to sleep  for I was
much worn with the great fatigues of the last
fortnight  I did from time to time miss somewhat.


At length, however, when the red sun did
begin to glimmer over the Essex fields and paint
trees and houses with a golden tawney  when the
birds began to chirrup and the morning air came
to refresh the tired soldiers with the scent of hay,
whitethorn, or wallflower which flourished in roadside
gardens  I was roused up to full attention.
And while my lord did talk of the kingdom's
affairs, of the iniquity of the rebellion against
His Majesty's authority, his words so entered my
ears that I could not afterwards rest till I had

committed to writings what lie said. For it is to
be observed that the Lord Capell had a full knowledge
of all the circumstances which had caused
the troubles ; and being one of the most trusted
of the King's Council from the time of the commencement
of the Long Parliament, he had every
opportunity of arriving at a just decision concerning
that great quarrel, and also of properly understanding
the character of the King whom the rebels
did so constantly revile.

*' What is there' says my lord, " almost within
the power of imagination, wherewith they have
not reproached the Lord's anointed? and yet,
what is it that they can justifiably charge him
with? But they are exact pursuers of that
devilish project calumniate audacity aliquid herein
(calumniate confidently something will stick).
And what was said of our Blessed Saviour we may
next after Him apply to His Majesty   Never
man endured such contradiction of sinners.'
Our neighbours of France, notwithstanding their
gaiety de cceitr, have confessed that la libere est la
plus belle, la illus douce, 7na{s la jus trompeuse
chose dn monde  and expectation is little satisfied
by our new governors ; for instead of relaxations
of observances to power and authority, the people
find the fire seven times hotter than it was wont
to be, and the ministers of their torments like
Salamander, only live and are cherished in the
flames of it. But this proves an occasion for men

to recollect themselves, and more cautiously consider
whereby this advantage hath arrived to his
Majesty, viz., that there is not only found to bean
absence of all whatsoever they have calumniated
him with but a presence of all the contrary virtues
to an eminency and admiration. For notwithstanding
all allurements and enticements to debauchery
he doth yet equal the innocency of those
whom indigence and necessity hath restrained.
And I do so little hold myself a flatterer in this
(besides the time suits not with it) that I unfeignedly
think that there is not a person in
all his dominions that by this time consents not to
what I have said. And let this suffice for their
perfect consideration to all posterity  that by the
known rule of the law they have not been able to
condemn any man to death that hath administered
under his Majesty  the infamy whereof I leave to
the censure of the world, and to a more severe
judge their own consciences.

' Nor less as regards his Majestys abilities for
his princely function ; the vile reproaches of
coward and fool are found to be as malicious and
groundless as they are barbarous, rude, and
irreverent. As for courage, his Majesty's
behaviour hath been so notable in this unhappy
war that he cannot be refused an eminent place
amongst the great examples of the world for undauntedness
in danger, patience in adversity, and
in all fortunes of an equanimity (were he not so

VOL. III. L

conspicuous for other vii-tues) almost to a seeming
apathy' and iinmovedness.

And for largeness of mind and understanding,
we that have had the honour to attend him during
these troubles could never yet make other observation
of him, but that to all persons  of what professions
or faculties whatsoever  his Majesty
entertained them with pertinent questions and
satisfied them with prudent answers. And those
that printed his Majesty's letters, taken naseby,
did not enough consider that together with the
publication of their own malevolence (and some
few things scarce apt to their own ends), that
thereby the great happiness of his Majesty's pen
was made known to the world. For such a collection
of letters not intended for publication is to be
found in few hands  where, though his Majesty
discourses with that liberty, usual and well
becoming princes, and with that security of those
letters from falling into a common view, yet is
the matter weighty, and the words apt in their
places, and both agreeing, that truly those
familiar epistles do reach a good degree of elegancy
and are nothing like the issue of an impotent
brain.

*'Tliis is also certain letters, then taken, they
would not publish, leaving, I think, controversial
whether they intended more malice in printing
some or in not communicating others. Let the
civility of the Athenian State reproach these men

who in the heat of war between them and
Philip of Macedon, if they intercepted any of his
letters directed to Olympia his queen, or [from her
to him, never failed to send them as they were
directed, the seals not broken.

But that which hath given a shining lustre to
all the world of his Majesty's sufficiency, is his
demeanour amongst the Scots, where single and
unaccompanied of anything of his own party, but
the sad memory of their sufferings for his sake 
yet so great a prudence hath accompanied his
magnanimity  his spirit neither disturbed by the
rude insolence of some, nor depressed by the
desperate condition of his affairs  that he entertains
a very considerable number of that army ina
good devotion to his service, and few there are
but pay a reverence to his person ; yet still he
retains his own principles, not falsely flattering"
and deluding gaining their affections, but in all
things reserving that princely majesty and dignity
he is born unto. His conference with the Divines,
Henderson and Marshall, hath much promoted
him in the opinion of men 'for,' say they,
Marshall at his return to London very honestly
declared his opinion of his Majesty's sincerity
to the Protestant religion,' and also ' the great
abilities and sufficiencies of his Majesty in understanding
the disputes of the times, concerning"
ecclesiastical government.'

"The truth is, the case is so plain in this particular

of his abilities that it hath extorted this
expression from his adversaries, that nobody but
himself is his evil counsellor  a strange kind of
dialect of acknowledging the abilities of the Prince,
and yet we that know the times well understand
the meaning of it.

This have we seen in the earlier part, or, as
we may say, in the dawning of his sufferings (for
that which hath obscured other men's virtues is
the light by which the world hath seen the incomparableness
of his). But how lustrous is almost
every succeeding merit when each sad and
vexatious accident is surmounted by his unparalleled
courage and prudence !

Had not the Scots an ill bargain of it, think
you, when they sold this excellent Prince for
200,000, and the promise of as much more ? How
piquant was that revenge of the King, when he
told them ' he had rather go to those that bought
him than continue with those that sold him.' 

Let us follow him to Holmby  how undauntedly
did he entertain that robustious accident,
when Joyce with his troopers so unexpectedly
surrounded his court ! No doubt but it was a
great spectacle to see the King  though naked
of authority', power, and attendance  bravely
standing upon the steps in the first court, among
the rude traitors, expostulating and demanding

Thickly lias shewn that it was not the nation but an individual
who sold Charles I.

their authority and commission ! to which when
Joyce replied that * the troops there in presence
were his commission,' the King smiling* returned
this facetious answer, ' that they might he good
witnesses, but he never had seen such a commission
before ; and if they were Joyce his co mission it
was an authority very well writ' (all handsome
young men)  thus suitably to the then condition
of his affairs did he frame his expressions
towards the army. Yet would he not stir one foot
till they had faithfully promised him that he
should be treated with honour and respect, and
not be forced to anything contrary to his honour 
his Majesty assuring them how little gainers they
should find themselves by such-like attempts 
for though they might be masters of his body, his
mind was beyond their reach. How notable was
that passage, when Fairfax and some others of
the chief officers of the army met the King on his
journey from Holmby to Newmarket, at the Lady
Cutts her house ; his Majesty would not endure
that either himself or the whole kingdom should
be muzzled by a collusion, and therefore made
Joyce  after Fairfax, their general, had denied it
to accuse Fairfax to his face that by his*
orders with those troopers he came in that manner
to Holmby !

Was this one of the cases mentioned by Fairfax in his
*' Short Memorials " of his name being used without his knowledge
?

History hath left us nothings Hke this  if
that of Caesar's confidence amongst the pirates
that had taken him prisoner hold not some resemblance.


How dexterously did his Majesty afterwards
at Hampton Court avoid that captious question 
as the temper of the business then was  of the
Scots, when they desired him 'to declare as to
whether he were a prisoner or not,' the King told
them ' the two Houses and the army could easily
clear that doubt if it were one

If the Isle of Wight be meliorated with after-ages
as the stage of the infamous acts of treachery',
cruelty, and disloyalty, yet will the heroic
demeanour of this great person in that place
preserve it a memory not to be abhorred. With
what spirit, and with what prudence did the King
manaije that affair ! when the Commissioners of
both Houses brought unto him the four Bills 
his Majesty discerning with what sad effects his
(though most just and gentle) answer would be
pursued, did therefore, to gain some respite of
time, deliver his answer sealed. The Commissioners,
observing that manner not to be the most
ordinary, refused it. Yet twice did his Majesty
(which was as often as they contended with
reason) vanquish them and force them to their
reserve;  impudence and power. For so wisely did
he handle those Commissioners and the Governor
that he made them oblisro themselves bv all, the

breach whereof would make them unworthy and
unacceptable to human society, that the message
should not be divulged, or any misconstruction or
prejudice arise to him thereby, until it was read
in Parliament. But scarce had the ambient air
cooled the breath which uttered those protestations
but he was made a close prisoner, and all his
attendants torn from him. I will not do them the
favour to declaim against this unheard-of perfidy.
I have related it ; and after it, nothing can be said
that's worse.

"As we have seen it thus enumerated, so to all
other occasions  which were very many  he was
ever equal, and commonly improved them, if not
always to the profit of his affairs (their villainy
and infidelity being ever awake to intercept aught
that was good) yet unavoidably to the advance of
his honour and reputation. And whosoever
weighs well his answer to the four Bills and
considers the involved and perplexed condition of
the three kingdoms by so many several parties, I
persuade myself may visit many libraries and yet
not meet with so prudent a sheet of paper ; and
so well did his Majesty understand the force of
it that when the Commissioners and Governor
would not be refused the sight of it, 'for once,'
said the King, ' I will take the boldness to be a
prophet  this message will never be answered.'
How truly have we seen this prediction verified !

"But can we sufficiently magnify that admirable

declaration of this of the 18tli January, 1G47, from
Carisbrooke Castle, directed to all his subjects ?
Did ever prince speak of people more graciously,
more pathetically, of his affairs more pertinently,
more prudently ; confront his enemies more
princely, more magnanimously ; and of his sufferings
with like equanimity? Certainly nothing
that is generous, prudent, or ingenuous escapes his
great pen. Stations will receive instruction from it,
orators applaud it; nay, his veriest enemies 
sunless they confess to have poison enough against
all that is discreet  must acknowledge it excellent.
Concerning his Majesty's late concessions
in the Isle of Wight, I believe those are only competent
persons who have laboured in the like
exigencies and extremities ; but such a jury the
world is not able to furnish. Also I think it would
call any man's judgment in question impertinently
to judge of those actions which seem to have their
warrant from necessity  for there are many cases
that have happened which though we can hardly
commend, yet we may easily excuse.*

To conclude  I say there will be found so
great a debility and insufficiency in all manner of
pretences to remove the crown from the head upon
whom God and the law hath placed it, that in
good earnest I believe there will not be found a
competitor to his virtues, nor a person so experts

Some of these remarks seem to apjily to <ho Newport Treaty,
and, therefore, could i;ot have been niaileat this time.

melted or tried in both fortunes to an extremity
whereby we are assured the virtues are real and
habitual not counterfeit. And he that views this
prince with eagle eyes may find some faults, but
vices none, virtues great and many. And, as at
the beginning of the present troubles, his right
sustained his reputation ; so, at present, his reputation
supports his right. And I doubt not but
by the Divine benediction both will accompany
and conduct him to his throne. And if the not
straining his government to a severity hath been
hitherto his fault, then also may we reproach God's
beneficence to this nation, and charge our intemperance
upon His bounty and wisdom. These
things do not oftener fall under my consideration'
concludes the Lord Capell, '' but a great astonishment
seizes upon me  how the iniquity of anytime
should be powerful enough to oppress, nay,
have the courage to assault, a policy so excellently
constituted, and a prince so notably qualified.
He that over-confidently fords it with his own
reason will quickly find himself past his depth""

TO COLCHESTER.

Shortly after the Lord Capell hall delivered
those observations on the character and conduct
of our much-reviled King, I fell into a plentiful
passion of tears, which, however, was not on his
Majesty's account. I was suddenly made aware
of a loss I had sustained. For one of a number
of prentices from London, who had joined us at
Braintree, falling back towards the rear where I
was, noticed me. I remembered him to be one of
my former companions at '' The Cradle." Alas !
alas ! he had been in Maidstone, whence he had
escaped the morning after the fight  but not
before he had seen amongst the bodies of many
others his boyish friends  lying gashed and dead
in that street now called Havock Lane  the body
of Jack Gayer !

"' Oh ! ever-cursed rebellion ! " I cried, ' what
miseries hast thou brought upon this nation, and
upon me also ! My relations and friends are
falling around me like leaves in November, though
'tis yet my spring. Jack Gayer ! Jack Gayer ! so
full of tricks and bravery ! art thou so early fallen
a victim to the Moloch of civil strife ! "

After saying those words I continued to weep
till we were within six miles of the town of
Colchester. The Lord Capell was very sorry forme,
and had a high esteem for the father of my
poor lost companion. I think I have mentioned
Sir John Gayer, the loyal Lord Mayor of London,
at this time a prisoner in the Tower. But I have
not told you that he was brought before the
House of Lords about six weeks before this, and
being commanded to kneel refused, whereupon he
was fined 500.

But now the affairs of war diverted my attention.
It was determined to remain a day or two
in Colchester, where Sir Charles Lucas promised
us some accession to our forces  having, as he
believed, sufficient interest in that place where his
family had long flourished. But contrary to expectation
a report arrived that no armed parties
would be received into the town. Whereupon Sir
Charles went forward himself a little before the
army with certain gentlemen despatching raes-
seno-ers to ascertain the truth of what he could
scarce bring himself to credit. And now we
pursue our journey, the Lord Capell taking the
head of all the forces, finding that there was no
chance of any alarm in rear. He also procured
me permission to accompany Sir Charles Lucas
and those other gentlemen, among whom were Sir
George Lisle and Sir Thomas Colepepper.

About six or seven o'clock in the evening, when

the sun bc<ins to throw a warmer light, we arrived
about Leaden heath, and saw the fair town of
Colchester rising on its very considerable eminence,
with its divers towers of St. Peter's, St
Mary's, and other churches which Sir Charles
pointed out, as well as its walls, gatehouse and
other buildings shining redly in the evening rays.
Somewhat further on came two bailiffs of the
Corporation in their gowns and chains riding
rather leisurely to meet us.

What is this story's' says Sir Charles Lucas,
that we are not to be let to enter Colchester ? "

Then did those bailiffs all of a tremble throw
the blame on their brethren, and beseech Sir
Charles to avoid the place and go some other road.

We are at present at peace," said these
bailiffs, " with the Parliament and all other
parties, in which state we do desire to continue."

Is this all the message ye have for us '? " says
Sir Charles.

"Yea, by your leave we are furnished with no
other."

Here the messengers returned with the news
that the gates of the town were not only shut but
strongly guarded.

Sir Charles's brow grows dark. He says not
another word to those bailiffs, but sets spurs to his
great charging horse. The gentlemen with him,
as well as myself, who was mounted on one of my
Lord Capers horses, did the like.

Near Printed House,, now burnt, was the turnpike.
We perceived twas shut and an armed
party of horse in front of it. Further on we seethe
head gate, with three score horse there marshalled
*to dispute our entrance  pikes and halberds
being visible on the walls above.

Sir Charles now takes his determination, and
sends back one for the army to advance.

By ," says fiery Colepepper, " I will charge

these rebels. Who will follow ? "

Sir Charles calls a halt, but we heed not. We
all drew our hangers except Colepepper, who
spanned a pistol instead.

Seeing us come in that posture, they retreat
behind the turnpike, and make for their main
body, but not before Colepepper shot one of their
number dead.

But there was soon an end of the affair; Sir
Charles his appearance in force overcrowded the
prudent Mayor and j rates, only a proportion of
whom were loyal ; and upon a treaty being drawn
up  which was indeed fair for both parties  our
army, now grown to about 4,000, entered Colchester.


FAIRFAX HIS SUMMONS Scorned.

Sir Charles Lucas and the other commanders
expressed regret to the civic grandees that a
Colchester man had been shin ; though amongst
themselves they conceived he had deserved his
fate, for he was the most forward to dispute, and
used also very rebellious words. 'Twas very
plain, though those lords and gentlemen flattered
the town with speeches about their generosity and
loyalty, that many in the said town were very lukewarm,
or rather hostile, to us and the cause we
favoured, which was clearly shewn by the difficulties
thrown in our way from the first moment
of our entry by the Mayor and others. However,
we seized all their arms and established guards 
on the London side of the town especially  as it
was from that quarter we expected danger. There
were some amongst us who thought that as we were
now a considerable body, and, in a place surrounded
by walls, the Lord Fairfax would not be
so brave as he was at Maidstone. The Lord
Capell and others (myself included) were, however,
of a different opinion ; for, indeed, the defences of
the city were not sufficient to protect those within

from anything more than a surprise. That night
mj Lord Capell went very late to rest, and with
the first light was again abroad, as were other
commanders, and divers outposts, sallying places,
as well as precautions for our better defence, were
fixed upon. It was hoped, however, that a couple
of days would see us in our northward march
through Suffolk into Cambridgeshire, &c. But
such was not to be our fate ; for certain intelligence
caused me a little before noon to ascend the
tower of St. Mary's Church, and there I perceived
great clouds of dust on the London road, and
imagined I heard sounds as of the approach of an
army. Whereupon I descend to inform my Lord
Capell, who, with the other lords and gentlemen
commanders, did lodge at the 'king's Head." My
Lord Capell goes next to the top of Head Gate
with me, and we had not been long there before a
scout from our furthest outpost comes galloping
through the turnpike, and desires it to be told to
the Earl of Norwich that Fairfax and all his army
is approaching. He is taken by us to the " King's
Head," where, after a brief consultation, the Lord
Capell returns with my Lord of Norwich, Sir
Charles Lucas, and divers others to the top of
Head Gate.

And now we could plainly hear the kettles of
the Parliament horse, and 'twas deemed probable
that they were those of Fairfax, his life guard.
When I thought of the havoc he had made at

Maidstone, I confess there was to me a sound of
terror in that distant noise. By this time our
own forces were ahirraed, and the main guard on
the road towards Leaden beat a drum, and Colchester
did also presently sound an alarm for all
to repair to their colours or posts. The enemy
came on so fast that our first guards had almost to
retire ere we received any summons. But anon
we perceived a trumpet coming with such speed to
the gate as he would have ridden through it.

*' Stand ho ! " cries Sir Charles Lucas, " what
want you in such a hurry ? '

He holds aloft a letter, which he says is for the
Earl of Norwich.

Whereupon that letter is brought up, and being
opened is found to be from the Lord Fairfax saying
he ' had come to reduce us to the obedience of
Parliament," he demanded "the rendition of
town and the delivery of our arms''

Upon hearing this, all those lords and gentlemen
drew themselves up and cocked their beavers.
My Lord of Norwich called for pen, ink, and
paper, and writes a reply upon the battlement there.

It shewed some quiet resentment of the Lord
Fairfax his demands.

The Earl of Norwich desired ** that the Lord
Fairfax and those with him should without delay
return to their allegiance, in which case intercession
would be made with his Majesty in their
behalf."

And drums and trumpets sounding in Colchester
advertise His Excellency the Lord Fairfax that weare
not so tame as to yield ourselves to the cruel
mercies of himself and his masters without an
attempt to vindicate ourselves and the King's and
kingdom's cause.

Away goes Fairfiix his trumpeter, and away
goes also a messenger to call in our guards which
were like to be devoured by the rebellious legions
of the foe. Then immediately did the lords and
gentlemen take horse, and in a short time all the
cavalry we could muster did clatter out of Head
Gate. The Lord Capeil, Sir Charles Lucas, Sir
William Compton, Sir George Lisle, Sir Thomas
Colepepper, Sir Bernard Gascoigne, and divers
others of Kent, Essex, Herts, &c., were perceived
leading the troops and companies forth to dispute
it.

The Lord Fairfax his men fell on with a great
shout as they had done at Maidstone. But
we met them boldly, and contended desperately,
though perforce it was a retreating fight.
Most of the out-guards fell back on Lucas'
house. To it go Desborough, Whalley, Needham,
and Berkstead ; and their steel casings overmatch
our poor half-armed forces. But those gentlemen
b afore-mentioned, as well as many others  such as
my Lord Loughborough, Hastings, Farre, Campion,
Chester, Gilbert, Take, Lee (of Rochester),
leaves (who did make up for his kinsman's re-vol.

III. M

bullion). Cook, lately, Ley ton, Pitman, &c., and
Sir Hugh OIioily from Ireland  verily did
wonders, considering how little experience some of
them  no less than the men they commanded 
could boast of. But the numbers of the enemy
are disproportionate. We retreat some to Shore
Gate, but more whence we came, namely, Head
Gate. Here was sad work, for Fairfax his men
desire to swarm through that entrance. My Lord
Capell he charges, and so do divers others, and
retreat to charge again. But we are put to
straits and must retire within Head Gate; and
here, being come to close quarters, the Lord Capell
dismounts, and seizing a pike, while other gentlemen
follow his example, charges a-foot like a
common man-at-arms, and again charges.

There, in front of that Head Gate, as well as
in the fields before it, fell many a tall fellow ;
and somewhat sickening 'twas to see that
slaughter. There also, though we took prisoners,
were numbers of our men cut ois from their
retreat, for so determined are the enemy to
enter and make havoc of the town, that it required
us to look to the speedy closing of the
gates  my Lord Capell being the first to secure
Head Gate, which is banged to and presently
barred. There was then a moment's pause in
the fight, and word comes down from the scouts
on the wall that there seemeth to be one with a
white fla<r ai)])roachinLr. The truth was that the

baffled enemy had, I think , recourse to a middle
procedure, from finding that we were not so
easy a prey as they had flattered themselves.
To the top of the Head Gate, finding such a
lull, and hearing of the white flag, goes the
Lord Norwich and the chief commanders.

'Twas not. a trumpet but a great Parliament
colonel who was to be Fairfax his mouthpiece
now.

His Excellency," cries the envoy, " desires
you will surrender this good town, and submit
yourselves peaceably to those at Westminster ! "

'' God save the King ! " cries the Lord Capell,
raising his hat.

And d  n the Parliament ! " added Sir Charles
Lucas.

Whereupon the fight is instantly renewed, and
Pairfaxhis soldiers redouble their efforts to force the
gate. Under Head Gate the enemy fired, and over it
they threw stones, while their fellows pointed their
masques at the walls, and made shot whenever
any appeared. Meantime we sought out how best
to oppose them. Alas ! we found our loss had been
great, both in officers and men ; though that of
the enemy was far greater. And Berkstead is mad
to gain the town as he did Maidstone, and they
bring a brass saker close up to Head Gate. 13ut
now we discover a vantage ground, for from an
orchard south of St. Mary's, skirting the wall, a
view of the gates is to be had, and thither we send

a strong party of musketeers, who shot so well
that not only are the besiegers forced to retire
leaving many wounded, but also they must leave
behind their saker, for they have not horses to
draw it  two teams whereof were shot in attempting
to draw it away. Oh ! 'twas pitiful to see the
slaughter of those goodly beasts, which had neither
taken the Covenant, nor broken it, nor done any
rebellious act against his Majesty.

The like ill success had the enemy at Sheer Gate
where they also leave a drake.

But now it being darkish they retire, as I said,
but not without plundering* and burning the
suburb about this part of the town, the flames
whereof did illumine their retreat.

Carter describes some sad incidents.  See True Relation.

TOILS AND PERILS.

[Now was our hope of inarching northward to raise
the King's friends and join the army of the Scots
which we heard had crossed the border and was
moving southward disappointed ; for the number
of Fairfax his forces being augmented by many
new regiments, and by the base defection of those
of Suffolk, whom we had calculated upon as our
friends the said Fairfax was able to surround the
whole town, preventing us from getting either provisions
or augmentation of our garrison. Besides
this, they daily draw their lines closer upon us,
digging trench after trench, and erecting divers
redoubts and forts in all places, though by sallies
and assaults we did our best to interrupt their
labours. At this time I writ much for my Lord
Capell, who was made Director of the Council of
War, and also did assist his more active undertakings
in considering and improving our defences.
Sir William Compton and Francis Lovelace were
his coadjutors in these things. Among the first
operations was that of perfecting the Royal Fort
near the Head Gate ; but the encroachments of the
besiegers soon made us reflect upon what annoyance

mioht be added by making a battery in the
tower of St. Mary's Cliurcli, which we already had
used as a look-out post to oversee the enemy's
works. By meiins of a gyn a saker was raised to
the belfry floor, which proved of great service.
Here I spent some of my time, Master Thompson,
that renowned gunner, permitting me to assist
him in shooting off many shots at particular
persons and places where things seemed most
busy. Nor, remembering the late assault no less
than the dismal affair at Maidstone did I spare to
send a bullet at Colonel Berkstead and some of his
assistants as they were one morning inspecting of
the new fort they were then erecting called after
that rough and disloyal person. But I cannot
boast of the skill which Thompson  that cunning
Polyphemus  practised, who with his one eye could
equal the best of those canoneers who possessed
two. But I must not omit to mention a valuable
piece of service I did to the King's cause a little
before that time ; but quite of another kind. One
evening late, my Lord of Nonvdch with my Lord
Loughborough and Sir William Compton, sitting
in my Lord Capell's lodging, did talk of the straits
they might soon be in for want of supplies, when
of a sudden I, who was sitting copying some orders
for the garrison for the following day, was seized
with a sudden idea, and addressed my LordCapell
as follows : 

By your leave, my lord' said I, " I now remember

that the hist year I was with Master Gras
I did transcribe for him divers letters and invoices
relating to goods of all kinds stored at Colchester,
and I have a particular recollection that these
were usually dated from a place called The Hythe,
which, as I take it, was a convenient place for
shipping the said merchandise " 

I had no sooner spoken thus than I perceived
I had fired a train. Not only the Lord Capell but
all the other lords and gentlemen  several more
coming in on the instant  began to ply me with
particular questions, informing me that the Hythe
was at the east part of the suburbs. Having given
such answers as I could make, they desired me to
keep what I had said a profound secret, and my
Lord Norwich at the same instant gave orders fora
search to be immediately made at the place
mentioned ; and  oh ! wonderful providence at
that time when we were in such straits ! there
was found in the Hythe great plenty of provisions ;
and  what was almost more needful  good store
of gunpowder; all which had been accumulating
there for embarkation, but had been delayed thereon
account of the unsettled state of affairs for
some time past. The greater part of these goods
were carted away into the town before the enemy
knew what we were doing.

These timely supplies increased our confidence,
and made us hope, that though we might not be
able to break forth of Colchester, and march to jo in

the Scots, we inijht be able to make jooJ the defence
thereof until the Scots should march to join
us, or make such a diversion as would force Fairfax
to abandon the siege. We were also inspired
to make bolder and more frequent sallies and
assaults upon the enemy's lines ; and to vex them
with shots from our batteries with less intermission
particularly from the tower of St. Mary's Church
where Thompson and I gave them much annoyance
; in so much that it became a pastime for
those who had leisure, to assemble and aj) 2)1 and
the effects of our skill from such posts and places
as afforded a view of them. Hitherto we had been
secure from the enemy's fire in this our eerie, buta
time was to come when that immunity was to
cease.

The pertinacity of our foes continued to give us
more and more trouble ; and at last the encroachments
upon East Gate became insupportable, for
they not only barred us from sallying forth inquest
of forage for the horses  which was now
almost impossible to procure  but also, on one
occasion, made a desperate attempt to fn-e all that
part of the suburbs, in hopes that the wind might
carry the conflagration our way. Such behaviour
my Lord Capell would no hunger tolerate ; and
with the consent of my Lord Norwich, he did
assemble the council of war to debate upon what
should be done. Whereupon an attack in force
was instantly determined upon ; and what perhaps

save vehemence to this decision, was the remembrance
that the renegade Suffolk forces  whom I
told you we had counted upon as friends  were
the chief offenders.

Those noble personages Sir Charles Lucas and
Sir George Lisle were entrusted to conduct the
expedition, the former at the head of the horse
having the chief command, the latter controlling
the foot. The whole force consisted of about 1,000
men. I besought my Lord Capell that I might
accompany Sir George Lisle, who had a particular
esteem for me, which I returned with warmth,
as was natural ; for the kindness, gentleness and
nobleness of that afterwards martyr captivated all
who had to deal with him. A lion was Lucas,
but Lisle was the lion and the lamb in one. I was
provided besides other weapons with a hammer
and nails for to nail the vents of the ordnance
which we knew their barricades were armed with.
At eight in the morning we pictured down East
Hill. But ere we came to East Bridge Sir George
sent me with a forlorn across the adjacent footbridge,
which we traversed in the very teeth of
their fierce opposition  they firing on us both
with drakes and muskets. I was one of the first
over their barricades, and with the assistance of
some others captured their drakes, which after an
ineffectual attempt to turn upon themselves, I
presently nailed. At the same time Sir Charles
hind Sir George, at the head of the main body

crossed East Bridge, and fell ou furiously with the
usual loyal war-cry, and though the streets on the
further side of the river were filled with their
soldiers, we united to give them such a charge as
dismayed them ; and after some disputation they
fairly fled away towards their supports. Cheering
we followed to achieve further successes. I have
not time to tell you the vicissitudes of this combat,
which but for the want of ammunition on our part
might have been most disastrous to the enemy.
They paid us off bitterly for such advantage as we
had gained, for either deceived and exasperated by
a story which had been falsely circulated, that we
in Colchester had fired poisoned bullets on them,
or revengeful for the beating we had given them 
they fell upon such prisoners as they took from us,
cutting and maiming them grievously, and going
so far as to lop off several gentlemen's hands to
secure their valuable rings in that expeditious but
barbarously inhuman method.

Gallant Sir George Lisle nearly anticipated
something of the desperate fortune he afterwards
suffered, for at one moment, having gone further
than he should in order to recall the too forward
assailants, who seemed not to be aware of their
rashness, he was surrounded by three or four of
Whalley's troopers, who would have either
captured or cut him to pieces, if it had not been
for Colonel Farre and myself. Shouting " A
rescue ! a rescue ! ' we succeeded in gathering,

such, a force as dismayed those fierce Roundheads,
and brought him away safely, not without the loss
of his horse which was hamstrung by an expert
veteran of the Parliament army, used doubtless to
practice similar de voices. In fine, however, we had
little to boast of; for Whalley, interposing his
regiment between us and the bridge, we had to
fight our way back as best we could, losing many
of our men, but inflicting a loss upon our hardy
foes at the same time.

That we did not succeed as well as we had hoped
in this attempt exceedingly annoyed us ; for the
Suffolk renegades had cause to crow that though
we had at first beaten them, they regained their
ground again. Besides every failure of the besieged
renders more vigilant the besiegers.

OF DISASTER.

My Lord Capell was now full of grave concern,
'ot only did there come news of two disasters to
the Royal cause  one happening: in the northern
parts of England to the Northumberland forces,
the other to the Earl of Holland's expedition near
Kingston-npon-Thames, where the base Sir Michael
Liveseyey overcame the Duke of Buckingham and
the Lord Petre, and which resulted in the death
of Lord Francis Villiers, and the flight of
the Earl of Holland, and Colonel Dacier, a
renegade, who with others were pursued into
Huntingdonshire, where the undertaking came
to an end  not only, I say, did the news
of these disasters arrive, shewing that the
tide of fortune had not yet turned in our favour,
but we could now get nothing for the horses to
eat except the thatch of the houses, and such grass
as could be cut outside the walls under the enemy's
fire. Besides all this, the inhabitants began to
clamour for food, while the soldiers were on short
rations  meat scarce, no hope of procuring fresh
supplies  an enemy more vigilant than ever, and
preparing for formidable attacks upon our strongest

outposts. Yet did the Lord Capell display his
usual undauntedness, assuming a cheerful aspect,
and encouraging' all to increased exertions in a
righteous cause. As if he bore a charmed life, it
was his wont to go into all places how dangerous
soever, where he might discover the operations of
the leaguer. Then how courteous was he to all f
How sympathising with the wounded or sick !
How ready to praise ! How cautious to blame !
Oh, noble ! oh, true ! oh, pious ! oh ! inexpressibly
virtuous and gallant Capell ! I shall never, never
look upon thy like again !

I remember well the morning of the  of July,
for it was on that day that the news of the disasters
aforesaid arrived, and were communicated
at once to my Lord, who, as was his wont, had
risen at five of the clock, and was sitting to
receive the boys of the town, who at that hour
brought in such bullets as they had picked up  it
being my lord's practice to husband projectiles,
and reward with money the finders thereof. As
soon as that duty was ended, and T was quite alone
with him, he communicated the intelligence he
had received, and then informed of something else,
the surprise of which fairly took away my breath.
1 never could discover what share ray Lord Capell
had in procuring me the honour which I now heard
was conferred upon me ; but it is mj belief that it
was to him I was principally indebted. A letter
came to my Lord Capell from no less a person than

his Highness the Prince of Wales, conveying the
expression of his approval of my conduct in bringing
over the ships in the Downs to their allegiance,
and appointing me lieutenant of the " Constant
Eeformation " ! This was indeed a distinction
which I had not at all expected, but though my
Lord Capell advised me instantly to accept the
proffered favour, I told him I preferred to remain
where I was until the termination of the siege,
and also to delay a little time in acknowledging
his Highness's letter. This I did entirely from a
disinclination to desert my master and comrades
in their now unprosperous state, and not, as some
have accused me, because I saw no convenient
mode of escaping through the leaguer. As he
Alas commending my decision, at the same time
informing me that he would advise me to get out
of Colchester when I could, and obey his Highness's
commands, the sound of shooting ois of
ordnance made us betake ourselves to the top of
our lodging, Whence an extensive view could be
obtained.

We were not unprepared for the discovery that
the enemy, who had been for some time making
ready, had commenced to batter not only St.
Mary's tower and the Royal Fort, but the house of
Sir John Lucas, our strong outpost in the south
suburb as well. I desired my lord to permit me to
go to my battery in the tower, but though I remembered
he looked somewhat anxiously upon St.

Mary's tower and steeple, lie forbad me, and told
me he was going to visit the house of Lucas, and
that he desired my attendance upon his person.
When we arrived there we found that the enemy
had got some heavy cannon into the half-moon
which was close to the house, and that the attack
was a very determined one. He ordered me to
procure more wool-sacks for the windows, for some
had been set on fire. Here 1 lost him for a time
for he was sent for by my Lord Norwich, who knew
he was too careless of his own safety. The result
was that I shared the toil and danger of that day,
and happily came off scot-free, when we were
driven out by the enemy, who ruminated the mansion
with their cannon, and by setting the same on fire,
a service which was performed by their soldiers,
who were paid half a crown apiece for it, throwing
in hand grenades, ec. We retired with contemptuous
shouts into the gate-house of St. John's
Abbey hard by, and thence had a view of their
deeds of rapine, plunder, and, T must add, sacrilege
; for when they had ransacked every corner of
Sir John Lucas his house, and taken away or destroyed
such furniture as it yet contained, they went
down into St. Giles 's vaults, and tearing open the
leaden coffins of some deceased members of the
Lucas family, I suppose in the hopes of finding
rings or other valuables therein, they most shamefully
tore away the hair from the corpses of some
ladies there, and barbarously decorated their hats

with the same.* Let all who desire to be saints
reineinber this glorious feat, and avoid the religion
whose handmaid is rebellion. But I presume
Master Ire ton would see no harm in such outrages
upon the dead, seeing he and all his feather do
conscientiously believe that loyal and sober citizens
who in their lifetime believed not in the New
Lisflit, are but vessels of wrath, whose remains are
not worthy of respect.

When I had seen the last of these triumphs of
the conquering enemy, I departed to see how
Thompson fared in the tower of St. Mary's, where,
alas ! on the instant of my arrival a woeful spectacle
was presented to my view. Round shot was
flying into the belfry  no answering fire came
from thence  and while I was gazing disconsolately,
and calling for Thompson in a doleful voice,
with a crash and a strange dirge-like clang the
steeple fell, bringing down saker, platform and
bells, through the next floor, even to the ground !

Then with a distant cheer from the leaguer, and
one last shot of triumph, which whizzed high over
the ruined tower of St. Mary's, their too successful
cannonading ceased. Then I run to the floor of
the tower, and perceive under the fallen bells, and
partly covered by the rubbish, the valiant one-eyed
Gunner Thompson, crushed and mangled
to death !

Sec CaittT, j). \'M\, who Hays that the rciiiaiiiH of Lady Lucas
and I,adv Killi-'icw with thus treated.

FURTHER TROUBLES AND ADVENTURES.

The next morning it was perceived that the enemy-was
determined to assault the gate-house, evidently
with the ulterior intention of making a serious
attack upon the south side of the town ; whereupon
my Lord Capell was once more on the alert
in that quarter. But we were not without hope of
being able to resist, for we had a very strong
work in front of the said gate-house, with a good
ditch and a high and steep rampart. Thither at
an early hour came the enemy's engineers to reconnoitre,
and a little later I beheld the smoky face
of the Lord Fairfax, peeping from behind the
smouldering ruins of Sir John Lucas his house,
whereupon some of our men hooted and others
gave fire, but Black Tom suddenly retired from
view. In the afternoon they commenced to fire
furiously key-shot and canister, and then on they
came with their scaling ladders both very wide and
long; and notwithstanding that we peppered them
as well as we could, and spared neither stones nor
brickbats, they descend into the ditch and plant
them against the face of our work, and then begin
mounting six together to the topmost rounds,

VOL. III. N

whence we brushed off dozens of them as they had
been flies, with the staves of pikes and halberds
and the butt-ends of carabines and harquebuses,
and then fluii over their ladders. But those desperate
fellows, encouraged doubtless by bribes of
money and draughts of strong waters, go at it
again and again, and fling their hand grenades
lustily amongst us, till at length we are obliged to
retire into the gate house and desert our work,
their steel breast-plates and better weapons giving
them a great advantage over our half-armed and
half-starved men . But they continue their attacks ,
and at last by a stroke of fortune, fire our magazine
of powder ; whereupon we are forced to retreat
into the town, setting fire to the suburbs adjacent
to prevent them occupying them, as they would of
course have done to our imminent danger. But
we made them buy their successes dearly, for nota
few of their best men were slain or incurably
wounded ; nor did we fiiil to carry away into the
town with us many scores of prisoners, and altogether
made a very gallant retreat of it, standing
at bay many times, and to the cry of " Hey for
Kin"" Charles 1 " charging them hence repeatedly.
But now a council is suddenly called, for matters
of importance were to be decided upon. All the
lords and principal officers did attend it. The Earl
of Norwich sat at the head of the table, on one
side supported by the Lord Capell, on the other
by Sir Charles Lucas, Sir George Lisle, the

Lord Loughborough, Sir William Compton ; Colonel
Farre, and others sitting lower down. The Lord
Capell, as soon as the proceedings were opened,
said : 

"with the permission of his Excellency"
(meaning of course the Earl of Norwich , Governor
of Colchester), " I will make known to this council
the proceedings of the enemy , firstly toward the
Kings friends in this town, and secondly towards
myself. I have to inform those who have not
already like Sir Charles Lucas here, been made
aware of the fact, that the said enemy hath today
shot arrows into the town, offering honourable
conditions to the soldiers if they shall desert their
officers, and that the Lord Fairfax hath also
written a letter to the same effect, which, with the
permission of his Excellency, I shall now read
to you.'

Here my Lord Capell read the Lord Fairfax his
letter, which was found to be in the terms he had
mentioned. This being heard by all present, was
received with loud expressions of disapprobation ;
Sir Charles Lucas and Sir George Lisle, who had
heard the contents of the letter, and had reported
the arrows shot into the town, alone remaining
silent. Some proposed one thing to be done and
some another ; but the Lord Capell said that his
Excellency had already considered what to do, and
immediately produced a letter signed by the Earl,
Sir Charles Lucas and himself, saying "that it

was not honoiinible to offer conditions to soldiers
without including the officers in the same  which
was generally approved. The Lord Capell then
said that it was intended to make known both
letters to all the soldiers in the garrison, and Sir
Charles Lucas and Sir George Lisle both undertook
to say that they would answer for it that all
the soldiers in that garrison would highly resent
the mean proceedings of the rebels (which afterwards
it was found they did).

I have now to relate the matter concerning
myself' continued the Lord Capell, with some
emotion. " You must know then, my lords and
gentlemen, that the Parliament or the Lord
Fairfax, I know not which, have thought proper
to have my innocent son seized in my house of
Chatham, and have brought him into the leaguer ;
and now choose to insult that natural affection
which every father has for his child, by proposing
that he shall be sent into Colchester in exchange
for one of the Committee of Essex whom you
know we keep prisoner here since we seized their
persons at Chelmsford

The displeasure of the council upon hearing
this intelligence was quite equal to what they had
expressed in the matter which more immediately
concerned them.

Ie Lord Capell interrupted their loud condemnations
of that unheard-of act of barbarity
by telling them that he had writ to the Lord Fairfax

remonstrating upon the inhumanity of the act
and declining to permit such an exchange.

I told them further' added Capell, " that
they may kill my son if they please ; as for me, I
will leave vengeance to Heaven."

Then did Sir Bernard Gascoigne put a question
has to whether it was true that news had arrived
from the Royalists in the north of their march
southwards. To which Sir Charles Lucas replied
hj reading a letter from Sir Marmaduke Langdale
with the assurance that the men of Northumberland
and other border counties were in company
with the Scots, under Duke Hamilton, daily advancing
southward, with the view of relieving
Colchester, and assisting the London Royalists to
rise and overthrow their tyrannical rulers.

Then did Sir Bernard Gascoigne make a speech,
which, owing to his foreign accent, was not well
understood. But 'twas presently explained that,
considering that the inhumanity of their enemies
did seem to threaten the very hardest terms fur
the lords and gentlemen, though they pretended 
to delude them doubtless  to offer good conditions
0 the common soldiers  'twould be justifiable to
evade an adverse fate, and break through the
leaguer with the horse  which would thus be
saved from starvation. Such of the lords and
gentlemen as desired to risk the attempt might
then with the said horse hasten to meet the
Northern army instead of waiting till they came.

This iniittcr being debated  tlioivdi my Lord
Capell vas not favourable to the idea  was
presently decided upon, and that very night
named for the undertaking, Sir Bernard Gascoigne
being voted to command the horse.

I was persuaded into the notion that I might
now try my chance of escape, and obey the command
of his Highness the Prince of Wales; but
upon learning at the last moment that my Lord
Capell did not intend to leave the town I repented
of my decision, though my lord advised me by all
means to break away with the horse if I could.
He presented me with the charging horse I had
hitherto made nse of, and which by great watchfulness
and care I had kept in a serviceable state,
and directed me to go with the van in attendance
upon Sir Bernard Gascoigne, and trust to chance
for my after-journey to join the fleet in the Downs
which he thought I might find, either by going to
Yarmouth, or some more northern port, and thence
by sea to Deal or Sandwich. I determined, however,
to see the attempt succeed ; and as soon as
the horse were fairly started on their northward
march, to return into Colchester and give my Lord
Capell proof by this means of my great devotion
to his person.

My own preparations were soon made  for I
took nothing with me, and that night I appeared
on the round about the Castle where all the horse
assembled with as much secrecy as possible. A

bridge had been hastily constructed on the north
side of the town. The enemy at this time were
believed to be busy extinguishing the conflagration
on the south side of the town, so that it was
hoped this attempt might have the better chance
of succeeding. I accompanied Sir Bernard 
till we had crossed the river which was
done without the enemy's discovery ; after which,
being anxious to encourage the party of foot, I
went in advance with the spades and shovels for
to level any of the enemy's works that would have
impeded the horse  when of a sudden I perceived
the rascally guides  who were people of the town
and happened to be ill affected to the Kings
cause  take to their heels, and run in divers
directions, one of them making for Fort Rains-borough,
which my former acquaintance, the
Colonel Admiral, did command. I did not at that
time know it was Fort Rainsborough, and, indeed,
imagined that a heavy barrier gate, that this retreating
villain pushed open, was but a gate on a
road leading to the enemy's quarters, and it was
also so dark that I rather followed by the sound
of the fellow's footsteps, than by any prospect of
himself. The consequence was that I presently
met with a disaster, for my horse tripping over
something sent me head foremost against what
proved to be nothing less than Admiral Rains-borough's
tent, into which this guide had run ;
and I recognised the voice of my ancient enemy

chi(lin< the false guide for disturbing him. At
the same instant there was a sudden cry of the
sentinel at the gate of the fort  who, I believe,
had been asleep  which was answered by other
sentinels and guards, and a general combustion
began, in the middle of which I found myself
without my horse, for he rose and clattered off,
rejoining  as I afterwards learnt  our own party.
Notwithstanding my danger, as soon as I had extricated
myself from the tangle of the tent cords
which had overthrown my horse  I had a great
inclination to enter that tent and incontinently
slay with my rapier, which I indeed drew for that
express purpose, both the false guide and the cx-
Vice-Admiral of the rebels  whom, if 3'ou
remember, I had spared from hanging about two
months before. But I was presently recalled to the
necessity of regarding my own safety, and dimly
perceiving the real state of the case, viz., that I
was quite alone in the enemy's leaguer, even in the
said Fort Rainsborough, in the centre of which
was the Vice Admiral's tent  also that the gate
of the fort was still open, and men running out
thereof, not quite certain of what had caused the
sudden alarm  T concluded 'twas best to depart
presently, and so took to my heels, and ran like a
deer, out of the fort, and towards the town, which
was plain to be descried by the light of the conflagration
g<iing on on the south side. But, alas !
I found myself cutoff; for I perceived that the

enemy were running to guard their lines, with
much noise and uproar carrying some of them
fire pikes, and others throwing up light balls,
which so illuminated all places near, that I began
to know exactly where I was ; and also discovered
to my great grief that my comrades were retreating
whence they came, and had already, in fact,
recrossed the river into Colchester. There was
nothing for it now but to take care of myself, so I
determined to make for the open country. But
ere I had gone very far, I was alarmed by the appearance
of Whalley's horse, or at least a party or
picket thereof, going to their rendezvous, and had
to turn and run along in rear of the enemy's lines,
till, finding a lane somewhat overshadowed by
trees, I pursued its windings, and by-and-bye discovered
myself to have crossed the Suffolk road,
and to have got below the East Bridge nearly
opposite the Hythe. All was by this time pretty
quiet again, and perceiving a small boat close by
the bank I get into it without being observed.

At first I thought of attempting to cross the
river ; but I was soon deterred from that course,
for I was challenged by a sentinel on the further
side, and presently fired upon. I now concluded
to drop down the current, and with that view lay
at the bottom of the boat, and allowed it to drift.
I escaped further attention, and floated away from
the beleaguered town, having presently a full view
of the conflagration of the south suburbs, which

the tired Parliamentarians had now left to itself;
for indeed it had mastered all their efforts to allay
it, and with loud and dreadful roar, reared its
forked flames towards heaven above the black
walls of the destroyed dwellings, and emitted great
rolling clouds of red smoke dotted with showers
of sparks, and flakes of fire  all which lonely and
fearful prospect was reversed in the calm waters of
the Cone. But the current and the tide which
had been full in and only recently had begun ta
ebb, swept me rapidly away towards the ocean.
Nor did 1 fail to aid my progress with my oars,
knowing well that if I passed not Merse Fort
before dawn, I should be infallibly captured, by the
ruthless enem3\ But Heaven favoured me so far
that I not only gained the estuary of the sea, but
also descried a hoy sailing southwards a little after
the golden globe of the sun rose above the waters
of the German ocean ; and was allowed on board
the said hoy being actually bound for the fleet
in the Downs. I had now leisure to marvel that I,
who had designed to remain, was the only one who
had escaped out of Colchester.

CONTAINING A SAD CONFESSION.

The hoy, although it made the Downs on the-following
day, did not catch the fleet under his
Highness the Prince of Wales, for the said fleet
had at that time gone into the Thames, which
made me the more regret having left the poor
Royalists of Colchester, who were now, I knew,
reduced to want. The captain of the hoy was not
without difficulty persuaded to go in search of
his Highness and the " Constant Reformation,"
for having heard that the Earl of Warwick had
managed to retain the rest of the ships in their
allegiance to the Parliament, he had so wholesome
a fear of all things that one night he departed for
France, and I found myself, to my surprise, regaled
early the next morning with a near prospect of
that coast. It was only after repeated argument
that I induced him to go back to the Thames, and
when we got there it was discovered that his
Highness had gone again to the Downs to attend
upon the castles there, which yet held out for the
King. At last I step on board the " Reformation
"  but it was, as I remember, about ten days
later than I had expected  and was there very
graciously received by his Highness Prince Rupert,.

that renowned soldier, and presented to this
IIi<,diness the Prince of Wales, who did me the
honour to converse with me about my own exploits,
and inquired very particularly concerning
Colchester and what had happened there, permitting
me at the same time to sit in his presence
in the roundhouse, and partake of several glasses
of canary.

I then did assume my duties, and endeavoured
very assiduously to fulfil them. There were many
eminent Cavaliers aboard of that ship, and several
of the Kentish gentlemen, who informed me that
the estates of all those who had been forward
with the petition of Kent had been seized and
sequestered. Amongst these were Sir Thomas
Godfrey, Sir Anthony Aucher, Sir Thomas Palmer,
the two Hammonds, and several others who are
mentioned in my narrative. I saw there also,
the Lord Hopton and Sir John Boys, also the
Lords Willoughby and Lauderdale, and Earl
Percy. From Sir Anthony Auclier I learnt with
shame what injustice I had done to my dear
friend Ked Hales in supposing that he had
been careless of me on that disastrous day
when I returned from witnessing the wrecking
of his house, and the death of his faithful retainer,
to the banks of the Medway, where I had
quitted the " Swallows It appeared from Sir
Anthony Aucher's account that the *' Swallow "
had waited until it was no longer safe to do so.

but that Ned Hales had left Sir Robert Newcomen
at the place with a letter for me explaining the circumstance,
who,, however, had been unfortunately
captured by the enemy. Ned Hales had recommended
me to a faithful friend at Queenborough,
who would have transferred me to the care of the
Lady Logwood to provide for my transport into
Holland. I was much distressed to hear that
both Ned and the Lady Anne were in a doleful
condition abroad, their relations  that is to say,
the Lady Anne's mother and Ned Hales' grandfather
 openly doing all they could against them
in order to ward ofP any suspicion which the grandees
might entertain of any secret sympathy on
their part with their self-sacrificing loyalty. I
had already writ a letter to Ned Hales telling him
of what I bad seen and done at Tunstal (which,
as it transpired, he never did receive); I now writ
one to the Lady Anne, bewailing her condition and
that of her husband, and offering all the sympathy
I could, for it did pain me to my very heart's core
to think that that kind, noble, generous, and most
beauteous lady should with her excellent husband
my firm and fast friend  be subjected to such
sad, sad trials. At the same time I ventured to
send a sum of money in a bill of exchange to Ned
Hales  which was, indeed, my own pay drawn in
advance  feigning it to be some that I had received
from one of his tenants, which innocent
deceit he never discovered, but thanked me for the

inuiiey as very acceptable in this then necessitous
state. You must remember that, in addition to
the sequestration of his property at Tunstall, he
had borrowed money everywhere on his own
credit to support the rising, so that he was indeed
most piteously embarrassed and involved.

But now I must touch upon my own misfortunes.
It was designed to make an attempt on
shore, in behalf of the now beleaguered castles.

This attempt, as soon as it had been  as far as
the seamen's part therein was concerned  arranged
by me, was pronounced by that celebrated soldier
Sir John Boys, Knt., and the Lord Hopton, who
were then on board, as well as by divers others
of experience, not practicable. But I (alas ! that
I should have to make the confession !) was so
puffed up with my imaginary knowledge, that I
did with hasty words  yea, and even (I shame to
confess it!) with reproaches  urge and goad
those my superiors into an action whereof they
wholly disapproved ; for his Highness the Prince
of Wales, carried away by my impetuosity, was
wholly with me. I cannot continue the narration,
nor explain low fitly justified were those old
Cavaliers by what took place. The disaster was
chronicled in the diurnal  let those read it who
care  tor myself, I was justly served; I lost my
credit with his Highness, as I afterwards discovered,
and with all his council. I also lost my
liberty, for I was taken prisoner, and was carried

away presently to Leeds Castle, which, was again
turned into a Royalist prison, and there, as you
will see, nearly paid forfeit with my life."

" The loss of Deal Castle," says a Letter of Intelligence,
was begotten by our careless stupidity. The loss of our gallant
landsmen was fatally enforced by Lendall " (i.e., Lendall), Lieutenant
of the Admiral, who upbraided Boys, Gibson " (i.e., Gibson)
" and the rest with cowardice because they did not advance,
and that he and his seamen would do the work without them." 
MS.Bodl.

Several diurnal mention Lendall as having been wounded and
made prisoner. See also Rushworth Historical Collections, Anno
1648. It would appear that when Lendall was taken prisoner
his identity with the boatswain's mate who had betrayed the fleet
was not at first discovered.

To

THE DUCHESS OF Marlborough.

VOL. III.

AT LEEDS CASTLE.

Behold me marching, footsore, wears, with mj
right arm, swollen from a flesh wound, bound to
my side  surrounded on every side by halberds
and pikes  through my Lord Colepepper's park.
On either hand the giants of the wood have fallen
before the destroying axe of rebellion, so would the
daring and ruthless hands of the Roundheads bring
the pride of nobility to the dust. And see, rising
grey out of an expanse of water in the midst of
this wrecked forest, the noble house of the King's
proscribed and exiled minister  now a jail, a
slaughterhouse for the Kings poor loyal servants.
Captives weep at the fair bay windows or at the
dungeon loophole, looking forth wistfully upon the
greenwood, across the lake where waterfowl of
divers kinds  half tame, half wild  scream dirges
in discordant notes. And one of those captives I
am soon to be ! I cross a gate bridge where roars
the sluice of the defensive inundation serving
better than a moat. Soon the brief formality of
recording my name and apportioning me miserable
accommodation in a noisome and dark
chamber  which would seem to be below the level

of the water  is over. I find myself amongst a
motley crew whose varieties of disposition form
contrasts more or less marked. One is silent and
despairing, another fiercely complains, a third tries
to mock at fate, and laughs and sings ; a fourth
sleeps. Would you know what is before each ? I
will tell you  deaths Death, fixed and certain
without hope or chance of reprieve ! They are
petitioners of Kent, who, like me, have had the
misfortune to be taken with arms in their hands.
Having drawn lots with others, they have lost, and
here await their doom. I soon learnt from one of
them that the Committee of Kent was in the house,
daily conducting their business, and administering
death, ruin, or banishment as it suited them.
Those who had money to pay got off best, but
woe betide the wi-etch who had none. The Committee,
it was said, complained that they were
much in want at this present, having divers great
expenses to meet. Ere half an hour elapses I am
sent for ; there is now no possibility of concealing
my too well-known name.

Rupert Lendall ! " sounds distinct in both

 The following? extract from a Parliamentarian diurnal shows
that this is no exaggeration : 

Juno 15th, 1(5 18. " There be 32 prisoners sent to Leeds Castle
whoso lot it fell on to die. The rest of the prisoners are jut on
shii>-board for security till Kuch time as further order can betaken
therein, which will suddenly bo done, for the Lord
General has left it to the deputy-lieutenants of the county to
disease of such common soldiers of their county as they shall
Foci cause, and another course will be taken with the officers," etc.
Imprimatur Gilbert Abbot.

dungeon and council chamber, and in the last I
Behold my old enemies calmly triumphant, smiling
in disdain on the offender now fast in their
clutches. The chamber is a great chamber of
state, where nobles, and perchance kings, have
feasted ere this. It looks upon the lake, lighted
by handsome, great windows of stone. Oh ! had
I been free of fetters at that moment, I had adventured
a leap into the lake through a lattice
which hung open, and disappointed by escape or
death the purpose of these harpies. Too well did
I guess that purpose to be one fraught with humiliation
to me. The malignant youth who had betrayed
the fleet, besides divers other acts counted
mutinous by them, would surely be made a special
example of. There sat Sir Anthony Weldon, as
usual taking the chair. Base Liveseyey was on his
right hand, Bealess on his left, and at the tail of
the conclave  whose names I need not here repeat
sat little Bix, now triumphant that the cause of
the saints as he supposed it to be did seem to
flourish.

Thatcher, that servile but not ill-disposed man
though he would, I think, sell his soul for
money  looks upon me an instant without displeasure,
but also without compassion, and being
commanded by Sir Anthony Weldon, reads out a
list of my delinquencies, ending with a brief account
of my being taken in arms on such a day
in August, 1648, on the shore near Deal, whilst

trying to escape back into the boats of the revolted
ships at the repulse of the Prince of Wales his
forces by Colonel Rich, &c.

What have you to say to all these crimes,
sirrah ? ' says Sir Anthony Weldon with cold
ferocity, * and what reason can you urge why sentence
of death be not suddenly executed upon
you?"

I have nothing to urge," I replied with hardihood.
" I am ready to die for my King and m}-
country. I have but one thing to say as to the
list of my crimes, as you call them."

*' And what may that be, sirrah ? " says Sir Anthony
Weldon, " the less you say about service to
your country the better."

The list of my crimes is not complete," said I
coolly. " Master Thatcher will please add to it,
that I served upwards of a month under the Lord
Norwich, the Lord Capell, and Sir Charles Lucas,
in the beleaguered town of Colchester, which I
understand still holds out bravely for King
Charles."

Thatcher shall do nothing of the kind without
some other evidence than your own statement,"
replied Sir Anthony, sharply, " but I give my vote
that whether you have been in Colchester or not,
you shall be presently whipped for boasting of it."

I second that," says Sir Michael Liveseyey.

The rest gave their approval, some of them
adding expressions of censure.

Bealess, I remember, called me an insolent jackanapes,
and little Bix failed not to testify by
throwing up his hands, and also his eyes till the
whites were visible.

After some muttered consultation. Sir Anthony
writes somewhat on a paper, and presently reads
the same aloud.

It is the decision of the Grand Committee of
Kent, at this present assembled, that the notorious
delinquent, Eupert Lendall, formerly boatswain's
mate on board the Parliament ship ' Constant
Reformation,' be made a special example of, and
that he be remanded until preparations for his
execution in sight of the revolted ships, either at
Sandwich, Deal, or Walmer, be arranged by Sir
Michael Liveseyey and Colonel Eich, at present in
command of the forces there."

"You have omitted the flogging of the prisoners'
says Bealess.

Nay, I give an immediate order for that to be
carried out in the execution-yard of the castle.
Think yourself fortunate sirrah, when yon are
witness to the fate of some others, that you are
allowed a reprieve which you do not deserve  to
meditate upon your wicked opposition to the Lord's
cause and people."

It was the first time I had heard Sir Anthony
preach, though I knew he was said to be a hotter
zealot than he seemed. Having given myself up
for lost, I began at once to endeavour to banish.

those revengeful feelings, which thuugli natural,
were unbecoming of my then condition. But I
could not spare to fix upon Sir Anthony a stern
and somewhat reproving, if not reproachful glance,
as much as to say, that he had fully as much need
for repentance as I had.

He seemed either careless or unobservant, and
merely directed Hugh Justice to take me before the
officer who superintended the executions in a cert
lin courtyard of the Castle, who was to have me
chastised to the full extent I could bear.

This Hugh Justice was a tall raw-boned man,
and messenger to the Committee. I have mentioned
him in my account of my arrival at Canterbury,
about Christmas time, 1G17. He conducted
me to the courtyard named, and handed me over
to the charge of the guard there saying that he
generally received somewhat for the like favours.
I told him I had nothing to give him, which was
true ; all I had, and also my clothes, having been
taken from me at the instant of my capture. So
he left me in the court of guard. The air of the
soldiers there seemed to be that of zealots, yet
they did all smoke that peaceful herb which Sir
Walter Raleigh is supposed to have introduced
into civilised countries. And the fireplace there
was full of the fragments of broken tobacco
pipes.

It is strange how  if death, though certain,
be distant but some few days  we buoy ourselves

up with imaginary consolations of further reprieve.
And this reflection I presently made, after being
for a moment chilled with a deadly fear to observe
that inexorable fanatic, and ruthless murderer of
the loyal  Miriam May, seated on a joiiitstool,
with his back against the wall in a deep slumber.

Soon the tolling of a bell announced that somewhat
was about to take place. And anon came a
troop of prisoners bound hand and foot, whose
faces were more dreadful to look upon, than was
the dolorous clanking of their chains to hear. For
the ghastly apprehension of the coming inevitable
fate, was plainly written in the bloodless lips and
cheeks of many of them. To make the effect
worse, one of the chaplains of the Committee, no
other than the zealous Master Boreman  whom
as you may remember I have mentioned once or
twice before  did raise one of those dismally
sorrowful hymns that his sect so delight in, which
the guards and attendants prolonged through
their noses  and must have made some of those
poor men who were about to suffer the last penalty
of their loyalty, imagine that they were already on
the further side of the Styx. Though I can afford
at this distance of time to make these sort of half-jesting
observations, I can assure you at the
moment, I felt chilled to my very hearths core.

Miriam May was now awakened out of his
sleep ; and seizing the list brought to him, proceeded
(without apparently taking any notice of

me), to verify those under sentence of death.
Master Belcher then stops the hymn, and begins
something", meant perhaps to be a prayer, but
which was rather a sermon of the usual schismatic
colour, at the end thereof, without much ceremony
there is a " Make ready ! present ! give fire ! "
and the brutal sentence is executed.

There be some chroniclers of disastrous events,
who think, that unless every page be smeared
with gore, and the text be adorned with hapless
skulls, and groans and shrieks of pain and anguish
ring through the whole narrative  they will not
find readers. As for me, I would rather find none
than pamper a vampire taste. In truth, I have
enough thtit is sickening and heartrending to describe,
without entering into the details of those
politic but vengeful murders done before mine eyes
in that courtyard of Leeds Castle. 'Twas indeed
a mercy that I live to forbear describing of them.
For no sooner was that shivering crowd of the
doomed reduced to a quivering heap of bleeding
human remains, than the fanatical ]miriam May 
who was ill at deciphering names, being a most
indifferent scholar, like many of his feather, fixes
this wild eyes upon me, and could by no means be
made to comprehend b}' his sergeant that I was
only there to be scourged, and put back into the
dungeon. And I, having by his direction my ill-fitting
doublet dragged off my back, was put to
stand where the blood of the dead did ooze on to-the

pavement, and saw in spite of mj lord remonstrances,
some preparations being made by
those files of Miriam May's troop (or rather
Liveseys, I should say, for May was but a subordinate
thereof) to add another to the hecatomb
of poor loyal subjects before mentioned.

Oh ! was it not a special interposition of
Heaven ? Just as that malignant spirit May,
feigning impenetrable dulness  but as I could
see, spirited on by devilish malice  shad by the
weight of his station and authority, silenced the
opposition of his inferiors, though not my voice
there came a clattering of footsteps, and the
rustling of a woman's dress.

' Forbear ! Forbear ! I charge ye in the name
of his Excellency the Lord General of the army ! '
cries a voice that I remembered well.

* Make ready ! " shouted the fanatic defiantly.

But the lady who had spoken, now hastes in
front of the soldiers, and displays a letter 
flourishing it in their faces.

' Make your men retire, Miriam May, at my
command, and that suddenly ! Do you hear,
sirrah ? "

'' I have warrant from the Committee, and
them I must obey," said the persecutor.

"Will ye bandy words with your General's
wife," says the Lady Fairfax  for she it was,
"and have you so little gratitude to me, sirrah, as
to dare to dispute with your benefactress, to

whom you owe your reinstatement after being
cashiered last year for high mutinies ? '*

I could perceive an ill-concealed spleen in the
countenance of the madman ; but it vanished like
the glimpse of an angry moon on a stormy night,
and what next, think you ? He shews the list,
and would pretend that I am not Rupert Lendall,
bat the last name on the list, marked for death.
But her Ladyship seizing his list and examining it
demolished the fiendish subterfuge  which, I believe,
he had employed to overpower the remonstrances
of his sergeant  by giving him the lie,
and advancing then to me with a magnanimous
but piteous air, takes ni} fettered hand which was
indeed linked to my foot, and standing erect in
front of me, says :

This is Rupert Lendall, lieutenant of the revolted
ship 'Constant Reformation,' if ye shoot
him, I swear by our Holy Covenant ye shall also
shoot your general's lady ! " Then without pause
she adds angrily, " Begone instantly, Miriam
May, and inform the Committee, or such of them
as you can find in this house, that I have a warrant
from the Lord Fairfax to withdraw the said
Rupert Lendall from this place, he being claimed
as a prisoner by the Lord High Admiral of the
fleet, the Earl of Warwick."

But the dogged fanatic would not understand.
However, his men did, and both grounded theirs
and extinguished their matches, for to do

them justice they had not the least desire to shed
blood without sufficient warrant. And the bravery
of the Lady Fairfax had this further effect, that
she prevailed on some of them to escort her to the
Council Chamber of the Committee, and to bring
me back there with her, notwithstanding that
Miriam May earnestly disputed that I must first
be scourged, at least.

Oh ! like a happy dream was my deliverance ;
and there was yet a still brighter awakening as
you shall learn. The appearance of his Excellency's
wife, armed with a warrant from the
Committee of the Derby House, a letter from the
Lord Fairfax, and another from the Earl of
Warwick, overawed those petty tyrants of Kent.
Nor could I easily suppress a contemptuous smile
at their obsequiousness. Even Sir Anthony
Weldon, half ape, half lion, seemed to me to
lose the nobler part of his nature at that moment,
and appeared wholly as a rude and uncouth
baboon, endeavouring as he did to make copy of
the courtly airs of the then desolated Whitehall. I
was at once surrendered to the Lady Fairfax's
escort  some of the Life Guard of her husband.
My fetters were also knocked off; my wound was
dressed ; and I had, by her ladyship's order, a
collation prepared by her own cook who travelled
with her. I then departed in a coach behind
hers, but was anon transferred to her own and
treated rather as a friend than a prisoner.

OF THE LADY FAIRFAX AND HER Civility.

It was moonlight when I was taken into the
Lady Fairfax her coach. She was quite alone.
She inquired very kindly if my pain was now less.
I told her no.

But oh, my lady ! " I cried, " how can I thank
thee enough for this deliverance."

Rather thank Heaven," replied she, " which
ordered its immutable counsels so. But indeed I
was but a secondary instrument. There was
another friend, whose name I am pledged not to
divulge, that should have the first place in thy
thankful prayers, Rupert Lendall. But yet all
danger is not past. Thou knowest mutiny is a
high crime, and thou hast also been the very
chief of offenders. His Excellency is inclined to
mercy, and so is my Lord of Warwick ; and there
hath been a talk of a money composition at the
Goldsmiths' Hall, and a pass beyond the seas 
providing thou wilt take the Covenant. And
Master Gray bath ofttimes assured me  and
again lately  that thou art well instructed in
sound doctrine'*

I thought for a moment of the ministrations

of Hugh Peters at St. Sepulchre's, and of Marshall
, Calcium, Burgess, and Burroughs, their hot
and strong discourses against King and Cavalier
which I had attended sometimes with Margaret 
and only checked myself in time, or I had said
somewhat unseasonable  so I did but call out 

Master Gray !  and where may he be now, my
lady  I did last encounter him at Sandwich. I
hope he is now strong and well ? '

We are now more favourable to the King,"
says the Lady Fairfax, not heeding my question,
and a personal treaty is not much objected to,
though all rebellions against my husband's authority
must of course be first put down by force.
'Tis thought his Majesty hath now seen the error
of his ways, and will throw over the prelatical
party, and establish the Directory and a godly
Presbyterian ministry  it being, we trust, the
mind of the Lord, that all popery and heresy
shall cease, and we and the Scots be one fold
under one Shepherd. But there are those of the
army who are not of the same mind; and would
heap to themselves teachers having itching ears 
or rather, who would have all teachers and none
learners. Yea, and have other and desperate
-counsels which they also design to carry oat."

My lady," said I, " I understand very well
what you intend by this, and I can say something
to that text."

Whereupon I relate to her the strange revelations

of Miriam May, what time he would have
made an end of me at Farleiih Brid<a\

The Lady Fairfax heard the story unmoored, or
gave nothing more than a sih. I reckon that
about that time she had begun to compassionate
his Majesty, being well aware of the treatment he
received, and of the deep designs to take away
his life. But she was so wedded to the Covenant
that she would have no treaty notwithstanding, if
she had not persuaded herself that the King would
settle the Presbyterian discipline throughout the
three kingdoms.

"Eupert Lendall," says her ladyship, taking
my hand with what seemed some little hesitation,
"I have a serious word for thee. We draw nigh
to Sir Harry Vane's house of Fairlawn, where we
must pass the night. Sir Harry is not there, and
the house is at my disposal. See yonder is (?)
Wrotham Church. I must there surrender thee
to the care of the guards. So, as I said  a serious
word  'tis this. Wilt thou not, dear Eupert, forsake
these backsliding ways, and turn thee with
sincere repentance to the Good Cause that thy
mother did favour. Sure thou hast done enough
of despite against the Lord's poor people. Oh !
be wise in time ! Truly I glory not in the ruin
that hath overtaken the ungodly Cavalier portland
I would fain niitigato the severe decrees that
are put in force against them. But, oh, Eupert !
is it not plain to see that the liaixl of God is

against them ; and that if they turn not, they
will all be destroyed root and branch. Let me
hear thee promise to take the Covenant."

Lady Fairfax ! '  said I, filled with so much resentment,
that for a moment I forgot my indebtedness
and my danger together.

But ere I had said aught in passion, a thought of
gratitude caused me to pause. After a while I said 

Your ladyship forgets in what cause my father
died ; and oh ! my lady, perchance your ladyship
has erred in supposing that the King's party is
utterly forsaken of the Almighty. Doth not God
sometimes prove His favoured ones by hiding His
face for a season. ' His eyes behold His eyelids try
the children of men ! ' Tour ladyship, I was
brought up in the doctrine and discipline of the
Church of England. And though my mother did
take the Covenant contrary to the wish of my father,
it was from her lips I learnt that the fifth commandment
doth teach us to ' honour and obey the King,
and all that are put in authority under him ' " 

Which is an article of our Solemn Covenant,"
interrupts her ladyship.

*' Which hath been ofttimes broken, and is now
virtually torn up like the Protestation, my lady's
said I.

*Ouly by the enemies of both," hastily rejoins
the Lady Fairfax. ' Rupert Lendall, take but the
Covenant, and I swear to protect thee ! Thou shalt
become one of my household. I know thou art a

VOL. III. p

good scribe  thou shalt even be mine own secretary
"

Nay, my lady, I thank you heartily," said I,
interrupting her now in my turn, " but I cannot
take the Covenant, were it to save my life;
and as for secretary, [ am already that to another,
having served as such to my Lord Capell, for a
whole month during the siege of Colchester'

The siege of Colchester ! The Lord Capell ! "
cries her ladyship in astonishment, dropping my
hand as it had been a snake, and edging away
from me with suddenness. 'why there is not a
malignant plot that this  this  recusant boy is
not engaged in I think. Hold ! stop the coach !
and hold ! Lieutenant ! "

Your ladyship calls ? " says the obsequious
officer of Fairfax his Life Guard, with as much
courtesy as if he were a queen's servant.

' Remove this young man to the other coach,
and let him be guarded strictly as before."

The round moon shone full on my lady's face. I
saw she was incensed, but T was too proud to bo
wise, and doffing my cap with as lofty an air as I
could assume, 1 stepped from the coach, and again
made a reverence ; after which I took my seat in
the other equipage.

Immediately afterwards I concluded by the
exceeding darkness of over-arching trees, and also
by the way being dangerously full of ruts that we
hud turned from the main road, which was true.
In a brief space we stopped at the door of Fairlawn.

To

THE LADY Bolster.

AUDACES POETTJNA JUVAT.

The lieutenant who was my guard and companion-was
a jovial young man, and told me that for that
he had nearly been thrown out of the New Model.
Like some others he had fought on the King's
side in the beginning, and from some disgust had
transferred his allegiance to the Parliament. He
found means to procure a bottle of good wine, and
regaled me with the same.

*' Her ladyship seems less friendly to thee than
at first," says he, " I counsel thee to make terms-with
her, for if thou art delivered over to the Earl
of Warwick, I heard a little bird say that despite
their kindly intentions, they may be forced into
hanging thee up by the heels aboard of the
Admiral's ship till thy brains be dashed out
against the side thereof''

That is indeed the punishment affixed to my
crime," said T, "yet I hope for more lenient
measure. The Lady Fairfax is displeased because
I have refused to take the Covenant."

Thou wert mad to refuse," said that lieutenant.
" Lord ! I would take and break a dozen
Covenants to avoid a far less penalty. Tush !

"svliat signifies an oath or two broken when on all
sides we see them violated without scruple."

The more reason for not following the multitude,"
said I.

Thou art yet green in the world ; heres to thy
health ! but take friend's counsel. If thou hast
refused to oblige the Lady Fairfax as thou mayest,
demand an audience of her privily tomorrow, and
promise to take a dozen Covenants to pleasure
lier."

Just at this moment the latch was lifted, and a
servant tells the lieutenant that her ladyship the
Lady Fairfax desired to see the young man which
was prisoner.

The lieutenant looked at me with raised eyebrows,
as he would have said :  '' This is a strange
chance  see you take it," and made haste to obey
the order.

The Lady Fairfax was quite alone ; some refreshments
untasted were on a table near. She
motioned me to a chair at some distance, and then
directed the lieutenant to withdraw.

Eupert Lendall," says she, " I have sent for
thee once more  but remember 'tis for the last
time. It goes to my heart to think how thy young
blood may, nay I fear, will be spilt, if you proceed
in this stiff-necked course. Once more let me
hear thee speak words meet for repentance ; let
mo hear thee promise to take the Covenant. I tell
thee tis certain that the King will give way, and

permit the establishment of the Presbytery. What
readiness then for thee, a subject, to affect greater
scruple, when thy life is in danger ? "

"If his Majesty shall command it, I will take
the Covenant, madame' said I, " but till then you
must excuse me'

Whereupon my Lady Fairfax takes from her
pocket a small Bible with gilt leaves, and proceeded
to give text after text to show that
episcopacy is an abhorred thing, and that the
Presbyterian government and discipline is of
divine institution.

Madam," said I, " his Majesty in a discourse
with a great Presbyterian divine did prove the
direct contrary of your arguments and entering
into an argument with her, I made her feel that I
was by no means ignorant of the matter in
question.

Very good, Master Lendall," says she in conclusion,
"but see if this fine argument will
save thy neck a few days hence."

*Ah, madam," said I, "I will not be the first
who hath suffered for Church and Crown, and
mayhap shall not be the last. Out upon these
miserable times, when liberty  yea and life must
be bought by base compliances ! There was an
age, I have heard, when honour and conscience
were things to be esteemed. Now, whoso sheweth
the least sense thereof, which is contrary to the
will of our tyrannical rulers, is to be persecuted asa

criminal. My lady, I have seen those in the
possession of all that this world can give, freely
surrender that all to help imprisoned Majesty 
facing death and ruin at the call of loyalty. I
have seen the feared disaster overtake them in a
worse form than they did anticipate, and yet they
have borne the fiery trial without a murmur. And
shall I, who have perilled less, play the renegade
when I am put to the proof? No, Heaven forbid
it, and help me to steel my heart against whatever
woe I must suffer ! Madam, my enemies may do
as they list, but the grave will end my miseries.
Let me take my place with those who preferring
death to disgrace have scorned ignoble mercies,
and made the King's banner their winding sheet ! "

As I concluded these words I had risen to my
feet, for I seemed to see over again the disaster at
Maidstone, and the sad flight from Tunstall, as
well as divers other catastrophes which I had
witnessed or heard of. Being moved myself, I
perceived at once that I had touched the heart of
that great lady, who, notwithstanding some littleness,
had yet a brave spirit. She looked at me
with wonder and pity, and T perceived that her
eyes did fill up with tears. She went into an adjoining
room without saying anything, and anon
returned, and said 

You shall lodge here for to-night, Rupert
Lendall. Get thee to rest, and here is a purse for
the necessities of the journey. To-morrow I am
for London, and we may converse further."

When she had ceased to speak she motioned me
to the door she had opened.

I passed through the same, and there found a
chamber which I believe to have been Sir Harry
Vanes own sleeping apartment; 'twas full of
divers strange things and great plenty of books of
all kinds.

In fine what with a globe celestial and terrestrial,
and divers other matters that savoured of
enchantments, it did remind me of Master Lilly's
cell, although there was there besides some weapons
of war, a buff suit, and one of steel  all which
last seemed to have had little use ; and tis well
known Sir Harry Weathercock was far better at
the exercise of his pen and tongue than aught
else ; though I doubt there was not a man in the
kingdom which had more to do at setting us all by
the ears than this same Sir Harry. These discoveries
in the chamber I made by no other light
than that of the moon, but there was yet another
to be made. Feeling a current of cold air, I
presently perceived that it came from a door which
did open out into a pleasaunce  the said door
being a little ajar. I was about to open it wider
when I was disturbed by a noise ; and from the
door I had entered the chamber, re-enters the Lady
Fairfax with a candle and some viands forme.


For these favours I thanked her ladyship, who-bid
me good-night, and again turned the key in
the lock. I stood for a couple of minutes ruminating,

ami then went softly to the door which led
out into the air. Yos, it did open into a garden
where all seemed quiet. I closed it softly, and
stood ruminating for a further and longer space.
AVhat was the signification of my being put into a
chamber, and the key turned in the lock, when all
the while a way out of the said chamber seemed to
be perfectly free ? Was it an oversight, or was it
that the Lady Fairfax had done it with the design
that I might escape? If an oversight, was I
bound to remain? Would it be my duty to advertise
the Lady Fairfax that I would escape if I
could ? After turning the matter over and over, I
at length determined that I would avail myself of
the chance before me, which either was intended to
be taken, or, if not, was not so practicable as I
hoped. For perhaps 'twould be found impossible
to get out of the pleasaunce. I could not be
certain that the Lady Fairfiix was willing that I
should get away ; and at one moment I was about
to knock, and put a plain question to her about it,
but as suddenly recoiled from that course, saying
to myself 

"What! make her privy to a design that she
favours, but dare not openly approve ! That were
indeed a wise act."

I determined to lie on my bed a while, and when
all was quiet to make my attempt. I could perceive
that from time to time either the Lady
Fairfax or some other was stirring in the adjoining
chamber. I decided that an hour or two after

midiiiglit would be the best time for me. But in
spite of mj anxiety neither to be too late nor too
early, I fell asleep and awoke with a start from the
uncomfortable position of my wounded arm ; and
lo ! the moon had disappeared altogether from that
side of the house, and indeed it seemed to be
growing towards dawn. I groped my way into
the garden, which was large and with a high wall.
I began to fear there was neither any intention of
facilitating my flight, nor a possibility of accomplishing
it. At last, however, I found a pear tree
trained against the wall, and easily ascending discovered
a half consumed haystack, not very much
further down that part of the garden wall. Into
this I made shift to jump, it being about ten feet
from the wall. Thence I got into a dark wood,
and was nearly lost for an hour or more, and
was full of horror that when I should come
out thereof, I should find myself close to where I
had started from. Fortune, however, favoured
me, and guided by the growing light in the east, I
at length found myself by sunrise at Birling, near
the very spot whence as a prisoner I had seen the
distant mustering of the men of Kent. In full
prospect of Burham heath, where no longer the
banners of that loyal but now scattered expedition
did wave, I made my way towards Snodlands and
Hailing, with the strange purpose of rewarding
with a broad piece the old man who had given me
his whip to apply to the flank of my runaway
Horse on the day of Maidstone fight.

TO COLCHESTER AGAIN.

My design was at all hazards to return to my
Lord Capell by breaking through the leaguer of
Colchester, but how to get so far, when perchance
I should be searched for, at present I could not
determine, and therefore left all to chance. My
honest intention to the old man who had lent me
the vvhip was fulfilled, for though I found not
him I found his good old wife, who accepted an
angel with gratitude. I then did inquire for John
Gyles, whom I also did find, but he was in much
apprehension both for me and for himself when he
heard my account of having escaped from Fair-lawn.
Nevertheless he did, upon the persuasion
of a little gold, agree to secrete me aboard of a hoy
which was to be laden with new guns, and was
bound for the landing place of the Crown yard at
Rochester that very afternoon. There I arrived
safely, and from a friend of my poor brother Burley's
in that yard was despatched to Colchester, for
those great guns were on their way to that very
town to supply the leaguer.

Fearing to go as far as the wharf at the Hi the,
where those new cannons were to be landed, I prevailed
upon those in the hoy to land me a mile or

two short of the leaguer, and secreted myself in a
field of rye, where I was not without tremors ;
for I found myself somewhat too near Fleetwood's
quarters of horse, which I was first advertised of
by hearing their horses neighing and anon some
of the men came into the very field where I was
to cut some of the rye, which was all standing,
not having been trodden under foot of man and
beast like the grain fields nearer the leaguer. As
I had chosen a hollow place I escaped notice, the
rye standing also very high about me. I was not
so far from Colchester but that I could see it, and
did perceive with little satisfaction that for one
shot fired from the town there were at least three
or four from the leaguer. At last I perceive divers
kites with something hanging to the tails thereof,
which, fluttering over the town a while, were left to
drop, and about the same time a loud discharge as
it were of all the guns round the leaguer shot off
together, which was followed by a shout, evidently
from Fairfax his men, so loud that, though the
nearest part of the lines was more than a mile and
a half from me, 'twas plain to be heard. This was
repeated a second and a third time. I was sorely
puzzled to know the meaning of this proceeding.
Alas ! I afterwards learnt that twas the besiegers'
jubilee over the total rout of the army
under Duke Hamilton and Sir Marmaduke Langdale,
whom Cromwell had fallen upon furiously.
The kites I saw were weighted with the dismal

intelligence in print, for you may be sure the
junto at Westminster lost no time in piiblisliinf
their victory, which was indeed a most important
one, as it destroyed all the hopes of the King's
friends. When it drew towards dark, I determined
to gain the side of the Cone and proceed upwards
toward the leaguer, but upon adventuring it soon
received such an alarm as made me haste away
inland, after which I soon stumbled upon the
enemy's lines, but was favoured by an accident,
for at the time of my arrival there  viz., between
the almshouses and the head gate Sir Charles
Lucas and Colonel Langford, with Sir George Lisle,
throwing open the east gate, rushed forth at the
head of some three hundred men to beat up the
enemy's lines, and falling on with prodigious
shouts, caused the rebels to believe that an assault
in great force was made. This imagination so
possessed them that I appeared amongst them
without inquiry, and indeed 'tis true that the
soldiers of the leaguer at that time were wont to
entertain such country fellows as they could force
or bribe to do their work for them, so that some
were without any soldiers' dress beyond a scarf at
the most. Finding a pike lying in one of the
trenches, T pretended to be seized with a rebellious
fury, and echoing the cries of Fairfax his men, ran
with them till they halted and began to discharge
their pieces. I observed that the King's soldiers
did not fire, and therefore concluded to run forward,

which I did, but not without incurring extreme
danger, for upon approaching the dark masses
soldiers  which was now for a moment stationary
 I perceived when I was close upon them
that the were a band of the " Colchester Shavers '
of whom I had read in the diurnal, and there
they stood peering into the darkness to discover
their foes, and I saw by the fitful flashes of the
rebel muskets that the said Shavers were griping
long staves, which scythe-blades did prolong,
and were ready to mow down whomsoever
should come within reach.

I now threw down my pike, and lustily callings
'' God save King Charles ! " attracted the
attention of Sir George Lisle, who, a little in
advance of" the Shavers/ instantly approached me.

I called out my name, but was near being destroyed,
for three Shavers, fearing some treachery
speedily came to the side of Sir George ; but Sir
George had recognised my voice, and I was soon
free from further apprehension. And now the
leaguers, pouring in their round and key shot as
well as their small shot, and also mustering in
great numbers to repel the assault. Sir Charles
Lucas gave the word to retire, which was speedily
obeyed. I soon found myself within Colchester
walls. I forgot to mention to you that as soon as
darkness set in I perceived a faint and dismal
illumination proceeding from the town, as if it had
been fired and was smouldering, and this illumination

Twas also reflected in a ghastly fashion by the
sky. Once within the head gate I perceived the
explanation of it, which was that fires were burning
at frequent intervals all along the top of the
wall, for the enemy was now  especially on the
south side  so near that an assault had been for
some days hourly expected, and cauldrons of pitch
were kept continually boiling on the said fires, and
there were watchers appointed with cans and ladles
for to present the pitch to the assaulters.

By the light of those fires I perceived that Sir
Charles Lucas, Sir George Lisle, and most of their
men, now bore traces on their cheeks of the privations
and hard toils they had been suffering  also
that the town was now much ruminated.

What has brought you back here ? " says Sir
George. " Is his Highness landed to make a
diversion in our favour ? "

Alas, no ! " I replied, and told him briefly of
my disgrace, capture, and escape.

I am sorry for you," says Sir George, " most
of all for your coming in here, for there is little
hope of our doing any further service to the
King. Our food and our ammunition are nearly
exhausted, and all hopes of relief are at an end ;
the defeat of the Duke of Bucks and Lord Holland
has been followed by that of the Scots. '

And lie explained the mystery of the kites I had
seen, and informed me of their having several
printed accounts.

OF OBLIGATION TO SUEEENDEE.

The lords and gentlemen being assured that night
of the certainty of the total defeat of the Scots,
fell to deliberating; while I, overcome with
fatigue, fell to slumber in my former lodging.
The next day divers messages passed between the
enemy and ourselves. The Lord Capell was sorry
for my misadventures at Deal, and regretted that
I had returned to Colchester ; but said that I
should be his secretary still if he should still be
able to retain some command or office, but he was
not very hopeful of the result of the present
effort.

This was somewhere about the 25th of August.
At the hour of noon I had the honour of dining
with the lords and gentlemen, the chief of whom
were the Earl of Norwich, the Lord Capell, the
Lord Loughborough, the Lord Hastings, Sir
William Compton, Sir Charles Lucas, Sir George
Lisle, Colonel Farre, Colonel Francis Lovelace,
&c. The Parliament diurnal about this time
made themselves merry over our disasters, and
did pretend that a trumpeter of the enemy gained
admittance to the dinner chamber, and there

VOL. III. Q

found the lords and gentlemen served with only
a boiled quarter of a lean dog and six carrots ;
which was a fabrication, for they had horse flesh
to the hist, besides rice and other matters. After
dinner was another council ; and I resumed my
post of secretary, and was present at the deliberations.
But before they began we had a view
from the top of the house of a great flourish in
the leaguer, where with much parade and drumming
and trumpeting, several standards taken
from the Scots and sent hither by Cromwell were
earned up and down conveniently near to the
town to assure us of the certainty of the defeat of
our friends. This was followed by a flight of
kites with despatches to the tails thereof which
fell in divers parts of the town  some, it is true, in
inaccessible places, but some even into the streets.
The Earl of Norwich sent me to jick up one that
fell in the High Street, but the soldiers would
not let me get it, for they said they would see
what that writing at the kite's tail meant, which
was the first beginning of the mutinous spirit
which their desperate condition did now originate.

Alien I came back I found the council ready to
open, and I related my adventure, and how the
soldiers had seized the letter at the kite's tail.

The Lord Capell then opens the business and informs
the council of what had passed since they
last met; viz., that Fairfax flatly refused to
permit the garrison of Colchester to march outwith

the usual honours ; viz., arms in their hands,
drums beating, colours flying, bullet in mouth,
and matches lighted. And that all that could begot
was quarter for the inferior officers and
soldiers, and that the superior officers, that is, the
lords and gentlemen "should surrender to
mercy. '

What this rendering to mercy means," says
my Lord Capell, " requireth explanation ; but 'tis
plain that we are not to expect much favour at
their hands. My Lord of Norwich, Sir Charles
Lucas, and myself, in the absence of the rest, returned
an immediate answer that we preferred
that the Parliament army should assault the town,
and to save them trouble we would throw open
two of the gates and dispute their entrance'

And what was their reply to that P " demands
the Lord Loughborough.

A refusal' says Capell, " at least, the Lord
Fairfax repeated his former offer, only " 

Here one interrupts by bringing hastily in one
of those letters from the tail of a kite which is
instantly read, and proves to be the enemy's usual
device of ignoring the commanders and addressing
themselves to the private soldiers and inferior
officers. The paper offered these last " fair
quarter provided that their superiors be rendered
to mercy."

Many of the gentlemen were so exasperated at
these renewed efforts to isolate the commanders

that they burst forth into loud censures of them.
But as soon as he could make himself heard the
Lord Capell addressed the lords and *gentlemen.

That the rebels should offer hard terms was
after all' he said, '' only to be expected ; seeing
that it was only by severe measures they could
hope for success. When his Majesty was as
barbarously treated as if he had been but a common
felon, what could his servants expect ? For
his own part, he was disposed, if others approved,
to dare the worst ; and, before the Lord Fairfax
should have time to assault the town, he would
vote to leave the baggage behind, and suddenly
and violently to sally forth to a man, and endeavour
to break through the enemy's lines or
perish in the attempt."

Sir William Compton, Sir Charles Lucas, and
Sir George Lisle loudly applauded the proposal of
the Lord Capell ; and after a little discussion, it
was put to the vote, and carried unanimously.

Colonel Farre proposed that Sir Bernard 
should command the few horse which were
left.

By your leave," says the Lord Capell, " I
would seriously beg you to consider how little the
miserable remnant of the horse will avail us in
this attempt. We must besides remember that
now that there has been a talk of surrender, we
may not find so cheerful an obedience from soldiers
who can no longer cherish the high hopes of

victory they once flattered themselves with. We
must set them an example of courage and self-denial
; and seeing that few besides officers now
possess horses in a serviceable condition, I think
it would be expedient to determine to forego any
advantage to ourselves, and declare that we will
lead the enterprise on foot.'

Well said," observed the Lord Norwich, ' it
will prevent any suspicion being entertained that
the commanders desire to break away from the
rest."

Under favour, my lord"* observes the Lord
Capell, "your lordship and the lieutenant-general
ought to be excepted. It would not be seemly for
the chiefs commanders to march on foote

My Lord Capell," says one, " yourself should
be mounted and make a third."

Nay," says the magnanimous Capell, " I desire
to march at the head of the men of Herts carrying
a pike as I have done this some time
past."

This, you must know, my Lord Capell had done
from the time of the first beofinnino of the diet of
horse flesh, which was shortly after I had quitted
iihe town ; when they roasted a horse whole near
the north gate, making a feast round it with healths
to the King. Then also were formed those Colchester
shavers  chiefly of the dismounted horse
which did such execution upon the Roundheads.

To conclude  the business of breaking forth

of the town  though opposed at first by some, it
was generally agreed to, and the next day named.
But, alas ! evil agencies were at work ; for the
rebels had friends and spies in the town who
spared not any pains to excite discontent and
infuse suspicion into the breasts of the King's
soldiers; the result of which was that at this
critical moment those soldiers conceived the
fantastic notion that the lords and gentlemen did
not really intend to make away with their horses
as they promised ; but would at the last moment
mount, and breaking through the leaguer, save
themselves, and leave their subordinates to a harder
fate than the enemy now decreed for them.

And this sad suspicion and most false notion
began to be entertained by them, T believe, when
they were in their cups for the lords and
gentlemen supplied the whole garrison with such
wine as they had left, as well as dried fruits
and other things, to make merry on the evening
of the proposed attempt.

I was in my Lord Capers lodging at a time
which was within an hour of the moment named
for our enterprise, all had been made ready.
The soldiers were all drawn to the walls on the
south side of Colchester under pretence of
knowledge of an assault intended by Fairfax
his men. It was past midnight. The fires
which kept hot the cauldrons of pitch mentioned
before did dolefully illuminate the walls with a

faint misty light. The gates were ready ta
open to let us march forth. Every man I knew
had his pike, his firelock and his bandolier
filled with the last charges of powder which our
stores contained. The horses of the oflS.cers were
ready to be led forth to be pistolled at the head
of every troop and company. The Lord Capell
believed that all was secure, and had left mein
an upper chamber burning the writings of the
siege ; when hearing a strange murmuring sound,
I looked forth of the attic window, which, as I
mentioned before, commanded a wide prospect of
Colchester and its surroundings. Not being able
to understand the said sound, I went to the
chamber below, to advertise m} Lord Capell, and
some of the other lords and gentlemen whom I
had left there not very long before. But there
were signs of their having suddenly left that
chamber at the commencement of their frugal
supper, which was then on the table ready, but
had not been scarce touched. I went forth to find,
alas ! the garrison in a mutiny ; the soldiers on
the walls disputing g with their officers, and loudly
complaining of intended treachery, which was, indeed,
entirely an imagination. Some time later
the lords and gentlemen who had gone out returned,
persuaded that all hope of breaking
through the enemy's lines was at an end. 'Tis
true those soldiers  who before had endured much
hardship and misery without a murmur  next day

found out how false their suspicions had been, and
agreed to adhere to their commanders. But 'twas
now too late. The enemy was advertised of our
intention to break away. No course was left tous
but to take such terms as were offered.

RENDERED TO " MERCY."

Here then was the end of all our hard toils and
sufferings. How different alas ! from what we
had promised ourselves ! Perchance had the
soldiers displayed a little more obedience at the
close of Colchester siege the bold enterprise we
had conceived might have been executed and led
to glorious results. But Providence had decreed
that the rebellious nation should feel the galling
yoke which it had courted ; and that a farther
hecatomb of noble persons should be sacrificed in
expiation of crimes from which they were free.

In sad conclave sat the Council for the last time,
awaiting to receive an explanation from Fairfax
-about terms which they would now be compelled
to accept.

What is meant by rendering to mercy ? " was
the question which had been put. It was, indeed,
hoped that though some mystery did lurk in the
phrase, our foes who had us in their power would
treat brave men with compassion. Nor when the
answer came that rendering to mercy signified
*' no certain assurance of quarter, but that the
Lord General would be free to put some immediately

to the sword " did the Council believe that
any sanguinary proceedings would follow surrender.
And, indeed, the last part of the answer
was supposed to encourage that notion.

"There hath been," said that answer, "large
experience, neither hath his Excellency i-yoi cause
to doubt of his civility to such as he shall retain
'prisoners, although by being rendered to mercy he
stands not engaged thereby."

'' I cannot think'' said my Lord Capell, " that
brave soldiers like Fairfax and those under him,
rebels though they be, would be base enough to
raise the cry of Woe Victim, when all danger of opposing
the strong: and numerous forces of the Parliament
is at an end."

Colonel Colepepper differed from the rest, and
thought no Roundhead could be trusted ; Sir
Charles Lucas was not sure that magnanimity
could be expected ; but Colonel Farre, when he
heard the answer read agreeing to send commissioners
to arrange the details of surrender, turned
pale, and went incontinently' to find how he might
conceal himself or escape. For having been a
Parliamentary officer  governor, too, of the fort
called Vanguard Fort  he know his life would be
endangered, whatever the fate of the rest.

Sir William Compton was the chief commissioner
on our side, entrusted with the management
of the business in hand. The articles were soon
signed, and those who had late been foes mingled

on the walls  or at least some thereof  such as
the inferior officers and common soldiers. And
now came the rendition; and enter the Lord
Fairfax in state, riding through the gate accompanied
by many superior officers, and escorted by
his own Life Guard. But indeed, this was not the
first part of that, to us, inexpressibly sad pageant ;
for the Parliamentarian general was preceded by
a multitude of his own soldiers, who swarmed into
the town at all places contrary to the articles, and
laid their hands upon whatever they could find of
any values

Black Tom made a circuit of the walls, and
was received occasionally with cheers from the
town rebels, who had done their best secretly to
assist him. When his triumphal march was
concluded he went to the Moot Hall, and there
immediately assembled his officers in council. In
the meantime, I was with the lords and gentlemen
at the " King's Head, " having been included
anonymously among my Lord CapelPs servants.
It was thought I might thus be overlooked.

While the lords and gentlemen were wondering
whether they would be sent into confinement
somewhere, or, as they rather inclined to think,
be more mercifully delivered passes to go beyond
the seas, as had been done upon the surrender of
Oxford at the conclusion of the first war, I received
a short letter which surprised me much.

See True Relation.

VllOse the hand I could not determine, and,
upon mentioning my suspicion that it was the
hand of my Lady Fairfax, produced it to the
Council, telling over again the particulars of my
escape from Fairlawn, and asking their opinion.
Sir William Compton, bringing back to my
remembrance the happy time at Bocton Malherbe,
suggested it might be the hand of the Lady Anne.
But I knew 'twas none of hers, and some then did
incline to believe it was no other than that of the
Lady Fairfax, as I, indeed, believed myself.

This letter said nought except that my composition
had been paid at the Goldsmiths' Hall,
and I was free. It bore no date or signature, and
came under cover to the Lord "apell. When I
learnt that I seemed to see a new light thrown on
the matter.

' Oh ! my lord," said I, " however it may be, of
this I am sure, that you have interested yourself
in my behalf, and that this is another favour for
which I am indebted."

Nay," said the Lord Capell, " you wholly mistake
; were I to interest myself in your behalf
with the King's enemies, it would be more likely
to ensure your destruction than your deliverance."

Then," said I, " it is the work of the Lady
Fairfax ; and Black Tom is perchance about to
repent of his rebellion, and take the King's part
at last ; and if I am pardoned after having betrayed
the fleet in the Downs, there can be little doubt

of the kindness of our foes to those who are here
rendered to mercy."

Those lords and gentlemen were generally
induced to believe that my supposition might be
correct, and there was some talk over rumours
that were spread at this time of the desire of
Fairfax to make some accommodation with the
King, and of his becoming daily more convinced
of what others could plainly see viz., that he had
been but the tool of Cromwell and Ireton and
their crew ever since the formation of the New
Model.

We were in the middle of those very hopeful
surmises when, like a cloud that foretells a coming
tempest, or like a spectre that interrupts the
beginning of feast, the giant form of Colonel Ewer
that grim messenger who afterwards darkened
his Majesty's path  appears with dark and solemn
countenance suddenly in our midst. Like to an
executioner he salutes the Earl of Norwich, and
then approaching Sir Charles Lucas, tells him
sneeringly that he is wanted by the general at the
council of war then sitting ; and that Sir George
Lisle, Sir Bernard Gascoigne, and Colonel Farre
were also required to repair to the Moot Hall.

"George! George! Dost thou hear ? " cries Sir
Charles Lucas to Lisle, for he had forebodings of
a dismal explanation of the term of rendering to
mercy.

Sir Bernard Gascoigne, not well understanding

English, (lid not know his name pronounced as
Ewer gave it ; but all three presently took leave
of the rest of the lords and gentlemen, who now
felt their hearts to sink within them at the
thought of vhat a council of war might do ; for
just about the moment that Ewer entered they
had also gotten hold of a diurnal which told of
the surrender of Pembroke, and of Langhorne,
Powell, and Poyer drawing * lots for their lives
though they had rendered to " mercy ! " and of
one of them being also put to death.

Colonel Farre, who was one of the persons
called for by Fairfax, had told me privately to come
to his lodging and tell him if aught was heard
which might be of consequence to him. I accordingly
made my way out of the room where the
lords were; being fortunately overlooked by a
crowd of curious and insolent soldiers who were
gathering round, and who ]presently endeavoured
to strip t such of the lords and gentlemen as they
could detach from the rest. Having assumed a
poor garb I was mistaken, I think, for some
fellow of the town.

Colonel Farre and Colonel Colepepper lodged
together ; and I found a woman standing at the
cellar door in the house, who had followed Farre
into the town, being very much devoted to him.
She told me Colepepper had gone off in a
woman's disguise, and Farre with him. But this
A child drew the lots. f Soo Carter, p. 05.

was not true as to Farre, for lie was at that time,
and also afterwards, lying might j uncomfortably
in a butt of ale, which had yet two or three
gallons in the bottom ; and when any came to
search that cellar for Farre she drew ale from
the very butt where her friend was hidden and
gave to them  whereby he escaped after Fairfax
had left.

The same woman had been eaves dropping at
the Moot Hall, and communicated to me this
incredible story  that the court of war there
sitting had been harangued by Ireton in fierce
terms. Nothing less at first would please him but
that all the superior officers should be immediately
put to the sword; namely, the Earl of
Norwich, the Lord Capell, the Lord Loughborough,
Sir Bernard Gascoigne, Sir William Compton, Sir
Charles Lucas, Sir George Lisle, and Colonel Farre.

And what said the rest to that ? 'M demanded
of her.

I know not," saps she, " for I came hastily
away to tell Colonel Colepepper and Colonel
Farre, but I think some one raised his voice against
such cruelty. However, Colonel Farre and Colonel
Colepepper thought it not fit to delay further, but
got over the walls in their several disguises, and
I pray Heaven they may have got safely through
the leaguer."

Oh," said I, " I fear, I fear that something is
determined against Lisle, Lucas, and Gascoigae."

And lurking; my way buck to the " King's
Head," I heard sinister rumour's.

But I now had to think of myself, for on approaching
the " Kinj's Head '' I was suddenly
clutched by some one who strode up behind me,
calling out 

Oh, thou richer, thou runaway rascal ! Ha !
I have caught thee again. Stir and I will blow
thy brains out ! ''

And looking round I perceived Colonel Berk-stead,
who, hearing I was in the town, had come
from the council of war to seize me himself, for he
still believed a large reward would be given for my
apprehension. I answered him indignantly in
these terms 

Sir, you need not trouble yourself to hold me
so fast. I am already a prisoner, and was returning
to the ' King's Head.' "

"Oh," quoth he, *'3'0U will find it hard to
make me believe that. I know thee to be as apt
at escaping as a soaped pig."

Perchance," said I, " you will find I will
escape you once more. Colonel Berkstead, for you
will find that I have been allowed to compounds'

At this loud laughs that rebel soldier, who believed
not a word of it. Finding it was so, I said
to him 

I appeal to the Lord Fairfax."

I was answered as Paul was dien he appealed
from the lenity of Agrippa, and was straightway

taken before the supreme commander. I was conducted
into the Moot Hall, where he sat at the
head of a table surrounded by his chief officers.
At the foot thereof stood Lisle, Lucas, and Gas -
coigne, with their hands bound. I recognised
several of the rebel officers, amongst whom Berk-stead
resumed his place. The cruel Ireton was
addressing his noble victims. I caught sight of
that rough sea-hog Gainsborough looking upon
nie with spiteful glee. I observed also Whalley,
Fleetwood, and one or two more whose faces I
knew. But Fairfax prevented any further observations
on my part or on theirs by commanding
me to be kept outside the Moot Hall. In a minute
or two I perceived the three Royalist commanders
coming forth of the Hall guarded as before, but
what was to happen to them I could not then ascertain.
And now came my turn again. I was
brought before that Court of War. Berkstead reminded
Fairfax of my former eminent '' treasons,"
as he called them, and also that he had heard I
was taken prisoner at Deal and had escaped. I
defended myself, mentioned the Lady Fairfax, and
perceiving that Fairfax was well informed of the
particulars of my escape, began to congratulate
myself that I was safe. I hazarded a remark that
my composition being paid I trusted His Excellency
would not deprive me of the benefit thereof.
Whereupon Berkstead's mirth was checked, for Fairfax
admitted that my composition had been accepted.

VOL. III. R

Surely your Excellency is deceived," says
Berkstead, who saw his 1,000 vanishing away.
** So great a delinquent could not have been permitted
to compound ? "

Rainsborough also expressed his amazement.

But Fairfax calls up his clerk Rushworth, who
satisfies me and my enemies that there is no mistake
at all in the matter by producing authority
which cannot be disputed.

I was thanking Heaven inwardly for my deliverance
when Ireton, that ever-malignant genius,
suo-rested that before I could be liberated I must
account for my presence in Colchester. Feeling
that disguise was useless, 1 told the story of my
getting into Colchester a few days before, without
any mention of my former service there. I
farther said that I was servant to the Lord Capell.

Your Excellency," says Ireton, ' will have to
consider what ought to be done with this young
man. His master is the worst malignant of the
whole of them. I vote that this Lendall be sent
back to confinement at the ' King's Head,' from
whence 'tis evident he did intend to escape."

And so I am a prisoner once more.

Ireton would have had me thrown into a dungeon,
but Fairfax, at my request to be sent back
to my master, ordered me to be conducted to the
*' King's Head." I had not been there a minute
before intelligence arrived that Master Simmons,
chaplain to the Lord Capell, had been sent for by

Lucas and Lisle, and we were soon certain that
the, as well as Sir Bernard Gascoigne, had been
barbarously condemned to present slaughter by
that merciless Court of War.

The indignation and grief of the rest of the
lords and gentlemen was violent. They at once
despatched a messenger to Fairfax desiring that
they might all suffer with their comrades, and
doubtless L-eton would gladly have seconded that
proposition. It is reported that he spoke darkly
thereupon of the satisfying of their ardent desires
by-and-bye. I have little doubt that it was at
Ireton's suggestion that I was now hauled away
from my Lord Capell and the others, and taken at
a brisk pace through the streets with the assurance
that I should be presently shot to death, notwithstanding
that my composition had been
accepted, and that Fairfax seemed my friend.
There seemed much probability of it when I found
myself taken to the castle of Colchester and thrust
into a dungeon * with two rows of bars in place of
windows, where, by the somewhat scanty light
which the very thick walls did confine the entrance
of, I perceived Lisle, Lucas, and Gascoigne at
their prayers, and believing myself to be in the
same danger as they, I did heartily join in their
petitions for mercy to a higher tribunal than a
court-martial of cruel rebels. Had I time to dilate
on such things, I would describe to you the ear-still

in existence.

neatness of Lucas and the almost cheerful demeanour
of the gentle and gallant Lisle. Gascoigne,
with a very white visage, seemed fully prepared to
meet his fate in a becoming manner. At length
they were drawn forth to be shot to death, and
though I did demand to accompany them I was
told that my time was not yet come. I saw their
martyrdom from the window of the dungeon, viz.,
that of Lisle and Lucas, for, as is well known,
Gascoigne was reprieved. It was near the time of
twilight when they had finished what they had to
say. Their speeches were but imperfectly heard
where I was, but they have been fully given by the
diurnal. I shed many tears when I saw Lisle fall,
for though our acquaintance had been but short, I
had conceived an almost passionate regard for him.
There were many spectators looking over the walls
into the castle green when that sad and wicked
murther took place, which was superintended by
Ireton and Rainsborough.

I now looked to see Sir Bernard Gascoigne destroyed
in like manner to the other two, but instead
of that I perceived the concourse of people
crowding on to the green  partly from over the
neighbouring walls, which had been ruminated in
places the night we attempted to break fortli,when
T left Colchester for the fleet, and partly by other
ways.

They presently so surrounded the bodies that I
could no longer see the bloody stains on the shirts

of the dead, for both of them had unbuttoned their
doublets and boldly received the rebels' bullets in
their bosoms. What was said or thought by the
crowd I know not ; they appeared to be silent.

But anon the jarring of the door startles me
into the notion that my turn was now come. In
place of that, however, I am told I am, for the
present, with Sir Bernard Gascoigne, reprieved ;
and joining Sir Bernard  who expressed much
contempt for those who had spared him and not
his two comrades  we were marched back to join
the lords and gentlemen, who meantime had been
removed from the "King's Head" to another
house.

Here Sir Bernard and I gave an account of the
lamentable spectacle we had witnessed, moving the
indignation as well as the pity of those Royalist
lords and gentlemen.

Scarce had their feelings been expressed when it
was announced that the Lord Fairfax and some of
his chief officers would visit us. And presently
enter the said Fairfax, with NolFs son-in-law
Ireton, who, as I have mentioned before, was
there as his nurse, and ever at his elbow ; also
Rainsborough, Fleetwood, Whalley, and others.
They came in with more obsequiousness than
Roundheads usually shew to Cavaliers, but they
were received with cold and stern demeanour by all.
Fairfax stammers out his excuses for the severity
shewn, slipping out something about " soldiers of

fortune

sample of" for having been most active in the
defence; then tries to be conciliatory, assuring ns
that our lives were now safe, and that we should
be well treated till the Parliament should give
orders for our disposal. But those who had
perilled all for the King's cause, and who had for
many weeks been daily in expectation of death,
and whose appearance betokened the trials and
hardships they had braved, were not to be so appeased.
The thoughts of the blank left in their gallant
band by the brave and hardy Lucas and the gay,
generous, and gallant Lisle  whose souls had fled,
and whose bodies now lay weltering in their blood
on the castle green  filled every breast with fierce
resentment. The captives found a fitting interpreter
of their feelings in the undaunted Capell,
who, looking upon his visitors sternly, addressed
himself to Fairfax.

My lord," said he, " } ou should have received
our thanks if you had spared the lives of our
gallant and beloved comrades. You have not done
so, though we did appeal to your sense of justice
to remember mercy  which indeed was the word
mentioned in the terms of our surrender. We,
therefore, desire you will finish the work well
begun, and execute the same rigour upon the
captive comrades of the martyred Lucas and
Lisle."

But here Ireton  brimming over with venemous

spite, and also probably from the confused aspect of
Fairfax, supposing that no fitting reply could be
given by his puppet chief to the really unanswerable
speech of Capell  thrusts forth his devilish
head and opens his mouth.

* You were all told," says he, ' that the General
claimed the right to put all of you to the sword.
The Council of War shewed more mercy than perchance
some of you deserve' he adds vindictively,
fixing his gaze on Capell, " in condemning only
two and sparing the rest. Consider the blood that
has been shed " 

Here Capell interrupts.

' If you talk of blood, sir, remember, T pray
you, which side began the strife in '42. If you
look at the date of the Parliament commission of
Array and that of His Majesty, you will quickly
see, what you know very well already, that the
King did not draw the sword till he was forced todo
so in his own defence."

'' We and our brethren," says Ireton, ' meddle
not with carnal matters and idolatrous king's
We drew the sword against the enemies
of the Lord, to fight under the banner of the
gospel of the Most High, and that sword we
will not sheath till His work be accomplished."

Sir," replied the Lord Capell, fixing his eyes
so sternly upon the other that he grew of a sudden
deadly pale, " you profane the name of the gospel.
It neither permits of breaking oaths of allegiance,

nor invites subjects to shed the blood >f their
fellows upon a disseinbliuf pretext. Above all it
teaches lessons of charity and mercy which your
party by no means always attend to''

'' Our Cause shall prevail notwithstanding, my
lord' says Ireton, shaking with passion, " as
you and your fellows, and your 'God-forsaken
master the King  whom we have set aside  shall
learn to your and his cost."

And with some other reproaches the interview
terininated."

Those who desire to learn all the particulars of the
Siege of Colchester " will find them iu Mr. Townshend's interesting
work published under that title.

Prisoners ON THE MARCH.

The same malign influence which had menaced
me with death in Colchester doubtless effected mj
separation from my noble employer, the Lord
Capell. He had applied that I might accompany
him and share his captivity wherever it should be;
but after some delay he received a reply which
showed that a vigilant enemy did somewhere
exist ; for the reply was a refusal, on the ground,
that it had been discovered that I had acted " as
secretary, and not as servant, as had been pretenders
and that I would be removed to a separate
prison, Windsor being named as the place
where the Lord Capell was to be incarcerated. In
accordance with these orders, I was shortly torn
away from that honourable company of lords and
gentlemen ; and confined in the church at Hither,
with the common soldiers  who having received
such fine promises of favour if they would surrender,
expected a better fate. Bitterly did some
of those captives lament their mutiny which had
cost Lisle and Lucas their lives, and the rest of
the commanders their liberty; for the common
soldiers fared not much better. A proportion was

ordered to be eliot, and the rest with few exceptions,
marched away in bands to divers prisons,
beings first set upon by whomsoever of the Parliament
soldiers would take that trouble, and pillaged
and also stripped of their clothes.* And
forsooth, because I had a worn-out suit I was
beaten therefore, and left but my shirt to cover
my naked limbs ; my hat and shoes being thought
worth taking, though my doublet and hose were
cast away as worthless. And I fared yet worse,
for being driven along a road out of Colchester
with the rest of my miserable companions, and
resting famished in a church, all together the first
night  I was overheard reproving one of my comrades
in the following manner 

Wherefore," said I, " do you disturb us by
your wailing and complaining? Why not strive
to bear your sufferings like a man, remembering as
you should that you in particular have brought
them on yourself ; for I remember you as an active
mutineer, persuading your fellows to oppose the
decision of our commanders, on the night that we
were to have broke through the leaguer ; whereby
our possible victory was partly by your help prevented.
Consider also, that your King is at this
present a wretched prisoner''

But this man still making sad moans, would
make out that I at least am better off than he.

* Nay, "said I, " far worse, for I have had a
See True Relation, p. 205.

greater fall than you, having been at one time
Vice-admiral of the fleet''

Whereupon I foolishly relate something of the
revolt of the twelve Parliament ships in the
Downs, imagining that our guards, as had been
their custom at Colchester, lay not in the church,
but having locked the same, had dispersed to
divers alehouses, or other more comfortable lodging.
One of them, however, whom I had mistaken
for a prisoner, awakened with a loud snort at the
beginning of my narrative ; and waiting till the
end thereof, rose and came over to me ; and poking
me up with his snaphaunce, which was loaded,
addressed me thus :

What ! art thou indeed the rascal varlet who
did so treat our great Colonel Admiral ? '' (for he
was one of Rainsborough's regiment and a desperate
fanatic like his commander) " by this hand
thou shalt have somewhat more to complain of."

And tying me neck and heels, so that he might
know me in the morning ; he left me to pass the
remainder of the night in huge discomfort.

By inadvertency I had been wrote down as
Tindalee in their lists, what time we were separated
into gangs at Colchester ; and I had no mind to
correct that error. But now my identity being
once more revealed, the soldiers commenced to
treat me with particular inhumanity ; not only reviling
me abominably, as being one of the chief
authors of the fatigues and perils they had experienced

at Colchester, but also by beating me
more frequently than any of the other prisoners.
I, however-with the help of Providence preserved
my life, by appealing to the covetous propensities
of the soldier who had discovered what he hoped
to be a prize  by boldly saying to him 

If you expect a reward for seizing one who betrayed
the ships you must keep him alive. I
shall drop by the roadside as others have done,
and perish, thereby perhaps depriving you of many
good pounds in gold."

This happily led him to take more care of me
and to reserve to himself the pleasure of beating me,
or pricking me along with a pike when I was weary.

This poor flock of doomed sheep did not know
what road they were on, nor what their ultimate
fate would be. I was fully convinced we were
going for Kent ; for our march was somewhat
southerly ; and I appalled some of my hapless
companions by telling them that perchance we
might be sacrificed at Leeds Castle, by the tyrannical
Committee of Kent, in like manner as I had
seen others. But other fate was intended, though
I was so far right that Kent was our first destination.
For after a few days we saw the fort of
Tilbury before us, with the Thames and Gravesend
beyond it. As for me, I was at this time so
fevered with hunger and pain, that I can scarce
remember that sight. A letter had overtaken us
by the way, from the Lord Fairfax his clerk,
Rushworth, to whom the soldier who discovered

my identity had written, saying that no reward
would be allotted to the said soldier, and that I
should be treated precisely as the rest of the prisoners
were. Upon learning this that soldier
beat me unmercifully, and complaining of the expense
he had been at in nourishing my "worthless
carcase'' as he called it, let me go without food
for two whole days. Thus I arrived in Gravesend
in miserable condition. I was ill and fevered,
weak from hunger and fatigue, and indeed had
not sense enough left to understand the intelligence
that we were all bound for Rochester, to be
crammed under the hatches of the ship " Defiances'
till we were one by one disposed of at eleven
pence apiece (that being the price the Welsh
prisoners had fetched) to Algerine  to pass the
rest of our years in slavery ; or kept till we could be
shipped to foreign plantations in the Occidental
Indies

The following is from a Royalist source but is corroborated
by Parliamentarian diurnal. It refers to the events at the beginning
of June, 1648. "Those that were taken by Black Tom at
Maidstone, are by Black Tom's command put under hatches in
the ship called the ' Defiance,' where they are to be starved to
death (the charitable saints denying relief unto them) thirty-two
are sent to Leeds Castle, where they must receive the reward of
loyalty and be furthered, and sent after Captain Burleigh." 
Pari. Kite, 1648.

So early as 18th Anne, 1648, the slaughter and banishment
of prisoners harl been commenced by the besiegers of Colchester,
See Exact Narrative &c. for the following. " The prisoners
taken at the entrance of the suburbs of Colchester were drawn
out. Every thirteenth man of the Essex batchelors are to die.
Every tenth man of the married men, and every fifth of the
London and Kent men that wei'e engaged in this new design 
the o tilers that are left of the batchelors to be sent beyond the
seas."

But not quite out of Gravesend on our way to
Rochester I fell down in a half-swound ; nor could
any persuasions of my tormentor's pike prevail
upon me to rise ; and had it not been for the
kindly people of the town who interposed, I think
he would then and there have despatched me.
This I know not of my own knowledge, but from
the assurance of witnesses.

When I came to myself, I found myself lying
on a poor man's pallet ; while a fair young
woman melting into tears did tenderly support
my head on her warm bosom, and nourish me
with spoonfuls of sack. I perceived also that she
lead been bathing my feet, which were much cut
with the roughness of the ways I had been travelling.
Who this young woman was I leave you
at present to guess.

OF A KIND NURSE.

It was the Lady Anne Wotton ! ' I hear some of
you say. But no ! the beloved Anne was far away
over the salt sea. Had she been near me when I
was in that sad plight doubtless she would have
had compassion on me. Her hand was ever ready
to administer comfort to any that suffered. Her
tears, too, did readily flow at the sight of misery
and pain. But I say again, she was far, far away.
Who then was this maiden fair and kind ? I did
ask that question myself at that very article of
time. I was answered by a soft voice that I knew
well.

Margaret Gray ! " it said, and nothing more,
for the kind maiden did sob so that nought else
could she add.

While I was yet asking the question I did
indeed recognise her ; and I felt how truly fair
and how truly kind was that maiden whom I had
still persuaded myself, or tried to persuade myself,
was not really devoted to me, but rather for
divers reasons feigned what she did not feel.
Then did I remember with astonishment how ungrateful
I had been ; for oh ! how many proofs of

lier love li:i<l I already received, and yet would
not be convinced ! And with these thoughts came,
as it were, a violent warniinj] of my heart to her,
and I said 

Dear Margaret, I love you for this ! "

Then did I see through her tears a wild
delight expressed in her pretty face. And she
did more tenderly press my head to her soft
bosom.

But of a sudden I bethought me of my tormentor,
and looked hastily round to see what had
become of him. I remembered that I had been
alone with him ; for the other miserable had gone
halting forward with the rest of their guards.
But I saw nought but faces of poor folks, some of
whom had eyes full of tears, at the spectacle of
this gentle copy of the good Samaritan his act.
Which of the Parliament saints and preachers
would have done as much as poor Margaret *P
Verily I believe every one of those vaunted
lights " would have acted the part of the priest
and Levite, had they been there, and seeing me
lying on the way would have passed by on the
other side.

'' Where are the soldiers ? '' I asked.

'they are gone, dear Rupert; they have
marched away ! " says Margaret.

"Yes, yes, tliuu art saved from them' cry the
2oor folks.

' Think thyself lucky," said an old man, '' to be

here, while thy poor companions are left to their
fate."

Yea, and thank this young lady heres' cries
the woman whose house I was in, "" for it was her
words, and her tears, and prayers  and more
particularly her gold  that prevented yon redcoat
from despatching thee with his pike ; though
shame on the fellow he did prick thee with it
whilst thou wert wholly insensible. I would fain
know what thou hast done, poor lad, to deserve
such usage."

'' I am a Kentish petitioner who rendered to
mercy at Colchester," said I. " Oh ! dear
Margaret' I added, in a whisper to her, "I can
never, never, never forget thy goodness to me ! "

'-' Speak not of it, dear Rupert," says she.

And then addressing the people, prayed them
to stand aside and give me more air and quiet,
which petition being strongly seconded by the
woman of the house, they one by one departed.

I now perceived there were divers marks of
blood on the holland sheet wherewith I was.
covered ; but I soon found that some slight
wounds of the soldier's pike had been already
dressed by Margaret, who did again weep in
telling me thereof.

The woman of the house now withdrawing for a
moment, I said 

'' Kiss me, dear Margaret ! And now tell me
how it is that thou art here ? "

VOL. III. s

But I found my lit'iid was too confused to
understand her, and, indeed, I presently aj'ain
became nearly insensible. The kind Margaret
found means to transport me to a more comfortable
loding  which was, indeed, one where
she did herself lodge with her either, Master
Gray.

I must now tell you that they were now bound for
Holland, and were only waiting at Gravesend fora
favourable wind; the ship that was to take
them beyond the seas being then lying in the
river. Master Gray had all his money-bags with
him. He had been privately informed that the
Committee of Kent prompted by Liveseyey  having
discovered that Gray had lent monies to Hales,
were pressing the grandees at Westminster to
sequester him. But the Lady Fairfax having
made interest for him, he had been warned by
Rushworth, the clerk, to make what haste he could
to depart.

Thus it was that Margaret happened to find me.
Looking forth from her chamber window, she
had caught si<iht of me. But I was in such miserable
estate that she was not certain at first of my
identity ; nevertheless she determined on following
me, though her father and herself: Avould be put
somewhat in jeopardy by it. For they had been
warned by Rushworth that they must live inclose
concealment until such time as they could
escape beyond the seas. The humanity of old

Gray, however, could not refuse an asylum to his
former prentice  now dangerously sick. So I
was tended and nursed for a second time by
Margaret, and after a few days partly recovered,
and was told some of these particulars by the fair
Margaret, whom I now began to perceive was
little inferior in beauty and kindness to my lost
love. As she sat by my bedside, I now was not
content unless I held her hand in mine ; and I
was fain to kiss her so oft that she would at times
say

We shall kiss ourselves all awciy, and there
will be nought left of either of us."

But, indeed, at every fresh discovery of her
very sincere affection for me I could not refrain
as soon as I could sit up  from embracing her
tenderly. The natural consequence of all this
was that Master Gray, one day catching us at this
exercise, did say that it must not continue;
whereupon I did beg of him to give me Margaret
in marriage, that I might have her all to myself
for ever, to do as I pleased. With a pretended
reserve he told me he would consider the matter ;
but in the meantime he must forbid his daughter
to come to me. Yet within half an hour, while I
was in great fear that I should lose my second
love as I had lost my first  though not in precisely
the same manner  the door of the chamber opens
and Margaret comes in with her eyes turned
upon the ground, not daring to look upon me.

I rose and ran to her. I folded her to my
heart and kissed her twenty times without speaking.
At last I said 

Your kind father doth consent ? "

"Yea," says she.

Whereupon I fold her yet closer and kiss her
twenty times more. And now all riddles had
become plain. Her father's manner to me when
he would assault me in Queen Street, the year
before, accusing me of having undermined his
daughter's affection by base arts, was rather an
invitation for me to express a preference for his
child  whom he very well knew had ever been
secretly devoted to his prentice boy. And his
anger on that occasion was rather to be traced
to a conviction that the prentice was indifferent
to the merit of his daughter than to other cause.
Doubtless he could not understand my blindness
; still less, my preference for the Lady Anne
Wot ton.

Then with singing and delight we pass the rest
of that day, and we hold a high feast  I, Margaret,
and Master Gray. And little Master Gray did
drink many healths, and at last did so repeatedly
drink to our good fortune that he became somewhat
fuddled. Whereupon Margaret removed
the bottles of claret, and he went to sleep to one
of her songs, which she did very sweetly sing to
the accompaniment of a lute. It was the somewhat
doleful song wliicli I have before quoted

in this narrative. But as it mentions kissing, 1
did interrupt it between the verses in a manner
which I told her was most fitting to drive away
the melancholy which that ditty inspired.

What made our hearts the lighter was that we
thought all present danger was over; for Sir
Michael Liveseyey, coming accidentally to the lodging,
where we were, had caught sight of Master
Gray, and accosting him very civilly, said nought
that looked either as if he cherished any revengeful
feelings, or as if anything was brewing by
the Committee of Kent, at his instigation, for to
embarrass Master Gray. Nevertheless, Master
Gray was prudent enough neither to mention me
or his daughter, nor to say a word about his
intention to go beyond the seas with his moneybags
as soon as the wind, which had been sometime
easterly, should change.

We concluded that Liveseyey and the Committee
being now triumphant, and having the undisturbed
possession of all that they had lost, and
a great deal more to boot, viz., the estates of all
those gentlemen who had signed the petition,
were now disposed to slacken their vengeful
pursuits of fresh delinquents. Having talked over
these matters with Margaret, we persuaded Gray
that there could now be no objection to finding a
parson on the following morning to unite us in
marriage according to the Presbyterian form. To
which Gray did presently consent.

STRANGE DISCOVERIES.

That night, having drunk so much wine, I slept
more soundly than I had done for some time, and
did not awake till the sun was well up above the
roofs of the houses opposite. There was from my
garret a fair prospect of the river, and of Tilbury
Fort. And looking upon the flag thereon, and
upon the streamers of the ships in the Thames 
as also upon the clouds  I perceived a brisk west
wind blowing.

Ho ! " thinks I, " there will be a flitting after
the wedding, and our bridal bed, a little bird tells
me, will be in the cabin of a ship."

For 1 conceived that Master Gray would not
delay his departure, and I knew the master of the
ship was anxious to be gone.

I had determined to procure a posy for Margaret,
and we were to be married at nine of the clock,
and it was now eight ; so I made all haste to go
forth.

It was with difficulty I could procure the posy,
for there had been as much destruction of gardens
as of aught else in those sad times ; and also a
neglect of many like things. I had reason to

imagine that she had gone on some similar errand ;
for going to her chamber to bid her good-morrow,
and get a kiss from her, as I went forth I found
her door open, her chamber empty, and the bed
cold, Gray's door being closed, and loud snores
sounding therein, I concluded she had gone forth
alone, and I cared not to disturb the old man.

But when I returned, still finding that Margaret
had not come back  though the snores in her
father's room still sounded  I went below to
search for Sarah Skelhorn, who, though 1 have
not mentioned her, was at this time in attendance
on her mistress, having come there however only
two days before. But neither Sarah nor the landlord
and his wife, who were both very old people,
were to be found. Then I said to myself 

' Whither can Margaret have gone ? And what
has become of the rest ? "

Presently I concluded they were forth to buy
somewhat for a wedding feast. But I found no
fire in the kitchen, nor any other preparations
made ; though the house appeared in some disorder.
I next imagined they must have all gone
forth, without waking Gray, to inquire after the
sailing of the ship. And now, looking from the
window, I perceived her spreading her foresail,
and I thought I could see the capstan going
round for to raise the anchor. Whereupon I rush
into Gray's chamber.

Oh ! master ! master ! the ship is weighing,

ami spreading sail  and here is Margaret gone I
know n(jt where ; Sarah Skelhorn, too, and not a
soul but ourselves in the house ! "

But the chamber was dark ; and there came no
answer but the same snores I had heard from without.


** Master Gray ! Master Gray ! dost thou hear ? '*

But though I tried what shaking would du, it
availed nothing.

I tore aside the hangings of the window ; for
the chamber was dark. When oh ! horror ! I
perceived the bed was occupied by quite another
than Gray, whom upon careful examination I discovered
to be Hugh Justice, messenger to the
Kentish Committee.

The cause of the soundness of his sleep was apparent
; for there were divers bottles of strong
waters, sack and claret, and other liquors, beside
his bed  several of which he had apparently
emptied  spilling the same upon the coverlet and
flaxen sheets ; with a can in his hand, and also in
his clothes.

All of a sudden I suspected Liveseyey of having
sent him there ; but what had become of Gray
and of Margaret? Fear on their account nearly
drove me mad ; but looking out upon the river,
and seeing the ship hoisting sail, I said to myself 

'they have cajoled this Committee messenger,
and gut liii to drink himself drunk, while they
get aboard'

Then I run out of the house, and while wondering
why they had not awakened me, take boat at
the water-side  approach and hail the ship, which
was then moving down the Thames.

' What, ho ! " I cried, " take me aboard ! You
have, I think. Master Gray and his daughter with
you ? "

I perceived they looked in some alarm. Terrible
to relate  upon coming to an explanation, and
making them understand who and what I was,
they declined to take me in; and worse  informed
me that the ship had that morning been searched
by soldiers and others in the service of the Committee
of Kent  who would have it that Gray
and his daughter were concealed on board.

Oh ! I am undone ! I am undone ! " I cried.
'' I have lost all that is dear to me ! '

Then, another idea striking me, I made the
waterman pull for the shore with all his might.

I conceived that they had been suddenly
alarmed, and had concealed themselves somewhere
in the town  perchance at the house where I had
been first taken in. With difficulty I found this
last. The mistress thereof was at the door. I remembered
her face. She did mine.

' Do not come in here," says she, turning as
white as the wall of her house, " thou wilt bring
me into trouble. Away ! begone !  they have
sought thee here already this morning."

Sought me ! "

"Yea; and did nearly hale nie to prison when
they could not find thee'

"And what of the young lady who came to my
relief, that day here ? Say the truth ! Have you
not concealed her and her father in this house? "

Alas ! and have they taken her away ? " says
the woman. " I have not seen her since I parted
with her and thee  but away ! away ! Thou wilt
get me into trouble and be taken thyself, if thou
longer dearest ! "

I was nearly mad now with apprehension. I
returned to the lodging, and inquiring of a
neighbour, my worst fears were realized. There
had come a party of soldiers in the night, who
had forced the door, and after a little while
had gone  perchance canning away prisoners 
of that they could not be sure, since 'twas dark
and they dared not inquire. Such things did
oftentimes occur.

In spite of the danger, I went up to Graves
chamber and violently shook Hugh Justice in his
bed, determining to slay him or get tidings of
Margaret. But he was sleepy drunk still, and
could by no means be wakened by cans of
water poured over him, or by any other means.
And in default of information, I came to the
maddening conclusion that Margaret and her
father had been violently carried perhaps Hugh
Justice knew not whither  while I had escaped
notice, from my pallet being in an obscure

corner of my garret, hidden behind divers old
trunks, sacks of peas and other lumber. While I
was thinking what to do, I received a friendly
warning that danger again menaced. For soldiers
were seen approaching with a cart to take away
the rest of the goods in the house. Hugh
Justice had, as I afterwards found, been left in
charge thereof.

I INQUIRE AFTER MARGARET.

At first in my despair of being; able to find Margaret
, I conceived the design of rendering myself
up ; and so perhaps meet her at Leeds Castle, or
some other prison. But on second thoughts, the
improbability of so finding her, and the impossibility
of helping her if I did, was presented
strongly to my fancy ; and not a moment too soon
I fled out of a back window, and so got into the
country before the soldiers who entered were aware
of me. Then on higher ground which, I presently
reached, I stopped to draw breath ; and sadly perceived
the ship departing that should have carried
Margaret and myself to a safe asylum, and perhaps
into the vicinity of the Lady Anne ! At the
thought of that fair one formerly so beloved, I
Could not but marvel how margaret had awakened
such passionate thoughts in my breast. At length,
perceiving the cause, I said 

It is rather because I now feel how warm and
sincere is her love, than because she is grown into
a far handsomer woman than T ever thought she
would be. By my soul ! ' I added, fired by the
remembrance of her, which indeed seemed that of

a new friend, ' I will find her, though I have to
walk barefoot all over the shire. I will do as
Blondel did when his king was prisoned, he knew
not where. At every loophole and dungeon-grate
I will sing her favourite song. Perchance the
have taken her to Sir Peter Rjcaut's house.
Thither in the first place I will bend my steps'

Bold words for a delinquent, who, but for a
happy accident, would have been ere this sold as a
slave into Africa for a few pence ! who was now
perhaps at this very instant diligently sought for
in more places than one !

I was brought to my senses by meeting at this
moment one of the collectors of the Committee,
who put a question to me as to whether I knew
where one Hugh Justice messenger of the Committee
lodged in Gravesend. The house, he added,
was under sequestration, the owner having harboured
delinquents.

Feigning ignorance I tried to gain information.
But this collector would tell me nothing. My
courage now evaporating, I sought the woods ; and
all that day travelled therein till I came to the
hill above Wrotham. I had become sensible of
the great danger I was in, and was sorely troubled
at the same time for Margaret. And yet several
times I wn s seized with a mad desire for revenge,
and said to myself 

Ten thousand curses on Sir Michael Liveseyey !
it is he who is at the bottom of all this mischief

base, deceitful, knavish, cruel rascal that be is !
I will go seek him, and slay him incontinently ;
and thus shall I venge Kent, Margaret Gray, and
myself! '

Late that evening I took a new resolution. I
would make for Surrey, and by that circuitous
route get to London and endeavour to interest the
Lady Fairfax to find out what was become of
Margaret. As for Margaret, I felt she was safe
from ravishment. I knew she would rather
poignard than wed Sir Michael. I made sure
that both Gray and his daughter, however, as well
as Sarah Skelhorn, and the two old folks of the
house, had been suddenly taken in their beds,
otherwise I should have received a message from
some of them.

That night I slept in the woods under dripping
trees, which dry at first became anon more wetting
til an the rain which came down in a moderate
quantity, to add to my discomforts. And the
next day going into a village to beg food  for
money I had none  I heard the agreeable tidings
that I was searched for. It took me four days to
get to London ; and my only bedchamber during
that time were the porches of the parish
churches."'

The Lady Fairfax was not in Queen Street, butin
the Earl of Warwick's house. Thither she had

A gallant Cavalier relates that these places were found tho
safest night lodgings.

gone to lodge, awaiting a meeting of the great
Presbyterian lords who were there debating 
bring the King to their terms by a treaty, and
to onset the Independents, who were now as much
opposed to Presbyters as the other had been to
prelates.

Late one evening after two or three vain
attempts, I forced my way into her presence,
raising quite a combustion among the servants,
who did with clamour follow me into her private
chamber to which I had by chance found my way.
Her ladyship, however, recognising me at once,
quieted and dismissed those menials.

So you have come to be my secretary, Rupert
Lendall, when you can no longer find better
employment ?  says she, not without something
like bitterness in her tone.

"No, my lady," said I, 'rit is not so. 1 come
to beg your assistance and advice. I am in danger,
and so I fear are some of my friends. I. am heartily
obliged to you for former great kindnesses, and
indeed if you would not compel me to take the
Covenant, I would gladly be your servant ! "

And thereupon I gave her a full account of all
that had happened since I left Fairlawn in the
night.

I was considerably disappointed with her
answer. She was evidently aware that I had been
in danger at Colchester. I presume she had been
told of it by her husband. She expressed little

sympathy. As for Margaret and old Gray, lie
knew nothing of them; and did not think she
could discover aught. She was told indeed by
Rushworth, her husband's kinsman, that they had
intended to go beyond the seas. Finally she said
that " I had made mine own bed and must now
lie isn't."

I was leaving her presence in some dejection,
when she so far relented as to command me to
stay, and, after some further talk, declared she
would conceal me in that house for to-night ; and
after, have me conveyed to her house in Queen
Street. As for old Gray and his daughter, she
would make inquiries. I was then handed over
to her syringe maid to be stowed away, which was
very comfortably done by that good wench, who,
though demure in aspect, was as full of frolic
as any filly foal. I will not weary you by a description
of my lone:; concealment in the Lady Fairfax
her house. Suffice it to say, that by very great
pains she obtained my pardon from the grandees,
as soon as they had seized upon his Majesty and
carried him prisoner to his own castle at Windsor,
which was in December, 1648. Hearing that my
Lord Capell was in the Tower, I obtained access to
him, and was permitted by the interest of the
Lady Fairfax (who now was mighty angry with
the Independents) to visit him frequently. From
this you will doubtless infer, thtit I had forgotten
Margaret Gray. It is true that I had ! The Lady

Fairfax ascertained what I could not at first
believe, that Margaret's capture, as well as that of
her father, was not altogether without her connivance
! Sir Michael had, at all events, won
over her father as well as herself. She was now,
I was assured, living contentedly in Kent as Ladj
Lives, lading in great luxury !

Upon hearing this asserted by the Lady Fairfax
in the most circumstantial manner, I lamented no
more for Margaret, whose father I suspected had
played double with me ; if she indeed was herself
quite innocent, which I began to doubt !

"What will not women do for money ?' I exclaimed,
" they will sell their bodies ! they will
barter their souls ! Why did I veer from that one
true loadstar, who though she was another's was
formerly the bright planet of my worship ? ''

Whereupon I reverted once more to sad reveries
of the beloved Anne ; and sat down incontinently
to write her an account of the behaviour of
Margaret.

VOL. III.

OF CAPELL IN THE Tower.

The Lord Capcll did not know how he and the
other lords, Hamilton, Norwich, Loughborough,
Compton, Hastings, Holland, &c., were to be disposed
of. 'Twas thought that the Houses considering
the concessions made at Newport as
satisfactory, and being in favour of restoring his
Majesty, there would be a general amnesty for
both sides. When, lo ! the army march upon
London, and promulgate their thundering declaration,
which shewed their fixed design to change
the whole fabric of the government, and to finish
in blood as they had begun. Next came Pride's
purging of the Commons; the sealing up of the
Lords, and the mock trial of the King. My Lord
Capell and his fellows there saw what their own
fate would be. A day or two after the impious
proceedings in Westminster Hall had commenced
I went to the Lord CapelPs apartment in the
Tower, which had a casement that did look forth
upon Tower Hill over the ditch.

I found him ramping about like a caged lion.
He had obtained a copy of the charge which they
had framed against the King. He had a roll of

paper in his hand ; and on his table were more
writings. He was full of loyal furs, and plied me
with questions about the behaviour of the people.

All is consternation, grief, and amazement,"
said I, " only the worst zealots seem to have any
contentment in their countenance ; and only the
boldest of these dare to shew the malicious
pleasure they enjoy ; and that only by half-concealed
glances of scornful triumph. The preachers,
who formerly cried aloud for the blood of
delinquents  or at least the Presbyterian part
thereof  with Calamy and Burgess at their head,
talk of signing petitions to stop the proceedings
of this High Court of Justice."

Do you hear nought of loyal meetings without
the city or of a Common Hall being called
within to take steps to preserve his Majesty's
life?"

"Nay," said I, " and if there be such an intention
it would have to be kept secret. All seem
palsied with fear. The freemen of the city indeed
are loud in condemnation of these regicide
monsters ; but with the power of their militia in
the hands of Cromwell, and all arms seized, and
fast in their magazines they are powerless ; as
are doubtless those lords and gentry who dwell
about Westminster or elsewhere in the suburbs,
'lis said the Lord Fairfax is averse from these
proceedings, but some think he suppose he will
be the supreme head when the King is destroyed.

The Lady Fairfax assures me she cannot get him
to move one way or the other. She is sufficiently
indignant herself; and rages at the Independents,
for the Presbyterian concession of his Majesty
at Newport seemed to her doubtless to promise
not only peace to the nation, but triumph to her
party, and a long tenure of her husband's high
office."

Oh, strafford ! thou art avenged ! " cries my
lord, looking forth of his casement upon Tower
Hill  which being the place of that great man's
execution, or rather murder  I imagine, reminded
my Lord Capell of him at that instant. " Thou
art avenged, and the people have brought on themselves
this curse. Rebellion worketh out its owii
punishment. But oh ! the crime ! the unheard-of
crime ! " cries Capell, '' to dare to thy their King 
their native hereditary King  and that too, by a
packed tribunal of upstart knaves ! When such a
thing is permitted how shall any man hope to preserve
what Magna Charta and the Petition of
Rights secured to Englishmen? "

How, indeed ! '' said I.

Oh, ye fell monsters ! " cries the Lord Capell,
clenching his fist, and shaking it, '' what has become
of all your seven years' calumnies of private
articles about the matches of spain and France;
the death of King James; the business of
Rochelle ; the design of the German Horse ; the
Queen's designs to advance Popery ; commissions

given to Popish agents for private levies; the
bringing up the northern army to overawe the
Parliament ; the offers to the Scots of the plunder
of London, if they would be neutral ; the business
of Ireland; the dreadful preparations of the
Danes, and other foreign forces  with an incredible
number of other slanders ?

What were these but previous machinations,
which, like an ante masque, with many ugly shapes
amuses and entertains the people, whilst you in
jour tiring-house are dressing yourselves, and
when you appear to act your tragic villainy  all
quit the stage ?

The thing speaks for itself; they werebut impostures
juggles and delusions to cozen the people
into mistakes, for your own designs. And now
they themselves must receive the reward of their
own folly."

And with that my Lord Capell takes the charge
against his Majesty to pieces, and shews how
monstrous, lying, wicked and impious it is.

Then giving me s somewhat that he had writ,
desires me to find such an one who is to procure
its immediate printing and dispersion. And the
said writings do contain, as he shews me, a violent
incitement and appeal to all ranks and classes of
people to rise up at once and interfere to prevent
Ms Majesty's murder ; which he shews  notwith-

All these inventions had been diligently circulated by th
enemies of the Crown.

standing tlmt others believe banishment only intended
 is clearly determined on by these scarlet
rebels.

Then I obey his instructions ; but alas ! none
can be found who will dare to disperse the paper
of my Lord Capell  no, nor even to print it. Such
an indescribable power had the army party obtained
by their recent victories, and present
audacious proceedings.

And I continued to bring my lord such reports
as I can gather from day to day of the proceedings
of that impudent mock court, and of the bearing and
the answers of his sacred Majesty to the treasonous,
impious, brutal, and abominable words they address
to him. His patience, his firmness, his
reasonableness, his majestical unexpressed contempt
of their usurped power, I dilate upon  for
the fame thereof is secretly circulated by such
spectators as find their way into the hall, and obtain
over the heads of a packed phalanx of soldiers,
a sight of their persecuted sovereign ; who after a
long standing at bay for his own rights and those
of his subjects, is now trapped as he were a
venison, to be ruthlessly torn to pieces by a pack
of currish hounds.

The Lord Capell did continue to write scores of
letters daily to stir up the King's friends ; and
these I did either secretly deliver, or procure to be
delivered, to those to whom they were addressed ;
and when my Lord Capell was not thus employed,

he did pace his prison floor like a caged lion as
before, and did of times lift up his voice in eloquent
condemnation of the tyrants of the hour.

At last came the dreadful day when their
impious wickedness was completed ; and I bore to
my Lord Capell the news of the appearance of the
presumptuous and impudent Bradshaw in a scarlet
robe, and of his pronouncing the fiendish and
bloody sentence against the King. At the same
time, being advised that the lives of all the chief
delinquents would be taken in like manner by that
court (fulfilling the dismal augury which I had
had but too much reason to believe in, a year
before, in Master Starkeys house, in the night),
I had contrived a plan for my Lord Capell to
escape from the casement of his prison in the
Tower, by filing the bars thereof, and by bringing
him a strong cord for to descend into the ditch.
I must tell you that not many visitors were permitted
to see him, and that I only obtained leave
to be with him under colour of being his servant.
However, I contrived with his assistance to file
the bars ; and to arrange for his reception in a
lodging at the Temple ; and after to Lambeth in
the marshes there. The Lord Capell was further encouraged
to this attempt by the hopes of support
he had secretly received from divers persons 
many of them of eminence  in a plan he had to
rescue His Majesty on his way to the scaffold
which as we now heard, was to be set up in contempt,

in front of his own "banqueting hall. His
hope of now being able to shire in this attempt
did very much increase his desire of escaping from
the Tower. 'Twas happily arranged by me to propound
this plan of escape only on the dreadful
morning of the sentence ; though I had been negotiating
it with others for some time past  for
the propounding did divert his loyal grief and rage
from the terrible contemplation of the King's now-certain
destruction, and the consequent confirmed
slavery of the nation. Late that evening I quitted
my lord, who was full of hopes of what he should
be able to do when he should be once more a freeman.
Of personal risks he seemed to think nothing.
In the cause of the King and country lie was ready
to walk through fire and water, and seemed to
care nothing for the vision of the bloody scaffold
which did loom in the distance.

To

THE DUCHESS OF MONTROSE,

A LAST ATTEMPT FOR KING CHARLES.

!FoR the most part the lawyers did take the King's
side in the troubles, as indeed all honest lawyers
must, which is clearly evidenced by the arguments
of brave and learned Judge Jenkins. It was to
the Temple therefore that the Lord Capell was
first to betake himself; and there, was to meet
secretly some of those who did intend to attempt
a rescue of His Majesty on the scaffold, or on his
way thereto. On the evening of the 27th of
January I did repair to the chamber fixed for the
reception of my Lord Capell, where a disguise was
to be ready, and where divers friends were expected
to assemble. Upon entering it I found what appeared
to be an old man with long locks of grey,
a beard of the same, and a pair of spectacles, and
who had somewhat of the air of an apothecary.
Observing that he seemed to take notice of me, I
accost him, and found to my amazement ere I said
two syllables that I was clasped in a warm embrace.


Ned Hales ! " cried I, '' by all that is wonderful
! "

Softly ! " says he, " stone walls have ears, and

I am not only a prime delinquent, but also a
debtor whom some would be ready enough to seize."

Then am I struck with remorse for my stupid
inadvertency ; but no one was within hearing, sono
harm came of it.

He congratulated me upon being at large and
free from persecution, which considering what I
had done in the matter of the revolt of the fleet
was, he thought, surprising. I told him I traced
it to the Earl of Warwick, and to the Lady Fairfax.
Then I said 

Oh ! Ned, how is it that thou art in England ?
Is it not highly dangerous at this time, when they
have doomed the King, and will it is said make a
terrible example of all the chief Royalists that fall
into their hands. Hath the Lady Aime come
from beyond the seas also ? "

No," says Hales, " and be assured Rupert,
that I would not have adventured it thus without
an object of the highest importance.'"

And what was that ? " said I, " are you permitted
to compound ? "

' Yea, if I come in person, so that they may
deprive me of my liberty and perhaps of my life's

Some loyal attempt acconlitif to Clarendon (fteo Book xii),
was made by E. Hales subsequent to his flight ; though we are
not informed as to what it exactly was.

f I possess a copy of a letter from Barham the postmaster at
Sittingbonrno to Sir E. Hales saying that Sir A. Weldon and
the Committee had refused to do anything to relievo those
sequestrated unless th(>y appeared in person. When young
Edward Bales did appear in 1G53, ho was sent to the Tower.

I came on a mission to his Majesty. Oh ! the
wickedness  the monstrous wickedness of these
bloody rebels ! to condemn him to death in this
unheard-of manner ! I came from his Highness
the Prince of Wales bearing this " (here he shews
me a sealed letter). " Knows continues he, ' that it
contains the seal and signature of his Highness
the Prince, whose filial devotion to his father did
prompt him to send a blank paper with his signature
thereto, and another letter praying his
royal parent to make such compromise in his name
as will cause the rebels to spare his life. Know
also that I went with the same to wait on his
Majesty."

'' Oh, Ned ! how perilous for you ! But what
said his Majesty? "

He declined to receive the letter  that is, the
blank paper with his son's signature  and ordered
it to be delivered back saying, he did not value
his life so much as to buy it from those who would
filch it from him."

Ah ! " said I, " doubtless his enemies did not
expect such courage from one whom they have
ever tried to persuade the people is a coward and
a fool."

' But he shall not die, if hearts and hands can
prevent it," said Hales, with eagerness.

Oh ! " said T, " you are then in our plot, Ned
Hales, to rescue him on the day of his intended
murder ? "

** Yes, yes' says he, "it must be done, though
it cost 10,000 lives."

The Lord Capell is to it himself at the head
of the devoted band," said I.

I know, I know," said he, " the noble Capell !
the glorious defender of Colchester ! Colchester
the honourable tomb of the petition of Kent !
AVould 1 had been there! "

Thereupon we lament for Lisle and Lucas, and
I tell him many things about the siege, and how
we were cozened into rendering " to mercy ! "

I told him of the escapes of Farre and Cole-pepper,
and inquired after divers Kentish gentlemen
who were beyond the seas ; also after Master
Estrange. Then I told him I must leave him
a while to assist the Lord Capell in making his
escape. My share therein was to be ready with a
boat at the nearest stairs on the river, for to
convey my lord, who was to let himself down' from
the window some time after midnight  swim or
wade through the Tower ditch, and mounting on
the farther side, come to meet me at the river
stairs with all convenient speed. The conversation
I had had with Hales diverted me while I did wait
at the rendezvous in the but, otherwise I had
been a prey to anxious thoughts ; for my lord was
so long in coming that I feared all our plans had
miscarried. Jut at last to my great joy he appeared
; but exhausted with fatigue, and covered
inches deep with mud, which instead of water, as

-we thought, filled up the Tower ditch, yea and
nearly suffocated my Lord Capell, for though so
tall he sank in it up to his very chin. In short
his great height saved him ; but he told me that
he thought he should have expired in the effort of
dragging himself along through such a quagmire
as he found the ditch to be. A weaker man* indeed
would have sunk under so hideous a toil. Happily
avoiding the water spies whom the grandees kept
to watch the river we reached the Temple without
accident, and after my Lord Capell had taken some
repose in the secret chamber prepared for him, he
received visits from divers Cavaliers, who at great
risk assembled in the Temple in the dead waste
and middle of the night.

And there and then was arranged the plan of
rescuing his Majesty. All who had a hand in it
were to attend upon my Lord Capell's directions.
And though all particulars were not then decided
upon, 'twas agreed that Ned Hales should when the
time came give the signal for the rescue by raising
a white flag, and calling out in a loud voice the
word Invicta !  which you remember is the motto
of Kent. Then, all those in the plot, having
pistols and rapiers ready to present and draw,
were to rush upon the guards with fury and fight
to the death. Agents were further appointed to
tamper with the army, and sums of money liberally
s subscribed to aid the work. The Lord Capell hoped

Or a shorter  Clarendon says he was up to his chin.

to appear in a disguise which should deceive even
those who knew him best ; and declared he would
be the first man to draw rapier, and would seize
the King's person, while the rest gathered round
in a phalanx. The boldness of mj lord, and his
plain determination to risk his life to the uttermost,
infused a hopeful spirit amongst the rest.
'Twas finally decided that the attempt should be
made somewhere near Sir Thomas Cotton's house,
where the King was lodged during the trial, immediately
after he should be brought forth from
the said house. They were not aware at that time
that he was removed to St. James his Palace.

The next evening, which was the 28th January,
1G48, my Lord Capell in a disguise took boat with
one Sir Henry Moody "' and myself in a girls
disguise once more, and made for the Bank side. I
perceived when we had left the Temple stairs the
villain Rolfe come into the garden at a swift pace
and take a survey of the boat. But I believe he
did not know the Lord Capell's appearance, and 1
do not think he recognised me, but of that I am
not certain.

I called the attention of my lord to him in the
following fashion, for we had agreed that any talk
we had must be after the godly pattern 

"Yonder," said I, "is worthy Captain Rolfe,
who hath ever been true to the Good Old Cause and
did excellently plan, and also carry out with pious

Lady Harvey Lewis believed that the name of Capoll's companion
in th(> boat could not bo discovered ; but without doubt it
was Sir lleniy Moody.

Colonel Cobbett the capture of Charles Stuart at
Carisbrooke, whom before, he would have pistolled
ere he should break away."

This I said with a smooth and sanctified face,
though my heart did boil with rage against the
traitor. For what I said of him was true, Hammond
having gone out of the way to allow his
bolder subordinate to act his desperate treason.

'Twere better I had said nought, for the Lord
Capell could not refrain from scowling upon
Eolfe, which perchance excited the suspicion of
the waterman. However my lord was not interrupted,
but went to a house in Lambeth Marsh,
where Sir Henry Moody had been some time concealed
before. I accompanied my lord thus far,
and then returned, expecting to find the boat,
which indeed I did, but without the waterman. I
then chose to walk by way of the bridge instead,
which was a long journey to the Temple. I found
nothing but laments for his Majesty in the City,
and sorrow upon all faces. Prentices did mutter
what they would do in revenge. But I knew such
talk was idle. I rejoined Ned Hales, who was
glad to hear that my Lord Capell was safely stowed.
The remaining time was spent in secret labours to
advance our plot. But some had already begun
to fear that the grandees would so surround the
King with soldiers that we should not be able to
come near him. Ned Hales had seen nothing of
Wolfe. [ feared, however, he might be on his track.

VOL. III. w

OF A RESPITE FOR THE KING.

The day before that fixed for the King's murder,
came rumours that Fairfax did intend to prevent
the contemplated crime  whether that rumour
was true or no, I was unable to ascertain. I went
however to my Lord CapelPs retreat in the Marsh,
to communicate the report, and get fresh instructions.
'Twas said that Fairfax would interfere by
force, with his own regiment, and oppose Cromwell
and Ireton ; who, it was now known, were
the King's implacable enemies, and had contrived
his ruin, while at times pretending to befriend
him.

But lo ! what was my horror, on arriving at the
said house in the Marsh, to find no trace of my
Lord Capell, except that ho had been carried of
by soldiers from Whitehall, which report of some
near the place was soon proved to be true, for
twas announced in the Common's House, and
40 given to the rascally waterman* who leaving
his boat, had tracked and reported him, Rollo I
presume assisting.

by-and-bye I discovered he was hard and fast in

Zachary Standard, was, I think, his name.

that very place in the Tower whence he had
escaped. Only warders were now to watch him
both within, and also at the farther side of the
ditch, opposite his window, the bars whereof were
renewed and strengthened. This did greatly
obstruct our plans ; and the rumour about Fairfax
whose wife had shewn herself a brisk Royalist
during the trial  made us less diligent. For we
thought there would at least be a combustion
amongst the soldiers whereby the king might
profit.

Then came the fatal morning of the 30th of
January, and with it a rumour that our plot was
discovered ; which presently proved true, for all
concerned in it were diligently searched for. What
became of the rest I knew not till afterwards.
For myself, I fled to Queen Street, and being
furnished there with a letter from the Lady Fairfax
to her husband, boldly took the same to the
chamber where the council of the army used to sit.
The chamber was closed, so I could not immediately
get an answer from the Lord Fairfax, which
was what his wife required, as to whether history
of the reprieve of his Majesty were true or
no.

it was a dull cold morning with a thin white
fog. At the front of the banqueting hall I did
see the dreadful sight of an high black scaffold,
whereon the sound of ofreat hammers working: was
plain to be heard from a long distance. Those

workmen, as well as divers soldiers I met, assured
me that the news of the reprieve was certaine
Somewhat relieved I returned to the La<lj Fairfax,
who desired me to go again in search of my lord,
assuring me that T could not be taken prisoner
with that letter in my hand from her. She directed
rae to divers houses of the chief officers of the army
not very far oflP. On my way I heard drums f
beating from the direction of St. James's Park,
and conceived 'twas the publication of the king's
reprieve. We, who had been in the plot for his
rescue, had all promised that if we could, we should
be in the street before Whitehall at such an hour.
But the joyful report of the reprieve prevented
the necessity of my appearing there.

At last I found where his Excellency the Lord
Fairfax was, and being commanded to wait sometime,
received at last a sealed answer to my letter,
with which I hastened to the Lady Fairfax.

Oh ! horror ! when twas opened by her, she
burst into a flood of tears. Dreadful to relate, I
had been wholly deceived, as were many others,
by the false news of a respite. I could not believe
but that the Lady Fairfax was mistaken, and ran
forth of the house, and so with speed to Whitehall.

" To amuse the pooplo," says loath, "for the provtiition of
a rescue, they caused it to bo rumoured as if they would respite
the Kin', and better consider of so weighty and important a business."
 See Chron., p. 217.

t " The KiuK was marched thronph St. James's Park to Whitehall,
the inwards marching," says heath, " at a slow pace to their
ill-tuned drums."

I found the street almost vacant. The damnable
wicked deed had been done ! I heard a horrifying-account
of it from one who had seen it. He said
the groans of the multitude when the stroke was
given would haunt him till his dying day.

Immediately after the final blow, the Horse did
furiously charge the people in the street both
ways, and so dispersed that sorrowful crowd.
There was scarce a vestige of the scaffold left,
'twas removed in such violent haste. Rumour
said that the Lord Fairfax, who had intended to
interfere, was cozened, as were all the other
plotters*

See Hume. Mr. Markham, however, seems to think Fairfax
had no wish to interfere.

OP CAPELL HIS TRIAL.

Now was the ruin of church and kingdom complete,
and Royalists did fly the country by scores and
hundreds together, gathering up the wrecks of
their property which had been spared to them by
extortions committees ; and departing in haste
they cared not whither, so they were quit of a
Ian d that God had cursed for its rebellion ; while
those who did rem am did secretly rage and storm
at their tormentors, or uselessly plot their destruction,
only to their own ruin, for the legion of
upstart divers that now held the supreme power,
did hold it with a firm hand, since at their back
were the terrible soldiers, glad to exercise any
violence they had an excuse for against the
partizans of the now ruined but once bravely combatant
cause.

As for myself, I was hidden away once more by
the kindness of the Lady Fairfax, who was now
not so great a person as formerly  and passed my
time in sad contemplation of the posture of affairs,
the dispersion of my friends and the ruin of my
hopes. I thought very bitterly of old Gray, for I

Tied come to persuade myself that it had been with
difficulty that Margaret had overcome the aversion
she had so constantly entertained for the detestable
Liveseyey, who I must tell you, after being one
of the judges became one of the scavengers of the
kings bloody scaffold, for he sat in committee on
the royal trinkets which were worn by his Majesty
on the day of his martyrdoms and doubtless had
his share of the rich spoils of King Charles his
wondrous collection of art treasures.

I repeat, I now believed that it was old Grass
care for his money bags that had forced the match
on Margaret, joined to the fear they both must
have had of Sir Michael's malice.

Ned Hales had escaped ; I had now besides
the Lady Fairfax (for whom I would have cared
more had she preached less) but one friend
in England left  my sister with Frances Trattle
having fled to Holland  and that was my Lord
Capell, who was as good as doomed; for word
soon came that Sergeant Deny had made
proclamation for his trial, and that of the rest of
those noble prisoners, with the braying of trumpets
and the rolling of drums in front of Westminster
Hall. To the Tower to visit my lord I could not
go ; but I was witness to his bravery and wit
before the mock tribunal which had murdered his
sovereign ; for the Lady Fairfax had a box in the

Sir Michael Liveseyey, was one of a Committee named Syst
January, 1648-9, " to consider particulars about the late King's
body, his George, his diamond and his seals," &o.

hall, where, screened bj curtains and behind her
ladyship, I did daily attend.

T have not time to tell you of his fellows in misfortune,
who were on their trial at the same time,
viz., Duke Hamilton, the Lords Holland and Norwich,
and Sir John Owen, the Welsh hero. But
the Court was presided over by that scarlet rebel
Bradshaw, in a scarlet gown in mighty state, and
sat in the same place as at the king's trial, viz., at
the south end of the hall.

When it came to his turn, enter the Lord Capell
undismayed. Nor did he take so much notice of
the Court as to doff his hat until he came to the
bar. Here the charge being read to him by the
mock Solicitor-general he shewed at once his
scorn of that illegal tribunal, which had committed
the unheard of crime of condemning the
King of England to a traitor's death, for he refused
to acknowledge their jurisdiction ; and being
pressed by the insolent tyrants to answer to the
charge he at once told them that, '' The articles of
the surrender of Colchester, and the assurance of
quarter from the Parliament General there given,
did free him from all legal proceedings, and that all
the gowns inChristendctm had nothing to do with
him''

This he spoke with a voice so strong and clear,
and with so soldier-like and noble a bearing, that a
hum of applause did come from the crowd at the
further end of the hall in honour of this modern
Hector.

Which thug did sufficiently anger the overbearing,
insolent tyrants, who sat there to murder
him under the forms of law.

Few witnesses were examined, but many crafty
words were employed by the remorseless counsel
against him to give colour to their bloody intention.
For when this suborned wretch had made
him out a murderer and a traitor, for bravely
adhering to the oaths which the rebels had broke,
and sacrificing his peace and security by taking up
arms in defence of the rights of the Crown, and
the true liberties of the subject  he flinched not to
assert that the Lord Capell's escape from the Tower
was an argument for taking away his life. And after
the manner of the rebellious sect, brought up Holy
Writ to prove a precedent. How false and deceitful
the words of this counsel were, will, from the following,
plainly appear. He did compare his
case to that of '' cursing Shimei. For," said he,
' though David had sworn to him by the Lord,
saying ' I will not put thee to death with the
sword  (1 Kings, i, 8), yet, afterwards, when
Shimei broke away from his confinement at Jerusalem,
and went to Gath to Acis to seek his servants,
Solomon, his son, commanded Benaiah,
who went out and fell upon him and put him to
death." In like manner did this counsel explain
away the noble prisoner's plea of freedom from the
jurisdiction of the Civil Court.

When after some days of such like juggling the
Lord Capell was put on his defence  for counsel he

was not allowed, or did refuse  lie stood boldly up
and defended himself with a noble eloquence and
unanswerable arguments. He made good his plea
of quarter given him from the General's own mouth
at Colchester, as well as implied by the articles of
rendition. He said that if the General had power
to put Lisle and Lucas to death, twas plain he had
the power to assure quarter to the rest who had
rendered to mercy. 'Twas true there had been an
ordinance to give no quarter to the rebel Irish.
But though I am a rebels' said my lord, "I am
not an Irishman, and therefore am not intended
by that ordinance' He did disdain to show how
fiilse was the pretence of comparing his case to
that of " cursing Shimei ; " but simply did show
that some who had escaped from Colchester had
been allowed to compound. Whereas his case was
different, his escape from prison being to avoid the
civil jurisdiction which he would not acknowledge.
I plead my rights said the Lord Capell, in conclusion,
"if I must be tried by the civil power, to
be tried by a legally constituted tribunal, namely,
by my peers, in the same manner as the late Earl
Strafford and the late Archbishop Laud." And
going at length into divers statutes, and quoting
Magna Charta and the Petition of Right, ho
showed that the laws of the land did justify all his
proceedings, and that the law of arms did secure
his life ; and having finished his argument which
was clear as light, in terms of moving eloquence,
he demanded that the Lord Fairfax should be

asked to give evidence to disprove the explaining
away of the promise of quarter assured. Whereupon
the Court adjourned.

I was not present when Fairfax did appear, who
brought with him, or was brought by, Ireton, accompanied
by Berkstead and others of the commissioners
for the rendition of Colchester, for my
Lady Fairfax would not attend, but sulked at
home, knowing, I suppose, that Fairfax would not
shine in the capacity of witness. But to my sorrow
I learnt that he did evade the plain and honest
answer expected from a soldier, and could not
clearly explain that quarter had been assured to
Capell and the rest; after which Ireton, with
bitter and revengeful coldness  which made it
plain he had not forgot the taunts of Capell at
Colchester  did explain, that the quarter given
did only give freedom from the power of the sword,
and not from the power of a civil court. Also that
rendering to mercy " did mean that the prisoners
were only to be freed from " the promiscuous execution
of the sword '  which was a proper commentary
upon the murder of Lisle and Lucas.

The last part of this solemn farce was the two
hours' murthering speech of Bradshaw, of which
the following specimen is sufficient to show you
how jugglery and mock justice may cheat the
king's subjects of their lives, when the king's
power is usurped.

It is true," said this fox-wolf, speaking upon
the Colchester articles, " if this had been a war

procliiiiiied and prosecuted against a foreign nation,
these articles would have been kept inviolable.
But the prisoners not being enemies but rebels, the
case was different. As for the Lord Capell's plea
for Magna Charta, or trial by peers  it's true 'twas
the ordinary way ; but upon just occasions, as precedents
do inform us, this way hath been waived ;
and further, those words or the law of the land is
thus generally construed, that without peers,
merely by witnesses, several Courts in this
kingdom do give sentence as is the case in the
Admiralty Court, &c."

*this speech being ended," the diurnal will tell
you, " ' Ho ! yes ! ' was made, and Duke Hamilton
stood up. Then that villainous reprobate
Boughton read sentence against him, that he
should die by having his head severed from his
body. Next the Earl of Holland; the Lord Goring ;
and fourthly (these be still the words of the
diurnal, not mine) the 
Lord Capell  who, with magnanimous
courage, more undaunted than ever was Roman,
having all the time his sentence was reading and
pronouncing, his arms akimbo, out-facing boldly
those bloody tyrants and messengers of murther
and cruelty, that sat in judgment to take away his
innocent life.'t

 Of Fuidstono, a rfiiciMo. In Indo, after proclaiming Chai'lcs
II. in that town, ho rollo away and lied beyond the seas.
f This account of the trial is not au invention of Feudal's.

To

THE EARL OF ESSEX.

THE MURTHER OF THE LORD CAPELL.

When the Lord Capell's destruction was fixed 
in spite of the great interest used to save him and
the other peers by petitions of noble lords and
ladies to the usurping section of the Commons 
wherein Cromwell played a prominent parts following
up his son Ireton bloodthirsty clamours
for revenge  I say, when twas fixed when and
where Capell was to die, I did plan the same
rescue for him which he had intended for his
Sovereign. But it being discovered to him by
some officious friend, the Lord Capell did by express
command forbid it. For himself he would
not have one drop of bloodshedding risked, though

Cromwell, who had known him very well, spoke so much
good of him, and professed to have so much kindness and respect
for him, that all men thought that he was now safe when he
concluded That his affection to the public so much weighed down
his private friendship, that he could not but tell them that the
question was now whether they would pi-serve the most bitter
and implacable enemy they had ; that he knew the Lord Capell
very well, and knew that he would be the last man in England
that would forsake the Royal interest ; that he had great courage,
industry, and generosity ; that he had many friends who would
always adhere to him ; and that as long as he lived, what condition
soever he was in, he would be a thorn in their side. And,
therefore, for the good of the Commonwealth, he should give his
vote against the petitions.  Clar. Hist., Book xi.

for king and country lie would not have spared
the last of his own, as he now was going to prove ;
nay more, he hath left on record this sentence
written immediately after the destruction of his
Sovereign  a kind of legacy of words worthy of
Sparta. And if a rebel must for policy throw
away this scabbard when he hath drawn the sword,
is it not the duty of the loyal subject never to
sheath his till usurpers be destroyed ?

" Leave all those softer and pusillanimous
passions," says he, " that have affinity with
doubts, griefs, and fears ; but stimulate and
excite those of indignation and revenge, and
such as may be applied to celebrate the virtues
of this heroic and unparalleled prince, our late
Sovereign. Forget not the courage of the first
inhabitants of this famous, never till now infamous,
island, which for some hundreds of years
so exercised the Roman Eagles that less than
7,000 soldiers continually in field and garrison,
sufficed not to preserve to them the honour of
their conquest over the natives. Let us then disdain
that such a paltry and inconsiderable pack of
traitors should domineer and over-rule us. Let us
not, by so many degrees, be baser than the most
barbarous of our ancestors"*

But now being without any other prospect for
himself than that of certain death, this noble lord

 These, like most others quoted in Kendall's MS., aro the
actual words of Arthur Algernon, llrt Lord Capell.

did pass the remainder of the brief time he had to
spend in this lower world in devout exercises,
whereby his most Christian serenity and patience
became known into all. I will not harrow your
souls with an account of his last parting with his
beloved wife and children, to whom he gave his
last words of blessing and of advice in terms which
would add to his renown if they were published.
For me he did exert his influence that I should be
no more hunted by the bloodhounds of the
usurpers, who once more did haunt my footsteps,
growling forth, I had heard, the cruel intentions of
their masters to avenge the death of Gainsborough
by making me a terrible example, as had been
formerly proposed. You must know that the Jonah
of the Fleet, whom I had unshipped at Deal, had,
after betaking himself to his old command of foot
at Colchester, been sent to besiege Pontefract
Castle some weeks afterwards, which Colonel
Morris, who had ingeniously betrayed it for the
King, did very gallantly defend. In the garrison
were some soldiers who had a particular affection
for Sir Marmaduke Langdale, and that general
being prisoner at Nottingham Castle, the said
soldiers did conceive the daring plan to seize
Gainsborough at his head-quarters at Doncaster
in the midst of his own men, so as to get Langdale
exchanged. They, however, were foiled in
that plan ; for having seized him, he gave an
alarm, whereupon they were forced to despatch

VOL. III. X

him, contriving afterwards to make their escape"*
The Lord Capell, I say, did use his influence
with the Earl of Warwick and others in my behalf,
claiming to have me for his servant during the
brief time he had to live, and undertaking that his
son should procure a sum of money to pay into
Goldsmith's Hall as my third or fourth fine.
Whereupon I was permitted to attend him, but
only upon the scaffold, with no certain promise of
pardon, though my fine was agreed upon.

Upon the 9th of March I came out of hiding.
'Twas a fine spring morning, and warm for the
time of year. Violets had begun to blow in the
Lady Fairfax her garden near Queen Street, and
green sprouts in bosquet and hedgerow did promise
the revival of nature. But this was to be the
closing day of the chief and flower of the loyal
nobility of England. The Lady Fairfax with a
sigh did hand me a posy of violets to throw upon
the martyr's form when he should have rendered
up his spirit to heaven  a noble sacrifice to the
manes of the Crown and Church. And so I go
forth, and find Ireton superintending the dismal
pageant of murther. New Palace Yard was full
enough of horse and foot to prevent any rescue, if
it had been thought on. The Sheriff was therewith
his halberds, and in the midst was the
scaffold, not black as his Majesty's had been, but
draped in red, with a piece of crimson silk laid
See Clar, Hist. Book xi.

down on the floor thereof, under the block, to
signify, I suppose, that the victims were men of
blood.

I did not see the sufferings of Hamilton and
Holland the Earl of Norwich and Sir John Owen
were, you must know, reprieved ; and for the last
Ireton did pretend to exercise a merciful interest
as a set-off against the thirst he had shown for
Capell's blood, by making a speech in his favour.
But 'tis well known that the reason he got mercy
was that some of Prince Rupert's men had landed
in Anglesey, and threatened to hang the Committee
there if Owen was put to death.*

I will not sicken you with accounts of how 
when I got up on the scaffold, just as my lord,
who had come from Sir Thomas Cotton's house
through Westminster Hall, was taking leave of
the now Bishop Morley  I perceived signs and
tokens of the butchery that had been before. But
I doubt if Master Burbage or Master Betterton,
who have made famous the plays of Will Shakspear,
did ever in their representations of his
notable tragic heroes walk the stage with greater
dignity and nobility than the Lord Capell when he
trod the scaffold within a few minutes of his
death. Nor Roman, Spartan, nor brave Trojan
could have eclipsed him. He was every inch the

So says a diurnal of the time. Mrs. Hutchinson says that
Sir John Owen's reprieve was due to her husband's representations
to Ireton.

peer and the soldier. His beaver cocked defiantly,
and, with a composed countenance, he marches to
the rails that were towards Whitehall.

What ! " says he, " did the other lords address
the people uncovered '?''

And finding 'twas so he takes his hat ofiP, and
in a brave, loud voice begins his last oration.

He begins by telling the people that he forgives
those that have brought him to this violent end.
And then, in becoming language, makes his profession
of his religion, which he said was according
to the Reformed Church of England, in which he
had been born and bred  which had flourished
from the time of Queen Elizabeth until these
troubles  and which he accounted the best in the
world.

Then did he touch lightly upon the broken
treaty of Colchester, and how the promised protection
of his life had not been made good. Also
that he did die for obeying the fifth commandment,
which bound him to obey the magistracy under
which he lived. Of his part in Stratford's death
he made repentant confession, that he had voted
for the Bill against him from fear. As his late
Majesty had made lament for an unjust sentence,
which had brought an unjust sentence on himself
so did he. He glorified his late Majesty as the
most virtuous and sufficient prince in the whole
world. Spoke favourably of his son and successor ;
and plainly told them they would never be in the

right way till the old order of things had been
restored. He then once more professed his hearty
forgiveness of his enemies. Astor would he impute
malice to any of them.

What other end there is in them, I know not'
said he, " nor will examine, but let it be what it
will, from my very soul I forgive them every one's

Then commending those who heard him and the
whole nation to the gracious care of the Almighty,
he addressed some words to the executioner, and
prepared himself for the dreadful stroke ; praying
himself, and requesting the prayers of those
present.

When that dreadful stroke was given, sobs
and tears did lament the sad fate of this great and
noble Cavalier, who in all he had done had no
other end than the public good.

Assuredly his fame shall grow with the march
of time ; and when at length, base principles shall
be almost forgotten , faction silenced, and honour
yielded where honour is due  high upon the roll
of noble Englishmen shall his name be found ;
and it shall be proudly remembered how, verifying
his coat-armour 

Our Capell, lion-like undaunted stood,
Beset with crosses in a field of blood, t

Which according to a diurnal was unskilfully made and had
to be repeated.

t This distich is found in the elegies of the time. Lendall's
panegyric is not more eulogistic than that made by Clarendon
(see Book xi).

CONCERNING Margaret.

My lord had shaken hands with me, ere he knelt
to the block, and bid me assuage my tears, as he
did the rest ; and as he passed away, I did console
myself in thinking how vain was the malice
of his bloodthirsty enemies, who but freed him
from his earthly tabernacle. But when, after
their rude drums and harsh trumpets had sounded
a point of war, and those well-fed soldiers departed,
leaving the friends and attendants of the
deceased  many of whom were lean and sorrow-stricken
 with the marred remains of this faithful
servant of his martyred King  I felt the
righteous rage of loyalty and friendship mounting
within me to such a height of fury that if I had
been arjned, I would have assaulted Ireton ere he
left Palace Yard. Then came again the saddening
and sobering thought of my powerlessness, and
of the martyr's forgiveness of his murderers, and
1 stood speechless beside the coffin ; and lastly,
melting into tears, did strew the violets of the
Lady Fairfax upon the still form of my lost patron
and friend.

In the act of doing so, even at the moment 1

felt most deserted and lonely, I found my hand
gently clasped while the fellow of that hand that
clasped mine, strange to says, did likewise strew
violets-upon the same venerated object, and a
voice that I knew, exclaimed 

Oh ! Eupert, Eupert ! what a meeting ! and
what a deed is this. Thy noble, noble master
and friend ! "

And lo ! 'twas Margaret who spoke, and whose
eyes also rained tears upon the corpse as fast asher
hand dropped the violets.

'* Lady Liveseyey ! ' said I, in a tone which had
more of awe and wonder than of reproach.

I was answered by a look of amazement ; and
'twas plain that the feeling it did index had
altered the current of her thoughts, for her tears
instantly ceased. I perceived she was dressed in
mourning weeds, of a texture that did denote
poverty.

Would you know the truth ? The Lady Fairfax
had been wholly deceived about Gray and his
daughter  or shall I say imposed upon ?  by her
informants, whose interest it had been to conceal
the fact that the old man and his child had after
suffering imprisonment elsewhere, been thrown
into the Gatehouse, where the extortioners, who
kept them close under an assumed name, did
fleece them of all they possessed, under colour of
compounding for the crime of assisting divers delinquents
 myself amongst the rest.

"Oh! fool! fool! idiot! dolt!" Such were
the words I mentally applied to myself. " How
would 3'ou have believed so improbable a legend, so
insulting' to one whom you had lately thought you
could not honour sufficiently ! "

Sarah Skelhorn had escaped ; but Margaret's
father  would you know it all  had died I died in
prison !

We retired from Palace Yard into a neighbouring
house, where some of the sorrowing relatives
did receive the remains of the martyr  and here I
was made acquainted with all particulars. 'Twas
indeed true that Liveseyey had captured both in the
night at Gravesend when I lost them. Finding
that Margaret would not be his, he did carry out
those malicious plans  so worthy of a regicide and
of a scavenger of Eoyal shambles  which ended
in the discharge of Margaret from prison when
her father was ruined and dead, and she too had
no more to give.

Margaret's now complete poverty had been
brought about by her tender generosity to me.
For 'twas she, and she alone, who had saved me
after my being captured at Deal, and had paid my
composition into the Goldsmith's Hall. When
we talked of the extortion and cruelty of those in
power, I was seized once more with sudden fury.

Let us hence, Margaret ! " I cried. " Let us
leave this accursed land where fraud and murder
are screened by the mask of hypocrisy  where

beggarly thieves drive in coaches over the graves
of the honest and noble whose death and ruin are
the rewards of their constancy, valour, an(J
integrity. Let us fly beyond the seas, and seek
the presence of our young King, the heir of our
ancient Royal house  the son of the martyred,
murdered, never enough to be lamented Prince,
whose blood cries for vengeance, which cometh not
yet, but shall come ! Let us hence ! let us
hence ! "

'' Ah ! Rupert  I must not, I cannot go with
thee  once upon a time I had wherewith to aid
thee, I should now be but a clog upon thy path, an
encumbrance, a burthen. Go, seek some other
fair who can add to thy store, and not diminish
it.'

We were alone in the chamber.

Dearest and best ! kind and generous
Margaret ! to whom I owe life and liberty, and all
I ever shall win  without thee I cannot, will not
live. Come to my arms and be my wedded wife ! "
So saying, I clasped her to my bosom and kissed
her with affection. " We were all but made man
and wife a few short months since ; and shall thy
misfortunes separate us now  thou trebly dear
one? The munificence of my martyred master
hath left me what will take us beyond the seas.
Let us trust in Providence for the rest. I am
young, I am strong, I can do many things  I did
abhor the rebels' service, as thou knowest. But by

VOL. III. T

sea or land I am ready to serve my Sovereign 
more especially now when his cause is low, his foes
many, and his friends disheartened and dispersed.
I will entreat his Highness, Prince Rupert's favour
to restore me to my honourable office in the Kingship
the * Constant Reformation.' 'Tis said the
revolted ships do sweep the Channel, and do sink
or capture all craft that will not lower their topsails
to the King's flag ! "

Then did this dear one so injured by my uncharitable
and stupid thoughts  fondly returned
my embrace. We took leave of the Lady Fairfax,
who told me I was far too young to take unto myself
a wife  a thing-which I should by no means
admit. And we did comfort ourselves by the
assurance of meeting our noble Kentish friends
in some of the distant places whither we were
bound. And though Margaret did pull a sad
mouth when I mentioned the name of the Lady
Anne, I did kiss her into smiles again, and our
wedding chamber was  as I had once before predicted
 the cabin of a ship ; for that same night
we did leave our native land to go beyond the
seas.

THE CHAPTER I.

EECOVEET FROM SICKNESS.

*' What and where am I ? '* was the first thought
that did occur to me when I broadly awake from a
long trance, chequered only by confused visions of
being watched by my bedside, and sundry perplexing
imaginations. The last of these was the
wild delusion that my head was the concave of the
sky, and that a burning star confined therein did
roll about from end to end, to my great trouble
and disturbance. Now all such monstrous fancies
had subsided. But, as I said, I am now broadly
awake. I see some phials of physic  a bowl of
broth standing in a jelly on a small table near
a chair beside the bed with an open book on it
back uppermost  a cake of wax floating in a pewter
basin on a stool.

While idly gazing, and lazily wondering, I
heard a sound as it were of a key turning in the
wall, which was of wainscot where  after a little

VOL. II. B

twisting back and forward  a door flew open,
and a fellow jumps into the room crying 

I thought it did lead somewhere ! Ha ! ' he
adds, seeing some one in bed, "what have we
here ? "

And he stands rooted in the floor, regarding
me, I thought, with no favourable eye. But
gradually, as I look his features become familiar,
and I recognise the strong-knit frame and
swart face of Jack Gayer, my former companion,
the restless leader of all mischief at " The Cradle."

"Odds bodkins ! Eupert Lendall, how the
plague came you into this place ? " says he.

That is more than I can tell you' said I, " nor
do I know where I am''

Lord ! " says he, coming close to me, "you are
for all the world like a jack-assent  a piece of mist
with a brace of rush lights going out at one end
thereof. Your eyes are half sunk in your head.
O', my conscience, you must have been buried
.since last I saw you and dug up again."

Tell me, Jack Gayer, I beseech you, where am
I?"

In Queen Street."

*' In Queen Street  where ? "

At Master Gray's. Sure you know that well
enough. Confess the truth."

"At Gray's in Queen Street," echoed I vacantly.
No, truly I did not know it. Go not away. Jack
gayer ; sit you down till I recollect myself."

He sat at the foot of the pallet, and contemplated
me with more wonder than pity.

'' Do you mean to pretend' quoth Jack Gayer,
 that you have been brought here without your
knowledge ? It passes belief."

But now past events, beginning to be remembered
by me, come back as it were with a rush,
especially the cruel murder of Barley. I put my
hand to my head ; the hair was short, about an
inch from the top of my forehead.

"I know what it is," said I; "feel here. I
did receive a wound''

And I tell him briefly of Burley's business. He
knew of it either from having read of it in the
diurnal, or heard of it at " The Cradle."

'' I have had a fever, Jack Gayer" said I, casting
an eye upon the physic bottles.

And a nurse too," says Gayer, who had lifted
the open book lying turned down on the chair, and
having twirled the leaves about, put it where he
found it.

I desired to look forth of my window, and
found, though weak, I could manage to sit up in
my bed without help.

Ho ! " said I, dizzily gazing. " What ! are
the peach trees in blossom ? " for I saw them
upon a brick wall shining red in the early sun.
" Sure they are early ? "

Somewhat," said he, ' but 'tis nigh the end of
March."

'' Indeed!" said I.

Looking: about me, I now remember to have
been in this place before. It was a secret closet
where Gray did keep many important documents ;
also his strong box containing the greater part
of his treasure, but I knew not the door whereby
Jack Gayer had entered.

Then I laid down again, and as I did, the
appearance of Gray, and his accusation mentioned
at the end of my last chapter was remembered.


Do you know aught of a lad called Faithful
? '' said I.

 I never did hear of him," says he.

I was about to tell him how Faithful helped
me out of prison at Winton, but changed my
mind.

"What employment have you here. Jack
Gayer ? "

I am prentice to Gray the place you had,'
says he.

"What took him to Winton ? Were you
there with him ? "

No," says he ; " 'tis reported he was to the
Isle of Wight with money from the Council of
State to reward the soldiers for seizing Captain
Burley, and to Winton with 1,000 to Wild for
hanging of him."

I would I knew how my sister is," said I.
' Know you where Margaret is ? "

Locked fast in her own chamber, for running
away with a youth of her acquaintance'' replied
Gayer, looking at me curiously.

Ha ! indeed ! '' said I, and thought to myself,
" Here is the mystery of Faithful being
explained. Do you know the real name of the
youth ? "

'' No'' says he ' but perchance you do ? 'Tis
said she tried to put it off upon Sir Michael
Livesey.'*

Sir Michael is rascal enough for anything,"
said I, pondering over former conversations with
Faithful. " It puzzles me to know how I came
hither. Jack Gayer. How is old Gray ? "

"HI of the sweating sickness, Rupert Lendall."


Alas ! wretched man ! I am sorry to hear it,"
said I.

I have heard it said," replied Gayer, " that
Margaret took advantage of his illness to keep a
lover concealed in this house, but I never believed
it till now."

What mean you. Jack Gayer? "

Why/ says he, with a half-malicious laugh,
*' I mean that thou art a mighty cunning fellow,
"Rupert Lendall, to carry on thy amours so
secretly."

With whom ? " said I.

He took the book from the chair and held it
up, looked at me hard, and laid it down again.

I understand you not," said I.

He laughed.

Come," sap's he, " I must begone. I will sap
nothing, but I must tell you that when you are
wells Rupert, I will coif you soundly. I have a
fondness for Margaret Gray myself, and fairly confess
that I am angry at your success."

"Jack Gayer," said I, "you are mistaken in
your surmises. I am not in a condition to make
love. I told you long ago that I did worship a
fair and noble lady in Kent. I care not for Margaret.
You talk of coming to cuffs with me when
I am well, but two will be able to play at that,
and my good friend Faithful will perhaps not be
sorry if you get the worst of it, for what you do
prowling thus early in the morning about the secret
passages of this house I know not."

"Secret passages?" says he. "It only leads
into the garden house yonder, and so into the
street ; but who the dive is ' Faithful ' you talk so
about ? "

I told him briefly something of him. He seemed!
as if a new light had fallen upon him and he
said 

Rupert Lendall, I ask your pardon. I have
wearied you, and truly I have said things I meant
not. Peace ; I will never say a word more. I
have jumped upon wrong conclusions ; I humbly
ask forgiveness."

And he very frankly pressed my hand.

"There is no offence' said I, "Jack Gayer.
Now let me rest, for I am very tired."

Say nothing of this passage or of me," says
Gayer, " to Gray or to any in the house. I was
playing of pranks last night and got locked out,
but took with me some keys I found in Gray's
drawer. They will serve another time. Whither
does that door lead ? '

On to the lobby of the first floor''

Farewell a while ! ''

And out he goes by the proper door of entrance.
As soon as he was gone, I stretched forth my
hand and took the book off the chair. The letters
danced before my eyes. I found it to be the story
of " The Golden Legacy,"  but some writing on
the inside of the cover did account for Jack
Gayer his suspicious language, for the writing was
this, " Margaret Gray, her book," and I remember
she had, a long time ago, lent it me to read.

Anon a new notion started in my head. Gayer
had said that Gray was sick, and that it was reported
that Margaret had a lover concealed in the
house.

Was I tended there for a blind ?

While puzzling over the matter, I fell asleep
nth Margaret's book in my hand.

" Hosalt/nd, Euphue's Golden Le(/aci/," by Thomas Lodge.
A romance upon which Shakespeare founded his play of As you
Like it.

OF SARAH SKELHOE;N" , ETC.

I WENT to sleep, as I told you, with Margaret's
book in my hand. I awoke presently with some
noise, and saw a fissure which I thought mioht be
Margaret though it was something taller than I
remembered her  making a retreat from the door.
Then I hear footsteps flying away through the
house and voices eagerly talking, as if in some
delight.

Master Pyle" (of Covent Garden), chirurgeon,
came presently in. I will not trouble you with a
description of his person or what he said, except
that he pronounced me to be mending fast. He
had had doubts of my recovery before, he said ;
but I had been well watched and attended. He
took Margaret's book off the bed, and said he
could not permit me to read. He told me to take
my broth.

When he was gone there entered one I knew
very well, for it was old Gray's housekeeper, a very
excellent housewife and a kind woman. She was
a little too busy in some matters and once believed
herself great in magic, and it was thought affected
A real personage, afterwards a Royalist agent.

to be a white witch, and to be able to undo the
evil spells of some ; but having been frighted when
some old crones were burnt for their crimes, she
forsook her books, and though she still would
 assert that most of her dreams came true, did not
attempt any divination. Her name, which I have
mentioned before, was Sarah Skelhorn.

"Lord love you. Master Lendall," cries she,
*' I had been in before, but was to the market. I
heard from Mistress Margaret that you had recovered
your wits, for she found you reading in
her book, and Master Pyle says, too, you will do
well. Bless your dear handsome face  pale and
thin though it now be  there are others, Master
Lendall, who are as glad as I, and who are crying
as much for your recovery as they did at your
falling ill."

' I pray you," says I, not knowing well what
she said, " do you know aught of my sister, Mrs.
Burley?"

I think I did hear she was entertained by a
friend in the Isle of Wight," says Sarah Skelton.


Ah," said I, " that will be Frances Trattle no
doubt; and how bears she her sad affliction
Alas ! Mistress Skelhorn, but that her husband is
now a crowned martyr, his fate were too horrible
to think on."

"And yet some say. Master Lendall, that he
was an enemy to the truth."

' The truth, the truth, woman !  peace !  sou
know not what you speak of' said I, angrily ;
then adding, " tell me, however, if you know how
my sister does ? "

Truly I know not, yet I think I have heard
that she is not ill."

I wish her friend and mine were here," said I ;
he could give you tidings, Sarah Skelhorn. You
must bid him come hither."

Who ? " says she.

Faithful," says I.

I know of no Faithful," says she, looking
hard at me, 'rebut perchance Mistress Margaret
could tell you."

I perceive, Sarah," says I, " that you would
fain keei3 the truth from me ; yet, mistress, you
know full well that Margaret has a lover concealed
in this house."

Yes," says she, laughing, " and yet there is no
such great mystery in it neither'

' And does Master Gray know of it? "

' Perchance he does, and perchance he does
not," quoth Sarah.

'ris it true he is ill of the sweating sickness
? "

*' Yes," says Sarah, " he hath never been well
since he was to Winton  whether it was the
sudden surprise of finding his daughter in a malefactor's
cell there, or whether it was a cold he took,
on the journey, I know not."

I pray you," said I, '' give me a relation of
the finding of his daughter."

Why , you see," says Sarah, " it was thus : 
Master Gray going to the Isle of Wight, as I hear,
with money to reward the soldiers that seized
Captain Burley, came by Winton with a thousand
pounds for Judge Wild for his care and pains in
condemning the said captain. Here he learnt of
the riot at the place of execution, and that you
were prisoner in the Castle as one of the leaders
thereof; whereupon being informed, as Mistress
Margaret believes, by Cornelius Evans  who, by
the way, is known to me " 

Known to you, Sarah Skelhorn ? "

*' Ay, he was son to the great astrologer Evans,
a friend of the great Master Lilly. Well, Gray
being informed by Cornelius, is full of fury against
you, goes to Wild and Steel, and one  Rains-borough,
I think it was " 

'eyes," said I, "Admiral Rainsborough."

And desires to have you brought forth of the
cell, to accuse you to your face of conveying away
his daughter."

Conveying away his daughter ! I did nothing
of the kind."

' True," says Sarah here, *"' I know it. Well, to
cut short my relation," continues she, " to the door
of the cell comes Wild, Steel, and Gainsborough
with Master Gray.

' You had best take care. Master Gray,' says

Gainsborough, ' for the villain is hardy and desperate,
and if he breaks loose may do you some
bodily harm

Good Master Gray's fury moderating on this
caution, he ventures not into the cell, but feels
disposed to rely on some stout constables there
present.

' Now, master jailor quoth Wild, ' you may
unbar your doors, and you four constables go in,
and seize and bring forth the villain for Master
Gray to examine, and take heed that you hold him
fast

The prisoner is then brought forth with his
hat slouched over his face. Master Gray snatches
it off, but no sooner has he done so than he calls
out, in great amazement, ' My daughter ! ' and then
tearing away the cloak, and seeing the apparel
she was in, adds, ' and in gallant's clothes! ' "

*what, Sarah Skelhorn," said I, "was it
indeed Mistress Margaret, and not Faithful, that
was in the cell ? '

' Surest' says Skelhorn, " you know very well
that it was."

I remember Gray said something of this when
he accosted me in the wood the night of my
escape. But it seems passing strange that Margaret
should have succeeded in saving Faithful in
the same way that Faithful saved me."

Master Lendall," says Sarah, " you act your

part very well, but you cannot deceive me. I am
sure you know right well what correspondence
there is between Faithful and Margaret."

"Yes," said I, " I do, and I am anxious for the
welfare of both ; and it is my earnest hope, Sarah
Skelhorn, that Faithful will be as true to Margaret
as Margaret is to Faithful."

Why one would think to hear you talk, Master
Lendall, that you believed there was really a
person called Faithful."

Sarah Skelhorn, I perceive you have more
deceit about you than I supposed. Though I have
but a friendly feeling towards Margaret, and have
no right to set myself up as her champion, I think
you act a very doubtful part in allowing her to
conceal a lover in this house without her father's
consent."

At this, Sarah Skelhorn regards me steadfastly,
and incontinently bursts out a laughing.

' You may laugh, Sarah Skelhorn," says I, " but
I consider this is no matter for mirth."

But louder and louder titters Sarah ; and she is
at pains to stuff the corner of the coverlet into
her mouth to suppress the noise she was making.

Verily," says she " you would make me believe
that you did not know that Faithful was only a
cozen."

"His being a cousin, Sarah Skelhorn, does not
mend the matter."

Here a call sounds from Gray's climbers, and
forth she goes still laughing immoderately.

'' Oh, what a wanton housewife is this Sarah
Skelhorn ! " says I to myself, " she not only conceals
this lover of Margaret in the house, but has
the hardihood to laugh at the deceit."

A VISIT FROM FAITHFUL.

By-and-bye comes back Sarah Skelhorn with more
strong broth, and with her, Master Pale, to see
how I can eat it. After some conversation they
leave me, and I fall into a deep sleep, from which
I am awakened about dusk by the sound of a sono*
to the accompaniment of a lute, which sounded
from an apartment above. I shall here set it down
for the edification of those who delight in such
things with this preface that it hath been ascribed
to Lovelace, though I believe that Will Shakespeare
 that great wit  must have the honour of
having originated the same : 

(1.)

Take, oh, take those lips away,

Which so sweetly are forsworn;
And those eyes, the break of day,

Lights that do mislead the morn ;
But my kisses bring again,
Seals of love, but seal'd in vain !

(2.)
Hide, oh, hide that bosom's snow,

Which no fondness e'er can warm ;
All the love that lurks below

Is as cold as winter's storm ;
But my poor heart first set free
Bound in icy chains by thee ! *

It will be observed that this song, which some fancy to be
by Marlowe and not by Shakespeare, differs from the received
version.

I had no sooner heard the first bar of this song
than I recognised the voice of Margaret; for I
had heard her sing it some years before. But the
manner of her singing it was so pathetical as to
affect me very much in my then weakly state 
moving me even to tears. For I thought of Anne
Wotton in days of old, and of the kisses she had
once given me of her own free-will, and afterwards
by compulsion at our last parting at Canterbury ;
and so falling into a reverie, after twilight someone
steals softly into my chamber and gently approaches
my bedside. It was too dark to see, but
guessing that it might be Faithful, I inquired if
it was.

Oh, dear Rupert," cried a voice, which I recognised
as his, 'thou art thyself again. May
Heaven be thanked for this mercy."

And the kind friend pressed my hand between
both of his in a very affectionate manner; and
seemingly much moved, for a short space sits by
my bedside without having a word to say.

Full of curiosity to know how Faithful was disposed
towards Margaret, 1 was the first to break
the silence.

"That was Margaret whose voice I heard singing
not long since in a neighbouring chamber?"
said I.

Yes," said he in a hesitating manner.

It affected me to a most pathetical sadness,"
said I, "for I bethought me, Faithful, of my

-entirely beloved Anne Wotton, and of the kisses
which, once I had from her. Ah ! Faithful' said
I, " the pain I have suffered in the affairs of love
makes me now feel more compassion for others."

Then did Faithful, embracing me with more
tenderness than was fitting, commence to weep
after a fashion that perplexed me.

"What, Faithful ! " cried I, " art thou also unfortunate
in the affairs of love ?  nay, pluck up
thy spirit, poor youth."

What the plague is this," thinks I to myself.
"1 hear Margaret sing a sad song, as it were complaining
of a faithless lover, and here is cousin
Faithful concealed by her contrivance blubbering
and lamenting over an unrequited suit?
What a pair of fools !  but it is ever thus with
lovers who, while they are dying to be locked
fast together, take a pleasure in vexing and tormenting
each other  and, as in a game of see-saw
when one is in the air the other is grovelling in
the dust. Oh, oh ! I see what it is. This
effeminate youth is afraid to declare his passion,
and Margaret?  but hold, why should Margaret
be coldhearted too ? "

'' Faithful," said I, " dry your eyes and refrain
from further grief; weeping will not mend your
misfortune. Though you have not the good fortune
to be beloved hy one you like best, take pattern by
me; who though my suit to the Lady Anne
Wotton seems hopeless, yet do not despair. Am I

VOL. II. c

not as ill off as you ? We both love where it is
impossible to be loved again. 'Twere better far
you should suck comfort out of Sarah Skelhorn,
who, from what I see of her, seems to mock at her
master's daughter for keeping a young man in the
house, saying she knows that Faithful is but a
cousin  and indeed she did laugh at the whole
matter in such an incomprehensible way as somewhat
amazed me. For a woman who can do soin
the case as it now stands can have no feeling.
But, Faithful, it is a marvel thou hast losh favour
with Margaret seeing she did  if Sarah Skelhorn
speaks true  rescue thee from prison, as thou didst
rescue me, only with this difference, that Margaret
did entirely change suits with thee. Pluck up,
man, thy case cannot be hopeless, for  for a maid
to put on gallant's apparel is the greatest proof of
affection. But being a thing in itself very immodest
it is only excusable on such an occasion as
to save a lover from death. I am sure nothing
else would make the Lady Anne Wotton do such
a thing. For mine own part, I cannot at all
tolerate a maid in gallant's clothes. Doubtless
the device of Margaret was infused into her mind
by Thomas Lodge, his book, which I may mention,
I found here anon, it having been left here, either
by you, Faithful, or by Margaret herself. I remember
her once giving me the book to read. I
set little store by it ; for, I repeat, I deem it a
mannish and forward thing in a girl to dress in

gallant's clothes as Rosalind does in the story ; and
I marvel that Roster could have relished her
afterwards."

Perceiving that Faithful said nothing, to soothe
his spirit in case any jealousy might vex him, I
said, taking his hand 

Faithful, deem not that I can rival thee in thy
regard for Margaret. In good sooth, I affect her
not at all, if that is any comfort to thee. Indeed,
Faithful, when I am well I must go seek Anne
Wotton again, and I would I had news of her now,
for it would go far to make me recover my health."
But here Faithful, as if he were rather displeased
than otherwise, quits the chamber something
abruptly.

Though the reader of these last two chapters
may understand the mysteries they treat of, I can
assure every one that I did not.

Sarah Skelhorn," said I, as soon as I was left
alone, " is as mad as a hare in March, and Faithful
is no whit more sensible."

This much must however be told. The next
time I see Sarah Skelhorn she is exceeding cold
and taciturn ; and when I questioned her as to the
cause of her immoderate laughter, she said 

*' Forsooth, 'tis no laughing matter. Master
Lendall, and you ought to be heartily ashamed of
yourself. What your behaviour has been to
Mistress Margaret Gray you know best yourself
She is in a pitiable state and all on your account*'

** On my account? " said I.

' Yes' says Sarah.

Sarah Skelhorn," said I, ' I know not what to
make of you. Think not, however, to divert me
from the loadstone that governs my heart. Let
Mistress Margaret favour those who affect her.
Nothing shall entice me from the queen of my
affections  the peerless Lady Anne Wotton."

You ought to be ashamed of yourself' says
Sarah Skelhorn, and out she flounces in a huff.

** Sarah Skelhorn mad' said I, ' Faithful mad,
and Margaret mad  that makes three. '

It was a relief to me to see Jack Gayer, and make
him the repository of my doubts and surmises, but
he gave me but little comfort, for when I explained
to him my suspicion of the madness of Sarah
ISkelhorn, Faithful, and Margaret, it was very
plain that he presently concluded me to be mad
myself.

Dr. Pyle coming in to pay me his evening
visit, Gayer takes him aside, and very evidently
imparts his idea to the doctor, who calls in Sarah
and chides her for talking to me, saying that it
is of the last importance that I should be kept
quiet.

So for two or three days, though I rapidly improve,
I am debarred from conversation, for Sarah
was the only one who visited me, and, in obedience
to Dr. Pyles command, she did maintain a very
.strict silence.



THE LADY MABEL LINDSAY. I

Coronation DAY

A FEW days after this was the King's coronation
day,* and Jack Gayer having told me of the preparations
for its celebration, nothing would serve
me but I must go secretly forth to observe what
went on. Jack Gayer had prepared a very hideous
mask for his face, and knowing that I had more
reason to disguise myself than he who only
feared lest Master Gray should hear that he was
out of the house after hours  ! prayed him to procure
me a mask like unto his, which he did. He
was to personate a crier in the pageant that the
prentices had gotten up, and was furnished with a
bell.

Jack Gayer, after asking me if I was sure I was
well enough for the expedition, advised me todo
as he did, which was to top my bolster with a
nightcap, and so dispose it in bed as to represent a
person asleep, which, being carefully performed, we
issued forth by the secret door into the garden.
Looking up from thence, I saw the window which
I knew to be Margaret's. There was a light burning
within. 1 said 

 27th March.

'' I have seen nothing of Faithful these some-days.
I hope he has ingratiated himself with
Margaret again."

Sarah Skelhorn says there is no such person as
Faithful, nor ever was," quoth Jack Gayer, "and
that you are the person who is by favour concealed
in this house."

Sarah Skelhorn is a liar," said I ; ' Faithful
hath sat by my bedside since I came here. But
perchance." said I musingly, ' the poor youth hath
since departed."

There was not light enough to see Jack Gayer's
countenance, but it approached mine. He seemed
to be trying to scan my expression.

It is painful to lie under the suspicion of madness'
thought I to myself, ' but doubtless Jack
Gayer thinks me under a delusion."

Unobserved we got into Holborn, and thence
made our way into the heart of the city.

Oh, wondrous ! " cried I. " Can it be that
this is the schismatical London which would bring
the King's power down to the ground ? "

Lo ! it was all lighted up, windows thronged,
and crowds passing to and fro. Said I 

"Has the King been brought to London, Jack
Gayer ? "

"No," says he, "but indeed the city would have
him thither."

"Jack Gayer, I will rest a while here," said I,
leaning against one of the posts and chains, " for

I feel somewhat weak and tired, and this noise confuses
me."

' Do so," says Jack Gayer, '' I perceive friends
corning, and I must undertake my business as
crier."

So saying, he pulls forth a paper from his
pocket, and begins to con it, and donning his
mask, falls in among a band of prentices that .


This was in Cheapside. It did blaze with
bonfires from end to end, which limned with light
the houses on either side, tricking up window,
wall, and balcony, as well as the gilded devices of
the numberless signs that stood out from penthouse
and gable. Nor did loyal devices fail, forever
and anon were painted cloths to be seen with
such inscriptions as " God save the King""
Heaven preserve His Majesty," and such-like.
In defiance of the grandees of the Parliament and
army, the freemen of the city did determine to
celebrate the King's coronation day.

Of disapproving zealots there were not many to
be seen, for they either kept within doors, or
assumed a cheerful aspect, as if they did commend
what was done. It would have been somewhat
dangerous to have run counter to the prevailing
spirit. A.11 had to yield to it. The coaches of persons
of eminence were stopped, and those on them
forced to alight to drink His Majesty's health, all
which tended to prove that though cruelly treated.

at Carisbrooke (for he was barbarously used ever
since the failure of poor Burley's attempt  being
confined in a narrow compass, denied the access of
his friends) , the King still reigned in the hearts of
his subjects. But oh, how doleful was now his
condition ! Persecuted by schismatics, guarded
by rude soldiers all day, and kept fast from stirring
at night by what they called conservators,
whose beds were placed across his chamber door !
Oh, if unjust interference with the liberty of a
subject be a thing to be reprehended, what shall
we say of the case where the King himself is the
sufferer ?

Ifc was no small satisfaction to me to contemplate
the posture of the city on this night. Everywhere
was mutiny apparent, and contemptuous
.songs were everywhere sung against Atkins,
Warner, the Derby House, and the chief officers of
the Parliament army.

Jack Gayer was prepared with some fitting addresses
to the rulers of the seditious party. Palling
in with a procession of prentices which I told you
came up, he heads them, and beginning to sound
his bell, pronounced the following proclamation in
aloud voice, amidst the approving laughter of the
generality there : 

"' Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes ! If any man, angel,
or dive, can tell where the bodies of Oliver Cromwell
and Tom Fairfax are now resident  you shall
know the one by his refulgent copper nose, which

lie ever kept well burnished that he might not be
constrained to trouble the dive to light him, or

grope his way to ; you may know the other

by his smoky countenance, his mouth drawn
awry and his looks like the picture of doomsday
when the planets be darkened. If any as aforesaid
can bring tale or tidings where these two arch-traitors
aforesaid now are, let him bring word
to the cryer, and he shall be hanged for his
pains.""

The procession which Jack Gayer had gotten in
front of was of prentice boys, and they carried
with them the efl&gy of a Parliament officer, wearing
Parliament colours. f The groans of all the
bystanders did greet it as it passed along, and 1
perceived a scroll above it with the name of Colonel
Robert Hammond writ thereon. At the next effigy
I shed tears, for it did recall to my remembrance
the miserable fate of my poor brother Burley for
it was intended for wicked Judge Wild, and was
arrayed in a ruff and a red clout for a judge's gown,
and the said effigy  like that of Hammond  did
dangle on a gibbet with a bill of treason to its
neck. With that of Wild came some chaunting a
mocking ballad against that fiend incarnate.

Both these effigies, having been dragged in the
kennel from one end of the city to the other, were

The above appears in print at a later date. The times were
rich in political squibs, but more wit was displayed by Royalist
pamphleteers than by their opponents.

fine., an orange tawny scarf.

set up in Paul's churchyard on their gibbets in a
bonfire, and there burnt with all circumstances of
contempt, many throwing brands at them as they
burnt. After a little they blew up, having been
stuffed with wet powder. I, growing mad, flung
brands like the rest. Just as they had blown up
comes a coach along that place at a slow pace with
the curtains drawn. Word was passed that there
were some grandees within it who had been to sup
with Lord Mayor Warner. Jack Gayer and I  
the horses being stopped by others  pull open the
curtains, and there is the Lord Denbigh in mighty
fear.

This is the man' cried I, " that prevented the
King's escape from Carisbrooke ! "

This exclamation of mine being explained and
repeated, a storm of groans did rise. What was
done to my Lord Denbigh I know not, for I
became suddenly insensible to all things, for,
overcome with exertions which had been too much
for me in my then weak state, I wounded away.

A Letter of Intelligence at this time says :  " On the King's
coronation day (27th March, 1648) bonfires were never so many
since the King returned from Spain  people forced out of their
coaches in passing to drink the King's health, nobody preventing
 an image of Hammond, hanged, drawn, and quartered,
being dragged through the streets by the neck." Another letter
Bays :  " A company of city blades in Friday Street had prepared
an effigy of Hammond dressed in old clothes, which they carried
about in procession, which ended in the fire where they had prepared
their gibbet, on which they hung their puppet, and so burnt
all together. Lord Mayor Warner dared not shew his nose  a
fireball was thrown into Lord Denbigh's coach."  Letters of Intelligence
in Clar. MSS., Bodl., Oxford.

HOW THE CITY WAS TO BE COZENED.

I GOT safely back to Queen Street with the help
of Jack Gayer, but I was something the worse of
the adventure  at least, so deemed Dr. Pyle who
did not know I had been forth. I was ordered to
be kept very quiet, and in the course of a few days
became quite wearied with the silence of Sarah
Skelhorn. Furthermore Faithful paid no more
visits, and I got weary of such books as were
brought me. At the end of a week, though I got
very much stronger I was still saluted with fingers
upon lips. It was some relief to get a letter from
the Isle of Wight from my poor sister who was
still the guest of Frances Trattle yet 'twas but a
poor one, for the letter was necessarily sad, and
though it spoke very religiously of resignation to
a hard fate, did nevertheless draw tears from my
eyes. She charged me to observe very punctually
the last wishes of poor Burley, and reminding
me how he had prayed for his enemies, begged me
not to dream of avenging his death. This letter I
did receive on Sunday the 9th April, which I remember
very well. The sun was shining cheerfully,
and feeling the air from my open window

exceeding balmy and pleasant, and believing that
all the house were to church, I made my way forth
of the secret door which Jack Gayer had by some
inadvertency left open  and soon gob into Holborn.
There I did approve the greenness of the hedgerows
and the appearance of the early flowers in
the gardens thereabouts.

"Ah' thought I, with musings proper for the
Sabbath, " the resurrection of verdures and flowers
doth well console poor mortals  teaching them
how after the coldness of dreary decay and dea-th
which winter doth so aptly image  there shall
come a revivifying to warmth and colour and to
glorious light."

And then I think of John Burley, whom doubtless
the angels shall welcome to triumph and great
joy in the halls of heaven; though his end in this
world of shadows was so dismal. And shedding
a few tears, I determined to sorrow no more for a
martyr to religion and loyalty, and rather to leave
to God the infliction of that punishment which
was due to his murderers, than myself to seek for
revenge, though I felt I was clearly bound to follow
his example, and fight to the death for the King,
whenever and wheresoever a fair and open fight
could be had. In the middle of such contemplations,
I am disturbed.

Halloa ! ho! ' cries a voice from the opposite
side of the way  and I observe Jack Gayer hailing
me.

*'Hatli the chirurgeon sent thee forth to take the
air? " says he cording across to meet me.

Nay," said I, " I am forth without leave again
but the day is fine, and I feel almost myself once
more. I am very glad to see thee Jack Gayer, let
us have a quiet talk together, I am sick to death
of the discipline of La Trappe."

You talk of traps," says he, " I will tell you of
a strange one."

I told him I did only allude to those monks
whose discipline it is to refrain from speaking  a
piece of erudition I got from Sir Henry Wotton.

But of what kind," said I, " is this trap you
speak of? "

** Rupert, you walk toward the Moor fields with
me'' says he, " and I will tell you  I must to the
Moorfields instantly."

Wherefore to the Moorfields ? " said I.

"Because the prentices are forbidden to go
there  is not that reason enough ? "

Whereupon I did consent.

*' I have a marvellous relation for thee," says
Jack Gayer.

This was the tale which he told me by the way.

It was but thursday last," says Jack Gayer,
commencing his relation, " that I was to the Tower
to see my father, the late Lord Mayor, who is as
thou knowest hard and fast there for resisting the
usurping Parliament, and by the same token, I
have a party of brave mariners  who are somewhat

under a cloud for their loyalty  lying in
wait to convey Mm forth when chance shall favour
the enterprise. My father hath the noble companionship
of Judge Jenkins,* the bold destroyer
of the quibbles of Parliament lawyers  I thank
God, my father is hearty and well, despite the
cruel treatment he receives. Well, thursday I
was to the Tower, when he bids me go see such an
one, whom I name not, who had somewhat to reveal
to me  an alderman or common councilman
it matters not but say thou nothing. To
the said alderman or what not I accordingly went,
and he knowing that there is some villainy to be
done, and finding that I was ready to undergo
the risk of detecting it, conveys me privately to
the Common Council chamber, where being ensconced,
I put on a prepared dress. The place
was a little closet in the Council Chamber, Rupert,
where hung some garments of the Council" 

"Iot Atkins, his '' f said I, '' surely ? ''

' Nay," says he laughing, " or I had not
stomached the neighbourhood. 'Twas but a
matter of aldermen's gowns. But in short 'twas
a spy place with a little hole bored through the
door, like what you found in Starkey's chamber
closet.

No one was able to answer the Royalist arguments of Judge
Jenkins.

t An allusion to an amusing but very coarse anecdote of
Atkins his " continuations, which is unfit for publication.

*' I had been some time stowed away, when the
whole multitude of the Common Councilmen assemble
 good enough souls many of them, which
had little but gossip to retail. Anon enters
Warner, Lord Mayor (illegally) elect, and with
him Fowke, Gibbs, Atkins, Pennington, and the
other commissioners of the City Militia. Scarce
had they deposited their treasonous carcases on
several chairs  an example which the other goodmen
followed  when the door flies open, and in
marches the fiery copper-nose who is so entirely
their master'

"What, Noll? Noll Cromwell?" said I.

He," returns Jack Gayer. " No other. Now
you must know that Noll but a short time back at
this house in King Streets gathered together the
grandees of the Parliament and the army, and
spoke largely about drawing closer together in
bonds of love and amity (to what end you may
guess, while the King's party begins to stir again).
This, Master Walker, the member, will confirm to
you and he is a good ferret I can tell you. Well,
his design is to the same purpose before the
Common Council ; but notwithstanding all he can
say about danger to the Commonwealth and to the
city by tumults and plots of the Royalists, it
took not at all, save with Warner, Fowke, Atkins,
Pennington, Gibbs, and that crew. Whereupon,
after the manner of a turkey-cock, he begins to

Vide Ludlow's Memoirs.
VOL. II. D

gabble and to swell, and to bluster, and at last
blowing a point of war through his brazen snout,
and scratching his mole, he asks 

'"'' ' What if it where for the glory of God if this
city were burnt ? ' 

"Now 'mum' being the word, for Noll is one
that doth not idly threaten, he turns on them
roundly once more, and asks by whose authority
the governorship of the Tower, and the ordering
of the train-bands of the city, and what not, were
restored to the city after the army marched in
last sear. Whereupon, Glover, his own solicitor
who doubtless was there for the express purpose
 answers quickly 

' By yours and Sir Thomas Fairfax his,' and immediately
pulls forth the instrument itself, with
their two names to it, and hands it to Noll ; and
what does General Cromwell, but thrust it into
his breeches pocket, and takes himself off."f

What!" said I, "with the liberties of the
city?"

' Liberties ! " cries Jack Gayer, " nay, the Parliament
made them a present long ago to the
plundering Committees. To proceed  Noll gone,
yon may fancy how the council being perplexed
what to do, belaboured one another. Finally they

This threat of Cromwell, alluded to in ballads of the time is
mentioned by Clement Walker in his History of Independency.

t See Walker's Rest. of Independency for the narrative of
(Cromwell's proceedings on the occasion.

agree that Cromwell must be appeased, or the
city shall suffer  and how think you Warner proposes
to do it ? "

How ? " said I.

*'By curtailing the liberties of the prentices.
There is to be an end of walking in Finsbury
"Fields, Lincoln's Inn, the Moorfields and suchlike
places on the Sabbath. It was proclaimed last
night, and the Marshal's men are to look to it."

What ? " said I, ' after all holidays have been
taken away ? "

We shall see my Lord Mayor's orders disputed
if I have any voice in the matter' cries Jack
Gayer, " but hearken, good Rupert, to the end of
the story. After some discussion all depart save
Warner, Fowke, Gibbs, Atkins, Reynolds, and
Pennington  who fearful of their own voices take
to whispering about some further villainy, and
anon, having talked about the favour of the Lord
to them, in having given them the Bishop's lands
at a cheap rate; they get to their usual vsork,
and prick off from their lists fresh names for
sequestration for delinquencies, real or pretended.
]cut the task being long, and it growing dark, all
depart save Warner and Fowke. Warner, having
fixed upon some fat alderman to bleed, pushes the
paper to Fowke to sign, but Fowke objects that it
is too late in the day. While they are disputing,
I stand ready in my prepared dress what think
you it was ? "

* Nay, I know not," said I.

A dive's skin," says he, ' with black hide,
horns, fearful snout, and pointed tail all complete
once worn at the Globe  by Hugh Peters, from
whom I did purchase it. With this I had predetermined
to give the rogues an alarm in case I was
discovered.

*' ' We are not a quorum,' says Fowke, ' it requireth
three to make one.'

*' ' Nay, but sign thou,' says Warner, ' the dive's
in it if I cannot get a third to put his hand to it
after.'

At this good cue, the doors of my closet softly
fly open, and in two skips I reach the Council
board. Warner and Fowke casting up their eyes,
seeing the quorum thus made up, howled, fled and
fell over one another in their haste to be gone."

Oh, rare ! " cried I, " and you ? "

"Escaped with difficulty," says Jack Gayer.
'there was a dive's hunt after me all through
Bucklesbury, but, aided by friends, I cozened
them, and got severely chid for my rashness, by
the alderman who had procured my entrance to
the closet, and who was to have by-and-bye returned
to conduct me quietly from the same."

Jack Gayer had scarcely finished his relation,
when looking round for the third or fourth time at
a lad muffled in a cloak, with his hat slouched over

The tradition that Hugh Peters used to play ** fool's" parts in
Shakespeare's company, has been already alluded to.

his face, who was walking at some little distance
behind, I whispered to Jack Gayer 

'' Halt a minute' And then turning suddenly
back, caught the fellow by the cloak.

Wherefore do you follow me, sir ? " said I.
Then this brave youth lifts up his head, and disclosing
a whey face in which a blank expression
was very well counterfeited, I find that my suspicion
is fully confirmed.

It was the rascal Cornelius Evans !

Take that, and that'' said I, presently, slapping
his face in remembrance of the various mischiefs
and injuries his Majesty as well as I myself
and others had received at his hands. " And that,
and that, and that," I continued, " for following
me and my friend''

But Cornelius setting up a howl (I believe in the
hope of attracting attention, but there was no one
near), gave solemn assurance that he was innocent
of any design to overhear what we were saying.
With much blubbering, he professed contrition for
past offences, and declared he was now a hearty
servant of his Majesty, for whom he was ready to
fight to the last drop of his blood.

Jack Gayer, who was very much entertained by
the sudden assault I had made upon " Whey-face "
whom he knew something of, but thought to be a
harmless, lying jackanapes  now begged him off,
and even helped to persuade me, upon my relating
the fellow's behaviour in the Isle of Wight, and

at Winton, that perchance his repentance was
sincere.

Cornelius," said I, " I will pardon you this
time, if you will cease the noise you are making'

' Hark ! " cries Gayer, at the moment. A
scornful cheer rending the air is followed by
another.

We were now not far from the Moorfields, Jack
Gayer , suspecting the cause, seizes my arm.

Warner his work ! " cries he, ' a crown piece
on it. Let us haste thither and see."

And forgetting all about Cornelius, who however
did follow us, we hasted away in the direction of
the cheers.

To

THE COUNTESS OF EGLINTOK
AND Wanton.

THE PRENTICES PROVOKED TO RISE.

When we got to the Moorfields, we saw the cause
of the shouts we had heard, for some of the Tower
Hamlets train-band, armed with firelock, were
then in order of battle advancing slowly across
the ground, driving before them a crowd of prentices
and others, who, though still retreating, did
mock them with many jeers. Small account was
made of the smocks, which, owing to the sunny
weather then prevalent, were spread out to bleach
in this famous drying ground drained by his late
Majesty King James of happy memory  for both
pursuers and pursued did leave their footmarks
thereon ; the women owners thereof being over-frightened
either to attempt to rescue their goods
and chattels or to argue with the trespassers, which
in a quieter moment they would, I doubt not, have
remembered to do. The Marshal's men and watchmen
had, it appears, gone on to the ground first,
but found few boys there, till the arrival of the

# <i "When-we meet in Moorfields I shall desire you to
banish the laundresses and bleachers whose acres of old linen
make a shew like the fields of Cartagena, when the five months'
shifts of the whole fleet are washed and spread."  Sir n>/i. covenant's
Works, p. 354, ed. 1G72.

train-band did unite many who through curiosity
came.

What meaneth all this ? " cried I.

Quoth Jack Gayer 

'' Behold ! Doth it not tally with what I told
you ; look yonder at their commander. That is
Gale, a noted zealot. What ! forsooth, must they
take away all our holidays and we must also be
chased from the Moorfields by these mock saints *? "

And with that we advance into the middle of
the slowly retiring crowd of prentices.

' What do ye here, ye Sabbath-breakers ? '
cries the exceeding righteous commander. "Get ye
home every one of ye; what do ye here upon the
Lord's day?"

What do the train-bands here on the Lords
day?" cries Gayer , in a still louder voice. "Stand,
boys and dispute with them. Neither Marshalsea,
Mayor, nor Parliament schismatics have a
right to prevent us from walking for pleasure in
the Moorfields."

At this that rebel commander calls to his men
to halt, and charge their pieces. " Will ye hence
or no ? " cries he, now beginning to look troubled,
for on all sides the throng did increase.

We will not hence," was the answer. Then
to the amazement of many that commander orders
his men to give fire. They discharge their pieces,
and there was a panic, the boys pressing back and
tumbling over one another. In the confusion the

Marshal's men seize upon some of the boys who
had begun to pick up stones.

It is only powder," cried I, who had watched
the loading, and saw, though the men had bullets
in their mouths they did not put them into their
muskets.

*' You shall have small shot freely anon,' cries
their captain, 'if you disperse not."

And he turns to his men and bids them charge
their pieces again.

They are loaded with small shot," cried I, as
soon as they were finished.

This many not believing, and growing rather
bolder by finding that none were hurt by the last
discharge, redoubled their taunts, and returning,
press more and more towards the train-band.
All of a sudden there is the word given, '' Make
ready, present, give fire ! " A commotion, a confusion,
a rush to depart. Some who have been
hurt by the bullets groan with anguish, but worst
of all, on his back on the ground, his face much
disfigured with blood and powder blast, lies a poor
boy," but eleven years old. He stirs not, and word
is passed that he is dead. Then rose a cry of
anger and dismay.

We will have revenge ! revenge ! " shouts
Jack Gayer.

Then said the Captain to the Lieutenant, turns

The only son of hia mother," says a Letter of Intelligence
of this date.  Club. AJ.'>6., Bodl.

ing pale, " I will be with thee anon look to all
in mj absence."

'' Murder ! Murder ! Murder ! " is now the
cry, and it is followed by one of " Down with the
train-bands ! "

And many seizing stones and brickbats send
showers thereof at the train-bands.

Said I to Gayer, ' Now that captain " (meaning
Gale) " who hath done all this mischief takes himself
secretly off."

With that we run at him  he making all the
haste he can to be gone, doubles among the
throng, and we lose sight of him for a while.

There he is," cried I, catching a view of him
once more.

'' Nay," said Gayer, '' he wore a scarf."

But having noticed him thrusting the same into
his breeches, I cried out 

Look you, how puffed his hinder parts are."

This did that commander to escape notice the
more easily, for I have no doubt he determined to
return no more to the fray, and had also thrown
away what a rebel always should, viz., his scabbard,
and what a rebel never should  his sword.

Jack Gayer outstripping me, flies at him, seizes
him by the neck of his doublet from behind,
which being somewhat rotten from the often training
he and it had attended  gives way, and is
presently rent to flitters ; and so after a kick or
two away flies this train-band commander not for

the first time they say, for he had performed the
like feat at Newbury Wash. In the meantime his
men seeing their commander on the retreat, began
to follow his example, whereupon the prentices
assault them with fury, and put them to rout,
using some of them roughly, and taking their fire-locks
from them. The train-band flies to Long
Alley, which for a time they make good, firing on
the prentices, some of whom are now able to
return their fire. At last , however, they are compelled
to retreat, being completely beaten by the
boys they came to put down.

It would be almost impossible to describe the
combustion that followed. The prentices, maddened
by the wanton and unwarrantable proceedings
of the zealots, who it is supposed were
worked upon by Lord Mayor Warner, or perhaps
rather by Cromwell's agents, break open magazines
and armourers' shops, and seize arms where
they can, no one attempting to prevent them.
Next they run to Whitechapel and other places,
and seize the colours of divers train-bands, and
they divide themselves into several bodies, whereof
one marches to the Royal Exchange, and give three
cheers for the King under his portraiture,* the
sceptre whereof had been broken out of his hand
about the beginning of the troubles in 1641.
Others flaunt their ensigns as far as the Mews,

Meaning " statiie."'

where crafty Noll lying in wait for the occasion,
rides forth himself with Rich's horse, attacks them
fiercely, and drives them and the unarmed multitude
which follow them back to the gates of the
xity, into which, as darkness was now setting
in, he dared not to enter ; and, indeed, the roar
and turmoil which resounded at Ludgate and
Newgate where chains were drawn and the gates
barred, made them think that the whole city was
risen ; so he contented himself with sweeping the
suburbs, and returning to Whitehall.

With the party, which made the bravado at the
Royal Exchange, were Jack Gayer and myself. I
leave you to conceive the appearance of our noisy
procession, which was lighted by flambeaux. Jack
Gayer and I, who were in the van, now proposed to
pay Lord Mayor Warner a visit. His house being
handy, thither we go, a great crowd of men (and
women too) following. The Lord Mayor, having
received notice some time before of what was
doing, was put in great fear, for he had expected
the tumult he had provoked would have been confined
to places outside the city walls. Be that as
it may, on the first alarm the Committee of the
Militia of the City were assembled at his house,
and there not having been time to call out

"Remember the butchery committed upon the unarmed
apprentices, when Cromwell cryed to the soldiers to kill man,
woman, and child, and fire the City ; at which time his nose
looked prodigiously as a fiery comet."  A Seasonable Caution to
the City (1648).

-sufficient of the train-bands to protect him, they
had sent to Whitehall for assistance, which, however,
my Lord Fairfax did not vouchsafe to send.
But of that we were ignorant. That they had
made such defence for themselves as they could,
we saw ; for when, with great noise, we approached,
we perceived a couple of drakes (all in the dark till
we came) with a motley body of not more than a
few hundreds in those red, blue, and yellow
uniforms which, I believe, they had been fitted
with to go fight the King at Newbury about four
years before.

The two Sheriffs were there, expecting death,
no doubt, but gallantly mounted  though their
horses, on the sight of our flambeaux, colours, and
brandished caps, and what not  no less than from
the furious noise we made  did nearly ease themselves
of their riders. Whereupon one of the
Master Sheriffs is assisted off. He comes forward
to propose treaties of peace. But our terms are as
hiijh as they were when, in Sir John Gayer'? time,
we broke in upon both Houses, and forced them to
vote for the King, to be brought to London in
freedom, honour, and safety ; and in addition
thereto we demand that the Common Council shall
petition for a free Parliament, the paying off of
the arrears of the army, and the disbanding of the
same; the casings of the burdens of free-quarter
and excise  all which were infused into us by our
elders, who moved not at all in the matter, knowing

the great peril, and yet were willing that we
should proceed to extremities. For ourselves we
did demand that our old holidays be restored ;
item, that the two drakes there be delivered up tous
; item, that the train-bands should lay down
their arms; item, that the Lord Mayor should
come out and drink the King's health upon his
knees, and then resign his office to Sir John
Gayer ; upon consideration of all which matters
there is a very general shuffling to get within doors,
together with a whispered command from above to
point the drakes and discharge them on us. One
of these we thereupon violently seize, but, lo ! it is
nailed But " Fall on " is our cry  the train-bands
retreat into the house, firing random shots as they
go  not to protect my Lord Mayor and the Commissioners
of the City Militia, who had fled to the
Tower by a back way  but themselves. Whereupon,
having seized the other drake, we wheel it
round and let fly at the door of his lordship's
house. This silencing any further bravadoes they
might have made, we deck the said drake with
colours, and in triumph roll it away to post it at
the city gates, for we were not without thought of
an assault from Whitehall in the night. Away we
rattle it, down Cheapside, and past Old Paul's,
which looked as black as pitch, and while windows
did gleam with the reflections of our flambeaux,
methought that holy fane seemed, as it were,

i.e., spiked.

somewhat scared at the wildness of our attempt.
Nevertheless, we proceeded to do what we could.
The drake was loaded, and posted at Ludgate, for
to receive Hewson Berkstead, or Rich his men ;
and the Gatehouse guarded bj such force as we
could muster. The same at other gates. Newgate
prison and other prisons, we did also force
open, wherein were divers Cavaliers, who, amazed
at our successes, were urgent for the city to join. At
their instance we seized the drums of the train-bands
and beat them from end to end of the city,
and also at the water stairs on the river ; and the
cry that night, all through London city, lately
called " The Rebellious' was for " God and King
Charles ! ''*

All the incidents in this chapter are recorded facts. Clement
Walker would have us believe that Cromwell, knowing there
would be a general Royalist rising before long, devised the plan
of provoking a riot in order to obtain more complete military
control of the city.

VOL. II,

THE GLORIOUS TENTH OP April

Worthy anniversary to be noted with red letters
in the calendar. Poor prentice boys shot and
slashed to death by the heroes of Naseby and Long
Marston ! You shall now hear the end of the
business.

We had but one drake and a matter of 500
muskets to fight the flower of Fairfax his army.
What could the hands of poor prentice boys
accomplish at such unequal terms ?

If I have said more about the part my companions
acted in yesterday's affairs, than what I
did myself, it is because I have more important
adventures to describe. I shall now briefly communicate
the conclusion of what, if properly
seconded, might have led to greater results.

But first I must not forget to mention that
Cornelius Evans came in among us, and, with
renewed tears for former shortcomings, declared
he would give up his evil courses and evermore
heartily fight for the King; whereupon, Jack
Gayer took him away to help to assault the Tower

This day was also memorable 200 years later, viz., for the
great Chartist fiasco.

of London, assuring him that he should have
<jeverj opportunity for amendment ; for when the
ladder should be planted to scale that fortress
(where Sir John Gayer did lodge) he should be
permitted to mount first, be the peril what it
might.

But now to proceed with my relation. I, being
-experienced in the matter of ordnance, readily took
the command to watch and ward at Ludgate with
our drake, which I did without adventure, till a
little before seven o'clock on the morning of the 10th
of April. Being relieved by another, I immediately
fell into a very sound sleep on the floor of the
upper chamber of the Gatehouse, overcome with
fatigue, and not yet recovered from my late illness.
Notwithstanding that some noises did
mingle in my dreams, I was not awaked by them ;
and it was not till I was shaken for a third time
by some hand unknown, that I was aware of the
dangerous situation I was in.

Looking forth from the window I perceived, not
fifty yards off, my Lord Fairfax* and a great body
of horse, riding leisurely up to the gate. I gave
myself up for dead, but yet thought of one last
shot on behalf of his imprisoned Majesty.

Let fly, let fly ! " cried I, thinking that the
drake was where I left it the night before, with its

Heath says that Sir Thomas Fairfax entered himsdf by
Aldersgate with horae and foot and fell to scouring the streets
Chron. fol., p. 171.





muzzle peeping through the chained and partly
open gates, and stifling any compassion I might
have had , from the consideration that he had
shown none to my poor brother Burley. As soon
as I had called out to let fly, I ran down the stairs,
wondering at the good discipline of the boys to be
so silent, and expecting every moment to hear the
noise of a large case of slugs roaring forth a discharge
 when, lo ! I found not a living soul there \
not a prentice boy was left; and the drake was
gone with them ! The truth was that at seven of
the clock Margate had been forced, and word
being brought, it was determined by those at
Ludgate to forsake it, and to run with the drake
to the heart of the city.

Fortunately they had not unchained or unbarred
Ludgate before they went, and so, while Fairfax
his men did thunder there for admission I was
enabled to escape, taking one of the narrow turns
towards the river, which I had not been free to doa
moment later, for the zealots were now beginning
to turn out, finding their friends knocking,
and would have seized me without doubt.

I ran down to the water stairs, near Barnard's
Castle, and there found a boat with a yellow clout
for a flag, wherein were half a score prentices
bawling honestly for the King, and beating a
drum, all pretty tired  for they had been at that
exercise all night, only supported by two small
cans of beer. Begging them to take me on board.

which they did, I damped their ardour by telling*
them what I had just seen, and persuaded them to
drop down the river, the tide then favouring us.
This they were ready enough to do, for we perceived
half a dozen of barges full of soldiers from
Whitehall stairs, scouring the Thames. Seeing
-our clout, one of them, skirting the bank side,
made at us. Fearing to be overtaken, we pull for
.our lives, shoot the second arch of London Bridge;
then, kicking a hole in that drum, and, throwing
both it and the yellow clout into the Thames, we
make for Billingsgate, and there, jumping ashore,
all shift for ourselves. For myself, I knew not
whither to go. I was now in no small alarm.
Cross the bridge I dared not. Some signal gunshot
off from the Tower turned me back as I
thought of seeking Jack Gayer in that quarter.
To return to Queen street, with Fairfax interposing,
seemed impossible. To get by Bishopsgate
into the open country was my last thought, and
concluded to be the wisest course. But our own
prudence sometimes leads us worse than carelessness.
Of a sudden, I found myself in the midst of
the greatest danger possible, for I accidentally got
in front of Leadenhall Market, just as all the poor
mutineers were like to be trapped. For you must
know that while some of Fairfax his men were
entering at Newgate and Ludgate, under Resonant
also at Margate  Riches horse were already
come in at Aldersgate and Bishopsgate, which was

advertised by the signal-piece I had heard and
seen discharged from the top of the White Tower.
So that when I go where I said, both horse and
foot were coming both ways !

I perceived at the same instant the drake from
Ludgate being pulled up in front of the Leaden-hall
Market  Cornelius Evans labouring hard at
that service, which gave me an improved opinion of
him. He had however quitted Jack Gayer and his
party of mariners, whom, he informed me, had all
been taken prisoners.

Seeing now what was coming: to enclose them,
the poor prentices let go the drake in a panic.
But having again considered the posture of affairs,
and being also encouraged by women at the-windows
crying " Shoot ! Shoot ! " they made an
attempt to serve it. But though they poured their
fine powder into the touch-hole more than once,
when they had laid it somewhat high for a long
shot at Berkstead his men  it but flashed at the
breech without discharging the slugs it was loaded
with, which was fortunate, for there were many in
front of it, so confused by the approach of the
enemy, that they knew not what they did. Lie
horse from Aldersgate, drawing on faster than
Berkstead's foot, we wheel the drake about to give-fire
on them.

*' Oh ! '' cried I, remembering a lesson I had
learnt aboard of the Reformation, "you have
moved your drake loaded, you must unload  or

hold  give me the rammer and look you put your
thumb on the vent there ! "

I now forcibly and quickly ram home. This
done, the drake is primed again, and at my
instance they stand in front of it to screen it. But
now we were put in desperate fear, for Rich his
troopers, not a hundred yards off, came rushing up
pell-mell with their long swords ready for us !

Shame ! shame ! shame ! " cry all the women
from the windows.

Then I shouted, ' Stand aside, and give fire ! "

Men all step aside from in front of the drake,
and run in rear thereof. Rich's horse, coming
on at a furious pace, perceive the danger, and pull
up, closing to one side of the street, out of the line
of fire. The drake is discharged ; but, being
pointed too high, what pellets went near them
did pass over their heads. At the moment the
drake is shot off we are peppered from another
quarter, for Berksteads foot, running up the other
way, halt on the same side of the street as
Rich's horse. Many of us were wounded, among
whom was a poor woman, who, touched by the
tired condition of some of those youths, and not
seeing the near approach of the soldiers, had run
across the street with some drink for them. I
caught her falling, and carried her into a neighbouring
house, but, being pierced by three bullets in a
vital part, she presently expired, deluging with
blood the bed she was laid on.

She was very far gone towards maternity at the
time. Surely a glorious exploit for the Parliament
party to finish their undertaking against the
liberties of the citizen which had begun with the
slaughter of an innocent of eleven years.

To conclude this notable affair, the horse now
capturing the drake, those of the prentices who
could not get into houses in time were ridden
down and furiously hacked and slashed by Eich
his men. Many were captured ; but happily the
greater number got through Lendenhall and the
neighbouring dwellings assisted by the people,
among which number was I, for which deliverance
I can never sufficiently thank Heaven ; for, having
doubtless been seen to be active with the drake,
besides the discovery of former delinquencies, I
had doubtless been made a terrible example of."

A Parliamentarian account of this morning's business is as
follows :  ." Colonel Rich was sent to for some horse
from the Mews, and Colonel Baxter" {i.e. Berkstead) "for some
foot from Whitehall. About seven a clock Major Husbands,
with some horse, and Lieutenant-colonel Cobbett with foot
entered Aldersgate, &c., and a party of those that had passed
through Cornwall, and overtook them at Leadenhall when they
charged them. The mutineers let fly at them again, and discharged
their drake, which was loaded with small shot, besides
other shot made at them. But gallant Major Husbands and
Captain Merrimac and Lieutenant Lisle, with the horse, and
Captain Poole of foot, with the rest of the officers and souldiers,
fell on with courage violently, they killed the gunner and another.
A woman (which stood at the breech of the ordnance) was slain,
and divers hurt. And they seized the drake, which they turned
over into the channel, and took their colours with the ensign and
divers prisoners. Some shot at the soldiers through windows, but
being answered with shot again, that was soon over."

CONCERNING MARGARET GRAY.

shunning divers risks of capture, but happily
escaping all, I enter unperceived Master Gray's
garden door at the back of Queen Street,, and
wondering what had become of Jack Gayer, and
-also as to what adventures I shall next go through,
I once more thank Heaven for a place of security
and shelter, and without striking a light peel ofP
my doublet to go to rest  for having fled all day
from one place to another, I am glad to go supperless
to bed, though it was but eight of the clock.

But the noise of a cough, as it were forced, and
then the calling of my name in a faint tone, arrests
me before I have well got one arm out of my
doublet sleeve. Again I am called  and, yes, it
was as I did suspect. Master Gray, who lay in the
next chamber ; and now I recognise his voice
desiring me to go to him. Groping my way out,
I knock at his door, where light shines through
the chinks; and there entering perceive poor little
Master Gray lying in his bed with every appearance
of being ill  a wax light floating in a pewter
basin standing not far from him.

Rupert Lendall," says he, " sit down beside

my bed  T thought I did hear thee stirring*.
Thou art now, I hope, in a fair way of recovery'

1 told him I was nearly well, and that I was
sorry to see him in the state he was then. I was
obliged to him I said, for the shelter I had ; but,
indeed, had thought he was ignorant of my presence.
I also hoped he found himself better.

He replied that he had slept the whole of that
day nearly, and he hoped it might do him a world
of good.

'' Perchance," said he, '' I knew you were here,,
and perchance I did not. Hast thou been forth
to-day to take the air ? " (this in a tone that shews
he knows not if I have).

Yes, Master Gray," said I, in a somewhat
hesitating voice, doubting whether it were prudent
to confess, considering the dangerous part I
had played.

' Margaret is kind to thee," says he, after a
minute or two of hard breathing.

That is true, sir," said I, thinking of the good
attendance of her serving maid.

My master coughs and says nothing. I sitting
beside the bed, cast my eyes upon the floor.
Gray turns in his bed, and fixes a searching glance
upon me.

Rupert Lendall/' says he presently, '' tell me
truly  did you plan the abduction of my daughter
or no ? "

No," said I, " Master Gray  though since you

first charged me with this I have received a letter
signed by you accusing me of the same, and also
alleging you had proof."

And so I thought I had' returned he ; " nor
am I even now sure about it. Come, sirrah ! look
me in the face. Have you not been keeping
company with her this some time ? "

In this house ? " said I, looking boldly at
him.

In this house," says he ; " ay, and in many
another house, too. Come, sirrah, no evasion I
Look not so plaguey innocent'

'' Nay, I swear to you, Master Gray, I know not
what you mean""

I will have an answer out of you, sirrah,"
says Gray. " Who have you been consorting with
lately?"

I, supposing that he is about to tax me for
joining in the rebellion in the city, began to make
confession that I had met Jack Gayer, and had
been down into the commotion which began in
the Moor fields.

It is not a question of Jack Gayer," says he.
'answer me, who have been thy companions in
Kent, in the Isle of Wight, and at Winton ? "

** Sir," said I, " I can tell them on my fingers.
Firstly, my friend Master Edward Hales ; secondly,
my poor brother Burley ; and, thirdly " 

"Thirdly  who?" says he, observing that I
rather hesitated.

"Faithfully says I, "your daughter's intimate
friend."

Master Gray straggles to a sitting posture, and
looks at me with a strange expression of countenance.


I trustees said I meeting boldly his inquisitive
gaze, "that he will prove true to Mistress
Margaret's

That who will prove true P ' says he.

'' Master Faithful* said I.

Come, sirrah," says Gray sharply , " confess
you have agreed with Margaret to blind me with
talk about Faithful."

'* No, sir, o' my word ! '*

"What, think you," says Master Gray, *' does a
young man deserve who secretly gaining the affection
of a young girl, decoys her away from her
father's house?"

What, think you," said I, returning Master
Gray's stedfast gaze, " does a man of mature years
.deserve who would decoy a young girl from her
father's roof against her wish ? "

This I said, putting in a word for Faithful, while
T reflected against Sir Michael Liveseyey.

With a sigh, and turning away his eyes from
.mine, Master Gray sinks down again on his pillow.

Rupert Lendall," says he, after a long pause,
I perceive you strike at Sir Michael Liveseyey.
He is, I believe, indeed, to blame. As for my
-child, her youth and good bringing up have saved

lier, notwithstanding that appearances be against
her. If I thought otherwise, I would slay the
youth, how dear soever to her heart, that had
played her false. Rupert Lendall, I believe thou
art as innocent as she is. I will excuse thee if
persuaded by her, as I suspect, your desire to
maintain secrecy to save appearances for her sake.
I thought she favoured Sir Michael, and, perhaps,
I am somewhat to blame myself for all that has
happened. Give me thy hand. I have been ill 
very ill  of a cold, a fever, or what not, anxieties,
public and private, have helped to aggravate
matters, for I am not satisfied with the aspect
of State affairs. But no matter  I am ill, and may
not get better."

Nay, sir'' said I interrupting.

Master Gray coughed a little, and continued


'' If it should please Heaven to take me away,"
said he,  T would have thee know that I am well
to do. There are some broad pieces and other
things of value in my strong box, in the room
where thou art sheltered. Margaret will be my
heiress, and has even now some considerable
fortune of her own inherited from her mother."

 I am glad for Faithful sake," said I.

"Pooh! Faithful f says he, with some irritation.
" We have heard quite enough of him. In
Heaven's name have done with such talk."

But I  perceiving that whether he knew Faithful

had got somewhat tired of Margaret, or that his
objecting for some reason or other to Faithful's
pretensions did prefer me as a protector to his
daughter  was determined to tell him the plain
truth as politely as I could.

* Sir' said I, "lam extremely obliged to you.
I perceive that you are possibly thinking of fulfilling
the contract which was signed with my
lamented father by you  that is, of taking me
into partnership, and that in case of your death 
which Heaven preserve you from  you would
desire some one to look after Mistress Margaret's
interests in your business. I assure you, sir if
you will please to take me into the said partnership,
I will do all in my ]sower to preserve whatever
share in the said business Margaret  I mean
Mistress Gray  may have a right to. But as
regards the alliance you promise me, I am already
otherwise bestowed."

"What mean you?  speak, sir!" says Gray,
almost fiercely.

I mean," said T, " that the only fair I can ever
love is the Lady Anne Wotton."

The Lady Anne Wotton ! " says old Gray,
lying back and covering his eyes with his hand.
The Lady Anne Wotton ! "

Yes," said I, " however hopeless my suit maybe,
it is to her, and her only that I have pledged
myself."

The Lady Anne Wotton ! " says Gray again to

himself as if it was somewhat he had dreamt of
and been reminded waking.

Then starting up again, he cries 

'' And what the plague, sirrah  that is to say,
how dearest thou  a poor runaway prentice, pretend
to the hand of a titled lady ? Thou, thou !
why the poorest wench in all the city were good
enough match for such as thou art ! ''

'' Sir' said I proudly, " I had rather be slave
to the Lady Anne than mate to the richest lady
in all London'

"Lendall,' says Gray, after a pause, " I understand
thee not under an innocent exterior I fear
there may be depths of dissimulation unfathomable.
By this hand, I tell thee, ill as I am, I would span
a pistol and shoot thee like a dog did I think  did
I think  that is to say did I believe that  that
you  or rather were I fully persuaded ' 

Oh, sir'' said I, interrupting, " I see you are
at your old talk again. I have not forgotten how
you pinned me by the throat against the wall,
making accusations against me of having persuaded
your daughter to elope with me. I told
you then I was not without opportunities ; and,
sir, I must confess that in forcing her, or rather
in trying to force, Mistress Margaret into a match
with Sir Michael Liveseyey against her inclination,
you did place her in a perilous position " 

"Knave and rascal!" said Gray, "cease this
talk of Sir Michael ! What think you a father's

feelings should be when he sees his child wax
more and more pensive daily  peaking and pining
after the ungrateful swain that is not worthy toto
 wretch ! " cries Gray suddenly, as if he
were going out of his wits, and snatching at the
same time a pistol from behind his pillow, which
he always kept there for fear of thieves  ' you
have abused my child : promise to marry her
directly, or I will shoot you into the head with this
pistol ! "

I considered the poor little man to be raving. I
saw at the same time that his hand shook in such
a manner that he could not take aim. I was not
afraid either of him or of being shot. I looked
steadfastly on him, and said 

Put your pistol away, Master Gray. I am
sorry you should entertain such suspicions of me.
I denied your accusation before, and I do so
again " 

Here there came a tap at the door, and with it
enter Sarah Skelhorn ; and Gray puts away his
pistol again, seeming something ashamed to be
caught meditating a silly murder. Sarah Skelhorn
marches straight into the room, looking scared 
not, I think, at what she saw, but at what she is
meditating on.

'' Ah, I had hoped, sir," says she, " but alas ! '
and she puts her hand to her side as though she
were about to faint. '' Oh, Lord ! '' she continues
'soh, Lord! oh, Lord ! 

' What ails you, Sarah ? ' said I.

This question revives her.

'what ails me?'' says she, glaring at me now
like a wild cat. " How canst thou stand quietly
there, base fellow, and make such a demand? I
had hoped to find Mistress Margaret here, and
you of all others, Master Lendall, should be concerned
to know that she is notes'

Various thoughts course through my brain on
observing the manner of Sarah, and considering
what she said.

Ho !  says I, to myself, " this is a plot to
trepan me into a marriage  Master Faithful
having proved untrue to Margaret."

While I was waxing wrath, Sarah proceeded 

Oh thou wicked, wicked youth ! Upon thee
must the blame of the disaster fall ! '

What disaster, woman ? " here calls out Gray
*rand what in Heaven's name art thou prating
about ? "

'' Sir," says Sarah, ' your daughter Margaret
is gone out, and I know not where to find her ! "

Gone out now ?  in the night?  in the darkness
?  says Gray.

Yes, masters' replies Sarah, '' all on account
of this brave youth  who little concerned can make
his way back here without her. Sir, these two 
that is. Master Gayer and Master Lendall  appeared
to be in bed and sound asleep late this
niornirig. Whereupon I, supposing they had been

VOL. II. F

in this prentice riot that bean o the Lord's Day
more shame to them  believe the two to be
tired out and in need of rest, and so let them lie.
But about the middle of to-day Mistress Margaret,
being" troubled for this brave youth, thinking him
to be ill, goes into his chamber, and lo !  it is his
bolster decked vith a night-cap and not Master
Lendall. Anon comes reports of prentices slain
and slashed in the city by the Parliament horse.
Mistress Margaret turns as pale as death, and by-and-bye
she is missed; and, oh Lord, sir ! she is
gone  in short, I know not where. I have been
far into the city myself, and can find no trace of
her.

1 am concerned to hear this," said I ; ' but I
think. Mistress Sarah, you overrate the young
lady's anxiety on my account. Mayhap, Jack
Gayer can claim as great an interest with her
as I.'

"Jack Gayer !' says Sarah with much contempt.


What Gray thought, or what he would have
now said, I know not. There came another
diversion, namely, a prodigious clatter of pike
staves, sword hilts, and what not, at the street
door just at that very instant.

I dressed at once that it was Parliament soldiers
come to inquire for me. I said as much to Gray,
and making a short relation of the combustion I
had assisted in, desired him, if he liked, to deliver

me up to them. As for poor Gayer I feared lie
was already in their hands or slain. But notwithstanding
Gray's suspicions, the generous little
fellow declined to take advantage of my offer.

 Begone' says he, "ensconce thyself in the
chamber where thou hast been concealed by my
poor Margaret. Hence ! lose not an instant ;
and above all things take heed that being there
you make no noise, while I parley with these
men's

Thereupon I withdrew into the chamber mentioned,
and two or three officers, as I guess, after
some altercation or inquiry with Sarah Skelhorn,
are admitted into Master Gray's sleeping chamber.
Yes, it was as I thought  they had come to look
for me. I had heard enough to convince me of
that.

I concluded at once what to do. I did not
choose to be under further obligation to Gray ;
and I felt that it was a great peril for him to run,
thus to harbour an outlaw  for such the Parliament
now held me. The secret door was at my
command, and the way of escape, as I hoped, free
to me through the little garden into Holborn. To
Kent, to Kent  no matter what the danger  to
Kent 1 was determined to go.

Without another thought I left my secret and
secure asylum, just as Gray had baffled the
inquiries of my pursuers; and very cunningly, as
I thought, noiselessly quitted it by the secret

door just as their lieavj heels descended the stairs
I gained the garden house and the back postern,
and was proceeding through the little lane that
leads into Holborn when of a sudden I was
challenged by a  " Stand, ho ! who are you for ? '

I regret to say I had not the courage to say
For the King ' nor the wisdom to say " For the
Parliament '  but it was, I daresay, of little consequence.


I was instantly clutched on either side by a
trooper. A third clapped his harquebus to the side
of my head, and thus guarded I was brought
before one whom I believe to have been Major
Husbands, afterwards killed at Maidstone fight.
I told them my name was Squires. They accused
me of coming from Gray's house. I stoutly
denied it.

*' Whether or no'' said Husbands, or whoever
the commander was, " you are my prisoner, and tc
jail you shall go at once""

TO THE Compeers.

Tou may well imagine I was in no small trouble
at being thus suddenly seized, when I did flatter
myself upon my prudence in attending to an
honourable punctilio. I think, however, that I
felt a little comforted by finding I was not quite
alone in my misfortunes. At least seventy prentice
youths were my companions in misery. These
were the sweepings after the prentice mutiny,
which these valiant soldiers had collected. A line
of pikemen guarded them on either hand, and
outside all on either hand was a double line of
troopers. " March ! " says the commander and
off we go, and a long jaunt we had of it  for " the
Compters ' is our destination. A thousand times
in the course of that jaunt, I did curse my hotheaded
folly in despising the security of poor old
Gray's chamber. And poor Margaret ! Was it
really true that she was traversing of the dark
streets in search of me? T could not believe it.
1 hough, on one occasion, a long time ago, I had
kissed the said Margaret, and she had seemed to
receive my caress with pleasure. I know not
whether 1 have made this confession before or no,

nevertheless it is a true confession. I have not
time to turn over the leaves of this MS. to discover.
I pray you pardon me, I have many things
to say, and so do not accuse me of artifice ; I will
reveal all in its proper time and place, and T give
sou the true relation both of the events that
happened, and also of my thoughts in the order
as they came. Suffice it to say that I earnestly
hoped that poor Margaret would find her way back
to her house.

Most of you know where the Compters lie, and
I will not waste time by describing our silent
march thither. But it is as well to tell you I was
glad and sorry to observe Jack Gayer not far from
me. A fellow with a lantern not far from him revealed
his presence. I was glad to see Jack Gayer
for I thought he had been killed, but sorry that
like myself he had been caught. I tried to hail
him, but received a blow on the head from a pike
near for breaking silence, which besides vexing
me, confused my wits. There was moonlight when
we got in front of the Compters  one of those
wild and melancholy moons low in the sky  orange
tawny, and lying on her back. She illuminated
sufficiently those poor haggard boys, my companions,
who, baying been without food or rest
these forty hours or so, were fain to lie on the
ground like poor tired-out dogs, upon some straw
which a charitable Presbyterian minister living
hard by did provide for our refreshment, while a

den witMn was being cleared of other prisoners
for our reception. So tired were many of those
poor prentices that scarce had they laid their carcases
on the ground, ere the were so sound asleep
that they had to be pricked up by the pikes. For
there was no long delay ; ere a few minutes, room
was made for us ; and we were turned into a dark
and noisome dungeon of some extent. When I
got in then I learnt from Jack Gayer that we were
not all boys, for Mitchell the boatswain of the
' Eeformation " was there, also the gunner and
mate and the rest of those who had tried to rescue
poor Burley at Winton. Jack Gayer was ever full
of devices wild and humorous. I found he
already had planned an undertaking, for scarce
had we made ourselves acquainted with our den,
when a bundle tossed in by an accomplice through
the narrow window  or rather cornell which, without
glass and guarded by iron bars, admitted the
only air we could have, and also a slim ray of the
moon  afforded Jack Gayer an opportunity of
carrying out a plan for our deliverance.

Andrew Mitchell and those mariners who had
assisted in the attempt to rescue Captain Burley,
were now greeted by me, and acting upon the advice
of Jack Gayer, we kept near the door of our
dungeon, and waited to see what he intended todo.


Of a sudden a pale blue flame appeared mingling
with the dim moonlight, and a fearful cry of terror

was heard ringing throng our den. For lo, there
was the exact figure of the great enemy of mankind
amongst us. I confess I was not without
alarm myself being at first deceived into the idea
of the reality of the spectre, which with long
snout, horns erect, hoof and long swinging pointed
tail, admirably answered the best description we
have of that mighty Evil Spirit whose machinations
occasioned the fall of our first parents, and will
continue to the end of time to harass and persecute
to the uttermost their descendants. This
being the case not only I, but Andrew Mitchell
and those hardy mariners, set up a wail of horror
and dismay with the rest which quickly brought
our jailers to the door to see what was the matter.
But now, remembering the adventure of Jack
Gayer in the Common Council chamber of the City
and how Lord Mayor Warner had been frightened
by a similar apparition, I began to understand
a previous hint of Jack Gayer. So also did
Mitchell and his fellows. As for the rest of the
prisoners as they had had no hint they remained
paralyzed with the remembrance of that awful
vision, which no longer appeared, for the blue
flame going out left the place we were in more
obscure than before.

No sooner was the key turned in the lock of the
dungeon door, the bolts and bars drawn back, and
the door pushed open  than not very far from it the
same blue flame began to appear again revealing

again the horned and dreadful figure, while again
the same woeful exclamations burst from many
present. I have little doubt but that the jailers
were completely taken by surprise. At all events
they were immediately attacked by me and also
by Mitchell and his mariners. The figure of the
Evil One darted past carrying his blue flame with
him. Of course that fissure was no other than Jack
Gayer in his dive skin, and as for the blue flame I
must tell you plainly, 'twas nothing more than a
common sulphur match lighted up by some burning
tinder that Jack Gayer had dropped a spark
into from a flint and steel a little before.

Whether many of the prisoners escaped I know
not, but I can answer for a good round dozen 
namely, the dive, myself and Mitchell, and the
other mariners, for we all ran out of the Compters
the dive going first at a most surprising pace.
The foot without though standing there with their
arms, were so amazed at the apparition that they
did not attempt either to fire on us, or pursue until
it was too late ; and fortunately for us, the horse
had a little while before marched away. We still
kept in a body and ran and ran till I thought I
should have fallen. However as I hinted, we made
good our escape. What further adventures we
had 1 will immediately relate.

To

THE COUNTESS OF RANFURLEY,

TO KENT ONCE MORE.

To Kent, to Kent ! " was our cry. It was
raised by me. "The Lady Anne Wotton will
shelter us all if she can,' said I to myself, as the
same mad desire of seeing her at all hazards took
possession of me once more. Mitchell and the
rest, not knowing where to turn, and Jack Gayer
not caring, fell readily in with my proposition to
make for Bocton Malherbe.

At dawn of day we found ourselves in a secluded
part of the forest, which lies on the farther side
of Shooter's Hill, and making our couch amongst
the clusters of yellow primroses, under the budding
trees and the greener underwood, we slept
a few hours with some refreshment, to be awakened
by the wood-songsters whose cheerful
season of carolling had now commenced. Though
hungry, and not knowing when or how we should
break our fasts, still we were free, and that was
something to thank Heaven for. And I thought
to myself, how gladly could I spend my life in the
greenwood, feasting uon the King's deer, like
Robin Hood, if only the Lady Anne would come
there to lord it over us as Maid Marian the queen

of our sports and revels. This thought roused me
to urge my companions to continue our march towards
the loadstone which still commanded and
directed my hopes and thoughts. But we were all
impressed with the danger of taking to the roads,
for fear pursuit of us  which was, indeed, likely
enough  should be attempted. That day, keeping
to the woods, we made a fair beginning of our
journey, but I soon discovered 1 was far more exhausted
than I had supposed, and also  whether
from sleeping in the cold with no other cover than
the yet leafless trees, or from having run so far and
so hard several times the previous day  felt stiff
and sore at every joint. The charity of some
gentry, to whom we frankly told the whole
story of our escape, provided us with sustenance
for that day, and something to carry away for the
next.

If you would like to know where it was, I
must tell you it was near Wrotham when we were
thus relieved. The house had formerly been occupied
by Archbishop Cranmer, but the inhabitants
were not his descendants. The kind lady who entertained
us had three daughters whereof all were
as kind as she, but one was so passing fair that excepting
the Lady Anne I have seen none to equal
her.

Skilled in all manner of good housewifery
were they, but that fairest one was also an exquisite
painter, and did me the favour to show me

some attention, and also to afford me a sight of
her paintings. Her hair was of a golden brown,
her eyes were like violets as to hue and sweetness,
and her graceful figure truly that of a queen of
fairies. I can never forget that hospitable mansions
nor the kindness I received from that
generous lady and her daughters. And I hope
when this shall meet their eyes, as I doubt not it
shall, they will perceive that I have a lively remembrance
of their goodness and of their accomplishments.
We had there not only food and
shelter, but feast and song. Their free charities
in that neighbourhood left them unmolested,
though they were all for the King and for the
Church. And here I think I may make bold to
say that in troubled times those who take a fearless
and open course come off usually the best.

That morning, bidding a grateful farewell to
those noble friends, we proceeded across a heath
and through woods till we came to the Medway,
which we crossed by Lower Farleigh Bridge, and
soon got into the Weald of Kent. I could say
something of the neighbourhood of Bedgebury,
the mansion of the Colepeppers,t and of the delightful
seclusion of Horsemonden, Outburst,
and other places to which we strayed, partly losing

Now, I think, a barn.

t Mr. Beresford Hope gave me the curious piece of information
that the old residence of the Colepeppers is now at the bottom
of a pond in his park.

our way, and partly enticed by the charm of those
well-wooded districts, which afforded us a safer
progress than the high road towards the abode of
the lovely and ever-beloved Lady Anne.

Emboldened by our good fortune, which had
hitherto preserved us from danger, nothing will
serve but we must adventure the town of Cran-brook.
Here are manufactures of woollen cloths
carried on ; for the cloth workers  of Cranbrook,
inheriting their art from the Flemish settlers of
the reign of Edward III., are renowned throughout
all England. We bought some bread and
cheese, but finding suspicious glances cast upon us
in the street, we were about to quit the place, when
who should I see but Sir Michael Liveseyey, with
his pot helmet, cuirass , and sword, walking with
some officers of his troop of horse; for he had
come here to recruit, the place being full of those
of his persuasion. Hereupon we turn into the
churchyard, but finding ourselves followed, there
was no help for it but to go into the church, where
an evening sermon  this being, I think, the
monthly fast everywhere, or at least here  was
being preached, or rather roared, for we could hear
the preachers voice in the very entrance of the
churchyard.

The church of Cranbrook is a large and noble
edifice. It was at this time possessed by some

A very interesting lecture was delivered here upon "The
Clothworkers of Cranbrook " by an inhabitant of the town, 1873.

zealots who as elders could choose their preacher.
And lo ! it was Master Boreman, whom I had
already heard at Canterbury last Christmas. It
so happened that he was treating his hearers to a
discourse on the power of Satan, and enlarging'
much upon the miseries which would overtake the
Cavaliers in the dark realm to which they were
appointed. As his sermon proceeded, the shades
of evening began to close. Towards the end a
strange noise was heard between roaring and
grunting outside the place, and then an alarm was
raised of a dreadful apparition which it was thought
that minister's sermon had conjured up. leed I
explain that Jack Gayer, having observed Sir
Michael's troopers as well as the town const able
and others dropping into the church in a menacing
manner, was tempted to try the effect of a diabolical
appearance at what he considered a safe distance
beyond the churchyard wall. His tight-fitting
dive-skin, being carried by him ever since he had
peeled it off when we fled from the Compters, he
donned now in peace and quietness, but fancying
that his roaring and grunting had escaped notice
which at first they did  he advanced to the
edge of the churchyard and looked over the wall,
hoping to be observed through the east window of
the church. About this time all came out, and a
black head and horns appearing very fearfully in
the dusk against the sky over the churchyard wall
before mentioned, all the spectators, except we
VOL. II. a

who were in the secret, were exeeednig troubled
thereat, and set up a noise far exceeding the
granting and roaring of the supposed evil
spirit. As is customary, all at first either stood
stock-still, puzzled at what they saw, or drew back
to run away. But I and my mates, having another
cue, at once rushing towards the wall, scrambled
over it with shouts, while away went the dreadful
apparition towards the woods about the town, over
a large field covered with gorse, quite as fast ashe
had done at the retreat from the Compters.
Well was it that we ran so fast, for ere long I am
pretty sure we were followed not only by the most
of the congregation, but also by at least half the
town, with staves and pitchforks, or anything
hurtful they could lay hold on, who were so wild
with fear they would have lulled anything. The
darkness of the wood increasing these terrors,
favoured our retreat, which we would have found
difficult to have made good but for Jack Gayer's
madcap venture. He, however, had little fear on
this own account, being one of the fastest runners
I ever saw in my life, though of course his risk of
being fired upon was considerable, but as on a
former occasion he got too far away before they
thought of spanning their matchlocks. There
was no further adventure happened to us worth
relating, except that we found a diurnal in an alehouse
some miles further on, describing that the

dive had appeared to aid the escape of some of
his own peculiar imps from the Compters, and
the hands of certain officers of the army were
affixed to the relation. One afternoon we reached
Bocton Malherbe  whether it was Thursday or Friday
I cannot now remember.

AT Boston Malherbe.

I WILL not waste your time by enlarging upon the
beauty of Bocton Malherbe, with its noble park,
where so many pollard oaks do flourish, and its
fine prospect southward, lying as it does on the
crest of a hills It was agreed that Mitchell and
the rest, with Jack Gayer, should lie perdu in the
woods while I did cautiously approach Bocton
Hall and obtain an interview with the Lady Anne.
Chance favoured me. The Lady Anne was working
in her garden, it being then four of the clock
in the afternoon. Guided by I know not what instinct,
I came upon that dear presence by breaking
through a hedge of beech. She was raking a bed
of pansies and other flowers, in a garden dress,
with a pair of garden gloves upon her fair hands.

" But this house and church are not more remarkable," says
old Isaac Walton, " for anything so much as for that the memorable
family of the Wotton have so long inhabited the one, and
now lie buried in the other, as appears by their many monuments
in that church  the Wotton being a family that hath brought
forth divers persons eminent for wisdom and valour, whose heroic
acts and noble employments, both in England and in foreign
parts, have adorned themselves and this nation,' ' See Nash's
Mansions of England for a description of this place. I share
his regrets that the drawing-room (vide Plate xv.) no longer
exists, having been improved away.

When I think upon my very abrupt and sudden
appearance before her I cannot but admire the
bravery of that fairest of creatures. Instead of
uttering cries for help, or running away, she did
but stand there still transfixed rather v\rith wonder
than fear. Knowing, I suppose, that she never
had harmed any, she doubtless could not believe
that any would desire to harm her.

Oh, Lady Anne' said I, falling on my knees
before her, " forgive me for thus rudely presenting
myself to you, but knowing your kind and generous
heart, I have come to entreat your favour."

I saw by her face that she supposed I was renewing
my overtures of love, and a certain expression
of reserve did then chasten her beauty
into something that inspired me with awe.

"Alas, Rupert Lendall, is this you? " says she.
How pal-e you do look. Alas ! alas ! I know not
how I can help you."

"You shall not adventure it, lovely Lady Anne,"
said I, " unless it can be done with safety to yourselves


On hearing this she looks at me curiously, at the
same time fast opening and closing her eyelids,
which were fringed with those long eyelashes I
loved so to look upon.

Oh, Lady Anne, I am in peril, or at least I
have been, and with me some brave fellows who
tried to rescue my brother Burley at Winton.
Our latest flight is from the Compters in London."

And hereupon I detailed to her briefly my adventures.
When I came to the description of
Jack Gayer personating the Evil One, and securing
our escape  first from London, and secondly from
Sir Michael Liveseyey and his myrmidons at Cran-brook
 she listened with increasing interest, and
at last, when it came to the appearance of the
horns and head over the churchyard wall, and
the great consternation consequent thereupon, the
lovely Lady Anne threw down her rake on the bed,
leant against a cherry tree with her hand to her
side, and laughed till the tears rolled down her
damask cheeks.

Oh ! '' says she, in a faint voice at last; " this
I have heard before from  from Sir Michael
Liveseyey " 

Here she begins to laugh again.

Oh, had you but seen the doleful countenance
he had ! '

Here, being infected with her merriment, and
imagining how that knight would look, I begun to
echo her laughter.

'' While he related that part of the story " continued
the Lady Anne. " Oh ! I shall die  I am
sure 1 shall ' 

Here she slipped from the cherry tree, against
which I told you she was leaning, and I had the
great felicity of having a fair opportunity to support
her for an instant. But this put an end to
her merriment, and she begun to inquire what
had become of my companions.

I told ber they were about a third of a mile off,
concealed in a place where the underwood of the
park was very thick. She then made many particular
inquiries about myself; and at List T told
her the plain truth, that I would be in great danger
if I were captured, having been engaged in
more than one mutiny. But I added that I would
rather be slain, than put her to any hazard.

"There is very little hazard for me,' says she,
for I have many powerful friends, and advisers
too,' says she, " to wit, Sir Michael himself, though.
he now pays rather more court to another, I rejoice
to say. But, Rupert, I am much alarmed for
thee. Conceal thyself here, or at least stir not
from hence, which is better, as there is no view of
this place from the windows, and I possess the only
key so that this place is free from all chance of
intrusion. Sir Michael I must tell thee is even
now at the Hall, and as I think in my mother's
private apartments, she being indisposed at the
present time. Remain thou quietly here until my
return. I go to see what can be done, both for
thy companions and thyself."

Oh, Lady Anne ! thou art too kind, too generous
! " said I, falling on one knee, and attempting
dutifully to kiss her hand ; but she drew it away,
and darted from me down the high and winding
walk of box trees.

Before long I heard a bell ring in the farmyard
of the Hall ; and by-and-bye, I hear the Lady

Anne's light foot and short steps, and there is the
lovely creature again.

She brought with her a small basket of provide
sons, also a flask of Rhenish.

Here's says that kind and noble young lady,
*' let me see thee refresh thyself first, and after I
will tell thee what may be done'

' I will hence with it," said I, intending to add
that I would share her gift with my hungry companions.
But she anticipated me by saying 

Do as thou art bid. I have prepared more for
thy comrades."

I rendered due obedience, and plentifully refreshed
myself.

Now,'-' says she, " I will send thee away, but
promise punctually to return here at dusk. I will
make shift to conceal thee in the Hall, but thy
comrades must be distributed amongst our trusty
tenants, who I am confident will sooner die than
betray either them or me. Thy friend must cease
his pranks a while, or he will ruin all. The worthy
minister gives him lodging at the Vicarage which
is a little way through the woods down the hill.
Make him promise on no account to appear anymore
in his fiend's dress. Go through the hedge
and over the wall beyond as quietly as you
came. lTow, fare thee well till about seven o' the
clock."

Ceasing to speak, she sounded a call of silver
gilt, which was answered by a whistle from beyond

the garden. I went through the hedge andover
the wall, and there found two men with great
plenty of provisions , and a reasonable quantity of
liquor. They told me they were commanded by
the Lady Anne to accompany me; and before long
I rejoined my companions, who were much pleased
to see both me and the good cheer, and to hear
that a safe lodging was to be provided for all.
Jack Gayer promised faithfully to be circumspect
and we sat quietly talking of the goodness of the
charming Lady Anne, and discussing the provisions
and the drink for some time, and those two
men presently producing their instructions, which
were written. One man being sent to each of the
several farms in the neighbourhood, and Jack
Gayer allotted to the Vicarage  all were content.
One of the Lady Anne's men returned to the Hall
with the basket of empty bottles and broken meats,
the other remained to shew my comrades, one by
one to their several lodgings. At seven, I left by
myself, and got safely into the Lady Anne's private
pleasaunce.

Here is your servant again Lady Anne," said
I, ' and 'tis needless to tell you how grateful my
companions are for your great kindness  as for
myself

"' Peace good Rupert," says the Lady Anne,
do I not know all that thy good heart would
prompt thee to say. Come, follow me, the coast
is clear  and be circumspect ! You go to my own

private apartments where there is none just now
but ladies of my acquaintances

We enter the house which is large, and built
with wings. The wing wherein her apartments
were situate was the same that Queen Elizabeth
of famous memory did once occupy for a brief
space. You will know the Lady Anne's chambers
if they still exist, by a grape pattern on the
panels of the walls, and also by the other device
of the letter W double, being the initial of the
Wotton family. Here I was presented to the
Lady Auclier, daughter of Sir Robert Hatton ; and
also to her sister Mistress Hatton, a pair of ladies
both very young and very fair, whom I at first
thought somewhat demure. They were pleased,
however to find some interest in the relation of
my adventures. They kept diligent watch and
ward for fear that I might be surprised, and ever
and anon quitted the chamber to see whether Sir
Michael Liveseyey was returned or no ; for he had
left Bocton that evening to go to some Committee
meeting. I am so ignorant of those ladies, that
I cannot even now tell you which, was the elder of
the twain. But I think Mistress Hatton was more
active than the Lady Aucher (and maids are
usually more sprightly than matrons), and did
generally rise first to observe whether he had returned.
At about ten of the clock. Mistress
Hatton ran in with speed, and locked the door behind
her, saying Sir Michael had returned an

hour before, but they had concealed the fact from
her.

It is only for one night' says the Lady Anne,
"tomorrow we shall be rid of his presence."

At this moment a footstep was heard approaching
the door.

Get into hiding, Rupert," says the Lady Anne,
*' I fear it is my mother."

Whereupon I went behind the hangings. And
sure enough it was the Lady Mary Wotton, and
no one else. Having tried the latch of the door,
and having found the door to be locked, she raps
impatiently and desires it shall be instantly
opened. The Lady Anne, seeing I was in hiding
and safe opens the door.

Wherefore are you locked up so fast? "says
the Lady Mary Wotton, '1 am half persuaded to
search these chambers, to know whether some
miscreant be not here concealed."

This sent a cold tremor all over may body ; more
on Lady Anne's account than mine own.

*' What is the matter, madam ? " asks the Lady
Anne.

*' Everything is the matter," says the Lady
Mary, "Sir Michael cannot rest in his bed  it is
full of gorse and the Lord knows what prickly
things besides."

Surely you do not suspect me, madam ? " says
the Lady Aucher.

Or me ? " says Mistress Hatton.

I know not whom to suspect," says the Lady
Mary  and anon she taxes her daughter with
having employed one of the servants to do it.

"No, madam," says the Lady Anne, "I can
assure you I am innocent of all complicity."

It was very mean of Sir Michael to disturb your
ladyship," says Mistress Hatton, " for so paltry a
matter as a bit of gorse in his bed."

Out goes my Lady Mary without another word.
But there is some laughter between the Lady
Aucher and her sister at the expense of Sir Michael.

I too, curiously watching those two ladies received
a reproof.

Take care that your couch be not prepared for
you in the same fashion, Master Lendall."

"So it were made by fair hands," said I, "I
should not care."

"There is a gallant speech for you," says
Mistress Hatton.

Shortly after, I was shewn to my couch with
some jesting on the part of the ladies, for it was
an inner chamber. Providing me with a candle,
they did lock the door on me, and then I find myself
in two sumptuous apartments. Never was
bachelor better lodged ; and there was no gorse
in the bed  only a little sweet-smelling lavender.
There I slept securely till the lark carolling high
in the twilight sky, awaked me. I di-east of the
Lady Anne, and woke to think of her with gratitude
as well as love.

I woke, bnt could not sleep again though 'twas
not jet five of the clock, for soon my thoughts
were full of care ; I remembered the parting scene
at Canterbury, and could not flatter myself that I
had any real chance of gaining the Lady Anne's
favour ; though from her not mentioning Esquire
Hales, I concluded her engagement to him had not
been renewed. I found that one of my apartments
opened into the Lady Anne's private pleasaunce; and
the morning being clear, mild, and lovely, I was fain
to take a stroll among her flowers to calm my spirits.
One thing only perplexed me, and that was, that
I could not be sure vrhich was the window of the
chamber where that dear beauty lay sleeping. I
will not weary you with my love-sick thoughts, but
will endeavour to find things better worth dwelling
upon. Beard I had not yet any, so required
no barber, my suit somewhat rusty with service I
made as clean as I could, and found my morning-draught
outside my door, so that I ventured not
till somewhat late to intrude upon the society of
Lady Anne, and her two friends  or rather upon
the two friends  for when I entered she was not
there.

Say nothing to the Lady Anne about what I
and my sister are doing," says the Lady Aucher.

While I promised to attend to the injunction, I
felt somewhat puzzled by their occupation.

They had a gentleman's doublet upon their lap
between them, and were sewing upon it in divers

places knots of blue and red ribbons, which the
took c;ire to fasten so very tightly, that without
tearing of the doublet, they could not be removed.
Over their task they whispered frequently', and
oftener did laugh.

I observed when the Lady Anne appeared they
shuffled the doublet ont of sight, producing it
again when she was gone.

'' Mind you say nothing to her or to any one
else, about this doublet," said they, and once more
I promise.

What is the signification of those favours of
blue and red my lady ? " said I to the Lady
Aucher.

They are for a very loyal person to wear," says
Mistress Hatton.

At a gala meeting of loyalists," says the
Lady Aucher, laughing.

u There are indeed a great many loyal favours
on the doublets' said I.

Yes," said Mistress Hatton, " and before you
came in here, we fastened as many more to his
hose in all places."

By this they meant that they had sewed them on
all parts of the breeches of some person whose name
they would not reveal, and I must confess he
would be strangely attired if his breeches did
match his doublet. So indeed also thought those
two young ladies, to judge by the laughter they
indulged in over their task. Peal upon peal they

gave from time to time nor could the Lady Anne
discover the subject of their mirth.

I inquired of the Lady Anne if Sir Michael had
-gone, and she told me, no ; but he was certainly
leaving to attend a meeting of Kentish Committee
when, I know not, but he would certainly
leave Bocton Hall early that afternoon not to return.


Which, will grieve him very much," says the
Lady Aucher, " for he is fondly attached to you.
Lady Anne."

Nay ! " says Mistress Hatton, ' say rather to
the Lady Mary, her mother."

It is but a blind," quoth the Lady Aucher.

Fie ! " cries the Lady Anne, " I am very sure
lie doth affect my mother  though I hope he
shall never be my step-father. Hark ! there is his
horse now he will mount, and I hope we shall be
rid of him for at least a month."

Whither is he going, Lady Anne ? " I asked.

' To London  to a committee meeting at Maidstone
and after to the Parliament's says she.

Cautiously I approach the window and peer out
between Mistress Hatton and the Lady Aucher,
for they did go into fits of laughter, and I desired
to know the cause.

The Lady Anne's speech would have discovered
it to me without the help of my eyes.

Why," cries she, " he is all over Eoyalist
favours from top to toe. Forbear to laugh so loud.

Mistress Hattoii, or we shall have presently
another visit from my mother."

But nothing will stop Mistress Hatton. She
puts forth her head from the casement and cries 

*' Good-morrow, Sir Michael, good-morrow !
good-morrow ! I do admire the dainty taste with
which your doublet and hose are decked, but I
fear you will now be taken up for a malignant, ha !
ha!"

" Ha ! ha ! " echoes the Lady Aucher. Oh, those
ladies whom I did think to be of a reserved and
demure temper ! Sometimes our first notions of
folks are wholly mistaken. Here was the mystery
of the doublet cleared np ; but the Lucy Anne did
not know as I did, who had so facetiously adorned
it.

Wherefore did you call his attention to it ? "
says the Lady Aucher, " he was so full of trouble
at the Lady Anne's refusal to see him ere he went,
that he would have doubtless appeared amongst
the Committee of Kent ere he had discovered what
a motley fool he did look."

Did you sew those favours on his doublet and
hose ? " says the Lady Anne, seriously.

I ? " said each of those sportive ladies in the
same breath. ''Do you think Lady Anne we
would touch his garments with a pair of tongs ? "

This satisfied the Lady Anne.

I wonder which of the maids was bold enough
to play this trick," says she, "tis more ingenious

than the gorse in his bed. His room is very dark
which I imagine prevented him from discovering
what had been done ere he donned his garments
to depart'

Now fresh peals of laughter burst from those
ladies, for two of the grooms there, by Sir
Michael's direction, attempting to pull off those
favours, tore Sir Michael's clothes so grievously
that he commences to rail at them.

"What aileth thee. Sir Michael! oh! what
aileth thee I" cries another voice from the window
of another chamber. But ere the Lady Mary
could learn anything, Sir Michael still complaining,
dolefully enters the house.

' Here Lendall ! " cries the Lady Anne, " go
through thy chamber into the garden and lock the
door behind thee."

I obeyed the Lady Anne's injunction, and about
an hour afterwards was joined by her and the two
sportive ladies, who had been forced to confess
that they had played this prank on Sir Michael ,
who had changed his clothes and departed.

The Lady Anne promised not to tell her mother
on their giving their solemn assurance that they
would " never play the same trick again." But
this form of promise left them free, they privately
assured me, to play some other if a convenient
opportunity should ever offer.

VOL. II.

MORE PERILS AND MORE PRANKS.

The very next day the rumour came, that a party
of Parliament horse were on their way to Bocton,
to search for somemalignants said to be concealed
there. A letter also reached the Lady Mary
Wotton in Sir Michael handwriting, and as his
bed was ordered to be warmed and made ready for
liii, we had reason to fear he was coming back to
prolong his visit, and embarrass us all by the presence
of his detested carcase. The Lady Anne
would not believe that any of her servants would
betray her, but whoever the informant might be
'twas very certain we were all  I mean Jack Gayer,
Mitchell, and the rest  in great danger once more.
Upon receiving this alarm I was for instant flight,
but the Lady Anne would by no means permit it.
Woman's wit  ever the best in an emergency,
however grave  was set to work ; and the Lady
Anne and her friends, viewing me attentively,
came to the conclusion that as I was of a fair skin
with regular and somewhat delicate features, soft
and silken hair  but as yet none upon my face  I
might pass very well for a maiden, though I should
be somewhat tall. I readily fell in with their idea ;

and when I proved that I could alter my voice to, a
very woman-like treble, they at once decided to
put their plan into execution. The Lady Anne
found a dress of her own, which was sop.ii
lengthened and altered to fit me  all three ladies
working hard at it. It was one that I remembered
to have seen her wear, an-l to have admired her in
above all things, being of a rose-coloured silk. I
felt it a profanation to wear the same. Nevertheless,
they fitted it on with much merriment, and
at last with much admiration, for, as I had overheard
their conversations about me the night I
did arrive, praising my appearance as a most
well-favoured and handsome boy  they now declared
I made a very exquisite woman. Amidst
great laughter  though subdued for fear of being
overheard  I did call for more and more kerchiefs
to till out the bosom of my pink silk gown, to save
further alterations which otherwise had been
necessary there. After which I was pronounced
complete, and it was only requisite to frame some
explanation as to my appearance in the house. It
was then decided by the Lady Anne to take me
by screened paths through the girdle, and so outby
a postern, and round by myself to the entrance
door of the house ; where, after much palaver and
asking for the Lady Aucher (my kinswoman) I
should be received by her and her sister, and
brought to the presence of the Lady Mary Wotton
as a visitor to the house, with the further explanation

that I had come from norfolk or Cambridgeshire
I forget which, and my coach had
broken down or been overturned some miles from
Bocton Malherbe. All this was accomplished. I
was taken by the screened path, and put forth of
the postern. I made a sufficiently troublesome
announcement of myself at the door; naming,
first persons who were not known, and after, as ina
kind of surprise, discovering that I had a kinswoman
there. Then the Lady Aucher did upon
seeing me call for her sister in feigned delight,
who also came to the door. In fine, as soon as
the Lady Mary had been very well advertised of
the new arrival, I was brought into her presence,
when, with many embellishments of my own, I
told the tale of disaster upon the road which had
been before concluded upon, and received an apology
from the Lady Mary for not being able to receive
me !

But here the Lady Aucher in merriment, which
had deeper cause than the Lady Mary wot of, did
propose to offer me half her bed. But the Lady
Anne now ended the matter by reminding her
mother that the chambers within hers namely,
those I had been occupying  were at that moment
vacant ; whereupon I received a half-gracious permission
to remain as a guest in that house  protesting
at the same time that it would be a great
pleasure to me to walk along and seek a lodging
elsewhere, sooner than incommode the Lady Mary.

Do not dream of it' says she, now ashamed
of her want of hospitality, " if yon will let me
know where your coach was overturned, my knaves
shall bring your trunks hither."

Oh," says the Lady Aucher, " I am obliged to
your ladyship ; but the Lady Anne hath already
considered that matter," which was a fortunate
mode of parrying further questions.

The Lady Anne, fearful of any renewal of
troublesome inquiries, desired leave of the Lady
Mary to retire to those private apartments, which
this suddenly arrived guest was already well
acquainted with.

About this time a servant appeared before the
Lady Anne with a nosegay of a prodigious size,
entirely composed of cowslips and yellow primroses.


Ah," said the Lady Anne, " this is no doubt
an offering from the young folk of the neighbourhood."


For this was the season of the year when boys
and girls will frisk it into the meadows and woods,
and gather these simple flowers in quantities 
which methinks is ever a pretty sight to witness.

But indeed it was no such company that had
gathered this prodigiously large nosegay ; for it
soon appeared that it came from no other hands
than those of Mitchell and his fellows ; and within
the heart of the nosegay was a slip of paper with
Mitchell's handwriting on it  " Our duty and

thanks to your ladyship "  which, was indeed a
pretty tribute of respect and esteem from rough
mariners. It had been first presented by mistake
to Lady Mary, who rejected it as a worthless gift,
and desired that those who had gathered it should
be censured for wasting of their time, and trampling
down her meadows.

But the Lady Anne prized that offering, and had
it immediately placed in her own chamber.

Before long came a part of a troop of Parliament
horse to the house to make inquiries for
the concealed Royalists. The Lady Mary fortunately
was very little pleased to see them ; for
being very parsimonious in her temper, and though
very rich, keeping down her household expenses
to the very lowest, she thought the addition of
these men  though they were all of the godly
party which she favoured  more costly than was
worth, should they be quartered upon her as was
likely. So when they had ferreted all over the
house and found nothing to raise their suspicions,
except the statement they had received from Sir
Michael of the tricks played upon him, and
especially of the Royalist favours secretly attached
to his doublet and hose  the Lady Mary prayed
them to fill their bellies and depart in peace. This
however they refused to do, saying it was now
their business to search the neighbouring hamlets
and farm-houses.

Upon this we are put in great fear for Jack

Gayer, Mitchell, and the rest. Bat word was
presently brought to the Lady Anne that
all had male their escape. Upon consideration
of this we did not know whether to be glad
or sorry. But the Lady Aiine shed tears in considering
of the nosegay of primroses and cowslips
which was now perceived to be a parting gift from
those she had so kindly sheltered. They had
been advertised of the approach of the soldiers,
and I think  to judge by the account the parson
afterwards gave  had feared to bring the Lady
Anne into trouble, and so had incontinently departed.
Jack Gayer had betaken himself to his
old tricks, and had scared Wr Michael Liveseyey,
who arrived pale and trembling with a st pry of
having seen the dive on thermal, just after the
troopers had gone to ransack the neighbourhood.

The Lady M try having forgotten her ailments
in her displeasure at the visit she had received,
and the cost she was likely to be put to by those
troopers, came from her private chambers and
stormed and raged in the great parlour, and was
there found by Sir Michael in the worst of
humours.

The Lady Anchor, Mistress Hatton and I,
sitting there with her, did as far as we could,
foment her rage, the Lady Anne saying nothing
one way or other.

Sir Michael telling his tale, received from us a
mock sympathy. But Lady Mary said 

'' I think, Sir Michael, having been allowed to
see this manifestation of the Evil One  who is no
don't the instigator of all these wicked malignant
plots which now seem daily to increase  you
should be reasonable enough to ascribe to other
than ordinary influences the disturbed slumbers
you have had, and the other plagues you have
suffered here. Sir, would it not be better by
prayer and fasting to attempt to purify yourself
from the wicked company of spirits thus haunting
you, than to bring ravenous and thirsty troopers
into a godly and religious household, who are more
skilful at emptying cellars and pantries than in
ferreting out Satan and his devices ? I desire you
will send Master Boreman back to pray with me ;
and though I shall be glad of your company, I
cannot say that I desire for even an hour longer to
have au} of your regiment quartered upon me or
my tenants. At a time when the whole country
is full of plaints at the burthen of free-quarter,
methinks the faithful servants of the Parliament
might at least be exempted from it."

I think Sir Michael had never before been
addressed with such severity by the Lady Mary
(that is my Lady Wotton). Very meekly he did
plead for a guard for his person, saying that
though the dive had certainly appeared unto him,
yet he was persuaded that some mischievous
Eoyalist gallant had been concealed in the house
and played pranks upon him  unknown of course
to the Lady Wotton.

"Perchance you imagine he was concealed in
some of the lady's chambers?" says the Lady
Aucher scornfully.

I am in hopes my Lady Anne would not
permit such a thing," says Sir Michael.

'' Here be five fair ladies to watch, to tend, and
to guard you. Sir Michael," cries pretty Mistress
Hatton. "Surely a brave gallant like you and a
colonel to boot might consider such a sufficient
protection."

Or take one for better for worse," said I,
assuming the coquetry of a maid in my tone and
looks. " I have already heard talk of Sir Michael's
gallantry to young and fair maids ; and, indeed,
the example of King David and Abishag " 

For shame, mistress ! " cries the Lady Mary
(that is Lady Wotton) interrupting. " Sir Michael
I doubt not, when he marries will choose a partner
more suitable to his years."

By this remark I perceived that the Lady Mary
had either never seriously intended to bestow her
daughter Lady Anne upon this wretch, or that she
had come to a more sensible determination upon
mature reflection. But there are those who will
tell you she did encourage Sir Michael's addresses
to herself.

Sir Michael, somewhat embarrassed, preserved a
silence which gave no countenance to any of our
suppositions. But that evening, after the Lady
Wotton retired  which she generally did early 

he prayed to be permitted to wait upon the Ladj
Anne alone. 'J he Ladj Archer and Mistress
Hatton entreated her to oblige Sir Michael, but the
Lady Anne said that somebody should be present
at the interview. Whereupon I declared my
hearty desire to be the person ; and this being
agreed to, suited the Lady Aucher and Mistress
Hatt(m equally well ; for they promised themselves
the pleasures of preparing a delectable surprise
for that knight and baronet in his own
private chamber in the meantime.

The Lady Anne warner me to be a little less
lively in my behaviour, and to abstain from too
much conversation, for fear that by some inadvertency
I might rouse his suspicions as to my
sex.

I must confess that Sir Michael's conduct that
evening owns sufficiently discreet, but I think he
stood in awe of me as a very arch young lady who
might make game of him.

When it was nearly time to retire to rest, the
Lady Aucher and Mistress Hatton came into the
Lady Anne's apartments in their most demure and
chastened mood, and when Sir Michael departed
wished him a good night's rest, and hoped he
would find himself free from any annoyance that
night.

But such was not Sir Michael's fate, for he did
spend the livelong night in trying to get into his
bed without effect, those two sportive ladies having;



taken extreme pains to sew his holland sheets
together, and them also to the coverlet and
blankets in so many places and so firmly, that
the maids next morning", who were kept in
ignorance of what was done, declared that it was
the work of the fairies, for no human hand could
have had the skilL

The Lady Mary during the night had heard
the miserable sir Michael making sad moan, and
was in great fear for herself, believing that the
Evil One was visiting of that knight and baronet.
She persuaded him the next morning to go look
for some pious parson to resolve his doubts, for
Sir Michael would still have it that an earthly
hand might do all this work. However, having
taken off his old bedgown of yellow satin, which
he wore of a morning, he was proceeding to put
on a very spruce doublet, as I suspect, to go
visit the Lady Anne again, when lo ! it was
tailored like the holland sheets  scilicet, the
sleeves were sewn across and across at every two
inches, and the armholes even sealed up ; so that
it was impossible for him to put it on, and the
rest of his wardrobe he could not find, for it was
all locked in a closet, the key whereof had been
taken away.

The Lady Anne, in whom no malice was to be
found, however she might relish a joke, expostulated
with her two friends, who promised in the
same evasive terms "never to do that thing

again; " and finding that the dejected Sir Michael
was in a strait for clothes to put on, for the
Royalist favours had again appeared upon his
best and now only pair of hose, did (with some
compunction it must be admitted) take forth a
rare old jerkin and hose from a secret wardrobe,
which had been worn by the late excellent Sir
Henry Wotton, and lend it to Sir Michael to
depart in. But when it came to that, the key of
the closet was found again, and his own proper
garments restored to him. The next night cocks
did crow above his head, and a small pail of water
also streamed over him thrice during the night.
So, fearing worse things, that sorry knight and
baronet departed from Bocton for a space.

OF THREE GALLANTS IN LOVE.

The water streaming on his person and the
crowing and flapping of the cock above his head
had put Sir Michael in such fear that I think he
did persuade himself that his tormentors were
unearthly. At all events, we were not troubled
by his presence for some time, and he had sent all
his troopers away long before. I still, however,
retained my woman's dress, for it was pretty certain
that something was suspected from letters which
came to the Lady Mary, who did very closely
question her daughter as to what persons might
have been harboured by her in those private apartments.


If,' she says, '' you ever admitted young
Esquire Hales there, even for an hour, I will disown
you for my daughter."

But this the Lady Anne was able to answer
satisfactorily ; and I perceived that the Lady
Wotton was so full of animosity against Esquire
Hales that she did not make inquiries as to
whether any other young man had been entertained.


By this was my fancy lulled in an agreeable
sleep, for though I dared not to hope favourably
for myself, yet did I conclude  very falsely as it
afterwards did prove  that the Lady Anne had
become fancy-free.

When boys will be  not boys  but girls, they
will meet with embarrassments never before so
much as dreamt of; and so you will see I proved
in mine own case. But it is a somewhat long
story.

I had a most happy time after Sir Michael
Liveseyey had removed his carcase from Bocton
Hall ; for I was continually with the Lady Anne,
and being: in the dress of one of her sex she did
sometimes seem as it were to forget some
differences, and to permit me to share more of her
confidence  so much so, that I was sometimes able
to detain her soft hand in mine, and to verge upon
those caresses and endearments which all lovers
so ardently long to indulge in.

In order to prolong those exquisite moments,
I did persuade her that for the furtherance of her
benevolent schemes for my concealment it was
desirable that I should cultivate the ordinary
pursuits of women. Degenerating from what is
manly and masculine, I began to learn how to do
sampler work and other accomplishments of the
sex, 'which afforded me the convenience of sitting
very close to her. And it is to be noticed that
propinquity is delightful to lovers  nay, it is the

privilege which they chiefly long for, and to which.
all their thoughts and desires everlastingly tend.
Then how would I exert myself to oblige her !
Ofttimes forgetting my assumed sex, in the
garden or elsewhere, I would with most unwomanly
strides  which moved her laughter  hasten to
anticipate her wants or wishes.

The Lady Archer and Mistress Hatton at last
began to leave us to ourselves, and even to make
merry at our expense  accusing not only me of a
desperate fondness for Lady Anne, but even the
Lady Anne of some partiality to me. That
accusation at times brought half a blush into her
cheek, while it raised me to the seventh heaven
of delight ; inasmuch as it greatly encouraged the
ambitious hopes which, in spite of my better
reason, I sometimes entertained. Alas ! whenever
1 did venture upon tenderness I was presently
forced to perceive that my aspirations were rather
more hardy than rational. At times I was painfully
reminded that my preference for her vas not
earnestly thought of, especially when she took me
to task for coldness to Margaret Gray. But she
at length spared me the trial, and ceased to talk
upon a subject which she perceived was plainly
distasteful to me.

I had passed some time most delectably when
it was reported that three young and courtly
gallants had suddenly appeared in the neighbourhood
of Bocton. They had all the air of Cavaliers,

POE KING AND KENT.

and how they came to be allowed to lodge unmolested
at an alehouse hard by, I cannot explain
except upon the supposition that the Committee
of Kent were aware that they had no loyal or
religious motive in their taking up their abode,
but only an idle ambition to secure the favour of a
lovely lady. But it must be told and remembered
here, that the hand of that lady  besides her
personal attractions  was a thing to be sought,
seeing that she would at her mother's decease,
if not before, become possessed of considerable
wealth.

Scarce were these three gallants lodged in
their alehouse ere they began to lay siege to the
peerless Lady Anne, who was one morning
awakened out of her sleep by the harmony of
voices and the accompaniment of a lute, which,
echoing amongst the buildings of Bocton, sounded
through my open window wherein the fresh spring
air had entrance. 1 perceived that the ditty was
Italian, and that the voices were those of men.
Not long afterwards I had a particular description
of their persons and dress from fair Lady Aucher
and charming Mistress Hatton  for both of whom
I had now a very warm friendship.

As the persons of those knights are well known
by their portraits, I will spare you the repetition
of the account of those fair ladies, and briefly tell
you that one was a foreigner knight. Sir Bernard
Gascoigne  according to his English title ; of the

other two, one was a man of Kent, Sir John
Majney ; the other a noble lord, and son to the
late lamented Earl of ]Southampton, who, scorning
quarter at the hands of rebels, fell lamentably but
gloriously at Hopton Heath. As to their dress,
they were in peaceful weeds, as costly as their
impoverished purses could buy  for at least two
of them had been brought low enough by fine and
sequestration for fighting for the Crown and
refusing to take the covenant. Sir Bernard
Gascoigne did rather eclipse his English companions
by the bravery of velvet, Flanders lace,
and gold broidery. Nor was he much behind the
rest in comeliness of face and figure.

There is a lover apiece for you, fair Mistress
Hatton/' said I.

*nay," says she, arousing my jealousy, " they
are all three for the Lady Anne. Her name was
the burden of their song."

And this account proved correct ; for later in
the day came a nosegay offered to the Lady Anne
by those three knights, who sent with it their
names and offered their duty.

It pleased me entirely to find that all the
encouragement the Lady Anne would give those
three gallants was her thanks ; for though they
parleyed with the lacqueys for admittance, they
were not permitted to enter Bocton Hall. So that
day they did retire discomfited. But on the
morrow, at the same hour, there they were again,

VOL. II. I

with another song, a verse of which was as
follows :

Cara Cara Imperative
Graziosa e f alice

Tuo standard

Che ne gnardo
Guardarai ognor, ognor !

Nobile e rnaestosa

Gentil, buena, preziosa
Oh ti veto
E gia credo

La Regina del amor !

Cara Carassing,
Tu sei buonissima !
Solo per te son i mien sospir 
Asia felice
Imperative !
Senza di te bravo mori !

Later in the day they return with another
nosegay and renewed offers of their duty. Finding
their reception no better than on the previous
day, they now endeavoured to gain the favour of
the Lady Wotton ; but she was already not prepossessed
in their favour, and by way of answer
sends them a small volume written by a godly
minister noted for his zeal, wherein the sin of
prophane songs and idle love ditties was fully
exposed. But the Lady Aucher and Mistress
Hatton, principally to thwart the Lady Wotton,
whom they did not much love, desired me to
look forth from the casement, and by slightly
waving my kerchief to draw their attention.
This I did, and observed Sir William Compton
to look upon me earnestly. After conversing a

moment with the other two he retired with them,
turning round thrice as he went to doff his cap at
me, for I still sat at the window. By the advice
of the young ladies I again waved my kerchief.

The next day the musicians came again, but at
a distance more remote and from whence they
were not visible. The song was still about
Anna." But when it was concluded a messenger
is sent by them with a nosegay  this time not
for the Lady Anne or my Lady Wotton, but for
the " lady in the gown of pink silk." Nothing
would now serve but I must give Sir William
crompton a rendezvous ; and those sportive ladies
did command me to appoint a window on the
ground floor which was accessible from the Lady
Aucher's apartment. Though the hour named
was late, that is to say nine of the clock in the
evening, there was little danger in the interview
as the window was barred in the Spanish fashion,
so that no more than a hand could be passed
through.

The Lady Aucher and Mistress Hatton made
me promise not to acquaint the Lady Anne with
these proceedings, and when the time came they
secured privacy by locking the door.

I am heartily ashamed of the part I played ; and
I hope, should this meet the eye of any of that
noble family of Compton, they will forgive me for
my conduct on that occasion.

Sir William was so far bewitched by the sad

client that he declared that he almost thought I
was equal to the Lady Anne for beauty ; and that
though he was pledged to pay serious court to
her, he would brave all and transfer his affections
to me, leaving her to his two rivals, if I would
there and then consent to depart at once with
him and seek a secure asylum elsewhere. These
proffers and protestations he accompanied by
fervently kissing my hand, which for its brown
colour as well as roughness had to be encased in a
glove, which had been put near a sweet bag a
short time before.

I told him with demure countenance that I
was sure he would very soon be disenchanted if I
were to yield to his entreaties. But this only
made him call heaven and earth to witness that
nothing could alter his desperate admiration of
me.

On hearing our conversation, which was protracted
by my ingenuity to some length, the Lady
Aucher and fair Mistress Hatton had much ado
to avoid laughing outright which would perhaps
have put an end to the jest.

Finding that he could not obtain any distinct
promise from me of eloping with him, he began
to make particular inquiries about the other
members of the household ; but when he asked if
he could not be secretly admitted within, I told
him the doleful experiences of Sir Michael,
exaggerating them by supporting the notion of

their being occasioned by other agencies than
natural ones. This supposition he did not think
worth much, and said, looking at me very attentively,
that he would rather suspect me of being
the author of Sir Michael's troubles, for he thought
me quite capable of such mischief.

At last, after amusing him with the idea that
I might be brought to return his admiration, he
gave me two poetical epistles one in English
from Sir John Mayney, and the other in Italian
from Sir Bernard Gascoigne, which I promised
to deliver to the Lady Anne. He had prepared
something on his own account, but he should
not present it, he said, until he was quite sure
that 1 could not be induced to favour his suit.
W hereupon I told him that if the Lady Anne
were made aware of that speech she would feel
highly flattered.

The next morning the song was not heard, and
we soon learnt that those gallants had departed,
having given notice, however, that ere long they
would return to the same lodging.

OF A DUEL TO BE FOUGHT.

A MORE strict inquiry after indignant, caused
bj the growing discontents of the kingdom 
which was now threatening to break out in a
universal mutiny against the tyrants who had
enslaved a once free people  had caused these
two gentlemen and their foreign companion to
depart to more secure quarters than a little alehouse
in Kent afforded. And though it was
rumoured daily that their return would speedily
take place, we heard nothing of them. The news
of the Welsh Royalists under Langhorne, Poyer,.
Powell, Sir Nicholas Kentish, &c., and how
Pembroke Castle, Chepstow, and other places
were holding out, having revolted to the King,
were now the things most talked of, and the
Lady Aucher and Mistress Hatton were little
behind the Lady Anne in the interest they took.
We all did hope, that the King's deliverance
from imprisonment would shortly be accomplished
; and again and again did the conversation
turn upon what I had witnessed at Carisbroke
But the more sympathy the Ladj Anne did betray

towards Majesty in misery, the more did I long
to be able to perform some signal action for his
advantage. The escape of the Duke of York
from St. James's in maid's clothes, led me to
think painfully upon my state of inaction in
those moments when I perceived how hard a
matter it would be to gain the lasting favours
of the Lady Anne ; and yet at times I counted
myself truly happy, especially in the seclusion
of the private pleasaunce when 1 was helping her
to cherish her flowers.

For now May had brought its delights; and
the beauty and grace of the Lady Anne seemed
to me as it were to increase with the opening
flowers, the warmer air, and the carol of cuckoo
and nightingale, which was a fancy natural enough
in a boy.

The Lady Mary was by no means as happy as
that joyful season of the year ought to have
made the mistress of a noble residence in so
delightful a situation. She knew that the commonalty
were now no longer favourable either
to her party or herself. She was besides in the
closest bonds of friendship with the usurping
powers  more particularly with the chief men of
the Committee of Kent. Thus the re-establishment
of Church and Crown was by her a thing
to be dreaded, as not only her importance would
be diminished, but her estate she thought might
be perilled.

The usurping powers were however determined
that if possible Kent at all events should not be
allowed to relapse into loyalty ; and early in May
it came to be known that a special commission
of oyer and terminer would be sent down to
Canterbury to try the Christmas rioters for their
lives. This was a thing that had been long
talked of, but as the aforesaid Christmas riot had
been wholly provoked by the tyranny of the
Committee and their friends , it had been supposed
that they were ashamed of the whole business, and
did desire to let it be forgotten.

The indignation of the whole county on hearing
that the day was actually fixed for the carrying
out of those bloody intentions, was, you may well
believe, shared by the Lady Anne. And when she
began to express her opinion of the wickedness of
the proceeding, I told her that I could not see my
friends placed in peril while I was in security, and
that I would forthwith surrender myself up to take
my chance with the rest. But the Lady Anne very
vehemently dissuaded me from the idea, and would
on no account suffer me to quit my disguise. I
however was so impressed with the desire of doing
something, that I declared I would be present at
the trial no matter what the danger might be, so
as to be able to furnish her with an account of that
diabolical pageant. Finding I was obstinately
determined, the Lady Anne yielded, being at the
same time fully persuaded that as I promised to

attend the proceedings in my woman's dress I
should run very little risk.

Very early in the morning of the 11th of May I
took my departure from Bocton Hall. How can
I ever forget that morning ! The kind and noble
Lady Anne came forth upon the steps to see me
mount the pillion which in woman-like fashion I
was to ride on. She also provided me with some
provender for the journey in a wallet, which when
-afterwards opened was found to contain several
broad pieces, though I know very well she expected
my instant return, whereas some have laboured to
persuade me it was my dismissal. Beloved Bocton
Hall ! Little did I think I was destined to see it
no more. I left it in all the freshness of early
summer. 1 saw but the flowering tops of the
fruit trees and the lilac and laburnum that did so
flourish in the Lady Anne's private parterre ; but
I remembered well the haunts within. I went
past the church and churchyard  with the cross
in front which somehow had survived the fury of
fanatics. The grey old house * with the large bay
window of the great parlour, split into many lights,
slowly disappeared. The last prospect I had of it
showed me the Lady Aucher and fair Mistress
Hatton their kerchiefs flying from their casement.
These remembrances affect me now, but at that
time I felt little regret at my departure, being
persuaded that I should return ere many hours

Bocton Hall is built of Kentish rag-stone.

elapsed. Wherefore I went along the road very
cheerfully, passing the yew tree which Queen
Elizabeth of famous memory had planted with her
own hand. 1 was not satisfied with my progress.
The fellow who did accompany me was so plaguey
cautious on my account, supposing I imagine that
I would fall out of the pillion  or else so lazy for
his own convenience  that I could not urge him
forward.

Some have tried to persuade me that that boorish
fellow was a knave who had a design in lingering
on the road. Certain it is that we were overtaken
by-and-bye, by the grand cavalcade of the Kentish
Committee, who I presume had been at Leeds
Castle or Aylesford discussing privately the
weighty business they were on. I heard the sound
of a doleful psalm behind, and guessing that no
friends of mine could be there, prayed my companion,
who rode before, to apply his cudgel to
the ribs of his jennet, but he paid no attention ;
and I had a strong inclination to unseat him, and
in my pink gown to get straddle legs on that
jennet which I was sure could move at a smarter
pace if required. The character I represented,
however, prevented me from vehemently urging*
the point, and in short we were overtaken by a
string of coaches preceded by some of the county
horse (Sir Michael's troop), and divers chaplains
on pad-nags, who gave out the psalm with full
lungs. Then came the Committee disposed in

their several coaches in mighty state, some of
whose faces I knew, such as that great tyrant Sir
Anthony Weldon, Thatcher, clerk to the Committee,
Bealess, Bix, and there were also other of
them I believe such as Sedley, Rivers, Blount
Heyman, &c. I felt it a base part to ride in my
then disguise past those enemies of the liberties
of Kent and of the kingdom, but the feeling gave
me perchance an air of modesty; at all events I
was not molested in any way by that parcel of
zealots.

Anon the psalm was stopped, and both coaches
and riders broke into a jog, and so got in front of
me, incommoding me with their dust though they
rid me of their presence. After a while the road
winds through a wood. I hear the sound of horse's
feet, and looking back perceive a gay gallant
approaching. Of all people on earth who should
it be but Sir William Compton. He did not tell
me that he had left Sir Bernard Gascoigne and
Sir Walter Mayney at the little alehouse not far
from Bocton, but I believe he had thought they
soon followed. I believe this young man had come
in pursuit of me. He was no whit dismayed when
he drew rein beside me, but his cheeks were scarlet
red.

So, fair maiden," he said, " I perceive you
are on a journey, might 1 ask whither you are
bound''

I am for Canterbury, sir," said I, wishing

heartily to divulge my sex to avoid further
trouble.

I am bound for that city' said he, " and will
have much pleasure in accompanying you that far,
if you will permit me."

"I prefer to travel unattended," I replied.

Thereupon he would seize my hand, but I withdrew
it.

Have you considered the professions I made
to you ? " says he, ' or must I sigh in vain for
your favours ? '

Sir," said I, looking him full in the face, '' if
you knew whom you were addressing, you would
recoil from the design you are on, and go your
way."

Never ! " says he. " No knowledge of aught to
your disadvantage would ever alter my opinion of
you, or my fervent desire to be your slave to the
end of my days."

You will find the Lady Anne Wotton, however
hostile to your advances," said I, '' more
accessible than I."

I will not believe that," says he, " though your
pretty red lips utter it.-"

I perceived that I should never be rid of him,
my foolish overtures had so bewitched the young
man.

Will you lay a wager on it ? " says I.

Yes," says he, after a moment's hesitation.

And will you pay me honourably ? " I added.

slackening my pace, so as to get out of hearing of
that clown my guide, who I feared was cocking
his ear to know what was going on.

'' Name your sum," says he, " and I will pay it,
if a half-empty purse will suffice to meet the
demand."

' Three Jacobuses," said I.

s' Three Jacobuses  a bargain ! " says he.

A bargain ! " said I, " provided you promise on
the word of a knight not to reveal either to manor
woman the secret I have to tell you, without my
consent."

'I promise," he replied.

"Keep away, sir," said I, ' touch me not. Do
you hear ? "

This I said because the unfortunate young
knight, becoming more desperate than ever, had
begun seriously to incommode me with attentions
which, under the circumstances, were very ludicrous.


I repeat," says he, " nothing can change my
good opinion of you ; reveal your secret, however,
and I am ready with the sum wagered if it be
lost."

1 am a woman only in dresses said 1, looking
hard at him, and speaking deliberately in my
natural voice.

I thought he would have died, so intense was
the astonishment and disgust expressed by his
countenance.

"I was charitably concealed by the Lady
Anne's continued I, " in this disguise ; as it
would have been, and still would be, very dangerous
if my real identity were discovered

In Heaven's name who and what are you ? "
says he, now as pale as he was red before.

I knew he was a very noble and honourable
young man, and having trusted him with a secret
which might have proved fatal to me if divulged,
I felt I might safely tell him everything, and
thereupon I did so in a few brief words.

He said at first nothing whatever in reply 
only, feeling in his pouch, produced three Jacobites,
and placed them in my hand with a wry
face.

"Nay, keep your money, Sir William," said I
I deserve to lose it."

'not a penny," says he 'but know that I
desire revenge, and will have the same. Call
back your attendant to hold your nag and mine,
and accompany me at once into this wood."

Sir," said I, " I was to blame, and I ask your
pardon for the deceit I put upon you."

'rit is too late, sirrah," says he, "to talk of
pardon. I desire reparation for an insult and an
injury ; think you I am to be made the laughingstock
of my acquaintance for nought'

Sir," said I, very ill at ease, perceiving what a
tragical ending my personation of a lady was
likely to have, " if I must meet you in a hostile

way, I demand time till I quit me of my damsel's
dress, settle my affairs in this world, and make
some preparation for the next."

I will give you five minutes to do that  which
will be quite sufficient for a scapegrace like you'
returns Sir William.

'but, sir, I pray you further to considers I
objected, " that I shall be incommoded in the fight
you propose by these clothes. You have besides
forgotten that I am unarmed, while you wear a
sword, a pistol, and a bodkin. '

'' We shall throw for weapons,' says he, quickly,
''one shall have the poniard and the loaded
pistol, the other the sword. As for your farthingale,
you may take it off if you like, and put on
my breeches, but fight you must. I will not give
you an hour  no not a minute  beyond the five I
promised'

I should have laughed at some of this at another
time ; but the scarlet wrath of Sir William had in
it something calculated to subdue all mirthful inclinations.


While I was embarrassed with the contemplation
of thee dismal posture of my affairs. Sir William
himself hails my attendant, and gives him the
order which he had desired me to convey to him.

There was nothing for it but to jump off my
pillion, which I did with very little grace, and to
follow Sir William as he strode into a thick part
of the wood. I am not sure whether that clown.

mj attendant, knew what purpose Sir William had
in leading me towards the concealment of a dense
thicket or no ; but I am very sure that he was
diverted at the incident, for he grinned a sly grin
which I very well perceived on looking back to see
what he thought.

In a short time I was out of the reach of all
human help. Sir William lost no time ; he
measured out fifteen paces in a place concealed
from view, where the wood was, however, something
sparse. I elected to retain my farthingale,
which I reflected might have the effect of saving
my legs from a bullet or even from a sword thrust.
Sir William threw up a piece of money and down
came St. George and the Dragon. He had won
the pistol, and the privilege of shooting at me as I
rushed towards him with the rapier.

As I stood calmly a mark for his fire, I imagine
something feminine in my very natural apprehension
of instant death made him hesitate. Having
spanned his pistol he suddenly lowers it.

Plague on it," says he, " you are so like a fair
woman that I cannot persuade myself of the
cheat. Once more, are you sure you have told
me the truth?"

I am no woman," said I, ' as I will presently
prove to you if I survive your shot."

For now I began to pluck up my spirit, and to
contemplate the chances of spitting the gallant if
his aim should fail.

* Nap," says he, " brave lad, it is murder, an.<|' I
will not be guilty of it. I am a fool," says he,
*' to take the jest so seriously; come, let's shake
hands instead." -

So saying, he knocks back his flint and shakes
out the priming of his pistol.

I was not very anxious to continue that combat,
so I at once closed with his offer, ,and not to be
outdone in generosity, addressed him thus : 

' I will agree to shake hands with you. Sir William,
provided you will take back your three broad
pieces'

'* Well,' says he, a little sheepishly, '' I will
take them ; for, to tell you the truth, I can ill
spare them."

Whereupon I handed them back to him, and
shook hands.

I' faith," says he, pulling up my farthingale,
and perceiving the very trim order of my silk
stockings and garters, and my feet which were
small for my size, and were cased in a pair of the
Lady Mary's sandals, '' V faith, 'tis the most
perfect cheat that e'er was conceived. Master
Lendall, if you have a sister near about your own
age, I should like to see her, for doubtless she must
be a handsome girl."

This remark made me reflect upon singular consequences
which might happen from our present
proceeding.

Please to consider now, Sir William," said I,

VOL. II. K

'" how a maiden's character is to be saved, for you
may well believe this clown here will make a fine
story out of this trip of ours amongst the blue bells
and primroses. '

Just then we came in sight of the clown who
had all this time been quietly holding our steeds
in the middle of the road. I know not what construction
he put upon our now appearance, and the
somewhat humorous expression which must have
lighted up our countenances.

To

THE COUNTESS OF Ravenswood.

CANTERBURY TRIAL.

I HOPE you will forgive the narration of so idle an
incident as my last. Sir William Compton soon
parted with me and left me to pursue my journey
to Canterbury by myself. I may therefore now
recall your attention to those serious affairs of
state which it is the business of this history to
chronicle from time to time. To prepare you then.
for the Canterbury trial, I must remind you of the
events which succeeded to the Christmas riot in
that city, though being myself engaged in other
troubles in the Isle of Wight and at Wantons I
speak only from what I heard. I have told you the
matter before, but as many will have forgotten , I
may be pardoned for repeating some particulars.
To begin then  the city was quieted after the riot
by the loyal party, who had not been actively
engaged endeavouring to obtain terms for the city,
which were actually agreed to by the Mayor and
the Committees There were, in fine, to be no
reprisals, provided the insurrection should subside
quietly. But as Ned Hales' letter will inform you

Carter, True Relation.

if you turn back to it, scarce had the city been
quieted, before the Committee marches in in great
state with great force to make strict inquiry as to
the disturbances, which being actively pursued by
the Mayor and Committee, whom do they select
for vengeance but those very men who had pacified
the people ! Sir William Man, Master Lovelace,
Mr. Sabine, and a great many others are sent away
prisoners to Leeds Castle.

As very important consequences did ensue, I
think it proper here to lay before you certain
extracts of the correspondence which I got from
Thatcher (Clerk to the Committee). In the first
place you will perceive what popularity the Committee
could boast of by the force they assemble,
and also what gross insults they do offer to the
ancient city of Canterbury.

We are enforced to keeps saith my first
extract from a letter of the Committee of Kent to
the Speaker, dated Canterbury, 5th Jan., 1647,
a very considerable strength, consisting of 3,000
horse and foot ; and do perceive such a confidence
in them of their strength that we cannot think it
safe either for the city or county that our present
forces should be lessened, much less withdrawn,
until such time as their gates and walls be demolished'*


In the next you will see what prejudice they
have and would excite against the loyal people of
Kent, and how this Committee  whereof the Mayor

was one  did observe the treaty the loyal gentry
did for the sake of peace contrive.

Mr. Speaker," so begins this letter, " in
obedience to the command of the honourable
House by their order of the 30th December last,
and by your letters of the same date, and also of
the 7th inst., we are to give you this further
account of our proceedings concerning the Canterbury
insurrection both as to an examination and
the matter of fact. As likewise unto what we
have done in order of your command of putting
the city in a safe condition, and towards the
prevention of future tumults and disorders by
which the peace of that city and this county maybe
preserved. In reference, we are likewise
humbly bold, in obedience to the said order of the
honourable House herewith to return our opinions
of what is further fit to be done in this business,
humbly suggesting the same to the wisdom of the
honourable House.

'ras to the matter of fact upon the informations
and examinations hitherto taken before us, that
although the first hint of the insurrection seems
to be taken from that darling of rude persons
called Christmas, which was made the ground of
the first day's tumult upon the day so named, yet'
the scene was quickly changed ; the appearance
upon the Monday following being with divers
hundreds in a martial posture crying up King
Charles and down the Parliament and excise, and

accordingly using outrage against those whom,
by a continued opposite term to the King's party
they call Roundheads, assaulting them in the
streets and in their houses by day and by night,
spoiling their goods, beating some others to the
great danger of their lives ; imprisoning others,
and laying them in irons, and keeping them in
prison till the very day of our entrance  chasing
the Mayor, and the well-affected magistrates, and
ministers out of the city  some of them, amongst
whom the Mayor, were forced to fly for their lives,
others to obscure and conceal themselves, not desiring
to be seen till our entrance into the city.
And an absolute mastery of the city and
magazine thereof, gained by and maintained in a
martial way ; by courts of guard by them set, and
kept at their own cost. And upon apprehensions
of forces coming against them encouraging
themselves with the confidence of a very great
party from the country from whom, at several
times, numbers did flock in unto them, and the
like fire beginning since to kindle in the Isle of
Thanet.

All which shows that they were not merely
accident, but had a premeditated rise. We are induced
to believe this both from sundry dangerous
speeches proved unto us to be uttered beforehand,
some plainly expressing, others somewhat darkly
implying threats against the Parliament, and a
course to be taken with the Roundheads about

Christmas, and the like. Besides, the manner of
their very first entrance into their first day's
work and method, &c., afterwards, gives us a
character of a disappointment of their business,
and of a designation thereof to another purpose
than Christmas.

The first beginning being upon Christmas day
by hurling up several footballs in the street ;
which kind of pastime, as we know not the season
or the weather, gave any initiation to it, so the
superstitious idolizing of that day is known to all
men to be such even with the blindest and rudest
observers of it, as it would be a matter of great
conscience and religion with them to receive the
sacrament and be very demure that day at home
whatever be their carriage afterwards. And as the
unusual pastime upon that day, so the persons thereby
and thereunto congregated, gives us cause to
judge it a contrived design ; those footballs drawing
together on a sudden great numbers of persons not
only of the city, but of the country-fellows,
strangers from the parts adjacent, whereby they
speedily grow unto a tumult ; which, having gotten
strength, their next appearance upon the Monday
following became more formidable and warlike, the
King cried up, and the Parliament and excise cried
down ; and themselves, in such a posture, being become
masters of the city, divers of the gentry then
began to show themselves amongst them, animating
and encouraging them in the King's cause with.

words, and rewards, and promises of assistance.
And now matters being come to this pass, we cannot
but here give yon a special account of some
special persons, some of them being of public
trust and others of rank and quality, who  upon
what grounds and principles is only privy to themselves
-without considerable endeavours of opposition
or assistance used by them, in assistance
sought for from others, for the suppression of this
insurrection  for aught hath yet appeared unto
Qs  tastily closed in with, the rebels, being then at
the height (as they say), to appease them by propounding
and signing to them certain articles of
indemnity for what they had done, and also for the
imprisonment of some of 'those who had resisted
the rebels to the hazard of their lives in assistance
of the Mayor; and by causing the Mayor and
Recorder afterwards to sign the same, having
found out the Mayor when, for fear of his life, he
had concealed himself in a private house in the
city. And by condescending to the rebels themselves
to place a guard at the several gates that
night, and for that end likewise commanding
powder and bullet to be delivered to such of the
rebels as by their consent were to keep the
night's guard, and the next morning rewarding
them with money for their pains and care in
keeping that night's watch, and engaging themselves
to the rebels to send countermands to any
forces which they should understand to be sent for

or raised against them ; which accordingly was
done by those gentlemen, who forthwith sent
abroad several letters to that purpose to some of
the deputy-lieutenants and others of their county,
whom they had heard, or feared, were or would be
active in raising forces. In which letters they
represent the city to be in a peaceable, quiet condition,
and all to be well, and the tumult to be
appeased upon very reasonable propositions of
theirs; and yet notwithstanding the Mayor and
well-affected aldermen and godly ministers and
people still fled or hid ; those whom the rebels had
demanded to be delivered up unto them still kept
in prison; the rebels still masters of the town, and
keeping their courts of guard at their own
pleasure, and appearing again in a warlike
posture and formidable body at the news of our
levying forces against them. In all which
interim, and to the very day of our entrance, we
hear of nothing from those gentlemen, the
treaters, in all their letters but their earnest
attestations against the approach of our forces,
notwithstanding notice given unto them of the
aforesaid order of the House by a copy thereof
sent unto them by us at our first coming to our
rendezvous, and advising their publication thereof
unto the rebels. Yet did they not only neglect the
same, but did (the rebels being then up in arms)
positively declare unto us that they would not
give their consent to admit us with our forces

without the consent of the Corporation, although
some of them in the same letters confess themselves
to be now members thereof. And yet, immediately
before, in a former letter did offer to
admit us and to procure for us such attendance as
they should think fitting for our service and
safety. Whereas the rebels themselves were
masters of the city, of which fact and offence, by
virtue of the said order of the House, we were
come to inquire. And for our effectual and safe
performance of which order we could obtain no
other consent unto our entrance from those gentlemen
who thus were pleased to interpose themselves,
than such as the terror of that force we
came with, did at last extort ; which strength we
were enforced, to the very great charge of the
county, to continue until we had in some measure
weakened the hands of such an enraged party, by
securing some of the heads thereof, and of the
chief actors in the insurrection as we could meet
with, divers being fled ; and until we had made
some progress in that and other parts of the
service required by the honourable House in the
said order and letter for the putting of the city
into a safe condition, and the preventing like
future insurrections.

*' In order whereunto we have in some part dismantled
the city, by taking off the gates, making
a convenient breach in the walls, and drawing off
the great guns &c.  all which in inland and un-garrisoned

towns are only invitations to insurrections
and rebellions. We have likewise disarmed
the malignant of this city, settled and drawn in a
body of militia both trained and auxiliary, and put
it, we hope, into trusty hands, so that Grot being
good to us herein, they and we may be more
serviceable to you, and more readily helpful to each
other.

''And now having given you this account of the
matter in fact, and what hath been done by us
thereupon in obedience to your commands, we
submit the whole to the consideration of the
honourable House that there may be a speedy trial
of the offenders in such manner whereby to bring
them to condign punishment, as to their wisdom
shaU3eefit,&c."*

Behold the conclusion of the whole matter.
Vengeance ! They pray the Parliament to bring
the peacemakers to cryadign punishment !

What charity this Committee had towards their
imprisoned Elng will appear from the following
pious sentences in a letter to the Speaker, wherein
they plead for further powers to oppress the
Kings subjects  dated Maidstone, 7th March,
1647:

*'Mr. Speaker," so commences their letter,

 we received from the knights of our shire votes

tendering no further addresses to the King, with

your declaration thereupon, expressing the reasons

Dated Sittingboame, 21at January, 1&47.

of those resolutions. Our hearty desires and
prayers unto the God of yours and all our mercies
and deliverance are, that He may be with you in
all your counsels and endeavours for the peace and
welfare of these poor kingdoms, and carry you
through and above all streights and difficulties in
the way, &c."

Some of the poorer sort confined in Leeds
Castle for the Christmas affair had been nearly
starved to death ; but at length all got bail. The
Committee and Parliament had scotched their
snake ; but that they also did intend to kill the
same did appear when a special commission of
Oyer and Terminer was sent down to Canterbury
to try the Christmas delinquents for their lives.

On the 1 th of May, at the Castle, the cushions
were laid and a great concourse of the county  
which I told you was extremely agitated on learning
what was to be done  assembled to witness
the proceeding. The Committee came in in
many coaches, and with much ceremony and many
attendants. Having before kept 3,000 soldiers in
the city, and treated it with great contempt by
pulling off the gates thereof and making " convenient
breaches in the walls' they imagined it
to be sufficiently overcrowded.

Having taken my place amongst the spectators
who crowded into the court, I saw the bench filled.
Sir Anthony Weldon made his appearance with
much dare-dive haughtiness ; some of the other

leaders of the Committee were with him. Among
them, Sir Michael Liveseyey, who was overheard ta
chuckle and say that ' he doubted not he would be
able to send some of the loyal gentlemen packing
to the other world"  meaning those who had
succeeded in quieting the people at Christmas as
aforesaid.

But oh ! what were my feelings to observe
what judges the Parliament had sent down  for
lo ! I beheld a wicked mask staring through a
quickset hedge, and a cold hard face marked with
gunpowder, and remembered Wild and Steel,* the
cruel murderers of my brother Burley! With
them was Cresswell, but the Committee of Kent,
or at least one or two of them, were allowed, as I
told you, to sit on the bench also. When 1 considered
this tribunal I began to think what
justice the thirty accused persons would receive,
and whether hempen cords, sharp cleavers, and
hot fires would not be all they should get.

And there soon was the grand jury mannered ;
but with the exception of my dear friend Ned
Hales  who had been put on it by the interest of
his Parliamentarian grandfather  the Sheriffs had
pricked none but such as were thought would serve
the turn of their party. I could see that Ned
Hales did not recognise me, but was put in some
liipubt as to whether Liveseyey, Weldon, Steel, and
Wild did not see through my disguise  for they

Wild and Steel are so described in a Royalist tract, 16-18.

very frequently turned their inquisitive eyes
towards the pretended maiden in the pink silk
gown.

Then did the business begin, and like an echo
of the former dreadful one at Winton I did hear
AVild and Steel going into the particulars of the
accusation, and then press with all malice and
fierceness once more the statute of the 25th
Edward III., and instruct the grand jury that
there was no escape in that the prisoners at the
bar, coming under that statute, were guilty of high
treason, and that the consequent penalties must
follow their crime. Whereupon the people there
who did hear those legal blasphemies were so filled
with fury and amazement that they were ready todo
to those desperate tyrants and mock judges
what they did to the statutes of the kingdom,
i.e., rend them and tear them in pieces. But
Mr. Justice Cresswell had more honesty and did
dispute that application and reading of the 25th
Edward III., and did plainly shew that levying
war against the King was treason, and not the
levying of war only. Then did that other most
corrupt and abominable judge, instead of repenting
of his murderous and lying arguments, bring
up the case of my poor brother Burley as a precedent!
But Cresswell ended by calling for three
cheers for his Majesty, which were given with such
heartiness, the people without catching them up,
that not only the wicked judge but the equally

wicked Committee of Kent seemed smitten with, a
panic fear  insomuch that even Sir Anthony
Weldon, the boldest knave amongst them, was
fain to send a messenger forthwith for guards to
come and protect himself and his friends.

But I must shorten this narrative,, having so
many other things to relate, and briefly inform you
that they adjourned till the following day, when,
having reduced the number of those who were to
be tried for their lives to six, the j fury retired to
debate in private; and to the wonder of most,
who thought it would be hill a vera, brought in an
ignoramus ! Then was a second cheer taken up
by those without. Whereupon those bloodhounds
set up another charge, getting what fresh evidence
they can. The jury again retire, and again
return, and again the answer is the same  ignoramus.
They would not find the bill !

Alas ! " thought I, " had my poor brother
Burley had as honest a jury to try him he had
not been cruelly butchered at Winton ! ' But,
indeed, that unjust sentence had, 1 believe, its
due effect upon the Grand Jury of Kent, and they
would not load their souls with the guilt of blood
as the Hants jury had done.

The bench and the Committee of Kent had now
to sit and listen to a roar of triumph far louder
than before, and their cheeks did blanch proportionately.
Only as before. Sir Anthony Weldon
was equal to the occasion, and maintained a bold

VOL. II. L

front. For Sir Michael Liveseyey having at that
instant received from Lenthall, the Speaker  with
whom he was on familiar terms  a despatch
announcing a victory over the Welsh loyalists by
the Parliament forces under Colonel Horton at
St. Pagans' in Glamorganshire, Sir Anthony
took the letter out of Sir Michael's hands, and ina
loud voice read it out, adding the following
insolent speech to the grand jury 

Had wo received this intelligence before, we
had forced you to give quite another verdicts

Sir' said Ned Hales, " neither your news nor
your threats should have forced us to other than
an honest verdict where men's lives are concerned."


Wild now adjourned the Court, and both the
judges, and also some of the Committee, left the
city  which now, by its manifestations of delight,
shewed itself malignant at heart. It was, indeed,
hoped that the reign of the usurpers was drawing
to an end, notwithstanding this Welsh victory.
But the Grand Jury of Kent now met together in
another place, and one of their number said 

'' Gentlemen, we must go further now or fare
worse. I would remind you that when the Grand
Jury of Hants did find the bill against the late
Captain John Burley who was also found guilty
of high treason, and hanged, drawn and quartered,
at Win ton  that Grand Jury did at the time frame
.an address to the Parliament approving of the

vote of ' No more addresses to the King I do
propose," continued that gallant gentleman, 'that
the Grand Jury of Kent take no such course, but
on the contrary forthwith petition the Houses fora
redress of grievances'

All the rest of the gentlemen were now inspired
with resolution, and did there and then after a
short debate frame a petition to the honourable
Houses of Parliament, praying 

1st. That our Sovereign Lord King Charles
should be brought out of prison in the Isle of
Wight and admitted to treat with his Parliament.

2nd. That the army of Fairfax should be paid
off and disbanded.

3rd. That the men of Kent should be governed
by the known laws, and illegal burdens and taxes
should be taken off.*

It was proposed that the petitioners should
assemble at Rochester on the 29th May, and
carry their petition to Blackball, and thence to
London, to present it in Westminster Halls

What the Committee and the Parliament did
upon careful consideration of these matters, you
shall presently learn.

These contain the substance of the famous petition of Kent,
11th May, lt'.48. It is given entire by Carter, and I have quoted
it also in my lecture upon the Royalist Rising i/t Kent.  See
Arch. Cant., 1873.

t Lendall's description of this remarkable affair agrees exactly
with recorded accounts.

TO TUNSTALL.

I HAD gone to a very private lodging near Ladj
Wotton's Green, to wliicli the Lady Anne had
directed me, which, though rather near where the
Committee sometimes sat, was safer than some
other. After the trial I have described, I was
wending my way along the High Street, intending
to get mounted and depart ; when, near the same
spot where I had met him just before Christmas,
I perceived Ned Hales coming towards me with
his eyes fixed upon me in such a way that I felt
certain he knew me in spite of the disguise. So
making a slight gesture of recognition I turned
down a side street, and was instantly followed by
him. When we got to a more private place, he
accosts me, and telling me he had been to my
lodging to look for me, delivered into my hand a
letter which he said contained some news of importance.
I began to express the pleasure I felt
in seeing him, but he cut me short, bidding me
see if there was anything in the letter. I felt
rather confused, for the handwriting of the letter
showed me it could have come from no other than
the Lady Anne.

It contained sad intelligence. She told me it
would be dangerous to return, for that the Committee
had, it was feared, some clue to me. Ned
Hales, I think, regarded me very attentively while
I read the letter. With a very blank face I told
him the substance of it. He said 

There is nothing for it but to come with me to
Tunstall."

And with a sad heart I thanked him, and
accepted his invitation. It was plain to me that I
must not attempt to go to beloved Bocton Hall;
for though I would have adventured it myself, I
perceived that the Lady Anne might be prejudiced
by it. Hales gave no other explanation to me than
that the letter had been sent to him by a messenger
to o-ive to me. He did not allude to his former
relations with the Lady Anne, and I had an aversion
to touch upon that matter myself. He
directed me to another place, where I remained a
few days without stirring. Late one night he
brought me in a coach to Tunstall. Though he
took pains to make my entry into the house as
private as possible, one of his lacqueys unfortunately
caught sight of me, which put Hales in
some trouble. We were having some private talk
in the chamber where I was to sleep, when this
lacquey, contrary to orders, came in upon us. I
had, however, fortunately thrown off no part of
my disguise ; so that when Ned Hales had sworn
at the fellow he departed like a flash of lightning.

supposing he lead interrupted his master in some
delicate affair. Hales, presently directing me to
lock my chamber door on the inside and to open
to none but himself, leaves me to myself. We
had supped at a gentleman's house on my way
from Canterbury, whither also resorted a good
many others ; and but that I was placed between
Hales and a friend of his who was then on a visit 
no other than Master Estrange  I should have
been much incommoded by the attentions of some
of them when they were warmed with liquor. As
it was they toasted me more than once, but I
imagine they did not think much of ray virtue, for
I did not decline the wine, which was good, and
Ned Hales as well as Master Estrange for
sport pretended to take liberties with me, which I
bore more philosophically than maids commonly
do.

When I awoke, which I did with the lark 
though I lay mighty luxuriously in a great
chamber, I remember 1 was not quite happy, and
for two reasons ; first, I was far from Bocton Malherbe,
and, second, I knew I had had more liquor
than I was accustomed to ; for, as I told you, I
had helped to drink many toasts, one whereof of
Confusion to the Committee " was repeated oft.
Lazily gazing from my bed out of the window, I
perceive a crow flapping through the clear air on
an easterly course.

Would I were that crow," thought I, " I

-would continue that course till I came to Bocton,
that virtuous and peaceful abode ! "

And so I fell into a reverie of the ever-admired
Lady Anne. From that I am led to think about
Ned Bales ; and how though he had talked to me
somewhat mysteriously last night, ere the lacquey
disturbed us, of Margaret Gray  who had returned
to her father's house shortly after I left, none the
worse, and whom he declared he should invite with,
my sister to Tunstall  alluded not at all to the
Lady Anne Wotton ; and I would fain persuade
myself that he perseveres not in his suit. But to
myself I said, "Would I were lord of Tunstall,
or would I were Ned Hales, if he is to be her
choice ! ' Then my head reminds me of last
night at supper, and divers words of the wise man
are remembered.

'' Who hath redness of the eyes ? " &c. ; " Wine
is a mocker and strong drink is raging," &c. But
still the lark carols high in the east wind ; and hawthorn
bloom and laburnum and lilac and what not
reveal themselves in the growing light, specking
the woody landscape which opened out afar from
view of my window, for I could indeed see as far
as Sir Michael Liveseyey his house of Shetland in
the Isle of Stepped  yea, and across the estuary
of the Thames into Essex.

By-and-bye comes a knock at the door, and it is
Ned Hales  whom I admit. He laughs at my
women's garments lying about the chamber floor.

Upon complaining of mj head, he hoped mj morning
draught would cure it.

'' And did you sleep well ? " says he.

'but poorly in the first part of the night,
Master Hales," says I, '' for Master, Master what
call you the tall gentleman who doth talk so constantly?"


'roger Estrange," says Hales.

'' Ay, Master Estrange did play on the fiddle
far into the night," says I, "nor would have
stopped but for Colonel Colepepper in the next
chamber, whom 1 heard after some time very
vehemently beseeching him for the love of Heaven
to forbear."

'' Colonel Colepepper ? " says Hales, " I thought
he had drunk himself too insensible for that."

Nay," said I, '' his manner was also violent;
slamming the door when he had spoken, and
floundering on to his couch with a thump that
shakes all the house."

After this Ned Hales and I talk of many things,
amongst the rest of Burley's business, of the
prentice rising, and, lastly, of the petition of
Kent, and of the alacrity displayed by the people
in signing it being almost greater than that of the
gentry.

What will your grandfather' Sir Edward Hales
think of it ? " said I.

I know not," says Hales, '' but I doubt if it
pleases him. He is more ready to oblige the

Parliament party and the Committee fclian others.
But in these times men like hin who will still be
on the strongest side must trim their sails. I am
not beholden to him much ; for were it not for
good Crisp, and, latterly, for your friend old
Gray  from both of whom I have got sums of
money at a high rate of interest  I should not
have enough to carry on with. And besides, this
house is neither half finished nor half furnished,
which is all to be laid to my grandsire's account,
for when the Committee began to get unpopular,
he deserted the country for his lodgings in the
Whitefriars, London, where he mostly remains."

Hales then broaches the subject of Margaret
Gray, and says she will be a good prize for someone.
All this time he is in my bed, having got in
there to converse more commodiously. Anon he
lies on his back ruminating, and turning again on
his side considers me attentively.

Rupert," says he, " I pretended to be vastly
displeased with yon lacquey for disturbing my
private converse with a fair damsel last night. I
have ordered that none shall appear till I send for
them. And now we must have recourse to stratagem,
which, indeed, I always intended. The lady
must disappear, and a trim gallant shall appear in
her stead. I will be your artizan myself."

Hereupon he rises from the bed to go forth of
the room, adding 

I will bring you a complete suit of clothes

a

both new and handsome, after which, when
you are fitted, your woman's weeds shall be hidden
away. So now lock the door behind me until my
returned

Anon Hales comes back with a fine safety bed-gown
trimmed with sables, also a suit of velvet
folded up, showing at the foldings that it was
richly laced, a fine linen shirt and bands, also a
large napkin, a comb, and a pair of scissors.

"Oh ! "" said I, turning open the doublet, "what
fine clothes. Master Hales.

"Leave them there for the presents says
Hales, " and don this bedgown, and sit you suddenly
down upon this chair, for your hair must be
trimmed, and I myself am your barber, and hope
to transform you into such a figure as neither you
nor any one else has seen before

Ned Hales though so young was a clever artizan
in all things, no less than a valiant hunter, and
good both with rod and binding-piece. I came out
of his hands as he had prophesied, quite other
than I had been. When he had trimmed my over-luxuriant
locks to a fine model, in which the lovelock
was not forgotten, he combed my hair over
my forehead, and cut it two inches above my eyebrows.


There," says he, " Sir Anthony Vandyke himself
could not have done it better. All you v/ant
now are the higotes, as the Spaniards call them, to

Moustache.

make you as fine a gallant as you were before a
lady. But now dress yourself. Hold, I have yet
to bring boots for you ; they will be a trifle large,
but they must pass for the nonce."

I put on the fine velvet suit, and turning down
the broad bands of that fine-laced shirt ran to the
mirror to look at myself, and was seized with a
wonderful admiration of myself.

Oh, Master Hales ! " cried I, as he entered
the chamber with the boots he had promised,
these be the most beauteous clothes I ever set
eyes on, and had they been made for me they could
not have fitted better. My headache is cured with
the sight of them. '

' Did I not promise as much ? " says he. " They
are a suit J never could wear, being over small forme.
Sit you down again till I comb your hair and
perfect you."

So saying he combed my hair, which I believe I
have told you was very fine and glossy, and curled
naturally. But the bigoted, stuck on with a little
cobbler's wax, made the most wondrous change of
all, and made Hales so proud of his work that he
afterwards did often boast of it.

'snows'' said he, "gather up your woman's
weeds and I will stow them away in some secret
closet, and now let's consider how to account for
the flight of the lady."

A cord from the window ? " said I.

"Good," said he, "and think you that you

"Could descend by it, and appear at the door as a
new arrival ? '

Easily' said T, " if there be no one looking

*' It is yet early / says Hales '' and no one stirring";
it can be managed. Leave all to me, but on
entering demand to be presently shown to my
chamber'

Ail was done as we wished. Hales procured a
strong cord and suspended it from the window. I
descended by it. I gained the door of Tunstall
House with a riding whip in my hand. I knocked
and demanded to be shown to Hales his chamber.
This done, be presently orders up the lacquey who
had disturbed us the night before.

Now sirrah," says Hales, " a pretty business
you have made of it by your blundering. Here is
a gentleman come to inquire after the lady who
was with me last night. She was so frighted by
you, sirrah, that she hath fled. Go to the yellow
chamber, sirrah, and please to look at the window
with the cord hanging from it, and when you have
done that, take yourself off and walk three miles
on every road from this house, and having described
the lady and her clothes, ask if she has
been seen."

The servant is much troubled, and the word soon
flies through the house, and more servants are
called up.

* Until we hear further tidings of the poor lady,"
says Hales to me before each of them, " 'twere as
well, sir, that you should remain my guest."

Sir' said I as I had previously agreed to do,
"twas but an idle fancy I had for her, having

a slight acquaintanceship. She may go to

for aught I care; nevertheless I am obliged for
your hospitable offers and will remain your guest'*

She shall be pursued notwithstanding' says
Hales in reply. " I am exceedingly displeased
that she should have been scared from mj house''

When all the servants were gone we went back
to the chamber where I had slept, and while we
were there pretending to examine the window
and the cord, our morning draught is brought;
also a letter and a huge parcel of papers, which
Hales no sooner sees than he runs at it and
opens it, while the servant, saying that Geoffry
the under-steward would speak with his master,
goes out.

"Let him wait," says Hales, and then, putting
forth his head from the chamber, cries out,
What ho ! Roger ! Eoger, I say, come hither ! *

After which Master Estrange presently comes
into chamber in a bedgown, and as all the
servants had done takes me for a new-comer, and
so stops short at the door. Master Hales presents
me as Master such an one. LLEstrange, looking
the bed and then at me again, is fairly puzzled.
He privately asks whether " the young gallant has
good principles ? "

Yes,' said Hales, '* except that he has been inquiring
after the lady who slept here, and has departed
by a rope from the window."

LLEstrange is more puzzled than ever, but being
full of the package of papers, seizes it and plumps
himself upon the bed, and begins to read aloud ina
high and lofty manner natural to him his own
Letter Declaratory." * This document Boston,
who was just then driven out of London by fears
of fine and whipping, had printed for Hales in
Rochester.

It reads wells quoth Estrange, " and Boston
hath done his work well. This will, I hope,
help forward the petition."

And hereupon they fall to discussing thee means
of dispersing it abroad so that the Committee
may not intercept it.

I presume. Hales," quoth Estrange, looking
once more at me, " that this young gentleman is
favourable to the petition of Kent ? "

The gravity and innocence of Master LLEstrange
his face as he made this observation set Hales a-
laughing, and he reveals the secret, begging
Estrange to preserve it, and then goes and
brings in Colepe]3per, who is as much deceived as
the other. Hales, who had until this time overlooked
the letter the servant had brought, now
opening it, is in some amazement.

One of Estrange's anonymous addresses to Kent. The
petition is " so innocent'' it says, " that we dare deliver it up to
Heaven with our souls."

t " Copies of this " (i.e., the Letter Declaratory) " I delivered
to you, to post up in all your margate towns."  Roger L' Estrange.


A MENACE AND A Retort.

Whew ! hearken to this ! " says Hales, and reads
as follows : 

To Edward Hales, of Tunstall, Esq., 
You are hereby summoned before the
Grand Committee at Maidstone tomorrow, at three
of the clock in the afternoon.
Maidstone, 16th May, 1848.
Signed,

"Anthony Weldon,
'michael Liveseyey,
"Richard Belles'

By your leave," says LEstrane, catching it
from Hales his hand  and he reads it aloud again.
What think you does this mean ? ''

I know not,' says Hales, " and I am in a strait
whether to obey it or not."

'Twere best to scorn it," says Colepepjer.

Under favour' says Estrange, " I think
'twere better to make a show of compliance; but
take us with you, and such of your servants as
you can reckon upon. Should a seizure of your

person be intended, Colepepper and I will raise the
town ere we suffer it , and I think you have many
friends in Maidstone.'

I hope I have' says Hales.

Colepepper was still for scorning it utterly, but
would do his part if another course were taken.

Here a knock was heard, and Geoffry, the understand,
comes in.

I would speak to your honour privately,' says
Geoffry, who, I may as well mention here, was a
fleshy man, of middle age, and of a good countenance.


'' Say on,' says Hales.

But it is indeed a very private matter," says
Geoffry.

'' Say on man  what the plague ails thee ?
These are all my very good friend's

Sir, I saw Thatcher, that is chief clerk to the
Committee, late last night, and after I had expended
half a dozen of ale on him " 

'' Where was this ? '* says Hales.

"At the little blind alehouse close upon the
bridge at Aylesford.

"What did you there''

I was calling in of your honour's rents that
were overdue. '

Well, what said Thatcher ? "

He did tell me privately that he was very much
beholden to you and your grandfather."

Get you on to the matter. '

*' Well, sir  in short  at my insinuation and
so forth '

"Come, be brief."

"This then' says Geoffry, 'I was to warn
you that a commanded party of soldiers will come
here at something after three in the afternoon to
search the house for a notorious mutineer called
Rupert Lendall, who, being captured  if he be
here, will be sent on board the (Swallow, now
off Queenburgh, where are some other notorious
mutineers, who are bound for the Isle of Wight
for to be there hanged  and also, peradventure, to
seize such arms as you have, and to search for
papers.'

Eupert Lendall/, Eupert Lendall/' says Hales,
sure he cannot be here ? Are you certain
Thatcher said all this? "

"Yes, sir; he repeated it to me several times,
and did advise that Master Lendall should contrive
his escape elsewhere in time."

Sure yon lady who fled out of the window
could not be he ? ' says Estrange, desiring to
serve me.

I think notes' says Hales, " if he were twas
the best imitation of a maid I have seen."

So please you, sir' quoth Geoffry, '' Thatcher
told me the young man was in maid's clothes."

Hales jumps at this idea.

'ego, Geoffry' says he, "and send after the
fellow who is gone to inquire for the lady who

VOL. II. M

went secretly forth this morning or last night,
and tell him to return at once'

And away goes Geoffry, without, I think, in the
least suspecting me, which he might otherwise
have done but for the excellent devices of 'Ned
Hales.

Oh, Master Hales," said I, seizing his hand,
* you have saved me ; but if there be any risk for

you"-

"Hold," says he, '''tis but half done  what
ho ! GeofFry ! "

And Geoffry is called back.

' Geoffry, bid them make ready as many horse
as we can to accompany me to Maidstone at one
of the clock  and, Geoffry, put all the arras on
the table in the hall  and, Geoffry, you are the
most faithful servant I have, therefore I shall
leave you behind to receive the soldiers. This
rascally Committee, Geoffry, have required me to
appear before them at three of the clock, so 'tis
plain Thatcher speaks the truth. The crafty
knaves would take me at a disadvantage. But,
Geoffry, you will lead them a dance I doubt


warrant, your honour," says Geoffry, and
departs.

I would swear to that fellow's honesty," says
L'E strange.

"Gold would not buy bim," says Hales, "he is
indeed a trusty knave. I would confide Lendall's

secret to Mm, but that I see no necessity at
present'

'master Hales' said I, *' when the soldiers
come I can render myself up to them."

And by so doing expose me to the malice of
the Committee for having harboured a delinquent ? "
says Hales. '' You shall do nought of the kind.
Colepepper and Eoger, I request your attendance
upon me. Lendall, you must come too. Though
the arms are ordered to be laid out in the hall the
Committee shall not have them. My lacqueys
shall carry them to Maidstone. By this hand,
gentlemen, we will teach this Committee manners
ere we are done.'

BEFORE THE COMMITTEE.

The brave determination of Ned Hales was carried'
out as he designed. We enter Maidstone at three
of the clock in the afternoon in very gallant style.
Several other gentlemen overtook us on the road.
Hales led the way, deciding to have no lacquey
before him ; and Estrange, soldierlike, and with
a manner haughty, triumphing, and yet gracious,,
rode with Colonel Colepepper immediately behind
him. Next came I between the two Germans,
who had also been sent for by the Committee.
They came armed, but without servants, and were
not sorry to fall in with Ned Hales and his fifteen
servants with sword, pistol, and carabine. No
sooner did we pass up the High Street of Maidstone,
than the people who were there in considerable
numbers, recognising Hales, commenced to
cheer. I believe his bold answer to Weldon's
haughty speech at Canterbury had got circulated.
But whether or no Ned Hales had always been
popular.

At the " Stars where we refreshed our horses

Mentioned in Roger Twisted's Journal, date circa, 1611.
The " Star " is still in existence.

With. a little ale only, we met divers gentlemen
who had come to Maidstone at the imperious summons
of the Committee, but knew not wherefore,
though they shrewdly guessed it would be about
the petition. The thanksgiving for the victory
over the Welsh had been celebrated with a long
sermon in the church, which few beside the Committee
attended. As for the Committee, we were
told it was sitting in great state at the Palace.
It was their wont to pitch upon many of the
finest habitations in the county for their debating
house and lodging.

Before the Palace at Maidstone they had drawn
up a considerable body of county forces, both
horse and foot, among whom, though there were
many of the fanatical sort that could be depended
upon for arbitrary proceedings, there were
a good many who, seeing such open detestation of
the Committee, and general forwardness in promoting
the Petition, began to be ashamed of their
employment ; as was plain by the downcast looks
of many that did sit on horseback in ill-fitted
armour  backs and breasts too large or too small,
and pots that did half extinguish the wearers.
It being agreed amongst the gentry we met to
ride down in front of the Palace all together, with
such armed servants as they had with them to
hold their horses  we did so. With us were some
old acquaintances to wit Sir Thomas Godfrey, of
Heppington, Sir Richard Hardress, of Great

Hardress, Darrell, Hugessen, Colonel Washington,
and others  who, as we came up, were severally
greeted with huzzahs and cries of " BuUj for Sir
Eichard Hardress!" "Three cheers for Sir
Thomas Godfrey ! " " Here's to Aucher ! to
Hatton ! '' &c.

Liveseyey's troop of harquebusiers and some
companies of county foot seemed a little alarmed
at the approach of so many gentlemen and their
attendants with pistol and rapier, &c., and I
almost thought there would have been some combustion
when gallant Colonel Washington  that
rode up the breach at Bristol with his Highness
Prince Rupert, and was also governor of faithful
Worcester  did appear to view. For sundry old
troopers of his  natives of Kent, who had returned
to Maidstone after the first war was over
some of them disabled by wounds  of a sudden
called out 

"Away with it! quoth Washington's this
being a saying of his when any desperate business
was to be attempted  and this being followed by
huzzahs from those who understood it  Captain
Porter, of Liveseyey's troop, was near giving the
word to fall on, which his men in a panic would
have suddenly done, for it seemed as it were a
signal to away with the guard of the Committee.
Sir Eichard Hardress saved all by calling out,

See Heath's Chronicle, p. 109. Colonel Washington was a
man of Kent," and possibly an ancestor of the American hero.

' Three cheers for the county forces' which were
given.

Sir Michael Liveseyey then appeared at a window,
and begins to ask in his cracked voice, what the
tumult is about ; but his speech being interrupted
by the groans of the multitude he presently withdraws.


No sooner are all the gentlemen arrived at the
Palace doors than a messenger comes down the
stairs from Sir Anthony Weldon to say, that not
more than six at a time were to appear before the
Committee  the rest waiting below, the order
of appearance, to be according to the alphabet.

Alphabet be hanged ! " says Sir Eichard
Hardiness. ' Stand by ! we were summoned together,
and together we will come''

And this being instantly approved by the rest 
L'E strange and 1, not unwillingly borne in by the
tide  we burst in upon the rulers of Kent, whom
by your leave we will take a look at. Bold and
relentless Weldon with cunning and cruel Liveseyey
beside him, sat at the head of the table, desperately
to oppose the release of their Prince from
prison  the one deriving his principal estate
from the bounty of the late  the other his honours
from the present King. Dark Sir Henry Heyman

The descriptions of the characters of all these persons
coining from the pen of the Royalist Lendall will of course betaken
for what they are worth. But the list will be found tolerably
exact.

that determined rebel sat next to Weldon, and
next to Weldon was the overbearing Bealess. Opposite
him Augustine Garland, who did afterwards
spit in the King's face at his trial. Plummer the
enriched treasurer; Lambarde Godfrey, that solemn
schismatic  Solicitor-general to the Committee,
Hectoring Kenrick, Governor of Dover.
Plausible Selyard, crafty Rivers, blustering
Blount, headstrong Broadnax, with Bix, that
busy but doleful little saint  make up the conclave.
All were birds of the same feather;
several did dip their hands in the King's blood,
and all did help to ruin both him and his friends ;
but yet had texts of Scripture ready at all times
to justify all that they did. Thatcher and Vaughan,
clerks to the Committee, were in attendance, and
divers messengers stood by, as did also those base
informers Bell and Bullfinch.

It was the first time I had seen this notable
crew together, who so long lorded it over fair
Kent, ' making themselves seraglios at Knowles,
Aylesford, and other places, maintaining their
state, and princely economy at the sad charge of
the county, living in the height of pride and
luxury.""

Mighty dismal they looked as they sat in their

high-crowned hats, and sad-coloured clothes,

having cast aside the rich suits which they  or at

least some of them  usually wore, and which

Lendall is here quoting a Letter from a Gentleman (1648).

had caused them latterly to be mocked by the
people.

There was a shade of fear over all their faces
on seeing how many armed persons had forced
their way into the chamber. Even the baboon
with the lion's mane, though he was equal to the
occasion, was not without a reflexion of that
feeling.

How now, gentlemen ?  cries he ; " are you
come here in a hostile way, cross belted thus, with
your pistols and your swords ? '

"That's as yon please to take it Sir Anthony,"
answers the blustering Sir Richard Hardress.
'' We did but prepare ourselves against highway
robbers, of which there are enough about."

*' A pretty example for a deputy-lieutenant to
set'' says Sir Anthony, " and worthy of your proceeding,
Sir Richard Hardress, in sitting with us
upon the Christmas riot at Canterbury, and then
joining the rabble afterwards.""

' Do you dare to call the gentlemen of this
county rabble ? " cries Washington.

Rabble forsooth ! " echoes Sir Thomas Godfrey.

"If we are a rabble," says Sir Anthony Aucher,
what shall be said for the Committee ? "

"away with it /  quoth Washington ! ' cries
Colepepper  who had I think refreshed himself
with three parts of a bottle of Smyrna at " The
Star."

The Committee documents show that this was the case.

*' Come' said Hardress in a bantering tone,
*' we will forgive the Committee if they will here
all incontinently sign the petition of Kent."

Sir Richard Hardness' says Sir Anthony
Weldon, " mayhap you shall find in the long run
that this is no matter for jest. The pretended
petition I have seen, and do from my soul abhor
and detest it. Nay, I tell you all' says he, " that
so far am I from countenancing it in the least, I
would not walk across the street of Rochester to
save one of the petitioners' souls."

'' And I," quoth Bealess, " am for hanging " two
of the petitioners in every parish."

And Kenrick, Selyard, Broadnax, and Bix were
then heard to express their wonderment that
we dared oppose the good providence of God,
whose favour unto the godly party had been manifested
by so many signs and great wonders.

At this there were divers scornful observations
from some of the gentlemen of our party.

Quoth Sir Anthony Weldon 

Sir Michael, this chamber is over noisy for
business, if quiet be not kept, I shall demand in
the name of the Committee that this room be
cleared and all these gentlemen secured."

Tush ! " cries Hales, '' you jest."

"Sir Anthony Weldon vowed he would not cross the street
of Eochester to save from ruin one soul who subscribed to the
petition : it was also a proposition of Bealess to hang two of the
petitioners of every parish." See The Remonstrance by Eoger
L' Estrange.

'' What t" says Weldon, putting his hand to his
ear.

Hales repeats in a louder tone.

'You shall find it earnest notwithstanding if
you do not take heed," says Sir Anthony ' and
now that I am reminded of it, I may as well tell
you, Master Edward Hales, that your grandfather
has been apprised by the Committee of your conduct.
I have summoned you here to tell you
besides that if you continue to harbour dangerous
malignant, you must abide the consequences.
We are also assured that you are riding up and
down forwarding this mutiny  as are most of the
gentlemen we have summoned here. The Committee
require you at your peril to discontinue to
favour the said mutiny."

What mutiny? " says Hales.

The petition."

The petition ? " echoes Hales, "'by your leave
sir, the petition is such as a free Englishman may
justly present. I understand that the county of
Surrey were yesterday assembled in great numbers
and, exercising their undoubted right, did proceed
with a petition similar to that of Kent to present
the same to the two Houses at Westminster."

Here a smile passed round all the faces of the
Committee.

You may deride it if you like," says Hales,
' but you know very well it is true."

The Parliament will refuse the petition," says

the sneaking Sir Michael. " Of a surety, Master
Hales, they will refuse it. Nay, it is already rumoured
they have done so."

Would you favour me with some particulars of
the rumour ? " says Estrange. " I cannot for
the life of me see on what grounds there can be
any slighting of desires so just."

Who are you ? " says Weldon sharply, " that
asks the question? If you are a Kentish man I
know not your face."

' I am a free-born Englishman," says Estrange
and I do hope that you will know me the next
time you see me."

' The Committee have received no special information
on the question," replies Sir Anthony,
' but as to the questioner I suspect him to be one
of those malignant that harbour in Master Hales
his house, because they cannot find shelter elsewhere
; and who busy themselves," continues Sir
Anthony with a peculiar emphasis, 'ein matters
that do not exactly concern them."

Here Oxenden and Lee, members of Parliament
who had entered while Estrange was
speaking, and taking their places near Sir Anthony,
were seen to whisper something to Liveseyey
and Weldon. They also brought a packet of
papers which produced a great effect on all the
Committee, being perused by them with scarce
concealed triumph. The real fact was that the
Committee had received fresh powers, and the

Parliament also had evidently taken their resolution
to persecute all loyal people to the uttermost,
and had instead of receiving the modest petition
of Surrey, of which Hales had spoken, sent horse
and foot from the Mews and Whitehall, and falling
furiously upon the petitioners, had hacked
and slashed them desperately in Westminster
Hall, at the very doors of the houses. The Committee
who had seized all the letters and diurnal
that came into the county that morning  kept
this news to themselves, but it very soon after got
abroad. While they were smiling over it. Sir
Anthony seized a pen and commenced writing
with great rapidity.

I move," says he, looking up from his writing
for a moment, " that this Committee do adjourn
till tomorrow morning at ten of the clock, and
that the gentlemen summoned here be directed to
withdraw'

'' I second that motions' says Bealess.

Ere we went, Thatcher, the Clerk to the Committee,
found opportunity to put into Hales his
hand, the following :

**SlR,

'* Take care of yourself  you are aimed
at. Please also to warn the other gentlemen that
there is lately passed an ordinance of the Houses,
as follows :

' Any three Committee-men shall have power

to imprison and sequester all such as shall actually
adhere to any that shall raise or endeavour to
raise tumults and insurrections or shall speak or
publish anything reproachful to the Parliament or
their proceedings.' " 

Hales showed that monstrous paper to Cole-pepper.


away with it, quoth Washington ! ' ' was his
only comment lor that rhyme would not out of
his head.

Hales, Hardress and all the rest of those gentlemen
who had been summoned,, as well as those
who had not, now departed, leaving the Committee
to frame that famous counter-proclamation
t to the petition of Kent, which being antedated,
was posted everywhere the following day
to the consternation of all. For being, as I
believe, encouraged by the instructions, and
especially by the news they had received of the
Parliament, they had been emboldened to more
desperate measures than they had at first contemplated.
It is my belief that that counter-proclamation
which termed the petition pretended and
seditious, was the work and composition of the
audacious Sir Anthony Weldon, who with the rest
had been even less confident than we did suppose,
when we appeared before them, which was the
reason why I passed unnoticed.

Passed Friday, 21st April, 1618. f See Carter.

When we got outside rumours were flying
about, and a strange fury was noticeable in the
looks of many. By the reception which the
Surrey men had gotten, the men of Kent might
see, as in a glass, what might be the fate of their
similar moderate and just demands.

At about five of the clock we did ride home
to Tunstall, leaving in the town of Maidstone 
which appeared to be meditating some decided
action against the Committee  many copies of
The Letter Declaratory," to the foot of which
Estrange had, by permission, added a MS. note,
that on such a day Esquire Hales would see his
friends at Tunstall in the Shooter's meadow.

To i

THE COUNTESS OF CLARENDON. \

VOL. II. N

estrange his advice to hales.

The next morning the counter-proclamation of
the Committee of Kent concerning the petition
was posted up in Maidstone, and also forwarded
all over the shire. It was accompanied by an
issue of warrants to the county forces, both horse
and foot, to repair to their colours at their several
rendezvous. The Committee had calculated that
the cruel treatment of the petitioners of Surrey
would have subdued the men of Kent; but such
was not the case. The counter-proclamation
was everywhere torn off church doors and walls,
aid so well had L' Estrange managed his business
that his '' Letter Declaratory" appeared very
generally in its place, to the great sorrow of the
Committee, who now began to feel that vast
magazines of arms and chests of Jacobuses and
silver crowns were of little avail when a people are
resolved to free themselves from bondage.* To
Tunstall, as I told you Hales and his guests 

Gainsborough about this time mourns over the
loyalty of Kent. " The present distraction of this country," he
writes, " is such a hath pnt as sad a face on things as England
ever saw ; and it hath begot a distemper in the fleet. . . . That
which is the greatest motion to the disturbance is that these parts
are wholly for the King."

turned when lie was joined by Sir Gamaliel Dudley
a friend of Master Estrange, who brought full
particulars of the " Surrey Welcome' as it was
called, and told how a member did come into
Westminster Hall, which was full of the Surrey
men, and did promise that they should have an
answer anon, and did thereupon despatch secretly
a message to Colonel Cobbett, who did presently
bring horse and foot and did commence a most
furious and bloody massacre  and how Sir Harry
Vane did himself thank the soldiers for the good
service they had done.*

You may suppose other matters were talked of
besides, at Tunstall. Amongst the rest was, of
course, the searching of the house. Geoffrey, the
corpulent under-steward, made large relation
indeed how a madman, whose face he knew, did
command the party, and was upon the whole Yere
careless of what entertainment he got, and somewhat
negligent in his search for papers  not
appearing to be very learned in such matters, but
most diligent to find traces of a lady, or of a youth
in maid's clothes. Some of the rest of the party
were, however, well contented with the good cheer,
and the money which the politic Geoffry did
bestow on them ; and did by nods and winks, as
far as was safe  for they feared their leader 
intimate that the said leader was a dangerous and
fanatical man, beside himself and out of his wits,

So says a Letter of Intelligence.  Clar. MSS., Bodl., Oxford.

who did require to be humoured. In short it was
plain to me that I had had another of those narrow
escapes which were not unusual to me. I was
also very grateful to Hales for his excellent plans
for mj protection. The fellows went on the wrong-scent,
and did go divers miles on divers roads in
search of a maid in a pink silk gown, who had
not been on one of them.

In the meantime the excitement over public
affairs increased everywhere ; and either the next
day or the day after a very important discussion
thereof at Tunstall House took place, of which I
must render you some account.

After dinner we  that is to say Hales, Estrange,
Colepepper, Sir Gamaliel Dudley, and myself 
were sitting drinking a social glass, when
Estrange spoke to the following effect 

Ned Hales," says he, '' in the present posture
of affairs, when the Committee do very plainly
threaten, it behoves us to look well to ourselves.
The recent advice of your grandfather to you
hath somewhat damped our spirits, I think ; for it
is very true that he may be able to do you. a
mischief, as he hath present control over what
ought to descend to you; but his desire that you
should have nothing to do with the petition is, I
take it, merely a shew of siding with the Committee,
who have doubtless urged him to tender
you wholesome advice. But, indeed, if I judge
.Sir Edward rightly, I opine that he is a waverer ;

and that lie, like many other men at this juncture,
desireth very passionately to keep in with that side
which is likeliest to win."

' He is all for the Parliament and the Derby
House' says Hales.

Granted," quoth Estrange, ' until the King
comes home ; but he will be the first to kneel to
His Majesty, and to declare penitentially that he
has ever been desirous of doing him some hearty
service. But, indeed, Ned, it is a serious question
for you and for him whether you will not at this
juncture serve both him and yourself best by continuing
the bold and open course you have begun."

What mean you ? " asks Hales.

c Why," says Estrange, ''by adhering to the
petition of Kent."

' I have no other alternative," says Hales.

'' True," says LLEstrange, " but should the
King by means of this petition be restored to his
rights, how will Sir Edward Hales thank his stars
that the loyalty of the grandson hath silvered o'er
the rebellion of the grandsire ! "

'' Well said ! " cries Sir Gamaliel Dudley.

'' And who knows," continues LLEstrange, "how
soon the wheel of fortune may turn and roll the
Roundheads into the gutter. Perchance this
desperate cruelty against the loyal petitioners of
Surrey will have quite another effect both on
city and country than the knaves of Westminster
expect. Mercury water and files are gone secretly

down to the Kino to soften the bars of the
dungeon of Carisbrooke  less hard and stubborn
than his jailors  and if a sudden clap of thunder
should burst among the Roundheads and the King
suddenly appear at the head of his Kentish subjects
to lead the petition and march to London  where,
mj brave Ned would thy grandsire stand as to
favour ? nay, where wouldst thou stand thyself ?
The King's restoration will be a day of reckoning ;
and all who have opposed him, or been cold in his
service, must needs fear that day'

I know not to what your discourse would lead,
Rogers' says Hales. " Have you seen me cold in
the petitions'

By no means, Ned," replies Estrange ; " you
have done all that you could. You have warmly
espoused it ; you have sent forth your ' Letter
Declaratory' and ' Engagement'  which I, indeed,
with your advice, composed. But now we must
go farther or fare worse. Can we (I view myself
now as a man of Kent), can we, I say, stomach
the insolence of Parliament and Committee, and
relinquish our declared desires that ' our Sovereign
Lord King Charles be brought to London in
freedom, honour, and safety to treat with his two
Houses of Parliament for the settlement of the
affairs of the nation ? ' '

By no means," said I.

Well spoken, youngster," quoth Colepepper,
clapping me on the back.

But when they proceed to violence  when
they muster their power to oppose us by force /
adds Estrange, " what are we to top "

' Take up arms," says Gamaliel Dudley.

"Indeed, I think so/ replied LLEstrange.
Take up arms  not to attack our oppressors, but
to defend ourselves against their tyranny ; otherwise
we shall find ourselves like the poor Surrey
lambs, set upon by the pampered Parliament
soldiers  ridden down and slashed by Fairfax his
troopers : butchered, slaughtered, destroyed. Or
if we keep our tempers, and tamely and timely
submit  dismissed with contempt, and sent home
to endure worse indignities than we are compelled
at this present to sufferers

"Armed we must be," says Hales "and I am
glad to hear you advise it, Roger."

Pardon me, gentlemen," says Gamaliel Dudley,
if armed, you must have officers ; else you will
become a disorderly rout."

"Are there not enough of gentlemen in Kent?"
says Estrange," to officer all the forces you can
bring?"

*you will want a leader if you be armed and
officered," says Dudley.

And a leader, I reckon, can be found ; " quoth
Estrange promptly, " when Wales, both north
and south, is up for the King when Ireland is,
as I suppose it ever will be, in high mutiny 
when the Scots are marching toward the border 

when Northumberland, Cumberland and Yorkshire
begin to shew a bold front  when such things are,
I doubt not but that a leader may be found for
Kent as good as Powell, Poyer, and Languor in
Wales, Inchiquin in Munster, Duke Hamilton in
Scotland, or Margrave, Clennam, and Langdale in
the north."

Good ! " cries Gamaliel Dudley.

Perchance you mean to offer yourself, Master
L'E strange' says Colepepper.

"Nay," replied Estrange, nevertheless drawing
himself up somewhat haughtily, as if he did
believe himself fully equal to the task, " I conceive
that the Kentish men should be led by a man of
Kent ; and where," he adds, '' could you find one
better fitted for the service than our excellent and
gallant entertainer  Ned Hales ? "

Nowhere ! " cried I, with heartiness.

Nowhere ! " affirms Gamaliel Dudley.

"Nowhere," more feebly echoes Colepepper,
unless we could find some general of more experience.
Ned Hales," continues Colepepper,
you know you have few more hearty friends than
I but"

"But what? " interrupts Estrange. " Prithee
pardon me. Sir Thomas, too young you would say
but there you are in error. With your counsel
and advice. Colonel, and that of Sir Gamaliel here,
Ned Hales, young, active, hearty, honest, bold,
heir to a great estate, popular with gentry, commonalty

and all, would be worth a dozen of your
experienced cavaliers ; who, like myself, have
taken part in a losing battle, or at the most,
helped to gain a town, a garrison, a castle, or beat
up an enem's quarter in the night, capturing
some dozen of rebel saints snoring in the hay
beside their weary troop horses/"

At this last Sir Thomas Colepepper turns red,
but says nothing. He was not yet in his cups, or
he might have resented a description which
chronicled one of the exploits he did chiefly boast
of.

Hales, however, spoke to this effect.

He would cheerfully, he said, do what he
could, and should the petitioners desire it he
would have no objection to lead them in a peaceable
way to London ; and in such a fashion as
should awe the tyrants into some respect.

I saw that both L'E strange and Sir Gamaliel
Dudley were exceedingly well pleased at Hales his
observations, but were prevented from replying to
them by a new arrival.

Lord Clarendon gives the substance of this speech of Roger
Estrange.

OF A YOUNG Presbyterian LORD.

Parson Dixon, a sequestered divine, formerly
Vicar of Tunstall, but now a constant guest of Ned
Hales, after his many fines and imprisonments for
refusing to take the covenants was the person
who entered that parlour. As I mentioned him
before at Heppington, I will spare you a description
of him, except that his appearance was full
of that honesty, gravity, and manliness which
were his chief characteristics. He took his seat at
the table, and having been informed of the subject
matters of debate, began the following important
relation : 

I have heard strange news," says he, " of which
I would have your opinion. Master Hales, as well
as that of these honourable persons present .

You are perchance aware that Master Bix of
the Committee came this morning very early to
Sittingborne, and is there privately lodged at the
Constable's house for the better security of his
person. He did secretly send to me offering tore-move
any prejudice I might have in favour of the
see account of in Walker's Sufferings of the Clergy.

petition of Kent; being also anxious, he says, for
my spiritual welfare, and to know whether upon
reasonable hopes of preferment I might be induced
to forsake the ' prelatical party as he calls it. I
did attend upon Master Bix at his lodging, where
he keeper the company of a strange and desperate
man, whom I understand to be a lieutenant
of Parliament horse, and the very same who was
lately here to search for arms and what not. This
said Lieutenant hath been scouting as far as
Queenborough, and sent back here to look for certain
mariners, who, fearing some sudden vengeance
which had been threatened, had made shift to land
from their ship while the governor of Queenborough
Castle was entertaining of the captain
and officers of the said ship."

What crime had they committed, sir ? " said
I, guessing that perchance poor Mitchell and his
fellows, whom I feared had been retaken , might be
this very party.

''I know not," said Parson Dixon, "but I understand
they are in hiding at Sittingborne,
drinking secretly in a back parlour at ' The George'
to fortify their spirits. Their pursuers," continued
Parson Dixon, " keep company as I told you with
Master Bix. Bix is a pious man after a fashion,
and between him and the Lieutenant there are
chords of harmony, though the spirit of the Lieutenant
cannot, as I said, be kept within bounds,
when the King, the persecuted Church of England,

or the petition be so much as named. In
short, the Lieutenant is a very violent fanatic.
Master Bix is subservient to reason, and yet hath
certain wild and desperate notions also. He is
possessed with the opinion that carnal wisdom, ashe
calls it, is now the undoing of the nation, and
that no less a person than the great enemy of mankind
is the chief promoter of the petition of Kent.
He looks upon his sacred Majesty as a lost persons
doomed from all eternity to perdition ; and
upon all who adhere unto him as blinded by Satan.
Master Bix, in his own words, hath come to ,
despising, as he says, 'the arm of
flesh,' and trusting ' to the power of the word to
convert the poor deceived souls of Sittingborne ;'
scilicet, he doth believe that the plain setting forth
of Scripture (according to his reading thereof)
will turn the men of Kent to fervent repentance of
their sins  the chief of which is their resistance
of the counsels of the Committee. The mad Lieutenant,
I must tell you, would take a shorter way ;
but Bix doth believe that if, ' like newborn babes,'
the people of Sittingborne should * desire the
milk of the word,' they will ' grow thereby and
presently withdraw their hands from the ' idolatrous
petition.'

'' Master Hales and gentlemen, it is needless to
tell you that in my poor judgment Master Bix is
deceived in his. But that he is sincere is certain,
for he doth propose, affectionately calling the people

together, to go into the pulpit of the church of ,
and then by wrestlings in prayer, and,
as he says, by the foolishness of preaching, to
quench what he calls the fiery darts of the wicked
one  meaning the returning loyalty of the people,"
&c.

By your leave," says Colepepper, " there is not
much that is new in all this. Master Dixon ; 'tis
but the usual course those who call themselves
saints have followed these seven years past."

Under favour," quoth Parson Dixon, "I am
coming to something new. After telling me that
there was a design  which indeed I knew not of 
to bring me by force to church, to use the forbidden
Book of Common Prayer, Master Bix did
point out to me the danger of such a course, both
to me and to himself, and hoped that I would not
prevent him from doing what he could to pacify
the people from the pulpit. Then he did beg of
me to join him in ]prayer. But enough, gentlemen.
Without engaging myself to any particular course,
I took leave of Master Bix, telling him plainly
that I was by no means convinced of the desirableness
of suppressing the petition  on the contrary,
that I did believe that England would never be
happy till the King should enjoy his own, the
Church have her rights, and the old laws be substituted
for the arbitrary government of Committees.
However, to humour him I said he might
as far as I who had no authority could give such

a permission  hold forth in the pulpit at Sitting-borne
church' 

You did ill, I think, Master Dixon, to say so,"
says Colepepper. " He will fan up the flame of
sedition again'

"Nay," quoth Estrange, "tis altogether
dead, and what sparks there be left such orations
as these independents make will soon extinguish."

While we talked," continued Parson Dixon,
* I understand the Constable and some others had
much ado in a neighbouring chamber to prevent
the mad Lieutenant issuing forth to slay me upon
the place. Now for my prime piece of news.

I did leave Master Bix, and going along the
street of Sittingborne to return hither by the
fields, did perceive a multitude gathered opposite
The George ' listening to the harangues of
a stripling from a window  some extraordinary
passages of which 1 shall relate. This stripling,
who was ill-dressed, was nevertheless listened to
with some attention. But certain questions put to
him shewed that both himself and his extraordinary
mission were received with doubt. I
found he had given himself out to be a young
Presbyterian lord whom the Speaker had sent
down to accommodate matters with the Kentish
men " 

A plague on accommodation, Master Dixon ! "
cries Colepepper. " We have had too much of it
already."

"So seemed the men of Sittingborne to
think," returned the parson , " for they did cry
out 

' Will you sign the petition ? '

The reply of this young Presbyterian lord was
strange 

' Sign the petition ? ' quoth he, ' where is the
necessity? His Gracious Majesty hath been released
from imprisonment by my friend Colonel
Hammond, and is even now on his way by sea to
Dover, where he will land and proceed gallantly to
London, passing through your town of Sitting-borne,'
says he, ' to delight the good people I see
before me

' What ho ! halloa ! Master ! ' cries one of the
people beneath the window, ' under favour I pray
yon to tell us all wherefore you be dressed like a
lacquey, being a lord as you say ? '

"The reply of the youth was as notable as
before. Saith he 

' I was abused by one of the Committee, who
told me that the people of Sittingborne were so
prejudiced against lords and gentlemen that I
should find no reception there except in the garb
of a poor and private person. I thereupon did
deem it expedient to make one of my servants
change clothes with me, and the fellow hath, T
grieve to say, absconded. Oh ! the ingratitude
of these evil times !  carrying off upon his back a
tawny velvet suit nearly new, a beauteous Montero

cap  a good shirt of Flanders lace, a rapier
mounted with diamonds at the hilt, worth (carriages
considered) four score pounds sterling, a
pair of breeches ' 

"But enough. This youth was very circumstantial,
and again bewailing the unkindness of a
knave fed by his bounty, he prayed those present
to keep a look-out for the rascal, and hand him over
to the good constable of the town, if he should
happen to come into Sittingborne, which he
thought very unlikely, for (quoth this young Presbyterian
lord) ' I see you are all honest folk here.'

Being now asked wherefore, if accommodation
were intended, the Committee of Kent should
daily post their notices on church doors of musters
of men to make them serve against their will 
threatening them desperately if they did not repair
unto their colours at their several rendezvous ?
this young Presbyterian lord did reply ' that he
wondered they would ask such questions. Was it
not necessary for His Majesty to be royally attended
by his dutiful militia in his progress through the
loyal county of Kent ? '

In fine, so ready was he with his answers that
all were persuaded that his story was true. Being
desirous of coming to some absolute conclusion in
the matter, I personally did visit the youth, and
he did take some pains to satisfy my doubts,
adding numerous particulars, and professing that
no one was more astonished than himself at the

VOL. II. o

surprising intelligence lie lead communicated, but
he put it down to the influence of his own father
with Sir Harry Jane the younger and the independent
party."

"And who," asks Ned Hales, "is the youth's
father ? "

"That he would not reveal," replies Parson
Dixon. " It was, he said, a state secret, and he
begged me earnestly not to press him to divulge
it."

It is some knavery of the Committee," says
Master Estrange.

Belike it may be," says Parson Dixon, " yet
he did give most ready answers with wholly new
matter in each."

Upon considering the Rev. Robert Dixon's relation,
it seemed to be the general opinion amongst
us that it was a very doubtful business, this mission
of the Presbyterian noble ; and Parson Dixon
supported the notion by informing us that the
young gentleman had been brought to Sitting-borne
in one of the coaches of the Committee of
Kent  Sir Michael Liveseyey's it was averred but
of that he could not speak with certain knowledge.
Whereupon Hales, reminded of another
adventure, related to the company present the
story of Cornelius Evans his attempted cozening
of His Sacred Majesty.

DIVERS STRANGE THINGS.

Parson Dixon, in the course of further conversation,
gave me some particulars relating to another
matter which affected me very deeply. I had
heard nothing of Mitchell and my messmates of the
'' Reformation " since the day they presented the
posy to the beloved Lady Anne, and incontinently
disappeared. Nor had I ever heard the smallest
tidings of Jack Gayer. I could not come to any
conclusion regarding the first ; but as to the
second. Parson Dixon had heard a rumour that
the Committee, and many others had seen an incarnation
of the dive in divers parts of Kent, and
this was why the petition was supposed to have
been of fiendish origin.

'' His last appearance," says Parson Dixon,
was not far from Bocton Malherbe, where a party
of soldiers did discharge their carabines upon him.
And here, say the silly people, was shown the craft
of the dive, for he did actually feign not only to
shed human blood  drippings whereof were seen
upon the bluebells, primroses, and grass of the
thick woods there  but also to die and be carried
off by accomplices*

Oh Lord ! " said I, seized with a panic " then
I fear Jack Gayer is shot to death ! " which speech
the good parson not at all understanding, I did
enter into some explanations. They were scarce
finished, when the scampering of horses, kicking
up the gravel near the inner gate was heard, and
after some guesses, as to who the new-comers might
be. Sir William Brockman, Sir Henry Palmer, and
Colonel Washington revealed themselves to view,
and were admitted. They brought intelligence
which did not well accord with the young Presbyterian
lord's promise of accommodation.

What news ? what news ? " is our cry.

From Maidstone these "  says Brockman.
"Liveseyey intending the forced arming of the
people hath disarmed Maidstone, and is marching
with his troop upon Sittingborne to do the like
here  so at least it is reported."

"Ho!" cries Estrange, "what will you take
for your Presbyterian lord ? "

Hath any one heard," says Hales, " that His
Majesty is released from prison, and cometh presently
to Dover?"

Of a surety no," says Palmer, " but I have
been aboard of some of the ships in the Downs,
and 'tis very patent that the seamen generally
have espoused his cause ; and if they can, will be
instrumental to effect his restoration. East Kent
also will rise to a man in his favour."

Colonel Washington spoke of the loyal spirit of
the people in all parts.

'tell your story again, Master Dixon," says
Hales, " and let's have the opinion of these gentlemen
on it."

When the gents had heard it, they all declared
there was knavery at the bottom of it. Else,
wherefore should the Committee continue to so
violently oppose the people ?

Wherefore," said they, " should they disarm
Maidstone, threaten us all, and tell us we should
be made delinquents and sequestered ? Wherefore
indeed ? "

And now while we were on this debate, one
scries out 

Here be more arrivals I think ! "

It was imagined to be a coach but proved only
a waggon. On receiving a strange message, Hales
and all his guests sallied forth to the gate which
is reached by a flagged walk. Beyond the railings
we perceived certain men with faces blackened to
the number of about a dozen, did attend upon the
cart. Some of the Sittingborne folk attended
them.

Master Hales, by your leave," says one of
those black-faces with a wave of his hand towards
the other half-score who was with him, " here be
certain seamen whom your honour hath before befriended,
what time Captain John Burley was
cruelly destroyed at Winton ; for attempting whose
rescue we have been in danger of death ; having
after divers escapes and adventures been captured
at London, and again at Chatham (by a base

stratagem of our persecutors who pretended ta
promise us pardon, but instead had determined to
make an end of us and put us under hatches
aboard of the *"' Swallow' to carry us to the Ijle of
Wight for execution). Having, however, again
made our escape at Queenborough, we came to
Sittingborne and there have been a short time
concealed by the inhabitants from the pursuit of
a lieutenant of horse which was on our track.
Sir, we have endeavoured to return your good
favours by seizing the said Lieutenant of horse,
who is a dangerous and desperate man, and did
not only meditate setting fire to the town of
Sittingborne for to purge away the dive whom
he believes to be there, but also to commit divers
other crimes. Sir, I and my fellows are resolved
to keep the weather gage. We are for the
petition of Kent, and for the restoring of his
Majesty

perceived with joy that it was no other than
Boatswain Mitchell and my companions of the
Constant Reformations' who I had feared were all
in bad case. I shook hands heartily with them
all ; but 'twas evident that they did not recognise
the fine gallant into which Hales had transformed
me, and as there were strangers there, I dared not
to reveal myself to them.

"What?" quoth Hales, when Mitchell had
ceased to speak, " is this your prisoner in the
cart ? "

"Yes, please your honour!" cried all those
mariners.

'Twere well," says Mitchell, " if you could
kindly give him accommodation in some cellar or
other closet. We had given him over to the constable
of Sittingborne but as the Committee are
coming to Sittingborne Hwas thought he would be
presently released. We have knotted him securely
with cords, so that he will not be able to do the
mischief he intends  which is nothing less (as he
hath sworn with a loud oath) than to kill both you
and a former mate of mine, your honours friend
Rupert Lendall. And, by your honour's leave, we
would fain know that the said Lendall is safe, for
Rainsborough desireth to make an example of
him."

Hales did not reply to this last question, and
more Sittingborne folk coming up to bear witness
to the grievous violence intended by the Lieutenant,
Hales undertook to keep him for the night. Whereupon
he was lifted out of the cart  as were also
his sword and pistols and belts, which had been
torn off him in the struggle. I had no sooner examined
him attentively than I recognised, under
the coating of dust, which enveloped his person
and besmirched his face, my old enemy Miriam
May !

Though he spoke not, he seemed in a sort of
stupor, and did somewhat tremble and also did
sweat grievously.

The boatswain and mariners warranting him.
secure, he was at the entreaty of Parson Dixon
who found he knew the man, and felt some compassion
for him  carried upstairs to an unused
chamber, and laid as he was upon a bed.

The boatswain and mariners were then invited
into the parlour, where standing respectfully, and
being helped to a glass, they gave a relation of
their adventures, without in the least recognising
me, though of course I was several times mentioned
in it. But upon being pressed to remain at
Tunstall, they one and all for the present
declined, saying they had friends at Sittingborne
awaiting their return ; and so presently took their
departure before I had any opportunity of privately
revealing myself to them. An account
they had given of having been obliged to leave
Jack Gayer in his divers dress, wounded, filled me
full of apprehensions.

What Parson Dixon had before privately told
me, viz., that there might be great danger of Satan
revenging himself upon those who impersonated
him, did not tend to diminish my anxiety.

The said parson remained some time in the
upper and unused chamber endeavouring to pacify
Miriam May, and if possible to convert him from
h-is wicked designs. While poor Gayer had only
feigned the outward aspect of the fiend, Miriam
May, according to Parson Dixon's belief, was inwardly
possessed by a dive. Master Dixon did.

however, hope that some good prayers and Scripture
exhortations would serve to persuade the
said dive to depart, or at least to moderate his
harmful fury. And indeed he soon conceived that
that desirable end had been obtained; for after
about the space of twenty minutes he was able to
leave Miriam May in what appeared to be a calm
sleep.

At about ten of the clock that night, news came
that the young Presbyterian lord's relation was
but moonshine. Sir Michael Liveseyey had arrived
in Sittingborne with a strong troop of horse and
two cartloads of arms for to muster the auxiliary
forces there by compulsion. It was also said that
the people of Sittingborne were resolved to resist
the said impressment, and adhere to the petition
with all their might.

About the same time a letter from the Committee
was handed to Ned Hales. The following is a
copy thereof: 

"To Edward Hales op Tunstall, Esq.

Sir,

' You are hereby required to appear before
the Committee of Kent, at Sittingborne on
Monday next the 21st inst. at 11 of the clock in
the forenoon ; and to bring with you full particulars
of your estate both real and personal, to lay

before the said Committee. Fail not at your
peril.

(Signed) Anthony Weldon.
"Michael Lindsey.

"ElCHAED Belles."

Hales read this letter aloud, threw it on the
table and then sent for Geoffry the under-steward
(Grove being all this time sick).

You are not going to attend upon the pleasure
of the Committee, I presume Ned?" says
Estrange, in a tone that seemed as if he feared
it.

"I intend," quoth Hales, "to give orders for
the better arming of my servants, and if the Committee
want me, they will have to come hither to
fetch me."

Bravo ! " cry all the guests at the top of their
voices.

Colonel Colepepper here starts up and claps his
hand to his sword.

'Twould be a fair opportunity to be beforehand
with them' says he, " and seize Liveseyey
and Bix, and any more that can be found. Who
will follow me into Sittingborne to attempt the
same ? "

Iay, I charge your's cries Hales, " do not
hazard it. Let us still remember we are on the
defensive. To go to Sittingborne in a hostile
way might plunge the town in blood for no purpose.

If you will all remain with me till Monday
morning, I shall be glad of your company, for as
I said, I intend to prepare my house against an
assault."

Geoffry here entering, was given directions, at
the end of which Hales said 

According to the invitations I have sent out,
there will be many hundreds of stout men of Kenton
the Shooters meadow, not two hundred yards
from this house by eleven of the clock on Monday
forenoon."

Here LLEstrange with much ceremony rose
from his chair, and called out with the voice of a
stentor,

'' I propose the health of General Hales, and
success to the petition of Kent ! "

The toast was drunk with great heartiness  -
hip, hip, hurrah, and one foot on the table.

God save the King ! " cries Estrange.

*' Amen ! " said Hales.

Amen ! " said all.

Scarce were the words spoken, when something
flew in from one of the windows which was open.
It fluttered like a bird in its swift passage. But
indeed by its flash it promised to be something
else. And lo ! a gash is made in the canvas of a
picture of His Majesty, by Van Deck, and downfalls
a long knife on the floor having passed between
me and Ned Hales.

There was a moment's pause and then most of

US sprang out of the window on to the grass-plat
of the pleasaunce.

There was, however no one to be seen there.
Black shadows fell thick on the turf of the parterre
from various shrubs and trees surrounded by
beds of sweet-smelling flowers. The man, whose
hand had thrown the weapon, had escaped over
the wall which surrounded the house and pleasaunce.
Nevertheless we made a vigilant search,
penetrating as far as the churchyard and the
bridle-path to Sittingborne on the one hand,
and to G-rove End on the other  beating up the
woods, cherry orchards, and what not.

'' Hold ! ' cries the voice of Parson Dixon from
a high window, " the mad Lieutenant is gone 
escaped ! without doubt he is the delinquent."

And so he was ; I presume that his sleep was
feigned. Possibly he had concealed about his
person the weapon he had thrown, and by that skill
and strength which madmen only possess, had not
only gotten free of his cords, but had also been
able to lower himself from a window of the third
story.

To '

THE COUNTESS OF Seton.

HOW SIR MICHAEL RETREATED.

'The servants fetching nags out to pursue were
prevented by Ned Hales. But Sir Henry Palmer
wishing to go, I was permitted to accompany him.
We rode along the bridle-path to Sittingborne
conceiving that May would probably run that way.
But nought did we see of the mad Lieutenant.
Bat I did imagine on the road to see an apparition,
that recalled Parson Dixon's words concerning
poor lost Jack Gayer  but of this more anon.

Does any one know what a tumult is like ? If
so he will guess that we heard strange and loud
noises before we reached Sittingborne, and that
on entering the long street thereof the said noises
increased. In short we found the town mad. No
sooner did we arrive, than we perceived as it were
all the inhabitants in the street, some of whom on
seeing us rushed at our horses, and seizing them
by the bridle, demanded peremptorily whence we
came, whither we were going, what our names
were, and whether we would promise to live and
die with the petition ?

I shall never forget their eager and furious
countenances. The name of Ned Hales did more

to quiet them than our repeated assurances that
we were wholly for the petition. We gathered
from them that the young Presbyterian lord was
an absolute cheat. He had been chased out of
the town, but (wonderful news) so had Sir Michael
Liveseyey, and all his men. A little before we came
he had driven away in his coach, preceded by the
troop of horse, too cold to be depended upon, and
somewhat overcrowded by the fury of the people,
who had given them no better reception than they
got at Maidstone and other places. Had it not
been for some half-score chosen reformations who
were his rear-guard, Sir Michael would indeed
have been captured. A mile out of Sittingborne
we overtook the retreat. A cloud of dust shewed
where the retreating troop of horse did ride. Sir
Michael in his coach, and his chosen guard following
 the multitude after all, some on horses and
some on foot running and shouting  and all this
on a road through a hop field, and a yellow moon
peacefully shining on rout and disorder.

As we approach, the coach stops  a horse falling
lame, as we afterwards learnt. A trumpet sounds
for the troop in front to stop  at first vainly, for
they hear it not or pretend so. The multitude
gain on the coach. The cries increase. Then
there is a slackening of pace, for Sir Michael's
rear-guard is observed drawn across the road to
face the pursuers. Some now pick up stones, and
cries are heard of '' Death to the Committee ! "

But a saddle-horse is brought to Su Michael, and
he is plain to be seen mounting it.

Stone him ! Stone him ! " cried all the people,
making a forward movement. But the troopers
now spanning their pistols  some from the troop
in front return to help them. The Sittingborne
men perceive that the have cut the ropes of the
coach, and the horses thereof are moving away.

Liveseyey, now feeling himself safe, orders the
trumpet to sounds rises in his stirrups, and calls
out to his enemies 

Know, ye base scum, that I will presently return
to harry ye all for this ! "

Then half a dozen shots are heard, but do little
harm, and off at a gallop go Sir Michael and all
his men, leaving the coach standing in the midst
of the road. There is a rush, and a roar, and a
shower of stones, while troopers' bullets fall far
short of their mark. Now comes a shout of
triumph, and Sir Michael coach is seized. My
brethren of the " Constant Reformation " with their
blackened faces are soon perceived drawing back
the prize into Sittingborne, three or four of them
mounting on the top and waving somewhat for a
flag.

Young Sir Henry Palmer, remembering Canterbury
Christmas accusations, did consider it wiser
to refrain from mingling with the crowd, and
decided that we had better return to Tun stall,
and relate our experience, which we accordingly did.

VOL. II. p

A little way along the bridle-path from Sitting-borne
to Tunstall near some gorse bushes mentioned
before, which line the first hop field, both
our nags of a sudden started and swerved, and at
the same moment both Palmer and I cried out,
Oh ! " ''Ah ! " " Halloa ! " or some such thing.
And no wonder, for out of the gorse bushes, between
us and the yellow moon  low on the verge
of the horizon  a horned head, garnished with
hideous snout and fiery eyes, did start up, and,
having apparently noted us well, ducked again
into the bush and was lost to view, somewhat
inquisitive, if not alarmed, we tried to spur our
horses up to the spot ; but in vain  they could not
be persuaded. Sir Henry Palmer had also seen
the apparition, and both of us concluded by the
fear our nags did betray that there was something
more than natural about ifc.

Anon we perceived a fellow approaching the
place and talking to himself 

A pretty thing forsooth," says the fellow, *' to
change from a lord to a serving man, and then all
to be naught. Oh! Cornelius, Cornelius, thou
art basely used ! "

I had no sooner heard these words than the
mystery of the young Presbyterian lord was fully
revealed to me. There could be no doubt as to
the identity of the speaker and his correspondency
with the supposed lord. I wondered that I had

not before guessed who had made the fuss in
Sittingborne.

Stir not ! " whispered I to Painter, ' this is
the very fellow that Ned Hales told you of who
would have cozened his Majesty in the Isle of
Wight."

Forward goes Cornelius wrapt in thought, his
eyes on the ground  his face plain to be seen in
moonlight. When lo ! the gorse begins to move,
and of a sudden Cornelius starts and turns.

*' Oh, oh, ah ! " cries he, and darts in among
the hop poles.

And good reason he had, for the apparition of
the horned dive coming out of his concealment
pursued him with great ferocity.

Cornelius ran, and as he ran he shouted
'' Murder ! " so loud that had the folks of Sitting-borne
not been still in a tumult, raging against
the Committee  for they believed Bix to be somewhere
concealed  they had probably heard him.
As it was this dive coursed Cornelius in and out
of the rows of hops, and at last we perceived the
latter carrying himself nimbly in the open towards
the town; but not for long, for the dive overtook
him and proceeded to cuff him in a very
earthly fashion, finishing with a kick which sent
the retreating impostor sprawling in the dust,
after which he got up again, and ran into sittings
Then this dive turns, and running past

us, Sir Henry Palmer, either amazed or curious,
spans his pistol and points it at him.

' For the love of Heaven, ' said I, seizing his
hand, " forbear ! " and began calling out, " Jack
Gayer ! if thou art still indeed alive, come
hither ! ''

On this the dive stops and looks ; but our
horses foaming and sweating avoid him.

I was somewhat doubtful.

For heaven's sake, speak man," cried I, " and
at least tell us that thou art not Belphegor, Asmodeus,
Beelzebub, or one of their imps."

Lendall? " cries a voice, which shows plainly
'tis Jack Gayer and none else.

' I beseech thee come out of thy skin," cried I,
or our horses will mar all these hops."

Oh ! " cries Palmer, '' I understand neither
what sort of invocation you have used, nor what
this apparition meaneth. In the name of wonder,
Master Lendall, explain to me if this be really a
dive or no ! "

But Jack Gayer answered by divesting himself
of his disguise, and appearing as flesh and blood.

' Faith," says he, " I was hiding for my life,
but seeing that rogue Cornelius pass, I could not
forbear to take revenge upon him, for it was allowing
to bim that I got into peril. The base
scum did promise to assist me in playing my old
trick, but did play me false instead  but hold by
your leave, I fear I am mistaken, you look like

Eupert Lendall,, and yet you are strangely
altered'

J am no other than Lendall/' said I, '' though
beautified by a disguise which methinks serves me
better than the hideous one which you have worn,
too oft, Jack Gayer. Were you not advised before
that 'twas not safe to appear longer in it? "

"A truce to lecturing, Lendall," says he, "and
tell me where a poor hunted dive of a runaway-prentice
can find a night's lodging in security."

"Rather hunter than hunted, I think," said
Sir Henry Palmer, " but I am sure Master Hales
will receive you, if you do not really belong to the
lower world  or what is as bad  to the schismatical
party."

I am for King Charles," says Gayer, " as my
father was before me, or rather is now, being a
sufferer in his cause, and a close prisoner in the
Tower of London."

Come along, Jack Gayer," said I, " we are
going back to Esquire Hales his house, and as we
go I pray you tell us what happened to you since
you departed so suddenly from Bocton Malherbe.
I am also very anxious to hear the particulars of
your last devilish appearance. 'Twas only an
hour since that I mourned you as dead.'"

The following proves that the discomfiture of Liveseyey as
described in this chapter is by no means a fiction :  " The Kentish
men go on vigorously with their petition. Sir Michael Liveseyey,
intending and endeavouring to quash them, went to Maidstone

with about 100 horse and disarmed that town; then rode tO'
Sittingborne, where the county rose upon him and chased him
divers miles' Letter of Intelligence, Clar. MSS., Bodl.

A diurnal about this time also reports, " Sir michael Liveseyey's
coach taken." Mrs. Cromwell also suffered:  " Cromwell's lady
the wife for Old Nick, if Oliver were dead  had some crumbs
of comfort given her by the Kentish men. Going with Mr.
Synge to her house in Kent, her coach and horses and money
were disposed of for the public use of Kent  as in equity is
reasonable, Kent having so oft, and so much, contributed unto-their
private."

JACK GAYER HIS RELATION.

*the news you heard of my having been slain,' 
says Jack G-ayer, " was, I need not explain, not
true. But I was indeed hurt, being shot into the
hinder parts as I was on a retreat. Mitchell and
our comrades were forced to leave me in a thicket
and depart. When it grew dark I contrived, however,
to drag myself to a labourer's hut, who
kindly protected me till I was able to depart. I
have been concealed at the ' George ' these two
days in a garret, and have since discovered that
Mitchell and our other comrades were then in
hiding also, in a back parlour. This evening my
host told me that the Committee of Kent were
coming to the house, and that he did very much
desire to know what business they were on. I
told him I had in my budget a dress that had
served me well in discovering the naughty deeds
of the Committee of the City Militia, though it had
not so well protected my last retreat from Parliament
soldiers. The innkeeper was vastly amused
when I told him all I had accomplished by my
disguise, and prayed me to play the spy upon the
Committee of Kent, promising me a secure lodging

in a closet in the clamber where the would
conduct their business. If by any chance I should
be discovered, he made no doubt that I should
inspire such terror by my aspect  for I put on the
disguise to show him the effect thereof  that I
should be sure to pass scot-free. He had told me
of the Presbyterian lord, and was entirely deceived
into the notion of his honesty and high rank. On
the notice that a troop of horse approached with
some of the Committee of Kent, I was shown
into my closet. As ill-luck would have it, however,
the deceived innkeeper takes the Presbyterian
lord into confidence and leaves the key of the
closet with him, informing him of what was
stowed away there. What does this Presbyterian
lord but open the closet the moment the innkeeper
departed !

' ' Halloa ! ' says I, recognising, to my no small
surprise, Cornelius Evans.

' Hush ! ' says he ; ' keep close.'

' I know you,' said I ; ' you are passing yourself
off finely for a lord  but beware, Master Cornelius
Evans  if you attempt to pass off any of your
tricks upon me yon shall smart for it.'

' Peace,' says he, ' here come the Committee
of Kent,' and he closes the door, and, rascal that
he is, turns the key in the lock ! This I did not
bargain for ; but found that a dagger I secretly
carried would easily pick open the bolt.

"I remain, therefore, perfectly quiet, hoping

that Cornelius would not dare to betray me. Anon,
in comes the Committee, who, I was warned
before, would be Lives and Bix. The seemed
to have expected another who did not come. They
fall to business, and, if I mistake not, 'twas a
question of this very Esquire Hales and his being
made a delinquent that they did discuss, although
divers other gentlemen were talked of, and also the
best mode of impressing the people of Sitting-borne
to bear arms to put down the petition by
force  which was to be done on Monday morning
after Bix had preached a sermon. Strange enough,
it proved to be the very echo of my former experience.
One was wanting to make up a quorum,
and it would seem the person was Sir Anthony
Weldon who ought to have been there. Upon
hearing this I incontinently determined (as I did
not know whether to trust Cornelius Evans) to
come forth incontinently and lend them my
devilish assistance. But commencing to pick the
lock I was forced to desist for a moment, for Sir
Michael said to Bix 

' I think there be rats in this chamber ! Hold !
Cornelius, what is this noise we hear ? '

Cornelius, coming in soon, proves to me his
unworthiness, for he at once explains that there is
a rogue in the closet who is there to overhear
their proceedings, and advises soldiers to be sent
for to secure him. So was my game destroyed.
However, I had no intention of waiting till the

soldiers came, and wile the knaves were still
amazed by Cornelius his intelligence, open flies
the closet door, and out come I brandishing my
bodkin.* They all feared my corporeal presence,
shouted  Murder ! ' and ran into the three corners
of the room. Bix fell to prayers, believing me to
be what I represented. Cornelius knelt to me.
Sir Michael, faint with fear, drew his hanger, but
I wrenched it out of his hand and flourished it and
my bodkin at each in turn. Whereupon I was
somewhat amazed to hear a strange roaring outside,
for not only was Sir Michael's troop of horse
drawn up in the street waiting for some safe
quarters  which it was supposed would be the
church  as well as Sir Michael's coach doubtful
where to go ; but the street was also full of people
waiting, perhaps, for another speech from the
sham Presbyterian lord, and those people and
troopers both could see very well into the chamber ,
the windows whereof were wide open. Seeing, I
suppose, a dive dancing before the Committee, they
were all smitten with a frenzy. 'Twas time for me to
be ois. Snatching up a couple of the books of the
Committee I banged down the candles and rushed
out of the door. The good innkeeper instantly
received me and conducting me to a secure door
of retreat, learnt from me some hurried particulars

"The devil himself," says a Letter from a Gentleman (1648),
alluding to some occurrence like this, " came to appear amongst
them as a committee-man."

which he declared, with indignation, he would instantly
make known, viz., that the Presbyterian
lord was a cheat, and that the townspeople were to
be impressed to put down this petition.

'I found that Mitchell and our comrades without
knowing who I was, had engaged to protect
my retreat. I gave the innkeeper the two Committee
books, and made good my escape, not
knowing till after your discovery of me and my
hiding place what was the result of my undertaking.
I am of opinion," said Jack Gayer,
concluding his narrative, " that Cornelius mays
have had the support of Sir Michael Liveseyey in
his assumption of the character of a mediator ;
but of that I am by no means certain, for I now
perceive the rascal would rather tell a lie at anytime
than abstain from doing so."

We afterwards discovered that the innkeeper
fully revealed to the people the deception both of
the apparition and of Cornelius Evans. Their
whole fury was then turned upon Liveseyey, with
what results we have seen.

TO SITTINGBOENE Church.

It will be easily credited that the news of Sitting-borne
having risen and driven Sir Michael
Liveseyey and his myrmidons out of the town was
cheerfully received at Tunstall ; and that Ned
Hales, who had in the meantime received divers
other guests, did sit talking late into the night of
the present posture of affairs. The innkeeper of
Sittingborne brought the books that Jack Gayer
had seized. One was an Information Book, and
did contain a charge against ]Need Plates, which
was scarce dry, of enticing people to his house to
drink the King's health, and putting his servants
under arms, whereby he made himself a delinquent.
There were also many other dirty attempts to
undo loyal persons in that book. But Ned Hales'
revenge was to determine to return those books to
the Committee, if, indeed, the Committee could be
found.

The next morning being Sunday, according to
the wish of the people the Rev. Robert Dixon,
Mea., was to be brought to the church of Sitting-borne
to hold a Prayer Book service, and openly
pray for the King. But as it was not known

whether Liveseyey's troop or their forces might
return it was agreed that he should be carried to
church by an armed party of Hales his servants,
Estranged proposing the same and cheerfully
undertaking the command. Nef Hales, however,
proposed to ride in first at about ten of the clock,
to cause the bells to be rung (for the bells had
never been removed from either Sittingborne or
Tunstall) .

We found the town pretty quiet, but the people
seeing Hales all ran forth to cheer him vehemently.
And finding him bound for the church, prepared
at once to go there. But the church doors were
found to be fast, and neither sexton nor constable
were to be discovered. It was said they had fled
during the night with some of the schismatics.
It proved, however, that they had forsaken those
principles, and had only got so insensibly drunk
in drinking the King's health that they could not
be made to understand anything, or say where the
keys of the church might be. I climbed in through
a window, and there found the key in the lock

The following piece of evidence extracted in after-inquiries
into the great rising in Kent shows that Thatcher was among
them taking notes :  " Henry Gardner Thatcher, sworn and examined
(20th February, 1650), saith, that on Whitsunday, in the
time of the late insurrection in Kent, in the year 1648, there
came down into Sittingborne a party of horse from Tunsrall,
from Sir Edward Hales his house, of about 30 or 40, commanded
by one Strong R, and armed with swords and pistols,
amongst whom this ex did see John Mountain, of Milton, &c."
ems. in State Paper Office.)

inside. It was a great puzzle to us how that did
occur.

Whoever he is' says Hales, as soon as he had
come in, 'Mie is probably in the vestry" (which
was locked).

lot sOj however ; the key being found, no one
was there concealed. It was full of better treasure
even six score arms which the constable had
placed there by order of Lives ey, and had
perchance forgotten, though he had seen them
there placed.

Ho, ho ! " quoth Hales, " here are the arms
which they brought hither to force the people of
Sittingborne to fight against the King. They will
be useful for quite another purpose. Lock up
this vestry and give me the key, and if any people
sober enough be found let them go ring the bell,
for Parson Dixon is coming here presently'

And so the bell was tolled, while Ned Hales
retired with me to the inn to inquire into all the
circumstances of the retreat of Sir Michael the
evening before. It was all found very satisfactory,
and Sir Michael's coach being visited in the yard
of the inn, was declared forfeited to His Majesty.

I must tell you that through the interest of Sir
Edward Hales, Ned was a justice of the peace.
And now, it being church time, all turned out to
welcome the Rev. Robert Dixon and the very
gallant little troop of fifty of Ned Hales his men
riding into Sittingborne. He did exhort all to

peace as he passed. Entering the church he
there was obliged to wait for his surplice, which
Geoffryhad promised to send. But Geoffry being
much pressed by Master LLEstrange about less
peaceable business had omitted to send the same ;
and the bell ceased, and the church was quite full
of people before the said surplice did arrive.
When lo !  as it had been an apparition  out of
the pulpit rose the form of Bix ! Bix indeed, and
no other ! He had retreated before the combustion
which Gayer in his disguise had occasioned, and
taking refuge in the church had locked himself
safely therein. Perchance some will say  " What !
a coward Master Bix ? "

But that was not so, Bix had ever intended
a discourse, and fearing that he might be supplanted
by the more popular Parson Dixon,
thought it a good opportunity to remain all night
in the pulpit, and did so, very punctually sleeping
therein, and also breaking his fast there from the
pocket of his breeches, only with bread and cheese
which was even in a lump in his cheek when he
arose, being awaked by the persistency of the
bell. He had found the hour-glass in the church
and now laid it beside the cushion before him ;
and he would preach perhaps two hours, perhaps
three  according as he found the people attentive.
Be it understood that Master Bix was wholly
ignorant of what had occurred 1, and did believe
that Sir Michael's troop had been quietly quartered

in the town. For he thought the noise he heard,
when he had hastily slipped into the church was
wholly directed against the dive. Also, whether
the said dive was feigned or not, I believe Bix did
scarce know ; for the former appearances of Jack
Gayer having been mentioned by divers diurnal,
many besides Bix did believe that all was not
right, and he did prepare himself for some desperate
and dreadful spectacle.

But truly I do believe that Bix did imagine he
had a not unfavourable audience. He was, however,
soon undeceived  for a cry of amazement,
not of pleasure, which was given with much spontaneity
by the congregation there assembled upon
seeing the apparition of Master Bix ; and some
works of Master Bix were now revealed. One of
the churchwardens, a malignant at heart, and a
favourer of Episcopacy, peering somewhat curiously
about the church, had discovered certain things.
For Bix, when he found himself safe in the church
the night before, being overcome with zeal, did
consider how some good work of reformation
might be carried on. He did very well know,
and fervently believe, that there is no inherent
holiness in any place made with hands. And not
to be weary in well-doing, he did, before ascending
to his rest in the pulpit for the night, search by
the light of the moon  and, I believe, also, feel
with his hands  for such relics of Popish superstition
as had been allowed by negligent persons

to remain in the church of Sittingborne. And in
truth Master Belcher, the poorly paid schismatical
minister of Ulcombe, who had been entrusted by
the Committee for plundered ministers to preach
and to pray betimes both at Sittingborne and
Tunstall also, had been somewhat slothful. So
that in the night some new damage was done in
Sittingborne Church to sundry monuments, to the
baptismal font, and especially Master Bix did
scratch, scribble, and deface the idolatrous
scutcheon of the Royal arms, with the motto of
Fear God and Honour the King," which was
suspended in the gallery, and had by sinful
neglect been allowed to hang there notwithstanding
divers ordinances of Parliament to the contrary.


Master Bix standing now in the pulpit, remembering
himself to be the author of these attempts,
and also perceiving, by 1 know not what signs, in
the aspect of his congregation that those reformations
were credited to him, but not approved, was
somewhat troubled.

Who is this fellow ? " was the whisper that
went round the church.

But the churchwarden before mentioned, knowing
who the intruder was, and very indignant at
his appearance there, rose from his pew and called
out 

Come out of the pulpit, Bix  you have no
business there ! '

VOL. II. Q

But Bix, ever bold for the truth  thinking also
that he had Sir Michael Liveseyey and his troop in
the town to enforce respect  turned the hour-hiss,
and openings his Bible took out the text, which is
still taken bj his sect as an argument against
kingly power.*

But cries of '' Forbear ! '' " Come down ! comedown
! "  Dare not to speak a word ! " and suchlike
warned him that he would not be heard  and
the Rev. Robert Dixon, Mea., coming with his
surplice on, certain persons did ascend the pulpit
stairs for to pull Bix from his perch. Then did
a zealot or two take the part of Bix, and the
church was like to turn to Paris Garden (where
the bears used to be kept) had not Parson Dixon
reminded all that this was the house of God, where
such combustions should by no means take place.
Upon Bix reminding him of his promise to yield
precedence to him he promised to do so, and said
he would depart for Tunstall, and hold a service
there  which he accordingly did, carrying most
of the congregation with him  Hales and all his
guests amongst the number.

These were no sooner gone than some rude
persons, whom Bix had disobliged, mounting to
the pulpit fetched him down sudden Y and handed
him over as a prisoner in the King's name to the
constable. The said constable having been
watered by his friends, and recovered from his

1. Samuel, viii., 8-

stupor, received his prisoner, and to the great grief
of Bix  who conceived him to be wholly of his
own way of thinking  locked him up with every
mark of contempt.

That evening LLEstrange, by warrant from
Hales, did arm the people of Sittingborne with the
arms which 1 told you just now were left in the
vestry."

Roster L'Estrano:e alludes more briefly to the arrival of the
.Committee and the seizure of Bix. It will be seen he does not
estimate the mounted party from Tunstall at more than half
Thatcher's computation (see note p. 569). Estrange writes
thus  "In this very article of time comes the Kentish Committee
with a troop of horse to Sittinscborne. I was at Tunstall, two
miles off, when upon consultation four or five of us concluded to
make a party and fall into their quarters next night, in which
resolution I was so far from involving Master Hales that when
his house was proposed for a first rendezvous, and his person for
the first attempt, I was the only soul dissenting . . . Next
morning we heard that Rochester bridge was drawn . . . and
the army quit the town, which put an end to that night's design,
and Master Bix only (one of the Committee) left, and him the
people seized, with about six score arms in the church. Upon this,
with a matter of 18 horse, we marched to Sittingborne."

OF MARGARET GRAY.

It would indeed be very profitable to give you the
substance of the discourse of Parson Dixon at
Tunstall Church on Whit Sunday in the year 1648,
for I understand it was an exceedingly judicious,
though very loyal discourse. But I was not there,
nor did I attend the afternoon Prayer-book service
at Sittingborne Church, where he did hold forth 
in place of Bix in custody on a charge of being a
Committee man, and of having usurped the King's
authority. The reason I did not attend, was that
I was partly taken up with military duties in
attendance upon Master LLEstrange, and partly
with other affairs.

I told you that Margaret Gray and her father,
as well as my poor sister Mistress Burley, had
been invited to Tunstall. My sister could not be
prevailed upon to venture so far, being then kindly
entertained by Mistress Trattle at Newport  but
Gray and his daughter Mistress Margaret did
adventure it ; and arrived that morning from
London. You will wonder that Master Gray,
being a strict Presbyterian, should travel on the

Several of his sermons are in print.

Sabbath. But indeed divers considerations did
force him to deviate from his customary strictness.
He had found Kent in a great commotion, and his
journey from London had not been so expeditious
as he had conceived it would. By accident I did
discover him at " The George," when Ned Hales
went to view Liveseyey's coach. The poor little
gentleman had altogether, contrary to his expectation,
recovered from that sweating sickness
which had so nearly brought him to his grave.
He desired me to return and visit him and his
daughter who was at that time resting after the
fatigues or, I might say, perils of the journey;
for they had found all Kent in a combustion.
When Bix his very brief discourse had been concluded,
and he had been securely lodged by his
false friend, the constable, I did proceed to pay
my respects to that old man, who upon the
whole, I perceived, was well disposed towards
me. As for Mistress Margaret Gray, I felt somewhat
embarrassed at the idea of meeting one whom
I had not seen for many years ; but who  if I
might trust the accounts of her own father and
Sarah Skelhorn, was not unfriendly to me. I
could now recall Margaret as a girl of some thirteen
or fourteen years, slight of figure, of a brown
hair and of medium height. She did never promise
to have the beauty of the Lady Anne, though
she was not wanting in comeliness. I sometimes
do incline to believe that we are most partial to

those who resemble us most. And the very-desperate
affection of Faithful for Margaret (which
did almost equal mine for the Ladj Anne), seemed
to me to fortify the doctrine. For I had ofttimes,
though I have scarce mentioned it, noticed a likeness
between Faithful and Margaret, that is as I
remembered Margaret, which was quite as strong
as you will ever find between man and woman, or
rather between boy and girl. At times I did suppose,
almost, that Faithful might be an elder
brother of Margaret, though some great differences
were observable. Sarah Skelhorn's explanation of
cousinship was the most plausible. When I went
into the chamber of " The George," which Gray
had hired, I confess I felt rather strangely.

This is Margaret, as you sees' says Gray,
mighty tired with her long journey down hither."

But instead of the girl I remembered, I saw one
much more grown, and bearing so marvellous a
resemblance to Faithful, except for some differences,
that I confess I was fairly perplexed.

At the same time Mistress Margaret was, or
seemed to be very much abashed.

Oh ! " said I, " forgive me Mistress Margaret,
but I scarce know what to think. Were it not
that your hair is very dark, while that of Faithful's
was exceeding fair, I should say 3'ou are one and
the same person. I can now very well believe the
truth of Sarah Skelhorn's asseveration who did
very constantly affirm that you and Faithful are
related in fact that you are a cousin ' 

Here I ceased to speak, for I saw old Gray regarding
me with something of the same expression
that he wore when he snatched the pistol from
behind his pillow and commenced to span it.

Margaret Gray still hung her head. All of a
sudden the whole truth flashed upon me. Oh I
what an innocent I had been !

"Oh, Mistress Margaret!" I cried, "truly I
am altogether amazed, oh ! I see, I see, I ought
to have seen before  that, that Margaret and
Faithful are "

Here I came to a dead stop.

Good friends ? " says Margaret, laughing.
You speak truly. Oh, Master Lendall what
must you have thought of me ? "

Yes ! I saw it all ; but oh how blind I had been !
Her hair had been dyed a light colour. There
was no such person as Faithful ! To avoid Sir
Michael Liveseyey, she had attired herself in
gallants clothes ! Again I thought of '' The
Golden Legend," but I said to myself, *' Rosalind.
attired herself in a masculine habit to follow
Sadder. But Margaret Gray hath done so only
to avoid Sir Michael Liveseyey."

Hereupon I con over the boyish days, when I
was trusted to squire Margaret here and there ;
also I reflect upon my meeting with Faithful in
the church precinct at Canterbury, and the somewhat
long acquaintance we had. I had lost a friend
and found what instead ? I was puzzled, for so
fully was I persuaded that Faithful and Margaret

were two distinct persons, that when I thought of
former passages, I could scarce compress them
into one. When I began to see all the obligations
I had incurred, for did I not owe my life to
Margaret ? witness the affair at Winton and her
changing clothes with Faithful  that is, I mean
her remaining in the prison, while I escaped  I
cannot say I felt altogether happy. Also the sums
of money she had either given me or expended on
my account ! Oh, there was no disguising to myself
the truth, which must be  not that she fled
solely to avoid Sir Michael  but rather that she
did desire to be my companion. I could now
remember a thousand things that did prove it.

"It is all the fault of that Sarah Skelhorn,"
said I to myself, "who put these notions into
her head, and would to heaven she had not, for
notwithstanding the great kindness I have received
from poor Margaret, I cannot forget the Lady
Anne on her account."

These contemplations occupied far less time
than you will take to read them. The pause, however,
which I made was mistaken by Master Gray
as an evidence of embarrassment caused by feelings
which I did not experience.

Two are company," says he, " but three is
none. I will leave thee Margaret to entertain
Lendall. We stay here to-night and go to Tun-stall
early tomorrow."

And though I would fain have prevented him,
Gray departs ; and there I am alone with his

daughter. Many another prentice would have
given something for such a chance. Here was a
fair girl, young, rich, and to be had almost without
asking; and here was a penny less swain who
would not and could not think himself obliged by
the opportunity ! Margaret half perceives my
thoughts and looks at me rejroacb fully. And
now her flashing dark eyes and pouting lips would
perchance have moved me in spite of myself, had I
not shut out the view by calling up the sweet
image of her whom I had last seen, amongst the
May blossoms and sweet flowers and shrubs, at old
Bocton Malherbe. I began presently to reflect once
more upon all I owed her.

(ill, Margaret ! -" said I, " how can I ever
repay all your friendliness to me ? As for the
moneys you gave me I will most punctually pay
you as soon as his Majesty enjoys his own. For
no doubt when that takes place the sequestration
of my estate in Herts will be reversed ; but the
risks you have run in my behalf, Margaret, are a
debt that I know not how to cancel."

Oh, Rupert," says she, " do not speak of that
or of anything owing  truly all is nought. But
why do you sit there so far away from me ? "

On hearing this I carried my chair to within a
yard and a half of her or thereabouts, at which
she seemed disappointed and twirled a gold chain
which was suspended round her neck in an uneasy
manner, while I talked of the prospects of the
King's party being soon uppermost; which 

though I said a great deal thereon  did not seem
to interest her very much.

On looking at a pocket dial which the beloved
Lady Anne had given me a little before I left
Bocton, I said 

"I must now leave you, Margaret. I am in
attendance upon Master Estrange, a brave gentleman,
who is now engaged in assisting to arm
and marshal the household of Ned Hales against
a surprise''

You will return to sup with us at least ? "
says Margaret. '' I know my father expects you."

I fear it is wholly impossible' I returned. " I
must return to Tunstall where, however, I understand
I shall see you and your father tomorrow."

And with this excuse which seemed not at all to
raise Mistress Gray's spirits, and which did not
slake me feel more comfortable, I departed hoping
that I might not come across old Gray somewhere
in the town, or elsewhere.

1 soon forgot all about Margaret ; for there was
some commotion in the town consequent upon
Master Estrange (greatly against the wish of
some gentlemen, who came in to tell us of other
parts of Kent having risen) releasing Bix on his
parole, a thing however which Ned Hales did not
disapprove of, though the people were violent, and
said Estrange was a traitor! "

See in Estrange's own account

To

LADY ABERCROMBY.

OF THE LADY ANNE

"Old Gray has been speaking to me of you/*
says Ned Hales, "when I met him discussing
with others the affairs of Bix's release."

Oh, indeed ! " said I, casting my eyes upon
the ground.

He says he will not come to us to-night, and
that you will probably stay to sup with him'*

Nay," said I. " I have declined."

"Declined?" says Hales, with a look of surprise.


Yes," said I, " I  I considered that they were
fatigued after their journey, and that they might
prefer being alone."

Well, if that be the case," says Hales, " I
will get you to do somewhat for me. There are
but few servants in my house, for Estrange
and I mean to remain here with some of them,
and to keep a court of guard, and most of the
people whom we have armed will have to go
forth scouting. Go therefore to Tun stall, Eu-pert,
where you vnll find some more guests of
mine  ladies too, some of whom you are acquainted
with. I will get you to command the

garrison in their defence. From all I can learn
I do not think you will have to fight, for Sir
Michael has gone over Rochester bridge and I
cannot hear that the Committee are able to
muster any of the forces they had expected'

I readily undertook the task offered, and soon
reached Tunstall. To my great amazement I found
the Lady Aucher and fair Mistress Hatton in a
parlour by themselves. I expressed great delight
in seeing them, and found that until I spoke they
had no idea who I might be, so much had Ned
Hales his skill done to make me a new man.

I inquired after the Lady Anne, and they said
she was in good health, but parried all particular
questions that I put. In fine I could not help
perceiving there was some mystery in their reserve
which I could not fathom. And when I
would have ordered refreshments for them, telling
them that I was sent purposely I believed
to entertain them, they told me that they had
ordered something to eat in a more private
chamber , at a later hour. They however would
like to walk about the pleasaunce and other
places with me in the meantime. They were
full of the petition, and anxious for news. I
told them all I knew. They were especially
interested and amused at the discomfiture of
Liveseyey, who had been at Bocton not long before,
but had not slept there ; otherwise some agreeable
nocturnal surprises of an altogether novel kind

"had been contrived for Ms amusement. We had
much laughter over the former pranks we had
plied, and when I informed them of the dangerous
duel I had nearly fought, they had another
laugh at my expense.

But before we had any of this talk, they told
me that they were in some apprehension of being
pursued, but though they inquired about the best
method of baffling pursuers, they declined to name
them. After I had spoken of my duel it flashed
into my head that perchance the three gallants
were those they feared, which, however, they
denied, observing that 'twas a laly and not a gentleman
who might be now in chase.

A lady ! " said I.

"Has Esquire Hales told you nothing?" they
asked.

Concerning what ? " was my reply.

The Lady Aucher looked at Mistress Hatton,
and Mistress Hatton looked at the Lady Aucher.

We cannot tell ;you an3'thin'j:," says Lady
Aucher. "We are pledged to be secret  but here
comes the Lady Anne's

I cannot tell you what a jump my heart gave at
this speech, or rather at the sight of the beloved
beauty they named, for she at that moment came
in view, and then, as if alarmed at the sight of me,
turned about to retreat.

Lady Anne ! Lady Anne ! 'tis " 

'' Hold ! " said I, " that is not my name here 

though indeed 'tis no longer necessary to conceal
it, for there are no enemies now to fear."

The Lady Anne, upon looking back, seemed reassured,
and returning put out her hand.

Oh, I see who it is/ she said, blushing a
little, "" at first I took you for a stranger."

Oh, dear Lady Anne," said I, '' I had no notion
that you were here, for indeed the fair la lies here
have been very mysterious. I presume you are for
London " 

But here another blush creeps over the Lady
Anne's lovely cheek, and the Lady Auclier and fair
Mistress Hatton smile in a half-malicious manner.

* Master E I ward Hales, your old friend. Lady
Anne," said I, blushing in my turn rather with
fear than shame, "is at Sittingborne, and told me,
Lady Anne, to entertain some ladies to-night, ashe
must remain away from the house. He did
not, however, tell me that he expected you."

Again those sportive ladies seemed inclined to
mirth, and again the colour came into the Lady
Anne's face.

A suspicion began to dawn upon me that she
had fled from her mother's house, and that it was
the Lady Wotton who might be the pursuer.

My heart sank within me.

I said, with a dejected countenance I am sure 

"Master Edward Hales is to be general of
the petition of Kent. They are going to march to
London with arms in their hands, for fear of being

set upon as the Surrey men were, and Master
Hales " (I could not say Ned Hales) " is to ride at
their head."

I said this with my eyes on the ground ; at the
end I raised them to scan her face. I read something
there that pained me grievously.

It was a look of pride and triumph. Her words
following felt like arrows piercing me to the heart,
though they were but few and short.

The petition," she said " was a noble design.
It would be a great honour to the general who
headed it if His Majesty should be thereby released
from his cruel imprisonment, and freedom
restored to the three kingdoms ! "

She now begged me to excuse her, as she was
fatigued, and taking the Lady Aucher and Mistress
Hatton with her, she turned about to go into
the house, leaving me fully impressed with the
idea that she was now lost to me for ever. That
night I did not sleep. 1 had made some dispositions
of the small garrison of the house in case of
any attack, which indeed was not expected. I
preferred to keep guard without myself. There
was a beauteous moon, and a wonderful calmness
upon trees and flowers  except that the nightingales
did sing all night long. But that night tome
was inexpressibly sad. I perceived that Master
Edward Hales had possession of the heart that I
so coveted.

VOL. II. B

TO THE Church AT TUNSTALL.

At dawn of day I returned to my chamber. One
thing only shall I mention as to my solitary wanderings
in grove and garden that night, and this
was a strange sound in the churchyard, of which I
could find no reasonable explanation, and in some
terror I quitted the place. I lay on my couch
without refreshment for a short time. I saw the
sun rise red over the estuary of the Thames,
brightening creation, but all was dark with me. I
heard the lark singing at heaven's gate, but it only
did remind me that I was thrust forth of celestial
habitations. For doubt and dread had now
gathered to certainty. 'Twas not for me the Lady
Anne had come to Tunstall  that was clear. I
would fain have persuaded myself that she was
only on a journey, but what the Lady Aucher and
Mistress Hatton had said  and their smiles and
looks  ah ! yes, those were commentaries that I
could not forget. I could not rest, and so went
forth, again to rove about the dewy grass, inhaling
scents from the new-mown bowling-green, viewing
fresh blossoms of flowering shrubs, but receiving
small refreshment from any of these things.

'Sleep at last overtook me ia a little arbour at that
part of the pleasaunce which could only be viewed
from the unfinished wing of Tunstall House.

I was awaked by the tolling of the bell, as I
thought, of Tunstall Church. It reminded me of
what I had heard there in the night. I went to my
chamber to refresh myself, and, avoiding the company
who by this time began to arrive, either in
the house or the Shooter's meadow  for perchance
you will remember that Hales had invited all who
could come on this very morning  I made my way
to the church of Tunstall. I saw on my road
thither that great preparations were being made in
the said Shooter's meadow for the reception of a
multitude. Jack Gayer was there setting up what
was requisite for sports of divers kinds, and
Mitchell and those mariners of the " Reformation ''
returned from scouting were setting forth tables
and forms  for a feast was to be prepared, as manj-
persons would have to come long journeys to attend
this meeting.

Strange delusion ! What would you think ?
Upon inquiry I found that no bell had been ringing
at Tunstall Church iecaitse the hell rope was
found to be gone ! It was the belts at Sitting-borne
that I had heard !  either rinofino: for

The reading of this of course must be that the place called
"The Ruins" marks the site of Tunstall House though Mr.
Mores the antiquary concluded it had never been completed  in
which case the house near Tunstall Church must have been occupied
by Hales at this time.

joy over the discomfiture of the Committee of
Kent or for some other good cause. Nevertheless
I found Tunstall Church open, and did admire
the monument of the Comers* wherein four
daughters kneel, one of them being the mother of
Ned Hales ; also the windows with the painted
squirrels eating nuts therein, and other things 
such as Hales his crest of three arrows, and the
motto, " A solo ad cwlum.'

Then I remember the strange echo which I had
heard with much alarm in the night when I
had strolled into the churchyard, and I go forth
of the church to that particular place where I had
heard what surprised me namely, a passage of
the funeral service of the Church of England. But
by daylight of ten of the clock or thereabouts
there was no longer anything to fear.

But now with a sinking of heart I see some persons
gaily dressed coming towards the church.
Esquire Hales is one ; Sir Anthony Aucher, Sir
Gamaliel Dudley, Master Estrange, and some
others are with him. All have white favours to
their lovelocks, or in the breasts of their doublets.
Which t you must know were the colours of the
petition of Kent. I mustered up all my fortitude
to congratulate Esquire Hales upon the day
and occasion, and grasped his hand warmly.
Estrange  who I perceived did busy himself

 Since removed to Hales Place, Canterbury,
t Sic, according to Matthew Carter.

in all affairs  handed me a favour, and presented
me also with a printed copy of an epithalamium
lie had composed, of which he desired an opinion.
This was half-way between the church door and
the entrance to the churchyard. We were joined
by Sir William Brockman, Sir Thomas Peyton,
the two Germans, Courthope, and divers other
gentlemen. I assumed an air of cheerfulness
which I was far from feeling, though I believe it
imposed upon all there. But now a sound startles
all. It was the same which had affrighted me in
the nii>ht  a voice muttering 

"Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to
dust!"

Not one there could tell what it was, or whence
it came. While we were debating it, the bell of
the church rang a short and dismal peal, or rather
moaned once, and then ceased.

Sure there is some one in the belfry ! " says
Hales, " but hold ! " cries he, noticing something
else. "What do I see? We had
desired to be private here ; but, methinks, folks
come  nay, a concourse ! Aucher ! Estrange !
Dudley ! Brockman !  what is this ? Something
hath happened ! "

And so his friends, and myself also, thought, for
on all sides men came riding and running toward
the churchyard.

By this light ! " cried Estrange, " the people
turn on us. And, yet, how can it be so? "

''[N'ay," says Hales, "I fear it is Liveseyey come
back to take revenge."

And he calls aloud to know the cause of the
strange commotion.

But the snorting of horses, and the clatter of
their heels, near the north corner of the churchyard,
as well as the flashing of steel caps and breastplates,
for a moment throw all into amazement.
Bales and the rest drew their rapiers. It seemed
that we would be put to fight for it in that unprepared
state at the church door.

But a little in front of the Parliament troops 
for such you will see they proved to be  came Sir
Robert Hatton, galloping up. He dismounted
from his horse, and, entering the churchyard,
walked up to Hales, and said coolly 

"This is Sir Anthony Weldon, who comes
hither with force. He is from Scott's Halls
where he passed Sunday. He hath not yet been
into Sittingborne ; and I believe knows nought of
Sir Michael and his troop being chased thence.
Sir Anthony hath but forty soldiers with him."

Scarce had Colonel Hatton spoke, when I saw
the monkey eyes and lion-like mane  or rather hair
  of the bold baronet of Swanscombe. He was
not armed like those after him ; on the contrary,
disdaining pot and breast and back, he came in
his ordinary doublet, with only a rapier to his

One of the magazines of arms in possession of the Committee.
Colonel Booths surrendered it, 1 think, next day.

side. He and his men drew up at the churchyard
wall.

Quoth Hales to me 

Prithee, good Rupert, go fetch the two books
of the Committee, which the innkeeper brought
here, and which thy madcap companion seized.'

GeoflPry was there, and told me he would straightway
bring them.

Hales springs on to the churchyard wall, which
is not very high, and, standing on the top, faces
the prime mover of the schismatic party in Kent.

*' Good-morning to you. Sir Anthony ! ' says he,.
I am pleased to see you and your men at our
wedding. We shall be glad to give entertainment
to both you and themes

By this time a considerable crowd had collected
chiefly of those who had come to join the
festivities in the Shooter's meadow, and to consult
about the petition. Though armed only with
clubs they seemed quite ready for any dispute that
might occur. But what gave better security, was,
perhaps, the determined appearance of Mitchell
and his men of the " Eeformation." They had
somewhere fished up some formidable cutlasses,
and they came leaping over the churchyard wall ina
style that showed they were ready for business.

You will find the pretence of a wedding,"
quoth Sir Anthony, in reply to Hales his challenge,
"is too stale to serve your turn, Master Bales
And, if I mistake not, you have already had an

invitation to appear before the Committee at
Sittingborne ? "

Yes Sir Anthony' says Hales, " bat if you go
there yourself you will not find any of your
friends ; for Master Bix has been released from
imprisonment on his parole, and Sir Michael and ,
his troop have fled over Rochester bridge."

And now scornful laughter bursts from the fast-gathering
multitude round the churchyard.

I saw Sir Anthony's face change. He whispered
to the officer near him. 'Twas evident what
Colonel Hatton had said was the case. The discomfiture
of Liveseyey was wholly unknown to
Weldon, till this moment, the people (as I conclude)
having given him wrong intelligence for sport.

"" Once more," says Hales, '' will you repent of
your past misdeeds. Sir Anthony, and sign the
petition of Kent?"

Once more. Master Edward Hales, will you
withdraw your countenance from this mutiny
against the Parliament?" says Sir Anthony
Weldon, with much effrontery.

But, indeed, if he had not been able to command
himself, he had never been able to lord it over the
county as he did.

The multitude pressed nearer and nearer the
soldiers ; but I saw they had their pistols spanned,
and therefore Sir Anthony was not overawed.

"I counsel you," says he, "to disarm your
servants, and dismiss those who are assembling

were contrary to the ordinances of Parliament.
And for yourself, I tell you this  that the stale
pretence of a wedding will avail you nothing."

'' Pretence there is none either of wedding or
petition," replies Hales.

And very opportunely the cry, " Make room !
make room ! " is heard.

And the crowd opening, a bevy of fair ladies,
wearing veils, was presently perceived, walking
direct to the church as if no dispute at all were
going on. My heart, which had been nothing,
moved by the sudden appearance of the redcoats,
now beat with violence.

Then did a dame, mounted on a pillion, who was
apparently under the protection of Sir Anthony
and his troop, touch the flank of her palfrey
hastily, as if impelled by curiosity, and move up
toward the advancing procession of ladies.

I knew her at once. It was the Lady (Mary)
Wotton, mother to the Lady Anne.

"Hold," says she, "I perceive, Sir Anthony,
there is no pretence here at all. Do you see who
comes here ? "

Alas ! I had seen only too plainly that the Lady
Anne Wotton  the beloved Lady Anne  dressed,
alas ! as a bride, was the principal figure of this
pageant.

A common pretext during the interregnum. Coursing
matches, football, cudgel-playing, &c., also served for the assembly
of Royalists. On this account Cromwell suppressed games and
porta.

Says the Lady Wotton, in a voice trembling"
with passion 

'' I did suspect somewhat from your friendship
with malignant, like the Lady Aucher and her
sister. Bat enough. I ban, I bar this marriage ;
and, the Lord helping me, I will undo both you
and it'

This speech was addressed to the Lady Anne,
her daughter.

Ked Hales steps ofP the wall and, taking Anne
by the hand, doffs his hat to the Lady Wotton.

Your daughter Anne," says be '' is now under
my protection, good my lady. The wedding shall
go on, and you can no more prevent it than Sir
Anthony shall the petition of Kent for the
restoration of the King."

You may be sure there was another cheer for
this, in which I joined, notwithstanding the
strange trouble I felt.

"Mighty fine talk'' says the mother of the
Lady Anne, when she could be heard. " I will say
nought of what mine own feelings must be to see
you now joined with the enemies of the State,
who now make Kent no place of abode for the
Lord's people  but I warn you, mistress, that you
shall touch no penny of your fortune  and when
Master Hales has lost every penny of his, for his
present rebellion, and his life becomes forfeit to the
State, I will close my doors in your face."

*' Madam," replied the lovely Lady Anne, in

silver tones, "the greater the danger Master
Hales doth run in the cause of His Majesty, the
more ready I am to share it with him."

But now, from our party, there arose whispers
of ' Let's fall on ! " " We are the stronger' and
such-like words. Which, Hales, overhearing,
stepped forward, and, in a loud voice, said 

What, ho ! my friends, though some of us owe
Sir Anthony a grudge, we will not pay it ofiP now.
All who come here are our guests, whether they
join our feast or not. Sir Anthony, if you care
not to stay for my wedding, 1 will offer you safe
conduct to your nearest garrisons'

We are able to protect ourselves'' says Sir
Anthony Weldon, " and I do not think you will
have many guards to spare. Master Hales, when
the Parliament begins to make inquiry."

*when the Parliament do,' says Hales, *I
trust they will not send any more mad enthusiasts
to do their work. I'll have you to understand. Sir
Anthony, that Lieutenant Miriam May tried to
assassinate one or more of us in a dastardly
manner."

While Hales spoke a man, whom I at once
recognised, walked from behind the great yew
near the north-east end of the church, leapt the
churchyard wall, and stood beside Weldon.

'the Lord do the same to Miriam May"
(Miriam May it was) " and more also, if he be not
ready to slay the enemies of the Lord at all times.

and in all places. Anathema and Maranatha,
fall on ! fall on ! I say."

Peace ! Miriam May," shouts Sir Anthony.
Let not a man of yon," he adds, turning to the
troopers, " stir a finger, if you value your lives. If
you will bring a formal written charge against this
officer Master Hales, 'twill be attended to. I now
summon you to appear before the Committee at
Aylesford on Wednesday next, at eleven o'clock in
the forenoon," adds Sir Anthony, addressing
Hales, as he turned to depart.

'sat Aylesford? at eleven of the clock in the
forenoon ? " replies Hales, with a humorous expression,
of which I afterwards found the explanation.
" Good ! I will attend punctually. Sir
Anthony. Farewell ! "

And away went Sir Anthony Weldon and those
Parliament horse amid the jeers and groans of
that assembly. The Lady (Mary) Wotton went
away with Sir Anthony, bestowing a parting
glance of scorn upon the Lady Anne, to whom she
deigned not to address another word.

Fat Geoffry, returning from the house with the
two books of the Committee, was just in time to
present them to Sir Anthony ere he departed.

A WEDDING AND THREE LATE

All masters concerning Miriam May was soon
made plain. It was evident he lead ascended the
church tower by the bell rope ; drawn it after him,
and remained there unsuspected, descending the
same manner to join Sir Anthony Weldon. And
as his hand on the rope had originated the discordant
sounds of the bell, so had the echoes of
his voice those muttered words of the burial
service. What bloody mischief had not been
intended by him 'twere hard to say ; but a loaded
pistol and a well-filled bandolier were found in the
belfry, which looked as though he had proposed to
himself to convert a wedding into a funeral.

Funeral it was for me, or at least for my desires,
but I must give you some account of it.

When the troop had departed, I observed Ned
Hales  who had drawn her a little apart  holding
Anne by both hands. Their eyes were fixed on
each other. I believe they saw nothing else;
and from their moving lips, I concluded that they
were exchanging congratulations and those dear
vows which present events did render more

earnest than ordinary. Oh, maiden, so beloved !
  in Ned Hales 'twas plain her sincere soul was
wrapt. For him she had braved her friends' disapproval,
and to him only it was plain she would
cleave  death might part them, but penury and
ill-fortune never !

All the ladies were veiled, but their veils were
of the thinnest. There were some there that I
knew, and some that I knew not. From the Lady
Anne, my eyes turned upon Margaret. I could not
tell whether she or Mistress Hatton was the fairer ;
but when I thought of all Margaret's wonderful
kindness to me, I felt amazed that I had been so
ungrateful, and half regretted that I had privately
desired Jack Gayer  who a little before had
appeared  to take her hand suddenly, and lead
her into the church if he could, so that I might
be free of her  a thing which he very heartily and
thankfully promised to do.

She had, however, been noticed by Palmer,
Dudley, and several others, and when it was
known that she was rich old Gray's daughter, I
understand many were vehemently desirous to pay
attention to her. But old Gray  who was therein
his blue worsted stockings and cloak with velvet
cape  taps ray shoulder hard and though Jack
Gayer, with all persistency imaginable, did try to
have the honour of leading Margaret in she
declined it ; and I had the ill grace to say that I
did intend to escort Mistress Hatton. whereupon

Margaret is besieged by several, and is led
away by Sir Gamaliel Dudley, while Mistress
Hatton falls to Sir Henry Palmer which, indeed,
satisfies me very well, for being in no humour for
company, I was glad to be alone.

All now went into the church, which was soon
though they had hoped to have kept things
more quiet full of people. The Eev. Robert
Dixon read the disused marriage service from the
forbidden Book of Common Prayer; and Anne,
while some scattered flowers before her, walked
forth of the church supremely happy, bat lost forever
and for ever to me. Yet did I bravely at
that very moment determine not to mourn for her,
but to serve both her and Iced Hughes, her now
husband, in what way I could. Nevertheless, it
was with much pains that I did avoid tears both
then and after at the feast, when from some distance
I saw her sitting, and her health was drank
as the Lady Anne Hales.

The scent of flowers and the shimmer of May
sunshine oft brings back to me that long-departed
time ; and while I rock old fancies in the cradle
of remembrance, I wonder whether I was really
as insensible then as I did suppose. For memory
regretful of youth, so gilds the past that shadows
fall lightly ; and, indeed, boyish tears are but as
April showers which are presently followed by
lio-ht as cheerful as before.

But to proceed to more lively matters, an incident

now occurred to remind me that I was not the onlr
unfortunate there. For scarce had the company
(which was feasting in the great hall  a room as
yet unfurnished, and only suitable for summer
hospitalities)  scarce had the company, I say,
drank to the health of bride and bridegroom when
three gallants, arriving unannounced, did make
their way into the wedding feast where every
place was filled. They were all in summer
doublets and cloaks of the newest  one in murrey-coloured
silk, another in sky-blue satin, the third
in pearl gray ; and all with feathers in their hats
of a colour to correspond. Though they did walk
up to Hales, it was apparent, by their making
only an obeisance to him, and turning at once to
the Lady Anne, that the latter was the object of
their visit. When I began to regard them more
attentively, I was not long in discovering that
they were no other than the three identical
gallants who had some time before been lodged in
the alehouse near Bocton Malherbe  namely, Sir
William Compton, Sir Bernard Gascoigne, and Sir
John Mayney !

Fair Lady Anne ! ' said they all in the same
breath, at the same time bowing low, while they
pressed their hats to their hearts in a graceful
and courtly manner.

There they all stopped, while the Lady Anne
turning round regarded them with a half-blush on
her face ; and the rest of the company, not knowing

what this ceremonious proceeding meant,
seemed not less surprised.

"I think, gentlemen says Sir William
Compton to the other two, '' it was by lot decided
that I should speak first."

The others bowed.

' Fair Lady Anne," says Sir William Compton,
you see before you three gentlemen Cavaliers,
who, in performance of a solemn vow, have
desperately ventured into your presence in order
that you may decide a matter which is of the last
importance for each of us."

Unless it be a matter of life and death," says
Squire Hales good-humouredly, " please you to
sit down all three of you and refresh yourselves."

I thank you, Master Hales," says Sir William,
twirling his moustache, '' but for myself, circumstances
prevent my doing so until we receive an
answer from the Lady Anne. We have, however,
presumed to come into your house on that general
invitation so hospitably given on your published
broadside."

Then Sir William turns again to the Lady
Anne.

Lady Anne," says he, " the matter is this :
myself. Sir Bernard Gascoigne, and Sir John
Mayney have long, as you are aware, been seeking
for some opportunity to approach you. Sometime
back we ventured to assail your fair hands with,
flowers and your windows with music. But all

VOL. II. 8

attempts to gain an interview were defeated by
servants and others."

' Oh, oh ! " and " Forsooth ! " and some such
exclamations from the Lady Aucher and Mistress
Hatton here perplexed some present.

'eat length' continued Sir William, '* we bound
ourselves by an oath to take no refusal from any,
but to gain an interview without loss of time''

' I thank ou for your good music," says the
Lady Anne, " also for your flowers ; but this
gentleman," she adds, laying her hand on Ned
Hales' arm, and then stops, for Sir William proceeds


"We have just arrived from Bocton Malherbe,.
where we learnt that you had left to attend this
great loyal meeting, which Master Hales has so
timely assembled. But now for our business. We
desire to know, fair Lady Anne, whether you will
allow us to dispute for the favour of your smiles
in a fair passage of arms  either with lance, backsword,
small sword, rapier, or any other weapons
  and promise some hope to the conqueror? "

Some consternation was observable in many
countenances, but others perceiving plainly that
the young gallants were in ignorance of what had
taken place were moved to mirth. Especially the
Lady Aucher and Mistress Hatton, who were
beyond measure entertained.

But now Ned Hales thought it high time to
speak.

Sir' says he, addressing Sir William, ' I can
answer the question you make in behalf of yourself
and friends. The Lady Anne I am sure, desires
no fighting ; for when any two of you are killed,
the survivor will have to slay me ere he can be
favoured as he desires, for she hath pledged her
faith to me in church not an. hour since, of which
circumstance I am sure you are not aware'

This speech, which caused an explosion of mirth
from the company present, affected each of those
gentlemen who were answered by it in a different
manner. Sir William burst out a-laughing, carrying
the company with him to a longer peal than
they had otherwise ventured ; Sir Bernard
Gascoigne, turning red, seemed far more abashed
than pleased ; but Sir John Mayney blanched to
a death-like hue  and I ought here to remind
you that he was the only one of the three who
had ever had the honour of speaking to her before.


I think," said Sir William Compton to the
other two, " that we had best shake hands with
each other  and, if allowed, with the bride and
bridegroom also ; for what was lately serious, now
turns to a jest.'

'' There is another fair lady here. Sir William*
says the Lady Aucher, ' who is like to grow a
beard in despair " 

Peace ! I pray you. Lady Aucher ! " cried I,
perceiving that she was about to revive unpleasant

memories for me ; and so she ceased before auj
knew what she meant.

welcome toTanstall, gentlemen ! ' says Hales.
'' Lady Anne drinks to you ! The company drinks
to Sir William Compton, Sir Bernard Gascoigne
and Sir John Mayney ! "

And so was this curious incident happily ended.

Here comes Master Lawes , who went with us
on a goose errand to Bocton Malherbe says Sir
William Compton. " Lady Anne, I do present
Master Lawes to yon, and Master Lawes his
merry men to Esquire Hales  with whose permission
I will now desire you, Master Lawes, to
make us some sweet and cheerful music."

Which Master Lawes (that celebrated master
of the King's musicians, who, with other loyal
persons, had recently been chased from London)
very obligingly did. I will give yon the first verse
of a song that was made in honour of the Lady
Anne. It was called

LOYALTY.

By right divine my lady reigns,

My only law her sovereign will ;
Throughout love's wide and fair domains

There's none like her the throne to fill.
Proudly I'll evermore serve as her vassal,

And faithful unto the death I'll be,
Guarding the honour of her snow-white banner

With its golden legend of loyalty.

To

THE DUCHESS OF Northumberland.


IN THE Shooter's Meadows

.Anon we all walk forth into the Shooter's meadow,
where the younger folk of the commonalty pursue
their sports, such as stool-ball, crickets &c., on.
the green grass, while their elders sat drinking at
the tables, which were set up under the shade of
the trees bordering it, as if no danger was menaced
either by Committee or Parliament. Every hat
was doffed, and loud cheers given, with cries of
"Long live Squire Hales and Lady Anne ! " as
our now very considerable company (for the wives
and daughters of many gentlemen came with them)
went round that field.

Master Estrange finding a stage, erected
under the pretence of cudgel-playing, occupied by
some who did belabour one another with skill
and patience  did draw away those persons, and
those attending to them, by starting running,
wrestling, and jumping matches elsewhere ; and
took possession of the stage, where came many
 others by invitation, both ladies and gentlemen,

A large field at Tanstall still bears this name, highly suggestive
of militia musters in olden days.

t I find one mention of " crickets " at an earlier period of the
reign of Charles I.

which the people seeing", and also hearing a bell
ring there, the all run towards that stage incontinently,
knowing that the proposed debating of
the petition is now about to commence. And
anon Master LLEstrange, ready to begin speech,
is perceived standing on the platform, for he was
tall and overtopped most of them. He desires
silence ; and very soon there was so little noise
that you might have heard the larks  which are
always in great abundance about here  singing
high in the air. Master Estrange his speech
was to the following effect:

My very good friends, by the permission of
Esquire Hales, who is I think known and beloved
not only here but all over your noble county 
I will speak a few words about the petition which
yoa are unanimous to go on with. But as there
may be, and I hope there are, men of piety here ;
it is expedient  if they have more reverence to the
Parliament than to the Church or the Kins  that
they should pray that the Parliament, when it
comes to receive the petition of Kent may be
guided to a right course. I will tell you all of a
prayer made by a worthy minister not long since
in mine own county of Norfolk. ' Give us grace
says he ' to pray for the Parliament, but grant
that they may no longer prey upon us and eat us
up like sheep as they have done these seven years
paste' (here was loud laughter). "I hope, indeed,
that this godly Parliament will give over preying

and eating ns up like sheep. Oh ! how they have
fallen back from their promises ! We were to have
freedom such as England had never seen, but
what have they done instead ? They have organized
more tyranny than any nation ever yet
suffered from. They took away the Star Chamber
and High Commission, but they sent them down
into every county. Committee-men, excisemen,
soldiers do everywhere swarm, and will take our
lives if they cannot get our goods without trouble.
But I hope we shall soon be rid of them, and that
they will be chased out of every hole and corner 
even as you put the gallant Sir Michael to it the
other night, and made him shew a clean pair of
heels. But do not think that you have won the
battle because you have driven away a few county
forces and their colonel. No, you have a vigilant,
a revengeful and a numerous enemy, who I fear
will be found deaf to the voice of reason and
justice. You have a Parliament who began by
scaring away their fellows who differed with
them  a Parliament that broke their oaths of
allegiance, made war upon their Sovereign, robbed
the Church and persecuted all good subjects.
When by the power of the money which they
robbed , they had beaten the King's forces, they
rested not till they had him fast in Carisbrooke.
They have handed him over to the army their
masters  and I could even bring those before you
who know there is a plot in the army to murder

the King, which the covenant which begat them
all bound them to protect. They brand our petition
as seditious ; they slaughter the Surrey men
for humbly presenting a similar one. But a little
bird tells me they shall not find Kent so tame or
rather so incautious. No ; you will be armed and led
to the doors of Westminster  you will do no violence,
but you will be prepared to resist it. His

Mjfgiy, now miserably afflicted will provide that
his fleet in the Downs  long usurped by rebels,
but let me tell you, still hearty to the Crown  shall
be at your service. Master Hales is your general.
Is there a man who declines him? No; my
friends, that shout was unanimous. And Master
Hales hath as you know three arrows in his crest.
You are not summoned to the Shooter's meadow
for nought. With your assistance he will shoot
you those three arrows. One for the King, one
for the Church, and one for the people. So for a
close gentlemen and friends, I will say  ' God save
the King ! and God save Kent ! ' "

Here there were the very loudest of cheers, and
hats flew up in the air by scores and hundreds.
Hales then said a few words, accepting the command
of the petition of Kent, which were received
with acclamation.

After which, one called for three groans for the
schismatics and three for the Committee of Kent
and these were also given. And now Master
Lawes having gotten on to the stage with his men

was introduced by LLEstrange to the concourse, as
having a song that was very suitable to the occasion
; copies of the words whereof had been
printed by Boston, and circulated amongst that
crowd. The. following (ascribed to Lovelace) is
from one of those copies, and was given in mighty
fine style by Master Lawes, under the title of

Invite ! * i

1.

Though Derby House f resisted Fate, i

And base Committees vex the realm !

While darkly drives the ship of state, 

With rogues and varlet at the helm ; ;

Though liberty and laws be flown, <

And treason works its wicked will, \

The King shall yet enjoy his own, |

For Kent is all unconquered still ! \

Our motto is Invicta ! ]

Since nought can heal the kingdom's rent, j
We'll raise the cry of  " King and Kent ! "

What though the Eoyal standards all,

By treason torn at Naseby field,
Hang doleful in St. Stephen's Hall,

The rebels yet those spoils shall yield;
And Fairfax, and his Roundhead peers,

And all who work the kingdom's ill,
Shall thence be pulled forth by the ears 

For Kent is all unconquered still 1
Our motto is Invicta!
Confusion to the rogues be sent.
And let the cry be" King and Kent ! "

The motto of Kent.

t The Committee of both kingdoms sat at Derby House.

At Carisbrooke, by fraud confined,

The Royal eagle fast they mew ;
While traitors turn it in their mind

How best the deed of blood to do.
But crafty Noll, and dreaming Vane,

Their deadly plots shall not fulfil ;
The King shall have his own again 

For Kent is all unconquered still !
Our motto is Invicta !
And till our breaths and lives be spent,
We'll raise the cry of  " King and Kent ! "

Whereat there was infinite clapping of hands,
and cries of 

Well done, Master Lawes  we would gladly
hear that good song again'

After this the people were left free to divert
themselves, but by advice did depart to their
homes at a reasonable hour  not without some addresses
on the part of others in favour of resisting
the schismatics to the uttermost. Meantime
Ned Hales with his friends did seriously consider
the posture they were in ; and with the advice of
Estrange, did make arrangements for organizing
of their forces. That evening, from all parts of
Kent , news did arrive of the agreement of the
people everywhere to the petition ; also that the
fleet in the Downs though kept down by their
officers, were full of loyalty to the King, and
wished well to the said petitions

Lord Clarendon gives a more brief description of the meeting,
and of Roger Estrange's speech on the occasion.

(In Memoriam)

THE COUNTESS OF Chameleon.

FURTHERING LOYAL DESIGNS.

Still drawn by the loadstar, I could not see the
Lady Anne making a circuit of the lawns, shrubberies
and pleasaunce  surrounding the new place
of Tunstall without creeping after her. Many
walks, beds, bosquets, and what not were at that
time being laid out. With the Lady Anne were-lady
Aucher, Mistress Hatton, Margaret, and
others  I speak of the moment after the song I
have mentioned to you had been sung, and some
of the people departing, who had long journeys to
go. Those three 'disappointed gallants did also
follow in her wake. Sir Bernard Gascoigne,
being a foreigner, was treated by her with a
politeness which seemed half to console him for
the chagrin he had felt. She did also name one of
those new walks f after his name, calling it '' the
Gascoigne Walk," a name which it bears to this
day. The kind-hearted Lady Anne was I think

An ancient dame  the oldest inhabitant of the parish told
me that as a child, she remembered what were thought to be
traces of ornamental gardens, &c., about ** the Ruins," as they
are called.

t A hundred years ago or so, this walk was remember-ed though,
the origin of the name is disputed.

sorely puzzled what to say to Sir John Mayney,
for she perceived that he was in a miserably dejected
state. As I was endeavouring to show
some gratitude to Margaret Gray, she did not
seem to trouble herself about me ; but all she
could do for Mayney was to present him to fair
Mistress Hatton; who being a kind-hearted
maiden, felt some sympathy for the disconsolate
knight. But Sir William Compton, who required
no consolation, was more highly honoured than
any. She told him of a service that he might do
for her and for the King, which I would gladly
have myself performed, as I afterwards told her,
but she could not suffer me on account of the
peculiar danger to myself.

At Tunstall, ever since the time of the first
owner John de Lombards  who came  over
with the Conqueror  there were many doves kept.
There were plenty at this time. Some of them
being carrier pigeons, were I discovered, used by
Ked Hales to carry on his correspondence with
the beloved Anne. The commission she gave to
Compton was neither more or less than to endeavour
to plan an escape for His Majesty ; and
also to communicate to His Majesty what the
Kentish men were about, and to pray His Majesty
to come into Kent, and accept a guard which
would be raised for his protection. Sir William

This is a mistake. His ancestor was however one of thos
who accompanied William I.

Compton like the rest of his family, was entirely
devoted to the royal causes and accepted the mission
with alacrity. He undertook to carry a pair
of messenger doves to Newport  and here the
Lady Anne shewed that she did not forget me ;
for she commended Sir William to my sister 
then a guest of Frances Trattle  as the most
faithful agent he could employ. This project
was communicated to no one but Compton and
myself.

Before I proceed with my narrative, I must tell
you something I omitted; and this was, that
during Master L' Estrange his speech, I was not
much pleased with the carriage of Master Gray,
who did seem to throw cold water on the petition,
and its promoters by divers contemptuous interjections,
and he had even the boldness to speak to
Master Estrange as follows on the subject of
that loyal oration.

Very well. Master Estrange," said he, ' you
have stirred up the people finely against Parliament
and army, but are you prepared to pay the
cost of equipping them ? ''

"I thought Master Gray," replies Estrange,
'' that you were by when Squire Hales said he
would be answerable for the sum."

Truly, I was," says Gray, '' but you know very
well it is you who suggests all."

I have noted this circumstance in my story of " The Miller
of Wandsworth."

VOL. II. T

Pardon me Master Gray, you are in error, I
am but the mouthpiece of Kent, which is unanimous
for the good work. What ho ! " cries
LLEstrange, " Brockman Hales, Painter, Peyton,
Aucher, Courthope !  by your leave gentlemen,
here is Master Gray retreating from his bargain."


What ! " says Hales, coming up,  retreating
from the bargain  I thought Master Gray, that
you said you would oblige me in the matter ? '

'' So I did Master Hales," says Gray, " and yet
I would have you pause, as I do myself, in some
consternation at the figure of the sum that will be
required 

Imprimis. So many men at so many days' pay,
comes to so much.

'item. So many snaphaunces, at so much.

'' Item. So many cases of pistols, at so much.

Item. So many pots, breasts and backs, at so
much.

Item. So many swords, pikes, bodkins, at so
much.

'item. Horse and other furniture."

My worthy good friend," replies Hales laying
his hand on Gray's shoulder, and interrupting
his calculations " did I not tell thee I would be
answerable for the cost, how great soever it
might be."

Ay, Master Hales, 'twere all very well if you
where in possession. But the property that I have

io look to is in the hands of your grandfather
who '

His grandfather be d d ! " says Colepepper,

who had drank too much that morning.

Fie, fie, sir' says Gray, " swearing will not
further the business. Master Hales, to you I
speak, 'twere well to consider in case the present
affair succeeds not, how will you be able to pay
your composition. ''

'' Composition be d d ! '' cries Colepepper.

 Peace, Colepepper in Heaven's name," says
Hales. " Master Gray, I see you are unwilling to
advance the money. Say the word and I will
apply to Crisp." 

"Faith," says Gray, "he will hardly be found
more accommodating than I am. But come I will
do what I can for you, provided some of these
gentlemen will go security."

Master Gray very well knew that most of the
gentlemen there had too far committed themselves
to retire from their engagement. It was found
they were ready to lend their support to Hales.
Gray himself, did secretly wish, like all other
Presbyterians to see the army party ruined, and
therefore was disposed to run risks.

Estrange clinched the business by placing
under the old man's nose a message from Sir
Thomas Godfrey, to the following effect :

Sir Michael Crisp was an active Royalist, an I lent large
sums to the King uud his supporters. Ho was at this time ia
Kent.

"We are looking to ourselves. Canterbury
hath risen, and we are in possession of the magazine
at the Castle."

Upon reading this, Gray promised to procure
50j000 in a week, on being assured of 8 percent.


'' You are an honest man, sir,' says LLEstrange.
' Ned Hales, we will march to Eochester when,
you please"'

SIR ANTHONY HIS SUMMONS ANSWERED.

It was indeed a very magnanimous proceeding on
the part of Ned Hales to tear himself away from
the beloved and beautiful Anne, at a very early
hour on Wednesday , the 22nd of May, to march
with us from Sittiogborne to Rochester, while his
fair remained at Runs tall with those ladies her
friends, the Lady Aucher, Mistress Hatton, &c.
Pray and his daughter left about the same time.
It is believed by some that Gray did give the Lord
Fairfax a very clear account of affairs in Kent.
Indeed it is not unlikely that the said Lord Fairfax
was at first somewhat undecided how to act
towards the petition till NolPs beloved son, Ireton,
having intangled him in the Independents' toils
did urge him to the course he did eventually take.
I have not time to say how the gates of Rochester
being opened to us  Hales at the head of his
troop, with a party of foot, numbering about 400
souls in all  rode in amid the acclamation of the
people, and did proceed to seize the great old
ruined Castle,* wherein was a magazine of arms,
which the trembling guards were ready enough

Upnor Castle was either at this time, or a little later,
taken in" (according to the phi-case of the time) as the following

to surrender. Nor of how Lee and Destroy,.
members of Parliament, came from London to
desire ns to lay down onr arms ; but beings
presently confined, were compelled to make terms
for themselves. Thence we marched to Maidstone.
But Ned Hales, not unmindful of the summons of
Sir Anthony Weldon, which was delivered at the
door of Tun stall Church, did decide to appear
before the Committee ; but not in the manner Sir
Anthony and his fellows anticipated. Upon the
23rd we came down upon Ricaut's house f with our
colours flying (St. George's banners a red cross
in a white field), trumpets sounding, our foot
armed with pikes, our horse with swords and
pistols. Also we had with us a small mortar-piece
in a waggon, which Mitchell and his men did
zealously guard. Sir Peter Ricaut's house is half
a mile from Aylesford, and formerly a friary, was
now used by the Committee of Kent as a
magazine of arms, and secure fortress to sit in and
do their dirty work. For with a good wall all
round, and the river Medway defending one side

from informations swoin to some years afterwards shews :  " Mr.
John E charts did carry away the Governor of Upnor Castle
(Major Brown), and did take the Castle for the King." Whether
Col. (Sir Thomas) Colepepioer had a hand in this or not I do not
know ; but he applied to be made Governor of Upnor Castle at
the Restoration.

t This very picturesque house on the Medway is visible from
the railway between Rochester and Maidstone. It was the-property
formerly of Sir William Bother.

]. The motto was most appropriate.

of it, if properly held it could scarce be taken by
surprise.

The fears of the Committee had instructed them
to surround the house and gardens with a strong-stockade
; also the outermost gate was flanked by
a rampart of earth on either side. Ned Hales,
who, with the other gentlemen did not wish any
blood to be shed, but at the same time was determined
to do something, sent me with a trumpet,
which I commanded to sound, and then went forward
to the front of that outermost gate. And
now I became aware of several ladies upon the
top of the rampart, but safe behind the stockade
which was outside all. They were plainly visible
over the said stockade comfortably seated under
flowering lilacs, and some of them plying' their
needles and thread, feigning to be quiet, good
housewives. Conspicuous among them was
Mistress Bealess , whom you may remember at the
Christmas feast at Heppington, and she did take
upon herself to demand what I wanted blowing
and making that music?  that if I wanted the
Committee, they were abroad at present, and other
excuses of a like nature.

I told her if it were so we must seize the place
for the King, and she must cause the gate to be
opened.

A pretty thing," quoth she, " to open the
gates to a parcel of disorderly gallants and
lacqueys ! No, forsooth, we hold our honour too

clear," wliicli decision the rest , though, frightened,
seemed to approve.

Madam' said I, ' your honour is safe enough "
(and for myself, I am sure I felt no desire to
assault that great raw-boned woman. No, indeed !
nor any of my company, I daresay). 'In
short, madam," said I, " I cannot carry back such
an answer to my general, and therefore I shall
order the trumpet to blow until your husband returns
from abroad."

General ! " says she. " What general ? "

This further speech  though she raised her
voice manfully  was drowned in the music. But
the trumpeter (trained music was he of the
auxiliary county forces), perceiving a man's beaver
behind her, ceased.

Come away, my heart ! " whispers the voice of
Bealess  adding somewhat more that I could not
catch.

Oh ! thou hast ruined all ! " cries his wife,
'His comes of not attending to my advice, to
hang two of the petitioners in every parish weare
undone, ladies ; let us hence. But ere they
enter to touch me, I'll fire the magazine."

Bealess retired not parleying with us, for Sir
Anthony Weldon here appeared to do it himself.
Looking at me for an instant with his monkey
eyes, he remembered me in spite of my disguise.


This is of a piece with the rest," says he, " tos

end an outlawed boy here with a trumpet. Well,
what would you ? ' he cries.

'* Answer your summons to appear before the
Committee of Kent," says Ned Hales, coming up 
and this is my answer  I pray you, Sir Anthony,
surrender this place to the petitioners. We cannot
leave this county with strongholds full of
arms like this behind us for you to domineer over
our poor brethren while we are to London with
the petition."

We hold it for the Parliament," says Weldon.

"You must deliver it up for the King," says
Hales, " and you had best do it peaceably."

Not to such tatter-rags as you bring with you,"
says Sir Anthony Weldon ; and without another
word he runs down the rampart out of sight.

Hales, I, and the music go back and consult
with Estrange. It is decided to abstain, as far
as possible, from violence ; but it being the
earnest desire of Mitchell and his fellows to shoot
a grenades into that place  we so far agree that
they may throw one over for to scare them into
submission. But some are told to break the
stockade in some convenient place, while Hales his
troopers are sent scouting round about to observe
if a sally were intended. Meanwhile I get to the
edge of the river under the trees below the house,
and then perceive Mistress Bealess  notwithstanding
her bold speeches  embarking with other
wives of the Committee in a boat  certain

schismatic soldiers helping tliemwith their trunks
and coffers.

Halloa ! ho ! " cried I, shouting, " look to the
river ! They are on a retreat ! "

When clap goes Mitchell his piece, and his
bullet or rather grenades, whistling up through
the air, clearing the house, falls with a splash
into the calm river; and away ran the wives of
the Committee back into the house screaming like
a parcel of wild fowl.

'Tis my belief that Weldon, not knowing we
had artillery there, did think to amuse us with a
defiance, or a defence, until all the living, as well
as more precious baggage of the Committee, and
also some of the good store of arms should be
carried down the Medway as far as the landing-place
on the other side, where they had provided
wagons to carry all away to London.

So thought L'E strange, I know  who had had
some experience in wars, having served in Prince
Rupert's troop, and been at Newark and other places
and was encouraged to fall on. The stockade
was very stiff, and ere it could be chopped through
with axes, Mitchell and his men broke through
the outer gate, and pell mell we rushed in. I was
of the number, but was rather disappointed to
perceive that we were confined between the high
walls of a passage, at the end whereof was a gatehouse
flanked by cross-shaped cornell windows on
either side, and also guarded by casements above,,

from all of which matchlocks were pointed. But
presently all danger was at an end. The stockade
having been chopped through this gatehouse was
like to have been taken in were, and so incontinently
all the matchlocks disappeared from
window and cornell. A white sheet was hoisted
from above ; the door opened and forth comes little
Bix waving a white napkin to ask for terms. The
fact was that Sir Anthony, who seemed so cocksure
of holding out, had no more thought of it
than Mistress Bealess, for the place was not fit to
stand a siege, and nearly all their men were on
Pickenden Heath at that moment, where Sir
Michael Liveseyey was mustering all the rebel
schismatics he could. Conditions were soon
signed. The Committee, or such of them as were
there, with their wives and all their men, to be
allowed to depart with such weapons as were
necessary for their flight elsewhere ; but the
magazine to be delivered up without spoil or
damage of the arms (or blowing up of the powder
by Mistress Bealess). All which was accomplished.
Mistress Bealess  having first seen all her own
trunks embarked  valiantly conducted the rest,
such as Mistress Fenwick, Mistress Blount,
Mistress Plummer, and Mistress Bix into the boat.
We had not been able to perform such an exploit
as to capture a strong place with five drakes and
4,000 muskets (powder and match proportionable)
had we not been aided by some veterans who had

helped to defend Basing and famous Bennington
Castle.

But I must not forget Mistress Bealess her
parting speech 

Oh ! " quoth she, " I had thought to be the
last out of the house, but odds-bodkins I am as
well pleased to be the first'

I observed that she alone of all these ladies
was cheerful and hearty. The rest had doubtless
some apprehensions of the journey they were to
make, having been screamed at and pelted by the
women of Maidstone the day before as they had
ridden fast through that town in their coaches to
shelter in the house they were now leaving. Oh !
had Ricauts house been taken by women, those
fair ladies of the Committee had not got such
favourable conditions ! Their haughty demeanour
and fine airs albeit silvered o'er with pious
graces  would I doubt have been visited upon
themes

The capture of this "Friary" is rare briefly described by
Matthew Carter, who does not say that Estrange was there.
A diurnal, however, of the 25th May says that " Estrange
that had the pardon of the Parliament is now one of the chief
actors " {i.e., in the Kentish rising) ; " four or five hundred horse
went last night to seize Aylesford, but the Committee had sent
away most part of the magazine."

To

VISCOUNT STMTHALLAN.

Riding UP AND DOWN For THE PETITION.

The general infection was such in Kent, that many
of those zealots and Fanatics who were most obnoxious
to the petition  because indifferent to His
Majestys and the kingdom's sufferings  did
begin to be favourable thereunto, and no wonder 
for the tide of returning loyalty carried all before
it. City, town, and hamlet rose. " King and
Kent ! ' was the cry, and scorning the warrants
of the Committee, the people readily took up arms
at the invitation of the loyal part of the gentry.
Magazines everywhere were seized ; Ashford,
Pavers ham, Tunbridge were taken in about the
same time as Aylesford, and the prophecy of 

Scot's Hall
Shall have a fall

was verified, when that fell in also. Master Estrange
having described the affair of Pickenden
Heath, I will say nothing thereof.

Orders having been given for the arming and
equipping of the petitioners generally, Estrange
spake as follows to the general : 

Ned Hales, by your leave, I think you could
not better employ the breathing time given 3'ouby

the treaty drawn up at Peckinden Heath, than hj
visiting persons and places to stir all to zeal and
forwardness, for indeed 'tis no child's play we are
upon."

Oh, what a sore temptation to ease and pleasure
had Ned Hales, with the lovely Anne waiting
very patiently his return to Tunstall ! He, however,
swerved* not from his determination, and
from Maidstone we went on our travels immediately
after the affairs of Aylesford and Picken-den
Heath. We found the greatest alacrity
everywhere, though some were cold and gave
evasive answers, as for example the Rev. Master
Belcher, minister of Ulcombe, to begin with, who,
near dawn, we found leading a calf and a lamb
into Leet's Castle, pretending the grazing of it
there, but really  as we afterwards did discover 
for to bribe the soldiers there to give him a secure
lodging. t One we found had taken to bed (and

" Mr, Hales being of a more noble and virtuous gallantry
than this years might speak him to be, had upon his first engagement
made a resolution not to see home till he had seen the army
in a formidable posture."  True Relation, p. 71.

t The following quotation from the examinations of witnesses
(1G50) during the often-repeated inquiry into the delinquencies of
1648 throws a curious light upon the state of Kent at this time :
" On Thursday night before the fight at Maidstone, a little before
day, this este. went with Mr. Belcher, minister of Ulcombe,
to Leeds Castle, being then in possession of the State against the
insurrection, and carried with them a lamb and a dealer  this
dealer being this ext's, and ye lamb Mr. Belcher's, and when they
came to the said Castle, the captain thereof, viz., Captain Franklin,
saying he had no victual, the said Mr. Belcher proffered to
send a pair of fat oxen, which afterwards were sold at between
28 and 30. And this este. and the said Mr. Belcher gave unto

was thought to be very sick) on the first mention
of marching with the petition to London, while
another, with affected bluntness, swore a d  m  e
that he disapproved of putting the county into a
tumult, and was equally against the promoters of
the petition and the opposers thereof  a kind of
Squire Galileo that cared for none of these things.
Against such instances I would set off the case of
an ancient gent  who had flourished as far back
as the early part of the reign of Queen Elizabeth
of famous memory  who, sitting gouty and nearly
blind in his chamber, in his old jerkin and yellow
starched ruff, did say 

' I owe somewhat to the Crown, and though I
have long been too old to fight for His Majesty, I
am ready to pay my composition. I have already
put my hand to the petition, and am both ready
and willing to be present at the hanging of one or
all the Committee, provided I be carried thereto,,
for walk or ride I cannot'

the souldiers at the Castle os. apiece, and afterwards bnsineaa
goiii so high, and hearing that the Committee had to flj for
their lives, this este. and the said Mr. Belcher thought it their best
wav to shift as well as they could for theirs.'  (Uncalendared) ,<
MSS. State Paper Office.

VOL. II. W

THE PRINCE OP WALES AT SANDWICH.

Before we left Tun stall, I had told the beauteous
Lady Anne that I had not forgot her good advice
at Canterbury, and that I was very desirous of
doing some good service for my king and country.
She besr"ed me not to venture overmuch, which entreaty
did, however, incline me to an opposite
course. (At this time T had determined, since I
could not get her, to go to my grave a bachelor.
But enough of such love thoughts ) Mitchell the
boatswain and his fellows put it into my thoughts
to attempt somewhat with the fleet. Telling Hales
I had a plan to communicate with Lieutenant
Lisle at 'the Bell' at Sandwich, where I secretly
arranged an interview, I left Ned Hales somewhere
about Ashford. Towards Sandwich I went.
Jack Gayer having been my pioneer in the secret
undertaking. I fell in with Sir Richard Hardress,
Master Anthony Hammond, and Sir Anthony
Aucher, and other gentlemen, with about two
hundred men all mounted as dragoons, who had
gotten arms out of Ashford magazine. Sir Anthony
bade me ride with them. We arrived at
Canterbury gates at dusk in a pelting rain,

No longer existing. Strand Street and Ash Road led to it.
Traces of earthworks defending the ditch are still plainly to be
seen.

somewhat fatigued with long marching. Here
the marvellous intelligence surprised us that His
Highness the Prince of Wales had come out of
France and was lodged in the town the gates
whereof were shut and guarded.*

"What!" saith Sir Richard Hardress, 'the
Prince of Wales in Sandwich? They shall not

refuse me, by . I am a deputy-lieu tenant,

and I have a right to wait on His Highness'

And he tells those who guarded that gate that
he will have it open. Finding they refuse to do
so on their own authority, he sends a summons to
the Mayor, swearing much at the trouble they
gave him. After a time comes one of the Curates
and looks over the wall with a hood over his head,
who says that the Mayor dares not for his life
risk the displeasure of the Prince, and that especially
no armed parties can be admitted.

"What!" quoth Hardress, "I am not to be

balked, by . Your walls are not so high but

what we may suddenly hop over them if the gates
be not set open. I mean to wait upon His Highness
if he be really here, I will by , and

my men shall guard him too ! "

For having heard of such tricks, he did really
suspect there was some waggery.

"Is that the voice of Sir Richard Hardress,
Bart. ? " says that curate very respectfully.

'' Ay, truly, and no one else," says Hardress.

By order of Vice-admiral Rainsborough, who reported the
arrival of the Prince to the Speaker.

'' I ask your pardon, Sir Richard ; I did but parley,"
says that curate, " to be certain that you were
here. 'Tis his worship the Mayor's orders that if
you came here in person you were to be admitted.
Open the gates freely for Sir Richard Hardress ! "

And with that the whole force marches into the
town of Sandwich, very well pleased to have hopes
of shelter from the rain.

Sir Richard Hardress and the other gents busied
themselves in securing the town, changing the
guards, seizing the magazine, and inquiring after
monies of the Mayor. By permission I left them
and went to " The Bell' to look for Lieutenant
Lisle, the boatswain and his men attending upon me.

On our way we stood a short while under the
windows of Captain Forstall's house, where His
Highness the Prince was said to be lodged. Here
was a crowd of persons trying to catch a sight of
His Highness, and listening to the speeches, proposing
his health and other toasts, and to the
pummelling of the table, and cries of " Here's to
your Highness ! '' " Mr. Prince, I drink to you
heartily ! ' and such-like.

We did hear from that crowd many interesting
particulars concerning His Highness  how he had
arrived out of France in a forlorn condition,
namely, in his pantomimes, both weary and dirty, in
an old rusty black suit not worth sixpence, with
sad complaints of ill-treatment from his papist
mother Queen Henrietta Maria, who he said did
not long since osier him a paper of ratsbane in a

glass of sack because he would not embrace her religion
(which latter story we did believe to be an
invention of the ignorant rabble). Further we
were told the name of a tailor and sempstress who
were appointed to prepare suits of rich apparel
suitable to his high estate, till which he would
make no public appearance at all in the town.
Also how, before Captain Forstall did take him
away from " The Bell's where he first had lodged,
to his own house, Master Such-anyone did present
His Highness with a hundred pounds and three
bunches of sparrow-grass. The first night of his
entertainment he had gone presently to sleep over
a bottle of white wine, and indeed every night
was carried to bed more or less insensible,, which
I was sorry to hear, as he was said to be managing
the affairs f of the kingdom in behalf of his imprisoned
father at that time.

It was esteemed a great honour unto Sandwich
that he had come there. I stayed not long
under His Highnesses window, but hasted to "The
Belle and while Mitchell and his fellows did refresh
themselves with ale and other matters  for
they had had nothing to eat all day  made my
way into a chamber by hazard, where, round a
candle and bottle of wine, sat a party that I had
not expected at all to see. True Lieutenant Lisle
was there, and so was Jack Gayer, but with them
hobbing and robbing, to my surprise, appeared

these particulars are all historical facta. 

f Before this period the Prince's Council was in Jersey.

that miserable rascal Sir Michael Liveseyey and
old Gray jovial drunk ! Jack Gayer, not being
permitted to have a glass, nevertheless had been
taking his share by deftly snatching and emptying
the glasses of the rest as he found occasion.
He was lively, but not intoxicated, but Lieutenant
Lisle and the rest, as I said, were fuddled, or
seemed so. Jack Gayer, who was the only one who
knew me, accosted me with a wink, and beckoned
me to his side, and when I assayed to speak,
pressed my toe and leered viciously at Liveseyey. I
felt that there was some strange business being
considered.

*sir Michael will drink to the Prince and the
cause," says Gray. " Halloa, good youth, who may
you be ? " he adds hiccoughing, his eyes dancing
upon me without sufficient intelligence to see.

'' A friend to the engagement, sir," says Gayer,
and then whispers, " Pall your hat more over your
brow, shake hands round, and feign to be drunk."

1 did as he told me. Sir Michael and Gray
looked at me. I think the former had enough
sense to be deceived into the idea  first, that I
was some gentleman of the town; second, that I
was drunk like the rest of them.

We drank what Gray proposed.

What the dive is the meaning of that toast ? '
quoth I, in a whisper to Gayer.

Again he pressed my toe, and looked at Liveseyey,
who I perceived was about to speak or rather to
whine

*' Oh, how timely is this accommodation ! " says
he, " what a world of bloodshed it will save. There
is no more need for Lieutenant Lisle to talk of the
petition. We have our good Prince, our Presbyterian
Prince. Worthy Rainsborough is for him.
Fairfax will favour him. The men of Kent will
declare for hiui. The Lord will help him. Let us
seek the Lord for the Prince."

I will spare you Liveseyey's prayer, which was
long enough, and ended with somewhat for the
godly army, that it might not be disbanded, but
maintain the execution of Parliament ordinances,
and the suppression of mutineers and rebellious
petitions.

Whence did his Highness come ? '' says Gayer,
with a face of feigned interest, which changed
very humorously when Liveseyey was not observing
him. " I did not hear whether he be a prisoner or
otherwise."

A prisoner ! nay," returns Sir Michael, " he
came up from the westward with a fleet of ships,"
but he revealed not himself till he got here. 'Tis
a good providence, a great providence, a mighty
providence ! His Highness hath summoned the
Deputy-lieutenants of Kent, and the gentry
generally to attend him at church on the next
Lord's day, by which time, I doubt not," continues
Liveseyey (who I begin to think is not drunk at all)
*' some accommodation will be concluded upon by
those at Westminster."

Sic, in Gainsborough's report to the Speaker.

* 'Twill be well' says Gray, '' and better tliaii
the petition."

' And you will keep the town guarded till they
come' says Gayer, in a half-mocking tone, which,
amoDost other things, seemed to me to shew that
none of them there kne w that the town had been
entered.

Liveseyey made no answer.

Come forth, I have somewhat to tell you''
whispered 1 to Gayer, and suddenly rising to my
feet, I walked from that chamber. Gayer followed.
' What is all this," I said, when we were without.

' Some roguery of Liveseyey's," replies Gayer.
I believe they have made the Prince of Wales a
prisoner, and imposing on his youth, are trepanning
him into a new engagement to prejudice the
petition of Kent, and secure the fleet. Liveseyey
came hither from the port of London in the Blackamoor
Lady ; the Prince, I know not from
whence."

Do you not know that the armed forces of Sir
richard Hardress, with Sir Anthony Aucher and
Master Anthony Hammond and others have seized
this town for the King, and are even now changing
the guards and securing the magazine P "

What ! " says Jack Gayer, amazed. I repeated
and explained.

Jack Gayer cut a caper in the air, and rubbed
his hands. He then said 

' Will you do me a favour, Eupert ? "

Readily' said I, " if T can."

Then go to the chamber above this, and take
scare of Margaret Gray."

Margaret !  is she here ? '

Yes, and I fear she has given her promise to
marry him/

To marry who ? "

'' Sir Michael Liveseyey. He owns half Kent.
You know how he got his money  you also know
that I desire Margaret for myself. Say a good
word for me, for I know she detests Sir Michael.
She will have good store of wealth. I mean to
make a prisoner of Liveseyey."

"Well, Jack Gayer, as you like," said I, "but
are you sure that His Highness the Prince of
Wales will approve of restraint upon Liveseyey ? "

Faugh ! " says Gayer, ' the Prince is not his
own master ; I'll wager you a shilling he is a
prisoner in Portals house, and the Committee of
Kent are making a cat's-paw of him to pull the
chestnut out of the fire  I mean the petition. Go to
Margaret's says Jack Gayer, I know you care not
for her, for she told me so, but say a word for me."

Jack Gayer,' said I, '' I will do what I can for
you ; but know that I desire a return. 'Tis my
wish to serve the Lady Anne; for though I have
lost her, I am still her faithful servant. You
know the business I would negotiate."

Yes," says Jack Gayer, " you desired to meet
Lieutenant Lisle of the " Constant Reformation."
Have I not contrived that for you? "

Yes," said I, " but he is three parts drunk, and

can negotiate nothing. Jack Gayer you must do-more
for me than that if I am to speak to
Margaret in your favour."

Plague on it, man' says Gayer, " what can I
do more ? "

You must make Sir Michael further my desires
in the presenting of the petition to the fleet."

How can I do that ? " says Jack Gayer.

I thought how Bix did get away, and said 

'you must let Sir Michael away on his
parole, provided he gives me and Mitchell and the
rest a pass to go aboard of the ' Eeformation.' "

"No, I'll be if he shall ! " says Jack Gayer,

''he shall go away on his feet if he goes at all."

I laughed, and explained the mystery of parole,
which Estrange had instructed me in.

Jack Gayer then agreed to my terms, and said,
moreover, that it would be an easy matter, for he
knew that Gainsborough was on good terms with
Liveseyey. He had some doubts, however, as to
whether any such pass would serve me. Notwithstanding
his doubts, I asked him to procure the
said pass, which he promised to do if he could.

"You can, then," said I, "permit Liveseyey to
escape out of your way. He will be glad enough
to do so when he learns that the town is full of
armed petitioners."

This was something which Jack Gayer had not
calculated upon ; but he soon saw that Sir
Michael's detention might not be for his advantage,
so our bargain was concluded.

MARGARET IN TEARS.

Ah, Margaret ! " said I ; " poor Margaret ! what
ailetiL thee ? "

And the sight of her tears did move me to pity ;
and more did her desolate posture, for I find her
with her head resting on the table, her arms
stretched out before her, her hands clasped,
sobbing and weeping after the manner of one who
hath been at that sad exercise some hours together.
My hand was gently laid on her shoulder  but no
she would not be caressed or comforted, though
she was plainly strangely surprised to see me
there.

No, Master Lendall ! " cries she, '' begone ; I
may not entertain thee any more. Wherefore
come you here now ? "

"Oh, Margaret, I am truly thy friend. Do
you not remember how  when you called yourself
Faithful  we did promise to be true to each
other."

Leave me," says she, " I have fallen in thy
estimation, and deservedly so, for putting on
gallant's clothes.' '

"By no means," said I; 'margaret were you
not enticed thereunto by Sir Michael Liveseyey ? "

' No," says she '' I am without excuse. Nor
did I believe at all that Sir Michael was he who
indited the letter that caused me to quit my
home."

*' Margaret," said I, "is it true that you have
promised yourself to Sir Michael? "

' Who told you of it ? " quoth she, sitting up and
looking at me with some curiosity.

I know your father was ever favourable to his
claims," said I.

Have you spoken to my father ? ' says she.

He is in his cups with some others," said I,
' twould be useless to speak to him at the present
time."

Margaret said nothing, but I was glad to observe
that her tears seemed now assuaged.

1 thought of the Lady Anne with a sad feeling.


'' Margaret," said I, " no one will persuade me
to believe that superior devotion to me did cause
you to desert your home and wear gallant's clothes.
No, I am not so vain as that; I believe that
aversion to Sir Michael had a very great share in
your act."

That is true," says she.

But, Margaret, is it not to be, indeed, lamented
that you should cast yo yourself away as a pearl before
a hog of a Committee-man, like Sir Michael Liveseyey,
who will but turn and rend you, for he is a mean,
rascal, and altogether too old for you ? "

"Alas, it is done ! " says she.

'How ? " said I, '' are you irrevocably pledged
to Sir Michael ? "

What could I do ? " says she, looking at me
reproachfully.

I took her hand in a respectful manner.

''Ah, Margaret, dear Margaret ! " said I, "thou
knowest that I have but a dead heart'

No, Rupert," says she, "say not that ! "

Dead, dead ! " said I, as the vision of Anne
Wotton  lost Anne Wotton !  novs the Lady Anne
Hales came over my memory, " nothing can move
me now. Friendship I may have, but love nevermore
! ''

She looked at me with 1 know not what in her
face. Many mingled emotions were there.

But if any one might be thought worthy of thy
true affection, Margaret," said I, "though he
might not come up to thy fancy  oh, Margaret,
couldst thou have pity ? "

What do you mean, Rupert Lendall? What
would you say ? " says she, eager, frantic, and  as
it did appear to me  breathless.

"I mean," said I, and I stopped because
perplexed. " T mean," said I, as with a violent
effort I did collect my thoughts, which, being
disturbed by her strange aspect, wandered  " I
mean that Jack Gayer  my friend Jack Gayer 
your father's prentice, who was taken in  in  my
place  is  is enamoured of you, Margaret ; and is

desirous to know if you will break with Sir
Michael on his account'

Are you mocking me Eupert Lendall ? " says
she, rising to her feet , and speaking with a bitterness
in her tone and aspect which I had never
noticed before.

No, indeed, Margaret' said I, ' I speak the
plain honest truth''

She stood regarding me with a fixed and
sorrowful air.

Ah, Margaret' cried I, '' if it be true that you
are really promised to Sir Michael, the pledge
should be set aside, there would be power enough
to do it. If your father will not relent, the Prince
might command " 

"Prince ! " says she, with a little painful laugh
of scorn ; and, so opening a door, she goes into an
inner chamber which was her sleeping apartment.

Margaret ! " cried I, " Margaret ! " and, after
some further long pause, '' Margaret, I have something
more to say to thee, Margaret ! "

But forth she would not come. I could not, as
I had intended, inform her of Sir Michael's
probable departure, nor of the town being in possession
of the petitioners.

How contemptuous she is of the Prince,"
thought I. " That is from her Geneva notions.
The Covenant never did favour loyalty overmuch."

SIR MICHAEL ON PAROLE.

When I retired from Margaret's clamber I found
that Sir Michael's business and ours had been
arranged. He had been made a prisoner without
resistance bj Jack Gayer, Gray having gone to
sleep, and Lieutenant Lisle becoming more sober
quitting the room, not to be afterwards accused of
conniving at our plans. Jack Gayer was for handing
Sir Michael over to justice, but I considered
'twas sufficient to accept the pass he had written
for me and my companions, and to threaten the
miserable rascal with certain vengeance if he
attempted to interfere with us  a thing we thought
he would not have the power to do. Sir Michael
stipulated that we should see him safely forth of
the gate next Deal. We knew he would go to
Rainsborough, but we thought we should be round
the fleet with the petition ere he could get to Deal
Castle on his old shanks at that hour of the
night. Mitchell had ascertained that the long
boats of the " Eeformation '' was in the haven,
not far from Quay Gate ; and though it was said
to have been brought thither by schismatics,

This long boat had brought '* the Prince " to Sandwich,

Mitchell doubted not but he might seize it.
Lieutenant Lisle advising us to make all the haste-possible,
proposed himself to go forth of Quae
Gate, and see after the said long boat which he had
not come in himself, having walked along the
beach to Sandwich that same evening. He
thought in the present disaffected condition of the
fleet 'twould be sufficient to deliver a copy of the
petition of Kent  which the fleet had not yet had
for signature  to every ship in the Downs, and
leave it to work effects, which he thought so loyal
and reasonable a paper would do. All was now in
good trim, as we thought. Jack Gayer and I conducted
Sir Michael to the gate next Deal, and saw
him put out of the town, much to his own gratification,
for he was in mortal fear of discovery now
that his enemies were in possession of Sandwich.
Jack Gayer would have kicked him as he departed,
but, as I considered it a thing too ridiculous and
improper to be done, I prevented him. We then
hurried back to the " Bell," where we found Gray
still asleep where we had left him ; but we also
found something that made me regret we had not
handed Sir Michael over to justice. What think
you 'twas ? Nothing less than a memorandum book
which the rascal had dropped accidentally  or
perhaps by design, for fear of being searched 
containing amongst other villainies proof not to be
doubted that the invitation to meet his Highness
at St. Peter's Church on Sunday was only a

desperate plot to seize the loyal gentlemen who
were supporting the petition.

"YoQ see' cries Gayer, "my advice should
have been taken. Now we must pursue and
capture the rascal."

We ran incontinently back to the gate, whence
Sir Michael had been thrust forth. We went a
little way; but, seeing nothing like a human
being of any sort, agreed twas better to return,
and report the matter to Sir Richard Hardress
and organize a pursuit. We did so and roused
that baronet from his sleep, who swore at us
roundly, but gave orders to chace Sir Michael,
Gayer to lead. I prayed to proceed on my
attempt with the fleet, and at Aucher's intercession
was permitted, though Sir Richard had a
mind to secure both Gayer and myself for presuming
to treat with one of the very chief est of
the rebels in Kent. You may imagine what impatience
Mitchell and the rest  whom I ordered to
remain at the " Bell " till I was free to accompany
them  awaited my rejoining them. Lieutenant
Lisle had not returned, bat they concluded he
would be found waiting for us in the long boat.
With much pleasure at being at length free to go,
we ran forth of Quay Gate without weapons  for we
had no suspicions of danger  being armed with
the peaceable petition of Kent to present to the
ships. But we had not gone a hundred yards
towards where we conceived we should find the

VOL. II. X

long boat of the " Eeformation," when we fell
into an ambuscade, contrived by the cunning Sir
Michael, who had run round the town to a force
of schismatics he had there (instead of going to
Deal), and told them what we were going to do.
Before we could say a word we were all laid by
the heels, and being instantly bound hand and
foot were thrown into the long boat which we had
thought to obtain possession of. Lieutenant Lisle
had beforehand been thrown there in the same
manner.

To

ADMIRAL THE HON. P. P. GARY.

ABOARD OP THE Vice-admiral.

Oh, the trim castles of the sea ! How much
would some of you who live in inland places
marvel at their size and magnificence. Each ship
is indeed a floating fortress, with her towering
forecastle, her lofty armed poop, her banners flying
bravely from the poles of main, mizen, and
foremast.

You must imagine some dozen of these sailing
citadels moored in the Downs in the form of a
crescent, the Vice-Admiral in the centre between
the two horns, apart from the rest.

The '' Constant Reformation "  though not so
large as that ' Sovereign of the Seas' which cost
His Majesty the affection of his subjects though
'twas for the subjects' good that Britain might
rule the waves of the high seas, and overawe what
nation soever should desire to assault us either on
sea or shore  this '' Constant Reformation," I say,
was a goodly ship with her divers quarter and
half-decks rising one above the other, and towering
into a noble elevation. She had of length

See Evelyn's diary under head of ** Royal Sovereign" (built
cut of the proceeds of ship-money).

nigh 200 feet from fore-end of beak-head to
after end of stern, where were the two great
haters of the Vice Admiral, wherein several
persons could stand nearly upright. Her greatest
width was 35 feet. From the highest part of the
poop to the bottom of the keel was 60 feet. Her
lowest deck was furnished with demi-cannon
throughout, with pieces proportionable lighter
in decks above. She had also heavy pieces fore
and aft for chase  all these cannons were of
burnished brass. What though she could not vie
with the gilded dive (as the Dutch did name
'The Sovereign of the Seas), yet was she a
goodly ship and a great, and was ornamented at
her beak with the figure of a fair woman hasting
forward with an open Bible in her hand for to represent
her title, '' The Constant Reformation."
Alas ! too envious name, for how was our New-light
Reformation lost in the seething waters of
popular discord, even as this fair ship was at last
overwhelmed in the yeast of a tempestuous sea.

But, as you see from the heading of this
chapter, I must go aboard  but, truly, in no bad
temper  to admire this castle which I have
described, for it was to be no other than a prison
to me and my mates, till the pleasure of Colonel
Admiral Rainsborough should be made known.
Truly a fine culmination of my ambitious desires
to serve my king and to shine in the eyes of my
lost fair. But as we speed in the long boat

through the darkness of the night, we are not
without faint hopes that we might be recognised,
and that those hearty mariners who we knew
favoured but little the schismatical party, would
create for us some opportunity to escape. But
the obscurity of the night prevented all discovery,
and we were thrown, all except Lieutenant Lisle,
into the hold of the ship, there to be secluded
under charge of watchful zealots, who took care to
prevent all communication with us. Biscuit and
foul water was now our fare, and darkness our
companion ; and with day and night of one colour
we soon lost count of time. The usual noises of a
ship were here faintly heard, and some unusual, to
wit the rough voice of Vice Admiral Rainsborough
holding forth and preaching  an exercise he was
very partial to. His discourse we could not catch,
but that it was hostile to the King we could well
believe. For it is a chief point of religion with
their sect to contemn, vilify and dispute all tenets
which seem to favour loyalty. One of this Vice-admiral's
sermons did us better service than he
could have desired. For our schismatical sentinel,
who did affect to be very partial to this Colonel
Admiral's preaching  perhaps with an eye to his
own advancement  left a more moderate Christian
in his place. This man, finding who the prisoners
were, and what their crime, the intelligence soon
spread through the ship ; and in spite of all opposition,
we were presently visited by a considerable

number of the crew, who revived our hopes by
their hearty sympathy, not only of escaping the
vengeance of Gainsborough but of doing the King
service.

The men of this fleet were now no longer
deceived by that false  shibboleth of " King and
Parliament " which had indeed been dropped, but
were as full of simple loyalty to the Crown as they
were of hostility to the Government they were
under. Upon hearing our expectation of being
suddenly and violently dealt with, they declared
they would stand by us ; and that with the exception
of some amphibious men, our captors, who
had been brought in by Rainsborough out of the
army, there were not three men in the ship whom
he could depend upon. So that if the worst
should come we should run no danjjfer. It is true
that the captain and a lieutenant did interrupt
our conferences, and ordering all men forth of the
hold clapped us up again. But this did not avail
much, for a great impression had been made. By
my addresses to them concerning His Majesty's
treatment at their hands  the horrible fate of the
loyal Captain Burley, as well as a description of
the heroic efforts of the gentlemen of Kent, some
of whom were well known on board for hospitable

" We have long been pressed in the King's name, though
against his will and interest," says Declaration of Officers and
Seamen ; " let us do him some real service in the time of his
great affliction." See Penn's Memoirs i., 272.

and liberal entertainments  the were so muck
moved that they declared that if a convenient
opportunity ci>uli be found they would not only
sign the petition of Kent, but cast off all allegiance
to the usurping powers, and apply to the
Prince Admirals (next brother to the Prince of
Wales) to take the supreme commit of the
fleet.

These assurances filled me with delight. When
we were alone, Mitchell spoke thus : 

By your leave, Master Lendall," says he, ' you
are a friend of Esquire Hales, the General of
Kent, and through you have had but small experience
of the sea, yet have you much knowledge
of many matters that common seamen are
ignorant of. I think you could not do better
than lead the mutiny, which, you see, the men of
this ship are ready for. I will second you to the
best of my power, and to begin with will mention,
when the opportunity may occur, that you are
ready to go foremost in the business. '''

Said I, '' My good friend Mitchell, I am at your
disposal, and that of the men of this good ship
for the furtherance of His Majesty's interests.
But it seems to me that our friend Lieutenant
Lisle would be a person more desirable for the
duty you mention."

"The Duke having made his escape at this time, the seamen
talked aloud that they would go to their Admiral''  Clar. Hist.y.
Book xi.

Sir' says Mitchell, " officers be even more
fearful than men in these matters. Lieutenant
Lisle is brave enough, but not venturesome; and
he has a wife and several children to suffer if
aught miscarried. 'Were best to exclude him
from the business''

Said I to Mitchell, " If indeed I could get a
following, nothing vould please me more than to
take a bold part."

Not hong after this we heard much shouting.
It was to Parson * Ken, who, playing Gainsborough
false, came on board with the petition of
Kent, which he secretly distributed copies of, not
only to this ship, but every other in the Downs.

Nothing could have been more unwise than
Rainsborough's whole carriage at this time.
Fearing the disaffection of the fleet would only
increase, he determined to diminish their supplies
of food, and so did commence to shift the stores f
into the castles on shore, which are here within
half a mile of each other, viz., Walmer, Deal, and
Sandown  Deal being more particularly favoured,
since it was his own private command, where his
family was lodged with him. J And his purser 
not that loyal man whom I mentioned at Winton,
but a peevish melancholic landsman  did second

See Matthew Carter's True delation, p. 34.
t See letter of four gentlemen of Kent to Lord Culpepper.
Clar. State Papers.

X JUuttkeio Carter's True Relation, &c.

him in a manner still more foolish, for he chose on
this very morning to serve out all the most rotten
stuff that his store contained. This we plainly
heard giving rise to talk like the following.

The men of divers messes were coming for their
necessary supplies of food and what not for that
day.

Good pork , mate ? " says the purser to his man
when he had served it out by weight.

"Goodpork,' says the purser's mate.

'' Confirm all, and say  good pork ! " says the
purser.

*' It is villainous bad' says one of the crew.

'Tis measly' says another. " And stinks'
quoth a third.

Ye should be content with what things ye
have' says the purser, and weighs out the beef.

Good beef, mate ? " says he as before.

Good beef' says his mate.

'' Confirm all, and say  good beef," cries the
purser.

The beef is as hard as boards," says one of the
men.

And as dry as an old bone' says another.

But this the purser disputes, and goes on in
like fashion to praise and distribute mouldy
biscuit, musty flour, and beer that had come out
of an old fish-cask, and smelt vilely  adding ever
his " Confirm all," and also some more admonitions
that forsooth " they should be thankful to get

anything whatsoever in troubled times like the
present, when the godly Admiral scarce knew
whom to trust." At all which those mariners
mocked with laughters and howling, and jeering
cries of" Confirm all," and end by not only refusing
the viands offered, bnt fling it up and down also 
much of it going about the heads of the purser and
his mate, while the beer flowed even into the hold
being all let run.

Hereupon the captain is forced to signal to
Gainsborough, who was plying to and fro to the
shore as I mentioned. He coming aboard, fears
to make matters worse, and after some reproaches
to the men who raised the combustion, orders the
purser to serve out some better provision, which
quieted them for a time; and the Admiral hastes
again towards the shore, where matters, you will
soon perceive, did not go according to his wishes.

A COURT OP WAR ON MUTINEERS.

So here we are upon deck in the soft summer air ;
the sea with scarce a ripple and the noble ship
riding at anchor a mile or so from the shore in the
order I told you of in my last chapter. Deal, and
its castle and beach of shingles, spotted with
smocks* drying thereon, is in front  away
stretched the low strand of Kent to the eastward,
Sandown Castle and Sandwich town, and soon.
To the west the land riseth from wooded
Walmer to the cliffs of the S. Foreland. How
green are the downs, as yet unburntwith summer
heat ! The prospect is fair. But another is
before us  that of being tried for mutiny and
other crimes.

Captain Penrose, and two other captains of
ships then in the Downs, came on board the
Reformation," and applied themselves to the execution
of orders they had received from the Vice-admiral.
It was plain from their countenances
that none of them were easy in their minds ; and,
indeed, the news they had gathered of the progress
of the Kentish petitioners was calculated to cause
them some apprehension.

Tone in his Diary temp. Charles II.) notices this custom.

However they went forward with the business
they had come for. Lieutenant Lisle  whom we
now perceived for the first time since our coming'
aboard  was arraigned with the rest of us. The
trial, which was held in the round-house, lasted
but a few minutes. The captains having written
a very brief account of their decision left it with
the captain of the ' Constant Reformation " to
delivered the Admiral, and getting into their several
long boats departed not without being saluted
by a strange murmur of voices which increased
to a storm, the burden whereof was the word
Petition ! ''

They had not been long gone when the Vice-admiral
comes alongside in his pinnace, wherein
was his small body-guard of land crabs; who,
having like himself served an apprenticeship under
Fairfax and Cromwell in the first war, had received
a sea-baptism and become mariners  being,
however, handier with pike, firelock, cutlass, and
dagger than with ship tackle ; though some, it is
true, were as smart sailors as you might find.
Out of the pinnace stepped Rainsborough ; and
mounting the poop, from that high elevation commands
the prisoners to be ranged upon the quarterdeck
in his sight. Then, putting on a pair of
spectacles, he opens the letter of the council of
war; cons it over, and then in a voice rude as
Boreas, spoke as follows 

'' 1 have called ye together for to tell ye what

my court of war have done for justice. I have-borne
with mutineers too long. I swear before the
Lord 1 will no longer tolerate such. Parson Kern
hath basely betrayed his trust, and come aboard
this ship with a scandalous feigned petition. But
I would have ye to know that I have sent after
him. I have commanded every copy of the said
petition which is found aboard of any of the Parliament
ships to be cut in pieces, and by this hand,.
I will cut Parson Ken in pieces when I catch him.
And now T tell ye, once for all, that the Parliament
will not hear the petition so much as
named ; so let that suffice. Stand forth Lieutenant
Lisle ! "

Lieutenant Lisle, who was not far from me,
makes one step forward.

"Take off your hat, sirrah ! "

Lieutenant Lisle did so.

You are found guilty of conniving to promote
the petition of Kent. Thank your stars that the
court of war are merciful, and do only require
you to be censured. Gro, repent, and try to perform
better your duty to the Lord and to the
Parliament, and to me'' " Stand forth, Eupert
Lendall ! "

He did not tell me to take off my hat, for 1
had none, nor hands to lift it off, for I wore heavy
fetters on m} hands and feet, which jangled as I
shuffled forward.

Thou art a desperate and incorrigible villains

cries Rainsborough, shaking his fist at me. " Aha!
have I caught thee? By the Lord, I will not let
thee loose. My court of war has found thee
guilty of divers great crimes. First, of high
treason in raising a bloody mutiny atWinton'-
(be dared not mention Captain Barley's name for he
knew not how the crew would take it) ; " secondly,
deserting of this ship; thirdly, of using horrid
threats against one of the honourable Committee
of the county, if he would not help you to carry
the scandalous feigned petition of Kent on board
the ships. Know, therefore, that for these
abominable and wicked acts, you are sentenced to
be hanged by the neck until you are dead. As
for you, Andrew Mitchell, boatswain, and the rest
of you, your sentence is the same; but I will
change it, in my mercy, to your being keelhauled*
this ship in sight of the fleet. But to
you, I end all, being the chief mutineer, and a
rascally fellow, scarce gotten into the ship ere you
left it  I will shew no further favour than to
advise you to repent of your crimes between this
and five of the clock in the afternoon ; for as sure
as you stand there you shall suffer execution at
that time, and I will myself come here to be
witness thereof. Captain  , you will cause
Lieutenant Lisle to see the yards squared and the

f i.e., hauled from yard-arm to yard arm under the keel of
the ship  a barbarous punishment of ancient date in the navy.
See Jonson's 'Tracts.

tackle reeved, and all other things needful by the
hour named. What ho ! man the pinnace again ;
and Captain  , I am for the Castle ; and Captain
  , the fleet is to prepare for sea  and send round
to order all the ships' crews to be mustered upon
deck at the time of the execution."

All on board remained with gaping mouths
listening to this oration. At the end of it, a voice
calls out the name of the Vice Admiral.

Who challenges me ? " says Rainsborough,
looking over.

'* Andrew Mitchell, by your leave," says the
boatswain, bowing.

swell, sirrah*!

desire not to be keel-hauled, but to be
hanged outright ; and so likewise do my mates."

Do you, forsooth ? " says Rainsborough ;
then by the Lord you shall, and Lieutenant
Lisle shall see to this also."

And down into the pinnace goes Rainsborough.

The crew of the " Roforinatioa " had been quiet
while the Vice-admiral had been speaking, and
remained quiet when he had finished and while he
departed. But the calm which is supposed ever
to follow a storm, doth sometimes precede the
same.

VOL. II.

SOMEONE TO BE HANGED.

The silence which the crew maintained, according
ill with the protestations they had so lately made,
somewhat chilled our hearts.

The habit of obedience derived from discipline
is a tight-fitting garment, which it is not easy all
of a sudden to throw off.

For myself, though I did not altogether believe
that we should suffer as ordered by Rainsborough
yet was I disappointed, for it seemed as if his asserting
of his authority had cowed the mariners
into obedience. One of my fellow-prisoners did
surrender himself to despair.

'' twere well," says he with whitened cheek,
*' that some godly minister were sent to prepare
US for the change ! It wanted but one hour of
the time!"

'*  ay," says the boatswain  " if indeed we are
let to die, which T do not believe, 'tis the 
mi oral who sends us hence. He must be answerable,
not we. 'Tis our business to die like
men, if die we must. Think upon Captain Burley ;
steel yourself, mate."

The crew were still agape, irresolute what todo.


Then the captain something white, says, looking
over from the poop :

I am sorry for these men, but you must prepare
for their execution, Lieutenant Lisle; after
which we must weigh and make sail to stand inshore,
for it is the design of the Vice-Admiral to
punish the town for mutiny

''Do you hear that, Mitchell? " says I.

But Mitchell steadfastly regarding of the captain
and Lieutenant Lisle answered not.

The captain repeated his command.

Sir," replied Lieutenant Lisle, as white as the
captain, ''I cannot give the orders; and more
than that'' says he much agitated, " I confess before
the whole crew that my heart is not with the
Parliament, and has not been this some time," he
paused, '' nor with the Admiral at all. This
sword, sir  take it ! and put me in the bilboes if
you like."

Lieutenant Lisle," says the captain, " do your
duty, I cannot accept your sword."

Then the sea shall have it," says Lisle, " for
I cannot serve either Colonel Rainsborough or the
Parliament any longer."

And with that, he flings his sword over the side
of the ship, and of course, it presently sunk in the
sea and vanished.

No sooner had Lieutenant Lisle behaved after this
fashion, than the general spirit of mutiny became
apparent. Though an order given by the captain
himself to reeve divers ugly loops at the yard-arms

were obeyed by a few zealots, it "was evident
from the dogged air of the rest, that little service
could be got out of them. And scarce had he
given the command for to carry us back into the
hold, than we were surrounded and our hands
and feet made free. This the captain, much perplexed
thinks proper to take no notice of, and
begins to give the necessary directions with his
own voice for weighing anchor, and getting under
sail.

I employed my first moment of liberty to procure
a perspective glass and look at the town. I
perceived Rainsborough disembarking and going
towards the castle ; also that the town of Deal
was all in a combustion  a great sheet of white
linen being carried about, with, the word '' Petition
' thereon, so large that it could be read from
the fleet, and there was Palmer,* being carried
about on the shoulders of the people with waving
of hats.

I shut up the glass ; and while a fifer did play,.
' When the King shall enjoy his own again," I
added my weight to turn the capstan ; and began
to revolve at the same time a plan for a great
deed.

Hold'' said I to the rest who were turning of
the capstan, 'sand please to stop your tune. Master

The father of one of the Palmers who fought in the " great
rising in Kent for King Charles, 1648," appears to have served onboard
one of the ships under Drake against the Spanish Armada.
He commanded the " Antelope," afterwards poor Captain Burley's
ship. He was an ancestor of the late Lord Fitzwalter.

Fifer, for it agrees not with  King and Parliament.'
We are going to weigh anchor and make
sail for no other purpose than to approach the
town of Deal, and thunder the great guns upon
our friends, and upon the wives and familles of
our comrades. '

"Dear him'' says Mitchell, ' speak it aloud
Master Lendall. Here are at least twenty who
will stand by you whatsoever happens."

Then I did repeat what I said. Whereupon
they ceased to work and commenced to grumble
instead, and being questioned by the captain and
some of the officers, informed them ' that they
would none of the bombarding of the towns

Said 1 to Andrew Mitchell.

The time is now come, I will speak to the
ship's company."

Getting up on the capstan , from the height of
the forecastle, I then spoke as follows, plainly
throwing: into o'reat consternation and trouble the
captain and schismatic oB.cers of the " Constant
Reformation."

Said I, " We very well know how the fleet, beguiled
by the promises of the Parliament , waa
seduced into serving against the King, under the
pretext of declaring for ' King and Parliament ' "
(I remarked that my martyred brother-in-law.
Captain John Burley, had more plainly perceived

It will be perceived that this account agrees in the most important
particulars with that given in Clarendon's History,
Clarke's Life of James II., and Matthew Carter's True Hell"
tion, &o.

the designs of the Parliament at that time, and
thenceforth had declined to serve).

His Majesty's said I, " is now in prison barbarously
treated ; his life imperilled ; his person
insulted. Let us do some effectual service unto
him now, in the time of his great affliction. The
Parliament subdued bj the army is no longer a
Parliament, but the tool of an armed faction. Will
you make a stand for the ancient liberties of the
kingdom, and oppose the cruel and deceitful
enemies of our sovereign lord the King? Will
you join the petitioners of Kent, and have him
brought to London in freedom honour and safety for
to treat with his Parliament's

I was about to quote the other clauses of the
Kentish petition about the disband inf/ of the army
of the sectaries, and being governed by the known
laws and by no others when my eye suddenly
caught sight of something upon the shore. Along
the green slope which descends continually from
the South Foreland to Walmer and Deal, one
thousand petitioners, coming from Dover, were
marching  and some distance in advance rode
about forty Kentish gentlemen, carrying at their
head the ancient white banner of the Cross of St.
George.

see ! ' said I pointing, while all eyes were
turned in the same direction, " the petitioners ! "
Said I, " They are coming to seize Walmer, Deal,

See '* Kentish Petition," already mentioned. The declaration
of the navy was in the same terms.

and Sandown ; they are coming," said I, raising ray
voice, and growing mad with excitement (as I
perceive! did also the rest) to desire the fleet
to declare '' (here I fairly roared it out), ' for the
King, against the usurping Parliament ! "

Then like a clap of thunder the whole crew
burst into tierce huzzahs, and ran up the shrouds
and out upon the yards, and calling out for " King
and Kent ! ' waved their hats, and gave another
cheer more tremendous than before.

Then we did hear what we thought to be an
echo of our own voices  but it was rather that of
our hearts. The whole fleet had followed our example,
and was cheering for King Charles.

When the men were tired of shouting, but not
till then, they came down upon the deck, and it
was perceived that the captain did desire to make
some address to them. After a while he was iQv-
mitted to speak.

Gentlemen," says he very respectful now, for he
could not choose to be otherwise, "the Vice-admiral
will come aboard presently, and he will
doubtless desire to know what the signification of
all this is " 

He was interrupted with groans for Gainsborough,
and with cries that they did disown him
as their admiral  and certain mariners surrounding
me did hoist me up upon their shoulders, and
with shouts proclaimed me as Vice-admiral of the-fleet.
When they were quiet I addressed them,
and told them that I would accept the office, but

only until such time as we should be able to communicate
with the gentlemen of Kent, who would
appoint Gainsborough's successor. I then directed
them to arm themselves.

The captain seeing this done said 

'what, gentlemen are you going to cast off
allegiance to the Parliament ? "

One and all' cried the crew of the '' Constant
Reformation."

After this, the captain and all other schismatical
officers and men were seized and secured. This
put them in great fear; but I assured them that
no violence would be done to their persons, and
that their property would be respected. The seamen
now shewing an obstinate determination to
pursue the design they had taken in hand, loaded
some culvers, and armed the forecastle and other
places, so as to sweep the decks of an enemy. I
summoned Lisle to my assistance, and he consented
to act as first lieutenant of the ship. We
were now prepared for Gainsborough, who was
seen approaching. He had been for some time
watched by many in the fleet, and had indeed
been deporting himself as if he had lost his wits ;
for seeing force coming towards the Castle, about
the time we had observed it, he had posted himself
on the leads of the roof, and swinging his
sword about and cutting the air, did pretend defiance
to those friends of the Kings But suddenly
hearing a noise from his own ship, and observing
Matthew Carter, p. 43.

the men running out upon the yards, waving their
hats  with the huzzahs I have described becoming
general throughout the fleet  he became desirous
of inquiring into that matter. The hour had also
arrived that was to hang me and the other mutineers.
Also perhaps he deemed that the fleet
must now put to sea for fear of further infection.
At all events as I said, he was now seen approaching
in the pinnace.

I was at this article of time standing alone upon
the poop, wearing the baldric and sword of the
captain of the " Constant Eeformation." Lieutenant
Lisle being given to understand that it was
the general wish of the crew to let Gainsborough
know that the common seamen had originated this
mutiny, had withdrawn himself from view.

I could see by Gainsborough countenance,
which, was turned upon me, that he was in great
trouble and amazement to observe who was lording
it upon the elevation of the poop. Nevertheless,
he was suffered to approach very near without any
manifestation against him, and so was perhaps emboldened
to suppose that a mutinous design was at
the last moment repented of. So a spectator might
also have thought.

Loose the foretop sail ! " cries this Colonel-admiral,
who, perceiving a blue ripple on the sea,
belike intended " to weigh anchor and sail with

See Letter from four gentlemen of Kent (to the Lord Cole-pepper),
which says, amongst other things, that " as soon as the
seamen saw but oue trt>op of horse on shore, they rose instantly
.and secured their commanders."

the fleet into some region less infected with
loyalty.

"Aloof ! aloof! ' cry a score of voices from the
forecastle.

' Lower the ladder," says Rainsborough.

Away water-rat ! " is the answer, and then a
general groan and mingled salutes of " Begone,
Gainsborough ! your reign is over!" 'Pack to
Westminster, and tell them we desire your company
no more ! "

And now Gainsborough calls on his captain and
his lieutenants, but they, being secured and out of
hearing, make no reply.

He is mad, furious, and at the same time very
fearful, and there he remains looking wistfully at
the ship as if meditating how he can scale the side
thereof.

About this time I perceived another boat pulling
in all haste towards the ship. It contained Rains-borough's
wife and children.

Lower the ladder I " cries a voice, and '' Lower
the ladders is the cry.

What? " said I to Lieutenant Lisle, who was
within hearing of me, are they going to let him
aboard after all ? "

So it would seem' replies Lieutenant Lisle,,
but only to hang him I think."

The ladder was lowered. Gainsborough took
hold of it.

*' Mount, mount, Colonel ! " cry some in a jeer,.

"all is prepared ; the promotion you designed for
others is reserved for yourselves

Raitisborongh, looking up and seeing the ugly
running loops dangling from the yard-arm above
his head, catches the meaning and scope of that
invitation, and lets go the ladder suddenly.

It seemed not unlikely that the triumphing seamen
might proceed to extremities.

I now approached the side of the poop, and said
in a loud voice 

"Colonel Gainsborough, I have accepted the
post of Vice-Admiral in your place until the Commissioners
for His Majesty shall appoint your successor.
I advise you to be gone quietly. The
men of this ship and of the fleet will have nothing
more to do with you. We are on a different design
from you, and are for the King, and do
intend to join the gentlemen of Kent in their just
petition."

This speech, which was accompanied by the
shouts of those on board, put an end to Rains-borough's
command at sea. He perceived the
same, and fixed a half fearful, half vindictive look
upon me.

His wife, who had been forced to fly from Deal
Castle, coming up in her boat, now addressed
him 

Oh, Tom ! " says she, " they say they will
shoot upon the Castle if it be not instantly surrendered
for King Charles, and Sandovvn is already
betrayed''

But indeed the case was worse than she made
out, for shouts from the shore answering the
shiDS were now heard, and it was perceived that
the cross of St. George was flying not only upon
Sandown Castle, but also upon that of Deal.

Vice-admiral Gainsborough had neither fort nor
ship to fly to for safety.

His wife perceived the posture of affairs.

Oh, Tom," says she, " why do you stand there
saying nothings? If your men will not let you
aboard, why do you not ask them to provide you
with a ship for to go to London in ? You know
that General Cromwell will take care of you
when you get there."

But I did anticipate his request.

' Colonel Gainsborough said I, 'ewe cannot
spare you even the pinnace you are in, nor even
the smallest cock-boat in the fleet; all are engaged
tobeemployedonlyinthe King's service. Nevertheless
the long boat is ordered to convey to the shore
the late captain and some others from this ship.
It shall also land you and your goods and servants."


There is a Dutch pink yonder," says another
in a jeer, ' which is bound for London. You can
get a passage in her for sixpence if you like."

Others more hostile, climbing down into some
boats that were in tow, alarmed Mistress gainsborough,
who perceived that they did probably
resume their design to hang her husband. She

Gainsborough was much favoured by Cromwell.

went upon her knees and screamed out for mercy
for him.

'' Mind not lier cries' says one, who had been
with me at Winton, "but bring the old thief
aboard, and string him up as he did poor Captain
Burley."

Some cried " No' and some cried " Yes' and
others said, "We will leave it to Lendall ; Lendall
shall decide."

I remembered my poor sisters tears flowing
in vain, and how Rainsborough did actively
pursue Burley to his death.

I said to Lieutenant Lisle 

This villain was fierce against my brother-inlaw*


Mercy is best' says Lieutenant Lisle.

True' said I, thinking of Burley's last moments.
So I spoke 

Put Colonel Rainsborough on shore with his
wife and children, and hurt him not. Go, sir'
said I, " and in retirement repent of your crimes
and treasons against our persecuted King. You
owe your life, not to me, but to the martyred Captain
Burley, who when about to die prayed that
his enemies might be forgiven."

Thus was this violent schismatic dismissed the
navy, to be reserved for a sudden and bloody death
a few months later. He went out of the pinnace

" They " {i.e., the revoUerl seamen) " have enc np Rains-borough,
loom they wood have hanged but for the tears and entreaties
of his wiferClar. MSS., 2791, Bodl. Lib., Oxford.

into a boat, and that nifht in a hired ship sailed
any to Land guard Fort with his wife and family's
A\ hen the Admiral was gone, an ancient was put
into the fore shrouds for to call a council of war.
Captain Penrose tried to resist, but was forced to
give way, and was, with other schismatic officers,
set on shore. t The famous ' Declaration of the

See reports from this place concerning his arrival there after
the revolt.  Tanner MS.

f The following is a " Parliamentarian " version of the revolt :
"June Jst, . . . On Friday' last Vice-admiral Rainsborough
came ashore at his own castle at Deal ; the occasion was because
some of the Kentish men had endeavoured to get possession
of the Karl of Warwick's castle of Sandown, the Castle ot War-borough
" {i.e Walmer) "and this castle, which are all within a
mile and a half of each other. And when the Vice-admiral had
done his endeavour to secure them, he went in a small pinnace to
his command again at sea. And when he came to the ship which
was tinder his immediate command, those which were in her forbad
him to come aboard, saying they would obey him no longer,
but would have the King brought to London, &c., and told him if
he came on board it was at his peril, but if he pleased he might
depart in the vessel he was in, and after many threats and other
uncivil carriages towards him became for London, When he was
gone, they hung forth a flag which signified that there would be a
council held, and the respective captains in all the ships were to
appear aboard the Vice-admiral, and divers of them nut accordingly,
but Captain I'enrote came not. Wherefore they sent him
three or four cannon shot, and afterwards sent a message to him
commanding him in the name of the Vice-admiral to come to the
council, whereupon he returned answer that he knew the Vice-admiral
was not there, and therefore conceived they had not
power to call a council or command him to come thither ; there-foi
e he was resolved not to go. This message was carried back,
and upon the receipt thereof, about forty men with their swords
drawn, and other weapons of war, came in another ship and told
him that they were sent by the Admiral to fetch him. Captain
Penrose asked who was the Vice-admiral ; they replied that ibis
name was Lendall. Then Captain Penrose said he kneio such a
man was a boson's mate, but no otherwise, and was resolved not
o go with them. They said, ' We must force } ou.' The captain
now addressed his speech to his own men in the ship, saying,
Gentlemen, will you stick to me, and we will defend ourselves,
and not obey this illegal order.' But contrary to his expectation,

Navy " was then made, and was signed by some
of those who had been active in the business. It
was afterwards printed. You will not see my
name to that paper because I did always intend to
vacate the post I had been forced into by circumstances.


The white ensign and cross " of St. George was

he found a division amongst his own men, and many of them cried
out, * Go, go ! ' This being so, Captain Penrose being afraid of
further mischief, and when he came aboard the Vice Admiral he
was forced to sign a petition, which he refused to do, and finding
him whom they for the present had chosen Vice-admiral to bethe
inferior man, which was bat a boson's mate, Captain Penrose
said, ' I will not join with you in this petition, nor approve of
your course in refusing to be commanded by the Vice-admiral
which was put in by the Parliament, and I pray you, do you
quite cast off all subjection to them ? ' to which they generally
replied, ' they were for King and Parliament,' '' &c,  See A. Letter
from Kent king's Pamphlets), June 1st, 1G48.

A Royalist diurnal about the same date is facetious about the
matter. " We have excellent news brought to town," it says,
how that the mariners have made shipwreck of that chosen
vessel Mr. Rainsborough, and truly the son of the prophet whined
hard for his life, or else they had made another Jonas of him,
and sent him to take up his quarters among the whales and haddocks,
there being no less than a whole squadron of ships in the
conspiracy. But in pity to the divine water-rat they were so
courteous as to set him ashore to beat the hoof home again, without
coach and six horses, to make his moan at Westminster. O
lamentable ! The members cannot follow their mammon."

The white flag, " with St. George his cross in it," was the
ancient flag of England at sea. Charles I., by proclamation 5th
May, 1634, orders the Union flag (Jack) to be carried only by
ships of war; merchant ships (English) to carry St. George's
Cross; Scotch, St. Andrew's. The (government of the Commonwealth,
by order 22nd February, 1648-9 decreed that " the sips
at sea in the service of the State shall oily bear the red cross in a
white flag." They appear, however, to have tacked on to it the
Irish harp (yellow) on a blue ground. Cromwell's hatred of the
Scotch, and a desire to efface all edicts of Charles, probably dictated
this regulation. " Cross and harp " on the copper coinage
answered to " head and tail." Pepys in his diary notices the
aversion of Charles II. to the harp, no doubt because the emblem
had been in favour during the usurpation.

now displayed on the foretop of every ship in the
Downs, with the Royal Standard at the main,
which very well informed the petitioners on
shore what had been done. The leaders also,
receiving a letter from us, were soon seen coming
aboard of us in great force. I leave all loyal subjects
to imagine the joyful reception we accorded
to the gentlemen of Kent. Shouts, cheers, mutual
congratulations, and shaking of hands kept us
busy for some minutes; and though we were so
strong for monarchy, we seemed a republic, for all
ranks and degrees were confounded in the general
gaiety.

Ned Hales stepped up on the poop in great
amazement to find who was become the new Yice-
Admiral of the fleet. Estrange could not be
brought to understand it at all.

Come, Roger," says Ned Hales, " remember
where you are, and make a leg to the commander
of the fleet."

"Whereupon Estrange makes me a very profound
salutation, as do Sir William Brockman, Sir
Thomas Peyton, Sir Henry Palmer, Sir Anthony
Aucher, Captain Hammond, the two Hargrave,
and all the other gentlemen. I was told that Sir
John Mennes vas coming, and that he would probably
assume the commands The pinnace being

Sir J. Mennes became captain of the " Swallow," a ship which
he had before commanded.  Clar. Hist., Book xi.

Colonel Richard Fielding: was made captain of the " Constant
Eeformation," and Lord Willoughby Vice Admiral of the revolted
fleet;. He was superseded by Prince Eupert, ib. Captain Ham-sent

back for him and some others, there came
with them several ladies, amongst the rest the
lovely Lady Anne, who, in too great excitement
about the petition and the cause of the imprisoned
King to remain at home, had followed in the wake
of her husband to a friend's house not far from
Deal, accompanied by the Lady Aucher and Mistress
Hatton. (Colonel Hatton was at Dover with
Sir Richard Hardress, and we heard the noise
they were making there, thundering great guns
upon the Castle to force Sir Harry Layman to surrender
for the King.)

I had the honour of assisting the beauteous
Lady Anne on board, the ship being first dressed
with waist clothes, and of first giving orders toman
the yards and give the general's wife a hearty
cheer. Her beauty did charm those sea-royalists
as her forethought and bounty did enforce their
gratitude, for she had bought some dainty provision
and some choice wines on board, which were
all bestowed upon the seamen, and more was
coming ; and a table was spread in the poop for
the Commissioners of Kent. And there I made
a, throne for the Lady Anne, and she herself, with
a silver cup in her small, dainty white hands, did
propose a health to the poor imprisoned King, with
a half-prayer that, with the help of the good and

rnoncl and the two Hargrave (relatives, I suppose, of the Dean of
Canterbury, not long dead) appear with Palmer to have remained
on board.  See Lord's Journals.

VOL. II. Z

true men at sea and on shore, he might be restored
again to reign in peace over the three
kingdoms. And I did give the signal, which
had been before arranged upon, for to fire a salvo
of small shot all over the fleet, which was noble
done with great triumph.

Then was the following song (which hath been
ascribed, like other of the like loyal kind, to
Lovelace) sung with some applause by one onboard.
It bears for title 

S;| icfaalt 0f % gktt (1648).
1.

When Warwick did persuade

Himself to be a saint,
And all the fleet betrayed

To serve the Parliament 
Oh then what fools were we !

For I hear a small bird sing
That the castles on the sea

Should have sided with the King.

2.

But a lady brave and fair

Hath unrolled the banner gay.
And each sword shall flash in air,

And each sheath be thrown away !
And of tyrants we'll be free 

So I hear a small bird sing 
For the castles on the sea

Have revolted to the King !

3.

Sea-loyalty ne'er fails,

Fill high each cup and can.
Here's a health to Edward Hales !

Here's a health to Lady Anne !
Once more we'll merry be 

So I hear a small bird sing 
For the castles on the sea

Now are faithful to the King !

Hurrah ! hurrah ! hurrah ! ' once more rang
through all the fleet, as we drained crowned
cups to the toast. After which I conducted the
Lady Anne into the pinnace, and she was conveyed
to the shore with the other fair ladies. And it was
near twilight, and there was a golden calm on the
sea, when she slowly retreated from my view, as I
well remember, and a mild and balmy air. But
what I remember best of all was that the noble
Lady Anne, with grateful tears in her eyes, had
commended my attempt to help the King's cause.
At the very article of time that the salvo for the
King's health was fired, I did resign my command
into the hands of the gentlemen commissioners;
and Ned Hales and the other gentlemen of
Kent, leaving the gallant seamen to enjoy by
themselves the good cheer provided for them, did
quit the ship about an hour after the departure of
the ladies. I did accompany them round the
fleet and then on shore. This had been a day of
great moment to the nation, and of strange adventure
for me. Never before had such a think*
been heard of as a boatswain's mate (when expecting
to be hanged instead) being suddenly promoted
to Vice Admiral of the fleet ."

The following is given (in The King's Pamphlets) as " a
perfect list of the ships that lately revolted from the Parliament :
(1) Constant Reformation, 56 guns; (2) Converting, 46; (3)
Sick How, 40 ; (4. Antelope, 40; (5) satisfaction, SH ; (6) Jli/nd,
SC; (7) Roebuck, 40; (8) Crescent, 40; (U) I pelican, 40; (10)
Uainboiv, 40; (11) Garland, 40; (12) Revenge, 32." The Antelope,
however, was not iu the Downs, as the following quotation

from a diurnal proves :  " At Portsmouth the Antelope, being
summoned by the Earl of Warwick, Captain Bowen came on shore,
and while he was seducing him, sailed off for the Downs and declared
for the King." Some other ships joined the revolters; for
instance The Constant Warwick (see Clar. Hist.) " was brought
to Holland by Batten, who was made Rear-admiral." The
Black-ashore Lady was another.

The Declaration of the Navy, alluded to in this chapter, is
signed by Lieutenant Lisle, Andrew Mitchell, boatswain ;
James Allen, gunner ; Thomas Best, carpenter, &c. It is to be
seen as a broadside in King's Pamphlets (fol, sheets vi), and like
other manifestoes connected with " the Rising in Kent," is a beautiful
piece of printing. The terms of the Declaration are nearly
the same as those of the Petition of Kent, viz., the King must be
brought in freedom and honour to London to treat with his Parliament,
the army of Fairfax disbanded and their arrears paid,
&c., &c. The " reasons for revolting from the Parliament " are
preserved elsewhere in Thompson's collection as follows : 

I. The Parliament of late grant commissions to the sea commanders,
leaving out the name of the King.

*' II. Several landsmen made sea commanders.

III. The insufferable pride, ignorance, and insolence of Colonel
gainsborough alienates the hearts of the seamen.

(The seamen intend to send a message to the city of London
for their concurrence in a petition to the Parliament for a personal
treaty with the King's Majesty, otherwise they will block up the
Thames and keep them from provisions and all commerce)"

MORE OP THE PRINCE.

When I lead got over in some measure the violent
excitement of the events related in my last
chapter, it may be supposed that I was desirous
to know what had become of Margaret, Jack
Gayer, and old Gray ; and also to learn something
of His Highnesses movements. We had not forgotten
to talk of these subjects on board the
"Reformation' though I have not mentioned them.
But, indeed, the strange appearance of the heir-apparent
to the throne had puzzled every one ; and
the most conflicting rumours on the subject were
circulated everywhere. Very early on Sunday
morning, Sir Richard Hardress, Sir Anthony
Aucher, Master Anthony Hammond, and other
gentlemen, marching back with some of their
forces and settling the garrisons of Deal, Walmer,
and Sandown, made for Sandwich on their way to
Canterbury. Not being able to find Hales or the
Lady Anne, 1 joined Hardress his forces, and being
welcomed with much friendly banter as '' the
Admiral," rode on one side of Sir Richard's led
horses in the midst of the gentlemen who accompanied
him. But as for Margaret, and her

father, all I could learn was that they had departed
for London. I suspected also that Jack
Gayer had gone with them, for I could hear
nothing of him. Sir Michael had not been seen
anywhere of course. Sir Eichard Hardress was
very fully determined to unravel the mystery of
the Prince of Wales coming to that town ; and
no sooner did we arrive there than we made very
particular inquiries respecting him. It appeared
that he had been to church, his new suits of
clothes being now ready, thus making his first
public appearance. He was dressed in a rich suit,
lined with crimson satin, and laced with both
silver and gold. All the j rates (uncovered) with
the Mayor and other principal inhabitants, had
attended on him, and a fellow of extraordinary
stature did precede him in a slow and stately
posture, commanding the people to bear back,
crying, " Room for the Prince ! '' We did not
arrive in Sandwich till after sermon time, when
many excuses were made b} Captain Portal, in
whose house he was for refusing to allow Sir
Richard Hardress and the other gentlemen to pay
their respects to the eldest son of their lawful
sovereign, in whose interest the petition was being
promoted. Such as : that his Highness was in
need of rest after his devotions  that he did not
wish to be troubled just then  or at all upon the
Sabbath; and other paltry pretences of a like

nature, which some of us thought were not really
made by his Highness, but only by Captain
Forstall and others about him, whom we did
suspect to be schismatics. We were somewhat
amazed to hear, notwithstanding all these excuses,
that they had shortly after the assurance to conduct
him forth privately into the haven to recreate
himself there with no better assembly of attendants
than a few of those curates, and some
schismatic mariners in a boat. Sir Richard
Hardress, and the rest of the gentlemen, accordingly
proceeded to the haven ; and not far from
Fish Gate, we found his Highness superintending
a duck hunt with the persons before mentioned, all
bare about him  paying great respect to his observations
and movements.

I looked upon his Highness steadfastly, and all
of a sudden saw that this Prince of Wales, or
rather of Whales, was no other than that whey-faced
counterfeit rogue, Cornelius Evans ! A
gentleman there, who was quite familiar with the
Prince of Wales, having come there from France
that very day, loudly published the cheat, and requested
permission of the Mayor to kick the
impostor. But so great was the effrontery of
Cornelius, and the faith real or pretended of his
attendants that some of the gentlemen with
Hardress were still doubtful about a matter that
was as clear as the noonday sun.

In short there cam about an iminodiat3 combustion.


*' Let me return to my lodgings," cries Cornelius.
' Give o'er the sport ! Oh, that I should live to
see this day ! Oh, miserable afflicted kingdom,
when every rascal may freely insult the King's

son

I "

If you cpJl me a rascal," said I, " I will pursue
you into the boat and crack your cock's comb for
you, Cornelius. What ho, my friends," I cried,
raising my voice, " this fellow that pretends to bethe
Prince of Wales was once a purser's clerk in
the " Reformation." His father was the astrologer
that lived in Gunpowder Alley."

But no one would listen to me, though I shouted
oufc a small catalogue of the crimes of Cornelius
Evans, nay, the disorderly multitude threatening
me, Sir Richard bid me forbear.

Cornelius, again imploring to be conducted back
to his lodging, they conveyed him to the landing
place, and he proceeds back to ForstalPs house,
complaining of his treatment ; the schismatical
party and many of the deluded people accompanying
him.

It being now plain that this was but a continuation
of the game Cornelius had played at
Sittingborne, we had strong suspicions that Rains-borough
and the Committee  or at least Liveseyey
for one of them  had employed Cornelius in this

way to amuse the people and divert them from
their loyal designs. The town of Sandwich being
a walled town, and containing many mutinous inhabitants
would have been useful both to Rains-borough
and the Committee, if Hardress, as I told
you before had not forced an entry.

Sir Richard Hardress abstained from swearing
or making any combustion at the haven, seeing
that the people were all infatuated concerning
this counterfeit Prince of Wales. But as soon as
it was safe to speak he requested those gentlemen
with him to muster their forces  for indeed it was
also time to march  and also declared his politic
intention of seizing the rascal Cornelius on the
plea of his being under too much restraint.

By  /' says Sir Eichard, " I will have that
.sky-blue riband off his shoulders before fifteen
minutes from this time."

For the roo'ue had assumed that high decoration.
And now Sir Eichard having his soldiers in readiness
in case of accidents, causes his own coach to
be drawn up in front of Forstall's house, and calls
out for Captain Forstall  whereupon nobody appears
except a crowd of people, who desire to
know what Sir Eichard would do. Sir Eichard
quieting them with a few oaths and other observations,
tells his lacqueys to knock at the door,
which they had to continue very violently to do
for some time. Thereupon appears at the window

Captain Forestall and other chief inhabitants of the-town,
who desire that the will forbear to vex his
Highness with that great noise.

I desire' says Sir Eichard, " you will inform
your Prince that as he appears to be under some
restraint my coach is now at his service."

"Sir' replies Captain Forstall, ' I am commanded
by the Prince to refuse your offer, and
that he desires you will leave him where he is and
departs'

' By  /' says Sir Richard, determined to miiice
the matter no longer, " if he will not come quietly
I will pull him out by the ears."

For now, by agreement of the other gentlemen
with him, a company of matchlocks were perceived
marching up to the front of Forstall's house.
Tien not a word is said for a short space ; but
the town appears to wear an air of disturbance ;
those outside beginning to collect with enraged or
anxious countenances. Presently to the window
comes this sham Prince of Wales, thrusts forth
his whey face (now somewhat tanned with the
sun), his flaxen hair flying in the breeze, and
waving his plumed hat, calls out 

"Raise the town! raise the town! seamen!
seamen ! Stand to me, seamen ! "

Which showed where his strength lay  namely,,
in a few fanatical fellows (landsmen, for the most
part, who were Rainsborough's body guard), and

who had brought him there. It, however, required
all the persuasion of the gentlemen with Hardress
to quiet the foolish people, who really believed
this base scum was the Prince. But I finished
his career, for suspecting he would try to escape
by the back of the house, I went there and seized
him in a disguise which I compelled him to keep
on, and marched him through Canterbury gate,
when Sir Hardress' whole party and the empty
coach presently followed. At about 100 yards
further I politely handed Cornelius into the coach,
and, having obtained permission from Sir Richard
Hardress, addressed the counterfeit rascal as
follows : 

"I will now have your hands and feet made
fast, Cornelius ; and mean to be your guard
myself, until you can be committed to some place
of security, where you can no longer play these
tricks, the last of which has been too abominable
to think on."

But there being now no further prospect of his
being able to personate young gentlemen of high
estate, the wretch lost all his effrontery, and commenced
to blubber and continued to do so plentifully
nearly the whole way to Eochester, especially
when he was made to dismount from the coach to
walk thither on his legs. He was brought before
Newman, Justice of Peace at Eochester, to whom
he confessed that Gainsborough had bribed him

to pretend he was the Princes He was after
brought up to London and committed to prison.

This account is with some additional particulars nearly that
of Carter. Carter, however, says that he escaped from Sandwich
and imposed upon a Mr. Crisp. Sir Eichard Hardress claimed
the merit of having seized him, as a document in the State Paper
Office shews. The deposition made before George Newman, of
Eochester, by Cornelius Evans implicates Vice Admiral Gainsborough.
A diurnal states that " he was known all over the city
as an impostor," also that when brought up to Westminster, " he
wept before the Lords in acknowledgment of his fault, and was
committed to Newgate to be an example of terror to all hereafter
that shall attempt the like."

To

THE LADY PETRE.

GRAVE DELIBERATIONS.

And now by your leave, you must come with me
to Rochester, where Ned [hales, our general, and
the greater part of the Commissioners and petitioners
arrived upon Monday.

So rapidly had events gone forward, that we
scarce had time to reflect upon what had been
doing, or indeed what we were going to do. Buta
fortnight had passed since the petition had been
first mooted, and lo ! what a change had passed
over Kent ! The Committee vanished  all Kent
in arms the castles ours, and twelve great ships
gone from the Parliament to the King ! Our
council, which indeed consisted of all those gentlemen
who had favoured or approved the petition,
met at "The Crown," at Rochester; and then
indeed did we at once perceive what want of order
there was in it. Every one had somewhat to propose
! Estrange did seriously urge that the
Dumber of the said council which was then full
sixty, should be reduced to at most ten. Afterwards,
alas ! we learnt to our cost how some who
had pretended to forsake the Committee of Kent
and the Parliament, did only join us for to add
perplexity to our deliberations."

So Carter insinuates.

The posture of affairs was indeed grave. thereby
House gave us no satisfaction, through the
Earl of Thanet; but rather menaces. We had
reverted to the Houses. Sir Thomas Peyton had
gone up from Canterbury accompanied only by a
servant, carrying a letter to desire that twenty
gentlemen might carry the petition to the Houses
'the rest to lie at a distance. But we had as yet
received no answer, and in the meantime great
multitudes of armed petitioners viz. : those who
marched on foot were already as far as Dartford,.
and those in Eochester and elsewhere were engaged
to follow. We had taken up arms not to
assault the Parliament, but to defend ourselves
from the Committee and the army. Yet we could
not avoid the conclusion that we had more to hope
from the fears than the favour of those who sat at
Westminster. While we were discoursing whether
to wait for Sir T. Peyton's return, or to give
orders for continuing the march, three strangers
entered and sat down amongst us.

One was of a bold and surly aspect, another a
young man of manly form and bearing, yet of a
countenance of extreme sweetness ; the third  
head and shoulders over the other two  of a noble
and commanding presence. Him I presently recognised,
for he was of my native county, and my
father's friend and patron, being no other than
that paragon of honour, virtue, and fidelity, Arthur
Algernon Lord Capell. His companions were Sir
Charles Lucas and Sir George Lisle, and these

were presently joined by yet another, the Lord
Petre; they had all come privately across the
Thames " to learn more accurately what Kent was
doing for the King. There came also Commissioners
out of Surrey and Sussex, who at that time did
assure us of co-operation. Captain Conan next
did relate the seizure of the pinnace " Mary " at
Greenwich, and how the falcons were taken out of
her to guard Deptford bridge, the occupation of
New Cross and Blackheath, and the skirmishing
with Rich his horse, where the Kentish men had
the best of it, and forced Eich  who with some
troops from the Mews did violently assault the
petitioners  to return back to London.

When this story was done, up rose the Lord
Capell, and mentioning his own name and those
of his companions, did explain his mission, and
having taken the oath of secrecy f with the rest,
requested to know if it were true that the fleet in
the Downs had indeed declared for the King?

* There," quoth Ned Hales, pointing to me,
is one who can give you the best information,
for he hath played a great part in the business'

That night (? 29th) came several gentlemen out of Essex to
treat with the Commissioners at Rochester (who were there met
from all parts of the county) about the association of both
counties in the general engagement, assuring them that the whole
county of Essex would unanimously rise to join them . . . others
came also from Surrey, &c.  True Relation, p. 63,

f " On the faith of Christians and honour of gentlemen, not to
discover, or betray any debate, or conclusion, concluded, or resolved
upon by the subscriber hereof; and further freely and resolutely
to deliver our judgments, and endeavour in effectuating
these results " (following) &c.  Copy of Oat/ts found on prisoners
afterwards taken.

VOL. II, A A

The Lord Capell looked at me steadfastly, but
not having seen me for many years did not at first
recognise me, till going up to him, I reminded him
that I had been oft at Chatham, and had a lively
recollection of his kindness, and that of his
excellent lady, both to my father and to me.
Whereupon he shook hands and presented me to
Sir George Lisle and Sir Charles Lucas.

When I had given the Lord Capell full satisfaction
about the subject of his inquiry, he rose
and said 

"Truly I think, gentlemen, the relation I
have heard from Master Lendall here, and the
other gentlemen who have spoken, shews that you
are in a very likely way to restore the King. I
had indeed feared that your exertions were somewhat
premature, and would have been better delayed
till the Scots coming across the Border,
should draw Fairfax and his forces northwards.
But this sudden and most wonderful revolt of the
fleet in the Downs  no less than the unanimous
loyalty of your noble county of Kent  seems as it
were a special interposition of Providence in his
Majesty's behalf; and, if so, will be found a
surer harbinger of triumph than cautious politicians
would admit. tis said the Lord Fairfax is
uncertain what to do. 'Tis not impossible the
Parliament and army may feel the danger of
attempting further to trample upon a people
determined to be free ; and that their schismatical
designs will fall into such a cataclysm that reason.

justice and moderation may once more have place
in their counsels . That His Majesty may be
admitted to a personal treaty is the demand of
your petitioners, as it hath been of Essex and
Surrey ; and I cannot conceive it possible that
any honest man can believe that any harm can
come of such a thing. I would fain know what
the City means to do " 

The Lord Capell was here interrupted by some
noise which followed the entry of the very person
who could best enlighten him. For it was Cole-pepper
full of favourable intelligence. His description
of the general panic which prevailed
amongst the friends of the schism apical Parliament,
and of the hearty loyalty of the freemen of London,
led us to believe that though Skippon had control
over the city forces, and the Tower, and other
magazines, he would hardly be able to keep London
from a combustion in our favours

The following is one of the satirical ballads of this particular
moment : 

1.
Now, now the saints must shortly fly,

Their reign draws near an end ;
They see there is no way but die,
Unless the army stand.

2.

And truly all the saints are sad,

Now that the Lord forsakes 'em ;
And vow He sleeps, and are stark mad,

That Peters cannot wake Hire.

3.
Skippon doth mount his long-crowned hats,

And Warner finds 'cm horses ;
They howl, and catterwaul like cats,

And chide God for their losses.

All this was considered exceeding good news,
and was no sooner delivered than amid some
applause Sir William Compton comes into that
chamber. It was known by many what errand he
had been on, and there was a loud clamour for a
relation of his doings. He looked to Hales  fur
secrecy had been imposed. Hales thought his
news should not be published ; Estrange was of
the same opinion ; but others objected that all
had taken the oath to divulge nothing that was
debated there. So, after some discussion, Sir
William Compton with much prudence confined
himself to saying that he had authority to state
"that an eminent person would endeavour to
appear at the head of the petitioners of Kent and
that plans were laid which promised good success
in that design."

Augustine Skinner who had forsaken the Committee
of Kent to join the petitioners, expressing
great abhorrence of their proceedings, hereupon
makes a congratulatory speech  yet were some
not quite satisfied that he did press Sir William
Compton to disclose further particulars  a thing
which was afterwards remembered. But to con-the

only colouring I can find for this assertion is that
Augustine Skinner's signature does not appear to be attached to
any of the proclamations and manifestoes of the Committee
against the petitioners. Nor can I find any support for
Lendall's subsequent insinuations of his treachery except Carter's
general accusation against his brethren.

Neb.  Eoger Twisted, however, in his journal (Arch. Cant.
g-v.), says that Augustine Skinner stole his watch, and sold it in
France ; Skinner said, however, that the Committee, i.e., Sir A.
Weldon and the rest, gave it to him.

elude, all were pleased that our mighty undertaking
prospered so well. We seemed to be in full sail
toward the haven of our hopes.

But, as a galleon, sliding through calm seas
before a light but favourable wind, is suddenly
threatened by the apparition of a dark arch in
the sky rising rapidly ahead of her, while the
horizon heaves into black waves ; and there begins
to be heard the moan of the coming hurricane
which will suddenly take her aback !  so was our
smooth progression suddenly disturbed by omens
of danger and disaster ; while the rainbow of
peace vanished into an halo of storm !

Colonel Thornhill, who had been one of the
London Commissioners for His Majesty's business
in the county at all times, but who had
left us to ourselves, not knowing indeed what a
turn things were taking in Kent, appeared as
unexpectedly as Sir William Compton and the
three persons mentioned had done, but with quite
another countenance. Theirs had been at least
serene ; but his was clouded with dismay and apprehension.
The disorder he was in, his face
bedewed with the heat of exertion, his clothes
covered with the dust of the roads, shewed with
what speed he had travelled.

Alas ! gentlemen' he cried, " it is as I
feared ! " and then he stopped for breath.

All eyes were fixed upon him.

You have risen too soon ! " he cried. " These
accursed regicides will neither pause nor repent.

On receiving the reports of the loss of the castles
and the revolt of the fleet, the Houses voted : 
That they do leave the whole business to the
Generals Instead of marching against the
Scots, the Parliament General had a rendezvous
at Hounslow, and passed through London this
morning. All the disposable forces of the Parliament
to the number of 10,000 men Eich's,
Barkstead's, Hewson's, and other regiments,
besides, are coming down against the petitioners
of Kent ! I beheld the van which had marched
over London bridge 

'' '' Bring home our King ! Bring home our
King ! ' cried the dames and lasses of Southwark.


' ' So we wil\--iipon our pikes ! ' f was the answer
of Fairfax his men."

The freemen of the City will rise," says Cole-pepper,
" and fall upon their rear."

"Nay," says Thornhill, the City that is
Warner Allen', Powkes, Gibbs, and that crew 
has voted 6,000 to suppress the insurrection, as
they call your petition ; and have armed enough
of fanatics to keep the Tower and other magazines
while the army is away."

i.e. to Fairfax. See Journals of House of Commons.

t Recorded by Hollies. Colonel ThornhiU's statements correspond
with the entries in the Journals of the House of Commons ;
26th May The forces from the Mews, Whitehall, and Tower to
be taken to suppress risings in Kent. 27th May  6,000 granted
by Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council for suppressing
the mutiny in Kent  to be paid next morning, May 28th, to
Committee, of the army, &c., &c."

Ah ! poor ship ! the prosperous wind is
lulled about you ; the storm is roaring up to
shiver your sails to ribbons  tear away your
tackle, and, perhaps, send your masts by the
board; you can neither go about, tack, wear, nor
heave to !

Rocked in a sea of doubt, was it wonderful that
after a pause of amazement there should be a very
general cry to reef topsails ? Our debates were
long and anxious. It was finally agreed to call
back those petitioners who  under young Sir
John Mayney  had gone as far as Dartford, and
to send a letter direct to Fairfax, with a flag of
truce, to request that ten gentlemen from our
body should be permitted to present the petition
to the Houses. But it was at the same time
decided to put no reliance upon words, and neither
to give up castles, ships, nor our armed posture
till our loyal objects were accomplished  viz., a
personal treaty secured between King and Parliament
for the composure of differences."

' The hanging of Burley and the slaughter of the
Surrey petitioners shews us what to expect," says
Hales ; " if fight we must  fight we will. Let us
instantly strengthen our defences behind the
Medway, and then make a stand for unconquered

The following was amongst the papers found on the prisoners
taken in the Great Rising in Kent (1648) :  (1.) " No credit to be
given to words." (2.) " The country cannot be subject to their
power and others subject to the same." (3.) "Treaties only to
deceive and get the mastery over you." (4.) " Time slaughter of
the Surrey men and Captain Burley shews what is to be expected."


Kent. If this Parliament army continue to advance
we have as many men as Fairfax, and a better
cause."

And be assured," says the Lord Capell, " that
being put to it thus, Herts will second you, if I
can raise it ; and I will instantly away to do so."

Essex shall not be behind," says Lucas, " I
promise you ! "

'' God be with you, gentlemen ! " says Lisle.
1 go to support Sir Charles. It will be strange
if the pretended engagement, as our enemies term
it, of the associated counties doth not prove real
enough to occupy the army of the Parliament
while Wales is up, and Langdale, Margrave, and
Duke Hamilton draw the whole loyal north after
the King's banner."

' T am ready to go again to the City at the
hazard of my life," says Colepepper.

At midnight Peyton brought back the message
that if we would treat it must be with the general
of the forces of the Parliament.

" 29th May  Sir Thomas Peyton brought a letter from the
gentlemen of Kent to the Derby House. 30th May  Skippon
added to Committee of Derby House. . . . Josselin Gates,
servant to Sir Anthony Aucher, to be committed to the custody
of the Sergeant-at-Arms, &c."  Journals of the House of commons.


END OF VOL. II.

Printed by Remington & Co., 134, New Bond Street, W.
