CHAPTEE I.

At bed-time Charley came into Laurier's room.
He was going on the morrow to one of the
neighbouring towns, and suggested that if
Laurier would come with him, they should
breakfast early, and walk thither. ' It will bea
reminiscence,* said Charley, ' of our tramps
in Alsace.'

Laurier assented, and the next morning
appeared at the time named for the early
breakfast. Marcella was already in the diningroom
sitting by the window, sewing. Whilst
he wished her ' Good-morning ' Charley entered.

VOL. II. B

He shook hands with Laurier, and then
turned to Marcella, and with ' Good-morning,.
Marcella,' ' Good-morning, Charley,' they kissed
each other on the lips.

Laurier was surprised. This close familiarity
between them was a thing he had not
previously observed. JSTow he had seen it, it
recalled to his mind several little incidents of
the past fortnight, which, though he had not
at the time regarded them, now seemed all to
point to a similar conclusion, an attachment
between the cousins.

The three sat down to breakfast. Marcella
was gayer even than usual. A bright sparkle in
her eyes, that as she looked from one to the other
seemed to flash for a moment and go out,
caught the notice alike of Laurier and Charley.

Then with ' Auf Wiedersehen ' from her,
they set off.

The repose of his long holiday had, in
every conceivable way, done Laurier good.
He was at no time more conscious of it than

during his walk this morning, as Charley and
he swung along the country roads, joining
friendly issue concerning men and things,
viewed in opposing ways and lights.

'I like your cousin Miss Cassilys,' he said.

'Ah. I thought you would,' rejoined
Charley, ' she is, you see, after all, a kind of
woman you are able to appreciate, notwithstanding
what you said to the contrary.'

'Yes. I am compelled to acknowledge a
great deal in her character which not to admire
would be an injustice.'

Marcella is the best girl breathing, Laurier,'
replied Charley more earnestly than he ordinarily
spoke. ' She has had a splendid education,
and you never hear her speak of it. She has
the generosity of a saint, and contrives that no
one should suspect it. She has the courage
and pluck of a lioness, and is as anxious to
put herself under protection as a child. Her
judgment is juster and finer, and herself more
naturally noble than any man or woman I

B 2

know, yet you will always find Marcella ready to
defer and to submit to someone else. Can you
imagine her behaving in the typical feminine
way you used to sketch for me on the slopes
of the Vosges ? '

I don't know. But it does seem a pity a
girl such as she is should ever have been a girl.'

You are incorrigible, Laurier,' laughed
Charley.

The same afternoon Keppel unexpectedly
came on Eintearn, walking alone, in a strange
mood, in the avenue. As soon as he perceived
Keppel he turned abruptly in his walk and
came rapidly towards him.

I wish for a few words with you, Mr.
Keppel,' he said peremptorily.

Keppel assented.

You have chosen to interfere in my affairs,
perhaps you would like to know the result.'

You saw your mother yesterday, Jack,'
replied Keppel, entirely unruffled, walking on.

Yes,' answered Eintearn. He found an
account of what had happened came very
unwillingly to his hips.

What did she say about Miss Cassilys ? '
asked Keppel, going straight to the point.

Forbade me to propose to her.'

That is hard on you, Jack, I know,' said
Keppel kindly, ' but pluck up your courage,
man. And, look here, be off. It is hard for
you to leave the girl I know, but it will be no
better for waiting. Go now at once. Don't
distress yourself about etiquette with the
Curteises. They know perfectly well who they
are, and who you are, and will always be happy
enough to condone your offences if you will
come to stay in their house. If you start at
once you'll be in time for the afternoon express,
and you can be at home to-night. I'll see
everything is made right here.'

Eintearn was fluctuating between resentment
of Keppel's interference and a sense of his
intended kindness.

I may as well tell you the truth at once,
Keppel,' he said at last, ' I have quarrelled with
my mother.'

About her ?  Keppel pointed over his
shoulder in the direction of the house.

Yes. I told my mother I would not give
up Miss Cassilys. And then she forbade me to
come to her house, and  so we parted.'

'Jack, are you mad?' exclaimed Keppel,
emphasising his words with a gesture of his
quivering hand. ' To quarrel with your mother
about that girl Why'  he took Eintearn's
great shoulders in his thin, nervous hands,
and made him turn and face himself, as he
would have turned a child, whilst he continued
with mingled sneer, and smile, ' You great
dolt ! don't you know as well as I, that you
may have for your wife any one you choose
of fifty girls better born, better bred, better
portioned, better looking than Miss Cassilys,
and for your mistresses a dozen at once everyone
her equal. And what the devil can there

be in one woman to make her equal to a dozen ?
But, Jack '  his tone sank  ' you'll never have
but one mother. And to quarrel with her for Miss
Cassilys ! Now ; who the deuce is Miss Cassilys ?'

Eintearn had no heart for reply.

Now, Jack,' continued Keppel, ' this will
never do. You must at once come with me to
Sritten Court, and I'll make matters right with
Lady Julia.'

Before I leave here, I shall ask Miss Cassilys
to be my wife,' said Eintearn, doggedly.

'But, my dear fellow, why should you
disobey your mother to be refused by Miss
Cassilys. You'll be refused. Jack. I'm sure
of it. If there were a chance of Miss Cassilys's
marrying you she would not be here another
hour. Her aunt would take care of that. I
don't know what the old woman is at, but I do
know that you are very foolish to quarrel with
your mother.'

I love the girl and I shall ask her to be
my wife,' replied Eintearn.

Well, if you will agree to no other terms,
let me ascertain sui rosa what answer you are
going to get. Charley Curteis will be able to
find out in half an hour. If it is going to be
No," you may as well not ask.'

And are the back stairs the way you
imagine I shall treat with Marcella Cassilys ? '
inquired Eintearn with honest indignation.

Keppel folded his arms and regarded him
half a minute. 'You are your mother's son.
Jack,' he said, ' only, if you get yourself into a
mess, remember it is not my fault.'

Before night a rumour, vague, but undisputed,
had crept over the house that ' There
was a serious disagreement between Eintearn
and his mother, about Miss Cassilys.'

It was generally spoken of as an unfortunate
thing for Marcella.

Laurier formed his own views on the subject.
' After all a woman was a woman. A
coronet, a fortune, and a great passion on one
side of the balance, there could be little doubt

where her choice would fall, even though future
difficulties and a liking for her cousin, perhaps
a sincere one, hung in the other scale. A
pity, for there was material in Miss Cassilys
for better things than an uneven match with
a man of more passion than sense. But
the truth was, it was a poor chance to be a
woman.'

However, when the day had passed, Eintearn
had not proposed.

The day following was a Sunday. Coming
out of church after morning service, Marcella
and Laurier chanced to be side by side, and
walked on together. The way home was a
little over three-quarters of a mile, a country
lane, with a sharp ascent, at spots overhung by
trees. Ascending the hill the two drew in
advance till some little distance separated them
from the rest of the party.

It was a chill day, with a slow monotonous
moist wind. Low, leaden clouds threatening
rain vaulted the sky and lent their sadness to

the hues of nature commencing on every side
to fade.

Autumn advances fast,' said Laurier.

Yes,' replied Marcella, ' all is ready for a
change.'

She plucked, as they passed, a common
plant from the hedge, and gently touching the
leaves and small branches made them fall from
the parent stem, their connections with which
were already decayed. Her face wore a pensive
look, and Laurier, watching it, asked,

Are you one of those susceptible to the
melancholy of autumn. Miss Cassilys ? '

Marcella, on the point to ask him whether
botany interested him, was conscious of a little
surprise, and  What an odd question from you ! '
almost passed her lips.

But that was in the first instant only. The
next to the movement of wonder succeeded
another of pleasure. Was it possible the hard
woman-hating man had found something in her
which led him to wish to know more ? In the

short moment a woman needs to perform the
precipitation of thought which determines her
intuition as reasoning determines the judgment
of a man, she had come to think it was so.

" The melancholy of autumn," ' she replied ;
I think I do feel it, a little. Summer is so
beautiful, and there is always a something
sombre where things are perishing. It is, I
suppose, the presence of that worst of all.'
What is it you name the worst of all ? '
That end of which 1 hate the very name.'
 Death ? '

We will not speak of it, please.'
The voice was not that of a lurking timidity,
but of a relentless aversion. Laurier took a
:side look at her. Her eyes were cast down,
and her face wore the severe impression of a
determination to banish distasteful thoughts.
What a strange girl she was  certainly a
strangely handsome one. It was curious he
should have taken so long to see it. Perhaps,
after all, that was the highest thing a woman

could be. Possibly beyond that, and the conscious
pride in herself that gave her, her worth
was less than it seemed.

But she interrupted his soliloquy.

Yet, I like autumn, I have a sort of fondness
for it. I am only a woman remember, and
my thought will seem folly to you, but I have
a fondness for autumn that is one quite by
itself. It is so grand a change, and everything
that changes has an indefinite charm for me.
Change always appears to me the most real
thing there is in this vague life of ours. But I
love autumn changes most, for this, that they
end in beauty like all the rest, and help one to
think that beauty is in some way immortal.'

You confess to a love of change ? '

It is the law of the world, and I have for
everything that is of the world, a very deep
love. It is my fairyland, "fairer than dreams,"
my elysium, or rather, to say the truth, I have
never read nor heard, nor have been able ta
think, neither about fairyland, nor elysium, nor

paradise, nor heaven itself, anything so beautiful,
or that I could love one-half so well as I
love this world.'

And you would wish nothing altered ? '

'I do not concern myself about wishing
impossibilities, but to enjoy what I have.'

And that satisfies you.'

Yes, indeed. I am a part of the life of
this glorious world and am more than satisfied.'

And do you think that will be always
so?'

I cannot tell. I live in the present not in
the future, and it is enough for me that I enjoy
the present.'

There was a little silence. The crisp road
crackled lightly beneath their tread, and the
chill wind soughed through the branches
above.

'Yours is a strong, intense way of living.
Miss Cassilys,' observed Laurier.

I believe it is.'

Another silence.

'When I turn philosopher I shall be a
disciple of your creed, Miss Cassilys.'

You will not regret it.'

Did you ever discuss it with Mr. Keppel ? 

!Neo. I would not. Mr. Keppel is a man
I detest.'

'Indeed! Why?'

She hesitated a space and then replied, a
trifle more energetically than her usual dignified
way allowed,

'Because, Mr. Laurier, he pleases everything
that is bad and wrong in me. When he
talks to me he makes me be interested against
my will, whilst I, all the time, feel he is morally
pushing me down to a lower, baser level of life.
I think you can understand me,'  she looked
at him as if, not accustomed always to be understood,
she had some opinion of sympathetic
intelligence on his part  ' Mr. Keppel wakes up
the thoughts I try to stifle, and scatters the
strength I labour to husband. I cannot explain
to you how that is done, I have myself in vain

tried to understand it. He is too subtle, too
ingenious for me. He humbles me in my own
eyes, and makes me think the sort of things
you say'

'Why?'

Why ? Why should he always leave mea
weaker and worse woman for having talked
with him ? I do not know. I suppose he
wishes it.'

They had reached the top of the hill, and a
little gate that led into the grounds. Laurier
held it open for her to pass. When he came
again to her side, he said,

I am learning, on the other hand, to have
a great liking for Mr. Keppel. He is, you of
course know, a man of a superior kind.'

She made no answer. Then suddenly
turning to him, she asked,

Mr. Laurier, what has made both you and
Mr. Keppel have so low an opinion of women ?
TeUme?'

 I can say nothing for Mr. Keppel. For

myself  too much knowledge of them, Miss
Cassilys.'

You have had, I suppose, great opportunities
of judging?'

In my profession one sees women under
circumstances in which they must completely
unmask.'

Poor things ! ' said Marcella. ' But do you
not perceive, Mr. Laurier, that a woman completely
unmasked, is not, cannot be, herself ? '

He had not seen it, and it gave him whereof
to think.

Some of the others came up with them,
and, in the rearrangement of the party that
ensued, Laurier, with some regret, exchanged
Miss Cassilys's companionship for that of Mr.
Curteis.

Indisputably there existed a something that
was rapidly drawing these two into intimacy
with each other. Was it that strong natures,
however differing in cast, have always a substratum
in common ? Or was it only that there

is in every man's life a point of time at which
the Eternal Feminine becomes a factor in his
being ?

However that might be, this is certain, that
human life contains no group of impressions
more delicately fine, no circumstances more
enticing than the quiet, even pleasures of young
men and women commencing an honest, reasoning
friendship. Nothing is further from them
than the intention or suspicion of love. They
like each other the more for liking each other
the less, and are rightly conscious that they
understand all that is best in each other the
better for their indifference to each other's
persons. All the vividness of their lives, their
impracticability, and the generousness of their
reciprocity, come into full play in a ready dispassionate
enjoyment of taking, and giving, and
comprehending the best of all either has to
exchange ; of being, in the highest sense, humane
towards each other, and that in a cool, bracing
mental-atmosphere secure from the heated,,

VOL. II. c

blurred impressions, and the labouring thoughts
that come with love,

Alas, that to meet with pleasure without
emotion, to converse with interest without
anxieties, to part with smiles without regret,
should be so short a stage in the acquaintance
of women with men.

In the course of the day Keppel again
appealed to Eintearn. The latter, though he
had had opportunity, had not yet spoken to
Marcella. A letter had come from Lady Julia,
It is true it was in the third person, conceded
nothing, and was difficult to understand, yet, it
was doubtless intended for a preliminary of reconciliations
; and Keppel, with a hope this
might have had some weight with Eintearn,
spoke to that effect, with a cogent kindness,
greater even than before.

He found himself, however, entirely mistaken.
What was keeping back Eintearn was
merely the morbid timidity of the fatal cast

that holds every man whose love is a mere
passion.

The passionate lover believes incurably in
chance. Can he hit the right word, the right
moment, his mistress's assent is assured. If
.she say, ' No,' that will be because he takes a
wrong time, or a wrong mode of beseeching.

Being of which opinion Eintearn turned in
purpose forwards and backwards, restless of mind
and will, and grew unmanageable alike by himself
or by any one else.

Analysis of such tempers is tiresome, and
also, at best, but inadequate. A mere phantasmagoria
is all that is ever obtainable in a
glimpse of the interior of a soul. Now and
then in the course of a life-time an accident
unveils to each individual some such view. It
resembles in nothing what was anticipated.
There is a species of seclusion, less or more
obscure, in whose centre is descried an inexpressible
group : two or three ideas drooping
torpid, or whirling in struggle or revel, in the

c 2

midst of an indistinguishable medley of shadows
fallen asleep. But in that vision is seen the
why ' of human life.

Night fell, and Eintearn had not proposed.

Monday dawned, a beautiful day, propitious
for a grand battue that was to take place.

In the morning, before the shooting party
set out, Eintearn observed Marcella and Florelle
gathering flowers for bouquets, late roses, and
dallas, and what else they could find. He
strolled out on the lawn and joined them.
They gave him their wooden basket to carry,
and till they had finished he strayed about
with them, talking with one or both, Marcella
chilly, Florelle kind.

He asked for a flower, and Miss Curteis
would have given him one from the basket had
not her cousin suggested some rosebuds might
still be found in the rosary, where a sprig of
sweetbread was also to be had. So they went
there on their way back. Marcella cut an
opening bud, and gave it to Florelle, who.

tying it up in a pretty knot with a sprig of
sweetbread. presented it to Eintearn. Then
they thanked him for his assistance, and,
wishing him a pleasant day's sport, took the
basket and went in.

Unconcerned and unconcernedly,' he
muttered as he strolled away. He nipped off
the rosebud and, from a short distance, neatly
flicked it into a stucco vase, and threw the stem
and sweetbread under the shrubs.

The success of the battue is no part of this
,story. Eintearn, whose sportsmanship Charley
had in no way overrated, shot like a man
partially drunk. At the end of some time,
accidentally being for a minute alone with
Laurier, he turned to him and said,

I am sick of this. Should you dislike a
walk ? I feel as if a long spin would do me
good. What do you say ? '

By all means.'

They gave their guns to one of the men,
and struck away from the woods. Emerging

at leDgtli from a fir plantation upon the highroad,
they set out upon it across the common
before them. Eintearn's walk was a long,
fatiguing stride, to-day smarter even than usual,
under the influence of an excitement he wished
to control. Silent at first he afterwards fell into
a talk of birds and beasts. Like many sportsmen
of the better sort a passable naturalist,,
he had a love for wild things of every kind, and
a keen interest in their habits and homes.

'Poor little beggars,' he presently said,
theirs is a queer chance, with a grim end to
close it. Unless they meet with a violent end
every one of them must die of starvation.
Yet while their sunshine lasts, knowing nothing
of what is to come, they are, in their way,
merry enough. So much for ignorance in these
days of advance. Do you, Laurier, sometimes
suspect we are getting to know too much ? '

I don't see how that can be, so long as it
remains in any remotest way possible to turn
the knowledge we get to our benefit and use.'

Benefit and use ! That is the way all you
thinking men talk. I suppose it is so with you.
Your knowledge is to you some benefit and
use. But you really ought to remember that
you are the rare exceptions. Most of us don't
think, at least not in the way you call thinking.
Our lives depend just upon what comes in
our way. A good many of us would be vastly
puzzled to say with any truth what benefit or
use our learning has been to us.'

Laurier laughed.

You thinking men,' proceeded Eintearn,
never appear to see how utterly unreal you
are when you talk to the rest of us as if we
were like yourselves. If we don't understand
life, be sure we don't understand you. We eat
and drink, and go about, and spend money, and
see and hear things, and what you manage to
live upon seems to us thinner than dreams.
Your hopes are things we should be sorry to
have happen to us, and the thoughts that bear
you through life are straws we might drown

holding, but which could never keep us afloat.
I've had my share of disappointments, but I
cannot say I ever found anything a thoughtful
man said to me worth the trouble of hearing.'


Under such circumstances, what do you
find, then, of assistance ? '

Ah, that is the question. But, now, listen
to that little fellow's merry singing.'  He
pointed to a tree in which some bird of whose
name and note Laurier was ignorant, was piping
merrily.  ' What does he know but that it is
warm to-day, and that his poor little belly is
full ? When winter comes, and his hunger,
he'll run his chance. If he come out of the
hard frosts alive, he'll sing again. If not, he'll
be out of his hunger for ever, which he does
not know. You are a thinker, you know, and
I dare say you won't see it, but to me it
appears that when things go wrong, we and the
birds and beasts make all one family. It draws
one to them, and makes a man covet the dumb

patience of his dog, or a bird's ignorance to
enjoy the pleasant sunshine whilst it lasts.'

And when it ends ? '

Starve or die, because you cannot help it.
The rest is all words.'

I don't think it is, you know. Miss
Cassilys is not ignorant, yet she will tell you
she can enjoy the sunshine whilst it lasts. And
I think she speaks the truth.'

'Oh yes. She is one of you thinkers. I
wish she was not ; she would have been my
wife before this.'

From the common they entered a wood.
Whither their way led, or what path should
bring them back, Laurier had wondered but
not inquired. He was loth to rob Eintearn of
the relief from himself which he doubted not
the long walk was purposed to bring him.

Suddenly the latter stopped.

Look there,' he said, pointing to what
seemed to Laurier an insignificant plant, raising
its slender angular stem and tiny, greenish white

blossom in a damp spot in the wood, ' that is
the lesser butterfly orchis. It is late for it, I
think.'

He stepped to it, and stooped as if about to
pluck it, or take it up with its root. Then he
changed his mind, and said, ' It is no use, I'll let
it flower.'

What is no use ? ' asked Laurier.

Miss Cassilys asked about this plant a day
or two since, saying she had never seen it.'

You will take it to her, won't you ? '

No.  I don't know how she might take it.'

I should say she would be pleased.'

Quite as likely to be offended.'

He had returned to Laurier's side.

Miss Cassilys's is not, as I understand her,,
so ill a nature as to be offended by a simple
attention,' said Laurier.

Eintearn hesitated some time before he
replied, ' My dear Laurier, you don't understand
where things between Miss Cassilys and
me have arrived. I don't want to persuade

her to permit my attentions, I want to persuade
her to marry me. I've little doubt now
that she will, but I am not deceiving myself on
the subject. That will not be because I have
brought her home a flower, any more than
it will be because she likes me, for I know she
does not, but for other reasons, which I do
hope will have weight with her at last. All I at
present concern myself about is not to ruffle her.'

Laurier thought he understood him, and
Eintearn's view of the case appeared to him
one likely enough. But he liked Eintearn and
ventured to remark,

'Will that mean a happy life afterwards,
Eintearn ? '

Very likely not,' was the reply, in the tone
of a man whom dangers are powerless to turn
from the bent of his mind.

They walked some distance in silence, whilst
the narrow shaded road, cut with deep cart ruts
near its edges, wound upwards among irregular
trees, below which grew a thick and ragged

scrub. On the left the sparkling sunshine
penetrated the foliage, making, amid the tangled
growths, every gradation of bright and shaded
translucent leaves, barred by black branches,
here and there it pierced even the brushwood
and glowed on indistinguishable leaves beneath.
On their right the branches caught lights and
the foliage shade, till the near distance of the
thicket was lost in gloom. Overhead the meeting
trees meshed their branches together, but
with many a break through which the clear
blue sky shone down.

Unexpectedly, near the crown of the hill,
they met a woman and a girl with a little
maiden just able to toddle. Two or three
straws lay in the road, and the child wished
to pick up one of them. She stopped in her
tottering walk, stooped, and almost fell, and
yet could not reach the straw. The girl holding
her hand drew her forward, saying, ' Come
on, now, come on.' But the child looked back.
Me want,' she said. ' What does she want ? '

asked the woman. 'One of those straws.
Now '  to the child  ' come on.' The child
began to cry.

Laurier and Eintearn had come up to them.
Kintearn, who had been watching the scene,,
took a sovereign from his pocket, and stooping
offered it to the tiny maiden. Her
strange little questioning eyes looked for half
a minute at the red gold, and then she turned
away, and made a step back towards the
straw.

Let the child have her straw,' said Eintearn
to the astonished girl, as he returned the
sovereign to his pocket, 'the day may come
when you will want yours.'

Then he strode on. Presently he turned to
Laurier with a grim smile, and said,

All straws, no doubt ; but when you want
them ! Miss Cassilys is my straw.'

When they returned to Wyvenhome it
wanted but a few minutes of the dinner hour.
They had walked a preposterous distance. The

latter part of their walk had been dull and silent.
Laurier was dropping with fatigue, and Eintearn
even confessed himself tired.

Again night and nothing said. And this
closed Lady Julia's three days of grace.

But the next morning, after breakfast,
Marcella said to her mother,

Mr. Eintearn has asked for half an hour's
conversation with me in private.'
And you ? '

Have promised it him. This time I am
going to make an end of it.'

In the course of the morning, strolling
with Mrs. Curteis through the conservatories,
Mrs. Cassilys, much interested in some of the
plants, and very little in the approaching
denouement, remarked, in her insouciant way,

'Marcella tells me Mr. Eintearn has asked
her for an interview, and that she has promised
to see him in the little drawing-room, about an
hour before dinner.'

Mrs. Curteis felt a disposition to make an

exclamation, and suppressed it. She said
quietly,

I fear something very unpleasant concerning
Marcella has passed between Mr. Eintearn and
his mother.'

But she hastened to make an excuse for
leaving the conservatory to be alone to think.

So all had befallen exactly as she had
anticipated. Marcella silly and obstinate, Mrs.
Cassilys careless, Keppel a mischief-maker, Ein-tears
fascinated, infatuated. Winded to facts, and
determined to follow out his passion.

And now,' quoth Mrs. Curteis, ' for an
explosion ! '

CHAPTER II.

She sent for Florelle.

So Marcella Cassilys has told you something,'
she said abruptly as her daughter
entered.

Told me something ? ' repeated Florelle,
with a look of innocent amazement at her
mother's stern eyes searching her very soul.

Evidently Florelle knew nothing.

You will be dressed for dinner to-day an
hour before dinner-time,' said her mother. ' I
may want you. Now go.'

A little before half-past six she came into
Flo's room. The girl was far from dressed.
That was not disobedience but the child's
habitual tardiness. Mrs. Curteis assisted at the
completion of her toilet. When it was finished

she bade Florelle stand at a little distance and
place herself in this position and that to show
off its effect. After that she made her take off
her dress and don another. Satisfied at length,
she placed something on the dressing-table, and
bade Florelle sit in a chair in the light.

Do not be frightened,' she said, ' I am not
going to hurt you.'

At the same time she took one of the girl's
eyelids and attempted to fold its edge outwards.

Oh, mamma,' exclaimed Florelle pushing
away her mother's hands.

I am not going to hurt you, Flo, I assure
you.'

But Florelle had had time to guess what was
going to be done.

Oh, mamma, you are going to paint my
eyes. You must not. I don't want to be
painted. I won't be painted.' She began to
get up from her chair.

Sit down, Flo,' said her mother, ' sit down!

Florelle sat down looking piteous.

VOL. II. D

Now hold up your head, or I may hurt you

With a miserable ' Oh ! ' Florelle lifted the
childlike beauty of her face to the ghastly
disfigurement of having her eyelids turned
inside out. Mrs. Curteis applied the kohl with
a speed and ease that signified practice. The
lids were restored to their normal position, and
Flo was permitted to rise.

Flashing the now more than natural brightness
of her fine eyes at her mother, she said
with an air of proud disconsolateness,

Now I have been painted.'

Mrs. Curteis smiled  at the successfulness
of her painting.

Now, Flo,' she said, ' in a few minutes I may
want you. Go and wait in the great drawing-room.
Don't sit down, you may crumple your
dress, and keep near the hearth that you maybe
found at once.'

Florelle obeyed. In the large empty room
the rosewood folding doors that separated it
from the lesser drawing-room were closed.

The girl made her way to the hearth, and resting
her golden head on her arm supported
against the marble mantel, looked down into
the flames, and thought.

Painted, painted, painted ! '

If she heard any sounds from the inner
room she was too much immersed in her own
shame to heed them.

Marcella had kept Eintearn waiting. When
she entered the room he was standing with his
arms folded and his eyes fixed on the Sevres
clock on the chimney-piece, awaiting her
coming. He had passed beyond that state in
which a man cannot rest, and reached the
sterner one to which stillness is natural.

She stepped to a seat near him, a low armchair,
and placing herself at her graceful ease,
first disposed her train (she was dressed for
dinner) on the carpet, and then looked up at
him with an expression that announced, ' Well,,
here I am.'

D 2

He sat down on the ottoman, a short distance
from her, and with his eyes on the train of her
dress, said, with a little hesitation,

My sincerest thanks for your  kindness,
Miss Cassilys, in granting my request for this
interview  I  I '

He stopped embarrassed for words.

She remained silent and still, her eyes fixed
on the pattern of her silks.

Placing his elbows on his knees Eintearn,
leaning towards her, spoke again, in the clumsy
phrases of a man under the power of a strong
emotion, and unaccustomed to express his meaning
respecting uncommon concerns, something
to this effect, that his mother had sent for him
last week, and put him in a very awkward
position ; in fact, compelled him to choose
between herself and Miss Cassilys. His choice
could be only one, was no choice. And inconsequence
his mother and he had quarrelled.


Marcella made no reply. He proceeded,

I am not regretting, I could not regret, the
course T have chosen, but I am very sorry to
have had to quarrel with my mother. She
will feel it bitterly. You may as well know
how far it has gone. I am forbidden her
house and her presence.'

For ever ? ' asked Marcella in an undertone.

My mother is a woman who does not relent,
and so I fear it is  for ever.'

She looked thoughtful, but still volunteered
no reply, and Eintearn continued,

It came to this. She bade me either never
come into her presence, unless she summoned
me, or  renounce you  and you see I had no
choice.'

A faint blush rose on Marcella 's cheek, and
she hung her head a little.

'I am an outcast for your sake. Miss
Cassilys,' urged Eintearn, now in more moving
tones, ' I do not repent it. I hope through that,
now at least, at last, it may weigh something
with you, that I have not only laid all at your

feet, but dared to give up everything, even my
nearest and dearest, for you.'

I am really sorry for this man ; that he
should be so utterly infatuated,' thought Mar-cells,
but she still remained silent.

Marcella,' he prayed, ' tell me there is
hope for me, somewhere, you, my last hope, 
be my wife  my life.'

In his tone was a sound, as if what he said
came from a distance, a spell of a voice far, faraway.
It smote on Marcella's brain with the
resonance of a passion deep and dread.

I cannot,' she answered quietly.

She changed her position so that he only
saw a portion of her face.

Is love of no weight with you ? Can
nothing that a man can give, or do, or bear
touch you ? ' urged Eintearn, passion lending
him some eloquence.

I am very sorry, Mr. Eintearn,' she replied
without moving, ' that you have quarrelled with
Lady Juha. I told you, long ago, that I do

not love you, never have loved you, and never
shall love you. What more can I say ? '

It spoke much for the man's nature that
his courage still carried him on. He rose from
his seat and came and stood where she could
see him. Then folding his arms he said, a
little bitterly,

I have lately thought otherwise. I think
you know it. Marcella, can the day never
come when you will be my wife ? I will take
a little love from you for much.'

He knew he dare not say to her that he
wanted her, and if she could not love him,
would readily take her unloved.

'It can never come  and, if you have

thought it could, you have been deceiving

yourself.'

The tone was very merciless. She did not

look up at him. Her eyes were fixed on the

point of her small foot, toying with the edging

of her dress.

'Lately,' he said, 'you told me you hai

never loved.'

JSTeither have I.'

How do you know you will not love ? '

She made him no answer.

'I could name to you, Marcella, the days
when I never thought of loving you. Yet I
have loved you  how long ! '

'Too long,' suggested Marcella, her eyes
and thought wandering about the room in the
idlest unconcern.

With a love that has stopped at nothing 
a love without bounds  as you, a few days ago,
said love should be.'

No. I said such love was very foolish.'

Why is it impossible that you should learn
to love me, as I have loved you ? '

Why ? I don't know. I tell you it is
impossible.'

You love some other man,' he now said
angrily, ' some man utterly unworthy of you.'

I do not speak untruths,' she replied
quietly, almost dreamily, ' and I tell you I love
no one.'

Have you, Miss Cassilys, no needs, no
sympathies, no tenderness, no '

Mr. Eintearn,' lie interrupted him, ' I tell
you again I know nothing of all this. If you
are going to hold such language with me, you
may as well speak Chinese.'

He regarded her for a moment, and then
put his hand to his mouth. It was the first
sign of discomfiture he had made. The fact,
not of reluctance on her part, but of another
refusal was beginning to lower before him.

In the other drawing-room one of the doors
opened, and the softest sound of a footfall was
audible, though Marcella had, on entering,
closed the folding doors behind her. Then all
was again still.

It was Florelle.

After a longer pause Eintearn spoke
again.

Then, Miss Cassilys '  he broke off what
he meant to say  ' Marcella, I am mad for
you. Do you know what you are to me ?

My life is empty without you. But you are

beautiful, and you have no pity '

He made a quick step towards her, and
then commanding himself with a strain, turned
away, with his teeth locked, and his fist
clenched at his side.

She had shrunk aside with a start as he
stepped towards her, but recovered herself on
the spot. Now she said reflectively,

Mr. Eintearn '

He turned, and as he did so she rose.
I sincerely hope, Mr. Eintearn,' she was
carefully measuring her words, ' that this maybe
the last of these painful scenes between you

and me '

Into,' he interrupted her with energy, ' not
so, Miss Cassilys. I am not a devil that you
should take hope from me.'

It is for nothing else that I have consented
to-night to meet you here,' she replied, looking
into his face with all the hard sternness of
which beauty of her kind can be so expressive,

I am not the woman ever to be your wife.
That is decided, irrevocably. If there are any
words which could more plainly express my
meaning, please imagine them said. And
now '  she offered him her hand  ' good-bye.
I wish you nothing but good. Go to Lady
Julia Eintearn, and assure her Marcella Cassilys
is nothing to you and never can be. I am
sure Lady Julia will welcome you, and I shall
have the pleasure of thinking a great mistake
has been rectified.'

One hand behind his back, the other
clasped upon the edge of the front of his
dress-coat, he stood looking at her, as if asking
himself whether he should take her finely
moulded shoulders in his hands, and with a
triumphant 'JSTo, madam,' drag her into his
.arms and bear her away by force.

In all her seductions  beautiful in a way
other women, fairer than she, were not, formed
like a goddess, robed in silks close fitting to
make a man mad, voiced witchingly, with the

soft scent of perfume stealing from her dress
and her warm breath almost sensible on his face
to tell him go say ' She was nothing to him ! *

As he kept her waiting her eyes and her
hand dropped.

Do you hate me ? ' he asked at last in a
hollow voice.

She looked up, ' I hate no one.'

Ah, but you dislike me, I know, and
heartily.'

No, Mr. Eintearn,' she returned with a
good deal of dignity, ' I neither like you nor
dislike you. You are to me simply indifferent,
cannot you understand that ? Surely it is
nothing extraordinary. But I do not think it is
honourable of you, after I have so often said
this to you, to continue ceaselessly to importunate
me for an affection I cannot bestow.
I begin to feel myself very much dishonoured
by the manner in which you refuse me any
right to give you a reply, other than you are
yourself pleased to demand : and, I have only

to say, the only thing you have left it possible
for me to say, that I shall regard any repetition
of your insist ance after this, as an acknowledgment
you do not concern yourself to treat me
with respect.'

Their eyes met, one instant. His trembling,
and hers filled only with the annoyance a girl
bred to politeness experiences on being forced
by her circumstances to the very limits of
courtesy.

Then without word or gesture he walked
slowly away from her.

At the door he turned back. She had
made a step or two towards the hearth.

The man was desperate.

'You shall be mine,' he said passionately,
coming close up to her, ' I love you, Marcella,
and I will have you.'

Is that a threat, sir, or only an impertinence
? ' she asked with an absolute composure.

He gave her a look of defiance for reply,
and then strode out of the room.

For ever without her !

And behind him, as he opened the folding
doors, he could hear her poking the fire !

She stirred up a cheerful blaze, and then
ensconced herself in the pleasantness chair by the
hearth. All that had passed in so rapid a
course came back through her memory, the
man's dumb gesture of defeat, the hunger in
his eyes, the far-off sound of his voice, and a
wonder whether to love was always so stormy
and wild a thing.

I think we have come to the end of the
chapter at last,' she soliloquised.

A look at the clock assured her she might
hope for twenty minutes' undisturbed reading,
and she took up a book from one of the tables.
But her hands sank with the book into her lap,
and her eyes went back to the flames, as a
shade of melancholy fell on her face.

I am very sorry I have had to make the
poor man so wretched,' she mused.

Then the book was again taken up, and

again sank on her knees, and so on, till she at
length rose and left the room.

Eintearn passed from the one drawing-room
into the other. However bitter his
thoughts, a man crossing a room must look
whither he is going. So before Eintearn had
advanced many steps, he raised his eyes and
looked before him.

By the hearth stood Florelle Curteis.

She was still in much the same position, a
little bent, resting her head now on her hand,
the other hand pressed on her bosom as if she
suffered some pain, her eyes cast down on
the ground. Alone, in the rich room, with
the patient shame in her tender face, she
made a tableau delicately, picturesquely sorrowful.


Eintearn paused to regard her. Then
turning from the direction he had previously
taken, he walked straight towards where she
stood. As he came nearer she looked up with

a quick surprise, in herself wondering whence
he had come.

Miss Curteis ? ' he said half beseechingly.

Yes, Mr. Eintearn.'

She fixed on his face her soft blue eyes, so
strangely lustrous to-night in their trouble, and
her pretty lips subsided into lines suggesting
concern and mingled alarm.

Are you a woman. Miss Curteis, who could
console a desperate man ? '

The voice was firm and decisive, but hurried.

I? ' replied Florelle, in doubt, joining her
hands before her breast, and nervously knitting
her rosy fingers, ' Who can tell ? '

She was looking in his face for some answer
to her puzzled impressions, when her memory
woke the thought of the kohl on her eyelids.
She dropped her eyes on the spot, hanging her
head, and looking aside. The act resembled
exactly the coy movement of a maiden suddenly
made aware of the full import of the half
understood words of a declaration.

And the eager shock of revenge found
within reach, at the same instant passed over
Eintearn. This very night the haughty beauty
in the other room should know at what price
he reckoned her scorn.

Miss Curteis,' he said gently, ' I have lost
all I have loved or lived for  you who have
compassion  give me life and love again.' He
caught her hand, for her face was turned away.
Beautiful Florelle, be my wife, and I will not
only love but worship you.'

The girl moved her hand to disengage it.
So wild a storm of thoughts whirled around
her that no word, nor even purpose of words,
would take form. Only burning blushes came
on her cheeks, whilst amid the coals two little
jets of flame, with alternating whiffs of fire,
held the attention of her eyes.

My love, my bride,' fell on her bewildered
ears.

Oh, I must never let him be able to say
I encouraged him,' suddenly came into Flo's

VOL. II. E

distracted mind. It was the first thought to
which she contrived to give form, and was
immediately succeeded by others, ' I must say
No," and he must go away from me.'

At the same time she became aware of a
sense unknown before, a something, a sort of
sternness, that stole over her sinews and muscles,
and seemed of itself to creep into her veins
and nerves, and gave her a strength to repel,
which she had never suspected her nature contained.
She even lifted her head a little, and
though she had not quite enough courage to
look in the man's face, yet spoke with a well
mastered voice,

You must please not speak so to me, Mr.
Eintearn.'

Why, Florelle ? ' he said coaxingly, again
seeking her hand, for he believed her only
coy.

No, no,' she exclaimed quickly, now entirely
mistress of herself, at the same time
moving away from his touch, and looking him

directly in the eyes. ' Mr. Eintearn, you do mea
great honour. I thank you very much.
But I cannot be your wife. I do not love
you.'

There was no opportunity to misunderstand
that. She had said it very prettily, and now
went on,

I fear I do not quite know how I should
speak to you. I am little more than a child.
But, I am sorry, if I have much pained you.'

For some reason unknown to himself, or for
'entire loss of all reason to do anything, Eintearn
remained standing where he was.

On a sudden, an idea occurred to Flo.

Have you had a quarrel with Marcella ? '
she asked quickly.

Yes,' he almost hissed at her.

Florelle thought awhile.

And you,' she spoke with a certain incisiveness,
' have said what you have said to me,
only because you have quarrelled with her.'

The kohl was entirely forgotten, and she
e2

looked in this face, with half contemptuous,
half reproachful eyes.

How unlike the soft, yielding child he had
thought her !

It was some time before he replied in a
bitter way,

I have been making a fool of myself, Miss
Curteis.'

That did not appear to Miss Curteis much
to do with the matter. Eintearn folded his
arms, and regarded the carpet at his feet. His
companion began to be sensible of a certain
humiliation. Suddenly Eintearn said, apparently
to himself

Both the brewer's grand-daughters ! '

Then he turned sharply and walked out of
the room.

I should like to box his ears,' thought
Florelle.

So I have had my first offer,' she mused ;
all circumstances considered not a very flattering
one. Still number one. And that is one.

I wonder how many I shall have ? If I had
said " Yes " to this one, I should have been
some day Lady Langley  she brought her hand
with a quick movement to her lips   Goodness
gracious, I never gave it a thought, but what
will mamma say ? And she told me all about
it, and how it would happen, and what I was
to say, and that all the while I should not once
think of it ! Well, I could never have accepted
Mm. I don't love him a bit. I must tell
mamma that. How I do wonder what she will
say. Will she be awfully angry ? '

Poor Florelle began to look frightened.

A tap on the shoulder broke the thread of
her anxious thoughts, and made her turn with
a start.

Well, cousin ? ' It was Marcella.

What has happened, Flo ? '

Oh  nothing. Have you seen mamma ?
I am to wait for her here, and I am quite tired
ivith standing.'

Have you seen any one, Flo ? ' returned

Marcella, her eyes sparkling with mischief.


Whom should I have seen ? ' rejoined
Florelle awkwardly.

I should say Mr. Eintearn. As he, in the
other drawing-room, did me the favour for the
ninth or tenth time to request me to marry
him, and must, after leaving me, have passed
through this room ; unless you have entered
very recently you must have seen him  in
fact, I can see you have seen him. And' 
Marcella's face assumed an expression of immense
amusement  ' excuse me, but, you do
look so very guilty. Flo, did he ask you too
to marry him ? '

Yes, Marcella,' replied Flo a little downcast,
and a little demurely.

And you refused him of course.'

Of course. I don't care for him. And I
am not so ignorant as to suppose he cares forme.
It is pretty patent whom he does wish
to marry, I fancy.'

Yes,' sighed Marcella, ' but that is finished.
I have at last, I think, succeeded in making
him understand it. Aunty will scold you,
Flo.'

I am not going to tell her.'

That won't do, Flo. You must tell her.
She will insist upon knowing, and, Flo, she hasa
right to know. Why,' Marcella drew a little
nearer, ' Flo, have you been painting your eyes ? '

Mamma painted them,' blurted out Flo.

You should not have let her. I am
ashamed of you.'

Must I tell mamma about Mr. Eintearn,
Marcella ? ' asked Florelle timidly.

Yes, Flo, you must. If you will take my
advice, tell her at once. You will find it easier.
You will be scolded ; but you may as well have
it, and have it over.'

I can't go now,' observed Florelle, glad
enough of an excuse to postpone the ordeal.
Mamma particularly bade me to wait here till
she sent for me.'

When did she send you here ? '

Some half-hour since.'

Marcella bit her hp. ' I'm afraid you will
be dreadfully scolded, Flo,' she said ; ' you know 
what you have done is no joking matter.'

'What have I done?' asked the child
innocently.

'Oh, you darling, simple-hearted goose,'
answered her cousin kissing her. ' Can't you see
that your mother sent you here, this evening, on
purpose to be a sweet, little, tempting morsel
(which is just what you look, only not so very
little) in the very middle of the path of the
future Lord Langley, departing, broken-hearted,
from wicked, cruel Marcella Easily s ? And don't
you perceive, that after landing your big fish
safe and sound, you deliberately put him back
into the water, and that all your mother's
schemes, including inviting me and mamma
here, and twenty other contrivances, have all
been  it is past words, Flo. There will be an
awful scene. Go and get it over, and prepare

FAIR AND FREE. 57

your mind for the most dreadful scolding you
ever received.'

A little more persuasion and Florelle, very
reluctantly, went.

Poor Florelle,' mused Marcella, ' how her
mother will rate her. And so that was the
scheme. Aunty is not very dainty about the
means to her end. Clever, though. And he
really did propose ; walked straight into the
trap ! The great oaf. Aunty knew him better
than I. I should not have believed it. Fancy
being married to such a man ! '

With lagging steps Florelle made her way
to her mother'sroom.

For the last quarter of an hour, too unquiet
to be still, Mrs. Curteis had been pacing the
chamber, frequently breaking her uneven walk
to listen, in vain, for the sound of approaching
steps, and to think, ' If she does not come
soon, he must somehow have missed her.' ' She
will be waiting still in the drawing-room.'
Marcella is sure to cut her conference short.'

Hark !  no. There is no one.' ' It cannot
have been over before she got there.' ' I
would stake anything that, if he saw her,
he asked her.' ' It is just possible she is still
with him. Though if he left her, she would
perhaps still wait for me in the drawing-room.
She is such a baby.'

There was certainly a step now. Florelle's.
She walked slowly. What did that portend?
The door opened, and the girl entered, and closing
the door stood guilty, colouring, hanging
her head. Her mother came to her quickly.

My darling ! ' she said, taking her hand
and stooping to look into her eyes.

The words tempted Florelle to look up.
Her eyes were fast filling with tears, and her
lips trembled.

Tell me, Flo, quick ! ' exclaimed her
mother in the last stage of impatience.

Oh, mamma, I could not help it,' began
Florelle, amid tears, ' he does not really care
for me, and I  Mamma ! you hurt ! ' '

In her excitement Mrs. Cartels was crushing
the girl's hands in her own.

Silence. Has Mr. Eintearn asked you ta
marry him ? '

'Yes.'

And you  said ? '

I said" No." '

Her mother literally threw down her
hands.

'You said "No?"  You refused him?'
she asked in a species of scream.

'I couldn't do  anything  else,' sobbed
Flo.

A moment Mrs. Curteis stood motionless.
Then she lifted her hand to strike the girl.
But as Florelle drew back to shun the blow,
the hand raised to give it dropped at her
mother's side. Instead of a blow Flo got only,

'We will speak of this presently, Miss
Curteis.'

Oh no, mamma, no, no,' exclaimed Flo,
clasping her hands, and filled with fear by the

well-known phrase that meant her mother
would at her leisure calculate adequate reprisals,
' Mamma, I did my duty''

We will speak of it presently. Go.
Wait a moment. Eemember you will be at
dinner this evening, and in the drawing-room,
and you will look as if nothing had happened.'

Yes, mamma.'

Florelle left.

Her mother sank down in the nearest
chair. Her hard mouth wore a look of the
ruggedness of stone, and the meshed wrinkles
of her face defined themselves more sharply,
and with a keener cutting of care, but she sat
with her broken hope, without motion or murmur.
Only after a while two or three tears
drew channels on the rugged, anxious cheeks.
Then she rose and washed away their traces,
and again herself to all outward appearing,
went to the drawing-room.

Eintearn was there, talking with Twisden,
of poachers. Florelle, secretly faint with fear,

was detailing the formation of some new
pudding to one of the lady visitors. Keppel
was lauding French literature to Laurier, and
racking Ms thoughts to discover what to be at
with ' Jack.'

When the poor go to earn their daily-bread,
hiding in their own uncared-for hearts
their toils, and troubles, and cares, humanity
pities, and praises, and pretends to think this
kind of thing fine. When the rich play their
difficultly balanced parts, hiding in their 
hearts their blows in the battle of
life, humanity smiles its pity on the hypocrites.
Yet it does not appear that the former display
more of self-control than the latter, nor that
they are one whit less taught, and led by
necessity. Eather that humanity (the sly
paresseuse) knows and understands nothing of
what is endured by either, but simply has
grasped the fact, that the glib repetition of
certain phrases gives her lips what is held an
attractive mould.

CHAPTEE III.

Marcella had not mis reckoned the effect of
her coup. This the, as she had said, she had
made an end. And Eintearn felt that it was
the end.

Miss Cassilys was not for him.

The stroke broke him.

After the dead blow, and the first mad
moment of blundering had passed, the man,
to use a figure consonant with the mental
experience that passed in him, at once fell,
fell, fell, stage after stage, down, down, down,
fi:om where his life had been in hope, and
some light, to an outer palpable darkness  the
sense that he should be her husband  never !

The next day those who knew supposed he
would make some excuse and leave. But he
remained. His invitation extended over a few

days more, and unless Miss Cassilys left lie
doggedly intended to remain till the last hour
possible in her society. Such at least was his
answer to Keppel, who, unwearied in urging
reason, expostulated in vain.

Marcella breathed with a sense of relief not
quite understood by herself, a consciousness of
being freed for something as well as from something.
In the afternoon she rode with Florelle.
The latter chanced to stop on their way to
speak with a cottager, and when she overtook
Marcella, who had ridden on, found she had
reined up on a spur of the hill commanding
a view of Wyvenhome, on which she was
gazing so deeply immersed in thought, as to be
startled by Florelle's speaking.

Of what are you musing so deeply, Mar-cells?'
she asked.

We will ride on,' was the only reply, as
Marcella turned her horse's head.

Tell me, Marcella, of what jou were
thinking,'

Marcella shook her head.

Not me,' coaxed Flo, ' me, ta camarade ? '

No, Flo,' replied her cousin so decisively
that Flo said no more.

In the course of the evening Keppel came
to Laurier standing alone and said, ' Just look
at Jack Eintearn, and tell me what you think.'

Eintearn, a short distance from them, was
watching Marcella talking to Charley. Laurier
looked but made no reply.

'Well?' asked Keppel.

I see what you have seen. At some
moments and in some lights men look not
what they are but what they might have
been.'

You know she has refused him ? '

The effect of a burst of light passed over
Laurier 's consciousness without any accompanying
apprehension of its cause.

Between ourselves,' he replied, ' I am
surprised. I must say I thought the coronet
and position and fortune would carry the day.
But that is a strange girl.'

I wish I knew what her game is ; or how I
could get Eintearn out of her way,' said Keppel.

He left Laurier, and the latter crossed over
to Marcella. Charley had left her.

'Permit me to congratulate you, Miss
Cassilys,' he said in an undertone.

Me ? I think there is some mistake,' she
replied, looking annoyed.

'I hope not. I should be sorry to hear
that you had preferred a coronet to your own
philosophy of pleasure  the latter is so far the
more original and better.'

She smiled, and looked at him from the
corners of her eyes. The faintest tinge of rose
had heightened the colour of her cheeks.

Your strength is more than I thought
it,' said Laurier in a tone of delicate admiration.


'You perhaps overrate me.'

'No. I know where your weakness lies,
I have just found it. It is not in mistaking
false pleasures and true  but deeper down.'

VOL. II. F

How well you have read me,' she
answered thoughtfully. ' Tell me,' her tone
changed, 'there are two sorts of weakness in
women, are there not? One that is only
despicable, and one that merits help. Tell
me, which do you think is mine ? '

And she looked at him for his answer.

One that merits help, I hope,' he said a
little uncertainly, ' but the end must prove.'

True,' she rejoined, not without anxiousness,
' the end must prove.'

That evening as the ladies after dinner came
out of the dining-room, Marcella managed unnoticed
to slip away from the rest.

For her nature craved solitude, or, more truly,
exacted it of her, immediately, imperatively,
almost distressingly, and she seemed to have no
choice but to obey. Something vague and unknown
was awaking within her and restlessly
demanded attention to itself.

She selected the library. It was never

entered at night, nor even lighted. Having
reached it unobserved she closed the door
behind her, and, occasionally groping, found
her way to a seat.

The gloom was absolute, and few only, and
but muffled sounds from other parts of the
house reached her. Yet, as if not even so
enough alone, she placed her elbows on the
table and covered her face with her hands.

Can it be ? ' she thought, ' is it possible ?

To help my need, and weakness.

'There are two kinds of help. One that
one would give to all, more or less, as they
wanted it. Another  which is like giving
oneself.

How have I come to see that ?

Which is it I would have from him ? And
which would he give me ? '

She took her hands from her face, and
drew her fingers through and through between
each other.

That hard, stern man, who is scarcely
p 2

half sure he likes me. He reads my nature
well. How uncertain he seems that I shall
not fail. I am sure he has seen my strength
and my weakness. I wish he would help me.

How has all this come to pass ? What
is it makes me wish I could put myself in that
man's arms ? He is in two days going away,
and I hate to think of it. It can all mean
but one thing  the truth is  this is love.'

Her heart leaped in her bosom with a
sudden emotion which came with the acceptation
of the truth.

So I have fallen in love with Mr. Laurier.
Well  I am glad, and proud of it. There is
something there, worth one's love.'

Another long spell of thought, and then
very humbly, though not hopefully,

I hope he will love me.'

An evening like any other evening, only
in seeming rather quiet, a will to be gentle, a
sense of all creation melting into life, a sort
of pleasant pain longing indefinitely, a strange

shyness of speech over a dozen indifferent
words interchanged with Azm, and Marcella
had passed her first hours of conscious love, and
softly fallen asleep.

The next day some of the Wyvenhome

party visited the ruins of K Castle., Of

the number were Marcella, and Florelle, Mrs.
Curteis in the capacity of chaperone, Laurier,
Charley, Tom Twisden, and, whom nobody
wanted, Eintearn. They drove over from
Wyvenhome before luncheon. A fine morning
afforded a delicious drive. Florelle on the box
seat, relieved from the fear of a place immediately
under her mother's eye, recovered,
in the keen air that beat on her cheeks, some
of her recently lost spirits.

A custodian who waited on visitors met them
on the tortuous path that led from the highroad
to the castle, an irregular straggling pile,
which stood on an abrupt bluff, swept by the
curve of a river, an imposing ruin in every stage

of wreck and decay that gunpowder, neglect,
and the mere marring and softening of time can
produce  a beautiful and melancholy sight of
which detailed description is needless. There
are none to whom is unknown the spell of ivy-clad
ruins, the frowns of wrinkled, tall, grey
walls, topped with tousled ivy, the blind
windows, in and out of which all that lists passes
wanton as the winds, the lawns that carpet
court and bower and hall, the rusting iron and
loosening stones, the flower-laden ledges that
are passages, which feet no longer tread, the
little tossing tufts of ferns in mouldering holes,
the mounting, stringy stems that climb the
lichened walls, the crumbling steps, and naked,
stone-strewn hearths, the wreathing clematis,
and desolation's silent eloquence 

Omnia mute,
Omnia sunt deserta, ostentant omnia legum,

From one room,  on an upper storey, grown
with grass, and rank weeds crowding among
brambles, with mouldering walls, which, pierced

by many shapeless ragged gaps, suggested doors
to lead to other chambers long since fallen in  a
flight of crumbling steps led, within the thickness
of an abutting wall, to the level of its
summit. Thence a path, in length some thirty
feet, lay along the wall's broad top, to a narrow
door in a turret, that contained spiral stairs, and
commanded from its summit a dizzy view. The
high, strong wall stood alone, stretching along
the edge of the cliff, which, where the turret
rose, sank sheer down to the rocks by the water.

At the foot of the stairs the conductor
stopped the party. To the top of these steps
any one might go, and they would find a fine
view. Beyond, and into the turret, it was particularly
requested no one would venture unaccompanied.
If any of the gentlemen (ladies
seldom attempted it) wished to go to the top of
the turret the conductor would go with two, or
at the most three, at a time.

Did any one wish to go ?

Oh I should doat upon going up to the top

of that tiny tower,' said Florelle ; ' I may,,
mamma, may I not ? '

Say yes, mother,' said Charley, ' Flo will
think better of it presently.'

They mounted the long flight of stone steps.
At the top was a narrow path not quite straight,,
amid the grass and ferns that crowned the wall
and a rope that swung in the wind, one end
fastened to an iron upright, the other to a staple
near the turret door. The breadth of the wall's
top was irregular, at places not more than two
feet, the sheer height, on one side fifty feet,
on the other, what Florelle did not like to
look at.

'Well, Flo?' asked Charley.

I'll go,' replied Flo, becoming pale.

No you will not, my dear,' said Mrs.
Curteis.

I should like it, though,' replied Florelle,
sitting down by her mother, secretly much
relieved.

Several of the men went, and returned.

The view was certainly fine : to look over the
turret's low parapet ' ticklish.'

Should you like to go, Marcella ? ' asked
Mrs. Curteis.

I think I should.'

Go, then.'

'You are sure-footed, Miss?' asked the
guide.

She assented, and turning to Charley said,
Will you come with me ? '

'No, miss,' interposed the cicerone, 'I'll
take you alone, if you please.'

When they had entered the turret door,,
Eintearn, who had stood gloomily listening,
followed them.

You had no right to come here like this,
sir,' said the guide civilly, but with authority.

They reached the summit, and he indicated
the chief points of view. Marcella approached
the parapet to look over.

You had better not look over. Miss,' said
the man.

But I wish to look over, please. Will you
hold me ? '

The official demurred. Eintearn stepped
forward, and, the guide expostulating, taking
her firmly by both arms halfway between her
elbows and shoulders, stood behind her holding
her as she approached the edge, and gazed
over at the depth below.

Does it make you dizzy ? ' he asked.

The dizziness is passing.'

Suddenly he pushed her forwards.

An appalling, blood-freezing shriek from
the top of the turret, brought their hearts into
the mouths of every one of the party. Every
eye turned with terror to see what had happened.
Mrs. Curteis had already noticed how
Eintearn stood by Marcella at the turret's edge,
and even in that instant she had time for
another feeling besides surprise, and thought of
forty thousand pounds.

But nothing had happened. Marcella, Ein-tears,
and the guide stood on the turret, only

Marcella was no longer peering over the
edge.

Of course,' thought Mrs. Curteis, ' nothing
ever does happen to that girl.'

The lady became dizzy (she is a little
light-headed) and thought she was falling,' explained
Eintearn to the guide.

Still trembling with fear as she was, Marcella
turned on him the scorn of her angry eyes,
with 'Liar ' flaming in their pupils.

The cicerone insisted on no longer stay
upon the tower, and they descended. Leaning
one hand against the outer wall, the other
against the newel of the stairs  with her
wonted pride she refused assistance  Marcella
with difficulty made one step after another.
One moment's horrible tension appeared to
have unstrung every nerve in her body. The
spiral tower reeled giddily around her, and the
mere effort of volition grew to torture. That
she would reach the remainder of their party
without falling or fainting seemed miserably

impossible. Still she held up as she coulcl
and, in the end, imperious resolve vanquished
the seemingly endless steps ; the narrow path
on the wall's top was traversed, and safe footing
at last securely reached. Not a word had been
spoken.

Florelle was seated in a large moss-grown
hollow of the ruined wall, and Marcella sat
down beside her. Inwardly thankful to a degree
beyond expression, she quietly took off
her hat and, partly for a diversion, partly to
cover the still distressful excitement of her
nerves, began unconcernedly to dust from it
some dirt and dust its feathers had brushed off
the walls of the tower. But now she was insecurity,
the sickly vertigo, as if by reaction,
cleared from her brain almost at a stroke,
and she found herself at once able to join
in the conversation, and to reply with a jest
to a jest of Twisden's respecting the ' appalling
shriek ' by which she had alarmed
them.

Questions were naturally many. To all
Miss Cassilys made the same reply, 'Mr. Ein-tears
said I became dizzy, and thought I was
falling.' Only Florelle insisted, ' But did you
become dizzy?' To which she received no
answer.

Then the party rose to proceed to another
part of the ruin. Holding in her hand her hat,
more soiled than she at first supposed, Marcella
slowly descended the long flight of steps, frequently
stopping to pick out some little morsel
of plaster or whitewash from her feathers. In
consequence, by the time the foot of the stairs
was reached, she was some yards behind the
last of the party.

She lifted her eyes a moment to observe
them passing before her in straggling order
across the large weed-grown chamber, towards
the same door by which they had entered it,
and then  now more at her ease, the way
being level  leisurely followed, flicking some
last little specks of dust from her hat. Then

she raised it in her hands to replace it on her
head.

As she did so, looking up, she became
aware of Eintearn, standing some ten yards
in front of her, at a short distance before the
archway by which she should leave the room,
with his arms crossed, watching her approach.
Instinctively one hand holding her hat fell to
her side, the other on her bosom, and she
stopped.

That is quite right, Marcella,' said Eintearn,
nodding familiarly, and speaking in a tone half
supercilious, half condescending. ' You and I
have something to say to each other ; we are
going to discuss a little reason, and you cannot
proceed until we have finished.'

The girl's reply was an immediate step in
the direction of the exit.

Eintearn moved forwards a step to meet
her, and held out his cane across her path, in a
manner that signified it was interdicted.

I wish to pass, sir, if you please.'

She was already within a foot of his
cane.

I am not going to permit you to pass.'

I request you.'

I have told you I shall not permit you to
pass.' His tone was hard and determined.

Marcella put forward her hand to push the
cane aside. In his iron grip it offered a resistance
that surprised her. At the same time he
said warningly,

Do not compel me to use force, please. I
shall not, in any case, permit you to pass until
you have heard what I have to say, and
answered it.'

There was on Marcella's part a moment of
hesitation, then she said,

As you are a gentleman, sir, I request
your permission to go to my chaperone.'

And I refuse it '  firmly.

I have no choice, then.'

She stepped back some yard and a half,
and taking a long breath, looked into his face

an indignant question of what might come
next.

That is so, exactly,' returned Eintearn ;
you have no choice.' He dropped the point
of his cane, and continued, 'Now, you perceive
that when it comes to a question of
strength I am master of the situation  as just
now on the top of that little tower.'

Why did you not throw me down whilst
you were about it ? ' asked Marcella, meditatively.


Ah, that is just it. Now we come to the
question. I did not throw you down, for
several reasons. Not for any fear of the consequences,
be quite sure of that (you have
effectually cured me of the fear of consequences)
; but, first, because it happens to be
my intention, Marcella, that you shall remain
alive ; secondly, because I had no further desire
than to give you a really good fright, with
a view of ascertaining whether that magnificent
indifference to distress, to which I was treated

the evening before last, was more than skin
deep, which, it now appears to me, at least,
when you yourself are concerned, it is not ;
and lastly, because I desire you to understand
that I am not one of those dandies on whom
you have found it so amusing to trample whenever
it has entertained your vanity to do so,
but a man of another kind, not easily humbugged,
and not to be turned by words from
my purpose.'

The girl's head moved impatiently, but she
said nothing.

Now, Marcella '

Will you be so kind as to address me as
Miss Cassilys, if you please ? '

He looked into her face, and laughed and
shook his head.

JSTow, Marcellus' he recommenced in his
most determined and really impressive voice ;
'you, because I love you, have elected to
have me for a foe '

'Excuse me,' interrupted the girl quickly,

VOL. II. G

you misrepresent me. I entertain no such
wish. Nor have I any foes  except those who
choose to be foes to me.'

Excuse me those are always our foes
whom our conduct compels to become so.'

Marcella opened her eyes a little. Eintearn
was not wont to attempt epigram even in its
weakest form. As she, however, said nothing,
he went on,

You seem to think what I say strange.
Perhaps that appears to you but a practised
coquette's common cruelty with which I was
thrust away by you, to be,' his speech grew
tremulous, ' the one man who is to have no
hope, whose respect is to be counted for an
insult. I wish you rather more clearly to
understand what man it is of whom you have
so insouciantly tried to make a pariah, but '

He stopped abruptly, and his voice and
mien changed to a sudden deprecation.

Miss Cassilys  I  I beg your pardon. I
am exceedingly sorry. I would give my life

with gladness to save you from harm. But 
there is that of devil in me, if you but knew
it. Marcella, is it nothing to you? Why
should you make me mad ? You for whom I
could be different from what I am ; you, who,
if you would, could save me.  Marcella ! '

He made two or three steps towards her.
But as he came nearer she drew back.

No nearer, sir, if you please,' fell from her
lips forbiddingly.

He stopped, and she, seeing it, retreated no
farther, but stood, drawn up to her full height,
motionless, watching, her fine features set, and her
imperious eyes fixed in a cold, repellent gaze.
She had taken her dress in her hand to make her
movements more free, and its lifted skirt displayed
her delicate ankles and little feet, whilst
the breeze that blew in her face drove back
her dress close to her figure, and catching her
fine, loose hair, tossed its locks in the afternoon
fight. About her the surroundings of
ruin and rankling weed lent a weird force to her

G 2

pitiless beauty, such that imagination might
have conceived her rather some spirit of dilapidation
than anything mortal ; a thing, not of
natural breath, created to lure to death among
sinking floors, crumbling vaulting, and steps
that gave vay as in dreams, the mortals whose
recklessness dared intrusion into her haunts.

And Eintearn stood and gazed on her as if
beneath the spell of some such fascination.

In short it is indifferent to you what becomes
of me,' he at length exclaimed.

She made him no answer.

Miss Cassilys ! ' he insisted, beseechingly.

I cannot see,* she said, speaking slowly,
and as if the ideas filtered through her thought
as she spoke, ' that my life, for it comes to
that, is with any justice asked as a ransom for
yours : neither do I believe in the power you
surmise my nature has over yours. I think'" 
she paused, and in another voice concluded
with resolution, ' You are not entitled to a
knowledge of my thoughts.'

The man turned his head aside impatiently.

Then it is war,' he said, resuming his
former tone. ' Very well. Then, understand
me. As I am refused your love  I will have 
your dishonour.'

Sir ! This is past insult,' burst passionately
from the maiden's lips, as she gasped for breath,
whilst her outraged modesty crimsoned her
cheeks and neck: ' I will go, sir ; let me pass,
this instant.'

He had again extended his cane to arrest
her.

Your answer,' he said quietly and firmly,
then you shall go.'

She stood chewing her lip, and turning
away her eyes ; but still even then, excited as
she was, calling back her self-composure.

'There is no answer to words such as
yours,' she answered at length curtly.

I require an answer, Marcella. When it
is given you shall go. Do you accept my
challenge, or decline it ? '

She turned her face to him, paling in
anger.

Challenge ; accept ; decline ! ' she said
slowly ; ' I, a gentlewoman ! Do you think
I resemble yourself? If you must have
an answer, tell yourself what must be my
thoughts of you from this hour forth forever.'


She pushed aside the cane, his unnerved
will scarcely resisting the careless pressure
of her hand, and walking past, left him
alone.

Slowly his head drooped. The cane fell
from his loosened hand to the ground, and his
eyes sank to the grass at his feet. So he stood
long. Once only he looked up towards the
spot where she had stood, perhaps to picture
her in his mind.

Then with a sudden movement he drew
himself together, hastily picked up his cane
from the ground, and, with an appearance of
some deliberate resolve, walked quickly away.

The party leaving the castle learned that he
had preceded them on the road home ; and, on
their reaching Wy venom, that he had already
left.

CHAPTER IV.

It was Laurier musing, that evening, in the
drawing-room at Wyvenhome.

Yes, there undoubtedly is much in Miss
Cassilys.  A very great beauty, when one has
learned to see it, one of uncommon Ones ; a
faultless health, and graceful strength ; a clear,
sensitive brain ;  and, then, this way she has
of sunning herself, like a divinity, in the light
of her own life ; with her lips fearlessly dipped
to drink in the great sea of pleasure ;  a something
wondrously truthful, too, in those great
dark-grey eyes.  And here she comes.'

He was sitting near one of the windows, a
little apart. He and Keppel had been speaking
there of Eintearn, surmising where he might
be gone, which neither knew. Keppel had

left him impressed by his concern for Eintearn,
and by his cool judgment in circumstances that
evidently moved him not lightly. Afterwards,
somehow, Marcella had glided unobserved into
his mind and occupied it.

She now came to the window, and, having
unfastened it, opened it about an inch and stole
a peep at the night without.

What magnificent starlight,' she said, ' I
should very much like to slip out and take a
stroll under the stars.'

And so should I,' rejoined Laurier, who
had risen and now stood at her side ; ' here it
is this evening unusually dull. Outside the
night is mild, and a stroll on the terrace would
be delightful.'

Come,' said Marcella.
c In an instant she had sipped out and he
had followed her, closing the window behind
them.
 ' Wait for me here a moment,' said Mar-cells,
' I am going to run round to the hall,

and to get something to put over rnj
shoulders.'

And catching up the train of her dress, she
literally ran down the path and around the
corner of the house, from whence she returned
in a short time, at a more demure pace, with
a light cloud prettily wrapped about her
shoulders, and drawn like a hood over her.
head.

We will go to the western terrace,' she
said.

Laurier turned to walk with her. After a
few steps he stumbled on the tiles edging a
flower-bed.

Take care, Mr. Laurier,' exclaimed Mar-cells,
' or you will fall. See '  she came nearer
him  ' you do not know the place so well as I.
Let me take your arm, and I will lead you.
So.' She slipped her arm within his, and continued,
' Fancy my leading you ! You who are
so far more capable in every sense to lead me.'

I am not so certain of that, Miss Cassilys.'

'Oh, but I am.' They had reached the
steps, and she said, ' Here are the steps, now
count eight.  There. Now, this way. There is
a little path here. You really are very tractable.
And now  oh, look ! '

They had arrived at a place by the balustrade,
in front of the trees, where the whole
splendour of the star-strewn heavens lay opened
before them. The night was breathlessly still,
and silent with the profound silence of the
country.

Marcella slowly withdrew her arm from
Laurier's, but she still remained close beside
him, the wraps about her shoulders brushing
against his. With a common instinct the two
raised their eyes to the panorama of stars.

Love changes all. In that contemplation,,
unique among all that men can see, the silent
moving of the nightly sky, each of these two
was conscious of a thought of hitherto unknown
intensity, which two words may tell best,.
With him ! ' ' With her ! '

But she interrupts his thought with a question,
which somehow the stars have suggested,

What do you think, Mr. Laurier, of mere
play of fancy, when it is quite unreal ; it seems
one of the pleasures of life, yet I never feel
altogether sure of it ? '

What, pray, are you fancying ? '

I ? Nothing. Only a thing came into my
mind I once read I do not know where. That
people who could love each other and do not
are after death sent to stars so far apart that
it takes millions of years for the light from
one to reach the other.'

You believe that ? '

Of course not. One thinks of such things :
one does not believe them.'

Will he ask, ' Shall you and I be so
exiled ? ' No. Neither has it crossed her
mind that he might. But he has thought it, is
thinking it.

How beautiful ! How divinely beautiful ! '
whispered Marcella, as if loth to break the

eloquent silence of the night, 'and how I do
love it. I have always loved my life, but tonight
it seems to me that I know its worth
better than ever : I have, only to-day, so nearly
lost it.'

On that turret. You should not have
ventured there, Miss Cassilys.'

She turned her face, it was very close to
his, and for a moment regarded him.

You, too ! ' she said, again turning away
her eyes. ' Strange, how ready every one is to
believe me hopelessly weak. I wonder what
you would say if you knew the truth ? ' She
paused an instant and continued, ' It was Mr.
Eintearn. He was holding my arms, you
know, for though I am now sure I could have
looked over the edge without danger of dizziness,
I was not sure of it before I had tried.
All of a sudden he gave me so violent a jerk
forwards that I lost my balance, and, in fact, I
was falling, and cannot imagine how I recovered
myself. Of course he only meant to

frighten me  in which he succeeded  but I am
convinced that it was only by accident that his
practical joke did not bring me to an end too
awful to think of.'

Miss Cassilys ! ' exclaimed Laurier amazed.

And then, you heard, I screamed. That
makes me fear there is more of the coward in
me than I supposed Only, when I believed I
was going to fall from all that height on those
terrible rocks !  Still, if there be any shame
after death, I should have been ashamed now,
to have died screaming. Should not you ? '

The idea that any man should have put
that freezing terror upon you ! ' was his only
reply.

But its tone told what made her cheeks
crimson.

The blush fled in a moment, as it had come,
and an odd coolness succeeded it.

It included that penchant to play the
coquette which never deserts a girl of spirited
feelings, above all with the man for

ivhom she has conceived an attachment, an
inclination that fails only when the supreme
word falls on her ears that scatters to the six
extremities of space the thoughts of every
woman that loves.

Now she replied with a kind of insouciance,
:' On me ? Yes. But then, you know, the
man who did it is in love : and one expects
men under those circumstances to do odd
things. I am unwilling to leave this glorious
sight, but I think we ought to go back. Will
you again have my guidance ? '

Thanks,' replied Laurier, coldly, ' I think
I can see my way.'

He had taken a warning.

But the next moment, repenting of the loss
of one touch of hers, he said, in another tone,
But it is so dark under the trees. Will you not
take my arm ? You might stumble.'

No, thank you ! '  as (boldly as he.

They returned into the shade under the
trees without speaking.

Is that true, Miss Cassilys,' asked Laurier
walking at a little distance from lier side,
which some people say, that you are as much
misanthrope as I misogynist ? '

No : very false,' her voice had a certain
hardness, ' and I am surprised that you should
have listened to what gossip had to say of me,
I should like to know whether my frankness
with you has merited that, or whether it is
only the way you judged the best one to decipher
me ? '

Neither. I beg your pardon. I am a
little nonsensical to-night.'

His voice, usually so even, seemed to change
with every speech he made, almost in every
phrase.

You mean you are cross,' replied Marcella,
and with me, who have done nothing to
deserve it. Now give me your arm, and don't
be ill-natured. I see you can hardly find your
way.'

He complied, and almost at the same instant

the sound of the explosion of a gun, or
pistol, from the direction of the house made
Marcella press closer to him, with a start.

What was that ? ' she exclaimed.

A gun somewhere.'

But who can be shooting at this time ? I
hope it is not one of these frays with the
poachers. Listen.'

All was still.

'It is nothing,' said Laurier, and they
walked on in silence, except for the sound of
their steps on the gravel, and the faintest rustle
of Marcella's satin merveilleux.

You know I go tomorrow,' presently said
Laurier, in one of his unnatural ways.

Yes. You told me. I am sorry '  encouragingly.


Thanks. My visit is near its end  and our
brief acquaintance,' he spoke still in the same
forced tone.

Why ! are we not to meet again ? '

VOL. II. H

It is improbable, is it not, Miss Cassilys 
and  perhaps undesirable.'

I do not see why. Mamma and I live in
town. If mamma invite you, you will come
and see us, I hope.'

You are very kind.'

They had reached the door. He opened it
for her to enter, and followed her into the halL
She slipped off her cloud, and having thrown it
aside stood before the glass in the hat-stand
smoothing her hair with her hands. Laurier
sat in the nearest chair, and, nervously stroking
his moustache, leaned back admiring the process.
Presently Marcella looked round and
down at him and smiled.

'Do you think me mad to-night. Miss
Cassilys ? ' he asked, returning the smile.

I think you unlike yourself. What has
happened ? '

Nothing.'

That is not true. Why will you not tell
me?'

'Because I am certain I should affront
you.'

'Have I ever yet been affronted at your
telling me the truth ? '

Suppose we go to the drawing-room,' he
replied, rising, for Marcella had finished smoothing
her hair and adjusting her laces and
ruffles.

Very well,' she assented, pleasantly, ' I am
sorry you cannot trust me.'

As they crossed the hall a servant met
them with letters on a salver. They were for
Laurier. He glanced at the directions and
thrust them into his pocket saying, ' Only
business.'

Well, and what better could you hear
about ? ' replied Marcella, brightly. ' I wish
you success, and no end of fees.'

The sensible girl ! ' thought Laurier.
What an ass she would think me if she only
suspected me of being more than half in love
with her, as I verily believe I am.'

H 2

It is not difficult to fall in love, but to
know when one has clone so is almost impossible.


In the drawing-room all tongues were discussing
the mysterious shot, which, to judge
from its sound, had been fired inside the house.
Mr. Curteis and Charley were gone to make investigations,
but returned without an explanation.
A French pistol, a present from Marcella
to Charley, was missing from its place in the
gun-room, but it was not probable that that had
anything to do with the matter.

Marcella had placed herself beside her
mother. Under cover of the general conversation
she said,

Mr. Laurier leaves tomorrow. I am sure
if you could persuade aunty to ask him to stay
a few days longer he would accept the invitation
with pleasure.'

I'll speak to your aunt, Marcella,' replied
Mrs. Cassilys ; ' I have no doubt I shall persuade
her.'

And as the girl walked away again she
looked after her and smiled.

For the rest of the evening Marcella kept
away from Laurier. The instinct that swayed
her to do so was correct. Approach between
them for the present was premature. The
man wanted time to understand his own mind
about her  and he wanted nothing more. In
two or three days their case would have been
very different. Unhappily the assistance of
those two or three days was what Marcella
was not to have.

CHAPTER V.

Along a country road, from a small station
ten miles distant from Wyvenhome, strides
Eintearn.

The way is long, rough, lonely, strange :
but, at last, there below him, among the
blackness of the trees darker than that of the
night, recognisable by the sparkling of a light
here and there in the windows, lies Wyven-
home.

So the end is not far now.

He lights a fusee. A quarter past nine. A
sharp walk, almost five miles in the last hour.
Another half-hour will bring him to the house ;
less, for the road runs down hill.

On again; and the same tearing pace.
Over the common, through the pines, across

the spinet. If he should come upon one of the
gamekeepers watching for poachers ? Perhaps
it would be a good thing for him.

But he does not ; and he traverses, in rapid
succession, the rest of the woods, the park, the
road to the house. Here is the terrace. Now,
a moment to think !

Think of what? There is nothing to be
gained by thinking  nor to be lost. Nothing !
Ahead then !

Yet he does think of a thing, remembered
from some dinner-table conversation ; remembered,
because he tried and was never able to
see its point, how a man wrote himself an
epitaph to the effect

What I spent, I had :
What I saved, I lost :
What I lost, I spent  '

No ; that last line is wrong. To mend it,
then" What I had, I lost ; What I wanted, I
never got ! " ' And he laughed to himself a
loud, rude laugh.

Thinking is nonsense.

Only, had he stopped to think, he would
have met Marcella with Laurier coming out on
the terrace.

Here is the door of the house. He opens it.
No one is about. The hall is crossed, and he
commences the ascent of the broad, shallow stairs.

There is music in the drawing-room. No
musician, he still knows that touch. He stops
on the stairs to catch the sounds. He is reckless
 why not.?  of discovery. It is some
triumphant strain, and Marcella is dashing into
its rhythm all the sunny gladness of her souL
So angels sing whilst men go damn.

The music ends. Its last grand chord dies-all
ends. All die. He mounts the stairs
slowly, one by one, and through one passage
comes into another wherein is only one, a well-remembered
door.

Is it locked ? Not it. To some men fortune
gives never one chance. He opens it,,
enters, closes the door behind him.

A light  he has matches.

So this is her room, the presence-chamber
of her private inner life, that he shall know of
never, never, never.

He stands by the hearth, repeating to himself,
' Never ! never ! never ! never ! '

How awful a thing the impossible is to the
man who cannot bend ! It is like the haggard
impassable cliff, on to which a great wave rous
toiling many a lonely league, gathering strength,
mounting in weight, tossing its crest in the
spiriting breezes, pressing forwards, resolute
not to be turned, till it comes roaring up to the
encounter, unflinching, unflinching lifts its mad
rage, and then, with a crash, down comes the
blow ; the drear rock shudders to its core,
up flies the water to the trembling stars  but
there is no more wave.

The room is very neat. There, on a little
stand on her dressing-table, are the earrings she
wore this morning when he insulted her.

Insulted her !

Yes : that is so. Why think of it ? All the
little thinking needful was got through in the
train, and much good it was ! Thought of loss,
loss, nothing but loss, and defeat insufferable.
Mother lost  love lost  fidelity lost, to Florelle
honour lost  hope lost  a frightful thought
of a crime, of the blackest, that might have
been done, lost  after which thought all were
better lost  she, she utterly lost  himself lost
and left nothingness.

He sits on the bed. Here she has lain and
slept. And here he will do it.

It is a hideous crime. At least men say so.
One not greater would bring down all her pride
to the dust. But he is not going to think. Here
is the pistol. Her present to Charley. The
click of the cock. No more thought.

The coldness of the muzzle to his temple, of
the trigger on his finger.  The tightening of the
muscles of one hand.

A crashing, smashing blow.

And afterwards

CHAPTEE VI.

In the wicker arm-chair in his bedroom, with
his hands on his leg laid across his knee,
Laurier sat and mused. The letters he had
received lay by his side and divided his thought
with Miss Cassilys.

It was a question of an important case, for
which he was retained, at once an opportunity
and an evidence of the opinion held of his
abilities.

In a returning current, his thoughts began
to flow back into their old accustomed channels.
Gradually he returned into unison with past
unruffled years of steady, mental toil, with the
patiently stored knowledge and experience,
with the all that was characteristically professional.
Old ambitions woke again from holiday

slumbers, strong, definite, impatient of delays,,
and mantled in his second nature, the man
returned to be no longer merely a man, but an
aspiring ' man of law.'

And from such a man's attention vanished
fast idle recollections, the tourist-laden boat,
slow foreign trains, chance fellow-passengers
the quiet French country roads, sights, pictures,
sculptures, more recent sport, the English
autumn woods and fields, and thoughtless
evening's idleness, a parcel of things, in view of
ambitions, not worthy of remembrance.

He found himself in the very humour for
work. The holiday weeks had been expended
better than he had thought in gathering so
sharp a mental freshness. But now he would
waste no more valuable days. All ambition's
avarice of time was upon him. To-morrow the
earliest train should take him back to town.
Many things, long proposed, should be done
before sittings commenced, and then he would
see whether he could not before Christmas

definitely advance his position. Those whose
quiet lives from year to year pursue one even
tenor have no conception of the nerving,
energising effect of such thoughts on men of
ambition, and beneath their influence Laiu-ier
quickly underwent a kind of metamorphosis, at
least intellectually.

His point of view changed. There are
three ways of thinking  like men, like women,
like professionals. In whichever way one
thinks, he or she stands aside, and regards
other modes of thought as vague and unreal.
So Laurier now stood aside from the thought
of the Laurier of two hours ago.

And Miss Cassilys ? ' he soliloquised. ' Ah,
I have very nearly committed myself. Now,
Mr. Guy Laurier, what is it you have been
doing ?

I have met an exceedingly handsome
woman  woman  ah, an abyss of which no
man ever yet sounded the depth.

'Marcella Cassilys! It is not just to put

her in the same category with some of her sex.
I confess I like " La Marcellus."

'That is not the question. A handsome
woman, of an unusually seductive kind, who, I
am duly warned, considers a man who does
not admire her a mistake.  Was it Keppel said
that? I like Keppel; but I do not think he
always speaks the truth.

I am, however, certain a time was when I did
not admire  Marcella. And  Marcella knew
it. Afterwards  she made me admire her ? Yes.

How ? Why ?  There is in her a good
deal to admire. A girl made of sterling stuff,
a goodly scrap of humanity, with an honest,
fearless soul. Curteis was right. Marcella is a
character a man may justly admire.

Keppel would say she took care to make
me see that. If she did ?

So we became " friends." That is nonsense.
A handsome woman has no friends 
of either sex. Still, we became " friends."
She has brains. We exchange a number of

notions. I learn some things from her, some
things altogether differing from any I have
learned from men. She learned, I think, some
things from me. All very well. Then

Well then I, like an ass, begin to fall in
love : and Miss Cassilys has the sense, on the
first indication, promptly to let me understand
that will not do.

Certainly not. It will not do. I have no
intention of falling in love, no intention of proposing
for any woman's hand, no intention of
marrying. Also, I have known this young lady
some three weeks ; realised not yet a dozen
hours that I am smitten ; and have already had
the impertinence to suffer her to see it.

Under which circumstances she has behaved,
as I should have anticipated, well.

So, in addition to other things. Miss
Cassilys has taught me a humiliating but
salutary lesson of myself, that I am as capable
as any other man to make a fool of myself over
II good-looking girl.

'Had I not been a fool I might have
added to the number of my acquaintances an
agreeable and accomplished woman. As it
is, I have to instruct myself to drop her
acquaintance.

I have little doubt I shall manage that
without any very great difficulty. I think I
know how to say " No " to myself. I have
often enough, regarding other matters, done so
already. Happily, there has not been much
harm done  thanks to Miss Marcella. She has
showed more sense than I.

'Also, as she has hinted, she must be a
good deal disappointed in me. I don't blame
her. I am a good deal disappointed in
myself.'

His lips compressed themselves with all the
hardness of his own hard lined character.

About the same time Marcella, having
bidden her mother good-night, with her light
in her hand and a morning-dress they had

together been trimming thrown over her arm,
was preparing to leave Mrs. Cassilys's room to
go to her own. She took a few steps towards
the door, and then, making an abrupt halt,
looked back to where her mother sat in the
corner of the sofa reading.

Dear mamma,' thought the girl, ' I am
sure it is only just and loving to tell her.'

She laid the dress she bore across the back
of a chair, and returning set down the light on
the table.

Mother,' in a clear gentle voice, fell on Mrs.
Cassilys's ear.

Yes, love,' she replied, looking up.

Put down your book, mamma. I have
something to tell you.'

The book was set aside. Marcella placed
herself at the other end of the sofa, and laying
her arm along its back, looked straight into
her mother's face, and without falter, but not
without a faint blush, asked,

Can you guess ? '

VOL. II. I

A sparkle of victory lurked in her still
eyes, a softness about the outlines of her lips.
Mrs. Cassilys noticed both, but keeping
any surmises she might have formed secret,
said,

I can see something has happened, but I
cannot divine what, Marcella.'

Without moving, Marcella said, ' I have
fallen desperately in love ! '

Her mother looked at her long. Then she
rose, and approaching the girl, bent over her
uplifted face, kissing her on the forehead, and
saying, as with the back of her fingers she
stroked the girl's warm cheek,

I wish your love all happiness, Marcella,
my good, open-hearted girl.'

You will be surprised when you hear who
it is, mamma  Mr. Laurier.'

Then, my dear, your husband will be a
handsome, clever, and agreeable man, and, if
you do your duty, very fond of you.'

Oh, mamma,' said Marcella, catching Mrs.

Cassilys's hand and kissing it, 'I do love you
for speaking so of him.'

Only remember, lassie, you must be, and
never cease to be, a woman in a hundred
thousand to satisfy that man's ideal.'

His ideal ! Oh, I fear his ideal woman is
a very poor creature. But I hope to teach him
better.'

Ah !  Has it then never occurred to yoii,
Marcella, that his idea of what a woman should
be is so high that no woman satisfies it, and
that he cannot forgive them for it r '

I never thought of that,' replied Marcella,
whilst her eyelids drooped reflectively. 'It
would explain some things. He shall not find
me wanting though, I think. I would face
death among torments for him.'

Life among common temptations is what
you will have to face, Marcella ; still it will befor
him. Be just and gentle, lassie, and you
will master it. Of course you know he loves
you

I 2

I am sure of it, though he has not told
me so.'

How long do you thmk he has loved you,
I wonder ? ' inquired Mrs. Cassilys, with a mischievous
smile.

Only quite lately, mamma.'

Ah, love is very blind, Marcella. You
have both been in love, my girl, since the day
you lent him your French book

A few more words, and with a light kiss,
and ' Good-night, best of mammas,' Marcella
was gone.

Mrs. Cassilys remained still, gazing at the
door whence she had issued. Her handsome
features wore a heavy look. Not love alone,,
as with her daughter, was the matter of her
thought, but love, and loss, and learning to be
left.

Marcella went somewhat slowly towards
her room, musing of the height the man she
loved was above her poor conception of him.
Dreaming still of which she opened the door,

sand, bearing a light in her hand, did not, inconsequence,
at the first instant notice the light
in the room. She had advanced several steps
into it before she looked about her.

Then with a start she perceived the lights
burning, and a man's figure tumbled on her
bed.

The moment she became aware of it she
averted her face, and, lightly turning on her
heel, on the spot passed again fi:*om the
chamber. She closed the door, almost noiselessly,
and, the dress on her arm quickly
deposited on the floor, directed her steps to her
uncle's room.

Mr. Curteis was undressing. Her knock
interrupted him, and her voice, ' It is I, Mar-cells,
uncle. I want you, you yourself, at
once.'

When he came out she was waiting, at a
little distance, in the passage. She exhibited
no appearance of alarm, and spoke with little
concern.

'I have been talking long with mamma,'
she said, ' and only just now went to my room.
There is a man there, on my bed, asleep I
suppose, intoxicated I should imagine.'

Mr. Curteis summoned one of the menservants,
and, bidding Marcella wait in the
drawing-room, with him went to her chamber.

It was well Marcella had not seen, nor even
risked the chance of seeing, what manner of
spectacle was in her room ; what was splashed
on walls, floor, furniture, curtains, and even on
her own jewels and gloves on the table, nor the
horrible piece of a man's head that hung over
one side of the bed, above the stains on the
quilt, and the pool of blood on the floor, at the
side of the bed remote from the door.

Mr. Curteis was fain to catch for support at
the bedstead which shook in his grasp, and
even then, ashen of hue and faint, turned away
his eyes, as he said,

I cannot look at this. Here, John, come
out of the room.'

Bit Lord, sir ! ' said the menial, with mouth
and eyes gaping surprise, ' who'd have thought
she'd have shot un. There's the pistol too she's
done it with on the bed. And, Lord, sk, he's
warm still ! '

Don't touch anything,' said Mr. Curteis
commanding, ' and come out of the room.'

He had himself quitted the chamber, but
the lower nature must glut its eyes, and making
a frightful grimace, and lifting his hands, the
man-servant crawled to take one nearer look,
before he followed his master from the
room.

Well, sir,' he said, ' I always knew Miss
Cassilys was one, but I didn't think she'd do
that.'

You hold your tongue, John, and go and
fetch me Mr. Charley and Mr. Keppel and
Thomas.' The man took a few steps, and Mr.
Curteis added, 'And Mr. Laurier.'

Laurier had concluded his soliloquies, and,
in excellent spirits with himself, was engaged

in preparatory arrangements for his departure
on the morrow.

A noisy knock of some dozen raps, accompanied
by, * Hi, sir ! hi ! hi, sir ! ' sounded at his
door.

Halloa ! ' replied Laurier, ' who, is that ? '

Are you gone to bed, sir ? '

No,' said Laurier coming to the door, and
opening it, and, as he looked with surprise into
the man-servant's scared face, inquiring, ' Why,
what has happened ? '

Miss Cassilys has shot Mr. Eintearn, sir ! '

What ! ' exclaimed Laurier.

Miss Cassilys, sir, has shot Mr. Eintearn 
in her bedroom, sir' (this in a lower tone).
He's lying right across thine bed, and the pistol
she's done it with by his side, and his brains
blowed out all over the room.'

Laurier was coming, with the man, along
the corridor.

'And Miss Cassilys shot him? How do
you know that ? '

He's in her room, sir. And she's one sir.
Though there's none of us thought she'd do
that.'

Could it be possible? ' thought Laurier, and
his mind misgave him, for the girl, and for
what might befal.

At' the head of the stairs, Charley, as he
came along completing a hurried semi-costume,
and Keppel in clean shirt-sleeves, neat and
-calm, as always, met him.

Charley's first word was, ' Will they try
liarcella?'

Keppel laid his hand on Laurier' s arm and
said, ' I'm glad you are here, Mr. Laurier.
I have no wish to be the only cool head in
this.'

And cool he was. It was he who, as soon
as the door was reached, outside which Mr.
Curteis stood shivering, said, ' If you, Mr.
Curteis and Mr. Laurier, agree with me that
there is no occasion for any one to enter here,
will it not be better to lock the room until the

police come? ' He it was who, on their assent,
entered, took the key, locked the door, and
gave the key into Mr. Curteis's hands. It was
he who scared John's blabbing tongue into
silence ; he who, when the question was asked,
'Who should tell Miss Cassilys,' promptly said,
No one. Tell the girl she cannot come to her
own room to-night, but must sleep with her
mother ; ' he who had on the spot looked at his
watch and knew the exact minute when he was
summoned ; he who noticed Marcella's dress
lying in the passage, and forbade its removal
till after the police had seen it there.

In the drawing-room Laurier contrived to
take down Marcella's evidence, whilst all was
still fresh in her memory, without letting her
suspect what had taken place, not, however,
without some surprise on her part and inquiries,
to which he replied, ' It was a disgraceful
affair, and as there must be investigations,
they wished to do what would be ultimately
least painful to her.' Her evidence had exactly

the nature he had once anticipated, simple,
clear, stamped with unquestionable truthfulness.
For her sake, greatly relieved to find what its
character was, he was nevertheless cold, and on
his guard with her, whilst taking it. The man
of a few hours before was changed. In the
middle Charley came in, in his great coat, and,
with his whip in his hand, bearing a message
from his father that Marcella should sleep in
her mother's room, and could not fetch anything
from her own. Her hearty ' Good-night '
in conclusion failed to elicit from Laurier more
than a faint smile and a courteous reply ; and
much mystified, and yet more pained at a
something that had hurt her, though she
could not call it unkindness, in his manner,
Marcella returned at length to Mrs. Cassilys's
room.

Charley drove off' to fetch the police ; one
of the men-servants for a surgeon. Laurier
remained with Keppel, who had, by tacit
consent, assumed a kind of authority, and with

Mr. Ciirteis received the medical man and the
police when they arrived.

I'm glad you are here, Mr. Laurier,' he
said from time to time. ' This is a shocking
affair, shocking ! ' And then he bit his thin
under lip, the only token of emotion he displayed.


As for Mr. Curteis, having said, at the outset,
' Mr. Keppel, consider everything at your
disposal ; do whatever seems to you right, and,
if you need me, send to my room,' he went to
his own den, and except when summoned with,
 Mr. Keppel wants you, sir,' replied to all
comers, ' Don't come here asking me questions.'
In the interim, he smoked, read the 'Field,'
and occasionally dozed.

In her bed Mrs. Curteis tossed to and fro
telling herself the affair was no fault of hers.
But her conscience would not be divested of
some tormenting disquiet. The tortured are
easily cruel, and in the morning, as soon as
light broke, she rose and sent for Florelle.

Flo, aroused from her sleep, came in her
peignoir, her plentiful golden hair rolled up in
loose masses.

Oh, mamma ! ' she exclaimed, stopping
abruptly in the middle of the room, and clasping
her white hands on her bosom, as her eyes
opened wide with alarm to see her mother's
terrible face, ' are you ill, mamma ? '

Come here, child,' commanded Mrs. Curteis.

The girl obeyed, slowly, with fear.

When she was near enough her mother
took her wrists and, forcing her to a nearer
approach, said in a hollow voice,

'JSTow listen.' She proceeded slowly and
in a way it was not possible not to understand,
and the paling face of the trembling, terrified
child, shrinking back so far as the length of her
arms would allow, showed only too plainly,
how clearly she understood, ' The man you
refused to marry  Mr. Eintearn  has  blown
out his brains  in despair  last night  his
corpse is upstairs  it is a horrible sight  and

poetry, history, romance, and none love to
read of it more than the best of them. Mar-cells
was no exception; and to her thinking
no love was ever told like that of Dante for
Beatrice.

Now and again the page remained unturned,
as deep reveries would rise out of the meaning
of single lines. For what does the world contain
which a woman would know in preference
to how a great man loves ? But Marcella was
often baffled, and went on again with the
thought, ' To understand one must have loved,
and I have never loved.'

When the others returned, the book was
finished, but she was still musing over it. Mrs.
Cassilys stayed in the room but a minute,
Florelle remained crouched by the fire.

I am so cold, Marcella,' she said, ' and we
have been so hideously dull. It is strange that
some people cannot be agreeable even when
they have agreeable things to say. How have
you spent the evening ? '

Dining, reading, thinking, making discoveries.'


'What have you discovered? please tell me,
I feel so dreadfully in want of something to
amuse me.'

Florelle moved from her seat, and taking
her place on the floor at Marcella's feet, leaned
her pretty head against her knees, like a tired
child, whilst her eyes gazed on the fire.

'Do you really care to hear? ' said her cousin,
putting aside the book. ' Well then.  To think
well a woman should be well dressed.  To
judge a man you must know the secrets not
only of his thoughts, but of his misfortunes. 
To understand some books you must have leda
particular kind of life.  Girls such as you
and I are to blame if we are not very happy girls.*

I am not happy,' said Florelle. ' Dear me !
it is only four days before we go back to
Wyvenhome. I wish I could always stay here.
Even then I should not be happy, though,
because I have a bad nature.' Her tone

'You shall not see Mr. Eintearn, Flo. I
promise you, faithfully,' said Charley kindly,
coaxing her hand with his, ' Come, Flo, you
can trust Charley.'

Oh, Charley, take me quite, quite away,"
pleaded the poor child, rising now, and clasping
her hands upon his shoulder, ' kind Charley,
take me quite away.'

I'll take her down to Scobble's Farm,
father,' said Charley. ' Eun up the back stairs,
Flo, get on your riding things, and come round
to the stables, as fast as you can. I'll have
everything ready.'

Flo nodded assent and ran off.

By Jove, but I am tired,' observed Charley,
sinking into a chair, and simultaneously taking
a great stretch and a great yawn.

Let someone else go with Flo to Scobble's,
Charley,' suggested Mr. Curteis.

No, father, I'll take her. She is scared,
and she will feel safe with me. Don't you



think you had better go to mother, and find
out what she has been saying to Flo ? '

Perhaps it would be as well,' replied his
father.

But when Charley was gone to see about
Flo's horse, Mr. Curteis again took up the
Field,' and remained by his own fire reading it.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE VII.

Chance threw in Charley's way, as lie passed to
the stables, Catherine, the ladies' maid. He
sent her at once to assist Florelle, and further
entrusted her with the commission of conveying
what had happened to Mrs. Cassilys, out of
Miss Cassilys's hearing, as soon as possible.

In consequence, before long, an interruption,
whilst she was dressing, a brief colloquy
in whispers, and some effective gesticulation
on the part of the French servant, put Mrs.
Cassilys in possession of the truth.

Is that Catherine ? ' asked Marcella, whose
back was turned towards them. ' I wish you
would go to my room, Catherine, and get mea
morning dress.'

It is quite impossible to go to Mademoiselle's

room, Madame,' explained Catherine ;
but I will come back presently.' Then she
left.

How should Mrs. Cassilys tell Marcella ?

She asked, ' Have you any idea who that
was in your room last night, dear ? '

None. I scarcely saw him. Who was it ? '

'Mr. Eintearn.'

Marcella tossed her head with a movement
of disgust. ' In a lady's bedroom ! '

'I would not, though, say anything against
him now, dear,' observed Mrs. Cassilys significantly.


Why, mamma ? ' She caught in the mirror
she had just approached a reflection of her
mother's face, and turning exclaimed, 'Mamma I
what is the matter ? '

Mr. Eintearn has destroyed himself.'

Mamma ! you don't say so.'

Marcella laid down the brush she held in
her hand, stood half a minute silent and still,
and then sank into the chair by the side of the
k2

toilet table, taking up her handkerchief, and
passing it two or three times across her hips.
Then she said,

Oh, but this is very, very shocking. He
always was so violent in everything. When
did this happen ? '

Why, last night in your room.'

In my room. After I came to you ? '

No,' rejoined Mrs. Cassilys slowly, and as

if surprised not to be more easily understood.

He was dead when you saw him. He had

gone up to your room whilst we were all in the

drawing-room, and shot himself on your bed

with the little French pistol you gave Charley.'

'Oh, this is horrible,' moaned Marcella,

covering her pale face. ' Please don't tell meany

more. Shocking, shocking ! ' She continued,

her speech broken by spells of silence, ' Poor

Lady Julia, her only son !  How Mr. Keppel

will feel it, too !  I wish aunty had not asked

me here.  I always knew Mr. Eintearn would

do something frightful.  How thankful I am I

did not see him.  People will speak very ill of
me.  I do fear I have been too hard, but what
can u girl say to a man she sees it would be
foolish to marry, who will give her no peace ?
I must have a black dress.  I always had a
presentiment he would do me some great harm,
and now he has put a shadow upon all my life.
Dead ! And I might have saved him ! Allover
; out of reach ! -why did aunty bring us
together ?  Oh, mamma, I feel so faint.'

She did not, however, faint, for Mrs.
Cassilys came promptly to her assistance.

Breakfast was late. At the hour when it
was usually ready, Laurier, entering the diningroom,
found the servants engaged only in the
preliminaries of preparations. He went to the
window, and, pushing aside the blind, opened
it, and stepped out on the terrace. A keen
October morning, moist but bright, with a pale
watery sunshine, formed a refreshing change
from the close melancholy of the house. A

heavy dew lay on the grass, and beaded with
pearls the autumn spiders' webs. In the low
morning lights the withering leafage presented
a brightness of pale tones peculiar to the hour,
and a sharp scent of fading foliage pervaded
the air. Laurier strolled round to the front
door, and then, sensible of relief from the short
minutes in the clear atmosphere, entered, and
taking a hat proceeded, without regarding
whither he went, to take a saunter in the park.

Selecting one of the less frequented roads,
he walked pretty briskly some three quarters
of a mile. Then the tall figure of a girl in
black, whom he recognised at a glance, passing
slowly, in the same direction as himself, along
the path before him caused him to halt.

It was Marcella come to face in the open
air what she could not face in the gloom, to
face alone what she could not otherwise nerve
herself to face at all. Her head was bent
forward, one hand hung behind her, almost as
if held there to invite him to follow and help

her. The other, to judge from the position of
her elbow, was pressed to her hips. She walked
exceedingly slowly.

Poor girl,' thought Laurier.

But he was the last man to intrude himself
on her trouble. He let her gain some twenty-yards,
and then stepping on the grass followed
her with inaudible tread till a fork in the path
enabled him to take a road different from hers.

She walked on without changing her pose
or pace. The narrower way he had chosen
ran, he found, parallel with hers, a little above
it, screened from it by an irregular growth of
shrubs and trees. He had soon overtaken and
passed her, and, availing himself of a convenient
opportunity, stood aside to gain a
closer view of her as she approached.

The broad brim of her hat hid her face,
but he saw that she held her handkerchief in
the hand that pressed her lips. It was probable
she was weeping.

She proceeded a little farther, and then

with a sigh loud enough to reach him came
to a stop, joining her hands and stretching
them down before her. A seat was near, and,
stepping to it, she dropped into one corner as if
weary. At times she was restless, supporting
her head now on one hand, now on the other,
moving on her seat, and leaning now in this
way, now in that ; at other times she would be
motionless, her fingers knitted in her lap, her
eyes fixed on her feet.

Then she rose, looked right and left, and
turned back. When she had gone a Httle past
the spot where he first saw her she turned
again.

Ignorant that the seat and the spot where
she turned marked parts of the unfrequented
road, beyond which it was visible from the
house, Laurier began to form the opinion she
expected someone.

Presently came sounds of an approaching
horse. Marcella started, and caught nervously
at her shawl. Another minute during which

she stood watching, and the horse came insight.
It was Charley returning from Scobble's.

Marcella ! ' he exclaimed, sharply reining
up, and jumping from his horse to her
side.

He laid his hand in a familiar way across
her shoulders. ' Poor Marcella ! ' he said
tenderly.

Marcella lifted her face, terribly white in
its marble grief, and Charley bent and kissed
several times the pallid lips she offered him.

Don't cry, Marcella,' he said.

No, Charley, I won't cry. I have not
been crying.'

Charley took his horse's bridle on his arm,
and they walked away together, she leaning
on his arm. Marcella was speaking again,

I can face it, Charley, and I shall face it
well, you shall see ; and '

Then they were too far off for Laurie to
hear any words, and soon had passed out of
sisfht.

Laurier folded his arms. ' Of course,' he
thought, but it was evident the thought cost
him pain, ' and what could be more natural
or more to be desired, except that they are
first cousins. Bah ! I am attempting special
pleading with myself. I cannot with justice
say I wish I had seen it before. I have seen
it twenty times, if I had chosen to understand.'

Mr. Laurier' s compliments, ma'am, and,
if you could see him, he would like to say
good-bye to you and Miss Cassilys before he
leaves.'

Marcella and her mother were upstairs in
Florelle's little sitting-room. Marcella, weary
of mind with the labour of considering how
it became her, under her difficult circumstances,
to behave, and prostrated past everything
except waiting for fresh strength, satin
an arm-chair by the hearth taciturn and
languid. Already she had been made to feel
a difference of position. Some of the guests

FAIR AND FREE. 139

in the house, it was true, had been markedly
kind and considerate, but others, which largely
increased her distress, had shunned her in a
manner not to be misunderstood. Mrs.
Cassilys sat on the sofa opposite her. She
had just come from a free grumble with Mr.
Curteis concerning the annoying nature of
the whole adair, in which, to judge from the
way they spoke, a hearer might have supposed
them the two persons of all chiefly aggrieved.
She was now sitting silent, leaving her daughter
to herself, as the kindest thing that could be
done.

She took the card from the servant. ' I
suppose everyone is leaving,' she said.

Yes, ma'am.'

Will you see Mr. Laurier, Marcella ? '

If you like,' replied the girl indifferently.

Mrs. Cassilys bade the servant bring Mr.
Laurier up.

I think Mr. Laurier might have asked to
see me before this,' remarked Marcella when

they were again alone. ' It is an occasion
when, if his regard for me is worth anything,,
he should have shown it me. But this is a
mere courtesy, probably to indicate his sense
of the loss of caste I have undergone.'

Mrs. Cassilys made a little grimace.

Marcella,' she said, ' your pride will be
your ruin. Can't you remember that this man
is very really in love with you, and has on him
all the shyness of love ? You have misjudged
him in taking for a slight his not directly
coming to see you. If you are going to
persevere in that kind of thing, you will lose
him.'

'I daresay I shall  scarcely out of my
heart though.' She spoke pensively, more as
to herself than to her mother.

Very pretty, Marcella, but uncommonly
like some of poor Mr. Eintearn's speeches.'

'Mamma ! ' expostulated Marcella.

I beg your pardon, my dear ; but listen,,
here comes Mr. Laurier.'

The man I love,' thought Marcella ; ' now
what help will he bring me ? '

Laurier entered He was mentally assuring
himself he was doing a foolish thing.
When they had shaken hands, and some
formal thanks for his courtesy in coming to
bid them farewell, and some commonplace
inquiries had been exchanged, Mrs. Cassilys
excused herself, and, wishing Laurier a pleasant
journey to town, where, she added, she
hoped they might meet again, left the room.

He closed the door behind her, and
remained standing as if immediately about to
make his adieu to Marcella.

Will you not sit down ? ' she suggested.

He took the seat on the sofa Mrs. Cassilys
had left, and began to speak rapidly of his
return to work, the things he intended todo,
and similar subjects. Marcella, directly
opposite, sat still, frequently lifting her eyes
to his face, with some look of surprise at the
topics of which he preferred to speak.

When he paused she leaned back in the
corner of her chair, and, shading her face 'with
a Japanese fire-screen taken from the chimney-piece,
asked hesitatingly,

Mr. Laurier  is that  all  you have to
say to me  on a morning  so difficult for meas
this is ? '

He averted his eyes from hers.

I want, please, to know what you think,*
she asked more firmly. ' Do you blame me 
much ? '

Indeed, Miss Cassilys, I have no claim to
judge your conduct.' He spoke coldly.

Her eyes dropped, and she heaved a long
sigh,

I see,' she said, toying with the fire-screen,
 my position, in your judgment, is a good deal
changed. Well  you are mistaken. I have
thought of it well, and I know I am not
changed.'

He looked at her at last. It was a look not
unkind, but hard and searching.

Nor is my opinion of you changed, Miss
Cassilys,' he said slowly, and with evident difficulty
; ' my regard for you: character is not of
the kind that alters in a night.'

Then tell me what you think, how far you
blame me ? '

I blame no one.'

That means  if any one else had said it, I
should have said  nothing. As you have said
it, I will try to think what it means.'

He rose and stood with his back to the fire.
Her last speech demanded an answer more
cogently than any request could, and he, after
a little silence, replied,

I think, you know, that it was very natural
Mr. Eintearn should have formed a great regard
for you  and equally natural you should
not have been able to reciprocate it  and, with
his temperament, I fear the rest was inevitable.'

He spoke with an extraordinary calmness
and composure.

Then at least you do not blame me.'

Not at all.'

'I am glad, very glad. I would rather
have been thought guilty by all the rest and
guiltless by you, than guilty by you and
guiltless by all the rest.'

Your opinion of my judgment is very
flattering, Miss Cassilys,' he answered with

a smile ; ' and now ' He paused. ' By

the way  that is well thought of  there
must be a coroner's inquest, you know,
and you will be examined, possibly, very
closely.'

He proceeded to give her some hints of
what would take place, putting before her the
sort of questions that would be asked her, and
showing her the kind of answers she should
confine herself to giving in reply. And he
pointed out that a circumstantial account of
what occurred in the turret at the ruins would
more than suffice to satisfy a coroner's jury of
Eintearn's insanity, without a further introduction
into the evidence of other circumstances.

that might be better passed over for his sake
and for her own.

She listened with patience, and at the end
said simply, ' Thanks.' Then she asked
quickly, ' Was Mr. Eintearn mad ? '

Laurier shrugged his shoulders. ' It is the
fashion to say so,' he said, 'but  really  I
suspect no more than any other man who does
foolish things.'

That is what I think.'  A little pause. 
I fear, Mr. Laurier, people will say very hard
things of me. That is a painful thing for a
woman.'

Those who hear of it will, some of them,
say strange things,' he answered, ' and afterwards
treat you  as it is their interest to treat
you  that is, much as before, Miss Cassilys.'

He looked down at her bent head, with its
fine hair daintily parted. There was much
more he would fain have said, for he could seethe
woman's heart was heavy. But all that
was another man's right, and he was not going

VOL. II. L

to trespass on it. Then he moved from the
fire, and said he must bid her good-bye.

She rose and lay her hand in the hand he
offered, looking some sorrow into his eyes.

I am very sorry for your trouble, Miss
Cassilys,' he said, speaking slowly and clearly,
but, at least, it has not been deserved ; and I
believe your own way of thinking and looking
at life will enable you to master it, very possibly
to bring good out of it. Anyhow, I am
sure yours is not the character to be disheartened
to find that the world is what it is.
And then before I go  I think you know that
you have taught me something  may I say for
it  thanks  and, that men cannot always help
it  and, that I beg your pardon ? Good-bye,
Miss Cassilys.'

He turned from her quickly, as her hand
fell from his, and without looking round walked
to the door.

Good-bye,' said Marcella, in an undertone,
as her eyes followed him going.

The door opened and closed. He was
gone.

Marcella returned to her seat.

Of course he meant he had not been able
to help liking her very much, and believed she
would be offended at it. What should have
made him think that ?

She tried to understand, but her thought
would not work. Everything got unintelligibly
muddled with everything else. The only fact
clear was a great disappointment. She gave
up the endeavour to think, till her nerves
had had time to recover their senses, and leaned
back in the soft, luxurious chair, motionless,
purposeless, thinking of nothing.

Her mother returned.

Mr. Laurier is gone,' observed Marcella,
without looking up.

So I see.'

Mrs. Cassilys took a paper-knife from the
table and commenced cutting a magazine she
L 2

had on her lap. After a time Marcella spoke
again,

He has got it into his head that I don't
care for him.'

Naturally, seeing nothing has ever been
said or done to make him think otherwise.'

I don't see that, mamma. Dear me, I
had no idea how I had come to look forward
to seeing him day by day. I shall miss him
very much.'

Of course, dear, you took very good care
that he should not suppose you were going to
miss him at all, nor suspect that you cared a
straw whether you ever saw him again or not.'

I am not going to tell a man I love him
before he has unequivocally told me he loves
me, nor to show it him either,' replied the girl
proudly.

Ko, poor man, I don't suppose he got
much encouragement.'

It seemed to Marcella he had had quite as
much as any man has any right to receive.

After a time Tommy, having been a dozen
times forbidden to do so, managed to escape
from the nursery and to steal to his aunt and
cousin.

Aunty Eleanor,' began the child, ' if you
please I want to come to you, though I mustn't.
In the nursery I must not play nor anything,
and it is quite dark with all the blinds down.
And I'm not to go out, and I must not laugh, and I
don't know what to do. May I stay with you ? '

What nonsense this is,' said Marcella, ' to
punish the child. Come here. Tommy, and I
will tell you a tale.'

Presently Mrs. Cassilys left the room for a
few minutes. Tommy promptly interrupted
Marcel's tale.

I want to tell you something, cousin
Marcella.'

What is that ? '

Do you know  Mr. Eintearn is dead.'

I know. Tommy. It is very dreadful.
We must not talk about it.'

'No. I know  but  you won't tell, will
you  if I tell you something ? '

I won't tell.'

I'm glad' said Tommy in an emphatic
whisper.

Hush, Tommy ! That is very naughty.
You must not say that.'

Yes, I know it is naughty,' replied Tommy
aloud. ' But I know he wanted to marry you,,
and now he can't. And I'm glad.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

The task of telling Lady Julia Keppel undertook.


He had started early, Charley driving him
down to catch the first train, before it was
light. As they parted at the station Keppel
said,

Be sure Miss Cassilys knows everything
before we arrive, and tell her, in case Lady
Julia asks to see her, she must decline to be seen.
That,' he looked at Charley significantly, ' is as
much for her own sake as for Lady Jura's.'

Before the end of his railway journey was
reached day had dawned. He took a horse
and rode to Sritten Court.

A thin mist hung among the trees of the
park, and a quiet, stilly look of unchangeableness

rested on the whole scene. Nature has no
sympathies with man.

An old man came hobbling from the lodge
to open the gate.

Ei, lor, sir, Mr. Keppel, be it you ? ' he
said. ' Well now, you be early this morning.
Her ladyship was speaking of you, sir, tome
'

Throwing the man sixpence, Keppel pushed
his horse through as soon as there was room to
pass between the gate and the post, and pressed
on.

Well, there now,' said the old man, ' I
never saw Mr. Keppel in a hurry afore.'

Keppel pushed on at a sharp trot along the
well-known road, between the iron railings,
past the familiar clumps of trees and views of
meadow and lawn, with peeps of Sritten Court
appearing and disappearing with the turns of
the road.

Poor Jack's inheritance,' he thought.
 Poor Jack ! '

At the door he asked, ' Is Lady Juha down

.yet?

At breakfast, sir.'

Keppel walked past the footman and went
to the breakfast-room. Lady Juha was breakfasting
alone at the end of the table, opening
and reading her morning letters the while. As
Keppel entered she looked up, and said, ' Eh,
Mr. Keppel ! Good-morning, Hunt.'

He came down the room, and, pushing a
chair up to the corner of the table near her, as
she sat down again (for she had risen to shake
hands), said,

I am come with the very worst of news.'

The imperious old woman eyed him unflinchingly.
' Yes,' she said ; * what ? '

Jack has shot himself.'

He said it quickly, just above a whisper,
but firmly.

Lady Julia leaned forward, and her head
sank on her breast. Very soon she looked up
and said,

That is all, then.'

She meant father, mother, daughter, hus-p*
band, son.

Then she asked, ' When was this, and
where ? '

Ijast night at Wyvenhome. He shot himself
in Miss Cassilys's bedroom. She had refused
him '

I know. The young woman did her duty,'
interrupted Lady Julia. ' Go on.'

I had no idea you knew of this,' continued
Keppel with surprise. ' After that, as indeed
before for I always thought she would refuse
him  I urged him to return to you. When he
left Wyvenhome I hoped he had done so. But
it appears he secretly returned to the house,
and when Miss Cassilys went to her room in the
evening she found him there, dead.'

Lady Julia drew her lips tightly together,
and sat with her eyes set in a steady, level gaze
straight before her. Then she said,

I must see my boy, Hunt.'

Take my serious advice  don't. It will
do him no good, poor fellow ; and you will
only be dreadfully distressed.'

I must see him, Hunt.'

Lady Julia, be advised, don't attempt this.'

But all dissuasion was vain. ' Like motherlike
son, no persuading them ; no wonder they
could not agree,' thought Keppel. The carriage
was ordered, and Lady JuHa went to dress. In
the interim Keppel breakfasted.

In the train (scarcely a word had been sofar
exchanged) Lady Julia said suddenly,

John did come to me yesterday. He came
about five in the afternoon.'

Indeed ! You saw him then ? '

No ; I refused to see him. I had bidden
him return to me in three days or not at all,
and he had disobeyed me.'

Keppel bit the inside of his lip.

At Wyvenhome Lady Julia requested she
might see no one but her son. Her wish was
made known, and on her arrival the house

might have been taken for one deserted. At
the last moment Keppel again essayed dissuasion,
but Lady Julia was obdurate. Commandingly
she set aside all he urged ; and,
even declining his offer to accompany her into
the library, where the body lay, entered alone 
erect, austere, imperious, as ever.

Keppel, she had requested it, waited without.

It was long before she returned, between
three quarters of an hour and an hour. Then
the door opened very softly and she stole out.

A broken old woman, with palsied limbs,
with hanging head, with tremulous, drooping
lips.

Keppel regarded her with alarm.

'Hunt,' she stammered, with difficulty,
I must do justice  the only atonement I
can  make. What I can  for this girl  I
shall make  this only atonement  in my
power.'

She thrust her trembling arm within his,
.and leaned, quivering, against him.

Has she lost her senses, poor woman ? 
wondered Keppel.

Not lost, poor woman, but found them ;
only, as some unhappy people are doomed tO'
discover everything, too late. In that terrible
gloom, with her dead son, at last had broken
upon her the truth of her way, and his,
with a crushed repentance that was fain
to do what it could in the way of tardy
amends.

Let us go on,' she said, wearily ; ' I must
see Miss Cassilys. Let us go into some room,,
and then send for her.'

They went into the dining-room and a
message was sent to Marcella, Keppel congratulating
himself on his precautionary warning
to Charley. In a few minutes the servant
returned. 'Miss Cassilys's compliments, and
she is in the little drawing-room at Lady Julia
Eintearn's service.'

Lady Julia rose. ' Show me the way,' she
said to the servant, with a little of her old.

authority. Then, turning to Keppel, ' Wait forme
here till I return.'

As if fatigued, she followed the servant out
of the room.

Marcella stood by the fire in the little
drawing-room. She had on a black silk, one
of her own obtained at last. Only a sense of
the consideration a terrible grief should find
had occasioned her consent to see Lady Julia,
and the hardened lines of her handsome face
and its chill pallor showed her mind presaged
an ordeal.

The door opened, and Lady Julia entered
slowly. Marcella advanced to meet her. They
met in the middle of the room, tall women of
about the same height, face to face.

But in an instant Marcella had sunk her
eyes before the sight of a face of agony, whose
terribleness made her heart sicken, and changed
her colour to ashes.

So they stood more than a minute, the
girl's motionless form undulated in one of those

postures of grace that made a part of her
nature, the fingers of her right hand nervously
clenched at her side, her white neck guiltily
bent, and her colourless face turned to the
ground at the left of her feet.

Then Lady Julia said, ' Miss Cassilys, look
at me.'

Slowly Marcella lifted and turned her face.
Her hands, joining each other, hung before her
with fingers interlaced ; and with her head inclined
the least trifle forwards, she faced as
she could the old nobleman's terrible gaze of
scrutiny and woe.

To satisfy her ladyship took long. At last
she said, ' Sit down. Miss Cassilys.'

Marcella complied with thankfulness. Lady
Julia seated herself at her side.

How old are you, my lass ? ' she asked ina
tone as far as could be from that Marcella
had anticipated.

Twenty-two, Lady Julia ; nearly twenty-three.'


Yes, yes, yes, yes,' muttered the old
woman ; ' I lead something to say to you

A long silence. Then Lady Julia, again,

I must  must  hm.'

What is it you wish to say to me ? ' asked
the girl in her gentlest way, 'something you
wish me to tell you, or would like me to do ? '

No, no, no.'

Another silence.

I wish you to know,' recommenced Lady
Julia, ' one must do what one can. Why did
you refuse to marry my son ? '

He was too far above me in rank and
wealth for us to have married wisely ; and I
knew his friends disliked the idea of it, and,
I thought, justly, for many reasons.'

Did you ever tell him that ? '

I did. Lady Julia, and very many times.'

Yes. I know you did. It was not you 
I have something to say to you. All I can do
now is to say it. I shall manage it presently,
my dear.' Then suddenly she took Marcella's

wrist, and catching her breath between her
words, said, ' It was I  killed him. I loved
him dearly, and I wanted him to see it, don't
you understand? And I could not bear his
having any way but mine. I  I'  the poor
miserable woman was literally shaking Marcella
in her grasp  ' I  he came to me, to Sritten
Court, yesterday, and I would not see him. I
had told him not to speak again to you, and I
had bidden him to come back to me within
three days, and he disobeyed me  and I refused
to see him, and ordered him to leave the
house.  Wait ; I will tell you the rest presently.'
After a long pause she spoke again,
I sent him a message by the servant,  since
he had preferred you  you must not be angry
with a miserable old woman. I have my
punishment  since he preferred you to me, to
go back to you. And so  you know  he went
back. But I had made him desperate. And
you  my poor child  don't blame yourself 
take your young life  he loved you well '

VOL. II. M

She relinquished Marcella's wrist, and leaning
forward at last began to sob.

It is pitiful to see the young weep, but the
tears of age are terrible.

Marcella rose, and stood looking down,
wondering what a stranger should do in the
presence of grief so dread. Then, bending to
Lady Julia's ear, she said gently, ' I am going
away for a little while to see that no one comes
in here, and will return presently.'

She locked the folding doors between the
two drawing-rooms, and then almost noiselessly
glided from the room by the other
entrance.

When she returned it was with some refreshments,
which she brought in her own
hands. After a time a gentle persuasion
induced Lady Julia to partake of them, the girl
either waiting upon her or respectfully sitting
silent and apart. Now and then Lady Julia's
eyes stole a long glance at the still form and pensive
face by the hearth, but nothing was said.

At last Lady Julia rose. Marcella came to
her.

Before you go, Lady Julia,' she said, bending,
' I wish to express my endless thanks for
your great consideration for me.'

Lady Julia took her hand, and drew her to
her as if meaning to say something more.
But words for it, whatever it was, failed her,
and she only said,

Give me your arm to the carriage. Miss
Cassilys.'

At the carriage door she asked, ' Could
you come with me to the station, and then Mr.
Keppel could stay here ? '

In a few minutes Marcella rejoined her
dressed for the drive.

Arrived at the station, she persuaded Lady
Julia to remain in the carriage till the train
came in. She herself alighted and made
arrangements, insisting with the guard on an
empty compartment, when the train arrived,
and conducting Lady Juha to it. Then, the

M 2

old lady's knees carefully wrapped in her rugs
and a final ojQfer to accompany her further,
should she wish it, refused, Marcella bade her
farewell, and having closed the carriage door,
dropped her a curtsy as the train rolled
off.

Lady Julia leaned back in the corner of
the compartment. ' Would,' she murmured
that I could change lots with Mrs. Cassilys.'

Marcella came back to Wy venom  crying
as if her heart would burst.

When evening fell the party was reduced
to the small circle of the family alone. Even
Keppel was gone, to town, to arrange matters of
business.

In the little drawing-room, before dinner,
Mrs. Curteis found opportunity for a short
talk with Marcella, seated with a book open
but unread in her lap, and with her eyes still
disfigured by their storms of tears.

This is a bad business for you, Marcella,'

she said, proceeding to warm her hands at the
fire.

A sad one. But it is for poor Lady Julia
I grieve. I have been only unlucky.'

A bit guilty, Marcella.'

No, aunty,' replied the girl with aplomb,
 I have nothing with which to reproach myself.
I almost wish I had. It would lighten
this poor Lady Julia's agony.'

Hem  Well. It will make a great difference
in your life, Marcella.'

No, none.'

Ah, don't deceive yourself with that
thought, niece. You'll have to descend after
this. You'll soon find it out. You are a marked
woman, you know ; and a woman marked is a
woman branded. The rest who are not marked
make her know it too. You are not one of us,
you know, now. You have lost caste. Yesterday
you might have made a grand match. I
don't say you wished it. To-day you could
not if you wished it. You will find the

men shy of your charms after this, Marcella,
and not the men alone, other people too. You
belong, you see, to the class of women who
have occasioned suicides. It is very hard on
you, of course, but it is so. Dear me ! What a
blow this would have been to your poor father.'

Marcella bent her head over the book in
her lap. ' I don't think so,' she said pensively.

Ah, you don't see things in their real light.
Has your mother said anything about it ? '

Hardly anything.'

Ah. Your uncle ? '

Nothing.'

And Mr. Keppel, you have spoken to him
nothing ? '

I know what you wish to insinuate, aunty,'
said Marcella, looking up at her and speaking
firmly, ' and I entirely refuse to admit it. My
own temperament is not changed, and my mind
is not changed, and this insinuation that I am
changed is simply unjust.'

'My dear niece, your circumstances are

changed. The world knows nothing about
temperaments, and cares nothing about thoughts.
It judges of facts. There is a fact in your Hfe
to-day that was not there twenty-four hours
ago  you are right, and very clever to affect to
disregard it, because you cannot alter it ; but
still it is there, and that fact is  that you, with
your coquetries, have been the cause of a man's
shooting himself.'

So triumphant was Mrs. Curteis's tone, that
One might really imagine you were glad of
it,' flashed across Marcella's brain. But she
thrust the thought aside with a sharp self-reproof
for the presence of so mean a suspicion.
From the self-defence she might easily have
set up, after what Lady Juha had said, she
refrained. It would have been to abuse the
consideration shown her. But in the view of
speeches such as her aunt's, the things Laurier
had spoken in the morning, judged at the time
so cold and few, began to take the appearance
of words just and helpful and kind. Their

quiet, dispassionate nature, felt then to diminish
their value, turned now to enhance it.

Unaccustomed thoughts accompanied Mar-cells
to her pillow that night, thoughts of
gathering heavy clouds, fears for the future
that refused to be dispelled.

CHAPTEE IX.

London received Laurier once more. It is never
with indifference that the inhabitant of a great
city returns into its life, and Laurier felt an impression
of relief as the hansom, rumbling out
from under the grim pile of King's Cross,
brought before his eyes the not comely but
familiar view of the Pentonville Eoad, and the
low-lying station of the Metropolitan Railway.

He had got back to town, and what he had
left behind him, somehow assumed an air of
unreality.

And when he found himself again in his
quiet chambers in the Inner Temple, the cab
dismissed, the luggage deposited in the little
lobby, the journey home, a thing of the past,
with all the rest, it became difficult to accept

the history of the last three weeks for
true.

Yet, as he satin the window-seat, and looked
out on King's Bench Walk, at the mellowed
red-brick buildings, the hall and library, and
the rough pebble pavement, and the sycamore
trees on which remained so many fewer leaves
than on the trees at Wyvenhome, it was not
without a feeling of regret that he thought
with himself,

And so here am I once more, to commence
the old routine. My holiday is ended, and all
that down there is ended, and this foolishness
about Miss Cassilys too. A sort of waking
dream.' He rose and began to unpack.

The room, it was his sitting-room, was a
small one, on the second floor, in King's Bench
Walk, on which its two narrow front windows
looked out. A little window-seat was fitted in
each. A round table occupied the middle of
the chamber, and a smaller round table with a
little sofa and some chairs made up the simple

furniture, of no particular kind, of a room
plainly papered and carpeted. In the recesses
on both sides of the fireplace stood bookshelves
filled to overflowing with literature of
a very miscellaneous description. A few prints,
of no value, but chosen with taste, hung upon
the walls. On the mantel-piece was a clock,
and a pair of bronze candlesticks representing
Nubians, and above, some riding-whips and
foils.

The room was entered from a lobby, from
which another door opened on the staircase.
This lobby was panelled and painted grey. It
had queer, low seats all round, with lids that
opened like lockers. Into the same lobby
opened the bedroom, and a third chamber set
apart for business, a more formal one, boasting
many chairs, a big bookshelf partly empty,
partly occupied by works exclusively legal,
and a large table covered with leather, on
which stood a reading lamp and a writing
desk. In one corner of this room a window,.

Cassilys. as she left the room, thankful to be
able to dismiss the whole affair from her
thought, ' but what confidence the child has ! '

Soon Morelle, secretly on the watch for
Mrs. Cassilys's departure, interrupted a solitude
her cousin could have wished longer.

Was I right, Marcella ? ' she asked with
curiosity.

You were.'

'Isn't it horrid?'

I can't say I enjoyed it.'

And whom have you orders to marry ;
Mr. Eintearn?'

'No.'

Ah, then it is F. D. G. K K. Hammer-branch.
He has the most money, and so the
burthen of the song is, " Keep your heart whole
for F. D. G. K. K. H." ' She had seated herself
at her ease in an immense arm-chair, and as
she spoke designed in the air, with a flourish of
her hand, the letters she named.

You are again wrong.'

'Oh, Marcella! It's not Charley, is it?'
exclaimed Florelle, jumping from her seat with
pleasure, and running across to where her
cousin sat, where she knelt on the floor and
looked up into her face, saying, 'And we
shall be sisters. I have so often thought of
that.'

No,' a little coldly.

Somebody else ! Aunty has found a new
big fish," to quote papa. Or is it something
about Mr. Laurier ? '

Why should it be anything about Mr,
Laurier ? '

Because you are the only girl he cares to
speak to.'

I have not noticed it.'

Then other people have,' remarked Florelle,
with a little important nod of her pretty head.
Marcella, you are nasty,' she went on as she
rose from her knees, 'you might as well tell
about whom it is.'

It is not about any one except myself.'

For, it was not to be concealed from himself,
he had need of distractions.

He had expected to be summoned to attend
the inquest on Eintearn, but there was more
than an ample abundance of evidence without
his, and a desire to conduct the affair as quietly
as was possible, and he was not sent for.

It was a disappointment, for of course she
must have been there.

So quietly, dully, glided away the rest of
October. The days grew shorter, and shorter,
and the weather more bleak. The last leaves
were long since down and swept away from the
walk, and the wind soughed wearily about the
courts of the Temple. Men came back to town
in numbers. Some avowed Guy Laurier somewhat
changed, and others reported to him that
they had said it, but none seemed to know how
or why. As days pass fewer men come to see
him and he begins to leave off calling on them ;
at least he discovers he lives more alone, and
aloof from the rest of them than formerly.

But when the day is done, his Httle room is
pleasant and snug, with the old curtains drawn,
and the fire blazing in the grate, and he would
as lief be alone as not, with a book and a good
cigar, bending his mind to his study, and keeping
some thoughts as far from himself as he
can.

And now the sittings have recommenced,
and harder work, heavy work, very heavy
work, that leaves few hours or even minutes to
spare. That is partially due to Keppel, who,
without a hint of solicitation, has exerted his
effective influence here and there to push and
pull Laurier forwards. He has three times the
business he had, and a growing success and
repute proportionate with it.

So the studies have been thrust aside, and
the evenings, often till late at night, are devoted
to getting up work for the morrow. The health
and strength recruited in the summer are taxed,
taxed to their very end, for the man is throwing
himself with more than all his mind and

strength into great fatigues, thankful and wishful
to have neither spare hours nor energies.

For he has a great battle to fight with himself.


And as he knocks off, with a sort of impatience,
the ash from the end of a cigar,
against the old-fashioned grate, or folds up a
brief and tosses it down, or jerks a book back
into its place on the shelf, or stands unoccupied
for an instant to look down through the long
telescope of dingy walls to his narrow glimpse
of the cold Thames, he says to himself, ' Who
could have thought it? Who could have
thought it?'

For him, too, Hke all the rest, the ' Eternal
Feminine ' has become a fact, and his rest is
gone from him.

At Wyvenhome the inquest went off very
quietly. Partly owing to Keppel's intervention,
and partly out of a feeling of respect, Lady
Julia was questioned only in the briefest and

most formal way. Marcella was necessarily one
of the principal witnesses, and was subjected
to a very sharp examination. The manifest
veracity of her unaffected replies gave her at
once the confidence of the court ; but, for all
that, the affair assumed for her an aspect excessively
distressing. As step by step was
detailed the story of how she had refused
Eintearn, it was plain that the feelings of both
jury and spectators were becoming strongly
prejudiced against her, and this to so great a
degree that her conduct was publicly censured
by the coroner as heartless and vindictive in
the most unqualified sense.

She bore the brow-beating well, looking
him in the face whilst he spoke, with features
empty alike of reproach or dismay, telling herself
in her thoughts, that the great, bare room of
the country inn, with its hideous walls, and
more hideous varnished pictures of celebrated
jockeys on celebrated racers, the stale smell,
and the straining crowd of clowns was a part of

VOL. II. N

the price of life, which, the thing being worth
the price, it became a woman of spirit to pay-without
complaint.

Once only she remonstrated in the words,.
I regret that my conduct appears to you to
have been so largely reprehensible, but I can
only tell you the truth.'

It was easy enough, if she chose, to make
her case stand in another light; but a deadman's
defencelessness and a broken-hearted
woman's feelings were to be considered, and
Marcella Cassilys's nature preferred to spare
them rather than itself.

Then for half an hour they laboured ta
make her say she believed Eintearn insane,,
putting the question direct in every conceivable
form, trying to get her to admit things that
implied it, descending to the expedient of tripping
her in her speech with quibbles, but all
without success. Her replies were always insubstance
the same,

Mr. Eintearn was naturally inflexible, a

man who could not brook failure. He sometimes
appeared to her to have a natural propensity
to be violent, but that propensity he
almost always had under control

Even when the coroner suggested, ' Would
it not much mitigate you: own grounds for
self-reproach. Miss Cassilys, to think this unfortunate
gentleman was not master of his
actions ? ' she only replied, ' Whether he was
master of his actions or not I am unable to
say ; I suspect he was so throughout.'

It would be less painful for you to think
otherwise.'

In the end it will be least painful for me
to face the truth,' replied Marcella characteristically.


In effect her evidence narrowly failed of
procuring a verdict oi felo-dense. Ultimately,
however, the jury at the end of an hour and a
half brought it in temporary insanity. To what
extent that was due to Eintearn's own name

N 2

I.

and Mr. Ciirteis's influence might be painful for
the lover of justice and truth to inquire.

Then the whole affair was hushed up as
quickly and entirely as was feasible.

Keppel accompanied Lady Julia back to
Sritten Court.

That girl Miss Cassilys has behaved well,'
he said as they drove away, ' she could, if she
had chosen to exculpate herself, have said with
truth some things you and I should have been
sorry to hear, and poor Jack would not have
liked to have publicly made known. He
behaved uncommonly badly to her, and she
has behaved uncommonly generously to his
memory.'

In Mr. Curteis's carriage with her mother
Marcella leaned back in her corner.

Now that dreadful business is finished at
last,' she observed, ' and I am going to forget
all about it, as fully and as fast as I can.'

My dear girl, how they have harried and
slandered you ! '

Don't speak of it, mamma. It is finished,
and it was, in reality, no fault of mine, and I
am not going to think any more about it.
Instead ; when are we going to leave Wyven-
home ? Where are we going ? And what shall
wee do when we get there ? '

They left in two days, and went to Torquay.

There Marcella was fated to find that her
aunt's words respecting her being a marked
woman had more reason than was quite
pleasant. Indisputably there were people who
regarded her with shyness, and by no means
people of the worse sort ; whilst, which was
worse, some of the men, not of the best sort,
dared with her a tone that implied they accepted
her for a young lady with an adventure attached
to her name. Nor was it once or twice that
she overheard passers-by remark, ' That is that
Miss Cassilys, for whom Lord Langley's nephew
shot himself.'

However, as time went on she kept her
word to herself, and effected a tolerably satisfactory

erasure from her memory of the shock
of her unfortunate admirer's suicide. If the
black spectre rose, and sometimes it would Time,
immediate diversion, mostly of a quiet kind,
put it to flight, until, after the manner of disregarded
spectres, it ceased to importunate her
with its appearance.

After that she had leisure of time, and of
mind, to think.

She missed Laurier far less than she anticipated.


She loved him less, then? No, more.

In the sunrise of love, a woman of a refined
nature foregoes with ease the presence of the
man she loves, exactly as he is unquiet each
instant he has to spend away from her side.
This is why she, able to do without him, is
always coquette with him, and he, unable
to do without her, diffident, exacting, insatiable.


For these two creatures, woman and man,
are not only moulded in differing forms, but

are unlike down to the very primary elements
of their existence.

A man and a woman draw their breath indifferent
ways.

She breathes almost exclusively by the
heaving of her bosom, he by internal invisible
organisations that leave his breast comparatively
motionless.

The simple act of every breath may serve
well for a symbol of their essentially differing
natures. His being is something latent, for of
force the nature is to be latent, and hers is
something seen, for it is of the nature of the
effect to be seen. Her ears fall in love with
the word that stirs in his soul, his eyes with
her soul come to light in her face. The spell
of divinity that dwells in her is forfeited when
she is rudely unveiled, that in him when he is
reduced into dependence. And therefore the
old order of things that he shall take and she
be taken, that he shall pursue and she consent,
that he shall protect her life, and she crown

his, is not of the institution of states, nor of the
customs of societies, nor of the convenience of
men, but of the essence of things, irremovable
as gravitation.

And so she is furnished with every instinct
of things that are pursued, and he with every
instinct of the creatures that pursue, she with
every grace and gift that can make her a guerdon
of guerdons, creation's having, conscious flower
whose soul is the breath of eternity, he with all
determination and cunning to find, to take, to
retain.

Wherefore she can wait, and he cannot.

Still it was a disjointed dualistic sort of life
that Marcella at this time led, one that, when
the mornings were mild, led her to sit on the
pebbled beach, and number the beauty of
fresh wavelets coming in, dubious of herself,
whether still to wait and wait, or not
to wait any more, a wishing and not wishing,,
a willingness to advance with a reluctance to
move.

When at the end of each week Mrs. Cassilys
said, ' The weather is so fine I think we might
stay a week longer,' Marcella felt glad, and yet
she counted the time long.

But beyond doubt he was happy and well,,
not in reality very far away, and possibly growing
fonder of her, as she was of him, or so at
least she loved to think, and as she had only to
smile to bring him to her feet, woman that she
was, she would rather for the present wait in
her new happiness, and taste it to the full  like
one who knew a spell, and forecasting its power
of bliss, stood amused to put off from moment
to moment to speak it.

How unlike it all was to anything experienced
before ! How immensely thankful
it made her that she had rejected those many
other unreciprocated loves she had wisely put
away from her.

One morning seated on the beach, lost
in thought that prevented her hearing footsteps
that approached, she was surprised by a

hand laid on lier shoulder, and a voice that
said,

Marcella.'

It was Theoo, dressed more showily than
ever. She sat down by Marcella.

Mr. Stryne had been unwell, and was to
spend the winter in Devonshire, and they had
all come to Torquay.

And how is your cousin Mr. Curteis ? ' next
asked Theoo.

Very well,' replied Marcella, ' he is going
to take to trade. Fancy Charley setting to
work ! Is it not strange ? However, he has
been seized with a sudden passion for making a
fortune, and I suppose there is no other way.
1 fear only it will take him a long time.'

Theoo had fallen silent. After a while she
said,

He is such a nice fellow. I hope he will
succeed. When you write to him give him my
kind regards, and tell him I think it so plucky
of him, to go in for doing something. Will you ? '

Certainly. And Prince Charming, has he
appeared yet ? '

Prince Charming has.'

Finally and fatally ? ' It was asked with
a little regret.

Oh no, it is not quite so bad as that.'

Ton are not engaged then yet, Theoo ? '

Theoo made a pretence of having been too
much interested in pushing a big pebble, with
the point of her sunshade, to hear.

Who is it ? ' asked Marcella.

Whom do you think ? That Mr. Hammer-branch.
He has come into another fortune,
and has twice as much as when he courted you ;
but that is not the worst of it. He has found
out that the way to papa's heart is down his
throat, and that mamma likes to be thought
fast, and in short he is rapidly becoming master
of the situation.'

'But not yet of Theoo?'

No. Not yet. But it is perfectly awful to
think what a fix I am in. I've been trying

This, " Affinities secretes." '

She looked behind her to see if she could
lean against the stone wall without soiling her
dress, and assured she could, instead of returning
to her seat remained, whilst he read, at
Laurier's side, leaning back in a position that
permitted her to look, when she chose, in his face.

Laurier read exquisitely, both as respected
his French pronunciation, and the feeling the
words demanded. As he ceased, expressions
of gratification of more sincerity than is on
such occasions common rose from every one of
the party.

Meanwhile he closed the book and cave it
back to Miss Cassilys.

I don't think I shall let you go with Mr,
Curteis,' she said, looking in his face as she
slowly took back the volume ; ' couldn't you be
persuaded to stay and read to us ? '

 I will only suggest that Flo shall go to the
library for Victor Hugo, in lieu of Theophilus
Gautier,' said Mr. Curteis.

'That is a censure on my taste, uncle,'
returned Marcella quickly. ' I appeal against
it. Mr. Eintearn, was not that a pretty
poem ? '

I can't say I saw much in it, so far as I
understood it at all,' replied Eintearn.

Marcella wondered. Women with difficulty
understand that some men in love have no
tact.

She repeated her question to Laurier.

I am going to ask you, when you can spare
the volume, to lend it to me. I should like to
read the rest,' he replied.

Take it now,' she said, on the spot, giving
him the book with a smile. ' I hope you will
like it. It is a favourite of mine.'

After all, there was no more reading.
Perhaps a silent hint from Mrs. Cassilys to her
brother-in-law occasioned that. Just as the
men were going she said, ' At least you must
not leave us Mr. Eintearn,' and Eintearn rapidly
enough turned back, and remained.

To whom do you suppose ? '

I don't know. But, Theoo, I suspect to a
poor man.'

Hasn't a halfpenny,' replied Theoo. ' I am
engaged to Charley Curteis.'

'Theol

Yes. He is the dearest fellow in the
whole world, as you always said. I'm awfully
proud of his king me. But '  a long pause 
how on earth we are ever to get married I am
sure I do not know ; unless I run away with
him.'

The long conversation that naturally ensued
certainly seemed to point to no other conclusion.


For the next few weeks of Marcella's stay
at Torquay, Theoo and Charley enjoyed, through
her mediation, the pleasures of one of those
correspondences which have from time immemorial
lightened for lovers the days of inevitable
waiting.

But at last the fine weather broke. Mrs.

Cassilys suggested return to town. Marcella
said nothing. They remained at Torquay
another week, during which the rain fell almost
incessantly. Then they packed. They had a
last dinner with the Stones. Theoo received
her last note from Charley, and entrusted Mar-cells
with her last reply. She came to the
station to see them off, bidding Marcella farewell,
with many kisses and a long sigh, for now
the ever-increasing difficulty of staving off a
denouement with Mr. Hammerbratsch was to
be faced all alone, with no more assistance
from Marcella's co-operation and encouraging
exhortations.

In the evening, with a breast full of the
sense of great changes, Marcella sat once more
by the hearth of her library in town.

CHAPTEE X.

A RUDE November evening, squally, and bleak
with driven rain. A mess, Larger and three
cronies at dinner in the Inner Temple Hall. A
genial light in the spacious room, giving the
windows of coloured glass dead, meaningless,
flat tints, making the sculptured masters and
templar stand out in relief against the western
wall, sparkling on the gold in the long rows of
armorial bearings of treasurers ranging along
the high wainscot, and bringing out in its best
effect the great picture of Pegasus high above
the benchers' table.

A bottle of wine had just been opened and
the wonted courtesies exchanged among the
men. As one put down his glass he asked, in

reference to the subject of the previous conversation,


And the end of this story ? '

Well of course the woman was  a woman.'

Deceit and weak vileness of no common
order stood implied, and the speaker's utterance
gave the word a value of corresponding worthlessness.
The men laughed, and one of them,
turning to Laurier, observed,

'A new instance, Laurier, in support of
your views respecting the sex.'

Laurier is not so keen on that theme as he
used to be,' observed the story-teller.  It is
generally supposed he is coming round to more
gallant views. Eh, Laurier ? '

Laurier had not laughed. There had come
into his mind  she who would come, though
he kept her as far away as he could, a woman
to believe whom capable of the grimaces, the
lying, the dishonour of the creature of the story
just narrated, was impossible : and his pulse,
unbidden, had risen to hear vileness, by implies
II.

cation, attributed to her in all her truth and
strength, and only for what she became so well
her womanhood.

He turned the speaker's question with a
jest, and bore good-humouredly some sharp
repartee, and then the subject of conversation
changed.

Alien dinner was ended, declining an invitation
to a friend's chambers, he went to his
own, and in a musing mood sat down by the
fire. The lamp was turned low, and its light
added little to that given by the flames. He
stretched out his hand to turn up the wick, and
then, changing his mind, forbore to do so.

'I cannot read to-night. It is useless to
attempt it.'

He placed his elbow on the arm of the
chair, and bending forward wearily, rested his
forehead on his palm.

I make no progress ; and I am knocking
myself to pieces, throwing away all the strength
I gathered.'

An oak cigar-case, with drawers, stood at
his right. He opened it, and selecting a cigar,
ht it, and, with his head rested on the chair-back,
leaned back smoking.

Six, seven weeks, and I have no t once
permitted my thought to dwell on her.'

It was true, not once ! He had found the
colossal strength these seven weeks every time
to crush down each memory as it rose.

'And to-night I love the gu-1 enough to
have been at dinner within an ace of saying a
foolish thing out of feeling for her. Yes, all
that  and how much more ? '

Yes, he had been very hard hit, very
hard hit indeed.

I shall have to find a cure for this fever,
somewhere.'

The evening letters were brought up. He
turned up the lamp, and proceeded to examine
them. Among them was a little note with a
monogram ' E.G.,' directed in a lady's hand.
As he passed the letters through his hand he



stopped at this one, and hastily opened it on
the spot.

Mrs. Cassilys requests the pleasure of Mr,
Laurier's company at dinner  et cetera' It
was written, not an invitation card.

Without looking for the date of the dinner
he drew some note-paper from a drawer, and,
pushing his chair to the table, wrote, ' Mr.
Laurier regrets that a previous engagement
prevents his accepting Mrs. Cassilys's kind
invitation.' Then he sealed and directed his
reply, and, without again looking at the note
of invitation, threw it into the fire.

And Marcella had written it, because it
was to go to him.

The small hours of the morning strike on
the many clocks within hearing, and at the
end of the table, leaning over the desk on
which the shaded lamp pours down a flood of
light, with great sheets of paper spread before
him, Laurier is still at work.

But at last he has done. He goes to the

window and looks out at the night. A glimmer
of lamps in the Temple, and, more indistinct,
the sweep of the lights on the Embankment,
amid torrents of rain.

He thinks, ' If I had accepted. One thing
is I cannot now. It is fortunate I burnt

that note, or . I will not think of

this.'

Mrs. Cassilys and her daughter were having
afternoon tea in the library. Marcella, with her
feet on a cushion, embedded in her favourite
corner of the window-seat, reading a novel,
her tea in the dainty Sevres china placed on
a little table at her side; Mrs. Cassilys doing
nothing, nearer the fire, smiling from time to
time to hear the music of the girl's merry
laughter over the story-book.

A servant entered with the letters come by
the afternoon post. Mrs. Cassilys turned them
over, and selecting one brought it to her
daughter.

Would you like to open this one, Marcella ? '
she asked with a smile.

Marcella took the note. Her face wore a
half-serious look. So this was his handwriting.
She opened the envelope, and her eyes looked
up to her mother with an expression of sharp
disappointment.

Mr. Lam-her cannot come, mamma.'

The note fell on the table. Mrs. Cassilys
took it up and read it. Marcella had turned
her head away, and was looking out upon the
cold November sky. When her mother lay
down the note, she took it up again, again read
it, and again let it fall with the same gesture
of disappointment.

Don't be vexed, Marcella. We will ask
him again. At any rate, after this he must
call.'

'Yes, I am very foolish,' said the girl,
taking up her tea, and labouring to disengage
herself from her disappointment. ' Of course
he is sometimes engaged.'

She resumed her book, and Mrs. Cassilys
returned to the fire. Some five minutes passed,
and then Marcella rose.

*I am going downstairs to play a little,
mamma,' she said, and before long the stray
sounds of practising of difficult music stole
from the drawing-room to Mrs. Cassilys in the
library.

Odd, that Marcella should leave her book
to go and practise,' thought Mrs. Cassilys ;
but  girls in love ! '

At dinner time Marcella was again herself
and made a jest of her chagrin.

The date of the dinner came and passed.
Once or twice in the course of the evening
Marcella thought, ' If he had been here ! ' and
heaved a little sigh.

Then the days followed one by one.
Laurier did not call. ' Of course he is very,
very busy,' said Miss Cassilys. But she stayed
at home, a little more than usual, hoping he
might come.

At length one afternoon, when she had
been shopping with her mother, on their
return, they found some cards on the hall
slab. Mrs. Craven, Miss Craven, Mr. Guy
Laurier.

Marcella paled, and in silence lay down the
card.

About a week later Mrs. Cassilys said at
breakfast, 'I have written again to ask Mr.
Laurier.'

They went that afternoon to a matinee
musicale. On their return the first thing
Marcella did on entering the house was to
ask, ' Are there any letters ? '

Only one. Miss, for Mistress.'

Marcella took the letter from the slab.
This is it,' she said ; ' you had better open
it, mamma.'

Mrs. Cassilys opened the envelope. Marcella
stood watching, her face all anxiety. The
note perused, her mother looked up.

Marcella anticipated her. ' You need not tell

me. I have guessed,' she said in a low voice,.
but let me read it.'

Mrs. Cassilys put the note in her hand.

Mamma, does he not wish to come here ? '
asked the girl, piteously.

These men are so busy, dear.'

But, you said you wrote rather cordially,,
and, so formal a reply ! '

That had struck Mrs. Cassilys ; but she had
forborne to say it. They had passed into the
drawing-room, and Marcella sat down on a
settee. Her warm sealskin was hastily unfastened
and thrown back from her shoulders,,
and again she read the short note, attempting
to find meaning between its few lines. She
was still so seated, with the note in her lap,
when the gong sounded for dinner.

Dinner was over, dessert on the table. In
the middle of a long silence Marcella, peeling
a pear, observed, slowly, without looking
up,

'We may as well tell ourselves the truths

mamma. Mr. Laurier does not wish to come
here. 1 am sure of it.'

If so, Marcella, a man's love that cools in a
couple of months is not worth much, nor any
great thing lost.'

No,'  evasively.

Afterwards, in the drawing-room, she said,
'Mamma, I am going to he down and think
awhile.'

Very well, dear.'

Marcella went into the unlighted back
drawing-room and lay herself on the sofa.
The hours of the evening stole by, and Mrs.
Cassilys surmised she had fallen asleep. But
that was not so. As her mother began to
consider the advisability of awakening her,
Marcella came back, pallid and thought-worn.
Mrs. Cassilys eyed her with some anxiety.

You are weary, dear,' she said.

Yes, weary, weary, weary. It is folly to
love. I was before happier by far.'

She leaned her shapely form against the

mantel-shelf, and lifting her dress held her
delicate feet, chilled in the other room, in turn,
before the flames.

Of course, little goose,' said Mrs. Cassilys,
" true love "  you know.'

Little goose, little fool, poor little fool, that
I am returned the girl bitterly, 'poor little
fool, wishing to give him half my happiness for
the privilege of bearing half his pains. I do
love him, but,' she turned her proud face to
her mother, and continued with a mixture of
passion in her voice, ' if he will slight me, I'll
have his love out of my heart, if I tear my life
up with it. I dare say he is chuckling now to
think how " that girl " would like to make him
come and woo her, and how much better he
knows than to be so great a fool.'

Is he that sort of man, Marcella ? ' asked
Mrs. Cassilys, in a tone approaching rebuke.

No, mamma, not at all. Oh, dear ! One
should not speak evil of those one loves when
there is no opportunity of asking their pardon '

she came to her mother's side  ' Mamma, I
do not mean what I said. I was unjust, and I
do not wish to cry, and so I am going to bed
Good-night.'

It is well for the women who are not too
proud for tears. What this haughty nature
was bearing, was something fell indeed. For
her there was no helpful self-deceiving to lend
gentler aspects to cutting truths, no refuge of
passion and railing on things, to tide over the
evil time. He had loved her. She knew it.
She loved him, profoundly. He was shunning
her. She was sure of it. He would cease to
love her, as a natural consequence. And so
would be broken up the beautiful, strong love
that should have wedded two lives together,
and sunned them both. Because they had not
been able to stay three or four days longer
together at Wyvenhome, both would suffer a
great loss, so long as both should live. And
no tears could wash the loss away, and no-wailing
amend it.

If he had never cared for her, if she had
loved him less, if she had ever seen another
man to whom her nature could give itself
as to him, the case had been other far ; 
but to have been created for him, and loved
by him, and then, in the consciousness of her
acme of beauty and strength and love, to be
thrust aside !

But since it was so, her only wisdom was
to speak truth with herself, and school her
courage to bear what was come.

So day by day the girl battled on in her
truth and pride, mostly alone; forced out of
her memory what she could, sunned her life
in her own pleasures, pale sunshine now, and
strove to be bright with the many happiness
she had, instead of repining for better ones
which she had not. It was the conduct of a
nature of steel, but it was bitter work. For
the world had lost its brightness, and art its
spell of charm, and the music of Hfe had grown
faint and weird, and its colourless stream rolled

leaden beneath leaden clouds, and lier labour
to make it otherwise was vain.

The time was long, it seemed, interminably
long.

One Saturday she much surprised her
mother by saying, at breakfast, ' Now, if Mr.
Laurier call to-day  we shall know.'

Why should he call to-day ? '

Did you not see him last night at the
theatre ? He was just behind us in the crush
coming out. I saw him, and he must have
seen me, though he made as if he had not.
When we were standing still I took the opportunity
to tell Mrs. Craven we were this afternoon
going to a morning performance. So if
Mr. Laurier wishes to find us out when he calls
he has received a useful hint. He owes you a
call, for your last invitation, and we shall see.'

Extremely amusing, my dear,' replied
Mrs. Cassilys, ' especially for me, who am
expected to do all in my power to bring you
two wrong-headed young people together,

whilst you do all in your power to keep away
from each other. I'm sure I feel much obliged
by your valuable co-operation.'

In the afternoon at the play Mrs. Cassilys
found Mr. Craven in the stall next her. It
was some time since they had met. During the
music between the acts he said to her, sotto voce,

You" daughter is looking far from well,
Mrs. Cassilys.'

You think so ? ' was the surprised rejoinder.


She seems to me pale, and to be growing
thin.'

Mrs. Cassilys spent a couple of minutes in
an attentive survey of her daughter. Till
attention is called to them, changes are easily
overlooked by those who see a face every day.
But now Mrs. Cassilys found her girl so distinctly
paler and thinner, and in general appearance
out of good health, that she marvelled how
it had been possible for her not to have observed
it.

On their return from the theatre they found
a gentleman's card on the hall slab.

Mr. Guy Laurier.

Marcella took it up, and read it, more than
once. Then she said,

Thank you, sir. Now I understand you.'

She tore the card in two, and threw it into
the hall stove.

Dinner passed almost in silence.

After dinner, Marcella sat long motionless
on the ottoman before the drawing-room fire.
Then she turned abruptly to her mother, and
said,

Mamma, I should like to go to Italy.'

Well, if you wish it, love.'

I do wish it, much.'

Her mother rose and approaching sat
herself at her side.

'Marcella,' she said, coaxing the girl into
her caressing arms, ' I am not so sure as you 
about  Mr. Laurier.'

Don't name him. Oh, to think that I have

thrown my best, my first, my pride of love, my
all, to a man who can take a hint from my own
lips to put a slight on me. I have well sunk
from what I used to be. Thank heaven, I am
cured of love. Never shall my brain think for
any man the thoughts that I, poor humbled
fool, have thought for him.'

She let her beautiful figure sink on her
mother's breast, and, laying her handsome head
on her shoulder, almost moaned,

'And I could have loved him so well, so
well.'

Her voice sank away in a whisper, that died
into long silence.

At last she again raised herself. Mrs. Cas-silas
still held her hand.

Could we go on Monday week, mamma,
or even at the end of next week ? If it would
not inconvenience you.'

'It will not inconvenience me, dear,

but '

No, mother dear, let me go. No creature

VOL. II. P

knows what I have borne this last month. I
have seen it all along, from the hour of Mr.
Laurier's first refusal to come here ; and I have
held up against it with all my strength and
skill. I have pushed the distress from me, and
diverted myself  read, studied, played, gone
out. danced, ridden, kept quiet, been still,
thoughtful, hopeful, lovingly, all these weary,
weary days that I have had to be  without him
never near him  never to see him  never
once to hear the sound of his voice  and now
I have exhausted everything that could keep
up my spirits and maintain my courage bright.
Till now I have kept hope alive  but it has
been vain hope, and now it is dead ; and he
must and shall go from my love. It is an
awful blow for me, I feel as though I were
breaking beneath it. I have loved him so 
and you must give me all the help you can.'

Marcella, wait a little longer.'

The girl shook her head. ' What is the use
of self-deceit, mamma ? We know the truth.'

I am not so certain of that. Is Mr. Laurier
keeping away from you, simply because lie
does love you, and fears you will resent it ? '

'Do you suppose I have not thought of
that? If it were so, he could not have been
the ice he has been. I have seen men in that
case before.'

He is a hard man, Marcella.'

'I know that.' -

Have patience, dear.'

I would, mamma, have great patience for
his love, but '  she concluded in a different
lone  ' not for his slights.'

Women who have earned men's love have
borne harder things than slights, Marcella.'

Then they were made of stuff other than
enters into my composition. I can love, as
well as the worthiest of them, but the man who
wants my love shall crave it at my feet.'

Ah, Marcella ! ' Mrs. Cassilys shook her
head. ' Well, now, lassie,' she continued, ' you
must choose. You know what appears best top
2

you. I will frankly tell you what seems best
to me : Wait. If your strength will not suffice
for that, by all means let us go to Italy, for 
you are not the woman to be that man's wife.
Now, will you for his sake wait ? '

For the sake of the man who has sighted
me and the friendship I gave him ? '

For the chance of making the happiness of
the man you love.'

It was long before the girl replied. At
last, however, she said,

You ask a very cruel thing. But I will
not be found wanting in courage. I will wait.
If it can bring him and me together, if it can
make me worthier of him, if it be for our happiness,
I shall not grudge it.'

CHAPTEE XI.

As if by fatality, the same evening's post
brought Marcella an invitation of a nature
most unanticipated. Lady Julia wrote to request
her to spend a fortnight at Sritten Court.

Go, dear,' said Mrs. Cassilys on the spot.
A liking for any one taken under such circumstances
as those in which Lady Julia unbent for
you means a friend for life.'

So Marcella went.

She found Lady Juha altered, aged, more
decrepit, broken in feature and voice, and with
a presence far other than that which she
formerly possessed.

Li truth the poor lady was but the ghost ot
herself. Her time since her son's death had
been spent in solitude, and, save on the one

drear day of bis funeral, she had scarcely since
seen a soul to speak to. No relations belonged
to her, either on her own side or her husband's,
who would not in some way profit by her loss,
and her pride refused to bear the sight of their
mourning and the sounds of their condolences.
In that long, unwholesome loneliness, though
still stern of command, she became in spirit
terribly bowed, and, in thought, lost to all buta
maze of aimless regrets for the unalterable
past.

Keppel was at Sritten Court, for a few days,
on business, and Lady Julia's medical man
spoke with him on the subject, seriously.

You cannot continue to live like this. Lady
Julia,' said Keppel, in consequence  she would
bear more from him than from any one else
' this melancholy and this perpetual loneliness
are dangerous. You must either take change
of air, or have someone to stay with you.'

I have no one to ask. You know what I
mean.'

Keppel considered.

'There is one person, whom you might
ask,' he said at length, ' Miss Cassilys.'

'Humph. After having said she should
never come under my roof ? '

That has nothing to do with it. Nobody
knows that except perhaps Miss Cassilys, who
is not the sort of person to remember such
speeches. Now, listen to reason. You unbent
to the girl. You were struck with her. She
has behaved well. She was not to blame.
What she had done, was only what you and I
desired ; yet she submitted to bear the burden
and heat of the obloquy. That was a spirited
action  and remember she might have done
very differently. She is agreeable, she is
well bred, if not well born, and she is well
educated. She has no relatives to be a plague
to you. You will easily do worse than ask her.
If you do it you will see she will do you good,
and I shall be very glad to hear she has been
invited.'

Lady Julia was silent.

She did not intend to invite Miss Cassilys,
but again and again in those cheerless days the
remembrance of the girl, with her proud
pale face, and her measured voice, and of the
thoughtfulness, and the tender gentleness of
the only being for whose sake her own
haughtiness had stooped, flitted about her.
Nature attaches us to those for whom we have
made sacrifices, and Lady Julia began to feel
she would be pleased to see Marcella again.
But to invite her  that was not possible. Then
after this again she would mourn her folly, and
her miserable life, and in her bitter loneliness
wish someone would come  someone, not like
Keppel, but some quiet, thoughtful, gentle
sou], something young, to lighten the burden
of her many and lone years. So at last a
letter was written to Marcella, but not sent.
I cannot,' said Lady Julia, after the envelope
was sealed, and threw the note into the fire.
Then another was written, and likewise burnt,

this time the excuse, ' She would not come.'
But the third, despatched on the morrow,
brought Marcella to Sritten Court.

Lady JuHa gave her a cordial welcome. In
the enormous drawing-room, for some half-hour,
before parting to dress for dinner, they
had a pleasant chat, and began at once to draw
to each other. But at dinner all that was
changed. Lady Julia was polite, with great
ceremony, but otherwise ice and polar frigidity.
When, after dinner, she stood aside for Mar-cells
to precede her from the room, it was with
an air that spoke aloud, ' Feel, little plebeian,
how fine a thing it is to precede an earl's
daughter out of a room.'

In the drawing-room she sat herself in her
own large chair by the hearth, pointing Miss
Cassilys to one opposite. Tea and coffee
were served amid silence, and then Lady
Julia's eyelids closed, and she sank back in
her chair.

Very quiet sat Marcella, with her feet

on the foot rest, and her eyes watching the
flames, believing her ladyship asleep, and
amusing herself to work out tangled themes of
thought, of her own proud love and its broken
course, and the strangeness of her presence
where she found herself. Once or twice she
rose, and as noiselessly as circumstances would
permit restored the sinking fire. Also, when
the servant came to remove the tea things,
she held up her hand in warning that Lady
Juha should not be wakened, and that was all.

At eleven Lady Juha opened her eyes.

Will you take anything more before you
go to your room. Miss Cassilys? ' she asked.

Marcella declined. Lady Julia rang for
the lady's-maid to attend her to her room, and
then, a little hesitatingly offering her hand,
wished her a ceremonious ' Good-night.'

Breakfast like dinner. After breakfast it
was suggested they should walk. But when
Marcella was dressed, a message informed her
Lady Julia did not feel equal to going out this

morning, and Marcella walked in the grounds
alone for a couple of hours. It was a rough,
windy day ; but the exercise, combined with
change of scene, did her good, and she returned
to luncheon in better spirits than of
late. At luncheon Lady Juba did not appear,
but wished to know whether Miss Cassilys
would drive or ride. Having had a good
walk, Marcella preferred to remain indoors to
read and to write to her mother. At dinner-time
Lady Julia came into the drawing-room
with some mumbled, stumbling apologies, and a
chilly ceremonious meal ensued.

Marcella found this dull? Not exactly.
She had not come anticipating gaiety, but
partly to be quiet, to have change and a new
solitude, partly with a hope of finding opportunity
to show a consciousness of the consideration
she had received from Lady Julia.
She trusted her demeanour was doing the
latter; for the former, the austere stateliness
of Sritten Court was quietude itself.

Anticipating another after-dinner nap on
the part of her hostess, she had set aside for
the quiet hours, some thoughts that had
presented themselves in the course of her
reading, but this time Lady Juha disappointed
her of her reverie.

In effect the old lady had had it brought
to her mind that her sham nap of the previous
evening had been a mistake. It was her
intention to be immensely courteous to Miss
Cassilys, and consistently with this, the previous
evening's first consideration should have
been the amusement of her guest. Only the
wilful old woman was disinclined to be so very
particularly attentive to this insignificant granddaughter
of a brewer. In consequence she
had brought herself out of the difficulty by
feigning to go to sleep. Now she saw she had
been making the girl too familiar.

This evening she was wiser, and kept her
eyes open. The coffee removed, she asked,
Would Miss Cassilys play or sing ? ' Miss

Cassilys did not sing, but would play. What
was Lady Julia's favourite music? Reply
polite, but evasive. Marcella went to the
piano and played. She believed Lady Julia
would fall asleep, and chose pieces of the
softest, dreamless kind; stilling lullabies of
faint strains, and, for the first time since her
son's death, Lady Julia found herself lifted out
of herself by the plaintive, calming melody.

The girl,' she thinks, ' plays prettily.
Ten, twenty, twenty-three, no, five years since
I heard that aria. A light touch. She thinks
I am falling asleep. A thoughtful-natured lass.
Ah, that is " Vedrai amico." She certainly
has a great deal of feeling. Musical professionals
among her relatives very likely.'

At the end of half an hour Marcella returned
to the fire. Lady Julia said, 'Thank
you,' and asked, ' You are fond of music ? '
To which Marcella replied in the affirmative,
and so they fell into conversation. Miss
Cassilys's thoughtfulness without affectation,.

and her happy, vigorous nature began to come
into view, and Lady Julia became interested.
The talk took a more personal tone. Lady
Julia asked of her home, her pursuits, her
education, her travels, her tastes and distastes.
Marcella replied frankly and unassumingly
with a pretty, graceful respectfulness that
became her beauty of person and cultivated
speech to a degree that rendered her charming.


Presently, as they spoke of books and
reading, a light broke upon Marcella. Lady
Julia was a tremendous prude, strict of a
strictness unheard of. This was the first
fact concerning her real ladyship Marcella
ascertained.

Lady Julia asked of her mother, and the
girl's reply prompted the question,

'You love your mother very much. Miss
Cassilys ? '

Oh, yes,' said the girl in a way that
showed it was not a subject for words.

'Tell me how you and your mother spend
your evenings.'

Marcella commenced. They went out a
good deal, and entertained frequently. At
other times they read, played music and
games, sometimes only worked and talked
together. Only as she told it, it sounded like
some story from fairyland.

Come here, my dear,' said Lady Julia,
pointing to a low chair by her side.

Wonderingly Marcella did as she was
requested. The old woman took her hand
and drew her arm on to the arm of her chair.

Tell me, now, how your mother made you
love her so.'

A look from Marcella, with wide eyes, for
Lady Julia's face was turned away from her
to the fire. Then with, ' I fear. Lady Julia,
I cannot ; you should know mamma,' she
commenced so simple a story of unpretending
kindliness, and grew so eloquent in it, that the
old woman's heart was nigh to bursting. After

which she sat, for the rest of the evenings
taciturn, wearily gazing into the flames.

To Marcella that appeared unwholesome.
Accordingly, the next evening (they had been
for a drive, and Lady Julia had entirely recovered
her icy mood), on the repetition after
dinner of the formal, ' What would you like todo,
Miss Cassilys ? ' Marcella, mindful of a stray
remark once dropped by Eintearn, which had
come to her whilst puzzling how to be companionable
to her hostess, suggested a game
of chess.

Lady Julia beat her. Then she beat Lady
Julia, and made a second discovery  that
Lady Juha much disliked to be beaten at
chess. After that Lady Julia generally won,
and, becoming impressed with Miss Cassilys's
unskilfulness, began to suggest moves, and in
short to teach her how to play. When
Marcella did what Lady Julia advised she
won, and when she was left to herself she
almost always lost. By degrees the old lady

FAIR AND FREE. 225

became very much amused, and laughed at
her mistakes, and at the solemn face she would
put on, when shown she had committed an
obvious blunder.

'Ah, Miss Cassilys,' she would say, 'you
are a clever girl, but you will never make
a chess player.'

And so over the chess-board, for they
played every night, the old woman at last
shook herself free of her pride, and gave her
heart, secretly only it is true, to the girl.

That was not done at once, nor without
many a reluctance, and a considerable amount
of hauteur intervening between unexpected
advances, and once (it brought the crimson
to Marcella's cheeks) something said about
a brewery of which Lady Juha afterwards
felt as heartily ashamed as she had every
reason to be.

What won her was Marcella's way ; not a
mere grace of artlessness, but the bending of
the quiet, stately pride of the wealthy, hand-vol.

II. Q

solely dressed, luxurious, cultivated girl, who,
meet in everything but birth to be herself a
daughter of the house, unequivocally accepted
her want of that one unattainable thing,
descent, and bore herself gracefully but unhesitatingly
inferior to Lady Juha, and, however
proud herself, never forgot, neither in the
moments of ceremoniousness nor in those of
familiarity, that her hostess was a noble and
herself a nobody.

Lady Julia had a way of saying things
regardless of how they might strike the hearers,
and one evening asked her,

Did you ever hear. Miss Cassilys, that I
once said you should never enter this house ? '

I heard it ; and I thought it just.'

Hem. Then you were surprised, or  at
least, what did you think when you got my
invitation ? '

Surely, Lady Juha, that is quite another
thing,' replied Marcella, composedly. ' To come
here as your guest is an honour for me, to present

myself as future mistress would have been
a gross impertinence.'

That is sense, my dear,' replied the old
woman, ' and does your heart credit as well as
your head.'

During one of their afternoon drives the
church spire came in view, and Lady Julia
remarked, ' I should like you to see our church.
It well merits a visit, but  ' she stopped, and
concluded, ' very likely you will visit it alone.'

I would rather with you.'

I never go there now. Miss Cassilys,' replied
the old lady, awkwardly.

In fact, not only had she not been to the
church since her son's death, but had even
given orders that her carriage should not pass
that way. Marcella made some vague guess at
her reason, and said, after a few seconds,

You go, though, sometimes to see Mr.
Eintearn's grave ? '

Lady Julia shook her head.
q2

Oh, but you should,' said Marcella, thoughtfully.
' If I were dead I hope someone who
knew me would come now and then to see
where T was lying.'

Lady Julia was trembling like a leaf.

Let me tell the footman we will drive to
the church ; may I ? ' asked Marcella.

If you like, then.'

How often and how often had she wished,
poor lady, to come, and dared not.

The gate was reached. Marcella gave Lady
Julia her arm, and with slow steps they passed
down the long avenue of elms, to where a little
path branched to the left.

It is this way,' said Lady Julia ; ' all the
Rintearns are buried together.'

A few yards more, and Lady Julia stopped.
Where there was a long shadow of great bushy,
sombre-green stone-pines, planted by some
tree-fancying rector, a new mound closed a
10 w of monuments and tombs with dates over
lour hundred years.

Oh, my son, my son,' wailed Lady Julia in
low tones.

A great lump was rising in Marcella's
throat, but she managed to choke it down.

All is forgiven the dead, and ill done them
lies like lead on the memory of noble souls.
As Marcella stood there, if there was anything
in her whole life which she desired rather
than aught else to be able to recall, it was the
words she had from time to time spoken against
him who slept below.

At last Lady Julia looked at her. Some
word was demanded of her. At such times it
is hard to speak anything worth speaking.

I am so glad of the stone-pines,' said
Marcella ; ' their shadows come here, you see,
every day, and he loved them best of all the
trees.'

Did he ? I am glad of it. I never knew
it,' said the poor mother.

Was he glad, too, to sleep his long sleep
under the stone-pines' shadows, loved best

because it was beneath them that he had first
spoken to Marcella his love ?

The following Sunday Marcella said, ' Lady
Julia, will you not go to church ? '

'Shall I?'

Do, Lady Julia. If you will  it would bea
pity for me to be there on the first occasion
of your going  I will stay at home.'

That touched the old lady's pride, and she
went. Marcella remained at Sritten Court. By-and-by
she intended to walk out to meet the
returning carriage ; in the meantime she
amused herself at the piano. But her thoughts
strayed away from her music, and soon she
turned on the music-stool, and resting on the
piano fell into a reverie.

It was of Lady Juha, and her strange incongruous
ways, kind, distant, friendly, formal,
stiff, spiritless, and of the key to this conundrum.
Long she puzzled it over, and, as she
turned the problem again and again, by degrees
it began to present features that suggested a

solution, and the suggestion as she reviewed it
gathered convincing strength. Was it the truth
that beneath this hard exterior lurked a great
need of something to love ? And had the gall
of Lady Julia's life (for bitter as gall Marcella
felt assured most of it had been, and in that
was not mistaken) been that no one would
ever let her love them ?

At the end of a meditative half-hour Mar-cells
was almost convinced it was so.

Yet surely someone would have been before
this found, some brother, some sister, some
niece, cousin, friend, to have accepted with
gladness the gift of the proud old woman's
sterling affection.

That how to be loved is an art of which very
few are masters, Marcella Cassilys was not aware.

But the hour advanced, and it was time to
go down towards the park gates if she intended
to meet the carriage.

Two days later Marcella learned that her
conjecture was correct.

She and Lady Julia were walking in a drive
in the wood. It was a fine winter's afternoon,
sunny and not very cold. Now, about half-past
three, the sun had sunk below the tops of the
trees, and its shining came to them, a bright
spot amongst a great tangle of branches, not
strong enough to cast any shadows, but strong
enough nevertheless to fill the scene with delicate,
tempered lights. Amongst the trees
lurked a thin grey mist  it was turned to
brown where the sun shone  that by rendering
the trees and the underwood moist, and the
stubbly grass by the path side humid and
heavy, added much to the peculiar character
of the winter scene. Dead leaves lay about,
and little broken twigs, and a faint scent as of
fungous growth rose from beneath the brushwood.
Above the blue of the sky was pallid,
but clear.

Busily talking, they had walked some way,
Marcella full of praises for the beauty of the
afternoon's delicate lights and shades, and of

the fantastic effects among the trees, and Lady
Julia finding some reflected pleasure in the
girl's enjoyment of her walk. At length
Marcella suggested turning back. Lady Julia
must be tired. She was ; but loth to shorten
the girl's pleasure, she denied it.

No, my dear, let us go a little farther ; it
is a beautiful afternoon.'

It is indeed,' replied Marcella, appreciatively.


What do they call you at home ? ' asked
Lady Julia abruptly.

Marcella.' After a moment's thought she
added, 'I wish you would call me Marcella,
Lady Juha.'

Why, Miss Cassilys ? '

The advance had been a bold one, and the
response was forbidding, but Marcella did not
lose courage. ' You have been more than kind
to me,' she said, ' and I should like it.'

But Lady Julia still called her Miss
Cassilys. It is slowly that the aged indulge

themselves in the pleasure of a new friendship
with the young : they have been so often
disappointed.

As they on their return drew near the
house Lady Julia stopped to give some orders
to one of the gardeners. Marcella passed on a
few paces and waited. Her orders given, Lady
Julia turned to look for her companion.

She stood a little higher up the path, her
face turned to the last red streaks of light,
above the sun sunk in the west. In her deep
grey eyes was a sort of uncertain regret, and
her full lips had taken a mould of haughty distress,
a proud bearing with pain. In herself
she was musing, ' Oh, these days, these cruel
days, that die in wearing down his love for arne.'
Then she saw Lady Julia, and turning from her
own trouble, summoned a willing smile to her
lips.

Musing, Marcella ? ' asked Lady Julia.

'A little. Lady Juha,' replied Marcella,.
respectfully.

Before dinner her ladyship had come to a
resolution. The sense of general dereliction is
of the most intolerable to which a human being
can be subjected, and her heart yearned towards
the girl, and she determined to put her mettle
to a final proof.

When they returned to the drawing-room
after dinner, a little case stood conspicuously
on the chess-table by Lady Julia's chair. Mar-cells
saw it, but said nothing. The tea was
taken away, and chess proposed. ' Will she
say anything now ? ' wondered Lady Juha. But
Marcella simply removed the casket to the
nearest table, and began to set the men.

Then Lady Juha said, ' Bring me that little
case, Miss Cassilys.'

Marcella pushed the men to one corner of
the table and replaced the case. Lady Julia
selected a key from her bunch, and unlocked,
but did not open, the case. Then, taking the
girl's hand, she drew her towards her, and
retaining her hand whilst she spoke  she

had a marvellous command of her voice 
fiaid,

Marcella, I once had a daughter. Sometimes
you remind me of what I used to hope
she would be. I bought for her long ago a set
of emeralds, but, you see, she has not remained
with me to wear them, and you would do me
much pleasure by accepting them for a memorial
of me.'

She turned back the lid of the box with her
disengaged hand.

A necklace, brooch, bracelets, and earrings
of richest shimmering green, with tiny pencils
of scintillation gleaming from the edges of their
pellucid facets, lay glistening with light on
crimson velvet.

That Marcella was not ignorant of the value
of such things Lady Julia knew.

And now for the moment of proof. In the
presence of so magnificent a present how would
the girl behave ?

Would she have the courage to accept

it? Would she know how to do so with
grace ?

Lady JuHa was watching her face.

Immersed in thought, the girl regarded
neither her nor the jewels, but held her eyes
dropped with an air of reserve to the ground.
But presently she raised them, and, turning
them to Lady Julia, said, with a pretty smile of
acceptance,

I thank you very much, Lady Julia, for so
beautiful a present.'

She knelt at the old nobleman's knees,
and first taking one earring from her ears,
hesitated an instant, looked in Lady Juha's
face, and then laid it in her lap ; and after it,
in turn, the other, her necklace, and bracelets ;
and then, without a word, offering one wrist,,
looked again into Lady Julia's face, with an
asking smile that meant, ' Will you not yourself
deck me ? '

One by one the old lady put on the bracelets
about her fine wrists, the earrings in her

delicate ears, the necklace about her neck, and
the brooch on her warm, heaving breast.

Dare I ask for a kiss ? ' thought Marcella.

No, she dared not. She was right : it would
have spoiled all she had done.

But she pushed a low footstool before Lady
Juha's chair, and, seated there like a child at
her feet, talked with her, now looking up in
her face, and now leaning her shoulders against
the old woman's knees, whilst the latter toyed
with her hands or her silken hair. That night
they played no chess.

After that the two were on a different footing,
and casually, a day or two later, Lady
Julia kissed her. Her stay at Sritten Court
was extended to three weeks, and very odd at
times was the manner in which ber hostess's
old pride appeared beside her new kindness,
amounting to absolute indulgence. Marcella,
herself extremely careful to maintain a demeanour
of unaltered respect, began to conjecture
that Lady Julia had deliberately spoiled

FAIR AND FREE. 239

her husband and son, and then lost their affection
by resenting the insouciance she had herself
injudiciously created.

At length the day of return to town came.
Poor Marcella ! she had found balm for Lady
Juha's trouble, but none at all for her own.
Eather, away from her home, she seemed to
have missed some help that lurked about
among familiar things. To her eager history
of all that had occurred, Mrs. Cassilys replied
with concern,

But yourself, dear ? I should have liked
to see you looking better for your change.'

Yes, mamma, I know. But you must not
expect me to look what I do not feel.'

CHAPTEE XII.

When Tibullus told his Delia of tender cheeks,
a man in love might go safe and heaven-shielded
everywhere, he must have known he lied. No
man walks in greater peril ; and that, a little
while after Christmas, Laurier was destined to
discover.

He accepted an invitation to a certain ball.
That was done with the most excellent of
motives. A little dancing and a little flirting
are confessed by all the experienced to be
among the best antidotes to the tender passion.
But the consequences of events have no connection
with their causes.

Conducting his partner to her chaperone,
after the second waltz, Laurier became aware
of a lady bowing, in the most marked manner.

to himself, as he passed her, and with a start of
surprise recognised Mrs. Cassilys. Receiving
the impression of a sort of twitch in the arm
on which her hand rested, the girl at his side
looked in Laurier's face, and observed, she
believed, a slight pallor, and a sharp hardening
of his features, as he returned the salute of
some lady to her unknown.

For several seconds Laurier did not speak,
and the girl, being of a both curious and accurate
turn of mind, reckoned with herself, ' How
much would I give to know what all that
means ? Four, five pairs of eight-button gloves ?
Scarcely eve  four, gladly.'

To some young women gloves are a more
accurate gauge of price than money, the latter
being, so far as they can see, a commodity
capriciously abundant and scanty in turns, and
without definite relation to the value of the
articles for which it is exchangeable.

For Laurier to speak to Mrs. Cassilys was
undoubtedly necessary. As soon as his accurate-vol.

II. R

you care to know, then,' lie said at last,  that
is my view of life. I am a liedonist.'

But, perhaps,' observed Laurier in a hesitating
way, as though seeking some outlet from
a mental cul-de-sac ' you and I understand
that word differently. How would you define
pleasure ? '

Ah, now you will be able to laugh at me,'
she answered smiling, ' I cannot define it. 1
have an idea of what a definition is, but nothing-like
logic enough to frame one.'

For once, however, Laurier had lost some
of his inclination to raillery. ' Never mind
logic,' he said ; ' tell me, if you will, simply
what you understand by pleasure.'

Enjoyment of things of the kinds one does
enjoy, objects grateful to the eyes, melodious
sounds, fragrant scents, pleasant things to eat and
to drink and to wear, agreeable sensations : the
sense of health, strength, wealth, security, position
: the consciousness of being respected and
loved : a taste for art, some acquaintance with

history and science : pleasurable emotions : the
whole consciousness of ability to take pleasure
and to please: and so forth. Pleasures area
somewhat large order to enumerate.'

You find life so full of pleasures ? '

Full and running over.'

No dull days and weeks ? '

No, I am never dull. Pain, and sorrow of
course we all meet, but those are not dull.
And under ordinary circumstances I enjoy every
hour, and could enjoy it ten times over.'

Miss Cassilys, you must have a brain of
steel, and the health of an immortal.'

I do enjoy splendid health,' she answered
with a certain pride, ' but, then, I take much
greater care of it than most girls do at my age.'

Because it conduces to your pleasure ? '

Is not that a good reason ? '

Laurier wondered, ' Was she really in
earnest ? ' It seemed so. He now asked,

But, Miss Cassilys, have you no apprehension
of some collapse at last, induced

ii

The hostess's son came to ask a dance.

I am almost sure your card is full,' he
said, 'but my mother has so many strangers
here to-night that I have been compelled to
seem a little inattentive to old friends ; still,
perhaps you have something '

I have only one, and that is a kind of
engagement and not an engagement  if someone
else fail  but this is so discourteous '

The man gladly accepted, however.

What is this half engagement, Marcella ? '
asked Mrs. Cassilys.

My idiocy. I have kept one waltz in case
Mr. Laurier should have the courtesy to ask me
before every girl in the room has her card full.'

I should not have done that, Marcella.'

At last they met. It was in a set of
lancers ; she on his left.

They bowed at first, with blank faces.
But it was so pleasant once more to look in his
hard, handsome face, so pleasant once more to
see her grave grey eyes, that smiles came unbidden

; and then he offered his hand, and she
put hers into it at once, and his eyes met
hers lifted to them, and his fingers closed on
her delicate fingers, warmly and strongly.

Then she turned away and talked to her
partner.

Well I of course she was angry. It was no
marvel. His behaviour had had no sense.

He turned to his partner, and in a maze
talked about he knew not what. With Miss
Cassilys so near his brain was swimming.

And this the denouement of three months'
self-torture, that her presence dazzled his
thought !

They set to corners, and he turned her
back to her place. Again, a second time.
He cannot touch her, and take no notice of her.

You are angry with me. Miss Cassilys,' he
says ; ' is it not so ? '

She meditates giving him only that look of
rebuke a stranger should have for a too familiar
question, but instead she answers,

Not angry. I have simply lost faith in
you.'

Well  you are right,' he rejoins bitterly,
and there is time to say no more.

Presently he sees her regard him, with the
old look of her dark-grey eyes, only mixed with
a something of reproach it never used to wear.

Beneath it his face changes, and though it
all passes in a moment, she has seen it, and for
that change, faint indication he is not all impassible
to what she thinks, in silence forgives
him a part of his unkindness.

As she passes in the last grande-chains she
says, as with regret,

How you are changed ! '

Then the lancers are concluded.

Freed from his partner, Laurier strayed out
of the ball-room, and in the lobby leaned his
back against the wall, seeming to watch the
movement constantly passing before him, seeing
nothing, and thinking,

In love, eperdumenV

FAIR AND FREE. 247

The following waltz concluded, he approached
Miss Cassilys to ask for a dance. It
was with some misgiving. She had no dance
to give him : he had come so late as to be
almost discourteous. For his own part he did
not know whether he was more glad or sorry.
But she invited him to sit down a minute and
talk, at the same time making room for him at
her side. Mrs. Cassilys almost immediately
dropped into a discussion with a lady on her
left, a-nd the two were at liberty to talk as they
pleased.

Laurier asked after the party at Wyven-
home, and made some perfectly insignificant
remarks ; then suddenly, almost inadvertently,
he said,

So you think me changed. Miss Cassilys ? '

So changed that perhaps you and I had
better forget things were ever otherwise.'

His gaze met hers an instant.

If you wish it, let it be so,' he said with a
hard, cool calmness that irritated her.

Nay,' she replied, rousing herself ; ' that is
not fair, to throw all the odium of an estrangement
upon me. Again you are unlike yourself;
you, who used to be so just. You labour
to make it plain that to know mamma and me
irks you  and then you say  let it be as swill.'

You misconstrue me. Miss Cassilys,'  in the
same hard tone.

Do 1 . I hope I do. But why will you
not come to see us ? Why ? ' She turned a
little on the settee, and with a smile a trifle
colder than of yore, but yet a smile, urged in a
voice like that in which she had so many times
spoken with him, ' Tell me what have we done P
I am not changed, and, surely, you have not
forgotten me. You know I shall be the first
to accept any reason, any truth. Tell me,
please. Why have you been so loth to come ? '

She could scarcely have said more, and to
say so much had cost her a good deal ; the
more, that to see the face with which he heard
her made her heart ache. Still she kept him

her gracious smile to the end, and then the
sterner beauty of her face took the place of the
smile, with a look of readiness to meet with
sympathy whatever he might say.

Only he said nothing.

I can hardly believe,' she now continued
with a different tone, ' that you have gone over
to the number of those in whose sight I am
changed  because of Mr. Eintearn. It is not, I
assure you, those whose regard I valued most that
have tried to make of me a branded woman for
my part in that. Some have tried, and very-hard,
and ' she would not give him her

confidence on that and stopped. 'But these
are people I have been well able to afford to see
against me. Of all those who I believed would in
my trouble rally round me with their friendship
and their help, there has not failed  but one.'

I?'

You  was it just ? ' -

You must judge me as you please, Miss-cassius,'
he answered.

She made him no reply, and after some
trivial words, he left.

The ball came to an end and Marcella had
seen no more of him. On the way home the
only thing she said was, ' I am cold, cruelly
cold.' In the dining-room she refused the
warm soup that awaited her return, and only
on Mrs. Cassilys's insistance could be persuaded
to take a part of it.

My poor girl,' said her mother, gently
putting her arm about her neck, ' this has been
a terrible evening for you.'

Oh, don't speak of it. He has been ice,
steel, flint with me. I am nothing to him.
He has cured himself of all his liking for me,
long, long ago. I am only staying here to be
tortured. I had better, better far, go away
and forget  if  her voice dropped  ' if I ever
can forget.'

Do you love him so very much, Marcella ? '
asked her mother in a voice that faltered.

Marcella looked up, almost impatiently, as

if her glance should say, 'Have you no
consideration what pain you are giving
me?'

Then she pushed away the soup, and got
up, at the same time taking her shawl, and impatiently
throwing it around her shoulders,
before going into the cold hall.

I would I had never seen his face, nor
heard his name,' she said passionately. ' Why
have you asked him here, mamma? Write
and tell him he cannot come. He will thank
you. He has broken my life, my happy life,
and I '

Her mother stood eyeing her.

Hate him ? ' she suggested.

No,' said the girl, dropping her eyes.

And were he to come tomorrow, and ask
you to be his wife, what would you say to him
about the pain he hasgiven you ? '

Marcella thought a moment, and then
replied,

That I had forgotten it.'

Laiirier's reflections.

I have not profited much by keeping away
from Miss Cassilys. It might seem a contradiction
to think I have lost not gained self-mastery
in this matter, but I feel very much like it
Still, I think I kept my countenance. How
long, I wonder, is this to continue. I wish I
was not going there to dinner.'

But chance wrought a meeting before the
dinner. There arrived a severe frost, and
every skater in London hastened to enjoy the
rare treat of good ice. The expanse of ice in
town is small, and those who skate are likely
to meet.

It was the second day of the skating, and
all the experts had shaken off their first desuetude,
and were again as entirely at their ease
upon the ice as if it had never thawed. A
hard, calm frost reigned in the atmosphere.
At night a little snow had fallen, and fresh
mantled the park in whiteness, giving the trees,
seen from the windward side, the look of a

forest of white coralline. Above, the sky,
leaden with still fallen snow, made a grey-canopy
over the brilliant whiteness of earth ;
whilst all around shone the peculiar lights of a
snowy scene, effects of the unsuspected brightness
thrown off from the facets of the million
crystals of the snow.

After skating some time, Laurier had got
away from the general crowd to the regions
where some adepts were practising figures, and
others, far from adepts, learning to shuffle
about on the ice. Among the latter two girls,
one of whom could scarcely skate at all, took
his attention, and a second look assured him
they were Miss Cassilys and her cousin Miss
Ciu-teis, the former attempting to teach the
latter to skate.

He turned away from his figure-skating and
came up to them.

As he lifted his hat Marcella offered her
hand with the pleasant smile that had gone
with their old greetings at Wyvenhome, saying]

How do you do, Mr. Laurier,' as if nothing
had since intervened.

She had been telling herself that could she
only be like herself, her life would turn back
to the likeness of her old life. That was
reckoning with a little too large a disregard
to the tyrannies of Monsieur L' Amour, but
it was spirited.

'I can't shake hands, Mr. Laurier,' said
Florelle. ' It is all I can do to stand. Can
you skate well ? '

Tolerably.'

I wish you would teach me a little, then,'
returned Flo prettily. 'My cousin has very
good intentions, but that does not much help
me to skate.'

I shall have much pleasure,' said Laurier,
and instantly repented of it.

It is very good of you to give up you*
own skating, Mr. Laurier,' said Marcella.

He gave Flo half an hour's lesson, which
she afterwards described thus, ' He was kind.

you know, about teaching me ; but not nice,
not at all.'

Then he brought her back to where Mar-cells
was waiting.

A little teaching would do you good,
Marcella,' said Florelle mischievously, a little
elated to have learned some things her instructress
did not know.

Would you like it. Miss Cassilys ? ' asked
Laurier.

More than once whilst teaching Florelle
his eyes had wandered in search of Marcella,
always when they found her to wake a sort of
regret that she did herself so scant a justice in
her skates.

If you would be so kind, and if we are
not spoiling all your own pleasure, I should
like it much,' replied Marcella.

He bade Flo practise alone till they returned,
and then, giving Marcella his arm,
they skated away together to a part less
observed than that where he had taught Flo.

Instinct made him tender with Miss Cassilys's
shortcomings. As they passed through the
medley of skaters a good many eyes turned
to admire the handsome pair, and more than
one voice observed, ' He skates very much
better than she Then they drew out of the
crowd, and the general tinkling roll of the
skates sounded behind them, whilst their own
made music in time on the ice.

And now,' he said, when they had arrived
where he wished, ' first, Miss Cassilys, do your
skates suit you ? It seems to me they do not.'

Though she remonstrated he knelt on the
ice, and examined her skates, as, supporting
herself on his shoulder, she gave first one and
then the other of her finely-made feet into his
hand. He refastened her skates, and suggested
others in which she would be more free, and
even ventured to rebuke her for coming on the
ice in boots that afforded her ankles insufficient
support.

Then he rose, and her lesson commenced.

He was plain spoken, found much fault,
and was hard to please, not even accepting her
best as satisfactory when it was not all it
should be, and flatly informing her she had
fallen into an ugly, awkward way, and would
with difficulty cure herself of it, and learn
what graceful skating was. Still, he confessed
she improved. After a time he said,

Now, shall I teach you a figure ? '

Do I know enough to be able to attempt
figures ? '

You will succeed as well as a good many
people.'

She gave him the old questioning look.

JSFo,' she said, ' that is not what you are
thinking, nor what I wish. I must learn to
skate more neatly, less " ungracefully," that
was the word you used, before I attempt
figures.'

Well, that is the wisest way but it will
take long, most likely, longer than the frost
will last.'

VOL. II. s

Then if that is wisest, why did you not
advise me to do what is wisest ? '

I made a mistake, Miss Cassilys. I have
taught other ladies, and found them generally
a little impatient  your cousin, for example ;
she has insisted on attempting figures ; and fora
moment I forgot that Miss Cassilys is not
like the rest.'

If you once knew it, you should not have
forgotten it, Mr. Laurier. Now come, let us
begin again, and don't be afraid to tell me the
truth. It is good for us girls to learn patience.
Sometimes '  lier voice fell  ' we have more
need of it than you would think.'

'Not you, I hope. Miss Cassilys,' he said
kindly.

Indescribably gentle he was with her, and
indescribably respectful and considerate of her,
and she conscious of being so safe with him.
It was the woman he loved that he had for
pupil  he confessed it to himself if he kept it
from her  the creature for whom, as he

looked in her beautiful face, and saw her soft
cheeks coloured with the bracing air, he would
rather drown than have her hurt whilst under
his protection. And a pleasant thing it was to
teach her new pleasures and graces, and to see
all her powers and intelligences bent to come
before his eyes to the hard perfection he demanded
of her. .

There would be the deuce to pay by-and-by
for this fooHng and trifling about with her,
for this holding her hands, and directing her
feet, and touching her, and having her arm on
his arm, and her shoulder against his ; but it was
only for once, for half an hour, and his abstinence
had been for weeks and months.

Presently she slipped, and but just saved
herself, and then a second time ; so that she
[had had an awkward fall if he had not been
prompt to catch her elbow in his hand.

Now I think you are getting tired,' he said.

*Well I am afraid I am,' acknowledged
Marcella reluctantly.

s 2

she was a young lady of experience, and
managed to smile, an incredulous, jesting
smile.

Are you mad, Mr. Curteis,' she asked,
or only very impudent ? '

'Neither. I am in earnest. Of course I
know nothing was said about it, only I thought
there was a kind of tacit understanding.'

'Eeally,' rejoined Theoo, archly and still
incredulously; 'and, if you please, on what
grounds did you form that opinion ? '

Oh, we'll waive the grounds. But, seriously.
Miss Stryne, I should never have
thought of plaguing you if this other man
had not come in the way. Only, you know,
you will have me, won't you ? '

Hammerbratsch returned too soon for any
reply, and the conversation once more became
a rattle of nothings, spiced with some very
pointed compliments, on the part of Hammer-branch,
to Miss Stryne.

Oh, Mr. Hammerbratsch,' said Theoo

presently,  there is papa. Do go and tell Mm
 you don't mind my asking you, do you ? ' 
this most persuasively  ' do go and tell him
Mr. Curteis is here. Don't let him go away
till he has seen him.'

Hammerbratsch left them quickening his
pace. Theoo and Charley followed in the same
direction, more slowly.

Now,' quoth Charley, ' we recommence
where we left off, and it is your turn to answer,
Miss Stryne.'

'Certainly, Mr. Curteis,' rejoined Theoo with
spirit, 'you have an original method of courtship.'

Well, and yours was an original method of
making my acquaintance.'

I fear I then made a great mistake,' she
replied, for the first time speaking seriously.

Don't say that till I have given you reason
for it. Miss Stryne,' replied Charley, in a tone the
same as her own. ' Now the time is short, we
won't quarrel. One of these days you and I
will be married, will we not ? '

Chapter XIII.

Before the date of Mrs. Cassilys's dinner an
invitation came for Laurier from Keppel to
dine with him at his rooms.

Laurier went. The twice or thrice he and
Keppel had met had been at a club, and it was
the first time he had been in Keepers own
quarters. That they were enviable in the
extreme did not surprise him, Keppel was the
sort of man to have everything about him of
the best procurable ; but Laurier was not prepared
for the luxury passing measure in which
he found himself.

Keppel gave him a dinner the best cuisine
in London could rival only, not surpass. Two
other men were there  an officer, a very marvel
of anecdote, and voracity, who kept them in a

laugh all dinner-time, and a thin-faced youth
with a pointed chin, who was grandiloquent on
gambling. After dinner these two left, and
Keppel and Laurier remained alone.

They removed to the little drawing-room,
a sumptuous place which it had cost a fortune
to furnish, Louis Quinze without an anachronism
except its inmates.

'I wish, Laurier, you would sometimes
come to see me,' said Keppel ; ' I am a bird of
passage, but my servants shall let you know
when I am here. At any time when you could
come it would give me pleasure to see you.
You perceive the kind of men, of whom I see
more than I care for, these military boarders,
and dolts to whom I am compelled to be civil
for the sake of their set. Now let me hear all
about yourself.'

He began a number of questions. What
had this firm sent him ? What had Mr. 
done? Did Lord such an one keep
his promises Was the introduction to Mr.

Justice of any real service ? And so forth.

Next: What had Laurier been doing? In
which cases had he been retained ? As senior
or junior ? In which courts ? With what successes?
Into the whole he entered with the
concernment and zest of an influential man who
has taken up a younger one's interests. At the
end he said,

You ought to do well, Laurier. I hope
you may. I know very little about the working
of your profession, but when you want anything
in the way of introductions, or a friend
at court, apply to me  mark me, I mean it.
My influence is not of a very tangible kind, butin
some quarters it goes a long way ; and as it
has cost me enough there is no reason why
someone should not reap the benefit.'

Laurier commenced an expression of thanks.

Please let that pass,' interrupted Keppel ;
we will talk of something else. You are not
looking well, and you are not quite yourself
How is that ? '

Several men tell me so. I have had some
hard work. But I am not avare that any very
tangible cause for any alteration in my personal
appearance exists,' laughed Laurier.

Ah, but causes are not all tangible, my
dear man. I'll tell you what I think about
it, Laurier. When you and I met in Paris,
why would you not come to dejeuner with
Mademoiselle Kaouzelle ? '

I don't affect that sort of thing was the
quiet reply.

All nonsense, Laurier ; you are making a
mistake. I am not the first man who has told
you so, I know.'

He added more, and all to the same effect,,
persuasive if anything could be to that to
which his hearer was unwilling to be persuaded.
Laurier smoked his cigar, silent, except when he
now and then assented to some question from
Keppel with, ' Yes  that is true.'

Laurier,' said Keppel at last, ' you are a
man who means to emerge. You are perfectly

right. Take the advice of a man who has seen
many men emerge. Make the tender passion
keep in quarters of its own, apart from the
:serious affairs, the business and ambitions of life.*

I have no intention of providing the said
tender passion with any quarters.'

Keppel (he was leaning against the chimney-piece,
with his back to the fire) drew his cigar
from his lips, and pointing with it, held between
his first and second fingers, towards Laurier, said,

Now, Laurier, look here, you know better
than that. At your age, with your experience,
I mean after what your professional opportunities
to observe have laid bare to you of men's
lives, are you about to tell me that men fall in
love or not as they choose ? '

Well  no  certainly not.'

'Do you suppose poor Jack would have
come to his end if he had listened to me ? You
are exactly in Jack's predicament, Laurier.'
(that is truer than you think,' thought
Laurier. ) ' Once he was going to give passion

FAIR AND Free. 267

no quarter. Like him, you will one of these
days find it will give you no quarter.'

Laurier made no response.

It will end with your doing just the same
as he. You don't like women. That won't
help you. I don't like women  still  . Well,
Laurier, you will vulgarly fall " over head and
ears " in love with some girl. If she won't
marry you there will be the deuce to pay.
Time and energies and I know not what else
squandered on fretting. And if she will marry
you, what then ? Now, honestly, what should
you do with a woman ? '

'I'm sure I don't know. As I have no
intention of asking any woman to marry me,
I have never concerned myself to think. I suppose
I should do my best to make the animal
happy.'

'I have not the least doubt you would,'
rejoined Keppel sardonically ; ' and a pretty
occupation you wil find it, something like
alchemy, " an art that is no art, of which the

beginning is lying, the middle toil, and the
end beggary." Treat a woman badly, Laurier,
and the worse, the better she will love you,
always provided you have once . got her affection.
However, " Think on't, man, think
on't." '

It was a little after midnight when Laurier
left. The night was fine, the streets growing
empty. The distance was not very great, and
he decided to walk back to his chambers.
Walking a man can think better.

Keppel's kindness was great. Since leaving
Wyvenhome Laurier had learned a good deal
about him. His set was exclusive, his acquaintances
outside it not many, chiefly men much
younger than himself, whom he believed men
of talent (and his judgment seldom erred), and
for whose benefit his really considerable influence
seemed to exist. More strange, the
men who were under obligations to him were
seldom loth to confess it, and freely acknowledged
their regret that the ' thus far shalt

thou come and no further ' of his manner had
forbidden them to number among their friends
the man they held first of their benefactors, and
believed endowed beyond the ordinary with
the qualifications  they grow daily rarer  that
can make a man a friend of men.

Other men there were, who, when Keppel's
name was mentioned, pressed their lips together,
said nothing, and attempted to look as if they
knew nothing. But these were few ; and every
man has foes.

As for Keppel's views of the tender passion
they were not new to Laurier, who was neither
scandalised, nor affronted, nor persuaded. This
was Keppel's way, and was nothing to him.
Many other points of Keppel's polished, influential,
useless life interested him more.

And Keppel's advice on that subject he
tossed aside unconsidered. The consciousness
of the woman he sincerely loves environs the
thought of a man, and renders nauseous to him
all passion except for her.

Charley had come to town, and thrown
himself into work with a zest that was quite
astonishing. He would sometimes draw a long
face over certain classes of men with whom he
had to meet, and looked mournful about giving
up his crack West-end Club, but he was in
excellent spirits about his enterprise, and vowed
himself the ultimate gratification of making a
fortune.

He went a good deal to his aunt's when he
had time, and one of the things he naturally-asked,
on the occasion of one of his earliest
visits, was what Mrs. Cassilys and Marcella saw
of Laurier.

We see him very seldom,' replied Mrs.
Cassilys. ' When we met at Wyvenhome I
liked him, and since we have been in town I
have twice asked him to dinner, but he has not
been able to come.'

You liked him, did you not, Marcella ? '

I thought him clever,' replied Marcella,
evasively.

He is an odd character,' observed Charley.
I went a day or two ago to see him at his
chambers. I thought we should have a pleasant
talk about Wyvenhome and the shooting, and
so on ; but he did not seem to wish to talk
about it. Then I said something about you
and aunt, and he shut me up on the spot. I
used to think he liked you ; in fact, I'm sure
he did, in his own queer way. I could not
understand him a bit. I pitied the man, for
he seemed to me utterly wretched and discontented,
and at cross purposes with his life.
Yet they tell me he is considered successful. I
suppose he is overworking himself, but he
seems to have become very difficult to understand.
Have you noticed it, Marcella ? '

I don't think either Marcella or I have
ever managed to understand him,' replied Mrs.
Cassilys, quickly, coming to her daughter's
assistance.

Well, I used to think I did,' said Charley,
'but I am not sure I do now. If he is like

this when he is at home, I fancy I begin to like
him a good deal less than I did.'

Don't say that, Charley,' put in Marcella,
pleadingly, ' he may very possibly have just
now some trouble of which we know nothing.
I don't think you misjudged him.'

With which speech the conversation closed.

The dinner at Mrs. Cassilys's house proved
an event almost eventless. Charley was there
and took his cousin in to dinner. A confessed
admirer of Miss Cassilys's was also there, and
obtained some infinitesimal favours, due to
nothing but pique at the manner in which she
was being treated by Laurier. The guests sat
where they pleased, and Laurier, who, if he
lead chosen, had at dinner the opportunity to
sit next Marcella, purposely selected another
part of the table and conscientiously devoted
himself to his partner's amusement. With
Marcella he was extremely on his guard, and
his acted insouciance rose far above suspicion.

For her the evening was one of disappointments
heaped upon disappointments, some of them 
there is nothing more cruel  ridiculous in their
thoroughness.

At one time, whilst two ladies were
thumping through a noisy duet, to the distress
of everyone in the room except themselves ;
the other women bearing it well ; and the men
with blank looks hanging about awkwardly ;
Laurier, sitting by one of the tables, took up a
remarkably handsome book, and after a brief
glance at the letterpress and the binding,
turned back the cover as if to examine the fly-leaf.


Now he is looking,' thought Marcella, ' to
see if that book is mine.*

A slight change of position permitted her
keen-sighted eyes unobserved to watch what
ensued. What Laurier sought was not on the
fly-leaf, for he looked at the top and bottom
corners of the cover. It was not there either,
and he at once turned to the other end of the

VOL. II. T

book. Again the inside of the cover, and at
the inner bottom corner he has found what he
sought.

The name of the binder !

And he takes up the book and again scans
its back, and again looks at the binder's name,
the more surely to consign it to memory. Then
laying down the book, without so much as a
glance at its book plate, he once more resigns
himself to the noise.

And Marcella, with her handkerchief rending
in her hands, has to think, ' Fool that I am !
Always imagining he must be thinking of me.
Whether a book is mine or not, what does it
matter to him ? He concerns himself as much
about me as about a person who never
existed.'

Empty of interest the slow evening passed
away. Glad enough was Marcella when it at
length reached its end.

And so came and went by the long-planned,
much-anticipated dinner, on which love had

lavished thought for whole months, one great
disappointment : not one of the things said or
done that fancy had promised ; blighted every
pretty, fluttering hope ; the whole scene blank,
for Marcella could scarcely say what had happened,
and its retrospect fit only for tears.

Even Mrs. Cassilys shook her head now.
When Marcella said that evening, as she
wished her mother 'Good-night's ' You see, I
was right ; ' she only replied, ' My poor darling,
I fear it is vain to deny it. You were right.'

After long tensions come strong reactions.
Marcella came down to breakfast the following
morning with a face absolutely apathetic.

That girl is breaking her heart,' thought
Mrs. Gassilys.

Unwilling to leave her alone in her misery,
after breakfast she went about the house seeking
her. It was some time before she discovered
her, in the dining-room, sitting sideways,
leaning against the table, on which
before her stood a little deal box. The screws

2

driver with which its lid had been wrenched oflT
lay at its side, whilst two or three odd-shaped
bottles drawn from it lay on the table. One of
them opened was in Marcella's hand. As her
mother entered she looked up quickly, as if
surprised.

The icy chill of a fear never before conceived
shot through Mrs. Cassilys.

What are you doing, Marcella ? ' she inquired,
with a sinking voice.

This is the new wood-violet scent,' replied
Marcella, indifferently.

She idly leaned back, and closing her eyes
lifted the little bottle to her nostrils, passing
it backwards and forwards, now nearer, now
farther from them.

Her mother stepped to her side, and
taking the bottle from her smelt its contents.


It is better than the old, is it not ? ' said
Marcella, languidly.

It was very good ; and, to Mrs. Cassilys 's

indescribable relief, it was wood-violet scent
and not anything else.

Will you take one of them ? ' asked Mar-bella.


I fear, my dear, you are very unhappy,'
said Mrs. Cassilys, tenderly, putting down the
tiny flask of scent and laying her hand caressingly
on her girl's shoulder.

Oh, no ! I was thinking about this new
scent,' was the reply.

She took the bottle, and pouring a drop on
her palm rubbed it over her hands and wrists,
and then passed the scented fingers over her
face and brows, and through her wavy hair,
the sweet, fresh fragrance of the scent diffusing
itself around her into the air of the
room.

Delicious, mamma, is it not ? Won't you
have some? Give me your handkerchief 
There now, mamma, smell that, is it not exquisite
? '

Yes, it is very nice, dear. But you '

Marcella was now pouring some of the
scent on her own handkerchief.

I ? ' she said, looking up. ' Oh ! '  this
in the manner of a person who has anticipated
something of importance, and heard something
only trivial  ' I am  so so. I'm getting over
it. I do love this scent '  putting the scented
handkerchief to her face  ' take a bottle or
two, mamma. Don't you think Flo would like
one ? Where is she ? '

Upstairs.'

I'll take her one.'

She gathered up the box and the little flasks
and went out of the room.

You certainly are a strange creature*"
soliloquised Mrs. Cassily. ' I'm very glad that
wood-violet cures the heartache, but I don't
understand it.'

Did it cure the heartache ?

Half-way up the stairs the poor child
stopped to bite her lips, and lean her weary



handsome head against the wall, whilst she
covered her eyes with her hand 

Each Scheiden, each bitterest Scheiden !
Wer hat doch cas Scheiden erdacht ? '

I

CHAPTEE XIV.

Laurier called again. Marcella asserted, and
Mrs. Cassilys did not now dispute it, that this
visit would also be timed not to find them at
home. She was mistaken.

A disengaged afternoon occurred. Pondering
how to use it, Laurier remembered it was
Mrs. Cassilys's at-home day  she had taken care
that he should remain under no misapprehension
as to which that day was  and, before his
mind was altogether made up about calling, he
was on his way by rail to Addison Eoad.

It was about half-past three when he
reached the house. A groom with three
horses, two of them with side-saddles, stood
near the steps. As Laurier crossed the hall
the notes of sparkling music reverberated

through a partly-opened door. The servant
introduced him into the back drawing-room, and
went away. A minute later the music ceased.

Coming down stairs Mrs. Cassilys met Mar-bella.


It is Mr. Laurier,' she said.

I know,' replied Marcella ; ' I cannot come
and see him. I am going out for a ride with
Flo, and am late. I have forgotten the time
whilst playing.'

She passed her mother and went upstairs
singing the air of what she had just been playing,
' Tra-la-la-la, Tra-la-la.'

Mrs. Cassilys proceeded alone to the back
drawing-room. In a few minutes Florelle
came in in her riding-habit. Laurier and Mrs.
Cassilys were talking art, apparently getting on
together very pleasantly. Flo remarked that
she was going to ride with her cousin, said a
few words in reply to Laurier's inquiries concerning
her progress in skating, and then excused
herself and left.

Laurier understood he was not going to see
Miss Cassilys.

He stayed a quarter of an hour. Mrs. Cas-silas
wished him to see a new picture she had
purchased for her dining-room, and they went
thither to view it. When they had returned
into the hall, as he was saying ' Good-bye
Marcella, in her riding-habit, came down stairs.

That was not altogether by accident.

You have been looking at mamma's new
picture,' she said, as soon as they had shaken
hands, ' what do you think of it ? '

Laurier mentioned what he considered the
best points in the picture.

When are you coming to see my books ? '
asked Marcella.

She was fastening a new gauntlet, holding
the other one in her gloved hand, and with
eyes intent upon the button difficult to bring
through the button-hole, did not look up as
she spoke.

Some day, I hope. Miss Cassilys.'

Surely there was in the way he looked at
her something very far from indifference. So it
appeared at least to Mrs. Cassilys, whose quick
eyes had caught him at last off his guard.

Marcella concluded the fastening of one-gauntlet,
and commenced to draw on the other.
Then, prompted by a sudden impulse, she said.

Will you come now ? ' and she looked in
his face for his answer.

You are just going out  I must not make
you late for your ride '

The ride was of no consequence. She was
only going out for an hour with her cousin
and they had already put it off till almost tea
late ; and so saying ' Come,' she led the way
upstairs.

I shall leave Marcella to do the honours of
her books herself,' said Mrs. Cassilys, ' afterwards
she will bring you down to the drawing-room
for a cup of tea.'

Marcella took Laurier upstairs and ushered
him into the library.

Now, at last,' she said, ' you see me at
home. This is my own " sanctum sanatorium,"
where everything except mamma's work-basket
is mine. Is it pleasant ? '

Laurier looked around him.

The lowering afternoon sun, thinly veiled
in a haze, cast in through the western windows,
adown the length of the room, a level light of
wintry grey that wasted as it passed along the
motley rows of books. Already the shades in
the room deepened, and at the further end,
where the opening between the bookshelves
that screened it off permitted a glimpse into the
study '  the curtains of the bow windows had
been drawn  flickering, ruddy lights cast by
the flames on the furniture contrasted warmly
with the cold and fading sunshine of the
February afternoon.

Over all Side ne sais qiioi of quiet and calm,
of soothing shadows and gentle lights, of lines
that fell in graceful proportions, a consciousness
of things of price, of treasured store of fertile

human wit laid up for the mind's delight, an
atmosphere of something not of books among
the books, of pleasant scents, of fresh culled
flowers, of music (for the library piano had been
bought at last, and a piece of music was open
on its stand), of luxury, of velvets, of pleasant
things and sights, and of woman's grace, and,
after all, of thoughtfulness.

Well,' asked Marcella, ' what do you think
of my library ? '

That it is like yourself, Miss Cassilys.'

Marcella looked pleased.

Now,' she said, ' come and see what books
I have. You must not expect great rarities.
Papa's notion of life was the same as mine.
He used to say, " A library is a place of enjoyment,"
and this is an intellectual banqueting-room,
not a museum. Still I can show you a
few books, bought not because they were rare,
but although they were rare. See here is a
beautiful book '  she drew from its place a
Saint Evremond, a crimson quarto, with a cover

adorned with fleurs-de-lys, once the property of
the royalty of France  ' I must show it you
myself, but I will not touch it with these rough
gloves.'

She hastened to draw off her gauntlets.
One had not been buttoned, of the other the
buttons clung to the new hard holes.

"Would you unbutton this for me, please
"Mr. Laurier ? ' she said, holding up her wrist to
him, at the same time that she looked in his
face.

His fingers trembled to deal with the
leather clothing her tender skin ; but the
buttons were at length unfastened, and the
gauntlet drawn off. Marcella opened the book.

Do you see what beautiful paper this is ?
Take up one leaf and feel it. Papa believed it
was a unique copy. And look at the type, and
the perfection of the impression. Are you susceptible
to the charms of an Edition de luxe f
Only a little I expect ? I am sadly weak on
the subject.'  She turned over a handful of

pages, and then, something catching her eye,
paused, and, careful not to touch it, pointed to
a hne  ' Nous avons his d'interet h jouir du
monde quia la reconnoitre '  ' I wonder,' she
observed, ' whether papa noticed that ? ' A
rapid reference to the end of the book showed
on a fly-leaf a note of the passage, with two
little dashes against it. ' Ah ! ' quoth Marcella,
papa liked that.'

She replaced the book and proceeded to
display others. It began to grow dark, and a
servant was sent for to light the lamps. Slowly
they passed down the library, Laurier frequently
stopping to remark, 'Ah, I see you
have this '  ' Dear me, I have often wished to
see that book : ' Marcella rejoining sometimes
with questions, sometimes with observations
that betrayed a wide and sympathetic, and 
which impressed Laurier far more  an accurate
acquaintance with many of her books, and the
histories of their authors.

Yet in her manner there existed something

unquiet. A faint blush would now and
again mount her cheeks without any apparent
cause, and Laurier caught her eyes essaying, as
it were, with a kind of timidity, and at the
same time shrinking to meet his.

He had no sense of what that implied,
but there slowly began to break upon him,
what he had never in the least suspected, that
Miss Cassilys was a girl of the rarest education.


'You continue to add to the library,' he
presently remarked, with respect to some books
of quite recent date. ' Do you yourself select
the books ? '

Oh dear no, Mr. Laurier. I should make
the most stupid mistakes. Some of mamma's
literary friends advise me,' and she ran over
the names, as of intimate acquaintances, of
half-a-dozen men, every one celebrated in
English or French letters.

So these were the men this girl was accustomed
to see.

They passed on from shelf to shelf, the
girl's talk artlessly unfolding the beauty of her
mind.

And now,' she said, ' here are my
monitors, my "Memento morris," my warning
how much wider pleasure is than my power to
partake of it. These are papa's favourite Greek
and Latin and Spanish books, that I shall never
have time to learn to read.'

Why not ? Latin and Greek can be
learned.'

'I should never have time to learn them
perfectly enough to derive any pleasure from
them, without sacrificing something else. No
I have my share of things  but those will
never be a part of it.'

Laurier regarded her as if attempting to
read something in her expression.

Do you know, Miss Cassilys,' he said, ' I

have often wondered why you, with your voice,

never sing. But I think I have come upon the

reason. You judged that you would not have

VOL. II. U

time for vocal music and instrumental too, and
close the latter.'

My father made me choose. He thought
it better for me to become as perfect as I could
in one accomplishment.'

She looked down with an expression of
some thought, which she did not wish to
impart, which she felt it her privilege to keep.

Laurier was silent. It seemed to him that
within this nature at once so happy, so grave,
so richly gifted, and dowered with so rare
opportunities, there was no excellence that
might not be contained.

At this point Florelle came in.
'Aunty,' she said, 'thinks it possible you
would prefer to have tea up here,  as you
have been up here nearly a couple of hours.'

It is superfluous to observe that the latter
clause of this speech was not a piece of Mrs.
Cassilys's message, but of Florelle's mischievousness,
which Alas accompanied with the most
delicious of little grimaces.

Yes, ask mamma to let us have tea up
here,' replied Marceila. As Florelle left she
turned to Laurier and said, ' Now I am sure
you must be tired of standing so long. Come
and sit by my fire. I have been so interested
that I forgot all about the time.'

They proceeded to the hearth, and sat
down one on either side of it. Tea and
Mrs. Cassilys were slow to come, and they fell
again into conversation. Pointing to some
engravings hanging over the chimney-piece,
Marceila presently asked, ' What do you think
of those ? '

Laurier rose to inspect them. Among
them was a fine fine engraving of the ' Vierge
aux candelabra.' Speaking of it, Laurier remarked,


I somehow suspect that rightly to appreciate
these pictures of the Madonna one should
be a Woman Catholic. What do you think.
Miss Cassilys ? '

Quite the contrary. I have little inclination
u 2

FAIR AND FREE.

to turn Romanist, but had I much, the Virgins
would deter me.'

You mean Mariolatry ? ' suggested Laurier,
for whom the question, considered from that
standpoint, lost its interest.

'No,' she arranged herself still more idly
in her chair, and looking down sideways at
the fire, went on, ' I have no repugnance to
worshipping the Virgin, but I cannot descend
to the Virgins. They always appear to me
fatal to any attempt to defend Romanism.
Only imagine  that woman without a fault, by
whom all things are known and understood, all
but a goddess, and still thoughtful for the
feeble hopes and fears of every one of us,
pourtrayed as a thing with her hair done plain,
with dolly's dull blue eyes, and bulging cheeks
of a portentous red ; or a timid blonde with
weak hips, and mawkish hungry jaws, who has
not known how to dress herself ; or, worst of
all, the namby-pamby French pensionnaire of
Lourdes, in nondescript garments tied with a

sky-blue sash. The religion that can perpetrate
such things must have something fundamentally
wrong in it.'

Laurier stood looking down on her.

Such as men are, such are their gods,' he
said, after a pause, ' that is an old saying, is it
not ? '

And a true one,' she assented.

'And such as a woman is, such is her
Madonna, is that true too ? '

Marcella hung her head nervously. ' You
must not speak like that,' she said.

The next minute there was a sound of steps,
Mrs. Cassilys and Flo, and the servant coming
with the tea.

Laurier was gone. Marcella returned to
her library fireside, and sat down again where
she had sat with him. Ultimately nothing is
explicable, and she wished now that she had
gone for her ride.

There was something terribly humiliating

in loving as she did, where no spark of affection
was offered in return.

The lamps had been turned low, and she
preferred to let them remain so. In her present
mood the irregular fire-light afforded her
more congenial company. For a woman who
bears in her heart an unrequited love, the soft
melancholy of the vague appearances uncertain
lights and fantastic shadows awake in a well-known
room has always its spell of nothingness
and relief. Slowly regrets melted into semi-consciousness
of shadowed light and of vague,
stray snatches of ideas that flitted by, caught
at in vain. Her hands sank down by her
knees, her cheek against the soft chair-back, insensibly
her eyelids drooped, closed, and Mar-cells
slept.

And Laurier ?

He has gone too far  too far  too far.
Now, when no retreat remains, he perceives it.
Before he was right, wise, not to approach her.

But he kept on his guard in vain. Chances
checkmated him. Now she holds him : her
existence occupies him, her character fascinates
him, and he can barely turn himself
from her.

Altogether his mind misgives him. Her
power over him is a thing he does not like to
estimate. Her nature is a witchery to his, and
nothing seems more probable than that under
its influence he will play the fool.

All this walking up and down the platform
at Addison Eoad.

What is the end to be ?

Simply this  he loves her  and must learn
to be content to love unloved. Other men
have lt)ved women they could not possess.
He must pass into this class, and his love be of
this kind.

Tired of standing he sat down.

On the next seat was a girl, a light
symmetrical figure, daintily dressed. He could
not see her face, but he observed that she

frequently turned her head to look over her
shoulder at one particular entrance to the
station. And now whilst he looked she rose
briskly, and walked towards the point that
had so much occupied her attention. Her
dress was short, and he could see that,
as she stepped, one narrow foot almost
crossed before the other, as women walk
only under the spell of some strong emotion
of pleasure. And then he perceived a good-looking
man in a light suit, who, as he
approached, smiled from a little distance to the
girl and raised his hat with an air of something
more than mere courtesy. As they met, and
shook hands, he said something for which the
girl hung her head and coyly turned aside her
face. For an instant she took his arm, and
then, as she dropped her hand from it, he hers,
and finally she his again. So they made a few
steps, stopped, quickly wheeled round, and
went towards the stairs, she walking at his
side with longer, firmer steps, a contrast to the

nervous tread with which she had come
forward to greet him, and so they passed out
of sight.

We live in ignorance of the impressions
we are making. Who would longer remember
that meeting, the man the lady awaited, or the
stranger who chanced to look on ? Whom
had her grace the more profoundly moved .
Probably the latter.

For there are sacrifices which if they are
to be made must not be understood ; and to
Laurier that meeting was a revelation. Miss
Cassilys was never to wait with impatience
his coming, never to turn away coy looks from
him, never her step to take firmness at his side !

Instead, an icy myth of platonic love for
Mrs. Charles Curteis. For Marcella would
marry. Why should she notes She was not
divine. And then he would be in love
platonically ' with another man's wife. He
had seen often enough the end of that
arrangement.

VOL. II. X

Platonic love is a lie. Love is only
platonic /azi( de mieux.

What will he do then ? Court her  an
engaged girl  another man's betrothed  with
the hope of making her break her faith ?
There are men foolish enough to thmk that
dishonourable, and Laurier was one of their
number. That was a course to him impossible.
Conquer his passion, even now, then ?

But how? His mind became silent. In
effect, though he would not admit it, counsel
failed him.

Days, weeks ensued of mere restlessness
and irritation. Weeks of awakening every
morning with a dull sense of something amiss,
of toil estranged from aim, of racking expectation,
fear, hope, misgiving, of seeing, of relief
and disappointment at not seeing Miss Cassilys :
and at the end of every day heart sickness of
its vapidness.

Still as he wanted no manner of courage
he steadily shunned her, assuring himself that

though his emancipation might take long, go
free he would.

But in the interim set in an evil altogether
new. He began to blunder.

Then, with a crash, came the denouement,
a slovenly mess made of an important case
(the first put in his hands by a large firm),
owing to nothing but want of attention on
his part.

Only attention had become the one thing
he could no longer command.

'This, Mr. Laurier, is extremely unfortunate
for my client,' observed the solicitor
in a monotone.

The blow was staggering. Laurier was
not the man to speak of it to anyone. Alone
he weighed it accurately, made no secret from
himself of its cause, and, with his own merciless
hardness, took it, with a bitterness
beyond gall, for a monition of insufficient
stability in his own character for great successes
at the bar.

By evening some of the lightest of Lis
ambitions Lad been set aside.

Then lie fell out of Humour with work,
idled and procrastinated, whilst Lis existence
sunk to a misery, broken, distressed, soured to
its core.

It became a serious question. Was there no
remedy ?

END or THE SECOiS'D VOLUME.

London : Printed RY

SPOTTISWOODIC AND CO., >'KW-.STIt i;KT Squatter

AND PARLIAMENT STRliET

VOL. Ill,

BY THE AUTHOR OF

A MODERN GREEK HEROINE'

A maiden fair and free ;
Aid for she was her fathers heir,
Full well she was y-cond the heir

Of mickle courtesy '

Drayton

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



fall rights reserved

CHAPTEE I.

Charley received a letter from Theoo. It was
shorts and not very explicit :

Dear Charley, 
'Do please come to see me. I am in a
most terrible fix, and there is no one else in
the world who can help me out of it.

Your own loving Theoo.

'Pes.  I could meet you the day after
tomorrow, on the Panton sands, of course
quite by accident.'

Charley announced important family busi-

VOL. III. B

ness at his office, and went down the same
afternoon to Panton.

A bright morning the next day found him
and Miss Stryne strolling by the waves of
Torbay.

Theoo went straight to the point : ' Now,
Charley, the case is this. Papa and mamma
are both determined I shall marry Mr. .
You see, he is very rich. Now,
Charley, what on earth am I to do? You
must understand I have kept Mr. Hammer-branch
waiting till he will wait no longer. In
fact, I have refused him once, only not in a way
that made it necessary for him to go away.
But soon I shall have to say real, definite
Yes " or " No." He is awfully rich, and " No "
will be very difficult for me to say.'

Lovers by thousands have made bitter misunderstandings
and quarrelled for ever over
words less difficult to construct awry than
these. But this time the frank nature of the
one, and the practical want of all nonsense in

the temperament of the other, put misunderstanding
clean out of the way. Theoo went on,

'I don't wish to promise to marry Mr.
Hammerbratsch, but if I refuse him papa and
mamma will know it, because Mr. Hammer-branch
will leave. I am sure he will leave.
Then I shall be in a scrape. That is not alL
Mamma will insist upon knowing why I refused
him. You will say, " Don't tell." That is more
easily said than done. You men don't know of
what a mother with a marriageable daughter
on her hands is capable. Mamma would extract
the truth, and after that she is just the
character to carry me off on the spot to America
to be married by machinery, or to have me sold
to a Frenchman.'

I see,' said Charley, perplexedly. He had
not much fear of either of the catastrophes
Theoo named, but he could see she was in a
difficulty, and his was not a nature fertile in
invention.

Of course,' continued Theoo, ' I know some

B 2

girls would simply say " Yes," and mean " No."
I don't quite like that. Though, if I were not
engaged, I should not so much mind doing it
merely to keep him quiet ; but now I, in a
kind of way, belong to you, Charley, don't I,
and '

For all the rest she put her daintily gloved
hand into his.

No, don't do that, Theoo. It is unworthy
of you,' said Charley.

Theoo looked down. ' Have you ever wondered,
Charley,' she asked presently, ' why, of
all the men I have seen, I liked you the best ? '

Because I never bothered you, I should say.'

Theoo smiled. 'Partly for that, but more
for something better than that, Charley. Because
you are the only one who has ever
thought 1 could be good.'

Good ! He thought her something better
than plain good.

Well, Theoo, but what are we going to do ? '
he asked.

Charley, I hate it, but I can see nothing
but accepting Mr, Hammerbratsch. I will not
marry him, I promise you, but 1 believe I shall
have to say I will.'

No, no,' insisted Charley. They walked
two or three steps in silence, and he added, ' I
wish we were married, Theoo.'

It was exactly what Theoo herself was thinking,
and she answered with a pretty grace, ' So
do I, Charley.'

If we were to get quietly married, Theoo,
should you mind it ? '

If you could manage it, Charley, I should
feel safe.'

You are coming up to town shortly. If I
make all the necessary arrangements you agree
to it ? '

She bent her head in assent.

A few more words, and a long pressure of
loving hands, and Theoo was alone, with her
many thoughts, on the brink of the great-hearted
sea, the only friend that always weeps

to those who weep and smiles to those who
smile.

Returned to town, Charley cast about him
for a plan of action. Concerning being married,
he knew only one thing for certain, that it was
a ceremony performed in church. He had also
a vague impression that to be clandestinely
married was much more difficult than in days
gone by, the Church and the law having, at
some not very distant date, attached to holy
matrimony a number of troublesome formalities
that compelled a large degree of publicity.

Not being, however, of a character to distress
himself, he waited without concern for a
Sunday evening, when a walk of an hour's
duration brought him into another part of the
suburbs of London, more unknown to that in
which he lived than the capital of one county
is to that of the next. Some church bell began
to ring for service, and he entered.

The building was empty with the exception
of a man lighting the gas and another near the

door, ringing the bell. Charley addressed the
latter, who stated himself to be the verger, and
the dialogue proceeded as follows :

'I want to be married, without its being
known. How is that to be done ? '

You're not known hereabouts, sir ? ' asked
the verger, apparently quite accustomed to inquiries
of the kind.

'No.'

Then we can do that for you, sir, easy
enough. You takes rooms for yourself and the
young lady, sir. Then we puts up the banns
both of this parish." We can do that next
Sunday, and then tomorrow three weeks you
can be married.'

Only I don't want to be married in three
weeks,' objected Charley.

Banns holds good three months, sir ; any
day within that time you please, sir.'

Where can I take rooms ? '

I've a nice little room I lets to gentlemen,
sir, and my brother he has another, as you'll

want one for the young lady. If you'll leave
something of yours and the young lady's, sir, if
you please, to take possession. If you've not
anything you would like to leave, I can sell you
two hymn-books, sir, which is what I does for
most gentlemen.'

That is all right, is it ? ' inquired Charley
a little surprised.

Oh yes, that is all right, sir,' replied the
functionary, with a smile at Charley's innocence.


However, Charley preferred also to speak
to the clergyman, who, he found, regarded his
questions as an unnecessary and annoying expenditure
of time, and, for the rest, corroborated
the information of his subordinate. Charley
paid two guineas for the rooms, five shillings
for the hymn-books (in which he wrote his own
name and Theoo's respectively), and a trumpery
fee of two shillings for the banns. After which
he walked home a wiser man.

For three consecutive Sundays the congregation

of Saint 's, Street, were assured

that Charles Curteis and Theodora Stryne were
both of this parish,' and that if any of them
knew cause or just impediment why these two
persons should not be joined together in holy
matrimony they were to declare it. As none
of them, except the verger and the clergyman,
had ever been aware till then that any such
persons existed, the congregation had nothing
to say on the subject, and Charley and Theoo
were in a position legally to become man and
wife in twenty minutes at any date within
the next three months they might be pleased
to choose.

CHAPTEE II.

It befel that Laurier went one Saturday afternoon
to the Winter Exhibition of the Old
Masters.

For a time he strolled about, little interested
in reality, with a kind of anxiety, whether of
hope or fear would be difficult to determine,
but in public places always with him now,
respecting Miss Cassilys's haply being there. Of
whichever character, however, his fretful anticipations
partook, they were fated this time to
be accomplished. Suddenly he became aware
that six paces oiBT, before a Leonardo da Vinci,
:a tall girl in a tight-fitting jacket, and a small
hat with some sort of gold coloured feather,
was  Miss Cassilys.

Laurier turned at once, and left that part of

the gallery, but not without her catching sight
of his back, and recognising him.

Mr. Laurier is here, mamma,' she said to
Mrs. Cassilys.

Would you like to leave, dear ? '

No,'  indifferently.

Laurier did not at once quit the exhibition.
There were several pictures he much wished to
see, and he satisfied himself with avoiding
Marcella. For a time he succeeded very well.
Then he again came across her. The desire to
approach and address her was almost irresistible,
and, determined no longer to expose himself to
temptation, he decided to go, and walked
towards the vestibule. But an acquaintance
meeting him, and detaining him in conversation,
left him, as he turned after saying
Good-bye,' face to face with Miss Cassilys,
not two yards off.

She bowed, and he lifted his hat, and  for
human endurance has limits  had timidly extended
his hand a little way, when her disregard

of the action warned him she did not intend to
shake hands. Mrs. Cassilys, standing behind
her daughter, turned round and, which Mar-cells
certainly would not have done, began
immediately to talk of one of the nearest
pictures. Together they examined that, and
then a second, a third, a fourth.

Then Laurier remarked that Marcella was
of set purpose avoiding addressing him. Her
criticisms, marked as her conversation so often
was, by her peculiar, cultivated power to see
and enjoy whatever was beautiful or grateful,,
were exclusively made to her mother. But
she spoke only little, and Mrs. Cassilys made all
the talking.

Laurier adventured a question to her. She
replied at once, but it was with an evasion,
whilst the lines of her proud, imperious lips
signified a prohibition of all approach to her, of
the hardest and most unrelenting kind.

Yet, when a moment later he remarked of
the peculiar transparency in a picture that

it reminded him of a certain morning light to
which she had called his attention when at
Wyvenhome, she turned on him quickly and said,

You have not, then, quite forgotten alU
Mr. Laurier. Surely that is a pity.'

Though Mrs. Cassilys was there he would
have made her some expostulation for the
tone she took with him, had not another party
just then joined them, to whom Marcella tiu-ned
at once to speak. It was of some riding party
to Eichmond Park on the following Tuesday
afternoon, in which she and some of them were
to be included. Then she availed herself of
the opportunity to say ' Good-bye ' to Laurier,
with a formal bow. Mrs. Cassilys gave him
her hand, and they parted.

Slowly Laurier went on his way.

Was it ever made plainer to any man that
a woman was affronted with him ?

Yet he knew he was disposed even now to
stay for the chance of once more catching a
glimpse of her.

And of her lips harder than steel ?

No. He would go.

Of Marcella's friends one of the girls was
saying to her, ' Who is that remarkably handsome
man who was with you P '

'A Mr. Laurier. He is handsome, is he
not ? And he is this afternoon looking handsomer
than I can remember ever seeing him
before.' She paused a moment and went on,
But he is not nice  no, I don't mean that
exactly  well  I don't know. I suppose I
should not say anything against him ; he is
very, very clever, and perhaps one does not
easily understand such men.'

Oh, but don't you like them ? ' replied her
companion, a thoughtful-looking girl.

Marcella made no reply.

Meanwhile Laurier slowly strolled in the
direction of the exit. His mind was very
bitter, torn with chagrins, embarrassments, self-reproaches.
It was not only natural, it was
inevitable, it was the plain result of his own

act, that relations between himself and this
accomplished girl had come to the present
condition of hostilities. To love her he had
neither right nor reason, and it was his own
wrong passion  for it was wrong  that had
entailed all these piques and misunderstandings.
Herself blameless throughout, and scantily
treated with courtesy, in return for a marked
cordiality. Miss Cassilys might justly think it
time to dissever from her acquaintance a man
so simply uncivil. And what would her action
be if she knew him, as he had become known
to himself, a man so imperfectly able to master
elementary passions ?

That a class of men did exist unable to
command the nature of their regard for a
woman he had long known, but he was abased
to discover a reasonable test demonstrated
him one of that company.

His self-condemnation was exaggerated no
doubt, but that of hard natures mostly is
so.

At the turnstile, fain to look over his
shoulder for a last glimpse of Marcella, if
within sight, he refused himself the indulgence,
passed out, repented the self-denial, hesitated,
half turned, lifted his eyes, and stopped in
the middle of his movement with a shock of
surprise.

In a niche close before him stood the Venus
ofMilo.

He had never before noticed her there.
Now a thin light, which fell from some westward
quarter into the shaded archway of the
staircase, palely illumined the figure and face
of the goddess, and, aided by the shadows of
her recess, and the surprise of an unanticipated
encounter, gave her some indefinite semblance
of a sudden apparition.

Laurier paused regarding her.

In that faint lighting the corners of her lips
caught a cold, pitiless smile, and the severe
grace of her indomitable form, a strength
almost formidable.

The last time lie had seen her came into
his memory, and strange warning words,

 Beware of her. She will strike you. She
will not let you go. You cannot fly from her.
She will punish you, and she has an imagination,
the cunning one! One cannot tell how
she will take her revenge, but she will have it,
and she strikes quickly, and she strikes home.'

Laurier turned and descended the stairs.

It was true. He had been very foolish
to disregard the power an attractive woman
wields, to presume on a strength never put to
the proof. And for it he had been smitten,,
deeply, and hard, and soon. Aphrodite had
not let him go. But neither had ' the cunning
one ' had much need of her imagination.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE III.

 Two more days, and then, at last, light.

It was not of free will that he played
the poltroon. The mere consciousness of it
gnawed him more even than his impossible
passion. But he had been remediless.
In actual life specifics reveal themselves
reluctantly.

Nor is invention ruled. The idea came
after all not by searching, but of itself, that is
from a sphere beyond human investigation.
Bat, which was of principal importance, it
came.

It was nothing else than to acknowledge
the truth to Miss Cassilys.

She was a girl with whom an explanation
of the kind was possible  straightforward and

open, of a cool sense, and superior to silliness
and realities. She would be capable
to understand such an avowal, and to comprehend
as he comprehended them, the legitimate
consequences.

Afterwards there would be no more of
these ridiculous misapprehensions.

And he would have raised an impassable
barrier between himself and his foolish passion.

This had lain all along in his way, a
simple, easy, and final remedy ; only, he had
not perceived it. And even now he disliked
the abasement of the confession to Marcella
Cassilys of a strength of mind insufficient to
disentangle himself from an attachment he
ought not to have formed. He saw that sink
in her estimation he must. But his mind was
made up. All else should be waived, and the
justice respect for her and himself alike
demanded be unhesitatingly done.

Some tempter suggested that a little patient
delay might bring a still better course to light,
c 2

Laurier resolutely set aside the temptation to
procrastinate in a matter that had gone already
too far.

Whilst revolving these things he remembered
Marcella's mention of the projected
riding party to Eichmond Park. Unless his
memory misled him, it was to be on the
morrow afternoon, and, as it happened that he
was not presently engaged, the execution of
his project need meet with no delay.

He made an early luncheon, and rode
down to Eichmond.

It was with a lighter heart than he had
for some time borne ; with the liberated sense
a man who revolts from a meanness experiences
when the way to satisfy his notion of
honour is discovered. It was not, though,
altogether without regrets, and, more particularly,
with a sore dislike to confront any
presumes of the frame of mind in which he
would by-and-by retrace his route, fatally
lowered in Miss Cassilys's estimation, and more

or less entirely condemned to an irrevocable
estrangement from her.

When he reached the park the hour was
still sufficiently early to assure him the party,
if they were that day coming, had not yet
arrived. He made no doubt they would enter
by the Robin Hood Gate, and turning his
horse on the turf, slowly rode up and down,
sufficiently near to descry their arrival should
they come. For further precaution he had
brought with him a pocket field-glass.

The afternoon was exquisite, one of those
welcome mild days in February that bring a
soft promise of coming warmer spring. The
sky, though pale of hue, was all but cloudless,
nor obscured with mist except nearer the
horizon, and the sun shone with a sensible
warmth, casting delicate lights on the stubby
winter grass, marked with pale shadows of trees,
whose boughs, bare of leaves, showed sharp
.against the pallid sky. In the atmosphere's
clear light floated a pure and grateful freshness,

a pleasant mingling, as it seemed, of coolness
and warmth, and the faintest scent of grass and
trees. A considerable degree of moisture in
suspense that threatened rain lent a pellucid
charm to the air, and gave every view of
objects far or near brilliant definition. Here
and there little birds, glad of the light,,
twittered in the trees.

It was a very time to drink in hope, but
Stature herself had yet no waking from her
great sleep, except a faintly-tempered breath
that moved languidly over the earth, with
whispered message of the far-off coming of
another summer in its rear.

I hope her life may be happy,' mused
Laurier ; ' at least I shall have the gratification
to think I was wiser than to risk any marring
of its brightness. Only when these affairs are
once surmounted their meaning perishes, and
the pleasure of having spared pain to the woman
you might not love exists but in prospect. The
days will come, soon very likely, when to me

Marcella Cassilys will be as indifferent as
though we had not met, and the sense of duty
towards her that now moves me will appear a
mere shortsightedness of mind, when I shall
have seen far beyond anything to do with
her.'

In thought of such a character he spent
some time surveying at frequent intervals the
road on which the riders might be expected,
till he began to doubt the correctness of a
chance recollection.

But at length, from behind a closer clump
of trees, a party of equestrians came in view,
some five or six men, and as many ladies, riding
in pairs and groups of four and three. He
lifted his field-glass. It was they : Mrs. Cassilys
among the first, and a man he had met at
dinner in her house : near the middle Marcella,
on a superb black horse, no doubt her pet
Nabab. A man rode on either side of her, and
she was engaged in animated talk. With the
glass Laurier could see her face, and even catch

its expressions, as she turned whilst speaking
from one to the other.

And his ears could imagine the full-toned
cadence of her voice.

It wrung a wretched word from him, ' Ah,
who could have thought of this ? ' 

At the same time the various members of
the party exchanged looks, and no doubt words.
The groups took other forms ; and relinquishing
the road for the turf quickened their pace
to a light canter. Half a minute he watched
Marcella's graceful seat, and then, thrusting the
field-glass into its case, started in pursuit.

Hoping for some opportunity to present
himself when Miss Cassilys might be a little
separated from the main body of the party, he
kept at some distance, though he might easily
have overtaken them. Thus they crossed the
park, and he began to fear they would turn
down Eichmond Hill, when they all wheeled
sharply to the left and proceeded in the direction
of Kingston. As they went down the hill they

slackened speed, and then, passing away among
the clumps of trees nearer the ponds, occasioned
him some concern lest he should lose them out
of sight. He therefore slightly sharpened his
pace, and drew a trifle nearer.

As he did so an incident occurred exactly
suited to serve his turn. An elderly man riding
with two children met the party, and several,
among them Marcella, reined up to exchange
a few words with him. More, as the others
rode on she still remained to finish what she
was saying to one of the girls. Laurier quickly
turned to his right, and passing on the other
side of a cluster of oaks, proceeded at a walking
pace in a direction that would intercept her
riding to rejoin her friends.

A sound of hoofs on the turf that makes his
well-mastered pulse beat faster, for, of course,
it must be she.

And she has seen him, and wondered, and
frowned.

Then he looks round, and reining in

his horse for her to come up with him,
bows.

A salutation courteous and graceful, because
she could hardly be ungraceful, but cold, and
a manner with her head that shows she does
not purpose that they shall speak, and she
passes, at the same instant making a movement
as if to urge JSTabab's steps. But before that
Laurier is at her side.

He said only, 'Good-afternoon, Miss Cassilys,'
but there was that in the tone which discourtesy
only or antipathy could disregard, and Marcella
arrested the action that should have quickened
the pace of her steed, and replied, not encouragingly,
' Good afternoon, Mr. Laurier.'

Their horses were side by side. Laurier
commenced without hesitation. ' I have come
here this afternoon, Miss Cassilys,' he said,
purposely with a hope of meeting you. As I
have been fortunate enough to do so, I beg you
will accord me a few moments.'

She regarded him interrogatively, a little

distrustfully, quite at fault to forecast what he
might be about to say, and impressed with
some nervousness, unlike him, in his speech.
With a bow of assent she brought her horse
to a stand, for a hint the colloquy should
be brief.

He understood the act, and mentally winced
Her disfavour to him might be, at some future
day, indifferent, but at present it smote him
hard.

I am under your displeasure,' he said, with
more difficulty than he had anticipated. ' Your
merited displeasure, I fear. I have little hope
this will ever be otherwise; still, what I have
known of your character  may I say that ?  '

A tiny inclination. She is watching him
narrowly, and wondering what in the world
is to come next.

 What I have known of your character
has prompted me nevertheless to come here to
seek you, and to dare  to tell you the truth.'

She broke in on his speech with an incisive.

You wish me to hear some sort of explanation.'


A kind of one.'

None is necessary, Mr. Laiirier.'

Nabab pawed the ground in an impatient
way, and Marcella made a movement as if she
would prefer to ride on.

A dozen speeches thought of and rejected
in a single moment. Then Laurier said,

'Allow me to crave your hearing as a
favour.'

She turned her proud, handsome face to
his, and presented him with a sharp look of
reproof.

A favour ! ' she said. ' Excuse me ; I
think, Mr. Laurier, you must be able to judge
what claim you have to ask one ; at least, I
am not disposed to concede it. I have come,
unwillingly, Mr. Laurier, much to regret that
we ever met. At Wyvenhome I was pleased
to make your acquaintance. Your society was
a pleasure to me, and I did what lay in my

power to return the compliment of your notice
with my respect and regard. I set aside
entirely what I had heard of you, and judged
you for myself. I was frank with you and
unreserved. I shall not ask you how you have
requited me. I know I am but a woman. I
find I have made a great mistake. The
acquaintance of mamma and myself is distasteful
to you.'

He made a sign of protest, but she went
on,

No. I beg your pardon. You force us
to think that it is so. I should not have
mentioned it, though, had that been all. You
are at liberty to select your friends. But, asa
girl of some pride, after frankly giving you
my confidence, I have felt most deeply, I am
not ashamed to confess it, the alternating-assumed
familiarity and pointed slight it has
been your pleasure to put upon me  and '

The man could bear this no more.

Miss Cassilys,' he exclaimed in desperation,.

lout still in hard, mastered tones, ' cannot you
understand? I have loved you to madness,
and have not known which way to turn me ! '

Marcella almost jumped from her saddle.

You  love  me!' she exclaimed, and
turned to him her face, pallid with surprise,
and stared at him as if his words were incomprehensible.


I love you right dearly,' he replied, not
without that trembling in his voice such words
spoken in earnest can never lack. Marcella
turned away her face and looked down, and he
went on, ' And I am only very, very sorry that
what I have done has caused you pain  Mar-cells.'


There was much more he would have said,
but that was all superfluous now. The fateful
word was spoken : for once he had called herby
her Christian name : and now her reply
should come next : and he steeled himself to
receive it, wondering how she would word his
doom.

As for Marcella, the whole scene was swimming
around her, and her heart beating great
thumps against her breast that made the blood
sing in her ears.

Loved after all ! And the supreme moment
come, with all its confusing joys, and its coy
reluctance that holds back from the utterance
of the word she means to say, the word that
closes her girlhood's past and surrenders forever
her independence.

At last she lifted her face, all rose with
blushing, and with a marvellous smile of noble
lips and radiant eyes, half happy and half shy,
looked into his hard, distressed, pale, handsome
face, and in a moment understood he was expecting
to be refused.

She held out to him her little right hand,
and said,

But why have you almost broken my
heart, Guy ? '

And not a word did Laurier comprehend
till his own name at the close brought the

meaning to his senses with a burst of speechless
astonishment.

Accepted !

It took him some seconds to get an elementary
notion of what had happened. Then he
looked at Marcella, at her face coyly half
averted, at her shapely form trembling with
emotion, at her bent right arm, and the delicate
hand that lay trustingly in his, and, for he
knew not what to say to her, spoke the first
word that came to his lips,

You mine ! '

As you are mine.'

He lifted the hand he held, and just touched
the ends of its fingers with an almost inaudible

Kissed by him ! How it made her heart leap !

Her hand dropped from his, and, true
woman, the first to think of convenances Mar-cells
said they should ride on. At first both
were too full of thought for speech, but soon
Laurier spoke of calling on Mrs. Cassilys.

And show mamma every respect, for my
sake,' said Marcella. ' No one will ever know
what she has been to me these last months
during which you have been '  she shook her
head at him with a smile  ' so cruel.'

I believed, Miss Cassilys '

Marcella,' she corrected.

Marcella, in fact I have been so perfectly
convinced that you were already engaged, and
that it was my duty to overcome my attachment
to you '

And were not able ? ' she interrupted,
You not able, Guy ! Oh ! ' She paused for
very pleasure. ' But to whom could you
imagine me to be engaged ? '

To Charley Curteis.'

To Charley ! Well, I dare say things do
seem very like it. You must know Charley
and I are more brother and sister than cousins.
We are almost of the same age, and I having
no brother or sister, papa not wishing me to
grow up alone, got Mrs. Curteis, who has never

VOL. III. D

liked Charley, to send him, when he was three
years old, to us in town. I never knew till
after he went to school that he was not my
brother, and to this day he has always seemed
too much so for us ever to be able to fall in
love, though Charley is the dearest fellow on
earth  well  except '

When they approached the brow of the
rising ground, she said,

Come no farther now. I shall tell mamma
I have seen you, and that you will call on her,
when shall I say ? You are busy in the day ;
this evening ? '

He consented, and with ' Au revoir' she
rode away, once looking round to see him still
where she had left him, watching her.

So these two  neither of them perceiving
it  were engaged, with little more knowledge
of each other than that a three weeks' acquaintance
in a country house makes possible, and
without the man having once given a thought
to seeking or having a wife.

When at last Marcella was out of sight, he
turned to ride slowly homewards. All had
come about so abruptly and unexpectedly that
he was conscious of being unprepared at every
point, even with notions of his duty to the
woman who had put her existence into his
hands.

The unreasonableness of the last few months
floated before him, now she was his, as some
incredible myth. But it was impossible not to
ask himself how his case would have stood had
her reply been such as he had anticipated.

Eespecting his happiness to have won her,
it was a thing more known than felt. His love,
now it was at rest, was a strong still sense with
none of the rushing raptures of hers. What
he most felt was a responsibility, a dear, buta
gigantic one, ill understood and precipitated
upon him before he had considered his own
capacity to sustain it.

And the money ! Mrs. Cassilys must be
dwell

off, and her daughter was accustomed to
every comfort, to something more than comfort,
to a luxury which she loved. And he had but
little money, no relatives, and no expectations,
his profession, and that was all.

CHAPTER IV.

Very quiet was Marcella on her ride home, a
little preoccupied in her vivid joy, a trifle
anxious lest any mishap should befall Laurier
on his ride back to town, but tokenless of
manner of the triumph she had in her heart.

But when home was reached (afternoon tea
was ready in the library), she went upstairs
with a face of golden smiles, and to her seat by
the library fire, where, all unexpectedly, her
thoughts changed to the gravest grave musing
of serious things.

'I would not sit so near the fire in that
warm habit, Marcella,' said Mrs. Cassilys as she
came in.

So deep already was Marcella in her reveries
that the voice made her start. She rose and

came slowly away from the fire, and sat down
by the central table, leaning idly upon it, and
beginning absently to stir and sip her tea, softly
smiling from time to time to herself. In the
centre of the table was a little vase of fresh
violets, and her eyes fixed upon them with an
indefinite pleasure, as though their sweetness
and beauty were somehow a part of her own
love. Mrs. Cassilys soon noticed her manner,,
and asked,

What amuses you so much, Marcella ? '

The girl's eyes dropped, and a tender colour
mantled her cheek as she said,

I have seen Mr. Laurier, and he has made
me a little prouder than I used to be.'

Oh, my dear, I'm sure there was no occasion
for that,' put in Mrs. Cassilys, with a laugh;,
but ? ' Her eyes asked the rest.

He is coming this evening to call on

youth,'

said Mrs. Cassilys, ' I knew how it
would end. And remember, young lady, it is

all your fault that this did not happen at
Wyvenhome. If you had given the poor man
the least encouragement, you might have been
engaged months ago.'

'But I should never have known what I
know now,' rejoined Marcella, with an air that
showed the treasured knowledge of the power
her person had had over him was a secret she
meant to keep to herself.

Then she came to her mother, and knelt to
be kissed and congratulated, and to say, as a
good girl should, some gentle words for the so
much love and help she had had, and the not
easy thing it would be to go away from
mamma.

At dessert Mrs. Cassilys remarked, ' As you
are going to be married, it may interest you to
know to what your property amounts. Have
you any idea ? '

I know my income is more than the
trustees pay me.'

Mrs. Cassilys smiled. ' Yes, it is,' she said,

your whole income is a little above three
thousand.'

Mamma ! ' exclaimed the girl, ' I thought
it was about six hundred.'

Yes, my love, I am perfectly aware of
that. Some other people think so too. I have
kept these affairs, you see, to myself and my
solicitor. I had not, I assure you, the least
intention of seeing you wooed for your money,
and I am quite satisfied that was not the bait
which drew Mr. Laurier.'

Mamma, for shame ! ' expostulated Mar-cells.


Oh, my dear, men do such things.'

But Laurier proved he merited his fiancee's
defence. With Mrs. Cassilys in the library he
said, ' Had I known, Mrs. Cassilys, that Miss
Cassilys's fortune was anything so considerable
I must have hesitated to ask you for her
hand.'

At the end of their colloquy Mrs. Cassilys
said, ' One thing, Mr. Laurier. I do not often

prose, but I must this once. Be on your guard
with my girl. She loves her pleasure. I don't
understand it, but her father was the same,
only I assure you you have nothing to fear in
that quarter. She has a generous, high-spirited
nature, and her pride is a great safeguard.
But her pride,  don't be deceived, her pride is
very great, and her sensitiveness equals it. Be
just to her, and speak her the truth. She is
not intractable, and will readily listen to reason,
and you will never regret to have shown her
very great consideration. But, respect her
sensitiveness, Mr. Laurier. She has given her
whole soul and being to you, and a wrong
done her by you, perhaps even a little one,
will be a blow her nature will not know how
to sustain : and when she is roused there is
something of the rebel in her, for which I fear,
and for which her father feared.'

Many a man would have protested the
impossibility of so great inconsiderateness.
Laurier only stood thinking awhile : after

which he said, ' Thanks, very many thanks. I
will remember.'

They proceeded to the drawing-room,
where Marcella, deliciously impatient, awaited
them.

She had never looked lovelier. A brightness
shone in her eyes, a beauty graced her
lips, and the fine lines of her thoughtful face,
so proud and tender at once as never before.
A long-trained evening dress of cru Indian
muslin with profuse blending of Languedoc
lace, with one crimson cluster of Pierre
Durant roses nestling on her bosom, lent
her delicate colour and statuesque form all
the heightening graceful costume has power
to give, whilst the beauty of her carriage and
pose was the movement and rest of a girl with
happiness pulsing in every vein.

For Laurier there was a long pressure of
her hand with a look of the dearest welcome
steadfast eyes can give.

They had not had time to sit down before

Mrs. Cassilys found she had forgotten something
upstairs, and left them.

'I have brought you a little present,' said
Laurier, taking immediate advantage of the
opportunity to offer her an engaged ring.

She drew nearer, laying her right hand on
his arm.

It is a little token of more than my love,'
he said, 'it represents the exact number of
guineas I had for my best brief. So you must
think that you wear the best fortune I have
had.'

Oh, Guy, this is being loved,' murmured
the girl.

She gave him her left hand and he sipped
the little jewel on her finger. The brief must
have been well paid. He let her have time to
satisfy her eyes with the ring, and then he said,.

Love, you will give me a kiss ? '

She turned her face away with a blush,
hanging her head, and lifting to her hot cheek
her newly-ringed hand, as the other fell from

his arm. An instant he looked with a smile in
her face, and then, putting his hand to her
waist would have drawn her to him to steal the
kiss, but quicker than he, she put back her
hand and gently thrust his away.
Oh ! one moment, Guy  please.'
But within a minute the same hand that
had repelled him was shyly held out for him to
take, and slowly turning round to be drawn to
him, she lay her other hand on his shoulder,
and raised her face, just tender with roses.

Not one, but two of the proudest kisses of
fearless love, woman's lips could take and give.

Many days and weeks with a slow flow of a
soft changing happiness.

Strangely little came to break the even
course of this love. Sometimes Mrs. Cassilys
wondered at it, and asked herself whether a
passion so calm was indeed that which could
satisfy her daughter's vigorous, sensitive being.
But, she only wondered, and said nothing.

By gentle degrees Marcella's character
unveiled itself in its truth to her lover.

A character much more simple than he
had supposed, with a certain reserve of power,,
otherwise, rather matter-of-fact, pleasure-loving,
and utterly honest and unselfish.

Her pride, in spite of Mrs. Cassilys's assertions,
impressed him little. He could see she
was proud, but with him she showed herself
docile and yielding to a fault, apparently regarding
him as a superior intelligence, of a category
different from her own, with a satisfaction
that proved embarrassing. But her opinion of
pleasure was a thing that dumb foundered him.

No one had seen it as she let him see it,
plainly without reserve  a nothing less than
voluptuousness system atised.

In a strong sensitive nature, the luxurious
germs her father had taken infinite care to
implant had made themselves masters of all.
No mere gay nonsense, no frolic of the
feminine love of perversity amused to essay a

jeu-d' esprit, was Marcella's opinion that pleasure
was good, but her solid conviction, the daily
Thread of her thought, the ground of her truth,
the knowledge that persuaded her wish to be
generous, just, and brave.

Of a cast of mind essentially different,
educated before all things to endure hardness,
and stern of view to a fault, Laurier was compelled
to see in her way of thinking the most
"bizarre inversion of all the fundamental truths
of life that was ever invented, and especially
when denying all weight to his arguments, and
assuming for axiomatic all he was disinclined
to allow to be true, she arrived at the same
ultimate practical conclusions as himself.

Still, though her manner of thinking
awakened in him some grave apprehensions,
when he asked himself what his course with it
should be, he preferred, even in the light of his
responsibility for her happiness, to leave her
thought alone. Her life as it was was solid
and true, and he dared not take from her what.

he could see, was the breath of her intellectual
being.

Beyond that the many-sidedness of her life
struck him  she appeared herself unconscious
of the phenomenon, and a punctilious occupation
of every hour of her time, that drew a
remark from him.

I had always been led to suppose, Marcella,
that to find employment for the spare time of
young ladies was one of the great difficulties of
life;

Ah, don't you believe it, Guy,' she answered,
laughing ; ' a girl who means to be a healthy,
happy woman has more to do than she knows
how to find time for.'

As for the outside world, the little excitement
that the announcement of the engagement
produced , soon passed. At the end of
six days Marcella's friends had ceased to discuss
her expected, unexpected, extraordinary,
charming, disappointing, providential, foolish,
scandalous, inexplicable betrothal. Accident,

or management, kept the news from Wyven-
home. Florelle had previously returned home,
and to a subsequent suggestion of Marcella's
that she should be invited to town after Easter,
Mrs. Cassilys replied with a quiet 'No, my
dear.' The same person informed Charley,
and added, 'Hold your tongue. Marcella
thinks I have written about her engagement to
Wyvenhome, and that your mother does not
like it. So she says nothing about it in her
letters. You know your mother is a strange
woman in some things.  Well, you understand.'
To which Charley replied that he did understand,
which was not true, and, this was the
principal thing, held his peace. So the people
at Wyvenhome heard nothing of what had
occurred.

Laurier himself told Keppel.

There are ugly reports about her conduct
last year at Folkestone,' remarked the latter
between two puffs of a cigar.

It was all he said on the subject. Laurier

-could have been angry, but he knew it was
impossible to Keppel to speak of women as
anything more than a kind of commodity, and,
having himself once had a very similar opinion,
forgave it. When he was gone, Keppel said to
himself, * Tut, another good fellow in a mess
for life with a petticoat. I guessed the end
when he would not listen to me.'

The short Easter vacation arrived, and Mrs.
Cassilys persuaded Laurier to spend it in the
country with herself and Marcella. She had
a friend's house in Buckinghamshire lent her
for three weeks, and a merry time they had
there. It was the end of March, and beautiful
weather. On every hand the country sides
were filled with the advent of life, and already
in the woods the anemones and-primroses and
daffodils, and in the gardens the hyacinths and
pansies, and, where they were sheltered, the
early china roses, were gladdening the earth
with flowers. Where life is waxing there works

VOL. III. E

a spell which nothing that lives can resist, and
together in the fresh, taintless air Marcella and
Laurier found their young lives fill vith a
species of inexhaustible happiness  happiness
of what golden hours, what walks, what pleasant
rides, what strolls in the garden, what
evenings by the fire, what privilege to be under
one roof, what foreshadowing of that time when
one common life should belong to both !

There it was, in the simple circumstances
of their daily life, that Laurier discovered in his
lady-love's nature a thing till then unknown 
that responsive soul which had won Lady
Julia to her. There it was that on the river
one sunny afternoon he lay at her feet, at
the bottom of the boat, with his head against
her knees, under the shadow of her sunshade,
whilst neither spoke, and the moving hours
stole away apprehended, their two lives
steeped in a measureless timeless cain, like a
touch of the lull of eternity. There it was that
he first spoke of a date that should be some

day fixed as if he wished it near, and she
replied, closing his hands between her palms
with a seeming of supplication, ' Not yet, Guy.
please, these are such golden days.'

From Buckinghamshire (Laurier had gone
back to town) Marcella went again to visit
Lady Julia, and the lovers had opportunity to
study each others characters in their letters  a
great opportunity if young people only understood
how to use it.

Lady Julia spoke seldom to Marcella of her
engagement, but kindly, and almost always with,
some admonition. Thus, one evening whilst
the chess-men were being set, she said, with
an air of having considered the subject,

I hear much praise of the man you have
accepted for your husband, my dear. It is a.
pity he has not more money, but I suppose his
being a professional man is a kind of rank that
balances your relative positions.'  Lady Julia
had not yet learned to avoid speeches of this
sort.  ' But, unless I am mistaken, his is a

E 2

temperament very unlike your own, and you
must be on your guard that you do not misjudge
him, and be content to love him in your
way, and in return to be loved in his way, don't
try ' the old lady bit her lip.

I know, Lady Julia, what you mean,' said
the girl prompt to spare her the pain of some
words and thoughts, ' and many thanks for
your warning

The evening before she left Lady Julia
spoke to her seriously, and, as she at first
thought, strangely, on a far different topic.
She had asked of Mrs. Curteis's opinions
respecting her niece's engagement; no doubt
purposing to lead up to her subject, for Lady
Julia's circumlocutory courtesies were only for
persons of a certain rank. Marcella replied, as
she believed to be true, that her mother had at
the time written to Mrs. Curteis. and that the
latter had been not quite pleasant about the
affair, in consequence of which it was tabooed
between them.

Has it ever occurred to you,' asked Lady
Julia, ' to suspect your aunt of being in a very
serious way your enemy ? '

'I am no favourite with aunty,' replied
Marcella, with a little smile of amusement ;
but I don't think  well. Lady Julia, aunty has
shown me many little kindnesses in her own
way, and '

My dear, I neither know your aunt nor
wish to know her,' interrupted Lady Julia.
The Curteises are nobodies, and they always
make mes alliances ; but is it not a fact that if
anything were to happen to you she would have
your money unless you marry, and is it not inconsequence
her interest that you should not
marry ? '

'Well, yes,' replied Marcella, a little surprised
by Lady Julia's intimate knowledge of
her affairs, ' and I know mamma thinks some
odd things on that score, and aunty is a little
selfish. Still '

The girl was evidently loth to believe evil.

You once went with lier to Folkestone ;
what happened there? I heard something
about it, more especially concerning a ball at a
house to which, I should say, you ought not to
have gone.'

Lady Julia, the truth about that is, that I
was a little  no, I fear not a little  thoughtless,'
answered Marcella. And she added a
pretty general confession, taking entirely on
herself the blame of what had occurred.

The old lady interrupted her. ' It is useless
to pretend, my dear, that this was all your own
action. You were pushed into it. I repeat it,
pushed into it. You know Mr. Keppel is an
old friend of mine. Just trouble yourself to
read a letter of his.'

She fetched a letter from her desk, and put
it into Marcella's hands. It was that letter
Keppel had written from Folkestone the morning
after the ball. The subject-matter was
twofold ; Keppel's impression of herself, an
impertinent but not an unfair one ; and the

compromising rumours her aunt was cautiously,
for fear of entangling herself, but more or less
successfully, labouring to disseminate concerning
her.

A cloud of anger gathered over Marcella's
face, and before the letter was half perused she
laid it down, and said, with indignation, ' Lady
Julia, what is here said to have been said of
me is disgracefully untrue.'

Doubtlessly. But it is what your aunt
attempted to get believed. Head to the end.'

At the end were half a dozen sentences in
which Keppel very justly judged the character
of her behaviour with Eintearn. Marcella
folded the letter and returned it.

'No. You had better keep it, Marcella,'
said Lady Juha ; ' it is of no service to me. If
you will take the advice of an old woman, let
Mr. Laurier see it. Shall you dare ? '

He shall certainly see it,' answered Mar-cells,
in a tone that showed it was as to her
champion that the letter would be shown to

him. Then she added, ' I perhaps have not
been just of thought to Mr. Keppel  and yet,.
I do not like hin.'

'I have found him worthy of every confidences
observed Lady Juha, 'and number
him among the foremost of my friends. But it
does not follow he would prove the same to
you  there are, you see, some differences.'

CHAPTEE V.

The Stones came to town, and after them Mr
Hammerbratsch in pursuit of Theoo.

She still held him at bay, but it became
increasingly difficult ; and, even so, little concessions
that were ' quite too awful ' had to be
made to keep papa and mamma quiet. In
fact, Theoo's defences were invested on every
side, and an epoch was close at hand when
only the consciousness she dared not could-retain
her from accepting him.

I know what you will say, Charley,' she
remarked (it was at a dinner at Mrs. Cassilys's),
a girl oughtn't, and one should have more
pluck, and all that. But you don't know,
Charley, what a ghastly time a girl has with her
parents about the man they want her to marry.*

Well,' replied Charley, ' you know all you

have to do is to coral to Saint 's any day

you like to name.'

Yes, Theoo knew that, but she was also
conscious of a very natural hesitancy about
going to Saint 's.

But Hammerbratsch became ' quite utterly
unmanageable,' and papa and mamma ' ragged
so,' and in consequence, when just in the nick
of time a certain great aunt of hers came to
town, Theoo's determination was taken.

For this great aunt's ideas of town were
of the confused kind. To her London was a
boundless labyrinth of undistinguishable streets,
whose names and directions she could not remember.
Where she was in this labyrinth,
and which was the way to any other part of it,
were questions she relegated to the category of
unknowable. Even when under the guidance
of an experienced Londoner she could not
refrain from frequent repetitions of the question,
' Are you quite sure we have not lost the

way ? ' Mrs. Stryne disliked to go about with
this good soul ; and, as she was fond of Theoo,
no more simple arrangement could be than that
they should go out together, aunt as chaperone,
and niece as guide.

With a duenna of this description twenty
minutes' visit to a church was the most feasible
of enterprises. Under the impression that she
was in some fashionable shop, aunty was lodged
before the counter of a showy suburban haberdasher,
and Theoo, ostensibly simultaneously
engaged in another department of the same
establishment  that was to save time  was
quickly as imagination out of the shop, around
the corner, half-way down a side street, and,
with her heart beating ninety strokes a minute,
at the door of Saint 's.

In the shabby porch she paused, more than
half disposed to go back. She looked to the
right and left to see if any person was watching,
and then with a sudden resolve, ran across
the length of the porch and into the church.

Inside the first thing she saw was Mrs.
Cassilys.

When Charley at first begged it, Mrs.
Cassilys flatly refused to come. Charley exerted
his best powers of persuasion, but she remained
obdurate to the end, though he urged some
things most pathetically true concerning hi
brave, dashing Theoo, her abjuration of presents,
and bridesmaids, and wedding breakfast, and
cake, and diamonds ; and her merit of better
things than to be married with only the sexton
and his wife for witnesses, and to be given
away by a pew-opener, with many more such
things beside,

Mrs. Cassilys would have simply nothing todo
with it.

However, when he was gone, and she began
to think that Theoo and he would be married
whether herself were present or not, and of
how confused and deserted poor, lonely Theoo
would be  there she was only partially right,,
Theoo was never confused  and that, after ally

if the young people's parents were angry, that
would not matter a straw to her; when she
began to think of all this, she shortly changed
her mind, relented, and went.

Now she caught both Theoo's hands and
gave them a hearty squeeze, simultaneous with
a kiss on her cheek, and then asked, a trifle
ominously,

Dear, I hope you have seriously thought
of what you are going to do ? '

Oh, Mrs. Cassilys,' exclaimed Theoo, ' please
don't ask me to think any more, or I shall
never make up my mind at all. How awfully
kind this is of you to have come. I am so
glad. Is everything ready, for I have not a
minute to spare?'

Everything was ready, and a bouquet, and
a veil, and orange blossoms, and a pair of
diamond earrings, Mrs. Cassilys's present, and
a little ivory and silver prayer-book, which
Theoo held upside down till the middle of the
ceremony, when she discovered her mistake

 and so suddenly inverted her book, that
Charley almost burst into a laugh. Theoo had
managed to come in a white silk tucked up
under her mantle. It was new, and its acquisition
had cost some dreadful fibs.

Then in a moment the mantle was off, and
the pretty white silk smoothed down, and her
hat removed, and her earrings changed, and
the veil on, and the orange blossoms over it,
and her bouquet in her hands, and she at the
altar steps, and the ceremony begun, and the
ring on her finger, and everything over, and
Theoo changed into Mrs. Curteis, before she had
lead time to take in anything except that her
prayer-book had been upside down.

In the vestry Mrs. Cassilys insisted on her
having a copy of the register, and told her to
take good care of it. Theoo's bridal apparel
vanished even to her ring, and then Mrs.
Cassilys said, ' I have a nice little breakfast
for you at Kensington, can you manage to
come ? '

Theoo managed, and unsuspicious aunty
went home to Mrs. Stryne with a message that
Theoo had met Mrs. Cassilys and gone to
luncheon with her.

So, after all, Theoo had her wedding cake,
and champagne, and though the party were
only three  Marcella being at Sritten Court 
they where a very happy party, and had no
wedding speeches. Only poor Theoo found it
hard, after having put a tiny bit of her cake
through her ring for Marcella, to have to put
the ring away, and to say ' Good-bye ' to her
husband. Her long slender fingers nestled
long in his hand, as she said, 'Think of meas
you have always thought of me, Charley,
and I will not disappoint you.'

After which Mrs. Cassilys drove with her
back to her parents.

Theoo went to a ball, to which she had been
invited, that same evening, with a peculiar,
unfamiliar sense of being somebody who she
was not, a bizarre consciousness of an event of

ivhicli she had the complete physical and no
moral assurance. To be called Miss Stryne fell
with a little jar on her ears, and it was a singular
experience to feel among the girls that she was
no longer really one of them, and to regard the
married women with a knowledge she had
entered their order. Still she spent a delightful
evening, and at a stroke demolished Mr.
Hammerbratsch's operations of the last three
months with an inventiveness of sudden resource
that astonished herself.

CHAPTEE VI.

The weeks sped on.  It was the height of the
season : the parks and the great world were
in their glory. Marcella had returned to town,
and a good deal of gaiety was going on at Mrs.
Cassilys's.  Then it was the beginning of June :
and London began to grow hot, and Mrs.
Curteis, to Mrs. Cassilys's secret relief, had
finally relinquished her project, postponed from
week to week, of coming up with Florelle fora
part of the season ; asserting for reason that
Flo had better wait another year, she was so
childish ; having for cause a large sum of
money disbursed in one of those entirely useless
expenditures Mr. Curteis from time to time
made in behalf of his conscienceless son abroad.
Then it was the middle of June, and there

VOL. III. F

was a fluttering among the birds of passage in
silk and gold, and Laurier's visits to Kensington
became week by week more rare, as with the
advancement of the sittings his work grew
heavier.

Never were engaged people less engaged
than my daughter and her sweetheart,' observed
Mrs. Cassilys, and with truth. Never
did man and maiden make less demonstrative
love. If they met it was more like friends
than Jianc s ; if not, they did without seeing
each other, without either foolishness or
suspicions. They would talk together, when
they got the chance, for hours, it was true, but
that was of subjects of common interest, and
in such a manner that absolute strangers might
have listened without the faintest impertinence.
Tender secrets and nervous little misunderstandings
apparently did not come within their
range of thought. Marvellously little in the
way of yeuic doux and of sitting close side by
side, and of dalliance of affectionate hands

passed between them, and kisses were the
events of twice or thrice in a fortnight, mostly
exchanged when there was time for nothing
else, when Marcella had run in for a moment
to Laurier's chambers, or a casual meeting
chanced to afford them opportunity for a
hurried touch of each others' lips, in lieu of a
mere pressure of hands, and a look in each
others' honest eyes.

But the love between the two grew strong
for all its quietness. This still fondness that
lurks out of common sight, a matter of
thoughts, of little generous forbearance, and
quiet intense regard, is a puissant thing ; and
has before now bound a man and a woman to
each other in the most powerful of passions 
the love that permits itself to love, more than
it permits itself to show, the hunger and thirst
of soul for soul after they have fallen in love
with thoughts and characteristics.

There existed already indications of something
of that kind. An unfailing pleasure

Y 2

(cheerfully foregone when necessary) that the
two had to be anywhere together, and for any
length of time : an inexhaustible interest of
meaning which the life of each had for the
other : the unqualified liberty the man allowed
his betrothed : and the ability she had to take
her many pleasures as though they were somehow
by reflection enjoyed by him.

She still made him wonder at her ways;
and more and more now at her way with himself
; at her manner, proud in its tenderness ;
at her talk, more hesitating, more reflective,
when addressed to him, and yet brighter, with
an espieglerie even beyond its wont ; at the
respectful, attentive look in her eyes, that told,
how with all her charming tyrannies, and from
time to time she would have them, her love in
its strength and beauty only waited on him.

Yet at this very time he wounded her.

It was done in a trice, by a simple word,
regarding a trivial circumstance, an act of mere
inadvertence. Only that inadvertence was the

very thing which made for her its supports


This happened one Sunday afternoon. He
had had luncheon at Kensington, and since
they had been talking together in the library,
a room always cool, seated in a shaded corner
of the study.

By the way,' remarked Laurier in the
course of their conversation, ' are you aware
that you made a very strong impression at Mrs.
Putrid's on Wednesday last ? '

On a Mr. Borthwin. Well  I thought so.'

 I met him yesterday afternoon, and, really,
he spoke in terms so flattering of one Miss
Cassilys, that I felt all but inclined to hint
something regarding my own relations to the
young lady. But I held my tongue. Probably
your imagination can suggest the sort of thing
said.'

Yes, I think I could conjecture,' answered
Marcella smiling.

I see this is scarcely news.'

'I think I know when I have made a
favourable impression. I have had my share
of experience in that way, and, after all, that
is not a thing difficult to recognise.'

Perhaps, too, I was not wrong when I conjectured
Mr. Borthwin had left little room for
misapprehension. '

'No,' she spoke slowly and with a smile,
he was distinctly complimentary : in a nice
way too, one pleasant to hear, and pleasant to
remember '  the last phrase was more seriously
said than what preceded  ' I shall be glad to
meet him again.'

You admit admiration among the legitimate
sources of pleasure then, Marcella ? '

I admit no illegitimate sources of real
pleasure. We discussed that last week. Yes,
I like some admiration ; the admiration of
quiet approval, I like very much. I fancy
most people do. I am perhaps a little exceptional
in confessing it. I suppose,' she
regarded him mischievously, ' though I know

you are sometimes very rude, you are scarcely
going to tell me there is nothing in myself to
admire, Sir Impudence ? '

'No.'

No,'  imitating his voice, ' confess at
once, sir, that you consider your fiancee among
the elite of her sex.'

Confessed : and in more earnest than you
spoke it. I have no wish to dispute the
accuracy of Both win's judgment respecting
the handsomest, best informed, wittiest, most
graceful, most agreeable woman in the room.
I think that is about it.'

Well,' said Marcella slowly, ' I was so
this time, saving perhaps the " agreeable,"
iibout which I cannot say. I am often the
best informed, I am not often the handsomest
woman at a large evening party, but on this
occasion I was.'

And not averse from hearing it ? '

Why should I be, seeing it is true and
pleasant ? '

Laurier leaned back in his corner of the
settee. ' Yet I cannot help thinking there are
some other aspects of the question,' he said ina
tone of amusement.

'Which?'

Say Mr. Both win's, perhaps.'

Mr. Borthwin's, perhaps ? Does that mean
perhaps not Mr. Borthwin's but somebody's
else?' supplied Marcella's rapid intellect instantaneously.
She laid her hand on the seat,.
and bending over towards Laurier asked,,
Guy, you are not displeased about anything ?
About my having gone when you could not,,
or '

Displeased at nothing, Marcella. Be sure
of that. Were I, I should tell you of it
straightforwardly and at once.' (Marcella
resumed her former position satisfied.) ' I was
only interested in a phenomenon. I suppose
that for you handsome women to intoxicate a
man, being so easy a thing as it is, it is but
natural you should from time to time amuse

yourselves with the agreeable emotions of a
conquest.'

Marcella turned half round and regarded
him with a surprise in her face such as it might
have worn had a thunderbolt fallen at her feet.

You seem surprised. Is it not so? ' asked
Laurier smiling.

That I am one of those girls who go about
trying to make men fall in love with them ? '

In the common, pronounced way, no,
my dear. There is an art above artfulness.
Still one who finds pleasure in being admired,
presuming, I cannot but think, a certain degree
of tenderness in the admiration that comes
from the opposite sex. Eh, dear ? '

There was a degree of earnestness in his
words, but the earnestness of good-natured
jest only. Marcella had sunk back in her seat,
and the lids fell low over her eyes. It was half
a minute before she spoke, very deliberately.

I am susceptible of the pleasure of admiration,
if you please : and I have flirted in play ;.

yes, and in earnest too ; with an earnestness
that might have led to more serious feelings,
had I not found the men I met  excepting you
so far from being the characters to whom I
could wish to surrender my freedom. But, Guy
do you see what you are saying, that you think
me a woman who wishes and manoeuvres to
make the men she meets fall in love with her ? '

Most women do, do they not ? ' suggested
Laurier, a trifle surprised, but still smiling.

'And I like the rest. I see. And you
have thought that, and not thought me worth
a reproof ? '

Reproof ! my dear Marcella, the weakness
seems to me merely very natural.'

A great shadow came over Marcella's face.
 Does it ? ' she said bitterly. Then she rose
and walked away towards the window. Before
half the distance was traversed she turned.

Guy,' she began, and bit her lip before
she continued, 'you have judged me simply
contemptible. If you are going t think so of

me, we may be very fond of each other, but,
it will be for our happiness to part.'

Marcella ! ' he exclaimed, rising to approach
her. But her gesture forbade it. . Slowly she
turned away, and walking to the window-seat
sank down upon it, in the attitude of a woman
at bay, angrily scanning him from the corners
of her eyes.

Little by little Laurier began to come to
some understanding, amidst floating recollections
of Mrs. Cassilys's warnings, and distinct
misgivings concerning the scene Marcella
was being pleased to make. Counting it, however,
in any case his part, as of the stronger
sex, to be the first to offer conciliation, he
approached, her eyes watching him as he came
near where she sat, and asked gently,

Will you hear what I have to say, dear ? '

She bowed her head slightly.

He sat down beside her, and said, respectfully,
but with a kind of authority, ' Marcella
think  I do not know why you are angry.'

Whilst he spoke he drew her hand into
his.

I am not angry : only sorry, bitterly sorry.
Oh, and a little angry too, perhaps. Give me
my hand, please.' (He reluctantly let her withdraw
it.) ' Why should you attribute, as a
matter of course to me, a trait which in one of
your own sex you would account worse than
contemptible ? For you did not speak in jest.'

Laurier folded his arms and looked down.
She was perfectly right. In one of his own
sex he would have thought the trait contemptible,
yet not in her. For what reason ?

Then he lifted his eyes, and said, ' Marcella,
I have been unjust. I beg your pardon.'

'You men love what is vile,' answered the
girl, restlessly, ' I have seen it again and again.
But I thought you different. Now you begin
to seem as easy to content as the rest.'

I hope not, Marcella.'

And / hope not.' A full minute elapsed
before she went on. ' There is my forgiveness.

Ouy '  she put her hand very lovingly into his
' I do not easily forgive. Things such as
you have said rankle deep in me and make me
mad. But, Guy  my love '  she drew close to
him,  ' how could you stoop to care for me if
you thought me so empty of understanding as
that. And  my own  you do very wrong, if
you see me behave unworthily, and only smile.
If you let me one day wake up to know that
you have found me base and judged me not
worth correction, that day I shall do mad
things, Guy ; and the fault will not be all my
own. But, now, do not think I distrust you.'

She lifted her lips to his, but it was evident
that she was fighting a hard battle with herself,
and with her wounded pride, and the rankling
recollection of what he had been able to think
of her. For nearly a week her manner betrayed
a spice of disquiet, like the aching of a
wound that had healed, or the recollection of
a blow forgiven but not understood. It was
difficult for her to comprehend how his long

habitual distrust of her sex should relate to her
even by accident.

But after the soreness was passed the two
drew closer to each other than before.

In fact the postponement of their marriage
began to seem to Mrs. Cassilys a mistake, and,
before long, revealed itself, as only a postponement
of happiness, to themselves.

It was an evening early in July. They had
been for a long ride in the country with a party
of five or six others, but riding together had
somehow got in advance.

Arrived at the top of a long hill they
became aware that the rest were more than
half a mile in the rear. The road, passing
through a private estate at this point, entered
with a sharp curve the long perspective of an
avenue of elms, along the level crown of the
hill. They turned their horses on the turf
which bordered the road on either side, and
proceeded at a slack walk for the others to
overtake them.

The summer evening was of the loveliest.
The setting sun, sinking fast in their rear, cast
before them long shadows on the glittering
grass, and filled the long perspective of trees
with level, tempered lights, that shone soft,
and changeful on the domes and bosses of
luxuriant leafage. A sense of cooling reigned
in the quiet air. In the sky of insensibly
deepening blue the torn lines of stratus began
to catch the reflected rose and crocus of the
sunset, whilst approaching the horizon the
azure of the zenith faded to a pallid band of
pearly grey, changed to a thin bottle-green as
it neared the West, to be in turn lost, by slow
gradations, in the flames of crimson and blaze
of gold where the sun was going down. At
intervals the evening breeze began to stir, and
whispering with gentle motion among the
millions of leaves shook out into the air the
freshness of their scents. Each moment the
twittering of birds became more numerous.
On the turf the tread of the horses fell muffled

and soft, and from somewhere, not within sight,
came the melodious, slow sounds of a village
curfew tolling out  as for half a thousand
years  the knell of another day.

The two had fallen silent. Slowly their
beasts drew nearer together, so near that
Laurier's leg touched the flank of Nabab.
Gently he leaned over towards Marcella, passing
his arm about her waist, as she with a
similar movement leaned towards him, and lay
down her head on his shoulder, as she suffered
a part of her weight to rest on his arm. Turning
his head he brought down his lips on the
lips that moved to meet them and kissed her ina
long soundless kiss, whilst the horses paced
on side by side, with their bridles loose on
their necks, and their beautiful heads together
as if the same spell that held their riders moved
them too to fondle each other.

Then Marcella said, ' Oh, Guy, we shall be
seen,' and drew herself unwillingly from his
arms.

They proceeded a few yards in silence.
Then Laiirier said,

'Love, let us get married. It is time we
had one home, and one life. We are only
throwing away happiness and each other's
society.'

It was a little time before Marcella replied,
but her reply was an assent. In a week or
two her mother and herself were going abroad
for a few weeks. The sittings commenced in
November, and so the marriage was fixed for
September, leaving them more than a dear
month for the honeymoon.

Mrs. Cassilys was informed the same evening.


I am glad of it, Marcella,' she said, ' and
now, would you and Mr. Laurier like to have
this house ? '

But where are you going to live,
mamma ? '

My dear, I am going to America to see
my brothers. I shall start on the day after

VOL. III. Gt

your wedding, and probably I shall not be in
England again for a couple of years. Once in
the States, I mean to make a long stay and to
see everything.'

Marcella looked thoughtful. Her mother
gently laid her hand on her shoulder and said,

My love, what does that look mean ? That
you have not yet found out how to do without
mamma ? That is not what some one has a
right to expect, Marcella. It is to his counsel,
and his help, and his love that you must
learn to look for everything. You are going
to be his wife, you know  more than his
love.'

'Perhaps, mamma, you are right,' replied
the girl, reluctantly. ' I should hardly learn todo
without you whilst you were near. Only it
does seem a little like breaking ties I hoped
would never break.'

What ! your mother's apron-strings, little
goosey ? Do you suppose I am going to love
you one atom less for being a married woman.

and having taken up your independence ? Only
you must learn to take it up, Marcella.'

Returning, however, to the question of
residence, Marcella preferred to have a new
home for her own. She liked to turn over a
page for the beginning of a new chapter, and,
perhaps, was not wrong. A pleasant Queen
Anne's house, with a better garden than
ordinary, was chosen in West Kensington,
and arrangements made for the new laying
out of the grounds, and the enlargement of
one of the rooms on the ground floor to
contain the library, to be completed by
the time of her return with her mother from
abroad. Then Marcella promised herself to
create a small heaven on earth, already
sketched in imaginations of a ravishing ,
of a dining-room furnished in old
oak, correspondingly quiet, of cool wholesome
bedrooms, of a library in the style of the
Italian renaissance  that extravagance was a
present from Mrs. Cassilys, who had given her

daughter carte blanche at De Marnhyac's 
and of a garden as artfully pretty as magic
could make, or, what is better than magic,
the taste and thought of a woman.

Florelle was to go abroad with them, and
before starting Mrs. Cassilys went down fora
few days to Wyvenhome. Mrs. Curteis's
curiosity concerning what had been happening
all the long time since she had last seen
Marcella was evident and considerable ; the
more because a certain reticence, discovered
alike in Mrs. Cassilys's and her son's letters,,
suggested an anticipation of something amiss 
But to extract information from Mrs. Cassilys
was difficult, and instead of learning anything
Mrs. Curteis only amused her sister-in-law
with her naive inquiries, made in happy ignorance
of Marcella's engagement and approaching
marriage.

So came the day before Mrs. Cassilys
left.

In the evening Mrs. Curteis pressed to be

allowed a little more of her niece's society, and
begged that Mrs. Cassilys would allow Mar-cells
to spend some weeks with her, as last
year, at the seaside.

I fear she will not have time,' replied Mrs.
Cassilys. She proceeded to mention visits she
had promised to pay, and places to which she
desired to go, and concluded, ' If we are to beat
home before the end of August, we have nota
day to spare.'

But why must you be at home by the end
-of August ? '

Mrs. Cassilys languidly put herself into the
position in which she could best watch her
hostess's face, and replied, as if referring to
some unimportant matter,

I could not disappoint my young people.'

Marcella and Flo ? If Flo has said anything
to you, you must not think she cares.
Her head is always full of fancies. If she
has been suggesting anything to you about
wanting to return here in August I am sorry

you did not mention it to me. I would have
given her a good scolding.'

Flo is a good girl,' observed Mrs. Cassilys

But what has she been saying ? '

'Nothing to me.'

What do you mean then, when you speak
about disappointing the young people ? '

Oh,' said Mrs. Cassilys, as if some forgotten
subject had been recalled to her
memory, ' I meant Marcella and Mr. Laurier.
Don't you remember my writing to tell you
they were going to be married in September ? '

How should she remember it, when no such
thing had ever been written ?

Married ! Your daughter married ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Curteis, dropping the crochet
she had in her hands, and bending forward asher
hands closed tightly with excitement.

Oh yes,' returned Mrs. Cassilys, looking up
with faultlessly feigned surprise, ' she is going
to marry Mr. Laurier, the barrister, whom she
met here last autumn, Charley's friend. Don't

you remember Mm ? They are to be married
in September. Did I not write to you all
about it? I so often forget to write about
things.'

That was true. But to say so much was a
mistake. It gave Mrs. Curteis time to arrest
an explosion of indignation which would have
been a betrayal of all her behaviour. Now she
only said,

You astonish me ! Mr. Laurier, dear
me!'

'Yes,' thought Mrs. Cassilys, 'I imagined
you would be astonished.'

Defeat ! ' mused Mrs. Cassilys that night.
'Well, I did my best.'

Yes, she had done all she dared. She
had not liked to go further. She was a stern
woman, even in her malice, and her ' conscience
' had held her back from action more
criminal or more overt.

But with consideration, hope revived. After
all, if Marcella were married, marriage was

not in life, as in fiction, any shelter from the
vicissitudes of time and chance, only a very
commonplace occurrence: and before that
marriage there were yet two months.

A vain hope ; the two months slipped
away quite unproductive of opportunity.

Then the wedding day was fixed, and
bridesmaids selected, dresses ordered, and invitations
issued. The furnishing of the new
house at Kensington was finished. Marcella
and Laurier had had read to them, and had
signed what appeared to the former volumes
of legal documents, representing, her mother
assured her, the most unexceptionable behaviour
on the part of her betrothed. No accident
intervened in favour of Mrs. Curteis.

So an evening arrived of infinite bustle, on
which Laurier paid a hurried visit to Mrs.
Cassilys's house, and saw Marcella for a few
minutes in the back drawing-room. Mrs.
Cassilys hated pets of every kind, and so
hitherto, with the exception of making a pet

of JSTabab, Marcella had denied herself the
pleasure of possessing them. Now Laurier had
with him, besides other things, a mastiff  a
magnificent thoroughbred, just emerging from
his puppyhood  which he made to come to
Marcella and obey her, and he down at her
feet, and comprehend that this new lady was to
be for the future his divinity and the mistress
of his life. Then with a kiss and ' A demain,'
he left.

That same evening it befel that Mrs. Curteis,
come to town for the wedding, met
Keppel.

So your niece is going to be married,
after all,' he said.

JSTot too soon,' replied Mrs. Curteis, with a
smile of malice. ' By the way, you know Mr.
Laurier. Have you any idea what they have
given him to take her ? '

No ; is that so, though ? But then, it is
not true that your daughter is one of the bridesmaids
? '

'I could not help it,' stammered Mrs.
Ciirteis.

This evening there was a suffocating oppression
at her heart that surprised herself.

It was the baffled hatred of her niece.

She had believed she had merely had
interests, merely schemed for her own, and for
her right to that fortune of acquiring which
some vague sort of hope clung to her still. But
emotions are stronger than the interests that
breed them, and the last two months had had
effects.

She did not yet know it, but, as a fact
she bore the girl a vivid, living hate.

Hatred is more vital than love. Both live
on themselves, and love's being is of the
elementary forces that occasion life, but, like
them, it spends itself on its being. Hate spends
not. Like death, a negation, unreal, proportion-less,"
it only consumes, and consumes insatiate
men, and women, and things, and happiness,
and wealth, and beauty, and life.

I

A morrow, with pale sunshine and bright
smiles, and many flowers. A bevy of maidens
in turquoise silk, amongst them golden Flo,.
first bridesmaid, so divinely lovely that people
in the church ask where the bridegroom's eyes
were when he chose her cousin. To which
it is replied, ' On the money-bags.' A bride in
her diamonds, a little pale, as brides will be,
and not looking her best. Events that pass ina
whirl so swift that warm hearts have barely
time for the things they would fain be thinking
long, long kiss from Mrs. Cassilys, to-day
looking her very handsomest, to a tall girl in
her traveling costume, and Mrs. Laurier has
driven away with her husband.

CHAPTEE VII.

Marriage makes a woman or mars her.

It is a strange gouvernement when a girl
first finds herself in its new circumstances. So
many things altered, half her habits of existence
inverted, most of her ways and all her maiden
habitudes become in a breath impossible forever,
about her conditions and things new and
ill understood, bursts of new aspects, vanishing
of partial views, and she suddenly
dragged into the midst of all these things,
wishful to be a good girl in a way quite different
from what before was good  if she can.

There is scarcely any period in a woman's
existence at which she has greater need of help ;
and the need is greatest with some of the best
of them, those the very strength and fineness

of yv'liose training makes them at once the more
sensitive, and conscious and conscientious. Yet
how many, or how few rather, are the men
who think at all of the moral needs of brides
who lay maiden hands in theirs ?

It may be questioned how far the sort of
knowledge of what life is that girls are allowed
co-operates to produce these difficulties ; but it
must be questioned whether any data yet exist
sufficiently secure to guarantee so momentous
a change as any alteration of society's way with
its girls.

The characters of a certain lithe vigour are
those that issue most admirable from their
metamorphosis.

And for them, where true hearts are
wedded, all childhood's play, all maidenhood's
vague dreams, all the fiancee's solid love, are
not comparable to the secured love and joy
and peace they find at their husbands' sides.

Listen to this woman leaning back against
the rough granite of the pier, where a corner

in the masonry makes a nook of shelter. Her
husband's arm is about her handsome shoulders,
pressing her close to him to protect her from
the rudeness of a hurricane wind. With one
hand she presses her felt hat down on her
brows, and with the other holds to an iron
stanchion in the wall the more safely to keep
her position.

Guy, people may well tell girls they only
dream. I never knew what pleasure and
happiness could be, or a man's goodness to a
woman till these three weeks.'

I hope you may be able to say the same
at the end of three years or thirty, dear,' was
the more laconic reply.

If you are still mine, Guy. You must not
change to me, love. You have made me no
more able to suffice to myself.'

I should be sorry to think that, Marcella.'

A wild storm is raging before them, from
the sheltered point where they stand, visible in
all its turbulence. About them the light is

-dim, above the sky murky with thick blackness
of rack and rain, driving before a furious
wind, which, noisy with all the failings of the
tempest, howls and whistles about the pier. In
front a vast expanse  from the point where the
pier joining the shore closes in a swirling chaos
of battling billows, all along the beach, beaten
with foaming, roaring breakers, row on row,
to where the seaboard changes to heightening
vertical cliffs, against which the storm bellows
with mountain waves bursting in thunders, and
heaving and mounting up the rock's perpendicular
face, with rent water and flying spray,
on further till the rain pouring in deluges precludes
the view ; and far as the horizon  one
terrific spectacle of frantic tumult, troubled and
tossed and torn. Behind them, making the
massy masonry quiver, the surges desolate with
the crash of an explosion, shooting a hundred
feet into the air great watery walls that fall
in heavy showers on the unsheltered parts of
the pier.

Not a soul is on the beach or esplanade.
On the pier, under the shelters, some of them
drenched in getting there, only a few sailors, a
few gentlemen, and Laurier and Marcella. She
had said, ' Take me to see the storm, Guy. I
have never had an opportunity of seeing one as
you could show it me.'

And now she suddenly exclaims, ' Oh, Guy,
look, look at the cliff, it is going to fall ! '

She is right, a great mass is coming down.
From the headland it topples slowly forward,
and then, seeming to move out from below,
slips, gathering speed as it goes, down the face
of the precipice, and in clouds of dust and
foam, rushes into the sea, a crowd of stones and
fragments of rock following, which leap out
from the cliff into the water and go down with
a splash.

Well, that was a sight,' said Laurier.

What do they make you feel, Guy ? These
raging tremendous powers, the mad storm, and
wild sea, and hurricane, and falling cliff? '

It is very grand.'

'You don't love it a bit, Guy. Confess
that you don't. It does not mean half so much
to you as a dusky court, and a grave man in a
wig sitting under the royal arms, and twelve
men wearied to suffocation in a kind of
pew, listening to you gentlemen of the long
robe asking quibbling questions. But, Guy,
it goes through and through me, and makes
me wild. Storm, and dazzling lights, and rushing
sounds have a something in them that
lures me to them and makes me wish to do
with myself I know not what. I never felt
it more than now. But then, I never had such
thoughts as I have had since your life and mine
have become one.'

Presently they turned to make their way
homewards.

To-morrow we shall go back to town,'
observed Laurier.

'Yes. I am quite looking forward to it,*
answered Marcella.

VOL. III. H

To the end of your honeymoon ? '
*For shame, Guy. You know I have
enjoyed it as I never enjoyed anything, and,
Guy, I hope you have. But weeks must come
to an end, and it seems to me a vastly foolish
thing to be unhappy because one has been
happy. Now, the next thing is, we are going
to be happy in another way, in our own home,
and I am sure we are going to be very happy.'

The evening had come. Laurier was gone
to the smoking-room of the hotel, the other
inmates were scattered. In the great salon
were only two ladies, at a writing-table, dotting
down from a time-table notes for the continuation
of their tour, and Marcella, her graceful
feet rested on the fender, sitting alone by the
fire, thinking.

Ten times the world she used to know is
hers. All was so little, so imperfect, so half
understood, and now her life so vivid, so wide,
so deep ! And how has all that been effected ?

She cannot say, but it is so.

How good men are for women and to
women! How gentle, how strong, how just,
how kind !

What a terrible mistake for any thoughtful
woman not to marry, nor mate her sensitive
thought with the male thought of a man !

A man is not at all the creature she
supposed him. He has so odd, and rough and
ready a way, with all his thought, and nota
scrap of intuition. She must be a strange
creature in her husband's sight, so far more
pensive than he about everything, and yet in
judgment guided by a kind of instinct instead
of by thinking.

Yet he will listen when she speaks, and
try to see what it is she has understood that
he has not.

Would she wish for his sake that she and
he saw everything alike ?

No. That would spoil all. It is their
unlikeness that makes their life so bright.

h2

The two ladies have finished their calculations
and gone away. ' Poor young wife ! She
looks thoughtful,' said one to the other, as they
left the salon. 'Yes,' was the reply, 'her
husband has soon learned to leave her alone.'
She has not heard them go. Nor does she
notice someone coming across the room, till he
puts his fingers into her soft brown hair. Then
she throws her head back, smiling with pleasure
into his handsome face.

I have just heard a tale in the smoking-room,
Marcella, that will interest you,' he said.

He leaned back against the chimney-piece,
she looking up listening, and began a story, of
how, at an hotel, some ten days previously, no
less than four brides chanced to meet around
the hearth, and of them three fell to talking of
the excellence of dear Fred, dear Harry, and
dear George. But the fourth, a proud, 
girl, rose and walked away,
whilst the others exchanged meaning glances
and surmised the sadness of her lot.

That was I, Guy,' said Marcella.
I know it, my dear ; and am much obliged
to you.'

Mrs. Cassilys did not leave town on the
day of her daughter's wedding, but remained
to see the young people home, and everything
made comfortable for their return.

So when, the next evening, Marcella and
her husband reached home, the house was
bright with flowers, and cheery and warm with
blazing fires, and an excellent dinner had been
ordered. In the library Laurier's letters and
papers were in order, and, most dear homely
sight, Marcella's beside them in a parallel row.
In her room the things for her dinner toilet
were ready without her having the trouble to
unpack. Her mastiff*  ' Dushan ' she had
named him  appeared in the hall to welcome
them, a little hazy in his canine mind concerning
his relations to the cook, his best friend for
the last month, and to the lady to whom he

actually belonged, but pleased enough to follow
his mistress into rooms that cook forbade.
In the course of dinner a short and cordial
note arrived from Mrs. Cassilys with a present
for her daughter, a memento of her coming
to her home, and an invitation to both to take
luncheon with her before her starting on the
morrow in the afternoon for Liverpool ; until
which time she left them to themselves.

Marcella at her mother's request saw her
off from King's Cross.

The train was in motion, the last adieux
exchanged. Marcella had taken a few steps
by the side of the carriage, for a final pressure
of her mother's hand, and still Mrs. Cassilys
watched her. A minute she stood, a farewell
smile on her lips, wafting a kiss from the tips
of her fingers, and then, still seen, but unable
any longer to see, as the train rolled away,
turned on her heel easily with a dignified self-possessed
air, and walked, graceful and independent,

down the platform towards the
egress.

Good,' said Mrs. Cassilys to herself, still
watching from the side window of the carriage,
that is what I wanted, my darling ! My fears
for her are ended.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

But perils, alas, are not always ended when
fears are ended, though for the present, it
was to be confessed, everything seemed to
assure the correctness of Mrs. Cassilys's opinion
of security.

Marcella and her husband appeared to have
solved the refractory problem of combining in
actual life reality and idealism, happiness and
love.

Foi" a full apprehension of incidents to
follow, some little detail of the circumstances
of their new life is necessary.

After their return home their life under its
new conditions took shape almost at once. A
life in all particulars that of others of their
station, the happiest for men and women to

choose, and yet so qualified by their own
personal characteristics, so toned by little
touches of taste and thought, and an unpretending
consideration for each other, that
its unseen tenor became as unlike the common
stamp of negligent lives, as the easy sketches
of a master's hand differ from the careless outlines
of an amateur.

In it, as Marcella had predicted, they found
themselves not less happy than before, but only
happy in another way ; one quieter, and also
larger. More varied with all their resources
around them, and  which a honeymoon can
never be  at once durable of nature, and
of a high order. A true instinct had spoken
in Marcella's ' I am looking forward to
going home,' and Laurier soon came to see
it.

Their happiness was, however, of exceedingly
different kinds, for happiness is a thing
largely dependent upon disposition. His, by far
the less conscious, of a quasi-negative type, an

emancipation from a burden of many previous
anxieties and hindrances, and a corresponding
impression of freedom, yet positive in
his regard for his wife, a possession above
possessions. Hers, above all intensely felt, and
twice enjoyed, in apprehension and in fact,
with all that sensitiveness to pleasure she possessed,
which now made her an existence everyone
of whose thousand trifling details had its
honeyed drop of enjoyment to distil with the
great happiness of living with the man she
profoundly loved.

That they only imperfectly understood each
other, they had already learned to accept with
a reciprocal entente cordiale. She knew him,
without precisely comprehending the phenomenon,
for a nature just, but rigidly hard,
taking in life much less enjoyment than it contained,
often in mind at issue with her mind.
He knew her to be daringly pleasure4oving,
but truth itself, so far as her thought could see,
which was far  for of mental sight, of bizarre,

she occasionally showed herself curiously
powerful ; if undecipherable, still a spirited
creation, one that commanded his love, and
might, very probably, in some circumstances
have great need of his help.

This sort of reverence for the arcana of
each other's natures, between a man and
woman, is a sentiment higher than any pretence
of a perfect intelligence, to which, respecting
one another, human beings cannot
arrive. It is deeper, more trusting, more
humanising by far ; and safer, alike for the
daily, and for the darker passages of life.

And in the meantime the love between the
two had passed into the most delicious of unrestricted
intimacies.

But to paint in its detail the daily way of
two natures of opposite sex under ordinary
conditions of existence happily mingling their
lives together, would need the pencil of Bernardin
de Saint Pierre :these early breakfasts
before the fire in the renaissance library, to

which Marcella came down in her lace-trimmed
peignoir :  The young wife's walks, with no
companion but her hound :  The half hours before
dinner which, herself already dressed, she
spent with her husband in his dressing-room,
telling the simple story of her day, and lending
interested ears to the incidents of his :  These
ringings of musical laughter that told a merry
story brought home to amuse her :  The long
still evenings in the library, when he was pressed
with work, and had brought it home ; when she
would sit or lie on the sofa out of his notice,
silent, engaged in her own books and thoughts
but lifting her eyes from time to time for a look
at him that brought smiles to her lips and love
to her eyes :  These pensive hours at the grand
piano, when the music moved the musician
almost beyond herself, and made her fain at
last to turn for change and repose to her plain
sewing:  These pleasures and encouragements
of his growing professional success :  These
winter evenings when they read together, and

great masters woke in the brains of each
thoughts so unlike aught the other could have
imagined.

Theirs was not though, by any means, a
life without society. Probably, had they
desired it, ' the Lauriers ' might have been
great successes, for they became at once a new
factor and a pleasant one in the circle to which
they belonged, and found themselves surrounded
by a very respectable coterie of acquaintances.
Laurier's dinners were excellent.
Mrs. Laurier, when invited to other houses,
drew and appeared not to know it, and in her
own house, entertained with grace and success.
But they made it clear they were not about to
engage in the great crush for the doors of
certain drawing-rooms, to which that for the
pit of a theatre can be compared neither for
the weariness of its duration, nor the rudeness
of the struggle.

They had, in fact, other views. Laurier
was desirous enough for introductions of a kind,

those that would be professionally of service
to him, and Marcella, prompt to be of assistance
to him in so vital a matter, and one in
which she could at the best help him but so
little, was full of purpose to do all in her
power to cultivate any such opportunity
thrown in their way.

For her own part she found  it may without
disparagement of her be confessed  with
a faint surprise, that now she was married, her
husband was to her more of an all in all of
intimate society than she had anticipated.
Some girlish dreams of a drawing-room of
highly-cultivated and artistic society, found
themselves easily contented to await an indefinite
future for their realisation. That she
retained, and as a married woman had been
able to make it far more solid, the acquaintanceship
of some men of the first abilities,
may have had not a little to do with so great
patience. Certainly the power to invite to her
own house men whose society she knew to be

coveted, and justly coveted, and to entertain
them no longer by proxy as her mother's,
but now as her own and her husband's
friends, friends too that she had had the prerogative
of attracting to his house, reckoned
among the proudest pleasures of her independence.


An existence of the pleasantness, however, is
not without its battles, and in this connection,
may be adduced an incident not ill calculated
to throw side light on a pertinent question,
what degree of confidence might be rightly
placed on the permanence of Marcella's and her
husband's so great happiness.

It respected one of those acquaintanceships
Laurier was anxious to form, and for his sake,
his wife.

First calls had been exchanged, and an
invitation to an ' at home ' accepted, and both
had been to the ' at home.' Ee turning home,
Marcella said in the carriage, with a degree of
pique she seldom exhibited.

I have never in my life been so pointedly
snubbed.'

I am sorry, my dear ; I fear they are
people worth knowing.'

That may be, but I certainly am not of
the temper to visit at a house where I am
made to understand my presence is regarded asa
tolerated intrusion. However, as we have
done with them, we may as well forget all
about them, and think of pleasant subjects.'

Laurier made no reply, and she fell to
talking of other things.

But the next day, after dinner  the matter
had in the interim been digesting itself in his
mind  Laurier, whilst cracking a walnut, said,

I am going to ask you to make me a
sacrifice, Marcella. That is not without having
thought about it. Call on the Farquharss, and
see if you cannot coax them into accepting an
invitation to come here.'

Marcella's eyes clouded.

I was treated with rudeness there, Guy ;

and I think my dignity is yours she said, with
unmistakable pride.

Yes, love. That is so. It is a humiliation.
The only question is whether you can bend
to it. If you can, it will be of service to me.'

There was a short pause, and then Marcella
said,

I will go, Guy.'

'Thank you.'

It was all he said. The subject was not
again alluded to. A few days later, as he was
washing his hands before dinner, Marcella
said,

I have been to call on the Farquharss, and
they are coming to dine here on Tuesday week.'

Laurier looked at her an instant before
speaking. ' Were they pleasant ? ' he asked.

'Hateful. But Mr. Farquhar chanced to
come in, and mention was made of a Hoar
that is in our collection downstairs, and I contrived
to get them to accept an informal invitation
to come and dine and see our prints

VOL. III. I

I hope they will be pleasant here than they
are at home.'

I am much obliged to you, dear.'

You are welcome, Guy.'

She began to relate the other events of her
day.

When he had finished dressing, Laurier
said, ' Come here, Marcella.'

She rose and came to him, wonderingly.
He gently put his arm round her, and drew her
bosom close against his, and then kissing her
lips, said,

I know what your pride is, wife. Yet I
was sure you would stoop for me.'

You were sure, quite sure ? ' she asked,
holding back her head to look in his eyes.

Quite.'

You were right. Thank you.' And her
lips came back to his.

Among the most frequent of their visitors
were from the first Charley, and also by this
time Keppel.

Charley at once accepted his cousin's house
as a place of resort in lieu of Mrs. Cassilys's.
Relations between the cousins remained unaltered.
On the occasion of his first call, with
both Marcella's hands in his, Charley looked at
Laurier and asked significantly, ' May I ? ' and
Laurier, conscious of two pairs of eyes watching
for his answer, replied, ' My dear Curteis,
you should have known you may, without asking.'
On which the cousins exchanged a hearty
kiss as of old. Afterwards if any change took
place in their friendship it gathered strength,
from that absence of possible consequences,
which, where men and women are respect-worthy
and respecting one another, makes a
solid intimacy between married men and women
an easy thing.

Alone with Marcella Charley would talk
long of Theoo, and of his rare meetings with her,
and mourn the slowness with which wealth even
under favourable circumstances is obtained. If
Marcella would have assented both Theoo and

I 2

he would have been glad again to use her
mediation to correspond But Marcella demurred.
Herself now a married woman she
preferred rather to urge upon them both a clear
duty to terminate the unreal, unnatural manner
in which they were living, to acknowledge the
truth to their respective parents, and to accept
the consequences, however serious, of what they
had done ; and, being man and wife, honestly
to fight their battle of life side by side.

Very fine talk for an heiress, Marcella,'
replied Charley ; ' but what the deuce should
a poor beggar like I am do when Theoo wanted
things I could not give her ? '

In the case of Keppel the intimacy grew by
small but rapid degrees. He himself wondered
a good deal how much truth existed in the assertion
that Laurier had taken his wife under conditions,
and was perhaps inclined to believe it,
except for Mrs. Curteis having told it him. He
would have liked to believe it, and to have
Laurier of the cast of mind which regards

marriage as a manoeuvre for the acquisition of
taxable advantages. He came first to see
Laurier about some firm of solicitors, late one
evening, and remained in the house but a few
minutes. Then again, on some other business
matter, in a way precisely similar. The third
time he condescended to go into the drawing-room
to see Mrs. Laurier, and to drink a cup
of tea, and made Marcella a prettily-turned
compliment on the taste her house evinced.
Afterwards te came oftener, then oftener still,
till he had imperceptibly grown to be the most
frequent and one of the most familiar of visitors.
With Laurier his manner was unchanged ;
towards Marcella fundamentally altered. Of
the nettling, cynical bearing, the insinuated
contempt, alike for the sex and condition of a
girl, no vestige remained. Eather, no one
entered her house whose behaviour towards
Mrs. Laurier was more flatteringly faultless.
Whether she owed it to having herself emerged
from the insignificance of maidenhood, or to

the place her husband enjoyed in Keppel's
esteem, or to her own acknowledged favour
with Lady Julia Eintearn, or to causes of other
kinds, Marcella debated without being able to
decide. Her repugnance for Keppel, a survival
of a time when she saw the world in other and
fainter lights, was sometimes dimly present
with her, at others silenced and rebuked by a
sense of former small capacities to judge. For
all practical purposes two considerations more
than sufficed to decide her action. He was a
man who had shown his regard for her husband
in the most unequivocal ways, by unremitting,,
painstaking, valuable services ; and her husband
desired him, to be welcome in his house.

And welcome he was made.

Her old dislike to him, courteously veiled
as it had been, had not, however, been able
to escape Keppel's keen observation : and, incapable
by temperament to understand the true
nature of this welcome, he balanced in his
mind between two theories respecting it :  one

that the woman's husband had commanded her
to welcome hin, and happened to be able to
make himself obeyed :  the other that she made
him welcome for reasons of her own.

Whichever was the case mattered not to
Keppel.

Such, then, were the circumstances of the
young couple when Mrs. Curteis first made her
acquaintance with their establishment.

That was after Christmas. She had signified
in a letter that she was coming for a few days
to town. Some discussion passed between
Laurier and his wife regarding the tone Mar-cells's
reply to this letter should take. She
was disposed to take this for an opportunity of
commencing to break with her aunt. From
this Laurier dissuaded her : and so instead,
Mrs. Curteis was invited to the house.

She came, saw, and was satisfied.

Unlike Mrs. Cassilys, she sighted danger on
every side.

The evening before she left (Laurier was
dining with Keppel) she said to Marcella,

Your husband has soon begun to lose
ground in his profession.'

It would infinitely better have served her
purpose to be silent on the topic, but she owed
her niece a good many grudges, and the pleasure
of chafing the young wife on a tender
point was uncommonly poignant.

To lose ground ! Oh, that is entirely a
mistake,' rejoined Marcella, laughingly. 'Mr.
Laurier has never been more busy nor more
successful.'

Ah, but don't you see how this ease, and
wealth, and the simple exemption from any
necessity of work begin to tell on him ? I
observe a marked difference from his tone at
Wyvenhome. There is none of the eagerness
of a man who depends entirely on his own
exertions now. Mr. Laurier goes to his work
with a sort of indifference, and you can see the
lack of zest in the way he speaks of it. You

-will find, by-and-by he will give it up. I fancy,
do you know, that if he come later to think a
fading wife a poor substitute for a great professional
success, your lot by the time you area
middle-aged woman will not be an enviable
one. But you are, you see, one of the women
it costs men much to have known. You have
made your husband rich, but you are going to
cost him his career. That, probably, is not
worth the trouble of regrets, men always overrate
what they are going to do, but of course it
is inevitable.'

Marcella's blood was boiling in her veins. Possibly
she was never in her life so savagely angry.

The interruption of my husband's professional
career would merit every regret,' she
replied hotly ; ' and it would cost me something
beyond regrets, were I even indirectly the
cause of so unhappy a misfortune. But as what
you have chosen to say is beneath contempt we
will change the subject. By what train do you
leave tomorrow ? '

But what had been said rankled in her like
poisoned steel. When Laurier returned home,
unusually late, she was still up awaiting him in
the library.

Guy,' she said energetically, rising to speak
to him, her great grey eyes full of trouble and
their lids heavy, ' is there a syllable of truth
in what I have heard said this evening ? '  she
repeated the substance of her aunt's remarks 
Oh, Guy, say there is not a shadow of truth in
any of this ! '

He put his foot on the fender and looked
into the fire, making no answer.

Guy, Guy ! ' implored Marcella. She was
standing by his side and had caught his hand
in both of hers, and now bent forward turning
her head to look up sideways into his face.

It was rigid as stone : but he laid his other
hand, reassuringly, on her shoulder.

There is truth in it, Marcella,' he said,.
but I never saw it, till now. You have saved
me, love, from a great mistake. There : don't

I

look frightened, I am warned in time. Kiss
me.'

With what love he put his lips to hers, and
with what a sense of her character's high and
sterling worth !

CHAPTER IX.

It was an evening in February.

Laurier had come home with a bag full of
papers, and announced an intention of working
till late at night. Dinner had been got over
a little more rapidly than usual, and after a
short time in the drawing-room, Marcella had
suggested that if he could begin his work half
an hour earlier than usual he would profit by
the additional half-hour's rest, and so he had
gone to the library, and she with him, sooner
than was their wont.

At this time Keppel called.

As the servant was about to conduct him
to the drawing-room he said, ' I am come to
see your master only, and am in haste : tell
him I am in the library.'

He crossed the hall and himself opened the
library door.

A large screen immediately within it prevented
his seeing at the first instant that anyone
was in the lighted room, but a moment
later a picture that arrested his steps presented
itself to his view.

A short distance before him, but with his
back to the door, Laurier sat by a table on
which a reading-lamp burnt at his side. He
held the large sheets of a brief in his hand, and
leaning one elbow on the table was immersed
in perusing them.

At the further end of the room, reclined
on a broad divan, was Marcella.

She lay on her left side with her breast and
shoulder supported against a couple of large
cushions, which, one on the other, were placed
obliquely before her. On their centre rested the
elbow of her left arm, supporting on fingers
bent among her hair a part of the weight of
her head. Her other hand lay near her bent

knees. In it she held a book, which she had,
no doubt, been reading, for her middle finger
slipped in among the leaves kept her place.
Beyond the folds and the many plaits of her
skirt protruded a slender ankle and shapely
delicate foot, daintily clothed in a clocked
stocking and close-fitting slipper, whilst her
handsome recumbent form, carelessly posed
with a delicious grace, confessed in its bold
lines at once its real strength and remarkable
elasticity.

She wore a soft old gold silk  its train fell
in folds from her feet to the floor, and the light
that came from a lamp on a bracket affixed to
the wall fell on the soft texture of the gown
with every shade of blending dun and citron
and gold. Her heavy fringe threw her forehead
and eyes into shadow, but the light was
full on the finished lines of her lower face, and
gleamed on the white beauty of her arms,
bare to the elbows, glittering on her bracelets,
seeming to touch with gentleness the softness

of her delicate hair, and striking full on the
modest glimpse her dress vouchsafed of a breast
of a whiteness brunettes can seldom show.

Her eyes  their trembling light points were
caught not from the lamp but from the fire 
were fixed in a straight level gaze, and on her
face a deeply pensive look told that her being
had withdrawn into its innermost self, leaving
her features relaxed and fixedly still, while her
thoughts were for a time lost to all things of
sense.

On the floor by his mistress's train, his head
between his paws, lay Dushan. He first
glanced at Keppel, and seeing one of the
people it was his duty to respect, dropped his
eyes again to a misty contemplation of his own
felicity.

And now, whilst Keppel stood for a moment
collecting with rapid eye the beauties of the
tableau Mrs. Laurier made, her husband threw
aside the sheets he held and took up some
others.

Instantly her eyes moved and fell on him.
A luminous smile woke on her face, which
seemed, as it were, to melt till its brightness
shone upon him a living golden love.

But he only went on with his work, and
her eyes dropped again to the low level gaze,
and her soul, which had come to her face for
him, winged its way back to its shrine, and the
stilly features retook their fixed repose.

Perhaps it all occupied ten seconds.

Keppel moved back towards the door, and
once more concealed by the screen, sharply
moved the handle of the door, opened and
closed it, and with a marked tread again
stepped back into the room.

Laurier looked round with the brief in his
hands. Marcella was rising from the divan.

I beg your pardon,' said Keppel stopping,
but your servant told me you were upstairs,
and, as I was in haste, I said I would step inhere.
I hope, Mrs. Laurier, I am not intruding."

You are never an intruder in this house.

Mr. Keppel,' replied Marcella, giving him her
hand, ' I am glad of an accident that gives me
the pleasure of seeing you.'

Keppel sat down by Laurier, and began to
speak rapidly of the object of his visit. It was
but for a minute or two, but even in that short
time Marcella had found space to slip from
the room and to return, with astonishing little
iridescent glasses and a decanter to match, containing
green Chartreuse, on a small silver tray.
Now, bending down to him, where he sat by
her husband, she said,

You must not refuse, Mr. Keppel ; I know
your weaknesses ; and the night is cruelly cold''

He looked at the beautiful arms that held
the silver to serve him, and at her slender fingers
folded about its edges, and at the faint blue vein
in her wrist, and then up to her white neck
and noble face, her wide brow, and the infinite
depths of her eyes.

Will you not pour it out for me, Mrs.,
Laurier ? ' he asked.

VOL. III. K

She immediately complied, and taking the
full glass from the salver put it into his hand
with a smile.

Then she turned to her husband, and saying
only, ' Guy,' poured out another glass for him,
with an air of thought, and set it on the table
at his side.

Keppel's business was brief, and he rose
almost immediately to go.

I will see Mr. Keppel to the door, Guy,'
said Marcella, anxious that Laurier should
have every available moment for his work.

At the door, as she said, ' Good-night, Mr.
Keppel,' he eyed her as a man who makes a
calculation of what he would guess the price of
a thin to be, but Marcella did not notice it.

At home in the Louis Quinze drawing-room
Keppel sat before the fire, and smoked and
thought.

Something had made on him an unwontedly
pungent impression.

 I would give a hundred pounds to know

how miicli and how little truth there is in what
that har Edith Curteis said about her.

How long will things continue thus ? She
is evidently fond of him. He does not seem to
care much for her.

Unfortunately, that is just the way to retain
a woman.

'I wonder what Laurier would do under
certain circumstances. He has sense. I suppose
he would let affairs go on quietly.

If I were sure, I'd . I suppose it will

hoe wiser to leave it alone. I am sure, though,
I cannot see why.'

This is what one vice has of most terrible :
not that its egotism wantonly brings about
wretchedness unspeakable, but that it makes its
votaries believe all characters at the base like
their own, that it cannot conceive of any
truth of sentiment, and judges acts which
revolt the ears but simple contingencies of an
absolute indifference.

K 2

CHAPTEE X.

Theoo had need of all her coolness and mettle
and of more.

Ill, cruelly ill, morning, noon, and eventide
: utterly cowed.

The period was long passed when she had
been able to doubt what that illness signified,
or to flatter herself with a hope that hers
might be only mistaken alarms ; or, rather, a
time was close at hand when concealment of
her condition, even could she excuse the pain
in her face, would be no longer, at any price,
possible.

Poor Theoo ! How she now blessed Mrs.
Cassilys's forethought, Which had insisted she
should have given her those few names and
signatures on a long strip of paper placed in

her hand in the vestry of Saint 's. When

the worst came, as it must, and soon, that
marriage certificate would at least stay the
miserable imputation chat she had forgotten alla
girl owes to herself.

Only that was the utmost she dared to hope.
Angry her parents would be, justly angry, and
more than justly  of that she was positive.
And in that anger what unimagined things
would they say or do, or compel her to
accept ?

She had been bulged by her mother, and
from time to time scolded, and sometimes
sharply too. But that was only for trifles; for
passing scrapes. Her life, taken in its entirety,
had been one of indulgence and kindness. She
had never come into disgrace, and what treatment
would be measured to an actual misdemeanour
was a problem she had no data to
solve. And she had little strength of any kind
left now, and cowered with fainting spirits
before the dreaded unknown.

The thought of her parents gnawed at her
conscience. They had been good and just to
her, and she unjust and undutiful to them.
That she would make a successful match they
had counted for certain. . They believed in her
face, in her dashing way, in her address of a
practised coquette to bring down anything 
short of a royal duke. Her brothers had done
well, and pleased her father and mother, and
she had played the defaulter  had married a
penniless younger son, and balked at a stroke
her parents' loving ambitions on her behalf.
No better, dearer fellow than Charley lived,
and she, in her heart, was proud to have been
chosen for his wife ; but she knew her father
and mother, and was not blind enough to
suppose her moneyless cavalier would appear
in their eyes in the light in which hers saw
lira. In the school according to whose
precepts she had been taught love did not
count in marriage for a factor of serious
import.

Her delicate condition intensified the
shadows of her self-reproaches and fears.

Some last ones perhaps deserved to be
reckoned the best founded of all. Those which
the instinct of motherhood woke, speaking with
accents not to be silenced of another life beyond
doubt jeopardised by the management and
shifts and imprudences used to conceal the
truth.

Why had she not faced the storm as soon
as she perceived it inevitable ? She had again
and again determined to do so ; to confess the
truth ; and to accept the consequences. But
when the occasion arrived she wavered and
postponed till the morrow the scene she scarcely
dared to imagine.

For a woman in her condition it was perfectly
excusable.

One evening (her mother was gone to a
soiree from which she had with much difficulty,
but with more thankfulness, managed to
get excused) she had, with a girl's faith in her

father's pitiless witty her womanhood, determined
to avow her condition to Mr. Stryne,
and folded her marriage certificate, with the
two rings inside it, in her bosom, to be ready
produce it at a moment. But, though she
twice essayed it, she never spoke. So hot a
blush flamed up on her cheeks when her lips
had to frame a name for her trouble, that,
though loth to lose it, she was constrained tolet
the occasion go.

It was now Easter. They were staying at
Brighton. Mr. Stryne had not been well, and
their life was quieter than ordinarily, and the
comparative rest and the change of air were
doing Theoo good. Had she dared to acknowledge
herself poorly, the rest might have been
absolute. But the dull dread of she knew not
what drove her still, in spite of daily remarks
on her delicate appearance, to persist she was
perfectly well, and to go about more than she
should to give vraisemblance to what she said.

One morning, they had just finished breakfast,

and Mr. Stryne had removed from the
table to an arm-chair, taking his paper with him.
Mrs. Stryne still sat at the table, and Theoo had
gone to the window to look out over the pier
and the sea.

The day was exquisite but she had no sense
of it.

Presently Mr. Stryne accidentally let his
paper fall from his hand, and said, ' Come and
pick up my paper for me, Theoo.'

The girl's brows contracted, but she
smoothed them and turned from the window.
She knew that what was asked was going to
hurt her, but she walked straight to the spot,
and resting one hand in as careless a way as
she could feign on the arm of the chair, and
turning her back to her mother, awkwardly
bent her knee and picked up the paper.

As she went back to the window her eye
caught a look of her mother's face. Its expression
made her heart sink.

Mr. Stryne left the room. Theoo had taken

a book, and was pretending to read, with the
letters swimming in confusion before her. Mrs.
Stryne came with a sharp step to the back of
her chair, and took her by the shoulder.

What is the matter with you, Theoo ? ' she
asked in a voice that made Theoo think she
should faint.

Nothing, nothing,' gasped Theoo, trying to
hold herself erect and failing. Her hands sank
into her lap, and the book dropped to the
ground, the lines of her tall figure gave way,
her head, with her long neck arched, fell back
against the chair-back, and her lips parted with
pain. The next instant she recovered herself
with a start, and attempted to pick up her
book, and found she could not, and said
desperately,

'I don't know, I think I have a headache.'


Her mother pushed a chair to her side, and
began scanning her with a look Theoo essayed
to shun.

Then she threw herself suddenly on her
knees at Mrs. Stryne's feet, and hiding her face
in her lap, stammered out,

'Mamma, I am ill. Don't scold, don't
scold. I have done no wrong. Don't scold
me. I will tell everything, truly, only don't
scold me.'

After which, imploring between every sentence
not to be chidden, she avowed the whole
affair.

Her mother said never a word, only at the
end, ' You had better lie down, I am going to
speak to your father.'

In half an hour she returned.

Your father wishes to see the certificate of
your marriage,' she said.

Theoo fetched it and unfolded it before her.
Two rings were inside, a wedding ring, and an
engaged ring never yet worn. Whilst her
mother read the document, Theoo sat down a
little way from her, and with a pensive face
drew the rings on her third finger.

There was something of pride in the action,
something too of relief, and something of
sorrow. The sloping sunlight from the window
fell athwart on her where she sat, and her
weary face, with its cloud of frizzled black
hair, and long, pain-shadowed eyes, took, in
her many emotions, a beauty beyond its
own.

Mrs. Stryne left with the certificate. Another
half-hour and she returned. Theoo's
eyes, for her lips dared not, inquired what had
passed, but her mother made no response,
and sitting down in silence commenced to
add up some accounts.

Mamma,' at last said Theoo, speaking with
an effort, ' what does papa say ? '

Mrs. Stryne looked up. Her face was a
.trifle pale. But she made no answer.

Mamma, tell me.'

Still silence.

Theoo thought. Now the crisis was over
Aber old self was returning.

If you cannot tell me, I shall go and
myself speak to papa,' she said firmly.

Then Mrs. Stryne answered, 'He refuses
to see you, or to speak to you.'

Theoo heaved a long sigh, and the tears
came to her eyes. A minute or two she spent
with her handkerchief wiping off her long
lashes the heavy drops as they formed. Then
she said abruptly,

I shall go to my husband.' Her mother
made neither movement nor remark, and she
continued, rising to go to the door, ' I am
going to pack.'

Mrs. Stryne arrested her. ' No, you must
not pack. If you are going I will pack for
you.'

Will you, mamma ? If you would, please.
A few things : what I shall most want. I
ought to go to my husband ought I not ? It
is best. I may go, mamma ? '

Her mother lifted her eyebrows, and made
with her hand a gesture of indifference. ' If

you wish your tidings packed, I will pack them,'
she said.

With ' miss ' at the conclusion the words
might have come from the lips of the lady's-maid.

Theoo winced.

If you please, mamma,' she said dropping
her eyelids.

Mrs. Stryne went. Theoo sat down by the
lire. This was terrible indeed ! That was all
she could think of. Soon a servant entered.

If you please. Ma'am, Mrs. Stryne wishes
me to take her anything of yours that is in
this room.'

Theoo gave her the few things she called her
own. Were her parents about to disown her ?
It appeared so, for at the end of an hour the
servant came back, bringing her hat and cloak
and travelling things, with the message,

Your luggage is in the hall, ma'am. Luncheon
is ready for you downstairs : and Mrs.
Stryne wishes me to say, that she and Mr.
Stryne will leave Brighton tomorrow.'

Where are they going ? '

It is not yet decided, ma'am.'

Theoo saw the mistake she had made in
inquiring.

The luncheon  it well-nigh choked her 
was ended, and she returned upstairs. But no
father or mother were anywhere to be found.
She took a sheet of note paper, and wrote on
it a few words of farewell, passionate words
for a girl of a nature such as hers. Then, she
could do no more, she made her way to the hall.

All was clear. Her parents meant to have
nothing more to do with her. She went down
the stairs with hanging head, and a bursting
heart, scarcely keeping back, for appearance
sake, the tears to which she would fain have
given their flow.

There was a place in shadow on a turning
of the hotel stairs. At the moment she came
there, an unseen hand quickly caught her own,
pressing something into it. Theoo stopped and
looked round.

It was her father.

Papa ! ' she exclaimed, and her guilty-head
drooped before him.

He still held her hand. ' There, there,
there,' he mumbled out, ' don't hang your
head, my girl. Your husband is a good fellow.
Try to be a better girl to him, Theoo, and don't
hang your head.'

He caught her face in his hands and kissed
her with a quick ' Good-bye, daughter,' which
was not without pain and, perhaps, not without
some reproach ; and before Theoo had time to
reply a word  it would have been to crave his
pardon  was gone.

The same evening Marcella was dining
alone, when the servant entered and announced,
Mrs. Curteis ; I told her you were at dinner,
ma'am, but she said she must see you, and
would wait.'

It will never do to let aunty wait,' thought
Marcella. She rose from the table, and went
to the drawing-room. A tall figure, unlike

Mrs. Curteis's, stood near one of the windows
in the waning light of the April day. The
lamps in the drawing-room were not yet
lighted, and to distinguish things was not possible.
Marcella advanced with an impression
of having to do with a stranger of some impertinent
kind, and was meditating how she
should be most quickly disembarrassed of her
company, when the visitor caught the sound of
Tier steps, and turning advanced to meet her.

Theoo ! ' exclaimed Marcella.

For all reply Theoo threw herself into her
friend's arms.

Within three minutes Marcella knew all.
Theoo's condition and how it had become
known : that her parents were inexorable,
and had as good as turned her out of doors,
but that her father had at the last moment
kissed her and wished her good-bye and given
her a cheque for a hundred pounds, and that
she was come to town to seek her husband.

But, Theoo, you have, I hope, been first to

VOL. III. L

him, before you came to me ? ' asked Marcella,
whose views of the prerogatives of husbands
were become very definite.

Oh yes ! ' rejoined Theoo, rather, however,
as if she repented it, ' I have been twice to his
rooms, and once to his place of business, but
he was not at either ; and, as I could see the
people with whom he boards regarded my
visit with suspicion, I thought I would come
to you.'

And I am delighted to see you. Leave
your things here, and come down stairs and
have some dinner. I am sure you are hungry.'

Theoo made no attempt to deny it.

As they were just about to leave the room
Marcella paused an instant.

I am so glad, Theoo,' she said, ' that you
have come to Charley. We have no friends
like our husbands, Theoo, and it was a good
impulse of yours to come at once to him. Now
you will live together, and you do not know
how much fonder of each other and how much

happier you will be. I am sure of it. Don't
look anxious. You are tired, I can see. Come
and have something to eat.'

Theoo was anxious, however, very anxious-the
cause was not long in coming to light.
In the drawing-room after dinner, lying on
the sofa, she broke a little silence with an
abrupt,

I do wonder what Charley will think ? '

'He'll be very glad, Theoo,' replied Marcella
encouragingly.

I don't think he expected anything like
this,' said Theoo, mournfully looking down on
the ground.

'He must have expected it, dear. He
knows, of course, how you are ? '

JSTo, he does not.'

That was not right, Theoo.'

I did not wish him to know. I wanted

not to worry him. I do wonder what he will

say. And we shall be so awfully poor, and I

am so ill, and weary, and spiritless. And I

L 2

am not at all sure that I am what Charley
thinks me. He always made me out so much
better than I am. We seem to have got
married I don't know how. What shall I do,
Marcella, if after all he does not want me? '

Marcella had risen whilst she spoke, and
now sat herself on the edge of the sofa taking
one of Theoo's hands in her own.

Theoo,' she said gently, ' you don't know.
I did not know till I had lived with my
husband. Don't be afraid, dear. Men are
good and tender with their wives in a deep,
strong way you and I never thought of when
we were girls. And it is when we are weakest
that they are tenderest and most patient of our
needs. There is no love and no kindness like a
husband's, Theoo. Only you must remember,
dear, they are not in the least like ourselves.
We have to trust them a great deal, just as
they trust us a great deal, because we are a
tremendous puzzle to them, I assure you. And,
dear, it is our place to speak the truth to our

husbands trustfully and unreservedly, and you
ought to have told Charley. Charley and Guy
care for you and me much more than they
understand us, and unless there is a frank confidence
on both sides, they cannot help us
when they would, Theoo.'

Theoo did not answer. A long time she
retained Marcella's hand, and seemed to be
pondering what had been said. Then she
looked up and withdrawing her hand, said
I am tired. May I have a little nap ? '

Marcella returned to the fire, and in a few
minutes Theoo was asleep.

Half an hour, and then the sound of a well-known
step on the stairs fell on Marcella's
ears.

She rose, and sped across the room, and
confronted Charley on the top of the stairs.

I am glad you are come to-night,' she
said, ' I have something to show you in the
drawing-room.'

What is that ? '

Something asleep. Come and see. Don't
make a noise.'

She so led him into the room and to the
sofa that it was not till he was just in front of
it that he could see Theoo lying asleep, her
slender fingers knitted together by her knee,
and her head gracefully bent on the satin
pillow.

Is it not Theoo ? ' said Charley, perplexed.

Hush ! You must not startle her. She
is not at all well, and her parents have found
out what has happened, and she has come to
London to seek for you.'

Charley nodded a nod of intelligence.
There was a long, silent pause whilst they
both stood regarding the sleeping girl. Then
Charley said,

Leave us alone, Marcella.'

She complied. Charley sat down as she
had done on the edge of the sofa, and drawing
his wife's hand into his own gently awaked
her.

Two hours afterwards, when he was gone,
Theoo, bidding Marcella good-night, said,

You were right, Marceila. I Httle knew
how much my husband loved me.'

CHAPTER XI.

At the beginning of May Mrs. Curteis came to
town with Elorelle, to remain fie weeks.

Morelle was permitted no misapprehension
of the purpose of her visit. She was to be on
exhibition for marriage.

The time was a cruel five weeks for Flo.
Unaccustomed excitements drew on her
strength, and her mother gave her stimulants
that made her feel ill. These poisons took the
lustre from her eyes and cheeks, and the paint
pot came into daily use. Fast girls told her
things she dreaded lest her mother should
learn she had come to know. If ever  for
young natures love not to grieve  the gaiety
woke for an hour or an afternoon a response
of pleasure in herself, there was ever ready to

eclipse it the dread of being given a victim to
some man she detested, an event to be followed
by a future filled with nothing but fears.

But Florelle learned a momentous truth.
There exists in gentle-natured children a faith
in their parents, even when unkind, which is
about as beautiful as any mistake can be, and
till this, Florelle had believed in her mother.
But amid the things that now happened that
faith passed away. She did not willingly give
it up, but she could not avoid the things that
passed before her eyes, nor the conversation of
the girls she met, and the truth would not be
evaded. Mothers like hers were exceptions.
Most girls were loved and cared for in a way
in which none had ever loved or cared for her.
People pitied girls with mothers resembling
hers ; they pitied herself, yes, very much.
Then came a day when she overheard a fragment
of a conversation in which her mother
was called a 'barbarous' woman. Florelle's
cheeks blushed angrily, but her judgment gave

its assent. The truth making itself indistinctly
felt assumed exact proportions the moment
someone gave it a name. Her mother was
barbarous. Barbarous in her severity, barbarous
in her strictness, barbarous of thought,
barbarous even when she meant to be kind.

But Florelle shuddered at it. She was not
made to contend with barbarity. It terrified
her, turned her every sense to fear.

So miserable, indeed, was the impression
she made upon Marcella when they accidentally
met, a day or two later in the park, that the
latter, in the evening, spoke of her alarms concerning
Flo to her husband.

A little fool,' said Laurier, ' why should
you trouble yourself about her ? '

He dished Florelle.

No, Guy. Flo is not little, neither is shea
fool.' And she added something about her
aunt, and the girl's miserable chance.

Conceded,' replied Laurier,  her father
idly leaves his duty to his wife, and his wife

is, well, a woman. What can you expect
? '

Guy, you are incorrigible. All women
are not bad, sir. Your wife, for instance, Mr.
Impudence.'

And she chucked him under the chin with
a smile.

No,' rejoined Laurier, ' but the greater
part of you, my dear, are, to quote a young
female I had the pleasure of cross-examining
this morning, " very middling." ' His tone
changed abruptly, and he asked, ' What is it
sou wish to do, dear ? '

To have Florelle to stay some months with
me. You and I can save that girl's existence,
guy ; and we owe it to her helplessness to do it.'

Now there, love, you are wrong. You
and I cannot save Flo. If you have her here,
she will vaguely imitate you for a time, and
then, when she returns home, relapse to what
you see ; which, unless my experience misleads
me, will end badly for Miss Flo.'

Hush, Guy. No. Can nothing be done
for her ? Flo's is a fine nature, Guy, if her
mother had not broken it to pieces.'

Your aunt, my dear,' replied Laurier, ' is a
devil. As long as Florelle is possessed of a
devil how can anything be done for her ? '

Something shall be done, Guy. It is
monstrous that the poor child should be left
to drift to her ruin.'

Well, I suppose some man must be found
to marry her.'

Will that be any remedy, Guy ? ' asked
Marcella, pointedly.

I shall be sorry for both of them. I will
tell you what you must do, Marcella. Get
your mother to take Flo out and out under her
protection.'

Marcella thought.

I fear aunty will never permit it,' she said,,
mournfully, ' but we can try.'

Florelle saw but little of her cousin. Mrs.
Laurier s set was not Mrs. Curteis's. Far from it.

The difference between the tone of her cousin's
house and that of the other houses she entered
was among the earliest of Florelle's society
impressions. For her own part she at first
thought she preferred her cousin's set, but a
grand dinner party at the Lauriers' changed
her opinion. The people were so dreadfully
clever, and she at so absolute a loss in their
society : for no one had ever let her know that
to intellectual people a girl who would fain
know more may always confess her simplicity
with grace. In consequence she became
ridiculously afraid of going to her cousin's
house.

Cousin Marcella,' she said to herself, ' has
always been rich and clever and had everything
she wished. Now she is married and has got
to be grander than ever. All kinds of clever
people go to her house, and talk to her, and
admire her, and she is a great success, and does
not know how to be happy or proud enough.
I am sure she cannot want to see me, who, it

is only too clear, am simply a miserable,
despicable failure.'

So invitations to the Laiiriers', friendly or
formal, were alike declined.

And in another atmosphere, to tell the
piteous truth, poor Flo lost moral being day
by day, and began rapidly to sink to a condition
akin to nothing but that of passive
matter, at any one's disposal who might choose
either to use or abuse.

Happily return to Wyvenhome came intime
to cut short her career to destruction.
Accident, kinder than her mother, also suffered
her to return home, well chidden indeed for
wasted opportunities, but unbetrothed. Her
beauty had obtained her more than one offer of
marriage, but Mrs. Curteis, in every case dissatisfied
with the suitor's fortune, had given for
her negative replies.

Marcella scarcely realised how little she
had seen of her. She was herself exceedingly
occupied. It was her first season too,

in another way ; the first in which she had
had a house of her own, and entertainments
to give, and courtesies to return. Handsome
and extraordinarily agreeable she was
coming out with eclat and honourably exerting
herself to gain for her husband that social
consideration which only the co-operation of a
clever wife obtains.

As for Laurier, the unintentional warning
fallen from the lips of Mrs. Curteis had been
taken by him in tremendous earnest, and his
professional work commanded his undivided
attention, and the whole bulk of his time.

It followed as a consequence, that his own
life and his wife's had assumed lines more than
ever diverse. The difference between his hard,
and her pleasure-loving nature served to give
additional force to the contrast of lives running
in channels so different, and the inconsistency
between the husband and wife became a subject
of common remark.

But before Mrs. Curteis left town other

whispers began, timidly at first, to steal about.
Something concerning one cousin Charley, who
was always at Mrs. Laurier's but never with
his wife ; and something concerning Hunt
Keppel being exceedingly intimate there, and
very ' kind ' to Mr. Laurier : and something
about Laurier's way of regarding this and that,
which would be perfectly intelligible if some
people knew all other people knew.

What was said of Charley was true : he was
constantly at the Lauriers' and Theoo was never
with him.

That had come to pass on this wise.

Charley and Theoo dined at the Lauriers'
soon after Theoo came to her husband. It maybe
remarked parenthetically that as Laurier
was from home the evening Theoo came to
town, so, strangely enough, he was on this
evening also, unexpectedly but unavoidably
absent, an accident later of tremendous consequence,
inasmuch as Theoo did not know him
by sight. Afterwards Marcella several times

invited them, but Theoo always declined. Theoo
spectacle of the Lauriers' wealth contrasted a
little too bitterly with her own poverty, and
besides, going out to dinner cost money.

So Charley came to his cousin's house in
his old bachelor fashion, and Marcella in return
visited Theoo in her lodgings. She did more.
In her frank way, with a dozen words from
her warm heart, she persuaded Theoo not to
read into idle words their girlish friendship
at Folkestone, but to accept a present for her
baby and for herself, as a congratulatory gift
on the little mortal's approaching arrival. No
tact or coaxing would ever have brought Theoo,
every jot as proud as herself, to assent, but
Marcella's ' You and I, Theoo,' had a power that
could have riven defences of steel.

Theoo herself was facing her poverty
nobly, and concealing from her husband
the sense of depression necessity cost her.
That depression may perchance have betokened
no very lofty temper of mind; if

VOL. III. M

SO, Theoo had never made pretence to any.
Certainly it was very real and lay a heavy
weight on Theoo's soul. To put on her common
clothes, a sight of her cheap gloves, the consciousness
of inferior boots, each meal served
in the nondescript odd hardware of the lodging-house,
every view of her shabbily furnished
rooms cost Theoo a stab of pain, and that of the
acutest humanity knows, the sense of having
degraded. One afternoon, in the West End, in
view of the well-dressed women, and their
beautiful horses, the dainties and luxuries of
the great shops, and the presence of that higher
world in which she had once freely mixed,
she broke down in tears on Charley's arm.
Still she kept from him the cause.

But as time wore on Theoo, delicate and
nervous, and growing fretfully anxious concerning
herself, for little more than want of a subject,
began to be dissatisfied and querulous about
the frequency of Charley's visits to his cousin,
and would, on his return home, say things of

which she was heartily ashamed as soon as they
had passed her lips  that is, could not be recalled.
These speeches did not much distress
Charley, who lightly attributed the whole to
his wife's state of health, and knew that for
two visits of his at Kensington, Marcella came
thrice to see Theoo, but they unhappily led to
his being reticent concerning where he had
been, and to his permitting his wife, on most
of the occasions of his calls at the Lauriers', to
suppose he had been otherwise engaged.

Had he given that procedure the briefest
thought he would doubtless have seen all its
inconsiderateness. But Charley was not made
of thoughtful materials, and so, carelessly
slipped into a habit of deceiving a wife he
sincerely loved, and had every reason to treat
with the most attentive consideration.

Meanwhile the season came to an end.
Those who could leave and had not yet left
were fast going out of town. The Lauriers
still remained awaiting the end of the sit

2

tings, Laurier with this hands crowded with
work.

One afternoon in July Marcella went to a
carnation show at the Horticultural Gardens.
There were few people there, but to her surprise
she met Keppel, who had, he said,
returned to town on pressing business. It was
a summer day, towards the close of the afternoon,
delicious in the extreme, and, leaving the
flowers, they strolled into the gardens and
walked up and down the turfed allies between
the avenues of young trees.

By degrees their talk assumed an exceedingly
intimate tone. At no time had
Keppel been so agreeable, or so exhibited
to her his knowledge of the world, and the
immense and varied resources of conversation
at his command.

He had of late been urging Laurier to
engage in politics, and it was this subject they
fell to discussing. Marcella held back from the
project, and Keppel now traversed the whole

subject with her, backwards and forwards, and
in every light. The advantages, the difficulties,
the opportunities, the aid Keppel himself could
give, the assistance her own address would so
certainly afford her husband, were measured
to her one by one, with an attention to what
she herself urged that surpassed flattery, and
all without any attempt to convince, as a
man would put a case in which both were
concerned before the judgment of another
man.

After a time what was said caused a change
in the subject of their conversation to the
wider one of the end and happiness of life.
In which discussion of wealth, ambition, rank,
culture, romance, art, and arcadia, Keppel
again displayed no less verve and originality,
no less variety and profundity of view than he
had previously shown respecting politics and
knowledge of the world. Nor was he more
than before disposed to overbear the far-differing
views of his little less brilliant companion.

aod her intense faith in the supreme wisdom of
a search after happiness.

And at the same time, in what the man
of a purposeless existence said of life lurked
a tone of a shadowy melancholy, that, for a
woman of keen observation, made a delicate
contrast with the clearness and keenness of his
knowledge of the world.

Marcella felt that she had for the first time
in her life caught a glimpse of Keppel's real
self  a glimpse that awakened a great curiosity
to know more of a character of a fine and
sensitive nature that kept itself out of the way
of the knowledge and sympathies alike of
women and men.

She invited him to dinner, and he accepted.
After dinner he and Laurier sat long
over their wine, and Keppel talked much of
his conversation with Marcella.

She is, for a young woman, one of the
most imposing women I have met,' he said. ' I
do only hope that when she has exhausted the

licit of pleasure, she won't be for stepping over
the traces.'

He had a manner of saying things of this
description that made taking offence at them
ridiculous.

Laurier  he hated to speak of Marcel] a,
and had been most of the time silent  replied
only,

'If you really will not be persuaded to
take another glass of wine, shall we go upstairs
and join her ? '

Keppel positively declined the wine, and
they went upstairs.

Laurier's manner perplexed him.

Always,' he reflected, ' the same respecting
his wife, pointedly impenetrable. There
must be some reason. Only he is a man so
reticent when he chooses it. Would he regard
a quiet liaison of Mrs. Laurier's reasonably?
I suppose he would if other circumstances
made it worth his while to do so. Yet
I am very uncertain about him.'

CHAPTER XII.

Three months, eventless, except that Theoo in
the course of the time presented Charley with
a son.

Then unexpectedly the clouds gathering for
years burst in a moment.

It was now October. The Lauriers had
been abroad, and had returned to town. Everything
resumed its former routine, changed only
a little, as all things must be changed by the
simple lapse of time. Keppel's visits were
resumed, and Charley came to call as of old,
and Marcella went to see Theoo, who, instead
of feeling her poverty more sharply, as she had
anticipated, somehow forgot it in her interest
in her baby.

Mrs. Curteis had come to town for ten days.

and was staying with the Lauriers. She had
Florelle with her. The latter seemed altered
since Marcella had last seen her. She had
grown to look older, and much of her childish
manner was gone, but it was difficult to see in
what she had advanced, excepting in age and
indifference.

The day following their arrival, Marcella,
visiting Theoo, accidentally let fall a remark
respecting something Charley had said to her.

When did he tell you that ? ' asked Theoo.

I am not sure. It was not yesterday ; it
may have been Wednesday, or perhaps the
day before. I don't think it was on Sunday.
Why?'

She was astonished to find Theoo staring at
her in the blankest amazement.

What ! ' she said, as if uncertain that she
had comprehended the meaning of Marcella's
words, ' you saw Charley on Sunday, and Tuesday,
and Wednesday, and yesterday. You
see him almost every day ? '

Yes, some two or three times a week,'
answered Marcella, mystified. ' He dined with
us yesterday. Did you not know it ? '

Dined at your house ! ' gasped Theoo.

'Yes.'

The two women stood eyeing each other.
Marcella began to have a sense of something
amiss ; to suspect Charley was deceiving his
wife, to regret it, to wonder what was the
cause, to ask herself did Theoo, after all, resent
that she was not at Kensington as often as her
husband. A succession of rapid expressions
chased one another across her face, surprise,
annoyance, doubt, perplexity. Theoo watched
each in turn with provocation in her own dark
eyes.

Suddenly she said, with an assumed ease,
There is some mistake, Marcella. Charley
perhaps forgot to tell me. Go on with what
you were saying.'

Marcella complied. But there was an
embarrassment between them which neither

was able entirely to disguise. When Mar-cells
left, it was with a resolution, if, as she
suspected, Charley had not been altogether
straightforward with his wife, to put his inconsiderateness
before him in the plainest of
terms.

Theoo, on his return home, charged her
husband with deceiving her. Charley on the
spot acknowledged himself guilty. He made
very light of the whole matter, calling it ' all
just nothing,' saying he knew Theoo had more
sense than to take it to heart, and explaining
how his behaviour had originated only with a
desire not to chafe her when she was unwell.
After which Charley was persuaded in his own
mind that he had satisfied Theoooo. Theoooo, however,
was more hurt than she cared to confess
even to herself.

Under these critical circumstances, some
day or two later, a couple of accidents sufficed
to give birth in an hour to very strange complications.


About four in the afternoon his father's card
was brought to Charley in his office, with an
announcement that Mr. Curteis awaited him
below, and wished to see him without delay.
Assured of some very urgent cause for so
unexpected and impatient a visit, Charley
hastened to the waiting-room. Mr. Curteis
was restlessly walking up and down, his face
pallid to a degree, his appearance broken and
miserable.

This is something to do with Ned,' thought
Charley.

His father held in his hand a letter, and
without reply to either greeting or questions,
held it out for him to take and read. Then he
went to the window, and with his back to his
son, stood looking out.

Charley had not been mistaken. The letter
was from his eldest brother  a miserable, incoherent,
ill-spelled scrawl, but of meaning too
plain. About the middle Charley changed
colour, and with a kind of vertigo, sank into a

chair and leaned on the table to finish its
perusal.

Jested had earned himself the law's' last
penalty, and wrote from a foreign gaol for his
father and mother to come and bid him farewell.


Charley was the first to speak.

Mother must never hear of this, father.'

I cannot say how thankful I have been
she was not at home when the letter came,'
replied his father. ' I should not have been
able to keep it from her.' He concluded in a
timid tone, ' I can't face this alone, Charley.'

You and I must go together, father, and at
once.'

Shall we be able to keep it secret,
Charley?'

We must. Think of Flo. I am thankful
I am married. I should have had some hesitation
about asking a woman to have me after
this.' Then he inquired quickly, ' What have
you said at home ? '

Nothing, except that I told the housekeeper
I should be away a few days. What is
to be done, Charley ? '

You and I must start immediately. When
we come back we shall be able to give some
account of Ned, and afterwards we must stick
to it.'

He sent for paper and ink, and wrote a
hurried note to Theoo ; and then they started
for Charing Cross, purchasing on the way some
necessaries for their journey. Neither he nor
his father dared venture going home to be
questioned, and, indeed, there was barely time.

About the same time a telegram arrived at
his house at Kensington for Laurier.

Marcella and Mrs. Curteis were having
afternoon tea. The latter was dressed to go
out. She had promised Charley to come to see
her grandchild, and would not go till late in
the afternoon, because he would not be at
home, and she wished Theoo to feel she did not

like her, a fact with which poor Theoo was
already fully acquainted.

An agreement existed between Marcella
and her husband, by which they never read
each other's letters, but each, in the absence of
the other, opened each other's telegrams, and
Marcella at once opened this one.

It was from clients in Paris, requesting that
Laurier would immediately come over. ' Just at
the beginning of the sittings,' said Marcella aloud.

No bad news, Marcella, I hope ? ' said
Mrs. Curteis.

Oh, no. Only Guy will have to go to
Paris J and I know it will put him to considerable
inconvenience. I wish they had telegraphed
to his chambers ; it would have saved
us an hour, and he is so pressed for time.'

A message was despatched, and a reply
returned, instructing Marcella what preparations
to make, and mentioning that Laurier
would return home for an hour before leaving
town.

In the meantime Mrs. Curteis had departed.
Later she came back with the news that Charley
was not at home. This she said in a significant
way, but her niece failed to observe it. She
was busying about the house, waiting on her
husband, who had returned home later than he
had anticipated, with not a minute to spare,
and with notions about what he would require
to take with him entirely different from what
Marcella had anticipated.

At length, everything arranged as he
wished, he asked,

What are you going to do to-night, dear ? '

I am going to dine at the Cancrolls. If I
can be of no more service to you, I will go now
and dress.'

Yes.  Be sure you go to that at-home at
the Farquhar's on Thursday, and make every
explanation for me. And  let me see  I
shall leave some letters here for you to put
into envelopes and despatch. And if you are
going to dress, I'll say good-bye now, dear. I

shall not have time, perhaps, to come upstairs,
and if you are dressing you will not be able to
come down, so '  he rose and taking her in his
arms kissed her twice  ' good-bye, darling ;
make yourself happy.'

Good-bye, Guy ; and mind you come back
to me safe and sound.'

She left him, and he sat down to dash off
some half a dozen letters, and to select a number
of papers, which he thrust into a traveling-bag.

Whilst he was so occupied Keppel came in.
He had mentioned a day or two before that he
was coming to borrow some book. Now, after
a few words from Laurier, he said, 'Please
don't disturb yourself. I know where the
book is,' and going to the shelf took down the
volume. Then his eye caught sight of a new
pamphlet lying on one of the tables, and he
took it up, and began to turn over the leaves.

Upstairs Marcella was dressing.

If you please, ma'am, can you see Mrs 

VOL. m. N

Charles Curteis?' asked a servant, coming to
the door.

Theoo ! What can have brought her here ? '
thought Marcella. ' I hope there has not been
a quarrel between her and my aunt.' She said,
Tell Mrs. Charles Curteis I am dressing. If
she will be so kind as to wait, I will be with
her in a short time.'

The servant returned.

Mrs. Charles Curteis wishes, if you please,
to see you at once, ma'am.'

Ask her to come up here,' said Marcella.

In a few minutes Theoo entered.

Marcella, in her peignoir, was sitting before
the toilet-table, the lady's-maid dressing her
hair. As Theoo approached, Marcella, without
rising, held out her hand, looking up and
saying, ' How do you do, Theoo ? '

But passing the proffered hand, and without
a word, Theoo walked straight up to the dress-unstable,
and suddenly stopping, stood, her
tall figure bent slightly forward, looking down

at Marcella. She was dressed in a long brown
ulster, which she had partially unbuttoned,
showing her inexpensive but tasteful black
dress. About her neck were some black laces
fastened over her shoulder by a brooch, and a
brown felt Rembrandt* hat daintily set on her
luxuriant hair threw heavy shadows over her
brows and her dark, long-lashed eyes, adding
an indistinctness to the tigress beauty of her
terribly passionate face.

Marcella knitted her brows and instinctively
drew back in her chair as she asked, ' Theoo !
what has happened?'

Will you ask your lady's-maid to leave us
alone?' returned Theoo in a voice of steel, as
she drew herself up, and at the same time
threw the servant a glance which was itself a
command to go.

Marcella complied, Theoo's passionate eyes
watching the woman's departure from the
room. When the door closed behind her, she
turned abruptly to Marcella, and bringing

N 2

down her knuckles with a sharp blow of
defiance and contempt on the toilet-tablcy
asked in a voice of dignity and command,

'Can you guess why I am come, Mrs,
Laurier ? '

I am simply bewildered,' replied Marcellus
lifting her eyebrows, and looking around with
an astonishment not unmixed with offence.

Oh ! ' returned Theoo with insolent incredulity.


She drew a note from her breast-pocket
and, handing it to Marcella with a gesture of
disdain, said,

Will you read this ? '

Marcella read aloud : ' Dearest wife,  Immediate
business of the greatest importance,
on which large sums of money depend, compels
me instantly to leave town for some days.
I have no time to write more. Do not expect
me till you see me. Love to you and baby.
Your most affectionate husband,  Charley
Curteis.'

Marcella raised her eyes from the letter to
Theoo's angry eyes, and then, quietly refolding
the paper, returned it.

Where  is  my husband  Mrs. Laurier ? '
asked Theoo catching her breath between her
passionate words.

Theoo,' replied Marcella, pushing back her
chair, and rising and resting her hand on its
back, 'we are accustomed to call each other
by our christian names. If there is some
cause of disagreement come between us, had
we not better understand each other's views of
what that something is before we commence a
quarrel ? '

Theoo tightened her lips. ' I admire your
insouciance,' she sneered, 'c'est du metier
n'est ce pas? Where is my husband, madam
? '

And she stepped up to the other side of
the chair on which Marcella's hand rested.

I will not be he-madame into a quarrel,
Theoo,' replied Marcella gently, and she continued,

laying emphasis on every word, ' I do
not know where your husband is.'

/ think you do know,' returned Theoo
daringly.

Theooir eyes met. Theoo's fixed and flaming,.
Marcella's in a quick side glance of sudden.
indignation, after which they dropped, as she
said in a lower tone, and hurriedly, with an
air of dignified rebuke, ' I have told you the
truth. I do not know.'

Only I disbelieve you. Whose house is it,,
pray, that my husband for these many months
past has been visiting in secrecy ? Where has
he been passing the time when I have been,
taught to believe him detained at business, or
dining with his friends, or otherwise engaged ?
Whom is it he comes on the sly to see, almost
every day ? With whose name is his joined in
the common scandal of society ? Perhaps you
don't know. I do. And I know only too
well too what this letter means.'  She still
held the letter in her hand  'Your husband

is going away for some days ; you received the
news this afternoon ; and you have planned '
she laughed bitterly  ' with a pretty promptitude
to spend the time with mine. Now,
madam, where is he ? '

Whilst she spoke, Marcella stepped back
from the chair, and stood listening, erect, motionless,
her dark-grey eyes fastened on Theoo's
face, her lips perceptibly parted, one hand raised
with bent fingers to her cheek, and the other
nervously clenched at her side. Her eyes
gathered shadows as Theoo went on, and more
than once a nervous tremor passed over her
body, as if she was about to dash forwards, and
with force silence her words. Now her hand
dropped from her face, and with hardly suppressed
passion and emotion she managed to say,

'How can you -such words to me. Only
if you think this  well  you are justly

angry  only if you would have patience,

I think I can show you  prove to you, you
are mistaken.'

Show ! prove ! ' returned Theoo with cutting
indignation, ' what can you prove ? Is
not my husband in your house day after day,
for hours together, at times when your husband
is away ? What can you prove ? '

Theoo ! ' expostulated Marcella in a cry
that was almost a shriek. Her face had
changed to the pallor of ashes. She stepped
to the nearest chair and let herself fall into
it, breathing heavily.

Theoo came nearer.

Tell me where Charley is,' she insisted ina
voice fraught now with a greater emotion.
Mrs. Laurier, tell me where is my husband.
I love him. Do you hear me? I love him.
/ have nothing else in the world but him.
You who have so much, how could you have
the heart to come between us and to steal
away his love from me ? He is not to me' 
her voice resumed its previous hardness 
what your husband is to you. I was not
some other man's paramour before I married

him. I did not buy him with my wealth, to
hide my disgrace .'

Marcella started in her chair as if about
to spring to her feet with an answer, but she
checked herself and slowly sank back to her
former pose, whilst Theoo continued,

I have not the wealth nor the wish to
wanton away my days in voluptuousness and
vice, whilst my husband toils alone from morn
till night. I have no lover whose indigent
wife is bribed with seasonable gifts to be blind
to my conduct with her husband. I have
given '  her voice began to break  ' father,
mother, station, friends, home, fortune, all, for
mv love ; and there is a little child's love
between my husband and me, and I '

She stopped short to rally her self-control,
no woman to break down before a rival.

Marcella, visibly trembling from head to
foot, began to answer in a low voice,

" You have insulted me beyond measure ;
but you are in my house  and  I see your

anger is somewhat excusable. Did I think my
husband faithless, I too should be frantic '

Faugh ! ' interrupted Theoo savagely,
'Where is my husband?'

Theoo, I do not know,' answered Marcella
in the same low tone.

Indeed ! Then listen, madam. If you
do not tell me, I will go  and tell your
husband. You know what sort of man he
is, and I know how careful you have been to
hide from him your behaviour. There will bea
pretty scene for you when he hears of it.
Now  tell me  or I go ! '

Who has been making this terrible mischief
between us, Theoo ? ' asked Marcella more
quietly.

You, Mrs. Laurier. I am not to be turned
by an evasive answer. I am going to speak
to your husband, if you will not tell me.'

And she turned to go towards the door.

Marcella rose to arrest her.

Theoo, you are deceived,' she said suffocatingly,

' I cannot tell by whom. But do
think what trouble this will make if you tell
Mr. Laurier. For my own sake I could in
every way wish you should speak to him ; but
for his, no. He will be so angry.'

I should rather think he will,' said Theoo
with a sardonic smile.

Marcella hung her head. The act looked
guilty, but she was not conscious of it. To
get a moment of abstracted thought was imperative
if she was not to break out in a
passion of insulted pride. Thinking, she saw
that everything she objected only went to
aggravate this miserable misunderstanding, and
when she lifted her eyes it was to say,

Yes. Speak to Guy. I will come with you.'

To give him some necessary hints. No
thank you. I will speak to him alone.'

Very well.'

She stood back to let Theoo pass. Theoo
latter stepped by her with a dignity and grace
of superiority she could herself under such

circumstances have felt proud to possess.
When she reached the door, Marcella arrested
her with her name.

Theoo ! '

Theoo halted.

Theoo, I have not easily borne what I have
heard from your lips this evening,' said Marcella,
slowly, ' but I have tried to put myself into your
place and to forbear. Will you  for a moment
try to put yourself in my place.'  Theoo made
an impatient gesture, but the other disregarded
it  ' If not you, but I should happen to be in
the right, could you weigh the wrong, or the
indignity of some of the words you have, within
the last quarter of an hour, said to me  to me,
your friend, Theoo ? '

Theoo had purposely avoided looking at her,
but there was that in the tone of Marcella's
appeal that she could not choose but hear it.

And for one moment, then, she faltered.

But the histories Mrs. Curteis had dribbled
into her ears tallied so terribly with the facts ;

and her husband's note  she had, since Mrs.
Curteis left her, been to his office  was so certainly
a deceit, once more to conceal the true
reason of his absence, that the hard reasoning
of suspicions thrust her impulse aside unheard,,
and she only answered,

Tell me, where is my husband.'

Marcella made no reply, and Theoo left the
room.

Marcella sat down and leaned back in her
chair. Her first thought was of her husband,
Oh, I must go to Guy.' The next, ' That she
should speak to him is the only thing possible.
I wish I had proposed it at first.' The third,
He will lose his train. Well, this time
he must. I am before trains and clients, I
trust.'

Theoon she wondered what Theoo was saying.
Would she be sent for : or would Guy come
and speak to her ?

Fear she had none.

At last her thought came back, as of

necessity it must, on the scene lie had just
passed through. But of that consecutive
thought was impossible. Her brain only
swam to remember the hideous aspersions she
had had cast on her.

Of one thing she was glad. That under
the outrages beneath which her proud nature
had shaken with frenzy within her, she had
still kept the mastery over herself and managed
not to be discourteous to the stranger under
her roof.

The minutes passed, and no one came.
They lengthened to half an hour, three-quarters
of an hour. Weary of waiting, she rang.

Is your master gone ? ' she asked.

Yes, ma'am.'

Gone ! Was it possible ? What could
that mean ? Had he not seen Theoo ?

Is Mrs. Charles Curteis still downstairs ? '

she inquired.

J.

No, ma'am, she is gone too.'

Did she see your master before he left ? '

I don't know, ma'am.'

Go and find out.'

Some time elapsed before the woman returned.
She had not been able to learn much.
The housemaid had from the dining-room seen
Mrs. Charles Curteis cross the hall, unaccompanied,
and heard her go out of the front door.
She had come from the library, and  this was
elicited only by a further question  seemed
to be crying, for she was wiping her eyes with
her handkerchief. The housemaid believed
lier master left almost immediately afterwards.
But she had not seen him go, and was not
sure.

Marcella was perplexed. But she felt a
repugnance to pressing the domestics with
questions.

What had happened was this.

Theoo had already informed herself that
Laurier was in the library, and, on leaving
Marcella, directed her steps thither. Coming
down the stairs she wondered a little what sort

of man he was, never having seen him, and
then having arrived at the library door,
knocked lightly.

A voice said, ' Come in,' and she opened
the door and entered.

With his back to the fire stood Keppel
reading a foreign ' Bradshaw.'

Laurier had left some minutes before.
His letters finished more rapidly than he had
anticipated, he had simply said, ' I am off, Mr.
Keppel ; please excuse me,' quickly swept the
remaining things he required into his hand-bag,
and went into the hall. There he put on his
hat and coat, took up the small portmanteau
standing ready, and opening the door for himself
shut it quietly, ran down the steps, and
jumped into a cab.

Keppel glanced through another page or
more of the pamphlet, and then convinced that
it was of less merit than he had been given to
suppose, threw it aside, and rising took up
instead the ' Bradshaw ' Laurier had just laid

clown, and amused himself with idly tracing
the time of the train's arrival at the different
places on its route.

Whilst he did so Theoo knocked.

As she entered Keppel looked up from the
page of the railway guide, and was somewhat
surprised to see bearing down on him, with a
firm, quick step, a tall, dark fury becomingly
painted, whose dusky flashing eyes, and imperiously
borne head, meant execution without
mercy.

The lady came to an abrupt stop before
him, about two yards off.

I am Mrs. Charles Curteis,' she said, in a
clear, unfaltering voice, ' we have not met before,,
but you know my husband.'

Now, what the devil is all this ? ' thought
Keppel, beginning to wish himself elsewhere,
and to cast about in his mind for some affair
with which it was possible for this lady to be
connected. As he hesitated about answering

VOL. III.

Theoo folded her arms and looking straight in
his face, said, with angry deliberation,

'Your wife, Mr. Laurier, is my husband's
mistress.'

Keppel returned her regard. Then he
pressed his lips together, and there came a
little curl like as of a smile at their corners.

I think, Mrs. Curteis, there is some little
mistake,' he said.

'There has been a great mistake on my
part,' returned Theoo, quickly, 'in being so
blind to the real character of the relations
between my husband and Mrs. Laurier. He
visits this house, 1 find, five and six days in the
week  perhaps you were not so ignorant of
that as I have been  but, do you know that it
is contrary to my expressed wish that he comes
here ? Do you know '  she went on with a
heightening passion that soon dimmed her eyes
with tears  ' that he has been for months past
practising a deliberate deceit on me ; that I
have been led to suppose him detained at

business, or engaged with his friends, whilst
hie has been at this house ; that I have been
left at home, alone, ill, anxious, weary with
waiting, whilst my husband has been here 
ivith Mrs. Laurier ? '

She snatched her handkerchief from her
pocket, and hastily wiped the tears from her
eyes, and, choking down a great sob, looked
at him to know what he would say.

Keppel's face was impenetrable. He was
thinking, ' I have thought Charley was here a
good deal.'

He does not seem to care much,' thought
Theoo, ' but some men have a trick of looking
like stones when they are most moved.'

'You will say this is no proof,' she now
went on tenaciously, ' but listen. I have had
a note from my husband this afternoon, in
which he writes,'  she hurriedly opened the
note and read it  ' and I have been to his
office, and found that no particular business
has taken my husband from town. But you



are going to Paris, and your wife  I beg your
pardon, I am forgetting you are her husband.
You must forgive me ! I am all but mad.'

It was said with a noble grace, and a fine
feeling had prompted that sudden hesitation
which forbore to tell the details of a wife's
vileness to her husband. Keppel was a little
struck by it, but his mind was principally
occupied with the  to him  distinctly amusing
character of this scene,  Mrs. Charles Curteis's
excitement, her extraordinary mistake, the
information she was naively giving him, the
ludicrous expectation on her part that he
was going to play the role of the indignant
husband (of which role he had not the remotest
conception), the fact of his unexpectedly
finding himself in a position to create
or suppress an ugly, noisy scandal concerning
the house of the man, with whose wife he
would much enjoy a liaison. But he said
nothing.

Poor Theoo continued.

'I have seen Mrs. Laurier before I came
to you. I have demanded of her where my
husband is, I have implored her to tell me,
but both in vain. If she would have told me,
I would not have come to you. I have come
only as a last resource. I am sorry to have
brought to your home the cruel knowledge
that has come to my own, but '

Her voice dropped and her heavy eyelids.

Now,' thought Keppel, ' we are going to
have tears.' And his face assumed the peculiar
look men on such occasions put on. But
Theoo's weary eyes caught the look, and she
said,

'Do not be alarmed. I am not going to
make a scene  I see '

She broke off in obedience to a sudden
impulse, and half turning made a step towards
the door. Then looking back she broke outwith
undisguised passion and scorn,

Confess it is nothing to you ! '

She well might say so. Anything more

insouciant than Keppel's look could not have
been conceived. She had expected him to beat
first dumfounded and afterwards furiously
angry. But a faint surprise was all he evinced,,
and something that wore the closest resemblance
to hardly suppressed amusement.

Well,' began Keppel coolly, hesitating for
the next word.

She caught up the monosyllable in aa
accent acidulated with irony,

Well ; yes I am telling you what you
already knew. That is the truth, is it not?
You married this woman because it was
made worth your while to marry her. And
what she was, you knew. I beg your
pardon. I ought to have guessed it. Still 
if it be nothing to you  it matters bitterly
to me. Will you help me to find my husband
? '

He made her a little grimace with a smile
in it, and said, not unkindly,

'Mrs. Cartels, I am very sorry for you.

But  will you take a little advice from a man
of the world ? These things will happen. The
wisest course is to put up with them. Be
discreet. Let your husband alone. He will
tire of  Mrs. Laurier. These things always
come to an end. If you bully him you will
only repent it. See how little good you have
done by forbidding his coming here. For the
rest '

He hesitated. He would have liked to
speak to Laurier before he spoke of Laurier.
He was far from certain that undeceiving Mrs.
Charles Curteis was doing any service to
Laurier. And he was conscious in addition of
other interests.

But Theoo having heard him so far, with
her teeth locked, her lips quivering, her eyes,
dimming with trouble, flashing him back their
resentment for answer, finding he again paused
now broke in,

'That is enough. You will not help
me '

She turned from him and with quick steps
left the room.

Keppel sat down by the fire, and reflected.
Well, I have been a fool. That I should not
have known after all these years that one
woman is like another. This is exquisite.
Does Laurier know it ? He is always wondrous
reticent about Madam. He must know. Men
always do know these things. I think I gave
that young lady some good advice. How those
two women must have sworn at each other.
I should like to have heard it. And Mrs.
Laurier  ah, ma toute belle, I think after this
you and I shall be able to understand each
other.'

Theoo crossed the hall alone, as the housemaid
reported, wiping the tears off her eyes,
and opened the door for herself. Outside, the
October night was cold and raw. A fine chill,
stinging rain drove on the rising wind. She
had no umbrella, for when she set out the sky

was clear, and the rain beat in her face
piteously.

In the street before the door was Marcella's
brougham.

That woman rides, and I fight my way in
the rain.' thought Theoo, and bitterly her soul
rebelled against the injustice of things.

She went to the railway, and took a ticket
to the station nearest to her lodgings.

But the desolation of that journey, in the
slovenly, crowded, second-class carriage, back
from the place of heartless, conscienceless
luxury to her own worse than widowed
beggary !

It was past nine when Theoo reached home,
if that was home whence he was gone away.

She went into her bedroom, and threw off
her wet things. Then she approached the
baby's cradle. Baby was fast asleep, but
Theoo's heart was in torture, and she took
the little mortal up, and pressing him to her
bosom said.

Oh, baby, baby, mammy's heart is
breaking.'

The little fellow opened his soft brown
wondering eyes, and looked up at her face, andy
seeing its sorrow, began to cry.

Theoon Theoo forced a smile.

'Nay, nay, baby must not cry, mammy
loves him, there hush, hush.'

And she rocked him to sleep again on her
knee.

Then she threw herself, as she was, on her
hapless bed, and sobbed, and sobbed for hours,
till she sobbed herself to sleep.

The child woke her out of a sleep from
which she rose cramped and cold. It was past
midnight.

A horrible thought broke upon her. ' By
this time he is with her.'

Oh, Charley, Charley,' she moaned, ' if it
were not for baby, I would kill myself.'

CHAPTER XIII.

Few things are more remarkable than the
manner in which trivial things maintain their
ordinary importance at the most critical
junctures of life.

Marcella dined, and enjoyed herself at the
Cancerous, and was vexed at having had to
hurry the end of her toilet, and to have been late.

Probably, her husband had either satisfied
Theoo, or, which seemed more likely, declined
to listen to her. In either case she had been
sent home to ponder at her leisure what kind
of mistake she had committed. On her return
Marcella would not be surprised to find an
apology, or even Theoo herself awaiting her.

In any case she felt herself secure with her
husband for her protector.

But it need hardly be said that when she
returned home she found neither Theoo nor
apology.

Nor did Theoo come the next morning, nor
any message, nor any letter from Laurier.

Probably, after all, Theoo had just missed
him. Marcella was sorry.

Mrs. Curteis and Florelle were out all day,
not returning till after Marcella had dined.
Then (Florelle had left the drawing-room for a
few minutes) Mrs. Curteis surprised her niece
by asking with extraordinary abruptness,

7 Charley in the house, Marcella ? '

In this house ? ' exclaimed Marcella
putting down the cup of coffee she had in her
hand so suddenly that she spilled the contents,

--No:

For some seconds she stared at her aunt
astonished, and then proceeded to wipe up the
spilled coffee.

Oh, he is not ? ' returned Mrs. Curteis as if
but half believing.

That is a very surprising question of
yours, aunty now observed Marcella with
some temper.

Well  anyhow  I shall leave here tomorrow,
Marcella. I can't  really I am unable
to speak of such subjects. But you must

suppose ' she hesitated for a second or two,

and then concluded, as if by way of explanation,
' in fact, I have seen Mrs. Charles Curteis.
I don't like her, but I will say, I feel sorry for
her.'

You have seen her to-day ? ' asked Mar-cells
quickly. ' Did she say anything to you
about Mr. Laurier  whether she saw him
yesterday ? '

Yes,' answered Mrs. Curteis slowly ; and
she continued in a tone of stern rebuke, ' I
wonder that you do not drop with shame  to
be what you are, and to have your husband
sanction it.'

What  on  earth  do  you  mean ? '
asked Marcella with absolute stupefaction.

What afFectation, niece ! '

 Well  I simply cannot understand a word
you say,' retorted Marcella sharply.

Go, then, and ask Theoo. Perhaps you
will be able to understand her, if she will see
you, which I should think improbable after the
manner in which your husband treated her,
and what he told her.'

What did Mr. Laurier tell her ? '

'What should he tell her  well  really,
Marcella  of course he had to tell her that you
are  dissolute, and that he cannot help it.'

The shameless falsehood ! ' exclaimed
Marcella, with a rage she was with difficulty
restraining within bounds of any kind.

'Well, Marcella  of course I cannot say
anything about the truth or falsehood of the
assertion. I only tell you Mr. Laurier made it.'

And I tell you he could not. Guy tell
Theoo I was dissolute and he could not help it
bah ! '

She rose from her seat.

Go and ask Theoo, then.'

'I shall.'

But she put her hands to the sides of her
head in the strangest dread of unimagined misfortunes
that ever came over her soul.

And holding them so, she went and hung
over the chimney-piece, resting her elbows
upon it.

'I would leave him,' she said, speaking
with herself.

Mrs. Curteis looked up, smiled a hard
smile, and nodded. ' Do,' she thought.

But Marcella again turned round.

'It is not possible,' she said, coming away
from the fire, and moving her head imperiously,
' Guy could not have said it. I know
he could not have said it.'

It seems, however, niece, that he did say it.'

He did not, he could not,' insisted Mar-cells.
* No doubt I shall hear from him tonight
or tomorrow, and then we shall have all
this explained.'

As she spoke she moved towards the door.
Now she stopped to add,

Eespecting what Theoo says, that is simply
a shameful falsehood. Whether she is deceiving
herself, or some other person has misled
her, I am not in a position to judge.'

Well, Marcella,' replied Mrs. Curteis, ' in
any case I cannot permit my daughter to
remain in a house where scenes such as this goon.
So, tomorrow morning I shall leave.'

'As you please,' answered Marcella, and
left the room.

But no letter came. The next morning
Mrs. Curteis and Flo took their departure.
After they were gone Marcella drove to
Charley's lodgings.

Theoo was out : gone, poor child, with how
heavy a heart ! to do some of her humble
shopping. Marcella awaited her return.

At last she came in. As she entered the
room, Marcella was shocked by a surprise of a
face jaded and wearied to a degree that gave

her the appearance of a careworn middle-aged
woman. She had not taken the trouble to
rouge, and the absence of the paint from a
complexion long subject to the process much
assisted to produce the startling effect.

When she caught sight of Marcella she
paused on the threshold.

You here ? ' she exclaimed.

Marcella had risen, but she took no heed of
that ; and having closed the door, began to
take off her things, saying the while,

I am glad you are come. I had something
to say to you. I saw your husband. I
dare say you can guess the treatment I received
at his hands  but '

She had taken off her walking things, and
stood now, a tall, graceful, black-draped figure,
with her head a little defiantly leaned on one
side,

 but  in the great trouble I am in, there
is one woman in London more to be pitied
than I  soil My husband has dishonoured

VOL. III. p

me, but I love him, and have hope that I may-win
him back to my love. You have dishonoured
your husband  but he does not care.
I pity you?

Marcella sank back on the sofa. A small
table stood beside it, and resting her arm and
elbow on it, she hung her head and looked on
the floor. Was it possible that, after all, what
her aunt had said was true ? No : that could
not be.

What did Mr. Laurier say to you, Theoo ? '
she asked at last, and looked up for an instant,
pale, but not without courage in her handsome,
troubled face.

Theoo regarded her with a doubt whether
to answer her question or not.

'My aunt told me some things,' Marcella
went on, ' but they appeared to me impossible.
Mr. Laurier  did not believe what you told
him?'

He did believe it.'

Marcella sat motionless.

1 will tell you,' said Theoo, beginning to
understand she was humbling her rival to the
dust. ' At first I fancied he half doubted what
I said, and I read him Charley's letter, and
told him how he had hidden from me his visits
at your house, and how at this time I knew
no special business had taken him from town.
But after that, I found he knew all and cared
nothing. He said very little, hardly anything ;
but he smiled to himself and let me see that he
regarded the whole affair with the supreme
insouciance. At last I asked him if he would
help me to find my husband, on which he
informed me that such incidents were of daily
occurrence, that I should be fooHsh to take
any notice of it, that doubtless in a little time,
if I would have patience to wait, Mr. Curteis
would get tired of you, and that, for the rest,
he really could have nothing to do with it.'

Awhile Marcella was silent. Then she rose
with dignity.

It is impossible,' she expostulated ener-
p 2

vertically. ' You have falsely suspected me, and
now you are stooping to take a cruel revenge
by trying to create a quarrel between my husband
and myself.'

But she was quivering from head to
foot.

Have you created no trouble between my
husband and me ? ' retorted Theoo.

None, Theoooo  Theoooo  for pity's sake, confess
you are deceiving me ! '

No, Marcella ; what I have told you is
the truth.'

And if any speech ever had in it the ring
of truth, that had it.

Strange, shapeless thoughts passed through
Marcella's mind.

To whom have you spoken of this ? ' she
asked suddenly.

'To no one but Mrs. Curteis. I have no
friends.'

Poor Theoo,' thought Marcella ; * where on
earth can Charley be ? ' Then making a step

towards lier, in a tone very piteous to hear, she
besought,

Oh, Theoo, tell me, it is not true ; say it is
not true.'

I tell you it is true,' was the retort, incisive
to contemptuousness. ' Do you think it
is nothing to me, that you are come here to
whiiie as if you alone were concerned ? '

Marcella bit her lip, and turned to go
towards the door.

'You will oblige me by not calling here
again, Mrs. Laurier,' said Theoo callously.

Marcella bowed.

And, before you go, one thing. I have
answered your questions. Where is my
husband ? '

'Theoo, I do not know,' replied Marcella
with pathos, whilst she looked not so much at
Theoo as towards her. ' If I could help you
but  me ! '

She moved her head haughtily, as a woman
too proud to confess suffering. What she was

about to say remained unfinished, and when
Theoo looked up to know the cause she found
herself alone.

In her carriage, Marcella sank back on the
cushions, stunned.

What to think ? Theoo had invented what
she had said ? A mind tutored to distinguish
truth and falsehood refused to believe it. Her
husband had done as Theoo asserted ? Oh, no !
His character rose before her clear and definite :
the strong, hard, just man, who, if she had
sinned, might likely enough have crushed her
beneath his becoming anger ; or, in his stern
love, might have pardoned her, and, for the
sake of what she had been once, or that she
might have where to hide her head, might have
given her some, though far lower place, beside
his hearth : but not a man who could have
made fight of his honour undone, or smiled
anything resembling insouciance upon the disgrace
of her misbehaviour.

Some error there must be ; and to that

assurance she clung, with a desperation which
was ominous.

But returned to her home, she was conscious
of a sense of quiet, with an access of
repose in her knowledge of her husband that
dispelled much  not all  of her misgiving.

A letter arrived from Laurier, a single
line, penned in haste, announcing his safe
arrival, and no more. Otherwise, the next
four-and-twenty hours were eventless.

Then, obedient to his wish, she went to the
Farquhar' ' at-home.'

She had proposed to stay only a short time.
'Circumstances ruled otherwise. Keppel was
there, and with the intention of seeing her.
He had things to say to her which could not
but be of consequence : things before which
he opined Mrs. Laurier would succumb. But
he purposed first to prove them, and, with a
view to that, to reconnoitre.

A chair vacated by Marcella's side as she
sat in one of the less conspicuous parts of the

thronged room, afforded him the opportunity
he desired.

You are in trouble, Mrs. Laurier,' he said,
seating himself at her side.

Indeed, what should make you think so ? '
she replied, with a smile, but struck at once
with a painful (curiosity to what degree her
looks betrayed the shadows haunting her
mind.

He kept her waiting some seconds for an
answer, and then with a familiarity, which was
new, but also kind, said, ' My dear Mrs.
Laurier, I don't think I know. Entre nous,
you and I are old friends, are we not ? I have
heard.'

Heard ? Heard of what ? '

Her mind misgave her.

Of this unlucky affair of Curteis,' his eyes
sought her face, and she knew she changed
colour. ' I am really very sorry for you, Mrs.
Laurier. I do very much fear this Mrs. Charles
Curteis's behaviour shows she intends to c leat *

some scandal. I trust you are acting with
every caution. You have not, I suppose, seen
Mrs. Charles Curteis since last Monday ; but
perhaps it would be as well you should do so.
Of course you know what passed after she
left you. Mr. Laurier has written to you ? '

They were words carefully chosen to answer
many ends : to insinuate sympathy : to
conceal a belief of guilt : to create a surprise at
how much he knew : to discover the extent of
his hearer's acquaintance with what had happened
; and to ascertain what was her own
opinion of her situation.

They failed of none of their purposes.
Marcella answered him at once and unsuspiciously,


I have had a letter from Mr. Laurier, but
that was only a hue assuring me of his safe
arrival in Paris. But I know he is exceedingly
busy. I  I am very much distressed, Mr.
Keppel, about all this  yet I know nothing ; at
least, except that I have seen Mrs. Charles

Curteis:  I am glad you think that was right 
and she has some story which is quite impossible.
I very much wish my husband would
return, but I know I can hardly expect him
before Tuesday at the earliest.'

Mrs. Charles Curteis has some impossible
story? That is not a further complication, I
hope.'

No, not exactly,' was the reply, embarrassed
and with some dignity of reserve ; ' in fact, I
disbelieve her, but'  she went on, whilst she
spoke absently tracing with the point of her
umbrella the pattern on the carpet  ' she tells
me that she saw Mr. Laurier on Monday night,
and she wishes me to credit what I never
will credit, that Mr. Laurier both believed
the things she was pleased to say of me,
and himself spoke of me in a manner  well
in a manner no woman with self-respect
could ever stoop to forgive. But, Mr. Keppel,
has all this reached your ears. 1 had
hoped '

I fear,' he interrupted her, ' that what has
been told you is what was said ; and  but
take care.'

It suited Keppel here to put an abrupt end
to this conversation, and he indicated, with a
look, a group near, none of whose members
however had regarded them. After which he
rose and walked away.

He had learned what he desired to know,
and had wakened the trouble in the woman's
heart, and now he wished leisure to consider
his next step.

As he pondered it a combination occurred
to him not before perceived ; one that, unless
he was deceived in her, would render Mrs.
Laurier as implacably maddened as any wife
that ever took a woman's last miserable revenge
on a husband.

As for Marcella, the room swam before her
eyes. Fears, questionings, doubts thickened
about her, not as before, but insurmountable,
whilst a heavy foreboding filled her mind with a

sense of coming peril, and of trouble surpassing
expectation, amounting to nothing short of
disaster.

She prolonged her stay. To speak again
with Keppel was imperative.

Though it was November, the day was not
only sunny, but even warm, and some of the
party went into the garden to admire the
chrysanthemums, and stood in groups, or
strolled about, talking. Making her way back
to the house, along a path over which the level
branches of dark cedars of Lebanon stretched
in the pale sunshine, Marcella heard Keppel's
tread behind her. The next instant he was at
her side.

What we spoke of just now,' he at once
began ; ' I fear, Mrs. Laurier, this is going to
be a serious matter. Are you sure you are
right to disbelieve what was said by Mrs.
Charles Curteis ? I do not know Mrs. Charles
Curteis, nor anything of her story, except the
few words you have told me. But I had, from

a very different source, an account of what
happened, and I think it would perhaps be
well for you to hear what that was, that you
might be able to judge how much of what Mrs.
Curteis says is true.'

He spoke in a gentle, deferential way, as if
conscious of some presumption in his offer to be
of service to her.

I am sure you are very kind, Mr. Keppel,'
replied Marcella, distinctly touched by what
she believed to be the kindness of a man not
usually kind, shown to her out of consideration
for her husband, and reminding herself she
was speaking to the man on whose advice that
husband placed more reliance than on any
other. ' This is all most cruel for me, and
with Mr. Laurier absent, I begin to be alarmed.
I suspect he has underrated the importance
of this unfortunate affair, and, till I can hear
something from him about it  and I really
hesitate to put matters so unpleasant into
letters  I should be glad to know anything

you think I should know, and to be guided

by it;

He replied slowly, with an air of deliberation,


I don't think you will find Mr. Laurie
will make any allusion to what passed with
Mrs. Charles Curteis '

He paused and glanced at her to see
what effect his insinuation was making. Mar-cells
took no notice of the act. Her head
was a trifle bent with carefulness, but the
piu:e grey light in her eyes shone clear and
trustfully, and her noble, fearless face wore
thoughtfulness only, not alarm. She was
simply listening with all her attention for what
he might say, collected in her grave, proud
beauty in the afternoon's pallid lights, a thing
to look on of no common make.

To have her  what wickedness a little
common word can hold  was worth the risk
of the deceit. Not for his life would he have
told a man a lie such as he was about to pass

on her  a lie unthought of when lie let Theoo
go away deceived. But he was of the
number of those for whom deceit practised on
a woman is not shameful except when it is
unsuccessful.

Eespecting what occurred on Monday,' he
proceeded, in a tone of mingled advice and
respect, 'it appears that Mrs. Charles Curteis
went to the library to seek Mr. Laurier immediately
after she left you. She introduced herself
a little abruptly. She had not, I think,
ever seen Mr. Laurier. Then she at once
accused you in very unguarded terms, arguing
frequent clandestine visits of her husband to
your house, and insisting upon the evidence of
some letter she had received. Laurier appears
prudently to have said hardly anything, and to
have exhibited some suppressed amusement at
the fuss she made. Mrs. Charles Curteis took
the matter au grand series ; and, finding he
made no attempt to deny the truth of what she
alleged, flatly charged him with indifference.

His reply was politic in the extreme. He
pointed out to her that contretemps of this kind
would occur, and advised her not to make a
disturbance about an unpleasantness that must
come to an end with time. Then she seems to
have appealed to him for assistance to discover
where Charley Curteis is at present. That he,
of course, declined ; and then she went away
in a pet. Perhaps you will be able to judge
from this how far Mrs. Charles Curteis has
been attempting to mislead you.'

Marcella made no answer. Instead a quick
movement of hers led him to regard her. She
had snatched her handkerchief from her pocket,
and was wiping from her eyelashes  she who
so seldom wept  the heavy drops of her tears.

Theoo same story that Theoo had told ! And
from another source. How could it not be
true? Her heart contracted with a strange
pain, and she wished she had not heard.

As soon as she had sufficiently recovered
herself she replied in piteous, brief words,

Mr. Keppel, I do not think Mr. Laurier
-could have done this. It seems to me quite
impossible. If he has  I am sure I do not know
what I, as his wife, ought to say, and I cannot
think what I shall do.'

As he said nothing she went on,

I must telegraph for him to return. Do
you think I might? I know his business is
very urgent.'

You wish for the assurance of his own
lips. I  cannot see exactly why, Mrs.
Laurier.'

He spoke slowly, as if essaying with difficulty
to understand her.

I cannot but think there is some mistake.'

What does Mrs. Charles Curteis say ? If
you will pardon my asking.'

Don't ask me, Mr. Keppel  only the same
as you.'

But then  surely  the truth.'

She turned to him a look of supplication
that caused him to be silent.

VOL. III. Q

They had already twice traversed the length
of the walk, and now returned to where, entering
a shrubbery, it was more screened from
observation.

Mrs. Laurier,' began Keppel, in the same
measured, cool, counselling way, 'it appears
to me, as a man of some experience, that
you are doing scant justice to your husband. I
think you are dissatisfied. Is that quite fan:?
Consider.'

I have nothing to consider, Mr. Keppel,'
answered Marcella with some hauteur. ' If
what I am told is true, Mr. Laurier's conduct
has been unpardonable.'

But, what would you have ? Mr. Laurier
makes no disturbance, he says nothing to you,
he snubs Mrs. Curteis '

Marcella stopped in her walk.

Do you think me guilty, Mr. Keppel ? ' she
asked point blank, with a cool self-possession
that she had more than once shown to be a
part of her fearless nature when roused. She

was a trifle pale, but in every other respect
entirely herself.

Certainly his words had implied nothing less.

But he looked at her now with a kind of
faith and tenderness she had not known his
face could contain ; and as he spoke the words
struck her ears with a cadence that lured
attention.

I ?  I have sometimes thought  but  I
think we will not talk of what I have thought,
Mrs. Laurier. That is nothing. We have todo
with what other people think. I  well 
you and I became friends, and nothing more,
long ago.'

Marcella became aware, with a sudden surprise,
of a meaning in his words that their tone
made unmistakable. This strange man, who had
never said so, had loved her. It is probable the
woman  undeceived does not exist whom the
art of his sentences as he spoke them would
not have touched. Her face assumed some
reserve, as she now asked,
a2

Who are these " other people," Mr.
Keppel? Who told you about Mrs. Charles
Curteis?'

A little pause, then he answered,

Well don't ask that.'

I do ask it. Tell me.'

Take the advice of a man who does not
wish to see you in trouble.'

No ; tell me.'

If what passed in your library on Monday
can have been known to two people only, and
you had it from one '

Not you from the other ? '

She drew back her head, knitting her brow.
He only averted his face, and she caught his
arm.

'Mr. Keppel!'

Well,' he said slowly, ' I don't think
Laurier should have done it. It was ungallant ;
and after all, a man's wife is his wife. Still
you know Laurier is regardless about womenkind
; and, you see, say what one would, he

would tell his good story, and crack his jokes
over it.'

Marcella's hand dropped from his arm. She
drew herself up, and her eyes with a cold gaze
turned once to the right and once to the left,
scanning the shrubs, and the hard, low November
lights, as she haughtily poised her head,
and forbade her spirit to give ear to the
agonised wail of her heart. Then she asked
suddenly,

You are telling me the truth ? '

'Why should I not?'

Why should you if no one else does ? Let
us turn back.'

Keppel recognised the first note of defeat,
and felt satisfied. For reply Marcella was
fated to hear words of strange suggestion,
which, however, the familiarity she had already
permitted made refusal to hear next to impossible.


I tell you the truth, Mrs. Laurier, because
I cannot but feel sorry for you, as for a woman

who I much fear is mistaking her life and her
happiness. I am not a man of prejudices, and
I allow myself to see life as some people do
not  you know it, I imagine  and I have
sometimes looked at your life, and felt  well,
have you never asked yourself whether there
was not something more in the possibilities of
your nature than you have allowed yourself?
Have you not sometimes wondered whether,
with your gifts, and your sensibilities, and fearlessness,
you were not made for something
more than the convenances the world has
invented to give a semblance of value to the
vapid lives of the women who have none of
these things I think you must sometimes
have thought of that. I have. And I have
then felt that, after all, your life was not true
to what you have learned of life, was an
asceticism in which, after all, you had laid
down the hope of your own magnificent being,
and said " no " to its great powers and to its
grand passions. Is that not so ? Only what

has the world given you in return for your
sacrifice of your nature? Nothing. You area
woman of intelligence, Mrs. Laurier. Have
you intelligence enough  for it needs much 
to stand aside and look at your own case unobscured
by a haze of prejudices ? Conceive
your own nature in your mind first  and now
conceive the scene in which you have chosen
that nature should live. Have not you 
you with your nature, only think !  chosen a
phantom, shadow life ? If you are deceived,
have you not first deceived yourself? There
was another life you might have chosen, nota
life of thought, conventionality, and catchwords,
but a life of great passions. Understand
the word in its most unrestricted sense. La
passion c'est la vie. To dare to do, to feel, to
cause to feel : passions with their unspeakable
experiences, impulses, surprises, curiosities, satisfactions,
astonishments  that is existence ; not,
Mrs. Laurier, thinking, talking, reading, dreaming
of how to exist, and working up poor

reflected interests in what men and women
have done, that you and I dare not do. Don't
timidly let the names of things scare you.
Eemember they have been invented mostly by
those who would have nothing to do with the
things. Passion is a law of nature anterior to
the existence of our race, and wider than its
powers. Passively to be wrought upon, to be
carried, and checked, and changed by ungovernable
forces without, is the constitution
of the universe ; and when we essay to abstract
ourselves from its influence, we can only sofar
succeed as we partially cease in reality to
exist. Young, spirited, vigorous of thought,
fearless, and  may I say it without sinking to
the odious character of a flatterer ?  beautiful
in a way few women are beautiful, and now
outraged as you are, is it your part to hesitate
to know the pleasures of existence in their true
reality?'

Marcella answered one word, ' Vice.'
That is an ugly word,' said Keppel. ' I
never dispute about words. I call existing in

reality existence. I think you will come to
see it as I do when you begin to think  as I
believe you can think  fearlessly. But, Mrs.
Laurier, remember this '

He paused. They had returned to the
vicinity of the house, and a group of guests
stood only a little way in front of them. He
was not ignorant that he was transgressing
bounds with her, and for the last thing he was
about to drop into her ears, he wished to
render it impossible for her to exhibit resentment
or to make a reply. Therefore he paused
a few seconds before concluding,

Eemember that the woman who becomes
a votary of realities at thirty, with reason
regrets she did not make her conversion at
five-and-twenty.'

Mrs. Laurier was biting her lips with vexation
; but the close proximity of others rendered
not only reply but even looks of remonstrance
impossible.

A minute afterwards Keppel left her; and in a
short time both had departed from the at-home.

CHAPTEE XIV.

Marcella did not directly return home, but
drove to Mrs. Curteis's hotel and inquired for
riorelle. She was in, but Marcella waited
long alone in Mrs. Curteis's room before she
appeared.

Making her sit on the sofa, and placing
herself close at her side, so that their knees
touched, she affectionately took Flo's hands in
her own, and said,

Flo, I fear I am in the greatest of trouble,
and I am come to beg for your help. For
some reason, dear, you and I do not seem to
be so great friends as we were once, but that
is quite contrary to my wish, Flo ; and now,
when I assure you it is more than life and
death to me to know the truth of something

you can tell me, you will tell me, Flo, will you
not?'

Yes, Marcella,' replied Florelle, a little
discouragingly.

Has aunty since Monday seen Mr. Keppel
or written to him ? "

No ; I am sure she has not.'

Marcella heaved a hopeless sigh.

You are quite sm-e ? ' she asked.

Positive.'

And Florelle explained that since Monday
her mother had literally not been out of her
sight. Even when they on Tuesday called on
Theoo, she had been in the room whilst they
talked, though not permitted to hear what was
said.

So the last hope was gone.

At the end Florelle asked, ' I suppose,
Marcella, Mr. Laurier has been saying things
about you again, like he did in May ? '

'In May?'

Yes,' said Flo, absently looking down at

her white hands lying in her lap ; ' when we
were in town, don't you remember ? I heard
of it, and mamma too. Something about Mr.
Keppel. I heard of it more than once.'

That Mr. Laurier had said what?'

Oh, you know, things about you and Mr.
Keppel, like people do say. Only people, you
see, thought it strange that Mr. Laurier should
have made a joke of it.'

Naturally,' replied Marcella.

She rose, as it seemed to Florelle, in a
dream, and drew her into her arms, tenderly
kissed her several times, and then without a
word went out of the room.

You told your cousin of the things we
heard in May, Flo ? ' asked her mother when
she rejoined her.

Yes, mamma.'

Did she say anything ? '

No. She seemed surprised, that was all.'

This will be a warning to you, Flo.'

Yes, mamma.'

But the child's thoughts were far from her
words, far as her own nature from her life 
'Poor cousin Marcella's face of pain, what
dreadful things it seems to say, and she was
once so happy! What will she do now?
And will no one help her?'

Marcella returned home, and attempted to
review her situation. That was a struggle of
hours, and the end was worse than the beginning.
No consequences seemed to open before
her except of the most desperate kinds.

It was in vain that she laboured to battle
with the conviction that Laurier was guilty of
the detraction of her honour and name, now
on so many sides charged against him. Reluctant
in the extreme as she was to credit
it, the entire agreement of two independent
accounts, of Theoo's and Keppel's, formed an
evidence against which a calm reason accustomed
to weigh evidences refused to hold out.

Nor was it less incontestable that Keppel
had learned what had passed from Laurier
himself. There remained no one else who
could have told him.

In fact,' she was compelled to conclude,
I am only refusing to accept the truth because
it is miserable. My husband dishonours mein
his own thought, and in public'

Three days ensued of a description of
which the strongest are able to endure buta
few. Their mental history, were it set out
in order, would present but one unvarying
succession of restless thought overturning
thought, and of emotions overbalancing
opposing emotions. Of continuity nothing
was apparent, save the continuous increase
in the violence of the reactions and impulses
to which the woman's being, maddening
beneath the sense of its wrongs, was becoming
a reluctant prey.

At times, for periods at first of hours, but
afterwards of a far shorter duration, an

obstinate opinion, of some deceit practised
upon her, and of the impossibility of such
uneasiness to the character she knew her
husband to be, overbore everything else, in
turn to vanish as untenable, and to be succeeded
by no less assured convictions of an
opposite type.

The shocks of inversions so abrupt tend
more rapidly than anything else to throw the
mind entirely from its balance.

In the meantime the sensible love she
bore Laurier ebbed out of her proud being
with an ever increasing rapidity.

The days were re-called when they first
met, with his depreciation of all good in her
sex ; his sneers at her thought ; his disbelief in
her faiths, never overcome ; his incapacity to
see how she was moved ; the manner in which
he had shunned her ; the day when she had
discovered he could be content to call her his
betrothed whilst believing her prone to the
affectations of women she despised ; his opinion

of the frailty of a woman's best moral strength ;
the wide distinction of all feeling and opinion
that existed between them ; to every one of
which the wrong that rankled in her innocence
gave now a lurid and cruel significance.

And yet she was bewildered. The heart
has a life of its own, not ruled by the brain,
but controlled by nerve centres within it, that
give it a power to pulse on even when cut out
of the body ; and a love lived deep in her
heart, out of the reach of doubts, the love that
had come into life there before she herself
knew of its coming, which now pleadingly
spoke of what trifles all these things were,
nothings, mere chances, not himself as she had
known him.

Guy to have believed me on the path to
ruin, and never to have stayed me ! Guy to
have believed me shameless, and never to have
chidden me ! Guy just to all others, so unjust
to me ! Impossible ! '

But the evidence was there that it was so.

Then she would ponder of leaving him.

Hers was not a nature for moral pasturing.
She made no long balancing of duties, of
forgiveness. The happy idyll of the innocent,
triumphant wife, and the husband a forgiven
creature in his own house for the iest of his
days, had no charm for her.

It was a mere question of fact.

If her life had been poisoned by a shameless
wrong, she was not the woman to brook the
injustice.

On Friday morning a letter came from
Laurier, a long, chatty letter, of course without
a word about Theoo. Yet the mere sight
of his handwriting did her heart good. She
put the letter to her lips when she had read it.

But that too passed. Thus he had always
behaved, attentively, pleasantly, whilst he all
the time believed her worthless !

And now the wrong done her honour, the
public wrong, began to sting with a maddening
acerbity ; that certainty of calumny

VOL. III. R

tossed hither and thither, and laughed at on
every side, with her name for its subject, her
name, whose stainlessness was to her above
price, blackened by the man who should have
been ready to spend his life's blood to defend it.
Lied against, and by hips !
Merited ignominy she had a pride that
could stem, but before lies her temperament of
truth broke into rebellion.

In another mood she would ask herself
whether her own part had been rightly done.
Was it because she had been content that their
wedded passion should burn with a genial, even
flame ;  because she had been ready to become
from his bride his intelligent friend, not an
insatiable mistress of his being ;  because she
had been able to be happy in the many
pleasures of her own life, without needing to
call him from his ambitions to amuse her ;  was
it for all this and for things like this that her
husband disbelieved in her ?

If so,' her judgment answered, ' he is

very unjust. I have been but what I am. I
have held back nothing I had to give. I have
only freely yielded up what of all I was most
fain to have, his constant presence at my side.'
On Saturday afternoon Keppel sent hera
bouquet, a mass of white roses that at the
time of the year must have cost something
fabulous. She put them in the library, having
instead half disposed to burn them, but
the flowers were too beautiful. After dinner
in the evening, in one of her wildest moods,
she deliberately and wickedly took two flowers
from the bouquet to wear in her bosom.

With the white flowers on her breast she
brooded and brooded the evening away. Yesterday
she had been able to play and read 
but not now.

But when Keppel came on Sunday morning
to call, she would not see him.

The day was beautiful, and she spent a
great part of the morning walking up and
down the long paths of the garden with

R 2

Dushan for a companion, admiring the tender
beauty of the pale November sunshine and
the delicate lights it made, and, in no spirits
for the brightness of the day, asking herself
where she would be when the leafless stems
again wore buds and leaves.

Assuredly not there.

Then she went in to her luncheon, to her
drawing-room, to a long afternoon of angry,
rebel thoughts before her lonely fire  too disconsolate
for aught but sorrowing, and too
proud for tears.

It is not all who understand the wretchedness
of such grief as hers.

Had she been hungry, thirsty, aged, cold,
insufficiently clothed in rags, in want, squalor,
and filth, housed where the bleak wind and
the rain and the damp could reach her,
crouched by a hearth whose ashes were cold,
in a chamber rude and naked of comfort  that
had been desolation.

But young and aglow with glorious health,

just risen from her dainty luncheon, with the
flavour of choice wine still on her hips, before
the fire that blazed on her fashionable hearth,
where the bright afternoon sunshine sparkled
on the expensive fire-irons, and the tiles, and
the marbles, and the over-mantel with its 
and mirror that reflected the luxuries of
the voluptuous drawing-room, dressed in the
most delicious of clothes, reposed at her ease
in the most comfortable of chairs, with e very-possession
about her a young woman could
covet for her own  surely it will be said her
trouble had compensations.

Yes  they had left her her wealth, and her
hire, and her food, and her clothes, and the
warm blood in her veins to feel with ; and
had taken from her only her husband, her
love, her birthright of honour, the sunshine of
her soul, and her due  how women cling to it !
of justice.

Only this does make it appear that some
-opine meat and drink and clothing and warmth

worth more than honour and hope and justice
and love.

To sympathise with the wants of the poor is
easier by far than to sympathise with the cares
of the wealthy.

At this self-same hour it chanced that in
Paris Laurier, idly walking in the Tuileries among
the Parisians eiidimanches, casually bethought
him of a friend or foe  near at hand. He
left the garden and made his way down the
short length of the Quai des Tuileries, into the
Place du Carrousel, to the Pavilion Demon,
through familiar vestibules and galleries and
salles, and once more found himself in the presence
of the Venus of Milo.

Certainly she was divinely beautiful. Something
her form had of the inexhaustible, so that
a man might gaze on her and ever find her
eternally new Laurier was sorry  he who
could so seldom see her  that he had not come
thither at once instead of loitering among the

lanky trees of the Tuileries. He knew more
now than of okl of what a woman's face and
form and pose and expression signified, and the
Venus was adorable.

Whilst he sat thus thinking, two other
Englishmen entered, talking English with that
impression no one understands them which the
English so often allow themselves abroad.

Ton my soul,' said one, a light-haired
man of passable appearance, ' you don't say
so ! I remember the girl perfectly. I knew
a man called Hammerbratsch who was sweet
upon her. He has had a lucky escape. I met
her at Folkestone some two or three years ago.
That is a beautiful thing, is it notes'  He
pointed to the Venus, and they stopped justin
front of Laurier regarding her.  ' She was
going a rare pace then, and left the place rather
mysteriously. I remember dancing with herat
a ball, the night before she left (she could
waltz like a fury when she chose), and her
astonishing me a little by asserting it was her

opinion a woman had a full right to do anything
she found enjoyable.'

The other, a thin-faced youth with a
pointed chin, whom Laurier had a distinct
impression of having seen, without being able
to remember where, laughed coarsely, and then
said, ' Oh, yes. / have heard she talks like
that. However, she has done for herself now.
He has her, and she will have to bolt with
him, if all that was not over and finished last
night. Shall we go on ? '

They turned to leave the salle.

Will what's-his-name, the barrister, divorce
her ? ' asked the first speaker.

Well, they say '

They passed out of hearing and left Laurier
alone with the Venus  and his own thoughts.

Hammerbratsch ? That was not a common
name. This girl who was at a ball at Folkestone
some two or three years ago, and left
the place mysteriously on the following day ?
That did not explain much. A girl who thought

a woman had a right to her pleasures, married
to a barrister, who had done for herself?

Marcella ? Why should so great an improbability
have come into his mind ? No ;
that was nonsense.'

He leaned back and again looked at the
goddess.

Marcella had not once written to him.
What nonsense ! '

He rose and chose another point of view
for the Venus  one where he saw her three-quarter
face in the light. On her lips, too
disdainful for speech, what a smile of triumph
eternal over all the weaknesses of human
things !

It could be Marcella. Her nature had its
great perils, and they might burst on her at
any time. Confusion ! Could he think of
nothing but two fools' chatter about some
woman ? '

If the Venus would speak, what would she
say ? An amusing conj lecture . '

He sat searching the face of the goddess,
essaying to conjecture what words could part
her lips.

If it were Marcella ?

If it were ? The cunning Aphrodite's
vengeance, come after all ? What folly ! He
would shake "it off by a walk.'

He rose and left the salle.

The early evening closed, and Marcella left
the fireside to dress for dinner. As it chanced,
she put on for bracelets Lady Julia's emeralds.


In the middle of dinner a telegram arrived
from Paris : ' I shall return by to-night's mail.'
A faint flush passed over Marcella's face. Why
was he coming home sooner ? ' There is no
answer,' she said to the servant, and put the
telegram in her pocket.

After dinner, she ordered coffee to be
brought her in the library; and having rung
for the things to be taken away, set herself

to consider whether when Laurier came he
should find her at home.

It had shown yet no ruffle externally, butin
its depths her nature stirred with a relentless,
implacable anger, an anger of the stifling, suffocating
kind, that breeds an embittered sense
of a word utterly unjust and wrong. Of that
embittered sense grows a fierce deceitfulness,
the idiot temper of the Nihilist, powerless
of good, the passion of the child that dashes
to atoms its favourite toy, the madness of the
woman who testifies her past and devastates
her future in an hour.

In her terrible anger, with her life, her
fair life, her happy, noble life cowardly laid
waste  ' for nothing, for nothing at all '  now
that a crisis demanding decision had arrived, a
spirit of fierce rebellion broke loose in Mar-cells.


The hour of her temptation was come.

What Mrs. Cassilys had never dared to
name to herself, what Mrs. Curteis had laboured

for years to occasion, what Eintearn had behaved
sure, what Keppel had throughout
foreseen as possible, what Laurier had felt
after in dim presentiments, without being able
actually to apprehend it, and now fearing sped
on his rapid way home  the moment of that
strong, just, imperious soul's unjust humiliation
before its own proud eyes.

In that moment one and all had believed
she would fall, and fall as men say angels fell ;
and strove to protect her from it, or to bring
it upon her, as they wished her weal or woe.

One only, for whom this world's sun had
ceased to shine, whose own life was in her veins,
had thought otherwise.

Eleanor, Marcella's nature is full of peril
for her,' her father had said as his end drew near,
 but I have taught her the truth, and do you let
her rest on it, and she will master her peril.'

Who of these was right ?

How what now came commenced Marcella
knew not. Each man's temptations lie in the

essence of his being. But within a quarter of
an hour, whilst, herself at the agony point of
unhappiness, she rested in the corner of the
ottoman, with her heart beating angrily, indefinitely
there stole upon her, as of themselves,
thoughts uncalled, portentous, horrible.

And as they came everything about her
changed, and the great inverse of life broke
into view with terrific significance. In its
fantastic presence all she held of weight sank
to the light importance of a myth.

She saw a struggle for life, a struggle for Hfe
and nothing more ; a wriggling and writhing
and pushing, and squeezing, and crushing, and
sneaking, and snatching, elemental to life, as
gravity to matter, involuntary, inevitable, un-necessitated,
necessary. It wore a mjTiad
forms, it had a thousand myriad subterfuges, it
formed a myriad million combinations, but
it was all ; and all else was nothing, there
was no other thing in life. Sense was its
sentry, observation its watch, knowledge its

weapon, truth its vantage ground, lying its
ambush, energy its drill, advance its new
trick, pleasure its sense of success, generosity
its cunning, hideousness its armour, beauty
its lure, everything its contrivance to struggle
with advantage ;  right and wrong only rules
of the game the weak wished the others to
observe, that they might themselves struggle
on equal terms.

To live much was only to be strong, and
strike hard ; and the strong and the daring left
the skulkers on the skirts of life, and themselves
dashed into the fray, and joined in the excitement
where the melee was wildest, whirled in
the storm of men, rode on the crowns of the
surges, had then souls shaken with the great
emotions, made themselves drunk with the
maddening exhilaration, and threw themselves
down in the delirious falls  till their strength
to struggle failed.

To do so was daring and brave and grand,
and it gave what there was to be had.

And the other kind of life was but holdings

from what the strong and spirited dashed
in to taste.

It was just as Keppel had said.

What had she had for having on catchwords
? and was she not young and strong, and
fair, and quick to feel ?

Men believed she had cast aside all conventionalities.
They well enough knew what
conventionalities were worth, those fine conventionalities
printed in books ! Books whose real
purpose was only that of everything else men
have invented, missiles for them to fling at each
other's heads.

Men believed she had cast aside all conventionalities.
They did her the compliment to
think her eyes too clear to be hoodwinked with
shadows.

Men believed she had cast aside all conventionalities.
 Why should she not.? Conventionalities
were for the timid and weak, the poor
wretches with moral indigestions whom the truth
nauseated. She could show, if she chose, that
she was not so made.

She no longer sat still, but had risen and
moved restlessly about the large room. Now
with flashing eyes and quivering lips, she
walked its length with quick and fevered step ;
now her way lagged pensively, and her head
bent as if it bore woe. Here she leaned ten
minutes on the back of a chair, and looked
down on the floor, while her mind mapped
the fields its daring could traverse. There by
the mantel-piece, with her foot on the fender,
she reposed her handsome head on her hand,
whilst thoughts passed through it that made
her sinews and limbs tremble. Here by the
bookshelves, covering her face with her hand,
she unread her lesson of love. The love of
her husband was nowhere. The love of her
mother grew dim in her clouded soul. The
love of her own honour, blasphemed, hung its
humbled head. Now she stood motionless in
an attitude of cynic defiance in the middle of the
room, with white roses in her hand, Keppel's
roses, which she had been kissing to show



herself she dared the act. Now she threw herself
on the hearth rug like a child, crouched over
her own sorrow. Now she sat at the table with
her arms folded upon it, and her forehead
buried in their whiteness. Now she stood
erect, defiant, undaunted, a noble soul at bay,
with the brink of the pit behind it.

And the while memories rose about her and
shone in a lurid light that gave them a semblance
of prognostications of the end.

She remembered how Keppel had once
said, ' Chance chooses and we submit.' And
it seemed that it was so.

She remembered the library at Wyvenhome,
and an autumn morning, and words that found
an echo in fatality, of a flirt's miserable marriage
made on the spur of a foolish moment.

To her memory came the character of
questionable worth given her at Folkestone,
and (ruinous thought) it seemed the fast world
had known her better than she knew herself.

She recollected, 'Les grimaces ne sout

VOL. III. s

point necessaries dans notre siecle,' and racked
her brain in vain to remember the time or
place when she had heard that.

Bnt one word had more power to shake her
than any other, that last of Keppel's, ' that the
woman who becomes a votary of " realities " at
thirty, With reason regrets she did not make
her conversion at five-and-twenty.'

As midnight approached lier power of any
kind of thought seemed to be ebbing.

With one knee on the seat of a chair she
leans against its back, on which her arm rests,
whilst the other hand, holding a fire-screen
(for she has been sitting lately by the fire),
hangs at her side.

The end is very near, not that she knows
it. Such phantoms of sin, such storms of
suggestion, such whirlwinds of devastation
have swept over her soul, that she knows
nothing but her maddening, rankling wrong.

Her expression has grown terrible, terrible
in its awful pain, terrible in its awful recklessness,

only the light of her clear eyes retains
beneath a mist of hot sparse tears the last of
her innocence.

And on the table behind her is a letter.

Dear Mr. Keppel, 
My conversion is effected, and I accept the
realities.

I am coming to you ; and you shall make
me what I am sure you wish me to be.
Shall I come to-night ?

Yours, as long as chance chooses,

Marcella Latter.'

It remains but to direct and despatch it.

But she is not thinking of that. Other
thoughts have intruded themselves on her
purpose, and now she is pondering,

Wills Du simmer writer schweifen 1
Sigh, cas Gate liege so salerne
nur cas GlUck ergreifen ;
Deny cas GlUck list simmer da.' >

Her father taught her that, and her eyes
have fallen on the emeralds on her wrist. Ands
2

now she lifts the other hand, and moves her
arm, making the jewels throw out the beauties
of their fires.

How beautiful they are ! How exceedingly
beautiful. Even in this misery their beauty
here !

Lady Julia's emeralds. Ah, poor Lady
Julia ! How beautiful these pencils of light !

Of itself her thought went back to the
evening when the jewels were given her, to
how she had knelt at the knees of the stern
old woman who loved her, and put off
her jewels into her lap, and held out her
hands and bent her head to be decked in
emeralds.

Proud, happy maiden she was then.

The old nobleman's image rose before her
recollection, and she thought of the day when
they first met, the darkened drawing-room at
Wyvenhome, the dreadfulness of that morning,
and the strange, tall woman with shaking
limbs and trembling hips, come from the sight

of her dead son, mad in his foolishness. And
the old woman's haughty, imperious nature
came into her mind, and that lone heart's
great, uncared-for power of love hidden
beneath its external ice, and the desert gloom
of a waning life with only tombs to love,
wise, alas, too late !

And all because she would not have
patience.

For this, and for nothing else, she had
stayed those three-quarters of an hour beside
her shattered dead : for this had stood by his
pine-shadowed grave, and wept : for this had
bent her pride when bending could do good
no more.

And all because she would not have
patience.

And I ? ' thought Marcella.

Pensively she toyed with the jewels on her
wrists. So passed nearly three-quarters of an
hour.

Yes,' she reflected, ' this is nothing but

want of patience, want of strength to endure.
I have been hurt beyond my courage to bear,
and have become delirious. That is contemptible.
I have been going, because I have
lost much, to throw away what was left. That
is not hedonism. My life is wrecked  what a
wretch Guy has been to me  but, I can still
see emeralds, and the world flows over with
pleasures, and they will not cease because one
man is unjust. Only, the shame of what he has
done to me ! No, one must never look back
upon pain. I have a life to reconstruct after
a shipwreck, and I will reconstruct it. But,
me ! what a life ! '

She pushed aside the chair, and going back
to the table took up her letter.

Burning blushes flamed up on her cheeks,
and her heart broke into those violent palpitations
of which the heavy thumping pulsation
mounts into the neck like billows. To read
what she had written became difficult, the
words on the paper dazed her eyes.

What vile shamelessness !

And site was not mad when she wrote it !
And Guy's name that he gave her at the end !

She stood quivering with shame.

Then she snatched up the letter to tear it
into fragments. But a second thought led her
instead to fold it, and with tremulous fingers to
enclose it in an undirected envelope, seal it, and
lock it in her desk.

A shawl, left there by accident, lay on the
sofa, and as she passed she took it up, and now
rapidly wrapping it about her shoulders, and
drawing it for a hood over her head, opened
the window and stepped out on the low
balcony which, a few feet from the ground,
overlooked the garden.

Though more chilly than several that had
preceded it the night was mild, for the time
of the year extraordinarily so. The moon,
but some hours past her full, approached the
meridian, and Jupiter near her. On the earth
lay a low, pearly-grey mist that in the light

took hues of the rarest delicacy. Nearer the
leafless trees stood bleak and black against the
moonlit sky, but at a short distance they grew
faint and ghostlike in the mist, in which but a
little farther still their forms were altogether
lost.

As Marcella stood leaning against the
balustrade the still silence of moonlit haze
seemed to pass into her soul, and to give her
something of its calm, and something too of
its mist-hung loneliness.

How dim a life mine will be,' she mused,
separated from my husband, a young wife
not yet five and twenty. It is bitterly cruel.
It would have been happier for me never to
have married. Yet, I have been happy, and
have loved passionately. Only the cost !

Als ie diu liege leide an dem ende gene git." '
She heaved a long sigh.  ' The mist is very
beautiful. Things are beautiful. If Guy has
any feeling at all, he might without shame
spend some keen regrets on what he has done

for me. And I know tie loved me once ! I
wonder where he is. Still crossing the north
of France. Oh, husband ! '

But the next morning at daybreak it was
somehow reported among the servants that
their mistress had gone away.

Very early, before she rose, Mrs. Curteis was
surprised by the information that a messenger
waited to see her.

It was one of Laurier's servants. On
leaving the house Mrs. Curteis had by a timely
bribe arranged to be promptly informed incase
of Mrs. Laurier's disappearance, and now
learned that Marcella had, late over-night,
given orders respecting Laurier's return, and
herself gone away with her maid before any
of the other servants were up. She had left
a letter for Laurier.

Mrs. Curteis hastily dressed and went to
Kensington. On the library table lay a note
directed to Laurier in Marcella's hand. Mrs.

Curteis turned it about and looked at it in many
different ways. The envelope was not sealed.
Some people break envelopes they should not,
but Mrs. Curteis knew better. She asked for
hot water to wash her hands, damped the
envelope cautiously, and in a few minutes was
in possession of its contents.

Dear Guy, 
Lest I should never say you farewell, I
write it now before I go, whilst I can still say
fare well " to you. Good-bye, dear love.

If you have doubted that I have loved
you, look around you and think.

Yours  till now 

Marcella Laurier.'

Mrs. Curteis restored the letter to its
envelope and again fastened it down, and
replaced it on the library table. After that
she returned to her hotel.

At breakfast she said to Florelle,
Your cousin has left her husband.'

Florelle looked up puzzled.

'You know what has happened, Flo, do
you not ? '

No ? '  interrogatively.

Mr. Laurier has discovered Marcella
guilty of misconducting herself.'

Mamma ! ' Florelle paled.

It is nothing new. Only now it has
been found out. In the end these things
always are found out. Let it be a warning
to you, Flo.'

Yes, mamma,' said Florelle, and again she
thought, ' Poor cousin Marcella. I knew she
was in great trouble. Perhaps if someone had
helped her, or spoken kindly to her, she would
not have done anything wrong. Mr. Laurier
is so harsh. How dreadful it all seems.
Marcella so wicked and wretched, and she
used to be so happy ! '

Mrs. Curteis eat her breakfast with contentment.
She was of the number of those
who take their successes quietly.

CHAPTEE XV.

In the grey light of that morning, no less
beautiful than the preceding night, before the
sun was risen, Marcella, slowly pacing the
arrival platform at Victoria, awaited the
coming of the continental train.

The station was very empty. One or two
carriages stood in the roadway (the servants
that attended them beside them talking) and a
hansom she herself had chartered. A handful
of English and foreigners come to meet
friends strolled up and down the long platform.
One or two porters stood by the customs shed,
and her own lady's-maid.

And then, almost before the few stragglers
have realised it is coming, a train rolls in,
there is a rush of porters to the carriage steps,

the doors are open, and the travellers, looking
pale and weary in the morning air, are alighting
and unloading their numerous parcels.
Already one of the carriages has driven off
with its occupant, and now a tall, handsome
man steps from the train with a light valise in
his hand, and a black bag. It is Laurier.

A flush mounts Marcella's cheek. An
instant's hesitation, and she walks to meet him.
He has seen her, and lifts his hat with a smile.
Then his hand takes hers in a firm grasp.

My daring ! '

But her hand makes no response to his
pressure.

I have a hansom, Guy  here,'  he
crossed with her to it, and was about to name
his house, when she went on, 'Ask the cabman
to drive to the Grosvenor Hotel, will you
please ? '

The Grosvenor Hotel ? '

Yes, please. There is a reason.'

Nothing amiss, Marcella ? '

'You and I have to speak of something that
will be best said before we go home.'

As the cab drove off he asked, ' What is
this, Marcella ? '

The hotel is near. We will talk there

Instinctively Laurier had thought of what
he had overheard in the Louvre, and was
thankful he had come home. He could see
now that Marcella was pale and ill at ease,
and regarded her with undisguised anxiety.

But the hotel was reached. In a small
private sitting-room was a bright fire and a
breakfast ready. Insisting he must be hungry,
Marcella gently, and almost with an air of
soliciting a favour, begged he would partake
of what was prepared, saying she would speak
of what she had to say whilst he did so ;
and then, having herself poi-ed out his
coffee, sat down on the opposite side of the
table.

She hesitated a moment, and then began,

Since you left, I fear, I do really fear,

there has come a great trouble between you
and me, Guy.'

What ! ' he exclaimed quickly, at the same
time looking up.

You shall hear all. You believe, do you
not, Guy, that I speak the truth : or, at least,
you used to think so, and I do speak the
truth.'

He regarded her with surprise, but of
what kind it was not easy to judge, and she
went on less confidently,

I am going to tell you all. First, though
I am almost convinced you already know this,
that on Monday evening, the night you left
town, Theoo Curteis came to my room whilst I
was dressing, demanding of me where Charley
was who had left her, and with whom she
accused me of  misconducting myself *

Laurier pushed his plate from him, and
turning half-way round on his chair, stared at
her with amazement. She had hung her head,
to hide her face crimson with blushes.

Theoo left me,' she went on, * in great
anger, saying she was about to speak to you.
Afterwards I learned  first from my aunt, to
whose story I attached little weight  afterwards
from Theoo herself, whose truthfulness it
was beyond my power to doubt  and on
Thursday, at the Farquhar's, from Mr. Keppel
(who assured me he had it from yourself) that
Theoo saw you; and that you '  she turned her
face to him, but spoke with embarrassment 
gave her to understand you were cognisant
of my misconduct, regarded it as a matter of
indifference, and advised her to consider it in
the same light.'

She made a short pause, and, with all the
pride of her temperament, concluded, ' Now,
Guy, if that was so, you and I part.'

He regarded her fixedly for nearly a
minute, and then said, ' Tell me more of this,'
and began asking her questions in his formal
forensic way. His face was impassible, and,
anxious in vain to read in it some forecast

of the truth, Marcella felt her blood beginning
to run cold. In the middle of his cross-examination
she rose, and stood by the fire, and
then, as if becoming weary, again sat down in
one of the low arm-chairs by the hearth. He
followed her movement with his eyes, as though
it meant something to him, but his manner remained
unaltered. At length he said, ' Thank
you.'

Several minutes elapsed before he spoke
again, ' And you  believed or disbelieved this
story ? '

At first I entirely disbelieved it. But
when Mr. Keppel, who (I took the trouble to
ascertain it) had had no communication with
either Theoo or my aunt, told me an independent
story, in every respect identical with
Theoo's, averring he had it from yourself, I
certainly did believe it. I will conceal nothing
from you. When I received your telegram last
night I resolved to leave your house before your
return. But longer consideration persuaded

VOL. III. T

me not to act precipitately, and I determined
to take no step till I had spoken face to face
with you. But I believe what I have heard
cannot be entirely without foundation.'

Her cold tone accorded with her words.

And if it be as you believe ? '

I have told you, I shall leave you. We
part here, and do not meet agahi.'

'That is just,' he replied evenly, 'and the
due of your self-respect.'

After a short silence he asked, ' To whom
have you spoken of this ? '

To no one except now to you.'

He rose and came near where she sat.

And now, Marcella,' he said, ' is my word
alone enough to satisfy you, or do you, before
you come home with me, insist on proof.? In
the latter case  a course in which I think you
will be fully justified  I have only to request
that you will in the interim provide yourself
with everything you wish, at my expense, and
send to my house what commands you please:

I will take care that they shall meet with immediate
execution.'

She thought some half minute, and then
rising, said,

You are my husband. I will be satisfied
with your word.'

Thank you.  This story is a falsehood.  I
did not see Mrs. Charles Curteis on Monday.'

She put out her delicate hands for him to
take, and said simply, ' I am glad,' and again,
after a minute, looking into his eyes, ' Guy, I
am so glad ! '

He kissed her hands and said, ' Your conduct
has been past praise, wife.'

Marcella heaved a sigh, and disengaging
one of her hands drew an undirected envelope
from her pocket, and gave it him, saying,

'Before you say that, read this.'

She turned quickly from him and again sat
down, hanging her head.

What is this, dear ? ' he asked, holding the
unopened letter in his hand.

T 2

Last night, I am ashamed to say, I sank to
writing that. Head it, Guy.'

He regarded her a few seconds, and then
threw the letter unopened into the fire.

Oh, Guy ! ' she exclaimed, rising quickly
from her seat. She came to him, and laying
her head on his shoulder, and her lips against
his neck, put her arms about him, and said, 'I
would be proud to die for you. My noble
husband. Oh, Guy, forgive me that I ever
for a moment doubted of you.'

Mrs. Charles Curteis is waiting in the
drawing-room to speak to you, sir.'

Such were the first words that greeted
Laurier when Marcella and he reached home.
He bade Marcella wait in the library and
went upstairs. Theoo stood on the hearth-rug.


'How do you do, Mrs. Curteis ? ' said
Laurier, ' I am glad to have at last the pleasure
of making your acquaintance. When I have

heard what you wish to say, I hope you will
allow me a few minutes' conversation on a
subject which, I believe, affects us both ? '

Excuse me,' began Theoo, ' but I '

Do not know me. I am Mr. Laurier.'

Theoo took a step backwards.

Mr. Laurier ! But  the other Mr. Laurier
the barrister  the Mr. Laurier who married
Miss Cassilys ? It was he whom '

I am Mr. Laurier the barrister who married
Miss Cassilys.'

'But, Mr. Laurier, I saw, on Monday,
another Mr. Laurier, a middle-aged man, not
so tall as you '

For the first time a suspicion flashed upon
Laurier, He set it aside as impossible, but he
took a photograph album from a side table, and
opening it before Theoo, said,

See if you can find his portrait.'

That is he,' replied Theoo before she had
turned three leaves.

Laurier said one word, ' Keppel ! '

Theoo stared at him. Theoore was that in his
voice which excused it.

This man,' he said now with a strange
bitterness, ' has been the foremost of my friends.'
His tone changed and he continued, ' Tell me
what he said to you.'

Marcella waited alone in the library some
half-hour. Then Laurier joined her.

It is all explained,' he said ; ' it is your aunt
and Keppel. Keppel allowed Theoo, who did
not know either, to suppose he was I, and told
her what you know.'

A look passed over Marcella's face of which
her husband never knew the whole significance.

Mrs. Curteis will tell you all,' he said,
Charley has returned home. And I think, unless
I am no judge of faces, his wife intends to
ask your pardon with no small humility.'

I have no wish to see her,' replied Marcella
coldly, ' I showed her unbounded forbearance,
and she used language to me women cannot
forgive, and now '

You will show her that Marcella Laurier
has the generosity to forgive what other women
cannot,' replied her husband.

Marcella bowed her head in obedience and
left the room.

Ten minutes later the two young wives
came into the library arm in arm.

You must congratulate Theoo, Guy,' said
Marcella. ' That scamp Ned Ciirteis has died
abroad, and Charley is heir to Wyvenhome.'

 Charley would have come with me here,'
said Theoo, ' but he had to go and break the
news to his mother. His father dared not. I
do not wonder. She is a hateful woman.'

It was quite true. Whilst Charley went
with the news to his mother, Mr. Curteis went
to his club.

Mr. Laurier begs to present his compliments
to Mr. Keppel, and, whilst thanking him
for his very many, great, and unmerited kindnesses,
to inform him that on his return to

town this morning lie found Mrs. Charles
Cartels waiting to apologise for her conduct on
Monday last.'

Keppel put down the note, pressed his thin
lips closer together, and leaning back in his
chair remained long in thought.

Yes, I have been deceived,' he soliloquised
at length, 'and I begin to think deceived in
every respect. And now :  Laurier ? There
nothing is possible. I have lost Laurier, the
best fellow of them all, for a foolish affair with
a woman. I must be getting old. This is the
second affair in which my luck has failed me.
I liked that man. I'd have had him on the
bench before 1 had done. And all for a
woman ! If he would have taken my advice
and have kept out of her way ! I never knew
a man I liked better. I can get his interests
espoused elsewhere. It will be the same to
him, but  not to me.  Mrs. Laurier ? I thought
things were going the wrong way when she
would not see me yesterday. Perhaps if I had

had more patience  but, I am getting old, that
is the truth. But I suspect these odd stories
about her are les. I could stop those, by the
way. I'm sure Laurier will wish it. Tut ; I
shall miss that man.'

He went to his secretary and wrote to Lady
Julia.

You will hear with regret that some ugly,
and most untrue scandals are being circulated
against your friend Mrs. Laurier. I shall use
my influence in certain houses that Mrs. Laurier
may be treated in a manner instantly to discountenance
such reports, and I would urge
you personally to show your consideration for
her by writing to say you will come and spend
a fortnight in her house. Of your welcome be
sure.'

'Why did not Laurier tell me he cared
about the woman ? ' he said to himself as he
folded the note : ' I'd have stopped the lying
about her long ago. How was anyone to suppose
he cared about her conduct ? There, I

have done what I can for her. I'm sure I don't
grudge her him, but she certainly is a deucedly
fine woman. And now for the culprit. Someone
shall smart.'

He unlocked and opened a drawer in the
secretary. ' I'm not going to have a good story
against myself made out of this little incident,'
he said, and taking some letters from the
opened drawer, selected three.

A strange look occupied his face  akin to
that a man might wear whilst putting to death.
He thought of days when he had pressed those
same letters to his lips.

He put the three letters in an envelope and
took up a pen to direct it  laid it down again
hesitated  then took the pen and directed
the envelope to Mr. Curteis at his club.

He had chanced to see him in the street
going thither.

Then he dashed off a third letter, five lines
to Mrs. Curteis, and gave all to the servant to
despatch

A darkened bedroom in an hotel ; a miserable
woman, in the arm-chair by the bed-side,
angry for the death of lier first-born, alone, for
her husband has not come near her, and
her children she has driven away, Charley
shrugging his shoulders at the impossible, and
Florelle terrified and hysterical ; some untasted
food on the table near her ; and in her heart
rebellion against the unalterable harder than
stone.

Someone knocks at the door, and she says
in a low voice, ' Come in,' and Florelle, with
eyes disfigured by tears, enters timidly.

A note for you, mamma.'

Mrs. Curteis takes it without a word.

Are you a little better now, mamma dear?'
asks the girl diffidently.

Go away, Flo,' is the only reply, and the
girl leaves, whilst her mother opens the letter.
Madam, 

I have received from Mr. Laurier a note
for which I believe I am indebted to your

ingenuity. In recognition of your services I
have sent three of your letters to myself to your
husband.'

The letter fell from Mrs. Curteis's hand and
she rose and began, drawing short hurried
breaths, to go up and down the room. Soon
she came back to her chair, and tearing up the
note threw the pieces into the fire.

And then, already, whilst she was still
stunned, the door opened, and Mr. Curteis, with
his hat and overcoat on, came into the room.

What are these, Edith ? ' he asked nervously,
holding out three letters, which he
quickly drew back to prevent her from snatching
them out of his hand.

Give them me,' she replied, ' how can I tell
what they are, when I have not seen them.? '

'They are letters from yourself to Mr.
Keppel.'

They are not. They are forgeries.'

Mr. Curteis made a movement of unnerved
impatience and disbelief, and thrust the letters

into his pocket. He was evidently entirely at
a loss for anything to say or do.

You will give me those letters said Mrs.
Curteis rising and coming to him.

No  I shall not  no  really  I shall not
give them you,' he answered nervously, retreating
before her as she approached him.

Mrs. Curteis stopped, and said defiantly,

If you do not I will tell your daughter of
all that.'

But her audacity failed of success. Nothing
can overreach the ingenuity of a lazy man
under the apprehension he is about to be put
to a new inconvenience. For a few seconds
Mr. Curteis stared at her, then he suddenly
turned, and made his escape from the room.
Within five minutes he was driving away with
Florelle in a cab.

Where are we going, papa? ' asked Flo.

She could see her father was angry, and was
secretly in a terrible fright.

To the Lauriers.'

FAIR AND FREE.

Flo thought, ' Does papa know that Mar-cells
has run away from Mr. Laurier ? ' but she
dared not to speak.

When they arrived Mr. Curteis asked for
Mr. Laurier. They were shown into the ,
and Mr. Curteis left Florelle there
alone whilst he spoke with Laurier.

I have had a very serious misunderstanding
with my wife, Mr. Laurier,' he said, ' may I fora
few days leave my daughter with Mrs.
Laurier until I have made certain arrangements
? '

 By all means, Mr. Curteis,' replied Laurier ;
Mrs. Laurier is out now, but will return very
soon, and I am sure Miss Curteis's presence
here Avill give her the greatest pleasure.'

Mr. Curteis hesitated a little, and then
said,

'My girl knows nothing of this difference
between Mrs. Curteis and myself, and  I feel
the greatest delicacy about speaking to her on
the subject  in fact  perhaps you '

We will arrange all that, Mr. Curteis,' said
Laurier, easily guessing his meaning.

Ah, if you would speak to her  I would
wait here,' said Mr. Curteis with an air of
immense relief.

Laurier went to the drawing-room. As he
approached her, Florelle came forward to meet
him, regarding him with a strange mixture of
eagerness and fear.

Oh, Mr. Laurier,' she said as soon as she
had shaken hands with him, ' I have so wanted
to get an opportunity to speak with you alone.
I have something to say ; you will not be
angry ? '

What is it you wish to say to me .? ' he
asked.

Florelle put her pretty hands together on
her breast, and bent her head a little on one
side.

Oh, Mr. Laurier,' she supplicated in
broken phrases, ' please, please  I don't know
how to say it  but don't be hard with Mar-cells.

I know it is very, very, very wicked
of her  and very dreadful  but, please, Mr.
Laurier, could you forgive lier a little bit ? '

She dared to look at him, and catching
a glimpse of his face, pale and with teeth
tightly locked, averted her head with a look
of alarm. But still she pleaded on, wringing
her white hands, and with her beautiful face
full of the great trouble of a child.

I know, of course, you are angry  but do
have pity. Marcella has had no friends, only
poor me, and I am so silly. I had so much
to say, if I could see you, and now it is all
gone. I am so dreadfully afraid of you.'

Nay, do not be afraid to say what you
wish,' he urged kindly.

Oh, but tell me you will forgive her. Do
think how hard it is to have no friends. No
one cares a bit for me, and I know. It is not all
Marcella s fault. On Thursday she was breaking
her heart, and there was no one to help
her. I could not. I am so foolish. I said

what liiamma told me would be best to say,
but I am sure mamma was mistaken. Mamma
is so harsh. She would not help Marcella a
bit. You don't know how hard people make
the world for us. But do, do have pity on
Marcella ! '
Her blue eyes filled with tears.

Laurier regarded her. ' You are very much
afraid of me. Miss Curteis ? ' he asked with a
little smile.

Oh, yes, Mr. Laurier, but '

But still you have found courage to ask
me to forgive my wife.'

I love Marcella.'

Laurier bit his hp, and turned away
his face. He had called this girl a little
fool I

Miss Curteis,' he said, ' please rest assured
that there is no single word of truth in the
stories you have heard concerning Mrs. Laurier.
I am sure you are glad to hear it. You shall
soon see her yourself, and I shall not forget

VOL. III. u

to tell her how valuable a friend she has in
Florelle Curteis.'

Flo put her hand to her Ups. A compliment
from Mr. Laurier !

A welcome invitation followed it, to stay a
month at Kensington.

Mr. Curteis did not go back to his wife, but
to his club.

Deserted by everyone, the one woman
whose grief was irremediable wrestled alone
in the gloom with her wrongs.

Bobbed without reason of the eldest son
she loved  punished for what she had not
done  defiant still of the injustices of the
world.

She ought,' she reminded herself, ' to have
anticipated no less than ruin, for who did ever
have aught to do with the wretched Marcella
Cassilys that did not dearly pay for it?
Wherever the miserable young woman went,
was it not patent that she drew down disaster
on every soul that approached her ?  on her

father, who had disgraced himself by robbing his
relations to put wealth in her fell hands ;  on
her unfortunate* mother, compelled for causes
inexplicable to leave the country ;  on that
unhappy Mr. Eintearn ;  on the helpless Flo,
whom her influence had rendered a perfect
idiot;  on Charley, whose infatuation for her
had ended in something worse ;  on Charley's
poor shiftless starving wife ;  on the misguided
man whom they deluded into marrying her ; 
and now on herself, Mrs. Curteis, because she
would not leave Florelle in her house to be led
straight into sin. The miserable woman ! She
seemed to have been created only to be a
maleficent influence to spread misery wherever
she went. It should at least be a warning to
Mrs. Curteis for the future to have nothing todo
with her.'

'A letter from Lady JuHa, Guy. She
would like to come and stay with us for a
fortnight.'

u 2

It was late in the evening of the following
day. Florelle was playing ; Laurier
and Marcella seated, rather close together for
people married more than a year, on the
ottoman before the drawing-room fire.

I am extremely glad of this, Marcella,'
answered Laurier, taking the note to read ; ' it
comes just at the right time, for I have my
anxieties about some of these scandals.'

There is no reason for that, Guy. I am
sure of it, from my reception yesterday at the
Farquharss. I met Mrs. Putrid too in the
park to-day  you know how rigorous a house
hers is  and she spoke to me so kindly about
things that I could have cried.  Listen, how
that child is enjoying herself at the piano!
By the way, I have forgotten to tell you I
had a note from Theoo. Her parents have
telegraphed to her their congratulations, and
invited her and Charley to bring the baby to
see them ! '

Ah ! ' returned Laurier, ' one might have
been sure of that.'

Florelle had stopped playing, and now
came and stood behind them.

Tired of playing, Flo ? ' asked Marcella.

Oh no, Marcella,' answered Florelle ; ' I
only came, I don't know why, to look at the
fire.' She laid her hand on her cousin's
shoulder, and looked down first at her and
then at Laurier. ' I have been so happy here
all day, cousin,' she continued in her simple
way : ' Troubles don't seem to come here, and
you are so good and kind, and,'-  she laid, a
little timidly, her other hand on Laurier 's
shoulder  ' you too.'

Do you know where you are going when
you leave us, Miss Curteis?' asked Laurier,
looking up.

No  where ? '

To travel with Mrs. Cassilys in America.'

Oh, I shall like that ! ' exclaimed Florelle,

with all a girl's zest for adventure, ' only,  not
better than being with you.'

Then she returned to the piano and recommenced
to play.

We have saved Flo, Guy,' said Marcella
pensively.

I think we have. Ah ! I underrated that
girl.'

I know that. Does it ever occur to you,*
she paused, and turned the calm, clear grey
light of her noble eyes on his,  ' that you
overrate her cousin ? '

'What, you?'

Me, Guy.'

It was not at once that he answered her.

Never say that, dearest,' he said seriously ;
I cannot tell you what I think of you ; I
should not like to try. There are things that
words profane.'

He took up her hand, and with a kind of
veneration faintly touched with his lips the tips
of her finders.

And the two sat silent, whilst Florelle
played on.

Had the Venus of Milo had her vengeance,
or had the man discomfited her ?

THE END

LONDON : PRINTED BY

BPOTTISWOOUE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

COMPLETE 'works OF

W. M. THACKERAY.

In 24 Volumes, crown 8vo. price 3. d. each.

Sets in cloth, \. i\s. ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, 8.

Containing nearly all the small Woodcut Illustrations of the former Editions

And many New Illustrations by Eminent Artists.

THIS EDITION CONTAINS ALTOGETHER 1,626 ILLUSTRATIONS

The Author.
Luke Files, A.R.A.
Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth
Thompson).
George du Married.
Richard Ioyle.
Fred. Walker, A.R.A.
George Cruikshank.

John Leech.
Frank Dickson.
Linlev Tambourine.
F. Barnard.

E. J. Wheeler.

F. A. Fraser.
Charles Keene.
R. B. Wallace.

&c. &c. &c.

J. P. Atkinson.
VV. J. Webb.
T. R. Macquoid.
M. Fitzgerald.
W. Ralston.
John Collier.

H. Furnish.

G. G. Kilburnk.

VANITY FAIR. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

PENDENNIS. Illustrated by tile Author. 2 vols.

THE Newcome. Illustrated by Richard Doyle. 2 vols.

ESMOND. Illustrated by George du Married.

THE VIRGINIANS. Illustrated by the Author. 2 vols.

THE ADVENTURES OF PHILIP. Illustrated by the Author,

Frederick Walker, and R. B. Wallace. 2 vols.

THE GREAT Hogarth DIAMOND; A LITTLE DINNER

AT Simmons's ; Cornwall TO CAIRO. Illustrated by the Author, J. P.
Atkinson, and W. J. Webb.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. Illustrated by the Author and Richard Doyle.
THE BOOK OF SNOBS; TRAVELS AND SKETCHES.

Illustrated by the Author.

BURLESQUES. Illustrated by the Author and George Cruikshank.
PARIS SKETCH BOOK, LITTLE TRAVELS, and ROADSIDE

SKETCHES. Illustrated by the Author, T. R. Macquoid, and J. P. Atkinson

THE Yellowish PAPERS; THE FITZBOODLE

PAPERS; COX'S DIARY: CHARACTER SKETCHES. Illustrated by the
Author and George Cruikshank.

THE IRISH SKETCH BOOK; CRITICAL REVIEWS. Illustrated

by the Author, George Cruikshank, John Leech, and M. Fitzgerald.

THE MEMOIRS OF BARRY LYNDON; THE FATAL BOOTS.

Illustrated by I. E. Millais, R.A George Cruikshank, and W. Ralston
CATHERINE: a Story; Menes WIVES; THE BEDFORD ROW
CONSPIRACY. Illustrated by the Author, Luke Files, A.R.A., and R. B.
Wallace.

BALLADS : THE ROSE AND THE RING. Illustrated by the Author,
Mrs. Butler (Miss Elizabeth Thompson), George du Married, John Collier,
H. Furnish, G. G. Kilburne. M. Fitzgerald, and J. P. Atkinson.

ROUNDABOUT PAPERS. To which is added THE SECOND
FUNERAL of NAPOLEON. Illustrated by the Author, Charles Keene, and
M. Fitzgerald.

THE FOUR GEORGES, and THE ENGLISH humorist
of THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. Illustrated by the Author, Frank
Dickson, Linley Tambourine, Frederick Walker, and F. Barnard

LOVEL THE WIDOWER ; THE WOLVES AND THE LAMB;

DENIS Ducal. To which is added an Essay on the Writings of W. M. Thackeray
by Leslie Stephen. Illustrated by the Author and Frederick Walker.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.

Price y. bd. each bound in cloth, or in Sets of Seven Volu/fies, handsomely
bound in half-morocco, price 2. los.

CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES

Vol. I.

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS

Vol. II.
NORTH AND SOUTH.

Vol.
SYLVIA'S

III.
LOVERS.

Vol. IV.
CRANFORD.

COMPANY MANNERS.

THE WELL OF PEN-morphia.

THE HEART OF JOHN MIDDLETON.

TRAITS AND STORIES OF THE

HUGUENOTS.
SIX WEEKS AT HEPPENHEIM.
THE squire's story,
LIBBIE marsh's THREE ERAS.

CURIOUS IF TRUE.

THE MOORLAND COTTAGE.

THE sexton's HERO.

DISAPPEARANCES.

RIGHT AT LAST.

THE MANCHESTER MARRIAGE.

LOIS, THE WITCH.

CROOKED BRANCH.

Vol. V.
MARY BARTON.

COUSIN Phillips.

MY FRENCH MASTER.

THE OLD nurse's STORY.

BESSYS TROUBLES AT HOME.
CHRISTMAS STORMS AND SUNSHINE.

THE GREY WOMAN.
MORTON HALL.

A DARK NIGHT S WORK.
ROUND THE SOFA.
MY LADY LUDLOW.
AN ACCURSED RACE.

Vol. VI.
RUTH

MR. HARRISON S CONFESSIONS.
HAND AND HEART.

Vol. VIL
LIZZIE LEIGH.

THE DOOM OF THE GRIFFITHS.
HALF A LIFETIME AGO.
THE POOR CLARE.
THE HALF-BROTHERS.

London: SMITH, ELDER, S: CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF THE

LIFE AND WORKS

OF

CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL),

AND HER SISTERS

EMILY AISTD ANNE Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).

In Seven Volumes, Large Crown 8vo. handsomely bound in cloth.

Price s. per Volmne.

The descriptions in ' Jane Eyre ' and the other Fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the Novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr. G.
M. Wiraperis, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them mori
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
the reading of the Stories.

I. JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.

Logwood. I MOOR HOUSE.

GATESHEAD HALL. FERNDEAN MANOR.

Cornfield HALL. I

2. SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.

yorke's HOUSE. J hollow's MILL.

Nunnery COMMON AND WOOD. I Cranfield CHURCH.

FIELDHEAD HALL. I

3.-VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.

THE PARK, BRUSSELS.

DOME OF ST. Paul's.

PENSION NAT DES DEMOISELLES,
BRUSSELS.

GARDEN IN THE RUE FOSSETTE.
GRANDE PLACE, BRUSSELS.

4-the PROFESSOR and POEMS. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by
her Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.

VIEW FROM Chatsworth HALL. I PROTESTANT CEMETERY.

HOUSE IN DAISY LANE. VIEW OF THE MOORS.

RUE ROYALE, BRUSSELS. (

5. WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anne
Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors, by Charlotte
Bronte. With Five Illustrations.

HAWORTH CHURCH AND PARSONAGE. I THE MOORS.

VALLEY OF GIMMERTON. HORTON LODGE.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. I

6-the TENANT OF WILDFELL HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations.


WILDFELL HALL. I ON THE MOORS.

GRASSDALE MANOR. WILDFELL HALL {sCCOnd view).

HARRINGBY HALL. I

7-life OF CHARLOTTE Bronze.' By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations.

PORTRAIT OF CHARLOTTE Bronze. HAWORTH PARSONAGE.

PORTRAIT OF THE REV, PATRICK THE Bronze WATERFALL.

Bronze. FACSIMILE OF A SKETCH BY PATRICK
Chatterton SCHOOL. BRANWELL Bronze.

ROE HEAD.

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Each Work complete in One Volume, price Six Shillings,

WITHIN THE Precincts. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of ' Chronicles of Carlingford,' &c. With 8 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 6s.

FOR Percival. By Margaret Veley. With

8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Carta. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author of ' Chronicles

of Carlingford,' &c, 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 6s.

OLD KENSIlSrGTOlSr. By Miss Thackeray. Crown

8vo. 6-.

THE VILLAGE OlST THE CLIFF. By Miss
Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A YOUNG

PRINCE. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

TO ESTHER, and other Sketches. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.

BLUE BEARD'S KEYS, and other Stories.

By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6-.

THE STORY OF ELIZABETH; TWO

HOURS; FROM AN ISLAND. By Miss Thackeray.
Crown 8vo. 6.

TOILERS AND Spinsters, and other

Essays. By Miss Thackeray. Crown 8vo. remiss

ANGEL ; FULHAM LAWN. By Miss

Thackeray. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Blandly REEFS. By Lady Verney, Author of

'Stone Edge,' &c. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Letting LISLE. By Lady Verney. With 3 illustrations.

Crown 8vo. 6s.

STONE EDGE. By Lady Verney. With 4 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo. 6s.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
