CHAPTER I.

I'AGB

IX THE DEAD OF NIGHT . 1

CHAPTER II.
FOUL PLAY ? 18

CHAPTER III.

HINTS OF EARLY HISTORY 30

CHAPTER IV.

SEEKING HELP 40

CHAPTER V.

vk PRINGLE UNANSWERED 58

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

HER SUDDEN RESOLVE . . . . . .71

CHAPTER VII.

LIGHT AFTER DARKNESS 86

CHAPTER VIII.

mr. Davenport's account of tete matter . .102

CHAPTER IX.
"which of us is mad?" 113

CHAPTER X.

THE ELDER PRINGLE SPEAKS . . . . .134

CHAPTER XI.

MRS. DAVENPORT WAS CALLED " . . . . 148

CHAPTER XII.
ANOTHER WITNESS .168

CHAPTER XIII.

BLAKE'S EVIDENCE 181

CHAPTER Xii.

PA.&B

ALFRED Carlton's WALK 200

CHAPTER XV.

"l shall 13E READY FOB MY DEATH WHEN THEY

ARE READY FOR IT ! " 214

CHAPTER XVI.

THE VERDICT . . . . . . .222

CHAPTER XVII.

JERRY o'bBIEK's PROPHECY 233

CHAPTER I.

IN THE DEAD OF NIGHT.

It was pitch dark, and long past midnight.
The last train from the City had
just steamed out of Heme Hill railway
station. The air was clear and crisp.
Under foot the ground was dry and
firm with February frost. All the shops
in the neighbourhood had long since
been shut. Few lights burned in the
fronts of private houses. The Dulwich
Eoad was deserted, and looked dreary
and forlorn under its tall, skeleton,
motionless, silent trees. There was nota
sound abroad save the gradually-dying

VOL. I. B

k>

rumble of the train, and the footfalls
and voices of the few people who had
alighted from it. Little by little these
sounds died away, and the stillness was as
great as in the pulseless heart of a calm
at sea.

Alfred Paulton had arrived by the
last train. He was twenty eight years
of age, of middle height, and fair complexion.
He lived in Half Moon Lane,
and after saying good-night to some
acquaintances who came out in the train
with him, turned under the railway viaduct
at Heme Hill, and walked in the
direction of his home.

He was in no hurry, for he knew
his father and mother and sisters had
gone to bed long ago. He had his
latch-key, and should let himself in. His
ulster covered him comfortably from neck
to heel. He had supped pleasantly with
a few friends at his club, the Robin

Hood, and earlier in the day finished, a
very agreeable transaction with his solicitor,
and now had in his pocket a handsome
bundle of notes.

As he walked he swung his stick, and
hummed in a whisper a few bars from
the favourite air of a comic opera which
he had been to hear that evening.

Suddenly he started. As he was directly
opposite the door of a house, standing
back a few yards from the road, the door
opened noisily, and he heard a woman's
voice in a tone of piteous entreaty exclaim :

"Oh, what shall I do  what shall
I do?"

Alfred Paulton drew up and listened.

For a while all was silent.

He looked over the paling, which was
just as high as his chin. In the doorway
of the house stood the figure of a
woman against the light of a lamp on
a table in the hall. The leafless boughs

b 2

of the intervening shrubs prevented his
getting an uninterrupted view, but he
could in a brief glance gather a good deal.
The figure was that of a woman neither
tall nor short, neither stout nor thin.
She was evidently not a servant. She
wore an ordinary indoor costume, and
had nothing on her head. Although she
had scarcely moved since the opening of
the door, he came to the conclusion she
-was of alert and active habit. He judged
her to be neither old nor young. Her
hair shone raven-black in the lamplight.
'The illumined cheek was finely modelled,
dark in hue  that of a brunette. She
leaned forward into the darkness, and
peered right and left, moving her head
but slightly as she did so. Something
glittered in the starlight at her throat
and at her girdle. Her hands were held
behind her to balance the forward inclination
of her body. On her fingers jewels

sparkled in the lamplight of the hall
behind her.

All this he saw at a glance. He was
perplexed, and did not know how to
act. It was scarcely fair in him to
stand there eaves-dropping, as it were.
If he moved now she would hear him,
and know he had seen her and had
stopped to listen. If he spoke he might
alarm her.

Up to the moment the door opened and
she appeared and called out, he believed
this house to be empty. It had been
vacant for a long time. Now he recollected
having heard that it was let
at last, and that the new tenant was expected
to arrive this day. The place was
called Crescent House. He had heard talk
about the new-comers at the breakfast-table
that morning ; but nothing seemed
known of them except that they came
from a distance and were well off.

The woman in the doorway now
straightened herself, raised both hands to
her forehead, and moaned out in a lower
and more despairing tone her former
words :

Oh, what shall I do what shall I do f "

He could hesitate no longer. It was
plain she was in a sore strait. He coughed,
advanced to the gate, and, putting his
hand on the latch, said :

I beg your pardon. Is there anything
wrong ? "

She started back a pace into the hall.
In doing so her full face met the lamplight
for a moment. It was a very
beautiful face, full of terror.

Do not be alarmed," he said softly ;
-' I was passing when you opened the
door, and I heard you speak. Is there
anything wrong ? Anything I can do for
you?"

She seemed reassured, and stepped once

more to the threshold, and said, in a quick,
low voice :

"I am a stranger here. I came to this
house only to-day. I am alone with my
husband in the house, and he has been
seized by sudden illness. I do not know
where to find a doctor, even if I could
leave the house, and I cannot go away from
my husband.' 7

In what way can I be of use ? Pray
command me."

He tried to open the gate, but failed.

She perceived his efforts to open the
gate, and once more withdrew a pace into
the hall, crying in alarm :

No, no ; you must not come in ! If
you wish to help me, go for the nearest
doctor. Go at once. Do not stand there.
In heaven's name, do not lose a moment !
Go, I implore you."

She clasped her hands, and held them
out towards him in entreaty.

"As you wish," he said. "I shall not
be many minutes.' '

He turned and ran back towards the
railway station. Dr. Santley, the family
physician of the Paultons, lived close by,
and Alfred Paulton resolved to summon
him, although he might not be exactly
the nearest medical man. Time would be
gained rather than lost by going for him,
as Santley would come at once without
waiting for explanations  that is, if he
were at home.

On his way he had little space to think,
the time being short and the pace quick.
He was more lucky than he had hoped,
for he almost ran over the man he sought
at the gate of his house.

Oh, doctor," he cried, almost breathless,
I am so glad to meet you up and dressed !
I want you, if you will be good enough
to come with me at once."

"Mr. Paulton, I'm sorry. What is the

matter ? I have just come back from
another unexpected patient."

It's no one at our place, thank goodness
! It's some one at Crescent House.
I don't even know the name."

By this time both men were walking
rapidly towards Half Moon Lane.

Dr. Santley was a tall, slender man, with
full black beard and moustaches. He had
a quiet, gentle, responsible manner, and
rarely smiled. As the two strode on
together, Alfred Paulton described the
scene in which he had just taken part.
When he had finished, his companion said :

Ah, I saw the vans at the door to-day ;
but surely they cannot have got a big
house like that straight in so short a time.
Here we are."

They had arrived at the spot where a few
minutes before the younger man had stood
and spoken to the strange woman in the
doorway. The door was now not open.

Paulton rattled noisily at the gate, and
then waited a while. There was no answer.
He looked at the windows of the house;
none was lighted up. Light shone in the
fan-sash over the door.

You cannot have mistaken the house in
the dark?" asked Dr. Santley, suppressing
a yawn.

Impossible ! It was the only house to
be let. It is Crescent House, and you
yourself saw the furniture going in to-day."

Again he rattled the gate, this time as
loudly as he could.

At length the door of the house was
opened slowly, and against the light of
the lamp the same figure as Paulton had
seen before was revealed. Again the woman
stood still on the threshold and leaned out
into the darkness. This time she at once
turned her face towards the gate.

Before either of the men had time to speak,
she said in a calm, low, penetrating voice :

Is the doctor there 2 "

"Yes," answered both in a breath.

I will open the gate in a moment."

With a firm, swift step she left the doorway
and trod the gravelled path leading
to the gate. She did not hesitate or fumble
at the latch. In a few seconds the gate
swung open.

"This is Dr. Santley ; he is our family
physician. He and I live close by. May
I offer you my card? I and my family
will, I am sure, feel delighted to be of
any service to you," said Paulton, raising
his hat.

Stay," she said. " Will you both come
in ? I am terrified. I do not know what
has happened. I hope you are not too late."

Her words were measured and her tone

calm. Although the trees overhead were

leafless, where she stood was dark, and

neither of the men could see her clearly.

Without further w T words she led the way

back to the house. The two men followed
in silence. When they entered the hall she
turned round in the full light of the lamp,
and, stretching out her right arm towards
the first door on the left, said :

"In that room. I shall wait for you.
There is no other light. Take this lamp."

Paulton now saw her fully. She was
dark, almost swarthy. There was no colour
in her cheek. Her forehead was small and
compact. Her eyebrows and hair jet,
glossy. Her eyes were dark, large, a little
sunken, brilliant, and full of suppressed
fire. The nose was slightly aquiline. The
only relief to the dark hue of the face and
the black of the eyebrows, hair, and eyes,
was afforded by the full, red, ripe lips.
And all the features, the forehead, the nose,
the chin, the mouth, the cheeks, were finely
modelled. The face was commanding, imperial,
triumphant. It was as set and firm
as marble. It was the face of an empress

born to lead her legions to victory  of a
woman in whom courage was a matter of
course, who regarded obedience to her wish
as a spontaneous offering. She had the
immortality of indestructible will in her
face, the weight of irresistible determination.


With the face ended the heroic aspect
of the woman.

At her throat blazed the diamonds of a
brooch large as the palm of her hand. On
her fingers glittered a dozen diamond rings.
The belt round her waist was fastened with
a diamond clasp. The diamonds at her
throat held an orange-coloured silk scarf.
The rest of her dress was dead black, close-fitting
to the figure, and full of folds below
the waist. The arms were bare half-way
from the elbow to the wrist. The figure,
the arms, the hands were subduing soft
and feminine. The arms and wrists were
round, the hands exquisitely delicate, with

fine taper fingers, the bust a miracle of rich
symmetry.

It was the head of Boadicea on the figure
of Rosamond.

Dr. Santley took up the lamp from the
hall table and entered the room she had
indicated. Paulton paused for a moment
in doubt as to whether he should go or
stay. The hall lay now in comparative
darkness; there was no light except what
came through the open door of the front
room.

Follow him."

It was her voice.

Paulton obeyed. As he got inside the
doorposts he turned round and looked
back into the hall. He could make out
nothing but the glitter of the diamonds
at her throat, in her girdle, on her fingers.
They were stars against the darkness of
her dress, as the stars abroad in heaven
against the sightless robe of night.

The room in which Dr. Santley and
Paulton found themselves was in the
greatest disorder. In one corner lay the
carpet rolled up, in another the hearth-rug,
fender, fire-irons, and coal-scuttle.
All along the right side stood a row of
chairs, one inverted on another. Pictures
rested on the floor with their faces against
the wall ; the gaselier sprawled close by
the window; the leaves of the dining-table
were set against the folding-doors
at the back. The drawers and pillars of
the sideboard were hard by, the top and
back of it stretched upward into the
gloom of a deep recess ; several boxes
and canvas packages littered the floor.
Two knights in plate-armour reclined one
at each corner of the chimney-piece ; easy-chairs
were wedged in among amorphous
bundles wrapped in Indian matting; rods
and poles protruded from under legs of
chairs, under bales heaped upon one another.

A small table, face down upon another,
held its slender legs up in air. Some
fire still smouldered in the grate ; the fire
must have been large not long ago, for
the room was still warm.

In the centre of the room stood the
dining-table, reduced to its smallest dimensions.
On this were spread the remains
of a simple supper. Close by the table
stood a couch, and on the couch appeared
the figure of a man.

The figure was sitting up in the arm
of the couch, the legs rested on the couch,
the head drooped forward ; the chin and
lower part of the face were buried in
the thick, long, grizzled beard that flowed
down over the chest.

Dr. Santley stepped up to the couch
on which the figure lay, and having
placed the lamp upon the table close at
hand, began his examination. It did not
take long. After a few minutes he turned

to Paulo, and, pointing to the figure,
shook his head.

"Well?" asked the young man below
his breath.

The doctor went up to him and whispered
in his ear :

Dead some time."

Paulton looked round apprehensively at
the door, and whispered back :

"How will she take it?"

The doctor shook his head.

Both men stood staring at one another.

Suddenly both started ; they beard a
footfall behind them. Some one had
entered the room.

VOL. I.

FOUL PLAY ?

The two men turned quickly round. The
light of the . lamp fell on the black dress
of the woman and sparkled on her
diamonds. Her arms hung down by her
side. Both hands were clenched. She
advanced with a steady, slow step, her
eyes firmly fixed on Dr. Santley's face.
She did not glance at Paulton. She did
not glance at the couch.

"You were ]long," she said, in a slow,
constrained voice, " and I came in to
know."

She rested the tips of the fingers of

one hand on the table and kept her eyes
fixed on the doctor.

"I think," said Santley, placing himself
between her and the couch, " that it
would be better if we went into some
other room."

We cannot ; this must serve. All the
other rooms are locked up, except my
bed room, and my husband has the keys."

Her voice did not falter.

Has Mr. , your husband, been long

ill ? "

M My husband's name is Louis Davenport.
He has been ill a long time  years.
He has been suffering from spasmodic
asthma. I can gather from your manner
that there is no hope."

Her voice was firm and clear. No feature
moved but the beautiful, flexible mouth, of
which the lips were as full of colour as
ever.

May I beg of you to be seated ? * Dr.

o 2

Santley left the position he had occupied
and handed her a chair. She sank on it
without speaking. She rested one of her
arms on the table. He went on : " Mrs.
Davenport, I am afraid the worst must be
faced."

The worst ! " she cried, rising and looking
wildly at him, her voice now coming
in a terrified whisper from between her
lips, which at the moment lost their colour.
The worst ! What do you mean by the
worst ? What do you know of the
worst ? "

Her face showed intense eagerness,
mingled with intense fear.

"I am very sorry to be obliged to give
you bad news."

And it is ? " with still greater eagerness
and fear.

That Mr. Davenport will not recover.' ,

"That he is dead ? " leaning forward on
the back of her chair towards him.

Unhappily, yes."

Of his old disease ? "

She still kept her eyes on Santley's
face.

Perhaps. Did he complain to-night ? "

"Yes; he said he was too ill to think
of lying down."

He used, no doubt, to inhale chloroform
when the spasms were bad ? "

Always."

Yes, I got the smell of chloroform.
"Well, one of these spasms may have been
too severe ; and now you know the worst,.
Mrs. Davenport."

She sat down on her chair and seemed
about to faint. There was wine on the
table. Santley poured some into a glass
and made her drink it. After a w T hile
she became composed, and the look of
eagerness and dread disappeared wholly
from her face, and the red returned to
her lips.

She was the first to speak. Her voice
had regained all its old, firm serenity.
Her face was calm and commanding.
She looked, once more as though neither
the onslaught of battle nor the wreck of
worlds could disturb her.

"You, sir," she said, once more addressing
Santley, "I have to thank for your
promptness in coming at this hour to one
whom you never even heard of before.
And "  turning to Paulton  " I have to
thank you most sincerely for your kindness
in summoning the doctor for me in
my extremity."

Each man protested he had in this matter
done no more than his duty, and both said
they sympathised with her in the awful
calamity which had fallen upon her.

She bowed her head in acknowledgment
of their kind-hearted speeches, and went
on :

"I am, I may say, alone in the world

and without a friend in London. I am
now, or shall be when you go, alone in this
house. I do not know what is to be done
in a case of this kind. For a long time
I have been aware my husband might die
at any moment. But now that this has
happened, I find myself as unprepared for
it as though the possibility of his death had
never before entered my mind. I would
therefore ask you to add to the favours you
have already conferred by telling me what I
ous;ht to do in the morning:. "

She spoke in the most measured and
deliberate way. It was plain she did not
want to excite compassion. Her manner
went so far as to imply that she would resent
expressions of condolence. She seemed to
wish the two men would regard her simply
as an inexperienced woman confronted by
an unexpected difficulty, and that they
would confine themselves to the business
aspect of the affair.

Santley and Paulton looked at one another
inquiringly.

"It will be impossible for you to stay
by yourself in this house to-night," said
Paulton, who was completely subjugated by
her regal beauty, her sudden misfortune,
and her forlorn plight.

But what am I to do ? " she asked,
turning to him. " It is too late or too early
to look for ordinary help ; and if I could
get a person to come and stay with me, this
place is not fit to receive any one."

Paulton was overwhelmed by this speech
and the contemplation of the scene before
him. Here was the most superb woman he
had ever seen in his life alone in this house
of chaos by night with the dead body of her
husband, who had spoken to her but a few
hours ago. She could not live here by herself
till daylight. It would drive her mad,
or would kill her. It would be little short
of murder to leave her as she was. He

could see plainly that her present calmness
was artificial, and that when the need for
self-restraint caused by the presence of two
strangers was removed, she would breakdown
utterly, collapse  in all likelihood
die. He knew that when highly strung
natures break down at all they break down
more completely than any others. Then he
knew that his father and mother were the
most kind-hearted and neighbourly people
alive, and that if they only heard of the
hideous position in which this woman was,
they would hasten to her assistance. No
doubt the hour  it must now be past two 
was most awkward ; but if it was awkward
for the succourer, how much more awkward
for any one in need of help.

All this ran through his mind in a
moment. He resolved to act ; then he
spoke :

"Mrs. Davenport, my father and mother
live close by, only a few houses off. I am

sure they will be greatly pleased and take
it as a kindness if you will come up there
to-night. I could send down the coachman
to stay here. He is a most good-natured
and trustworthy man."

Dr. Santley gave Paulton a peculiar look,
of which the latter could make nothing.

What ! " she said. " At such an hour !
I could not think of it."

"I can assure you," persisted Paulton,
it will not cause any inconvenience. My
mother does not in the least mind getting
up. I am perfectly certain both my father
and mother would be greatly displeased
with me if I did not do everything in my
power to induce you to come."

He glanced at Santley for encouragement,
and again found the incomprehensible
expression on the doctor's face.

She seemed to hesitate. She looked
down at her soft, round arm lying on
the table.

"It is most considerate of you to make
me such an offer, and if I felt perfectly sure
your mother would not regard it as a very
inconvenient intrusion, I should be disposed
to accept it."

Believe me, Mrs. Davenport, I am not
exaggerating in the slightest degree when
I say that my mother would be displeased
with me if I omitted any argument likely
to influence you. I appeal to Dr. Santley.
He will tell you that my mother is most
sympathetic. What do you say,

doctor I "

I am sure I know of no one of kindlier
nature than Mrs. Paulton," said the
doctor.

The face of Santley was now expressionless,
the eyes of Mrs. Davenport were
fixed on him.

I will go," she said, and rose. She
walked slowly down the side of the table
until she reached the elbow of the couch.

She bent over the drooped head, kissed the
forward-leaning forehead, and then went
back to the door, and as she left the room
said : " I shall be ready immediately. I do
not like to go upstairs. I have a cloak
and bonnet in the hall. Please bring the
light here a moment."

"Will you wait until I come back?"
said Paulton to Santley, as he passed him
by carrying the lamp. " I will not be more
than half-an-hour."

I'll wait for you," said the doctor.

In a few seconds Paulton replaced the
lamp on the table, and then Mrs. Davenport
and he left the house.

As soon as the sound of their footfalls
had died away, the doctor once more
approached the recumbent figure.

I wish," he thought, " Paulton had not
been so enthusiastic in his invitation. Asa
rule, spasmodic asthma does not kill
directly. A little chloroform is not a bad

thing in spasmodic asthma ; but too much
chloroform is a bad thing, and there has
been too much here. Why, it's all over
the beard, and shirt, and waistcoat! She
looks as if she could do anything. I hope
this is not a case of foul play."

HINTS OF EARLY HISTORY.

Alfred Paulton had not said too much
of the kindliness of his father and mother.
He left Mrs. Davenport in the drawing-room
and knocked at his mothers door,
and explained to both father and mother
what had occurred, and the step he had
taken in the matter. After expressions of
surprise and horror at the tragedy at
Crescent House, both applauded his action.
Mrs. Paul ton then told him to go down to
the guest and say that she would follow
him in a few minutes.

When he got back to the drawing-room

he found the widow where he had left her.
She was sitting in an easy-chair, her elbow
resting on a table, her head on her hand.
She raised her head as he entered. Otherwise
she did not move.

"My mother is delighted you have
come," he said. "She will be here in a
few minutes. I see the fire has gone out.
I hope you do not feel the place very
cold?"

She looked at him with a stony stare.
Her brows were slightly raised, but around
her eyes the lids were strangely contracted.
The expression of the whole face was that
of one who suffered pain, but was not
giving attention to the pain. When she
spoke, her voice was dry and hard.

It is most kind of your mother to
interest and trouble herself about a perfect
stranger. I do not feel cold, thank you."

The contraction round the eyes relaxed.
A look of intelligence alarmed came into

her eyes, and she asked, in a husky
voice :

"Do you know anything of cases such
as this? I mean, do you know anything
of the law in such cases ? "

"The law!" he said, "the law! In
what way do you mean ? "

Oh," she cried, covering her face with
her hands, " it is dreadful to think of 
horrible ! Can you not tell me," she
pleaded, " if  if it will be necessary to
have an "

She paused and looked at him beseechingly.


An inquest ? "

"Yes."

Certainly not," he answered promptly.
With this beautiful woman before him it
was shocking to think of the ordeal and
details of an inquest. "Mr. Davenport
was suffering from a disease of long standing
; it had been particularly bad to-night,

and a violent paroxysm overcame him.
My friend, Dr. Santley, will make it
right, and you will be spared all pain
that can possibly be diverted from you."

"Thank yon," she said, feebly; and
she threw herself back in her chair.

Nothing further was said until Mrs.
Paulton entered the room. The young
man introduced Mrs. Davenport to his
mother; then he left to rouse the coachman
for the purpose of sitting up at
Crescent House. As soon as Paulton had
arranged this, he hastened back to Dr.
Santley.

"I came as quickly as I could, doctor.
That poor woman is in a dreadful state
of mind ; she looks to me as if she were
losing her reason."

"Hem," said the doctor, who was sitting
on a chair by the lamp on the table,
and had been reading a newspaper he
had happened to have in his pocket. He

VOL. I. D

seemed thoughtful or sleepy ; Paulton
was not a man of nice observation.

Poor thing ! " said the latter, compassionately
; " she is not only in great
grief for the loss of her husband, but
was very uneasy about the suddenness
of his death'

"No wonder," said the doctor drily.

The younger man sat down on a chair
and regarded his companion with surprise.
He had known the other for years, and
had always taken him for a simple, sympathetic
man. His tone now was one
of cynical distrust, although distrust of
what Paulton could not even guess. He
leant forward and peered into Santley's
face.

I told her to make her mind quite
easy on the score of the future. You
understand what I mean ? "

She does not want an inquest ? "

Precisely."

That is unfortunate, for I will not
certify."

What ! " cried Paulton, leaning still
farther forward, " you will not certify as
to the cause of death ? What do you
mean ? "

He shivered, and looked apprehensively
at the body reclining on the couch.

I don't know what the cause of death
was."

She said spasmodic asthma."

A disease that very, very rarely kills."

I thought that, on the contrary, it
was most fatal."

No. In a paroxysm of coughing,
something in the head or chest may give
way, but asthma itself does not kill."

An uneasy expression came into the
young man's face, and, looking straight
into the doctor's eyes, he said :

"And in this case what do you think
killed?"

D 2

It is impossible to say until after
the inquest. I found on the floor this"
he held a bottle up in his hand. " It
is a two-ounce bottle, empty ; it contained
chloroform. There is chloroform spilt allover
the beard, shirt, and waistcoat."

But perhaps the chloroform was administered
for the relief of the deadman
i

Perhaps so," said Santley, rising ; " we
shall find out all at the inquest. I'm off
to bed now. Let nothing be stirred here.
Good-night."

As Dr. Santley turned away from the
gate of Crescent House, Paulton s coachman
came up and the young man was
relieved. He walked home straight and
went to bed.

It was past four by this time, and after
the excitement of the night there was little
chance of the young man closing his eyes.
His life up to this had been barren of

adventure, and here was lie now plunged
into the middle of an affair which would
he town talk in twenty four hours. It
was quite plain to him, from Santley's
manner, that the latter did not think
the man had died a natural death, and
it was almost as plain he did not think
it was a case of accidental poisoning or
suicide. Gradually, as time went by, it
seemed to narrow itself down to one
question : Did or did not that superb

woman ? But no ; the mere question

was a hideous libel ! He wished he could
go to sleep ; but sleep would not come.
He tossed and tumbled until he felt
feverish. In the heat and hurry of events
a few hours old he had not had time for
thought ; now he had time for thought,
but he did not want to think. True,
he had no personal interest in that silent
room out of which he had stepped a little
while ago, but it haunted him, and lay

before his imagination, lighted up with
a fierce light which made every object
in it stand out with painful sharpness.

While the actions of which he had been
a spectator were going on at Crescent
House, all had been confusion, chaos.
Now every object was firmly defined by
a hard, rigid line ; every sound had a
metallic ring ; every motion went forward
with mathematical deliberateness and
precision. And over this scene of rigid
forms and circumspect movement presided
the woman, whose dark and lofty beauty
had filled him with amazed reverence.

Murder ! Could it be that murder had
been done ? There could be no doubt
Santley thought so. Murder done by
whom ? Ugh ! How he wished he had
had nothing to do with that house ; and
yet, it was a privilege even to have seen
her, to have heard her voice, to have
done her a slight service. Above all, it

was consoling to think she was now
under this roof. If a fool knew how his
thoughts were running now, that fool
sight think he was in love with this
woman. In love ! Monstrous ! He would
as soon think of falling in love with a
sunset, a melody, a poem.

Oh, if he could only sleep ! Why
should he trouble himself about this
matter ? Santley said there would be an
inquest. That would be trouble enough
for him in all conscience. He, of course,
would have to appear, although he
scarcely knew how his evidence could
be material.

It must be near six o'clock now. There
was no good in staying in bed any longer ;
he would get up and go out for a walk.
It was dawn, he felt feverish, and the
air would refresh him.

He set off at a quick pace. The breeze
was raw and cold. He felt physically

invigorated, but his mental unrest had
not abated. Do what he would he could
not banish the scene of the night from
his mind  he could not get rid of the
awful suspicion Santley's words had given
rise to. Over and over he told himself
that even the doctor had not explicitly
formulated that suspicion. Over and over
again that suspicion would intrude upon
hi thoughts.

He did not return to the house until
breakfast-time. At the suggestion of Mrs.
Paulton, Mrs. Davenport was breakfasting
in her own room, as she was tired and
shaken. Alfred had to go over the whole
story once more for his father, but he
was careful not to say a word of the
terrible hint thrown out by Santley.

The moment breakfast was over he
left home, and, without having made up
his mind as to whither he was going,
found himself in front of Santley's house

just as the doctor was stepping into
his brougham bound for his morning
visits.

I say, doctor," he said, getting up
close to the other, " what you let fall
about that unfortunate affair at Crescent
House kept me awake all night. You
really don't think there has been anything;
wrong; ? "

Santley shook his head gravely as he got
into his brougham, saying :

I don't know, Mr. Paulton ; I can't
say. But I am sorry you mixed yourself
up with the affair more than was absolutely
necessary."

This was but poor comfort to the young
man. He found it impossible to believe
any evil of that marvellous-looking woman.
If there was anything in what Santley said
it plainly pointed at her ; for were not she
and her husband the only people in the
house ?

He did not care to &o home. He could
not meet that woman while even the hint
of such a suspicion was in his head. He
did not suspect her ; but the suspicion had
been spoken to him, it was sounding in his
ears, and he could not bring himself toad

face to face with her and hear that
murmur. He told himself this was an
absurd condition of mind; but he could
not help it. What was she to him, or he
to her, that he should thus give way to
such feelings ? She was a beautiful, a
surprisingly beautiful woman to whom he
had rendered a slight service, shown a little
kindness. That was all.

He wandered aimlessly about for an hour,
and finally went into town. Dulwich was
intolerable to him. At Victoria railway
station he took a hansom and drove to
the Robin Hood Club. It was now between
eleven and twelve. The club had
not been long open, and there were only

three members in the place. One of th :
happened to be Ten . a young

Irishman, an intimate fid . : I
reputed to be clever, and km: a U
indolent. To him Paulton told .
of Crescent House, and what I. Sant
had hinted at.

Ud to this Jerry O'Brien had :. r
little close attention tc the story. He
was sniokinor in a huge easy-chair wi
eyes half shut Th that m n

had poisoned her husband roused even
him to attention, and as Paulton fa
finished his story he began I -.:

"And bo this doctor .:: yroora \
cert - to the : heath, and

thinks your goddess may have had a hand
in it : "

"eyes. Isn't it horrid

'what is york goddess life

''Dark and most lovely. A .

Good figure ? "
"Perfect."

Did you hear her name ? "

Yes ; Davenport."

Jerry O'Brien blew the smoke of his cigar
away with a whistle.

Is she English ? "

"No. I think Scotch."

Possibly Irish ? "

Ay, she may be Irish."

And her husband was an elderly man,
with a greyish full beard and chronic
asthma ? "

Yes. Do you know them ? "

By heavens, I do ! And I think I
know, if there has been foul play, who
cheated."

"Who? Not she?"

Not she directly, any way, but Tom
Blake, the biggest scoundrel Ireland has
turned out for years and years, and an old
lover of hers. I saw him in Piccadilly today.

He looked as if lie was meditating
murder. Poor old Davenport !  I knew
him well. He was a simple man. She
must have told Blake of the lonely house.
Your doctor is right. There is reason for
suspicion, and I'll be at the inquest. You
will, of course ? "

Unfortunately, yes."

Then I promise you will hear an interesting
story."

Paulton shuddered.

SEEKING HELP.

Young Paulton felt anything but relieved
or cheered by Jerry O'Brien's words. He
began now to feel it would have been
wiser if he had not meddled in this affair.
It was quite true his father and mother
were the kindest couple in England ; but,
like most other middle-class elderly
people, they were careful about appearances
and preferred a smooth and easy way
of life to one of surprises and startling
situations.

And now were they  owing to his
hasty action of the night before  brought

into immediate contact with an inquest
and a story, which might turn out to bea
scandal, which might have for its core
an infamous crime. This other man, this
Blake, of whom Jerry O'Brien spoke in
such unmeasured terms, might, if he appeared
upon the stage, complicate matters
infinitely.

Besides, although he had taken elaborate
care to tell himself he was in no danger
of falling in love with Mrs. Davenport,
that did not make it desirable a former
and disreputable admirer should be in
the neighbourhood. But, after all, Jerry
O'Brien's surmises might be quite baseless.
This old admirer might have ceased
to admire  might never in all his life
have been within miles of Half Moon
Lane, the Crescent House.

At present what was he to do with
himself? There was a kind of treason
in leaving all the burden of the situation

on the shoulders of his father and mother.
He did not know anything about inquests
beyond what he had gathered now and
then from reading a summarised report
in a newspaper. If it was mean to keep
away from his father and mother, what
could he think of leaving this newly-made
widow derelict? And yet what
about this old lover? Confound the
whole thing! Now he was heartily sorry
he had bound himself up in it.

And yet when he thought of her
he charged himself with cowardice for
flinching.

Look here, O'Brien," he said at length,
"what ought I to do?"

"Do!" cried O'Brien scornfully; "why,
get out of it as fast as ever you can.
I hope you're not such a fool as to mix
yourself and your family any more up in
this miserable matter."

Alfred shook his head gravely.

"I can't retreat now. I have promised
to see her out of the trouble "

"And a pretty chance you have of
seeing her out of the trouble ! My belief
is that every hour will make matters only
worse."

"Do be reasonable and try and help
me. You know I would depend on you
more than on any other man living. I
can't go home and turn this woman out
of doors, and you ought to be able to
understand that I don't like to confess
to the old people I have been hasty or
unwise. Don't desert me, O'Brien."

The other got out of his chair with a
growl, and began pacing up and down
the smoking-room of the club. O'Brien
had private reasons of his own for wishing
to keep friendly with Alfred Paulton.
Jerry knew no pleasant house in all
London to spend a long evening in than
the Paultons', and he knew no nicer girl

VOL. I. e

in all London than Madge Paulton,
Alfred's younger sister. But these facts
were both reasons for his impatience with
his friend. He felt a firm conviction
the adventure of the night before would
have no gratifying sequel. The sight of
Tom Blake, taken in conjunction with
Paulton's story, was enough to make any
prudent man cautious. And here now
was Alfred, plunged headlong into one
of the most disagreeable experiences which
could befall a quiet-going citizen. It was
too bad, but there was no cure for the
thing. It would certainly be rather mean
of Alfred to retire from the position in
which he had voluntarily placed himself
with this woman. O'Brien could not
abandon his friend any more than his
friend could abandon this woman.

He stopped in his walk, and said,
abruptly :

"The first thing is to get a solicitor.
Do you know of one ? "

' There's Spencer, my own man, or
there's my father's."

"And a nice pair they'd make in a case
of this kind. Your father's man wouldn't
touch it with a forty-foot ladder, and
Spencer would get every one connected
with the matter locked up. No, you want
a man that's accustomed to the work.
He must be as sharp as bayonets and as
persevering. I would not attach so much
importance to this point, only that I know
Tom Blake is about. I feel you are
standing on a mine, and may be blown
sky-high any moment. I have it ! You
must get Prince  Prince, of Prince,
Prince, and Co. Young Prince is the
very man for you, and he's a good sort
too. Come on, and I'll introduce you to
him."

The two friends left the club and proceeded
at once to the office of Prince,
Prince, and Co. Here they were fortunate

E 2

LIBRARY - - rf(||1in|S

in finding the younger Prince, and at their
service.

He was a low-sized, stoutish, horsey-looking,
clean-shaven man of about thirty-five,
in very tight-fitting clothes. He bade
the two visitors be seated, and then listened
with exemplary patience to Paulton's story.
When it was finished, he crossed his legs
and reflected for a few moments.

"I see," he said  "I see. Supposing
Mrs. Davenport is willing I should appear
for her, I think all will be right. Of
course, it would be nonsense to pretend to
believe that a thing of this kind is agreeable.
It is not. Things of this kind are
awkward and painful ; but that is all. I
feel fully persuaded, beyond the inconvenience
of appearing as a witness, Mrs.
Davenport will suffer none. Your doctor
must be mad, I should say, Mr. Paulton.
You don't think he could be induced to
certify I "

I am perfectly sure he won't. I have
known him some years, and he is a man
of great determination," said Paulton.

Well, we must only try and do the
best we can. Has the deceased any
relatives  blood relatives, I mean ? "

"I don't know," said Paulton.

Yes, he has a brother, who lives in the
south of Ireland," answered O'Brien. " Mr.
Davenport was somewhat peculiar in his
thoughts and habits, but his brother is an
oddity."

"Ah, that is not fortunate. No doubt
he will want to know all about this unlucky
affair.

And now, O'Brien, it is your turn. I
want you to tell me all you know about
this other man, Blake."

"Well, Til tell you all I know about
the whole thing," said Jerry O'Brien.

"Ay, do," said the solicitor, settling
himself comfortably in his elbow chair.

The man who is dead, Louis Davenport,
was a native of the south of Ireland,
County Waterford, to be exact. His wife
is about thirty-four, and he must have
been about sixty when he died. She, too,
is Irish ; her maiden name was Butler.
She comes of a good Cork family  the
Butlers of Scrouthea. They were as poor
as church mice. Davenport was rich, and
had money, not land; and Marion Butler
was a beauty, as my friend Paulton has
told you.

"About ten years ago, when Louis
Davenport was elderly, and Marion Butler
no longer very young, he proposed to her
father for her. The father was delighted,
for Davenport promised all sorts of comfortable
things about money ; but when
the matter was spoken of to Miss Butler,
they found a difficulty had to be faced,
for Mr. Tom Blake stood in the way.

This Tom Blake is and was one of the

most hopeless scamps in Europe. He is
now about thirty-eight years of age, and
has deserved hanging for every year of his
life. He was in the army, to start with ;
he was kicked out of it. He tried the Turf
for a while, until he was kicked out of that
too. Then he turned his hand to cardsharping.
What he's doing now, I don't
know, except he may have gone in for a
little murder. He's quite capable of it,
I assure you, Wriggle  quite capable of it."

"And you say this Miss Butler had a
strong predilection for this objectionable
man ? "

"It amounted to nothing short of infatuation.
As the account of the matter
reached me, she was assured by people
who were quite disinterested that he was
a thorough scamp. They might as well
have saved their breath. She would
listen to all they had to say, and simply
shake her head."

"And how did they in the end overcome
this infatuation?"

"They never overcame it at all. They
got her to marry Davenport by appealing
to the baseness of Blake's nature. Some
friends of mine were very intimate with
the Butlers at that time, and I heard
the whole history of his abominable
conduct. He was then in great extremities
for money, and took a sum
down to leave the country and hold no
communication with her. That's the sort
of man Tom Blake is."

"But surely this woman whom he
treated so vilely cannot care for him still
cannot have any regard for such a
scurvy knave ? "

"I don't know how matters have gone
of late. I have been out of their tracks
for some time. If he has any influence
now it may rest on fear, not fascination.
I am quite sure if there is anything

wrong, lie is at the bottom of it. I have
been in London for months now, and
never saw him or heard of him. Is it a
mere coincidence that I should come
across him just as I hear this story from
Paulton ? "

"It is strange. I presume Mrs. Davenport
is childless ? "

"Yes. And as far as I know she is
now absolutely alone in the world, if you
do not count this brother-in-law, with
whom she never got on well."

"I'll go out to Dulwich with you
myself now. I think that will be the
best thing."

The three men rose and walked to
Ludgate Hill railway station.

CHAPTER V.

Single UNANSWERED.

When the three men arrived at Dulwich,
they went straight to Carlingford House,
where Mr. Paulton lived. The owner was
in. Some years ago he had retired from
business in the City, and now interested
himself in local affairs, his garden, his
horses, and reading. He was bluff, white-haired,
stout, brief of speech, straightforward,
kindly. He was not quite sixty
yet, notwithstanding his white hair.

Just as they got into the house he was
crossing the hall. He paused, and held
out his hand cordially to Jerry O'Brien.

"What lucky wind has blown you hereat
such an hour?" he cried. "You are
just too late for luncheon; but I daresay
they'll be able to find something
for you and Alfred, and "

He now became aware the third man
was a stranger, and stopped.

Young Paulton introduced the solicitor,
and then all four went into a little
library on the right hand side of the
hall. Alfred felt acutely the difficulty of
his position, and he found himself completely
at a loss to explain the situation
to his father. Then it occurred to him
to appeal to O'Brien for help.

"Jerry," said he, "tell the governor
all about it."

The old man looked apprehensively from
one to the other. There was evidently
something wrong.

"Out with it whatever it is, my lad'
said he to O'Brien, and, without further

delay, Jerry began. When lie had finished,
the old man seemed thunderstruck. It
was incredible that he should ever be
brought into contact with such people,
and such a history. He had sat down in
an easy-chair, and now he felt he had not
the strength to get out of it. He looked
blankly around at the three figures and
the bookcases and the walls, as if he were
awaiting contradiction from animate or
inanimate objects. But no one spoke, and
nothing occurred to reassure him.

At last the solicitor came forward with,
"You know, sir, we have really nothing
whatever to go on yet. Dr. Santley's dissatisfaction
and the lady's shrinking from
an inquiry, and the presence of this man
Blake in London may all point to nothing
end in nothing. I have come out hereto
clear up the whole thing, and I have no
doubt that if I might be favoured with half-an-hour's

conversation with Mrs. Davenport
all our uneasiness would disappear."

A look of hope came into Mr. Paulton's
face. He rose, and, approaching the
solicitor, said : "I wish you would see
her and bring us good news. She is
keeping her room, but I think she will
come down to the drawing-room if Mrs.
Paulton asks her. You would greatly
oblige me if you would see her. I
wouldn't be mixed up with a case of that
kind for any consideration."

"I shall be only too happy to do anything
I can in your interest, which is, I
presume, identical with that of the afflicted
lady. The first step to be taken is to
ascertain through Mrs. Paulton if Mrs.
Davenport will see me."

"I'll go immediately." Mr. Paulton
moved towards the door.

"A moment, sir. Don't you think that

if Mrs. Davenport will see me it would be
as well Mrs. Paulton said a few words of
preparation. Such as, for instance, that
in cases of this kind it was always desirable
to have advice, and to allow some one to
act instead of the principal ; as owing to
the distress attendant on loss one is little
able to look after matters of detail. If
Mrs. Paulton would be good enough she
might say that you thought I might be of
some slight use. Anything of that kind
Mrs. Paulton might say would prevent
my coming too suddenly on the widow."

Quite so. I am glad you mentioned
it. I shall do exactly as you suggest. I
shall be back as soon as I can." He
hurried out of the room.

In less than a quarter of an hour he
returned, rubbing his hands. It was plain
by his appearance that he had been successful.
Yes; Mrs. Davenport was in the
drawing-room, and would see Mr. Prince.

He went up, was introduced by Mrs.
Paulton, who then retired, leaving client
and lawyer together.

The lady had sent tip to Crescent
House for a change of clothes, and now
appeared in a plain, black dress, with
sleeves of ordinary length, and without
the orange scarf or the diamonds at her
throat or girdle. She motioned him to a
seat, and then took one herself.

What Alfred said had prepared him
for something out of the common, but for
nothing like what he now saw. He was prepared
to meet a beautiful woman in need
of his help  he found a regal woman who
might perhaps condescend to give him
orders. Her face was absolutely without
colour, save the full red lips, the dark
impenetrable eyes, and the black eyebrows.
But the modelling of the face was
superb, and the carriage of the head magnificent.
And yet he was conscious of

something that detracted from, or contradicted
the imperial grandeur of the head.
There was no splendour in the pose of the
figure. In the arms, and figure, and gait,
there was an air of patient, suppliant
dutifulness, that seemed to plead for love
and protection.

Mrs. Paulton has explained to me,"
she said, in a low, soft voice, "that it is
better I should have some one to advise
me in the present circumstances, and that
you have been good enough, Mr. Prince,
to allow me to look to you for the help I
need."

She spoke with great precision and
delicacy of tone. It was a flattery to
hear her utter one's name.

He answered in a low voice. His voice
never before seemed so harsh in his own
ears. "It is well for you to have
advice. You may rely upon my doing all
I can for you."

It was simply monstrous to associate
this woman with the idea of crime.
Attorney and man of the world though
he was, he could not be persuaded into
such a ridiculous belief. O'Brien must
be a fool. Or no, it wasn't O'Brien  it
was Paulton's doctor who had the honour
of broaching that absurdity.

"I am quite sure of that. And the
first thing I want to ask you about is,
when I shall need your advice ?  for I
know absolutely nothing about such things.
Mr. Davenport has a brother living ; I suppose
he had better be telegraphed for ? "

"Yes. He must be telegraphed for at
once."

Then I suppose the  funeral must be
arranged for immediately ? "

"Yes. Then, as you are aware, a few
legal formalities have to be gone through
before that."

"What are they?"

VOL. I. P

Have you not been told ? "

No. Pray tell me."

"Well, the sad event took place so
suddenly that a certain form has to be
observed. In this case it will be the
merest form."

Some sort of certificate has to be got,
I dare say ? "

"Well, yes; if you put it in that way."

And what must I do ? "

"You say you know nothing of such
matters as we are now talking about.
The first advice I have to give you is,
that you must repose full confidence in
me. Eemember, I am bound by a rule
of my profession to respect any confidence
you may place in me. I shall have to
ask you questions which would be impertinent
from any one but your legal
adviser. Mind, all this is merely to save
you annoyance hereafter. Will you trust
me with the history of last night ? "

"I will  as far as I may," faintly.

I have heard something of last night.
I will not trouble you with any inquiries
that I do not consider absolutely necessary.
You and Mr. Davenport arrived together
yesterday evening, and came on to your
new house close by, your furniture having
preceded you by only a few hours, so that
the house was all in disorder ? "

"Yes."

"And you came unaccompanied by any
servant ; may I ask you why was this ? "

"Mr. Davenport had peculiar notions
about never moving servants from one
house to another. He insisted on getting
new servants when we changed."

So that it was at his desire you came
unattended ? "

"Certainly. Only it was too late when
we arrived, we should have got someone
to help us."

And was Mr. Davenport in his

f 2

usual health when you reached Crescent
House ?"

"No. His asthma was worse, but not
very much worse. "When it was bad he
could not lie down. My room was the
only one in order, and he said he would
rest on the couch for the night. I left
him at about eleven, but did not go to
bed, as I was not quite easy about him,
and thought I'd come down and put some
coal on the fire later. I fell asleep in a
chair, and when I went down I found all
w r as over."

He had a large quantity of chloroform
by him ? "

"Yes; a two-ounce bottle, almost full."

"And he was in the habit of using
chloroform when the spasms were bad ? "

Yes ; but what do you mean ? You
are perplexing and terrifying me. Pray
speak plainly to me."

11 1 shall very soon be done. Remember,

I told you I should ask no question that
was not absolutely essential. Now, from
the time you and Mr. Davenport entered
that house, and until Mr. Paulton and
the doctor entered it, had any other
person access to it ? "

She grasped the edge of the table
near her. She trembled as in an ague.
Her lips grew as pallid as her brow.
She did not speak.

Eemember, anything you communicate
is privileged, and will not find its way
abroad through me. I am trying to
get the means of protecting you. Of
course you are fully at liberty to refuse
to answer me now ; but all questions
will have to be answered at the inquest."


Inquest ! " she whispered, in a voice
of abject terror. She rose to her feet
and stood swaying to and fro, one hand
still grasping the table. "Inquest! Mr.

Paulton said there would be no inquest.
There shall be no inquest."

"The bottle was found empty."

"Oh, Heaven, take away my life
from me ! "

"Was Blake in the house that night ?"

She took her hand from the table and
stood still a moment, looking upward.
Then slowly she raised both her arms
aloft, and cried :

"Hear Thou my prayer!"

She stood a while motionless. After a
moment she said, in a firm voice :

"No mercy!"

She dropped her arms to her side,
bowed slowly to him, and then with erect
head and a firm step walked out of the
room.

HER SUDDEN RESOLVE.

For some time after Mrs. Davenport
left the drawing-room, young Prince
stood motionless, with his hand resting
on the back of a chair. The scene had
taken him completely by surprise. At
the beginning of it he had made up his
mind, or rather his emotions had so
wrought upon him, he determined she
had no reprehensible connection with the
event of the night before.

He had implored her to confide in him,
and she had given him her confidence
up to a certain point. Then she not

only refused to trust him any more, but
behaved in such an extraordinary way as
to lay herself open to the gravest suspicions.
If she had at the end of their
interview fallen down in a faint, he could
have formed an opinion of the case  an
opinion which would not have been very
favourable to her, but still something
definite. But the manner of her leaving
the room seemed to throw a new light,
or rather cast a new kind of shadow on
the case.

He had better go down at once and
inform Mr. Paulton of what had occurred.


He left the drawing-room and returned
to the library. In as few words as
possible he told the owner of the house
that he feared there was no chance of
avoiding the unpleasantness of an inquest.
Mr. Paulton then asked what the lady
had said, but Prince explained he could

not divulge it. He made no comment
whatever.

The old man breathed heavily, and
looked about helplessly when the solicitor
had finished.

The two young men returned his look,
but there was no comforting assurance in
their gaze.

Alfred Paulton was now profoundly
impressed with a sense of the unpleasantness
into which he had drawn the whole
family.

I am very sorry, sir," said he, addressing
his father, "that I have been the
cause of all this worry. Of course I had
not the least idea last night that anything
of this kind was likely to arise.
If I had, I should never have acted as I
did."

"It is most unfortunate," said the
father.

"Well," broke in Jerry O'Brien, "there's

no use now in crying over spilt milk.
What we have to ask ourselves is : How
can it be best faced  eh, Prince ? Isn't
that the practical question ? "

I think so," said the solicitor. " For
my part I find myself in rather an awkward
position. Mrs. Davenport's interests
and yours, Mr. Paulton, can scarcely be
said to be any longer identical. I cannot
advise both. Besides, Mr. Paulton, you
have a solicitor of your own. My position
is uncomfortable  scarcely professional."

"My father's solicitor would be little or
no use in this case, Mr. Prince," said
Alfred. " That is the reason we came to
you."

"Mr. Prince," said the father, "pray
do not throw us over. If you do, I shall
not know where to turn. Can you not
show us any way out of this unhappy
situation ? "

Of course," said Prince, " you must

put up with the consequences of facts upto
this moment. What I suppose you to
be asking me is  How can further consequences
be avoided, or can they be
avoided at all ? "

"Precisely," said Mr. Paulton. "Can
they be avoided at all ?  and if so,
how ? "

Well, as you offered the hospitality of
your roof to Mrs. Davenport, and she has
accepted it, you can't say to her, or even
show to her, that you wish her to go "

Quite impossible," interrupted Alfred.

But might I not say  that supposing
she will see me again  a thing I doubt
very much  it would be most desirable
for her to move into town, so that she
might be near me and I near her?"

That would not be a bad plan," said
Mr. Paulton, looking at his * son and
O'Brien for confirmation. " What do you
think, boys?"

I don't see what better can be done,"
said O'Brien, answering for the two.

He answered quickly, for he was half
afraid that Alfred had not even yet made
up his mind as to the desirability of her
leaving the house.

"The great difficulty is that time is
short, and I don't think I could intrude
upon her again to-day. We had quite a
scene upstairs. Judging from the state of
agitation in which she left me, I should
imagine she will not see any one on business
during the remainder of the day."

At that moment the door of the library
opened and Mrs. Davenport stepped into
the room. She was in her walking dress.

All the men rose and stood looking at
her silently. Mr. Paulton was the first
to recover his presence of mind, and offered
her a chair.

She came over quietly to where he stood,
bowing slightly as she moved.

"I hope I do not disturb you, gentlemen,"
she said, in a gentle voice and with
a wan smile.

"Not in the least," said Mr. Paulton.
Will you not take a chair ? "

Thank you, no. I am going out."

Going out ! May not some one go for
you  one of my daughters or one of the
servants 1 "

You are very good ; but I must go
myself. I have just been explaining to
Mrs. Paulton. I have come, Mr. Paulton,
to thank you for your great kindness tome,
a complete stranger. Believe me, I
shall never forget it  never as long as I
live. If a friend in need is a friend indeed,
you have been a great friend ; for I never
wanted a friend more than I did this
morning. I have come to thank you and
to say good-bye."

Good-bye ! " he cried in astonishment.
"Why should you leave us?"

His surprise was not feigned.

"Since you were kind enough to give
me shelter, a serious difference has arisen
in my position. When I came into your
house I believed that there would be no
unusual trouble about my poor husband's
death. Now I understand in that I was
mistaken. It would be monstrous on my
part to involve you, Mr. Paulton, in anyway
in this unpleasantness, and it will be
best for me to be alone."

She spoke with perfect composure, and
Prince could scarcely believe that this
calm, collected woman, with the wan
smile and resigned air, was the one whoa
little while ago, had spoken impassioned
words of despair.

Mr. Paulton was disturbed by this
sudden and unexpected prospect of deliverance.
There could be no doubt of the
woman's sincerity. Here she was, without
a suggestion from any one, offering

to take the very step he desired. It was
necessary to say something, and kindhearted
as he was, a polite lie was a sin
utterly beneath him. He felt extremely
awkward.

Since you consider it useful to your
own interest that you should go, I will
say nothing against your leaving us."

"Allow me, Mrs. Davenport, to say
that I think it will be better for you to
be in London than here. I can then see
you at any moment without delay," joined
in Prince.

When she heard his voice she turned
to him. A shadow passed across her
face. When he ceased speaking, she
merely bowed. Turning her glance once
more on Mr. Paulton, she went on :

I have explained matters to Mrs.
Paulton, and said good-bye to her. Your
daughters are out, but your wife has
promised me to say good-bye to them

for me ; and now there remains for me to
say good-bye to only you and your son."

She held out her hand.

The host suffered a revulsion of feeling
now that he heard her say good-bye, and
saw her hold out her hand to him. It
was hard to picture this beautiful woman
alone in London, with her new woe. As
long as she was an abstraction, as long
as she was upstairs, and he regarded her
as simply the source of notoriety if not
of scandal, it was easy to wish her away
at any inconvenience to herself or cost
to him. But here she was now anticipating
his wishes, doing precisely as he
had most desired  about to launch herself
alone on the vast ocean of London
without a friend, and that, too, at the
very time when she was most in need of
friendly countenance and protection. It
was too bad  much too bad.

He took her Land, and said, with perfect
sincerity now :

"I am really sorry to say good-bye to
you  really sorry you must go. I would
like to be of any service to you I can.
Will you, as a favour, promise me, if I
can in any way assist you, you will let
me know ? "

"I will, indeed, Mr. Paulton. I am
most grateful to you, and I am sure you
would do anything you could for me ;
but"  she paused and sighed  "I am
greatly afraid no one can do much to
help me now. I must make up my
mind to bear what cannot be avoided  to
bear it bravely."

The tone in which these words were
uttered and the smile which accompanied
them were worse than any tears.

"But," said Mr. Paulton, still keeping
the hand she had given him, " do you not

VOL. I. G

think you had better wait a little, until
evening, even if no longer?"

I am greatly obliged to you. But
what is to be gained by delay ? Nothing."

"Well, but where do you propose
going ? What hotel do you intend staying
at ? "

"I know one," she answered, wearily,
as she withdrew her hand gently from
his. "It does not matter which or
where."

"But .you are not taking anything
with you ! You cannot go merely as you
are ! "

I fear I must. I cannot take anything
out of that awful house  no, never "
with a shudder. "All the things that
are now there are like my dead husband
dead to me for ever. I can get what I
need in London."

"At all events, you must not go alone.
You must allow some one to escort you.

I am certain my son would be delighted
to take you wherever you may wish to

got

would give me great pleasure," said
Alfred eagerly.

"You are both, I know, too good and
kind to mistake for ungraciousness the
refusal which I must give to your offer. I
have no alternative but to go alone."

Mrs. Davenport," said Prince, " I am
going to town at once. May I hope you
will allow me to see you as far as either
Ludgate Hill or Victoria? I am afraid
that my want of caution when speaking to
you a few minutes ago upstairs may have
betrayed me into saying or implying more
than I really should. We could talk a
little more on the way in."

With your permission, I will go by
myself. Farewell ; " and, with a bow that
included all, she left the room.

They saw her walk through the little

G 2

garden, open the gate, and reach the road.
Then they lost sight of her.

For a long while no one spoke. Mr.
Paulton broke the silence. "I'm very
sorry. " He did not say for what ; he
scarcely knew for what.

She's a wonderful woman," said Jerry
O'Brien. " I am not surprised at her not
speaking to me. She bowed to me as much
as to say she knew me. I often met her
before, but never saw her in any humour
like this. Why, in the name of all that's
mysterious, would she not allow any one
to go with her ? It could not do her any
harm for either you or Prince or Alfred to
go with her."

That struck me as most strange," said
Mr. Paulton.

"We are all friends here," said Prince.
"It doesn't seem strange to me. It seems
foolish, though. If they want her they can
catch her abroad as well as in England."

Abroad!" said Mr. Paulton, in perplexity.
" Surely sue is not going abroad
before the funeral of her husband. No
woman would think of leaving the country
before her husband is buried."

Under certain circumstances, a woman
might if an inquest was to precede the
burial."

Oh, I see."

Now, gentlemen, I think we ought to
be able to guess why she would have no
luggage, no escort. She is going to disguise
herself and fly to the Continent."

LIGHT AFTER DARKNESS.

When Mrs. Davenport left Paulton she
walked straight to Heme Hill railway station.
She asked when the next train would
start for Victoria, and having learned there
would be one in ten minutes, she took a
ticket for that terminus, and then sat down
on one of the seats on the platform.

It was cold, raw, dull, rainless February
weather, and she was lightly clad,
but she did not mind that. Her thoughts
were turned inward, and she had but <a
dimly reflected idea of things surrounding
her.

When the train steamed into the
station, she rose in a quick but mechanical
way, and took her seat in an empty
compartment. Upon arriving at Victoria,
she left the train in the same quick,
mechanical way, got into a cab, and drove
to a house in Jermyn Street. Having
engaged a bed-room and sitting-room
here, she sat down at once and wrote a
letter.

As soon as the letter was finished she
left the house, dropped the letter into the
first post-pillar, and then ascended to the
middle section of Regent Street. She
visited several shops, bought many things,
and ordered many more. When this was
done she paused, seemingly at a loss.

My letter," she thought, " will not be
there until night. In the meantime, what
shall I do ? " She walked slowly down
Regent Street. At last she started.
"How stupid," she thought, "I have

been not to telegraph ! If I had telegraphed
I could have had an answer in
an hour."

She hastened forward, asked a policeman
where the nearest telegraph office was, and
on arriving there despatched a message.
Then she went back to Jermyn Street,
and, laying aside her bonnet and mantle,
waited.

In an hour and a half a reply came. It
ran :

U I shall he with you almost as soon as
this"

When she read the message she got up
and walked about the room in a state of
great excitement. It was now dark, and
the gas had not yet been lighted in the
room. As she paced up and down she
wrung her hands and moaned. After a
while she became calmer, but still continued

walking up and down. She had
eaten nothing that day, yet she felt no
want of food. In fact, when the servant,
upon her return, suggested that she had
better order dinner, she had refused todo
so with a shudder. She knew she
should need for the coming interview all
her strength, but she could not bear the
notion of food. She had not slept during
the whole night, yet she felt no want of
sleep.

"I feel," she thought, "as though my
sorrows were immortal, and that I shall
require earthly succour no more."

She had not long to wait in solitude.
A hansom drove up to the door, a man
jumped out, and in a few minutes he was
ushered into the room. He found her
still in the dark, leaning on the mantelshelf.


Marion," , he said  " are you here,
Marion ? "

Yes," she answered, " I am here."

I cannot see yon, it is so dark."

"It is very dark. It never has been
darker in all my life, and you know it."

"Will you not shake hands with me
and order lights ? "

Neither. What is to be said can
best be said in the dark. It is in the
nature of darkness itself. Sit down. I
prefer to stand ; I wish you to sit. Sit
down."

His eyes were now becoming accustomed
to the obscurity. He found a chair, and
sat down.

"Are you alone V he asked, looking up
at where she stood, motionless, by the
mantelpiece.

Absolutely" she answered, in a cold,
hard voice. "And you know it."

How could I know it ? I got your
telegram, and came at once. Marion, you

are speaking to me in a tone I am unused
to from you."

Ay," she said, u I am unused to my
own voice in its present tone. I am
risking much for you, and you do not
deserve that I should risk anything for
you."

Marion," he cried, half-rising, " you
have not left him ? You have not resolved
to throw your fate in with mine at last ?
Marion, my darling ! Marion, let me come
to you."

Stay where you are," she said, in a
tone of perplexity, and with a shudder.
If you move from that chair, it must only
be for the door. Eemember this once for
all."

"You are very hard, Marion  very hard.
It is a long day since we met, and now
you will not even give me your hand. You
would give your hand to the most ordinary

friend you have : think of what we were
once."

His voice had a firm, manly, straightforward
ring in it, and withal an undertone
of passionate entreaty.

"I have thought too much of what
has been once. I have thought too much
of what was between you and me long
ago. I have another matter to think oi
to-night."

And what is that, Marion ? "

I have to think of last night."

He uttered a cry of surprise and half
rose from his chair.

"Did you know I was there? I thought
you were asleep. He said you were. Did
he tell you I was there?"

She paused a moment and made a
powerful effort to control herself. When
she spoke, her voice was unsteady, and
showed that a violent conflict was going
on in her breast.

He told me nothing," she said. " I
have sent for you in order that you
may tell me all. Now go on. All,
remember."

"All?" he asked. "I would rather
not tell you all. I never told you a
lie yet."

"All," she said "all, or go."

He shifted uneasily for a few minutes
on his chair, and then spoke :

"Well, Marion, since you will have it
all, you shall. I am no better than ever
I was. I leave it to you to say if I
could, being only human, be much worse.
You might have made a different man
of me once. You wouldn't. Let that
pass."

"Yes, let that pass, and let it pass
quickly. I did not sell you for a sum
of money."

Her voice was scornful.

"No, you did not. You did better*

You sold yourself for a sum of money.
Shall we cry truce?"

"Yes; go on*'

I've been a good deal on the Continent.
I've been doing a great many
things I should not do. Amongst others,
I have been gambling ; and, worst of all,
I have lost. There are many excuses fora
man gambling. There is no excuse fora
man losing. Well, I got cleaned out,
and I came home  I mean I went back
to Ireland.

"Naturally I faced south. Naturally I
went on to Waterford. Naturally I found
myself in Kilcash."

She made a gesture of dissent. But it
was too dark for him to see. She said :
"Most unwise and most unnatural."

"It may have been unwise, but it was
most natural. What can be more natural
than that a man should go where his

heart But if I say any more in

this strain, you will be angry ? "

"Most assuredly,"

Well, when I got to Kilcash, I kept
my ears open, and soon I heard that
you were about to leave Kilcash House
and take a house in or near London. I
inquired still further, found out the day
you were to leave, and got the address
of the house you had taken. I came onto
London.

"I arrived here the night before last.
I knew you could not be in your new
house until late in the day. I wanted
to call most particularly. There was
not an hour to be lost. It was neck or
nothing with me. I resolved to call at
Crescent House that very night, and
I did."

"You did?" she said, in a voice like a
terrified echo.

"You knew I was there. He told
you ? "

"No; go on. Go on, I say. You did
not ask for me ? "

"No. I wanted to see him."

It was close to eleven, or after it
then ? "

"After it."

And you wanted to see him at such
an hour, and you knew he was an invalid ? "
she said, scornfully.

I was an invalid myself."

You ! What was the matter with
you ? "  again that tone of scorn.

"A worse disease than his  poverty."

What ! " she cried, leaving the mantelpiece,
and going a step towards him in the
dark. " I thought you got the price of
your  of me before."

Marion, you are unjust  cruelly unjust.
When I called on your husband last night,
it was not to beg or to try and get money

from him, because of anything in which you
or I ever took part. I had a claim with
which you have no connection, and the
nature of which I will not divulge to you.
He may if he likes."

"He never will," she said, with something
between a laugh and a sob.

11 So be it. It may be all the better the
matter should never be spoken of. But
to proceed. I knocked and he let me in.
He explained that you were gone to bed,
and that he and you were alone in the
house. He was very polite, for he had an
idea of why I came  or rather of the card
of introduction, so to speak, that I brought
with me. He made me take a chair, told
me he was not well enough to lie down, ashe
had one of his bad attacks of asthma,,
though by no means a very bad one, and
we had a pleasant general conversation for
half-an-hour or so."

"Pleasant conversation ! " she cried, fall-vol.

I. II

ing back to her old position at the chimney-piece.


"Yes, I assure you it was quite a pleasant
conversation. He told me all the
incidents of your journey over from Ireland,
and I amused him with my experiences
on the Continent."

"This is too ghastly," she said. "Do
not tell me any more about it. Did he
give you  what you came for ? "

Oh, yes, or part of it."

And then ? " she asked, in a hard, constrained
voice.

"And then after a few more words I
stood up and said good-bye, left the house,
and came back to town."

Wait," she said. " I will give you
another chance. Sit where you are. I
shall be back in a few minutes."

In the dark ? " he asked.

Yes. Is there anything in the dark
that frightens you ? "

11 No," he answered ; "but it is stupid to
sit in the dark alone."

Perhaps when I am gone you may not
be quite alone. You may have memories
for company."

There was great meaning in her voice.

He said merely " Perhaps," and she was
gone.

While she was away he sat perfectly
still. There was little or no light from
the dull low fire, and as the blinds were
down and curtains drawn, none reached
the room from the street.

In a few minutes he heard the door
open and some one enter. She came to her
old position by the chimney-piece and said :

Now, if you can find a match, you may
light the gas."

He had wax cigar-lights in his pocket.
He struck one, and in a moment the gas
flared up. He looked at her, and cried,
starting back :

h 2

Merciful heavens, Marion, what masquerade
is this ! "

"No masquerade' she said calmly,
scrutinizing him. " These are my widow's
weeds come from the mourning warehouse
a few minutes ago. They say you
ought to be prepared to see me in
them."

I  I !  prepared to see you in widow's
weeds ! Is Davenport dead ? "

Women whose husbands are living do
not wear such things as these. They say
you ought to be prepared to see me dressed
as I am now."

She touched the streamers of her cap and
pointed to the crape of her dress.

"What do you mean by saying they say
I ought to be prepared for this ? Who are
they f  and what do you mean ? "

"As I left the room a moment ago,
a servant brought me this note. Read
it"

I

LIGHT AFTER DARKNESS. 101

He took the note and read it first
quickly, a second time slowly. Then,
letting it fall from his grasp, he threw
his hands above his head, and crying out,
Oh, God ! " fell back on a chair.

mr. Davenport's account of the matter.

Shortly after Mrs. Davenport left Car-langford
House, Half Moon Lane, that
afternoon, a supplementary luncheon was
announced, and the four men went into
the dining-room.

Mr. Paulton had already lunched with
the family, but he wished to be with the
others ; so he sat down at the table with
them, and broke a biscuit and half-filled
a glass with sherry. Jerry O'Brien and
Prince were in no humour for trifling
with food ; they were both downright
hungry. Alfred ate mechanically, and was.

much pre-occupied. The talk, therefore,
for a quarter of an hour, was slight, fragmentary,
as though by some agreement :
no one referred to what had just occurred
in the library, or to anything else
connected with Crescent House. Young
Prince felt that although there must be
and are extremely interesting tragedies in
the world, luncheon, when one is hungry,
was a matter not to be neglected. He had
more than once in a criminal court eaten
sandwiches and drunk sherry in the interval
for luncheon, with the moral certainty that
his client, who had been temporarily removed
from the dock, would be sentenced
to death before the Court rose, and hanged
before that day four weeks,

Here were a cold rabbit pie, cold ham,
and excellent sherry, well-baked, fine white
bread, and nicknames, and no particular
reason for hurry  no fear of hearing
Silence " called out while one was but

half-finished. The day was dull, but there
was an ample fire burning brightly in the
grate, the chair was soft and well-designed,
so why should he bother himself for another
quarter of an hour ?

It was very easy for him to hold his
tongue and to assure himself that he need
not bother himself just now about Mrs.
Davenport and her unpleasant predicament ;
but her predicament would not be banished,
and every now and then some incident of
either the drawing-room or library interview
would rush into his mind with all
the unexpected suddenness of that unwelcome
cry of " Silence ! " in the middle
of luncheon at a criminal trial.

Upon the whole, that luncheon was not
as calm or as successful as young Prince
meant it to be. He had never seen anyone
at all like Mrs. Davenport before, and
he could make little or nothing of her.
He now began to think that he had talked

"flippantly when he said she was certainly
about to leave the country. Reviewing all
he had seen and heard, he came to the
conclusion that the safest thing for him
to assume at present was  nothing. At
length he spoke, addressing Alfred and
Jerry O'Brien :

"Although Mrs. Davenport did not say
anything to the effect when leaving, I
suppose I had better act for her  until I
hear something to the contrary."

Jerry O'Brien glanced at Alfred, and saw
what he wished to say, but held back from
speaking, because of the trouble his hasty
action of the night before had brought
about. Therefore Jerry made himself
spokesman for his friend.

Of course, Prince, you go on acting
for her, on her behalf. She has left this
house finally now, and is not likely to cause
any new unpleasantness here. Whether
Mrs. Davenport is to blame or not, she

can't be left alone and unaided in such a
strait as this. What do you say, Mr.
Paulton ? "

I am quite of your opinion, O'Brien.
Now that she is out of the house I would
be disposed to do anything I could for her.
It's different now from what it was an
hour ago. Go on, Mr. Prince ; and I
most sincerely hope she may come out
of the inquiry without the shadow of
blame."

I sincerely hope so," said Prince,
rising. Luncheon was over by this time.
Now, the first thing I should like, is
to have a look at the place  at this Crescent
House, as you call it."

Alfred and O'Brien got up, and in a
few minutes the three found themselves
in the hall of that house. The police were
already there.

Prince told the officers who he was and
then proceeded to make inquiries. The-following

was the state of affairs at that
time :

The inspector had been there about an
hour. He had made an elaborate, but
not exhaustive search in the room. The
body was in the position it had been found
in. An empty two-ounce bottle had been
discovered on the floor. This was the
bottle. It was labelled chloroform, smelt
of chloroform, and had no cork in it. A
cork which fitted it, and which also smelt,
although faintly, of chloroform, had been
found on the table close by the body.

In the pockets of the deceased had been
discovered a number of letters, a small sum
of money, and a pocket-book. This was
the pocket-book. It was thin, and covered
with Russia leather; it was old, and had
been but little used. It contained several
addresses, and on the first leaf was written
a date of eleven years ago. It was more-than
likely this date corresponded with

that on which the book became the property
of deceased.

Most of the memoranda in that book
could have no bearing on the present case,
as most of them had evidently been made
long ago. The last entry but one was
dated in what was believed to be the handwriting
of the deceased. It was made more
than two years ago. After this last entry
but one, a leaf was missing. A leaf had
evidently been torn out  and clumsily torn
out, too  for a jagged portion of the leaf
remained behind.

Then came the last entry of aM. This
was also apparently in the handwriting of
deceased. The writing was in pencil, and
very shaky, and for a long time could not
be deciphered. It was headed " Crescent
House." The domicile fixed the date, for
the night before was the only occasion on
which Mr. Davenport crossed the threshold
of that house. He had not even seen the

house before renting it, but took it on the
representation of an agent. The words on
this page were :

"Pretended death. Blake gone. He
emptied chloroform on me  held me down.
Can't stir. Dying."

After reading this the three men stood
aghast for a while. They looked at one
another. They looked at the inspector.
The inspector shook his head.

There's hangman's work here," he said ;
and he was about to turn away, when a
sudden thought struck Prince. He said
to the inspector :

I beg your pardon. Does that pocketbook
contain any London address of Mr.
Davenport ? "

I don't know," said the inspector ;
and I am afraid I have already shown
you too much."

"I'd be very much obliged to you if
you'd see. I represent Mrs. Davenport in
this matter, and at the moment I don't
know where to find her. She omitted to
give me her address when she left me
this afternoon. I want to write to her,
and if you find any London address of Mr.
Davenport, I'll chance directing my letter
there. That can do no harm to any one.' 7

The inspector hesitated, but at length
opened the pocket-book, and after a search,
said :

There's an address here at Jermyn
Street ; but it's six years old."

Never mind," said Prince ; " I'll risk
it. What is it?"

The inspector read it out, and Prince
took it down.

Prince, Alfred Paulton, and Jerry
O'Brien were about to leave the room,
when the first turned to the inspector,
and said :

By the way, you did not find the page
that has been torn out of the pocketbook
? "

"No," said the inspector, nodding his
head significantly ; " but there's evidence
enough on what we did find to hang a
score of men."

The three then walked to Heme Hill
railway station, and took tickets for
Ludgate. At the latter place Prince
left the two friends and went back to
his office.

Here he sat down and wrote the
following letter :

Lincoln's Inn Fields, E.C.
"Feb.  , 18.

'Dear Madam,

"By accident I got this address,
and will chance writing you here in the
hope this note may reach you.

I have been to Crescent House. A

pocket-book of the late Mr. Davenport
has been found. It contains the following
entry in the handwriting of deceased :
'Pretended death. Blake gone. He
emptied the chloroform on me  held me
down. Can't stir. Dying

"Awaiting your further instructions,
"I am, dear Madam,

Yours faithfully,

Echard PRINGLE."

This was the note which Mrs. Davenport
handed Thomas Blake as she stood over
him in her fresh widow's weeds the night
after her husband's death.

"WHICH of us is mad?"

The morning after the interview between
Mrs. Davenport and Tom Blake in Jermyn
Street, there were paragraphs about Mr.
Davenport's death in the daily papers.
These paragraphs were almost colourless,
and barely suggested any cause for uneasiness.
They all wound up by saying
that the inquest would be held next
day.

That afternoon Richard Prince calledon
chance at the house in Jermyn Street,
and found Mrs. Davenport at home.
She received him in a dreamy, half-vol

I I

conscious way, and answered listlessly
the common-place questions he put to
her. Before seeing her he had made up
his mind not to refer to the scene which
had taken place between them yesterday.
He was firmly convinced she would not
give him her full confidence, and that
to seek to get at the bottom of the
affair would be only to court obstruction.
From her manner he assumed she wished
nothing to be said of what had taken place
in the Paultons' drawing-room at Dulwich.
He began by trying to prepare her for
the inquest. She shuddered slightly when
he used that word, and yet seemed but indifferently
alive to the importance of the
situation. She answered in monosyllables,
and contented herself mostly with merely
bowing her head in token that she attended
to what he said.

No material advantage could be gained
by speaking of the former interview

between them. He had drawn his own
conclusions from it, and it was abundantly
clear to him she wished that interview
ignored. Now that he was once more
under the spell of her presence, he felt
his interest in her case rekindle, and
the charm of her beauty reasserting
itself.

One thing, however, must be spoken
of. It was absolutely necessary he should
say something of the note he had written
her last evening. He waited for a pause,
or rather caused a pause in the conversation,
for she volunteered nothing.

"Having found this Jermyn Street
address in the pocket - book of Mr.
Davenport, I sent a few lines to
you yesterday evening in the hope
they might reach you. Did you get
them ? "

This question seemed to arouse her

attention. She clasped her hands in her

i 2

lap, and, turning her face fully towards
him, answered :

Yes ; I got your note and the extract
from the pocket-book also."

She seemed perfectly cool and collected.

It would be well if you would tell
me anything you know about that entry
on the leaf of the pocket-book. It hasa
terrible significance in the case."

Her calmness now astonished him. He
had the evening before been prepared for
an explosion. He had expected to find
her completely broken down, or in a state
of high nervous excitement to-day. Upto
this she had been listless ; now she
was attentive and mute. Her face looked
paler than yesterday, but he could not
say whether this was owing to its own
loss of colour or to the effect of the
white cap or the crape round her throat.
He waited a moment with a view to

giving weight to his next question. It
was :

With regard to the memorandum made
by Mr. Davenport, is there anything you
would like to say to me ? In the face
of that memorandum, you of course know
that Mr. Blake's presence will be essential
at the inquiry."

I suppose so," she said, unmoved.
She replied to the latter part of his
speech first. " With regard to the entry
in his pocket-book, it is right you should
know that my late husband was at one
time subject to hallucinations, delusions."

And you think this writing of his
may have been the result of a delusion
or hallucination ? "

It is quite possible ; I can explain it
in no other way."

"Oh, this is a great relief! I did not
know he was subject to hallucinations.

This is a most important fact. "What
was the nature of the delusion under
which he suffered ? "

Up to this point Prince had felt in
despair. Now his interest and courage
rose.

He fancied people had formed a conspiracy
against him, and that their design
was to rob him first and then murder him."

Her enunciation was particularly distinct,
her face impassible.

This is most vital," he said. " Indeed
it may explain much that now sorely needs
explanation. You no doubt often had the
opportunity of seeing him labouring under
these ailments ?"

No  never. He has not had an attack
since we were married."

"Well, we must only do the best we
can. Do you know if there is anything
like insanity in his family ? "

Prince felt no little disappointment that

she could not personally testify to the
disease ; but he was resolved to make the
most of it.

I am not aware that there is anything
which could be called insanity in the
family. His brother is decidedly odd, and
Mr. Davenport was odd at times. For
instance, as I told you, he would never
bring old servants into a new house.
There were other little traits  some
theories he had about betting on horses,
and which I do not understand, but which
I have been told were at least fanciful."

Prince's curiosity was aroused. Outside
his profession the thing in which he took
most interest was horse-racing.

I am not sure that it can be of any
consequence ; but if you could remember
it, I should like to know what that
peculiarity in betting was."

I am not quite sure," she said ; " but
I have an indistinct recollection he made

it a rule never to bet on any horse the
name of which began with a letter lower
down in the alphabet than ' N.' '

Ah ! " said the young solicitor, in a
tone of surprise and reflection. He
resolved to look this matter up when he
got back to the office. He was still
curious. "And may I ask if you know
whether he found the system a good one ?
If he found it to fail oftener than to
succeed, and still kept to it, one might
put the persistency down to mental
obliquity."

Although he said this in a confident tone,
the words were no sooner uttered than
he began to doubt their justice, for he had
known many men who adhered to a system
which had nine times out of ten betrayed
them.

I cannot tell you. I do not know'

"If he betted heavily, you would have
been likely to hear whether he won or

lost. Of course when I say heavily, I
don't mean that he ran any danger of
crippling himself. But he must have been
elated when he won and dejected when
he lost?"

Xo. He did not bet heavily. He
never seemed to care whether he won or
lost. It was the system which he prized,
and not the wager."

Young Prince thought this was a sure
sign of a disordered mind ; but he kept
the opinion to himself, as he considered it
more a matter of private than professional
interest. He said :

I suppose Mr. Davenport could not
have been in financial embarrassment
owing to any betting transactions ? "

I am certain he was not."

"Or from any other cause?"

I am sure he was not."

This may be of the greatest value. I
beg of you to believe I am asking this.

question solely with a view to your
interest."

He paused and looked earnestly at her
for permission to go on.

She bowed.

"Have you any reason to think that
the unfortunate event which has occurred
might have been brought about by his
own act ? "

She moved her hands nervously in her
lap.

"I am not sure that I understand you."

There is nothing in your mind which
could lead you to suppose he has committed
suicide ? "

She shuddered visibly and answered ina
constrained whisper :

"Nothing  nothing whatever."

Well, Mrs. Davenport, it will be absolutely
necessary for us, in the face of the
memorandum made on the leaf of his
pocket - book, to have some theory of

what took place. Can you suggest any
theory ?"

He spoke gravely, impressively. His
personal interest in her was again growing
stronger than his professional interest
in what he now regarded as her defence.
He swore to himself that he would use not
only all his skill as an advocate, but all
his faculties as a man to extricate this
beautiful woman from the horrible position
in which he found her, and to assuage
as much as might be the pains she would
have to endure. Under the overwhelming
spell of her rich comeliness, and in front
of the evidence afforded by her presence
here this afternoon, he reproached himself
bitterly for the suspicion he had uttered
the day before as to her fleeing from the
country. It was brutal of him to think
of such a thing then, and still more brutal
of him to speak his thoughts.

She did not reply to his last question at

once. She looked at him steadily, without
flinching, but remained silent.

He spoke again, this time earnestly,
almost passionately :

Mrs. Davenport, if you give me any
theory to go on, I promise you, upon my
word of honour as a man, to make the
most I can of it. I'll leave no stone unturned
to put things in their best light.
I'll work without ceasing ; I'll do nothing
else, think of nothing else until I see you
through this ordeal. I will not ask you
again for any confidence you wish to
withhold from me. But if out of justice
to yourself you will not, out of justice tome
you must give me something to go on.
You must give me at least a theory."

He spoke to her eagerly, fiercely, and
held out his hands towards her in supplication.


She dropped her eyes a moment as if

to collect her thoughts, and then looking
straight into his face once more, said with a
slight tremor in her voice :

I have a theory ; but I am afraid
it is not one that will meet with your
approval."

"If it is the best you can give me,
trust me to do the best that can be done
with it. But, for heaven's sake, give me
the best one you can. Give me a chance.
All I want is a chance to show you my
devotion  to your interests."

He felt he was being carried away by
the irresistible magic of her eyes. He
paused after the w T ord " devotion," and
spoke the final phrase of his speech in a
less fervent tone, to modify by matter and
manner what had gone before.

There is," she said, unclasping and
then clasping her hands again, " but one
theory possible in the case. As I told

you a moment ago, Mr. Davenport was
at one period of his life subject to delusions
"

Pardon me," interrupted Prince ; "you
said awhile ago that you had no experience
of your own as to this infirmity. I assume
we shall be able to produce evidence to
prove that ? "

Undoubtedly there will be evidence."

"May I ask from whom we are to expect
this evidence ? Mr. Davenport's brother ?
He knows all about it, I suppose ? "

No, not Mr. Davenport's brother. I
am not sure that Mr. Edward Davenport
ever knew anything about it."

That is unfortunate, since, so far as
I understand, Mr. Edward Davenport is
the late Mr. Davenport's only surviving
relative."

"He is. But at the time when Mr.
Davenport had those seizures he was.
abroad, on the Continent. For many years

of his life Mr. Davenport did not live in
the United Kingdoms. When I first knew
him he had just come home after travelling
for a long time in America and Europe.
Although I am not quite sure, I think upto
a very short time before I met him
he had been out of the country most of
his life. He was not very communicative
about the past, or indeed on any subject.
It was while he was staying for a time
in Florence he had these attacks of
hallucination  "

And the evidence we can command is
that of an eye-witness ? " broke in Prince.

Certainly."

The inquest will be tomorrow. May
I not have the name of the witness ?
There is no time to be lost. In fact, this
evidence, this extremely important evidence,
comes very late. I am sorry I did
not hear of it before. But we must do
the best we can with it." >

He spoke in a voice of deep concern.

There was a reason why you did not
hear of this evidence earlier. You asked
me to give you my theory, Had I not
better do so before going into other
matters ? "

She raised her clasped hands slightly
from her lap in faint protest.

"I beg your pardon for interrupting
you. By all means let me have the theory
first. My anxiety betrayed me into asking
questions which ought to have been
deferred."

He was filled with admiration of this
woman who could keep so closely to the
point, and with shame for himself for his
unthrifty straying from .it.

"As you are no doubt aware, chloroform
affects different people in different ways.
A little of it will kill some people ; a large
quantity will scarcely affect others. Many
under its influence become delirious nd



rave. At certain periods, while under the
power of chloroform, one may be relieved
of pain, conscious of surrounding things,
capable of moving, and yet delirious. The
theory I would suggest is that Mr. Davenport
inhaled some chloroform to ease a
spasm of asthma, that he became delirious,
that he had a return of his old hallucination,
then wrote what was found on the
leaf torn from the book, and while endeavouring
to administer a second dose to
himself, spilled the contents of the bottle
over his beard and chest."

Her words came in as calm and measured
a way as though she were speaking on an
abstract subject to an indifferent audience.

As she went on, Prince's admiration
gave way to amazement. A scientific witness
could not be more unmoved. Was
it possible this superb woman opposite him
had been explaining to him in these cold,
measured accents her way of accounting for

VOL. I. K

the death of a husband who had been alive
and without any immediate danger of death
a couple of days ago, and who had since
died a death which was, to say the least
of it, provocative of inquiry ?

He leaned back in his chair, sighed
thoughtfully, and knit his brows. He
cleared his throat once or twice to speak,
but remained silent. He felt dull and
heavy, as though something oppressed his
chest.

That is my theory  the only possible
theory," she said, leaning forward and
looking quietly into his face, without any
change in the expression of her own.

He shook himself slightly, looked perplexed,
not satisfied. At last he spoke :

And what evidence have we in support
of this supposition ? "

She leaned back in her chair and whispered,
"None."

He started, sat up, and looked at her

keenly. He drew down his brows over his
eyes as though the light hurt him.

"I am afraid," said he, "such a theory
would not stand without most substantial
testimony. No jury would give a satisfactory
verdict on a mere statement such
as that, for, you see, there are the last
words written by the deceased. 5 ' Until
this moment he had not used that cold,
formless word " deceased" to her. But
he felt now that he was regarding the
matter in a purely professional way, and
that so was she. In a moment he continued,
laying impressively significant
emphasis on his words : " How are we
to explain the fact of Mr. Blake's name
appearing on that piece of paper ? "

"Mr. Blake," she said, half-closing
her eyes as though she was weary, " was
the last person he saw before his death,
and, when the delirium came upon him,
he naturally introduced the name of Mr

k 2

Blake as being that of the person most
immediate to his memory."

What ! " cried Prince, starting up
off his chair and leaning towards her,
"Do we admit he was there ? "

He could scarcely contain himself for
astonishment. He looked at her as
though he expected to find her transformed
into the person of Blake himself.


"Undoubtedly," she said, opening her
eyes slowly and looking up at him.
Mr. Blake was there a little while before
Mr. Davenport died."

Prince groaned, ran his fingers excitedly
through his hair, and began pacing
the room up and down hastily.

After a dozen turns, he stopped in front
of her chair.

"When did you learn that your late
husband had had hallucinations ? "

"Last night."

"Last night only! Who told you?"

"Mr. Blake."

Mr. Blake ! Mr. Blake ! And who saw
your husband when he was suffering from
these hallucinations ? "

"Mr. Blake."

"And is he the witness we have as to
the hallucinations ? "

"Yes."

Merciful heavens ! Which of us is
mad? Where did you meet this Blake?"

"I wrote to him to come here, and he
came."

You ivrote him to come here ! Heaven
help you  heaven help you ! It is you who
are mad."

And he hastened out of the room.

THE ELDER Single SPEAKS.

"When Richard Prince reached the street,
he set off at a rapid walk for Lincoln's
Inn Fields. His thoughts and feelings
were too much disturbed for reasoning.
The dialogue of the past hour hurried
through his brain in an incoherent, inconsequential
mass. In the intense excitement
of the last few minutes, he
had told her she was mad, and he
almost believed it. He had known from
the previous day that Blake had been
at Crescent House on the night of
Mr. Davenport's death. He had most

plainly, most impressively given . her to
understand that he knew it. She must
have seen plainly then he attached most
disastrous importance to that visit of her
former lover. Since then the leaf torn
out of the pocket-book had been discovered.
On that leaf appeared a deliberate
accusation of murder in the handwriting
of the dead man against Blake. That,
in all reason, was sufficiently serious ;
but worse followed. She had the day
after her husband's death asked this
man Blake to visit her !

From Blake she had, Prince felt not
the least doubt, adopted that elaborate
and childish theory of the fatal event.
Blake had told her in that interview a
thing neither she nor his brother had

o

ever known before  namely, that the
deceased man had at one time, and
to Blake's personal knowledge, suffered
from mental aberration of a kind which

would exactly explain away that damnatory
writing on the paper  if any one
could believe Blake's story ! The whole
affair was simply monstrous. If he viewed
the matter from a purely professional point
of view, he would have been heartily sorry
he ever connected himself with it. But he
could not regard the case solely as a matter
between client and solicitor. He was under
the spell of this woman, and he could not,
if he would, and he would not if he could,
escape. Only one thing was clear to his
mind now, and that took the form of
muttered words :

There will be business for the hangman
in this affaire''

When he arrived at the office lie found
his father in, and having locked the door
of the private room, he communicated to
the old man the substance of the interview
which had just been brought 'to a
close.

His father listened to the recital with
the most circumstantial patience. When
the son had finished his tale, and wound
up with the opinion that some one was
going to swing for the matter, the father,
to the son's unspeakable astonishment,,
looked up cheerfully, and said :

"lam not at all sure of that, Dick  not
at all."

Bless my soul, father, where do you
see the way out of it ? "

I can't say," said the elder man, " that
I see my way out of it; but I am sure
they do. Just run over the facts briefly :
This woman was formerly in love with
Blake ; Blake is bought off by old Davenport,
and Davenport marries the beauty.
After years, the married couple come to
London, and put up by themselves in a
detached house. That night the old lover
visits the house, and shortly after he leaves,
the wife raises an alarm, and the husband

is found dead. The doctor called in is
not fully satisfied, and hints that the man
has been killed by chloroform  a drug
frequently used by deceased. The widow
finds shelter in a neighbour's house. While
there, she is given to understand by her
attorney that it is supposed her old lover
was in the house within a short time of
the death, and that death is believed to
have arisen from chloroform, not asthma.
Upon this she displays great emotion, and
declines to give any further information.
She leaves the neighbour's house that
afternoon, and goes to a house in which
she stayed about six years ago when in
London with her husband. From that
house she sends for her old lover, and
has an interview with him. Meantime a
document is found in the handwriting of
deceased, saying her old lover has poisoned
him (deceased). Her solicitor sends a
copy of this document to her. Next day

solicitor calls upon her, and finds her quite
calm. She explains her theory of her husband's
death, and attributes the document
mentioned to hallucination, from which she
alleges deceased suffered earlier in life, and
that death was the result of accidentally
spilling the chloroform by deceased. That's
the case, as far as I can make it out. Am
I right, Dick ? "

"Yes, sir  quite right."

At the first glance it's a strong case."

"Did you ever, short of eye-witnesses,
see a stronger ? "

I've seen a lot of cases in my time 
a lot of cases. Wait a bit, Dick, until we
have another look at it. A motive lies on
the very surface ; nothing could be plainer
than the motive implied by the case. It
is : the old lover poisons the husband in
order that the woman may be free to marry
him. A money motive may turn up later
on ; if we may find that the widow is

rich. Dick, I am getting to be an old man
now, and I give you one piece of advice ,
lest I may forget it : Always suspect a.
case where the motive is glaringly obvious.
Now, the two survivors in this affair are
people of good education, good position
and intelligence, are they not ? "

Most assuredly, sir."

Neither of the two is an idiot ? "

I am greatly afraid, father, that the
lady's reason is affected."

'Observe, Dick, I did not ask you
whether both are sane or mad. But is
either of them an idiot  a drivelling
idiot  whom you would not leave alone
in a room where there was a fire or a
razor ? "

No, no ! They are both, as far as I
know  I never saw him  rational on the
surface, anyway. But I fear the strain
has been too much for Mrs. Davenport."

"Never mind about that. She may for

my purpose be as mad as she likes, so long
as she is not a drivelling idiot. Now,
supposing either of them had committed
the crime of murder in this case, do you
suppose that until drivelling idiocy had
been fully established in one or the other,
either of them would behave in such a
childish way as you describe ? Why, it
would shame any Bedlamite in Europe for
rank silliness ! The man who tried to
cool a red-hot poker in a barrel of
gunpowder would be only a little rash
compared with either of these two, if, as
you seem to suppose, either is responsible
for the dead man's death."

The younger man's face brightened.

Then you think, sir, there is still good
reason to hope ? "

I am sure there is no reason to do anything
else. This Mrs. Davenport, at your
first interview, trusts you fully up to a

certain point, and then suddenly refuses
to give you any more confidence. At your
second interview she gives you all, and
more than all, the confidence you require.
What has wrought that change ? She has
seen the old lover. She is acting upon
his advice. She has given you a great
deal of confidence, but she has not told
you everything. She is keeping back the
most important piece of all."

What is that ? "

"The line of his and her defence. He
will, of course, be professionally represented
at the inquest. There will be some one therefor
him, anyhow. I am firmly convinced
he has an unanswerable and startling
defence. If I were you I should take
every precaution I could for the protection
of my client ; but I feel fully assured he
will clear up the whole case. Now runaway.
I've got in another batch of those

MilliDoton deeds, and I want to get
through them by dinner-time. Will you
be home to dinner ? "

I don't think so, sir. I'll run out
to Dulwich and see if there is anything
new.

When young Prince found himself at
Dulwich he went to Carlingford House ;
for he knew that the folk there, especially
Alfred, would be anxious to hear the
news, and this analysis of the case by his
father had put him in good heart.

The day was fine and mild for the
season. As he entered the garden of
Carlingford House, he saw, through a
tall wicket gateway, two elderly men
walking in the grounds at the rear. One
of these he recognised as Mr. Paulton ;
the other was a stranger to him.

He passed through the wicket gateway
into the back garden. Just as he did so
the two men faced fully round, and Mr.

Paulton cried out, as lie hastened towards
the solicitor :

Mr. Prince, you are the very man
we want. We were this minute talking of
you. Mr. Davenport, this is Mr. Prince,
who has kindly consented, at our request,
to act in this unhappy affair as solicitor
for Mrs. Davenport."

Sir," said the dead man's brother,
bowing low, " I am very glad to make
your acquaintance. I hope you find
yourself in the enjoyment of good
health."

"I am quite well, thank you," said
Prince, somewhat taken aback by the
old-fashioned formality of the other.

The man who stood in front of him
was a square-made, thick-set, low sized
man of close on sixty years of age. His
hair was black and long and lank, profusely
oiled, and hung down on the collar
of his coat and shoulders. He did not

wear beard, whiskers, or moustaches. His
complexion was a lifeless sallow; his skin
wrinkled, his nose aquiline, and narrow at
the top ; his mouth weak and uncertain,
with thin, bloodless lips ; his gait half-mincing,
half-pompous ; his voice half-suave,
half raucous. His eyes were large
and prominent, and of a filmy, hazel colour.
As Prince looked at the new-comer, he
thought : " If he weren't so broad, he'd
look like a dyspeptic mummy'

I have just finished telling Mr,
Davenport all I heard about this sad
affair, and I suppose you, Mr. Prince,
can now add something to where I left
off? Mr. Davenport is most anxious to
know everything."

Young Prince had then for the second
time to go over the main features of what
had taken place since he was at Dulwich
last. Of course he was much more
reticent than he had been with his father,

VOL. I. L

and repeated nothing of what had passed
between Mrs. Davenport and himself. It
was Jerry O'Brien who had first introduced
Blake's name into the case. Mr.
Paulton had told Mr. Davenport all he
knew, without adopting the precaution of
finding out how the brother of the deadman
felt towards the widow.

Prince had therefore no hesitation in
saying that he had seen Mrs. Davenport,
and that she, of course, would be present
at the inquest tomorrow. He also said
he had heard Thomas Blake would be
present. He told Mr. Davenport that if
he wished to call upon the widow, her
address was at his disposal.

Mr. Davenport drew himself up hurriedly,
and looking furiously at Prince
from head to foot, as though the solicitor
was the cause of all the misfortunes, cried,
while his lips, hands, and legs were
trembling :

"1  / go near her! Are you mad,
young sir ? Have you taken leave of
your senses, or are you jeering at me ?
I go near my brother's murderess ! Do
you take me for a conspirator too ? Do
you think I am another Blake ? I pity
you, sir. An attorney, quotha ! A man
of your trade ought to have some little
discrimination. You are for her, young
sir ! Look you : If justice can be had on
this earth, by any and all means in my
power these two shall hang side by side
on the same gibbet, and keep the company
of each other on the road to hell, and in
hell everlastingly ; " and, foaming at the
mouth, he dashed away from the astonished
pair and rushed into the house.

The inquest was to be held next day at
noon.

L 2

CHAPTER XL

MRS. DAVENPORT WAS CALLED.

The remainder of that afternoon and the
early part of next day were devoted by
young Prince to arranging details for
the inquest. He would have attached but
little importance to the wild words and
manner of Mr. Edward Davenport if there
had not been other very strong elements,
of suspicion in the case. There was matter
for more than grave suspicion  there was
matter for absolute alarm. The theory
for the defence set up by Mrs. Davenport
was puerile in the extreme, and yet he
could not make any other fit in with the

admitted facts of the case. Upon deliberate
consideration, he thought less of
his father's exposition than he had at first.
His father might be right, but his father's
conviction went no further than a supposititious
negative. In logic one could
not prove a negative ; in law there was
no prohibition. An overwhelming alibi
would insure an acquittal, but an alibi
was impossible in this case ; and by what
other means was it possible to establish a
negative ?

He was anxious to ascertain one thing :
Would Blake be arrested before or during
the inquest ? He made inquiries, and
found that, although Blake's address was
known and detectives were watching him,
no arrest would be made before the coroner
had taken some evidence. Prince had
no interest in Blake beyond the extent to
which he affected Mrs. Davenport's case.
But that was a great deal. If Blake's

mouth were shut, Mrs. Davenport's defence
would, he thought, be simpler.

The day of the inquest Prince went
to Jermyn Street, and took Mrs, Davenport
to Dulwich. She was taciturn the
whole way, and said she had nothing
to add to what she had communicated
yesterday. She hardly spoke a word
the whole way from Jermyn Street to
Heme Hill. Prince's spirits became more
depressed as they journeyed together,
but he had made up his mind to fight
the case out to the last.

The inquest was to be held at the
"Wolfdog Inn," and when Prince and
Mrs, Davenport arrived there, a large
crowd had already assembled, although
the proceedings would not begin for sometime.
Prince had engaged a private
room for Mrs. Davenport, and to it she
retired immediately on their arrival.

It was evident from the manner of

those assembled in and near the " Wolf-dog,"
that the approaching inquiry was
regarded with great interest, and that
popular feeling was aroused against the
newly-made widow.

Mrs. Davenport had entered by a back
way, and had not been observed by the
loungers. No one in the crowd knew
her ; but, of course, if she had passed
through it, she would have been recognised
instantly by her fresh weeds.

For a while young Prince stood on the
steps of the inn, and the broken snatches
of conversation which he overheard did
not help to cheer or inspirit him : he
would have taken little or no heed of
the idle talk floating in and out of the
door had he felt merely a professional
interest in this woman; but he had just
left her; he had been with her for
nearly an hour, and although few words
had passed between them in that time,

the spell of her physical beauty had
reasserted itself, and his chivalry was up
in arms for her.

While Prince was standing on the
steps of the inn, Dr. Santley and
Alfred Paulton came up. They had
walked with one another from Half Moon
Lane.

"Well," said the latter, addressing
Prince, " any good news ? "

The solicitor shook his head and
answered :

Nothing fresh." {

"I thought," said Paulton, in a tone '
of disappointment, " that Jerry O'Brien
would be with you. Is he not come ?
He said he would be here to-day."

"I have not seen him," said Prince.
I came out with Mrs. Davenport. She
is upstairs in a private room. Do you
know anything of Blake ? Have you met
him on the way ? "

"Perhaps," said Dr. Santley grimly,
"he is cultivating the acquaintance of the
police."

The speakers had moved out of earshot
of the crowd.

"No," said Prince, "I have ascertained
that he will not be touched until after
this day's work, anyway."

As the solicitor ceased speaking, two
other men approached. They, too, were
walking together ; but as they drew near
the " Wolfdog," one of them moved off to
the right, and went towards the inn
door ; the other held on towards the three
men. The latter was Jerry O'Brien.
When he came up with the little group,
and had shaken hands with them, Prince
asked :

"Who was that you were with as you
came up the road?"

"What! Don't you all know him?
Why, who could it be but Tom Blake ? "

Significant looks passed between the
three men. Paulton was the first to
speak :

"You don't mean to say, Jerry, that

you have "

"Indeed I have. I met him on the
platform at Victoria, and we came out
in the same compartment together."

Jerry O'Brien seemed as much astonished
at what he had done as his friends.

"But," urged Paulton, "you gave him
the worst of characters the day before
yesterday, and said he had something todo
with this awful affair. Since then
things have grown blacker against him,
and yet you don't cut him ! You come
out here arm-in-arm with him to the very
inquest where you say he will have to
answer the ugliest questions which can be
put to a man ! "

I bar only one thing in what you have
said, Alfred. I did not walk out with him

arm-in-arm. I met him quite accidentally
at Victoria. I told you I should be hereat
the inquest. I was on my way here.
I no more expected to see him than the
man in the moon. He pounced on me
suddenly, and rushed me. As a rule, I
can take care of myself, but I admit I am
no match for Blake. I am not sure I ever
met his match. Look here, Prince ; I
know you're a first-rate fellow at your
work. You're not as old as you might be,
but you're one of the best men in England
for this kind of a job. However, if you
have to tackle Tom Blake, he'll give you
as much as you want."

Jerry O'Brien spoke with heightened
colour, and in a tone of intense irritation.

This opinion was not unwelcome to
Prince's ears, for he knew that, no matter
how big a scoundrel Blake might be, he
would say nothing to inculpate Mrs.
Davenport.

"What is this Blake's manner?" asked
Prince.

Perfectly self-possessed, cool and
audacious."

Is he venturesome ? M

He'd play for his boots or his shirt,
and then for his skin."

"Do you think, O'Brien, he'll get out
of this with a whole skin ? "

He may, for you are not his lawyer,"
said O'Brien, with a laugh.

It is an old form of joke," said the
attorney, with a smile. " Do you know
if he has got legal assistance ? "

Legal assistance ! " cried O'Brien, scornfully.
" Not he. He laughed when telling
me some fellows said he ought to get legal
assistance. Why, my dear Prince, he'd
give the best of you thirty out of a
hundred, and win the game by making
you give misses. When is this thing to
begin ? "

"Presently. Have you any notion of
what he is going to say at the inquest ? "

I asked him. I told him the paper
found in the handwriting of the deceased
would be very awkward."

"What did he say?"

"That it looked very awkward, no
doubt ; but that many people got into
awkward positions and got out of them
again."

I asked him had he been summoned
as a witness, and he said naturally he had,
as he was the last person who saw the
dead man alive."

"By Jove, O'Brien! Go on."

I asked him how he thought the death
occurred. He said that was beyond him
to say. He had no doubt it was accidental,
and that the memorandum on the piece
of paper written under the influence of
delirium might be an idea created by
chloroform, or while suffering from a relapse

of the old disease which seized him at
Florence years ago."

The same story identically. Did he
say anything more ? "

"Yes. I asked him did anything unpleasant
occur between himself and Mr.
Davenport that night ? "

What did he say to that ? " eagerly
asked the attorney.

He looked at me doubtfully for a
moment. c O'brien he said, c you know
more about this than the outside public.
You are interested in it ? ' I said I was
interested in it very indirectly. 'Very
well, then,' said he, ' I'm going to the
inquest. You come with me and then you
shall hear the truth as far as 1 know
it'"

"This put me in a queer fix. I had
not up to this told him I was on my way
to this place. I could not keep the fact
any longer to myself, so I told him I

expected to find friends here, nothing
more ; and I asked him if I might communicate
the substance of what he had
said to them. He gave me full liberty.
After all this, you will see I could not
very well shake him off. When we got
here he shook himself off. Mrs. Davenport's
name was never mentioned by either of
us. He did not show the least curiosity
when I said I took an indirect interest
in the case."

A few minutes after this the four men
moved into the inn, and the coroner having
arrived, the jury were sworn, and after returning
from Crescent House, the business
of taking evidence began.

After formal identification of the body
by Mr. Edward Davenport, the witness
examined was Alfred Paulton. He told
his story simply and briefly, and answered
the questions of the coroner and jury with
precision. When what may be regarded

as the examination-inches was over, Mr.
Bertram Spencer, legal representative of
Mr. Edward Davenport, put a few questions
through the coroner. Paulton's replies were
in effect :

No, he had never seen Mr. Davenport
alive. When Dr. Santley and he entered
the room where Mr. Davenport lay, deceased
was then dead. At least, so he believed.
He had no acquaintance with the effects
of chloroform. He had never been in the
room with a dead person before. Mrs.
Davenport, upon his invitation, accompanied
him to his father's house, also in
Half Moon Lane. Paulton was asked a
few more questions, but nothing new came
out.

Dr. Santley was then examined. He
stated that Mr. Paulton called him on
the morning of the death. That he went
immediately, as he happened to be dressed
and disengaged at the time. He found

Mr. Davenport quite dead. He thought
life had been extinct for an hour or so ;
it was impossible to say accurately. The
body was not cold. He was familiar with
cases of spasmodic asthma. Practically
it never killed directly ; that is, one never
died of the spasm. In a spasm, the heart,
or head, or lungs, or aorta might give way,
causing death. He had never known a
case of death from spasmodic asthma, pure
and simple.

He was, of course, familiar with chloroform
as an anaesthetic. He had once seen
a case of poisoning by chloroform. That
case was accidental. Chloroform was frequently
used as a palliative in severe cases
of asthma. A small quantity sprinkled on
a napkin or handkerchief and held close
to the nose and mouth very often afforded
temporary relief. This treatment had no
effect on the disease beyond mitigating the
violence or putting an end to the spasm.

VOL. I. M

Chloroform should always be administered
with great care, as it had frequently been
known to cause death. In the present case
he found no napkin or handkerchief lying
near the body. In administering chloroform
for spasmodic asthma, the usual way
was to fold a napkin so that when open
it would resemble rudely a funnel. Into
the sharper end of the funnel the chloroform
was dropped, and then the mouth and
nose of the patient thrust into the more
open end. The handkerchief of deceased
showed no trace of being used in the
administration of chloroform, nor did either
of the napkins found in the room. There
was a very strong smell of chloroform
about the place, and a large, a very large
quantity had been spilled over the beard
and shirt and waistcoat of deceased. The
bottle produced was what was known asa
two-ounce bottle. The full of it, or half
the full of it would, if sprinkled over the

shirt and beard and waistcoat, in all likelihood
cause death, provided the natural
course of the vapour upwards towards the
mouth and nostrils was not interfered with.
He could form no certain opinion as to
the cause of death. He had declined to
certify because he did not know. He
would prefer giving no opinion. The
brain, or aorta, or heart might have
given way without displaying any external
symptom. If the lungs had yielded, there
would no doubt have been an outward
sign. In deaths by chloroform he was
not acquainted with any infallible outward
sign. A post-mortem examination
would, he thought, determine the cause of
death.

A few questions were then put on behalf
of Mrs. Davenport. The case of poisoning
by chloroform which had come directly
under his notice was unquestionably
accidental. A man who suffered acutely

m 2

from neuralgia was in the habit of using
chloroform to allay pain. He was found
dead in his bed one morning with an
empty bottle, which had contained an
ounce of the drug, by the side of his face
and partly under the clothes. It was
possible, but very unlikely, that in the
present case the bottle might have been
accidentally emptied by deceased. Chloroform
was denser than water, and would
not run out of such a bottle very quickly.
It was most unlikely that any man in
possession of his senses would allow an
ounce and a half of that fluid to escape
from such a bottle and fall on his beard
and chest. Assuming he was recumbent
at the time, he would be obliged to hold
the bottle on a level with his eyes in
order to pour the spirit on his beard, and
he would have to hold the bottle in that
position for an appreciable time. In his

opinion, the poison had not got on
deceased accidentally.

Up to this point the questions had all
been put through the coroner. Now
Prince suggested that it would be for
the convenience of all concerned if he
himself might, by favour of the coroner,
directly interrogate the witness. This was
agreed to, the coroner, before proceeding
any further, giving notice that no further
evidence 'Would be taken that day, and
that as soon as Dr. Santley's evidence was
concluded, the inquiry would be adjourned
pending the result of the post-mortem
examination.

At this announcement Mr. Prince expressed
the greatest surprise. He had
been curious to learn why the medical
evidence had been gone into so early in
the case. But knowing the coroner always
acted with the greatest tact and judgment,

he had made no remark at the time. For
his part, he believed such a course, if
followed, would be found very inconvenient.


Mrs. Davenport, in whose interest he
was watching the case, was particularly-anxious
to be examined to-day, as she
felt the strain of expectation in such an
ordeal very great.

The coroner said if Mrs. Davenport was
anxious to be examined he should be
happy to take her evidence.

In that case Mr. Prince begged as a
favour that he might be allowed to reserve
the few questions he had to ask Dr.
Santley until after Mrs. Davenport had
been examined. To this also, after a little
show of resistance, the coroner acceded.

Prince had resolved to have her evidence
taken to-day at any risk. Several
reasons urged him to this determination.
It would look better, or, rather, less badin

the eyes of the public to state that
in a week's time her strength would be
diminished by waiting and anxiety ; and to
get her examined thus, after the point at
which the coroner had intended practically
to close the evidence for that day would,
he felt certain, tend to mitigate the rigours
of the examination.

Mrs. Davenport was called.

ANOTHER WITNESS.

There was a slight commotion in the dingy-room
when this woman with the lovely
figure and beautiful head and face entered.
The coroner straightened himself and
looked at her under his spectacles. The
jury leaned forward and stared, and the
few members of the general public who
had succeeded in gaining admission to the
room strained their necks and shuffled
their feet.

She advanced quietly to the table at
which the coroner sat, with the jury on
his right, and having thrown back her

thick widow's veil and unloved her right
hand, took the Book and kissed it when
the proper moment for doing so arrived.
The coroner pointed to a chair, and told
her she might be seated. She simply
bowed and remained standing.

She was pale, rigid, collected. The
coroner busied himself with the pens, ink,
and paper before him for a little while,
and then asked her to tell them all she
knew of the night and event under consideration.


When she spoke her voice was clear
.and firm  as free from emotion as though
she was repeating an old task by rote.
The earlier portions of what she said maybe
partly omitted, for they have been
already related to Alfred Paulton and
Richard Prince. For the sake of conciseness,
the remainder of the evidence taken
that day will, in the case of each witness,
follow the order of events in narrative

form, and not the order of events as
given by the witnesses.

She and her husband arrived at
Crescent House the night he died. He
was not so well as usual, but she had
known the asthma more troublesome.
They had supper together. He ate more
sparingly than usual. They were alone in
the house. He decided upon resting on
the couch all night. No room but her
sleeping room was in anything like order.
She was tired after the journey. They
had come from Chester that day. Her
husband suggested she should go to bed.
At about ten o'clock she went to her
room, but resolved not to lie down yet,
as she was anxious about her husband,
and resolved to see him once more, and
put more coal on the fire before retiring
finally. She sat down in a chair, and,
being overcome with fatigue and drowsiness,
fell asleep. She had no means of

telling exactly when she fell asleep, but
she thought she must have been about
twenty minutes in her room before she
grew unconscious.

"Close to midnight she awoke with a
start. It must have been the opening of
the dining-room door that aroused her.
She had left her bed-room door ajar, and
the carpets not being down, sounds were
exaggerated and travelled far.

She listened and heard voices  the
voices of two people, two men. She knew
the two voices. One was that of her
husband  the other that of Mr. Thomas
Blake. Both voices seemed friendly, but
she did not catch the words. Shortly
after she heard Mr. Blake distinctly say
Good-night,' and her husband answer
Good-night, Blake She was quite
positive these were the words spoken,
and that the tones were friendly  yes,
she was prepared to swear, cordial. Then

she heard a man's footstep on the uncarpeted
boards of the hall, and in a
moment the front door was closed.

"Some time elapsed before she went
down  half-an-hour, or perhaps a little
more. She had a reason for not going
down immediately. From the time the
front door was shut until she went down
she had not heard a sound, not the
faintest sound, in the house. A slight
noise arising in the dining-room, where
she had left Mr. Davenport, would be
inaudible to her ; but she felt almost
certain no one could in that interval of
time enter or leave the house without
her hearing him.

"At twenty minutes past twelve she
descended and crept cautiously into the
dining-room, wishing not to disturb her
husband if he should be sleeping. Her
husband was reclining on the couch in
very nearly the same attitude she had

left him ; it was such as he always took
when his cough prevented his lying
down.

She believed he was sleeping, and stood
gazing at him for a few seconds. Then,
becoming uneasy, she did not know why,
she called him several times, and failing
to arouse him with her voice, she placed
her hand on his shoulder. She now
became grievously alarmed, for he had
always been a remarkably light sleeper.
She listened for his breathing, but could
hear nothing.

After a few moments she became terrified,
desperate, and, going to the front door,
opened it and attracted the attention of
Mr. Paulton, who in a short time brought
Dr. Santley, who said he was dead.

Yes ; she identified that bottle. It was
the one in which her husband used to keep
chloroform. He had the bottle always by
him. When she left him to go to her

room that night two hours earlier the
bottle was more than three-quarters full
of chloroform, and the cork was in it.
Thirty or forty drops was the quantity
her husband generally used at a time.
He always spilled the chloroform into a
napkin formed into a rude resemblance of
a cornucopia, and then inhaled it. To
her knowledge, he never used the drug
internally, nor in any way but that
described.

"I have known Mr. Thomas Blake for
many years. We were once secretly
engaged to be married, but my father
broke the matter off, and I married Mr.
Davenport, who was much older than I 
twenty-five or twenty-six years older.
When Mr. Blake was a very young man
he met Mr. Davenport abroad, so my
late husband told me. It was Mr. Blake
introduced my late husband to me. At
that time Mr. Blake and I were secretly

engaged. After this engagement was known
to my father and broken off by him, as
far as his forbidding me to see Mr. Blake,
I still communicated with Mr. Blake and
received letters from him. These were
surreptitious communications.

Mr. Davenport then proposed to me
and I refused him. Shortly after this
I received a letter from Mr. flake, saying
there was no use in our continuing too



hope w T e should one day be married, as
neither of us had any money or the chance
of getting any, and consequently we ought
to make up our minds to resign ourselves
to fate. Shortly after this Mr. Davenport
proposed to me again and I accepted him.
We were married a few months later, and
have most of the time since then resided
at Mr. Davenport's place near Kilcash, in
the county of Waterford.

"The terms upon which Mr. Blake gave
me up will be told you by himself. I

had nothing to do with that bargain.
After an absence of a little time from
Ireland, Mr. Blake came back and stayed
occasionally in Kilcash, close to which my
husband's house was. I saw little of
Mr. Blake. My husband met him now
and then. In those days I believe Mr.
Blake gave me up solely for the reason
mentioned in the letter of which I have
spoken. Subsequently I found out other
considerations had been working in Mr.
Blake's mind.

"My marriage with Mr. Davenport was
not a love-match. A variety of reasons
urged me into marrying him. Among
these reasons I cannot count love. I have
diligently, conscientiously done my duty
by him for ten years. I never pretended
or professed to love him. I respected his
moral code, but his social and intellectual
faculties did not impress, did not interest
me, and certainly did not gain my esteem.

We Lived in peace and comfort. He
never once quarrelled with me  I never
with him.

"I said I had a reason for not going
down immediately after Mr. Blake left
the house the other night. My reason
was that generally after a visit from Mr.
Blake, Mr. Davenport was unpleasantly
excited with, as I even then thought, a
lingering feeling of jealousy. At such
times he never said anything harsh or
unpleasant of Mr. Blake or of myself,
but he was certain to become feverishly
angry with some one or other ; and believing
that after such a journey, and with
so bad a cough, it would be injurious to
him to excite himself unduly, I kept back
awhile.

I had the strongest possible objection
to having this unhappy occurrence made
the object of official inquiry or public
comment. I would not have spoken as

VOL. I. n

I have since I came in here for any other
consideration in the world than my inability
to tell anything that is not true.

I would not swear anything that was
not true to save my life ; no, nor to save
the life of any one living or any one who
has lived. You ask me did I not perjure
myself when I swore at the altar to love
my late husband. I say I did not. When
I took that oath I meant to keep it. I
meant to try and love him with all my
I will not say heart  with all my reason,
if such an expression may be allowed.
I was fully honest when I took the oath.
When you do all you can to carry out
your promise, and yet fail in the end,
there is no flaw. One cannot control the
inevitable.

Now that all is known, all my recent
life laid bare, who is the richer ? Does
anv one wonder I had no liking to expose
what has been told of since I came into

this place ? You, Mr. Edward Davenport,
have, in the moment of her sorest trial,
done all you could to injure the character
of your brother's wife. You had not the
courage to attack her openly when she
was a widow, but must shamble and crouch
behind a hireling advocate  a creature who
would pocket as clean the gold of any one
even more leprous than himself."

And before the coroner could collect himself,
or stay her by gesture, sbe had swept
out of the room.

From beginning to end her voice had
never altered in pitch. The concluding
words were spoken in the same manner
as those of the opening. Hence when
the import of her final words began to
reach the minds of the hearers, she had
finished, and was in the act of leaving
the room. Her words " shamble " and
"crouch" were peculiarly applicable to
Edward Davenport at the time, for no

N 2

sooner did she begin her reference to him
than she pointed him out, and he instinctively
shrank behind his solicitor,
to whom he had been prompting questions
most offensive.

When the murmur which followed the
disappearance of Mrs. Davenport had subsided,
and the coroner had somewhat
recovered from his astonishment, Thomas
Blake stood up, stepped forward to the
table, and, laying his hand on it, said :

I am the last person who saw Mr.
Louis Davenport alive. I desire to be
examined."

BLAKE S EVIDENCE.

When Blake stood up and tendered his
testimony, a murmur of ugly import ran
through the room. In all there were not
more than fifty people present, but the
fifty were typical of the general public,
and already feeling ran high against
Blake.

He looked around contemptuously,
defiantly. At one moment it seemed as
though he was about to laugh outright.
The public can endure anything better
than derision. The murmur grew to a
groan. Silence was called in a tyrannical

tone. The coroner pushed his spectacles
up on his forehead, and regarded Blake
steadfastly for a few seconds.

A square-built man, of medium height,
stood before the judge. His hair was
short, crisp, grizzled. He wore his hat
jauntily in front of his waistcoat, and
had an eye-glass fixed in his left eye. In
the hand which held his hat he carried a
stout oak stick. His hat was a soft felt
one ; his clothes light, coarse tweed, of
pepper-and-salt colour. His brow was
firm, low, and handsome ; his complexion
iiorid, the colour of his eyes bright blue.
He wore no hair on his face but heavy,
grizzled mustachios. His boots were
patent leather. He was unloved.

The coroner, an old and venerable-looking
man, viewed Blake with anything
but favour.

"Do I understand you to say, sir, that

you are the person who saw deceased last
before his death ? "

This was said in a grave, monitory-tone.


So I believe," said Blake, lightly ;
and as I am most anxious to tell all I
know, I should like to be examined before
the adjournment."

I had determined to take no more
evidence to-day than would warrant mein
adjourning until a post-mortem examination
could be made."

Well, if you examine me, it may save
the police trouble."

The coroner looked at the inspector who
w T as watching the case, and then at Prince
and Bertram Spencer, who were watching
the case for the widow and brother of the
deceased. The inspector looked down and
smiled ; Prince looked up at the ceiling
in unpleasant doubt ; but Spencer, who

represented Mr. Edward Davenport, was
urgent that Blake should be heard. The
public were also anxious Blake should be
examined. The public were athirst for
blood or scandal. In this case the publie
was unwashed and evil-visaged. Even the
jury, who were not there by choice, had
a forbidding, ghoul-like, and clayey look.
The coroner was scrupulously clean. He
was blanched and ghostly. Alfred Paulton
looked like one suffering from a hideous
nightmare. The inspector was grim, sardonic,
rigid ; the coroner s clerk sullen
and sleepy, and seemed to think the
last thing which in fairness ought to
trouble a coroner's clerk was a coroner's
inquest.

In that dull, saddened room, lit by the
wan February light, the only bright-looking
figure or face was that of Thomas
Blake, upon whom rested a strong suspicion
of murder.

After some talk and thought, the coroner
resolved to take Thomas Blake's evidence,
and having cautioned the witness, which
made the witness smile in a way that provoked
the public, he took down Blake's
version of the story. Again it will
be most convenient to throw the evidence
into the form of uninterrupted
narrative :

I am now thirty-six years of age. I
have known the late Mr. Davenport for
many years. I knew him abroad before
I met him in Ireland. It was in Florence
that I met him first. I was introduced
to him by an American gentleman, a
sculptor by profession. I saw a good
deal of Mr. Davenport when I was in
Florence. I am now speaking of eleven
or twelve years ago. While I was on
friendly terms with him in that city his
mind was affected. He suffered from a
delusion that there was a conspiracy to

kill and rob him. He usually at that
time carried valuable jewels and considerable
sums of money on his person. I
often advised him to give up that habit,
but my words for some time produced no
effect on him. Then, all at once, they
seemed to operate, and he turned on me
and said, with great fury, that if there
were danger to his property or person he
had no one to fear but me.

At that time I was a needy man, and
I had borrowed money of him, which I
have never repaid. That is so. During
the time Mr. Davenport was ill  was
suffering from this delusion or suspicion
I was constantly with him. I do not
think he disclosed to any one but me
the delusions or suspicions he was under.
When he recovered he made me swear
most solemnly I would never tell a soul.
Then he lent me, or, if you prefer it, gave
me, more money, and left Florence, and

I lost sight of him until I met him in
Ireland.

I do not consider my conduct in that
matter dishonourable. I had done him a
service by minding him and keeping his
malady private, and he gave me money
for my services. Yes, and for my silence,
if you like.

"I do not know whether my conduct
would be considered gentlemanly. I am
not here to give an opinion, but to state
facts. If an opinion of gentlemanly conduct
is required, why not have an attorney's
clerk from the purlieus of Lincoln's Inn
Fields as an expert ? I beg your pardon,
sir, I should not have used such words,
but I heard that question suggested by
Mr. Davenport.

I did not again see the late Mr.
Davenport on the Continent. The next
time we met was in Ireland. Yes ; at
that time I was paying attentions to

Mrs. Davenport, who was then Miss
Butler. When the deceased came on the
scene, Miss Butler and I were secretly
engaged to one another  engaged to one
another without the knowledge of Miss
Butler's father. I was then practically
without means or the reasonable expectation
of getting any ; but, then, few young
men in such a position are very particular
as to whether the expectation is reasonable
or not. If they expect, that is enough
for them."

Then the witness gave evidence in these
line as that of the widow. While
this part of the inquiry was progressing,
a light rain began to fall. The evidence
of Blake went on :

"It was I who broke off the engagement
between Miss Butler and myself. By the
time that occurred, Mr. Butler had discovered
the existence of the private
engagement. He was very indignant, and

forbade me his house. This was at
Scrouthea, Mr. Butler's place in the county
of Cork.

I took no notice of Mr. Butler's prohibition.
I communicated with Miss
Butler as often as I thought fit and could
find an opportunity. But at this time I
began to feel there would be no chance of
our ever marrying. The opposition of
Mr. Butler continued undiminished. Mr.
Davenport did not cease to importune,
and at that time I lost the last money I
had in the world on a horse.

It was not purely matters of prudence
that made me desist in my suit. I saw
now quite plainly there was no use in my
continuing to hope. Persistence would
only waste the lives of both of us. All
this time Mr. Davenport and I were on
speaking terms. I was in no fear of his
supplanting me in the affections of Miss
Butler, and he was in abject fear of me.

His fear of me arose from the power
I had of telling of the seizure to which
I had seen him subjected in Florence.
Like all men who are a little odd, his
great aversion was from being thought
odd, and the notion of any one suspecting
him of insanity filled him with absolute
horror.

To be brief, I told him I had lost the
last shilling I had in the world, and that
consequently I had made up my mind
Miss Butler and I could never more be
anything else but friends, and that I
would leave the country if I had the
means. He asked me to say nothing
about what I had seen in Florence, shook
me by the hand, and lent or gave me a
thousand pounds. With that thousand
pounds I went out of the country. Before
leaving, I wrote to Miss Butler saying all
must be at an end between us because of

my poverty, arising from my loss on the
Turf.

How much did I lose on the horse ?
Let me see. All I had. How much was
that ? Let me see again. About seven
hundred and fifty pounds."

But when Mr. Davenport had given
you the thousand pounds, you were better
off than before the race. Why, then, did
you renounce Miss Butler ? "

"Yes, no doubt, I was even better off;
but do you think I could honourably
employ this man's money in taking away
from him the woman he loved ? "

And do you think it was honourable
for you to give her up, and take hush
money from your rival ? "

"I am here, as I said before, to state
facts, not to give opinions. When gentlemen
want opinions, they hire lawyers to
give them."

You gave up the lady to whom you
were engaged, and black-mailed your
friend for a thousand pounds ? "

I give up the facts to you. It is
the duty of the attorney to embellish
them. I am not, Mr. Coroner, bound
to answer questions which are simply
rhetorical."

The coroner merely shook his head, and
the evidence went on :

From the day I bade Mr. Davenport
good-bye in Ireland, ten years ago, until
the day of his death, I often saw Mr.
Davenport, and spoke to him."

And you heard from him ? You received
communications from him ? "

"Yes."

"And money?"

Yes, from time to time I received
money from him by letter."

Was that money black mail ? "

"I wrote him saying I was in want

of money, and he sent me money accompanied
by friendly letters. You are at
liberty to call it what you like. If you
search his papers, no doubt you will find
my letters to him. -I did not keep copies
of them, nor did I keep his replies.

Yes ; I had an object in calling on
him the night he died. I had heard he
was in London, or coming to London,
and I got the address in Dulwich. I
had business with him. It was to get
more money from him. You may say
extract more money from him ' if you like.

I knocked at the door. He opened
it himself. He complained of his asthma,
said there was no servant in the house,
and that Mrs. Davenport had gone to bed.
He asked me to go into the dining-room,
which I found as has been described, and
we sat and chatted for some time in a
most agreeable manner. We talked of
indifferent things. Of course we spoke

VOL. I. O

of Mrs. Davenport. He said, in talking
of her, that although theirs had not been
a love-match, they had got on wonderfully
well together, and that he was quite happy,
and he believed she was contented. He
asked how long I purposed staying in
London, and I said only a few days.
Then he invited me to call on Mrs.
Davenport and himself when they were
in better trim "

What  what is that you say ? " shouted
Mr. Edward Davenport, starting to his
feet and gesticulating wildly. "It's perjury
 wilful and corrupt perjury ! "

It was with the greatest difficulty
Bertram Spencer could prevail upon his
client to resume his seat and keep silent.
After a while Blake was allowed to continue
his evidence :

I promised to come the next evening
but one, and he said that would suit
them admirably. Then he smiled and

said he was sure this was not merely a
visit of ceremony, and that he supposed I
would allow him to be of any use I chose.
I told him he was quite right, that I
had no money, and that two hundred
pounds would be of the greatest service
to me at that moment. He said he had
not so much by him, but that he would
give me a hundred now and another hundred
when I called the next day but
one. ' That will be,' said he, ' the 19th
of February.' He added that he'd make
a memorandum of it, and he did so in
the pocket-book which has been produced
here by the police. After that nothing
passed but ' Good-nights ' on both sides,
and then I went away, closing the front
door after me."

Here reference was made to the pocketbook,
but no such entry as that described
could be found. There was no such entry
in the book.

o 2

Then, having cautioned the witness again,
the coroner said two leaves of the book
had been torn out, one of which had been
found. On the leaf found appeared words
of the gravest import. They were :

Pretended death. Blake gone. He
emptied chloroform over me  held me
down. Can't stir. Dying."

Could witness give any explanation of
this?

"No; I can give no explanation of
that writing. It is perfectly untrue.
When I left the presence of the man
now dead he seemed to be in as good
health as his asthma would allow. My
only way of accounting for what followed
is that, after my leaving, he administered
some chloroform to himself. This disturbed
his reason, and he suffered from
a return of the old delusion he had suffered
in Florence "

And of which you are the only living
person who knows, or ever did know,
anything ? "

Yes."

And further ? "

And further, that while suffering under
this delusion, and being greatly excited
and rendered tremulous by it, he accidentally
spilled the remainder of the chloroform
over himself'

He did not show any suicidal tendency,
or say anything of suicide while you were
present ? "

"No ; on the contrary, he seemed in
very good spirits, and spoke quite cheerfully
of the future. By-the-way, I forgot
to mention one saying of his. When
asking me to come and see Mrs. Davenport
and himself on the 19th, he said, 'You
know I am not afraid of a rival now.
We are none of us as young as we were

ten years ago, and if you have kept single
with the notion of marrying a rich widow
she will be rich, Blake  yon will have
a weary time to wait ; for asthma gives
a long lease to life."

Here the inquiry was adjourned for four
days in order to give time for the >o,<tf-
mortem examination.

As the people began to leave their
places, Richard Prince whispered to Jerry
O'Brien :

"That man Blake has put his head into
the halter and kicked away the barrel
from under his feet."

When Prince and O'Brien got out of
that room in the "Wolfdog," they looked
everywhere for Alfred Paulton. He was
not to be found. He had disappeared,
leaving no word or trace behind him.

As Blake left the inn, two men, dressed
like stable-helpers, came up to him and

said they arrested him on suspicion of
being concerned in the murder of the late
Mr. Louis Davenport.

The rain was now falling in torrents.

ALFRED Carlton's WALK.

It was now pitch dark. The rain rushed
downward through the still air in overwhelming
sheets. Through the leafless
trees it fell with a shrill, constant hiss.
On the open road it beat with a loud
dull rolling sound, sometimes like the dull
murmur of distant traffic, sometimes like,
the distant roar of a mighty concourse of
people.

Out beyond the lamps of the town there
was not a glimmer of light to be seen anywhere.
If one turned one's face upwards,
the source of the rain seemed not to be

more than a few feet overhead. If one
turned one's face to the ground, a thick
heavy vapour, born of the shattered drops,
rose warm against one's mouth and eyes.
There was no noise abroad but that of'
the incessant deluge. If it had abated
or increased, one would have thought it
was the result of a thunder-storm. But
it did not alter in character or decree.
It was a constant torrent, not a fitful
flood.

It was between six and seven o'clock
when Alfred Paulton found himself walking
on a lonely road under this fierce downpour.
How he got there he did not know.
He had a confused memory of what had
taken place within the past few hours.
He had no clue whatever to where he
now was. He had no more than a blurred
image of the scene in that low, dingy, delighted
room at the " "Wolfdog Inn." Even
when Mrs. Davenport was giving evidence

his attention had been but feebly aroused
He had felt drowsy, jaded. He then told
himself that it would be much better for
him to go home and have some rest and
sleep. He had been without proper sleep
for three nights. He had been too much
excited to get to sleep soundly, and when
for a time he fell into an uneasy doze y
he had awakened with a shudder and a
start from some dire form of nightmare,
in which familiar forms and faces had been
cruelly jumbled in hideous events.

But on this unknown road, and now,
after wandering he knew not how long
all at once he was smitten with a sharp
impression of his present situation. He
moved his eyes this way and that in quick
anxiety. It is not possible to say he
looked in the sense that looking takes in
objects by means of sight. He could hear
and feel the rain, and smell the heavy
damp vapour rising from the ground, from

the flooded road at his feet. But if sight
had been painlessly taken from him at that
moment, he would have been unconscious
of loss.

A feeling of desolation and infrangible
solitude came upon him.

He paused in his walk and listened.
His ears caught nothing but the muffled
hiss of the rain through the air, the angry-beat
of it among the leafless trees, and
the slashing singing of it on the flooded
ground. The effect of it was an awful
combination of the darkness of the grave,,
an inviolate solitude, and a deluge lacking
merciful power to overwhelm.

He would have greeted any companion
with joy. The society of the humblest
beast, the most abject man, would have-cheered
him almost beyond the bounds of
reason.

The completeness of his isolation was
not due merely to external forces combined

with physical and mental exhaustion.
The hollow spaces of his imagination
were filled with ghostly hints of an
unendurable crime. In the caverns of his
thought was no pageant of people or of
things. No words or echoes of words
sounded through the dim, deplorable
vaults. Everywhere within there was the
look of sacrilege by bloodshed, the faint
unendurable replication of dying groans.
The marks of a red hand were on all the
walls, the last moans of a murdered man
filled the concave gloom.

He had heard that man Brake give his
evidence freely, almost jauntily. He had
seen that other man lying dead in the
disordered room. As he had listened to
the evidence of Blake, he had felt the air
about his head grow cold with awe, while
his whole frame froze with terror. All
the people in the room where that accursed
tale was told believed instinctively that this

man, talking with such odious glibness, was
a perjurer and an assassin.

Ugh ! It was horrible  too horrible fora
sane human being to dwell upon ! He
would give all he had in the world to
be able to banish the memory of the past
few days from his mind. But a curse
had fallen upon him, and now no other
event of all his life would stay with him
for one brief minute to keep him away from
this awful scene.

When in that room where the inquest
was held he had felt very cold. Now he
was hot, uncomfortably hot. This was
strange ; for there he had been under
cover, and there had been a fire in the
room. Here not only was he in the open
aii, but under a fierce downpour of rain.
Indeed it was one of the greatest storms
of rain he had ever been out in. The
rain was useful in one way  it would cool
him.

Ah, that was much better ! To take
off his hat and let the cool rain beat on
his bare head was a luxury  a delicious
luxury. It was indeed a luxury such ashe
had wished for in vain a little while
ago ; for it not only took away the great,
unaccountable heat from which he would
otherwise have suffered most severely, but,
better a thousandfold, it kept his mind
from running on the events of a few days
back, and this day in particular. The
effect of rain falling on his bare head was
to banish thought from the brain, and give
the brain rest.

What an extraordinary thing the brain
was ! Awhile ago he had been able to
recall hardly any of the circumstances of
the inquest ; then they all rushed into his
mind, causing him great disquietude ; and
now the mere falling of rain on his uncovered
head had put him into a wholesome
and almost pleasant state of mind !

The heat was gradually getting less.
Yes, there could be no mistake about
that. A few minutes since it seemed as
though it would take hours to reduce the
temperature to the degree it had already
reached. Keeping the hat off was no
longer necessary. In fact, it was no
longer comfortable to go uncovered. He
would put on his hat.

He was wet through now  thoroughly
wet. He must have been soaked before
that great heat came upon him. It was
very extraordinary that he should feel so
hot while the water was absolutely running
down under his clothes.

Ah, a chill now ! Unmistakably a chill,
and he could see no sign of human habitation
anywhere  no place which could
afford him shelter. In fact, he could
make nothing whatever out except the
rain, and that was revealed to him by
the sense of touch, not by the sense of

sight. How cold the rain was, too ! He
had never felt rain so cold. The air
must then be twenty degrees colder than
it had been a few minutes ago. He had
never until now experienced so sudden a
fall of temperature.

He was shivering, too. His teeth were
chattering. How delighted he would be
to find any kind of shelter, and a good
fire to warm himself at ! This was very
lonely and wretched. He was hardly able
to walk now, and yet with his present
chill anything was better than to stand.
The thought of sitting down was out of
the question. No one but a madman
would sit down in such rain, and with
clothes soaked through. He had been
miserably wrong to uncover his head for
so Ions: a time. To that foolish act must
be attributed this chill. Ugh ! he was
barely able to stagger along. This was

the most dismal night he had ever passed
in all his life.

But uncovering his head to the rain
was not the only foolish thing he had
done this night. Had he not wandered
sillily along some roads  he knew not
where  until he had lost his way ? Now
he was far from lamplight  where he knew
not ; whither to turn he could not decide
if he had a choice. At present he every
now and then ran up against the hedge,
and this was the only thing which told
him he was walking on a road.

He wondered what o'clock it was. When
did he leave that dreadful room where
the inquest had been held? He could
not tell, but it was the moment Blake's
evidence was over. The moment Blake
moved from the table at which the coroner
sat, he had stolen away, and, he thought,
run a good while, until he was out of

VOL. i. p

breath. How long that was since he
could not tell  could not guess.

Merciful Heavens ! Suppose the night
was yet young  suppose it was now no
more than midnight, or eleven, or ten
o'clock  what was to become of him %
There would be no daylight until close to
seven. Could it be that he would have
to wander on thus for eight or ten hours
more ? The thought was absurd. He
should drop down of exhaustion, of cold,
long before that time.

Cold ! Why, what could be the meaning
of this ? Already the feeling of
cold was passing away, and he felt quite
warm  very hot. This was an improvement
on the sensation a little while
ago.

No matter whether he felt hot or cold
now, this day had done him one invaluable
service. It had cured him of any
romantic feeling he had had for that

strangely beautiful woman. Now all that
had happened in that room where the
inquest had been held came back vividly
to him. Murder had been done, and
there could be no doubt in the mind of
any reasonable man that Blake had done

the awful deed, and that she No,

no ; he mustn't think that even now. It
was plain, at all events, that Blake had
once been loved by her, and there was
nothing to show that she was now indifferent
to Blake. Had she not supported
his absurd theory respecting the death of
the man who had been murdered ?

The heat was becoming bad again 
worse than ever. His head was burning.
It felt as though a cap of tight-fitting
metal pressed upon it. The cold of a
little time back was hard to endure, but
it seemed a positive pleasure compared
with this awful sensation of bursting at

the temples. He must have relief someway,
any way, no matter at what cost
in the future.

Off with the hat again. The rain did
not cool so quickly or so effectually, but
it afforded great alleviation. There was no
positive sense of pleasure from it now 
only a dulling, deadening of a feeling which
was not exactly pain, but gave rise to a
helpless, lethargic state of brain.

His limbs w r ere heavier than they had
yet seemed, and he had great difficulty
in persuading himself that the water
which rose no higher than an inch on
the road was not tenacious mud half a
foot deep.

Keep on thus for several hours ! Impossible
! One might as well expect to
walk for the same time on red-hot ploughshares.


Oh, he felt sick and weary beyond
endurance ! No light to be seen  nothing

whatever visible. And along this road
no succour was likely to come, while the
rain poured down as though a second
destruction of earth by water was at
hand.

What !  cold again so soon ! Distracting
! Maddening !

Ah, this was fever  fever of some awful
kind  and no help at hand. He could
not keep on another hour. Bah !  not
half-an-hour.

Merciful heavens, what was this ? Lights
and the sounds of horses and the shouts of
men !

He felt himself knocked down. With a
prodigious effort he staggered to his feet
and cried out :

Help !  for heavens sake, help ! "

Succour had arrived at the last moment.


I SHALL BE READY FOR MY DEATH WHEN
THEY ARE READY FOR IT ! "

That evening, when Richard Prince ascertained
Alfred Paulton had left the " Wolf-dog
Inn," he came to the conclusion that
he had hastened home with an account
of the day's proceedings. He resolved to
go and seek Mrs. Davenport at once.

He had ordered a carriage to be in
readiness to take her and him back to
London. Since she had finished giving
her evidence, she had remained in the
private room upstairs. The rain was
now falling heavily.

As the solicitor stood on the doorstep
under the portico bidding Jerry O'Brien
good-evening, he saw the two men, who
looked like stable-helpers, go up to Tom
Blake and speak to him. He had noticed
these men during the day, and when he
saw them speak to Blake, he knew what
their business with him was.

On a motion from one of the two, a cab
drew up a little way from the door of the
inn. Tom Blake and the two men got
into it, and the cab drove off. Then
Prince went back into the inn, spoke a
few words to the police inspector, and
sent up word to Mrs. Davenport that he
and the carriage were ready.

In a few minutes she came down, looking
as calm and impassible as ever. With
some commonplace remarks about the rain,
he handed her in, and then took his seat
beside her.

For a while they drove in perfect silence

She broke it by asking what had occurred
since she left the room downstairs.

He briefly told her the substance of
Blake's evidence, softening down the sentimental
portions as far as they had relation
to herself, but setting forth fully and fairly
the salient points of his history.

She listened without a word. She had
heard the coroner say the inquiry would
not close that day. She therefore knew
nothing final was to be decided immediately.
But although Prince knew she
was aware of this, he was surprised that
upon his ending she said nothing, made
no comment, seemed but sparingly interested,
although she listened with attention.
At last he thought best to volunteer
something.

(i I am afraid," he said, " that although
we may be able to corroborate every word
of Mr. Blake's, as far as facts are concerned,

ilia hypothesis will not have much influence
with the jury."

Why ? "

"Did you know Mr. Blake got money
from Mr. Davenport on the very night of
the 17th?"

In the darkness of the carriage here,
he was free from the spell of her
beauty, and spoke in a purely professional
tone.

"I did," she answered. "Mr. Blake
told me."

That admission took me by surprise.
It would greatly facilitate the discharge
of my duty towards you if you would
even now take me a little more fully into
your confidence."

There is nothing farther to tell 
nothing further to conceal," she said, ina
slow, emotionless voice.

He threw himself back, and did not

speak at once. At length he moved
uneasily in his place, and said, after
deliberation :

I appealed to you once, and cautioned
you several times. I may now tell you,
as a matter of certainty, not as a matter
of my own personal opinion, but of
ascertained fact, that the theory of what
I must now call the defence will not
stand a trial, and that a trial there will be."

I have nothing to add," she said, in
an unmoved tone.

Up to this I have not told you the
most unpleasant, the most significant and
alarming fact of all."

What is that ? "  in the same voice.

"I hope you will try and face the
horrible position with fortitude. I spoke
of a trial as now inevitable."

You mean something more than this
inquest ? "  in the same tone, but a little
more deliberately.

"Yes. This is only an inquiry into
the place, time, and cause of death. No
one is on trial for a crime as yet."

"You mean"  without any variation in
accent  " that some one will be tried for
the murder of my late husband ? "

He was silent.

She put her next question in a perfectly
old and steady manner :

"You mean that I will be tried for the
murder of my late husband ? "

Great heavens  no ! " he cried, throwing
himself forward with a violent start.
Who put such a monstrous thought
into your head ? "

Although the thought had frequently
occurred to him, from her lips, and now,
it came to him with a powerful shock.

"You."

I  I put such a thought into your
head ! Mrs. Davenport, you cannot mean
what you say ? It is too dreadful ! "

I will not say you ever put the thought
in as precise words as I have used ; but
at our first meeting it was in your mind,
and at our first meeting it entered my
mind that you considered it at all events
possible that I might be tried for the
murder of my husband. You need not
be afraid of shocking me. Nothing can
shock me now. What is the important
fact you are keeping back ? I wish to
know it at once."

Mr. Blake has been arrested this
evening:. He was arrested as he left the
'Wolfdog Inn'"

Is that all ? "

All ! Why, it is a matter of life and
death with him, as things now look. He
must have been mad to give the evidence
he did to-day."

And when am I to be arrested ? Or
perhaps I am already arrested, and the
driver is a policeman ? "

No, no. Nor is there, as far as I can
see, a likelihood of anything so horrible
taking place."

Neither the trial nor the scaffold would
have the least horror for me now, I shall
be ready for my death when they are
ready for it. This is my place  for the
present, at all events."

They had arrived in Jermyn Street,
and she alighted.

THE Verdict.

It was a strange room, large and bright and
fresh. The air of it was cool without being
cold. After all, was it a strange room ?
Had he not seen it, or something like it,
before ! But perhaps it was in a dream
he had seen that other room. A dream ?
Much of what had been resembled a dream.
Did not all the past look like a dream ?
How was one to know whether the past
had been dream or reality ? He could
not say. At all events, he was too tired
to decide any difficult question. He would
go to sleep now  at least he would shut

his eyes. That bright, cold glitter of
winter sunlight pained his eyes.

If before falling asleep, and while his
eyes were thus closed and his body at
rest, he could get a drink of cool, sweet
water, how deliciously refreshing it would
be!

How hot he was ! It wasn't an agreeable
kind of heat, but a dull, dead,
smouldering heat that parched his skin,
his tongue, his bones, his marrow.

Why, it was hotter than it had been
last night on the road !

On the road ! Last night ! What did
all that mean ? Oh, he was too tired to
think any more. Let him try to rest 
to sleep.

Dusk. Yes, there could be no doubt
the daylight was fading. At this time
of the year the days were short. He
had been asleep some time, for the last
thing he remembered was that it was

full daylight. He was then in some
difficulty as to this room. He was under
the impression it was a strange room.
Could a more absurd idea enter the mind of
man ? Is it possible he could not identify
his own bed-room ? What would come
next ? What should he forget next t
His own name, no doubt.

The thirst continued. It was even
greater than it had been. He could
get water if he went to the dressing-table.
But, strange as it might seem, he
had the greatest desire to go to the table
and drink the water, but not the will.
How was that ? Why did he not spring
out of bed and quench his thirst?

It was easy to think of springing out
of bed, but quite impossible to do anything
of the kind. Why, he could not
move his feet or hands with ease. Ah,
yes, it was quite plain ! He had been
ill  very ill. That would account for

all  for the confusion in awaking, the
thirst, the weakness. How long had he
been ill, and what had ailed him ?

This thirst was no longer tolerable. He
must drink.

Water ! "

How thin and weak his voice sounded !
It was almost ridiculous. If anything
could ever again be ridiculous, his voice
was. But nothing could ever again be
ridiculous. Everything was serious and
dull, and would so continue from that
time forward. It was strange no one
came. If he had been ill they would
hardly leave him alone. He must try
again.

Water ! "

Instantly a figure stood between his eyes
and the fading light in the window.

"You are better, Alfred?"

"Yes, Madge. Water."

His sister poured out some, and handed

VOL. 1. Q

him the glass. He drank with avidity,,
and felt refreshed.

I have been very ill, Madge ? "

Yes, Alfred ; but you will be all right
in a short time, now that you have begun
to mend. So Dr. Santley says."

Dr. Santley ! Ah, that name set memory
afoot. He lay pondering, still unable to
see distinctly the matters he wished.

How long have I been ill, Madge \ "

Several days."

I have been unconscious ? "

Yes. But you are sure to be quite
well in a little time."

"I am not anxious about the future.
I am trying to recall the past."

"You are not to speak much, and you
are on no account to excite yourself."

I must be in possession of the facts
of the past before I can rest. Tell me
what has happened  what happened just

"before I fell ill ? I have had fever, and
been delirious. "

You have ; but you must keep quiet,
or I shall go away."

I must know what took place before
my illness, if I am to be at ease. There
was some trouble about the law  some
inquiry. What was it ? "

Dr. Santley has forbidden me to speak
of that matter. You have been very ill,
and your recovery depends on your keeping
from excitement."

I must know. I shall become delirious
again if you do not tell me."

My dear, dear Alfred, I cannot  I must
not. You don t fancy for a moment I
am going to help you back into illness !
You shall know all in a little time ; and
now I must run away and tell father
and mother and Edith of the good change
in you."

Q 2

"Send Edith to me, or mother. Either
will tell me."

"You are not to see any one but me
to clay until Dr. Santley comes. There's
a dear fellow  rest content until I come
back to you. Already you have talked
too much."

She left the room in spite of his cry
of protest and entreaty.

In a slow, hopeless, helpless way his mind
began working again. Little by little some
figures of the past reappeared, but not the
central one, the main incident. He knew
an event of eminent unpleasantness had
occurred, and he knew it did not concern
any member of his own family. He knew
it did not concern himself closely, and yet
that he had a profound interest in it.
Santley was mixed up with it in one
way or another, but how he could not
tell. The law had been invoked ; but in
what manner or in whose regard was

concealed from him. He had a faint
memory of a crowded room. Only one
figure stood out boldly, and that Tom
Blake's. He knew his name, and could
describe him with minute accuracy ; but
why this man and his name were so
clearly defined in his recollection he could
not tell. Around Blake shone a fierce
light ; but whence it came or why it was
there he could not say. He felt Blake
had to do with the legal matter ; but in
what relation or capacity he could not
determine.

At length he resolved to give up trying
to solve the riddle, and to go to sleep
again. It seemed better to go asleep and
forget everything than to lie awake remembering
imperfectly.

A shaded lamp was burning in the room
when he again awoke. His mind was
now more vigorous and clear. Still there
was great confusion and uncertainty. He

called, and his sister Madge got up and
came to him with a basin of arrowroot.
She told him that Dr. Santley had called
and seen him while he slept, and that
he was going on very well indeed, but
that there was no use in his asking
questions ; and, in fact, that he was not
to talk at all, but rest perfectly quiet,
take his food and go to sleep again 
sleep and food being his chief needs now.

Young Paulton protested and expostulated,
but in vain ; so he was left in
the same state of vague uncertainty which
he was in when he awoke.

Next morning, as soon as he opened his
eyes, all that had been lost came back to
him in a flash. Nothing was wanting.
The repose of the night and the food had
invigorated his brain, and allowed it to
fill in the gaps which existed the night
before.

Madge was not in the room when he

awoke. The moment she came back he
said :

My memory was quite cloudy yesterday
; it is as clear as ever it was to-day.
I now remember everything. I can recall
my walk in the rain. How long have I
been ill ? "

"This is the sixth day."

"The sixth day! Good heavens! Six
days ! Then the inquest is over ? "

"Yes. You must not talk much or
excite yourself at all. You may, however,
talk a little more than yesterday, for you
are getting on famously.' '

"For goodness' sake, tell me about the
inquest, and don't talk of me and my
health. No, I won't taste breakfast until
you tell me. What was the verdict ? "

"Dr. Santley said you might be
answered questions to-day if you promised
not to excite yourself. Do you promise
to keep calm, Alfred ? "

Oh, yes. Go on."

"The verdict was that he committed
suicide while of unsound mind."

Suicide while of unsound mind ! Are
you sure ? "

Oh, perfectly."

Does Santley know the verdict ? "

Of course."

And what does he say ? "

That it is the most extraordinary case
he ever read or heard of."

JERRY O'BRIEN'S PROPHECY.

When Dr. Santley called that day, he
found his patient in a state of agitation.
Madge Paulton had given her brother an
outline of the proceedings at the second
sitting of the inquest; but she could not
tell him all, and she considered it would
be injudicious, to say the least of it, to
read a report of the trial aloud to him
until she got permission from the doctor.
Besides, the report was gruesome and
full of technicalities.

No sooner had Dr. Santley entered
the sick room than Alfred began a string

of impatient and somewhat incoherent
questions; so Santley thought it better
to allay the excitement at the expense
of a little fatigue to his patient, still he
absolutely forbade the long report to be
read to him.

"But," said the doctor, "there is a
leading article in the paper, and the
middle paragraph of that gives briefly an
account of the case from the point at
which the enthralling interest begins. You
may read that aloud to your brother,
Miss Paulton, and then T insist upon his
remaining almost silent for the remainder
of the day."

When Santley was gone, Madge fetched
the newspaper, and read aloud :

"We now reach the most extraordinary
point in this extraordinary case. The
evidence here is sufficient to convince
the most incredulous. Beyond all doubt,
when Mr. Blake left the house there was

nothing unusual the matter with the
deceased unfortunate gentleman. After
that it would seem that he must have
had an attack of the old mania respecting
which Mr. Blake gave evidence.
While under this morbid influence he
must have conceived the idea of committing
suicide, for he wrote on one
leaf of his pocket-book these words :

C I will not endure this any longer.
They have conspired to rob and murder
me. But I will evade them for good. In
ten seconds more I shall empty the chloroform
on my beard. In twenty minutes
I shall be dead.  Louis Davenport

"This is unmistakably in the handwriting
of the deceased. The piece of paper on
which it is written corresponds with a
blank in Mr. Davenport's pocket-book.
The writing was done with a metal pencil,
and the paper is remarkably tough. When
he had finished the writing, he carried

out his threat of spilling the chloroform-over
his beard and waistcoat. Between
this and the time during which the drug
began to exercise its fatal influence he
must have changed his mind, not, indeed,
as regards suicide, but as regards his
confession ; for he swallowed the piece
of paper on which the confession was
written, and wrote on another leaf in-the
same book these words :

"pretended death. Blake gone. Her
emptied chloroform on me. Cant stir
Dying'

"At the post-mortem examination the
former paper was produced. It had been
masticated and swallowed. The other leaf
of the pocket-book had been found in the
waistcoat-pocket of deceased. The certainty
of the former leaf having been
written first rests on the fact that the-latter

leaf has on it a faint but sufficient
trace of the writing on the former, the
degree of force used in writing the longer
communication being sufficient to mark
the leaf following. The post - mortem
clearly proved that chloroform was the
cause of death."

This was astonishing news. By it not
only was all shadow of suspicion removed
from Mrs. Davenport, but Blake was vindicated.
The stories told by Mrs. Davenport
and Blake had been confirmed in
the most amazing and unexpected manner.
It seemed little short, if at all short, of a
miracle. This strange account of deceased's
mental illness in Florence was true. Who
placed any value whatever on it when it
was given by Blake on oath ? It then
seemed nothing better than an audacious
and unnecessary lie. It had turned Alfred
sick while he listened to it. As he heard
that self-possessed, aggressive man give

evidence, be felt the toils closing round
the unhappy woman. Now, in all likelihood,
these toils had for ever vanished
into air, and Mrs. Davenport was as free
from suspicion of complicity in her husband's
murder as though the two had never
in all their lives met.

He asked his sister if she knew anything
about Mrs. Davenport. Madge had
an idea that Mrs. Davenport was still
staying at Jermyn Street. Young Paulton
asked nothing about Blake. He was not
concerned about him.

It was very hard to be obliged to lie

inactive here while He paused

to think. While what ? That question
staggered him. The interest in the inquest
was all over, and no other trial was
likely to arise out of the matter. Accident
had for a while connected him with
some affairs of Mrs. Davenport, and now
that accident was at an end. There was no

longer any chance of his being of use to
her. Nothing could be more natural than
that she had forgotten him by this time.
In the excitement and heat of that ordeal
there was nothing more likely than that
she should forget him absolutely.

But the case was different with him.
He could not forget her. He could never
forget her  no, not if he lived a hundred
years. Were they destined to meet never
again ? That was a dreary question to ask
and have to leave un answered, while he lay
weak and powerless here.

He should get well no doubt in time,
but this in time was such a weary, dead,
tedious thing. It would be infinitely depressing
and irksome to have to live here
day after day pulling up strength. How
was it possible for him to recover if
his mind were haunted by doubts and
anxieties ?

Doubts about what ? Anxieties about

whom ? He was not in love with this
woman. The notion of being in love with
her was absurd. He had seen her but on
three occasions, and then the meetings had
been brief and full of anything but tenderness.
He had heard and thought much of
her in the few days since their first meeting.
He should never forget their first
meeting. Could he ever blot out from his
memory the regal beauty and pose of her
as she stood in that dreary hall and pointed
out the room in which her husband lay
dead ? Ah, well, nothing could come of
such thinking now !

He wondered where was Blake at this
moment, while he lay there on his back
looking at the thin light of the February
day. However, there was nothing for it
but to submit. He was too weak to stand.
He must try and rest contented for a while.
But Dr. Santley did not think he would be
able to move about for a month, and even

then not much, as the weather would be
greatly against him.

He was this day allowed to see his
family for a little while. Before his father
left the room he had got his promise
to call at Jermyn Street and make inquiries.
Next evening his father came
up to his room. He had called at Jermyn
Street, and seen Mrs. Davenport. She
was quite well : was sorry to hear Alfred
had been ill. Mr. Prince had told her.
Her plans were not quite settled, but she
thought she should leave London for the
Continent in a few days. She did not
say what part of the Continent she purposed
going to. That was all.

The person outside the family whom
Alfred wished to see first was Jerry
O'Brien ; and, for reasons of friendliness
towards Alfred, and of something a good
deal more than friendliness towards Madge
Paulton, Jerry was not slow to come.

VOL. I. R

The younger Paultons were not remarkable
for beauty. The father was much
better-looking than the son  the mother
than either of the daughters. Father and
mother were both decidedly good-looking.
Alfred was of the average size of man,
upright, well-made, healthy-looking when
in health, fresh-coloured, with light hair
and beard touched here and there with
red, full blue eyes, long nose, white, broad
forehead, and useful, large, well-formed
hands. He was good-tempered, easygoing,
affectionate ; but when once roused
or awakened, he was impetuous, headlong,
and anything but clear-headed.

Edith, the elder sister, was short, plump,
saucy, often pert, blue-eyed, brown-haired,
resolute, aggressive at times, sprightly,
short-nosed, with small feet and hands,
and no mean opinion of herself, inclined
to be discontented, and to under-estimate
others.

Madge was tall, thin, dull-complexioned,
quiet, unselfish, undemonstrative, good-natured,
brown-eyed, and not good-looking
by any means. Her amiability was extraordinary,
her sympathy vast. Jerry
O'Brien was not a lady's man. He held
that sort of person in contempt. But of
one thing he was quite sure  that he was
disposed, anxious, to be one lady's man,
and that lady was Madge Paulton.

As soon as Alfred and Jerry were alone,
the former began making inquiries about
Mrs. Davenport.

She's in Jermyn Street yet," said Jerry.
I saw her this morning as I came along.
I don't think they have let Blake out of
gaol yet. It's a pity they ever should
do so. I don't think there could be any
act of Christian charity more acceptable
to heaven than to hang him. I'd do it
myself with pleasure if I could manage it
without touching the blackguard's neck.

The gallows never lost such a chance as
this was. Why, during the first day of
the inquest I could hear them knocking
the nails into a gibbet, and now, or in a
day or two, he will be a free man. It's a
horrible shame ! "

I don t care about him. I want to
hear something of her."

"Oh, you do  do you ? Not quite
cured yet. Well, I'll tell you my opinion.
She has announced her intention of going
to the Continent. She will wait until
he is discharged, and then be off with

him Alfred, what's the matter ? He

has fainted ! "

END OF VOL. I.

CHARLES DICKENS AND Beans, Crystal Palace Press.

h

I m

University OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

WWwfifa

3 0112 042260544

1? *1 ;

ii mi

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS

Tj756t

/

Tempest-driven.

Jl Finance.

RICHARD DOWLING,

AUTHOR OF "the Mystery OF KILLA.BD," "XHE WBIKD SISTBB3,"

THE 3P0BT OF FATE," "Under ST. PAUL's," " THB DUKE'S SWBETHBAKI

"aWBET IXI3FAIL," " THE Hidden FLAME," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
TINSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1886.
All rights reserved.'}

Y.3

Contests,

CHAPTER XXXII.

PAGE

SALMON AND COWS 1

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A FORTUNE LOST 16

CHAPTER XXXIV.

A TELEGRAM FROM THE MAIL . . . .38

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE TRAVELLERS



CHAPTER XXXVI.

PAQB

SOLICITOR AND CLIENT 69

CHAPTER XXXVII.

THE widow's theory OF THE CASE . 80

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

where'er I CAME I BROUGHT CALAMITY " . .92

CHAPTER XXXIX.

A COMPACT . 112

CHAPTER *XL.

AN EXPEDITION PROPOSED 126

CHAPTER XLI.

AT THE whale's MOUTH 139

CHAPTER XLII.
the red gave 153

CHAPTER XLIII.

Page

A RETROSPECT 172

CHAPTER XLIV.

A LAST APPEAL 192

CHAPTER XLV.

BEYOND THE VEIL 206

CHAPTER XLVI.

AN EVENING WALK 219

CHAPTER XLVII.
CONCLUSION 230

CHAPTER Xxxi

SALMON AND COWS.

Luncheon that day at Carlingford House
was a quiet, subdued meal. Edith Paul-ton,
who was very small and vivacious,
better-looking than Madge, and distinguished
by shrewd discontent rather
than the amiability which radiated from
her elder sister, was the only one at
the table that made an effort at being
sprightly. Although she was not unsympathetic,
she had a much more keen
appreciation of her own annoyances and
troubles than those of others. She took
great liberties with her good - natured

VOL. III. B

father and mother, and treated her
brother as if he were a useless compound
of slave, fool, and magnanimous
mastiff. She was by no means wanting
in affection, but she hated displays of
sentiment, and felt desperately inclined
to laugh on grave occasions.

That day, when the two girls left the
back room, they went straight to Madge's,
where they talked over the arrival of
Jerry O'Brien, for whom Edith strongly
suspected Madge had a warmer feeling
than friendship, and who, she felt morally
certain, greatly to her secret delight, was
over head and ears in love with Madge.
The only human being in whom she had
infinite faith was Madge. She did not
consider any hero or conqueror of history
good enough for her sister. To her
mind, there was only one flaw in Madge :
Madge would not worship Madge. Madge
thought every one else in the world of

consequence but herself. Edith thought
Madge the only absolutely perfect person
living, or that ever had lived  leaving
out, of course, the important defect just
mentioned. The younger girl had, inhuman
affairs, a certain hardness and
common-sense plainness which shocked the
more sensitive sister. For instance, she
could not see anything at all pathetic in
Mrs. Davenport's situation.

Before the bell rang for luncheon, she
said to her sister :

''I can't for the life of me see what
is so terribly melancholy in Mrs. Davenport's
case. I think she got out of it
rather well. She didn't care anything for
that dreadful old man who poisoned himself
out of some horrid kind of spite. She
hasn't been put in prison, and he left hera
whole lot of money. So that as she
isn't exactly an old maid, or a grandmother,
she can marry any other horrid old man

B 2

she likes. Oh, yes ; I know she's very-beautiful,
and what you call young, Madge.
She's not fifty yet, I suppose. Every
woman is young now until she's forty of
fifty ; and as to men, they don't seem to
grow old now at any age. As long asa
man doesn't use crutches, they say he
is in the full vigour of manhood  that
he's not marriageable until he's gray, and
bald, and deaf of one ear, or can't read
even with glasses. I suppose father will
make her stop for dinner. I thought I'd
laugh outright when I saw him go to
her and call her * child.' Child ! Fancy
calling a widow child ! If ever he calls
me child again, I'll tell him, as far as I
know, I have not buried any husband yet.
But, Madge, if she does stop for dinner,
I'm not going to sit there and learn the
very latest thing in the manners of widows.
I'll go out for a walk after luncheon. Do
you know, I think Jerry O'Brien is half

in love with this beautiful widow ! I'll
ask him to come with me, I will ; and you,
good-natured fool, may sit within and catch
the airs and graces of early widowhood,
though I don't think they'll ever be of any
use to you. You're certain to die an old
maid. Alfred can't keep his eyes off her.
It's a pity we haven't that nice Mr. Blake
here  her old sweetheart. There, Madge,
I don't mean a word I say, especially about
Jerry O'Brien. I know he's madly in love
with me. I'm going to give him a chance
of proposing this evening. We'll walk as
far as the Palace, and if you get separated
from us, and see me holding my umbrella
out from my side on two fingers  this
way  just don't come near us, and you
shall be my bridesmaid, and Jerry shall
give you a present of a bracelet representing
a brazen widow sitting on a
silver salmon. There's the bell! Madge,
love, I'm not a beast, only a brute.

There !  I won't be rude again, and Fll
try and rather like Mrs. Davenport.
She'll be a neighbour of mine, you
know, when I'm married to Jerry. I
think I'll call him Fer then."

After luncheon, Mrs. Paulton suggested
that Mrs. Davenport should lie down, as
she must be quite worn out. But the
latter would not consent to this. She
said she felt quite refreshed, and in no
need of rest, as she had slept well the
previous night  although some memory
of the Channel passage was in her brain,
and the sound of the railway journey in
her ears.

The evening was fine. Neither Mrs.
Davenport nor Alfred cared for a walk
when it was suggested by Edith, but
Jerry said he would like it of all things ;.
so he and the two sisters set off down
the fine, broad, prosperous-looking Dulwich
Road, in the direction of the Crystal Palace.

It is proverbially a small world, and
the three pedestrians had not gone many-hundred
yards when whom should they
see but Nellie Cahill, one of the firm
friends and confidantes of the Paulton
girls. Before the three came up with
Miss Cahill, Edith gave a brief and
graphic sketch of her to Jerry, who had
not had the pleasure of meeting her
before. She was good-looking, good-humoured,
jolly, a dear old thing, mad
as a March hare, true as steel, and last,
though not least, interesting to him  a
fellow country-woman of his, as her name
betokened.

He must be introduced to her. He
.must like her awfully. He must love
her, if it came to that, unless, indeed,
that slow coach Alfred had been before
him  in which case he, Jerry, was to be
exceedingly obliging and deferential ; for
any one would rather have a nice girl

like Nellie for a sister - in - law titan a
thousand widows.

Jerry was duly introduced, and said civil
things and silly things, and the four walked
on all abreast, until Edith suddenly remembered
that she had to tell Nellie all about
the reappearance of Mrs. Davenport, and
a lot of other matters, in which two
sober, steady-going, middle-aged people
like Madge and Jerry could, by no stress
of imagination, be supposed to take a
sensible and hilarious interest. So the
younger division of the party, comprised
of Nellie Cahill and Edith Paulton, fell
to the rear, and the other division kept
the front. And thus, in spite of all Edith's
designs on Jerry both for herself and Nellie,
these two enterprising and eminently desirable
and lovable young ladies lost all
chance of his offering marriage to either
that afternoon.

A long story of the detestable villainy

of the Fishery Commissioners had to be
first and foremost related to Madge. Considering
that she did not know what a weir
was, and had never seen a salmon except
on the table or the marble slab of a fish-shop,
and that according to her notion
the appearance of a Commissioner was something
between a beef eater of the Tower
of London and a Brighton boatman, she
listened with great patience, and made
remarks which caused Jerry to laugh sometimes,
and plunge into profound technicalities
at others. But it became quite plain
that Jerry himself did not take any consuming
interest in his own wrongs and
the refined ruffianism of the Commissioners ;
for at a most bewildering description of the
channel, and the draught of water, and the set
of tides, and the idiosyncrasies of coal barges,
he looked over his shoulder and, finding Edith
and her friend a good way behind, stopped
suddenly in his discourse and said :

"Madge, I've been reeling off a lot of
rubbish to you just to drop the others a
good bit astern. I now want to say something
very serious to you. Are you listening?"



'eyes; but look at that cow! Did you
ever see a more contented-looking creature
in all your life ? "

She kept her face turned towards the
hedge.

Confound the cow ! " he cried. " Do
you think I am going to give up talking
of Bawn salmon and barges, and talk about
Dulwich cows ? Are you listening ? "

''I am. But did you  now  did you
ever see such a lovely cow ? "

*' Look here, Madge : If this is reprisal
for my harangue about my miserable
salmon weirs, I'll not say another word
about them. Are you going to be friends
with me ? "

'* Yes  of course."

Still the cow occupied her eyes, to judge
by the way her head was turned.

I came out expressly to have a most
serious talk with you on a most important
matter "

I am sure I was very sorry to hear
about your salmon nets "

Nets ! Nets ! Good heavens, Madge !
I never said a word about nets the
whole time. I'm not a cot-man. Look
here : you know it's only a few of the
greatest minds that can attend to two
things at the one time. You can't give
your soul to fish and yet devote yourself
to cows at the one moment, except
you are a person like Julius Caesar. He
could dictate and write completely different
things at the one time."

Could he ? He must have been very
clever."

Will you give up the cow ? I want
to talk of another beast."

"Trout?"

''No, not trout. Trout isn't a beast.
If you're clever and smart, and that kind
of thing, I won't talk about mj beast."

'' What is your beast ? "

"A fool."

"Oh!"

Are you not curious to know who
the fool is?"

"There are so many, one cannot be
interested in all."

No ; but you are interested in this one."

Silence.

I say you are interested in Alfred."

"Alfred!" She looked quickly round
for the first time since the cow had
attracted her attention. Her colour was
vivid, and her breath came short. " Alfred
a fool ! "

"Yes; he's hit badly hit."

You don't think him ill ? "  in alarm.
The colour faded quickly.

I think him very bad."

His brain again. Oh, do tell me ! "
pleadingly.

"No. He told me all in the front
room to-day. It's his heart this time."

"His heart?"

"Yes. Love."

Love ! In love with whom ? "

"I forget."

You forget whom he is in love
with ? "

"Yes. Another matter has put it out
of my head. Madge, Tm a fool too.
You needn't turn away. There are no
more cows, Madge. Give up the salmon
and cows, Madge, and have me instead!
Will you, Madge ? Give me your hand.
. . Thank you, love. Madge ! "

"Yes."

"The other two have turned back.
There is no one else in the road. May
I kiss you ? "

She looked over her shoulder on the
side away from him. Then she looked
at him. . . .

"Thank you, darling. Let us turn
hack. I have touched the limits of my
happiest road. Madge ! "

'* Yes."

"Yes, Jerry. Say *Yes, Jerry'"

Yes, Jerry."

"That's better. I won't kiss you again
until we get into the house. Do you
think you can last out till then ? "

I  I think so, Jerry."
 " That's right. Cultivate self - denial
and obedience. You don't think it is
respectable for a man to kiss his sweetheart
on a public road ? "

"No."

That's right. Cultivate self-denial and
obedience, but chiefly obedience. Don't
you think it is the duty of woman to cultivate
obedience chiefly ? "

'' I do."

"And if I asked it, you would, out of
obedience to me, trample self-denial underfoot?"


Certainly, Jerry, if you wished it'*

I do. Oh, my Madge  my darling 
my gentle love ! Once more."

But Edith has turned round and sees
us. . . . And my hat  you have knocked
off my hat. . . . Thanks. Now pick up
my hair-pin. It fell with the hat. What
will Edith think ? "

ni tell her. I'll tell Edith quite plainly
it was your self-restraint gave way, not
mine."

A FORTUNE LOST.

That day settled many things. Alfred had
told O'Brien that no matter how unwise or
rash it might seem, he had made up his
mind to try his fate with Mrs. Davenport 
not, of course, at that time, perhaps not
very soon, but ultimately, and as soon as
possible.

Until that day  until he had seen her
moved by the sense of her own loneliness,
until he had seen the tears start into her
eyes  he had not said even to himself that
he loved her. He told himself over andover
again that he would risk his prospects,

his life, his honour for her. How his prospects
or life could be imperilled he did not
know, did not care. He had a modest
fortune of his own, and her husband had
left her the bulk of his great wealth. He
would have preferred her poor rather than
rich. But if she would marry him, he
would not allow the fact that she had
money to stand in the way of his happiness.
She had for a while, owing to circumstances
in which no blame attached to
her, found herself labouring under a hideous
suspicion. From the shadow of that suspicion
she had emerged without blemish.
She had been cruelly ill-used by fate, but it
had been shown she was blameless. Where,
then, could danger to his honour lie ?
Her beauty was undeniable ; her family
unexceptionable. She had been sold to an
old man by a venal lover. In this lurked
no disgrace to her. What could his father
or mother find in her to object to ? Nothing

VOL. III.

absolutely nothing. That day his father
and mother showed great pleasure in seeing
her again. His father had suggested  nay,
arranged  that he should accompany heron
that long journey to Ireland.

When Jerry O'Brien left Carlingford House
that afternoon, he had no intention of
asking Madge to be his wife. All the way
from Kilbarry to London he had been assuring
himself that nothing could be more
injudicious than to say anything to her on
the subject at present. He believed she was
not indifferent to him. Little actions and
words of hers had given him cause to hope.
He was sure she preferred him to any other
man in whose society he had ever seen her.
She had smiled and coloured at his approach,
and once or twice, when he had ventured to
press her hand, he had suffered no reproach
by word or look. All this made it only the
more necessary for him to be on guard and
not allow himself to be betrayed into a

declaration until his affairs were settled.
But the opportunity came, and he could
not resist the temptation of telling her he
loved her, and of hearing from her that he
was loved by her. It is true no word had
been said between them of an engagement
even. The mere formality of speech was
nothing. Practically he had asked her to
be his wife, and she had plainly given him
to understand she was willing to marry
him.

Madge got back to the house in a state
of bewildered excitement. She confided
nothing to her sister, and Edith behaved
very well, never showing even a trace
of curiosity or slyness. She persisted in
talking of the most everyday topic. She
wondered whether Miss Grant, the dressmaker,
would keep her word ?  whether
this would be as bad a year for roses as
last ? She was of opinion the cold weather
would not return. Nellie Cahill had told

c 2

her the new play at the Ben Jonson was
a complete failure, in spite of all said to
the contrary, and so son. Madge replied
in monosyllables or vacant laughs. When
the girls got home, each went to her own
room, and they did not meet again until
dinner time. Madge decided she had no
occasion to speak to her mother, or anyone
else, about what occurred on the
Dulwich Road. It would be time enough
to speak when Jerry said something more
definite to her, or when either her father
or mother spoke to her.

Jerry sought Alfred, whom he found
alone in the library. He had been carried
beyond himself that afternoon, and did
not feel in the position to administer to
his friend a lecture on prudence. Alfred
was of full age, and, in the way of money,
independent of his father. Let him do
as he pleased and take his chance, as any
other man must in similar circumstances.

He himself, for instance, would take advice
in his love affair from neither Fishery
Commissioners nor John O'Hanlon.

'' How far did you go ? " asked Alfred,
who looked flushed, radiant. He got up
and began walking slowly about the room*'

Oh, a little beyond the College. It
isn't a very pleasant day out of doors.
We met an old flame of yours  Miss
Cahill."

Miss Cahill an old flame of mine !
Why, I never was more than civil to the
girl in all my life ! Who invented that
story for you ? "

**I don't think it was pure invention.
Edith mentioned it to us."

' To us ! ' Good heavens, you don't
mean to say she said anything of the kind
in Miss Cahill's presence?"

Well, no  not exactly in her presence,
but when she was near us. How did you
get on since ? "

Jerry's object was to keep the conversation
in his own hands, and prevent Alfred
asking questions. To-morrow, when they
were both clear of London, he might take
his friend into his confidence, but not
now.

*'0h, dully enough," answered Alfred,
with a look of disappointment. "My
father went out, my mother is busy about
the house, and Mrs. Davenport is in her
room. She will, I hope, be able to comedown
to dinner. You don't think, Jerry,"
he asked, anxiously, while he paused before
his friend, 'that her health has suffered
by all she has gone through ? "

No ; but I am quite sure your peace
of mind has," replied Jerry, with a dry
smile.

With all his desire to be conciliatory,
he could not wholly curb his tongue.

"I," laughed the other, 'was never

happier in all my life. Why, only to
think that she is under this roof now,
and that we are going on a long journey
with her tomorrow, and that I am to
be near her for a whole month ! It's too
good to be true."

I hope not."

"Well, Jerry, I hope not too; but it
seems too good. I know you are one of
those men who never give way to their
feelings until they know exactly whither
their feelings are taking them. It isn't
every one who has such complete self-command
as you. I am willing to risk
everything in the world for a woman.
Some men are too cautious to risk anything."


*' There's a good deal of truth and a
good deal of rubbish in what you say,"
rejoined Jerry, colouring slightly, and
concealing his face from his companion

by going to the window and looking out
at the evergreens and leafless trees in
the front garden.

Alfred's last speech had not been exactly
a chance shot. He more than guessed
Jerry cared a good deal for Madge ; but
the tone of the other had exasperated him,
and he made an effort to compel silence,
if not sympathy, from him. Jerry was
not prepared to retort. He did not want
to deny or assert his own susceptibility
to the unconscious arts of any woman ;
and, above all, he did not wish Madge's
name to be introduced even casually.

At last dinner came. It was an informal,
a substantial, cosy meal. No special preparations
had been made for the guests.
There was no display, no stint, no profusion.
Jerry sat beside Madge, and
Alfred between Edith and Mrs. Davenport.
Jerry was the most taciturn  Madge the
most demure of the party. Mr. Paulton.

was chatty, cordial, and particularly gracious
to the widow. Mrs. Davenport was
polite, impassable, absent-minded.

When they were waiting for the joint,
Mr. Paulton turned to Jerry, and said :

"Are you depressed at the prospect of
spending a while with an invalid ? To
look at you both, one would think it
was you, not Alfred, who wants change
of air."

"ind so it is," said Jerry, stealing a
look at Madge.

In order to divert attention from her,
for she felt her face growing hot, she
said :

*' I believe the south of Ireland is very
mild?"

'* Oh, very ! " Jerry answered, with
startling vivacity. " It's the mildest climate
in the world ; but the people are
not particularly mild : they are full of
fire and fight. I have no doubt Alfred

will come back a regular Milesian. You
know those who live a while in Ireland
always become more Irish than the Irish."

'never mind," said Mrs. Paulton. ''He
may become as Irish as he likes if he at
the same time grows as well in health as
we like."

I intend coming back quite a Goliath,
mother. I shall eat and drink everything
I see," said Alfred gaily.

You would find some of the things
in the neighbourhood of Kilcash rather
hard to chew. I think Mrs. Davenport
will agree with me that it would take
Goliath a long time to make a comfortable
meal of the Black Rock, or to make a
comfortable meal on it ? "

At the name of the Rock, Mrs. Davenport
looked up and shuddered visibly, and
said, as she rested slightly on the back of
her chair :

"The Black Rock is a hideous place."

Then, turning to Alfred : " You must not
go there."

I am altogether in the hands of this
unprincipled wretch," answered Alfred,
smiling and nodding at Jerry.

Then," said Jerry, *' if you are not very
civil  if you show a disposition to exhibit
your Goliath-like prowess on me, I shall
take you to the Black Rock, and first
frighten the life out of you, and then
throw you into the Puffing Hole, where,
except you are the ghost of your own
grandfather, or something equally monstrous,
you will be promptly smashed into
ten billions of invisible atoms."

The rest of the dinner passed off" quietly.
When the dessert had been put on the table,
and the servants had withdrawn, Mr. Paul-ton
said :

Mr. O'Brien, I have often heard you
talk of this Black Rock and the Puffing
Hole, but I am afraid I never had the industry

to ask you for a description of
either. Are they very wonderful?"

There is nothing wonderful about the
Kock, except its extent and peculiar shape
and colour. But the Puffing Hole, although
not unique, is curious and terrible."

I am doubly interested in them now,
since I have the pleasure of numbering
Mrs. Davenport among my friends. What
are the Black Rock and Puffins: Hole
like ? " He smiled, and bent gallantly
towards the widow.

I think'* said Jerry, *' Mrs. Davenport
herself is the best person to give you a
description of either. Her house is near
them, and she has lived, I may say, next
door to them for years, and knows more
than I do of the place. To make the
matter even, if Mrs. Davenport will do the
description I will do the narrative part of
the tale. That is a fair division."

Mrs. Davenport trembled slightly again.

and was about to speak, when Mr. Paulton
said, in a tone of impetuous persuasion :

Your house near these strange freaks of
nature, Mrs. Davenport ! Of course I did
not know that, or I should not have
dreamed of asking Mr. O'Brien for an
account of them."

The old man's belief was that it
would divert Mrs. Davenport's mind from
wholly gloomy subjects if she were only
induced to speak of matters of general interest.


She shook her head sadly.

It is true my home was for many years
at Kilcash House, which is near the Black
Rock. But "

She paused, and a peculiar smile took
possession of her face. All eyes were fixed
on her in expectation. No one cared to
speak. What could that strange break
mean ? Surely, to describe a scene or
phenomenon of the coast with which she

was most familiar could not be very
distressing ?

But," she resumed, " it is my home no
longer. It is true I am going back there fora
little time  a few weeks ; but that is only
to arrange matters. I have now no home."

o

The voice of the woman was almost free
from emotion. It was slightly tremulous
towards the end ; but if she had been
reading aloud a passage she but dimly
understood, she could have displayed no
less emotion.

"No home !  no home ! " said Mr. Paulton,
so softly as to be only just audible. " I
was under the impression you had been left
Kilcash House."

"Yes, my husband left me Kilcash
House and other things  other valuable
things  and a large sum of money.
But "

Again she paused at the ominous "but."

Again all were silent, and now even Mr.

Paulton could not light on words that
seemed likely to help the widow over her
hesitation.

"But I cannot take anything."

Once more the old man repeated her
words : ** Cannot take anything ! Are the
conditions so extraordinary  so onerous ? "

He and O'Brien thought that the principal
condition must be forfeiture in case
she married Blake. This would explain
much of what was now incomprehensible.

There are no conditions whatever in
the will," she said in the same unmoved
way.

"No conditions ! And yet you have no
home, although your late husband has left
you a fine house ?"

"Yes, and all that is necessary for the
maintenance of that house ; notwithstanding
which, I have no home, and am a
beggar."

Mrs. Davenport," cried the old man,

with genuine concern, "what you say is
very shocking. I hope it is not true."

*' I know this is not the time or place to
talk of business. I know my business can
have little or no interest for you."

Excuse me, my dear Mrs. Davenport,
there is nothing out of place about such
talk now, and you really must not say we
take but slight interest in your affairs. On
the contrary, we are very much interested
in them. I think I may answer for every
member of my family, and say that beyond
our own immediate circle of relatives there
is no lady in whom we take so deep an
interest."

The old man was solemn and emphatic.

I am sure," said Mrs. Paulton, looking
round the table, ** that my husband has
said nothing but the simple fact."

She turned her eyes upon the widow.

Mrs. Davenport, I hope you will
always allow me to be your friend. Your

troubles have, I know, been very great, and
you are now no doubt suffering so severely
that you think the whole world is against
you. We, at all events, are not. Anything
we can do for you we will ; and, believe me,
Mrs. Davenport, doing anything for you
will be a downright pleasure."

The widow bowed her head for a moment
before speaking. It seemed as though she
could not trust her voice. After a brief
pause she sat up, and, resting the tips of
the fingers of both hands on the table, said :

** As I told you earlier to-day, I have
been alone all my life, and the notion of
fellowship is terrible to me, coming now
upon me when my life is over."

'* Indeed you should not talk of your
life being over. You are still quite
young. Many a woman does not begin
her life until she is older than you."

I am thirty - four, and that is not
young for one to begin life."

VOL. III. D

*but, may I ask' said Mr. Paulton,
"how it is that the will becomes inoperative
? How is it that you cannot
avail yourself of your husband's bequests
? "

*'My reasons for not taking my husband's
money must, for the present  I
hope for ever  remain with myself. Mr.
Blake has told me certain things, and
I have found out others myself. I am
now without money  I do not mean''
she said, flushing slightly, 'for the present
moment, for a month or two  but
I am without any money on which I can
rely for my support. I shall have to
begin life again  or, rather, begin it for
the first time. I shall have to work for
my living, just as any other widow who
is left alone without provision. This is
very plain speaking, but the position is
simple."

But, my dear Mrs. Davenport, you

must not in this way give yourself upto
despair," said Mr. Paulton, as he rose
and stood beside her.

Despair ! " she cried, looking up at
him with a quick glance of angry surprise.
Despair ! You do not think me so poor
a coward as to despair. How can one who
never knew hope know despair ? I amin
no trouble about the future. I shall
take to a line of life in which there is room
and to spare for such as I."

Do not do anything hastily, I have a
good deal of influence left."

Mrs. Paulton, who saw that Mrs. Davenport
was excited, over wrought, rose and
moved towards the door. The others stood
up, excepting Mrs. Davenport, who, as she
was excited and looking up into Mr. Paul-ton's
face, did not hear the stir or seethe
move.

"I am most sincerely obliged to you,
Mr. Paulton, but I greatly fear that, much

D 2

as I know you would wish it, you could not
aid me in my business scheme."

May I ask what the business is ? "

The stage."

The stage, Mrs. Davenport ! You
astound me."

I have lived alone and secluded all
my life. For the future I shall, if I can,
live among thousands of people, whom I
will compel to sympathise with my mimic
trials, since I never had any one to sympathise
with my real ones. I shall flee
from an obscurity greater than a cloister's
to the blaze and full publicity of the footlights.
You think me mad ? "

'' No ; ill-advised. Who suggested you
should do this ? "

She glanced around, and saw that the
ladies were waiting for her.

'' I beg your pardon," she said to them,
as she rose and walked towards the door,
which Alfred held open.

She turned back as she went out, and
answered Mr. Paulton's question with the
two words :

*Mr. Blake."

Alfred closed the door. The three men
looked in amazement at one another.

"There's something devilish in her or
Blake," said the old man.

Or both," said Jerry O'Brien.

By a tremendous effort, Alfred Paulton
sat down and kept still. He did not say
anything aloud, but to himself he moaned :

'' If I lose her, my reason will go again 
this time for ever ! "

A TELEGRAM FROM THE MAIL.

When the men found themselves alone
and somewhat calmed down after the
excitement caused by Mrs. Davenport's
astonishing announcement, Mr. Paulton
and Jerry discussed the proposed step
with great minuteness and intelligence,
while Alfred sat mute and listless. He
pleaded the necessity of his going to bed
early on account of tomorrow's journey.
In the course of the discussion between
the two elder men, Jerry held that if she
did take to the stage, she would make
one of the most startling successes of the
time.

She has beauty enough," he said, " to
make men fools, and fire enough to make
them lunatics. What a Lady Macbeth
she would be ! "

Mr. Paulton was anything but a fogey.
He did not forget that he had been once
young, nor did he forget that, when young,
a pretty face and a fine figure had seemed
extremely bewitching things. He was
liberal in all his views, except in the
matter of betting. To that vice he would
give no quarter whatever. He never once
sought to restrain his son's reading, and
Alfred had a latchkey almost as soon ashe
was tall enough to reach the keyhole.
Although he did not smoke himself, he
saw no objection to others, his son included,
smoking in suitable places, and
with moderation. He did not exclude
shilling whist from his code, although he
never played. He rarely went out after
dinner now, but when he made his mind

up to move, he did not think there was
anything unbecoming in his visiting a
theatre  the front of a theatre, mind
you, sir. He supposed and believed there
were many excellent men behind the
scenes, and he did not feel himself called
upon to say that the majority of the
ladies were not all that could be
desired ; but  ah, well, he would be very
sorry  it would, in fact, break his heart
if either of his daughters  Madge, for
instance  went upon the stage.

With the latter part of this somewhat
long-winded speech Jerry heartily concurred.
He felt furious and full of strength
when he fancied Madge behind the curtain,
subjected to dictation and uncongenial
associations, not to speak of anything more
disagreeable still. There were nasty
draughts and nasty smells, and nasty
ropes and nasty dust, and sometimes the
carefully-attuned ear might catch a nasty

word. It was blasphemy to think of
Madge in such an atmosphere, amid such
surroundings. And then fancy any *' young
man " of fifty-six putting his arm round
Madge, and administering even a stage kiss
to his darling ! The thing was preposterous,
and not to be entertained by any
sane mind.

Coffee was sent into the dining-room,
and the whole household retired early.

Alfred's reflections that night were the
reverse of pleasant. He had that day
seen the woman he loved. She had
come before his eyes as unsought as the
flowery pageant of summer. She had
filled his heart with tropical heat, had
set fancy dancing in his head, and restored
strength and vigour to his invalid body.
He had, before the moment his eyes rested
on her that day, been satisfied with the
hope of seeing her in weeks, months. She
had come voluntarily, no doubt, without

special thought of him, to their home ;
she had once more accepted their hospitality,
and he and O'Brien were to
accompany her to Ireland. They would
not travel together, but he should know
she was near  know she was in the same
train, in the same steamboat ; they should
meet frequently on the journey, and,
crowning thought of all, they had one
common destination !

He had that day spent some delicious
minutes in her company. While she was
by he had forgotten his late illness, his
present weakness. The immediate moment
had been filled with incommunicable joy,
and the future with splendid happiness.

What had befallen all this dream of
enchantment ? Ruin  ruin complete and
irreparable ! She was, owing to some
secret and mysterious cause or other, no
longer rich. In her own estimation she
was a pauper. That was little. If that

was all, it could be borne with a smile
nay, with gratitude ; for riches would
act as a lure to other men, and he wanted
only herself and, if it might come in time,
her love.

She had determined to go upon the stage.
That was bad  entirely bad ; but if this
evil resolve stood alone, it might be combated.
If she had determined merely with
herself to follow the profession of an actress,
she might be persuaded to abandon her
design. But the unfortunate course she
had made up her mind to follow had been
suggested by Blake, by an old lover who
years ago was dear to her, and now was
absolute in her counsels. This put an
end to every hope that she could ever
be his.

Oh, weary day, and wearier night !

If he could, he would back out of going
to Ireland ; but that was now impossible.
Under the pressure of his great joy, he had

told O'Brien of his love for Mrs. Davenport,
and all arrangements had, at his request,
been made for their setting off tomorrow.
She must go tomorrow. While there is
life there is hope. He was hoping against
hope ; but accidents did happen in many
cases, and might happen in this one. No
man was bound to despair ; in fact, despair
was cowardly and unmanly. It was the
duty of every man to hope, and he would
hope. He would go to Ireland tomorrow ;
he would put his chance against Blake's.
If this disappointment were to kill him or
drive him mad, he might as well enjoy the
pleasure of being near her until his health
or mind gave way finally.

When he came to this decision he fell
asleep.

Next day broke chill and dismal, and
none of the folk at Carlingford House
seemed lively except Edith. Mrs. Paulton
was depressed because her only son was

going away from home and into a country
of which she had a vague and unfavourable
notion. O'Brien was sulky at the thought
of being torn from the side of Madge, now
that he might talk freely to her of love
and their prospects, and the brutal Commissioners.
Mrs. Davenport was depressed
by a variety of circumstances and considerations,
and Alfred had much to make
him anything but cheerful. Mr. Paulton's
seriousness  that was the strongest word
which could fairly be applied to his humour
was due to the dulness of the weather,
and a depreciation in the value of some
shares held by him.

During the day each of the travellers
was more or less busy with preparations.
Mrs. Davenport had to go to town early
in order to transact business she had
neglected the day before. Alfred stayed
mostly in his room, and O'Brien, far from
sweet-tempered, managed, through the unsought

contrivance of Edith, to be a whole
hour alone with Madge.

*you know," he said to her, when preliminaries
had been disposed of, "it's a
beastly nuisance to have to go away from
you now. I'd much rather stop, I assure

you."

*' You are very kind."

Don't be satirical, Madge. No woman
ever yet showed to advantage when satirical.
I say it's a great shame to have
to go away, particularly when it's only to
save appearances ; for now that Blake has
once more come on the scene, all is up
with poor Alfred. Upon my word, Madge,
I pity him."

'' Do you like her, Jerry ? "

"No. I like you. I like you very
much. You're not a humbug."

"Is she?"

"No. But she's too awfully serious. I
cannot help thinking she ought to do

everything to the slow music of kettledrums."


Why kettle-drums ? "

**I don't know. I suppose it's because
the concerted kettle-drum is the most bald
and arid form of harmonious row. Tm
afraid my language is neither select nor
expressive. But one can't help one's
feelings  particularly when one's feelings
make one like you. I really am sorry to
have to leave you."

"But you mustn't blame me for that."

"Now you are quite unreasonable. You
must know that a man without a grievance
is as insipid as a woman without vanity."

Jerry, I'm not a bit vain ; I never
was a bit vain. What could I be vain
about ? "

Ungrateful girl ! Have I not laid
my hand and fortune, including the bodies
of the murdered Commissioners, at your
feet?"

"You are silly, Jerry."

How am I silly ? In having laid my
hand and fortune and the bodies "

No. In talking such nonsense."

"And you are not vain of having made
a conquest of me ? "

Jerry, I'm very fond of you, and I
don't like you to talk to me as if you
thought I was only a silly girl whom you
were trying to amuse with any silly things
you could think of. I hope you don't
believe I'm a fool ? "

No. You are right, Madge : it's a poor
compliment for a man to talk mere tattle to
his sweetheart. I wonder, darling, if you
would give me a keepsake, now that I am
going away ? "

No. I have no Mth in keepsakes. I
would not take any keepsake from you,
because I shall need nothing to remind me
of you when you are away."

'darling, nor I of you. And if things
go wrong with me ? "

They can't go wrong with you."

"I mean if I come off worse in these
business affairs."

That will not make any difference
in you."

No. Nor in you, darling ? "

*'No."

He held her in his arms a while, and
said no more. Thus they parted.

It had been arranged that the two men
should meet Mrs. Davenport at Euston.
They were on the platform when she
arrived. To their surprise she was not
alone : Blake accompanied her. As soon as
they came forward he shook hands with
her, raised his hat, and retired.

O'Brien and Paulton were greatly taken
aback by Blake's presence. They busied
themselves about her luggage, and then

VOL. III. B

took seats in the same compartment with
her. They were the only passengers in the
compartment.

As soon as the train was in motion she
leaned forward to O'Brien, and said in a
clear, distinct voice, the edge of which
was not dulled by the rumble of the
wheels :

You arrived the day before yesterday
from Ireland?"

"Yes," he answered, bending forward and
looking into her inscrutable eyes.

You have been at Kilcash ? "

*' Yes. I was there for about a
month."

Did you hear a ghost story there ? "

He started and looked seriously at her.

Yes, I did. May I ask if you have
heard anything about it ? "

"Yes. When I got back to Jermyn
Street where I stayed, I found a letter
there telling me that a ghost, the ghost of a

man named Michael Fahey, had been seen
in the neighbourhood of Kilcash."

*sat the Black Rock. I was going to
tell the story yesterday at dinner, but it
slipped by."

*' Do you know anything of this 
apparition ? "

'' I saw it myself, and two others saw it."

Where do we stop first ? "

*eat Rugby."

She took a note-book from her pocket,
and wrote something in it. When the
writing was finished, she tore out the leaf
on which it was, and handed the leaf to
O'Brien, saying :

Will you be kind enough to telegraph
this from Rugby for me ? "

It will have to be written on a form,"
he said, hesitatingly.

"Will you oblige by writing it on a
form for me ? There is no reason why
you shouldn't read it."

E 2

ItRRARY

When lie got out at Rugby he read
the message. It was addressed to Blake,
and ran :

''Mr. O'Brien saw what I told you.
Follow me to Ireland at once."

THE TRAVELLERS.

It was impossible for O'Brien to tell
Alfred the nature of the telegram he had
just despatched to Blake. It would not
be seemly to whisper or to write, and to
leave the compartment with the proclaimed
intention of seeking a smoking carriage
would be a transparent device. There was
nothing for it but to sit still and keep
silent.

The three travellers settled themselves
in their corners, and pretended to goto
sleep. Each had thoughts of an
absorbing nature, but none had anything

exceptionally happy with which to beguile
the dreary midnight journey. It was impossible
to see if Mrs. Davenport slept
or not. She had, upon settling herself
after leaving Rugby, pulled down her thick
veil over her face, and remained quite
motionless. Young Paulton was not yet
as strong as he imagined, and the monotonous
sound and motion soon fatigued
him, and he fell asleep.

Although O'Brien kept his eyes resolutely
shut he never felt more wakeful
in his life.

What on earth could this woman want
with this man of most blemished reputation
and desperate fortune ? She had
seen him lately, and he had told her
something of the mysterious appearance
near the Puffing Hole ; but it was not
until after they had started from Euston
that she had made up her mind to summon
him to Ireland. What could she want

him for ? She was, according to her own
statement, now no longer rich. She was
no longer young. The best years of her
beauty had passed away. No doubt she
was still an extremely beautiful woman, but
the freshness was gone. As far as he knew,
Blake was the last man in the world to
marry such a woman. And yet there
was some secret bond, some concealed
link between them. He was not unjust
to her. He did not believe she would
inveigle any man into a marriage, and he
could not understand why this Blake was
now even tolerable to her.

However matters might go, it looked
as if Alfred were certain to suffer. It was
quite plain he was madly in love with
her, and that she did not see, or was
indifferent to his passion. She was nota
coquette. She showed no desire to
claim indulgence because of her sex or
sorrows, and certainly exacted no privilege

as a tribute to her beauty. To him she
seemed hard, mechanical, cold. She had,
it is true, broken down the day before,
but that was under extreme pressure.
Usually she was as unsympathetic, self-contained
as bronze.

Jerry was not a fool or a bigot, and he
allowed to himself, with perfect candour,
that although he looked on Alfred's passion
as infatuation, he could understand it. He
himself was no more in love with her
than with the black night through which
they were speeding ; but if she, at that
moment, raised her veil and stood before
him and bade him undertake something
unpleasant  nay, dangerous  he would
essay it. Strength gives command to a
man, beauty to a woman, love to either.

At Chester the three got coffee, and
once more took up their corners and
affected to sleep or slept.

When they reached the boat at Holyhead,

Mrs. Davenport said good-night and descended
to the ladies' cabin. The two
friends got on the bridge, and as soon
as the steamer had started O'Brien took
Paulton to the weather bulwark, and told
him the substance of the telegram Mrs.
Davenport had sent to London.

To O'Brien's astonishment, the younger
man made nothing of the matter. It
was simply a business affair, he said :
nothing of any moment. From all they
had heard, Blake knew more than they
had supposed of the dead man's affairs ;
and now that Mrs. Davenport had resolved
not to take the fortune her husband
had left her, it was almost certain Blake
could be of assistance to her.

After a little while it was agreed that
the bridge was too cold for Alfred, so both
men went below and lay down. O'Brien
fell asleep, and did not awake until he
was called close to Kingstown.

It was a dreary, cold, bleak morning,
with thin sunlight. There had been rain
in the night, and everything looked chill
and depressing. The passage had been
smooth, and none of the three had suffered
by it beyond the spiritless depression
arising from imperfect rest and fatigue.

When they alighted at Westland Now,
Jerry suggested that they should send on
their luggage to the King's Bridge terminus,
and seek breakfast.

*not my luggage," said Mrs. Davenport
; '' I am not going to Kilcash to-day.
Kindly get me a cab. I will stay at the
'Tourists' Hotel.' I have telegraphed, as
you know, to Mr. Blake to come over,
and will send him word to meet me there.
I am extremely obliged to both of you
for all your kindnesses on the way."

Alfred started, and Jerry looked surprised.


You are," the latter said, " quite sure

you prefer staying here. Of course I do
not presume to interfere ; but perhaps it
might be more convenient for you, Mrs.
Davenport, if Mr. Blake followed you to
Kilcash ? "

"I am quite sure," she said, decisively,
"that it would be best for me to stay in
Dublin for the present."

If you simply wanted rest, we could
wait for you a day or two," said Alfred,
out of whose face all look of animation
had gone.

*' Thank you, I am not in the least
tired ; and if you will get me a cab, and
tell the man to drive me to the ' Tourists,'
you will greatly oblige me."

Nothing more was to be done or said.
Her luggage was put on a cab, she again
thanked the two friends, and saying she
hoped to have an opportunity of soon
seeing them at Kilcash House, said goodbye
to them, and drove away.

Alfred and Jerry O'Brien got breakfast,
drove to the King's Bridge terminus, and
started for the South in no very good
humour.

It's always the way," thought the latter,
despondingly. '' Only for the infernal Commissioners
and O'Hanlon's craze about his
brain  bless the mark !  I need not have
left London last month. Only for Alfred's
infatuated impatience and his father's vicarious
gallantry, I might be there now ;
and here are the Commissioners gone to
sleep, O'Hanlon's head good for nothing,
any number of future bills of costs,
and we deserted by the object of young
love and elderly gallantry ! Upon my
word, it's too bad. If O'Hanlon had only
had the good sense to murder the Commissioners
while suffering from temporary
or permanent insanity, and Blake owned
the good taste to run away with the widow
why, then, things would be wholesome

and comfortable. As it is, they are simply-beastly."


The two friends arrived late that night
at the '' Strand Hotel," Kilcash, and went
to bed almost immediately. Neither rose
early next morning, but when they did
get up, they found the weather magically
improved. A few high silver clouds floated
against the deep blue screen of sky, beyond
which one knew the stars lay ; for the
grass and bare branches of trees flashed
and blazed, not with the yellow light of
the gaudy sun, but with rays that seemed
glorious memories of midnight stars. The
sea in the bay was calm as a lake, and
joined upon the level margin of the sand
smoothly, like a steady white flame spreading
out from a dull red lake of fire. The
doors of the cottages were open, and people
were abroad. Thin wreaths of smoke went
up from hushed hearths. Hundreds of
gulls sailed slowly up and down across

the mouth of the bay. Now a dog barked,
now a cock crew, now a wild bird whistled.

Opposite Alfred, as he stood at his
window, drinking in the peace of the scene,
rose the sloping sides of the bay. On
them were sheep grazing. Here the salt
blasts from the Atlantic would let no wheat
or oats, or grain of any other kind, prosper.
Nothing would grow but short, poor grass,
on which sheep picked up an humble livelihood.
The harvest fields of Kilcash
were beyond the bay, out there on the
blue depths of the ocean, that great
cosmopolitan common of the races of
man.

Little labour was ever to be done in
Kilcash. Its farms, its workshops, its
mines were in the sea. No child, until
he himself went to sea, ever saw his father
work. The men came home not merely
to their houses, but to the village to rest.
When they had hauled up their boats,

and carried away the nets and sails and
oars and masts, their labours were at an
end. The women bore the fish up to
the Storm Wall, whence it was thrown
into carts and creels, and driven off to
Kilbarry. The visitors who came to the
place in summer did not work. They came
avowedly to do nothing  to idle through
the sunny weather, to play at fishing,
play at boating, play at swimming, to make
grave business of doing nothing.

I feel it doing me good already,"
said Alfred, as he threw up the window
and spread his chest broad to take a full
inspiration of the invigorating, balsamic
air.

After a late breakfast the two friends
strolled out.

What shall we do to-day ? " said Jerry,
lighting a cioar.

What is there to be done ? " asked
Alfred, by way of reply.

Nothing," answered Jerry, throwing
away the match  '* absolutely nothing.
It is because there is nothing to be done
here I thought the place would do you
good."

'' Not by way of change ? " said Alfred,
with a smile.

*' Well, doing nothing at Kilcash is
very different from doing nothing in
London. There you get up, eat breakfast,
look at the morning papers, yawn over a
book; write three notes to say you have
no time to write a letter ; wonder what
the earlier portion of the day was intended
for ; resolve to go to bed early that night
so as to find out the secret ; dress ; go out
nowhere, anywhere ; make a call on a
person whom you don't want to see, and
who doesn't want to see you ; curse yourself
for being so stupid as to look him
up, and him for being so stupid as not
to amuse you ; buy a hairbrush you don't

want ; wonder where people can be going
in hansoms at such an hour, and can't find
out for the life of you where you could go
in a hansom at that time, except to the
British Museum, or Tower, or National
Gallery, or some other place no respectable
person ever yet went to ; drop into a
club for luncheon, and find that no one
you ever saw before lunches at the club,
and that those who do are intensely disagreeable
; stroll into the park ; pick up two
dear old boys, who have been looking for
you everywhere to tell you about something
or other that makes you swear ; back
to the club to dinner, where you meet
every man you care for, and dine ; after
dinner go somewhere or other  to Brown's,
for instance, or to the theatre, or to see the
performing Mastodon ; afterwards cards or
billiards, and bed at half-past two or
three."

That's rather a full and exhausting

VOL. III. F

programme for an idle day. It isn't much
good here. What do you do here a day
you do nothing?"

"Nothing. Whether it's a busy or an
idle day with you here, you can't do
anything, except you get books and go
in for the exact sciences. You couldn't
buy a morning paper here for a sovereign,.
or a pack of cards for a hundred pounds.
The hotel does not take in a paper at
this time of the year, and only three come
to the village  one each to the clergymen,
and oue to the police barracks. The
garrison of the barracks is six men and
a bull-terrier. There's no one to look at
here, and no one to call on, except the
echoes, which at this time of the year
are uncommonly surly, not to say scurrilous.
There is no fish, as the fish have
all gone away on business ; they come
here only to stare at the summer visitors.

The only thing one can do here is smoke
provided you don't buy the tobacco
in the village."

"And walk?" asked Alfred. "Cannot
one walk here ? "

Yes, mostly. Not always, though ;
for when it rains here you have to
swim, and when it blows here, you have
to fly."

But to-day, for instance, we can
walk."

O'Brien looked aloft, looked down in the
light wind, and then out to sea.

Yes, I think it will keep fine."

Well, then, let us walk."

But I forgot to tell you there is no
place to walk to."

Oh, yes, there is. I know more of
the neighbourhood than you, short a time
as I have been here."

 Where?"

Kilcash House. Jerry, don't laugh or
don't abuse me. I can't help it. Let me
see where she lived  where she will live
again."

SOLICITOR AND CLIENT.

When Mrs. Davenport reached the
'' Tourists' Hotel," she asked to be shown
into a private sitting-room. She had slept
in the boat, and was in no need of repose.
In reply to the servant, she desired
breakfast to be brought, and asked for
writing materials. She wrote out a telegram
to Blake : "I am staying at the
Tourists,' and shall await you here." She
wrote a couple of notes of no consequence,
and then breakfasted. At the very earliest
Blake could not reach Dublin until that
evening. In the meantime she would go

and see her late husband's solicitor, Mr.
Vincent Lonergan.

The old attorney received Mrs. Davenport
with the most elaborate courtesy. He
was tall, round-shouldered, white-haired,
white-bearded, fresh-coloured, slow, oracular.
He congratulated himself on meeting her
for the first time, and fished up phrases
of sympathy and condolence out of his
inner consciousness, as though he was
the first man in the world who had ever
to refer to such matters. Then he paused,
partly that his elaborate commonplaces
might have time to sink into her mind,
and partly that she might have time to
collect her thoughts and bring her mind
to the business of her visit.

'* May I ask you," she said, "how long
you acted as solicitor to my late husband?"


'* About twelve years, I think. I can
tell you exactly if you desire it."

I will not trouble you for the exact
date. During those twelve years you
were well acquainted with all Mr. Davenport's
affairs, I dare say ? "

*with the legal aspect of his affairs,
yes. With the business aspect of his
affairs, no."

'' You know that he made large *sums
of money by speculating in foreign stocks
and shares ? "

"I do not Jcnoiv it. I have heard it."

"From whom have you heard it?"

From several people  himself among
the number."

She paused a moment, and then said :
'' Your words seem to imply a doubt.
You will, I am certain, give me all the
information you can ? "

"Assuredly, my dear lady."

*' Then do you not know that he made
his money out of foreign speculations ? "

*' Permit me to explain : I did not

intend to imply any doubt as to the
way in which the late Mr. Davenport
made his money. We solicitors get into
a legal way of talking when we are at
business ; and, legally speaking, I have
no knowledge of my own of how the late
Mr. Davenport made his money, because
the making of the money did not come
directly under my observation. I do know
he told me he made it in foreign speculations,
and I think you will be quite safe
in taking it that he did make it abroad.
We are now, as I take it, speaking of
the time before your marriage with Mr.
Davenport ? "

"Yes, of the time before my marriage."

'* Since then, you would naturally know
more of his business affairs than I."

He spoke little to me of business,
and I know hardly anything of his
affairs."

"As you know, you are largely benefited

under the will. Roughly speaking, all his
property goes to you, in addition to what
you are entitled to under the marriage
settlement."

She made a slight gesture, as though
putting these subjects aside.

He made an elaborate gesture, indicating
that he understood her, and that he washer
obedient, humble servant. After
another pause she asked :

"Do you know anything of a man
named Fahey  a man who was in someway
or other connected with Mr.
Davenport, and who was drowned or
committed suicide many years ago, shortly
after Mr. Davenport's marriage ? "

"Fahey  Fahey  Fahey? Yes, I do.
I remember that he drowned himself near
Kilcash House because the police were
on his track for uttering forged bank-notes."

"Do you know in what relation he
stood to Mr. Davenport ? "

I am under the impression lie was
some kind of humble hanger-on ; but I
am not sure."

'* You know nothing of him ? "

Certainly not."

Never saw him ? "

Not to my knowledge."

Another pause.

"You were good enough to tell me a
moment ago that you are acquainted with
the legal business of my late husband.
Suppose I did not wish to take any
money or property under my late
husband's will, how would the matter
be?"

"Not take your husband's money or
property under the will ! You are not,
my dear Mrs. Davenport, thinking of
anything so monstrous ? " cried the old
man, fairly surprised out of his measured
tone and oracular manner.

"Suppose I am. Have I, or shall I

soon have, absolute control over what has
been left to me ? "

Certainly. There are no conditions.
All will be yours absolutely."

Thank you. I am very much obliged.
You will add further to my obligations
to you if you will kindly hurry forward
all matters in connection with the will.
I am most anxious to have the money
in my own hands."

Permit me to explain once more : I
take it for granted you have not had
leisure to read the copy of the will I
forwarded to you ? "

She bowed.

In wills there are often very stupid
conditions and provisions which govern
the disposal of the property. In this case
there are no conditions or provisions, so
that you enter into possession cjuite untrammelled.
You understand me when I
say quite untrammelled ? "

"I understand."

So that if at any time it seemed well

to you to " He stopped. She had

begun to rise, and he did not know
whether it would be wise to complete the
sentence or not.

She stood before him holding out her
hand as she finished what he had beo:un 
*'To marry again I should run no risk
of forfeiting the money."

'' Precisely."

She smiled.

"Thank you. I am a little tired, and
am not able to express my sense of your
goodness to me during this interview.
But I am, I assure you, grateful. I am
not thinking of marriage. You will, I
hope, be able to get everything into
order soon. I must go now. Good-bye."

He saw her into the cab waiting for
her at the door, and then walked back to
his private office.

'* A remarkable woman," he mused, *' a
remarkable and very fine woman. But I
suppose she's mad. There's a screw loose
in the heads of the Davenport family,
and * Evil communications corrupt good
manners.' Perhaps she took the taint
from him. There was no screw loose in
his business head. He was as sharp as
razors, and as close as wax. I think she's
mad, or perhaps she's only a rogue. I
suspect his money was not over clean,
but that's no affair of mine. She married
Davenport, every one said, for his money.
She lived with him all these years for his
money, every one said  although, for the
life of me, I can't see what good it did
him or her ; and now he's gone, and the
money is all hers, and she talks of doing
away with it. Oh, she must be mad, for
I don't see where the roguery could come

in, unless  unless Ah, that may be

it. By Jove, I'm sure that's it ! Byron

says, ' Believe a woman or an epitaph ? 
But he didn't mean it. Byron hardly
ever meant what he said, and never what
he wrote. It's a pity he never turned his
attention to law. He never, as far as
my reading has gone, did anything with
law except to break all of it he could lay
his hands on  civil and divine  especially
divine, for that's cheap, and he was poor.
She's a very fine woman, though. But
what is this I was saying ? Oh, yes.
The only explanation of her conduct is
that Blake, the blackguard Blake, has
asked her, or is going to ask her, to
marry him, and that she want to test
him by saying she is about to give away
all her money to charitable institutions.
That's the root of the mystery. And
then, when she marries him, she'll throw
all the money into his lap, and he'll
spend it for her, and gamble it away and
beat her. Anyway, he can't make quite

a pauper of lier, for even she herself can't
destroy her marriage settlement, and the
trustees won't stand any nonsense. Always
believe a woman and an epitaph.' I
wonder what kind of an epitaph will she
put up to Davenport ? Something about
his name always reminding her of him 
that she couldn't stand it, and so had to
change it."

THE widow's theory OF THE CASE.

When Mrs. Davenport got back to the
hotel, she inquired if any telegram had
come for her, and was told not. She
seemed displeased, disappointed. She
asked questions, and discovered that it
would be next to impossible that her
telegram could reach London before the
departure of the morning mail. This put
things right, for she felt certain that if
Blake got her message he would have
replied. He was on his way, and would
be in Dublin that evening. In Dublin,
yes ; but how should he know where to

seek her ? She spoke to the manager,
to whom she explained her difficulty.

If the lady telegraphed to the mail-boat
at Holyhead, the gentleman would
be sure to get the message.

She thanked the manager, and adopted
his suggestion. The day was unpleasant
under foot and overhead. There were
no friends upon whom she wished to
call. The ten years of secluded life at
Kilcash House had severed all connection
with old acquaintances, and she had made
no new ones.

She remained by herself in the sitting-room.
She did not even try to read. She
sat in the window, and kept her eyes turned
towards the busy street. It could not
be said she watched the crowds and
vehicles, or was even conscious of their
existence. She kept her eyes in their
direction  that was all.

Luncheon was brought in. She sat

VOL. III. G

at the table for a quarter of an hour,
ate something, and then went back to the
old place at the window. It was dark before
dinner appeared, but she did not ring for
lights. When dinner was over, it was close
to the time for the arrival of the mail. She
put on her bonnet, and went to Westland
Now terminus. The weather was still
unpleasant, but she did not care, did not
heed it. She had not long to wait in
that dismal, squalid cavern at the foot
of the stone steps leading down from the
platform. The train rumbled in, and
the passengers began to descend and pass
between the double row of people.
Suddenly she stepped forward and touched
a man on the arm. He turned quickly,
and looked at her, exclaiming:

"You here, Marion! I got your telegram
on the boat."

'* I was afraid it might miss you, so
T thought it safer to come myself."

"What extraordinary story is this? I
can scarcely believe you were serious
when you wired me yesterday from
Rugby."

''I was in no humour for jesting," she
said.  *' This is no place to talk in. Wait
until we get to the hotel."

When they were seated in Mrs. Davenport's
sitting-room, he waited for her to
speak. She was in the arm of the couch
he by the table, with his elbow resting
on it. They were facing one another.
She clasped her hands in her lap and
rested against the back of the couch.
She was deadly pale, and when she spoke
her voice was low, firm, and full of
thought.

I want you to tell me all you know
about this man Fahey. Mind, you are
to tell me all. There is no use in concealing
anything now. I will not take
a penny of that money. Speak plainly."

G 2

*' Not take the money, Marion ! Are
you mad ? " he exclaimed, starting forward
on his chair.

Not yet. The future of my reason
will depend a good deal on the plainness
of your speech. Go on."

But I have told you all that is worth
telling."

*tell it to me all over again, and
this time add everything, great or little,
you can think of, you can recollect. Let
me judge what is worth listening to, and
what is not. I am waiting."

** I know next to nothing of Fahey,
and never saw the man in all my life.
You are allowing this absurd story of his
ghost to prey on you. You will make
yourself ill."

** Nothing is so bad as uncertainty. I
am racked by uncertainty. Go on if you
wish to do me a service."

Service ! Fd die for your sake, Marion'*

'then speak for mj sake." She did
not move or show any interest one way
or the other in his words, although they
had been spoken pleadingly, passionately.

"At Florence, when he was seized by
that delusion, he raved now and then,
and in his ravings he said continually
that there was a plot to rob and murder
him. He did not include me in the conspiracy,
but all others were leagued against
him. At times he would become furious,
and defy his imaginary foes, swearing
that all of them together were powerless
against him, as Fahey was loyal, and
would be loyal to the death."

'loyal in what?"

I don't know. He did not say in either
his sane or frantic moments."

"What did he say?"

"That Fahey knew, but that no power
on earth would drag the secret out of
Fahey."

"What secret?"

*how should I know?"

Do you know ? "

'' Upon my soul, Marion, I do not."

Well, and after that what would
happen ? "

'' He would laugh and snap his fingers
at imaginary conspirators, and dare them todo
their worst, and then he would break
out into a laugh of triumph. And, as I
hope to live, Marion, that's all."

"Every word?"

*' Every syllable, I swear to you. Marion,
I could not tell you a lie. Marion, I
never loved you until now. If you bid
me, I will die for you. If you tell me,
I will go away and never see you
again. Try me. Bid me go or bid me
die. Tell me to do anything, if you
will only believe I love you as I never
loved you before  as I never loved any
other woman in the world. Since you

will not forgive me, since you will not
give me your love for mine, since you
will not let me be near you or see you,
set me something to do by which I
can show you I am sincere  madly in
earnest."

He bent towards her, and held out his
hands, but did not leave his chair. His
voice, his whole frame shook with excitement.


She raised her hand and lowered it
gently, as a signal that he was to be still
and silent.

He drew his arms and his body quickly
back, and sat mutely regarding her.

"I am sorry," she said, slowly, gently,
that you spoke in that strain now. This
is not the time for such matters "

"Then a time may come, Marion  a
time may come soon or late ? I do nofc
care when "

No," she answered, quietly, resolutely.

That time came and went long ago. Be
silent on that subject. I want to speak
of long ago."

He groaned, and struck his forehead with
his clenched fist.

' It was scarcely fair of me to ask you
to come. Will you answer my questions ? ''

Ask me what you please. I'll do it.
The only hope now left to me is that you
will allow me to serve you."

"My next question may be, must be
painful to you."

He laughed bitterly.

"That does not matter. Nothing can
matter now, except feeling I can be of
no use to you."

'what means of influence had you over
my husband beyond what I knew of ? "

*'I am not in the least pained by that
question. I was a poor idiotic fool to
give you up, but I could not support
you if I married you on my own means

then. I had no means. But still less
could I, vile as I was, marry you on
money got from him."

What influence had you ? "

*' I had only one spell to conjure with."

'' And that was ? "

"The name of Fahey."

How did you employ that name ? "

I said to him once, ' Is Fahey still
loyal ? ' I said it half in jest. We were
alone. He beoored of me never to mention
that name again, as it recalled his awful
condition in Florence. He said if I would
do him the favour of never referring to
that circumstance or name, he would be
my life-long debtor  adding : * And I mean
what I say, and that it shall have practical
results.' "

"He meant money."

"Yes."

*' Was that before or after he gave you
the thousand pounds ? "

'* Before  some months before. But now-poor
Davenport is no more, and cannot
be hurt by any one. And Fahey is dead,
and can hurt no one, though foolish old
women frighten themselves with the thought
that they have seen his ghost. Did you
know this Fahey ? "

She shuddered. This was the first sign
of feeling she showed. What it sprang
from he could not guess,

I did," she answered, unsteadily.
*rand you believe this story about the
ghost ? "
*No."

'Wliat then?"

"That"  with another shudder " he is
alive."

"Alive, Marion  alive! You are overexcited.
You are talking nonsense. Go
and lie down. You are worn out."

"I am. I feel my head whirling round.
Ijcave me."

He rose obediently to go.

"My mind is giving way, Tom."

That name spoken by her lips again

rooted him to the spot.

They suspected you, Tom, of that awful

deed, and they say he did it himself. I

am going mad. Surely this is madness."
What what ! Marion ! "
*' And now I suspect  him ! "
Whom, in the name of heaven ? "
Fahey. He was jealous of you both

Why did you put out the lights "

She tottered !

'wherever I CAME I Brought CALAMITY."

Tom Blake was thunderstruck. They were
both standing facing one another a few
feet apart. Blake was not a man to
be disturbed by a trifle. He had been a
good deal about in the world, and had
had experience of various kinds of men and
women. Many years ago he had met this
woman frequently, and in the end he made
love to her. Although she accepted that
love and returned it, she had never taken
him fully into her confidence.

In Marion Butler, as he knew her eleven
or twelve years ago, there had always

been a certain undefined reserve. She
would not refuse to answer any question
put to her, nor was there a doubt she
answered truly and fully. But she always
created the impression that there were
questions which he could not devise or
discover, and the answer to which he was
in no way prepared for. He had no idea
or hint of what these questions might be.
He was in no way uneasy about them. He
was convinced there were portions of her
nature which would always be concealed
from him ; but he was not jealous or suspicious.
He was not then even slightly
disquieted by this blankness, this reticence.
It had no more meaning for him than would
her native tongue, had she been born a
Hindoo and laid that language aside for
English. She had told him she had never
loved any one but him, and he believed her
without the possibility of doubt. She promised
to be his wife, and he believed she

would have stood at the altar with him
though death were his rival for the first
kiss.

But now he was amazed, confounded.
He had never seen the man Fahey, but
he had heard and read in the papers a
little about him, and from all he had
gathered he fancied Fahey was a kind of
upper servant or hanger-on of some kind.
Davenport had spoken to him of Fahey,
but the talk had been very general and
vague, except with regard to the conspiracy,
and the former man always showed the
greatest possible disinclination to hear anything,
or be asked any questions relating
to the latter. Blake had never run the
risk of riding a free horse to death. He
got money in large sums from Mr. Davenport,
but he had been judicious. There
was nothing so low or coarse as blackmail
hinted at by Mr. Davenport. That gentleman
and he were excellent friends, and he

had had bad luck, or was in ayant of money
for some other cause, and when men became
alarmed about money matters, although
they were quite innocent, they often did
foolish things. Look at that idiot Fahey.
So Mr. Davenport, because he was a gentleman
and a friend of Blake's, gave him
money out of mere courtesy and good
nature, and not fear, as one gives to a
strange fellow-pedestrian on the footway
when the stranger carries a load. There
was no more hint of threat or dread of
fear in the case of Mr. Davenport's offering
the money, or of Blake taking it, than in
the case of the meeting of two unacquainted
wayfarers.

He had thought nothing the widow
could tell him would take him by surprise,
and here he now was fairly breathless
and amazed. There was no doubt in his
mind this Fahey had not been the social
equal of Marion Butler, and Blake was of

opinion the man's origin lead been much
lower than Mr. Davenport's, though whence
the dead man had sprung he did not
exactly know. Kilcash House had not
always been the dead man's property. He
had bought it only a little while before
his marriage. Davenport seemed to be a
man accustomed to meet men only. He
was not by any means at his ease in an
ordinary mixed company, and he had explained
this to Blake by saying that until
comparatively late in life he had been
almost wholly a business man and unaccustomed
to the society of ladies.

But now what ghastly light shone on
the dire tragedy of the Crescent House
in Dulwich ! What a wonderful revelation
was this ! Fahey, the humble follower of
the dead man, had been an admirer of
the dead man's wife ; and he who had
been declared dead a decade of years ago
was by her believed to be living, and to

have been connected directly with her
husband's death ! No wonder he was
giddy. No wonder he could find no
words to speak to her. No wonder he
could only stand and gaze at her in
stupid fear, revolving in a dim light the
ghostly pageant of the past.

It was she who broke the silence.

I wish I were dead ! '*

Her voice recalled him to her presence
and the immediate hour. He took her by
the hand, led her to a seat, and began
pacing up and down the room without
speaking.

Advise me," she went on, after a pause.
'* Advise me, out of mercy. If I were
dead, there would be no lips to tell, no
soul to suspect the horrors by which I
am haunted. Advise me. You know
more of me than any other living being.
Shal I die?"

Still he could not speak. Her question

VOL. III. H

came sto Lis ears as though it were something
apart from her personality and his
consideration  as though it were a tedious
impertinence rising from an indifferent
source. Although he knew he was in
that room with the widow of Louis Davenport,
and that she had just said she believed
Fahey was alive, and had killed her husband
from jealousy, he could not give the
situation substantial form. There where
confounding murmurs in his ears, and
indeterminable shadows floating before his
eyes. His mind was clamorous for quiet,
and the clamour stunned and confounded
him.

Speak to me," she pleaded. *' I am
not deserted, yet I am alone. I have
always been alone since I can first remember.
Only I myself have broken the solitude
in which I lived. Once, long ago,
I thought you were coming towards me
from a distance, to share my solitude, but

you  you  went by. I felt like a castaway
on a desolate island, who sees a sail
bear down upon bim in the twilight, only
to find the morning sea a barren desert
of water. Should I die ? That is not a
hard question for you to answer, is it ? "

"No; not a hard question, Marion.
You must live."

For what ? ''

If she had asked this question an hour
ago, before she told him her horrible suspicions,
he would readily have answered,
For me." As it was, such an answer
would have seemed flippant, profane. But
an answer of some kind must be made.
He could find no answer, and said merely,
argive me time."

She sat upright on her chair. One hand
and arm rested on the table, the white
hand lying open upon the leaf, the thumb
holding on by the edge. Her head and
face were thrust forward, her chin projecting,

the forehead reclining. Her eyes, wide
open, followed him closely, intently, but
not eagerly. She seemed curious, more
than anxious. It was as though she took
but a reflected interest in the question,
although the reply might govern her action.
She waited for him patiently. He was a
long time before he spoke.

Marion," he said at length, " if I am
to be of any use to you  if even my
advice is to be of service to you  I must
know all  all, without reserve of any kind.
On the face of it, your question is absurd.
Supposing you had no code  no religious
feeling in the matter ; suppose you had no
fear or hope of the other world, what
earthly good could come of your doing
violence to yourself?  of your throwing
away your life suddenly ? "

While he was saying this, he continued
to walk up and down the room, with hi
eyes bent on the floor.

Her eyes had continued to follow him
in the same close, intent way. Still they
lacked eagerness. She was a pupil anxious
to know  not an enthusiast impatient
to act.

'sit would," she answered, with no
trace of emotion, *' close up his grave forever,
and give peace to his name."

'your husband's  your husband's grave
and name ! Come, Marion, let us be
frank."

"In what am I uncandid?"

"You did not  you swore at the
inquest you didjnot  love your husband,
and now you are talking of killing
yourself for his sake. Marion, you cannot
hold such words candid."

He paused in his walk, and stood
before her. He looked at her a moment,
and then averted his gaze. Her eyes,
although they rested intelligently on him,
did not appear to identify him. They

were the eyes of one occupied with the
solution of a mental problem, aided by
formula of which he was merely the
source.

"Thomas Blake," she said, I once

thought you might grow to understand

me, and then I came to the conclusion

you never could. You are now further

off than ever. Louis Davenport was my

husband, and I belonged to him. I

belong to him still. I swore  as they

were food enough to remind me at the

inquest  to love, honour, and obey him.

I did not come to love him as women

love their husbands, but my feeling

towards him was whole and loyal. I

was his, and I am his; and if my

death, now that he is dead, can benefit

him or comfort his name with quiet, I

am willing to die. Do not be alarmed.

I shall make no unpleasantness here

Do you think I am in the way of his
rest?"

"Marion, you are talking pure nonsense.
Why, your feelings as a Christian
alone "

*' "Who told you I was a Christian ?
I tell you I am a Pagan. Leave me at
least the Pagan virtues of courage and
fearlessness." She did not move.

He looked at her. There could be no
doubt she was sincere. Mad as her words
sounded, they must be taken at the full
value of their ordinary meaning.

"I will not seek to break down your
resolution or turn your purpose aside.
But before I can be of any real use to
you in the way of advice, you must trust
me wholly. How am I to judge of
your duty unless I know the entire case ?
Tell me all you know. Tell me all that
passed between you and this Fahey, and

all you know of the relations between
him and your husband."

**I will tell you all you need know."

"Do you think you are a good judge
of where your confidence in a matter of
this importance should end ? "

"I think I am. At all events, I shall
be reticent if I consider it better not
to speak."

*well, then, go on, Marion, and tell
me all you may. Mind, the more I
know the more likely I am able to be
of use to you."

She passed the hand not resting on
the table across her forehead.

Sit down," she said. ' I can speak
with greater ease while you are sitting."

He took a chair directly opposite her,
and she began :

"All that I said at the inquest is
true, and I told the whole truth in
answer to any questions I was asked ;

but I did not say all that was in my
mind. I have had bitter trials in my
life. I will not refer again to what was
once between you and me ; and, remember,
in anything I may say I shall
have no thought of that. I put that
away from my mind altogether, and it
will be ungenerous of you if you draw
any deduction towards our relations in
the past from anything I may say. Is
that understood ? "

"Perfectly, Marion. I know you too
well to fancy for a moment you could
be guilty of the mean cowardice of talking
at any one. Go on."

Thank you. I am glad you think I
am no coward." She still kept her hand
before her face, as though to concentrate
her attention upon her mental vision.
*' As I said at that awful inquest, there
was never anything ever so slightly like
a quarrel between Mr. Davenport and me.

Except that we lived almost exclusively
at Kilcash House, which was dull, I had
little or nothing to complain of; and the
great quiet and isolation of that place did
not affect me much, for I had small or
no desire to go out into the world, and
after a few years it would have given
me more pain than pleasure to have to
mingle in society. Very shortly after my
marriage I met Michael Fahey for the
first time "

"What was he like?" asked Blake,
interrupting her.

He was tall and slender. His hair
was brown, his eyes light in colour  blue,
I think. He wore a moustache of lighter
colour than his hair, and small whiskers
of the same colour. He was good-looking
in a way "

'' What kind of way ? "

'' Well, a soft and gentle way. At first
he struck me as being a man who was

weak, mentally and physically. Later
I had reason to think him a man of
average, if not more than average, physical
strength."

'about how old was he then?"
I could not say exactly. Under thirty,
I should think. He also struck me as a
man of not cjuite good social position.
His manners were uneasy, apprehensive,
and his English uncertain. He was restless
and ill at ease, and for my own peace
of mind I was glad when I parted from
him ; for it struck me he would be much
more comfortable if he and my husband
were left alone together.

My husband spoke to me in the highest
terms of Fahey, and said that although
he wished nothing to be said about it
just then, or until he gave me leave to
mention it, Fahey had done him useful
service in his time. That was all Mr.
Davenport volunteered, and I asked no

question. I was sure of one thing more
namely, that the less I was with Michael
Fahey the better my husband would be
satisfied.

*' I smiled when this conviction came
first upon me. Up to the moment I
felt it I had in my mind treated this
Fahey as a kind of upper servant, who
was to be soothed into unconsciousness
that he was not an equal. For a short
time I felt inclined to expostulate with
Mr. Davenport on the absurdity of fancying
Fahey could think of me save as
the wife of his patron ; but I kept silence,
partly out of pride and partly out of
ignorance of the relations which really
existed between this man and my husband.
You may, or may not, have heard
of a circumstance which occurred shortly
after my marriage ? "

'I remember nothing noteworthy. Tell
me what it was."

'eat that time it was Mr. Davenport's
habit to keep large sums of money in
the house. Once upon his having to go
away for a few days, he left me the
keys of the safe in which the money
was locked up. While he was away, an
attempt was made to rob the house. A
door was forced from outside, and two
men were absolutely in my room, where
I kept the key of the safe, when Fahey,
who was staying in the village of Kil-cash
at the time, rushed in and faced
the thieves. I was aroused and saw the
struggle. Fortunately the men were unarmed.
The light was dim  only my
low night lamp.

'the first blow Fahey struck he
knocked one of the men through a window.
Then he and the other man
struggled a long time, and at last the
thief broke loose and escaped by the
way he had come in. Fahey had overheard

the two thieves plan the robbery
in the village, and had followed them
that night to our house. My husband
wished the matter to be kept quiet, and
so it was hushed up.

'the next time I met Fahey after
that night I was alone on the downs.
He was alone too. I stopped to thank
him. I do not remember exactly what
I said  commonplace words of gratitude,
no doubt. While I was speaking I was
close to him, and gazing into his face.
I cut my speech short, for I saw a lookin
his eyes that told me I was not
indifferent to him."

The widow's hand fell from her face,
and she looked at her visitor with an expression
of trouble and dismay.

There was nothing distressing or alarming
in that," said Blake, with an encouraging
smile. "You must remember you were

then, as you are now, an exquisitely
lovely woman.

'"ao marvel, sovereign lady; in fair field
Myself for such a face had boldly died'"

Ay, ay," she said, with a shudder and
a glance of horror round the room. " In
the stanza before the one from which you
quote my fate is written :

' Where'er I came I brought calamity.' "

She stared before her, shuddered again,
and sighed.

"Well'' said he. 'you have more
to tell me?"

"Yes; I'll go on."

A COMPACT.

Mrs. Davenport rested slightly against
the back of her chair, and resumed :

' Mrs. Davenport said Fahey, ' what
I have done for you was nothing. It was
really not done for you at all. It was
done for Mr. Davenport, not you. The
thieves did not want to steal you. They
wanted to steal Mr. Davenport's money.
If I may presume to ask you for that
rose, I shall consider myself more than
repaid for what I have done.'

"I gave him the rose. He bowed, and
said : ' Yes, they were stupid, mercenary

fools. They thought a few pounds of
more value than anything else in the
world. I am not a rich man, and I care
very little for money itself. I care more
for what it may bring with it. I would
not care to be the richest man in the
world. I have in my time, Mrs. Davenport,
been the humble means of forwarding
Mr. Davenport's plans for making
money. He is a rich man. He is rich in
more ways than money.' Here he raised
the rose to his lips and kissed it. I stood
amazed. I could not speak or move."

' Are you sure the man was serious,
and that he meant it fully ?  or was it
only a piece of elaborate gallantry ? " asked
Blake, in perplexity.

"There can be no doubt whatever of
his absolute sincerity. Listen. I merely
smiled, as if I did not catch his drift,
and moved as though I would resume
my walk towards home. He lifted his

VOL. III. I

hat, and, standing uncovered, with his
hat in one hand and the rose I had
given him in the other, said :

*' ' I would not give this rose for all
Mr. Davenport's money, and I know more
about his money than any other man
living. Mr. Davenport and I have been
close friends for a long time. It is my
nature to be loyal. I have been loyal to
him. If I liked I could do him injury
irreparable injury. If I cared, I could
ruin him utterly. But it is my nature to
be loyal. Do you credit me ? '

'for a few seconds I did not answer.
I believed he was crazy, and I thought
that I must soothe him in some way and
get off. I had become apprehensive, so
I said : ' I am perfectly sure of your loyalty
to Mr. Davenport. I have always heard my
husband speak of you in the highest terms,
I hope we may soon have the pleasure
of seeing you again at the House.'

"not yet,' he said  'do not leave me
yet. I want to say a few more words
to you. It is easy to listen. Listen, pray.
I would not, as I said before, give that
rose for all his money. If I chose to
speak, things might be different with him.
By fair means or by foul, I will not say
which, I could make his wealth melt
like snow in the sun. But I have no
caring, no need for wealth. I shall not
hurt him if you will make me tvo promises.
Will you make the two promises
I ask

By this time I felt fully persuaded I
was in the presence of a madman. I looked
around and could see no one but the man
before me. We were not a hundred yards
from the edge of the cliff. I no longer
thought him physically weak ; his encounter
with the thieves had settled that point.
If he were mad, the promise would count
for nothing. There could be no doubt he

I 2

was insane. I resolved to try him : * Howls
it possible for me to make two promises
to you until I know what they are ? '

* Your husband trusts me  you may
trust me. Do you promise?'

' First let me know what the promises
are.'

* * That you will say nothing of what I
have said to you to Mr. Davenport, and
that, if ever I have it in my power to do
you another service, and do it, you will
give me another rose.'

'*  Yes ; in both cases,' I answered. ' You
may rest satisfied.'

I got away then and was very glad to
escape. There was no occasion to speak to
any one about this meeting with Fahey on
the downs, unless indeed I firmly believed
he was mad ; and now that I had time to
recall all he had said, and review all his
actions, I began seriously to question my
assumption as to his insanity. I took the

first opportunity of asking my husband if
there was anything remarkable about Fahey.
Mr. Davenport seemed a good deal put outby
the question, and asked me what I
meant. I said I thought Fahey was odd
at times. My husband said Fahey was all
right, and did not seem disposed to go on
any further with the conversation.

I did not meet Fahey again for a
long time  I mean months. He then
seemed quite collected ; but before wishing
good-bye, he said significantly : ' A man
may disappear at any moment on a coast
like this, and yet may not be dead. Now,
suppose I were to disappear suddenly on
this coast, you would think I had died,
and that Mr. Davenport no longer ran
any risk from my being talkative, or you
any chance of being called upon for that
other rose. I am not enamoured of this
coast. I consider it dreary and inhospitable,
and it would not at all

surprise me if one day 1 packed up and
led far away, and stopped away until
almost all memory of me was lost. Do
you think, Mrs. Davenport, that if, after
such an absence, I were to come back,
you would recognise me ? '

I answered that I was sure of it, and
got away from him as soon as I could.
Again I spoke to Mr. Davenport about
Fahey's sanity. My husband did not
seem to care about discussing the subject,
and so I let the matter drop. Afterwards,
when Fahey jumped into the Puffing Hole
in order to avoid the police, I thought to
myself that when he talked about disappearing
from the coast he was much nearer
the truth than he had any notion of.

"All this occurred many years ago, but
it made a great impression on my mind,
and I have not forgotten a tittle of it.
The words Fahey spoke, and the way he
looked, are as plain to me now as if it all

happened only yesterday. For a longtime
after Fahey had disappeared, I
believed his death at the Black Rock
was nothing more than a pure coincidence.
Now and then, at long intervals, Mr.
Davenport would refer to the matter, but
always in tones of anxiety and doubt.
I do not know why I got the notion into
my head, but gradually it found its way
there, until at last I became quite sure
Fahey was not dead. On more than one
occasion when I had ventured to suggest
such an idea to Mr. Davenport's mind,
he showed great emotion, and, after a few
struggles, either directly dismissed or
changed the subject.

*'If Fahey had been right about his
power of disappearing from that coast
without dying, why should I refuse to
believe that Fahey could injure  nay, ruin,
my husband, if he were to appear and
make certain statements of matters within

this own knowledge ? What these matters
were I could not guess. Since I saw you
last I have got good reasons to feel sure
my husband had no proper right to the
money he possessed, and that this man
Fahey was aware of the facts of the case."

"How did you find all this out,
Marion?" asked Blake, looking across at
her with freshly awakened interest.

I found papers of my husband's."

"Will you tell me how you believe he
came by the money?"

"No. And you must say nothing of
this conversation to any living being."

"Trust me, I will not."

The difficulties now are, Thomas Blake,
that I believe my husband did not come
fairly by his fortune, that Michael Fahey
is still alive, and that he had a hand in
the death of my husband."

Blake knit his brows, rose, and recommenced
walking up and down the room.

"Mr. Jerry O'Brien, who travelled over
from London with me, told me after we
left Euston that he himself and Phelan,
the boatman of Kilcash, had seen the ghost
or body of Fahey on the cliffs just above
the Black Eock/'

"It may have been a delusion."
*eyes, it may; but the chances are ten
thousand to one against it. He told me,
too, that a friend of his had seen the
same figure, clad in the same clothes it
wore ten or a dozen years ago. The
last-named phenomenon I cannot account
for. But if you can believe that a
man who jumped into the Puffing Hole
years ago is still alive, all other beliefs
in this case are easy. Now, Thomas
Blake, I have spoken more fully to you
than I have ever spoken to any other
man. I want you to advise and help

me.

*how?" asked Blake, stopping in his

walk and looking straight into her white,
fixed, expressionless face.

"By finding out Fahey and discovering
whence my husband got his money. Then,
if I may return it without disgracing his
name or exposing him, I will, and if
not "

'well, Marion, if not?"

I shall put an end to my knowledge
and myself, and so keep his grave quiet
and silent for him."

*' Marion, this is sheer madness."

"So much the better. If I do wrong
in an access of insanity, no moral blame
attaches to me or my act. Will you
help me ? Once upon a time I could
have counted on your aid."

At that time you held out the promise
of a glorious reward. Do you hold it
out still, Marion?"

"No. That thought must be put to
rest for ever. You may think it monstrous

that such being my mind, I should deliberately
seek you and ask for your
help. But I have no future, and you
are all that is left to me of the past "

"Marion, Marion, for Heaven's sake
don't say it is too late ! " he cried,
passionately, and advanced a step towards
her.

She retired two steps, and made an
imperative gesture, bidding him stand still.

"Stay where you are and listen to me.
To quote again from the poem you quoted
awhile ago, 'My youth,' she said, *was
blighted with a curse.' "

"And," he said, pointing to himself,
"if we alter the text slightly, we find
'This traitor was the cause.' Is not that
what you mean, Marion ? Do not spare
me ; I am meet for vengeance."

The present one is not a case for vengeance.
But if you like you may in this
matter expiate the past."

"And when my expiation is complete,
in what relation shall you and I stand
to one another?"

'sin the same relation as before we
met. You will be just to me, and help mein
this matter, Thomas Blake. Remember
that my life has not been very joyous."

'' But, Marion," he urged, softening his
voice, and leaning towards her, *4f I am
to take what you say at its full value "

"I mean it all quite literally."

"Then my expiation would assume the
form of leading you to the tomb instead of
the altar."

She drew back, and said :

Yes, put it that way if you will. Atone
time I believed your hand was guiding
me up to the altar, beyond which lay love
and life, and all manner of good and bright
things. We never reached the altar. But
something happened, and there was a dull,
dead pause in life, like the winter sleep of a

lizard or the trance of the Sleeping Beauty,
and then I awoke, and, to my horror, found
the altar had been changed into a tomb, and
the Fairy Prince into Death. There was
no time for love. I had slept through the
period of love. I had no power to hate,
but I had the power and the will to die.
You will help me ? "

Not to die, Marion. I will help you to
solve the mystery of this Fahey, and the
relations between him and Mr. Davenport,
and then when all has been cleared uj), you
may "

He held out his hand pleadingly.

"Yes," she said, coldly, firmly, 'when all
has been cleared up, I may say  good-bye."

AN EXPEDITION Proposed.

When Jerry O'Brien said there was absolutely
nothing to be done in Kilcash, he
had told the naked truth. The weather
was still far from genial, and Jerry and
Alfred Paulton were the only visitors in
that Waterford village. For a man of
active habits, in full bodily and mental
vigour, the place would have been the
very worst in the world ; but for an
invalid who had never been a busy manit
was everything the most exacting could
desire. If Alfred's mind had only been
as peaceful as his surroundings, he would

have picked up strength visibly from hour
to hour.

But his mind was not at ease. For good
or evil, he did not care which, he had
given his heart to that woman, and now
once more the shadow of this objectionable,
this disreputable man Blake, had come
between her and him. The most disquieting
circumstance in the case was that
Blake had not intruded, but had been
summoned by her. It is true that on
closer examination this did not seem to
point to a love affair between the two ;
for unless a woman was fully engaged to
a man, she would scarcely, he being her
lover, summon him to her side, under the
circumstances in Mrs. Davenport's case.

Such thoughts and doubts were not the
best salve for a hurt constitution ; and
although Alfred recovered strength and
colour from day to day, he did not derive
as much benefit from Kilcash as if his

mind had been even as untroubled as it had
been when the journey from Dulwich began.

Jerry was by no means delighted with
affairs. He put the best face he could
on things, but still he was not content.
As far as he was concerned, the detested
Fishery Commissioners had gone to sleep,
but there was no forecasting the duration
of their slumber. Any moment they might
shake themselves, growl, wake, and swallow
up all his substance.

Until they are done with this part of
the unhappy country, I shall feel as if the
country was overrun by 'empty tigers,' and
I was the only wholesome piece of flesh
after which the man-eaters hankered."

O'Brien did not pretend to be a philosopher
when his own fortune or comfort was
threatened or assailed. He chafed and
fumed when things went wrong, or when
he could not get his way. Now he was
compelled, in a great measure, to keep

silent, for there would be a want of hospitality
in displaying impatience of Kilcash
to Alfred. He had confided to the latter
the secret of his love for Madge, and the
brother had grasped his hand cordially and
wished him all luck and happiness. No
man existed, he had said, to whom he
would sooner confide the future of his sister.
How was O'Brien to act with regard to
writing to Madge ? There had been nothing
underhand or dishonourable in telling the
girl of his love that day on the Dulwich
Eoad. The declaration had in a measure
slipped from him before any suitable opportunity
occurred of talking to Mr. Paulton.
But speaking to Madge under the excitement
of the moment and the knowledge
of approaching separation was one thing,
and writing clandestinely to her quite
another. If he wrote to her openly, inquiries
as to the nature of the correspondence
would certainly be made at home,

VOL. III. K

and then their secret would be found out,
and the thought of being found out in
anything about which an unpleasant word
could be said was unendurable. In the
haste of leaving Carlingford House he had
made no arrangement with Madge as to
writing to her. It was absolutely necessary
for him to risk a letter. He would
not be guilty of the subterfuge of writing
under cover of one of Alfred's letters.
Accordingly he wrote a bright, cheerful,
chatty note to Madge, beginning " My
dear Miss Paulton," and ending "Yours
most sincerely, J. O'Brien." To those who
were not in the secret, nothing could have
been more ordinary than this letter. But
its meaning was plain to Madge. Among
other things, he said the Commissioners
had not yet done with him, and until they
had he could not count upon another visit
to Dulwich ; and he begged her to give his
kindest regards to Mr. Paulton, and to

express a hope that he might soon enjoy
the pleasure of a walk on the Dulwich
Eoad, when he would tell her father all
about the Bawn salmon and the wretched
Commissioners. Until then he should not
bother either of them with any account of
himself or the villains who were lying in
wait for him. This he intended to show
that he would not write to her again until
he had cleared up matters with her father.
And now that he had got rid of this
letter  it was a task, not a pleasure, to
write it  what should he do ? He had
told himself and Alfred that even in
summer there was not anything to be
done in Kilcash. But he, O'Brien, was
in full health and vigour, and began to
feel uneventful idleness very irksome.
Boating even with the pretence of fishing
was out of the question, and one grew
tired of strolling along the strand or
downs when fine, and looking out of the

E 2

windows at the unneeded rain when wet.
Against the weariness of the long evenings
he had brought books, cards, and
chess from Kilbarry. Time began to hang
heavily on his hands. Nothing more had
been heard or seen of the ghost of Fahey,
and the two friends had been a couple
of times to see the outside of Kilcash
House, whither, he believed, Mrs. Davenport
had not yet arrived from Dublin.

The weather was mild, moist, calm.

"I'll tell you what we shall do,
Alfred," said Jerry briskly at breakfast
one morning.

' What ? " asked the other, looking up
from his plate.

"There isn't a ripple on the sea. I'll
go see Jim Phelan, and get him to launch
his boat."

Capital ! " cried Alfred, who was in
that state of convalescence when the
daily addition to physical strength begets

a desire to use it and yields indestructible
buoyancy. " I should like a good long-sail
of all things  or, indeed, a good pull.
I'm sure I could manage an oar nearly
as well as ever."

Nonsense ! " said Jerry, dogmatically.
I will not be accessory to your murder,
or allow you to commit suicide in my
presence. I have had enough of inquests
for my natural life. It's too cold for
sailing, and you're not strong enough for
rowing. But there are the caves. The
time of the year doss, not make any
difference in them, so long as the sea is
smooth. They are as warm in winter as
in summer. We can bring torches and
guns, and a horn and grub with us. A
torchlight picnic would be a novelty tome,
anyway. The echoes in some places
are wonderful, and I'll answer for the
food being wholesome. I'll go down to
Phelan immediately after breakfast."

Big Jim Phelan was at home in his
cottage  not the shelter that covered him
in the summer, but the one which the
high and mighty of the land could rent
for eight to twelve pounds a month when
they wished to enjoy the sea.

O'Brien explained his design.

"Are you mad, sir?" said Jim,
drawing back from the chair which he
had placed for his unexpected guest.

"No. Why? What's mad about it?
I and my friend want to see the caves,
and they are just as good at this time of
year as in summer. Will you take us ? 
Yes or no ? Or are you afraid ? "

"Fm not afraid of anything that
swims or walks or flies, Mr. O'Brien,"
said Jim in a tone of indignant protest.
But nature is nature, and it's not right
to fly in the face of nature."

"Face of fiddlestick!" said O'Brien.
What has nature to do with our going

to visit the caves ? If you don't take us,
some one else will. AVhat on earth do you
mean by 'flying in the face of nature?"

'' Go to the caves at this time of
year ! " said Jim, in a musing tone of
voice. "Why, no one ever thought of
such a thing before ! "

'what difference does that make?
No strangers are here, except in summer ;
and of course the people of the village
never want to go to the caves either
winter or summer, unless they are paid.
Come on, Jim ; don't send me off to look
for some one else. I like to stick to old
friends."

Phelan reflected awhile. There was no
greater danger on such a day as this in
going to the caves than on the finest
day in July. But the novelty of the
idea was almost too much for Jim. That
any man in his sober senses could even
during the dog-days want to go to the

caves was wonderful enough ; but that
a man, and, moreover, a man who had
lived most of his life hard by, could think
of exploring those gloomy vaults in the
chilly, damp days of spring, was too much
for belief. O'Brien was liberal, and if he
happened to spend a couple of the summer
months at Kilcash, as he had hinted, Jim
was certain to be a few pounds the better for
it. But it wouldn't do to give in too easily.

Mr. O'Brien, if you're bent on going,
of course I must take you. I'll go to
the Cove of Cork for you, sir, single-handed,
in my own yawl. But mind
you, sir, it wasn't I that put you up to
going. If you ask me my advice, I say
don't go. I won't take any of the responsibility,
mind, sir."

All right," cried O'Brien, with a laugh.
"You know as well as I do that there
is no danger on a calm day like this.
How soon will you be ready ? "

I'll have to get a man to go with me,
and gather a few hands to help to launch
the yawl. Will an hour be soon enough,
sir?" said Jim, who, now that he had
decided on action, was already busy in
preparation.

Yes ; an hour will do. How is the
tide?"

"About an hour flood."

And how will that answer for the
Eed Cave?"

Eed Cave ! " said Phelan, pausing suddenly
in his preparation. "Is it Eed Gap
Cave you're thinking of going to, sir ? "

There was a sound of uneasiness in the
boatman's voice.

Yes. Isn't it the largest ? Isn't it the
one they say has never been explored ? "

Ay, sir. It never has been explored
fully, and I don't suppose ever will 
for what would be the good ?  and it
isn't over agreeable in there, with its

windings and twisting, I can tell you.
I don't mind much about the Eed Cave
itself; but, Mr. O'Brien, it's only a little
bit beyond the Whale's Mouth, and you
have some queer notions about that cursed
place ; and, mind, I'll have nothing todo
with it for love or money."

'* I didn't say anything about the
Whale's Mouth," said O'Brien, in a tone
of irritation. *' I asked you how is the
tide for the Eed Cave ? Can't you answer
a simple question ? "

''The tide is always right for the Eed
Cave," answered Phelan, sullenly. " You
can always go into it when the water is
smooth''

*every well. I'll expect you on the
strand by the rocks in an hour;" and
saying this, O'Brien left the cottage and
set out for the hotel.

AT THE whale's MOUTH.

Eed Head is about a pistol-shot from
the Black Rock to the east. It is a tall,
perpendicular red cliff, more than a hundred
feet high, projecting from the land
a few hundred yards, and rising up sheer
out of deep water. In places it overhangs
slightly  in places reclines. The
rocks of which it is formed are in no
place angular, show no sharp fracture,
declare no brittleness in formation. They
are rounded and smooth like the human
hand, abrupt nowhere, save in their giddy
descent to the water.

The middle of the Head is cleft in
two a hundred yards inward. This cleft
is called the Gap, or the Eed Grasp, and
is as wide as the nave of St. Paul's. At
the depth of a hundred yards in the Gap
the height of the opening suddenly
grows less, and the mouth of a huge
cave is formed by the precipitous sides,
and an irregular, blunted, Gothic roof of
the same firm, smooth red rock. The
vast chamber, or system of chambers,
beyond, is the Eed Gap Cave, for brevity
called the Eed Cave.

At the time appointed, O'Brien and
Paulton found Jim Phelan and his mate
Tim Corcoran afloat on the bay by the
flat stretch of rocks which served Kilcash
as a landing-stage. Billy Coyne had
brought down a basket of food, some
torches, a crimson light, and gun  the
torches and light to illumine the gloom.

and the gun to awaken the echoes of the
vast vault.

The day was fair and bright, with chill
spring sunshine. Overhead vast fields of
silvery white clouds stretched motionless
across the full azure sky. There was no
breath of wind, no threat of rain, no
look of anger anywhere. The waters of
the bay moved inward with a silken
ripple that scarcely stirred the yawl as
she glided slowly onward. When she
reached the open water beyond the bay,
and headed first south and then east, she
met the long, even Atlantic roller, which
glided towards her and under her as silently
and gently as a summer's breeze. No sound
broke the plenteous silence but the ripple of
the water against the sides, the snap of the
oars in the rowlocks, and the dull beat
of the waves against the foam-footed
crags. No ship, no boat, no bird was in

view. The solitude of the air and sea
was complete. The sounds of the sea on
the crags seemed not the distant notes of
opening war, but the soft prelude to
long, breathless peace.

They rowed in silence until they were
close to the Black Kock, until it rose
dark, inhospitable, forbidding above them.
Phelan was on the stroke, Corcoran on
the bow oar. The yawl was now abreast
the point at which the Black Rock joined
the cliff at the westward. There was no
rudder to the boat. On that coast
rudders are looked on as foppery. In
smooth weather the stroke steers from
the rowlocks ; in a sea-way some one
steers with an additional oar from the
sculling notch. O'Brien and Paulton were
aft, but there was no oar in the sculling
notch to steer with.

They were keeping a clean wake, and
owing to the swelling out of the Black

Rock they would, if they held on as they
were going, pass within a few score fathoms
of the Whale's Mouth. It was now about
half flood.

All at once Jim Phelan began to ease
without looking over his shoulder.

Pull, after oar  ease bow ! " sang
out O'Brien, quickly.

The bow eased as ordered, but, contrary
to the order, the stroke oar stopped pulling
altogether, and Phelan looked up with an
angry expression at O'Brien.

** I said ease bow  pull stroke' said
O'Brien, quickly, in a tone of irritation.

*rand I say  stop all," said Phelan,
decisively.

Corcoran rested on his oar, and for a
few seconds O'Brien and. Phelan sat looking
at one another. It was plain O'Brien
was angry, and that Phelan was resolute.
Paulton had no key to the difficulty.
The clumsy yawl rose to the top and slid

into the trough of two long, slow rollers
before either of the men spoke further.

Jim Phelan peaked his oar and broke
silence.

"Mr. O'Brien, I told you I wouldn't,
and I won't. That's all."

'you won't what, you stubborn fool?"

O'Brien was hot, but he had not lost
his temper.

"I told you," said Phelan, leaning his
great body forward, and resting his hands
on his thighs, *ras plain as words could
be that I'd have nothing to do with the
Whale's Mouth. You may not care about
your life, Mr. O'Brien, but I have people
looking to me. You're independent, and
can do what you like ; but neither for
you nor any other man will I go nearer
than I think safe to the Whale's Mouth.
The Ked Gap is bad enough at this time
of year ; but not at this time of year or
any other will I have anything to do

with that cursed hole in the Black Rock
here. Now, sir, am I to put about?"

I think you're taking leave of your
senses, Phelan," said Jerry, testily. " What
on earth put it into your head I wanted
to go into the Whale's Mouth? Why,
if I wanted to do anything half so plucky
as that, I'd get a man with a rec liver,
and a heart as big as a sparrow's ! Give
way, I tell you."

An ugly look came into Ph elan's face.
He was not bad-tempered or quarrelsome,
but he justly had the reputation of being
the most daring and the strongest man
in the village. He was not very intelligent,
and this was the first time in
his life he had been accused of cowardice.
He felt more amazed than angry, but
he felt some anger. He knew he could,
if he chose, catch O'Brien by the feet
and throw him over the gunwale as easily
as the oar lying across his legs. For a

VOL. HI. L

moment he thought the cold swim would
do O'Brien good, but almost instantly he
saw the punishment would be out of
proportion to the offence. He drew a
deep breath, partly straightened himself,
and, catching his oar, said :

'' Are we to go on to the Red Gap,
sir ? "

' Yes, confound you ! '' said O'Brien, far
from amiably. '' Keep as close to the
rock as you think is safe, quite safe, Phalanx
wouldn't risk yom life for a thousand
pounds."

Thank you, sir'' said Phelan, sullenly.
'' Neither would I  in a cave ; but if
it came to anything between man and
man "

"I know," broke in O'Brien, with a
laugh, ** you'd be glad to risk your neck
to satisfy your anger."

He had suddenly regained his good
humour.

*' That's it," said Phelan, laconically, as
the yawl moved on.

Paulton looked in surprise from one
to the other. O'Brien smiled and shook
his head to reassure him, but said nothing.
Visibly the spirits of the little party were
damped.

At length they were opposite the much-dreaded
Whale's Mouth. The two rowers,
at the request of O'Brien, peaked their
oars a few fathoms out of the direct set
of the in-draught, now at its greatest
strength.

The wall of rock, in which the opening
of the cave appeared, was at this time
of tide almost square, and considerably
wider than the yawl was long. Nothing
could be more harmless-looking than the
Mouth. Its sides were smooth and almost
perpendicular. No huge mass of rock
hung threateningly on high ; the water
beneath was pellucid, green, gentle. No

L 2

awful sounds issued from that Mouth. The
internal sounds told of little disturbance or
danger. No sign of conflict appeared
on the sides of the Mouth or the water,
or in the soft olive depths below. In
the heat of summer a stranger would
have found it almost impossible to deny
himself the luxurious refreshment of repose
in the moist twilight of that water-cave.

No teeth were visible ; but the lithe,
subtle, unceasing, undulating tongue was
there  the polished, subtle water. It rose
and fell, seemingly, as the water round
it, in indolent, purposeless indifference ;
and looking at the water merely, it
seemed to make no greater progress
onward than the water outside and
around. Yet the gentle swelling and
hollowing of the waves had a purpose
underlying, though they seemed, like other
waves, to move tardily, almost imperceptibly
forward. But here the water

was dragged onward occultly by some
power, and for some purpose unknown.
The roof of the Mouth and the jaws
were powerless for evil. No teeth were
visible in this gigantic Mouth, but the
unsuspected, oily, slimy water was there
lying in wait for the unwary, and fatal
to all things that touched it.

It was the tongue of the ant-bear that
attracts, enfolds, and finally engulphs its
prey in its noisome maw.

"Is that the Whale's Mouth of which
you told me, Jerry?" asked Alfred.

*' That's it," answered Jerry, shortly.
He took up one of the torches lying on
the stern-sheets and threw the torch
towards the cave into the sea.

"It doesn't appear very dreadful now 
does it?"

'* Watch that torch. No sea looks very
terrifying in a calm," said Jerry, sharply.

He had not yet quite recovered from the

passage of arms with Phelan. The boatman
had annoyed him by extravagantly
over-estimating the dangers and powers of
the chasm, and Paulton now ruffled him by
seeming to make nothing of them.

Slowly but surely the torch was carried
towards the Whale's Mouth. Slowly at
first, but more quickly as it approached
the rock, more quickly as it approached
the cave. Second by second the rate increased,
until, when it reached the Mouth
and disappeared, it was hurrying on as fast
as a man could walk.

** That's strange ! " said Alfred. " I think
you told me no one has been able to find
out where all this water goes to."

*' To a place that's more hot than comfortable,"
said Phelan grimly, directing a
look of inquiry towards Jerry.

*sit all comes back again," said Jerry.

Barring what doesn't," muttered Phelan.

Pull a stroke or two, Tim," he said to the
other boatman. ' The current is under her
keel already, and bad as this world is, I
haven't made my will yet. A couple of
more strokes, Tim."

He looked at Alfred and addressed him,
although he could not do so by his name,
as he had never heard it.

' I beg your pardon, sir ; but if you'd
like to make money, sir, I'll lay you the
price of this day's work to a brass button
you never see that torch again, and I'll
lie by to watch for it until the ebb is
done."

Alfred did not answer. His eyes had
been raised for a few moments, and were
now firmly fixed on the plain of the Black
Kock. Jerry was peering intently into the
jaws of the Whale's Mouth. Phelan was
looking into Alfred's face to see the effect
of his offer.

Jerry ! " cried Alfred, abruptly.

What ? " asked Jerry, without moving
his eyes from the cavern.

There's some one on the Black
Rock."

'' Good heavens ! " exclaimed O'Brien,
looking up. "Not Fahey?"

"No," said Alfred. "It's Mrs. Davenport!"


THE Need CAVE.

There was no mistaking that figure, and if
the figure had not been ample confirmation
of identity, there were the full widow's
weeds, and, above all, the pale, placid
face. The full light of the unclouded sun
fell on her. The distance was not great,
and she stood out in bold relief against the
white field of cloud stretching across the
northern sky.

On impulse, Alfred rose in the boat,
and took ofi" his hat and bowed.

She returned his salute, and without a
moment's pause drew back from the edge on

which she had been standing, and disappeared
from view.

'' Mrs. Davenport ! " said Phelan, forgetting
his ill-humour in his surprise. 'what
a place for a lady to be all by herself ! I
thought Mrs. Davenport was away somewhere
in foreign parts."

Alfred sat down. The boatmen had
resumed their oars, and the yawl was
gliding steadily through the water.

"Is the Rock really dangerous at this
time?" asked Alfred anxiously of PhelaUo
O'Brien was buried in thought, and did
not heed what the others were saying.

Not dangerous now, sir  not dangerous
when the water is so smooth and the air
so calm ; but if there's a little sea on, and
a little breeze, you never know what may
happen here. Sometimes the sea alone
will do it, and sometimes the wind alone
will do it, and sometimes both together
won't do it. You can only be sure she'll

spout when the sea is high and the wind
a strong gale from the south-west. What
surprises me to see the lady there is because
the place has a bad name, and she was just
standing on the worst spot of all when
we saw her first."

"How a bad name, and how the worst
place of all ? Are you quite sure there
is no danger to the lady now?" asked
Alfred, struggling violently and successfully
to conceal his extraordinary solicitude.

*' I am perfectly sure there is no danger
of the spout now. The reason I said it
has a bad name is because of all the people
who were carried off that Rock ; and where
Mrs. Davenport stood is just the worst
spot of all."

But Mrs. Davenport must know the
Rock well. I dare say, as her house is near,
she often comes to see it."

"Ay, she may often come to see it.
But to see it and to walk on it are different

things. There are very few women in the
village who would care to go on it without
a man to lend them a hand. Why, sir,
it's as slippery as ice, and two people fell
and were killed on it out of regard to its
slipperiness."

Is there no way of landing here ? "

''No, sir. You can't get a foot ashore
anywhere nearer than Kilcash. You might,
of course, land on many a rock here and
there, but you couldn't get up the cliffs.
It's iron-bound for miles."

"But could not the lady be cautioned
in some way ? She could hear a shout
even though we cannot see her. She cannot
yet be out of hearing ? " Paulton could
scarcely sit still in the boat.

"And suppose she could hear a shout,
sir, what could you tell her she doesn't
know ? Do you think Mrs. Davenport
has lived all these years and years a mile
from the Black Kock, and doesn't know

as much as any of us could tell her about
it ? Why, she lives nearer to it than anyone
else in the world ! Her next-door
neighbours are, I may say, the ghosts of
men who lost their lives on that very
spot."

'what is that you're saying?" asked
O'Brien, coming suddenly out of his
reverie.

"Only, sir, that Mrs. Davenport's next-door
neighbours are the ghosts of the
men who lost their lives on the Black
Rock."

O'Brien looked in amazement at the
boatman. He had been recalled from
his abstraction by the word " ghost ; "
but he had not fancied, when he asked
his question, that the answer would lie
so close to the thoughts which had been
occupying his mind a moment before.
For a while he could not clear his mind
of the effect of this coincidence.

What on earth do you know or guess
about the matter, Phelan?" he cried,
quite taken off his guard.

*' I suppose I know as much about the
Rock as any man of my years along the
coast," answered Phelan, with a slight
return of his former sullenness.

O'Brien at once saw that he had made
a mistake, that Phelan's words were perfectly
consistent with ignorance of what
he knew of the Fahey affair  or, indeed,
with the absence of intention to refer to
the Fahey affair. He hastened to put
himself right.

Of course you do, Phelan," said he
cordially. "No man knows more than
you. Excuse me for what I said. I was
thinking of something else when you
spoke, and I did not exactly hear what
you said. I did not mean to annoy you.
I was only stupid myself."

Jim Phelan considered this a very handsome

and ample apology, not only for
the words just then spoken, but for what
had occurred a few minutes before.

'' He was thinking, poor gentleman,"
thought Phelan, "of those blackguards
of Commissioners. I know how anxious
a man gets about fish."

"He was thinking," thought Alfred,
'' of Madge. I know all about that
kind of thing."

He had not been thinking of one or
the other. He was wondering how Mrs.
Davenport would have been affected if
the figure of Fahey suddenly rose before
her on that Kock.

"This, sir," said the boatman, addressing
Alfred, the stranger, "is what we call
the Ked Gap, and the cave beyond is
what we call the Eed Gap Cave  or the
Gap Cave, or the Eed Cave, for short."

Alfred looked around him, and then up.

Above towered the great perpendicular

cliffs, silent and forlorn. From the dark
green water at their bases, to the hard,
dark line they made against the azure
plain of sky that roofed the chasm, was
no break, in form or colour, no noteworthy
ledge or hollow, no clinging weeds
below or verdurous patch above. All was
smooth, and bluff, and huge, and liver-coloured.


A peculiar silence, a silence of a new
and startling quality, filled the gigantic
cleft. The silence abroad upon the sea
was that in which vast spaciousness engulfed
sound. Here adamantine walls,
beetling and threatening, a thousand feet
thick, stood between the stagnant air and
the large breathing of the sea. The
atmosphere was dense, motionless, inert
with salt vapours. The prodigious circumvallation
of cliff crushed vitality out of
the air. There was a breathless whisper
of water against the sea line of the

ramparts, and deep in the gorge of the
cave a smothered snore, like the hushed
breathing of some stupendous monster.

The yawl glided slowly up between the
closing walls of the Eed Gap. No one
spoke. The two boatmen were indifferent
to the place. O'Brien and Paulton were
lost in thoughts of diverse kinds, awakened
by the spectacle of Mrs. Davenport on the
Black Rock. None of the men was paying
attention to the Gap.

At last a sudden darkness fell upon the
boat. O'Brien and Paulton looked up.
The sky was no longer overhead. A gloom
of purple brown was above them. The
light of day stood like a lofty, luminous
pillar in their wake. They had entered
the Red Cave.

The boatmen ceased rowing, and Phelan
lit a torch.

For a few moments nothing could be
seen but the blazing red torch flare

VOL. III. M

against a vast black blank, and round
the glowing red boat a narrow pool of
glaring orange water.

No one moved. No sound informed the
silence but the hiss of the torch and
the profound sighs of distant, impenetrable
hollows.

The water illumined near the boat
looked trustworthy, denser than water,
a ruddy platform with shadowy verge.
No undulation moved over its face save
a dulling ripple caused by the boat's imperceptible
motion. The boat and figures
in it seemed the golden boss of a fiery
brazen shield hung in a night of
chaos.

Alfred Paulton put his hand outward
and downward. It touched the gleaming
surface of the water. He drew his hand
back with a start. The cold of the
water froze his fingers, his soul. The
water shone like solid metal, felt less

buoyant than the ruddy air he breathed.
Instead of resting on a firm plain of
luminous beaten gold, the boat hung on
a faint, thin fluid over a sightless abyss.

This was a terrible place. Here was
nothing but space for thought  for visions
and fears too awful to dwell upon.
Nothing was surer than that no loathsome
dangers lurked, or swam, or hung
pendulous above. Nothing was surer than
that the imagination crouched back
from dreads which had never affrighted
it before.

This water was only phantom water. It
was no better than the spume of sea-mists
held between invisible crags of
blackness, of mute eternity. If one should
fall out into that water, he would sink
through it swift as lead through air.
One would shoot down, and down, and
down, giddy, but not stunned. One
would sink  whither ? Whither ? To

H 2

what fell intimacy with dripping rocks
and clammy weeds and slime would one
come ? What agonising sense of impending
gloom reaching infinitely upwards
would lie upon one, as one fell ! Would
the falling ever cease ? Never, never.
Nor would one live, for to fall thus fora
moment of time would serve to fill
the infinite of eternity with chimeras of
ebon adamant too foul for human eyes.

The oars dipped. The boat moved
forward into the immeasurable vagueness
of shadow  into this sleeping chamber of
nio:ht. It glided over the silent floor
between hushed arras, which saw neither
the gaudy sun that drowns in light the
tender whisperings of the sea, nor the
silver moon that hearkens forlorn to the
faint complaining of the weary waves,
arras woven of the flame of earth's primal
fire, and limned by night in the smoke
of ancient chaos.

Something floated from the side of the
boat and shone a while in the wake, and
then was lost in the darkness as the boat
moved slowly on.

'keep her west'' whispered a voice
in the boat.

*' We're keeping west'* whispered another
voice in the boat. The noise of the oars
in the rowlocks clanked in the echoes
like the complaining of a gigantic wheel
whose bearings were dry. The whispers
came back from the echoes like the
whispers of a Titan whose teeth were
gone, and whose tongue was thick with
age or clumsy with disease. The voice
of the giant seemed near  on a level with
the head. It stirred the hair.

The torch went out.

"Light  give us light," whispered a
voice in the boat.

'' Wait. Watch astern," whispered
another voice.

"Astern' whispered the awful, almost
inarticulate voice close to the ear, in the
hair.

Then all was still. The oars stopped.
All eyes were, unseeing, turned in the
direction whence the boat had come. The
faintest glimmer indicated the opening to
the cave. All was black as the heart of
unhewn granite.

'now watch," whispered a voice in
the boat.

Now watch," whispered the echo
against the throat and neck.

*son no account start or stir. The
report will be very loud. Hold on to
the thwarts. I am going to fire ! "

Blended with the earlier portion of
this speech, the echoes gave back a
sharp battering sound like that of throwing
metal from a height. This was the
cocking of the gun.

When this sound ceased, the echo
whispered :

'fire!"

A jagged rod of flame and luminous
smoke shot outwards and upwards into
the black void from the boat aft, and
cleared the black space for a moment.

Then the clash and clangour of a
thousand shattered echoes close at hand
bore downward on the head and bent
the head, while out of far-reaching
caverns thunders were torn with shrieks
and yells and flung against concave-resounding
roofs, until the whole still
air of the monstrous hollows roared,
and secret ofi'-spring tombs of darkness,
never seen by man, answered with fearful
groans and shrieks of the Mother Cave.

Paulton let go the thwart, bent his
head, flung his arms up, and crossed
them over his head.

Here was the solid earth riven through
and through with prodigious thunders of
all the heavens !

The roar of sound fell to a shout, the
shout to a groan, the groan to a mutter.
Then all was still, stiller than before 
still with the silence of annihilation
accomplished. Nothing that had been
was. The echoes were dead, and would
speak no more. The material had failed
to be, and only darkness and the unweary
spirit of man remained.

A voice whispered, " Watch."

Some lingering phantom of an echo
whispered in ghostly gutturals, '* Watch ! '

There was a hiss, a purple commotion
on the surface of the water, in the air on
the wake of the boat. A cone of intense
red flame, as thick as a man's arm, rose
up from the level of the water in the
wake, and stood a cubit high:

The air took fire and burned, and out

from the brown darkness leaned huge
polished pillars, copper-red, and broken
walls, smooth pilasters, and architraves
keen with light, and sightless gargoyles
blurred with fire, and cloisters whose rich
arches dripped with flame, and buttresses
with fierce outlines impacted on plutonian
shade, plinths with shafts of Moorish lightness
and arabesques with ruby tags, sturdy
bastions and flat curtains, broken Gothic
windows, capitals of acanthus leaves flushed
with ruddy flare.

Aloft yawned arches and domes and
hollow towers, vast in sombre distances
and sultry with hidden fires. The secrets
of their depths no eye could pierce. They
were abysmal homes of viewless voices 
homes of virgin night.

Hither and thither, chapels and aisles
and corridors and galleries, reached from
the great central space into the copper
gloom. Here above the surface of watery

floor stood columns of fallen pillars, masses
of broken walls, points of ruined spires.

In the centre of the level floor rose a
block of stone, flat, a little above the
surface of the water, and on this the headless
form of a colossal figure, showing in
rude outline like an Egyptian sphinx.

The ground was polished red granite
here and there, ribbed with ruby marble,
that shone with dazzling brightness against
the aqueous glare.

On the pedestal of the sphinx the men
of the boat landed, and stood to gaze
upon this Pompeii beneath Yesuvia's pall
this subterranean Venice in ruins  this
water-floored Heliopolis without the sun !

There was a loud hiss. The blood-red
architecture thrust forward in fiercer light.
A louder reverberating hiss, and all was
dark ! Everything had vanished  had
drawn back into immeasurable darkness.
The crimson light had burned down to

the level of the tiny raft which bore it,
and the water of the cave had quenched
its flame.

All was black darkness, turn which way
one might.

Light ! " whispered Paulton, overcome
by what he had heard and seen.

**\Yhat is that?" asked O'Brien, catching
Phelan's hand, and pointing down to
where the western gallery had glowed a
minute ago. Light was seen piercing the
cliff to the westward.

For a while no answer was given. Then,
in accents of awe and fear, the boatman
answered :

"A light  a light made by no mortal"
hand ! "

Far down in the gloom of the western
gallery a yellow spot shone !

A RETROSPECT.

Mrs. Davenport's visit to the Black
Rock that day had not been one of
mere curiosity, although nothing of import
to her life was likely to result from it.
Her career was over, if, indeed, it might
be said ever to have begun.

In her younger days she had been
abandoned by the only man she had ever
loved, and wed to a man whom she never
loved, whom she could not even esteem.
She had sworn to love her husband ; she
had fairly tried, and wholly failed. To
her husband she had been a blameless

wife, an admirable companion. He had
signified his approval of her conduct by
leaving her his fortune. All her lifetime
she had been too proud to care for
money, and now she could not take it.
Her father had prevented her marrying
the good-for-nothing, beggarly scamp, Tom
Blake, and forced her into the arms of
the elderly, rich, excellent Vir. Louis
Davenport. In those days she had been
torn by tempests of love and hate, of
aspirations and despairs, which no mortal
eye had seen, no mortal ear had heard.
In the solitude of her own room, and
of the woods about her father's home,
she had wept and stormed, and pitied
herself with the broken-hearted self-pity
of youth. She had cast herself against
the bars that confined her, and wished
that the fury which shook her might
end her. She had prayed in vain for
death. In answer to her passionate

appeals for a shroud, heaven sent her a
bridal veil. When Blake gave her up,
she did not care whether she walked
into an open grave or up to the marriage
altar. She took no interest in herself
: why should she take interest in anyone
else ?

If Blake had asked her to fly with
him then, she would have rushed into
his arms with unspeakable eagerness and
joy. But he sold his claim to her fora
sum of money, and walked off with
the cash in his pocket !

She then knew she was beautiful  one
of the most beautiful women in the
country. Many men had sought her
before Blake asked her for her love. But
up to his coming she was heart-whole.
She had never seriously considered any
man. She thought little of the sex, of
the race, herself included. She took buta
weak interest in this world, and, up to

the advent of her only sweetheart, would
have stepped out of it any day without
much reluctance. She was a dreamer, and
told herself the hero of her dreams was
not human. Then came Tom Blake, and
forth went her whole heart to him. She
gave him all the love she had to give.
She told him her life had hitherto been
dull, without expectation, hope, love, sunlight
; but that, as he was now with her,
and would, in spite of all opposition, be
beside her all her life, her soul was filled
with ineffable hope, with delicious love,
and the dream-romance of her life had
taken substantial form, which would bea
thousand times sweeter than she had
ever dared to figure in her thoughts.

Her lover had no money. He had lost
his patrimony. Her father had nothing to
give her, and

And what ?

How was it to be ? How could they

live on nothing ? She had been brought
sup a lady, but her father was hopelessly
in debt  over head and ears in debt  and
if he were ever so willing to do so, he
was powerless to help them now, and could
leave them nothing later.

True  most sadly true. But what of
that ? Was Tom not her lover ?  and was
he going to die of hunger ? Did he not
think he could get enough money somehow
to keep him from falling by the way ?

No doubt. But she had been tenderly,
luxuriously brought up. He had no means
of keeping her in any such position as she
had all along in life enjoyed.

But he could get bread ? Not literally
only bread, but as much as they paid a
gamekeeper or a groom ?

Oh, nonsense ! Of course he could.
But gentlefolk could not live on the
wages of a gamekeeper or a groom.

Did he love her ?

Very much. But a gamekeeper got no
more

Than a roof, and clothes, and food,
and  love. How much did he love her?

Oh, better than anything else in the
world.

Well, then, let him take time and look
around him, and get house, and clothes,
and food such as gamekeepers and grooms
may have. Those would: be his contributions
to their lives. She would supply
the love.

But lady and gentleman could not live
in such a way.

Why not ? He was a gentleman, and
she was a lady, and poverty could take
none of these poor possessions away, anymore
than riches could create them.
Let him get a gamekeeper's wages, and
she would share them with him, and give
him all her love, every day renewed.

But

VOL. III. N

Ah! Then all she had to give was
not worth as much to him as a gamekeeper
valued his own wife at. Good-bye.
The air was damp, and this wood was
chilly.

Yes, it looked as if it were going to
rain. She would not leave him thus.
She would say good-bye to him, and give
him one kiss at parting.

She would say good-bye, and he might
have as many kisses as he cared for,
provided she got soon away  for it was
going to rain. No man had ever kissed
her but him. Kisses did not mean anything,
or words either. Why did he drawback?
She told him he might kiss her
if he chose. Any man might kiss her
now. Kisses or words did not mean anything.
Well, good-bye. Whither was he
going? It would surely rain. Whither,
did he say?

''To hell!"

'* No, not there. You are a gentleman,
and gentlemen do not go there ; only
gamekeepers and grooms  and women such
as I."

She walked slowly away through the
moist wood in the drizzling rain.

He felt sorely sorry and hurt, and ill-used
by fate ; but he had a gay
disposition, and was no dreamer. Besides,
he was a man of the world, and devilishly
pressed for money just then ; so he took
Louis Davenport's thousand pounds and
went away.

After a while she married the odd,
rich, old bachelor, Louis Davenport (she
did not care what man kissed her now),
and he took her away to Kilcash House,
and although he never laid anv restraint
upon her, she knew he did not care
that she should go much abroad; so she
lived almost wholly in the house, and

N 2

rarely went out alone, and never had
any guest at the place.

Mr. Davenport was at home most of
the time. Now and then he went away
for a few days, and always came back
alone. There were no callers at the
house, and she at first hoped she might
die, and when she found her bodily
health unimpaired, looked forward with
a sense of relief to the time when she
should go mad.

Still her mental health held out as well
as her bodily health, and weeks grew
into months, and found no change in
her or her manner of life.

But there came a slight change in
her home. During the first few weeks
of her married life no stranger ever crossed
the threshold of Kilcash House.

Now a tall, gaunt, humble-mannered
man, of slow, soft speech and unpretending
ways, was often with Mr.

Davenport for a long time in the day,
sometimes far into the night, The
husband never took the wife into his
business confidence, and the wife had
no curiosity whatever. But from odd
words she gathered that this young
man, whose name was Michael Fahey,
depended on her husband, and was
helped and received by him because of
some old ties between the families of
both. She heard Fahey was staying at
the village of Kilcash for his health,
which was delicate, and that he was
completely trustworthy and well-disposed
towards Mr. Davenport.

All this reached Mrs. Davenport without
leaving any impression whatever on her
mind beyond the simplest value of the
words. Her husband introduced Fahey
to her as a man in whom he took a
sincere interest, and whom he wished
her to think well of. Whether he

intended his wife should or should not
treat the stranger as an equal, she did
not know, she did not care.

For a time she took little heed of
Fahey, but gradually it dawned upon
her that in him she had a new admirer.
She was accustomed to admiration,
surfeited with it. Her love romance
was at an end. She was married to a
man for whom she did not care, from
whom she did not shrink, to whom she
owed no ill-will, who was in his poor,
narrow, selfish way good and kind to
her. If she had now any commerce
with laughter, she would have laughed ;
but even the pathetically absurd experience
she had had of love could not provoke
a smile, and she simply took no heed,
said no word, gave no sign. She did not
feel angry, flattered, amused, even bored.
She was past any of these emotions now.

She would, she could be no more than
indifferent.

Nothing could be more respectful than
Fahey's manner. He did not regard her
as human. He worshipped her afar
off. He ate his heart in silence. He
breathed no word, no sigh, gave wilfully
no sign. But she saw his downcast or
averted face, and she read the homage
in furtive glances of his wondering eyes.

Then came the scene with the rose and
her husband's absence abroad, followed
by his return, and a brief history of the
marvellous escape he had from that
French bank, and his resolution that he
would now settle down in life and
speculate no more. She then had but a
dim idea of what speculation meant, of
what his business was.

Soon came a day of mystery and horror
to her.

She was alone in the little sitting-room
on the ground floor, purely her own. It
faced west. Broad daylight flooded the
garden before her, the rolling downs
beyond.

Suddenly the light of the window by
which she sat was obscured. The window
was opened by Fahey. She motioned him
to enter. By way of reply he made an
impatient gesture.

*sis he in ? " asked Fahey, breathlessly.

''No," she answered. "Can I do anything
for you?"

She now saw he was in violent agitation,
and physically distressed.

He continued :

"I have not a moment to spare. Say
to him, ' All is well. All is safe for him.'
I have arranged that."

Safe I " she answered. " Does any
danger threaten my husband?"

*' Yes, while I am here  while I live."

You  you would not hurt him ? "

She remembered the look of admiration
she had seen in this man's eyes, and rose
and recoiled in horror.

"Give him my message. Repeat all I
have said, except this : ' I am not doing it
for his sake, or my own sake, but for yours.
Good-bye.' Tell no one else of my being
here ; no one but him  not a soul."

In a moment he was gone.

The next thing she heard of him was
that he had drowned himself in the hideous
Puffing Hole.

At first she had been inclined to think
Fahey's words referred solely to his feelings
towards her ; but when she learned he had
drowned himself she doubted this. Against
what was her husband secure ? To say
he was secure against Fahey's admiration
for her would be the height of gratuitous
absurdity. She cared no more for the
young man than for any misty figure ina

fable. He must be mad ; yes, that was
it. That supposition made all simple 
explained everything.

It was night when her husband returned.
She, remembering Fahey's caution, and
bearing in mind that walls have ears went
to the gate of the grounds, and there met
Davenport. He had heard of Fahey's fate.
It was dark  pitch dark  when she gave
him the message with which she had been
charged.

Poor Michael ! " her husband said 
"poor Michael! Unfortunate fellow!"

He said no more then, and rarely spoke
of the man afterwards. Davenport was
not a communicative man, and there was
nothing noteworthy in his silence.

After her husband's death she went
through his papers, and found evidence
of a much closer intimacy between Fahey
and him than she had till then suspected.
There was no clear evidence in these documents.

They were partly in her husband's
handwriting, partly in Fahey's. There was
an air of mystery in them, and she was
certain many passages of them were figurative.
But one dreadful secret she learned
from them beyond all doubt : Louis Davenport
had not come by his money fairly,
and Fahey was an accomplice in his
schemes. When leaving London for the
Continent, she had carried those papers
with her unread. There she opened them,
with a view to destroying them, and burned
them in terrified haste. She had never
suspected her husband of dishonest actions.
Now she felt perfectly sure he had come
by his money foully. How, she did not
know. The man had been her husband,
and she would shield his memory from
shame ; but she would touch none of his
money, let who would have it, when she
got back to London.

She was convinced Fahey had not

thrown himself into the Puffing Hole for
love of her, or because he was insane,
but solely and simply because he and her
husband were mixed up in crimes of some
kind, and Fahey preferred death to discovery
on his own part, and on her part
too ; for she would suffer from the exposure
of her husband, and Fahey had nothing
to expect from her. There was still a
want of clearness and precision about the
whole affair. But on her way back from
France, she had no doubt her theory was
right in the main.

Before the inquest she had been in
horror of revealing in court the history of
the treatment she had received at the
hands of Blake, and the bare notion that
she, being then a married woman, had
driven this man Fahey in a frenzy of
self-sacrifice or devotion to drown himself,
filled her mind with thoughts of shame
and anguish, the contemplation of which

nearly took away her own reason. She
had contemplated making away with herself
rather than face the ordeal of the
court. She had been a recluse for years,
and haughty in her consciousness of un-amiableness
all her life.

On her return to London she heard the
rumour of this apparition at the Puffing
Hole. Phelan had told of the apparition
to several people in Kilbarry. The news
of it had got into the local papers, and
London papers copied the account. Xo
name was given but Fahey's, and attached
to his name was a brief history of Fahey's
disappearance years ago.

Upon these two discoveries she resolved
to go to Ireland and renounce all claim
to the fortune her husband had left her.
There could no longer be in her mind
any doubt that her husband's fortune, ora
portion of it, had been obtained by
fraud. At Paulton's she met O'Brien,

who, on the way to Ireland, told her he
himself had seen Fahey.

She was now quite sure Fahey was
still alive. The horrible suspicion had
taken hold of her mind that Fahey had,
after keeping in hiding for years, poisoned
her husband for her sake ! In the light
of her belief that Fahey still lived, the
theory that her husband had poisoned
himself while of unsound mind was absurd
to her.

Before setting out this day for the
Black Rock she opened a drawer of her
late husband's, took out a revolver she
knew to be loaded, and dropped it into
her pocket.

When she left the edge of the Black
Rock she walked carefully to the cliff
and ascended by the path.

When she reached the level of the
downs she gazed round.

She started. A loud explosion rose

from beneath her feet. It was the gunfire
of the boat and the tremendous
reverberations from the caves and cliffs.

She looked round in alarm. A minute
ago she had been alone. Now Michael
Fahey stood by her side !

A LAST APPEAL.

Michael Fahey ! Michael Fahey ! "
cried Mrs. Davenport, slowly. " Am I
awake and sane ? "

"Both," answered he, gently. "You
are awake and sane, and I am Fahey,
and alive. Nothing can be more incredible
; but it is as I say, Mrs. Davenport.
You will not betray me ? You
will not be unmerciful to me ? Remember,
I never meant to do you harm."

She shrank back from him. Did this
man, whose hands were reddened with
her husband's blood, dare to plead to her

for mercy. " Betray you ! AVhat do you
mean ? Do you call it betraying you to
give you into the hands of justice ? You
will gain nothing by threats. I am not
afraid of you ; and I am not defenceless,
even though I am alone." She moved
further off, and pressed the revolver in
her hand.

He seemed dejected rather than alarmed.
'' What good can it do you ? When I
disappeared years ago, it was for the

good of your husband " He held

out his hands appealingly to her.

Her tone and attitude were firm, as she
interrupted him. 'you disappeared years
ago for the good of my husband, and reappear
for his death  for his murder ! I
can have no more words vith you. I
shall certainly not shield you from the
consequences of your crime."

If you only knew me as well as you
might  if you could only understand how

VOL. III.

I felt that day I was hunted like a beast,
you could not believe I would willingly
do anything to annoy, much less to harm
you. . . . Mrs. Davenport," he burst out,
vehemently, '' I would have died then for
you : I will die now if you bid me  die
for that second rose''

She looked at him with a glance of
loathing, and gathered herself together as
though she felt contaminated b} contact
with the air he breathed.

"Go away at once. Your audacity
is loathsome. Has it come to this with
me, that I must bandy words with such a
monster ? "

' Mrs. Davenport," said he, in a tone
of expostulation, ''I am very far from
saying I am blameless. I have committed
crimes for which the punishment would
be great, but I was not alone in my
crimes. I dict not invent them."

'sand who invented the atrocious crime

of last February ? Who was in our house
in Dulwich that night?"

I read the case, and saw that Mr.
Thomas Blake was at your house on that
night."

And where were you ? "

In Brussels. Good heavens !  you
cannot imagine I had anything to do
with that awful night ! The idea is too
monstrous to resent  to think of for a
moment. I swear to you I was in Brussels
at the time, and that I never did, or
thought of doing, any injury to your
husband. I loved him well; but I loved
some one else better-better than all the
world besides."

He did not look at her, but kept his
eyes fixed on the sea.

She moved as if to go.

He heard the motion, and went to her
and stood between her and the house.

I will not say another word about

o 2

myself; but hear me out. If I have
nothing to hope for, let me go away in
the belief I am not unjustly suspected
by you of hurting your husband. I never
cared much for my life. Let me feel
that when I die I shall not be worse in
your eyes than I deserve to be. Mrs.
Davenport, hear me."

He entreated her with his voice, with
his eyes, with his bent body, with his
outstretched hands.

Without speaking, she gave him to
understand he might go on.

'I knew Mr. Davenport years before
I saw you. I had business connections
with him which would not bear the light.
You must have heard or guessed something
of what we have been busy
about ? "

She made no sign  said nothing.

'*I was a steel engraver. Now and

then lie wanted plates done. I did the
plates for him."

'AVhat kind of plates?"

She betrayed no emotion of any kind.
Her voice was as calm as though she
was asking an ordinary question.

"You had better not know. It would
do you no good to know. But do you
believe me that I was hundreds of miles
away from London that awful night ? "

*sand what brought you back to this
place now ? "

I came back  because you are free ! "

She made a gesture of impatience and
dissent.

"You do not mean to say you will
continue your suspicion in the face of
my denial, in the face of my horror at
the mere thought?"

"But why should I take your unsupported
word ? If you are innocent,

why were you so horrified at the mere
thought of inquiry ? "

But, good heavens ! Mrs. Davenport,
you did not for a moment imagine I was
afraid of inquiry into anything which
occurred in February ? I thought the
inquiry to which you referred had
reference to some old transactions between
me and Mr. Davenport ? "

What were these transactions ? "
'' I beg of you not to ask. "What good
can it do to go into matters so far back ?
You would find my answers of no advantage
to you."

** Were they of a business character ? "
Purely of a business character, I assure

you."

** And they would not bear the light ? '
*' Not with advantage to me."
** Or to my husband ? "
*' Or with advantage to your late
husband."

And to you, and to you alone the
secret of these transactions is now known ? "

*' To me, and to me alone."

She paused in thought. She held up her
hand to bespeak his silence. After a few
moments' pause, she said :

*' In the course of these transactions
injury was done to some one ? Was that
not so ? "

'you are asking too much. Neither
your happiness nor your fortune could be
served by my answering your questions. I
refuse to answer."

With a gesture, she declined to be
satisfied with this treatment.

'' I have no fortune and no happiness.
Once you told me you would do anything I
requested of you if I gave you a rose.
There are no roses now. In all likelihood
there will be no more roses while I
live "

'while you live!"

*let me go on. I have not much to
say. You could not prize a rose for its
intrinsic value ? "

No ; but for two other considerations 
for the fact that it had once been yours,
and for what the gift of it from you to me
might signify. '

"If I gave you a rose now it could
signify nothing  mind, absolutely nothing.
But if the mere fact that it belonged to me
would make anything valuable in your
eyes, I will give you my glove, or my
bracelet, or this for your secret ; " and she
drew from her pocket the revolver and
pointed it at him.

He started towards her at the sight of
the weapon, crying angrily :

What do you mean by carrying that ?
Great heavens, it cannot be that you came
out here with the intention of committing
suicide ! "

He looked at her in horror.

No' she answered quietly  " but with
the intention of defending myself against
you. I thought if I should meet you,
and you had murdered my husband, and
knew from me I had guessed it, that I
might need this. But I have no evidence
you did murder him, and I see no sign
of guilt in you. Will you take it, or the
bracelet, or the glove, or all three, and
tell me about those transactions in
which my husband was engaged with
you ? "

'rit is not enough for my secret," he
said.

What more do you want ? My
purse ? "

She put those questions in a placid
tone, and showed no impatience or scorn.

"No," he said, shaking with conflicting
passions, '' I do not want your purse. If
I wanted money, I could have had as
much as any man could care for out of

your husband's purse. I have enough for
myself. You cured me of the love of
money, and put another love in its place.
Give me your hand, or fire."

She raised her hand quickly, and flung
the revolver from her over the cliff. It
fell on the Black Kock beneath. The
fall was followed by a long silence on
both sides.

I make one last appeal to you," she
cried in soft, supplicating tones  'one
last appeal. I do not purpose keeping
a penny of the money  not one farthing.
Some papers which fell accidentally into
my hands after my husband's death convinced
me he came by his money
dishonestly. He himself told me you
had been of great service to him, and that
your actions would not bear the light.
Give me, for pity's sake, a chance of
restoring this money to those who ought
to have it. I did think of dying and

shielding his memory, for if I died no
one could be surprised at my leaving the
wretched money to charities. But it
would be better still to give what remains
of the money to the rightful owners.
Will you tell me who they are ? "

She caught his hand in hers and drew
it towards her.

He seized hers eagerly, and held it.

*'I will for this," he whispered. *' We
can give all his money back if you
will."

She snatched her hand away.

"That is impossible, sir. I have told
you so finally."

She essayed to pass by him once more.

"Only a minute. I cannot live openly
in this country; I must go abroad. I
have been concealed close to this place
in the hope of meeting you. I may
never see you again. Do not go for a
minute. Your husband was always good

and loyal to me, and I was always loyal
to him. He dealt honourably with mein
money matters. It was necessary for
us to have a hiding-place near this, and
I found it. Just before I disappeared he
made up his mind to abandon business
of all kinds. He had enough of money,
and so had I  though of course he was
a rich man compared with me. Well, as
you know, I disappeared. I went, no
matter where. I disappeared because I
had no longer any business here, and
because of another reason to which I will
not again refer. That is all I have to
say, except that I left documents which
would be intelligible to your husband 
they contained the clue to our hiding-place
should I die or your husband want
it in Mr. John O'Hanlon's hands for
Mr. Davenport and you. Nothing, I
suppose, ever reached you about them ? "
''No."

"That, then, is all I have to say."

You will tell me no more ? Give meno
key ? "

"Mr. Davenport left you his money.
Why should I help you to get rid of it ?
Good-bye."

He turned eastward, went along the
cliff, and she moved off slowly in the
direction of Kilcash House.

BEYOND THE VEIL.

It was Phelan who said it was not the
hand of mortal man that had kindled
the fire the four men in the Bed Cave
saw after the dying of the red light on
the water.

For a long time after he had spoken
no human voice was heard. All was
silence save the mystic whispers and
breathing of the cave, which, after the
prodigious clangour lately filling the void,
were no more than the ripple of faint
air flowing through mere night.

The three men watched the light

breathlessly. At first it seemed steady,
but now it began to waver slowly this
way and that way, like a warning hand
admonishing or threatening, a spiritual
hand beckoning or blessing.

It was not crimson, as the other flame
had been, but pale yellow, like the early
east. It was not fierce and dazzling, but
lambent and soft. It was not light in
darkness, as a zenith moon, but light
against darkness, as a setting star. It
was independent, absolute, taking or
giving nothing. Space lay between it and
the eyes that saw ; infinity between it and
the sightless vault.

There was something in this cave that
killed you, and yet in that ]Aside you
must not die.

Heaven be merciful to us ! " whispered
a human voice.

"To us," whispered the phantom voice
against the men's hair.

It's the corpse-candle of the dead men
of the Black Kock," whispered Phelan.

'' Of the Black Kock ! " echoed the spirit.

The words 'black Rock" acted like a
charm, and broke the terrible spell of the
place. Never before had the name of
that fatal and hated shelf of land sounded
grateful to human ears.

The two boatmen had been often in
that stupendous cave before, had seen its
colossal glories in the ruby flare, and
heard its reverberating thunders in the
inexorable gloom. But never until now
had they gazed upon this weird light ; they
were certain that if it had existed when
they had been visitors on other occasions
they could not have missed observing it.

What they now saw made a profound
impression on them, and powerfully excited
their superstitious minds. They had never
rowed to the end of that eastern shaft of
the labyrinth, but they knew from the

sharp turn it struck west, and the great
depth to which it penetrated, that the
onward limit of it must be near the rear
of the Black Rock.

This filled them with doubt  uneasy
doubt. Owing to the darkness and the
nature of the remote light, they could
not form an exact notion of its position,
but they guessed it to be no less thana
mile from the Ked Gap, and, allowing
for everything, that would be the back
of the Black Kock.

Why should there be a light at the
back of the Black Kock ? How could a
light be accounted for there ? except it
was a corpse-candle on that murderous
reef.

It was a thought to shudder at.

With the other two men the effect was
wholly different. Neither had ever been
in this marvellous place before ; neither
had seen its sights, or heard its sounds,

VOL. III. p

or endured its darkness until now, and their
imaginations had been powerfully excited
and exercised. At one time they were
exalted by the visible  at another overawed
by the unseen. Sobriety of thought
and familiarity of experience were absent,
and they were face to face with things
undreamed of and enormous, and with
phantoms and monstrous ideas that baffled
investigation and pursuit.

But to them the mention of the Black
Rock meant the re-entry of ordinary ideas
and homely thoughts. It lay out therein
the noonday sunlight beside the sunlit
sea. It was part of the pastoral land
where people sang and trees waved their
leaves and winds bore perfumes. There
was nothing more disquieting about it
than about a ship, or a house, or a rampart.

O'Brien's thoughts had now gone back
to their ordinary course. If this light came
from anywhere near the Black Rock, might

it not have something to do with the
Puffing Hole?

The question was fascinating, alluring.
It might prove a beacon to discovery.

Where do you think it is from,
Phelan ? " he asked, in a whisper.

Somewhere near the Black Rock. I
can't say exactly where."

'what do you believe it is?"

''A corpse-candle. The corpse-candle of
the men that the Rock killed."

' Nonsense ! You ought to know better.
A corpse-candle is not for the dead  it's
for the living."

"Above ground it may be so. But
under ground it may be different."

"Let us go and see what it is."

"Not a stroke."

What, Phelan !  afraid again ? There's
hardly a thing you are not afraid of"

I'm not afraid of you or any other

man."

p 'A

'' If you don't go to it with me, I'll swim
to it."

"If you do, it will be your corpse-candle."


*' I don't care. If you won't go, I'll
swim to it. If you don't make up your
mind while I'm counting twenty, I'll dive
off and swim."

'rit would be murder to let you, O'Brien.
Put it out of your head. We won't let
you go."

None of the men could see where another
was standing.

O'Brien laughed.

"You can't touch me  you can't stop
me."

Whisht  whisht ! For heaven's sake,
don't laugh. This is no place for laughing
with that candle before you."

O'Brien laughed softly, and counted,
"One''

If you laugh again, by heavens, I'll
throw you in, O'Brien."

'' Two ! " O'Brien laughed. " Then you
won't let me count twenty? You launch
me on my swim at * three ' ? "

*' He'll bring the cliffs down on us."

"Four! Ha, ha, ha!"

Up to this the words and the laughter
had been in whispers. This time O'Brien
counted and laughed out loud.

The effect was prodigious. Those vast
chambers of solemn night had never before
heard human laughter, and they roared
and bellowed, and yelled and shrieked,
and grumbled, as though furiously calling
upon one another to rush together and
tear asunder or crush flat the impious
intruders who dared to profane with such
sounds the sanctuary of their repose.

'Til go," whispered Phelan ''11 go.
But wait ! "

A torch was now lit, and by the aid of
its fitful flame the four men scrambled
into the yawl. The two rowers took their
places standing and facing the bow.
O'Brien held the flaring torch on high,
and the boatmen gave way.

As they glided gently along, the irregular
walls of the aisle came nearer to them
out of the darkness with a nearness that
was sinister and hateful. It was as though
they crept close with the full intention
of crushing the craft and grinding the men
to death between their ponderous fangs
and molars. They seemed avengers of
the echoes outraged by the laughter.

The luminous shaft still shone ; but as
they came nearer, the light grew whiter
and less like flame. The red glare of
the torch seemed to overcome it. 

The men snatched it with starting
eyes.

The walls of the cave came closer out
of the darkness, and the roof lowered.

By this time Phelan had lost all his
fears, and was as curious as the others to
know what the light was.

All at once he cried out  '' Ease ! "

Both men stopped rowing. The sound
of the oars ceased, and the noise of the
ripple from the oars. All listened intently*
A hissing sound could be distinctly heard
a loud hissing sound which they had
not noticed before, because, no doubt, of
the graduates of their approach and
the noises made by the rowers.

"It's water  falling water. But, in the
name of all the saints, where is it falling
from, and how can we see it in the darkness
? Give way, Tim."

The cave grew narrower still, and now
there was barely room for the shortened
oars. The sides of it came closer, the

roof lowered until it was no more than
an arm's length above the heads of the
standing men. The bright patch grew
higher and broader. The torch still burned.
A dull whiteness shone on the rocks.

The luminous space now looked like a
faintly-lighted sheet of glass. The hissing
sound of the water had gathered intensity.


"I don't know what's beyond, but I'll
risk going through if you are willing,"
cried Phelan, who was now in a state of
almost frenzy from suppressed excitement.

Go on  go on ! " shouted O'Brien, who
found it difficult to keep from jumping
overboard.

Go on ! " repeated Alfred, who, too,
was now standing up.

Give way with a will ! " shouted
Phelan ; and in a minute the boat shot
through a thick sheet of foam and falling
water, and glided into a placid pool.

For a moment the men were blinded
by the foam and water, and could see
nothing.

They rubbed their eyes, looked up
obliquely, and were blinded once again.

The mid-day sun flamed above their
heads at the end of a stupendous tube.

An indescribable cry arose. Then all
was still.

A crow flew between them and the sun.
All bent their heads and crouched low
as though instant death was rushing down
upon them. The crow went by harmlessly.


'* Do you know where we are ? " asked
Phelan, in the voice of an awestruck child.

"No."

At the bottom of the shaft of the old
mine. It slants to the southward, and
that's the sun!"

They looked around : some wreckage
floated on one side of the boat.

The planks that covered the mouth of
the shaft. They must have fallen in."

Something that was not a plank floated
on the other side of the boat.

It was the body of Fahey !

AN EVENING WALK.

Yes, Madge, 'twas an awful time. I
never felt anything like it in my life ;
and as for Alfred, he was stunned with
terror. You see, that old mine shaft had
followed the soft part of the cliff (there's
not much use in looking for copper in
solid sandstone), and so was like a huge
telescope, pointed south at some angle or
other  the angle, I think, at which you
are now holding your chin."
Jerry, don't talk nonsense."
You'd be very sorry indeed if I didn't.
Well, we hauled the dreadful thing we had

found into the boat, and then began to
think of getting back; but Phelan, the
boatman, swore he would not go through
that awful Red Cave with it on board.

'ewe looked round us to see the best
thing we could do. We found we were
in what I may call an under-ground pool,
from which there were three ways out 
one leading into the cliff, one leading in
the direction of the sea, and the one by
which we bad entered. Am I tiring you
with my long-winded description ? "

*' No, Jerry  go on ; I came out to hear
all," said Madge, pressing the arm on
which her own rested.

We first tried the way towards the
sea, and found, to Phelan's amazement
and consternation, that it led right under,
or, rather, through the Puffing Hole. No
power on earth could induce Phelan to
go that way. When we made this discovery,
I now plainly saw the meaning

of those mysterious measurements and
instructions left by the unfortunate Fahey,
and the means by which he had effected
his extraordinary disappearance years ago.
He had jumped doNvn and swum inward
to where we had found his dead body.
In his * Memorandum,' 'Else 15.6 lowest'
meant what I had expected  the rise of
the lowest tide. 'At lowest minute of
lowest forward with all midst undaunted,'
meant that one entering at the Whale's
Mouth at the lowest minute of the lowest
tide was to push forward with all
vigour. . . . But, Madge darling, this
must bore you to death ? "

"No, Jerry, I love to hear it. Just
fancy having the hero of such an adventure
telling it quietly to me on the
Dulwich Road ! "

Twenty years hence how sick you'll
be of these same adventures ! You will
then have heard them told at least a thousand

times to every fresh acquaintance I
make  man, woman, or child. But you'll
be very tired of me also, sweetheart, and
you shall go to sleep in an easy-chair
while I prate on'

"Don't say such horrid things, or I
shall cry. Please go on."

''Ah, well, you may bully me now, but
you won't then. Where did I leave off,
darling ? " He pressed her arm and she
pressed his.

"At the man going up under the Puffing
Hole. The paper he left with your
solicitor."

Our solicitor  say our solicitor."

Our solicitor. There ! But how tiresome
you are ! "

Oh, ay ! I have the whole thing off
by heart. The ' Memorandum ' goes on,
'The foregoing refers to s-c-u-1-l-s with
only one s-k-u-1-1 any lowest, or any last
quarter, but great forward pluck required

for this. In both cases (of course !) left.'
You see, here he underlines the words
sculls ' and ' skull,' which shows something
unusual was meant. Remembering
everything, ' sculls ' evidently meant
sculls, as very few people have more than
one skull, and ' skull ' meant what it
seems to mean  your head. By-the-way,
I beg your pardon. It's only men have
skulls, not angels.'

' Jerry, I'm going home."

"Well, I won't, I won't! Put your
arm back. Let us, in fact, have an armed
peace."

This kind of thing, Jerry, is very
bitter, and I feel as if  as if as if "

'' As if what ? "

'* As if I can't help liking you  sometimes
when you're nice."

"I'll be good and nice. Well, what
he meant was that when you wanted to
get at his hiding-place by the sea, in a

boat pulling sculls, you came and did
certain things ; and that when you wanted
to get there by jumping down the Puffing
Hole, you did other things.

"When we came back to the foot of
the shaft the sun had gone off it, and it
was comparatively dark. We tried the
passage leading inward, and here we found
Fahey's hiding-place. It was a small low
cave, with a rocky ledge about as wide
as the footway we are walking on. . . .
Madge, are those new boots? They look
new. I wonder did I ever tell you I
think you have awfully pretty feet."
"I give you up. You are incorrigible."
'ras I was saying, we found a ledge
of rock about as broad as your foot.
This was Fahey's retreat, and here were
all the materials used by the forgers of
bank-notes. How Fahey got them there
unobserved is the puzzle. He must have
brought them piecemeal Here, beyond

all doubt, were printed the notes forged
upon the bank of Bordelon and Company,
of Paris, by means of which Mr. Davenport
stole a colossal fortune.

Here we found an explanation of how
Fahey's suit of clothes lasted ten or
twelve years. We found two suits precisely
similar. He kept one to wear, no
doubt, while the other was drying. There
was a place which had evidently been
used as a fireplace, and although there
was water so close to this ledge, it was
above the highest reach of the highest
tide, and dry as tinder. The dryness of
the place and the salt of the sea-water
had preserved these clothes from decay,
while most of the metal things had
crumbled into dust.

"He must have discovered this place
in his boat, and after that found out
the shaft of the mine communicated with
the whole cavernous system, which is so

VOL. Ill, 

vast as to stagger the mind. Thus he
had two means of gaining his retreat;
and when he said he had lost his boat,
she was safely moored in the cave incase
of emergency  for we found the
painter-chain hanging from a bolt."

'but what of that light you saw that
turned out to be water ? And did the
miners work in the sea ? "

*' Attentive and intelligent darling, I
thank thee. The theory is that Fahey,
in falling or sliding down the shaft, struck
the western wall of the pool in which we
found him, and brought down a huge mass
of clay which was ripe for falling, or that
it had fallen recently, or that our gunshot
had brought it down. The curtain of
water was formed by a spring of freshwater.
There are always dozens of such
springs in cliffs. As to the foot of the
shaft, the explanation is that at the time
the miners were at work the sea had not

eaten so far inward. In fact, that whole
district is and has been gradually so
enormously undermined, that soon a
mighty subsidence must take place."

But you say that the hole down to
the mine slanted. How did he get up
and down ? It would have been barely
possible, but dangerous, to crawl up."

He had a rope by which to hold on,
and while holding on thus, he could walk
upright  that is, hand over hand. Before
the fall of the planks that covered the top
of the shaft, Fahey had crept out by a
small opening looking seaward, and concealed
from view, if any one ever should
be so foolhardy as to go there, by a thick
growth of furze."

Well, what did you do afterwards ? "

'' When ? "

You told me only as far as coming
back from the Puffing Hole."

"True. Well, we laid what remained

q2

of the unfortunate man on the rock which
had often been his resting-place before,
and then rowed back through the wonderful
Eed Cave, and put the matter in the
hands of the police. At the inquest all
about the forgery of Davenport and Fahey
and the swindle on the Paris bank came
out, and Mrs. Davenport was examined,
She admitted Fahey had made love to her,
as you saw by the papers. Wasn't it
strange that Alfred should be the first to
see her husband and her husband's partner
in guilt dead, and not by natural means,
and that at both inquests she spoke of a
new lover, and that Alfred, the newest
lover of all three, should have been at
both inquests ? "

' It is astonishing and terrible. I
wonder what will come of it ? "

Heaven knows. But there, let it go
now, Madge. When you come to Ireland,

love, you shall see those wonderful
caves."

*' I'd rather die," she said, "than go
near them."

"What! if they were lit by the
glorious effulgence of this splendid
specimen of the O'brien ? "

This dialogue took place one day after
dinner in the June following the visit to
the cave. The villainous Fishery Commissioners
had been overcome, and Jerry
and Madge were to be married in a
week.

Alfred Paulton was still at the " Strand
Hotel," in the village of Kilcash.

CONCLUSION.

Marion, will you not listen to me ? 
will you not listen to reason ? Your
fortune, you say, is now all gone  must
be restored to its lawful owners, the Paris
bankers, and that you have made the
necessary arrangements for doing so.
You are bankrupt in fortune : why should
you be bankrupt also in love ? "

Understand me, Thomas Blake, I will
speak on this subject no more to you.
I do not think you will have the bad

taste to remain any longer in this house
when I ask you to go."

*' I will do anything on earth for you,
Marion  anything in reason you ask me."

"Then go."

But is that reasonable ? Is it reasonable
to ask me to leave you now that
you are as free as you were in the
olden times ? "

She looked at him wrathfully, scornfully.



Have you got a second bidder for mein
view ? Did you not take my heart when
it was young, when you were young, and
sell it for a sum of money down ? You
know there is no one in this house but
servants. Save yourself the ignominy of
my ringing the bell. Sir, will you go ?
I have affairs to attend to. You have
broken your promise by renewing this
subject."

"Why did you telegraph for me to
London ? "

Because I thought you might be useful
to me, and you have proved useless."

"And if I had proved useful, would
you have rewarded me ? "

"Yes."

"Oh, Marion, Marion, you are playing
with me ! Do you mean to say you
would have allowed me to hope if I had
proved of service in that affair ? I did my
best. 1 swear to you I did my best,
and if you will only give me your hand
now "

Thomas Blake, I would have rewarded
you by saying that your debt to me
had been diminished by one useful act
of yours. But my contempt for you
would have been just the same. Take
your elderly protestations of love to fresh
ears. Mine are too old and too weary,

and too well acquainted with their value,
to care much for them. Go now. When
I have need of you again I shall send
for you."

"Marion, this is too bad. You are
treating me as if I were a dog."

Worse  much worse. We were intended
for one another. Once I would
have died for you ; now I cannot endure
you except when I think you may be of
use to me. I shall send fur you if I
should happen to want you again."

His face grew white, and he set his
teeth. They were in the green drawing-room
of Kilcash House. The full June
sun was flaming abroad on the sea, and
shining in through the windows.

** You outrage me. I am not accustomed
to be "

'" Told the simple truth," she said, finishing
the sentence for him. '' I threatened to ring."

She went to the bell-rope. He sprang
between her and it menacingly.

*'I believe you are capable of violence'
she said, surveying him with a taunting
smile.

I am capable of murder. '

*only for plunder' she said, still
smiling.

He ground his teeth.

"You will drive me to it, Marion
Butler."

At the mention of her maiden name,
a swift flush of crimson darkened her face.
Her eyes flashed, her nostrils dilated, her
head bent forward, her mouth opened, the
veins in her temple swelled. She clenched
her hands  her bosom heaved  she stood
still.

The sudden change in her appearance
arrested his anger. He believed she was
going to have a fit. Her maiden name

had not been purposely uttered by him.
It loosed some current in the brain which
had not flowed for years.

Awhile she stood thus. 'J'heu all at
once the colour fled from her face, and
left it pallid, cold, rigid. She pressed
her hand once or twice across her brow,
and then, looking at him intently for a
few moments, said, in a quiet, weary
voice :

I am ill. Leave me ; but come tome
soon again. In an hour  half-an-hour.
I did not mean what I said. Pray leave
me, and come to me soon. I shall be
here. I am confused."

Without speaking, and scarcely believing
the words he heard, he stole from the
room.

She sat down on a couch and covered
her face with her hands.

Wait," she said softly to herself.

There is something I must do  something
I have forgotten. Oh, I know ! He
is an honourable gentleman, and must not
be disregarded."

She went over to a table, found writing
materials, sat down, and wrote :

*dear Mr. Paulton,

I got your note this morning. I
told you the first time you did me the
honour of offering me marriage that there
was no hope. I am sorry to say I am
of the same mind still. You will forget
and forgive me in time. I shall never
forget your kindness to me in my distress.
"Yours sincerely,

Marion Butler."

She read the note over and over again
from top to bottom. Something in the

look of it did not please her, but she could
not think of anything better to say. She
had received a note from him that morning,
asking her to grant him another interview.
He had proposed to her a week ago. She
had told him plainly she would not marry
him. He had begged that he might be
allowed to call again. She said it was
quite useless. He craved another interview,
and she gave way, on the understanding
no hope was to be based on
the permission. He had come again, and
again had been refused. And now he was
asking for a third chance. She would
not give it to him. It would be worse
than useless under the circumstances.
There was something wrong with this note,
but it must serve, as Tom Blake was
waiting.

She put the letter in an envelope, addressed
it to Alfred at the 'strand Hotel,"

Kilcash, rang the bell, and sent a servant
off with it.

When it was gone she said :

"I must go now and meet Tom. He

said he'd be Where's this he said

he'd be ? Oh, I know ! By the corner
of the wood on the Brandon Road. Til
put on the white muslin Tom likes. If
Mr. Paulton should come they must say
I am out."

Alfred Paulton got the note, and although
he could not understand the signature 
it was no doubt the result of a lapse of
memory, in which she went back for a
moment to her girlish days  he knew his
dismissal was final.

That day he set off" for London, and
arrived in time to see Madge married to
his old friend, Jerry O'Brien, who was
secretly delighted at the failure of Alfred's
suit.

While Jerry was on his honeymoon he got
a letter from his old friend and solicitor,
the postscript of which gave him the
latest news of Mrs. Davenport : the
doctors had pronounced her hopelessly
insane.

