CHAPTER I.

A NEGLECTED WARNING.

Whilst these things have been going on in the
City there has been a sad scene in Lupus Street,
for RosaHe, in accordance with her promise of
the night before, has been to see her sister.
And Madeline has entirely failed to produce
any impression, in spite of the apparently overwhelming
evidence which Pitt had accumulated ;
in spite of the last testimony that Madeline
brings forward  the flower  picked up under
the cab wheels.

** One knows so well what those sort of
women are," says Rosalie about this flower 
It is quite likely she snatched it out of his
button-hole."

'rand snatched him into the hansom with
her ? " says Madeline, despairingly.

VOL. II. I

'that's another thing  I'll wait and hear
before I condemn him."

Nevertheless Madeline could see plainly-enough
that the sight of her own flower so
carefully and so lovingly tied up with this
identical piece of gold cord, and which she had
pinned into his coat,  he holding her the while
so close up to himself that she had to lean back
over his arms to be able to decorate him 
caused poor Rosalie deep pain.

'* Don't deceive yourself, darling," whispers
Madeline, watching her tell-tale face.

I don't deceive myself, Madge. I think
there is something wrong  only I will be fair
to him  but you  you won't. Didn't you say
last night that he was going to the Papyrus
to meet this woman ? And you were quite
right. Did he make any secret of it ? He
knew that Papa and little Hackett were
going there too. How is it possible he did
not know they were going, sitting smoking
with them? Then it is quite clear that but
for the accident of your coming to see me
which of course I was awfully glad of 
George would have come up to me  and then
instead of all this misunderstanding he would

have spent the evening in Wimpole Street. But
what happens ? He thinks he can't see me 
for hours, perhaps, as I am often a long time
with dressmakers, and have no time to see them
in the daytime  and so he goes off to the
Papyrus, because he has nothing else to do."

He ought to have told you  or sent up
word," urges Madeline.

'well, perhaps he ought. But just think,
Madge, of this. George himself felt he was
doing no wrong. He knew papa would be
there, and if it had been wrong to go, he would
not have risked meeting him there."

That argument hardly holds good, darling.
First of all we dont know that he expected to
meet father ; and secondly, I should not always
take father's views of right and wrong as absolutely
correct. He may think it quite right
for George to go and enjoy himself in ways you
would disapprove of"

"That's true enough," says Rosie, "but
then men are always men. All I care about is
that George should be trite to me and love me."

It is useless !" says Madeline despondingly.

"It is useless, in one way, Madge dear,
George has never deceived me about a single

thing. Is it fair to suppose he would not have
told me all about this if I had had time to ask
him ?"

''He might certainly."

'' He zc;6'//( certainly, for I know and feel he
loves me, and I love him with my whole heart.
What is to become of me if I begin doubting
him already ! Just think of Cecil Rodney, or
any one else we know ! what miserable lives
they lead with their husbands,  and all through
doubting and worrying and being ridiculously
jealous and bothering."

'' And you are not jealous ? "

''No, not in that way  for  as I said before,
George loves me  and, believe me, Madge, all
this affair will end in smoke."

God send it may ; God grant the smoke
won't be so thick that it will choke you, my
pet."

Madge, your own life has made you a kind
of misanthrope  you look so awfully black at
everything. I don't expect my husband to bea
saint, I should hate him in a week if he was
or if he tried to preach and be goody  I wish
my husband to be free, and go to his club and
to do what he likes."

You need not be afraid of that, Rosie he
will do all that fast enough.  But surely,
in Heaven's name, London has not so demoralized
you that you don't draw the line anywhere
? "

Rosalie remains silent for a moment.

'' I think I know George," she says  " I
shall trust him  I don't want him to be a miserable
henpecked creature, hanging on to my
skirts all day."

'* Rosie, pardon me, but I cannot listen to
this kind of thing without speaking my mind,"
says Madeline severely. *' It is so utterly inconsequent
and wide of the mark. I come and
tell you  as your sister  that the man you are
engaged to is intriguing with the most dangerous
she-devil in Europe ; I prove it, I should
say, beyond reasonable doubt  and all you do is
to go on talking about not wanting him to be a
saint, and not respecting your husband, and all
this rubbish. Surely your idea of respecting
should at least exact that the wife knows
where her husband is going, and what he is
doing ? Look at any happy home,  where the
man is the absolute master.  Do those men
go bolting off before dinner is over, never

saying a word to their wife ? Do they go
driving about in hansoms with a notorious
Courtezan, and give her the flowers their wife
has just pinned into their coats ? And if he
does this now, what will he do after ? I confess
I think you have precious little self-respect."

Rosalie fires up.

'' Come, Madge  this is rather cool  and you
forget that you have not heard even all I can
say. I don't suppose I shall allow my husband
to go on like you describe  and if he does I
will leave him  but what I say is, men must
sow their wild oats, and I always have heard
they make the best husbands after it."

God help you, Rosie," says Madeline
changing her voice. " This man has bewitched
you ! I never heard such rubbish. Yes, they
do sow their wild oats  and then, those who
turn out well, honestly gather them and burn
them and stamp them out and get rid of them
before they come and win a girl's love, an
honest and loving girl like you. They don't
go on sowing these crops with the arms of
their future wife actually round them."

Rosalie can find no immediate answer and
Madeline goes on,

'' But, Rosie  what else have you to tell me,
darling ? "

'* Why, something that I hope will make you
think I am not such a fool as you appear to
suppose, and that will make you think better of
George''

'' I don't think you a fool  and as true as I
am your sister I should like to think well of
your future husband, if I could."

'* Well, I am going to tell you. Papa was at
the Papyrus last night  he went rather late,
and George was there, and introduced this
wonderful beauty you are so frightened of to
him  Papa has told me all about it. He was
never so enchanted with any woman, for he says
she is awfully clever and knows everything 
and I am glad of that. Now George isn't clever,
and knows very little, except about people in
London and clubs  and a little about dogs
and horses, and has never travelled in Europe
so he can't have much to talk to her about,
which is just as well."

Well  go on, Rosie," says Madeline, unable
to repress a smile at this description of the
advantages Norton has in being a fool  or
nearly one.

'' And she spent all the evening with Papa ;
he says so himself.  Now does that look as if
she and George were such tremendous pals ? "

'' It does not  though your word is new tome
 and I think  I think it a pity you use it."

'' Well I won't then  but every girl talks
about ' pals ' and ' fellows ' now-a-days."

"It does not make it any the less vulgar and
unlady-like  it makes me shudder when I hear
it, and I do not care who says anything to the
contrary. A girl cannot have a really pure
mind and heart who goes in for all the slang,
fast talk of our days."

They don't want to be," says Rosie.

What, pure in heart or mind?"

'' No  they don't," says Rosie  with a truer
insight into these things than Madeline withall
her cleverness and wit. " They ' ain't in it,'
as the men say now-a-days, if they're goody."

And do you think all this too, Rosie ? with
your marriage nearly at hand  Surely you have
some idea of responsibility and some serious
notions. '

" Honestly and truly, I don't think I have 
I am not a bit serious about religion and
things  I am telling you the exact truth  I

have got all my old ideas muddled up  ever
since you went away. I have been doing
pretty well what I liked, you know, and have
had so many people always talking easily  that
I suppose that is it ; I only hope one thing 
and that is, that nothing will keep George from
me  I have no fear of our life afterwards, we
shall rub along perfectly well together, for
neither of us are a bit high-flown or sentimental,
or anything like that."

Madeline feels more distressed than ever 
shocked to see how utterly without ballast is
her sister.

*' You have some ideas which are not very
profitable for a woman beginning life," she says.
' But I am not going to preach. You are
nearly twenty and must make your own bed
and lie on it. But remember, darling, I have
warned you."

*eyes, I know you have, dear, but I am,
perhaps, a little obstinate. To-night I shall
see George, and shall insist on his telling me
everything  he will, I know."

Beware of to-night, darling. He will pour
any number of strange tales into your ears.
You are precisely in the humour to believe any

lie that anyone will tell you  if it fits in with
your own wishes."

'' Oh ! really, Madge, you are too solemn.
The life you have had has crushed everything
out of you. The world looks like a great
funeral to you."

'' No, it does not  or if it does  it is only a
funeral with something brighter beyond. I
live in a confident belief I shall see my husband
and my beloved little Alantha  in another
world. That gives me courage to go on here,
half-starving. You, when your troubles come,
will have nothing of this sort. Don't laugh at
it !  Wait  wait and see for yourself."

'* Sermons again, dear old Madge ! but I
must be off Oh ! by-the-bye, about mother 1
I could not help thinking that but for her
we should have a step-mother, when I heard
Papa raving about Madame Artaki.  That
would effectually settle George, wouldn't
it?"

" For goodness' sake, Rosie, don't be so
flippant ! To talk of our dear mother in that
way  suffering and starving as she has been
for so long. It is really too unfeeling  I cannot
listen to it."

I didn't mean any harm. I was only joking."

'' Well, don't joke about mother to me,
Rosie. Her life and mine have been no joking
matter  as you would find out if father turned
you out of doors through this Artaki affair 
which is not at all impossible."

For a moment Rosalie turns white, but
quickly recovers.

'' Promise me, Madeline, you won't go to
him about this. You won't go and make mischief
about it ? "

*' / go to father. No ! you need not be
alarmed about that. I certainly have no intention
of going near him again as long as I live."

Then the sisters embrace each other and
Rosalie returns home.

But Madeline's heart sinks within her as the
door closes on her sister  so frivolous  so infatuated
 so frail.

For she feels that all she has said in her
endeavour to arouse Rosalie to some sense of
her own danger, might as well have been
written on sand, for the girl's fond fancies and
imperfect moral sense have risen like one great
wave, and have obliterated every trace of it.
The thought of losing her lover had entirely

deprived Rosalie of seeing or thinking right, and
Madeline trembled when she thought that this
was the frame of mind in which she would listen
to Norton's explanations. And yet she could
not blame the girl herself. With her surroundings
how could she have preserved that purity
of thought which should have made her at
once cast this man as a viper from her bosom ?
Had Rosalie not learnt Society's Eleventh Commandment
 the only one apparently obeyed
'' Thou shalt not be found out " ?

And then, as to Madame Artaki herself ;
although Madeline knew of dark pages in the
woman's past history, still, here in London,
she shone like a bright unclouded planet, and
was rapidly assuming that position in Society
where she would be permitted every kind of
license, and at the same time be petted,
courted and worshipped by the demurest and
most proper persons.

For already a mysterious whisper had gone
round about Madame Artaki, which made those
who could not afford to be behindhand, take
steps to make her acquaintance, anticipating
the not distant date when to have that privilege
would become the highest social distinction,

and when to be able to say that they had been
to five o'clock tea, in B Square  or anywhere
else where the divinity might have her
temporary abode, would fill their listeners with
fury and envy. And then for a poor tu'ppeny-
halfpenny fellow like Norton to think that he
could reflect any discredit on his wife, even
if he admitted everywhere the most insane
admiration for the Beauty, was too ridiculous 
at least, so Society would say.

And so it came to pass that Pitt, who in
strict accordance with Mr. Chertsey's instructions
lost no time in finding Madame Ostro-
lena, discovered that lady, if not actually in
tears,  for she was not of the crying sort 
at least, under evident indications of great distress.
For Rosalie had but just left. There
is unmistakable disappointment on the resolute
face, nor does she attempt to disguise her distress
from him.

However as she vouchsafes no explanation,
Pitt, brimming over with what he has to tell,
plunges immediately into it, and begins by
describing the conflict within himself as to
whether or not he was justified in listening to
what had passed between Chertsey and Gould.

He was immediately relieved to find that
Madeline held that the end justified the means
in this particular case, and then, producing his
shorthand notes, he read aloud to her amazement,
a verbatim report of every word of the
conversation he had overheard, omitting only
the oaths and coarse expressions with which
it had been so plentifully interlarded, and
softening ofT the abominable things that had
been said of herself, though at the same time
letting her clearly gather their import.

But after expressing the wonder and surprise
of this discovery ; and her infinite gratitude to
Pitt for his ingenuity and foresight, the matter
to discuss without loss of time was as to how to
profit by it. For Pitt to turn Queen's evidence
and simply hand the bonds to Madeline seemed
the most obvious method of dealing ; but a little
reflection showed them that there were many
objections to this way of meeting the case. In
the first place, Madeline had surrendered an
unusually large sum to Gould to recover this
10,000, and Pitt at once saw the danger of
this. For nothing would be easier for Gould
than, with the help of Dubois and Restigouche,
to asperse her fair fame and to swear that she

had given him not only the first four thousand,
but also the balance of 6,000 ; and to make
out that having got possession of this money,
she wished now to cease living with him as his
mistress. For this was evidently the suggestion
made by Chertsey ; and as Pitt thought
the matter over, it really seemed so feasible that
he shrank from recommending her to risk it.

There was nothing such a pack of scoundrels
would not do, and no one knew better than Pitt
how impossible it is for truth to struggle to the
surface through an overlying mass of false
evidence. Nor was it merely a scandalous plot
against her fame that she would encounter.
As the offence had been committed in France,
the trial of those concerned in the robbery
would naturally have to be in that country, for
Pitt did not for one moment suppose that
Gould, Chertsey, Dubois, Restigouche and
Madame Artaki, besides those implicated belonging
to the Turkish Embassy, would quietly
sit down and do nothing if he surrendered
these bonds to Madame Ostrolenka. It would
be impossible for all those people to leave
themselves thus meekly in her hands, and it
would be imperatively necessary for them, in

self-defence, to make some really serious count
against her. Madeline perfectly
saw the force of this argument, and was not
the least anxious to run a risk, which her
knowledge of Paris and of the conditions
of life endured by unfortunate women who are
denounced to the Police of Good Manners,
pictured to her in the most appalling colours.
She knew the kind of justice that would be
meted out to the public singer of such a place
as the Cafe Perigord, and shuddered as she
thought how familiar her face must have
become to scores of Sergents de Ville as she
walked home alone at night.

And then came the thought of this last overwhelming
proof of Norton's falseness and
perfidy ! Oh ! if Rosalie had but waited a few
minutes longer, to have heard of this monstrous
affair of the 5,000. Here was this man, on
the point of marrying her sister, giving away
this large sum of money to an adventuress
whom he had only known a few days !

She made no disguise of all this from Pitt.
It was better to take counsel with him thoroughly
or not at all, and he naturally viewed the matter
as she did. Still, with possibly a clearer judgment

from the fact of his being less personally
interested, he did not see the necessity that
Madeline should go off at once and show all
this to Rosalie. He felt that it would only be
throwing away her chance of recovering the
bonds, and at the same time bring down the
vengeance of the band of conspirators on her
head prematurely. Madeline could not save
Rosalie by so doing. Norton had probably
paid the money by this time. It was too late,
and above all, too dangerous an experiment.
For Rosalie must in honour go to Norton to
enable him to disprove this. From what
Madeline said it was clear she would not cast
him off without giving him a hearing. Indeed
she could not, nor had Madeline ever proposed
she should. And then what would
happen . The whole catastrophe would be
brought about.

To this Madeline reluctantly consented.
After all, Rosalie would only be the more free
to cast him off. And then Pitt proposed a
scheme which after some discussion they agreed
on  as it recommended itself from its perfect
simplicity. It was to this effect.

That Madeline should cross over to Paris

VOL. II. 2

this very night, and there await Pitt's arrival.
That in Paris Pitt should find means of communicating
with her and letting her know when
he was in possession of the bonds. That as he
would be travelling alone, Madame Ostrolenka
should accompany him on the return journey.
He would be robbed en route  his bag and
bonds be stolen by an unknown female travelling
companion. He would awake in Calais minus
his bonds and give information. But she, the
robber, would have alighted and have returned
to Paris. There would be no necessity for
Madame Ostrolenka to negotiate these bonds.
Any respectable banker would advance her
money on them for a time ; she would only lose
a little on the interest of them. Then in time,
in a year or even more the whole affair might
blow over and she could do as she liked.
Madeline sat thinking for a few minutes and
then said,

** I really see no objection to this plan  why
should I not recover my own property by any
means I choose to adopt ? ''

"You not only may, but you ought to," says
Pitt. " Though the idea is my own I don't
think we can improve on it. If I am sent off

to-night I shall find time to come back and see
you here before I go."

*' I shall expect to hear from you  but before
you go I must say a word that has been long
on my lips," and she looks him frankly in the
face. 'you are incurring great risk for my
sake and you will not misunderstand me. All
this must end in your losing your situation, and
I feel that I am greatly responsible. But I can
do nothing to help you, as you know. However,
I know that you must have resolved to
leave these people as soon as you can, and for
that reason I am going to make a fresh confidence
in you. It is still in your power  even
after this  to help me, and I have an offer to
make you. But first of all, as to the thing you
can help me in. It concerns my past life. I
need not tell you all, except that my dear husband
got involved in a great Army Contract fraud in
Syria. He was entirely innocent. He was
seized  thrown into prison, everything he had,
confiscated, and they say, he died in prison.
Even of this, however, I have no positive proof.
Now two great objects are before me when
I have this money,  to discover if he is dead or
alive, and to do my utmost to restore his good

name, and wipe away all the disgrace attached
to it. But now I come to the most singular
part of my story, but a part which is natural
enough when I explain it. I never knew
anything about my husband's business matters,
at least, not about these official ones. He
always begged me to keep clear of them, not
that he had anything to hide, but because he
hated, and so did I, the detestable way in
which all business matters in the Levant were
carried on  by intriguing with women  always
women. I therefore purposely avoided knowing
anything about this contract affair, the
more so as it was the very centre of all kinds
of intrigues with the Vali, or Governor, who
was a great admirer of women, and especially
and offensively marked in his attentions to
myself. So when the whole thing burst I was
totally ignorant of it, and I was hurried out of
Syria before I had had time to learn anything
about it. I have never had a line from my
husband since, for of course any letter he
would have written would be confiscated. Now
you will understand how it is I am utterly in
the dark about all this sad affair. But one
name has stuck in my memory, and it is rather

an uncommon one. That name is Artaki, and
I cannot help thinking that somehow or other
this is the same woman. I never saw her, and
she never saw me, and I may be mistaken.
Still the coincidence is strange. For I have
thought that possibly she and Mr. Gould were
working together then. And that is what I
want to find out."

But how ? " says Pitt, who has listened with
the greatest attention.

'* I have thought that perhaps if you stay
near these people, time may bring something
out. I have thought that we may get some
clue or other, something to start on, and then 
then I should want a friend to help me."

"Madame Ostrolenka, I willie th at friend 
no matter what it cost me."

'' I am deeply sensible of your goodness in
making me the offer. But, you won't mind
my saying so, Mr. Pitt, you are a young man
and must have money to start afresh in life ; I
shall have all this "

"Oh! Madame Ostrolenka  stop, "he cries.
Don't talk of money to me. If you only
knew how willingly I would serve you ! "

His voice and manner betrays to her the

secret which for some time has been reluctantly-forcing
itself on her  that he is beginning to
love her. What woman does not speedily
detect the dawn of a man's love ? And the
discovery causes Madeline a deep and sudden
pain. What can she do to prevent this hopeless
infatuation growing until it becomes a curse to
him that he ever met her ? For whether she
be wife or widow, she must for ever remain
totally indifferent to him. And yet, how can she
now, at this critical moment of her life, dispense
with his services . what may she not lose if she
bids him leave her for ever .

The conflict in her becomes painful, but at
last she resolves that she will clear away all
doubts between them.

'' Mr. Pitt," she says, turning her eyes away
whilst an involuntary colour rises to her cheeks,
you will not misunderstand me when I say
that it is quite impossible for me to accept these
generous offers of your service gratuitously. No
woman has any right to place any man under so
serious an obligation, especially  " and she hesitates,
'' especially when there is no tie of relationship,
and when both are of an age which may
make such obligations impossible to requite."

She pauses  hoping he may say one word
to help her  but, no, she sees his face growing
only more blank. She herself must finish this
painful scene.

*' My husband, who God grant is still alive,
was always most sensitive in many respects.
For his sake, Mr. Pitt, I cannot accept any
help that I cannot repay. Understand me, do.
Don't press me to say more, for  for it is
impossible for me."

He makes an effort to speak  his lips seem
to move  but no sound comes. She reaches
out her hand to him and turns her eyes to his.

Then, in a voice which trembles with pathos,
she says,

These things are beyond our comprehension,
Mr. Pitt  but they need not sever friends ;
remember we are always to be true friends."

Pitt cannot reply  he feels a choking in his
throat. He puts her hand to his lips and then
goes silently away.

But  to the honour of manhood  as soon
as he is outside the house he recovers by a
great effort  the dream which has been with
him for days past vanishes. The castle comes
tumbling down, but he won't let anyone's bones

be bruised by its fall but his own, and does
not intend to go braying out that he is terribly
hurt.

*' She's the best woman in the world  God
bless her  and what a brute I should be not
to help her because "

But he does not finish the sentence  only
trudges along with rather a heavy heart, and
in due time finds his way back to the grimy
City.

THE END THEREOF ARE THE WAYS OF DEATH."

Madame Artaki, having dismissed Gould inquest
of Chertsey, had retired to her room to
prepare for Norton's expected visit,  a visit of
no ordinary importance, as she expected him to
be the bearer of the not inconsiderable sum of
;5,ooo ; and this, at a very critical moment.
An ordinary woman would have been content
to let Norton take her as he found her. Not
so Madame Artaki, for she was too skilful, and
too well versed in man's weakness to leave anything
to chance, or to neglect the adjuncts of
dress. She, therefore, had adorned herself
with a costume of faultless tone and make  one
he had never seen before, and which set off her
figure to the greatest advantage, and thus
waited confident of landing this large floundering
fish in spite of having played him very
carelessly the evening before. For it did seem

hard  even to her  that after his great proof
of devotion, and this really magnificent offer of
money, she should have left him meandering
about all night, a picture of disconsolate misery,
whilst she devoted herself to another  a comparatively
old man whom she had never seen
before. She knew well enough this must be
rankling in Norton's breast, and had even had
some slight misgivings that she had gone a
little too far. However a single glance in her
pier glass as she put the finishing touch to her
dress and pushed back a stray curl ofT her
forehead, told her that she need feel no alarm
on this score. She had but to hold up her hand
and he would follow her to the ends of the
earth ; and, doubtless he only loved her the more
for this wayward conduct. She knew that the
wisest and best amongst men are, at most but
fools in the hands of women, and Norton was
neither wise nor good, but very much a fool
in her estimation.

Norton had spent a restless night thinking
of her unkind treatment, but he did not love
her the less. That was impossible, nay, he
loved her ten times more, a love which seemed
to cut into him and produce almost physical

pain as he remembered her wonderful face
and her great glowing eyes. He had had
sufficient penetration to discover that she was
not insensible to all emotion, he suspected her
of strong passions, if she only chose to give
them vent, and this buoyed him up with the
hope that after all she might really have been
in earnest in saying she liked if not loved
him. What was there in any of the other
men about her better than him except their
money ? And he had quite settled in his own
mind that she was not mercenary. He waited
in all the morning, his lawyer to whom he had
written about selling his securities was not so
prompt in raising 5,000 as Norton could have
wished; but at last the man appeared, and the
appointed hour having sounded, Norton sallied
forth and found himself again in Heroes's
presence.

With the first lingering, tremulous touch of
her hand all his resentment vanished, whilst
the magnetic stream from her eyes seemed
actually to envelope him from head to foot,
giving him a peculiar sensation such as those
experience who are easily subjected to the
effects of Mesmerism. She does not deem it

necessary to say a single word in extenuation
of last night's desertion of him, but with a
playful affectionate manner, which has something
more than the sister in it, she gently
pushes him into the corner of the sofa from
whence she has that moment risen, and then
sits close by him.

"Such a very agreeable man, Mr. Romeyn,
so easy to get on with," she says, skilfully
determining to have the question which must
be uppermost in his thoughts disposed of. ''I
spent a most agreeable evening with him and
told him nearly all my history."

"Yes, I thought you did. But he is a lucky
old beggar, you've never told me any of it. I
hope you will some day."

Some day ! that seems a favourite expression
of yours. But of course I will. I will
tell you everything, some day'' and her voice
dies down.

*' How exquisitely sweet your voice is,
Heroea. It sounded just as if you were singing
that song, ' Some day we may meet again.' "

But we are not parted yet, caro mio  why
go forward half-way to meet sorrow ? "

God knows I don't want to go kalf-vdiy

anywhere," he says, 'you know that well
enough. It is you, darling, you will put me
farther from you, for you wish me to marry this
girl, don't you ? "

Certainly I do ; I am most anxious you
should," she replies.

** But tell me, once for all, and I will never
ask it again,  it is not that you may be the
more easily quit of me, to cast me off? " and he
almost dreads to look at her.

George ! How dare you think such a
thing, much less say it ! How dare you treat
me like that,  when I  when I have received
you so differently } "

Oh ! I'm awfully sorry," he says with a
foolish look and a nervous twitch to his
moustache. '' Ton my soul, you know I am.
I am so awfully obliged to you, you know''

'' Well, so you ought to be ! Cast you off
indeed ! How do you suppose I cast a man
off? By accepting his generous aid } By
taking from him a huge sum of money which
must for ever put me under the deepest obligation
to him ? "

There is something of fine scorn in this,
adroitly intermingled with injured affection.

outraged feelings, disappointment, and any
other emotion consistent with the situation.
It is too much for Norton and touches him to
the quick.

''No, oh! forgive me, I was really not
thinking. It was beastly caddish of me, you
know."

Never mind, George. I forgive you," and
she takes his hand and holds it softly between
both her own. " Never mind, we won't think
of this any more. Let it be a settled thing,
dear. Only remember, you hurt me more than
you think, infinitely more. For in spite of
everything, I am very, very sensitive to a
slight. You still misunderstand me. You still,
I believe, class me with the women you meet,
both in and out of Society, who if they don't
take money take diamonds, as some Frenchman
said ; but you will live to think differently,
I am not like them."

To any one but a man infatuated with love
this claim to negative virtue and disinterestedness
would have appeared quite ridiculous in
her case, but not so to Norton.

'' I never thought like that of you," he
replies, fondling her hands. 'rand I swear I

don't believe there is another woman Hke you
in the world."

That may be ; anyhow, I am unlike most in
this way, that I allow nothing to stand between
me and my wishes or desires. The man I love
must be mine, body and soul. He must love
me in spite of everything, as I would love him.
He must not be a timid doubting creature,
afraid of seeing me talk to another man and
thinking all kinds of absurd things  afraid of
Mrs. Grundy. He must study my nature, a
peculiar one, both hot and cold, impulsive
and yet calculating, generous and forgiving,
but vindictive ;  a woman who could give a
man a heaven of bliss to live in, or make his
life a continuous hell. My lover must be a
man who when the world called me Phryne,
knew in his heart I was as pure as Diana.
He must rise above all hum-drum notions of
marriage,  a tie which would bind me no more,
against my inclinations, than packthread will
bind lightning. Now, why am I speaking to
you like this ? why showing you a side of my
nature that few even guess at 1 Simply because
for some inscrutable reason  I have  trusted
you."

Poor foolish Norton ! He is completely
carried off his legs by this fierce nonsense,
which opens portals that have ever before been
closed to his dull intellect. And at this moment
had she asked him for the whole of his fortune
he would have cast it into her lap. He finds it
difficult to speak, but falters out some incoherent
remark about Phryne, whom he supposes to
be a new French actress, and that he has never
intended to put Heroea second.

But you speak as if you did," she goes on 
though for the life of him he cannot remember
to have made anything but opposite statements.
But this kind of inconsequent assertion
is a peculiarity inherited by many woman and
is a useful mode of argument. 'you talk as
if marrying this chit Rosalie were to be a bar
to our friendship  or  shall I say it ? "  and
she closes her fingers round his  " even to our
love ! "

It shall not be my fault if anything stands
in my way of doing anything you wish  if you
wish me to marry the oldest hag in Christendom
I will do it  for I see now that you and
I will not be anything different to each
other."

Most of his speeches wind up in this lame
kind of way, as if a continued effort to the end
were beyond his power.

*' I am glad of that. Your money is only
what many men would equally gladly do forme
 but this  this I accept as a real sacrifice.
And I will tell you why. I will now tell you
what no one knows, but you must know it, and
help me. Romeyn's other daughter, Madame
Ostrolenka, is in London, on some mischievous
intent as regards me. Mind, at present she
knows nothing, but it is only reasonable to
suppose she will get hold of your fiancee
and will poison her mind against me. She
will do this probably very soon, for being
here she must naturally be watching us. She
is a very, very clever woman, and is not likely
to be wasting her time. If she watches me,
she must equally well discover something about
you. This she will retail to Rosalie  Rosalie
may or may not believe it. If she does
she will go to her father, and her father will
turn you off But / do not intend he shall, for
I will tell you something else  quite privately,
and secret for you  as you love me. Mr.
Romeyn will grow jealous of you, and will be

VOL. IT. 3

only too glad to see you married and out of the
way. But, as I said before, all will not depend
on him  much depends on Madeline Ostrolenka.
But I am not defenceless against her. I hold
her very life almost in my hand, and I can
either send her back to her attic in Paris, and
worse too if I like, or I can make her supremely
happy. This will depend on how she goes on ;
but if she thinks you are married to Rosalie she
will keep quiet, she will not dare to create
a disturbance and ruin Rosalie's happiness
simply to spite me. Now, can you marry this
girl immediately or  privately ? "

*' There is not much use in that," says
Norton. '' The settlements are not finished,
nor signed, and old R. may cut up rough
after all."

" Leave 'old R.' to me," says Heroea. *' He
is coming to see me to-day."

*' I will, certainly  but, hang it all, what a
forgetful fool I am. I came here to give you
the notes, and I'm shot if they have not quite
gone out of my head." And he hands her a
large roll of Bank of England notes.

She takes them with perfect calmness, as if
they were a matter of 50 instead of 5,000.

*' They are all there," says Norton. '' I
counted them before I came here."

"You are a darling," says Heroea, leaning
over to him, her eyes beaming into his. She
is so near him that her sweet breath fans his
cheeks. He puts his arms round her and draws
her body half over his, and kisses her passionately.
But she slips from him, and is kneeling
on the floor, with her arms on his knees.

No, no, George, remember."

For the life of him he can remember nothing
but that he has given her 5,000 in good coin
of the realm, and strange to say, this thought
acts as a sedative.

He gets up and walks towards the window,
and she sits down again. In a moment he has
changed his mind, and is on his knees before
her vainly endeavouring to clasp her round the
waist. But she is too nimble. She glides
through his hands and takes the place he has
just vacated, looking into the churchyard of St.
James's.

The whole situation seems ridiculous.

Norton gets up, feeling, as might any man,
that he must look a fool kneeling before an
empty sofa.

He takes out his handkerchief and flips the
dust off his knees and then joins her.

** What a rum looking old woman ! " he remarks
as if nothing unusual had happened,
espying a peculiar old female opposite.

*' Yes, she is. But, George, you are really
a good fellow not to be annoyed with me."

'' It's you ought to be annoyed with me for
being such an ass," he answers.

'' Well, no, it was my fault at the beginning.
Anyhow, let us go back to the sofa ; I can trust
you not to be an ass again, as you say."

'* Certainly, I won't." But though he may
say it himself, he does not care to hear her
repeat it. She sees she has hurt him.

Don't let me always feel I must be on my
guard. I should be miserable if I thought that
I could not ask you to come and see me alone,"
this in a tender, appealing tone.

'' For goodness' sake don't say that," he
replies.

*' It depends on you. Here I am constantly
interrupted, people coming and going all day ;
above all, that man Gould, whom I expect every
moment. You may not think so to look at me,
but this kind of thing disturbs me terribly."

- And old R. ? "

He comes this evening. He writes a
civil but unsentimental note, so you need not
distress yourself. He merely requests to be
allowed the honour etc., etc."

'then I cannot come this evening," says
Norton in a tone of bitter disappointment ; '' I
suppose Gould will be here ?"

'' No, he won't ; I want to have a long talk
with Mr. Romeyn, about  what do you think
now?"

"About Turkey, or something like that. It
is all he cares about. '

No, not about Turkey  about you and your
marriage with Rosalie."

"Why, good G  d, you've made rapid progress
with him, to be discussing family affairs
already ! " exclaims Norton, in amazement.

"The grass never grows under my feet,"
says Heroea. " If I like persons I know them
at once, and stick to them. I like him, and I
intend to make use of my influence for your
good."

Oh ! you're awfully kind and good," says
Norton, though secretly wishing that these
benefits which are to be showered on him

should fall directly on himself and not vicariously
 tete-astute with Romeyn. For he hasa
sneaking kind of belief that Romeyn thinks
him an ass ; and he is afraid that Heroea and
this old gentleman may amuse themselves laughing
at him,  a fear which did great credit to
his discernment, as it was exactly what they
did, except when they discussed him gravely
from the point of view of being a fool.

Don't talk of it in that way ; being kind and
good is not the kind of feeling that must exist
between us," she says, gently. " I might as
well say it is kind and good of you to have
given me these notes. And so it is, in a way,
but you should remember I could not be kind
and good to you, unless I really had an affection
for you. I could get fifty times this money by
answering these letters," and she lays her hands
on a pile of envelopes, all addressed in male
writing. " If I answered these I should have a
queue of men from here to Regent Street, waiting
at my door, all ten times richer than you."

''Of course I know that well enough," says
Norton, blankly.

Then now say good-bye and  kiss me, and
go away and don't be a ridiculous jealous goose.

And mind, spend your evening with Rosalie ;
make love to her but think of me. Remember
when you are with her that you will be doing
all I ask if you will not let her become jealous
or fanciful ; and above all, that you must not
lose your hold on her on any account. Don't
thrust my image aside altogether, I could not
bear that. I have heard that men and women
can go through most passionate love scenes 
by proxy, their thoughts fixed all the time on
some one else. Their thoughts go flying backwards
to the absent love. It must be rather
amusing and has this advantage, that only one
of them knows anything about it, which must
be a relief in the monotony of courtship, where
both generally know too much of each other."

He is holding her round the waist, during
all this long talk, hoping it may endure forever.
As her voice ceases he folds her in a
long, long embrace, whilst she whispers, " Go
now, George, go to that chit Rosalie, and 
remember me

Then he tears himself away and is gone, and
she sits down, calm and undisturbed, to await
the arrival of Gould.

That worthy gentleman is not long before he

puts in an appearance, hungry for the sight of
this woman whom he has only left a few hours
ago  hungry for the touch of her hand, and
thirsting for the sound of her sweet laugh.

And she, quelling the absolute loathing with
which this satyr-love inspires her, receives him
with unusual cordiality and kindness, producing
immediately familiarities on his part which it is
necessary for her to rebuke.

This passage over they come to business.

'you have found out nothing about the
Ostrolenka, I suppose?"

'' No, but Chertsey has put Pitt on her. A
deuced sharp fellow is Pitt, he will run her to
earth, and then if she makes a move, she'd
better look out. I think we can effectually lay
her by the heels," and he explains Chertsey 's
plan.

'* I have had some such idea in my own head,"
says Madame Artaki ; " but I do not intend to
have it worked  except as a last resource."

You are right, no doubt, it would be useless,
out of mere spite."

'' It will be only necessary if we find her
raking into things about her husband, or anything
of that sort."

"Yes, it would certainly then be desirable.
But she once told me in Paris she had quite
given him up. All she has ever learnt confirms
the view that he is dead. And her sole object
seemed to be to recover her own bonds."

Heroea is absorbed in thought.

*' So she thinks that he is dead ! Then she
cannot be here after that. Is she hunting after
me, for any reason you can think of .' "

No, unless she connects you with these
bonds. And I wish to G  d, now that you
have got hold of that fool Norton, we had left
that affair alone. It was too risky, too infernally
risky."

''So I always thought. I always have
thought it vile, foolish, and idiotic. And
my sole idea now is to try and avert a
catastrophe."

But surely, Heroea, you are not seriously
concerned about this ? "

I am, for some of us,  not for myself, for I
have, I think, found a way of escape."

Still that does not seem very pleasant,"
says Gould, with an uncomfortable twitch.

"'Yoti need not fear. You are safe enough.
But you must do something I want done.

Some of that Beyrout property could undoubtedly
be recovered by Madame Ostrolenka. The
papers about it are in your keeping. You and
I could always make terms, not so the others
Dubois and Restigouche. Now I don't like
that place in Boulogne, too many of your old
associates have got to know of it. You must
move Nellie and the child to some safer
place."

I can bring them here to London, where I
could keep an eye on them."

"No, certainly not here. You forget Madeline
Ostrolenka is a woman who will leave nothing
undone that she begins. It is madness to
think of having Nellie here  to say nothing
of the child. I feel sure that already Madeline
Ostrolenka has discovered all about our whereabouts.
Rely on it she is having us watched.
She would find Nellie in a little time. And
can you trust Nellie . "

'' I can, I swear. She is too much hipped
and frightened to turn against us."

*' Ah ! there is the usual fatuity of man ! I
tell you she will turn some day,  unless you
treat her more kindly."

'' I treat her well enough ; she is such a

whining, bothering sort of a woman, I can't
bear going near her."

"Poor Nellie!  I really loved her once. I,
of course, don't know how she is faring ;
but, take my advice, don't be too hard on
her."

For Madame Artaki has seen nothing of
Gould's wife for many years, nor has she the
slightest conception of the condition to which
this inhuman monster has reduced her. She
has several times written to Mrs. Gould during
the last few months ; but Nellie has been either
too terrified, or too loyal to complain.

And Gould looks very black. This is one
of the things he cannot stand  even from
Madame Artaki  that any one should take the
part of the unfortunate woman whom he has
married, and practically deserted.

Then I am not to bring her here, you
think ? I know a crib in Paris  in the 
 not a human being would be any
the wiser if she were murdered there."

Don't talk like that, even in jest," she says,
with a fixed look, before which he quails.
Remember, she is to a certain extent an old
friend of mine. But for you  for your life 

she might be in a position now any woman
might envy."

And I wish to G  d she was, she might
have gone off a hundred times for all I care."

" Well, this is useless talk. Let us settle
where she is to go, and who is to take her."

'' I'll take her to Paris "

No, not you. I think you had better
remain here until we recover these bonds. I
have some idea of making you restore them to
Madame Ostrolenka, that is, if I can get some
more money from Norton. Of this I have no
great fear. He still has some 15,000."

And why not try your hand on the father  '
old Romeyn."

" For reasons of my own which I cannot
now explain ; but to return to Nellie,  I would
like you to arrange for her instant removal. I
am afraid of Madeline Ostrolenka. And as
you should not go out of town, why not let
this man Pitt go to Boulogne, and take Nellie,
bag and baggage, with the child, to Paris ? "

'' I see no objection to the plan," says Gould.
*' It is a happy thought, for Chertsey and I
have agreed that we will send Pitt over to-night,
when we have the money,  which, of course,

you have got?  and let him bring back the
bonds."

Yes. I have the money, and I think that
arrangement will suit. Of course Chertsey can
trust this man ? "

Trust him, certainly ; he goes bail for
him."

And you, you can trust him with Nellie ? "

Oh ! that is comical  why, of course  even
if she were not a cursed saint herself  in her
old age."

And now Hercea changes her tone. She
has been cordial and cross by turns, now she
goes back to the cordial in the most abrupt
manner  for wiili Gould she does not trouble
herself with fine gradations of sentiment or
feeling.

Come, wee have been very near quarrelling,
you and I, let us be friends again"  and she
gives him her hand. He devours it with kisses,
more like a hungry dog seizing a bone. Then
he sits down close by her.

You will see to all this about Nellie, won't
you ? " says Hercea. " And now for the money.
Here is the 1,000 for Dubois  then I have put
1,000 in this envelope for you, Richard  and

I think we must give Chertsey ;i,ooo on
account. It won't be too much."

'thanks a million times, dearest," says
Gould, his greedy palm closing over the notes.

*' That leaves me 2,000 for our present
expenses," says Heroea. " That must last until
we pull off the Petroleum affair. I have
thought of Norton for that. He would signa
good report."

'capital idea.  He must go out with it in
his portmanteau though,  for he is too big a
fool to write one himself out there."

Well, we can talk over that when the time
comes."

I must be off," says Gould, rising and looking
at his watch  " I promised to be back in
Cannon Street as early as possible.  Are you at
home this evening ? "

Yes, but engaged  don't come  I shall see
you tomorrow, dear."

And Gould departs.

Chertsey is again waiting anxiously for
Gould  for things have not gone well, and
many people are bothering for cheques, a way
people have when they know you can't draw
them.  It is an inconvenience Chertsey suffers

from just now  this Inability to draw cheques ;
a ridiculous position for a man wearing such
excellent clothes and passing for a Capitalist.
Not that he is really despondent, for no man
alive knows better how to work round the Law
Courts than he  he lives in them whenever
he is hard up  dodging garnished summons,
orders, writs and heaven knows what other
traps for the semi-insolvent ;  he therefore joyfully
welcomes Gould from whom he receives
;500, and an old I.O.U. of his own for
another 500.

Then follows a brief consultation in which it is
decided that Pitt shall take Mrs. Gould to Paris,
redeem the bonds, and return to London.

*' It will be as well to get her away from
Boulogne," says Gould. " She is always complaining
about one thing or another  I had a
letter from her this morning, enough to make a
cat sick."

Well, what's up with her now ? "

'* Oh ! the old story  Restigouche  but there,
confound her  I can never y. it on her."

You mean that you want to ? "

'* Look here, my dear fellow  we are old
pals  I don't mind telling you  of course I

do. I have tried everything to make her run
off, or do something I could get divorced from
her for ; but she won't."

'' And, by Jove ! you've given her chances
enough to divorce you ! "

'' Yes, that I have  but no ! not a d d bit

will she budge. Confound her  it is enough to
make a man mad. Six months ago, Madame A.
was so awfully down she would have had me
like a shot  but this Nellie was in the way.
For Madam is a rum'un  has some of the
most extraordinary ideas I ever came across 
I can never make head or tail of her."

'' I thought, though, you were such very
particular pals," says Chertsey with a smile.

Well, you know, old chap  a man can't say
everything  but, you see, it isn't like being
married."

'' Oh ! Ah ! " says Chertsey, who knows
perfectly well that the insinuation is a foul lie.
'' But Pitt will he fall in love with Mrs Gould .?
Could not he oblige you ? "

Hah ! hah," laughs Gould, *' the very thing
Madame Artaki thought of. I wish he would,
but she is so infernally miserable. But, are you
serious  do you think you could put him up to

It ? You know a hint often does these things 
He might sham being ill, half way to Paris 
make her stop  or anything you can think of."

*' No, no," says Chertsey, '' I am bad, but I
am not bad enough for that, I was only joking.
I won't have anything to do with your wife, or
your matrimonial matters."

And whilst they are in the act of speaking,
Pitt arrives, and in answer to their enquiries,
informs them that he has no address to give
them for Madame Ostrolenka.

"It can't be helped ; but now, are you ready
to go over to Paris to-night ? " says Chertsey.

"Quite, Sir."

Then Chertsey and Gould give him minute
instructions, and consign the money for Dubois
to his care, explaining to him that he is to
receive 6,000 of Ottoman Bank Bonds in
exchange.

Chertsey also presents him with his travelling
bag.

Take this, it has a good lock, and don't
lose sight of it for a moment when you are
coming back. I was once robbed in a French
train myself."

Then Ivlr. Chertsey said good day to Gould ;

VOL. II. 4

he had an appointment elsewhere and left
Gould to give Pitt instructions relative to Mrs.
Gould and her transportation to Paris.

Gould then buttonholes Pitt in a friendly
way. It is kind and condescending on this
great man's part to notice so poor a clerk as
Pitt at all, but this mark of familiarity must
grapple the said clerk to him in the closest
bonds of loyalty and gratitude.

Look here. I've a delicate piece of work
for you to do on my own account'" says
Gould. " But first, are you hard up ? "

Yes, I always am, Mr. Courtesy has not
been very busy lately and my salary is in arrear
a good bit," replies Pitt, who for various reasons
is anxious to secure all the money he can.

'' What does he owe you ? "

*' About 90 or ;ioo."

*' Then here, take these, three fifties, two of
them give me a receipt for, and I will square it
with Chertsey some other time ; ;!50 is on my
own account."

*' Oh ! thank you very much," says Pitt, and
inwardly he is thinking how useful this money
may be in tripping up the heels of this very
generous rascal.

'' Now then, please listen," says Gould
seriously. " I want you to stop at Boulogne
on your way to Paris, and go to this address.
There you will find a woman and child, and a
large box of great importance. 1 want you to
carry the whole lot, woman, child, and baggage,
to this address in the Batignolles in Paris and
leave her there," and here Gould gives him
a paper with two addresses on it. " She is
a poor half-witted creature and you can do
anything you like with her. She will swear to
you that she is my wife, and so she has been,
but the marriage was not legal and she has no
claim on me. She is an abominable drunkard,
and I have to keep her low in consequence.
She has hardly any clothes left  every blessed
thing pawned. She has charge of a child, and
this you must not mention anywhere, if you
please. This child's parents died in Syria.
Madame Artaki asked me to look after the
child and we have always left her with this
woman Nellie. And remember ; I don't want
you to give the woman any money. She has
no need for any. I gave her some only the
other day and by Gad, when I went over a few
days after, it was all gone ! She would drink

KBRARV

the hind leg off a horse. Now as to her
going away with you. You must make it plain
that you come from me. I will give you my
ring, which she knows. She had better get
her gear together directly you see her, and goon
with you by the first train. The house you
will take her to is kept by an old woman who
knows me, and you must give her a hint that
I don't wish Nellie to be allowed out until I
come. You can give the old woman two
napoleons, to feed Nellie and the child until I
turn up. The house is No.  Rue des Entre-pots,
Batignolles, a blackguard part of Paris,
but you'll easily find it."

' And is that all, Sir?"

" Yes, that is everything, except that I rely
on you not to repeat any lies she may tell you,
nor to believe them. You can't beat her
for lying."

Then Gould bids him good-bye ; Pitt takes
the travelling bag, and after locking up the
office goes off to see Madeline and tell her
that he is starting by that evening's boat and
moreover explains that he has to stop in
Boulogne to pick up the woman whom he
believes to be Mrs. Gould.

This is an especially startling and interesting
piece of news, for it has struck Pitt, as it now
strikes Madeline, that out of this chance meeting
with this woman much that is very important
may arise. Then it is arranged that Pitt
and Madame Ostrolenka shall not start from
the same station, in the event of anyone taking
it into their heads to accompany him. She will
leave by Charing Cross and he from Cannon
Street Station. It was also decided that
Perotte should go with her mistress and that
all further details of how they should proceed
should be discussed when they met at the
junction, or on board the steamer.

**AMANTIUM Ir."

Rosalie, in her heart, did not feel so confident
of George's fidelity as she had endeavoured to
lead Madeline to suppose. She had received a
stab which pained her grievously, the circumstances
as narrated by her sister were strongly
suspicious, and she awaited with a low, sinking
feeling within, for the explanation that George
might be able to give. Alone by herself all
her sophistry about the divine rights of man todo
as he liked vanished, and she knew that that
way lay broken lives ; shipwrecked happiness ;
which all the powder and paint, all the glitter,
and distraction which accompany wealth, can
do nothing to rehabilitate. But her fears were
destined to be considerably set at rest by a
conversation she had that afternoon with Captain
Hackett, who came for five o'clock tea and
found her alone. Without much difficulty she

soon broached the topic of conversation that
was of all others now most interesting to her,
namely, the sayings and doings of the new
Beauty, which of course it was Hackett's
business to know. He gave her a brief outline
of her history, mainly such as we know it,
with slight variations gleaned from the Society
Papers, and then passed from the general to
the particular, and described the proceedings
of the evening before with such minuteness,
that Rosalie thought that if anyone in her own
household were likely to be entangled by this
woman's wiles, it would be her father. As to
Madame Artaki's beauty,  a question which
Rosalie was most eager to hear discussed
impartially there could be no doubt, according
to Hackett, for he had seen nothing like her, 
her eyes being the most overwhelming he had
ever seen in a human head, her colour rich, her
skin snow, her form superb ; in fact, Hackett
appeared to Rosalie to have fallen a victim to
the epidemic of admiration, and to have caught
the complaint in as acute a form as anyone
else. Then as to her being proper ' and all
that,' even that sneak Haycock, the paragraph
writer, had as yet failed to connect her name

with anyone. Now all this affords a kind of
negative relief to Rosalie's mind, for clearly such
a woman must hold herself above a man in
George's position  she would look for higher
alliances  and therefore Rosalie is able to
approach the subject with less misgivings from
the point of view of greatest interest to her, and
as Hackett is one of those old and privileged
friends in whom she together with half the
women in London, have the utmost confidence,
she goes straight to it.

'' Do you know. Captain Hackett," she
says, playing with her teaspoon and a blush
stealing over her cheeks, '* that  what you
have told me is a kind of relief to me. I'll tell
you why, for you are such an old friend, and I
know you will give good advice if I ask it.
Captain Norton, you know, appears to have
become awfully thick with this Madame Artaki
and  well  naturally, don't like it."

** Bless your heart, my dear Miss Romeyn,"
says Hackett breaking into a laugh like a
hyaena, the only unpleasant thing about him,
"don't you alarm yourself about that! she
wouldn't look at him."

*' Thanks, very much," says Rosalie demurely.

'* Oh ! I beg your pardon," he says laughing
again, " of course I didn't mean that, you knows
for George is a good-looking fellow, and any
woman might take a fancy to him. But with
Madame Artaki it is a case of necessity, you
know ; she can't afford to indulge her likes and
dislikes too much. Good or bad, she must live,
and we must wait and see how she plays her
cards. She will either make a great match
here or "

'' Well, or what ? "

'she has refused an invitation to House

already," goes on Hackett, not answering an
inconvenient question. " It is true that  for I
had it from Harry , who of course knows."

'' Hes a good fellow, isn't he  your friend
Harry, as you call him ? "

'ran excellent chap, and so I know this is
true. She has no intention of being talked
about in that kind of way."

Then it won't be out of the way if my
father invites her here ? He told me to-day
at luncheon he intended to ; of course I said
nothing either one way or the other, but I was
afraid he might be making a mistake."

Well of course in one way he may be, for

clearly she is an adventuress. But where on
earth can you draw the line ? She is every
bit as good and much more respectable than
many of our political intrigues. She is quiet
and ladylike, not noisy and loud like some
of our sweetest women in Society, she wears
clothes enough to cover herself properly, and as
to beauty  why the whole of London rolled
together can't hold a candle to her. But
beyond all this, though she may not be exactly
a proper person at this particular moment, in
another month's time she will be the idol of
Society, until every one is perfectly sick of her."

After this long speech Hackett drinks off his
fifth cup of tea and is ready for more.

"What strange lives there are in London!"
says Rosalie, as she pours him out his sixth cup.

'* Strange beyond belief," says Hackett.
Nothing in novels comes up to the actual
state of affairs, the ups and downs, the misery
and inequality of the whole affair. And I don't
believe a bit that these miseries are our own
fault, through want of foresight and caution."

You don't ! Then  to bring it home tome
 for I am awfully anxious and distressed,
and I have not a male friend in the world

to give me advice, I will tell you, Captain
Hackett, I am miserable about George knowing
this woman, and I have been advised that I
should break off my engagement with him on
account of it."

Miss Romeyn, you do me a great honour,"
says Hackett with a serious look on his thin,
yellowish face. " You ask me a thing a sister
would ask a brother. I say that unless you
positively know that Norton is so desperately
in love with this woman that he is lost to all
sense of honour, you would be foolish in breaking
off an engagement which I am sure you
have set your heart on. Of course he may be
just momentarily smitten with her, like I am,
like your father, like every man seems to be,
but we none of us, I presume, are losing our
heads about her. And then, as to Norton,
there must be two to an affair of this kind.
She certainly never looked at him the whole
evening, after I came in and she refused his
escort home. All the fellows in the club were
remarking how she stuck to your father.
They seemed to be getting on so wonderfully
together. As to George!  why, it is absurd,
simply ridiculous."

" Thank you, thank you awfully," say Rosalie.
You have taken a great weight off my
heart."

'' I am glad I have, for by heavens, I think
the man that would deceive you would be a
villain ! " says Hackett, with so much earnestness
that Rosalie looks at him in surprise.

He rises and picks up his hat.

'' Good-bye," she says holding out her hand.
** You've been awfully good and kind. You are
so sympathetic. I always wonder you never
married."

*' Ah ! do you ? well, some fine day I'll tell
have why I have not."

When he is gone Rosalie sits down and
writes a note to Norton. It is so loving and so
tender that any one who had had the privilege
of reading it would have seen that he need have
no fear that any lie he may be about to tell her
will not be readily accepted. She sends it to
the Club. It contains a request that he will
come and see her after dinner. He is not to
come to dinner, for she does not wish to run
the risk of hearing her father and her lover
come to possible loggerheads about this woman.
Moreover the explanation George is to make is

of too private, too tender a nature, for any but
her ears.

And Norton came, but later than she had
hoped, and he found her asleep on the ottoman.

For fatigued and worn out with the sleeplessness
of the previous night, and there being no
guests in the house to demand her attention,
she had, after dinner, divested herself of her
dress, and had donned some loose and unconstrained
garment, of the tea-gown order, in
which she had thrown herself down to await
the arrival now so eagerly expected. And as
she lay she duly arranged in her mind the
entire series of questions that were to be put,
and in many cases, with her new light as obtained
from Hackett, providing most satisfactory
answers to them of her own manufacture.
Then what with the drowsiness of the summer
evening, and the semi-obscurity of the place
where she lay, she gradually drifted away into
dreamland, her lover s hand guiding her down
those Elysian fields, ankle-deep in sweet-smelling
grasses, to those regions which for
weeks past, even in her waking moments,
had rarely been absent from her thoughts,
radiant realms of uninterrupted and overpowering

love ; where day and night are dissolved
into one. Her slumber grew deeper
and deeper, with vision after vision of surpassing
sweetness, and the voice of her lover
whispering words in her ear so passionate that
even in her sleep the conscious blush spread
over her cheeks, and her bosom heaved with
a long, long sigh. She turns, and, in her sleep
throws her arms over her head, loosening the
brown coils of her hair, which falls across
her shoulders. Then slowly she finds herself
waking to consciousness ; but with a weight
across her chest which seems gradually to
tighten. Then her eyes open ; her lover is
kneeling by her side, their eyes meet, and then
their lips. How long they thus remained let
each one gauge for himself by the memory of
such moments in his own existence, moments
into which have been compressed the only
absolute and entire happiness of a lifetime.

Nor is it necessary to say that all poor
Rosalie's carefully prepared logic vanished
before this argument. Questions she put none.
Question and answer melted into each other
with that seal over her mouth which forbade
speech.

Twelve o'clock  one  and even two. The
lights in the house have long since been extinguished
; even Romeyn is home and housed
in his own room, after his long visit in Jermyn
Street, but still the plighted couple are together
unconscious of fleeting time. Words have been
spoken, and he, with vehement protestations,
has utterly swept away the baseless accusations
against his honour and fidelity to her, and has
in return, or in requital for her momentary
doubts, received the tender blushing avowal of
her undying passion for him. He deserves all
this after her cruel wrong to him, and what shall
she withhold from him ! She is his once more,
body and soul, with no shadow of doubt.

But  even lovers must part and the parting
hour has come, for the night has long since fled,
and the first streak of dawn gilds the sky.

My love, my love," murmurs Rosalie, "you
must leave me! Just fancy, it is striking four ;
and I have spent the whole night here with
you," and she hides her head in his bosom.

'eyes, my beloved Rosie, I must. I hear
the country carts rumbling along the Marbles
Road. And surely now, darling, you
trust me ? "

"Trust you'' she exclaims, throwing back
her head, with her hands on his shoulders.
'* How can you ask that ? Surely, Geordie, it
is who trust! Is not my very life and soul
in your hands ?"

'' True enough, Rosie."

'' Think, darling, what you are to me," she
goes on, almost wildly, whilst a weary look
passes through her eyes which suddenly dim
with tears. " Oh ! Geordie, you can never,
never be faithless to me, to your own Rosie,
can you ? "

I can never forget the love you have given
me," he says. '* And if I am faithless to you,
may God give me a shameful death. But you,
Rosie  remember  you have promised me not
to be jealous, or to listen to any lies about me."

I will listen to nothing, darling. No one
shall dare to say a word against you in my
presence."

He stands holding her to his breast, he feels
every palpitation of her heart, his arms completely
encircle her yielding waist. Then one
long kiss and he lays her back on the ottoman,
another prolonged embrace  and he is gone,
and stands giddy in the cool morning air, laden

with the sweet smell of the far-off hay-fields
of Runnymede or distant Windsor, coming to
the half-stifled city like a message to tell of a
purer life beyond.

Norton walks along meditatively, but any
continued effort at thought is impossible.
Mechanically he finds his way through deserted
Bond Street and then through Eagle Place.
Here he stops and looks up at a house behind
whose broadly-striped blinds lies sleeping the
woman to please whom he has just gone
deeper in villainy than he ever dreamt would
be possible in him. His own infinite baseness
and faithlessness strike him, as he thinks of
the girl in Wimpole Street  who by this time
has crept between her white sheets, mumbling
his name to her pillow as she drops off into a
deep, heavy sleep. And then he thinks of
Heroea lying beyond those blinds, possibly
dreaming of him too ! such is his infatuated folly.

I suppose I am an infernally bad lot," he
says to himself. '' But then, hang it all, how
can a man help it with such a wonderful woman
as Heroea fond of him, and Rosalie so mad gone
on one too ? After all ! how the deuce can I
help it ? If Rosalie hadn't kicked up all this

VOL. II. 5

shine about Heroea it would have been different.
No,  I'll be hanged if this is my fault.
Anyhow I'm in for it  that's clear. Goodnight,
or rather good morning my blessed
darling Heroea," and he waves a hand towards
her window.

Then he turns down Duke Street and enters
his lodgings. On the table lies a note from
Madame Artaki, which he seizes eagerly and
breaks open.

'' Dearest George,  Come and see me tomorrow
; I am longing to see you again. I
hope your evening was more pleasant than
mine, and that you talked things over satisfactorily
with Rosalie. Come as early as you
like, if you don't mind me in my dressing-gown.
" Yours ever,

** My darling!" murmurs Norton ** Actually
giving herself the trouble to write me a note
after Romeyn left her ! so like her, the sweet
pet.

But as a matter of fact the sweet pet had
written the note before Romeyn called, and

had sent it round to Norton's lodgings knowing
he must be in Wimpole Street. It was one
of those notes which Gould  who saw a good
many of them  called '' Pot-boilers."

*'a man's heart devised his way."

Mr. Romeyn was sufficiently like other
mortals to keep his appointment with Madame
Artaki punctually. Men did, as a rule, for her
day was so portioned out, that unless they
came to their time, their visit might be cut
short by another arrival, which, to most of
them, was not agreeable. But her visitor, this
night, might have been behind time had he
so chosen, without incurring this penalty, for
Madame Artaki had felt from the first pull he
had given at her hook that he was a fish worth
landing, albeit one requiring much skill and
delicacy in the operation. And she had already
partly made up her mind what she should do
with him when on the bank ; for that he would
be there sooner or later she never for one moment
doubted  a frame of mind conducive to success
not alone in love affairs. Having therefore

attired herself in a long white satin dress cut
square across her bosom and relieved by a
spray of large yellow roses which rose and fell
with the gentle undulations of her breathing,
she sat awaiting the arrival of her new acquaintance
 a book of Rossetti's sonnets in her
hand. The half-shaded light of a reading
lamp threw its golden glow over her face
and arms, enhanced by the shadows of the
darkened room behind, which made a sombre
background. By her side, on the sofa, lay a
small guitar of oriental shape, richly inlaid with
mother-of-pearl, and amongst a heap of other
things, as if thrown there by chance, a pair
of new, fantastic-looking Turkish slippers,
of green velvet embroidered with golden
flowers.

Romeyn on arriving had been requested by
the servant to walk up, and either the noiselessness
of his foot-fall on the heavy pile carpet on
the stairs had not disturbed Madame Artaki, or
perhaps she was not unwilling he should contemplate
the picture before him for a few minutes
through the door which stood ajar. And, if
such were her wish, she was not disappointed,
for not a line or a detail of the scene before

him escaped Romeyn's well-trained and observant
eye.

It was complete, nothing to alter, and impossible
to be improved on, from the crown
of her head to the sole of her foot, whilst the
easy unconstrained attitude which privacy permitted,
 her delicate feet thrust forward on to
a high footstool displaying the symmetry of her
ankles ; the arm which held the book raised
high on the table ; the other foreshortened
along the back of the sofa, made an ideal
composition which would have fascinated the
most critical judge of the beautiful.

He was unwilling to move, lest the sound
should cause her to turn and so dispel this rare
sight, but it was doomed only to be like one of
those exquisite flashes of summer lightning,
come and gone before we realise it has been
here, for she soon rose, caught sight of him,
and advanced to greet him.

** Pardon me," says Mr. Romeyn, with a
dignified bow. '' I was so entranced with the
picture you made that I stood staring at you
longer than perhaps I should have. But, on
my honour, I assure you I have never seen
such a picture out of canvas, and only there by

Titian or Paolo Veronese. I would give any sum
of money for a pkture such as you then made."

*you are very flattering," she says, taking
his outstretched hand. "Come and sit down;"
and with the other hand she pushes the door
to behind him.

'' Honestly no, it is not flattery," he says. '* It
is obvious a man can't flatter in a case of this
kind. Flattery must imply a certain amount of
falsehood. If the Koh-i-noor had ears it would
not be flattery to tell that stone that it was
one of the most perfect gems in the world."
And he sits down.

I hardly agree with you as to the necessity
of telling an untruth when we flatter. We
flatter people when we want something out of
them and "

'* And, I want something out of you ? Is
that it '. Well, perhaps you are right. I do.
I want you to let me have you painted by the
very best man alive just as I saw you now."

''Oh! I cannot promise that. I have refused
several times ; and strange as it may seem to
you, I have refused to be photographed even,
for I could not endure to see my face in every
window in London."

*' There I entirely go with you, and, If I may
venture to say so, It would distress me too. I
should not like to see your beauty the common
property of every gaping snob In the metropolis."

I feel really honoured to think you feel
sufficient Interest In me to care what became
of me," she says, lowering her voice.

My dear lady, let us be frank. Do you
think If you were not clever, a long way beyond
ordinary women, and with beauty, such as I
declare I have never seen, that I  a man who
leads almost the life of a recluse, who Is looked
on as an unsociable bear  should be sitting
here talking with you .' Not that I mean
that by so doing I Ao you any honour or confer
pleasure on you, but simply It must prove to
you that I do take a deep Interest In you 
and everything concerning you."

She makes no Immediate reply. There Is
more than mere compliment In this.

He, too, remains silent, for he Is again contemplating
her from head to foot, and marvelling
In his own mind how certain curves, lines,
and colours can affect the judgment of the
coolest, bravest and wisest,  as they have,
since the world and woman were created.

'' What you have said touches me a good
deal," she says at last, as if having weighed her
thoughts. " Let vie say a word, and don't
believe It Is flattery. Last night, the two or
three hours I spent with you passed more
pleasantly than any since I have been In England.
I, too, like you, can pick and choose with
discrimination, as you are no doubt aware.
Now if I ask you to come and see vie it must
be simply because it pleases me. To me a man
who reads and who is cultivated Is actually and
positively a pleasant companion. The fact is, I
hardly ever meet a man who reads."

** No, you are right  for putting fops and
noodles aside  the rising men of our day have
positively no time to read. The high pressure
of their lives only gives them time to glance
over the pages of even the best books. Then
the rich are generally idle."

*' You read a great deal, do you not ? "

In a desultory kind of way, yes. I read
everything as it comes, but not with any idea
of scientific research."

'' I envy you having the leisure."

*' Envy me ! why surely your life has leisure
enough In It ? "

*' No, not SO much. I am never idle  or
rather I have rarely an hour to myself."

*' But, may I ask, what is all this work which
occupies your time  I should have imagined
you leading a life of refined, intellectual ease."

I should have to secure that ease first. I
shall not shock you, for you are well versed in
the ways of the world. I could unlock,  tomorrow
if I liked,  the gates leading to this life
of ease, but  I should only be a slave in the
gardens which lie beyond."

*' Undoubtedly you could ; and I can perfectly
understand that you prefer to remain outside 
free."

'eyes, free, absolutely free. I must be free,
or rather I must free myself in time. But not
by that means. From that I shrink. See !
shall I repose a great confidence in you ! Read
that."

And she hands him a note bearing a Royal
monogram.

He reads it  a brief invitation, couched in
courteous terms  and he looks at the date.

"How long have you been in town?" he says.

Less than a fortnight."

His Highness has not lost time."

"No; has he? and the offer? It seems
tempting? It is a chance many women would
jump at. For that wise old gentleman, Elihu,
who must have been a nuisance to Job,
must have been thinking of modern society,
when he said, 'Is it fit to say to a king, Thou
art wicked ? and to princes. Ye are ungodly ? ' "

Romeyn smiles rather bitterly.

*you are right, you are right. But then,
you would only gain caste for a time ; after,
you would lose more than you had gained,
and might end your days behind the footlights."


What you say proves to me that you would
recommend my declining this honour ? "

'* I do not feel privileged to recommend
anything. I can, however, say that I should
be seriously disappointed if you did. For,
although I have only known you a few hours,
I have placed you on a high pedestal ; and
that " he breaks off abruptly.

*' That  what ? for you interest me."

*' That I should be disappointed at having
formed a wrong conclusion," says he, rather
evasively,

" Disappointed because your judgment had

failed ? " says she, looking straight towards him
and dropping her voice.

'' No, not that ; but disappointed for your
sake, that you had fallen short of what is
evidently the right."

'' Then it is clear, if I accept this invitation,
I must come down off your pedestal ? "

Yes  off mine  but then, mine is a pedestal
which you will soon come to think was a poor
shoddy kind of affair, never worth mounting 
if you accept this invitation. For Society will
place you on one that will lift you infinitely
higher, so high that I could not even reach to
touch your feet"

*' Or where you wouldn't touch them if you
could ? " she says, almost sadly.

*' Honestly, that is a question I cannot answer.
I am fifty it is true ; but I am afraid that to touch
your feet would be a temptation even if I live
another fifty. But,"  he adds in a different tone
'seriously speaking, have you been weighing
this ? " and he taps the note in her hand.

I cannot conscientiously say I have not,
for I do not know this Personage personally,
and that might make a great difference. Sometimes
I feel totally independent of all laws  of

Society or anything else, and inclined simply
to follow my own wishes. Then I feel different,
and wish I could find some nature, stronger
than my own  or as strong  to lean on, a
firm, courageous heart. Now you will see
how utterly incompatible these things are  this
offer, and my ideal ; I assure you  as I sit here
I often long for peace and quiet."

'then this," holding up the note, "is
absolutely useless. It means neither rest  nor
profit'' he adds, with meaning in his words.

Would it not be a means to an end ' "

No ; as I said before, this Is not an Eldorado.
It would be 2 pour ces beaux yeux

"Ah! you misunderstand me," she says,
looking away, whilst a look of pain passes over
her face.

Pardon me," he says contritely, " I had no
intention of saying that I thought you would be
mercenary."

I was afraid I had already tumbled down
off your pedestal ; I was more or less discussing
this to see if I had any true stand on it."

And you wish to stand there } "

I do, for I value the opinion of a man
whose advice I feel I can rely on. I have

been intending to talk to you about many-things,
about my own affairs if I may, and to
ask you to help me."

"That would be a very serious responsibility,"
says Romeyn gravely, rising slowly and going
to the hearth-rug by the mere force of habit.

" I feel I take a great liberty in asking you,"
says Heroea. '' But, consider a moment  I amin
a very difficult position. People think me
clever, beautiful, God knows what. I am beset
by offers, and temptations of all kinds ; I am
neither innately good nor bad ; anything might
turn me either way. Whom can I talk to 
confide in, when I find my trial harder than I
expected it to be ? "

Whom do you know ? "

'' Captain Norton, perhaps, better than anyone,
but I could not consult him  for many
reasons."

'' No, no," says Romeyn quickly. ** Don't
dream of consulting him about anything. He
is a mere numb-skull, a fop ; not a bad fellow, of
his sort, but a very feeble sort."

** I have much the same opinion of him,"
says Heroea, *' though he has been very civil
and attentive to me."

*eyes, he is a gentleman  In a sense,  or
rather according to his code and his lights, but
he is no safe guide for a woman in your position."


*that I have felt, and then,  then came my
introduction to you, then came our long talk ; I
form my ideas rapidly, and I see, here, to-night,
that my first impressions are only strengthened.
I would give a great deal for a disinterested
view from you."

Romeyn does not answer. Is he capable of
giving her a disinterested view, or a view at
all ? and if so about what ? Why, clearly,
how she is to live, whether she is to go on
in this nondescript unconventional way, living
apparently by her wits and by promoting
companies (for that much he guesses), or to
pass through the gates she has hinted at '. Oris
there another life he can recommend? to seek
to make a good match as she undoubtedly can
if she makes up her mind now and does it
before she gets too lightly spoken of in London?
and place herself in an unassailable position ?
Yes, doubtless ; but, then, whispers the still small
voice, what about himself? Is he already
beginning to think he should not like to see her

dJiOihcTS? Is it possible that with all his
C}"iiici5m, and all his years of experience, he is
beginning to lave this woman whom he has not
even known for twenty-four hours ?

He remains so long plunged in thought that
at last she rises and stands by him.

** Pardon me,  I see this is not agreeable to
you. I had no right to trouble you with my
thoughts and fancies on such a short acquaintance.
Come back to the sofa, we will talk of
pleasant things," and she playfully passes her
arm through his as though to lead him.

But he is not the least disposed to drift away
from a conversation so deeply interesting, whilst
the touch of her arm has fired his blood more
rapidly than mortal touch had ever done before.

'* Don't think /Ao/," he says, crossing his
hand on hers which lies on his arm, '' I would
be more proud of the position of monitor to
you than to be Her Majesty's adviser in matters
critic, only, it is an extremely difficult position
for me. Let me think over things ; I have
passed all this rapidly in review and see the
bearings of your case perhaps beyond what you
think. All I can say is, I will think seriously
of it, and  that I am your friend."

I am quite content to wait and hear what
you think of things in general. Let us sit
down."

I see you are musical, as well as being fond
of music'' he says, as he moves her guitar to
make room for himself on the sofa. *' What a
curious little instrument this is''

'' It is a Georgian instrument. It is particularly
suited to the wild pathetic airs they sing.
One hears them sung in the harems by Georgian
and Circassian slaves. . Would you like to
hear me sing something t "

Nothing could possibly give me more pleasure."
he says, handing her the guitar.

She disposes herself to sing  leaning forward
over the guitar with the grace of an accomplished
player, and after striking a few bars, lets
her voice come from her parted lips in a low,
soft tone, like the rippling of water va. a
shallow brook : then the sound increases, and
a wild, plaintive melody comes gushing forth,
her voice rising and falling with wondrous
pathos. Then comes a quick, rapid passage,
where, though the words are unintelligible, it
is easy to see that passion, or frenzy are portrayed,
her voice rings loud and clear, filling

VOL. II. 6

the room with a volume of sound : stops dead
short on a high note, and then, back to the
first few bars  a low wail  with which the
voice ceases. Then follows a short symphony,
and the air begins again and repeats itself
throughout, her voice dying down again in the
same way. And Romeyn finds himself staring
at her, transfixed with the exquisite pleasure he
has enjoyed. He seems spell-bound and does
not at once find words to express his thanks.
She lays down the instrument, reading approval
in his eyes.

'* Ah ! I see you like that  one of my native
songs  I love them  there is something tome
inexpressibly wild about them. When I
sing these songs to myself, alone, you will
hardly believe it of me, but I find tears come
into my eyes."

Madame Artaki," says he, *' I can't tell you
how I enjoyed that song. I do not know
where or when I heard anything that touched
me more. May I ask you for another ? "

** Not yet, not just now. The fact is, I cannot
always sing with my heart in it. My songs
are the expression of my thoughts. I have
never learnt to sing, and I cannot do it mechanically.

I am sure if I took to the stage I could
not rush off after singing the jewel song and
drink porter."

'* I daresay you could not, and I must be
content to live on the memory of this one song
until your inspired moment comes, when you
will sing me another."

That I hope will not be long, for I have
resolved to have you for a friend, if you will
have me. Now honestly and truly I want to
stand well in your eyes. Look at me," she says,
going on earnestly. '* What am I  a woman of
five-and-twenty, my life behind all bad, and
my surroundings now not much better. Do
you suppose I like this ? that I don't want to
climb up somewhere, and be  safe ? ' '

She is very earnest.

** My dear lady," says Romeyn, taking her
hand, '' you are the most complex and puzzling
person I have ever known, and you really seem
to seek my help. Shall I say plainly, and without
offence, I will do anything you wish ? "

Would you really ? Do you mean that
you would help me get back to some better
life ? I do not dare ask you what I want."

To ask can do no harm," says he, sorely

puzzled. His Is a most difficult position. He
knows that she is aware his wife is still alive,
he told her so last night. He does not dare
offer her a position where her honour would
suffer. How can he, after all she has said ?

But she has suddenly determined on a bold
plan.

May I then really ask you a great favour ?
You will not be offended ? "

I will not be offended, I promise. Tell me
what it is."

'' I want a home in London. I want someone
to take me by the hand."

'' How do you mean . I am really quite in the
dark," and truly he is more than mystified.

*' Invite me to your house ; present me to
your daughter ; let me make my debut at your
house. After that, I can live well enough alone.
I am, to a certain extent, the wife of a Pasha.
The Turkish people will call. I shall be lancet

My dear Madame Artaki, you have asked
no favour of me ! " he says. '' On the contrary
you propose to do me the greatest honour, and
to make me very happy," he adds.

'' You are really most kind," she replies with
a look that goes through him.

Don't say that  I have no social prejudices.
I don't care for Jack, Tom or Harry. My
having met you in the questionable atmosphere
of the Papyrus makes no difference to me.
Don't I know what a world of snobbery this is ?
Answer that Royal Note and all London will be
hungry to make your acquaintance and will
never expect to see even the shadow of the
good Pasha. Half the nobility of England will
be battering at your door and all God's hierarchy,
Archbishops, Bishops, and Priests, the
whole tag-rag, and bobtail, will struggle to kiss
your hand."

He has, after his manner, worked himself up
into a state of wrath, which surprises her. But
she also reflects that there is something here to
work on.

I know that is true," she says. " And I
know the other side. How I should be cut the
day the Sun went behind the clouds, as of
course it shortly would. How the hierarchy, as
you call them, would then discover that I was
a sinner and an outcast to be cursed with bell,
book and candle ! No, no ! that is not the life
I intend to lead."

'' That is the view of things which calls up all

my wrath," he says. *' But my house is my
own. There you will find no change, or
turning. Come there, and do as you like."

*' Thank you  thank you a thousand times,
Mr. Romeyn," she says, imparting a tone of
peculiar pathos to her voice.

Do not thank me, Madame Artaki  or 
may I call you Heroea ? I am so old a man
in comparison with you. I should value the
privilege highly."

** I do not mind, when we are alone, but
remember, I must remain on your pedestal,
and not even you can be allowed to make my
foothold there unsteady."

'' Heroea  ah ! what a sweet name ! why say
that ? Surely you know what a great life gap
there is between us, a gap of a quarter of a
century, and" (and he hesitates) ''a barrier,
even if that gap could be bridged ? I am an
old man in comparison with you, and I do not
forget it. If I do grow to love you,  and
God knows I don't see how I can help it  I
promise you I will endeavour to keep that love
pure and disinterested, it shall not distress you,
or drive you from amongst us."

'* That would be too dear a price to pay."

'' It would be a heavy price for me  for,"
he pauses a moment and then rises  " Heroea,"
he says in a deep voice, " I have always been
straightforward and candid, overbearing and
self-willed too, but I never in my life have
either deceived or misled any one, and I
cannot deceive you now, I love you already  I
love you more than I think I ever loved any one.
Can you trust to me now that I tell you that ? "

It seems to me too sudden," she says, as if
addressing herself "It seems as if it must bea
mistake. For, you, Mr. Romeyn, are so
unlike any man I have known. Many have
said these things to me, even in the first hour,
and I,  as any other woman would  knew
what it meant. But you,  you are different.
You must love me, or you could not say it.
And yet, it seems amazing "

It amazes me infinitely more than it can
you," he says in a grave voice. "Think what
it is to me ! I, who have kept most of my
passions and even my fancies slaves to my own
will,  I am suddenly routed ; and I swear, that
as I stand here before you I am a stranger to
myself. I look at you, Heroea, as you sit there
before me and I say to myself,  ' Is it possible

you love this woman ? ' And what answer do I
make to my own question ? Yes, it is true, for
God never created anything fairer, or endowed
woman with such fatal power of fascination."

He ceases speaking. It seems to have been
more a soliloquy than a speech addressed to
her, and she sits still  her eyes fastened on
him. And  strange being that she is  so
deeply is she moved that already she knows
she would gladly link her life to his, but for
that "barrier" in the attic in Paris.

But rapidly the whole possibilities of the situation
flash before her and things which half-an-hour
ago were almost unthought of, spring into
realities, to be met and dealt with  irrevocably.

She rises from the sofa and stands by his
side, her hand resting on the table, the other
clasping her throat.

'' Mr. Romeyn " she says slowly, '' this world
has many sides to it ; many strange things
occur in it. I myself have not made your
acquaintance lightly, nor have I failed to appreciate
the meaning of what has passed between
us this evening. That you have this love forme,
and that it has grown up so rapidly I can
and do believe, nor do I think that it need

necessarily wither away as rapidly, after the
manner of most sudden loves. I could not
conceive it possible for you to fall in and out
of love like the ordinary shallow lover, whose
ephemeral desires die almost before they are
born. But what I want you to perceive is that
I myself am constrained by all kinds of circumstances,
that there are things about my life you
know nothing of, which might entirely change
your present ideas, if you knew them,  things
impossible to explain. And then  for I must
speak out now  once and for ever  I am not
indifferent to you, believe me. I can say that
as honestly as that you tell me you love me. I
declare I would marry you tomorrow, if that
were possible. It is unfeminine, unwomanly 
anything you chose to call it  but it is absolutely
necessary that if you and I are to be
thrown much, and continually together  as we
shall be if I come to your house  that there
should be no misunderstanding. And why do
I say so ? Because I am persuaded I can trust
you as I could few men, and because I know,
if I ask you, that you will not allow this love
you feel for me, and . . . this regard and
esteem I have for you . to separate us."

'' I understand you," he says, drawing himself
up to his full height, and passing his arms
behind him. " I promise you faithfully that I
will observe your conditions  as long as you
chose to make them binding."

*' Let us sit down again," she says, laying
her hand lightly on his sleeve.

'' First of all," he says, as soon as she has
nestled comfortably into her corner; "will you
tell me who and what this man Gould is ? For
I confess his presence and connection with you
puzzles and irritates me."

'' Puzzle it may  irritate it need not," she
answers, '' for I give you my word of honour, he
is not, and never has been anything to me. I
will not disguise from you that he loves me, 
frantically at times  but a love which subsides
when I am away from him. He is married.
He is a man of some ability, and he has been
mixed up in all kinds of business with me  all
those things I am so anxious to turn my back
on."

''I am indeed glad to have this explanation.
It grieved me a good deal, for the
position certainly warrants a  a  misunderstanding."


'' I am perfectly aware of that, and that is
one of my chief reasons in wishing to start
differently."

And now another question, if I may ask
it  Norton ?"

'* I am glad you have asked that. I will be
frank. He thinks he loves me  in a kind of
way, and yet he is perfectly loyal to your
daughter, for he has told me all about his
engagement  which he would have withheld
had he not been true to her. I think nothing
of this passing fancy for me, and I trust you
will not. I look on him as a good-natured
simpleton. But he has been attentive and kind
to me. And now things are on a satisfactory
footing, for I have put him in his place, and, as
I said before, he loves your daughter. And, do
you mind my saying so? I trust nothing will
come between them, to prevent the marriage,
though it is selfish on my part. The fact is,
that his and. my name have been coupled at
the Papyrus, and nothing would annoy me
more than if Haycock or any of those wretches,
were to get it into their papers that he had
jilted her for me ; or that you had broken off
the match, or some similar scandal."

Like lightning the force of her remark flashes
on him.

'' By Jove ! " he exclaims, '' you are perfectly
right. He shall not break it off He is not a
bad fellow, as I said before, only weak. But
any scandal about you would be intolerable tome.
No, no, rest assured, he shall marry her,
as soon as we can arrange it."

That is very good of you, for of course you
will see I could not have come amongst you
with any possibility of this danger arising. I
should not have felt happy, to think that all
our names might be figuring in that abominable
way."

That would be intolerable, and yet nothing
more likely; for Haycock owes me a grudge ; I
exposed him once in a rascally affair, and he
is a man who always stabs in the dark,  ' a
damned smiling villain ! ' "

'T shall sleep better to-night," she says;
*' things may be easier for me than I expect."

'' I hope sincerely they may. It will not be
my fault if they are not. But hark, the clocks
are striking one," he says, " I had no idea it
was so late, I must say good-night."

But before you go, will you settle to be

here tomorrow ? I will tell you why. I must
introduce Gould to you ; I have many reasons,
if you do not mind. Shall I say three ? "

"Yes, three will suit me."

And perhaps Captain Norton may be here
too. And when you are all here I will ask you
to dine with me here, if I may have the honour
of your company."

I should be delighted, only, suppose instead
of that, we all dine at my house, it will give
you the entree of the house more easily ; you
are sure to win Rosalie's heart, if you chose to
try."

That you may count on my doing. Then
thanks, a thousand thanks, this is most kind ;
it makes everything much simpler."

Whilst he stands talking he has mechanically
picked up one of the little Turkish slippers.

Yours, I suppose .' " he says, '' how quaint !
part of a costume, I imagine."

Yes ; a very pretty dress ; some night I will
put it on, but it is too late to-night."

And then they part, with more effusion than
usual after so short acquaintance, he cogitating
all the way home how he can make things turn
as he wishes them, and she soon asleep  for

nothing disturbs the splendid physique of this
gifted woman.

As Romeyn turns his latch key, Rosalie and
Norton, who, as has been said, are together,
hear the sound.

** That is papa, my darling," she whispers
in his ear, nestling closer to him. " Don't
move, my love ; he will pass upstairs to his
bedroom without ever dreaming of looking inhere,
as it is all pitch dark."

'confound the old brute," thinks Norton to
himself, " I know devilish well he has spent
the whole evening with Heroea."

DIGGING A PIT.

Pitt's precaution that Madame Ostrolenka and
he should start for Boulogne from different
stations has been wise, for Gould has been
seized with an unwonted fit of generosity and
condescension, and has sent a telegram to Pitt's
private house requesting him to come and dine
with him. Pitt accepts, being anxious to learn
all he can, and hoping, that with his tongue
loosened with wine, Gould may communicate
matters of importance. He finds Gould in a
most amiable mood, and is pleased to learn
that this exalted person has taken a fancy to
him ; and further that Gould thinks Pitt might
easily better himself,  that his talents entitle
him to better pay and a better position than
that he now occupies, and many other things :
all of which show Pitt very plainly that Gould
wants to get something out of him, or that he

is going to ask him to do something unusual
for him. Nor is Pitt disappointed as to the
loosening of this man's tongue by wine, for
Gould, doubtless irritated at the idea that
Madame Artaki is entertaining some one at her
house who may become a rival, has drunk freely,
and now talks freely. He goes considerably
into his own past history, showing how he has
known Madame Artaki for many years, but
how she disappeared for a time from him and
every one else, through an unfortunate affair"
with a Greek in Constantinople, and a row
about some Army Contracts. Gould, who never
shrank from describing his own participation
in any rascality, had been in the swim too  and
a heap of others  but he got off. The scapegoat
was a man Pitt ought to know something
about, the husband, strange to say, of this very
Ostrolenka woman whom Pitt was to hunt up on
his return. The whole affair had, however,
been badly managed, too many people were of
necessity allowed into the ring, all the contractors,
the Vali, the colonels of the regiments,
the head clerks at the Seraskierat ; and though
when the row came numbers of people were
quietly got rid of, and though the colonels

bastinado every man in their regiments who
dared complain that they had been fed on rotten
biscuit, or had never had their blankets given
them, still it was an awkward affair, and ashe
said, Madame Artaki had to disappear fora
long time. She would have been, even then,
all right but for the unlucky chance of the
Grand Vizier, her husband's friend, being kicked
out just at the wrong time, when in came an
entirely new lot, who were only too delighted to
rake up everything against their enemies, and
made it precious hot for them all. Gould it
appears got away and stayed in Athens, and
then came to Paris.

** But Ostrolenka ? did he make no row?"
enquires Pitt, much interested.

'well, not much," continues Gould. '' How
could he ? First of all he was nabbed before
he knew anything about it ; then he was in the
hands of people whose interest it was to keep
him quiet ; then when the Grand Vizier was
kicked out, and when he might, you would
think, have got a hearing at least, the new lot
found it still convenient to keep him out of the
way, for they promptly confiscated the whole
of his fortune, and naturally divided it amongst

VOL. II. 7

themselves. A man has no chance in Turkey,
unless he has powerful friends."

*' But I thought you said he was a French
subject 1 " says Pitt.

*' So he was, but it did him no good, for the
French Ambassador had got too much talked
about before that for running after Madame
Artaki ; and several serious political intrigues
had been traced to this source. So he wisely
took her side, and let Ostrolenka go to the
devil."

'rand did he?"

*' Well,"  and Gould hesitates  '' Yes, he did,
pretty considerably,  and died."

'' Poor devil ! " says Pitt ; but thinking how
grievously all this that he listens to so lightly
must have wrung poor Madeline's heart. And
although the two words as written may not
convey the impression that Pitt felt for the
man, still that he was really touched did not
escape Gould.

Why do you say ' Poor devil ' like that ?
I think it a precious good job."

'' Then you really believe he died in prison ? "
says Pitt, rather incautiously. Gould eyes him
a moment suspiciously.

'' Why do you ask that ? "

*' Because if I am to hunt up his wife, I must
know everything. How do you know she may
not be here in London after his affairs ? "

"You are right, but he is dead, there is no
mistake about it."

Then they Hight cigars, and Gould begins
to narrate his amoit7'ettes and many adventures
with the fair sex, by which, on his own showing,
he must always have acted the part of an
unconscionable scoundrel, and at last, when he
came to talk about Madame Ostrolenka, and
described how her poverty and misery had
been his best allies, it required the utmost
exercise of self-control on Pitt's part to prevent
him smashing Mr. Gould's head with the
decanter, and forcing the lie down his throat.

Then, Gould having paid the bill, they
proceeded to the railway station.

Mind now," says Gould, taking Pitt's arm,
** I have placed great confidence in you. This
woman in Boulogne has a confounded long
tongue, and may tell you all manner of lies, but
don't believe anything, and don't let her get
the blind side of you She is one of your two-faced,
psalm-singing Scotchmen, you know 

And mind you are very particular about the
large strong-box with the papers. Don't lose
sight of it. It contains documents of the
greatest importance. Oh ! Ah ! one thing
more,  I have thought you might find this
thing useful. Put it in your pocket. It is my
small revolver. One never knows when one
may require these things."

They reach the train and Pitt takes his seat.

*' Good-bye again," says Gould, putting his
head in at the window. '* And when you come
back you must hunt up this tiresome Ostrolenka
woman for us."

"Yes, certainly, when I comeback," replies
Pitt. '' Good-bye, Mr. Gould !"

And the train moves off.

In a few minutes the two portions of the
train unite. Pitt, unencumbered with luggage,
immediately changes carriages, getting in where
he sees Madame Ostrolenka and Perotte seated
together, alone in a compartment.

He is burning with impatience to narrate to
Madeline all he has learnt, and before the train
has reached Canterbury has narrated succinctly
every word that has dropped from Gould's
lips.

Madeline sits in mute amazement. This
strange revelation of all those dark deeds ! and
deeply interesting to her as throwing light on
that disastrous affair. How could she profit
by this discovery ? As yet she could not in
any way form an opinion.

All the thoughts of the past  of her happy
life before the day of ruin, of that dead husband
so dearly loved, and of her dead child  that
child whom she had so passionately desired 
are hurrying tumultuously on her, mingled as it
were with the whirling and rushing of the flying
wheels beneath.

Pitt leaves her to her own imaginings. He
knows well what is passing in her mind, whilst
in his, in a fruitless, aimless kind of way,
Gould's positive assertions that Ostrolenka
died in the Turkish prison are repeating themselves
over and over again, and that therefore
she is a widow.

In the Channel every star is shining brilliantly
overhead :  the sea like a millions, a light
air coming from the east ; large merchantmen,
bound for distant China or New Zealand, glide
by with impressive and majestic silence, their
hulls looming as high as a line-of-battle ship.

their port studdingsalls all set, and every stitch
drawing. Not even the Frenchmen and
Germans are sea-sick, but congregate under the
paddle-wheels, wrapped up in greatcoats and
mufflers, although the night Is so fine and
warm. But Madeline sits out in the fresh air,
resolving that the rest of her life shall be
devoted to unearthing and exposing all this
villainy which, bit by bit. Is coming to light,
firmly determined If possible, to vindicate the
character of her dead husband, no matter what
trouble and difficulty It may entail. She does
not disguise from herself that this will be
no easy task, and that she Is pitting her
strength against very dangerous foes. The
power of lying as exemplified by what Pitt tells
her of Gould's version of those affairs fairly
appals her. Still she has a deep faith that
truth must In the long run prevail. But after
all ! what a sad life Is still before her. How
brief has been her portion of pleasure in It  all
flown away long years ago  and she, even now,
only five-and-twenty. Her life has verily been
short  if misery Is but a living death. Her
pleasures blossomed when she was still too
young to understand them, and, like the fruit

on St. Oderic's trees, flew away as they
ripened. Her only consolation now was that
in a few hours she might fairly hope to be in
possession of her small fortune again,  that
would at least protect her and her mother from
want for the rest of their days. And then she
thought of Rosalie,  how to detach her from all
those evil surroundings, what argument would
prevail against her infatuation for Norton ?
Alas ! she could think of none, for what more
could she say than she had said, or prove than
she had already proved ?

Then she trembled to think what a weak,
frivolous nature was Rosalie's, sapped and
undermined by the contagion of her London
surroundings, where Vice wears the garb of
Virtue, and gold purchases indulgences as easily
as in the Middle Ages.

She now knew that Norton's influence over
her sister was infinitely stronger than any she
herself could exert, whilst the girl's passionate
appeal, that Madeline should do nothing that
could lead to separating her from her lover, still
rang in her ears. That vehement and imploring
cry to be left to him ! What did all that
mean ?

But here Madeline's meditations were interrupted
by the usual rush of people flocking
round the gangway at least half an hour before
they can disembark ; pushing and bumping
each other unceremoniously.

After landing, Pitt conducted Madame
Ostrolenka to the Railway Station Hotel, and
here she and Pitt had a discussion as to how
they were to proceed. They had the whole
day before them in Boulogne, through this
altered arrangement by which Pitt had to escort
this person to Paris, and though Madeline had
no reason for supposing this woman could be
in any way connected with the affairs which
concerned herself, still she was very anxious, if
possible, to see and speak to this supposed wife
of Gould's. She did not wish to leave a stone
on the road unturned. She felt that, in such
a struggle as lay before her, it would be folly
to let any hiding-place on either side of her
path remain unexamined. Still Pitt could see
no way of accomplishing this, but rather
pointed out the danger of such a proceeding
if the woman were truly loyal to Gould, which
it was quite impossible to estimate correctly
from anything Gould himself had said. And

then Pitt suggested that it might be as well
for him to reconnoitre : to see what the woman
was like : find out all he could first, and
then to return and inform Madame Ostrolenka
what he had learnt. Madame Ostrolenka
might then either go  under some pretence
to be invented  and see the woman, or wait
until she had an opportunity of finding her
out in Paris.

The plan appeared excellent to Madeline and
was agreed on ; Pitt saying good-night and
going off to an hotel in another part of the
town, lest by any chance any spies of Gould's
might be on the qui vive.

In the morning, as early as he could after
breakfast, Pitt set out for the Hauteville, dawdling
a little along the port to watch the busy
scene ;  the brown sailed luggers discharging
their silvery freight ; the bare-legged women
jostling and screaming ; the heavy-booted fisherman,
his eyes looking half bunged-up with want
of sleep, and with sea spray, and his nose suggesting
that something besides sea-water gets
down his throat ; the silent, thick-headed and
close-cropped Douanier, immovable amongst the
all-bawling mob ; some rosy English children,

with wooden spades on their way to the sands
for their early bathe ; a peak-nosed cure in charge
of a few miserable little boys in French uniform,
from the Seminary in the Hauteville, looking as
happy as if each one of them had just come from
the death-bed of a near relative ; these and
many other types, familiar to that busy and
amusing locality, greet his eye.

He turns towards the Rue de I'Ecu and
enquires his way of Merrier's boy who is
taking down the shutters, passes the excellent
one-eyed grocer, who has made a fortune out of
the English, by discounting their bills, and soon
to the Grande Rue, making use of the two
or three French words he knows, until he
finally finds himself in the Impasse des Amants.
He stands for a moment gazing about  not a
very lively locality this Impasse, nearly all the
houses seem empty and all alike are dirty,
dismal and unpainted, A clothes line has been
stretched across from side to side, for the
mutual convenience of people to hang out a
few wretched-looking rags for which it is difficult
to divine a use ; and high up, at most of
the windows a wooden triangular contrivance
carries the bodies of a few dilapidated herrings.

But Pitt's presence  at this early hour  excites
great interest in the breast of an inquisitive
old apple-woman who keeps a stall hard by.

"What can he want here at this time?" she
cogitates, whilst breathing heavily on her apples
and then polishing them up with her snuff-begrimed
apron. Indeed, so absorbed is her
attention in watching Pitt, that she seems unconscious
of the presence of a little boy in a blue
blouse and short black cloth trousers, who has
been minutely examining and smelling everyone
of her apples preparatory to investing
his solitary sou, and who, having selected
one, and having thrown his money into a
brown earthenware pot, leaves her to pursue
her meditations. And as her stall commands
an uninterrupted view of the entrance of the
Impasse, she continues to watch the ' Anglais'
until he has disappeared round the angle of it.
But at that moment the old crone sees another
figure emerge from the Impasse, and observes
two things  first that the men must have collided
unless the Englishman had suddenly
drawn back and stepped into a doorway, and
then that the Englishman seems to stare after the
other as if astonished to see him in this place.

In this the old woman is right. Pitt is astonished
; for in the drunkard who has reeled
past him he has recognised Restigouche, and,
following him with his eyes, he sees him
staggering along towards the apple-stall, and
sees the old woman taking a most minute and
particular survey of his person. But Rests
has not seen or has not recognised Pitt,
who has no kind of desire to stop the Frenchman,
 so lets him roll away. Then following
Gould's exact description, Pitt has now no difficulty
in finding the house he wants. He mounts
the stairs, marvelling how any human being
can live from choice amongst such astonishing
smells, and knocks at the top door. A small
voice answers his summons from within.

' Non, non, allez-vous-en -pas encore!' Pitt
thinks he must have mistaken the house after
all  hearing himself addressed in French.
Nevertheless, he will try.

'* Is this Mrs. Richard's?" he calls out.

"Yes," says the child-voice again, but this
time in English  "Mummy's in bed ; she's ill,
so you mustn't come."

Oh, I'm so sorry your mother is ill  but
won't you open the door ? "

"No, not open door, till I tell Mummy who
you are. You's not that nasty drunk man
again, are you ? "

'' No, my dear, I'm not that drunk man  if
you mean a little Frenchman."

*' Yes, I mean him, but  all right  stop a
minute, if you're not him. I'll run and tell
Mummy," and Pitt hears the little feet patter
away over the brick-paved passage.

Then he hears a heavier footstep  the door
opens, and a pale, haggard woman stands before
him. She bears traces of great suffering on
her face, and as though she has endured
brutality and neglect, but still they have not
succeeded in robbing it of its comeliness,
and in spite of the poverty and worn-out
appearance of the garments she has donned,
she appears to be a refined, well-mannered
woman.

Nor does the intonation of her gentle voice,
which at once predisposes Pitt in her favour,
speak less plainly of something better than her
present surroundings would suggest.

** May I ask what you want, if you have not
mistaken the house you are looking for } " says
the woman, still with her hand on the door.

I think I'm not mistaken. You are Mrs.
Richard. I come from Mr. Gould."

'* I am Mrs. Richard Gould  yes. Did he
send you ? "

'* Yes, here is my introduction to you  this
ring." She looks at It and gives a slight and
almost imperceptible shudder.

'eyes, I know it," she says slowly. "Pray
come in, and forgive the disorder you find us
in."

Pitt lifts his hat. This must be a lady he
thinks : he Is puzzled to know how to go on.
It is so totally unlike what he expected to find.
Surely this is no drunkard ?

I am sorry to see you looking so ill," says
Pitt, puzzled more and more as he looks at
her.

I am ill, and  pardon me, have you brought
any money from Mr. Gould ? I must seem
importunate, but. Sir, you do not know how
reduced I am."

Oh ! yes. I can give you money," he says,
shocked at what he sees must spring from a
simple and eager desire for food. He takes
out his purse.

Pray only give me what you were directed

to," she says. '' He is so peculiar, he would
insist on knowing."

Pitt is still more perplexed. How can he
get this pride in rags to accept anything ?

"You see," he says, "I have not yet said
why I came here at all. It doesn't seem to be a
particularly lively place," he adds, looking round,
** and what I have come about must be an
improvement. I have come to take you and
the child and all your belongings to Paris.
That must be better, anyhow, than this."

To Paris ! but what for ? He said nothing,
gave no reason ? "

None to me  but surely you wish to
go?

** Whether I do or not makes no difference,
but I really do prefer to go. I am in misery
here. I am half-starved  you will not perhaps
believe me  I have scarcely had anything to
eat for the last few days. I have hardly had
enough to feed the poor little girl you see here.
Mr. Gould promised to send me some money,
when he was here a few days ago, but he has
not. What am I to have now .'* "

*good God! what a brute," says Pitt, carried
away by his wrath  his new-born chivalry

Springing up in him  but instantly recollecting
himself, " Oh, I beg your pardon."

She however replies nothing.

'' You see," says Pitt, a formula he always
uses when in difficulties. *' You see, the fact is,
he has sent you nothing. He said you would
want nothing, and that I was to give some
money to the woman you are going to in Paris."

A sickly smile passes over her face. " I
doubt if I have strength enough for the
journey," she says in a faint voice.

'' Oh ! that's of course ridiculous, I will go
and buy some food ; are there any shops
near ? "

'' Yes, just across the street," she says,
*' some small shops where I get supplies, when
I have any money."

And almost immediately after this the old
apple woman is again much exercised to seethe
Englishman going from one little shop to
another, emerging at last with a large parcel
and a bottle under his arm, with which he
re-enters the Impasse and again is lost to view.

The parcels are found to contain some excellent
rolls, and butter, some galantine, a few
eggs, and the bottle is full of fresh sweet milk.

Now, Mrs. Gould," says Pitt, laying the
things before her. ''If you will warm up this
milk, I think you can get along well enough
with that until I can get you something more
solid later."

'' Oh ! thank you a thousand times, this is a
veritable feast for us."

In a short time she has kindled a little fire
with some few remaining sticks, and has set
out the things on her table with what order
is possible with her limited appliances.

** I suppose you won't have anything ? " she
says to Pitt.

'' No. I'll go out for a quarter of an hour or
so, until you have finished breakfast."

When he comes back he is astonished to see
how improved she looks ; she has smartened
herself up, and the child as well, and both look
refreshed and better for the unexpected delicacies
they have had supplied them.

*' And you have no Idea what he is sending
me to Paris for ? " she says after Pitt has
taken a chair she places for him.

Pitt observes she cannot bring herself to
pronounce Gould's name, if by any possible
circumlocution she can avoid making use of it.

VOL. II. 8

'' None, whatever. He is mysterious in all
he does as you well know. But perhaps"  and
the thought comes to him to try what a stray
shot will do,  '* perhaps it has something to do
with the bonds ? "

What bonds ? " she says, so quietly and
in so natural a tone of voice, that Pitt easily
perceives that she knows nothing about that
affair.

'' I thought you might know something about
this thing," says Pitt, still looking at her.

''No, nothing. I am often in the dark about
many things that go on, and I thank God for
it!"

'perhaps it may be on account of the child?"
says Pitt, venturing another shot.

No, I can see no reason for that, though
she looks ill, and I am not surprised, for this
is anything but a healthy house, as you may
imagine, and the child rarely goes out."

She is not your child . " says Pitt, firing
shot number three.

Mrs. Gould looks at him. What does he
mean } Is he only making a random remark,
or is he trying to find out something with some
particular object . But Pitt's face remains inscrutable.

He takes the little girl up on his
knee, and strokes her head with more softness
than one would expect from a man who
has probably never done so to mortal child
before.

What is your name, my dear ? "

Harts, in Greek, that Is Grade, you know,
in English," replies the child.

No, I did not know, but I think It a pretty
name. And how old are you ? "

** Grade's six."

"And would you like to go away to a new
house, with mamma  go to Paris ? "

"No, Grade don't want to go to Paris, for
Mummy says horrid man Is there  horrid man
who comes here  and makes dog noises all
night, so that Grade can't sleep."

What do you mean, dear. Is it papa ? "

"No, not papa ; but he frightens Grade too,
and he makes Mummy cry, and Grade too,
sometimes."

"Hush, darling," says Mrs. Gould. "You
must not talk like that, my pet."

Grade won't talk any more, only, don't goto
Paris, Mummy," pleads the child.

The nasty man who makes dog noises,

shan't frighten you any more, Gracie," says
Pitt. "You are going to a Httle house where
he can't find you."

*soh! then I don't mind if he can't come
and growl. How he did growl last night.
Didn't he, Mummy?"

'' Hush, hush," again says Mrs. Gould, looking
alarmed. ** I hope you won't pay any
attention to what she says, or, at least, not
repeat it."

*' You may trust me," says Pitt, but with
rather an altered voice : a suspicion forcing
itself reluctantly on his mind that after all there
is something here that may partly justify
Gould's harsh treatment. What else can it
mean ?  a man here growling all night.

Her quick wit instantly detects the tone and
the unavoidable expression of surprise  even
of disappointment  on his face.

'' I must explain what the child means.
There, Gracie, run off and play with Titti in the
kitchen." The child climbs off Pitt's knees and
disappears. Then Mrs. Gould, with shyness
and diffidence in her manner goes on,  *' You
have been already so kind and sympathetic that
I feel I may trust you with this. I must



explain the child's words. I am persecuted
here by a most detestable man  a friend and
colleague of Mr. Gould's,  who, on the strength
of being mixed up with him In many affairs
which appear compromising, has the audacity
to come here and pester me with his attentions.
It is an awkward position for me  and difficult
for me to act  for I know that he does not
object to his coming here, Indeed he encourages
It, and is constantly seeking occasions to
throw me into the society of this man. This
is a strange confidence to make In you, but
absolutely necessary, if you are to understand
what happened last night." She stops and
looks confused.

"Anything you tell me Is perfectly safe,"
says Pitt, regaining faith In her as he looks at
her truthful blue eyes.

'well, this wretch of a Frenchman  for I
can call him nothing else  comes here and often
stops all day, and I have the utmost difficulty
in getting rid of him, even at night. And Mr.
Gould Insists on my always having brandy here
for him, and as this is a great attraction, you
can understand that he finds his time pleasant
enough, even though I lock myself up in my

room. I have done all I can to try and get
Mr. Gould to get rid of him. It is useless.
Then yesterday this monster came here
again."

''I think I know him," says Pitt, 'rand if I
am right, I need not say that I can believe
every word you say against him. Do you
mean a creature called Restigouche ? "

'* Yes, I do ; then you know him . I am
glad of that, for it will be easier to tell you the
rest, and you will believe that, whatever else
you think, it would be impossible for me to
encourage such a man."

'' Don't think it necessary to say that," says
Pitt. '' Neither him nor anyone else."

'thank you, for your kind opinion of me,"
she says, and two tears come into her eyes.
It is so seldom she hears a kind word.

'' He came here yesterday," she goes on,
"and was especially impudent and free and
easy, and said ugly things about Mr. Gould, 
things which I daresay may be true, but which
are not pleasant to listen to. He went in and out,
and returned for the third or fourth time, late in
the evening. Gracie unfortunately opened the
door for him, but she has had a lesson in doing

SO, by being frightened all night, and that is
why she kept you waiting this morning. Well,
here sat the wretch, and in time he was
half drunk. I tried in vain to get rid of him,
and even thought of putting him out by force,
but was afraid of my strength failing me, and
that would only have made matters worse. I
was afraid of leaving him with the light, for
fear he should set fire to the house, this old
place would go up like a spark, and here at the
top we should certainly have been burnt to
death. I cannot tell you what an evening I
passed. It is impossible for me to narrate to
you all the insults and indignities I had to
endure, how he went on from one thing to
another, and the things he hinted at. I was
nearly dead with fatigue. I had put the child
to bed, but still, it went on and on, the same thing,
over and over again, 'Would I fly with him,' etc.
At last I determined to leave him where he was.
I sprang up suddenly, made sure my door was
open, blew out the light and made a dash for
my room. Unfortunately I stumbled across the
table, and he clutched hold of my skirt, and
succeeded in following me into my room, which
was pitch dark, as well as the room outside. I

nearly fainted, but somehow I recovered. I
struggled violently and flung him out of the'
door, and he went tumbling over the chairs in
the dark. It was my last remaining strength.
I instantly shut my door and slipped the bolt,
and, not feeling safe even then, I managed to
draw the head of the bed against it and pushed
my trunk and everything else I could think of
there, as well. He soon came to the attack,
half mad as he was with drink, and began
thumping against the door, and pushing against
it so violently that I thought he must push it
in. But you see, these doors are very solid,
probably as old as Boulogne itself, and it stood
well. I remained perfectly silent ; he began to
rave all kinds of things, ' What a fool I was, he,
who loved me so truly, my husband si complaisant,
he, Restigouche could tell me things
if he chose to speak. Why lead this life of
misery any more, and a thousand other things.
This lasted for nearly two hours. Finally I
saw no use in remaining up any more, so
quietly got into bed. He however still kept
on talking, and now he began threatening.
What was the use of this nonsense ? What
would the neighbours say 1 Had they not seen

him enter? Did they see him go out? No
they should not. He would remain until broad
daylight. He was a man not to be afraid. He
would make a scandal,' and so on. Still, nota
word from me. Then he grew tired of this
parleying, and evidently determined to compromise
me if he could, for I heard him arrange
something as if he was lying down. I heard
the bottle clink. He had found a match and
had relighted the candle. Then he lay down,
apparently taking off his boots and coat, and
soon after that he began snoring. I never
heard anything like it. It was so loud that it
awoke poor little Gracie, who had dozed off
when the comparative quiet after the siege had
set in. It was really like a whole sty full of
pigs  grunting in every imaginable key. At
last he seemed to be more quiet and I thought
of going out to see if I could tie his legs and"
hands, or anything, intending to hand him to
the police, to disprove his calumnies against
myself. Not that I thought Mr. Gould would
care in the least, indeed I know only too well
he would rather seek such an opportunity, but,
there are others,  others in whose good opinion
I must live, or I should kill myself."

Well," says Pitt, very Interested, '* what
happened then, for I met Restlgouche this
morning as I came here."

** Did he recognise you ? " she asks eagerly.

*' No, he was too drunk. He was staggering
along, with a biggish bag in his hand."

'eyes, he brought a bag with him, the last
time he came. I hoped it was a sign that he
intended going to Paris by the night train.
But when he opened it to get out a bottle, I
saw there was little or nothing in it, except
this bottle and some carpenter's tools, and keys.
But to continue my story. I fell sound asleep
towards morning, utterly worn out. I thought
I heard him tumbling about and rummaging in
his bag, but I was too sleepy to hear distinctly,
and then, when I awoke, he was gone. That
was only a few moments before you came in."

'' What an unredeemed scoundrel ! " says
Pitt. 'rand Mr. Gould ! will he put up with
this ? "

She looks at him in a strange way.

** God knows what he will do ! I need
hardly say that I am innocent. But what will
he say? He will say / kept the man here all
night."

Pitt can find no answer. It only seems too
likely. So he opens the question of their
journey again.

*' Can you prepare to go to Paris to-night ?
There is an important box to go," says Pitt,
looking round the room.

Yes, I can be ready, but nearly all my
things are in pawn. I have been driven toit."


Pitt thinks of Gould's lie as to this woman
being a drunkard. Well does he now, though,
understand why the things are pledged.

I can recover those for you," he says. *' I
suppose the big box and your little trunk will
hold all, or must. I get you some kind of
box ? '

No, thank you, the chest and my trunk will
carry everything. The documents  which are
the important part of this establishment'' she
says with a sad smile, suggesting how little she
counts in it, " are kept in it, otherwise it is
almost empty."

Then as if to demonstrate to Pitt, the destitute
condition of her wardrobe, she takes a
bunch of keys from her bag and goes to unlock
the box.

"How Strange!" she says, turning to him.
'' I must have left it unlocked. How extraordinary
! "

She throws up the lid, and Pitt sees her
staring into the chest, in wild surprise and
dismay. Then she turns and stares at Pitt,
clutching her hair.

''My God ! she screams, '' the papers are
gone !"

She reels back ; Pitt has just time to catch
her as she falls, but he can only partly break
her fall, for she slips through his arms and lies
prostrate on the floor, half under the rickety
table.

So ghastly white and so pulseless does she
seem that Pitt thinks the shock has killed her.
He lifts her up, as best he can, an awkward
operation at any time, her head falls on one
side, and she lies perfectly helpless. He cannot
detect a breath coming from between her
lips, and he staggers with her into the next
room and lays her on the bed. Little Gracie
stands looking on wondering what it all means,
her eyes wide open, her finger in her mouth.

Don't hurt poor Mummy," she says, catching
hold of Pitt's coat tail.

*' Hurt her, darling ! I don't want to hurt
her," says Pitt, tenderly. " Poor Mummy."

*' Is she dead ? " says the child, with that
absence of all fear of the great terror, which
accompanies the unquestioning faith of childhood.
'' Has her Angel come for her ? "

*'No, no, my dear," says Pitt, quite shocked;
" I hope not," and he bends over to listen
for her breath, whilst Gracie, without any
hesitation or awe climbs up on the bed and
kisses the half-cold face.

*eyes, I think her Angel has come," says the
little girl; 'she won't speak to Gracie. Mummy
always says people must not say anything more
when they are told to come with the Angel."

But Pitt is distracted to know what to do.
To rush off for Madeline is his first impulse but
that will take too long. Call up the neighbours
?  but from that he shrinks, thinking of
what he has heard and what they may say ;
finding another man alone with her.

He unbuttons her dress across the neck and
bosom to give her a better chance of breathing,
and he is sufficiently versed in the mysteries of
female attire to discover that there is nothing
else to impede the free action of her lungs. He

thinks of the bottle he has seen In the next
room, the last remnant of Restlgouche's debauch.
He pours some of the brandy into a glass,
smells it carefully, and critically tastes it, and
then with a teaspoon puts some of it between
her lips. The effect is magical. In a few
minutes she moans, and moves her head.

'thank God!" says Pitt piously, '' Gracie
darling. Mummy is all right. She'll soon be
up.

*' I'm so glad," says Gracie, as if it was the
most ordinary thing in the world for people to
die one moment and come back the next.

*' She is good to you, Gracie ? " says Pitt,
watching the slowly returning signs of animation.


She's weary, weary good," says Gracie decidedly,
'she's the only good one. Mummy
is never cross. She is weary good."

Ah ! I thought so," says Pitt. "And Gracie
ought to be very good too  for God hasn't got
too many good Mummy for little girls  they
don't all get them."

And Gracie seems to think there Is wisdom
in the remark, for she nestles down closer
to the woman she calls her Mummy, now

gradually struggling back from unconsciousness.
And after a few spasmodic attempts Mrs. Gould's
breathing seems to come naturally, for young life
is still tough and vigorous in her ; and then she
opens her eyes, whilst Pitt, watching these
signs, discreetly draws back so that she may not
be startled by his presence. She lies quiet fora
considerable time, evidently not realizing
the situation, the child still by her side. But
Gracie, growing tired of the unusual repose and
stillness, climbs over her and runs into the
next room and Mrs. Gould hears her saying,
Come, man, Mummy's awake again."
Then it all dawns on her, and for a moment
Pitt, who unavoidably commands a view of her
where he stands, expects from the sudden
blankness of her face, that she will faint again.
But no  for with an effort at control, she rises
up, seems to force back the feeling of weakness,
and comes in to where he stands. But she is
compelled to sit down, a dull heavy pain has
taken hold of her, and her eyes have a wandering,
vacant look. Pitt has thoughtfully closed
the lid of the chest ; hoping that it may not
distress her afresh with its tell-tale emptiness,
but she turns and looks at it.

'' Fatal, fatal ! " she says. '' To think that of
all nights in the world I left that box open last
night ! "

" That cannot be mended now, my dear Mrs.
Gould," says Pitt kindly. " But independent
of what these papers were  or anything about
them  I mean to do my best for you. But
can you tell me anything about their contents ?
for it will greatly depend on that what I can do."

No, honestly, I cannot. I only think they
were all in connection with an old affair in the
East  some Army contracts  a disgraceful
affair we were mixed up in. I believe they
were about that, and other secrets I know
nothing of. But it is impossible for you to
form a notion of what their loss means to me,"
and she shudders and grows white. '* I verily
believe Gould will murder me."

'' Don't be afraid of that," says Pitt. '' That
cannot, shall not, happen ; but let us think.
Now, it seems to me that this Restigouche
has gone off with the papers ; and look here,
if you are strong enough, and it does not distress
you to examine the box,  it was no
fault of yours, the lock has been tampered with,
you did not leave the box open."

And on examination this is clear enough.

*' Yes," says she. *' It is to a certain extent
a relief to me to see this. Of course I think it
is Restigouche ; and I know he will use this asa
last weapon against myself. But that only
makes it worse between Gould and him. My
God ! what can become of me ', "

'' I see that fully," says Pitt. " But  here
I pledge you my word that no harm shall come
to you. How can these two men go on like
this ? There is law in England, and, by
Heaven ! I will take care you are protected."

'' Law ! I have often thought of that, but
there are reasons  there are things in my
past life for which I am doomed to suffer in
silence  though God knows I feel that I have
been sufficiently punished."

Poor woman," involuntarily says Pitt.

*' I think I am to be pitied, for Gould will
hunt me to death  will kill me for this."

*' Hush ! " says Pitt, "walls have ears, even
French walls."

She is standing before him quite immovable,
as if the weight of her sorrow were crushing
her. He gently takes both her hands.

Come," says he, " what I am going to say

VOL. II. 9

may seem strange to you  from me, a stranger ;
but I have been thinking a lot about all this,
whilst you were lying swooned away. Sit
down, and listen to me ; I have been wonderfully
mistaken in all about you, not so much
mistaken as purposely misinformed ; what has
passed between us already has made us more
intimate than years of ordinary meeting, and
if I can't express well what I mean I know
you will understand it. I must speak plainly,
that is if you wish me to help you in this,
which I do not disguise from you I believe to
be a real peril. I do not believe you are safe
between these two men. I know them both.
I do not wish to say more seeing that one of
them is your husband. Still, I cannot as a
man leave you, or any woman, to run the risk
you would run, and you will be no safer in
Paris. I cannot tell you all I know  but I amon
the track of a great crime, and so true as
God is above me I intend to hunt down those
criminals, not for my sake, but for another's.
Now I will not say exactly who they are,
but  " and he pauses, '' I believe you yourself
will be seriously involved. Don't be frightened,
for I have come to my own conclusions,  I

have heard what Httle Gracie says. I expected
to find  well, a drunken dissolute woman
surrounded with paramour, that is the account
I gathered from the only man of my acquaintance
who knows you. I need not say what I
find you "  with a true tone of reverence in his
voice. " Those lies, like millions of others, have
overshot their mark. But to come to my
point. The papers you have lost bear, I believe,
on some of the most vital questions concerning
that other person, who, though nothing
to me, and though she never can be anything,
still I love and reverence with every fibre of my
body. She is a most noble, high-minded woman.
She is in Boulogne now. I will go to her and
tell her all this, and if I mistake not greatly,
she will find a shelter for you, where this
accursed crew of scoundrels will never discover
you."

Mrs. Gould has listened attentively, drinking
in his every word, but now she gives a sigh.

*' It is wonderfully good of you,  I do not
even know your name," she adds.

*' Pitt,  Roger Pitt is my name."

'' It seems to me incredible you should think
of befriending me  an outcast of whom the

neighbours here say the vilest things. This
lady would not be proof against that. It is
the one thing women so rarely forgive."

'' Ah ! there you are wrong ! for even were it
so, she is no ordinary woman. She has had
a frightful struggle in life, and knows how to
feel for others. She is an angel of compassion
and mercy."

'' But, Mr. Pitt, how could she protect me
from the man I have the misery to call my
husband ? "

'' From him, or ten thousand such hellhounds,
for I have not told you all, I cannot,
I dare not, in loyalty to her, but I can say this ;
by tomorrow night this lady will have in her
hands, such damning evidence of his complicity
in robbery and fraud that if she lifts her
little finger he will rot in gaol for the rest
of his days, as sure as the sun shines in
Heaven."

Mrs. Gould remains dumb, but after a little
while she says,

"This is an awful responsibility you thrust
on me. He is after all my husband. Am I
justified in doing anything that may bring
even righteous punishment on him ? "

That is not the case' he says. "Whatever
you do will not alter the facts. He is in this
lady's hands, he and others. It will only bea
condition of his leaving you alone that she
will not expose him, at least one of many
conditions she will impose. But if you remain
here, and anything happens, it will only make
matters worse for him. But why need you
have these exaggerated notions of a wife's
duty ? I have heard him deny you are his
wife. He lives the most openly scandalous
life : he eats and drinks whilst you are starving.
Surely there is a limit  even to a wife's
endurance " "

*' He denies I am his wife," she says, joining
her hands. "Would to God I co\AA prove I
am not ! But you have said enough. I am
content to go anywhere  do anything. No
life can be more hateful than this, and none
more perilous. But I have not put it all plainly
before you. I cannot go without the child.
And to her there is attached some deep mystery,
only part of which I have fathomed. I believe
though that part of that mystery is hidden in
these stolen papers. Another person is concerned
in this  a great woman of the kind,

Madame Artaki. She is not like Gould ; she
has no connection probably with this crime you
speak of. She may insist on having the child,
for she confided her to his care."

'' I know this woman well, but what applies
to Gould applies to her. We believe she is fully
incriminated. But that we cannot yet say. Of
course the child shall not leave you."

'then, Mr. Pitt, I consent to go. I, indeed,
must go somewhere, and if I do not go to the
protection of this lady I have finally resolved
to take the desperate step of going away alone
to work, unknown to any one  for my livelihood
 with my little Gracie. I shall never goto
Paris, to the house you speak of. I feel
morally sure I should be murdered there if I
did."

I vow I believe you would," says Pitt, ashe
thinks rapidly over the desperate position she
is in. " And what is more, I will be no party
to taking you and the child to an outlandish,
rufilianly part of Paris, to leave you to the tender
mercies of these scoundrels, even if I thought
you were the most undeserving woman in the
world. I am going straight off now to see this
lady, and tell her all I have seen and heard. I

will be back as soon as possible, and tell you
what has been settled."

'* Yes, turn bat soon. You are a good man,
and Gracie likes you," says the little maiden,
catching Pitt's coat in her hand.

Pitt stoops down and kisses the little upturned
face, and the thought that with the
exception of his mother's, this is the only pure
face he has kissed for many a long year, sends
the blood up to his cheeks.

'' I will ' tum bat' as soon as I can, Gracie."

SECESSION.

Pitt lost no time in returning to the Hotel
where Madeline had taken up her quarters, and
in narrating to her all that had occurred since
he had left her, but it was not with any very
great satisfaction that she learnt that these
documents, which must be of the greatest
interest to her, had so strangely slipped almost
through their fingers. It was true, as Pitt
pointed out, that since they had fallen into the
hands of Restigouche it might be possible to
get hold of them more easily than if Gould
retained them ; for Restigouche would be sure
to keep them for the highest bidder, and there
were many risks he might be unwilling to run
in offering them to Gould. There appeared
but little doubt that the primary object in stealing
the documents, had been to bring pressure
to bear on Mrs. Gould, but, with her removed

out of his reach, he would only be too anxious
to get rid of them, and, failing that, to destroy
them. So, the first idea that Pitt proposed was
to endeavour to discover Restigouche's whereabouts
 but this seemed hopeless, for it would
have occupied far more time than he had at his
disposal to search all the obscure French Inns,
In Boulogne where such a man as Restigouche
would be likely to take up his abode. It seemed,
therefore, that they must abandon that idea until
they might chance to come across him in Paris.
The next question was how to dispose of
Mrs. Gould? And in this many serious difficulties
presented themselves, the chief being that
It would be an onerous responsibility for
Madeline to take on her the charge of a woman
and a child  entire strangers to her  for whom
she had no possible means hereafter of making
provision.

This naturally suggested itself at once, but
on the other hand, she admitted that her
own interests would probably be best served If
she could retain a hold on Mrs. Gould, and,
above all, on this child. For though Mrs.
Gould had not distinctly said so. It was quite
clear that there was a deeper mystery in connection

with this infant than even Gould's
allusion to Madame Artaki's interest in her
had suggested.

Therefore it seemed to Madeline that it was
better to take on herself the responsibility of
having to look after both woman and child than
to let them fall again into Gould's hands. Indeed,
this was impossible, or rather, would be
fatal to Madeline's plan of following up the clue
Pitt had obtained. For if Mrs. Gould should,
by chance, divulge to Gould that she had made
such a confidant of Pitt, it was obvious that
such precautions would be taken as to effectually
interfere with any further searches. And
further, it must be said, Madeline shrank
from leaving this unhappy woman to the fury
and vengeance of such a man as Gould. She
readily inclined to the view that her life would
not be safe ; and this idea acted as a powerful
motive in determining her to take the woman
under her shelter. And the more she thought
over the whole matter, the more it seemed
forced upon her that her duty and inclination, and
even her self-interest, were identical, a circumstance
of rare occurrence in this life. So, after
discussing some details with Perotte of the mode

in which this rescue should be effected, she
finally informed Pitt that she would carry it
through at any risk. And Perotte had come to
the rescue with an admirable suggestion. Her
father's farm was a large and commodious place
a lady and child there would create no comment,
apartments being let out in the summer
to English families and others. It was, too,
entirely out of the beaten track. Why not let
Perotte take her there? No one could possibly
discover her there, and Perotte would answer
with her life for the fidelity and secrecy of her
parents, and would promise that they would
take every care of these unfortunate people.
The proposal recommended itself at once to
Madeline, aud she soon settled with Perotte
as to the terms on which they should be
boarded. Then with Pitt's advice Perotte was
to go to Rouen this same evening with Mrs.
Gould and the child, but she was not to
approach the Impasse nor in any way let
it be seen that she had anything to do
with these people. Madame Ostrolenka
and Pitt would continue their journey to
Paris.

The next concern was to recover Mrs.

Gould's goods and chattels from the various
pawn shops. This Pitt, with the assistance of
Perotte as interpreter, had no difficulty in
doing, as Mrs. Gould had given him all her
pawn tickets ; even to her bonnet and many
things of some little value ; souvenirs of better
days, until the quantity recovered not only
showed how long and bitter must have been
her struggle with poverty, but made a very
considerable inroad on the money Gould had
so generously presented to Pitt. At last it
seemed as if all had been recovered, and with
the assistance of a man with a small hand cart,
Pitt transported the things to the Impasse, and
fortunately for himself succeeded in getting
them conveyed into the house and upstairs
without being observed by the neighbours. It
would be difficult to describe the unhappy Mrs.
Gould s delight at seeing Pitt reappear. All
day long she had sat anxiously waiting his
return, imagining all kinds of disasters ; that
the lady he spoke of had refused ; that Pitt
himself had changed his mind ; until the dread
of her situation had become so great that, as
she told Pitt afterwards, she had finally resolved
to flee from the accursed house as soon as night

set in. But she had been borne up by the
child's unwavering belief in the ' Kind man,'
who, the Httle girl persistently declared, would
come back because he had promised he would.
And every step on the stair had made Mrs.
Gould tremble, fearing it might be Rests
and (but this she did not tell Pitt)
when she had seen her new-found friend come
into the Impasse, with the man wheeling the
cart behind him, she had sunk down on her
knees and devoutly thanked God. For the
fear of death had been on her all day  the fear
of death by Gould's hand. Then followed a
great packing up of things, and after this Mrs.
Gould retired with the child into the bedroom,
and in half-an-hour emerged therefrom ready
for their journey. But so completely had this
change of attire altered her appearance, that
Pitt scarcely recognised her, whilst the same
had been done for the child. Instead of the
old worn dress, faded and repaired, which
marred every outline of her figure, a well-dressed,
most stylish woman stood before him, her hair
braided behind her head in rich ruddy coils ;
a pretty black bonnet with some tasteful
arrangement of flowers; with gloved hands and

well-shod feet, a tout ensemble of striking and
unmistakable distinction.

*' No wonder'* says Pitt slowly to himself,
as he thinks of Restigouche's passion.

And Gracie too, how changed ! blossomed
into a most patrician-looking little fairy, in a
sweet childish costume of some grey material,
with a broad, red sash, and a large red straw
hat, from beneath which her dark hair hung
in waves on her shoulders.

'You don't know us, Mr. Pitt," says Mrs.
Gould, with a smile  the first he has seen on
her face  which shows him that she possesses
beauty he had not dreamt of

'' I confess I don't. But I am truly thankful
to think I am to be able to help you to escape."

It seems to him quite a different matter, this!
pretty young woman, so ladylike and well got
up, and his voice and manner betray it to her.

'' I am trusting myself totally and entirely
to you, Mr. Pitt,  to your honour,"  she says,
dropping her voice,  '' I am quite ready to go
with you. I don't even know where you are
to take me ; but something tells me I am safe
in trusting myself and my little Gracie to you."

*' May God ruin me if I betray your true

he says. *' I was only a little astonished at
first, you know. It seems such a much greater
responsibility."

'* I can understand ; but you said this lady
would be there to help me ? I trust it is so."

"Well, that is a thing I must explain. She
has reasons for not wishing to be seen with
you at first," and Pitt, as briefly as he can, and
as much as he can without betraying Madeline's
secrets, explains.

I am quite content," says Mrs. Gould,
and I understand that I am to meet her
servant at the station?"

Yes, I shall be there too, but now, I will
go out and send a cab here to take away your
things. By the time you have got them downstairs
and driven to the station Perotte the maid
shall be there, and you will not have long to
wait for your train. And this is for your
journey. It is from the lady. The man with
the cab will help you with your trunks."

He gives her some gold. Poor Mrs. Gould !
her cheeks crimson ; but she cannot afford to
refuse this timely aid.

'rand when I am in this place in Normandy
shall I see this lady ? "

Perhaps not for a few days, but certainly-then,
possibly even the day after tomorrow."

** I cannot express all my gratitude both to
her and to you," and the tears gather in her
eyes  tears of thankfulness.

In due time she and all her goods are in
safety at the station, where Pitt meets her and
presents her to Perotte with whom she immediately
feels at home, and at peace in her own
mind.

But Madeline, as had been before decided,
kept away from the station not only for the
reasons before stated, but also that she might
hear from Perotte more concerning this person
calling herself Mrs. Gould of whom as yet she
actually knows nothing. She thought this a
necessary precaution before committing herself
to confidences which might imperil her entire
scheme.

Perotte and her fellow travellers encountered
no adventures and by early morning had arrived
by cross country routes at their destination, the
Rouen railway station, where they were met by
Perotte's father, who had had a telegram from
his daughter the day before, requesting him to
attend with his cart and gig. And soon after

Perotte and her companions were received at
the farm, by Perotte's warm-hearted, genial old
mother, who appeared unable to do enough for
the lady and the child whom she had had recommended
to her by her daughter's good
mistress. The sweetest and prettiest white-curtained
room, with large windows opening onto
the lawn, had been prepared for Mrs. Gould
and the child ; the linen on the beds and the
white table covers, as fair as snow, presenting
the most complete contrast to the dingy rooms
of the Impasse. An excellent breakfast with
trout from the neighbouring stream, eggs, rolls,
and bowls of milk, with abundance of fruit of
many kinds had been prepared for the hungry
travellers ; and was welcomed by all three ;
whilst Grade's cat, which she had carried off
with her, sat lapping milk contentedly out of a
saucer by her side.

Of course a brisk conversation was kept up,
for Madame Dumont dearly loved to talk.
She was delighted to find her visitors, both
lady and child, spoke French perfectly, and
declared the little girl was a small angel.

Breakfast over, Mrs. Gould retired to her
room, partly to rest after the night's journey,

VOL. II. 10

but more that she was too much overcome with
a sense of thankfulness at this unlooked-for
deliverance to wish to stay and continue the
conversation with Mere Dumont.

But Gracie, under charge of Perotte's sister,
was exploring the old farm-house from top to
bottom ; as happy and as contented as if the
whole place were her own, or out in the rick-yard,
chasing the cocks and hens with shouts of
delight.

But to return to Boulogne.

Having seen Perotte and her charges off by
the train, Pitt went back to Madeline and reported
the entire success of the rescue, nor did
he fail to describe the marvellous change which
had taken place, not only in Mrs. Gould's personal
appearance, but, as he candidly confessed,
in his own impression of her. It does not require
a study of Sartor Resorts to discover the
fact that our outward adornment makes a vast
difference in the estimate in which we are held.
As she listened to Pitt, Madeline felt persuaded
that this meeting with Mrs. Gould would be
fruitful of great results. It was evident that Mrs.
Gould without knowing it herself, had been the
repository of some important secrets, and it was

not unnatural to hope that these might now be
disclosed. As to the house in the Impasse,
Madeline thought that it would be quite worth
while for Pitt to return there and give it a thorough
overhaul  searching carefully every part
of it, walls, floors, and any place where it might
be possible to secret documents, and, as several
hours must elapse before they could continue
their journey to Paris, Pitt, who was also of the
opinion that a further investigation was desirable,
started off once more for the Hauteville.
On arriving there he found everything as he had
left it, and the door of the apartment still ajar.
He had provided himself with a candle, and as
it was now growing dark he lit it and began
his search, turning out every nook and corner
and rapping and tapping floors and walls.
And his labours were rewarded by a correspondence,
or rather a series of letters on one
side, which he discovered poked away in the
back of the cupboard where Mrs. Gould had
been in the habit of keeping the few humble
utensils that served them at their still humbler
meals. These letters were in a lady's handwriting
and he saw at once that they were of
some importance and was on the point of

sitting down to examine them when a stealthy
step on the stair caught his ear.

Pitt instantly rises to his feet and slips out
into the passage. The door leading into the
apartment is still ajar and he ensconced himself
behind it. The next moment he hears a heavy
breath, as of some one recovering his wind
after a steep climb, and then a short podgy
man stands in the semi-gloom of the passage
and peers in cautiously.

"Gad!" says Pitt to himself in amazement.
It's Restigouche! what devil's game is he upto?"


However it is not difficult to guess. He
has returned once more to assail the unprotected
victim of his passion.

Then Restigouche takes a step or two
forward and says, in what is intended as a
gentle voice,

'' Madame ! Is it permitted to enter ?"

No reply.

Madame ! It is I ! it is thy friend  thy
Restigouche ! "

Again no answer and Pitt thinks that the
silence seems to frighten the Frenchman  as it
probably does.

'' Mille diables ! ou est-elle'' says Rests
audibly, as he leans forward looking into
the empty room, with the candle stuck in a bottle
standing on the table. '' Ah ! "  as the perfect
stillness tells him there is no one in the house 
'' She has gone out, but she will be back soon,"
and he enters the room.

The bedroom door is open. Restigouche
takes up the candle and looks in, and stands
thinking. That is the room that stood his
long siege last night, but what an empty
miserable place ! Then an idea crosses his
mind. It may be an inconvenient confinement
for an hour or two, but still, the game is
worth the candle. He replaces the bottle
on the table exactly where he found it ; enters
the bedroom, and proceeds to crawl under
the bed.

Pitt then quietly closes the house door,
remaining inside himself, and advances into
the room. The Frenchman hears the footstep
and his spirits rise.

C est elle'' he whispers to himself. " Sac a
papier ! 1 have had chance in this." He remains
perfectly immovable. His intention is that she
shall retire to bed before he presents himself.

He has read of this kind of thing in every
novel written by his countrymen, with details
which his position now enables him to verify,
But Pitt is rather undecided what to do. He
has no legal proof that the man committed the
robbery and this hiding under the bed of a
femme galante is not a criminal offence. Still
he feels sorely inclined to inflict some punishment
on him, and proposes to himself to drag
him out and beat him black and blue, when
it suggests itself that a peaceable and friendly
line of action is more likely to conduce to
the essential object of recovering the missing
papers, and will avoid the publicity which may
follow if the Frenchman should complain to the
Police.

So he contents himself with merely showing
his face under the bed, a proceeding which
produces terror almost approaching to dissolution
on the wretched little coward in his
hiding place.

' Mon Dieu ! ttn homme'' squeaks out
Restigouche. " For God's sake don't harm me.
I am here for an affair of love. I am no thief! "

This being in French is partly lost on Pitt,
who says in reply.

*' Come out. Confound you, what are you
doing there ? "

But there is no necessity for this injunction
for the man has crawled out as quick as his fat
and flabby condition will permit him, and now
stands before Pitt, dusting his clothes and
trying to pull himself together. Pitt can
scarcely refrain from laughing at the ludicrous
figure he presents, and the Frenchman, quick
to interpret that his expression bodes him no
immediate harm or personal castigation, quickly
recovers his sang froid.

*well, you're a pretty beauty," says Pitt.
Don't you know me ? ''

'' Hah ! hah ! hah ! " laughs Restigouche,
suddenly recognizing Pitt, to his own infinite
relief. " Certainly I do. Thou art Feet, the
friend and associate of my good Gould. Certainly ;
I see thou art Feet."

'' I am Pitt," replies he, '' and I maybe
the friend of Mr. Gould, and that is
why I ask, what the devil you mean by
being here, and under Mrs. Gould's bed, you
scoundrel ? "

*' Douceinent ! my friend. I am not a
scoundrel. I am here because Madame choses

to receive me. I am a man of honour. I will
not permit expressions -"

Shut up, you little blackguard, or I'll chuck
you out of the window," says Pitt, unable to
control his wrath, and there is something so
menacing in his look that the Frenchman
shivers from head to foot.

*' Pardon me," he says with a quiver. " I
give you my word of honour I am the friend
of Gould, he invites me here. He is my best
friend. Madame, too, is my friend. I cannot
give all details because this is an affair of
honour. But,"  seeing Pitt look blacker and
blacker and himself trembling every moment
more and more with fear,  " but, you too are a
man of honour. I must explain how I came herein
this ridiculous posture, under that infect bed.
Madame and I are au mieux, it goes without
saying. She is galante,  I  I am a French
gentleman. What will you more ', I propose
to myself to give her a little pleasant surprise
in affairs of the heart you know, my friend
you too who are a gentleman  how the
women love these things. I am here. I
come at her invitation. I find she is out. I
place myself where I can carry out my little

surprise. Do you find it so bad ? To me it
is drove ! "

'* I believe the whole of this is a lie," says
Pitt. '' The lady did not invite you, she is not
here, neither she nor the child."

'' No, my friend, she is out, she will be back
soon. You will wait ? You will see us together.
You will know she is my friend ! "

This was a bold stroke of the Frenchman's,
but he is trusting to Mrs. Gould's terror of her
husband to prevent her exposing him.

It is not likely she will be here. See,
everything is gone, the room is empty, the lady
has left."

'' Mille tonnerres ! '' exclaims Restigouche,
*' So she has ! and the big box gone too !
That box, which contained papers of my friend
Gould, papers of the greatest value, for I often
saw Gould examine them ! "

** Then she must have run away. Where do
you think she can have gone ? " says Pitt.

"How can I say, my friend ? " says Rests
with a strange bewildered look on his
face, his eyes wandering round and round the
room to see if there is no trace of her left.
Nothing  but a few completely worn out garments

hanging dismally on the wall, looking
like ghosts of the departed wearer.

Restigouche approaches them, possibly thinking
there may be some note in the pockets,
some clue.

With your permission ? " he says, turning
to Pitt, and puts his hand in the pocket.

*' No, nothing, and what can she have
gone away in ? For, my friend ! I know the
wardrobe of my lady-love. See, the very robe
she wore last night. She and I were playing,
as lovers will, you understand, the robe got torn,
here Is the hole in it. I recognise that."

*' She had no others ? " asks Pitt.

** Not many, for see, she was proud. She
would accept very little from me, and Gould,
he Is stingy."

In the meanwhile Pitt has been taxing his
brain as to how to proceed, then a thought
occurs to him. He adopts a tone of confidence.

I am not responsible to Mr. Gould for his
wife's frailties, but you, you are her friend.
Come, say, what must we do ? "

*' We must find Madame, for herself, and for
pardon me  for my sake, for she is sweet tome,
this gentle person, she will be more unhappy

than I. I must find her for I have
important things to tell her."

Oh ! you have ! but why not tell them to
Gould ! He will be here in a few days for
certain, to look for the papers, if not for her."

'you think so?" says Restigouche, to
whom this idea presents a new terror. "You
think Gould will come to Boulogne? "

Most certainly he will," says Pitt, divining
the train of thought in the man's mind and
wishing to work on it. "I expect he will half
murder her, or any one who has helped her to
take away those papers."

'' Mo7't de Dieu !'' exclaims Restigouche in
pitiable alarm. " Then it is absolutely necessary
I find her ! " and he reflects how if Gould
finds her first the whole of last night's proceedings
will come to light. Pitt now easily
perceives that this scoundrel has over-reached
himself. Everything explains this  the late
visit, the hiding under the bed, and now the
man's ignoble fear.

So Pitt eyes him steadily and says,

I quite see how important it is that I
should get these papers for Mr. Gould. Come,
Restigouche, you and I are the only people

who have been here, It may be unpleasant if
Gould thinks that either you or I are concerned.
And frankly, I think he will suspect
you, for otherwise, what are you doing here
and hiding under the bed ? "

A momentary ray of something approaching
to audacity flickers up in the Frenchman.

'monsieur! I have as much right here as

you. I am the friend of the lady. I spent the

night here last night as the neighbours can

prove."

*' Oh ! you did ! then that decides me,"

says Pitt coolly. '' Come, we will go to the

police immediately and I v/ill lodge information

of the theft."

Restigouche looks at him, not for a moment
with any idea of attacking him, for he is aware
that Pitt could kill him with his fist if he chose,
but to see if there is any way of getting out of
this affair. And then, summoning up all his
impudence and coolness, the Frenchman says,

*' Stop a moment, my friend. Reflect. If
we go to the Police, Madame is hunted, if
hunted, she destroys the papers, or the person
who has them destroys them. But if we go
cautiously that person, or Madame, will give

them up  for money, for they are probably only
of value to Gould. I beg you will reflect,
before doing anything precipitate."

'* There is something in what you say," says
Pitt, seizing the hint. " I think Gould would
prefer paying for them quietly, to having a row
and  beating some one."

I am quite of that opinion. He is not a
man fond of publicity. If you are his friend I
think you will agree with me."

I quite agree, in fact, if we can find this
man, or woman, I will work with you. I have
some money."

'' Come then," says Restigouche. " Let us
depart from here, the place is not agreeable.
We can talk as we walk."

When they are in the street Restigouche
begins again.

I think, my friend, it will be best for me to
undertake the pursuit of the lady, for I know
the country best. I feel sure that she will
have the papers, and then I can restore her, if
Gould will have her again, or restore the
papers."

'' I do not think that would be wise,' says
Pitt, who sees that the Frenchman is still

hankering after Mrs. Gould. " I think the only
safe plan is for us to find the thief and give him
what he wants  a few hundred francs."

** A good many he will expect," says Rests
beginning to suspect from Pitt's remarks
that the documents are of more value than he
supposed.

'' If I am to deal with him it cannot be a
large sum, but of course I can write to Gould
for more."

''No I would not write to Gould. I am
this friend. I wish to save him the scandal of
his wife running away. I will undertake to do
all this for a few hundred francs, to be paid, if
you like, when you recover the papers."

" I will agree to that, say 400 francs. And
can you get them at once ? " says Pitt, rather
unguardedly.

'how!" says Restigouche stopping in his
walk. " I did not say at all I could get them.
I said ' I will try,' which is another thing."

Come along," says Pitt. " Let us come to
your lodgings " for he feels satisfied that
Restigouche has not got the papers about him,
as every stitch in his clothes is already stretched
to bursting and in no part of his person could

he find a stow-hold that would not be conspicuous.


They proceed in silence a little way and then
Restigouche begins.

"See," he says to Pitt, again facing him.
"You are a man of honour and so am I.
I want the lady ; you want the papers. Will
you agree to leave the whole affair to me ? I
will find her. I can find her. I can therefore
find the papers. If I give you the papers, will
you leave me alone in possession of Madame ?
You are not her keeper. You are not bound
to look after Gould's wife."

Scoundrel as he thinks him, Pitt, knowing
how entirely beyond his reach is this lady,
agrees.

'' Then I have your parole dlionneur,'' says
Restigouche.

'' You have my word."

'then you can come tomorrow morning, I
shall not fail to find her to-night, for, entre nous
as gentlemen, I think I know where she is, 
at a certain house where we have met before.
I will go there and get the papers. You will
meet me in the morning, with the money, and
you leave Madame to me."

Pitt reflects a moment. He decides it is
not safe to leave Restigouche, for his terror of
Gould seems so great that he half expects he
will change his mind and try to ingratiate
himself with Gould by giving him back the
papers, or possibly he may destroy them.

'' I cannot agree to that plan. I will not
disguise my reason. You and I are both at
at present the persons who may be accused of
stealing these papers. I will not lose sight of
you to-night. I will go where you go."

** Then Monsieur I decline to go anywhere."

'' Now stop, Restigouche, and listen to me,"
and Pitt gets angry. '' I tell you I know all
about this. You are the thief, you stole those
papers last night. You broke open the lock,
the lady heard you. Take me quietly to your
lodgings and give them to me, or, by G  d ! I
will hold you by the throat until I find a
policeman."

Restigouche staggers, and leans on a lamp
post.

*' Mon Dieu ! you know that I She  she
heard ? "

** Yes. I know all about it. We have been
fencing and fooling long enough. I wished

to give you a chance. You still have one, 
give me the papers. I will not go back from
my word, you shall have your four hundred
francs."

Restlgouche has quickly recovered. He sees
it is a matter of money.

*' Nothing can be more simple " he says.
I agree  for four hundred francs. I lodge in
the Rue d' Assessed close by. Come."

In a few moments they are at the door,
and Pitt ascends with him, determined to keep
an eye on him to see that he neither secrets
nor withholds any of the papers from him.

As they enter Restigouche's room Pitt sees
a large bundle of papers tied up with red tape
and still sealed.

'' There they are, my friend," says Rests
coolly. " But promise me one thing, 
on your sacred word of honour, not a word of
this to Gould ! for I cannot quarrel with him.
Nor do I renounce the lady. I fly after her ; I
am in pursuit ; I love her, and she  is not
indifferent to me. I took these papers as a
mere joke, to play on her a little. I am not
one to be frightened but  I do not wish to
quarrel with Gould."

VOL. II. I I

'* Is this all ? " says Pitt, immediately laying
hands on the packet.

All, on my word  as I found them."

'there are your four hundred francs then, and
now remember,  never say a word about this
to any living soul if you value your life. Gould
would not see the joke in the same light as you
do. He would certainly break every bone in
your body. And one word more, take my
advice, do not return to Paris to-night, or go
out of your lodgings, for there is some one in
Boulogne who had better not see you."

'' Sapristi ! is Gould here, in Boulogne?"
says the Frenchman turning white.

I am not at liberty to say where he is, but
take my advice, stay where you are, and don't
venture out to-night."

My friend ! I fly into my bed at once,  I
do not stir."

Good-night, and  Remember!' says Pitt,
glad thus to have prevented the fact of Madeline
being with him coming to the knowledge
of Restigouche.

'rand you ? "

I leave to-night for Paris. I have the
money for Dubois.

"Ah! that is good," says Restlgouche, well
pleased to hear this, as he will receive some
portion of it.

And so Pitt, elated beyond imagination at
the extraordinary success of this singular
adventure leaves him.

Restigouche steps to his window and looks
out  sees Pitt cross the street and disappear.

" Arcs tout, pourquoi se plaindre ? " says
he to himself. '' Have I not four hundred
francs to the good ? "

hercea's lovers.

The state and condition of affairs in London
was becoming a little complex, and, but that
Heroea was a consummate strategist, a general
action must have been brought on amongst her
various lovers who were, possibly not unawares, .
within pistol shot of each other. Bit actual
battle was never given because each one
thought that he, and he alone, was in possession
of the citadel, and felt that he could not better
his position by sallying forth to encounter
possible defeat, but was content to sit on,
smiling the smile of scorn and indifference on
those who were still banging away at the attack.
As to Gould, his love for Madame Artaki
had been so purely animal that her absence
from him for any length of time, invariably had
the effect of reducing the flame of his passion
to a slow burning glow, kept alight by the

breath of such tender passages as may have
passed between them, or by the silent contemplation
of one of the rare photographs which
had been done of her : a photograph, par
parentheses, taken by order of a very exalted
Ottoman Personage, and in which she had
been portrayed in a costume evidently intended
for the recesses of the Harem. Nor
did Gould, when away from her, disguise from
himself that she clearly had no real affection
for him, and that but for the hold he had on
her she would probably have cast him off long
ago. But even this did not bid him despair,
and though he knew that a union with her was
beyond the wildest dreams of fancy, seeing that
his wife was still alive and that he was neither
wealthy enough nor clever enough to make her
think of him for a moment in a less formal
relation, still he held on doggedly to the idea
that, in some future crisis of her wild and
dangerous career, she might have occasion to
turn to him to accomplish some deed from
which his own utter disregard of every feeling
of morality, mercy, or humanity would not
cause him to shrink ; and thus he might reap
the reward of years of patient service. He

felt that it should be In her eyes no slight
qualification to be as willing to commit fraud,
robbery, or even murder with as little compunction
as an ordinary mortal feels in setting a
snare for a hare. But, on the other hand, like
some horrid pestilence whose recrudescence is
invariably marked by increased violence of type,
Gould's love for Madame Artaki after months
of the dormant condition, would break out into
intensified passion when chance again threw
her in his path : when his jealousy, which had
been lying quiescent, would once more become
violent and implacable.

But Hercea's safety did not, fortunately for
her, lie entirely in her own power of resistance
; there was another passion in his
monstrous nature, almost as strong as his
love for her  an insatiable thirst for gold.
This had no fluctuating stages like his love,
but was a steady and persistent craving,
indeed, a necessity  to enable him to keep
going the uninterrupted debauchery of his life.
As long as he was plentifully supplied with
money he could always be kept within reasonable
bounds ; the beast never ventured to turn
on his keeper as long as he was well gorged.

Therefore, Madame ArtakI, who for reasons of
her own, was still anxious to keep this creature
in her toils, took care to give him every
facility for indulging his tastes, thus securing
her own peace and quiet. He rarely was
without money if she could contrive by any
means to give it to him, whilst the care she
bestowed on the dinners they so frequently had
together showed that she fully comprehended
encouraging his gluttony,  also one of his worst
vices, and an incentive to his wishes. It was
thus she had gained this complete mastery over
a nature that no one else had ever succeeded
in subduing, by adding fuel to the fire of his
depravity, for in all ordinary matters Gould was
so exceptionally and diabolically wicked that
there was no means of obtaining a hold on him.
He had become so well-known in the city
for the sublime heights in rascality to which
he could soar, that no respectable legal practitioner
would engage in a case against him, not
wishing to appear in court for a client who
had made the fatal mistake of having had anything
to do with him. And thus he had obtained
a practical immunity from the risks and
responsibilities of his infinite frauds, and had

even made a number of persons pay blackmail,
and had compelled others tamely to
submit to downright forgery and stealing on
his part. He was absolutely devoid of any idea
of mein et tuum and looked on any person's
money or property as his own,  if he could
get hold of it.

And this incredible monster, who shrank from
none of the crimes of Commodus or Heliogabalus,
was as plastic as wax in the hands of
Madame Artaki. A look of scorn, a sneer, a
word of gentleness, or a smile were at any time
sufficient to quell the devil she saw rising in him,
or to turn his jealousy into blind confidence.
For she was a woman outside the category of
ordinary mortals. All who looked on her
loved her, in different ways and in different
degrees, and to all alike she had the marvellous
gift of appearing as if they individually were
the special objects of her affection. Nor
in spite of the most positive evidence to
the contrary, could her lovers be brought to
believe she was immoral, and much for the
simple reason that in the restricted sense
of the word she was not. Intriguing, unscrupulous,
and unprincipled, still she was so

great a woman that she had mastered all her
own passions, or kept them as willing slaves
to do her bidding.

In regard to Norton, but little has to be said
as to the mode and manner of his loving this
strange woman, nor do the methods by which
she kept him in her thralls need much illustration.
Not less profligate than Gould in many-respects,
still his training in the Army and in
Society had taught him those delicate distinctions
in Vice which are recognised ; and he had
learnt that there was hardly any scandalous
kind of affair with the other sex for which
he would not receive absolution as long ashe
continued to be decently dressed, rode in
the Park, and of course, observed the codes
of honour in money matters  where they
affected his own set. Madame Artaki had no
difficulty with Norton ; making him drink
deeper and deeper at the bowl she held to his
lips, and for this reason,  he still had some
;i 5,000.

Gould and she were matt sec, Romeyn was
reserved for other purposes.

Norton was her confidant  so he thought.
Into his ears were poured, under the seal of

confession, long and painful tales of her past,
and as they never came out again, for he was
the soul of honour with her secrets, no one
could ever say whether they were all imaginary
or not. Then through these glimpses of the
past pictures of a possible future, were skilfully
interwoven pictures which opened a vista
before him, and gave him a faint antepast of
the longed-for Heaven,

In these confidences he also learnt how she
abhorred the sight of Gould, who, according to
her, was evidently the very opposite of himself,
Norton, in refinement, mind, manners and
generosity. Then she had begun to induct him
into the mysteries of several of her schemes 
for the conversion of the Ottoman State Bonds,
schemes for waterworks in Palestine ; for railways
in Tibet ; for steamers on the upper
waters of the Yantze Kiang ; and above all, fora
new Petroleum affair in some remote Western
State of America.

No more flattering incense can ascend the
nostrils of a fool than confidences which seek
his counsel and advice in difficult business
matters. But it was not alone to flatter
him that Heroea held these lengthy conversations

with him and asked his advice on these
complicated financial questions. It answered
a two-fold purpose, as effectually as any she
could have devised. First, it gave him the
idea that he was doing something for her,  for
she kept him running hither and thither after
imaginary information,  and secondly, there
was something in these business confidences
which took the edge off his love-making ;  there
was a decided incongruity in discussing her
own eyes or lips, and the estimates for draining
Odessa, or the wages of Chinese stokers in the
Celestial and Imperial Yellow River Pekin and
Tai-tung Steam Navigation Company Limited ;
and as she invariably availed herself of any
chance tete-astute they might have, to explain
to him some important thing in connection
with these or cognate affairs, Norton found
it practically impossible to get in the least
bit of love-making even edgeways, beyond
an occasional pressure of her hand or an arm
flung inadvertently round her waist when
bending over some of the endless maps and
plans which she always had ready for his
inspection.

And thus a state of affairs had grown up

between these two which though difficult to
define was clearly enough understood by them.
He felt that he was the confidant of this matchless
woman, who revealed to him all her inmost
thoughts ; who leaned on him, as a male friend,
for the present,  as a chivalrous man of honour,
by-and-bye to be transmogrified into something
else. Not that this position was pleasing or
entirely delightful to him, but somehow or other
he felt that there was a satisfaction, gloomy
though it might be, in being a lover in hiding,
and in effacing himself, at her request.

But at times it was almost more than he
could bear, and when he had to stand aside and
see her enter the Papyrus on the arm of Mr.
Romeyn, an intense desire would seize him
but to be allowed to touch the hem of her
garment. Poor infatuated fool ! He began
to realize what husbands, still in love with
their wives, feel as they stand in the unnumbered
crowd of black coats round the
door of some ball room, and watch the twinkling
feet they are longing to kiss whirling away
amongst the waltzers.

Says Norton to her, on such an evening
at the Papyrus, as she is being handed into

n

her brougham by Mr. Romeyn, " I'm so glad
you have had a jolly evening." And she
smiles back and gives his hand a squeeze, all
her own  no other woman can compass so
much into a simple hand-shake  with gratitude,
affection, hope, and confidence conveyed
in it.

So much for Gould, and so much for Norton.
And now as to Romeyn.

For this man she had conceived a true and
genuine feeling of regard and respect. He was
the only man she had yet met in her life whose
force of character could claim her admiration,
whilst at the same time his wealth would satisfy
her ambition. She had therefore resolved to
marry him, and as a necessary step had cast
about in her mind how a divorce could be
procured between him and his wife. But then
she was quite aware that a difficulty would
present itself from the very outset, by the
probable refusal of Mrs. Romeyn to consent to
be a cat's-paw in giving her husband free rein
to do as he liked. She knew quite well that it
would be a dangerous risk for her to consent to
merely a run-away affair with Mr. Romeyn, in
the hope that Mrs. Romeyn would petition fora

divorce afterwards. That was a card she had
fully resolved not to play, and yet, what other
had she in her hand ? One other  and this she
alone knew of.

But Romeyn himself had not yet practically
grasped the situation. Not that he cared two
straws for Mrs. Grundy, or that the voice of
his conscience would have cried out against his
breaking any of the ten Commandments, if he
felt disposed to do so, but he had a strong sense
of the orderly in some circumstances of life,
and he would have shrunk from debasing his
idol

The above imperfect sketch represents the
position of Madame Artaki and her friends,
whilst she and Gould were hourly looking for
the return of Pitt from Paris with the bonds.
Madame Artaki herself was especially anxious
to have these documents in her possession, or at
all events where she could dispose of them, for
it was part of her present scheme to return them,
anonymously if necessary, to Madame Ostro-
lena, hoping that by so doing she might find
herself free of any risk she might run through
that lady's investigations. For Heroea, though
she had planned and carried out the whole

original scheme of recovering Madeline's property,
and had fully shared in that portion
of the sum which had gone in ' backsheesh ' had
had no knowledge, even of the remotest kind,
of the theft subsequently committed, until it
was accomplished.

She had indeed written most urgently to
Gould on hearing of it, pointing out how
abominable she thought it ; that it was a kind
of offence she held in utter abhorrence, and
above all, warning him that it would lead to his
or her ruin or both. He, however, had laughed
at her fears, and had, moreover, put it beyond
his power to restore the stolen property, which
she urged him to do, by mortgaging it to
Dubois. Her intention of returning the money
to Madame Ostrolenka had, however, never
been definitely announced to Gould, though
more than once hinted at, and she was therefore
anxious that there should be sufficient
funds to go on with, to enable her to accomplish
this act of restitution, and at the same
time to have the wherewithal for supplying
Gould.

And here a fresh difficulty had arisen.
Gould looked with lustful envy on Romeyn's

riches. He literally longed to ' claw some off
his back' to use his own forcible expression,
and was now continually urging Madame
Artaki to begin her attacks on Romeyn's
purse  to Gould, the sole and primary object
of her intimacy with Romeyn, or rather, the
only justifiable explanation of her marked
attention to him. But Madame Artaki had
firmly resolved that not one single farthing
of Romeyn' s money should go to Gould
nor to herself as Gould's partner. She knew
that her strong point with Romeyn would be
in remaining above all suspicions of venality.
She had already refused his offer, made with
the greatest deference, of a temporary loan,
and she had even gone farther, she had made
it a personal request, which he had willingly
complied with, that he would not embark in
anything that Gould presented to him without
first consulting her.

And now an opportunity for making a very
large sum of money presented itself in one of
the schemes before alluded to ; the Petroleum
wells in the United States. An American to
whom the property belonged had arrived in
London to carry out the business, which

consisted in entering into a contract with
Madame Artaki and Gould who were to purchase
the property for f 15,000, some 2,000
of this to be paid down at once, and the rest
at a later date. As far as the American
was concerned, this affair, incredible as it may-seem,
was genuine enough, for there actually
did exist oil wells on the land he undertook
to sell, and he, moreover, did actually
possess a title to the property. It is true the
first price for the four hundred acres had been
25 cents an acre, total 20, and that he was to
sell it for 15,000, a profit of 14,980 odd, but
that was legitimate. It was at Gould's stage
that the illegitimate profit would be made, by
reselling what had cost them nominally 15,000,
but in reality only 2,000 (and that belonging
to some one else) for 70,000 or 75,000.

This chance was too good to lose, and
Chertsey had come forward to assist Gould in
bringing pressure on Madame Artaki. It
seemed to both men that their female partner in
promoting this business was fighting shy of using
her powers with that force they so well knew
her capable of. It was not easy to understand
her diffidence in squeezing Romeyn, and, clever

VOL. II. 12

as she was, she too, felt the situation was one
that presented many difficulties. However, she
finally promised her associates that she would
do something, but that what that something
should be she had not quite decided. An idea
she had was to postpone her contemplated
restitution to Madeline, and to employ some of
the money which they expected to receive
through the hands of Pitt for the purpose of
paying Mr. Josiah K. Ballard, the aforesaid
American, his deposit. However, as Pitt
delayed his coming, and things began to look
threatening, she finally resolved to make a sacrifice
of Norton  at least, a temporary one. It
was true that in inducing Norton to go into
this affair there was the risk of its coming to
Romeyn's knowledge that she had done what
he had of late frequently begged her to desist
from, namely, assist in the formation of Public
Companies. For Romeyn had a righteous
detestation of the whole confraternity of
Promoters from the Grand Francis to the
humble rascal who floated Patent Life Belts
which drowned the most powerful swimmers, or
Fig Coffee, of which two cups would engender
chronic dysentery. But she determined to take



this risk (not the Fig Coffee), and she would
make secrecy a point of honour with Norton.

So a judiciously-worded note, with many
tender expressions, brings Norton to dine with
her tete-astute, a dinner that might have satisfied
Lucullus, washed down by wine that would
have pleased Noah, and poured out by beauty
that would have altered the Legend of St.
Anthony.

Then after dinner a long undisturbed evening
a deux, when blending business and affectionate
in an unusual degree, she unfolds to him the
great Petroleum scheme. This scheme seems
to her an excellent affair : oil spouting up to
an incredible height in a column as thick as a
barrel ; the land intersected by railways ; title
indisputable ; and, above all, the respectability
of that excellent New York House, Messieurs
Skunk and Notches of Broadway, who recommend
the enterprise.

Then from the general she comes to the
particular. Mr. Josiah K. Ballard is in a hurry
to return. He must have ;2,ooo down, and
Heroeamust have the balance of 15,000 ready
for him when the property has been reported on
by some one she sends out to America. Then

this estate will realize in England, sold to a company,
from 70,000 to 80,000. This profit
will go in certain proportions to herself, Gould,
and Chertsey, but  and here comes the thing
she wishes to speak to him about  if he,
Norton, likes to become her private partner in
the concern, he and she will share alike. Then
follow more figures ; and she  in her earnestness
leans forward on his knees with her arm. She
can rely on his secrecy. Not a living soul must
know where she has obtained this money, except
Gould or Chertsey. But above all, neither
Rosalie nor Romeyn. It is a certain coup, it
must bring them in at least 25,000 profit for
themselves. And this is what she has been so
long striving for ; a sum large enough to buy
off Gould  once and for ever  and thus to rid
her of his presence.

At this Norton pricks up his ears. It would
be worth a good deal to be rid of Gould, and
as she clearly shows him, by figures again,
he will not only get all his money back, but
will have considerably more and will have
enabled her to shake herself clear of this man
whom he, Norton, knows she detests.

Poor wretch ! Her breath fans his temples,

her eyes are looking through him, how can he
refuse? If Satan had appeared, and offered
him one month of the society of this woman
alone in a desert island he would have surrender
his soul in exchange.

And so he tells her  passionately kissing the
white hands that lie clasped on his knee.

" You will be my partner in this," she
whispers, half reclining over him, and with a
smile that bewilders him. *' But that is not all
I have to say. For I am going to put you to
a still greater test. I have discussed the whole
of this with Gould and Chertsey and they have
consented to leave it to me to find some one to
go out and see this property and to report on
it. This is absolutely necessary, and I have
not a living soul I can trust, but you. Now,
will you go, darling ? Will you do this forme
? It will take you at the outside three
weeks or a month."

"That is a long time to be separated from
you, my love," he says. " And then  then
Rosalie, you know ; there is that tiresome old
Romeyn pressing me now to get our marriage
over. 1 cannot conceive why he should be in
such a hurry."

He may have reasons, but anyhow, you
can leave all that to me. I will promise to
take care of Rosalie. I am going to be often
with them ; and, darling, think, think what this
means. Don't make me miserable a day
longer than you can help."

'' How, my love ? " says Norton a little
puzzled.

"I am miserable until I feel myself clear of
Gould, and nothing but a large sum of money
will do it. I think, George, you should see how
I have trusted to you in this. Do you not think
I could get ten times this from Mr. Romeyn . "

*' Yes, I know perfectly well you could."

*' Well, see, here is a note I had this evening.
This man Ballard insists on going back to the
States tomorrow. I think it best for you to
go with him ; and, if you do see Rosalie before
starting, don't say a word to her about your
going  she would only make a scene, go to
her father and perhaps spoil everything. Will
you go, darling ? "

*' I will go anywhere  do any mortal thing
for you."

His arms wind round her and she permits
his lips to meet hers. Then with a sigh she

disengages herself from him, rises up from her
seat, and says sofdy,

"Come, shall we go to the Papyrus, or is
there anywhere else you'd like ? "

'can't we stay here ? " says he, still seated.
"It is so rare for me to see you alone."

"If you like it best, dear. Then I will try
and amuse you here. Shall I tell you a story,
or shall I sing ? "

"Sing first, I love to hear your voice. It
will go with me across the Atlantic."

And she sings, the same witching melody
she has sung to Romeyn, and with the same
trance-like effect on her listener.

The rest of the evening passes to him like
a blissful dream. Never has she been so unbending,
so gracious. He enters into every
proposition she makes, and arranges that before
leaving next day, his solicitor shall have instructions
to pay into her account the entire
sum of 15,000, his worldly all.

Such is his blind confidence and infatuation.

At last the hour sounds when he must say
good-night  a long and tender farewell, and
when the door closes on him she has seen the
last of him  for ever.

A NIGHT OF HORROR,

Two days have now elapsed since Gould and
his accomplices should have been in possession
of Madeline's bonds, the embargo on which
Pitt has" been despatched to Paris to remove.
But when Chertsey had selected Pitt from
some three hundred applicants for the post of
clerk to himself, he had not seen that there was
a germ of honesty in him only waiting for a
fitting season to bloom and bring forth fruit,
or else the most stupid of his competitors would
have been preferred before him.

Gould and Co. are rapidly becoming insane
with wrath, and vex their imaginations as to
what can possibly have happened to their
messenger, who still, however, makes no sign.
Not a telegram, not a line. Then they telegraph
to Dubois and receive the bewildering reply
that Pitt has been in Paris, has paid Dubois

the 1,000, and has taken possession of the
bonds.

On receipt of this there Is a violent scene
between Gould and Chertsey, the former
declaring that he had never been quite willing
to trust Pitt with so large a sum of money, the
latter vowing that he had clearly and distinctly
repudiated all responsibility, whatever happened.
However, their mutual interests were too great
to allow of any permanent outbreak, so they
more wisely betake themselves to thinking what
should be done. And this in a few moments
clearly manifested itself as nil  Pitt had gone
off with stolen goods ; to lay claim to these
bonds was to proclaim themselves thieves ; for
they neither of them hoped to escape the
vigilance and watchfulness of Madame Ostro-
lena ; she would come to hear of this if
enquiries were set on foot either in London,
or Paris In fact, they were precisely in the
predicament of the housebreaker, who, having
passed out the spoons and forks to his * palis
disgusted to see him run off with them for
his own private account, and dares not raise
the cry of "Stop thief!" But for Madame
Artaki and for Gould, Pitt's disappearance was

of far more ominous import than for Chertsey,
for now they received a fresh announcement
of disaster which nearly took their breath away.
Why had Nellie not written from Paris,
announcing her arrival there, as she ought
certainly to have done ? How was it there
were no tidings of her ? Could she have seen
Pitt ? To set all these questions at rest, and
on the chance of Nellie not being there to
receive her telegram, they telegraph to Monsieur
Bricquet, her landlord. In a few hours.
Monsieur Bricquet, being accidentally sober
enough to know what he is about, sends them
as reply 

Madame a menage !

The news seem to stun both Heroea and
Gould. They look blankly at each other.
Menage ! and where . and what can she
have done with the child ? She had no money.
And then the wildest surmises are made  the
wildest of all, that she has eloped with Pitt,
being, however, immediately dismissed as
absurd.

But with Restigouche ? No, impossible, for
Madame Artaki knows Nellie well  knows
how utterly impossible that would be. Then a

council of war Is held ; present, madame Artaki,
Gould, and Chertsey. The whole question is
carefully discussed, and the extreme danger of
making too public enquiries after Pitt is definitely
admitted. If, as Gould suggests, Pitt
has been followed up by Restigouche and has
been murdered and robbed in the train, it
might involve them all in serious trouble when
the fierce scrutiny of French investigation
would demonstrate that the missing bonds
were already stolen property. They, therefore,
reluctantly decided to abandon all search for
Pitt, but for Mrs. Gould and the child, even at
whatever risk, search must be made  and made
instantly. And no one could do this but Gould
himself.

The first step which it appeared necessary to
take, was to ascertain, if possible, if Pitt had
been to the Impasse. If he had been there
and had left some money with Mrs. Gould, in
spite of Gould's injunctions not to do so, it might
be possible that she had fled to Scotland.
But, if on the other hand, Pitt had not seen
her, then  and Madame Artaki's face grew
very grave as she made the suggestion  she
might have gone that long journey whence

no one returns, and may even have taken the
child with her over the fatal river.

And now for a moment Heroea regretted
that Norton had already sailed, for she felt that
this was a crisis in her life, when his undoubted
devotion would have stood her in need. However
there was nothing for it but for Gould to
undertake the quest, his confederates urging on
him the utmost caution.

So by the following morning Gould was once
more at the hotel on the Port in Boulogne, and
by the merest chance the first person he should
see was Restigouche. For this individual had
remained on in Boulogne with some faint hope
that Nellie might reappear in the Impasse
and that in spite of all that had occurred between
him and Pitt, (of which of course she
would know nothing), he might succeed in
ingratiating himself with her. For, like most
Frenchmen, the idea that he himself could be
distasteful to any woman, or that any woman
was virtuous, was too far-fetched to be entertained
for a moment. * Stout puisque' elle
est native ! ' had he reasoned.

Gould's first impulse on seeing Restigouche
was to rush and seize him by the throat for he

knew, the Frenchman was an arrant coward.
The first desire of the Frenchman on seeing
Gould was to bolt, for he did not know that
Gould was hardly less a coward than himself.
For Restigouche suddenly conceives the idea
that this apparition of the blustering, terrible
Englishman means condign punishment and
that Pitt has, after all, played him false,
and has written to Gould telling him everything.
The Frenchman's teeth literally chatter
as Gould, flourishing his gold-headed cane,
after his wont, draws near. But when within
two or three yards of him, to the intense relief of
Restigouche, he calls out a friendly " How d'ye
do." In a moment the valiant Gaul is himself,
and lifting his greasy hat, returns his greeting.

Gould, however, is not in a truly friendly
mood, and again terrifies Restigouche by asking
him abruptly when he has been up to the house
in the Impasse.

''I, my good friend ! " says the Frenchman,
'' why, not for two or three days  parole
dWionneiir ! "

"Then you don't know if Madame is there
now ? " says Gould, fixing his black eyes on
him.

No, my friend, I do not. I tell you I
know nothing of her. I have had a little affair
of gallantry here, with someone in my hotel.
Pardon me, my good Gould, if I have been
inattentive to Madame Gould. I have had no
time to make her my visit."

*' Then you don't know she has cleared out,
bag and baggage  gone away ? " says Gould
again fixing his eye on him.

'' Madame gone ! what, run away ! My God !
Gould ! you do not say so ? No, no, it is not
true ! " and Restigouche looks so astonished,
and distressed, that Gould is completely taken
in.

'' True as gospel," says Gould. *' Gone without
my knowing a word about it." Restigouche
cannot sufficiently express his sorrow at this
extraordinary occurrence. What can he do for
his friend ? shall he accompany him instantly
to the Commissaire of police and lodge informations
? Should they at once have the Lianne
dragged for her body ; or send boats along the
coast to recover the corpse, or take a cab at
once to see if any woman has thrown herself
from Napoleon's Column, or ?

*' No, confound it, no ; nothing," breaks in

Gould. " I don't want any fuss made about this.
And you, mind you don't go and talk about it.
I shall be extremely angry if I hear you have
been making any enquiries."

Certainly Restigouche will do as his friend
requests. In the meanwhile will Gould drink ?
Mr. Gould will not drink and bids him good-day,
turning his face towards the Grande Rue.

Arrived In the Impasse Gould sought out the
landlord. Monsieur Bricquet, who Is a cooper, and
obtained from him the key of the apartment.
He also ascertained from that worthy that an
Englishman had visited Madame Richard, as he
styled her, on the morning of her disappearance.
This set Gould thinking, for from the description
given, it could be no other than Pitt. However,
as to the lady's subsequent movements the
landlord could say nothing, for it had happened
that this had been a fete day and that he, with
nearly everyone else in the quarter, had been
absent from home until late at night.

Nothing could Gould find in the rooms,
now so silent and deserted, to afford him the
slightest clue. Indeed there was nothing left
but a few discarded garments, which Nellie
had cast aside, and the wigs and false beards

which had served Gould for disguise on many
occasions.

The spectacle of this emptiness filled Gould
with wrath and he stood still thinking how
utterly all his schemes might now fail, if this
woman  whom he had brow-beaten and maltreated
all these years, had finally resolved
to turn against him ! What might she not
say, what abominable offences of his against
the law might she not reveal if she was now
determined to make him suffer for all the
misery she had endured ? Overflowing with
exasperation and in his idle rage he kicked
the wigs furiously about the room and then
proceeded to kick a hole through the bottom
of the one wretched saucepan which had
constituted Nellie's batterie de confine. The
very impotence of his anger made him more
savage, so much so that when he sallied forth
Into the street, the cooper, looking up the steps
of his cellar, thought It best to let him pass,
without calling to him to remind him that he
had not returned the key of the apartment.

The theory that she has committed suicide is
now necessarily abandoned by Gould. People
intent on taking their life do not take

their luggage with them, moreover she had
evidently other clothes to wear since she has
left those old ones behind. It therefore behoves
him to take steps to trace her. He
spends the whole day in wandering about and
conversing here and there with people roundabout
the steamers, and with porters at the
railway station, and even ventures on some
official enquiries at the latter as to what
travellers have been leaving lately, but naturally
he receives only the most unsatisfactory replies,
and indeed only narrowly escapes being locked
up at the instance of a violent-tempered ruffian
in the shape of a Station Master who takes
umbrage at his question, and vows he has been
insulted. For the Station Master is bursting
with fury at signs of merriment on the faces of
some English travellers, who have been unable
to repress a smile at the ludicrous figure this
preposterous little bantam presents, strutting
up and down the platform in all the inflated
conceit and self-importance of a French official,
and he is determined to take it out of
someone.

So Gould's enquiries at the railway station
were cut short, the only place where he could

VOL. II. '13

have obtained any satisfactory information, and
after a table d'hote dinner he resolved to return
to the Impasse for a final examination of the
premises and a more particular cross-examination
of the landlord. In the latter, however, he
is doomed to disappointment, that industrious
mechanic having many hours before quitted his
toil and being by this time in the normal condition
of intoxication in which he spends most
of his evenings.

The shades of night are beginning to
gather as Gould ascends once more to the
empty rooms. There is an uncanny feel about
them. It is hot and sultry, and yet a breeze
is blowing which goes moaning up the stairs
behind him and out through a broken window
in the kitchen, causing a piece of brown paper,
which at some time or other has been pasted
over the hole, to flap to and fro with a ghostly
sound like knuckles rapping on a coffin. There
is no alteration since he left in the morning, the
same three days' old scraps lie on the table, the
fragments of Nellie's last meal in her abode of
poverty ; her tattered dress still hangs like a
black shroud from its peg, telling its dumb
tale of what she suffered ; whilst his own wig

seems to grin up at him from one of the rickety
chairs as if chuckling at all the misery which
surrounds it. With an involuntary shudder he
crosses the room and enters the bedroom to
search once more for any scrap of paper that
may have been left behind.

The bed lies much as when she rose from it,
and the impress of her body is even yet visible
in the growing dusk. A blanket, old and
tattered, lies across it and the poor-looking
sheets remind him of a cere cloth. He almost
fancies he can see some one looking at him, in
the corner of the room ; unseen hands seemed
to be stretching out and grabbing at him behind
his back, and voices seem to whisper together
in the dark. Then all of a sudden, thump,
thump! "Good God!" he exclaims, 'what's
that ? " But in a moment he is reassured,
almost laughs  only he dares not laugh in this
horrid place. It is only the brown paper flapping
again. Nevertheless, he wishes the paper
would not flap. He grows still more nervous,
as he begins to think that, after all, Nellie
may have committed suicide, that she has sent
the child somewhere with the papers and the
box  and has gone to where his brutality can

never more assail her. It is an unreasoning
idea, but it grows so strongly that at last he
can stand it no longer, and rushes out of the
house, having endured five minutes of a torture
which he feels he would rather suffer anything
than go through again.

At the bottom of the stairs he remembers he
has forgotten to bring away the key, but
no power on earth can induce him to return
for it. Outside night is rapidly settling down
the Impasse is dark and deserted  and,
passing quickly out of it, he reaches the broad
street out of which it turns. Here he halts fora
moment and feels for his cigar case  for there
is company and companionship in the fragrant
weed  and, having lighted a cigar, he bends his
steps towards the archway leading to the lower
town. But before he reaches it he has to cross
a place where several streets converge, and here,
coming rapidly down a street in the opposite
direction, his attention is drawn to the hurrying
form of a woman which at once strikes him as
having something about it familiar to him.

He watches her a moment and then a cry of
surprise bursts from his lips and he darts forward
to catch her. He cannot be mistaken 

that quick rapid walk, the peculiar swing of her
gait, the dress, black and clinging, the height
and size  it is Nellie  but alone  without
the child. Then a horrid idea seizes him.
Where is the child } Can she have been away
to murder the little one, to save her from her
wretched life ? But before he can make up his
mind it seems to him that the woman has
noticed him, for, with a rapid glance round, she
hurries along faster, and disappears into the
gloom of the Impasse. And now all doubt as
to its being Nellie vanishes ; he too hurries
forward, and is just in time to catch sight of
her as she enters the door of her old house.
And now he stops ; he has got her safe ; he
has run her to earth, but he will wait and
collect his thoughts. The child is not here ; if
she has murdered her, he may become involved
in the crime, if he is seen with her. How can
he tell that someone is not peering out from
some of those dark windows } This thought
again causes him to change his mind. Is it
not better to follow her upstairs and if his
suspicions are confirmed, if she cannot explain
what has become of the child, seize her and
deliver her to justice?

But he pauses to reflect. His thoughts area
chaos of doubt, of self-interest, and self-preservation.
What will happen if he suddenly
presents himself before this woman coming
red-handed from her crime ? A wild shriek of
recognition  the rushing in of neighbours ; and
he himself undoubtedly arrested as accessory to
the fact. But then again, he dare not leave her
here. What may she not be about to do ? How
can he face Heroea if he comes away knowing
nothing about the child, nothing about the
documents ? Then he curses even Heroea in his
heart ; but for her he would slip away quietly to
the safety of America, and leave this miserable
woman to her fate. But that is impossible. He
is between Scylla and Charybdis. Then he bethinks
him of Pitt and his disappearance. Pitt
was here the morning of her flight. What did she
tell him; what confidences may not have passed?

He ensconced himself in a dark door-way,
and looks up at the windows where she is.
She has lighted a candle, and he can see her
shadow passing backwards and forwards, backwards
and forwards, in evident unrest. He
sees her hands go up more than once in despair.

'* Ah ! miserable wretch," he thinks to himself;

"she is thinking of the end of this  the
black cap  the scaffold."

He becomes as it were rooted to the spot,
and still he sees her : to and fro : to and fro :
every movement of her body betokening the
keenest anguish  terror unspeakable.

My God ! " he ejaculates loudly, '' how long
can that last ! It is too horrid to look at." But
still, his cruel and craven heart forbids him to
go to her  to keep her company in this hour
of desperate trial. No, he is safer where he is.
Let her fight it out alone  that lone woman,
in that devil-haunted attic where she conceived
her crime.

Then suddenly the light disappears, all is
pitch dark in the windows. Has the candle
burnt out? It was only a short bit; he had
seen it sticking on the table. It is a relief to
him that he can see her shadow no more ; but
nevertheless he will continue to watch, even if
he has to watch all night ; and when morning
comes, he will go up and seize her. He comes
out of his lurking place and for nearly two
hours paces up and down the deserted Impasse,
but at last he hears footsteps, and has only just
time to take shelter in the dark doorway of a

house, when the drunken cooper, accompanied
by some friendly custodian of the peace, reels
past him towards his own house.

This suggests a new danger to Gould.
What excuse can he make if he is found lurking
about here? As to Nellie's house, that is
as silent as the grave ; not a sound save a dull
thud after the light went out  like something
falling  which had puzzled him when it reached
his ear. He now decides that to wait in the
street is too great a risk, whilst to go away
without learning anything is folly. Suddenly a
happy thought strikes him ; to creep upstairs
noiselessly, pull the door to and lock it if
perchance she has left the key outside, which
is not improbable seeing the wild state of her
alarm. So, after a little more reflection and
summoning up his courage, he ascends the
stairs, steadying himself with outstretched arms
on both sides as he moves carefully upwards on
tiptoe, and holding tight his gold-headed cane.

Above him everything is silent, and the
stillness impresses him painfully.

The door of the apartment is ajar, but the
key is not there. He cannot feel it either.
He must perforce enter. He strikes a match

and peers In, then he summons up courage and
calls her name, softly, " Nellie, Nellie ! " He
gets no answer: she must be in bed and asleep.
He enters cautiously and again strikes a match
and puts it to the short stump of candle, which,
he observes, has been blown out and has not
burnt itself out. This very ordinary fact seems
to give him courage. It is clear that she is
collected enough not to wish to burn the house
down, as would probably have been the case
had she left it lighted. And with his courage
returns his natural brutality in dealing with
the unhappy woman.

** D  n you, Nellie, where are you'* he
growls. " Confound you, get up and come out ! "

But there is no answer, and an oppressive
silence reigns, broken only by a thud of the
brown paper again, and a peculiar ticking noise
in the walls which he cannot explain.

*' She must be sleeping precious sound ! " he
says, taking up the candle and approaching the
bedroom door. '' D  n her, she shall suffer
for this ! "

He peers in, holding the candle above his
head. At first he sees nothing, the bed is
empty : his own shadow through the flickering

of the candle, dances opposite him on the wall,
like some grim spectre holding up its arm to
strike. He peers lower down, and then suddenly
he is seized with alarm, for there she lies,
on the floor, her arm extended, the bed-clothes
covering her face and neck. She is apparently
completely dressed.

Good heavens," he says, *' she has swooned.
Confound her now, if she is going to be ill how
the devil can I get her away, or get away
myself ? "

He meditates leaving her there, but on reflection
,

No, blazes take It," he mutters. "I can't leave
her there. That may be worse than anything."

He stands irresolute. Pie has not yet thought
of doing anything to relieve her In her swoon.
In fact he has not examined her attentively at
all, much less removed the bed-clothes from her
face. Suddenly a gust of air extinguishes his
candle, which has already begun to flutter. He
will lift her up now before lighting it, but, just
as he leans over her, bang goes the outer door,
a fresh current of air slamming it to.

'* D tion " he exclaims, " what is

that ? It's that confounded Peeler : followed me

Up, after all ! " But he quickly recovers, for no
one is there. It is only the wind.

He stoops over and grasps the prostrate
woman by the waist with both hands. But she
seems to slip from his fingers, her body bends
back and he feels that she is all saturated with
some thick sticky fluid,  her dress is soaking wet.

'* Good God ! what is this ! " he says, rubbing
his hands on the bed, and then it flashes on him.
*' Blood, by Heaven! It is blood'' His knees
knock, he nearly falls over her, but he staggers
up and stands back. His feet now feel that
there is moisture under them, and he steps aside,
but, nevertheless, he almost mechanically puts
his hand in the region of her heart.

It has stopped: not a beat  not a sign of life.

With a cry of horror he realises what has
happened, he lifts himself up rapidly, and, as he
moves away, his foot touches what, even in the
dark, he knows to be a razor. For a moment
he loses all presence of mind, but rapidly the
terrible peril of his situation rushes on him, the
desperate necessity of self-preservation comes to
his rescue. He must fly anywhere or anyhow,
for to remain here is to be accused of her murder.
Was there ever such a ghastly predicament !

But how escape with all this blood on him !
Then he forces himself to think calmly. The
kitchen, the tap of water.

Thither he gropes his way, avoiding to touch
the walls with his blood-stained hands, and
having found a cloth in the sink, turns on the
water, which however only trickles feebly. He
however succeeds in getting the thick of the
blood off his hands. Then he bethinks him of
going into the room for the bit of candle, but he
shrinks from doing so. It has dropped close at
the feet of that nameless thing,  he cannot
face it. No, he must content himself with what
he has done. Then he remembers that his feet
have trodden in her blood, he rubs violently at
the soles of his boots, with the cloth, passing his
hands over them afterwards to satisfy himself
they are dry. Then he hurries off, snatching
up his hat from the table, all in the dark, and
not daring to cast his eyes into the room where
she lies. He draws the door carefully to after
him, leaving the key inside, and it locks itself.

"Ah! there!" he says, 'that is fortunate,
they may not come here for some hours, or days
to find her, and I shall be safe back again by
that time in England."

Outside he stands irresolute and wishes now
that he had acted more deliberately. He
should have seen her face, her throat, it would
have been an intense relief if the death-wound
looked as if unmistakably delivered by her own
hand. And then her pockets ! What a fool
not to have searched them. But it is too late,
the door has locked behind him, she is in there,
and gone for ever from his sight or touch.

He hurries downstairs. In the Impasse he
sees the Sergent de Ville who had accompanied
the inebriate Monsieur Bricquet home. He
seems to be hanging about in a suspicious
manner, at least to Gould's heated imagination,
and now crosses over as Gould walks down the
street.

"What the devil is he up to?" mutters Gould.

But it is merely harmless curiosity on the
part of the Sergent. He knows something of
Madame Richard, by repute, he is inquisitive
as to whom she has been receiving. For he
has not learnt that she has left the quarter.
However he does not succeed in seeing
Gould's face, for that individual is seized with
a sudden desire to blow his nose and in so
doing covers up his features completely.

''II est tard, monsieur" says the Sergent.
Eleven is striking."

Gould makes no answer. Cursing him in his
heart he hurries on and finally reaches his hotel
on the Port without encountering anything
to inspire him with fresh fears. Having
locked himself in his bedroom, he takes off his
clothes and minutely examines every part of
them for spots of blood. Such as there are
are easily removed, except a few on his cuff,
which he carefully burns to ashes. He then
applies the same scrutiny to his boots, but they
are now clear of anything that could raise
suspicion, and finally after much deliberation he
puts them outside his door to be brushed. He
then partly redresses himself and rings for the
waiter, of whom he orders brandy. When
this is brought he seizes it with avidity, gulps
down half a tumbler, and gives instructions to
be called at seven without fail : for his steamer
goes at eight. He remains a long time sipping
brandy and thinking over all the ghastly affair
of the last few hours, and now that the spirit
has warmed him up and inspired him with a
little more courage, he begins to laugh at his
own fears, whilst his brutish insensibility to the

pain and misery of others makes him indifferent
to the sufferings of the wretched woman who
has thus voluntarily met her death. But
more rapidly than he expects the effect of the
brandy passes off, the horror is too true and too
terrible to be kept long in the background.
That face with the frightful gash on the throat
which he can so well picture to himself, comes
and peers at him ; again he feels that half warm
body which then for the first time in all the long
years he had known it did not shrink from his
touch. Involuntarily he looks at his hands,
pah ! there is nothing on them ! Then rises up
before him a long vista of bye-gone days ;
how he became possessed of one of those insatiable
desires for this woman which were
part of his nature ; how, sated with possession
in a few short days, he had reduced his
reluctant and shuddering bride to the condition
of the most abject slave, reminding her in her
misery that he had taken her with a stain on
her honour. Then their life together, with all
its vicissitudes ; for her only different stages of
poverty and degradation, though with many
interludes for him of riotous wealth. He could
well remember how she had struggled on,

without one solitary act of kindness on his part
to illumine, with ever so feeble a ray, her dark
and lonely path, her joyless existence. And this
the end! That hour of agony in the Impasse
which he had dimly witnessed, and then 
suicide. His fears now came back tenfold, he
could have screamed, as his memory crowded
the room with phantoms of her : her face
seemed everywhere, stony-eyed, lips livid, teeth
white and clenched  staring at him  never
again to go away. At last he flings himself on
the bed, as he is, and buries his head in the
pillows. But he cannot remain quiet ; this is
worse, he must rise again. He goes to the window.
What would he not give for the society
of some human being, or even to see someone
walking about outside ! Yes ! there is a
figure, a silent motionless Douanier who stands
gazing down into the mud of the Port,
as motionless as a dead Capuchin in the
Roman Catacombs, and apparently with not
much more duty to perform. But Gould turns
his eyes from him,  the man suggests the
Law to his heated fancy  and that is not
pleasant, so he goes and sits down on the edge
of the bed, aimlessly waiting, with feverish

restlessness, for the morning light. But he
will not dress himself until he has an opportunity
of again examining his clothes by daylight,
fearing that marks may have been invisible
at night which will show under the
glare of the sun. Dawn finds him minutely
searching his clothes again, and then he dresses
and puts up the rest of his things in his handbag.
He then determines to sally forth and
wait on the pier until it is time to start ; so
he takes his hand-bag with him and leaves
it on the hall table together with his over-coat
and travelling rug. Not a soul is astir, not
even the Boots, so he lets himself out and
walks away towards the pier.

But the fresh morning air seems to do little
for him, his mind is strangely upset, and
when the fish-wives gaze at him with surprise
at seeing him out so early, he interprets their
look into suspicious curiosity. It seems as if
the next two hours will never pass, as i( the
first whistle of the steamer will never reach
him. At last it is time to go back to the
hotel and get his traps. In the hall two men
are talking ; a Sergent de Ville and the landlord,
and Gould is so agitated he can scarcely com-vol.

II. 14

and himself whilst paying his bill. He would
give worlds to know what the Sergent wants,
but dares not ask. So he learns nothing, and
laying hold of his bag and rug, goes off with
the utmost despatch to the steamer, and retires
immediately down below. But he does not feel
in any degree easier until he hears the usual
bellowing and shouting which precedes the
departure of a steamer from France, or until
the premonitory splash and throb of the paddle-wheels
informs him that the engineer is standing
by to go a-head. Then the warps are castoff,
with more shouting, and a good deal of
swearing at the expense of a fat old woman
who has managed to get one of the coils round
her legs, and Gould looking up through the
saloon scuttle can see the gangway being hauled
ashore ; views, sans gene, the ankles of women
who have come to see their friends off;  sees
the customary red-nosed English bankrupt,
sighing for that shore to which he cannot
return ;  the sturdy bare legs of the French
shrinking girls, and all that motley group of
idlers and loafers whose business in a watering
place seems to be confined to attending the
arrival and departure of passenger steamers.

As the vessel rounds the head of the pier and
takes her first graceful dip over the bar, Gould
ventures on deck, thanking God, as much as
is in him possible, for having got away from
Boulogne. A south-westerly breeze is tipping
the waves with white horses, and the foreigners
are setting their teeth as if preparing for death.
Gould takes shelter under the weather sponsor,
but a light sea breaks on the paddle-wheel, and
there is a shower of water which makes him
skip on to a grating near his feet. It then,
strikes him, for the first time as he looks down,
that he is still wearing his shoes. He has left
his boots behind him at the hotel when he
bolted away in such a hurry at sight of the
Sergent de Ville ! Instantly all his partially-recovered
self-composure vanishes ! What
cursed bad luck ! what terrible consequences
may not come of this ! And so he tortures
his mind for a long, long time, a prey to
indecision as to whether he ought not to go
back and fetch them. But there might be
needless risk in doing so. His name is not in
them, they may never be thought of by anyone,
the Boots will appropriate them, and
that will be an end of it. Then the idea

occurred to him to write to Restlgouche, who
might still be in Boulogne. But he had not
that individual's Boulogne address, and before a
letter would be likely to reach him through
Paris he might have left, and, possibly the
letter might get into wrong hands. So Gould
perforce determined to do nothing, as there was
nothing to be done which might not still further
implicate him.

AN IMPARTIAL INVESTIGATION.

In the meanwhile Restlgouche had been ferreting
about in Boulogne, after his own fashion, for
traces of Nellie, which consisted in engaging all
and sundry in conversation whom he chanced to
meet in the various drinking-shops where he
spent his day. This process of enquiry naturally
produced a considerable degree of intoxication
before night, if productive of nothing else,
and it was with difficulty that he could restrain
his desire to go up to the Impasse and see
how the land lay. But the chances of meeting
Gould acted as a deterrent, and he resolved to
wait until he felt sure of the coast being clear.
In the morning, however, still semi-inebriate
and with his passion for ''la belle crosswise''
by no means moderated, he made up his
mind to go and enquire in the immediate
neighbourhood of the Impasse as to what had

recently transpired there or whether the missing
woman had returned, and fortifying himself
with a cup of coffee with a strong dash of cognac
in it which the servant of his lodgings administered
to him In bed, he rose, donned his
clothes, rubbed the corners of his eyes with a
wet towel and started off gaily on his quest. It
was later than he thought as he passed the
clock in the church In the market place, so he
lost no time In reaching the Vaudeville. Such
life as there was in the Impasse was astir, ashe
discovered by a narrow escape from slops
that were Incontinently being flung out of the
windows, and by the monotonous rat-tat-tat,
rumble, rat-tat-tat rumble, of Monsieur Bricquet's
hammer as he drove on his hoops and whirled
round his tubs. But Restlgouche would not
venture to ascend the stairs leading to Mrs.
Gould's apartment although the street door was
standing, as usual, wide open. He preferred
to reconnoitre a little, and therefore approached
the cellar flap and gazed down on the toiling
cooper, who, up to his knees In sweet-smelling
shavings, was working away In a long blue apron,
with bared arms. To enter into conversation
with this artificer was not difficult, though Rests

had no idea he was addressing Mrs.
Gould's landlord. A strong feeling of sympathy
seemed to establish itself at once between the
two men, probably communicated by the overpowering
smell of spirits which passed from
one to the other, and thus, or by some process
of unconscious cerebration, each recognized in
the other a kindred lover of the bottle. So
when Restigouche remarked that it was a fine
morning, the cooper replied, with an alacrity
suggestive of immediate drink, that it was
undoubtedly fine for those who could walk
about and take their pleasure, a hint not lost
on Restigouche who at once invited Monsieur
Bricquet to accompany him to the nearest
drinking-shop.

After drinks, and some casual talk, Rests
works round to his object. He informs
Monsieur Bricquet that he himself, he who
addresses him, is a person of peculiar idiosyncracies,
one being that he thinks he would like
to find some little apartment in this part, this
very identical Impasse. He is a Poet, and is
fond of retirement, but at the same time being
a Stage Poet, he must have facilities for
observing the life of the People, and it occurs

to him from what has just happened in the
matter of the slops, this particular locality
would undoubtedly present great opportunities
for realistic study.

Yes ! Monsieur Bricquet thought there was
some life in their Impasse, people resided here
that Monsieur the Poet could Httle conceive,
dramas even flourished in this shady court, 
love,  intrigue,  and God knows what. And as
to an apartment, he, the cooper, happened to
know exactly the thing the poet and dramatist
wanted, an empty logement of three pieces, salon,
bedroom, and kitchen, a discreet apartment  a
top floor, isolated  and of which he who spake,
was the proprietor.'

Restigouche opens his eyes. Mrs. Gould's
very apartment evidently ! What a lucky
chance ! Now he may learn something of her
goings and comings. ' And were these desirable
rooms empty now, at this moment ? '
enquires the poet. * Well, the proprietary
could not say for certain, for his tenant, an
English woman with a child, had menage sans
wagon ni mot dire and had apparently fled. It
was a way they had in the Impasse sometimes,
but as his rent had been paid in advance

to the end of the month, it did not concern
him. But ** one of those English " had been
back to the apartment, the man who passes for
Madame's husband, and he had heard from
Madame Capleuse, a neighbour, that the woman
herself" had been seen to return late last night,
but as the child was not with her the supposition
was that she had left again later on in the'
night.'

"This is indeed interesting," says Restigouche,
feeling his heart bound at the chance of seeing
Nellie again.

*' Yes," says Bricquet ; " it would look well ina
drame, I have no doubt."

I suppose she is still there," says Restigouche.
'rand in that case the rooms are not disposable?"

*' I cannot say. I have not seen her come
out yet. Her habit was to come and fetch her
two sous of bread every morning  long before
this hour, and then the child's face, always
white, could be seen looking out of the window
watching for the mother's return."

This uncertainty then must decide me to
look elsewhere for rooms," says Restigouche,
*' unless you could ascertain if she is there now,
or if she is intending to remain."

I can do that Immediately  nothing easier.
See, I go. You will wait ? "

So Bricquet sallies forth, and enters the house,
and In the quiet of the deserted place the
knocking of his knuckles, lo ; and long, on the
door reaches Restlgouche through the open
staircase window. But as he cannot gain
admittance Bricquet descends and Restlgouche
comes out to meet him.

'' She Is either asleep or has gone out. I
will fetch my other key and go up and see.
You can come with me," says Bricquet.

'* No thank you," replies Restlgouche not
being at all certain of the reception he may receive.
'' I will continue to wait here," and he
re-enters the wine-shop and sits down at a
chair In the window, drawing aside the fly-spotted
muslin curtain, so as to command a full
view of the Impasse. 

Monsieur Bricquet thumps again, and It
seems to Restlgouche that he has some difficulty
in gaining admittance even with his
second key, and the idea occurs to him that
perhaps Nellie has espied him, Restlgouche,
in the Impasse, and refuses to admit Monsieur
Bricquet, whom she takes for the messenger of

Love. But in a moment something occurs which
causes Restigouche to spring to his feet, for
Bricquet emerges from the house in great haste,
as if being driven out, with a tottering step ; with
a dazed, bewildered look,  visible even at that
distance  and giving vent to those loud bellows
for help which only a Frenchman in bodily
fear can produce  Matt Sec ours ! Au Secours !

Instantly heads appear at various windows,
and as Monsieur Bricquet continues to roar for
help, and there being no immediate indications
of peril in the street, the heads, one after the
other, are withdrawn and their owners appear
in person in the street, and assemble round the
chattering, terrified cooper. At first it is impossible
to make head or tail of what it is all
about, as everyone is gesticulating, vociferating,
and throwing their arms about in the air, and
pointing to the house from which the cooper
has come, whilst they all pull and haul each
other so roughly that one expects every moment
to see their garments come off their backs.

Restigouche is soon amongst them, taking the
precaution however, to toss off both glasses of
brandy which have been poured out for him and
his friend the cooper. He is keenly anxious

to know what It is and wonders why no one
attempts to approach the house  if there is anything
wrong, but rather seem to shrink farther
and farther away from it. And he sees that
a great fear has fallen on them all, men
catching hold of men, women holding on to
anyone indiscriminately ; the gabble of their
voices growing less, as in the presence of some
terror. Then his ears catch the awful words,
'Suicide!' 'Murder!' 'Assassin!' His heart
stops beating ; a great trembling seizes him ;
he leans on a neighbouring arm.

For it flashes across him that this is Nellie
they are speaking of, that the fair Scotch woman
is lying dead, and then, oh ! horror ! that Gould
has murdered her !

But, with a supreme effort to control himself,
he represses the ardent wish to ask questions.
He must not appear to take too great an interest
in this sinistre ; let him wait, he will learn
all without exciting suspicion. But he has not
long to wait, for the cooper seeing in him a
new listener, begins to tell the story again for the
twentieth time ; each time succeeding in making
it a little more dramatic and detailed, so
that all alike listen anew with increased interest.

The woman is dead " he repeats '' blood
everywhere ! all over the floor. I who tell you
the mother of the child  but dressed in better
clothes. She is there, in the bedroom ; her head
by the bed, enveloped in bed-clothes. Ah !
you should see Aa, Monsieur the Poet ! "

But the poet has no wish to see the ghastly
sight. The news seems to have shattered his
nerves, and he merely stands an open-mouthed
and gaping listener. In the meanwhile the
Police have arrived  six or eight of them  for
some one had run off to summon them,  and
now they stand in a semicircle round the door
of the house, as if it were tenanted by some
desperate assassin who might suddenly burst out
on them. Then after frequent adjurations to
each other to have courage, they manfully
plunge up the stairs, casting a melodramatic
look on the crowd behind, as though they were
ascending a forlorn hope ; the shuddering
women murmuring applause,

*' Va / lis not pas peter  ceux-la ! "

Monsieur Bricquet, much against his wish, and
in spite of expostulations, has been carried off
with the Police but the rest of the crowd now
draw back and stand gazing up at the windows.

Everything is of the utmost interest, and when
an old hag in a room below that where the
sinistre has happened, who, being stOne deaf
has heard nothing at all of the disturbance, suddenly
puts her head out of her window in her
nightcap, all the women in the crowd give
a scream, and the men look white, until they
are reassured by some one discovering that
it is on the wrong floor, so that the old white-headed
apparition can be neither the dead
woman's ghost, nor likely to be her murderess.
After an absence of nearly half-an-hour upstairs,
which appears like three hours to the impatient
crowd,  now considerably swelled,  the
band of devoted heroes returns, with faces on
which fright and official self-importance sit
strangely blended, whilst to the intense disgust of
the crowd they refuse to give a single word of
information as to what they have seen or discovered.
Evidently what they do know is locked
in their bosoms by the deepest official reticence,
and, what is worse still, they have enjoined the
strictest silence on the garrulous cooper, under
pain of his being instantly flung into prison,
which, however, is rather superfluous, as he
has not been allowed inside the door of the

bedroom. Rumour, however, has been busy.
Several men have been seen lately to visit the
murdered woman, Englishmen and Frenchmen
too. The chief authority for this is the apple-woman
before mentioned, for she makes it her
business to see who goes in and out of the
Impasse, and generally knows by the 'cut of
their jib ' whom they are about to visit. And
amongst these recent visitors was a dark
Englishman and a light one, but, above all, was
there not a small fat Parisian, with a Paris hat,
only a day or two ago, who went away from
this very house one morning mysteriously with
a bag in his hand ? She, the apple woman,
would like someone to tell her if all that meant
nothing ?

But Restigouche, who is eagerly listening, now
thinks it time to be off He does not wait for
the reply of the crowd to these queries ; he sidles
quietly away, jauntily at first, then increases his
speed when round the corner, increases it still
more when still farther off, and descends the
Grande Rue at a dog trot, a violent uncomfortable
exercise, his fat person waggling about with
every step. He rushes into his lodgings in
the Rue d' Assessed, hurriedly seizes his travelling-bag,

and just manages to catch a train starting
for Paris.

And he has done wisely, for the next moment
after he has left the crowd in the Impasse, the
Police have laid hands on the old woman, and
hale her before the Jttge d Instruction, to give
evidence of all these things, and doubtless she
would have identified Restigouche.

Then, by-and-bye, the crowd have the satisfaction
of seeing a bevy of official persons
appear on the scene, the Magistrate  Doctors, 
Head of Police,  who strut down through the
mob with their noses cocked in the air : the
weight and dignity of the Republic of France
resting on them. Irresistibly comic as they
must appear to every one present, not a titter
escapes the crowd, not a sign of levity appears
in a single eye. They are not to be mocked !
Allan I

Then they form themselves into a little procession,
the Head of the Police first, supported
by two Sergents, then the Magistrate, and then
the Doctors, the rear brought up by more
Sergents. In this order they ascend the stairs
and proceed to make the most careful judicial
and medical examination of everything, stripping

the poor unresisting dead body and stretching
it out amongst the debris of the luncheon left
on the table.

But a very short survey points clearly that it
is a case of suicide, for the Police have given
an exact account of how the body lay at the
side of the bed, the bed-clothes partly over the
face, the razor lying close by. But just as they
are about to make formal entry of this view in
their notes a Sergent discovers the blood-stained
towel on which Gould had wiped his hands  
thus upsetting this theory. This is a puzzler.
It is clear the woman herself never went to the
kitchen to wipe her hands, the wound was too
deep and deadly to render that possible, so someone
else must have done so, and if so, who but
her Murderer? And now, their attention drawn
in this direction, they discover conclusive corroboration
of the fact that some one was here
when the woman fell, for the large flat sole of a
pointed boot has left its impress in red on the
kitchen floor. Moreover they have found
Gould's stick, too valuable a stick to have
belonged to any one in such miserable circumstances
as the dead woman, and evidently left
here by mistake. However the stick did not

VOL. II. 15

weigh for much with the Magistrate or the
Head of the Police, for after a moment's consultation
aside, they ordered that the cooper
should be seized, and at once submitted him
to a preliminary cross-examination, without a
moment's warning. In this he was compelled
to admit that he, and he only, had the keys of
this house ; that he was frequency drunk ; that
he was avaricious and greedy for money ; that
he knew this woman had occasional sums of
money in her possession ; that he was aware
that at the hour she must have met her death
she was quite alone in the house ; that he had a
bad character in the neighbourhood for conjugal
fidelity, and had openly expressed his
admiration for la belle cossaise ; that he had
once given her credit when her rent was not
forthcoming, contrary to his usual custom of
immediate eviction under similar circumstances ;
that, though he now wore a beard, he had once
been in the habit of shaving and must therefore
of necessity still be the proprietor of a razor.
His confused answers, elicited in a paroxysm of
fright, proving satisfactory as pointing to him
as the murderer, the next proceeding, and one
dearly beloved by our neighbours across the

Channel as productive of ' situations,' was to
confront him with the dead body of his victim ;
so, gripped by the throat and with one arm
screwed up behind him so tight that the
shoulder-blade is in danger of dislocation, the
terrified cooper is marched into the sitting-room
from the passage where he has been standing
during his interrogatory. The body in the
meanwhile has been carried into the bedroom
and lies extended on the bed with a sheet
thrown over it, which is partly removed by
the medical man when Bricquet enters. A
ghastly sight truly and one that may well make
this nerveless toper shrink. And he does
shrink,  shrink away with horror and turn
deadly white, to the intense delight of the
Magistrate who instantly whispers to his clerk
the impressions he is to scribble down, whilst
the Police tighten their grip. But at last
Bricquet finds his tongue and gasps out,

*' But by the great God, it is not the woman !
It is not my locataire''

*' How ! Liar ! " shrieks the Magistrate.

"How? why the Ecossaise had reddish hair,
her skin was of snow ; this woman is dark-haired
and dark-skinned," whimpers Bricquet.

'silence, Brigand!" roars the Magistrate.
'' How dearest thou lie, in the presence of thy
victim ? This is merely an idle invention, 
with thy red hairs, and thy black hairs, and thy
skin of snow."

'every one in the quarter knew her," whines
the cooper.

Again silence, I command thee ! " screams
the Magistrate, exasperated at this barefaced
attempt to upset his views. And turning to
the other persons,  " Did you ever hear such
audacity? Did we not all observe his pallor and
trepidation when confronted with the corpse ? "

"We did," they all echo, "we did."

"Away with him then  to the cells ! What
to me are his different mistresses? this profligate
debauchee. If it is not the Ecossaise it is some
other woman he has murdered. Listen, Assassin
and Brigand," he goes on, turning to the
speechless cooper. " I tell thee thou hast not
bettered thy case by lying. I will take care tolet
the jury know that. I tell thee I know all
how that even if thou didst not know her
previously, thou hast decoyed her into thy
house, knowing that no one was in here, and
hast, after God knows what villainy, murdered

her and robbed her of her last sou. Away
with him ! Place irons on him ! "

The news quickly spreads outside that it is
proved beyond doubt that Bricquet has committed
the murder, and when the miserable man
reaches the Impasse, in the hands of the
Se7'ge7its, who have already manacled him, the
air resounds with cries of 'assassin ! Assassin!"
and men and women glare ferociously on him
without a spark of pity for his abject and
dejected demeanour. And, indeed, things do
look black for him, for the Serpent who had
escorted him home the night before, has borne
witness that Monsieur Bricquet was unusually
drunk, and particularly communicative, and that
he had said that if he chose to speak, the said
Seigent would be surprised to hear what scenes
of gallantry went on in this very Impasse, and
how frequently he, the amorous cooper, received
secret visits from ladies of the best bourgeoisie
of BouloQfne who intrigued with him under the
guise of employing him in making tubs for them.
And, moreover, this impartial witness, not wishing
to run counter to the general drift of public
opinion, carefully refrains from saying a word
about having seen Gould coming from the house.

Then the next spectacle for the horror-longer,
whose numbers have hourly augmented
as news of the tragedy spreads through
the town, is the removal of the body to the
mortuary at the Police Station. With a thin
sheet spread over it, displaying every contour
of the lifeless limbs, it is borne past the gibbering,
scoffing, indecent mob, who push and
elbow each other, with morbid curiosity, to get
as near as possible, and who, as the first shock
passes off, joke and laugh as if the ghastly
tragedy had been especially prepared for their
amusement.

In the meanwhile the authorities are making
searching enquiries at every hotel for any
stranger to whom this massive gold-headed
stick can belong, but without avail. Or it is
suggested that the stick really belonged to the
woman, who was no doubt a stranger in Bologna,
and may have had it in her hand when
decoyed by the infamous cooper into his den.
But no information of any kind can be obtained,
no one remembers to have ever seen this mute
witness of the tragedy. So the stick returns to
the Police Dead House, to lie exposed to view
by the side of the hardly less nude woman,

whose dishonoured remains become an object
of prurient curiosity to many hundreds who
come to gaze on her under pretext of identification,
with no more pity than if it had been
the body of a dead dog washed up by the tide,
and without a thought of what must have been
the agony, contrition, and misery which came
to so awful an end.

But there was not a clue as to who she was,
and after many days, the authorities had nothing
left them but to fall back on the old apple
woman, an exercise, however, which did nothing
to advance justice, and did not even incriminate
the cooper, to the intense disgust of the
Jiige cT Instruction, the Greffier, the Police and
innumerable other noodles, legal and medical,
who were enraged to find there was no evidence
to support the view of the case they had so
promptly taken and, as they doubtless thought,
had so cleverly constructed. It is true they kept
Bricquet in prison for nearly six weeks, hoping
against hope, but it was proved beyond a
shadow of doubt that all through the night of the
murder he had slept, dead drunk, between his
wife and a son of fourteen years old, whilst
a heterogeneous family connection of uncles

nephews, and nieces, had occupied another
bed in the same or an adjoining room, who
all swore that he kept them awake half the
night by snoring and swearing in his sleep.
So the authorities were reluctantly compelled
to order his release. But who the poor dead
creature was, or where she came from, remained
an inscrutable mystery  for over two years.
The local papers were full of the case, and
various versions of the story gained credence.
An English woman had been lured into
a den of infamy and murdered by a drunken
cooper who was well known in his quarter
for his atrocious life of crime. He had been
probably aided and abetted by an old apple
woman not unknown in the Hauteville but
whose name was for the present withheld. A
valuable gold-headed stick of peculiar design,
the nude form of a female, had been found in
the room ; the foot marks of the murderer were
plainly visible, but though they did not coincide
with those which the cooper would have made,
still the authorities were of opinion that he had
borrowed some one else's boots on purpose to
throw people off the scent.

And this was the account which fell under

the bleared eyes of the booty Restigouche, who
from sheer fright, had not allowed himself to be
sober for two consecutive hours since his return
to Paris. It caused him deep and earnest
reflection : for well did he know whose stick
this was. Had he not seen it only a few hours
previous to the murder in Gould's hands ? He
read the newspaper account over and over
again, but as there was not the slightest allusion
to the statement made by Monsieur
Bricquet that the body was not that of his
locatahe, and as there was no personal description
given of the dead woman, Restigouche
naturally never thought of it as any one but
Nellie.

Nor can he doubt that Gould is her murderer,
a thought so staggering that until he has tossed
off two or three glasses of cognac he is too
overcome to walk away from the cafe. Recovering,
somewhat, his presence of mind,
however, by observing that not a word is said
about himself, he pockets the newspaper, retires
to his own room and locks it up carefully in a
drawer for future reference.

THE DISCOVERY.

Madeline, escorted by Pitt, had duly arrived
in Paris and, having reasonable doubts as to
the fidelity of the concierge in the Rue St.
Anne, and not being at all desirous that her
arrival should be made known to Gould in
London, took a room at the Hotel du Nord
opposite the station, sending her mother a
telegram to come there and see her. Pitt
proceeded to another hotel nearer the centre
of Paris and soon after breakfast called on
Dubois, who, having been apprised of his
coming by a telegram from Gould, was ready
to receive him. Monsieur Dubois was not a
particularly communicative person, nor a very
popular one in his neighbourhood. His broad
flat face, mottled in colour like an uncooked
sausage ; his furtive greenish eyes, which rarely
looked one in the face ; his short squab nose

with its distended nostrils ; his bloodless lips,
garnished by a moustache like a worn-out
tooth-brush ; and his mouthful of huge white
teeth, both top and bottom, which one knew
from their cleanliness must be false, made up
a tout ensemble not calculated to produce love
at first sight. How he had grown rich was a
mystery to many in the Quartier, though his
neighbours were accustomed to see persons
of all sorts and conditions going in and out of
his rooms on the entresol of the house in the
Rue St. Anne : Ministers of State ; Deputies ;
Members of the Secret Police ; Municipal Councillors
and Prefects from the Provinces ; and
last, but by no means least, those women, who,
flourishing under all revives alike in France
and almost exclusively confined to Paris, 
members of the aristocratie decree  pull strings
little dreamt of. But to the initiated there was
no great difficulty in accounting for Monsieur
Dubois' wealth. He was a superior kind of
'homines cT affaiies,'' a person with whorl
even a German Jew educated in Aberdeen
and naturalized in New York would stand no
chance  in fact, would be ingenuous in comparison
with him. He was of that order of

go-between whose numbers naturally increase
in exact ratio with the lowering of the franchise
in all lands alike, and who are required in the
process of the distribution of public plunder.
If there was a Constituency to be debauched,
through Dubois' palms passed the Secret Service
money ; if a contract had to be obtained, he
was the person who approached the particular
Minister or bought up the votes of
the Deputies ; if a man wanted to get out
of prison or to escape conviction, Dubois found
the woman who could go and compromise the
Governor of the Gaol or wheedle the Judge ; in
fact, there was nothing he would not undertake,
and indeed few things he did not accomplish.

In this general capacity for doing rascally
work Dubois had naturally become acquainted
with Chertsey, who again had presented Gould
to him, and for Gould he had procured a contract
for some waterworks in a French Province. But
as several people had to be bought, including
the Mayor, the entire Corporation, both the
Deputies and some officials in the Public Works
Department, Dubois had demanded a thousand
pounds down before beginning proceedings.
This had not been forthcoming, but as the

*' business " was too good to lose, Gould had
hypothecated the bonds to him which he
had just stolen from Madeline. But Dubois
who suspected the origin of these bonds,
if he did not then actually know it, had
demurred to the security and it was only after
the greatest trouble and most distinct promises
that they should be redeemed at an early and
fixed date that he had finally consented.
Hence the extreme anxiety of the people in
England to have this matter settled.

Monsieur Dubois rose courteously from his
seat as Pitt entered and begged him to be
seated. " How was the good Gould, also the
fascinating Madame Artaki, and lady, the
admirable Chertsey ? "

** They are all perfectly well," replied Pitt,
cutting him short, for he felt a loathing and
repugnance for the man the moment he looked
in his face. Then he proceeded to unlock his
bag ready to receive the bonds, and produced
his English bank notes,  ten, for 100 each.

Monsieur Dubois could also be a man of few
words, and if this clerk would not respond to
his courtesies then let him go to the devil.

The bonds were immediately produced.

Have the goodness to count them," says
Dubois, '' and examine the coupons that are
attached."

All this Pitt does in a most business-like
way, and then hands him the notes, taking
possession of the bonds and promptly conveying
them to his bag.

'' I think that is all?" says Pitt.

" Yes, unless you want a receipt for the
/ 1,000."

"Not I  the bonds are my receipt. Good
day."

'' Bon jour, '' says Dubois, as briefly as he
can.

And Pitt walks out, calls a cab, and in a few
minutes is at the Hotel du Nord, where he
sends up word to enquire if Madame Ostro-
lena can see him.

Madeline does not delay a moment in
receiving him, and it is difficult to describe
her gratitude and thankfulness in receiving
this large sum of money at his hands. She
herself, as was already explained, had intended
to secure them in some such manner as would
leave him a loophole for returning to the
employment of Mr. Chertsey, but this fast

and loose playing with right and wrong had
been entirely abandoned, not only by her,
but by Pitt too  for he now declared most
plainly that he had once and for all severed
himself from that connection, and that unless
It were to serve her ends In ferreting out more
things now hidden from her as to her husband's
fate, or unless It were her wish that he should
return to look after Madame Artaki and
Norton, nothing should induce him to speak
to any of that crew again.

That this was only right and proper, Madeline
freely admitted. She thought that as long asa
man had hands he could use, and health, it
was better for him to be shearing sheep or
splitting rails In Australia, than living the life
Pitt had hitherto done. But as to whether she
could ask him to go back and make any further
enquiries that, she thought, would chiefly
depend on what the packet of papers which had
fallen into her hands should prove to contain.
For as yet she had not opened the packet ;
waiting for Pitt's return, that their investigation
should be joint and have nothing clandestine
about It. As to her moral right to
examine these documents, she had long since

settled that In her own mind, as well as having
laid down a principle by which she intended to
be ruled in perusing them. As there was no
doubt that Gould and his associates had been
instrumental in bringing disgrace and ruin on
herself and her husband, she was not disposed
to listen to any Quixotic sentiment forbidding
reprisals  or which would prevent her carrying
the war into their own country. Indeed, far
from feeling any squeamishness in the matter,
she determined to use the opportunity Providence
had put in her way to the utmost, and
had not the least intention of flinching even if it
ended in putting all concerned into the dock.
As to the principle, however, she intended to
leave unexamined any papers that were clearly
unconnected with her own or her husband's
past. These she should consider private, and
might or might not return anonymously to
Gould.

Pitt entirely coincided with these views,
feeling that the interests at stake more than
justified them in examining these documents,
and so, having temporarily secured the bonds,
they drew a table up to the window and began
their investigation. Before however, proceeding

farther, they read the letters which Pitt
had discovered in the house in the Impasse,
addressed to Gould in Madame Artaki's
writing.

There appeared to be a series of them, dating
some time back  the first announcing to him that
she had got away from Constantinople, though
there were no details given, and that she was
then at Corfu, from whence she hoped soon to
make a start for Trieste. Then came a number
of notes, written chiefly in Paris, and then
an important letter in which Madeline's name
figured. This was evidently when Madame
Artaki had first put Gould up to going to stay
in the Rue St. Anne, with the idea of working
himself into Madeline's favour, with the ultimate
object of recovering her bonds from the Turkish
government. The whole scheme was artfully and
admirably worked out, indeed, just as it subsequently
happened ; but now a new light broke
on Madeline, namely, the difference, in a moral
sense, between Madame Artaki and Gould, for
though both were apparently quite competent to
defraud the public by promoting bogus companies,
or by plundering in Government contracts,
yet there was a line she drew which Gould
VOL. II. 16

would not recognise. She stopped at actual theft
from the person ; like many other respectable
people in business, who, though they do not
scruple to adulterate their wares ; mix willows
with their tea ; buy their Cadiz sherry in
Hamburg, and their fine champagne from a
Leith distiller, would be immeasurably shocked
at the idea of actually appropriating sovereigns.
Madame Artaki was one of these. Gould had
apparently announced the success of his exploits
in Paris when the bonds had been stolen ; but
the reply letter from Madame Artaki was full
of indignation. He must restore this money
immediately. She would be no party to such
a mean, dishonourable action  she had never
stooped so low before  and many other excellent
sentiments  the old story in fact, another
House of Ripon, but without Divine sanction
which made all the difference. What Gould
had replied naturally did not appear, but it was
plain that to restore the bonds was out of his
power, as they had been hypothecated to
Dubois.

Madeline's comments on these letters were
that Madame Artaki was a most singular
compound. Pitt's were that she was like

thousands of others, who, in some concerns in
life draw much the same arbitrary distinction.
Of course he was very bitter and very young,
but for the life of him he did not see the difference
between her and the lawyer who swells
his bills to a monstrous size ; the doctor who
pays needless visits, consciously imposing on
his patients ; the priest who pretends he is
getting people to heaven by means of some
preposterous ceremony, for which he must be
paid before he will do it ; and so on through
many other degrees and stations of recognised
robbery.

The end of the argument, however, is that
they both think better of her and worse of
Gould.

This packet finished, their attention is drawn
to the bundle rescued from Restigouche, which
clearly requires careful study. It is composed
of an immense number of letters arranged
chronologically, and, as many of them are in
French and Italian, and are addressed to a
variety of persons, Madeline has a considerable
amount of work in glancing over them. However,
from the very outset they are of the
deepest interest, for they plunge at once into

the intrigue concerning the Syrian Army Contracts
and lay bare the entire scheme. No
detail seems wanting, no names omitted, and,
as the story draws to a close they substantiate
the fact in the clearest manner possible, that
her husband, Otho Ostrolenka, was the scapegoat
throughout, and indeed the only honest
man concerned in the whole transaction.

Madeline pored over these letters, a prey to
a thousand conflicting emotions. All the wrong
and misery of all these years past lay at the
door of this dreadful woman and her confederates,
and, worse than all, to them and their diabolical
machinations, she owed the loss of her beloved
husband. It was this thought that made it so
hard to bear,  that made her rise from her seat
and pace the room distractedly, whilst Pitt,
looking on, could offer no consolation or words
of advice. Indeed, there was nothing to be done,
for here was a long account of her husband's
imprisonment in the horrid dungeons of Beyrout ;
whence, as Madeline had learnt, he had been
ordered to Koniah but had died on the journey.

But at last by an effort she regained her
composure, and once more returned to the
task of looking over the documents. Numbers

of these were of no personal interest to her,
and were at once laid aside, and indeed, after
nearly two hours' examination she became so
wearied of the work that she had determined
to desist, and had requested Pitt to tie them up
again. But as Pitt began to lay them in
bundles with their dates in proper order, he
caught sight of some of very recent date, and
these he thought he would open. Madeline
had gone to her room, but Pitt summoned
her back.

Madame Ostrolenka," he says guardedly,
I have made another discovery, but I must
beg you will prepare yourself, for this fresh
piece of news, believe me, is news,  news
second to none."

'' Tell me, Mr. Pitt. I can stand anything,
now. I am fortified against surprise." But his
face is pale and his manner agitated. Is it such
wonderfully good news to him Has it shattered
no air castle of his own building ? God
knows. But whether or no he goes on manfully.


'' This is marvellous," he says in a solemn
voice. ** It is about your husband. He is not
dead."

''He is not dead'' repeats Madeline, almost
mechanically, and with unnatural calm, for the
statement is too impossible of credence. ** You
forget the letters we have just read, Mr. Pitt.
I have often tried to buoy myself up with the
idea that this story, too, was false ; but if that
were the case, I think his name would not
have appeared in this correspondence."

"It is false  all false," says Pitt fervently
gazing at her. '' The true story is in this
letter." He opens a letter and puts it in her
hand, watching her face as she reads.

Calmly and steadily she reads to the end,
then looks up.

'this is the hand of God," she says, and
regardless of his presence, she kneels down, her
hands go up above her head, and Pitt hears
her deep and earnest thanks. '' My God, my
God, I thank Thee ! " whilst tears well up in
her eyes and roll over her cheeks.

Then with wonderful self-control she rises
from her knees and re-reads the letter. It is in
English, but the English of a foreigner, and is
signed Nicoupoli. It is addressed to Madame
Artaki and tells her briefly that her request that
Ostrolenka shall be removed from the prison in



Antioch to some safer and more remote place
will be complied with, though the Grand Vizier
thinks him safe enough where he is. But he
has interceded with the Kain Effendinn and the
man will be shortly sent to Cairo, to be imprisoned
there,  a batch of political and other
prisoners are shortly to be sent to the Khedive
Ostrolenka will go with them. The letter is
dated only a month ago, but Madeline trembles
when she thinks how long in point of time that
is. For if he has gone, she feels that she has
only caught sight of him as it were to lose him
more irretrievably than ever. For well does
she know the meaning of the dungeons of Cairo,
those terrible places whence no human being
ever returns to light and life.

The thought of this is already beginning to
fill her with despair. May she not be too late
to effect his rescue ? What are the first steps to
take ? Can she use these documents ? can she
produce this evidence of his innocence in time
to avert this final calamity .- Ah ! no, and she
shudders to think how hopeless any idea of
justice in Turkey is. How well she knows
the interminable dilatoriness with which everything
druses, the well-devised methods for

postponing everything, procrastination reduced
to a science, and especially in such a case as
this where the act of clemency must come from
the hands of the Sultan himself. And what
chance is there of that ? None, worse than
none, for this very letter demonstrates that
Madame Artaki's friends are In power again,
and Madeline feels a fresh burst of despair
as she now remembers that the Grand Vizier
is the same individual restored to power who
was Madame Artaki's friend, ally, and adorer
at the time of Ostrolenka's fall. That settles it
in her own mind that any appeal to justice is
hopeless. But what possible motive had
Madame Artaki in wishing to condemn her husband
 If not to death at least to a living tomb?
There must be a motive ; but utterly beyond
Madeline's divination. And what a strange
complexity did this act give to the character of
the woman whose vehement denunciation of
Gould's robbery she had just been reading !
Evidently it was not from any fear of inconvenient
disclosures her husband might make of
those now in power. If he had never been able
to do so before why should he now ? There was
clearly some private end of Madame Artaki's to

be gained. Then Madeline thought for one moment
of making an appeal to Madame Artaki's
mercy. But this she speedily dismissed from
her thoughts. What ! to her sister's rival,
to her husband's gaoler, and possible murderess
! No, never ! that was utterly, utterly
impossible. No, all that remained now was to
strain every nerve to reach Antioch before her
husband's departure for Cairo  if he had not
started ; and to follow him to Egypt in case he
had been already sent there. And now what
a mercy that the bonds were restored. This,
at all events, put the means at her disposal without
which this rescue would be impossible.

Briefly she explained this to Pitt, and to her
mother who had now arrived, and who was more
upset by this startling news than Madeline
herself, being less heoric and self-reliant than
her daughter. For Madeline had inherited
much of her father's nature ; qualities, which,
trained, had become virtues in her, but which,
neglected, had grown to be vices in her parent.

The matter requiring immediate attention
was the safe disposal of her bonds, and this
was forthwith effected by her calling on a well-known
English Banker into whose hands she

confided them, requesting him at the same time
to be careful that the coupons attached did not
come up for presentation at the Ottoman Bank,
as she had urgent reasons for wishing to keep
them from being traced. As she and her
mother were both well known to this gentleman,
he willingly acceded to what at first appeared
a curious request, and he further kindly
consented to advance Madeline a considerable
sum of money against the security of her
bonds, which Madeline knew she would immediately
require in attempting the rescue of
her husband.

The bonds safely deposited, Madeline and
Pitt determined to go at once to Rouen, in
order that Madeline might see Mrs. Gould and
ascertain from her what farther steps could betaken,
without exciting the suspicions of either
Gould or Madame Artaki. They therefore
dispatched a telegram to Perotte asking her
to be at the Hotel Bourg-thereout with Mrs.
Gould, at a certain hour. Mrs. Romeyn however
returned to the Rue St. Anne, for it was
rightly thought that her sudden disappearance
from her apartments might cause unnecessary
enquiry, and in such a delicate matter

as this, It was not wise to give rise to enquiries
of any kind

Arrived at the hotel in Rouen, Madeline
was met by Perotte and by Mrs. Gould
whose striking appearance impressed her most
favourably. Indeed few ever looked in that
honest, bonnie face without being drawn to it,
for it bore that truest of all beauty, the kindly,
sympathetic look of an unselfish nature. All
restraint or embarrassment immediately disappeared
from between the two women, for
they instinctively recognised kindred spirits in
each other. And Madeline felt at once that
Pitt's rapidly formed estimate of Nellie's character
had not been incorrect.

A few hours' rest and the sense of comparative
freedom and safety had already done
much in removing from Nellie's tell-tale face
many of the traces of care which had so
much moved Pitt's commiseration for her.
Her gratitude both to him and to Madame
Ostrolenka found difficulty in expressing
itself, and she merely mumbled a few words,
whilst she tightly held Madeline's hand, with
moistened eyes.

I cannot tell you how terrible my past has

been, Madame Ostrolenka. I do not think
many women have suffered more. Of course
I cannot even now see the end of my wretchedness,
for my husband may pursue me to my
grave. Still, with God's help I shall endeavour
to keep out of his sight. I can surely find
some kind of work, or I can but starve."

*' Trust me," says Madeline " you shall not
die for want. I have come here with news that
it is of the utmost importance ; which you and I
must discuss immediately  for not an hour is to
be lost. If you can help me in this I shall be
your friend to the end of my life." And then
without any further preamble Madeline narrates
to her astonished listener the story of the
recovery of the papers stolen by Restigouche,
and gives her some idea of their contents.

Nellie is silent with amazement, but at last
she speaks.

" I do not pretend to say what is right in
this. I suppose I should endeavour to persuade
you to return them all to me, they were entrusted
to me, but, first, I know that is useless
and secondly I have suffered too long and too
cruelly at my husband's hands to feel I owe him
any duty or obedience. Keep them, for God's

sake ; my dear Madame Ostrolenka. By all
means let us use our utmost endeavours to
rescue your husband. Now believe me," she
goes on, '' I have been entirely in the dark
about all this, and I positively knew no more
about the contents of the packet, half an hour
ago, than you did yesterday. I have never been
admitted to all these mysteries, and chiefly at
my own request, for I always shrank from
knowing or participating in any of them. I
must however try and tell you what I do know.
I remember many of these names ; yours is
familiar to me, and now I know that of course
the unhappy man I used to hear them laughing
about, from the clever way they had made use
of him in Beyrout, is no other than your
husband. Should I not be less than woman if
I didn't intend to help you ? "

She is so deeply earnest that Madeline
cannot but be impressed.

*' I feel you will, certainly, and now will you
go on, and tell me all you can remember .
for I do not wish to lose an hour before acting
in some way."

'' Well, to return to what I know," continues
Nellie, '* I do know that this last letter from

Nicoupoli as to changing the place of your husband's
imprisonment is genuine. It came only
a few days back. I know Nicoupoli well. He
had had a long-standing quarrel with Madame
Artaki. He was in the Seraskierat, and his
brother was shot in her garden. I cannot tell
you all that story now, but it was a sad,
sad part of my own, which I trust to tell you
some day'*

I shall be only too deeply interested in it,
for your life and mine seem to have been
running parallel for many years."

'* I feel that they have. It seems only
natural we should meet. But to return to
Nicoupoli. Like all Levantines, he tries always
to be on the winning side. Madame Artaki's
Grand Vizier is in office again ; and a Greek,
you know, will forgive the man who has
assassinated his whole family, if his friends
are in power. Therefore we must lose no time
in endeavouring to rescue your husband."

** I suppose it is impossible for you to give meany
idea how we could manage this rescue ? '*

Really I cannot, but I think that if any one
could get to Antioch in time, that it would bea
simple matter of backsheesh to bribe the



Governor of the Gaol, or some warder, to let
your husband escape."

'' That is the only idea that has occurred tome,
and being the most simple is probably the
best," replies Madeline. '' But there are
other matters I wish to ask you about.
Amongst these papers are documents which
interest me deeply. They refer to my late
brother-in-law, Capodistria Bey. He was
involved in these Army Contract frauds. He
was imprisoned and no doubt died soon after,
of that there is no shadow of a doubt. He
however had a wife who was my husband's
sister and they had a little girl. The mother
is dead, but the child I have never heard of.
She is the heiress to all the fortune on the
Capodistrias' and the Ostrolenkas' side as well,
that is  after my husband. It is true this maybe
worth nothing as everything was confiscated.
Still, there are other properties in Greece, which
were beyond their reach. Now some of these
papers refer to this. Can you possibly throw
any light on it ? "

*' What you tell me is indeed very strange,"
replies Nellie, looking very earnest in
Madeline's eyes, and taking both her hands,

"It seems as if we had really been thrown
together for some great object. Listen to me,
for I have things quite as strange to tell you.
Yes! I believe I can throw light on this. It
flashes on me now, that the child I have had
the care of all these years must be the little
girl you speak of! First of all she is Greek,
every line of her face says this. Then when
she came to me there was a great deal of
mystery about her, but I always had an idea
that she was connected with some of Madame
Artaki's schemes, because it was a nurse who
had once been in the Nicoupoli family who
brought her to me. Then amongst the child's
clothes was a solitary garment with a C. marked
on it. Now that is the initial of your sister-in-law,
and it seems to be extremely probable
this must be the very identical little girl you
speak of''

I cannot doubt it," says Madeline deeply
moved. 'rit seems likely, does it not? for no
doubt Madame Artaki is perfectly aware that
this child will inherit a fortune. She may have
some ulterior designs on her. And then it is
also some explanation of her anxiety to get my
husband out of the way ! Who knows that

she may not feel there Is a risk of his escaping
some day and upsetting all these schemes ! It
seems so perfectly natural now that she should
wish to have him safely disposed of in
Cairo''

I think you are right. Indeed I feel sure
you are," says Nellie. '' It seems to fit in with
the whole idea. But there can be no difficulty
in deciding about this child. She has a very
beautiful face, such a face as must be like her
relatives. You could, I think, say without doubt
whether she is your niece or not, if you saw
her."

I surely think I could. I must see the
child as soon as possible."

And thinking over it," goes on Nellie, *' it
seems probable that Madame Artaki means to
have herself formally made this child's guardian.
If she succeeds in doing that, you may say
good-bye to her for ever."

That certainly is a peril, and the child may
not be safe here. But the first and most urgent
thing is to release my husband. And here I
am deeply perplexed, for I myself am exiled
or banished from Turkey, and if I were to
return, and to be recognized, I should only

VOL. II. 17

suffer the same fate as my husband, or that
worse fate which awaits women prisoners in
Turkey. I must find a man who can speak
some foreign languages and knows Asia Minor.
Now, can you think of any one anywhere,
in Athens, for instances"

NelHe pauses in thought, but in a few
moments she looks up.

'' I am sorry I cannot think of a living soul I
could trust. But, I have an idea which has
suddenly come to me. Your girl Perotte hasa
brother,  he has just returned from Syria.
He is at the Manoir. He looks a kind, honest
fellow. We might trust him to find us someone.
What do you think ? "

The idea is excellent. I will talk to Perotte
about it," says Madeline with unfeigned delight.
'* God knows if this may not be my dear
husband's salvation ! "

*' If so it may be a reward to you, for Perotte
has already told me about all your goodness to
her in London."

** Poor Perotte! If her brother is like her I
could indeed trust him, I must ask Perotte all
about him. I will talk to her immediately."

And Perotte was summoned from the room



adjoining where she was waiting to do Madeline's
bidding.

It is needless to say that Perotte had
unbounded belief in her sailor brother. He
was everything that was noble and manly : had
always sent his father and mother money from
abroad : had risen from before the mast to be a
sous-officier : and now, having passed his examinations
was going as Captain of a small sailing
ship to China. Every one loved him, everyone
trusted him. She declared emphatically
that Madeline could trust to his discretion. She
herself would answer for his loyalty.

So at the end of the interview Perotte
was requested to return to the Manoir and
bring back not only her brother Edward, but
also little Oracle, whom Madeline was now
most eager to see.

And whilst Perotte was away Madeline sought
an interview with Pitt, who feeling that Madeline
and Nellie would prefer to be alone had been
roaming about outside examining the quaint old
clock, and the ancient Palais de Justice.

She found him just returning from his ramble,
and asked him to come for a stroll as she had
much to tell him. Then she unfolded all her

scheme for the rescue of her husband, and said
how thankfully she would have entrusted this
enterprise to him if he had had any experience
in the East ; but this seemed essential. A total
stranger might have great difficulty in knowing
how to set to work, and she had therefore been
reluctantly compelled to abandon the idea of
asking him to do this for her.

He had sense enough to see that she
was quite right. The liberty of her husband
was too valuable a stake not to be most
carefully played for, and the least mistake
might frustrate all her hopes.

Thus talking they rolled in St. Maclou, that
very beautiful old church, and sat down in the
dim silent aisle. It would have been mere
affectation on the part of Madeline to have pretended
that she was not aware how devoted
Pitt had grown. No woman ever makes a
mistake about true and genuine feeling such as
his clearly was for her. But she was not an
ordinary woman and did not feel that she was
called on to play the prude, so, loyally as in
everything, she now spoke to him.

'* Mr. Pitt," she said in a low voice ; " I
cannot disguise from myself the immense obligation

I am under to you, nor am I ashamed to
say that I believe I owe it in a great measure to
your regard for myself. But such a regard is
no insult to any woman, no matter who she is,
and I have felt that all along. But, you understand,
what was not wrong for me to know
yesterday, is no longer the same now, with the
certainty that my husband lives. That makes
things different and I  I am going to trust you
as a true friend, a sister if you like, and I am
going to advise you to the best of my power."

I believe you will," he replies in a low
voice whose emotion he cannot conceal. " I
have never met any one whom I trusted like
you, and, may I say it, only once, and that for
the last time ? for it shall never cross my lips
again  I have loved you, I love you now,
more than you can dream of, and, having said it,
I know well I have no right to stay near you, it
is not now loyal. But I am not so forgetful
of all you have been to me not to wish to do
everything for you. I only say now, just for this
once, that my love shall never cause you a
moment's sorrow. If I can help you I will stay,
if not, well  I have already made up my mind.
I will go out to the Cape and join one of the

Irregular Regiments. I should feel that I was
doing something honourable, something to wipe
off old scores as it were, that I was once morea
man, and a decent member of society, serving
the Queen."

I cannot tell you how I feel all you say,"
replies Madeline, turning her eyes fully on him.
*' Somehow you have exactly divined my
thoughts. I think no career so noble as a
soldier's or a sailor s. It seems to bring out all
that is best. No other class or profession has
half their honesty or simple love of duty. I
believe, with God's help, you will become a
man of note, for your heart is true, and your
courage I know is true too. I say, Go and
prosper, and may God bless you."

He takes her hand as it lies in her lap  they
are alone in this great solemn building  and he
presses it between both his.

''If ever anything can make me an honorable
man it is the memory I shall always have of
you. You remember that first night in Paris ?
How wonderful it was ! It changed me in a
few hours from bad, to  well, what I feel now.
I have often heard of sudden conversions, but
disbelieved in psalm-singing, you know; but this

was a true one. I got a new heart then. But
I must say so  I cannot remain any longer
in sight of you. You are never out of my
thoughts, night or day. I sometimes long to
only touch your dress or look in your eyes. I
must break it off and I must say good-bye to you.
I am not going back to London. If I can dono
more for you, I intend asking my mother
to come and say good-bye to me here, or at
Dieppe or anywhere, and then I shall go
straight out to the Cape in the first vessel I
can find."

** I cannot but think you are right," says
Madeline, whose heart feels deeply for this
hopeless love. '' If I can help you afterwards,
remember ! you have always a friend in me."

Then she rises up and he stands by her
side.

I have only a few minutes before my train
returns to Paris," he says in a mournful tone.
*' I must take that one or remain until tomorrow,
if I can help you in nothing I will go
by that, for," and his voice falters, '' I cannot
bear to remain."

She takes both his hands. There is such a
piteous expression in his eyes that she cannot

resist the temptation to try and make their
parting less hard.

" Kiss me," she says gently, " and say goodbye."


He folds her to him, kisses her with the
deepest emotion, and turns and leaves her.

She sits down again and the tears come
trickling through her fingers.

*' He is a loyal, true-hearted man  that kind
one meets so rarely," she says softly to herself.

After composing herself a little she walks
back to the hotel, and soon after Perotte
announces her arrival with the child and with
her brother, and asks if her mistress is ready to
see them. With a beating heart Madeline
sends down word to tell Perotte to bring up
the little girl, and anxiously sits waiting the
child's appearance, for she has now become fully
persuaded that this child is her own niece.
Then the door opens, and she sees standing
shyly before her a more complete confirmation
of this view than she could have believed
possible.

With a cry of delight she springs forward
and takes the astonished child in her arms,
turning her round to the light and examining

her features, whilst she exclaims, " Oh, Perotte !
Perotte, this is my little niece. See, she is the
living image of my husband's family," and she
clasps the child to her and kisses her over andover
again.

"But where's Mummy?" says Gracie, when
she can recover her breath. ** Gracie thought
Mummy was here, Pewotte said so."

'* So she is, darling, your Mummy is upstairs,
she will be down in a minute," says Madeline,
taking the child on her knee. " You love your
Mummy, my darling ? "

*eyes, I love my Mummy, she is the only
one good to Gracie."

And won't you love me, darling ? for / am
something to you, I am your Aunty."

The child looks long and earnestly in her face.

** Yes, Gracie will love you, but you is not
my Aunty, Gracie has got no Aunties  but I
will love you, cos you is pitty, and with pitty
hair, like my dolly."

"Oh! you've got a dolly have you? who
gave it to Gracie ? "

"Pewotte's brother you know, Monsieur
Edouard, he bought it just now, as we passed
the shop with dollies. She's in the carriage."

That was kind, wasn't it ? "

** Yes, very kind to Gracie ; he plays with
Gracie ; everybody, everything nice at Pewotte's
house, nice and clean  nice clean bed for Gracie,
and nice kind old cocks and hens and dogs
and cows and milk, and lots of nice things  not
dreadful dark place like Impasse, with Mummy
always unhappy and often crying, which made
Gracie cry too,  and horrid men coming."

Well, my pet, I am glad you are so happy,
and you shall always be happy now, for your
Aunty and your Mummy won't let you go back
to any horrid places again."

And no nasty old clothes again ? "

** No, Gracie, all nice, and new, and clean, and
plenty of good things."

'* And milk for Titti ? poor Titti, she couldn't
always have milk in Impasse, because there
very often wasn't any."

And just then Mrs. Gould entered the room,
and in a moment Gracie sprang down and rushed
into her arms.

''My Mummy," says the child fondly.
'' Vou won't go back to Impasse and leave
Gracie?"

'' No, darling, I will not."

And this lady ? Is she Grade's Aunty ?"

" You must ask her yourself, Grade."

She says Yes, she says she is."

Yes," says Madeline, *' I do say so, there is
no doubt in my own mind. She is a wonderful
likeness of the Ostrolenka family and
particularly of my dear husband, and she is the
right age. She is just what my own precious
little child might have been like if she had been
spared to me."

But Nellie is silent. Is she to lose this child
now ? this little girl who is as dear to her as if
she were her own. Madeline guesses what is
passing in her mind ; she rises and puts her
arms round Nellie.

Nellie," she says softly. " I may call you
Nellie, may I not } I know what you are
thinking about, that you will lose her now  I am
not so cruel as that. You shall keep her, at
least for the present and until we can make
some arrangements. But the first thing, dear
Nellie, is to be sure that she is really my niece.
Now is there any way of settling this positively''


'I should think," replies Nellie, "that the
evidence must be in Beyrout and nowhere else ;

the woman who brought her to me certainly
lived there. She is probably there still ; then
there, must be other people who would know
something about her. Some one should go to
Beyrout. I would even go myself, if some one
would go with me. I am not known there.
Gould would never dream of looking for me
there."

*' It seems to me that you are right, but
would you really undertake this possibly dangerous
investigation and that long journey ? "
asks Madeline deeply moved by this unselfish
offer.

*' Most willingly, for I should feel I was
making some kind of restitution for all the ills
you have suffered, not through me, but through
those to whom I have the misery to belong."

*' And whom could you take ? who could
accompany you?"

*' I can think of no one, we must consider it,
but you may count on me. I will do this with
the utmost willingness. Gracie can remain at
the farm until my return. She will be perfectly
safe there."

Of course I shall charge myself with that ;
and now, I want to see Perotte's brother, to

hear what he can suggest as to the rescue of
my husband."

So Edouard Dumont makes his appearance,
a stalwart, well-mannered man of upwards of
thirty, with a keen but honest look in his bold
fearless eyes, which are large and brown,  and
a firm, well-formed mouth.

Madame Ostrolenka is at once favourably
impressed by his appearance, and by his simple
straightforward manner.

He can tell her everything she wishes to know
has even been in Antioch, which he recommends
should be got at from Alexandretta,
in the Gulf of Sanderson. He gives her all
the dates of sailing of coasting and other
steamers, and everything relating to the inland
journey, which is extremely simple. But unfortunately
he knows no one to whom he could
confide the secret which Madeline now discloses
to him. Madeline's face falls : this is
a very serious disappointment  and time so
valuable.

'* No one, Madame, but myself," says Edward
diffidently  '' If Madame choses to send me I
would answer for It that I should rescue
Monsieur If he is still alive.  To me the voyage

is a mere nothing  I am now idle for the next
two months. The ship I am to take to China
is still in dock, and cannot be ready before the
autumn. Nothing would be easier."

In a moment Madeline perceives the advantages
of this offer. Nothing could be more
opportune. It seems to her as if one piece of
good luck was following another with such
rapid succession that it was too good to be
true.

She does not hesitate to accept his offer 
resolving in her own mind that he shall be
amply paid for his trouble on his return, or that,
if his pride is too great to accept payment for
this invaluable service, she can certainly find
means of repaying him through his family or
through Perotte.

So she frankly tells him that she accepts his
kind offer precisely as he has made it.

'* I had better leave tomorrow night," he
says  " I should catch the Marseilles boat for
Smyrna the day after tomorrow  and would
thus not lose an hour."

So all details were discussed and every
arrangement made with promptitude. He was
to go as he proposed, by Alexandretta  thence

to Antioch, and there to use his own discretion.
And it now suggested itself that he should take
charge of Nellie as far as Bey rout  for, on
reconsideration, Nellie had made up her mind
that she would prefer to be alone, than have
anyone with her unversed in Oriental ways.
Madeline decided she should take up her own
abode at the Manoir St. Martin, as from
Nellie's account nothing could exceed its
comfort and cleanliness. And here her mother
joined her.

Later in the afternoon the entire party who
had gathered at the Hotel Bourg-thereout
repaired to the Manoir, Madeline accompanying
them. But Pitt had returned to Paris, with a
heavy heart  for his dream had vanished like
mist on the mountains.

From Paris, in due time, he reached the
Cape of Good Hope.

SOME PLAIN SPEAKING.

The passage across the Channel had done
something to moderate Gould's fears after the
first shock of the discovery of his missing boots
was over, but still he was by no means in an
enviable state of mind. For he could not quite
divest himself of the idea that  though really
innocent of having murdered his wife (as he
supposed the dead woman to be who lay in
that locked room), he did run a great and
serious risk of being accused of the crime, and
that his defence would not be an easy matter,
especially since ample motive for the crime
would be easily forthcoming ; his faithlessness
to her ; his constant brutality and cruelty, and
his repeated threats to kill her when she displeased
him. How could he tell that no one
had followed him to his hotel,  out of mere
curiosity perhaps ? Such things had often

happened in the annals of crime, and murder
especially seemed to delight in making itself
known by ways so unforeseen as to baffle every
precaution. A chain of evidence which nothing
could break would weave itself out of the most
unsubstantial materials, and lead to conviction
with fatal certainty, and it required no
great stretch of imagination to see how things
could be made to point to him. Had he not
been watching round the house in a suspicious
manner, and might he not have been himself
watched by half a dozen people from the windows
in the Impasse without his being any the
wiser ? Then the cooper, what might he not say
of Gould's past life and of hers ? And this last
matter of the boots ? How could he feel sure he
had not left foot-marks after that awful dabbling?

Pale and haggard, on arriving in London, he
drove straight to Jermyn Street ; he must
unburden his soul to some one, for his thoughts
had grown intolerable.

From the urgency of his message which he
conveyed to her by her pretty maid, Madame
Artaki felt that some unexpected calamity had
happened and lost no time in coming to
him in the drawing room  en deshabille. He

VOL. II. iS

tremblingly seized her hand and drew her away
from the door, looking round nervously

My God ! Heroea, what do you think ! that
woman, Nellie, she's dead."

*' Dead !'' exclaims Madame Artaki, petrified
with surprise. '* Nonsense ! Dead! Nellie
dead ! Impossible ! "

'' It's God's truth. She is dead, dead as a
door nail. I've seen her  lying dead and stiff
I'm not dreaming."

** You're mad then, Gould," she says, glaring
at him. ''If she's dead someone has murdered
her ! Speak, man, instantly and tell me all."

For God's sake, hold your tongue," says he
looking about him with a terrified expression in
his wild eyes. '* She has been murdered, no
doubt ; I did not look at the wound," and he
shudders. '' But there is no mistake about her
having been murdered. And I swear by the
Eternal I did not do it."

She starts and draws back, that her dress
may not touch him.

*' Go on," she says in a deep voice which
makes his heart stop beating, for he sees she
does not believe he is innocent.

'* I will, but for Heaven's sake, don't look like

that. Listen to me, I swear here by everything
that is most solemn,  and may God strike
me dead on the spot if I He one jot in this,  I
swear to you by everything I can think of, I
did not kill her. I went to the Impasse to look
for her in the morning. She was not there,
not in the rooms, as we had heard in the telegram.
I hunted all day, everywhere, in Boulogne.
Then at a late hour I went back to the rooms
on chance of seeing her. I saw her go in,  I
watched her, and then went up, after waiting a
long time. When I went up I found her lying
dead, flat on the floor. She was all over blood
which covered my hands ; the bed clothes
were pulled over her face. Now it is perfectly
plain that she either committed suicide, or that
the murderer, if she was murdered, went downstairs
and into one of the rooms on the lower
flats, for no one came out of the house before I
went up'*

'' And you what did you do ? "

*' I bolted at once, of course. A precious fool
I should have been to have remained there!"

Madame Artaki still eyes him.

'* It is difficult for me to make up my mind
that you are telling the truth, but whether or

no, remember, your secret is safe with me 
so stop that horrid jabbering noise," (for his
teeth are positively chattering) 'rand Hasten tome.
Have you told anyone else? Have you
seen Pi-tt, or Chertsey  or anyone ? ' '

No, not a living soul ! "

* Then / at present am the only person who
knows that you were in that house, and that your
hands were stained with your wife's blood ? "

You are, Heroea, truly  truly  and I know
my life is in your hands. But, for God's sake,
swear you will never betray me,"

' I will not swear  and remember, if this
should come out in any other way, I must
protect myself, and I shall know how. What
has now happened changes the relationship in
which you and I stand, henceforth and for ever.
You know me well enough, you know this
woman being dead makes no difference  seeing
the way she has died  in any feelings I may
have ever led you to suppose I had for you.
But now I will be plain. You have stood in
my path a long time, and have been a standing
terror to me. I need not say why  you
and I remember the garden in Pera, but
you must stand in my path no longer. You

must now, before you leave this room, agree to
my terms or we part enemies. I have longed,
and longed with an intense desire you can form
no conception of, to be clear of you ; your accursed
cruelty to Nellie, and to poor Madeline
Ostrolenka have made me abhor your very
presence. What ! am / to be chained to you / "
and her voice rises and there is such majesty
in her presence that the man cowers before
her. *' Are you to drag me down  to offend
me with the exhibition of your brutal passion
and ill-disguised jealousy ? No, never again. 
But still I do not intend to quarrel with you,"
and she drops to a lower cadence. '*I must
now go my path, which is beginning to be
clearer before me. You will go yours  we
travel in different directions, but as friends.
I owe you nothing, and  you  well, you owe
me something. I gave you that beautiful woman,
whose life is now gone, when you were mad for
her, and God knows I did not do her a kindness.
I have given you more gold than you
could ever have laid your own hands on without
going to penal servitude ; all this  all this  for
that night in the Pera garden. My God ! how
dearly have I paid for that ! Now you and I

are quits ; you will stand aside and leave me
and mark ! never breathe a word of love
to me  or a thought of it again, as long as
you live."

He stands aghast. Even in this supreme
moment he remembers and feels the passionate
yearning of his mad idolatry for this woman.
And she, she dare to turn on him and drive
him from her ! bid him leave her and renounce
the one fixed desire of his life ; tell him, openly
and plainly, that he is abhorrent to her ! By
the Eternal ! it is more than he can bear! He
cannot believe his ears ! His face is disfigured
with rage, his hands tremble, and, for a moment
the baneful light of a murderer or a madman,
is in his eyes. He could strangle her  standing
so calm and impassive before him in her
loose morning attire.

She sees the struggle in him, and steps back
still further. He watches her keenly, sees her
hand pass inside the bosom of the dressing-gown.
And by the movement he knows well
that if he moves a step she will strike him with
her keen Turkish poignard.

Her courage and self-possession cow him 
and she perceives it instantly.

Sit down, I have much to tell you," she
says waving him to a chair.

Mechanically he obeys her, but she remains
standing. No longer does she take her place
by his side. This is the first step in their new
relationship, and he groans inwardly. For suddenly
she seems to have lifted herself beyond
his utmost reach, the hours he has spent so near
her  the slight favours she has bestowed on
him, seem like dreams that never had substance
she is as far beyond him as a peeress from a
pauper. Nor has he ever till this moment
realized the intensity of his passion for her, as
his eyes perhaps for the last time, now fasten
on her incomparable beauty  the rich luxuriant
hair entirely unloosened, hanging across her
shoulders and breast  the stately white throat
and whiter bosom, visible through the gauzy
fabric of her night attire, displayed under
her half-opened peignoir  the blue veins of
her bare, slippered feet, all forming an Ideal
conception of womanly loveliness such as
his utmost fancy could never have created.
And all this he had hoped some day to call
his own. All lost !  and how .? through the
curse which has attended him ever since he

married the unhappy being now dead and
gone. Then he thought how, a short time ago,
at a crisis in her life, this maddening Beauty
was so driven that she had almost consented
to fly with him to any remote part of the world
where she could never be discovered. It was
only the existence of Nellie that had prevented
it ! This thought adds misers to misery  he
sits so completely dejected that he cannot find
a word of utterance.

At last she begins again, 

' I have much to tell you  I will not begin
again about the murder  for murder I believe
it was  but I will say that it definitely enables
me to carrot what I have been thinking
of for some days. Briefly, I intend to marry
Mr. Romeyn."

Gould bounds from his seat, as if shot ; this
is too rapid, too terrible a blow, it shatters his
last hope.

She takes not the least notice of his movement,
or his expression of surprise, but goes
on calmly, 

I intend to marr' Mr. Romeyn  but last
night, when he was here, I said nothing because
I was still to some extent in your power. Don't

think me cold-blooded or calculating. I can
respect this man Romeyn. If I marre him, I shall
be faithful to him. That might possibly have
been harder if this had not happened, but,  you
understand  the road now lies clear before me."

I understand well enough," mutters Gould.
You have got all from me that you want 
you cast me off."

'* I have got nothing from you," says she,
her anger rising again. "It is / who have
given ! given you everything you ever possessed.
Don't talk to me of what I have had
from you. What Iiaze I had but your silence ?
And what do you suppose that has cost me ?
Years of almost unbearable torment. And, now
I have't?//r secret  but, unlike you, I will not
levy blackmail to keep it. I don't want you
to keep mine  if you are disposed to go and
spoil my future, go and tell it  tell Mr.
Romeyn that I cannot disprove that Xicoupoli
fell by my hand, though the lie choke you as
you utter it ; tell him, and, by the Almighty*,
you shall swing for the murder of Nellie."

She stands perfectly calm before him. even
with this tiers outburst of language. She
completely dominates his craven nature.

There never was a woman like you ! " he
mutters between his teeth.

Unfortunately for women there are few, or
men like you would be fewer. But come, I
do not mean to quarrel with you unless you
chose, only you must see that before you leave
this room I intend to have our relative positions
clearly and irrevocably defined  I have told
you how  and now decide. If you don't like
it, get up and walk out of my house ; go and
say I shot the Greek  this you will do if you
are a fool  or if you are mad enough to cherish
this insane love  if love one can call it  that
you profess for me. If you are not mad, or a
fool, you will sit still and hear the rest of my
plans,  and remain friends."

*' I agree," says he moodily.

'well then, listen. I have arranged to go and
pay a visit to the Romeyns  to stay with them.
The world will whisper and say the usual things,
but I shall be no more to him than I have ever
been to you. I am to have a suite of rooms
next his daughter's whilst I stay there. The
world's whispers will naturally become irksome
I intend them to be  and we may even go and
travel abroad. Then there will be a divorce."

*' And you think you can induce his wife to
consent to it ? " sneers Gould.

'' I have a very great bribe to offer her
through Madeline  as you well know."

'what! Ostrolenka and the child! you will
sacrifice all that, and leave me in the lurch.
My God, you are bold ! "

I said before I must have my own way.
If I give up this secret and all that that means,
I shall take care of myself before doing so, and
I will endeavour to do something for you. As
Mrs. Romeyn and with his income and position
I shall be a great person in London. I shall
have half London at my feet and I will remember
you  either by finding you a rich wife or
putting you in the way of some good thing.
You can go into Parliament."

Gould sits dumb, he has not a word to say.
He never guessed the force there was in this
woman's character. She seems to be able to
turn and twist circumstances precisely as she
chooses.

"- Why don't you speak," she says.

*' I wish / was dead too," mutters Gould
with a harsh, hard look in his eyes. " I wish
my throat was like hers."

'' That is foolish  foolish to say you wish
for a thing when you don't  for if you really
wished it you would do it, and there are
not two human beings in the world who would
stretch out a hand to prevent you."

'' Don't talk in that horrid way," he says with
a shiver. '' I often think of this. I often think
of ending my own cursed life."

** And you will unless you pluck up your
courage a little," she says fixing her eyes on
him. " Come, be a man, Nellie is dead, but the
world is just the same, your world certainly, 
the same wine, cards, women, everything you
live for; don't be a fool, rouse yourself and
shake it off."

" I will try," he says, though in a despondent
voice. He cannot bear up against this accumulation
of misery.

"Of course you must ; you will now, as I said
before, be able to marry a rich woman and
start fair. Play your cards well. I am the best
card in your hand, it depends on you to throw
it away or play it wisely."

She crosses the room and rings the bell, and
when the servant comes up orders some
champagne and ice. When it comes she pours

out the sparkling wine into a large Venetian
glass, which holds nearly half the bottle, and
gives it to him.

He gulps it down with avidity and it acts like
magic.

*' Ah, thank you, you are a brick ! " he says.
All his terrors and meanings are over. *' That
is exactly what I wanted. Of course I understand
all about this. You don't mean me to
fool about near you any more. I can't say it
makes me happy, but still  I can't help it  I
don't mean to do anything you don't like, and
if we could only get hold of that infernal Pitt
and the bonds, and I could lay hold of some
coin I would run over to New York or anywhere
for a bit and keep out of the way. I
suppose nothing has been heard of him ? "

Nothing, but shall I tell you what I think
he has done ? He has either bolted to America
with them, or has sold them, or is selling them,
to some French Jew to hold over and keep
them quiet, and put them out little by
little."

*' That is probable enough, but still Chertsey
swore he had the utmost faith in him."

For my part I would not swear that your

friend Chertsey is not in this matter with Pitt'*
says Madame Artaki, with a smile.

Oh ! no, that is impossible. He couldn't
be such a confounded scoundrel."

** Don't trust him. He'll turn on you some
day, you mark my words."

'i'm not frightened of that," laughs Gould.
But tell me, what about the child, what do
you think we should do ? You see I cannot 
and nothing will induce me to  set foot in
France for some time, and whom can we send
to look after her ? "

It is a deep mystery to me where she can
have gone. But I have a good deal of faith in
Dubois,  I think we ought to employ him."

'which means money," says Gould, "and
just now we are not too well off.

On the contrary. I am well in funds, for I
have a letter from Norton's lawyer, saying he
has paid in ;i 5,000 to my account with
Winkelman and Co. I shall not require all
this for the oil well business. I can spare some
of that."

Well you may ! " says Gould, his eyes opening
wide at the idea of all this money. "But
are you going to write to Dubois now "

27

No, certainly not at present. I should
prefer to lose her altogether, for if any inquiries
about her led to awkward inquiries about
you, and you got involved in the death of
poor Nellie, Mr. Romeyn might be scared
away for ever."

"You are right there," he says. ''I never
thought how it might come round to me ;
which concerns me much more than it does
Mr. Romeyn, confound him."

*' No doubt it has a very personal bearing
on your affairs. But I must ask you to leave
me now, I hist dress  and as I leave this
apartment tomorrow and go to Wimpole
Street,  the rent is paid for a month in
advance,  you can come and put up here after
I am gone, if you like. Indeed I think it
best you should, for I wish you to know the
Romeyns and to make a respectable appearance,
and I will give you enough money to go on
with."

So Gould takes up his hat and prepares to
depart.

'' Aii revoir'' she says gaily. '' Go and see
Chertsey, and come back and tell me if there is
any news."

Then Gould mechanically looks round for his
stick.

** Your stick, is it?" she says. ** I have not
seen it here. You must have taken it to
Boulogne with you."

'* Great heavens, yes ! " he exclaims, losing
all his colour. '' How unfortunate ! I left it
in her room. I remember now, I left it behind
me ! "

** That is indeed unlucky," says Madame
Artaki, " though after all it is only natural that
your stick should be found in your wife's house.
Don't let that distress you. I am glad it is
gone. I always hated it, and thought it so
coarse and vulgar. Serves you right for having
such a stick," and she tries to laugh it off

But he can't laugh, he does not at all like
this new link in the chain  and goes on his
way to see Chertsey, full of weariness and
forebodings  her last words continually ringing
in his ears  ominously,

'' It serves you right. It serves you rights

BETRAYED.

If Madame Artaki had been merely a pretty-woman,
and Mr. Romeyn had not been a
masterful kind of man, with a million and a half
of money, Society would have promptly turned
its back on the house in Wimpole Street, and
the dust of those spacious rooms would not have
been allowed to lie on its righteous feet. But
as things were, nothing of this sort happened,
and Romeyn soon found that innumerable
people courted him and wished to be invited to
his house because it now sheltered the woman
of whom already discreet, though lying, whispers
were on the wing, connecting her name with
personages of very high station. She was clearly
a comet rising with surpassing magnificence in
the firmament of London Society, casting brilliant
light where'er she shone, and leaving all
dark where her rays were not seen.
VOL. II. 19

Every one now knew that her husband,
Artaki Pasha, had got into difficulties and disgrace,
and that she had come to London to
endeavour to get some affairs settled. Everyone
knew that Mr. Romeyn had always taken
an immense interest in Eastern matters, and, it
was not unnatural, that this interest should
descend from the general and political to the
particular and personal when such a charming
person as the Pasha's wife was concerned. She
had, therefore, gone to pay this visit, and had
taken up her abode in Wimpole Street, without
encountering the yells of outraged virtue from
all Romeyn's friends and acquaintances which
might under other circumstances have been
expected, and as every one knew how Turkish
business always dawdles, people were fully prepared
to see her remain there for some time.
It is true the world soon said that no one
hoped more devoutly than Romeyn, that the
affair would drag on for ever, but this, if ill-nature,
was exactly the case. For the splendour of his
guest filled his whole soul with ardent admiration,
whilst the qualities of her mind grew
more and more apparent in the close intimacy
of daily life. Nor was he her only slave in the

house, for Rosalie rapidly became deeply
attached to her, for Madame Artaki could win
the hearts of women as easily as those of men,
and because Rosalie soon gathered from what
she saw and heard that she need have no fear
on the score of Norton. For Madame Artaki
had been excessively outspoken  had approached
the subject at once  had pointed out
that Norton had really been a little smitten with
her and so forth, but that it was a trifling and
ridiculous affair. To all of which Rosalie, only
too willing to believe it, lent a credulous ear.
How could she have any doubt now of Norton ?
As to Romeyn he had no privileges accorded
him beyond those sanctioned by an increased
degree of intimacy. Heroea and Rosalie were
rarely half an hour out of each other's society,
their rooms adjoined, they went together everywhere
 to the theatre, opera, garden parties,
Orleans club, everywhere ; and even Haycock,
though he had been constantly hanging about the
house bribing the servants, and had privately
taken Rosalie's maid down to Richmond for a
treat, had entirely failed to discover the very
flimsiest pretext for writing one of his highly-spiced
paragraphs.

To professionals is allowed much latitude,
whether they charm the public by their beauty
or by a divine voice. The seventh commandment
is allowed to be most mercifully elastic
for them, though cruel in its grip for their less
entertaining sisters as the Iron Maiden of
Nuremberg. Marriage for these privileged
individuals is not a necessarily recognised institution,
and, if it does come after twenty
years of free love, the world is only too ready
to condone the past ; the rural postman will be
run off his legs with letters of congratulation,
royal telegrams will shower in, and the most
ultra-sanctimonious will send their felicitations.
The one solitary protest is that there will be no
Cachemire shawl, a garment, thank God, still
reserved for virtuous shoulders.

Several entertainments had marked the
arrival of Madame Artaki at the Romeyns'
house, amongst them a mask and fancy dress
ball ; for her host had never forgotten the sight
of a certain pair of small green slippers, and
had a keen desire to see her in the costume to
which they belonged.

In due time the night for the ball arrived,
and amongst some of the earliest comers was

Gould, appropriately dressed as Mephistopheles,
a character which suited him with such diabolical
fitness that many, whose ideas of the
Evil One had hitherto been limited by theatrical
presentments, received a new, and let us hope,
salutary conception of the appalling appearance
which the true devil must present. And yet
Gould had done nothing to his face,  it was his
own still ; only surrounded by what most became
it, and nothing more. And as it was generally
known that he acted in some kind of secretarial
capacity to Madame Artaki, the fact that she
was attended by such an incarnation of evil,
rather tended to heighten her reputation, and
gave credence to some of Haycock's reports that
she was a person who had more than once
struck from her path people who had become
inconvenient. As for Gould himself, his vanity
was tickled by this report  it was something to
see himself mentioned in connection with the
great beauty, even in the capacity of a '' bravo'*
and it did indeed give him a degree of importance
in society that he could not have otherwise
aspired to, for those who could not reach as
high as the blossom had to content themselves
with sitting in the shadow of the fair tree.

Now Gould was no fool, and no man alive
knew better than he how to profit by the
advantages that Madame Artaki's protection
afforded him. He began to dine out with
discretion and to give a few recherche dinners,
to which he invited only those whom she
approved of. To these, mysterious hints would
be sometimes conveyed of what to ' buy ' and
what to ' sell '  eagerly sought for, and frequently
correct  for naturally Chertsey could
recommend things as well as the best of them,
and when this became whispered, and Madame
Artaki's connection with finance became understood,
it was astonishing to see how Gould
rose in the estimation of many who would
literally not have lent him half-a-crown, had he
been alone, to save him from starving. For
Madame Artaki was as good as her word. It
was necessary for her, to enable her to keep up
her position, that the world should understand
the position of the man with whom she had
at first been identified in London. Gould had
been seen everywhere with her, but Society had
been mistaken ; so she prepared Gould's part
for him, taught him how to act it, and supplied
the means. But to return to the mask ball.

The ball-room presented the usual extended
view of arms and shoulders, terms applied by-courtesy
to a considerable segment of the female
form. Nor was the exhibition of ankles  also
a term politely generic  in any degree niggardly.
Night, Snow, and Ice glittered in the blaze and
heat of the room ; Marie Stuart hopped about
with levity close to a frowning Headsman with
bow legs ; Sappho, a large stout lady, wearing
pince-nez, trailed a long white garment round
her bare and sandalled feet,  the whole costume
apparently trusting to the strength of a solitary
button on her left shoulder,  carrying a harp
which served as an excuse for not dancing,
though no other but the tenuity of her robes
was needed. Every inhabitant of the mythological
or historical world for whom costumes
can be invented were present, with the inevitable
accompaniment of soitbrettes and Neapolitan
fishermen, our Eighth Henry and our First
Charles. As to Rosalie, her costume was
extremely becoming  a Ragusan peasant's 
skilfully contrived by Madame Artaki, consisting
of an open-lace-work bodice, a red
skirt with large yellow flowers worked in
coarse worsted, a design still worn by those

people, and descending from their remote Greek
ancestors ; a massive necklace of large gold
beads, and a brilliantly coloured handkerchief
pinned over her dark hair. Madame Artaki's
dress was that of a Syrian lady  a short sleeveless
jacket over a frilled chemisette of transparent
material, open down the middle after
Syrian fashion, and permitting a rather unusual
view of bosom  a loose skirt of coloured silk
worn over large and very full silken trousers,
gathered in at the foot ; open-work stockings
and the memorable shoes. Her hair was permitted
to hang down her back, and was thickly
sprinkled with coins suspended by a kind of
net work which formed part of her veil, or headdress
; her neck was adorned by a magnificent
row of pearls, and on her unloved hands
sparkled rings of rare brilliancy. Needless to
say that of all the assembled crowd of pretty
women, she was the undisputed centre of attraction
and admiration, whilst her perfectly natural
and unconscious manner, the smile which made
no distinction of persons, and the grace of her
movements, captivated all alike.

But everything comes to an end, the best
supper and the best champagne disappear ; the

most costly flowers begin to droop  the Executioner
has hobbled off to his rooms in Brook
Street ; Marie Stuart has once more laid down
her head  nowhere near him. Sappho has
thankfully pulled off the sandal which has been
inflicting torture on her all night and is peacefully
snoring by the side of Henry VIII., whose
number of spouses is strictly limited to a
canonical number through her vigilance ; the
sureties have paired off with their lawful
fishermen, and the Devil himself has got back
to his haunts in Jermyn Street, back to the
Stygian cave of his own thoughts, back to his
dreams  peopled with foul phantoms of sin.

In the deserted supper room sit Romeyn, his
daughter, and their guest, agreeing that it has
gone off well,  an opinion universally arrived at
by all entertainers from the days of Belshazzar 
and as they remain talking on, Romeyn rings
and sends the servants to bed. And so it came
about that the duty fell on Romeyn to light the
ladies to their apartments, when they had finally
said good-night.

At the door of Rosalie's boudoir followed
another good-night, but Madame Artaki, who
had entered the room first, now called out to

Romeyn begging him to wait one moment, for
her eye had caught sight of a letter lying on
the table, with a New York post-mark.

** Stop one moment," says Heroea, 'this
will contain some news of Captain Norton."

On ordinary occasions to hear news of the
life or death of all his relations would not detain
him, but this occasion is not ordinary. It gives
him another five minutes of her presence, five
minutes more to observe the golden waves of
her hair, and listen to that voice, to him the
very music of the spheres. As to Rosalie she
is instantly all eagerness, and all traces of the
fatigue of the last few hours seem to vanish
from her face. She sits down, devouring Heroea
with her eyes, who has drawn In a chair under
the light of the reading lamp.

But Heroea does not immediately begin to
read. Her eye glances down the pages ; for
evidently the first part of the letter concerns
herself, or her business, alone, but Rosalie's
impatience can stand this slow process no
longer  she breaks in 

'' Do pray tell me what news there is of
George ? is he all right ? "

*' I haven't finished it all yet, wait one



moment," says Heroea  but even with all her
command of voice and feature she cannot disguise
from Rosalie's eyes, with their intensified
love-vision, that something is wrong. In a
moment Rosalie is at her side. '* Oh ! tell me
what is the matter, why do you look Hke that?"
she gasps.

'' Captain Norton is not well, dear ; but,
don't be alarmed."

'not well! for Heaven's sake, Hercea, tell me
the truth  at once "  and Rosalie's face grows
white and her hands damp and trembling.

'' Don't be frightened, dear," says Heroea,
trying to regain her own composure, ''he is not
very ill  he "

"He is! he is !  you're not telling me the
truth  he can't be back in time  speak  for
God's sake, speak 1" And Rosalie stares wildly
her still trembling hands clutching at her
breast as if she felt her breath leaving her.

Hercea rises rapidly and puts her arms round
her  but Rosalie seems to be unconscious 
standing stiff and immovable.

Listen to me, Rosie," says Heroea. " You
must not be frightened. He is ill  he may be
detained longer than we thought  that is all."

''Oh! my God'' shrieks Rosalie. ** He is
ill ! he cannot come ! When can he get back ?
Oh, Father  Heroea  for Heaven's sake, tell
me! If he is ill let nne go to him  for pity's
sake let me go to him  tomorrow."

She has tottered back on to the sofa  Heroea
holds her in her arms.

''I will see what can be done," says Romeyn,
looking on in uncertainty, and with more
distress in his face than might have been
looked for. His new-born love has immeasurably
softened his nature. ** Keep calm, Rosie;
let us hear what it is," he adds kindly.

But as Heroea does not break the momentary
silence, a terrible shiver seizes Rosalie from
head to foot, her limbs seem helpless, her hands
icy cold. Then with an effort she lifts herself
into a sitting posture and leans her head on
Hercea's bosom.

'let me go to my room, Heroea," she
murmurs, and suddenly flushes. " Come in
with me ; I must see you alone."

Come then, darling ; it is better for you.
I will help you as your maid has gone to bed,"
and Heroea supports the girl towards her bedroom
door which opens off the boudoir. At

the door Heroea turns and gives Romeyn a look.
Instantly the truth seems to dawn on him.
He makes a sign she readily understands  that
he will wait and hear what she has to tell
him.

The door is left ajar and every word that
passes inside reaches him, as Madame Artaki
intends it shall. But Rosalie is like someone
staggering from the effects of a blow, a dread
possesses her that she does not know the
worst. Heroea loosens the girl's arms and
puts her gently in a large armchair, and then
kneeling before her takes her two hands ; truly
a beautiful group  those two  the golden-haired
and the brown; the Greek and the Ragusan.

'' Listen to me, darling," says Heroea; 'you
must brace yourself up for this  for you will
have to bear it remember, darling, that you
have friends to help you. Captain Norton
cannot come back for some time. Something
has happened to him."

For the love of Heaven, tell me what it
is  everything;" says Rosalie. "I am calmer
now, I can listen. I can go to him, I will go
whatever happens  if I have to go alone.
Promise me that for what you promise my

father will do," she adds, looking into Heroea's
eyes.

" Your father is very good and wise, he will
do what is best ; but, Rosie, you must not go
yet  you cannot. I will do all I can. I did
not know how entirely you loved him."

Love him ! " exclaims Rosalie, clasping her
hands and looking up, whilst a deep crimson
flush spreads from her face to her neck and
breast  '' I love him with all the intensity I
can  more than all the world  more than my
own life ! I cannot lose him, oh I cannot lose
him ! " and she draws away her hands from
Heroea's clasp and covers her face. Then she
sinks back : her head rocks from side to side,
and a long sigh comes from her parched and
parted lips.

Rosie, darling, I see how deeply you love
him, but  he cannot return for a much longer
time that I thought when I asked him to go out."

''He can't return for a long time?" says
Rosalie, again trembling from head to foot.
*' Must I put off our wedding ; fixed for just
this day three weeks ? He must return ; he is
certain to come. He would never be so cruel
as to disappoint me."

'' I tell you, darling, that that is impossible 
it is useless to talk of it "

'* Then take me to him," breaks in Rosalie
wildly. " I will go. I implore you take
me to him ! What on earth is to prevent
it?"

'* He has gone out West," says Heroea, "to
an outlandish part where a woman could not
travel."

"That does not matter to me, I will go as
far towards him as I can. If he is ill, surely
I am the proper person to be with him  almost
his wife  almost his wife'' sobs the unhappy
girl. Her agitation is overwhelming, her
throbbing heart seems bursting.

'rit is not wise you should," says Heroea,
deeply and truly moved at the pitiable sight ;
"he is too ill for any woman to nurse  it is
impossible."

How can he be too ill ? " cries Rosalie in
despair. " Do you love me '. Do you love my
father? do you wish to kill me  do you wish
to save us all ? oh, take me to him ! "

Hush, darling, for Heaven's sake," pleads
Heroea. " Of course I love you, and I respect
your father. I will do anything I can for him

or you, but some things cannot be. Believe
me, you cannot go to him, nor he come to
you."

Then a great pallor spreads over Rosalie,
and her heart veritably suspends its beat. She
struggles up, and with extraordinary calmness
stands for a moment gazing at Heroea, who
has also recovered her feet.

*' Tell me the honest truth," says Rosalie
hoarsely. " He is dead''

"He is," says Heroea,  but the words do
not reach Rosalie. Heroea' s eyes have first
spoken  and with a wild scream Rosalie falls
forward Insensible.

Romeyn pushes open the door. Rosalie lies
extended on the floor, Heroea has only succeeded
In breaking her fall.

No words pass between the mute spectators
of this sad scene, for none are necessary  the
half-told tale speaks for itself. Heroea bends
down and loosens Rosalie's dress, and then,
with Romeyn's assistance, lifts her on to the
bed where. In all the sad mockery of her pretty
costume, with her dishevelled hair floating over
the white pillow, lies the wreck of all this ripe
and joyous girlhood.

Romeyn and Hercea stand gazing down on
her. Nothing can be done but  to bring back
the dead. He looks across the bed to Heroea.

How was it ? " says he, in a low voice.

Drowned  crossing a river," she replies.

And  she ? " says Romeyn, looking down
for a moment on the prostrate girl and then up
at Heroea.

'' I am terribly afraid so ; but listen! she is
murmuring."

Both lean over, and Rosalie, rocking her
head from side to side, moans out in a low
piteous voice,

Geordie  my own love  you have not left
me  I can come to you. It will be too cruel 
too wicked  I am your wife, darling before
God, am I not ? "

Romeyn's face grows fixed and dark ; over
Heroea' s passes an expression of the deepest
pain ; but neither of them say a word.

'' She is coming to," says Heroea, as Rosalie
turns uneasily. '' But will you wait a moment
stand behind the curtain. It is absolutely
necessary you should know all  as well as I."
Then Rosalie opens her eyes.

Heroea ! " she says looking up in a confused

VOL. II. 20

way and not realising where she is. 'ris that
you r

Yes, darling, Fm here  but lie still a little
longer  and then I will help you to undress."

Rosalie lapses into silence  slowly her
memory returns and she says plaintively,

'* Don't stay here Heroea,  go to bed. I
remember it all now," and she shudders. " I
shall never go to bed again, Heroea  I can't  I
can't live after this  no  no  I can't  I "

Hush, my darling girl, don't talk like that,
for "

No. You don't understand," she breaks
in. "How can you ! Who could know what

his death is to me  except he and I  I

I cannot face all that will happen  you don't
know my father."

I think I do and  now, my darling, that I
understand  listen to me. I know your father
better than you do. I can promise for him
that you shall have no more misery added to
what you already suffer. And, here, I promise
you solemnly, darling, that I myself will not
desert you, who ever else does. It was I who
sent your George away, and may God desert
me if I fail to keep my promise."



The strength of her words and the pathos
of her tone seem to bring some kind of assurance
and comfort to RosaHe.

I believe you are the good angel of this
house," says she, putting her arms round
Heroea's neck. " You have been sent to help
me  to save me taking my own life. If you
leave me I shall certainly do so," and closer
and closer the girl draws the woman to her.

'* I have promised," says Heroea, 'rand I
have never gone back from a solemn promise
all my life. Take heart, my poor Rosie, leave
yourself to me."

And then Heroea looks up and motions to
Romeyn to leave the room, which, noiselessly
and unperceived by Rosalie, he at once does.

Then gently and tenderly Heroea helps
Rosalie to undress and get into bed, and when
she herself is prepared for the night, she steals
back to Rosalie's room. The girl is sitting up
amongst her pillows, and crying in the silence
of her room.

'' Let me come and lie by your side, Rosie. I
can't bear to hear you crying like that, all alone."

'' Oh ! do, Heroes'" sobs the girl. '' I shall
feel you don't think me so awfully  awfully bad."

"Bad! darling! God knows I don't, for I
am a woman, and I know this world too welland
she takes the girl into the strong comforting
clasp of her arms.

And many hours after, the morning sun looking
in sees these two women lying asleep, the
brown head pillowed on the fair woman's bosom
for sleep comes mercifully to the young under
almost any circumstances,  though Death and
Misery are stalking through the land.

END OF VOL II,

-

mu

eR then a

1

OF THE

University

Of 



Gl4s

V.3

k

A SKETCH FROM LIFE.

 hcttlj from fist.

JAMES W. GAMBIER,

CAPTAIN ROYAL NAVY.

O Nature ! what hadst thou to do in Hell
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
In mortal Paradise of such sweet flesh ? "

' Romeo and Juliet.

VOL. III.

LONDON:

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.
1887.

A'

Discontents



CHAP.

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

VENUS VICTRIX ,
NELLIE'S STORY .
THE MERRY MARRIAGE CHIMES
MR. GIZZARD
A MAGDALEN
Marino's DISCLOSURES .
AN AMATEUR DETECTIVE
DEALS OF BIGAMY
ANTIOCH
GOULD'S FRIENDS
FROM BEYOND THE GRAVE .
FUIT ILIUM.
Dunois' PIT.
OMEGA

I

36

70

80

102

121

142

166

190

204

221

236

256

280

VENUS VICTRIX.

RoMEYN, after leaving his daughter's room,
took some time in going to bed. He had
much to vex him, and much to cause him
serious reflection. He felt that the last few
weeks of his life had been more eventful than
all the long years which had preceded them,
for he knew that Heroea had obtained a mastery
over his heart which, even at fifty, It was as
impossible to rebel against, as it was folly to
ignore. But he had no wish to do either the
one or the other. He was content things
should be as they were. For she was to him
the embodiment of all his most cherished ideals
of classic and faultless beauty, such an Ideal
as men can alone form who worship beauty for
its own sake. Had she been of marble he

VOL. III. I

would have expended his last shilling to possess
the statue ; but, far from that, he perceived
that the qualities of her mind were as much
above the level of that of any woman he had
ever known as were her personal attractions.
That her life had been wild and irregular, that
she had travelled over rough roads, and through
strange phases of existence, he did not allow
for a moment to weigh against her. He had
had it all from her own lips ; had been able to
test the truth of it from its inherent probability.
It was quite impossible her life should have
been other than it had been, starting as it did,
and that she had not settled into the humdrum
condition of cut-and-dried existence was only
natural. It would have been an anomaly, for
such a rare creation as Heroea. Her very
ability and beauty would single her out for the
centre of political or financial intrigue wherever
her lot had been cast.

So he loved her, exactly as she was ; loved
her in spite of the faults she so plainly displayed,
loved even these faults,  her haughty
temper, her cold disdain, her utter indifference,
in many cases, to the feelings of others, her
cruel, merciless ambition. But she was to him

the first true glimpse of what life could be
which had ever shone across his path. Behind
the time since he met her all seemed
meaningless vacuity, a weary round of petty
frivolities, dull, empty, and tasteless. Even
the first few weeks of his almost forgotten
honey-moon, when he really believed himself
in love with the bride who had surrendered
to him the deepest passion of her heart, seemed
vapid in comparison with that imaginary world
that lay in this woman's smiles. This wondrous
Greek ! fresh from those isles which such as
she, in the dim past, had peopled with demigods.
The ancient gods themselves could
not have seen anything fairer; how, therefore,
could he have either seen, or hope to see, anything
to compare with her !

And now she seemed to be standing almost
in his path, so that he could scarce pass on
one side or the other without thrusting aside
every thought he had ever had. If she would
but turn and take his hand, that great life lay
there, beyond them. But no ! there were insuperable
difficulties,  difficulties arising from
the very qualities which he most respected in
her ; anomalous possibly, but real and very

potent. Then he thought with almost ungovernable
wrath that many had already proposed
ways of getting over these difficulties.
But, after all, what other conditions could he
himself offer ? It was this thought that maddened
him. He saw that she had a clear view
in prospect, and knew that nothing would
divert her from it ; that she would not allow
her feet to stray from the straight road which
led to it. And this very fixity of purpose endeared
her still more to him, though baffling
his hopes. But now, what had happened ?
The honour and reputation of his daughter
whom he really loved, in some rugged, ill-defined
fashion, was by a strange chance confided to
this woman's keeping. This kind of social
and moral fiasco had never happened before in
his family. Madeline might have run away,
his wife might have refused to live with him ;
still, he himself had not suffered ridicule, as he
undoubtedly might do now. And what use
could Heroea make of this ? He knew she was
not merely mercenary, for she had frequently
refused his offers, no matter how delicately or
circuitously suggested. But that she was
venal in the sense that she would bend circumstances

to suit her own end he was quite
aware. And how would this affect her ?
Possibly in many ways, and that she would
feel it incumbent on her to seek other shelter
where the mouth of scandal would not blow.

And before he got into bed he had, with
characteristic energy, fully resolved that he
would marry her, if she would have him. It is
true the obstacle of an existing wife presented
itself to his mind, and he felt bound to admit
that there would possibly be some difficulty in
obtaining the consent of the woman he had so
cruelly wronged to an arrangement to benefit
himself. But still  it was not his wife alone
who was dependent on him ; many others lived
only without parish relief at his pleasure. He
would bring the screw to bear on all of them.
As to difficulties in the Divorce Court itself
he gave them no weight ; he knew to what a
degree of laxity these courts, in our day, have
descended ; that a case in them is a game of
cards with four aces up your sleeve, or of hide-and-seek
for the inconvenient witnesses ; and
he had the profoundest faith in fat figures
outside a brief. He knew perfectly well that
a straightforward, common-sense view of these

cases was always In the inverse ratio of the
learning which was supposed to distinguish
the legal luminaries employed on them, and
that, if there were only sufficient Q.C.'s or
M.p's amongst them, no line of attack or
defence would be considered too preposterous.

Such cogitations as these finally landed him
in bed, all arising from the unforeseen circumstance
that Norton had had his ribs stove
in in the wild rushing waters of an American
river.

As to Madame Artaki when she awoke she
knew that a crisis had come in her life  and
that it would behove her to play certain cards
that day which would win or lose her this
particular game at least. She leant over
the still sleeping Rosalie, whose lids, heavy
with tears that had fallen in her sleep,
told a sorrowful tale and bespoke a sad
awakening  and looked long and wistfully at
her. But Heroea was not one to cast stones ;
she felt a deep commiseration for the frail misguided
girl, and rose with a resolve to help
her. In her own room she found a note from
Romeyn, asking her to see him when she
felt disposed. It was already noon.

So after refreshing herself with a plunge
In her deep cold bath, and adorning herself
with becoming grace and care, she adjourned
to that sanctum whose threshold few were
ever permitted to cross, and, tapping at the
door, received a summons to enter. About
this room there was all the air of cultivated
luxury which marks the surroundings of wealth,
wedded to taste and a love of books, a few
costly statuettes placed where his eye could
fall on them,  things loved for themselves and
their beauty of form, not ornaments to fill a
niche,  and amongst them an excellent reduction
of the Venus of Milo, standing in* the
place of honour.

As she entered the room, Madame Artaki
perceived at once that there was a deep preoccupation
in Romeyn's manner. He drew a
large morocco leather chair up for her in close
proximity to his own from which he had just
risen, and then, as if with a second thought,
placed a foot-stool under her feet. The highbred
grace and courtesy of his manner, so
rough and overbearing when it pleased him 
could not fail to strike a woman accustomed
to, but missing in London, these marks of

attention ; and she felt that the pure strain of
his ancestry had not degenerated on the wild
sheep runs in distant New Zealand. She
noted, too, that his face, in spite of its inflexible
hardness and immovability, was certainly
softened, though still a mask covering
a mind of no ordinary calibre, as resolute as
adamant.

And now how changed were their positions
since last night ! that is, in the degree of
intimacy in which they stood to each other.
For Rosalie's disaster had drawn them strangely
close, and each felt that at that moment the
same idea was crossing both their minds.

Before, it had merely been that he openly
professed an admiration for her, which he
carefully preserved from allowing to become
compromising ; she, outwardly to him, was
a woman whom chance had thrown in his way,
a wonderful woman certainly, but, still, altogether
out of his orbit. On the other hand,
she herself had already decided she would
marry him if human ingenuity could compass
it ; but with only one reservation as to modes
to be adopted, that she would not burn her
boats behind her. Possibly he might, she

thought, have been living on in the hope that
after Rosalie's marriage they would both be
freer to do as they pleased ; or he might have
thought that she would have become too wedded
to the life of luxury with which he now surrounded
her to be willing to relinquish it. But
now, all this was altered ; Rosalie's marriage
with Norton was no longer in the calculation,
whilst, at the same time, Heroea's own
machinations had completely overflown their
mark.

All this passed rapidly through her mind as
she sat down in the seat he had placed for her,
and for the space of a few moments neither of
them spoke.

** You must be tired," he said. *last night
must have wearied you sorely, both in body
and mind."

**No, I am not tired; but this sad affair 
you know I speak the truth when I say how
deeply I feel for her  and for you," she adds,
in a lower tone.

' You think, then, there can be no doubt as
to the relationship they stood in nor  nor the
the contingencies? " says he, searching about
for a mode to put the awkward question.

** None. In my mind not a vestige of doubt.
Indeed, she has confessed it'

** My poor little Rosalie! " he says tenderly,
and Heros looks up scarcely able to believe it
is Romeyn talking. Then he goes on.

** It is useless to rail at this villain ; he has
gone to his long home. Possibly, too, he
meant no harm ; on the north side of the
Tweed he would legally have done no harm if
he had turned up years hence, and had condoned
the offence, for our morals are alla
matter of geography. I should like to know
all about his death, though, if you have any
further details "

** I have some particulars, I will read the
letter, and explain what I can. But, first, I
want to set matters right as to myself. \ sent
Norton out  as you are perfectly aware  I
wanted to carry through this oil affair, because
I must have money to live on, and of
two evils I chose promoting a company as
the lesser."

** Against that I can say nothing," he
replies. ** I am perfectly aware of what you
mean."

** I was confident you did  that you understood

the difficult position I am in. Anyhow,
this affair is undoubtedly sound. Norton
would have made a very considerable sum, and
all might have gone well."

'* But I may surely ask, why did you not
ask me, instead of Norton, to help you? I
would have willingly done so."

** I had reasons I cannot explain," she says,
with some embarrassment.

** I beg your pardon," he says. ** If I
appeared inquisitive "

** No, not at all ; but again, I had reasons
which I weighed well, and having weighed
them, I asked Norton to go. Here is the
account of his death from Mr. Ballard, the
American, who came over here about the
property. Arrived in New York, Norton had
gone off at once to Chicago with Mr. Ballard,
and from thence to inspect the property, which
lay farther west. Norton had seen it, and had
written a favourable report, which Ballard
encloses. Then Norton particularly wished to
see a cattle-ranch, and this is what Mr.
Ballard writes : * I took him to one not far
from the oil-well property. Here Norton
joined the ** cow-boys" in getting a number

of cattle across the river. The cattle took to
* milling," and Norton was drowned amongst
them. To explain the term '* milling," the
cow-boys take the cattle across in *' bunches"
of twenty-five to thirty at a time. Something
on the opposite bank suddenly frightens the
beasts when they may be midway across, or
on the point of getting out on to the bank, or
sometimes one beast gets swirled round in the
rushing water, and the others get alarmed.
They then all begin swimming around wild
with fright ; hence the term milling. The
** Cow-boys" plunge in, either on horseback
or themselves swimming, and by shouting and
hauling at the beasts' tails endeavour to make
them head for the bank. In the meanwhile,
men and cattle are being borne down by the
river, a struggling mass, often amidst blocks
of ice. Then the boys have a bad time, and
your young friend, who would insist on going
in, had a bad time too, and got drowned ;
got caught in some cotton-wood snags projecting
from the bank, just as a large bull
came booming along at the rate of knots,
and got jammed up against those snags, and
that was how his ribs got stove in,  Norton's

I mean, not the bull's  and then he just sank
right away. After the cattle was out the boys
searched a bit for him, but couldn't find him.
I am sorry for him, for he seemed a kinder
light-hearted chap and game too; but he has
written a first-rate report, and naturally his
death is nobody's fault but his own. But I'm
thinking his death may cast a kinder romance
like over these oil-wells, and perhaps some
remarks to that effect might be made in your
prospectus, which are most dull reading.' "

" Poor devil ! " says Romeyn as she finished
reading. *' So, that is the end of him."

*eyes; that is his end. How much better
may be ours ? But about Rosalie  let us talk
about her. She is utterly broken down.
Therefore, we must act  we must decide what
we are to do."

' That is true ; but have you thought of
anything? for I know how quick you are to
work out your ideas."

** I have partly formed a plan. It has
nothing original in it. It is the old expedient :
to find some one who will marry her."

'* I have thought of that already myself,"
says Romeyn ; '* but I have utterly failed to

think of a single man I know who could be
induced to marry on such short notice.
Except Haycock I don't know one; and he is
going to marry some one with money, I am
told'

*well, I think could find one, and one
who would suit in all respects ; for I myself
hold his life in the palm of my hand."

*good heavens! you amaze me!" says
Romeyn, leaning forward on the arms of his
chair. '* He must be a criminal. He must
have done something very bad ! What do
you mean ? "

*' I mean that he has got himself involved in
an affair which I alone know of. I literally
hold his life in my hands ; but before I go
farther I will say what I think about the position
as regards Rosalie herself. She is easily persuaded
 easily led. She will listen to me
when I point out the advantages of doing
as you wish  that is, when you do wish this
to be done. The idea of a sudden marriage
will be altogether shocking and repellent ; but
this shall be only a marriage at the altar. I
will take care that she is subjected to no kind
of annoyance ; her husband shall bid her goodbye

at the church door, and never see her
again unless at her own request. I have
thought out the whole plan, even to the settlement.
On her I would ask you to settle
whatever you chose to give her, totally and
entirely free from all control of anyone ; and I
would ask you to give her husband a sum of
money down on the day of the wedding, and
to arrange that a small annuity be paid him
as long as he gives no trouble. The day he
is married I shall commit the secret I hold to
Rosalie, to be used by her if he annoys her.
He is a man who can be ruled by fear. To you
I shall explain all before everything is settled.
Now tell me, what do you think of this ? ''

** I think that it does much credit to your
ingenuity," he replies, as he leans back in his
chair, and brings his hands together. ** Bat
are you not overrating your influence over this
man ? for you would certainly be exacting
from him a severe act of self-denial."

*' I do not think I am, nor would you if you
knew all; and as I am determined that you
and I understand each other, Mr. Romeyn, I
will go on and tell you all, and who he is.
But first  do not start  it is Gould."

** Gould ! " says Eomeyn gravely. *' This
is indeed serious, reflect for one moment what
he is and, may I say it ? what he has been to
you?"

** I have reflected, long and seriously. As
to the last part of your remark, I think I need
hardly say that I am above reproach, though
perhaps not above suspicion. I have already
said he has never been anything to me. That
he loves me with the whole force of his coarse
and brutish nature, I know, and you are aware
of; but I have always kept him at bay. His
wife is lately dead,  died under peculiar circumstances,
and he is now free. This you may
easily imagine will not, or has not, in any way
decreased this violent love for me, and but for
the new hold I have obtained over him, would
have put me in a position almost of peril. But
that necessitates a further confidence on my
part, and this, Mr. Romeyn, I tell you, trusting
to your honour. Years ago Gould had a secret
of mine ; he has kept it faithfully, because he
always thought I would some time or other
be his. Now he is free ; and yet, if I had to die
in a ditch tomorrow, nothing should induce
me to become his wife."

*but, surely, that is very inconsistent with
the idea that he should marry Rosalie ? ''

** No, not so much as it appears. If he
married me it would be a marriage in every
sense, he would live with me ; but if he marries
Rosalie I will take care he does not annoy
her. It is simply to decide whether we must
find some one to marry her, or let things take
their chance."

*' Perfectly, I admit you are right, but this
man ? Is he criminal in the true sense ? I
don't mean merely a rascal  but a criminal."

** He is not. I have known him for yegrs.
His hands have never been as clean as they
should be, no doubt, and he did some time ago
commit a fault I have determined shall be redressed."


** But why, may I ask, are you so urgent?
For I too must be plain, for much is involved in
this decision."

** I am urgent because I want him out of my
path," she says, looking him straight in the
face, whilst the power of her eyes seems to
scorch his soul.

*you are a brave woman," he replies;
'* you are not easily put aside. But come, I

VOL. III. 2

must have time to reflect. I will give no
definite answer until I have weighed it all*'

** I did not wish to force your decision now,
for there are other matters on which this
marriage would be contingent. Now, this other
is a matter that neither you nor I, Mr. Romeyn,
can with any semblance of reason or fairness
to either of us  to me especially  push aside
any longer."

*' Hercea," he says, rising and coming near
her, 'you have given me the opportunity of
saying what has been on my lips for many and
many a long day. The scene last night has
precipitated all these matters, and I know well
how changed is everything between us. I have
resolved to speak once and for all and as an
honest man to you. Have you ever heard
this ? They are the words of a very wise man,
Esdras. * Yea, and if men have gathered
together gold and silver or any other goodly
thing, do they not love a woman which is
comely and fair to see ? And letting all these
things go, do they not fix their eyes fast on
her ? ' I am one of those men, literally. I have
four fold more gold comes to me every year
than I spend, and I deny myself nothing, nor

those either who agree with me, and every day
this wealth goes on increasing. Only last mail
I heard of a new township being created on my
own private property. Well, it is not to vaunt
of my riches, but to draw a parallel between
myself and the men of Esdras. Now, to possess
you, as you sit there before me, I would let all
these things go ! You have grown to be the
desire of my eyes. I am too old a man, near
on twice your age, to make it decent for me to
say all the things that crowd to my lips. I
simply say that I love you dearer than all the
world. But Fate has been less kind to me than
to Gould, though I shudder from expressing
such a thought. I mean that he is better off
than I, for I cannot offer you at once the position
which would alone become you. But I have,
too, been making plans, and these are dependent
on you. I have only one thing to
ask you. If I were free, would you marry
me ? I speak abruptly ; but I cast the die
of all my hopes in life in saying this to
you."

She rises and walks a step or two towards
the window, as if seeking time to collect her
thoughts. Then she turns and sees how

fixed and earnest are his eyes as they follow
her.

** Before I answer your plain question'* she
begins slowly, *' I must explain something more
of myself. You will believe me when I say I
have never, in all my life, felt a great passion
for any human being. My husband I hated
before I had known him a week ; and of all the
lovers who have hung round me not one has
touched my heart. But I could come to love
a man whom I trusted and looked up to. I could
love him and be faithful to him. And if he
could marry me, and make me rich and powerful,
and give me everything that is worth
having in this world, I would marry him. Now,
I go one step nearer your question. All these
qualities I believe you to possess  but "

** Ah ! but ! well suppose I solemnly promise
that that * but ' shall no longer be admissible ;
suppose I succeed in obtaining a divorce "

She turns and comes near him, and places her
hand on his arm.

*' When you have that, then I will give you
my final answer."

** But, for God's sake, can you not tell me
now ? " he says passionately. ' Have you the

faintest idea of what your promise would be ?
your promise now ? " (and he takes both her
hands and gazes longingly into her eyes).
** Give me only that promise, and you shall stay
on with us here. Let the world wag its tongue.
I swear to you, you shall go your own free way
until I may ask you to be mine in reality.
Speak, Heroea, for my heart is craving for your
reply''

Her hands close their hold on his, she looks
up into those bold handsome eyes whose lustre
his fifty summers have done nothing to dim.
From his eyes her looks wander to his iron-grey
curls in a broad cluster behind his ears, to the
sharp, straight nose and curling nostrils, and to
the mouth, which, even now, waiting for' a
decision which is of the utmost importance to
him, is not less firm than that of the great
Napoleon, as in Canova's wondrous marble,
he looks down on them from a niche above.

The long look seems to satisfy her.

** I will be your wife," she says in a simple
but earnest tone.

Instantly his arms encircle her waist, her lips
are lifted to his; he is twenty again, as he
presses her to his ardent heart.

** Listen to me, my love' he says, still
holding her close to him, *' I cannot find
words to tell you what this is to me. I have
been a solitary traveller, in one sense, but if
that divine statue there, the Venus of Milo,
awoke to life and came to me, I could not feel
more amazed than I am now. I do not expect
you to say you love me. That were utterly
impossible ; but I will try and win what love
you can give me. I will do my utmost to
change my nature, to get over my rugged
acrimonious carping cynicism, and with you
to help me I shall. You will be a new life tome,
your breath my afflatus for better things."

I am very content to live in the hope of
being your wife, Arthur. I will not profess
feelings that have not yet grown, but,  will
you not believe me if I say I am sure they
will?"

** God knows how willingly, how eagerly I
shall believe it. But I do not wish to leave a
single matter in doubt between us," he adds
in an altered key. *' Sit down here by my
side, and I will tell you how I think things
should be. In the first place, and naturally,
you will not think of leaving us ? "

** That is a matter I 7nust think of, whether
pleasant or unpleasant to us both. How can
I stay when Rosalie goes ? "

** How can I lose you ! " he says, almost
fiercely. * Am I to lose sight of you for all
the weary months that must elapse  possibly
an entire year,  before I can obtain this
divorce ? "

** And why not? Would you be afraid of
your own love waxing faint, or of my promise
being broken ? '*

'' Oh heaven ! do not talk like that ! My
love will remain with me to my grave ; but you
just think ! just picture to yourself all* the
temptations, all the opportunities that will
come before you ! Think how I should suffer
all those long, long months ! No, my love,
we must arrange things differently to that."

*but I thought that these were your terms?"
she says, with something almost of coldness in
her tone.

** I did  I did, but so help me heaven I
hardly knew what my terms meant. I see it
all now. Will you not allow me to modify
them, to propose something less like death tome?"


I hardly know what you could," she says,
still with a voice that chills him.

**/do," he says rather bitterly. ** But if I
only venture to mention these terms, may I not
see my whole fabric shattered ? ' '

**No," says she gravely. "I have promised,
and that I will keep ; but speak now, and tell
me plainly."

** I have seen how utterly impossible it will
be for me to live away from you for an entire
year. I shall go mad if I live near you, and
yet aloof. I am thinking that I might induce
you to be more merciful, to reconsider the
arrangement. I tremble to say it, for I may
lose all. Still, as I said just now, I cannot live
without you. Don't think this is an idle vaunt,
I swear I believe I should go mad or put an
end to my life. I must try and win you
sooner."

She rises from her chair.

** Say no more, Arthur. This must be a
forbidden topic. I cannot allow it to be discussed,
but all you have said has weighed
deeply on me. Let things go on as they are.
I will consent to this much. I will remain in
your house, whether Rosalie is there or not, I

will go abroad with you ; but  let me be frank.
I cannot run all this risk of being compromised
and remain dependent on the uncertainty
of your life. You have spoken plainly to me ;
let me show you what is fair to me. Am I to
be entirely dependent on the chance of your
caprice ? I put it harshly because these things
are best said plainly. You may turn me away
any day, you may hear things to my disparagement,
you may believe idle rumours  for we
all know the force of persistent lying,  and
then I am to be cast off, ruined in prospects."

'you are frank, another man would think I
had been meanhad he listened to my suggestion.
I meant nothing but to be honourable as far as
I could. See, on the terms you now mention 
that you will not leave me nor drive me from
you  I will make you a perfectly free and
absolute gift of one half of my fortune. Is
that what you would consider fair and equitable?"


** I think it more than fair to me, for it is
unfair to you. I will not consent that I should
be in the position to do you a great wrong.
These terms are more just, and to these I will
agree. I will accept one half your fortune;

but if I leave you through my own fault I am
to forfeit it."

** I will agree to anything you like, my love.
It seems to me almost shocking to think I am
bartering my wealth against my love in this
way."

** Ah, do not say that ! say nothing that will
make me feel I am insincere. I am perfectly
truthful when I say I should not be here talking
to you at all if you were a poor man ; why try
and deceive ourselves ? I must marry a rich
man, for I refuse to be a pauper."

He looks round the room, and her eyes follow
his; the evidences of wealth are self-eloquent.

** I do not think you would make any figure
as a pauper," he says, laconically. '* It Is
probably the only position where you would
not shine."

She looks in his face, and there is a keen
intelligence shown in every line. He knows
perfectly well that he is buying her at a price,
just as many a British maiden of highest social
standing is bought or sold. It is only the lean
kine that are taken without pinching and
punching, for the bareness of their ribs speaks
for itself; take what you can get or leave It

alone, take them and fatten them up yourself,
but don't complain if you find you have only
got skin, hoofs, and horns.

** No," she replies, ** I could not exist as a
pauper, or even poor. It seems mercenary, it
seems out of place to talk like this, but '*

*but you have no mother, my dear Heroea,"
says he smiling, ** or she would do all this
talking for you."

* Precisely, that is what I think ; you have
helped me out of a difficulty. But still, I am
not out of it entirely. It is a matter we must
settle, you and I alone. All I ask you is. to
leave things as they are, between us, and I
trust myself to you. Take me, Arthur, on
trust."

He crosses to where she stands, and again
takes her in his arms.

* But, my love, you do not actually condemn
me to a whole year ! "

** You forget," she says looking him in the
face. ** I have everything to lose, you nothing
 the usual arrangement between men and
women. Is it fair to ask me? It is impossible
to say now whether your wife will consent or
not."

*' She must, I can force her to, or turn everyone
connected with her starving into the streets ;
and, by G  d! I will! sooner than lose you.
My wife is a very high-principled woman, I know.
For herself she would prefer to dig or starve.
But I will put pressure on her that she cannot
resist, it would be an act of folly and wickedness,
 a dog in the manger claiming to be
virtuous. She will kick at first, but will give
way. I know her well"

** There is one matter that you must bear in
mind in arranging this. If your daughter
knows anything of this  Madame Ostrolenka
I mean  then you may say good bye to me now
and for ever."

** But she must come to know of it," says he,
drawing back.

** Yes, she must know that I am living with
you ; but 1 beseech you, if you wish to marry
me, make it a condition with Mrs. Romeyn that
she only acts on her own judgment, and that
you absolutely forbid her mentioning it to anyone
else."

** I will, I will warn Gizzard most particularly
on that point."

Then she sits down again and leans her head

on her arm. She has not yet got her own way
about Gould.

** I confess to you honestly that my life hereunder
your strong protection is very pleasant
to me, Arthur," she says. *' If I had all my
own way I would make some concession, 
shorten this year you dread''

In a moment he is at her feet.

*' My love  tell me  tell me how, and what
you mean."

'* I mean that if I had such positive proofs
and assurances that Mrs. Romeyn would consent
to this divorce I would then think of living
in a nearer and dearer way with you." And
she shades her eyes with her hand.

** And you would agree to this? " says he,
trembling and passing his arms about her.

** I would ; " and for the first time he sees
a scarlet flush spread over her face and neck,
her voice almost a whisper.

** When ? "

*when you can tell me, on your sacred
word of honour, and when you can show mein
documents, that there is no possibility of a
slip between the cup and the lip. But there is
one thing I must have settled  that is, Gould,

I must find him means to live away from me,
both for my sake and yours ; think well of that,
and, believe me, that to marry him to Rosalie
is the best arrangement that can be made, both
for her and for all of us''

But the necessity? does it exist ? "
'-' Yes, absolutely, if you mean Rosalie."
"- I do not like to think of this," he says, with
more pain than she has ever seen in him before.
* Think of her youth, poor girl ! "

'' I have thought of it all, I can see nothing
better." And in truth she had thought of it,
was thinking still that this was an opportunity
not to be lost. She was perfectly aware that
Romeyn himself shuddered at the idea, for
though he knew so little of Gould, still what he
did know he disliked. But she was quite
resolved to have her own way. If she, an
adventuress, were good enough for the father,
why not he for the daughter ? And, above
all, this marriage would still secure to her a
position of control over Gould ; for whatever
she may have said to him as to her being free
she knew well that she could only punish him
by punishing herself.

So she rose from her chair.

I have never told you the true story of my
past. I promise to do so, when some fitting
time comes, but this much I must tell you. I
fear Gould, I was once entirely at his mercy.
You can have no conception of what his
character is when raised by passion. If you
and I are to come together, say in six months'
time, as true as I stand here, I believe he will
be so goaded by jealousy that he might
assassinate me. I know that has no fears for
you, nor for me, for I am not a coward ; but
still, it is a fact we must deal with. Now, I
have faithfully promised him to make him
well off, to find him a wife'*

*' I will make him well off without that ; let
us take Rosalie abroad with us."

** That is useless ; for again I say you do not
know what a strange character Gould is. He
would resent that. He would come and fling
it in my face, some day or other, that you had
bought me from him for so much money. He
would levy blackmail  until  until "

** Until what ! " says he, looking fixedly at
her.

** Until you or I killed him' she answers
with such a fierce light in her eyes, that

Romeyn feels that it is not merely words and
idle threats on her part. He recognises the
cogency of the forces that are brought into
collision where this masterful woman is concerned.
What glimpses of a possible world of
trouble shine through her words ! How hateful
a life of struggle against this man, who
might be able to embitter their whole existence.
What price is too heavy to pay for immunity
from this ? He stands silent for a long time ;
she the while turning over her rings and examining
the precious stones. She has leaned
far back, is almost lying at his feet, her pose
tells him plainly that she is waiting for his
decision. Can he lose her ? Is it possible to
lose her, now that he has once felt the pressure
of her body against his, has closed his lips on
hers ? And what is the price she asks ? That
he may make this arrangement with her for
Rosalie. He reviews all,  that it is to be only
a marriage, in name. He thinks of all the
difficulty before them. He knows that the
corner of the earth does not exist where poor
Rosalie's scandal can be shut from light. And
then as to Rosalie herself. How can he say
she would so violently object ? Would she not

be free, and in a position thousands of women
would envy,  a rich woman, free from the
trammels of a husband, to go and come as
she pleased ? After all, Heroea's idea was not
so very monstrous ! And something whispered
to him his own self-interest in the matter and,
lifting his eyes and catching hers, he decided.

Tell me one point in this matter of Rosalie,
my dearest. Do you think she herself would
have to be driven and forced into it? ''

*' I do not ; I feel sure she will accept the
arrangement. I have watched her closely.
Ease and luxury are everything to her. In *a
fortnight she will almost have forgotten Norton.
Show her a road of escape, and she will be
singing about the house again as if nothing
had happened."

*' And the world ? the world of Haycock &
Co., will they not talk?"

** They may talk, but it will only be a nine
days' wonder. But 1 had anticipated that.
This is what I propose. That Rosalie should
be married immediately, and that we leave
all together for Italy soon after, or the same
day. We can give out that her engagement
was broken off before Norton went away.

VOL. in, 3

Your high-handed way of dealing with everybody
who comes near you,  you will pardon
me saying it  will sufficiently explain the
hurried marriage, if it is known that you
wanted to get away'*

* There is certainly an advantage in having
that kind of character sometimes'' he laughs.
*' But, joking apart, your plan seems more
feasible as I think over it. And above all,
above all, my love, if I am to hope that we
may travel abroad together. I am longing to
be out of London. This life here  with all
these people who torment me  is hateful."

** Yes, Arthur, we will go when Rosalie is
married, and Gould disposed of."

** Have your own way, darling," he says,
looking down on her with longing eyes. 'sand
if any human being who had ever known me
could hear me say those words they would
exclaim, * This is a new man ; this is not
Arthur Romeyn.' "

I can well believe that, Arthur, but I hope
it is not a transitory change ; for I, too, have a
will that I cannot even myself control. We
must learn how to give way, that is evident."

I have no fear of not being able to agree



with you. We are not so pliant, either of
us, as many people, but it is only in degree.
You would be miserable if you married a weak-minded
creature, no more able to stand up for
himself or by himself, than a piece of wet
string ; and I, well, probably if my wife had
fought me a little, she would still be living
here in Wimpole Street."

** I thank God she didn't," says Heroea,
'* for hope to  or somewhere else  with you;"
and she comes up to him, and places her arm
through his, and takes his other hand. ** Say
good-bye, Arthur ; I will go up and look after
Rosie."

Nellie's story.

Nellie had been right in assuring Madeline
she would be comfortable at the Manoir. The
delightful cleanliness, with old-age dignity
added, made it a most perfect country residence.
There were more rooms to spare than
they all required, and other rooms were made
ready for Mrs. Romeyn, who was to join them.
Then, as no time was to be lost, and as Nellie
and Dumont had to be so soon leaving, all the
final plans were discussed, by which Nellie
would trust herself to Dumont's protection
as far as Beyrout ; and would find her way
home alone.

Madeline and Nellie had much, however, still
to talk over and explain, their conversation
extending over a great deal already known to
the reader ; but as to her own past history, and
the circumstances which brought her into the

society of Madame Artaki and Gould, Nellie
had as yet said nothing. For hers was a painful
history, and it was not until Madeline's frank
kind nature, which invariably won every one,
had been borne in on Nellie, that she felt
disposed to talk on this painful subject.
However, for the elucidation of certain points
in connection with recent matters it became
essential she should make a confidante of her
new-found friend.

And after their evening meal, as the two
women sat alone out on the lawn, Nellie with
some difficulty began to talk of her own
life.

'' I should be thankful, indeed, if I thought
I could tell you all'' says Nellie, with a sad
sound in her voice.

** And why not? " says Madeline kindly. **If
there is anything in your past life that weighs
heavily on you, it may be a relief to talk tome
and tell me. I am not a woman who can
feel no sympathy for those who have had
trials. God knows what trials I have had
myself!"

Mine have been my own making, all my
own fault. I began well, Madeline, oh! what

would I not give to return to that blessed state
again ! But that is idle and useless to think
of. But if you would listen I would tell you
all, everything truthfully, from beginning to
end, and I do hope I may, for otherwise, how
can you trust me in this affair I have undertaken
? ''

Nellie dear," says Madeline, taking her
hand. ** I trust you quite independent of
that. If you like to tell me your story I shall
be only too willing to listen, and I may be able
to suggest something that will help you out
of your difficulties''

'' Ah ! that seems almost impossible, for
they are, as I said, of my own making ; but,
Madeline," and Nellie drops her voice, *' I
shall have to tell you things one woman hardly
ever dares to tell another, where I have been
oh ! so wicked and so weak ! But, I have been
sorely, sorely punished. I love some one now
with all my heart whom I have no right to love,
seeing that I am the wife of another. I have
loved him through everything, and yet, it was
he did me the greatest injury man can do to
woman. How it all came about I must tell
you  but I must tell you from the beginning.

I was constantly thrown into his society, I grew
to love him without knowing it. I saw him
daily, hourly, for months, we were continually
together. Then came the fatal hour when
his love for me revealed itself; then a short
struggle, and I thought I had gained a control
over myself, and then "

And here she fairly broke down and cried
bitterly.

Madeline put her arm kindly round
her.

** Poor Nellie!" she says with all the tenderness
of a sister, ** I am not a flirt myself; I
know what that kind of love is. I would
have given it to my husband sooner than lose
him, that I have always known and felt in my
heart, because I did truly and passionately
love him, and because it is the same to
this very hour. Do not be afraid of my
blaming you, dear ; speak, and relief will
come'*

Nellie remains silent, and then looks up ;
her tears cease.

*'I will begin at the very beginning of my
life.

Nellie's Story.

** My dear father, whose name is Macfarlane,
has a very large farm, part of which belongs to
himself, near Sheriffmuir, in Perthshire, and
there the family has been for nearly two
centuries. We came originally from the
Highlands, west of Loch Lomond, the home
of our clan. I believe in those days my
ancestors lived entirely by robbing their
Lowland neighbours of their cattle, and to
this day we call the moon * Macfarlane's
lantern,' because it was so useful a light to
the Macfarlanes to find their way down from
their rugged hills. I mention this because,
although small folk now, our family is very
proud, and you will understand how that pride
affects me when you know all my story. I
could not possibly have acted otherwise than
I have as to returning home. My mother
was a Duncan, and came from near Kinbuck,
not far from Dublin, and the Duncan held
their heads high too, for they were of a still
more ancient stock than we were, and are
actually descended lineally from the great
historic family of that name. My mother had

a brother  he is alive still,  minister at a place
near Dublin, and as he had no children, my
sisters and I were continually being invited to
the Manse, to spend a few days with him. He
was a very high class man, far above the
ordinary run of Scotch ministers, and intimate
with all the county folk round about, amongst
whom he took his place as an equal. He took
an immense interest in my sister next younger
to me, and in myself, and not only tried to
educate us himself, but paid for the best schools
and best masters for us in Edinburgh, for we
were to be trained for governesses. We learnt
French and German thoroughly and all the
usual things. When I had finished my education,
my uncle asked me to come and live with
him and my aunt permanently, and wanted to
adopt me; but my father was too proud to
allow his daughter to eat any man's bread,
unless he were her husband, so it was understood
that I was only to be there until I heard
of some suitable engagement. I was very
happy then, for my uncle had an excellent
library and I was devoted to books. But I
was not destined to remain there long. Our
laird, Carnegie of Ardoch, had a son, a most

accomplished, fascinating man, in the Diplomatic
Service, who had married a lady in our
neighbourhood  a good bit older than himself.
They had two girls, nine and ten years old, and
were looking out for a new governess for them.
As they had known us all our lives, it was very
natural they should take one of us. But which
of the two sisters seemed difficult to decide,
and my uncle told me in a joking way that Mr.
Carnegie wanted to have me, and his wife my
sister. However, it was left to us to decide,
and we drew lots, for both were anxious to go,
this being such an excellent opportunity. How
well I can recall that scene which settled my
life  the large hay-stacks sheltering us from
the sharp east wind which came whistling over
the Ochil Hills, still white with snow, the great
moors spread out before us, the winding road
which led to Perth in one direction, and to Stirling
in the other; a distant glint of the Allan-water,
and far away, in the Carse of Stirling,
the junction of the Teeth and the Forth, like two
immense silver snakes; in front of us a magnificent
chain of snowy mountains, Ben Lomond,
Ben Venue, Ben Led, Ben More, and nearer
Ben Voirlich, and the dark forests of Glenart-

ney, overtopped by the Braes of Balquhidder.
Ah ! when I think of that scene my heart
seems to sink within me. I have the most
intense craving and longing to see it all again.
And there we stood, my sister and I, and my
little brother ; we were laughing over the whole
thing, and yet  at that very moment I was
sealing my fate. We got two straws from the
haystack and made Ronald hold them whilst
we pulled. The longest was to go ; my sister
pulled first and left me the long one. At that
moment I distinctly remember having a kind
of heart-sink  a foreboding of evil. Do you
believe in such things ? I left home almost
immediately. Mr. Carnegie had been made
Secretary of Legation in Rome, where we
stayed the whole winter, during which time
Mrs. Carnegie was almost always ill, and the
two girls and I were taken everywhere by
Mr. Carnegie to explore and see the sights.
I was just nineteen, and perfectly enthusiastic
with all I saw. I simply adored Rome, and
was never so happy in my life as that winter.
Mrs. Carnegie was kindness itself, and I had
always sufficient tact to be able to benefit by
all her kindness without becoming a bore to

them, as so many governesses are, who are
over-sensitive and thin-skinned. I worked
away at Italian, and learnt it fairly well. From
Rome we went to Constantinople, and there
we became very gay. I say we because in
spite of some remonstrances on my part 
feeble enough I admit  Mrs. Carnegie always
took me everywhere. We had incessant garden -
parties and dances at the embassies, and I
met and knew everybody. Amongst the people
I became intimate with was an extraordinary
beauty  a woman of my own age, but she had
been married some years already. Her husband
was secretary to the Grand Vizier. His name
was Artaki Pasha, hers Hercea, though the
Turks all called her Gul-bazar, " the Rose of
Spring,"  a name given her by the Grand
Vizier, who was her devoted admirer and
humble slave. She was the most important
woman in Pera at that time, and though she
was a good deal talked about, still, every one
was at her feet, not only for her wonderful
beauty, but for her cleverness and the fascination
of her manner. All the men were mad
about her; and she  only just twenty. Her
husband was a fool, or worse, a coarse, sensual

kind of man, whom everyone hated. They
rarely lived together, it was said.

** From the very first she took, or seemed to
take, a great fancy to me, and I was perfectly
bewitched by her, and easily understood how
all the men raved about her. She had the
most wonderful eyes I ever saw, a faultless
face and perfect figure. She was the centre
of every kind of intrigue in the political world,
and the ambassadors made as much fuss about
getting her to dinner, as if she had been the
Sultan himself. For she could do exactly as
she liked with old , the Grand Vizier.

** She now began to come to our house a
great deal, and was continually inviting me to
come to her. At first I was fool enough to
believe it was for myself, but my suspicions
were soon aroused, and soon confirmed.

** And at this particular time Mrs. Carnegie's
mother fell ill, and telegraphed for her
daughter to come home immediately ; and, as
Mr. Carnegie could not get leave, and did not
wish to incur the expense of sending the
children and me home for so short a time, I
was left in charge of them, at their house at
Kandili, on the Asiatic side of the Bosphorus ;

and Mr. Carnegie himself went and took up
his abode at the Hotel des Ambassadeurs, at
Therapia. Of course, he came frequently to see
his children, and he and I were a great deal
thrown together. He had an immense lot of
work, for the ambassador did nothing but
change his mind ; not that the poor man could
help it, for he was badgered to death by the
Foreign Office, and was nearly recalled because
he had allowed the French ambassador to get
two pinches of snuff for his one out of the
Sultan's snuff-box, on some grand occasion.

** The jealousies and childish trivialities
which occupied the time of these ambassadors
were simply incredible, it would fill books ; but
I only mention it because you may wonder how
such a humble instrument as I, a governess,
could be worth such a woman's attentions as
I have described Madame Artaki. The fact
is, it is the humble instruments who often play
the most important part,  a joke about a man's
nose may bring on a European war, whereas
they murder a sultan and lock up another asa
lunatic and nothing happens, and no one
cares, except the lunatic and his relations.
Now Mr. Carnegie was not different to the

Other diplomats. He made mountains of molehills
and was always talking to me about
Madame Artaki and asking me what she said
and urging me to go and see her. The hours
we spent talking over these things ! And
I confess I entered into them with great gusto
especially as it was he who talked about them,
for  I am ashamed to say  I had already
grown fond of him in a way. I suppose
something put it into Madame Artaki's head
that Mr. Carnegie was in love with me, for
though she did not put it plainly into words,
day by day she began hinting what great
influence I could have, if I chose, or, if I had
the sense to use it. But though I knew she
was driving at something, I purposely pretended
never to understand ; so at last she
was compelled to speak out, and this she
did, adroitly enough, the gist of it being
that Mr. Carnegie was desperately in love
with me, but that his sense of honour prevented
him declaring his passion to me, and
that he had beo;-ged her to give me a hint !
I laughed outright. It seemed so absurd.
If he had all this sense of honour how could
he have told her all about his love for me ?

It seemed so utterly untrue that I would not
indeed I could not  speak to him about it,
for I knew that it was merely a pretext
for something else, and that I should soon
hear more from Madame Artaki. I cannot
even say now whether I acted right or wrong
in not speaking to him about it ; I was afraid
of being misinterpreted, and, above all, I was
terribly afraid that there might be some truth
in it, as far as his liking me. I was afraid of
approaching such a dangerous subject. If his
wife had been there I should, I think, have told
her. It would have, of course, ended in my
going home, for she was always insanely
jealous. I thought of writing to her, but I
did not like to, her mother was dying, she
herself was ill, and I did not like to disturb her
with the idea that things were getting into a
muddle, when they were not. So I did nothing,
and Madame Artaki, seeing this, only grew
bolder and tried several times to throw Mr.
Carnegie and myself together, and succeeded
pretty well. You must bear in mind that
Mr. Carnegie had of course to take his mot
(T ordre from the ambassador, and that it was a
great thing to be in Madame Artaki 's good

books, SO that it was impossible for me to
prevent these things. And then, one fine day,
Madame Artaki brought me a superb diamond
necklace and a ring with four magnificent
emeralds,  I believe they came from the
Sultan,  and in the coolest way possible asked
me to get her copies of some very important
despatches that had passed between our
ambassador and the British government in
connection with a Russian plot that was on
foot to land troops at the mouth of the
Bosphorus. You may imagine how amazed
I was, and  shall I confess it ?  I was 'so
dazzled by the extraordinary beauty of the
diamonds and emeralds that I could hardly
put them out of my hands. I assure you they
seemed to stick there, and my eyes seemed
riveted to them. She watched me, but, with
an effort, I threw them away to the farther
corner of the room, for suddenly it had flashed
across me that it meant either that I was to
sacrifice my honour in trying to win over Mr.
Carnegie, or to become a simple thief and
steal those papers.

We had a tremendous row ; she called me a
poor-spirited thing, and I retorted, and bounced

VOL III 4

out of the room leaving her to pick up her
jewels. In the evening she came up as if
nothing had happened. I was playing lawn
tennis with Mr. Carnegie, and the risk of
bringing on the whole affair made me hold my
tongue. Soon after this, I am sorry to say,
she and I became friends again. She said I
was different to the others, that was all.
Things went on now much in their old groove
for nearly a month. Mrs. Carnegie was still
in Scotland, and the children and I had paid
a visit to Madame Artaki at her exquisite
house on the Bosphorus below Therapia. We
frequently went to the harems of the great
pashas, and once even to see the Kain
Effendinn, the Sultan's second wife, a dear little
woman, with the gentleness of a dove and the
intellect of a dormouse. But after one of
our visits to Madame Artaki, one of my little
charges fell ill, with a dangerous fever, and
rapidly grew worse. I gave myself up night
and day to nursing her, and her father, who was
most anxious and distressed about his child,
came over and lived in the house to be near.
He would often come and relieve me of my
watch during the night, for though we could

easily have had more nurses, little Ella, the
sick child, could not bear to be left without
someone she knew. And this illness was the
most fatal thing in my life. I scarcely dare tell
you what happened ; but still, I must confess,
I must tell you, or else you will never understand
why I cannot return home. He and I
were continually meeting by the bedside of
the little girl, often alone for hours and hours
watching her, and now the crisis in the fever
had come and had passed, and the child was
better, lying for the first time in a tranquil
sleep. I was standing watching her, myself
undressed and ready for bed, with my dressing-gown
on. Suddenly I was conscious that he
was at my side and he said, almost in my ear,
*You, and you only have saved-her life; how
can I ever thank you enough ? ' I said something
or other about my duty, and that I loved
little Ella like my own sister. * Nellie,' he
said quite low, and making me start by using
my Christian name, which he had never done
before, * Nellie, don't talk of duty. It is your
wonderful care and devotion have saved her ;
can you wonder I love you, have loved you for
months and months ? ' and all kinds of things



University OF Illinois

that made my heart thump. Can I ever forget
that scene ! He had wound his arm round
me, as I stooped over the child, he standing
a little behind me ; as I rose up he turned me
round towards him and pressed me so close I
could hardly breathe, and could feel his heart
throbbing against me. I don't think I did
scuffle and struggle as much as people do in
books. I was too much surprised and remained
passive for a minute, but finally I did
manage to disengage myself, and then turned
to leave the room. Imagine my dismay ;
there, a quiet spectator of the whole scene,
stood an Armenian servant girl, whom I had
foolishly taken into the house, at Madame
Artaki's request. I left the room, and the girl
came out too. Mr. Carnegie had not seen her.
I went to my own room which was close by. I
heard him send for the nurse, and then he went
downstairs to his own room. I was trembling
all over, but managed to bolt my door and get
into bed.

** My thoughts were still a whirl when I heard
a gentle tap at my door, some one had tried
the handle ; the nurse invariably came in to
call me without knocking, but to-night my

door was bolted. Thinking it was she, come
to call me about the child, I sprang out of bed
and slipped back the bolt ; at the same moment
stepping back for my dressing-gown which lay
across the foot of my bed. The door was
immediately opened, and, to my horror, Mr.
Carnegie entered, so swiftly that he was in the
room before I knew who it was. He instantly
closed the door behind him and bolted it,
without the least noise. The next moment he
seized me in his arms, whilst I stood dumb-struck,
not even having had time to put on my
dressing-gown. I shall never forget his face
as the light of the night-light fell on it, pale
and agitated, not looking like himself, but even
at that moment appearing to me so wonderfully
handsome. You will ask why I did not
scream. I cannot say, except that I remember,
even then, thinking of what the consequences
would be for him, even more than for myself.
But I implored him to remember, struggling at
first, but uselessly ; his arms were so strong,
and then  out came Madame Artaki's horrid
lie.

** *My darling,' he went on, * why did you
send me that message ? '

* What message ? ' I said, in wonder.

** * By Madame Artaki ! '

** I saw it all, or thought I did ; she had told
him I was in love with him, had probably put
him up to this very thing. However, it made
no difference; he only went on raving more
madly than before, a perfect torrent of
passionate words. I need not describe that
terrible scene, how I implored him to leave
me, how I reminded him of his wife, of Ella,
of my own home, how my father had trusted
me to him ; till I was completely worn outwith
fatigue. He seemed mad. He was no
doubt mad. He almost stopped my breath, he
held me so tight ; I was so weak at last that I
grew quite giddy ; I had been up so many
nights with Ella that I had not my usual
strength ; I saw the room swimming round and
round and my ears seemed full of noises and
as if bursting, and I lost, or very nearly lost, all
consciousness. I have no recollection of when
he left the room, and I must pass over the
agony of my thoughts when I finally awoke to
a realisation of my position. But now I was
quite recovered as far as action was concerned.
I determined to leave the house immediately,

and actually packed up a few things in my
hand bag ; looked at my watch, and ran down
to catch the morning steamer bound for Pera.
I just caught her, got on board, and when I got
to Pera, like an idiot, went and took my ticket
at the mail steamer office, instead of waiting
quietly to slip on board at dusk just before she
started. I might have known what would
happen. Mr. Carnegie soon discovered I had
left the house ; for the Armenian, who, as it
turned out, had never taken her eyes off him
after the scene in Ella's room until she saw
him enter mine, and then waited patiently until
he came out, at once apprised him of my
flight. He instantly crossed over to Therapia,
and told Madame Artaki what had happened
to me, and she took steps that I should not
be allowed to leave the country,  easy enough
for her, with her spies everywhere, and
particularly simple as I had taken a ticket
(under an assumed name), but was unfortunately
perfectly well-known by sight to the
clerk who sold it to me. She found me in a
hotel where I had taken refuge for the day,
and from her manner one would have thought
a most ordinary occurrence had taken place.

She urged me to return to Kandili, pointing
out that I should ruin Carnegie's prospects
and bring myself into bad repute ; that my own
people would never believe my version of the
story ; that Mrs. Carnegie would go in fora
divorce ; that my father would be in an
intolerable position at home, with this trouble
connected with his laird's son, for she knew all
about my home. She argued that I had acted
weakly and foolishly in not leaving the house
before, if I was really innocent, which, however,
though she believed, no one else would, as our
liaison  his and mine  had become common
talk, and that, if I ran away like a fool, I
should only give consistence to these reports.
Then, why should I bring ruin on every one
concerned and ruin myself into the bargain ?
And I ought to look into my own conscience.
To her I did not appear wicked ; I had perhaps
liked him, but that was all, why punish myself
for his fault? He would not dare repeat it.
He would leave Kandili and stay away until
his wife came back. This he had promised.
Then, too, she used a final argument,  the
contingencies of what had happened, I must
remain until I knew. Where could I go?

Home? No, that would be worse than anything.
However, I was still resolved nothing
should induce me to go back to the Carnegie'
house, and said so ; when, with the most
perfect coolness, she chopped round and said I
should go there whether I liked it or not ; that,
if I did not, she would go to the ambassador
and tell him that I had given her certain
documents which I now learnt she had possessed
herself of through some one else ; that I should
be arrested, and that it would be more difficult
for me to disprove it than I thought.

*sat last I consented to return to Kandili,
Mr. Carnegie to vacate the house before I
went back. This he did, and I hardly saw him
again before Mrs. Carnegie came out from
Scotland. But I leave you to imagine my
agony of mind when I learnt soon after that
my worst terrors were realised.

** I went down several times to throw myself
into the Bosphorus over the wall at the bottom
of the garden ; once I was actually sitting with
my legs over the parapet and had almost
pushed myself off when the sound of Ella
playing an old Scotch tune I dearly loved
reached me, and saved me. But God only

knows what awful struggles I had, and one day
when I found a bottle of opium I took it into
my room, and there I had a battle that it is
impossible to describe. I felt so weak I could
scarcely stand. I stood holding it, even upto
my lips, I thought I had tipped it up once,
but no ; and then with an effort threw it out of
the window. However, I gradually triumphed
over this frightful temptation. What to do
now was a great difficulty ; of course, I could
not confide in Mrs. Carnegie ; she would have
insisted on knowing all, and as to him that was
utterly repellent. I had never looked into his
face since. Then I thought of Madame
Artaki. I knew she would help me. This she
did promptly enough, first begging Mrs.
Carnegie to give me a fortnight's holiday, as
she was sure change of air would do me good,
for everyone noticed how pale and ill I looked.
She, Madame Artaki, was just going a trip to
Malta in the Crimea in a yacht lent her by the
Sultan, through the Grand Vizier ; we were in
all some eight or ten ; amongst us a man who
had lately arrived in Constantinople ; a mysterious
person with apparently great wealth.
It was Mr. Gould. There was also a young

Greek called Nicoupoli, a devoted admirer of
Madame Artaki's and of mine. We had a
very pleasant trip, not that I enjoyed it, for
my heart was oppressed with a frightful sense
of my situation. Gould made violent love tome.
I had the greatest difficulty in keeping
him at arm's length. Madame Artaki was very
intimate with him, and he seemed to me to
know all about myself, though she swore she
had not mentioned it to a living soul. Before
we returned she offered me my choice of the
two men, for both were ready to marry me. I
chose the Greek, for I really liked him. He
was in every way suitable, and had a kind, gentle
disposition. I really had an idea that I should
be content with him, though,  can I confess it ?
I still loved Mr. Carnegie, loved him more
every day. When we got back I went to
finish out my visit, we had been away eight or
nine days. My engagement was given out,
privately, and also it was announced that I was
to be married immediately, as Nicoupoli had to
leave at once for Athens. He was entirely
persuaded to do all this by Madame Artaki ;
without knowing anything about my condition.
In the meanwhile Gould became more furiously

enamoured of me than before, and Madame
Artaki seemed to take a malicious pleasure in
feeding his flame, as I thought, to draw him off
herself, and I believe I was right. Then came
the end. I had gone into the garden one evening
at the back of Madame Artaki's, and was
walking with Nicoupoli, when suddenly Gould
appeared, and I saw by his face he was in a
violent passion. He at once said something
to Nicoupoli, who was a very high-spirited
man, and, who, begging me to go away, turned
round on Gould. A quarrel followed, and
I could hear my name and hear high words
and threats. Then in a few moments I
saw Gould come running into the house,
and at the same moment a shot was fired in
the garden.

** People instantly rushed out, but I did not
dare to move ; I could not understand it. The
unhappy Greek was found shot through the
body, utterly insensible. He bled to death ina
few minutes, without ever saying a word, and
it was perfectly impossible to say whether he
had committed suicide or not ; a smoking
revolver was found lying close by. If I had
not seen Gould run in before the shot, I should

of course have believed he had done it ; but
this I was positive of, for when the shot was
fired he was actually in the house.

** A terrible state of affairs followed, and
matters were more complicated by a turn in
political events. Madame Artaki's Grand
Vizier was dismissed, the great contract
scandal of Syria was shown up. Nicoupoli's
brother, who was a secretary at the Seraskierat,
split on the whole affair, partly out of revenge,
partly to be in with the new Grand Vizier's
party. Artaki Pasha sided against his wife,
and swore he was entirely innocent of the whole
affair. She was arrested and accused of having
either murdered the Greek with her own
hand, or of having hired some one to do it.
Some people accused Gould, but he managed
to clear himself, through my evidence ; but
suspicion attached strongly to her, for a
servant swore that he had seen her running
away from the spot where the Greek lay after
the shot. In the midst of all this what could I
do ? I was so involved in the whole affair that
Mrs. Carnegie plump and plain let me know
I could not return. She would send me home
if I liked, but it might seriously compromise

her husband in his official position to become
mixed up in this.

** How little she knew how much truth there
was in what she said ! So I had no alternative
but to do what Madame Artaki now urged me
to  to go with Gould ! I was in a terrible y.
and now I learnt that Gould knew all about my
position as to Carnegie ; and he actually had the
baseness to swear that unless I consented to go
off with him he would expose the whole affair.
And what did I do ? I pleaded for marriage,
and he consented, and in a few days we were
privately married by a wandering English
bishop who happened to be in Constantinople
at the time, and who had become one of
Madame Artaki's most devoted slaves. We
stayed on in Madame Artaki's house after our
marriage for a few days, my husband and I,
the secret of the marriage being rigidly kept.
The house, however, was guarded ; for she was
under a kind of open arrest. The row and
trouble spread rapidly ; the governor of the
Lebanon became involved, and, to clear himself,
he threw all the blame on Ostrolenka Bey
and Capodistria, as we now learn by these
papers. But at that time I knew nothing oi

the details. And now we had to fly. Madame
Artaki was taken into the harem of a great
personage for protection ; but virtually a
prisoner. But a rumour reached me that she
was allowed secretly to visit Beyrout at this
time, in order to arrange matters there, and
Gould went with her. I left for Athens alone,
where Gould subsequently joined me. But
before I left I managed to have an interview
with Mr. Carnegie. I could not have supported
life without an explanation. It was very,
very painful. I told him everything plainly;
I even told him that he might count on my love
for him to shelter him and his reputation whatever
happened, for I did love him with all my
heart and soul. I shall never forget it. He
was so overcome. He implored my forgiveness,
and vowed that I was everything in the world
to him. I said he had my forgiveness long ago.
He took me in his arms again, and then implored
me to fly with him. It was not too late.
What was all the world to him without me ?
Would I go with him ? He knew how miserable
I should be, and he told me that he had learnt
that this man I had married was one of the
most notorious scoundrels in Europe ; that my

life would be one long misery. What a

struggle it was ! But I thought of Mrs.

Carnegie, who had always been good to me.

I thought of his own position at home, head of

an ancient house, everything to be shipwrecked

and cast to the winds ; and I refused. And

an hour after that I was on board the steamer

and out on the Sea of Marmot. I never

knew the truth of the story about Nicoupoli's

death. Gould said that he had shot himself

when he, Gould, told him I was enceinte, and

that he, Gould, was the father. Imagine what

an abominable lie ! But I believe myself he

was shot, and I think that, arising out of the

quarrel about me, he had probably threatened

to expose some scandalous fraud or other,

probably the Syrian contracts, of which he

may have been aware, his brother at the

Seraskierat being one of the prime movers in

the whole concern. However, whatever his

fate was, only two people in the world knew, 

Madame Artaki and Gould, and perhaps the

hired assassin. When we got to Athens we

took a house in a quiet part of the town and

kept out of the way ; but I became very

seriously ill, and the result was that the cause

of all my disasters came to an end. Would
you believe it ? so inconsistent is the human
mind that I grieved deeply ; though now I
thank God. Then my husband, without consulting
me a word about it, adopted another
child, at least so he told me, though I soon
came to know that Madame Artaki was at the
bottom of it. He then explained that Madame
Artaki felt it her duty to look after this little
girl, who was the child of some one involved
in the Beyrout scandal, and begged me always
to let the child pass as ours. She was such a
sweet little pet, only a year old or so, that I
loved her immediately, and but for her I do
not know how I could have borne my life, for
Gould became worse than brutal, neglected me,
struck me, and was openly unfaithful. Then
we came to Paris and to London, and Gould
became mixed up with all kinds of schemes,
always managing to keep out of prison himself,
but frequently being the cause of others going
in. This lasted with more or less success for
three or four years, and during all that time
I was of the greatest use to him, copying,
translating, and preparing documents. A
man called Chertsey seemed to be his partner
yoL. III. 5

in London, and a villain called Dubois in
Paris.'

** But worse than Dubois was Dubois' adjutant
or scavenger, the man called Restigouche.
He literally besieged me with love making,
openly encouraged by Gould, who was a man
without the faintest idea of honour. I leave
you to imagine what my life was ! Then we
fell on bad times. Gould had no money. I
was sent to the miserable hole in Boulogne, and
there I nearly starved, though I took in needlework
and tried to do all I could to earn a little
money. Restigouche still pestered me. Gould
would send him to me at all hours of the day
and night ; and yet I had an idea that he was
only watching for an opportunity to betray us
both. I need hardly say that I gave him no
opportunity, for I treated this horrid little
wretch of a Frenchman with the utmost incivility
and contempt. Then Gould actually
tried to starve me into submission, and I
began to grow suspicious ; and then one fine
day this wretch Restigouche gave me the clue.
He had overheard Gould telling Dubois about
some wonderful woman who could work
miracles and was confined in a harem in

Constantinople. If he had her in Paris or
London so extraordinary was her beauty and
so marvellously clever was she, that they would
make their fortune through her. But the
pasha who had charge of her wanted no less
than ; 5, 000 to let her escape; and this was
the only way of getting at her. If Dubois
would advance this Gould could settle it all.
I listened to all this in amazement, and asked
him how it concerned me. * In this way,' he
said ; * this woman, it appears, has promised
to marry Gould if he can get rid of you,
nothing is simpler, fly with me, madame, and
our happiness will be complete.' I need hardly
say what I answered, but my Scotch blood
was up, and I am sorry to say he went back to
Paris with a great lump on the back of his head,
for he tumbled against the fender. From that
moment he determined to ruin me if he could.
After this came a period of utter misery, of
almost starvation, for I could scarcely earn
enough to feed Gracie. and I now learnt that
Madame Artaki had arrived in Paris. But of
course she had not married Gould for the
simple reason that I was in the way. And I
believe she never had intended to, only

promising it in order to escape from her
prison; for Gould made this promise a condition
of helping her out, and he knew that in
any other relationship he would never be
anything to her. And that is all ; that brings
my story up to the time when Mr. Pitt came
to see me. But I must tell you one thing
more  in the deepest confidence. All through
this awful time I have been subjected to the
same frightful temptation as when Mr. Carnegie
came to me for the last time. Two or three
weeks after I had said good-bye to him he was
a widower  poor Mrs. Carnegie had died
suddenly of heart complaint. You may
imagine my bitter, bitter disappointment, for
something might have been managed. And
ever since that gate has been open to me,  not
only open, but I have been urged, begged,
implored to enter. He has sent, time aftertime,
imploring me to run away with him, and
I can assure you that in the dark hours of my
misery it has been no easy task to resist. But
the old arguments are just as good. It is true
he is now Master of Ardoch, but how could I
bring him into disgrace, and scatter misery
and shame amongst all my people ? to say

nothing of my two dear little pupils, now
grown up and just coming out. No ! through
everything I have held on to that  through
starvation, and blows, and insult. It is something,
though, to think that I have struggled
like this for right's sake. But perhaps I
deserved it all. And that, Madeline, is all."

*' God knows you have had a hard life, my
poor dear Nellie," says Madeline, winding her
arms round her. ** But He may yet open a
door for you leading to something better.

Then the two women rise up, and together
pass under the shadow of the great trees into
their rooms in the old manoir.

THE MERRY MARRIAGE CHIMES.

Madame Artaki had had her own way with
Romeyn, as indeed every woman always has
with the man who loves her, especially if
coupled to the fatal gift of beauty she has the
still, for him, more fatal gift of brains. And as
in the tender intimacies of daily life he grew
only more and more devoted to her he was every
hour more anxious to withdraw her from public
observation and from the inquisitive talk which
followed her everywhere, and would have done
anything, short of sending her away from his
house,  the only real remedy,  to stop the idle
scandal which began to be whispered. For
Romeyn had a code of morals of his own. He
wished Caesar's wife to be above suspicion, and
felt exasperated to think that there was no
means of letting the world know how matters
really stood. Not that he valued the opinion

of the shameless women who only condemned
vice when accompanied by poverty ; who would
sit through a play representing scandals that
the world blushed to own ; but he did value his
own estimate of what he thought decent and
becoming,  feelings which grew stronger and
stronger with his increasing regard for the
woman he was compelled to respect. However,
he need hardly have distressed himself so much,
for in spite of the utmost secrecy rumour was
busy with his affairs ; and though it never
actually appeared in print, still it became
currently known that there was shortly to be a
divorce and another marriage, and as the fact
that a most extraordinary discovery of gold had
been made on a small, half-forgotten property
of his on the Fits-Roy River in North Australia,
which did appear in the papers, caused
immense interest to be attached to everything
concerning him, society had practically pardoned
or condoned his offence before it was
committed. For what could be worse taste
than to turn up your nose at a man with some
four millions of money  married to a horrid
cantankerous wife, who probably drank, and
had always led him a dog's life ?  and who

could be surprised that he intended to get a
divorce ?  seeing the kind of company his wife
and daughter kept in Paris of their own
choice. Besides that, through Haycockian
channels, a wondrous amount of detail of the
vie interfere of the house in Wimpole Street
became known and was warmly debated by
Romeyn's partisans, and by the trimmers who
were getting ready for the new menage.

The story of the Oriental business was
admitted as quite sufficient justification for her
prolonged visit to his house, and the arrangement
of the apartments they occupied precluded
all probability of impropriety. In fact, it was
only people who were no better than they
ought to be themselves who saw any harm in
it. And then it became known that the house
in Wimpole Street was to be given up, as too
mean and insignificant, and it was announced
that Romeyn had bought a magnificent mansion
in South Kensington, the folly of a ruined
speculator. This stifled the last squeak of
offended propriety. It really would be too silly
to shut themselves out from those matchless
gates and lofty marble halls. Nevertheless
Romeyn was extremely desirous to leave

London as soon as possible, and in this Heroea
entirely coincided with him. She knew better
than he did what was brewing in people's minds,
and she did not at all wish to make a half
and half debut in the great world, with a
chance of some one throwing stones. She had
the most intense and craving ambition to bea
great leader of fashion, and she knew that
she was so heavily handicapped that it would
require no ordinary skill to reach the winning
post. A false start would be fatal. She
would reserve her strength and sit quietly until
the flag fell.

** She'll have it all her own way," remarked
the far-seeing Smith. ** There's no one in
town can touch her. I have never seen London
worse off for cattle of that kind,  a broken-winded,
spavined lot all round ; she'll win in a

canter."

# * * * . *

Hercea had not had such an easy victory
over Rosalie as she had anticipated. Every
kind of alternative was stoutly fought for by
the unhappy girl, who even went so far as to
write to her mother privately, pouring out all
her piteous tale, and imploring her mother to

receive and protect her. The letter was well
enough, but her next step showed her want of
judgment, for having sealed it she foolishly 
entrusted it to her maid to post, a woman in
whom she had the utmost confidence and on
whom she had showered benefits and kindness.
But the maid had long since fallen under the
influence of Madame Artaki, and, like others,
worshipped the rising star. So almost before
the wax had cooled on Rosalie's envelope,
Hercea had broken the seal, had read the
letter, and had shown it to Romeyn, who
entirely agreed with her that they must precipitate
matters. So she set to work with all
her art to overcome Rosalie's repugnance to
this marriage, using her own extraordinary
powers of persuasion, and casting such a
glamour round the poor girl that her sense
of proper judgment seemed paralysed. Hercea
had known Gould for years  one of the most
remarkable men she had ever met. He would
be sure to rise, would go into Parliament  
would be snapped at by the government 
might become a cabinet minister when the
Comites' came in again. Then, too, she
gave Rosalie her most positive assurance that

she should remain her own mistress, and
explained the terms proposed by her to Mr.
Romeyn and sanctioned by him. This line
of argument went on for a few days, and then
came another. What was her alternative?
And Heroea made her shudder, pointing to
the forlorn groups under the gas lamps as
they drove home from the opera. Was that a
life to choose ? Was it better that, than a life
of luxury and ease, her own mistress ? For
the fiat had gone forth. She must obey
her father, or leave his house.

And where would she go ?

Poor Rosalie ! days had passed since lier
letter to her mother should have been answered ;
but there was no sign. Her maid had most
carefully posted it, she assured her mistress ;
the post never fails. Her mother would not
hear of it. She had disgraced herself; let her
make the best of it, for she had told her all
her misery and misfortune.

And this marriage with Gould, would be
merely a marriage in name  with bell, book,
and candle; true enough, but nothing more, to
cheat heaven  to save her own amour propre.
Could she not go abroad, immediately after

the ceremony, and live just how and where she
liked ?

  Tpf Tpf *

All this time Gould had been continually
visiting them and had made himself especially
agreeable, as he could when he chose.
Many of her friends had indeed taken quite
a fancy to him, and even Rosalie herself
began to think that she had formed too hasty
an opinion. He was much less a snob than
many of the Stock Exchange men she met,
and infinitely preferable to some of the inane
drivellers of good family who surrounded her
wherever she went.

So finally she consented. As to Gould
himself, he was only too eager to fall into
Hercea's plan, though he had fought against
conceding the absolute freedom which Rosalie
still made a condition. However, this difficulty
had been got over by Hercea's suggestion
that it was not always necessary to hang a dog
to get rid of him, and recommending him to
leave matters to time. Then the marriage
came off, and in less than a fortnight after
that night of misery and self-reproach when
she heard of the death of her lover, and

scarcely longer since the man who stood by
her side at the altar had been stooping over
the dead body of his own wife his bloodstained
hands placed the ring on hers. It was,
what is styled **a very quiet affair," as distinguished
from the noisy and uproarious ; the
ceremony being performed by one priest only,
a queer misshapen little mountebank  long a
friend of the family, or of any other family,
where good eating and good drinking were to
be had, or where the members would listen to
his eternal art twaddle  who duly informed
them and those who stood round the altar
with them, that the holy bond of matrimony
was instituted of God in the time of man's
innocence (truly an ancient custom !), and requesting
them to live like Isaac and Rebecca.
After this he went on to explain that what
they had just done was an excellent mystery,
at which a smile passed over more than one
face, so that they had some difficulty in pulling
themselves together to listen decently to what
St. Peter and St. Paul, who had evidently
given it much attention, had to say on the
subject. This over, they all filed off into the
vestry, and duly signed their names, the

clerical chimpanzee exacting the obsolete kiss
from the poor little bride, whose tears were
trickling down, for she could not, strive all she
might, thrust away from her the thought of
those golden curls struggling in the wild
American river,  a thought which made her
shrink as far as possible into her corner of
the carriage, as she drove back to Wimpole
Street, shuddering lest even her dress should
touch the man who sat by her side, with a look
so corpulent and lickerish on his face, that it
would have been over the mark even in Salt
Lake City. The instant her foot was in the
house Rosalie ran upstairs, and locked herself in
her room. Pity forbids to follow her into that
scene of blighted hopes. Nor would she unlock
her door at Heroea's summons. She had fulfilled
her part of the compact. Later on Hercea
returned and informed her that a telegram
calling Gould away had been received, and that
he was gone. However, Rosalie would not
venture out of her room until the last moment
arrived for starting to catch the night mail ;
by which her father, Madame Artaki, and their
two maids took their departure for the Continent
; Romeyn and Heroea for a villa on the

Gulf of Spezzia, at San Terenzo, and Rosalie
for Florence, where she was to spend sometime
with some friends. As to Gould, even if
he had been disposed to risk forfeiting his
annuity, which he was now entitled to draw, his
abject terror of setting foot on French soil
would have effectually guarded Rosalie from
pursuit ; so he spent his honeymoon in St. John's
Wood.

MR. GIZZARD.

A SMALL sandy bay enclosed by projecting promontories
on both of which stand the remains
of mediaeval fortresses built in the palmy days
of the Republic of Genoa, and designed to
defend the little towns clustering round their
base from the attacks of Saracen rovers and
pirates from Barbary : a sea of intense blue
on whose placid bosom the distant islands
seem to lie asleep in the broad sun-light :
olive-clad hills rising abruptly from the water,
dotted here and there with vineyards, and
sheltering innumerable little villages and
hamlets; the bright silvery green broken by
occasional rows of solemn cypresses or groves
of ilex : the jagged peaks of white Carrara and
the far off Apennines filling up the background.
A large mediaeval villa, outwardly in a state
of indifferent repair, but inwardly as habitable

as when England's poetic son Shelley made
it his home  his last home  in years gone
by, and much the same as it must have been
any time during the last four hundred years ;
the same mosaic floors, the same frescoed
ceilings, and many of the same pictures hanging,
possibly, on the same nails, stands in this
Bay. The sea-front of the villa is almost
in the water, with a broad terrace on large
brick and stone arches ; so near it that a
heavy gale will send the waves  which come
curling in from the Tyrone Sea  thumping
against the great hall door, smashing it in
once or twice every winter, and scattering
in all directions the heterogeneous collection
of domestic articles which are allowed to
congregate in this no-man's land. For the
hall of the villa is, properly speaking, buta
basement, a large vaulted chamber, with
kitchens, store rooms, and a torch for olive-pressing,
opening off it, a place where bathing
costumes are permitted to hang when
drying, where watch dogs lie at night, and
where passing children will stroll in and play
uninvited, until chased out again by the irate
cook.

VOL. III. 6

On the terrace a broad white and brown
striped awning extends the whole length of
the villa, or palazzo, as it is locally called,
a delight for those who enjoy its shelter, buta
torment for those whose duty it is to furl
it when a sudden squall across the bay sends
it bulging and flapping about like the topsail
of a ship in stays, for naturally none of
the lubberly contrivances wherewith to handle
it are ever in working order and will neither
pull up nor overhaul through the leads. And
especially exasperating is all this if it happens
that the hour of some meal served on the
terrace is approaching, when the table which
stands outside is spread with dishes and plates.
Clearing the decks of a frigate for action is
comparative quiet with the scene that ensues, 
everybody shouts to everybody else to do
exactly opposite to what he or she may be
doing, the nimble Italian girls skip here and
there over the overset chairs ; the mistress
of the villa and her guests are buried under
the canvas, and a large white poodle dashes
about laying hold of every one's ankles out
of sheer excitement.

Opening off this terrace is a spacious, many-widowed

sala, extending the whole width of
the villa, looking out on the bay on one side
and on ilex groves, which clothe the hill
behind the house, on the other. The floors are
mosaics of the fifteenth century, in perfect
preservation ; the walls are the work of early
renaissance painters in fresco ; the ceiling
is more remarkable for gaudy colouring than
for artistic execution, but still harmonising
well enough with the rest of the room. The
furniture consists of broad, easy lounges, mostly
covered with the skins of tigers and panthers,
and skins do duty for carpets, except here and
there where some Persian or Yarkhandi mat
finds a place to lie. An Oriental fabric is
gracefully draped as curtains ; some large oil
paintings of little merit adorn the walls ; a
quantity of costly china is displayed on
brackets, in niches, and in cabinets. The air
of the room is laden with the sweet smell of
flowers, which the sea breeze wafts through
every room in the villa ; a cool silence reigns,
the subdued light coming softly through the
closed persian. Of evidences of habitation
there are many : a large table in one corner,
for the room is of immense dimensions, is

littered with periodicals and newspapers ; with
new books, and with old ; whilst on another
is all the paraphernalia for letter writing.
Some delicate fancy work betrays the presence
of woman. Off the sala open four doors of
great size and solidity. One of these gives onto
the dining-room, a large, bare, cool-looking
room ; another leads into a smaller drawing-room,
furnished with care and luxury ; a third
door leads on to the staircase, beyond which lie
the other rooms and the way to the floor above.
The last door, with a heavy curtained portiere,
leads to the adytum, a bedroom where everything
that wealth can command has been
lavishly displayed and hastily provided. The
most costly embroideries adorn the curtains
which shade the windows ; lace in profusion
decorates the dressing-table, on which lie gold
and silver appliances sacred to the mysteries
of the toilet. Beyond the room lies a bathroom,
also luxuriantly fitted up. This much
for the piano 7iobik., or first floor ; below are the
hall and offices already described ; with a
small chapel, rescued from decay and desecration
by some pious predecessors of the present
tenants, half way down the stairs.

Above is a large suite of bare half-furnished
rooms, haunted, according to repute, by more
than one spectre, whose diversion it is to howland
gibber by night in the windy corridors, or
to dash invisible pots and pans of copper or
brass on the echoing floors. Whence come
these ghosts or who they are is a mystery, but
as the basement of the villa is of immemorial
antiquity, and as the kitchen is undoubtedly
coeval with Belisarius and Totila, and may have
cooked dinners for either of those contending
heroes, there is considerable latitude for choice
as to their antecedents in the flesh. The
villa lies surrounded by grounds, enclosed by
a high wall, that along the beach ornamented
by some small turrets, per fare Figura as the
Italians say. The grounds are rough, and
little attended to, being for the most part
tilled, and producing only a poor kind of
wine and a few figs. The contains himself is
a very ancient person, with a back so bent
that one marvels it does not snap. He hasa
venerable old wife, with silver-grey locks
above a face that must once have been beautiful.
Their daughter is one of those sweet-mannered,
pleasant Silurian girls, whom one

meets at every turn amongst these classic
hills.

These people form no actual part of the
establishment of the villa, though they perform
many services for it, with almost the
prescription of tenure. As the villa is
generally only let in the summer, people
content themselves with hiring such servants
as they can procure from Sarzana, or in the
village of San Terenzo which lies outside the
villa walls.

And this is the villa to which Romeyn has
conducted Madame Artaki hoping to be perfectly
free and unmolested in this retreat. In
this respect they are not disappointed, for
the society of the neighbourhood is extremely
limited. But, as this is the smallest world inexistence,
it is not surprising that even here in
remote San Terenzo some one should turn up
who ** knows all about " Artaki Effendinn  someone
with a Levantine connection ; and so the
story that lie is the daughter of a defunct
sister of Mr. Romeyn's, gains no credence.
For this reason those who did call at first did
not trouble themselves to call again, which was
exactly what Romeyn would have requested
'''=m to do, had they consulted him.

For to Romeyn this life was partly to lift the
veil of paradise beyond, and he naturally did
not wish others to rush in where he himself
had as yet scarce got foothold. He had not
lost a day, or an hour, before setting the
machinery in motion to obtain the divorce
from his wife, and had fully instructed Messrs.
Gizzard and Stretchitit before leaving London.
Some delay would have arisen through Mrs.
Romeyn having left no address in the Rue
St. Anne, but on inquiries being made of
Dubois, the concierge bethought him of Alfred
Dumont, Perotte's brother, the carpenter, from
whom he had learnt in conversation* that
Perotte had taken service with Mrs. Romeyn' s
daughter in London. This gave them a
clue. They sent for Alfred and informed
him that letters of great importance were
waiting here both for Mrs. Romeyn and for
her daughter, and suggested that he should
write to his parents and ascertain Perotte's
address, and through her that of her mistress's
mother. Alfred's mother had immediately
replied that both ladies were at the Manoir;
for Mrs. Romeyn had made no mystery of
going there, and indeed had no cause for

mystery, as she thought; for it never struck
her that it might add to the discovery by
Gould of his wife's whereabouts. So no sooner
had Messrs. Gizzard and Stretchitit obtained
this information from Dubois, than Mr. Gizzard,
who had always been on the most friendly
terms with the wife of his wealthy client, wrote
and begged the favour of an immediate interview
on most urgent private affairs accompanying
the request with a strongly expressed
wish to meet her alone. Mr. Gizzard was a
true gentleman, one who from innate principle
as well as from professional etiquette, had
never betrayed a secret. The reputation of
this discretion, so well earned, coupled with
great astuteness and a profound knowledge
of law made him a truly valuable friend, and
had placed him on a pinnacle with his
clients which few of his confreres ever
attain.

Both Romeyn and his wife were well aware
of these excellent qualities in their trusty old
friend ; and whilst the former had given him
carte blanche as to money arrangements in the
divorce, the latter, without the least suspicion
as to what he wanted to see her about was

quite ready to grant him an interview, in
private, as he requested. But Mr. Gizzard
himself, with all his regard for Mr. Romeyn
and his willingness to serve him, was not at
all enamoured of this piece of business. His
probity could not permit him to ignore the
taint of collusion in it, and his legal mind
shrank from anything resembling conspiracy,
even though both parties were greatly to
benefit by the arrangement, and no one in the
world could be even remotely damaged by it.
It was the clearest case where the end justified
the means, and really transgressed no law of
morality, that would not be equally outraged
if it were not put into effect. But finally the
human side of his nature prevailed and, with a
possible shade of casuistry, he came to the
conclusion that it would be for Mrs. Romeyn
to decide, and not him. She was a woman
in whose moral sense he had the highest
belief. He would merely put the case before
her, at present, and advance no specious
arguments. She would be more likely to
judge properly than he would, and, besides
that, had she ever had an opportunity of
saying whether she would be divorced from-her

husband or not? had she even had the
funds to begin an expensive suit? So an
appointment being made for a certain day
and hour at the Hotel de France in Rouen,
Mrs. Romeyn and Mr. Gizzard met and most
cordially shook hands. Whatever her husband
had done, he. Gizzard, was only his mouthpiece.
It was no fault of his that her allowance
had been stopped; indeed, as she was well
aware, he, Gizzard, had gone as far as he
dared to try and dissuade her husband from
this harsh and unjust measure. Nor did
she forget how, years ago, Mr. Gizzard had
tried to get her a post-nuptial settlement ;
thereby incurring the violent wrath of her
husband, who invariably flew into a passion
if anyone under his control attempted to free
themselves from it. Mrs. Romeyn soon saw
that Mr. Gizzard's always grave face was
unusually grave. For he had a very difficult
task to perform, and felt that the success of
his mission would almost entirely depend on
how he brought it under her notice. It was
now more than twelve years since Mrs. Romeyn
had been separated from her husband, and
during all that time the only member of her

family she had seen was Madeline. It was
natural, therefore, that Gizzard should break
the ice by talking about them, and from them,
by gradual stages, to talking about Romeyn
himself.

*the fact is'' he went on, after a good'
deal of beating about the bush, '* Mr. Romeyn
is going abroad."

' And what takes him abroad? " says Mrs.
Romeyn, anxious to help him out.

** My dear madam, it is one of those unfortunate
entanglements that the wisest of us
may fall into''

** Indeed," she says with, however, very
little tone of surprise. ' But I do not see how
this can effect me. He has always been his
own master."

*swell, yes," says Gizzard, in a balancing
kind of voice. ** We may say he has, . . .
to, a certain extent."

*' I have seen no limit, Mr. Gizzard."

*' Well, practically, perhaps not; but still, if
I were asked to state my opinion, professionally,
I should say that he cannot do
exactly as he likes."

** I do not see that. I certainly have neither

the power nor inclination to stop him doing
anything."

** That may be so, my dear madam, and
I should be glad if I thought you would always
be of that opinion. Now, without further
ramification, I must tell you that he is bound
by certain legal and other forms which stand
in the way of his present wishes."

And having fired this first shot, to get the
range, he watches the effect. It has not fallen
short, for he sees a light break on her face.
However she is still guarded.

* Pray excuse me, my dear Mr. Gizzard,
you are such an old friend you will not mind
helping my dulness. Will you tell me exactly
what you mean, and, why I have the real
pleasure of seeing you again ? "

My dear madam, I will ; but on condition
that you do not instantly dismiss the subject
with a hastily formed judgment. I must warn
you beforehand that your decision has far-reaching
consequences, affecting, not yourself
alone, but many others ; and I may add that,
though I do not intend your judgment to be
biassed or warped by this, still you must take
it into consideration. And lastly, if I come to

make this proposal, you may rely on it I think
it best for you to accept, or I should not have
come here to see you."

** That I believe most thoroughly, and I
promise I will take ample time to reflect."

** Then, madam, I will briefly explain. Your
husband has formed an attachment of singular
force for a very remarkable person ; and, 
and, in fact, he wants to marry her."

Mrs. Romeyn sits quite still. It is not quite
what she expected, and the news that her
husband has formed a new tie for himself of
such a character causes her, in spite of all these
years, unmistakable pain and surprise. Then
with a blank look at the neat little old man,
who plays rather nervously with his watch-chain,
she says in a low tone, 

** And suppose I refuse ? "

*sin that case, madam, you will not materially
alter the moral position of either your husband
or this person. But you will inflict countless
miseries on many others."

** You mean myself and Madeline?" she
answers calmly. ** We are, thank God ! now
quite independent of Mr. Romeyn."

** That is only a right and proper spirit, as

regards you and your daughter, and no one
admires it more than I ; for I know something
of your trials and sufferings, but it is not you
alone; there is your son, married without a
sixpence and with four children ; there is your
widowed sister and her two daughters also,
penniless, and to whom I pay an anonymous
and not unhandsome allowance annually from
Mr. Romeyn. Now, my dear madam, I need
not tell you what your husband is when he has
made up his mind. And his mind is made
up now, more firmly than I have ever known
it before on any single subject. He leaves it
to you to say whether all those people are to
continue to live decently and comfortably,
or to go out and seek their bread in the
streets."

*good heavens, Mr. Gizzard, he cannot mean
that ! He would never be so unjust."

** He would not call it injustice. He would
say he has a right to do as he likes with his
own, and he w?'// most assuredly do it."

** This is too much ! "

** Pardon me, my dear Mrs. Romeyn, it is
really not too much. He does not stop there.
He will leave this person every farthing of his

immense property, or at all events he will take
care that not one single farthing ever comes
to any member of his family. I have drafted
a new will to this effect. It is no secret''

She is silent for a moment, then looking him
steadily in the face, 

*' And my son, and my grandchildren, my
sister and her daughters,  all, all, are in this
category ? "

** Every one of them, not only their allowances
to stop next quarter day, but they are
expressly excluded from benefiting under his
will by name."

** And it rests with me ! '' she says almost ina
piteous voice.

** Absolutely, absolutely'*

** This is, indeed, hard ! It seems to me as
if I were compelling all those people to eat the
bread dropped from the hand of this abominable
woman whoever she is. O ! my God !
guide me to judge aright ! "

Mr. Gizzard sits anxiously gazing at her.

** Will you allow me to give you my
opinion ? I think that you have no right to
refuse ; I think that you are now, in the eyes of
the God you have just invoked, one in body

and soul with your husband. Have you a
right to remain so when he is living with
another ? Is this morality ? or is it a suspicion
of private revenge that prevents you agreeing ?
Mind, I am not arguing ; I wish you to decide
for yourself, I am only putting it my way."

Poor woman ! she cannot see the distinction,
but his words have considerable weight.

*' I could forgive him anything but his
treatment of poor Madeline," she says sorrowfully.
*' Why should he go unpunished ? "

** Ah, madam, don't make me preach, it is
not in my line, not professional ; but I must
say, who are you to mete out punishment and
reward ? And now, if you wish restitution made
to your daughter, Mrs. Ostrolenka, it is in your
hands to do so to an extent you little dream
of."

*'No, no, you need not trouble yourself
about her."

** I do not know. I have far stronger
reasons than any I have yet advanced to induce
you to consent. But these I can only
put before you under the most solemn promise
you are capable of that you will under no conditions
divulge it."

** May I consult no one ? for you frighten
me. Let me at least consult Madeline'* says
she, turning earnestly to him.

** Most absolutely and positively no, my
dear madam,  she above all. I can give no
latitude in this, I have solemnly pledged myself
to extort a sacred promise from you. It
is not Mr. Romeyn's secret alone; he has
bound himself equally solemnly ; a whisper of
it, and the whole fabric falls to the ground."

** Well, as I must know before I can decide,
I agree to your terms. I promise you faithfully
that I will not divulge this to a living
soul. But at the same time, remember, Mr.
Gizzard, that knowing it is not to bind me to
this divorce ; I will wait to hear what it is before
I decide on that point."

That is perfectly understood, and now,
with the clear understanding that I have your
promise I will proceed. The child your
daughter Madame Ostrolenka bore is not dead.
She is in the safe keeping of people under the
control of this person to whom Mr. Romeyn
wishes to be married. On the day she marries
him she has pledged herself to reveal the
whereabouts of the child, and to restore her to

VOL. III. 7

her mother. The child, through the death of
many relatives, is now an heiress'*

*' This is impossible," says Mrs, Romeyn,
who had listened in utter amazement. ** My
grandchild died at Beyrout. The wife of
the French consul saw the little body, and had
her buried. It is mere fabrication."

** So thought I at first, but I have been
satisfied it is the case. You may take it from
me that the child is really alive and can be
produced."

*' Oh Madeline ! my poor darling Madeline
! what have they made you suffer. The
inhuman wretches ! And this is the woman
Romeyn will marry, knowing all this abominable
wickedness and deceit ? "

*' My dear madam, that is his business, remember.
He is fifty, and he loves this woman.
Men at fifty stop to reason less than at thirty ;
they are nearly at the end of their tether ;
they wish to make the most of the time left
them."

* Oh ! what a wicked world ! and what
misery ! "

** Yes, plenty of it, but think what a load of
misery you can avert, if you agree."

*' I am aware of that, and now, Mr. Gizzard,
hear me; on certain conditions I will consent."


**I have full power to agree to anything,
madam, so let me hear what you wish," says
Gizzard, unable to repress a sigh of relief, and
in a tone of elation.

** My terms are that all these people we have
spoken of,  my son, my other children, including
Madeline, and my sister  shall be made
totally independent of Mr. Romeyn's caprice.
Every one of them must have a capital sum
down  settled any way you like as to their
heirs, but quite free from Mr. Romeyn forever."



** That shall be done, but we must settle the
amounts ; they may be handsome, if you like,
for Mr. Romeyn is now worth near on four
million sterling. And now, as soon as we
decide on these figures, I will get you to sign
certain documents I have here. Another firm
undertakes this affair on your side. These
documents are the authority for them to take
proceedings on your behalf The affair will
be disposed of in camera if possible, and without
you having to appear ; of course you under

Stand that not a word of this, from beginning
to end, passes your lips''
'' That I fully understand."
In a few minutes with his help she has given
him the figures she wishes agreed on for settlement,
and then he requests her to sign.

** Pardon me, my dear friend," she says, '' if I
seem to hesitate. This is too serious to do ina
hurry. I cannot sign until I see all those
arrangements actually agreed to beyond recall.
Remember what is involved. You may drop
dead, or I ; and then where would they all be ?
Come back as soon as you possibly can ; I
pledge you my word I will sign every document
you require."

'* As a lawyer I am bound to think you are
quite justified in demanding this. I will return
to England. I will not lose a day. Your
wishes shall be exactly carried out. But  I
am to take away the assurance that your
decision is final, I trust ? "

** Yes. I give you my solemn promise."
** Then, madam, I will say good-bye now ;
and, believe me, this decision is most wise,
and this is one of the best day's work you
ever did in your life."

And Gizzard returned to London and immediately
dispatched a long telegram to Romeyn
at San Terenzo, assuring him that all difficulties
could be smoothed away, but that it
was imperatively necessary for him to return to
make certain money arrangements.

The matter was much too involved to do it
by letters, and too private to make it desirable
to send out a clerk to him.

ttF  tTF ?!y TT

And why had Heroea refrained from playing
her best trump in this game to win Romeyn ?
the release of Ostrolenka. Because even
she could not count on being able to effect it.
Release him, and how could they insure his
silence ?

For not Heroea alone, but the Grand Vizier,
together with a host of high-placed officials
and minor parasites, had all been involved in
the Syrian fraud.

A MAGDALEN.

Mr. Gizzard's telegram reached Romeyn in
safety, and found him walking meditatively
backwards and forwards on the terrace of the
villa, waiting for the appearance of Hercea who
had gone to her room to dress for dinner. The
moment he read it he called eagerly to her to
come out to him, and in a few minutes she was
at his side. She saw at once, by the expression
on his face, illumined by the setting sun, that
he had good news for her.

"' Caro mio she says, *you have good
news. What is it ? ''

*' The best in the world for me, my love;
Mrs. Romeyn consents," says he, taking her
hand.

** Oh Arthur! I am so glad ! I cannot say
how glad. Really consents ? "

** Yes, love  consents fully  apparently 
read the telegram."

She reads Mr. Gizzard's long message, and
gives it back to him.

** This seems too good to be true," she says
quite low, whilst a deep colour steals over her
face.

He takes her in his arms. ** You really feel
glad ? You really think this is good ? "

*' Most truly I do ; but see, he says you are
wanted, will you go ? Could he not send someone
here to do it all ? "

** No, I am afraid not. There must be such
an immense lot of things I must personally
attend to. I do not intend to lose a day ; I
shall go to-night. I can catch the mail from
Pisa to Genoa at Sarzana. And you, will you
go with me ? "

** How long will you be ? "

A week at the outside."

** I hardly see the good of my going. It is
such a long, hot, dusty journey, I should only be
in your way, and Mrs. Grundy would begin
boiling up again just as she is cooling down.
I think it best to stay here, dear, I shall be
perfectly safe."

** No doubt you will," he says. '* I would not
be so selfish as to drag you all that distance.
You are very comfortable and quiet here. But
of course you will remain here ? I shall be
back with the utmost speed, and then ''

*' Dear Arthur, how can you ask such a thing?
Why, where should I go ? Do you suppose
my mind is not made up ? ''

*' I believe it is," he replies ; ** I believe you
are perfectly capable of being true to me, and
that you intend to be."

"Listen to what I say, Arthur, and take it
away with you to-night as a conviction," and
she leans forward on him and drops her voice.
** I may have been all sorts of things, I
have had a queer and stormy life, but now I
hope to leave the whole of that behind. And
I believe that your love for me, which has been
so thorough and so sincere, and the way you
have treated me," she says, with a blush, *so
different to many men, have worked a great
change in me. I mean to love you for yourself,
and if you will believe me, I swear to you,
by my hope of everlasting life, that I do now
really love you, and will remain true to you."

But before he can reply the Italian servant

has announced dinner, and the commonplaces
of life recall them to the fact that  whatever
else happens  we must have dinner.

Before dinner is quite over, the peasant
woman who is to carry Romeyn's portmanteau
to the junction of the steep path leading to
the villa with the Sarzana road above, has
appeared, and if he intends catching this night's
mail it is time to start. But at the last moment
he is almost inclined to remain and take the
day mail.

** No, Arthur'' she urges. ** Go, and return
as quickly as possible. It is a pity to tempt
Providence by delaying. She may change her
mind, or fifty things may happen."

So they rise from the table. In a * few
minutes he is ready, and, throwing a lace shawl
over her shoulders and arms, she accompanies
him part of the way, up through the
winding paths of the ilex grove, where at
certain points it is pitch dark, whilst the
peasant, with the portmanteau balanced on her
head, takes the public footpath outside the
grounds. A glorious moon is shining down
on the waters of the Bay, the air is full of the
chirping of cicada, and laden with the heavy

scent of ripe figs and grapes. At the top of
the wood Romeyn must say good-bye, to hurry
on and overtake the woman with his things,
and here Heroea and he stand on a small
natural terrace looking over the tops of the
trees on to the sea below. Lights are still
twinkling in the village of San Terenzo, and the
regular ** click" of some fisherman's oars, more
than a mile out to sea, is distinctly to be heard.
It is a night of surpassing beauty and softness.
The poetic spirit of Shelley seems abroad, haunting
these groves  so often trodden by his feet.
Then Romeyn says good-bye. They stand
in the dark shadow together, he and this
woman who has enthralled him beyond human
conception. His arms are round her waist,
hers rest clingingly on his shoulders. He
moves up his hands and takes her face
between them, and holds it upturned, where a
ray of moonlight shines on her. He takes a
long, lingering gaze, as if to read the truth.
Her eyes, looking so dark and grave, stir his
soul to its very depths, and the beauty of those
calm heroic lips recall his loved Venus of Milo.
His feelings are too deep to find expression
in words, and she, too, seems unusually moved.

** You are very silent, Arthur," she says ina
low whisper.

** I cannot find it in my heart to say goodbye
 I hate the thought of losing sight of you
for a moment''

** You are not superstitious," she says, *' are
you?"

**No, I cannot say lam  are you? Have you
any presentiment? "

*No; I have no presentiment beyond the
general conviction that I shall not live long,
I am twenty-five now, but I never expect to
be thirty."

** Hush, my love, don't say that ; it "is of
course the merest fancy. Only five years ! why
your life is strong enough to last fifty."

** I hope it may be, as long as I am happy,
and I mean to be happy with you, Arthur.
But there ! there's the woman calling. She
thinks you will be too late. Now kiss me,
Arthur, and say good-bye."

And then he leaves her, and all through the
night her face haunts him, and her parting
words ring in his ears.

He arrives at Sarzana in ample time. There
is some bustle at the station, an unusual

number of travellers are congregated on the
platform, and there seems to be a good deal of
earnest talk amongst them.

'what's it all about? " asks Romeyn.

** The cholera," replies an official, ** they
say it has appeared at Massa Carrara, a
few stations from this, towards Pisa. But it
seems doubtful if there's any truth in the
report."

** How can I ascertain for certain ? " says
Romeyn, his thoughts immediately going back
to Hercea. It may be better to return and
bring her away with him.

*' The station-master has the official news,"
replies the man whom Romeyn has addressed.
So Romeyn turns to the station-master and
requests to know the truth, as it is important
to him.

*' No, Signore," replies the station-master,
with much politeness. ** There is no truth in
the report at all. A panic has taken place
through the death of a doganiere who over ate
himself. This part of Italy is entirely free from
the pest, it has never been here, we feel
perfectly safe. But at the same time, if the
Signore wants to avoid from seven to ten days'



quarantine on the French frontier, he will do
well to take this, the last through train which
is to run."

I am most anxious," says Romeyn. *' But
there is a lady at San Terenzo."

"Oh! the lady in the Palazzo," says the
man respectfully, for her fame has long since
spread to Sarzana.

* Yes, my niece," says Romeyn.

'ras to her, the Signore can feel quite at
ease, ample time will be given to every one

to get away. She has Signor H at

Marigold, and Signor the celebrated

Florentine Professor both close to her. They
will know all about the epidemic if it spreads.
There will be ample time."

And then as the train has come in and
every one but Romeyn has taken their seat,
the station-master politely suggests he should
make up his mind, at the same time giving the
signal to the porters, who immediately begin
shouting out '' Partenza " with those deep
sonorous Italian voices which never sound
unmusical. Romeyn decides and jumps into
the train.

Then, after every body has had time to shout

'' Partenza'' as often as they feel disposed,
the train slowly steams away along the broad
valley of the Magna, towards Spezia. And
here there is another immense influx of
travellers, for all the well-to-do who have
heard of the death of the gluttonous coastguardsman
at Massa, are on the wing. As he
sits half-stifled in his closely-packed carriage,
with both windows closed, Romeyn thinks, with
an intense longing, of the cool terrace at San
Terenzo. He is one of eight, of whom seven
are in mortal terror of the night air, and are
possessed with some idea that the choleraic
germs, whatever they may be, are not so likely
to reach them, as they pass through some
possibly infested district if the carriage is kept
closed.

But to return to San Terenzo.

Whatever the station-master ofSarzana may
say to the contrary, every body believes
the cholera is at Massa, and the news quickly
spreads through all the villages and towns on
the Gulf of Spezia, carrying with it much
terror, and some panic. And the very first
person to bolt from San Terenzo is the
learned Florentine Professor who is so overwhelmed

with fright, that he actually slips
out of his house before the first streak of
dawn, and arrives at Sarzana on foot, hot,
dusty and travel-stained, just in time to catch
the early train back to Florence. Not a soul
in his house knows of his flight, until his wife
finds a note he has left for her telling her to
pack up immediately, and to come away with
children, bag and baggage, by the next train.
It has been said he is a very learned man, even
of European reputation, and here in this village
he is supposed to embody all human knowledge.
Medicine and pathology are known to
be amongst his many acquirements, andhe'has
been especially discursive of late on the cholera
at Naples. Everybody for miles round knows
him, as he comes here every summer for his
villegiatura, so the effect of his flight can
be easily imagined. It produces panic everywhere,
and unquestionably generates these premonitory
stages of this mysterious malady,
which prepare the way for its full development.

There is now a wailing and a lifting of
hands all through San Terenzo.

** Ma, Dio mio ! " they say. ** If the Signore
Professor had not thought there was great

danger would he have run away? He of
course knows. He has official Information
which Is purposely kept from us. The Government
don't care for the poor. They want to
kill us all," and so on.

Then his miserable example is followed by
all who can get away. All the little lodgings
and small villas which hold summer visitors
are instantly deserted, depriving numbers of
people of their .only chance in the year of
making a few soldi. Everybody bolts who can.

** And what will La Signora do'* enquire
Heroea's servants. ** Had she not better leave
before a cordon is put on ? The Professor
has been gone some hours."

** I shall not leave," says Heroea, ** I am not
afraid of cholera, even if it does come ; and if
I go every one will be still more frightened."

Her decision is reported in the village ; it
gives a little confidence, but only for a short
time, for every day brings its new alarm.

** Another death ! " they whisper.

** Gran Dio I where ? *'

** In Tuscany."

**Ah, thank God!" for there is comfort in
the idea that it is not actually in Liguria. The



cholera may respect geographic distinctions;
the Tuscan frontier is at least eight miles off.

But next day there are two or three more
deaths, the panic again reaches fever heat,
and more people run off to the neighbouring
towns, spreading terror wherever they appear.
Then the Syndic of Clerici, the chef-lieu of the
district, undertakes to investigate the cases
officially, to reassure the people, and announces
that the death at Carrara, which frightened
them all so much the day before, resulted from
a fall in one of the marble quarries. But this
version is scouted as merely official lying, for
it was well known that the man was seized with
choleraic cramp or he would not have fallen
and split his skull. Moreover his mother, who
lived at Areola hard by, had had warning of
this the night before, for one of her hens set
to work vigorously to crow, an evil omen
indeed in those perilous times. ** Ah I la
maladetta galena'' say the villagers; ' it
presages evil for us all ! ''

And then what is left of the inhabitants of
the village repair en masse to the little church
where lies the shrivelled skeleton of their
excellent Patron, Saint Terenzo, grinning

VOL. III. 8

away in a most uncomfortable position in a
glass-fronted case under the high altar, and
shewing the stump of his arm, which the good
and valiant man lost in some scrimmage with
Saracen Rovers, proving his equal readiness
to fight for his co-villagers in this world as in
the next. And even numbers of young men
are in church, an unusual spectacle, but fear
makes many of us godly, whilst the little grocer
outside does a roaring trade in votive candles
at an enhanced price.

*what! ten centimes for this miserable
little candle ? It was only three yesterday, it
has always been three."

** Yes, that is true enough, but I must make
the stock run out. It is not every day the
cholera comes, or that you want them,"
replies the grocer.

And two things the Professor has done ; 
to spirt up a little religious fervour  a good
thing in any life; and to send up prices to
famine point  a bad thing anywhere.

But before many days are over things really
do become serious. A tremendous storm of
rain has burst over the country, in Spezia
assuming the proportions of a waterspout.

Every drain and cesspool has been flooded,
and the fatal demon of disease seems to float
out on the over-flow. Death strikes right and
left, up one side of a street, down another, in
the houses of rich and poor alike. The dead
accumulate faster than the living can carry
them away. The people congregate out on
the open esplanade near the sea, but even
there in their midst some sudden cases occur,
driving them all back pell-mell to their houses.
Flight is general, and the railway station
is like the gates of a town with the besiegers
coming up the scaling ladders on the other
side. Men and women fight and struggle *for
places in the trains, children get separated
from their parents and wander about crying
piteously, no one taking any notice of them ;
luggage is left behind and lumbers up the
place. But not for long, for it is promptly
appropriated by some of those predatory
individuals who would thieve with their last
ounce of strength rather than miss a chance.
Flight is the order of the day, flight anywhere,
if only up amongst the olive trees on the hills,
to cower under improvised tents made of
sheets and blankets, to lie on the damp earth

and sow the seeds of disease; but anything is
better than to be cooped up in the pestilent
streets of the accursed city. Then a cordon
is thrown round, and all exit rigidly forbidden,
which makes the people inside feel as if suddenly
caught in some horrid snare, but gives
the most unreasoning confidence to people nota
hundred yards off outside.

For some time Clerici and San Terenzo are
free of the contagion, and their inhabitants
though gloomy try to cheer each other's spirits,
and raise their own, by fishing up the statistics
of every visitation of cholera in Italy, and
proving thereby, that in the worst times, these
two places escaped entirely. Still, however,
this mirth-loving people abandon every form
of amusement; the little dancing-room, built
half out into the water, where, night after night,
the young men and the girls danced their
everlasting polkas to the music of a pianoforte
organ is shut up ; the cafe is deserted,
and its frequenters hang moodily about over
their boats; the beach beyond the villa no more
resounds with the laughter of women and
children disporting themselves in the sea, for
bathing is pronounced dangerous ; and even

ir

the extra-jovial priest's nose looks a shade less
fiery, as if he had been of late paying more
attention to his prayers and less to the
bottle.

During this time the servants at the Villa
continually implored Madame Artaki to leave,
and take them with her, of course, but this she
steadily refused to do. For she knew that all
the poor people of the village watched her
movements with the utmost interest  she was
their barometer  and the fact that she remained
steady gave them some confidence. And
knowing this, it was impossible for her to
desert them ; whatever her morals were-there
was no question about her courage or her
tender-heartiness for suffering. So she prepared
for what she thought was inevitable,
an epidemic in the village, and with what
lights she had of her own, and the feeble ray
of intellect proceeding from a local Medico,
she ordered large quantities of disinfectants
and medicines of every kind, and set to work
to employ all the men of the village in clearing
drains and putting things generally into a
good sanitary condition.

In this she did an immensity of good, for it

not only distributed large sums of money
amongst them, but gave them confidence.
Everybody felt that everything was being
done that human ingenuity could suggest to
mitigate the evil if it did come. Never in the
memory of man had San Terenzo had such
a routing out, and even the older amongst the
inhabitants, whose bodies had been for years
strangers to water as they had given up
bathing, were persuaded to get themselves
and their clothes scrubbed up, down to the
half-crazy old Cuffs, a withered ramshackle old
crone who belonged to no one and lived on
charity in the village.

And at last the storm raging in the doomed
town of Spezia just across the hills burst
on San Terenzo, striking down as its first
victim a humble government official, and then
spreading generally in the village. At the
first blast it swept away all that was frail,
then, gathering strength it struck the strong.
All faces are now white  the church even is
deserted, for fear of the contagion, and the
voices of the children are heard no more
shouting along the sea wall. A triple cordon
is immediately thrown round the place and

provisions become extremely scarce, for a
mandate has gone forth from the Prefect of
the Province that the fishermen are not to be
allowed to launch their boats lest they might
escape and so carry infection elsewhere.

But for Heroea's generosity and timely aid
the people might now have well-nigh starved.
She contrived, however, that provisions should
be brought in, which she distributed freely to
all who would take them. And she herself
went in and out of the poorest dens all day,
nursing the sick, comforting the dying, and
giving aid to the wretched. But inside, the
villa the panic was not less than outside, and
nothing would induce the servants to go
beyond the garden walls. And finally they
resolved that if their mistress would persist in
going amongst the sick and dying they would
fly bodily, or shut her out of her house.
However, news of the mutiny reached Heroea's
ears through a garrulous old woman whose
house abutted on the villa grounds, and who
made it her special business to know everything
that went on therein. Hercea naturally
acted with promptitude, turning out the cook
on the spot who had been the ringleader : when

the unhappy woman, out of sheer fright at
finding herself beyond the comparative shelter
of the villa, took cholera and died in twenty-four
hours. When the tale spread, it heightened
the respect of the people for Madame
Artaki to an extraordinary degree, almost to a
superstitious reverence, for they looked on it
as a judgment on the cook. Wherever Heroea
went the men stood bare-headed and the
women dropped the lowest curtseys. The
priest publicly mentioned her name in his
extemporized prayer and the little children ran
out and tried to touch her dress. Saint
Catherine in Siena, visiting the plague-stricken,
never had more passionate devotees. But, withall
Heroea' s skill she could not keep the fatal
disease away from the villa. Her English
maid sickened and died, and then a girl from
Sarzana. At this all fled, except one faithful
woman, Luiga by name, a drawer of water and
hewer of wood, who still stuck by her mistress,
and went about as unconcernedly as though
she bore a charmed life.

So Madame Artaki and this brave peasant
were left alone in the vast, silent villa.

Marino's DISCLOSURES.

Whilst these things were happening in Italy,
the steamer on board of which Nellie and
Dumont were passengers was nearing Beyrout,
where the former soon after disembarked,
leaving the latter to continue his journey
farther north. That the business Nellie had
in hand would require extreme caution and
secrecy was obvious, for any enquiries she
might make could easily reach the ears of the
Vali, and through him straight to the Grand
Vizier, Madame Artaki's friend. Nor was it
easy to discover the whereabouts of a woman ina
large town like Beyrout, even supposing her
to be still here. The only clue Nellie had was
a memorandum, apparently made by Gould
some years before, of a woman's name and
address in Beyrout ; which they had found
amongst his documents. This person, who

lived in a remote suburb towards Ras Beyrout,
Nellie felt persuaded was the woman she
wanted.

Her first care was to find some quiet
apartment where she could be alone, and this
she succeeded in doing, and there took up her
abode under an assumed name. She then
went to the Prussian Convent and obtained the
services of a young Armenian girl, on whom
the Sisters assured her she could confidently
rely, as being truthful, honest, and intelligent.
But before confiding anything to this girl,
Nellie watched her carefully for a few days, and
having at last satisfied herself that with the
additional incentive of a handsome present
the girl might do what was required faithfully,
she determined to risk employing her in first
hunting up the woman of Gould's memorandum,
and whose name she now knew to be Marino.
In her first quest the Armenian was fortunate,
for by making enquiries in the neighbourhood
she soon ascertained that Marigo still dwelt
at the address given in Gould's memorandum.
Nor had her enquiries stopped there. She
learnt that Marigo's husband had been locked
up for the last two years, out of regard for

the safety of travellers between Beyrout and
Damascus, this enterprising individual having
organised a band of ragamuffin Greeks and
Zeibeks, who robbed and plundered all and
sundry. And, further, Marigo herself was
under a social cloud  was looked at rather
askance  not on account of her husband's
misdeeds (which the foolish people could not
distinguish from those of their rulers), but
for certain baby farming practices of her own ;
a mode of treatment of the unfortunate little
creatures invariably attended by their death.
She had, however, one or two defenders in
the neighbourhood, who declared she knew
her business thoroughly. But no one ever
asked the babies what they thought of it.
Their evidence was reserved for a Higher
Court, where even their weak and feeble cries
got a hearing.

So the Armenian returned and explained to
Nellie that Marigo was evidently not a very
popular person. And Nellie having formed
her plans, based on the theory of backsheesh,
dispatched her once more to the suburb, but
this time by night, with instructions to open
certain supposititious negotiations with the

baby-farmer. The Armenian easily found the
house and the woman, who appeared to be in
very bad circumstances, for she at once began
to tell a piteous tale of her sufferings, and to
beg. Her listener was deeply sympathetic, and
as an earnest presented her with a few small
coins, which naturally only whetted Marigo's
appetite for more.

Then Nellie's messenger began to open the
object of her visit. A lady of importance had
a child to put out to nurse. She had heard of
Marigo's excellent system and wished to see her.

On which Marigo launched forth : describing
how changed times were : how little of
that style of business was to be done now.
Beyrout was not half the place it used to be,
and people were liable to get into trouble now
about the least thing. For that reason she
could not say for certain if she would do this
thing or not. She wished to know more about
it. To which the Armenian replied that she
could learn all she chose if she would come
and see the lady  that she herself was not
commissioned to do more than that.

Marigo, however, had still doubts. She did
not know who this girl herself was. Might

she not be leading her into some snare ?
It behoved people like her to be careful.
So the girl explained that she was the
daughter of the clerk at the Custom-house,
whom probably Marigo either knew or had
heard of. Yes, she had  she knew him
for an honest man, she would make no more
fuss about it. She would accompany the girl
to her mistress's apartments.

*come then," says the Armenian, 'you
can go with me now. There is plenty of time
for you to see her to-night and return here''

*eyes, I will go with you now; wait one
moment, I will put on my Yashmak and ferijeh.
I prefer it  I have so many enemies in the
neighbourhood."

In a few moments she was ready, and carefully
barring her window and closing her
door, accompanied the Armenian towards
Beyrout.

Arrived at the house, the servant bade
Marigo wait downstairs until she had informed
her mistress that she was there. Nellie greatly
commended the girl for having acted so discreetly,
and in a few minutes the woman was
shewn up. Beyond, however, distinguishing

by her dress and general appearance that she
was addressing a lady, it was impossible for
Marigo to say what the lady was like, for Nellie
had purposely taken an easy chair out on to the
low verandah and had placed it where the
shadow of the projecting wall made an almost
impenetrable gloom. But this caused Marigo
no great surprise. In her line of business she
was accustomed to a good deal of mystery,
and it was not the first time that one of her
patronesses had adopted some such expedient
for preserving her incognita. It was thus impossible
for her to recognise in Nellie the person to
whom she had confided the little girl so many
years ago in Athens. For it was this woman.
Nor was there any chance of her recognising
Nellie by her voice, that Mnemosyne which
will whisper to us down long dark years, when
every other mode of recognition has vanished ;
for Nellie, it will be remembered, lay desperately
ill at the time Marigo must have seen
her, and consequently had not opened her
mouth to the Greek woman. Like most
Levantines, Marigo spoke Italian well, so in
this la gage Nellie accosted her.

 Sit down," says Nellie. '* And, if you

like, take off your Yashmak, the night is warm,
and we are alone."

*' Certainly, signora. I only wear it out of
doors. We have had a hot walk, but your
servant has given me some sherbet and I am
much refreshed''

** Now, Marigo  for you see I know your
name  I have an important matter to discuss
with you ; but before I begin I must get you
to answer me a few questions, that I may be
quite sure I am dealing with the person who
has been recommended to me. I tell you
beforehand, you need have no fear. I am
your friend." 

** Speak, my lady, I will listen."

** I want you to speak as well," continues
Nellie. ** Now did you ever know a family
of the name of Capodistria ? "

"Yes, I knew them well," replies the
woman, somewhat taken aback.

"Were you ever in their service?" adds
Nellie, wishing to test the truth of the
woman's statements.

*eyes, I was, for nearly five years. I was
with them in Pera first and came here with
them."

*' Thank you," says Nellie. '* That is satisfactory,
but still, you will not mind answering
some more questions because it is of great
importance to me."

** I will answer anything you like, signora ; I
have nothing to hide," replies the woman with
a straightforwardness which surprises Nellie.

** Then I will ask you if you ever knew
some great friends of the Capodistria's,
Artaki by name."

*' Yes. I knew them well, not only in Pera,
but here afterwards."

** Had they a child?"

No. Madame Artaki had no child," says
Marigo with a sudden tone of reserve in her
voice. *not that I know of."

*' You need not be alarmed," says Nellie.
** I am very curious to know all about the
Capodistrias. Before I give you charge of my
child, I wish to hear all about how you looked
after theirs. Here," and she reaches forward
and places a gold Medjidieh in the woman's
hand.

The touch of gold acts like magic with
Orientals  far more than people accustomed
to Western ways can believe.

** I will tell you all I know. I had charge
of Madame Capodlstria's child, Haris. I was
with them when the child was born. I came
on here from Stamboul before the rest of the
family: they followed after. They took a villa
some distance from Beyrout. Madame Capo-istria
was expecting her confinement: she was
very nervous, and the noise little Haris made
disturbed her. So they took another little
house  a cottage near the villa, and sent me
there with the child."

'' Well, go on."

*' Then there was a terrible lot of trouble,
and Madame Capodistria died in her confinement,
and the child was born dead."

*' And what became of you and little
Haris?"

** Oh ! signora, that is a long, sad story  a
mysterious affair,"  and the woman drops her
voice and looks behind her.

'* No one is there. Come. I am most
anxious to know all about it, for these people
were friends of my friends. If you tell me the
truth I will give you ten Medjidieh."

** I do not want to get myself into trouble 
one never knows what mischief comes of

VOL. III. 9

repeating things  but if your ladyship will
promise me faithfully that I myself shall not
suffer, I will tell you all I know."

'* I promise you most faithfully," says Nellie.

Marlgo gets up and looks into the room
behind. There is no one there. Then she peers
over the balustrade into the lane underneath,
bounded on the other side by a low, tumbledown
wall overgrown with prickly pear bushes
and lined with mulberry and Kharub trees.
There is nothing in sight  nothing but a conglomeration
of street-dogs, lying asleep one
on the top of the other, with a band of moonlight
falling across them, and a spectral looking
cat with a bushy tail silently contemplating
them from a safe distance.

Her reconnaissance seems to have satisfied
the Greek woman, for she returns to her chair
and sits down.

" When people have no friends they must be
careful," she observes. ** I have to look after
myself, signora ; therefore you will pardon
me."

*' By all means ; but I assure you, you have
nothing to fear."

** Well, I will go back again to when we

came from Pera. My mistress had a brother
in Beyrout, Ostrolenka by name, and of course
the two families were always together, more
like one. The Ostrolenkas lived in Beyrout
itself, but they and their child were continually
with us. Madame Ostrolenka was English, a
very pretty woman and clever. Their child,
who was very pretty and like her father, was
called Alantha. Alantha was always bright
and healthy, but poor little Han's was often
ailing. She had a scar on her neck."

*' A scar, had she ? " says Nellie in surprise.
'* Little Haris you mean ? "

*eyes, signora, it began with little hard
tumours and then came through the skin.
The Turks call it the Pig Malady."

** Yes, I know. We in English call it by a
word which means the same. Go on."

*' Well, perhaps you may have heard of a
silly old English doctor in Stamboul whom
every one laughed at ? He came and tried todo
something for Haris : said it was most unusual
at that early age  for she was not a year
old  and that it came on generally between
three and four. He, however, did her no
good. But I must get back to Beyrout again.

A few months after we came here, there
was a terrible affair and everything went to
ruin. Some great fraud was detected in
Stamboul, about the Syrian army, even the
Vali here was mixed up in it, but the people
who got into most trouble were my master
and Ostrolenka Bey, It came all of a sudden.
Ostrolenka was seized and thrown
into prison before he could open his mouth,
which was what they did not wish him to do ;
or, people said, things would have gone hard
with the Vali and others, who all got off.
Madame Ostrolenka was seized, too, and
bundled on board a steamer starting for France;
and I believe a reward was offered to any one
who would apprehend her if she was found in
Beyrout after being turned out. They said
she knew too much, too. As it happened her
child was staying with us  with little Haris and
me  at the cottage ; but we knew nothing
about the mother being packed off, and she was
so closely guarded that she was not allowed to
open her mouth to ask even to have her child
sent to her. All this disturbance made my
mistress, Madame Capodistria, ill. She was
prematurely confined and died, as I said before.

Capodistria was seized, and followed Ostrolenka
into gaol. Two years later he died in the
horrid dungeons at Koniah."

** And is that all ? What became of the
children?"

Marigo again looks about nervously. ** If
I must tell you all I must come closer. It is
a terrible affair. It might cost me my life."

** I swear to you, you are safe. You can
trust me," says Nellie  and here she thinks it
time to slip five more gold pieces into the
woman's hand.

** Then this is exactly what happened," the
women goes on. ** Little Haris was seized
with cramp  there was some cholera about at
the time  she had got hold of an unripe melon
without my knowing it. Before I had time to
send for the doctor, she was dead. I rushed
off to the villa with little Alantha, for fear of
contagion. When I got there everything was
confusion. My master had been seized and
dragged away by the Zabtiehs ; my mistress
was on the floor in her room, screaming in
hysterics; some of the servants had bolted, at
sight of the policeman ; and some had hidden
in the cellar, waiting to see if they could steal

anything. In the room where my mistress lay
struggling was a lady whom I knew well, and
had seen in Pera, but never before in Beyrout,
for she had only arrived, I believe, a few hours
before. She was rummaging everything and
everywhere, and putting every paper and letter
she saw into a hand-bag. With her was a man
I had also known by sight in Pera, who immediately
seized hold of me, put a pistol to my
ear and said, ' Silence, or you are a dead
woman.* All this time no one attempted to
help my mistress, until I bent over her. Then
the man helped me, catching hold of her
shoulders, and we lifted her on to the bed  off
which she never got up alive, for she died in
the night, never once recovering consciousness.
In the meanwhile the lady and the man searched
the house from top to bottom, aided by the
Zabtiehs, one of whom was placed sentry over
me and told to cut me down if I attempted to
run away. Poor little Alantha clung to me
all the time. We had an awful time of it."

* Tell me who this lady was," says Nellie,
leaning forward in her eagerness.

*rit was Madame Artaki," says the woman
in a whisper like a hiss.

*sand the man? " says Nellie, with difficulty
suppressing her astonishment.

** An Englishman  one Gould. I knew him
well by sight in Pera."

Fortunately for Nellie the darkness hides the
emotion of her face. She seems almost bewildered
at this strange recital. But she
collects herself and again urges the woman to
continue.

*' For several hours I could get no one to
listen to me. I told the Zabtieh I must seethe
* great lady ' as he called Madame Artaki,
as I had something very important to tell her.
She came and I told her that little Haris was
dead. Her astonishment was great, and she
called Gould, and they had a long, earnest conversation,
and seemed to settle something
between them. Then they came and took
Alantha from me and told me to go back to
the cottage where the dead child lay, But
before I went, Madame Artaki called me in to
a private room and shut the door. She faced
round on me and point blank accused me of
having murdered Haris ! It nearly took my
breath away. I declared, of course, it was
monstrous.  Yes, yes she said coolly. *But

if / chose to say you have, that's enough. Now
swear to do as I tell you, or I will give you
up to the Vali for having killed this child.'
Naturally, I consented. I had nothing else todo,
that  or go to prison  to be strangled.
But it was not much she expected of me. I
was to go back to the cottage, to wait until a
certain lady should come to see the dead child,
show her the body and make her believe it was
Alantha that had died, and not Haris."

*' Well, well, go on," says Nellie, trembling
with excitement.

'' It was simple enough. The lady came
and I knew her  the wife of the French Consul,
a most intimate friend of Madame Ostrolenka's,
and the person to whose care I had intended to
confide Alantha. She seemed terribly nervous
and upset, and no wonder, when you think of
all that had happened ; and also that her
husband narrowly escaped getting into the mess
himself. * Alantha is dead,' she said. * How
sad, and of cholera?' *Yes,' said I, glad of
the idea of cholera to frighten her from going
into the room.  Will you see her ? ' * I
must just peep in,' she said, but evidently
terrified at the idea. So I led her to the

window, where she could look in. I had
covered the poor little body nearly all up ; no
one could have said who it was, for it was
dusk, being nearly eight o'clock in the
evening. She only gave a hurried look and
turned away with a shudder, holding her
bottle of salts to her nose all the time for fear
of infection. * That is enough,' she said
quickly. * Give me something of the child's,
something she has not touched quite lately.
I must send some little thing to her poor
mother.' I went in and brought out Alantha's
doll, and gave it to her. That same night
people came with a coffin, ordered by Madame
Artaki ; and the body was buried early next
morning, without a living soul ever seeing it
but myself and the man who brought the
coffin, who was quite a stranger. On the lid
of the coffin was a brass plate which they had
already had engraved, ' Alantha Ostrolenka,

nata mortal ' So Haris was buried

in the Roman Catholic cemetery and a slab
put up by the French Consul, with Alantha's
name and that of her parents, the Ostrolenkas.
Then I was sent for again and Madame Artaki
again repeated her threats, adding now that

I had also robbed my mistress. Again I swore
by everything holy to do what she wished,
and I received orders to take Alantha to
Athens and hand her over to Mr. Gould when
I got there. But before starting every stitch of
Alantha' s own things were changed for those
of the other little girl ; and 1 had the strictest
orders to begin calling her Haris, which
I of course did. At Athens I left the child
with Mrs. Gould  at least I was told the
lady I saw was Mrs. Gould. I thought I
had seen her once before in Pera where she
had belonged to the English Embassy ; but
she was lying very ill, and had lost her
child."

'rand is that all your story," says Nellie,
scarcely able to contain herself.

**No, not quite, not all mine, but all theirs,
or nearly all. I stayed on in Athens. I was
supposed to be very handsome. Mr. Gould
begged me to remain and came to visit me
very often. Then he left Athens suddenly
and I  I married and came to Beyrout. I had
a good deal of money, but it soon disappeared.
Then I thought what I could make of this
secret, whom I could sell it to, for Gould had

ceased to do anything for me, but I was always
in terror that my liaison with Gould might come
out, and then my husband would have murdered
me. He  poor man !  got into bad company,
and is in prison now. And that is all."

** But see, Marigo. I know your secret now.
Will you help me to prove that this is the
Ostrolenkas' child, if you are very liberally
paid ? ''

** Yes," says she, pausing to think; 'but I
must go to some other country if I do."

** You can go where you like. How would
you propose to prove it? "

** I would prove that this child, if she is still
alive, is not Haris Capodistria ; for besides the
mark on her neck, that little girl had a
deformed thumb, and the thing was well
known to many people still alive. I could
prove it in fifty ways."

** But did you never understand the motive
of all this?"

'* Yes, I overheard Madame Artaki and
Gould talking of it the night before he left.
With all the others out of the way, Haris
would inherit a large fortune, the property
being in Turkey. Madame Artaki hoped to

be made her guardian, and, I suppose, to
plunder the whole lot of it."

' And Capodistria, what became of him ? "

'' He was strangled in the gaol at Koniah,
for he had written a letter to some one exposing
the whole affair about the fraud. But
Ostrolenka was not murdered. He was kept
a close prisoner. I have heard, though, that
he died, as I before mentioned."

** Well, Marigo, that is all, I think, you can
tell me. See, there is a purse of gold. If I
come back to Beyrout again, I may ask you
to help me, for I am deeply interested in this
affair''

** And the child you wished to leave with
me?"

*soh, the child! well, she is not ready yet;
and now good-night, and rest assured that all
you have told me is safe with me as far as you
are concerned."

Then Marigo rose and said good-night,
and returned to her suburb with a pocket full
of Medjidieh and a light heart, for the events
she had disclosed were too distant to cause
her any alarm.

And Nellie sat far into the night pondering

over all the strange things she had heard,
and thankful in her heart, that, through her
instrumentality, her new-found friend Madeline,
who had befriended her in her sorest
straits, would recover her child.

AN AMATEUR DETECTIVE.

The last that was seen of Restigouche he
was mentally staggering under the feeling
that he held the life of Gould in his hands, a
thought sufficiently terrible to make a far braver
man than he tremble. It is the most awful
responsibility we have ever committed to us 
the life and death of a fellow man. And as
Restigouche stood before the drawer where he
had locked away the newspaper, he repeated to
himself over and over again,

Oetait done lui! Agneau du bon Dieu ; c* etaii
done lui I

However, to act immediately was no intention
of his. He had not recovered the terror
which the stray allusion to himself by the old
apple woman had produced. It still made
him cold when he thought of it. And yet, on
reading this account, it seemed now impossible

that suspicion could attach itself to him. He
passed all that night and the two or three days
that followed in constant thought, and finally
began to recover some degree of elasticity in
his mind. And from this to levity was with
him a single step, for, with that execrable vanity
and love of notoriety born in the hearts of so
many of his countrymen, he now actually
began to cast about how he could manage to
get his own name mentioned in connection with
this mysterious affair, and how he might pose
in print before the eyes of all his brother
Boulevardiers as the lover of the murdered
woman  due regard to his own safety being
first secured.

But attractive as this appeared, there was
undoubtedly considerable risk in the experiment;
and so he did his best to smother this
growing lust for fame lest it should lead him
into some dangerous predicament. And now
by waiting a little he had made a fresh
discovery  that Mrs. Romeyn and her
daughter had taken refuge in a farmhouse in
Normandy ; and, though there was nothing
startling in this fact, taken singly, still it
occurred to his astute mind that they must

have got some money from somewhere if
Madame Ostrolenka could give up singing in
Paris or working for the milliners, and he
thought he ought to try and investigate this
matter. Then there was another puzzler.
Pitt had disappeared bodily, with the bonds
he could not doubt, and also with the documents
which Restigouche had surrendered to
him. This was strange. However, Rests
kept that matter to himself. He could
not well accuse Pitt of this, without exposing
his own hand in the affair. Then on the top
of all this came the mysterious murder, done,
as he firmly believed, by Gould. How could
he doubt it? Did he not distinctly call to
mind the uncomfortable feeling he had experienced
as this brutal * Anglais ' had crossed
over the street that morning in Boulogne,
flourishing the gold-headed cane ?

He grew so curious and so uneasy at last
that he felt that he should never rest until he
had settled all these puzzling questions. The
first thing, obviously, to do was to satisfy
his mind beyond doubt that the gold-headed
cane mentioned in the papers was really
Gould's. That would be easily done by taking

a run to Boulogne, and what was the risk P
A chance recognition by the apple-woman.
Having finally determined to take this risk,
he betook himself to Boulogne ; but, arrived
there, he scarcely dared leave the shelter of
the railway station, so greatly magnified had
his fears of the apple-woman become during
the journey down. However, after hanging
about a little In the lower town, he summoned
up courage enough to venture Into the Haute-ville,
peering up every street as he advanced
for the dreaded old woman, his bodily fear
only giving way to his irresistible curiosity,
and to the strange fascination which lured him
on. At last, by a circuitous route round the
ramparts to avoid the apple stall, he found
himself at the police office ; and here, with
teeth that chattered, he read a notice offering
a reward for any information that would lead
to the detection of the murder of a woman,
unknown, in the Impasse des Amants, etc.,
etc. And now, almost within touch of the
object of his journey, it was as much as he
could do to prevent his legs running off with
him again to the railway station without his
accomplishing it. To prevent this fatality
VOL. III. 10

he turned into a cabaret close by, to fortify
himself with drink and to plan the excuse he
would make in the police office for asking
permission to examine the gold-headed stick.
But luck was on his side, for in the caf seated
before one of the little marble tables was a Sergent
de Ville; and the idea at once came to Rests
that by plying this person with liquor
he might get a great deal out of him that was
interesting, and so lead round to going in to
inspect the stick. To sit down near a Sergent
de Ville is easy enough : to offer him drink still
easier: but the easiest thing of all is to get
him to brag about himself. He is probably
the earnest creature in the world, looking on
himself as the repository of State secrets : the
protector of the weak : the punisher of the evildoer.
He goes about his business in a melodramatic,
mournful manner. You may hear
him sigh as he casts his keen eye down some
alley or dark street, as if all the weight of
maintaining law and order were thrust on him.
The man on whom Restigouche has chanced
to stumble is just such an one, and the
Parisian knows exactly how to deal with him.
He quickly introduces himself as a visitor to

Boulogne  a novelist and journalist of some
distinction  and in a very little time succeeds
in bringing round the conversation to that
inexhaustible subject with the sons of Gaul, 
drames. Then from the general he leads the
talk to the particular  he has heard of a
sinistre lately in Boulogne. It would be
interesting from the novelist's point of view
to hear all about it, if Monsieur Le Sergent
could tell him. 'Yes! no one better; for he,
the Sergent had been one of the chief actors
in the whole affair  had lifted the corpse off the
floor, in fact done it all, he, Antoine Rohart
Sergent of the town of Boulogne-sur-mer.
He might say without false pride that France
owed him a crown of laurels for his work that
day. But if France forgot that day, he would
not. Monsieur the Novelist should have seen
the faces of the officials when he, Rohart,
pointed out the blood marks of the murderer's
feet ! ' * Yes, the novelist would have liked
to have been there that day ; but unfortunately
one cannot be in Paris and Boulogne at the
same time ! '  No, no,' ejaculates the policeman,
* not even a Sergent de Ville can do that,
though. Holy Blue ! the Law expects them to

perform this feat. They must multiply themselves
in the time of danger ! '  Ah ! true,
no one knows that better than the novelist and
journalist. The Sergent should read some of
his books, which deal with the heroism of the
police as a leading feature.'

The Sergent bows, and trusts he may some
day. But to return to the sinistre, as he was
saying. He pointed out the foot marks.

** And what then," says Restigouche, for the
man's vanity makes him insufferably prolix.

** What then ? why I cry out at once, * Seize
the cooper ! He is the assassin,' and, with one
bound I am on him. You should have seen
that scene, Monsieur the Writer. Nothing
finer in romance. * Hold him,' bawls the huge
d' Instruction. * I hold him,' I reply. ' He
cannot escape.' * See, villain,' we all call out,

thou hast murdered the woman ! ' * Confront
him ! ' we all roar, * and I drag him before the
body. I screw his arm,' and here the Sergent
jumps up and goes through a motion like
wringing clothes. * Ah, Assassin ! ' I say,

thou shalt on no account escape.' Then
comes the scene of his removal. The crowd
below wish to massacre him ; but no ! I am the

Law. He must be tried before he is massacred.
It is the law of France ; it is the right of a
citizen. I am a brave man ; I will not allow
the women to scratch his face. My comrades
call out, ' Keep him from their hands, Rohart !
thou art strong, thou art solid; everything of
the most solid ! * Then behind us comes the
dead  ah ! that was a sight ! the fine limbs,
the hair, all the details. Ah ! for Zola ! 1, who
say so  for Zola ! Then comes the arrest of an
old woman, she is telling things to the citizens
she must be arrested. Who will do it? I  I
again, I seize her! a vendor of apples, a woman
of light fame, though old, and given to drink,
and snuff. Everything is known to the police.
Be quiet ! She screams to be released ; her
friends, the without-breeches, would rescue
her, but they dare not. We take her to the
judge. She can tell little or nothing: she
is all wind  nothing more  that, and the
language of the markets''

Here he stops to drink and to give the
novelist time to make notes.

** And what other clues are there. In the
house what do you find ? " says Restigouche.

** Have I not said? First, marks in blood,

and a towel ! put that In your note-book ; and
ah ! yes, a cane  the cane of the assassin, a
fine cane."

** A sword stick?"

** No, but for the purposes of a novelist you
may as well put it down that it was one. But
you can see it, for it is in the police-office, for
identification  a fine figure of a woman in
gold."

** Indeed!" says Restigouche with unfeigned
interest  for the point is solved.

** Yes, come over and see it; there is no
danger," he continues, noticing some reluctance
on the part of Restigouche.

*' We civil citizens, you known, shun dangers,"
says Restigouche. ** For you, of the police,
it is different, you are of the bravest."

** Again, I repeat once more, there is no
danger. Be not afraid," and the Sergent
rises to his feet and gives a terrific twirl to
his moustache.

Restigouche follows him. He is in for it.
He has burnt his boats. He must trust himself
inside the police office, however little he likes
it, or risk being seized on suspicion by this
impossible fool. Inside the office the Sergent

de Ville opens a large cupboard in which lies
a heap of both men's and women's apparel.
After rummaging about for a few minutes
amongst a variety of sticks, umbrellas, pickaxes
and all kinds of things, he finds what he
wants and places the fatal stick in Restigouche's
hands.

** It is handsome," says Restigouche, examining
it attentively, and recognising it
immediately. ** And the woman  the dead  is
there nothing of hers?"

** Yes, see, here are her vestments," and he
unlocks a ghastly heap of stiffened garments,
from which, however, Restigouche turns
shudderingly away. The sight sickens him.

** Thank you, that will do. But she was
photographed ? "

*' To be sure, and a fine picture she made,
unclothed for identification you know. Like a
picture in the Salon. Go ! "

*' And could I get one," says Restigouche,
intensely desirous to possess this shocking
memorial, and he puts his fingers into his
waistcoat pocket.

** Impossible, not for a thousand francs,"
says the Sergent, following the motion of his

fingers with his eyes. *' They are all locked
up.-

'* And is that all ? "

 No, there are the diagrams and measures
of the assassin's boots," and he produces a
large book in which is a representation of the
sole of a man's boot. *' See,"  tapping the
book several times in quick succession with
the back of his hand.  *' That is my discovery,
the only clue worth anything at all.
I, who speak, discovered those marks in
the kitchen. Observe; the nails in the heel
are not perfect, two are missing at the left
side, on the outside of the left foot. The
assassin has a habit of leaning over to one
side."

"Most certainly!" replies Restigouche.
** Allow me to make a memorandum of that,"
and he carefully copies down an exact description
and the measurements.

Has Monsieur the Writer seen enough? "
says the Sergent, who is growing tired of
the interview.

 Quite, my friend. Return to the case ; we
will drink a bottle before we part."

** Agreed," said the Sergent. '* And I hope

what you have seen interests you, and that
you will remember how to paint in vords
one of the Police of France''

** That I shall, most assuredly."

Then the bottle being disposed of, the two
men part, Restigouche taking the same circuitous
route again to go down to the lower town.

His next intention is to try and ascertain
when Gould left Boulogne, for he sees that
the evidence of the stick is not conclusive that
Gould was in the Impasse when the murder
was committed. He might have been there
and have left again before the crime. So he
determines upon making enquiries at the Hotel
on the Port where Gould had lodged, and consequently
proceeds there and takes a room.
Here he blossoms into a Rentier, pure and
simple, a man of means, taking his pleasure
at this excellent watering-place, and drops
the role of novelist. The waiter is the first
person he engages in conversation. * Yes !
the season has been good, but not yet at its
height. It will be better by-and-bye, and then
life will be gay.'

This gives Restigouche an opening. ** Ah !
yes, life may be gay here at times ; but for the

most part it must be dull and uninteresting,
nothing to disturb the general peace of a well-ordered
place like this. Now in Paris some
 sinistre' occurs every day."

** Ah ! there Monsieur is wrong. Boulogne,
too, has her ministres. Had one only a short
time back  a terrible and mysterious murder,
an Englishwoman, and the assassin never
discovered. That was sensation enough."

Yes, the Parisian had heard of it from a
friend of his, who happened to be staying at
this very Hotel when it occurred.'

*sand who might that have been'' said
the waiter.

** An English nobleman, Lord Gould," replied
Restigouche.

The waiter remembers the person distinctly,
but did not think that he was a lord. He did
not look like one  to the waiter  whose experience,
however, as he admitted, was limited in
this matter. However, he would get the book
and see the signature  for he knew that Minors
only signed a name without initials. So the
book was produced, and there, sure enough,
was Gould's name, and on the same page an
official stamp.

** And what is this stamp?" says Rests
examining it curiously.

** It was affixed by the police  directly after
the murder  when they inspected the Hotel
keepers' Registries  which they are bound bylaw
to produce."

** Oh ! I understand," says Restigouche.
** And I see my friend left that very morning."


** Yes, he went away early, in a great hurry.
I see he had the same room as Monsieur is
now in, No. 49."

** Oh ! a coincidence ! but it is a good

room."

* Yes, one of the best situated ; but we
should have changed him  for his neighbours
complained that he kept them awake, moving
about the room all night. He was a strange
person."

** Ah ! indeed ! perhaps something had upset
him," and Restigouche pauses to think what
terrible significance there may be in this nocturnal
rambling. Then he ascends to his room.
He will see the chambermaid and talk with
her. A plump, pretty girl of eighteen or nineteen
answers his bell, and is perfectly ready to

talk. She comes from Pont de Brique. Her
father is gardener to an English painter who
lives there. Yes, she remembers the English
gentleman who occupied this room, a dark
man ; but for her part, she did not like him.
He left without giving her anything  left very
early, carrying down his own portmanteau  a
habit people have when they wished to get
away without seeing Xhe/emme de chambre,

Restigouche was sorry to hear so bad an
account of his friend.

*' Oh, it did not matter much," says the girl
laughing, ** for I got something after all*'

** What ! " says Restigouche. " Did he
leave property? See, I am his friend  you
can give it to me. It was a mistake his not
giving you anything. I will rectify that mistake."


** Oh ! what he left was not of great value,
but monsieur is welcome to have them, of
course," replies the girl, who had unintentionally
let the cat out of the bag. *' It was
only a pair of boots."

Fortunately for Restigouche he happens at
that moment to be looking out of the window,
or the girl must have noticed the extraordinary

expression that passed over his face as he
listened to this. If these are the identical
boots, and not another pair ! His hair seems
to stiffen and his eyes roll rapidly from side
to side. But he musters up sufficient presence
of mind and says, 

*swell, ma mie bring me those boots. I
will make it worth thy while. If thou hast not
sold them."

** No, I have not sold them," says the girl
with a little confusion. ** But Alphonse, the
boots, he and I "

** Are lovers, and go shares in these perquisites,"
says Restigouche. ** I understand,
but I am discreet. I do not wish to complain
to the landlord."

** Oh ! I hope monsieur will not think that
necessary," says the girl, alarmed.

** Hast thou ever mentioned these boots to
him  or to anyone else?" inquired Rests
fixing a magisterial kind of gaze on
her.

** No, no, monsieur, not to a living soul,"
says the poor girl, with still more alarm at
the prospect of losing her place.

** Then I will be thy friend. Bring me the

boots. I am discreet, silent, I am thy
friend's

*' Thank you a thousand times, monsieur.
I will fetch them immediately," and off she
runs, and returns in a few moments with a
pair of unmistakably English boots in her hand.

But Restigouche, by a sign, begs her to
put them down. His agitation is so great
he cannot take them from her hand.

'* There is thy present," he says, giving her
five francs. ' Thy friend will not get thee
into trouble," and he musters up sufficient
nerve to catch the jovial-looking girl round
the waist as she stoops to put down the boots
and gives her a severe hug. She escapes
from his embrace and runs out of the room.
And he carefully closes and locks the door.
Then he stands irresolute, with a strange sensation
about his heart, scarce daring to take
up those inanimate objects under the table
which seem to hold this deadly secret.
The thought that these boots have actually
dabbled in Nellie's blood comes to him and he
turns away, feeling sick. At last, however, he
overcomes the feeling and takes them up in
his hand.

** Yes ! by the Great God above me ! " he
exclaims. ** The very identical nails missing-our'
and he throws them down with a
shudder. *' Ou/y' he blows again. *' My God,
yes ! the boots of Gould. Then he verily did
commit this crime ! "

Then he sits down to reflect. What is he
to do ? Must he at once denounce the murderer
? Can the discovery be made by any one
else, and it turn out afterwards that he remained
silent ? What complications are there ? Let
him reflect. He is now in possession of these
accursed boots  he has proclaimed himself the
friend of this assassin. He has been lying" to
everyone here, to the policeman, to the waiter,
to the chambermaid. If that comes out, what
will they think of it ? Then the papers which
he stole ! What can be made of that ? And
those papers are in the hands of Pitt. He
must advance very cautiously  that is evident.
But now what to do with the boots ? If he
destroys them he may be accused of doing so
to obliterate all traces of this the only real
clue. No, he cannot destroy them, he will
preserve them carefully ; for, indeed, they maybe
of use some day in clearing himself, if any

suspicion ever attaches to him. This thought
changes his feeling of revulsion to one of
regard for the boots. ** Ah ! come to me, my
friends, I will enclose you in paper  I will seal
you. I will preserve you. We will not part."
And having wrapped them up carefully in
paper, he consigns them to his bag. He now
thinks he has done all he can in Boulogne and
so returns to Paris.

On his way up he has ample time to form
further plans. He decides that for the present
he will not consult Dubois. He starts next day
on a tour of inspection round this Manoir in
Normandy, where he hears the English lodgers
of the Rue St. Anne have taken shelter. He
remembers their intimacy with Gould. He
knows something of the affair of the bonds,
beyond the mere part he played in assisting
Gould to steal them by taking the ladies to the
theatre to see Tete de Linotte ; and he cannot
help connecting all these matters : the disappearance
of the bonds : the flight of Pitt :
and the death of La Belle crosswise. He has
no difficulty in finding the village of St. Martin
and directs his steps to the little cabaret, as
the most likely place to find people to talk

to and the easiest way of doing it. Nor has
he been wrong in expecting to find some one,
for here in solitary state sits the one policeman
of the village  a Garde Ckampelre, who
appears to have stationed himself here with the
idea that as crime gravitates towards drink,
therefore he, as the repressed of crime should
remain as near drink as possible, and that
it is moreover incumbent on him to assist even
in the disposal of this drink in order to worm
out the secrets. Restigouche bows to this
functionary as he enters, and calls for wine.
He, Restigouche, is an archaeologist and antiquary,
in quest of the rare and interesting ;
has been delighted with Saint Open, St.
Maclou, The Hotel de Ville, etc., etc., in
Rouen, and has heard of a beautiful old Manoir
here at St. Martin which he has come to
see.

*' It is a very interesting building," says the
guardian of the rural peace with due local
pride, but a lack of accuracy. *' It was occupied
in 1 162, by Francois Premier, on his way to
meet Charles the First of England at the Field
of the Cloth of Gold, where two troops of
French horsemen entirely defeated the British

VOL. III. I I

army and executed the English king on the
spot."

Yes, these are interesting details," says
Restlgouche, as profoundly ignorant as the
policeman. " And who occupies this historic
place now ? "

'* Monsieur Dumont, a farmer, one time rich,
not so rich now. He is glad to take lodgers, his
daughters go to service, things are changed,

** And where are they all now ?  at home ? "

*' Yes, some of them, but notably La Perotte !
Ouf! and the man brings his fingers to a
point, places them against his lips, blows on
them, and then spreads them out into the air.

''Ah!" says Restigouche, thoroughly understanding
the pantomime. ** Is she so good
then?"

*' You should see her, Monsieur the Antiquary,
that is all."

The Antiquary would particularly like to
have that pleasure, for though fond of stones
and antiques, he is none the less devoted to
flesh and blood, and prefers it young.

But the Garde Cha?npetre rebukes this levity.
It indirectly suggests a low tone of morals for

St. Martin, and rustics are virtuous. The
Antiquary mistakes  the Perotte is well-behaved
and sage,

** Oh ! of course'' says Restlgouche, ** But
to return to the Manoir. It Is very large and
would hold a good many visitors. Are there any
there now, for I myself have some thoughts of
making a short stour In these parts."

*' Just now there are two English ladles and
a child, oh ! such a child ! Monsieur should
also see that child ! "

** I should much like to see anything in your
interesting village," says Restlgouche, puzzled
to think who this child can be. 

** Ah ! you have luck ! Behold, here comes
the child. She will pass here, you can see
her. With her Is Monsieur Dumont's other
daughter, going doubtless to the epicier for
some commission  for the English ladies have
of the best."

Restlgouche looks out and his eyes goggle
furiously  for the child he sees is Nellie's
little Grade !

A great effort enables him to control his
feelings and by the aid of his silk handkerchief,
with which he vigorously mops his head and

face, he succeeds in disguising his emotion.
Nevertheless he stands gaping after Gracie
so long that the Garde makes a remark.

** She is indeed beautiful. Is she not? ''

** You are right, my friend  a beautiful
child  to make one split in two ! ''

But he is intently thinking what this can
mean. How has the murdered woman's child
fallen into Mrs. Romeyn's hands, of all people
in the world ? It is utterly inexplicable.
Then he turns to the Garde and asks more
questions.

*' Is this the daughter of the ladies at the
Manoir? "

**No  the child's mother, or the person who
came here with her, has left some time ago.
There has been a mystery about her  no one
knows where she has gone."

For Nellie had already started for Bey rout.

A mystery ! thinks Restigouche  who believes
he has the key to this disappearance 
a mystery indeed ! known only to himself.
However he must try and learn a little
more.

* These ladies are then alone here  without
a gentleman ?

** Quite. It is said they have been a longtime
in Paris."

** Is it dear to live at the Manoir ? " says
Restigouche, as if seeking information with a
view to taking up his own abode.

*' Well  no  not very dear; but those ladies
are well off. They have money, Va ! '

*' Oh ! they have money!" and this is a
fresh puzzler.

But here all farther enquiries are abruptly
cut short, for duty calls the guardian of the
fields to action. A miserable little cur passes in
front of the cafe, without a muzzle. ** Sapristi !
the dog of Monsieur Renal  the cure; unmuzzled
 Contravention!" and in a moment
the minion of the law launches himself on the
offending animal, and drags it off by the ear,
howling piteously, whilst the entire village turns
out and looks on with as much interest as if he
had just caught a murderer red-handed.

But Restigouche makes off during the confusion.
He is afraid Gracie may perchance see
him ; she is as bad as the apple-woman. So
he returns to Rouen, and by the next train is
back in Paris once more. He has now, more
than ever, thoughts that oppress him.

DEALS OF BIGAMY.

The well-intentioned station-master of Sarzana
had been wrong in the information he gave
Romeyn ; for on arriving at Modane that traveller
learnt to his intense disgust that a seven
days' quarantine had already been established,
and that he had just arrived in time to be
cooped up with a batch of people, who like himself
had hoped to have escaped this purgatory.
Naturally, being now in France, they were
treated like criminals  hustled into a comfortless,
half furnished kind of barrack with sentries
stationed at every point  ignorant creatures
with ill-defined ideas of the duty expected of
them, and quite ready to shoot or bayonet anyone,
either inside or outside their cordon.
To describe the discomfort or gauge the pitch
of wrath to which this detention raised
Romeyn is beyond the powers of description ;

and though a man who deprecated strong
language as a rule, it must be admitted that
he now made use of multitudes of oaths in
every tongue he could command. But this
did not better things. He had to grin and
bear it like any one else, though he caught a
violent cold by being compelled to remain outside
the greater part of the night, as the inside
of the house became insupportable when the
other travellers retired to rest, some fifteen and
twenty in one room, and closed all the doors and
windows. It was an unspeakable relief when
finally he got permission to depart, passing
through the ordeal of a medical examination
in which the least symptoms were vigorously
searched for that might suggest the presence
of the dreaded infection. Then having been
compelled to fill up a form stating his age,
nationality, qualification, whether married or
single, the number of his children, his wife's
maiden name, where he came from, his destination,
and what marks there were on his
body ; and after being measured, weighed,
dusted, fumigated and cautioned what to eat,
drink, and avoid for the next three weeks, he
was placed in a third-class carriage, previously

white-washed, together with other travellers 
and all securely locked in on both sides, and
warned that If they attempted to communicate
with any one at any railway station they
would immediately be seized by the police.

So by the time he had reached Paris Romeyn
was thoroughly able to understand how the
French Republic has managed to endear Itself
so much to all other European nations, and
to Englishmen in particular, who love her
paternal ways of treating every one like an
infant.

Messrs. Gizzard and Stretchitit had done all
they could to be ready for Romeyn, and the
long delay in quarantine had given them ample
time to get well forward with matters. But
Mr. Gizzard had had to make more than one
expedition to Rouen in arranging the preliminaries
for the Divorce Court ; for though
the action was to be undefended, and the
respondent's conduct admitted of neither
palliation nor excuse, still when counsel are
very learned, questions of the most childish
simplicity are found to bristle with profound
difficulties, which nothing but a free application
of fees can solve. And then it does not do

for counsel to be precipitate. He must have
an appearance of being frequently employed ;
it won't do to give an ** opinion " in the course
of a few hours ; and, though if you were to peep
into some of the windows in the basements of
Lincoln's Inn you would see this learned man
sitting picking his fingers, hour after hour, day
after day, with nothing in the world to do ; still,
at whatever pecuniary loss to you and waste of
time, he will keep his precious '* opinion " for
perhaps a week before he delivers himself of
it. There is no tyranny so oppressive, and
nowhere are bare-faced imposition and bamboozling
carried on more openly thai in
what, by sweet irony is styled, the conduct of
justice.

But even with Romeyn's wealth to help him,
there were frequent and intolerable delays,
which chafed and irritated him beyond endurance
; delays caused by the cleverly-contrived
custom which forbids counsel to see his
client, and compels him to get his information
filtered through the solicitors  a contrivance
expressly designed to originate and multiply
misunderstanding, but a practice so evidently
fraudulent, as regards the client's purse, that

one marvels to see honest men resorting
to it.

Romeyn daily received letters from Heroea
during all this time of aggravation, perforated
and disinfected in the Italian post office,
which did very little to make his absence from
her easier to bear. The letters themselves
breathed a calm courageous tone, the cholera
has no terrors for her, and all the expressions
referring to himself are just such as he could
have wished  affectionate, but without any
sentimentalism. They also told him the tale
of her heroic conduct ; for, though she
carefully refrained from dilating on her own
good acts, still it was impossible to give a
true picture of her daily life without affording
glimpses of this great self-abnegation.

But in the meanwhile events were so shaping
themselves that all the wisdom of all the
Q.C.'s of England condensed to an irreducible
minimum could do nothing to alter them one
jot or tittle. For Rosalie had been seized
with fear at the thought of the cholera reaching
Florence, a dread greatly augmented by her
bodily condition; and had begun to pine in
her heart for some one to whom she could

confide all her cares and to whose affection
she could turn. And whom had she  in all this
wide world  but her mother and Madeline ?
No one, not a living soul. But then the
bitter thought came that after all, if her
mother had declined to help her before,
declined even to answer her piteous heartbroken
letter, she might refuse to see her,
or take any notice of her now. And in her
despair she resolved not to risk the return of
another letter, or to await in suspense, day
after day, receiving no reply. She would go
and see her mother herself, without warning of
any kind. Her mother could but turn hei;back
on her then, which, however, Rosalie felt she
never would be cruel enough to do. She was,
moreover, now quite independent of her father.
Possibly her mother had not replied to her
letter, being unwilling to bring such terrible
consequences to Rosalie as had attended her
own and Madeline's disregard of his wishes.
Rosalie was entirely her own mistress, with a
handsome fortune and no one to consult.

So without more reflection she ordered her
things to be packed up, and accompanied by
her maid, made straight for Paris, avoiding

the quarantine by taking the St. Gotthard
Route. Arrived in Paris, she went to the
Hotel Continental, relieved in her mind at
having escaped out of Italy and from the
cholera, and anxious now to see her mother,
whom she had no reason to doubt must still be
in the Rue St. Anne. So bracing herself up
for the interview with the mother she could
scarcely ever remember to have seen, but for
whom she had always retained a deep love,
she ordered a carriage and drove to the house.
Her disappointment at finding her mother and
Madeline had left was very great ; but the
concierge was able to give her the address
near Rouen, so Rosalie drove away, bent on
going there at once. And the concierge  five
francs in one hand, his cap in the other 
stood gaping after this handsome young
woman, who came in such a neat '* turn out,"
while overhead, out of one of the little square
windows of the entresol gaped Dubois and
Restigouche, who happened to have been
leaning out when she drove up, and had heard
the conversation which had passed.

*' Pas de nom ? " calls out Dubois to the
concierge.

** No name, Monsieur," replies the man,
craning his neck round and looking up.

** Hei7i ! now who can she be, Restigouche? "
says Dubois, evidently interested. '* Have
you seen her before ? ' '

* No, never, and it is too late to follow  the
horses were going fast."

On getting back to the Hotel, Rosalie found
it was too late to think of going to Rouen
that night, moreover she required a goodnight's
rest after her long journey from
Florence, and so put off going until next
morning. But by the first train in the
morning, and leaving her maid in the apartments,
she started for Rouen, and arriving
there chartered a carriage to drive her to
St. Martin.

It was noon before she arrived, a hot and
brilliant summer day, and as she drove up
through the avenue of poplars, which led upto
the once seigneurs abode, and saw the
ancient-looking building, surrounded by its
vast barns and out-houses, and flanked by the
large round colonies, something struck her
that there might possibly be a better life than
that idle frivolous existence she had hitherto

led. All seemed so peaceful and quiet  such
rest and repose  and her heart yearned again
for sight of her mother, and for Madeline too,
in spite of all that had happened between them
so recently. Then a turn in the avenue shewed
her a scene that moved her greatly, and
made her feel as if she were some outcast
coming home to seek forgiveness. A lady,
whom she instantly knew to be her mother,
seated, with Madeline by her side, on the
lawn under a widespread Japanese umbrella
of immense size ; a child, dressed in a pretty
cotton frock, with a broad-brimmed straw hat,
rushing about after a small, woolly puppy;
behind the group a forest of hollyhocks, sunflowers,
and many other old-fashioned flowers ;
a high, ivy-clad wall abutting on the grey
mansion house; a large octagonal sheet of
water, enclosed in a white stone parapet,
whereon two swans sailed slowly. It was a
picture of calm contentment, and at the same
time of a degree of worldly prosperity that
Rosalie had not expected to find. She had
pictured her mother as she must have been in
Paris, for it required no effort of imagination
to know what that life must have been, but

she found her here, evidently perfectly well
provided for as to the good things of this
life.

However, she Is too Impulsive to stop and
consider how this altered condition of affairs
may affect her mother's reception of her, for
the party on the lawn have heard the unusual
sound of carriage wheels in the avenue. Rosalie
sees they see her, she stops the driver, jumps
down, and In a moment is standing before
them. Then Madeline, though all amazement
at the sight of her sister, rushes forward and
seizes her in her arms, and in one moment
,poor Rosalie feels that she has no cause to
dread the reception she will receive. Then
Madeline turns to her mother.

*' Oh ! mother, mother! look, this is our
darling Rosie."

Mrs. Romeyn stands like one in a trance,
but the next moment she too advances and
takes Rosalie in her arms.

** My loved mother!" sobs Rosalie ** I
have come to you  to be with you  oh ! mother
I thought you would not mind? "

** Mind, my child, how mind ? "

'* I thought perhaps you wouldn't have me 

for  for you never answered my letter, mother
dear," sobs Rosalie.

*' Letter, my child ! I never had a line from
you. What letter? "

You never had my letter some weeks
back? " says Rosalie, drawing back and still
holding her mother round the waist. *' A long
letter telling you '*

''No, darling, I have never had a line from
you."

*' Then, mother," says poor Rosalie, stammering,
"then you know nothing?"

"No, darling, nothing except that I am
most thankful to see you; but I devoutly hope,
you have not quarrelled with your father? "

** No, no ; that's all right. Let me sit down.
I feel quite tired and weak." Then they sit
down.

"Tell me now, Rosie, all about yourself,"
and the mother gazes with undisguised admiration
at her pretty and beautifully dressed,
daughter. ,

But Rosalie does not find it so easy to
begin. Her mother knows nothing, and yet
she must now know everything. She must tell
the sad story. Clearly she will have to explain

her sudden marriage. And whilst Rosalie
is thus thinking, her mother and sister, with
feminine appreciation of dress, are noting her
apparel, too costly and rich for an unmarried
woman.

But at that moment Gracie makes a diversion.


** Who is this pitty lady ! " she says to
Madeline.

** Another aunty, darling, aunty Rosalie ; go
and give her a kiss."

'* What a darling ! " says Rosalie. *' Who is
she, Madge dear ? What a perfect little pet ! "

** Oh ! that is a long, long story. I must4;ell
you that when we have heard all about you,
dear. We are dying to know what brings you
here  and such a swell," she adds, smiling.

To postpone telling is impossible. So with
an effort, Rosalie begins 

'* I've come from Florence. The cholera
is breaking out all over Italy. I got so
terrified, I couldn't stay any longer, all alone."

*' Alone ! why were you there alone ? "

** Well, not quite alone. I was staying
with the Brandishes, and  and, mother  I am
married."

VOL. III. 12

** Married ! " exclaim both listeners in the
same voice of astonishment. ** Already!"

** Yes, I'm married "  and Rosalie turns
away with so sad an expression that both Mrs.
Romeyn and Madeline see that all is not welland
exchange looks.

*' My darling child," says Mrs. Romeyn in
the tenderest tone, and taking Rosalie's hand.
*what is it? Surely your marriage is not
unhappy  so soon."

*' Oh ! mother, let me wait a minute. I feel
so sick and faint. I must rest a little  before
I can tell you all."

*' My child, rest as long as you like, you
are at home here, my darling, with me."

Oh ! mother, how thankful I am to think
I am here ! I have had the most intense
craving to be with you and Madge. I cannot
live alone. I have no one, no one in the
world, . . . but you two."

* Rosie darling, you shall never leave me
except you choose," says her mother. *' I
promise you that, darling,  whatever you have
to tell me," and she leans forward out of her
chair and winds her arm round Rosalie's waist.

** You promise me that," says Rosalie with



great earnestness. Then with one look in her
mother's face, whose kind loving eyes repeat
the assurance she has given, Rosalie slips
down on her knees, buries her face in her
mother's lap, and sobs as though her heart
would burst.

Calm yourself, my darling Rosie," says
Madeline, kneeling by her and putting her arm
round her. ** Mother and I can keep you now
whatever happens, we are no longer paupers."

** Oh Madge ! oh mother ! it is my husband,
my hus -' the word seems to choke her.

George? " says Madeline. ** Surely, darling,
as you are married, now he is kind, Whatever
may have happened before."

*' Hush ! Madeline ! Hush, for God's sake
don't say that name!" and a tremor passes
through her whole frame.

*' But Rosie, tell us, you've not separated
already, he can't have run off "

*'0h! no, no, Madge! don't think of such
things," breaks in Rosalie wildly. ** My heart
seems breaking," she goes on. ** It is too
awful. He  he  I mean, I am married to
another man, not to him."

** Then he deserted you after all ! " says

Madeline, with a sudden fierceness she cannot
control.

**No, no, you must not be hard on him
now; that is too late, you can't hurt him. It
was not his fault," she says with some emphasis.
**No, George! It was not your
fault. I was weak, I was a fool ! Oh ! my
poor darling George, how I did love you ! "

Mrs Romeyn and Madeline exchange looks
of bewilderment, but Rosalie goes on.

** Don't think harm of him, Madge. Wait,
and I will tell you."

But Rosalie seems to have grown suddenly
cold ; she shivers and has a scared look ; and
her mother and Madeline are seized with a
vague sense of fear.

Then Rosalie, still with a white fixed look
on her face, says lowly but distinctly 

** George is dead, mother  drowned  away
in America. May God have mercy on him."

** Dead ! " exclaims Madeline. ** How
awfully sudden."

** Yes, he's dead," goes on Rosalie, with
more composure now that she has got herself
to say the dread word. ** It was all settled,
mother. It really was. He was only to be

away three weeks, the very day of our
marriage was fixed. Then how could I foresee
he would be killed ! Oh ! mother, have
pity on me."

Then a light dawns on both Mrs. Romeyn
and Madeline.

** My poor darling, I am your mother," says
Mrs. Romeyn tenderly. *' If there is any
trouble, any misery, trust to me. I will
shelter you. I think I understand. You have
married someone else, and all this has come
out, and you have run away to me."

**No, mother, it is not that," sobs Rosalie.
** I am married, but there was nothing .to be
found out. He knew it, he was told. He took
me because of it. Father and some one else
arranged it. Do you understand, mother?"

*' But, my child," says Mrs. Romeyn
solemnly, *' such a marriage as that must
bring misery ; was there no other plan, no
alternative ? "

*none for me, mother, but to come to you.
I wrote. I implored you . to take me. I got
no answer. Father threatened to turn me out

into the street. Think, mother, what could

I do?"

But Rosalie, surely this sudden marriage
must have shocked you, or horrified you."

'' He left me at the altar, mother," says
Rosalie, burying her crimson face in her
mother's knees.

*' There, darling," says her mother, ** getup
and sit down, you are too tired. Rest a
little and we will hear it all later. I have to
go into Rouen on mysterious business, which
I hope soon to be able to explain to you
all, for I hate these secrets. But Mr.
Gizzard ' '

** Going to see Gizzard ' What about,
mother? Is it about me'' says Rosalie
rather excitedly. *' He can't have anything
to say about me. Has he mentioned my
marriage to you ? "

*' He said you were to be married. But he
never said who to."

** Then you don't know my name, mother."

**No, how could I? naturally I thought it

was " she hesitates to say the name

Norton.

** It is no secret, mother dear, my name is
Gould."

''' Gould f exclaim Mrs. Romeyn and

Madeline simultaneously. '* What a singular
coincidence the name turning up again," says
Madeline.

"Why singular? The name is common
enough. But possibly, indeed very likely, you

know my Mr. Gould. He has been mixed

up a good deal lately with father's affairs."

** You don't mean a dark, black-haired man,
with gold glasses?" exclaims Mrs. Romeyn,
her face becoming deadly white.

**A friend of a woman called Artaki?"
breaks in Madeline.

** Yes, I do ; for God's sake what is it ? " says
Rosalie, staring blankly from one face to the
other.

Madeline seizes her hand too bewildered,
for a moment, for utterance. Then she says
in almost a scream 

*' Rosalie, Rosalie, you are dreaming., or
must be mad ! you carpet be married to this
Gould."

** Indeed, indeed, I am, Madge, truly and
properly married, at St. Andrew's, with father,
Captain Hackett and this Madame Artaki all
there ! But what is it ? I implore you
speak : you are killing me with this suspense.

' ' And her face goes as dead white
as her mother's, and then suddenly flushes.

Mrs. Romeyn and Madeline exchange looks,
both terrified at the thought of what the
effect may be if they tell her the truth. But
Rosalie will not leave them to hesitate.

** Speak, one of you. Do for pity's sake
tell me. I don't love him. I hate him. Is
he dead too! tell me, you'll kill me!" and
she wrings her hands.

*come in to the house, darling," says
Madeline, with presence of mind, foreseeing
there must be a painful scene. ** I'll explain
it all there." They lead Rosalie, into a cool,
semi-darkened room opening on to the lawn,
and they sit down on a sofa.

** I have something dreadful to tell you
Rosalie ; of course there may be a mistake,
but I am quite positive there is none," says
her mother gravely.

*' Go on, mother. I am prepared for anything,"
says Rosalie languidly.

*' This Gould must be a villain, a frightful
scoundrel. You are not his wife, my poor
Rosie. He has another wife living,  and
perfectly well known to Madeline and to me."

'* A mistress you mean, mother. Surely,

to heaven, he could not  that ceremony "

says Rosalie ; babbling almost incoherently.

*' My child, don't buoy yourself up with
that hope. We have the certificate, though
rather informal, of his marriage with a person
in Constantinople  " but all the latter part is
lost on Rosalie, she has swooned completely
away. Her mother and Madeline, aided by
Perotte who comes to their assistance, get heron
to a bed. She becomes rapidly and
gravely ill. They undress her and put her
to bed.

But in the midst of all this pre-occupation
Mrs. Romeyn remembered that she must
keep her appointment with Mr. Gizzard, and
of what deep import to the lives of many
that interview would be she did not disguise
from herself. For what had transpired?

That this very woman whom her husband
desired to marry, and whom, she had almost
consented, though not finally, should step into
her place had been party to perpetrating this
infamous, bigamous marriage ; duping the
very man she was about to marry, and casting
irretrievable ruin and dishonour on his

daughter. Painfully did Mrs. Romeyn cast
about in her mind what all this meant. She
could not and would not believe that Romeyn
had wilfully consented to an act of bigamy.
He could not have known of Gould's previous
marriage. He must have been duped.
And what would happen when he did know?
Which was the stronger, his passion for this
woman or his own sense of honour ?

Mr. Gizzard was punctual to his time, and
was even more courteous than ever. His
face bore evidence of a quiet conscience,
and Mrs. Romeyn at once acquitted him of
participation in this scandalous business.
She had no wish or intention to beat about
the bush, and in a few moments explained
all that had happened to the astonished
lawyer.

He confessed that he was utterly and totally
flabbergasted, nothing else described his condition
of mind. The matter must be instantly
set at rest. It invalidated all kinds of contracts
and undertakings already entered into.
Above all, it placed Mr. Romeyn in a serious
difficulty, and Madame Artaki in a criminal
position, whilst as to Gould, it meant probably

several years' penal servitude. Of course
Gizzard thought it just possible that the
marriage in Constantinople had been sufficiently
irregular to be illegal. But he did
not attach much hope to that, for the certificate
which Nellie Gould had obtained, and
which Mrs. Romeyn described, appeared a
perfectly authentic and legal document. As
to Madame Artaki's part in it, Mr. Gizzard
went on to say that he would stake his
professional reputation on it that so astute
a woman as she undoubtedly was, had done
nothing to bring herself into the meshes of
the law, nor to risk Romeyn' s favour . by
conniving at a stupid fraud, with the germ
of detection inherent in it from its very inception.
It was too transparent an offence
against decency and common-sense.

Then he learnt that Nellie Gould would be
in Rouen in the course of a fortnight or three
weeks, for she had telegraphed from Beyrout
saying that she hoped to get away by a certain
steamer.

Mrs. Romeyn, however, did not think it
incumbent on her to explain where she was
or what she was doing.

Of course all idea of further negotiation
in the matter of the divorce was promptly
broken off. Neither could Mrs. Romeyn go
forward until this scandal were satisfactorily
explained, nor could Gizzard permit Mr.
Romeyn to run any risk of becoming involved
in it. So it was agreed that until Romeyn
had satisfied himself and could show them
that Madame Artaki was blameless in this
thing, neither of them should move in the
matter ; she, from a sense of outraged honour ;
he, from professional etiquette and caution.

''A pretty kettle of fish this, madam, for
the Queen's Proctor ! " says Gizzard. ** Thank
God, you have made the discovery in time."

So the lawyer returned to London, sought
an immediate interview with Romeyn and laid
the whole state of the case before him. It is
needless to say that it was almost a knock-down
blow for Romeyn, and that his first wish was to
go off to St. John's Wood, where he heard
Gould now spent nearly all his days, and throttle
him there and then. However, he recovered
his senses; and moreover, to Gizzard's relief,
directed him to stop every kind of proceeding
in the divorce, until everything was cleared up.

And there and then he sat down and wrote,
for him, a truly affectionate letter to poor
Rosalie, assuring her that he would take care
that whatever came of this shocking discovery,
it should not affect the settlement he had made
on her. And just then the post brought him
a letter from Heroea  so full of truthful and
simple narration, breathing so deep a wish for
his return that he turned to Gizzard and
said, 

Nothing can persuade me Madame Artaki
has played me false. I will proceed to-night
to see her; but, until I return, everything is
to remain in statu quo,''''

And he started with a lighter heart, for the
news he received was more favourable  the
epidemic was decreasing everywhere on the
west coast, though still bad in other parts
of Italy. In another week Heroea hoped the
cordon would be removed. She herself was
perfectly well  only anxiously looking forward
for his return.

ANTIOCH.

Edouard Dumont had had no difficulty in
reaching Antioch nor had his visit there caused
surprise or inquiry, for he was reported to be
connected with some of the innumerable
schemes for railways through the Euphrates
Valley, which interested no one in particular
as every one knew that they would come to
nothing. He lost no time in making friends
with the Kaimakam, or governor of the town,
in case he might find it necessary to bribe as
high as that. This governor was new in
office, having succeeded, after four or five
years of restless intrigue and by mountains
of lies, in ousting an able old man who had
ruled wisely, in peace and honour, all those
years. However, it did not much matter to
the old man in question, for he was soon called
away to where good Turks go, and was thus

Spared the distress he must have felt at seeing
everything which he had done with singleness
of purpose, reversed ; even the very roads he
had made into the neighbouring hills, which
were infested with thieves and robbers, torn up
and destroyed. For the new man's sympathies
were more with these gentry than with the
people in the plain whom he had been set over
to govern. And the day Dumont arrived happened
to be the day of the late Kaimakam's
funeral ; and every living Antiochus followed
the body in a stream, weeping and lamenting 
everybody except the new governor and the
place-hunters who followed his fortunes.

But all this pleased Dumont, for he at once
saw that with the crew who were now in power
he should have no difficulty in finding people
to take bribes  in fact the difficulty was to find
who would not, for every one of them was
anxious to make hay whilst the sun was shining,
not knowing when the tables might be
turned on them. Of course, to us in England,
such a state of affairs as this is difficult of
belief; but the gentle reader will bear in mind
that things on the banks of the Orontes are
quite different to what they are on the banks

of the Thames, and that it is only in the land
of the Unspeakable One that such things are
permitted  or possible.

In the meanwhile, whilst making these official
acquaintances, Dumont was employing spies
to ascertain who were the prisoners confined
in the gaols. There was some little difficulty
in this for so many people were now in who
had been out under the old governor, and out
whom he had religiously kept in, that no one
really knew who they all were. And to add to
this confusion, a blood-thirsty set of assassins
had just been released whom the new governor
had incarcerated soon after coming into power,
but whose friends made such a disturbance,
even to killing some of the governor's own
friends in an outlying part of the city, that he
had got frightened and had yielded to personal
fear.

The effect of all this tampering with the
gaols made not only the prisons themselves
insecure, but life and property generally
throughout the town as well ; but the governor
did not care a brass farthing for that as long
as he could sit in the Kaimakam's seat in the
official residence, with all the tag-rag and bobtail

of the town lifting up their hands and
saying what a wonderful fellow he was.

But at last Dumont found what he wanted.
To his intense satisfaction he heard that the
man he had come to rescue was in a certain
prison overlooking the river, and that better
still, the entire staff of the prison had just
been changed and were absolutely rabid for
backsheesh ; having whacked and beaten every
living soul inside the prison walls, who had
any money to give, and having already negotiated
several escapes. Dumont also ascertained
that no special interest seemed to be
attached to Ostrolenka, who was known under
another name. It was said that an order had
come for him to be sent to Egypt, but it had
not been carried out, for the new governor
gave himself no trouble to attend to orders
even from his sovereign. He thought a great
deal more of looking round to see how he
could revenge himself on the memory of the
dead governor.

And now Dumont lost no time in communicating
with Ostrolenka. It is impossible to
describe the overwhelming nature of this
unfortunate man's feelings on receiving the

VOL. III. 13

letter which seemed to recall him to life  the
first and only communication from the outer
world, which had reached him for years, excepta
false and lying report of his wife's death,
which had robbed him of any desire to escape.
The privation and misery he had endured had
been great, and but for his fine physique, and
that he had always cheerfully volunteered for
any outside labour, digging in gardens, or
what not, and so preserved his muscles, he
must have succumbed long ere this. Many a
time he was aware that he could have escaped
if he had had a few hundred piastres; but
he had not the piastres, and he knew that
anywhere in the Ottoman dominions he would
be hunted to death in no time. Alone and
penniless it would have been no easy matter
to escape from distant Koniah, in the centre
of Asia Minor, especially for a man of his
striking appearance. His wife was dead and
his child too  his property confiscated  he
himself proscribed and a beggar. Why should
he risk his life now, when, by waiting, some
shuffle of the cards at Stamboul might restore
him to liberty ? He was, thanks to his early
abstemious habits, still in the prime of vigorous

manhood ; and, beyond that his hands bore
the mark of toil, he was physically none the
worse for his long imprisonment. For by a
wise discretion in the use of his tongue and a
submission to orders which he knew it was
folly to disobey, he had escaped the degrading
punishment of the Kurbash. There were
no signs of decay or declining power about
him. He was still a remarkably handsome
man and the close-cropped grey hair served
only to display the fine proportions of his
well-poised head. His shoulders were square,
and wide across the chest ; he had an alert,
quick step, and an easy grace in his movements
often seen amongst the Greeks of the
Epirus where the race seems to have remained
pure.

Dumont's note, with sailor-like bluntness,
came at once to the point. He feared possibly
the non-success of a second missive. He
briefly told Ostrolenka that he had come to
rescue him  asked him who was to be bribed,
and to fix a night and place where he should
meet him.

Dumont's messenger had brought the
wherewithal for Ostrolenka to send a reply,

SO he quickly decided what should be done
and hastily wrote an answer. He said that
nothing could be simpler than to escape out of
the prison itself, the difficulty lay in flight
afterwards. The walls of the prison overhung
the Orontes. He was no longer chained at
night. He could easily drop over the walls
and swim across the river. There were no
guards on the walls opposite the river. Lower
down the stream was the Turkish graveyard,
with a deep clump of cypresses, and
close to these a small Mussulman tomb of
a Hadji who was supposed to haunt the
place. He did not believe a soul in the town
would ever approach the place at night.
Dumont must be there on the night they
would fix when his messenger returned, with
two good horses and some clothes for him.
He must also send him some money for his
gaolers, and he named a sum which Dumont
thought very small.

Dumont immediately prepared for action,
arranged for the horses and again communicated
with Ostrolenka. Nothing occurred to
mar the plan, and on the appointed night
the French sailor stood waiting, with great

interest, under the shadow of the cypresses
in the burial ground, straining his practised
eyes for signs of anything on the river. And
at last his ears detected the sound of water
being parted by the strokes of a strong
swimmer, and almost immediately after his
keen sight discovered a dark spot on the
water which he knew to be the head of a man,
being carried rapidly down and across the
river. He immediately gave the preconceived
signal; the swimmer caught the sound, stopped
for a moment and raised himself, treading
water and gave back the answer. Dumont
then replied again, and at once Ostrolenka
struck out and came to land close to, his
feet. In a moment Dumont had helped him
out on to the bank.

** Thank you, my unknown friend; thank
you a thousand times," says Ostrolenka.

** Here, dry yourself quickly, and put on
these things. I am not so tall, but they will
be big enough''

In a very few minutes, Ostrolenka stood
clothed.

*let us mount and be off immediately.
I want to get away before there is any

possibility of the alarm being given," says
Dumont.

Both men then mount the excellent horses
Dumont has provided and, riding noiselessly
over the soft turf, strike the path. Here
they are joined by Dumont' s guide, also on
horseback, and the three men push along
with what speed they may. At times there
is scarce more than a track through the
morass ; at others they travel over the great
Roman road which once connected Antioch,
in the begone days of her glory, with Caesarea
in the Gulf of Sanderson. But travelling
here by night is now no easy matter, for
the huge slabs which the Roman and Syrian
armies tramped over, a perfect causeway, now
lie in many places disjointed and far apart, the
interstices forming dangerous pit-falls for a
horse's legs, requiring considerable agility on
his part even by day. However, with some
stumbling and scrambling, the sure-footed,
nimble Arabs our party bestrode, landed
them all safely before morning at the foot of
the hills.

But the roughness of the road did not
prevent Ostrolenka from asking Dumont to

explain to him to what extraordinary circumstance
he owed this unlooked-for delivery.

Then Dumont in a few brief words explained
that his (Ostrolenka's) wife had sent him to
the rescue.

"Ah! my good friend'' says Ostrolenka,
** I see you are not personally very well
acquainted with my family, for you speak of
one who has been dead for years. It must
be some one else whom you suppose is my
wife."

Dumont looks at him by what light there
is. Can the man be mad not to know he
has a wife? He is rather puzzled how to
proceed.

*' My dear sir," says Dumont. ** Either
you or I are mistaken. It is true I have only
seen the lady once in my life, but she most
positively bears your name."

Do not argue it, my excellent friend,"
replies Ostrolenka. " My dear wife died
many years ago. I was officially informed
of it whilst in the prison at Koniah."

** Are there then two ladies of the name?
the lady I speak of is called Madeline," says
Dumont.

Ostrolenka reins his horse up.

Are you confident you are not mistaken ?
for, believe me, you are saying what to me
is incredible ! "

** I am not mistaken ; the lady I mean is
Madame Madeline Ostrolenka."

** Then by the great God I have been
deceived all these years ! For I have verily
believed her dead."

** It has been part of some rascally plot,
depend upon it, sir. The lady must be your
wife," and Dumont describes her personal
appearance.

*eyes, yes," replies Ostrolenka. '* You
have truly described her ! How can I support
so much joy? to be delivered from prison
and to learn this marvellous news all in an
hour!"

Then Dumont sees him pass his hands
across his eyes, and the moment after Ostro-
lena reaches out his hands to the Frenchman
who grasps it and finds it has been moistened.
They are tears which do not dishonour his
manhood ; flowing from a heart bursting with
gratitude to the Great Power whom, he
believes, has ruled things this way.

The men rode on in silence for a while,
Dumont not wishing to obtrude on the
thoughts he knew must be passing through
his companion's brain. But soon Ostrolenka
begged Dumont to tell him everything he
could of affairs in Europe, and what he did
know Dumont now related. This, however,
was not very much, so that there was still
an enormous hiatus to fill up. But he had
come provided with a long, long letter from
Madeline, which, however, was in his valise.
This he said would no doubt explain things
of which he knew nothing.

And thus conversing they rode through, the
night, and with dawn were looking up the
defiles of the celebrated Pulse Criticise. With
a rest on the top of the pass, and passing the
wonderful Roman ruins of aqueducts, they
descended next to the plains on the border
of the gulf, the great Taurus range, snowcapped,
lying before them, and the classic
Cydnus winding through the distant plains of
Adana towards Tarsus. And so without further
adventure they reached Alexandretta in time
to get on board the coasting steamer, which
would eventually enable them to embark for

Marseilles at the port of Messina in Asia
Minor, or at Smyrna.

That Madeline's letter was full of astonishing
surprises need hardly be stated. Ostrolenka
read with bewilderment all she had to tell him,
which however naturally lacked many details ;
and she only casually mentioned Nellie's expedition
to Beyrout. But what he learnt from
the letter and what Dumont could tell him
was quite sufficient for his mind to ponder over
for the rest of the voyage.

At Smyrna he had a few hours to procure
some clothes. No excitement of any kind had
followed on his escape, for the people of Antioch
were supplied with matter of great interest on
the day after Ostrolenka had got away. The
new governor, who was extremely fond of making
interminably long harangues to his people,
tipped over a balcony of the Konak in the
middle of one of these discourses and nearly
broke his neck. Some people said that some
of his own party had tipped him over; but
others declared that he had only himself to
thank, as he overreached himself in the
violence of his gesticulations. The event was
too recent to gauge public opinion in Antioch

as to whether people were sorry or not ;
although there was at once a very general
consensus of views that they had had enough
of his nostrums, and that he would certainly
have ruined the city if he had remained in
office much longer.

However he had done himself too much
injury to return to power again ; and had to
retire to a small country house he owned,
where he sat gnawing his fingers off with
impotent wrath as he saw his place filled by
some of his old enemy's party.

Gould's friends.

Messieurs Dubois and Restigouche are in
deep consultation ; for the latter, unable longer
to support the intolerable weight of all the
discoveries he has made, and haunted with
the idea that his own drink-muddled brain
is not to be trusted in showing him how to
steer his course through these perils, has
consulted his friend. For Restigouche has
the most profound belief in Dubois' cunning
and sagacity ; looks on him as the concrete
product of all the wisdom to be acquired by a
long course of study as an homme (T affaires :
as a member of the Bourse : and as Deputy
for Belleville, which constituency Dubois had
had the honour of representing for some time.
To Restigouche Dubois is Paris, the son of the
great mother of all modern civilization and
culture ** What Dubois does not know is not

worth remembering," was a favourite expression
in the mouth of Restigouche. And Dubois
had most kindly taken an immense interest in
the affair from the moment Restigouche began
about it. * He had not known Restigouche
for so many years not to be willing to help
him ; only let Restigouche be explicit, hide
nothing, tell his old friend all.' And when
Restigouche seemed to have forgotten some
detail or other, Dubois kindly cross-examined
him minutely ; and thus elicited every incident,
including the abstraction of the documents
from the chest at Boulogne, over which of
course Dubois joined Restigouche in laughing
merrily, for it was an ingenious ruse on the
part of Restigouche to coerce the belle ecossaise,
and quite legitimate in an affair of the heart.

When Dubois had mastered every point and
made notes, he lapsed for a few minutes into
profound thought, leaning his elbow on his
writing table and boring into his ear with the
handle of a pen, possibly stimulating thereby
the brain processes at work within his crafty
skull.

Restigouche sits watching him with rather
an anxious expression, and at last the astute

one speaks, sometimes addressing him in the
second person singular, and then lapsing into
the less friendly plural.

'* I have thought," says Dubois, profoundly.
** Seest thou, my friend, this Gould, he becomes
dangerous. He may make things unpleasant.
He may turn the tables  on you*'

** On me!'' says Restigouche uneasily,
unable to understand why this furniture should
fall on him alone.

*' Nay, be not afraid," says Dubois, interpreting
his look. '* I can see how I can help
thee. Trust thyself to my care. But first,
we must get this Gould over here in France.
We will be before him."

What! accuse him of the murder," says
Restigouche excitedly.

** Don't speak so loud, you may bring yourself
into difficulties," says Dubois rising and
closing the street window. ** Yes, accuse him,
and why not ? "

sewell, I thought "

You thought I was weak. I am not. Why
be thin-skinned with this fripon, this gredin,
this assassin ? Why leave the field to him }
And you forget, there are other matters we

must be first in. There is that foolish affair
of the bonds. I shall denounce him for the
robbery  here  in my house. The concierge
is mine. I took him when he escaped out of
the Lyons Gaol. Does he wish to return
there, think you ! What then can this maudit
Gould say ? "

** You are right. It is, without doubt, as
you say. But how to get him here. He will
not be willing to come to France*'

Oh ! dull one ! tell me not that. I can
make him come. This child, is she not
at St. Martin ? And the documents you
stole "

*' Oh come, not stole," says Restigouche
deprecatingly.

'* Well, that you abstracted. He requires
those  you know where they are."

*' No, I don't. You forget I gave them to
Pitt. I've not got them."

'Imbecile! hold thy tongue. I say thou
knowest; at least I write and say so to
Gould."

** Ah! yes, that is another thing," an 1 
looks at him smilingly, reassured;
and then continues, *' What a statesman the

Republic lost in you when you failed at the
last Belleville election." 

Restigouche knows that flattery, however
coarse, is the very breath of this man's
nostrils. It all gets down, in time, like soapsuds
down a sink-hole.

*eyes," replies Dubois. *' I think I could
have served France well, and saved her probably,
for things have not gone well since
I left the Assembly."

** Ah ! poor France ! she often ignores her
best sons."

*true, true," says Dubois. ** But come, we
must to business again. Sit thou down and
write to this brutal Englishman ; I will dictate
a letter." And he takes the pen out of his
ear and hands it to Restigouche, who draws
up to the table, spreads out paper, and waits
for the inspired communication.

*' It is well he can read French. It is
simpler, one cannot convey ideas in that
language of savages, the English. So write
in French."

The letter is extremely friendly, and is from
Dubois to his friend Gould, and sets forth how
he, Dubois, * has received information of a

private and confidential nature with reference
to certain documents which must have been
stolen from Gould's place in Boulogne. Also,
that he has, through the same channel, heard
of the whereabouts of a child who shall be
nameless. All this and more for the private
ear of his valued friend, whom he begs to be
permitted to embrace with effusion, and who has
his highest and most perfect consideration ;
and who, above all, he trusts will not delay his
coming a moment longer than he can help,
as he, Dubois, is afraid the child  without
name  may be removed and lost sight of.'

The letter is dispatched at once, under cover
to Chertsey, and reaches Gould safely. He is
deeply stirred on receiving it  for it is immensely
important. If the child is forthcoming
it may lead to a discovery of the
person who has been behind all this affair.
And the documents to which Dubois refers
are as valuable as would be the possession
of the child again, or even more so.
The letter urges him to come at once, and
strange to say he, at this very time, had
almost decided to risk a journey to France on
other business. For previous to this com-vol.

III. 14

medication another had reached him from
Horsford, Rosalie's maid, whom, by devices of
his own, Gould had got into his hands, and
who kept him thoroughly posted as to every
move her mistress made and as to the contents
of all her correspondence. This faithful
Abigail had just written to tell him of their
arrival in Paris, at the Hotel Continental ; and
said that something must be up because her
mistress was very agitated and excited, and
had gone off, Horsford could not say where,
evidently for a day or two, as she had taken a
small handbag with her. She had left a little
money with Horsford and had kept on the
apartments : so there was no doubt she would
soon return. Gould was sorely puzzled ; for ashe
had not been in the way, the last few days,
of hearing all that was going on, he did not
know that Rosalie's mother and sister were at
St. Martin, as he might have learnt through
Gizzard, or he would probably have gone
straight there in quest of her. He was
completely puzzled to account for her absence.
Moreover, a new idea had occurred to him 
that he had made a bad bargain in this
marriage in undertaking to keep away from

the extremely attractive and fascinating girl
who was his lawful wife. He thought, in his
vanity, that he might, without incurring the
risk of losing his annuity, persuade her to let
him live with her,  at all events until he got
tired of her. But above such .feeble means
as persuasion he had prepared the more
effective ones of pressure. He had concocted
an entire scheme in which an accusation of
infidelity and a threat of exposure was the
leading feature. Rosalie had certainly not
been altogether inconsolable in Florence. It
was a very gay place ; she had been surrounded
by numbers of idle men, and Horsford-had
made the most of it  and a great deal more.
That there was absolutely no word of truth in
it did not matter to Gould ; and now that
Rosalie had gone off without saying where,
and without taking her maid, Gould almost
jumped for joy as he thought how he would
turn and twist this circumstance. He had not
the least doubt in his mind any more but
that he should accomplish his end without
the least risk to his annuity.

Dubois' letter turned the scale of his indecision
; he made immediate preparations, and

was in Paris next day. His first visit was to
Horsford and it was not without the anticipation
of pleasure that he surveyed the luxurious
apartments which Rosalie had taken, with all
her nick-knacks and paraphernalia lying about.
A few minutes' conversation with Horsford,
and a few details explained, shewed him that
there was nothing simpler than the plan he
proposed. Nothing could be easier than to
frighten Rosalie into submission. She and a
party of three or four others, amongst them
a man who had paid Rosalie a great deal of
attention, had spent three days visiting Siena.
Horsford' s room had been next to Rosalie's.

Then Gould sent a message to Dubois to
say that he would be delighted to come and
see him.

In the meanwhile Dubois' brains had been
exercised as to what use he should make of all
that Restigouche had disclosed to him. His
own personal safety was the leading factor in
the argument ; and as he sat meditating, with
Restigouche opposite watching him, there was
a cold glitter in his eye which boded some one
no good.

Then he looked up.

*' You have made your plan, my friend,"
says Restigouche.

*' I have  I have decided all, I will play a
bold game. Now listen  but mind ! discretion
and secrecy! Gould has murdered that woman,
Heine

"I believe it'' replies Restigouche.

** He has stolen bonds  in this house ? "

** He has  undoubtedly."

** And he has lost documents. The bonds
belonged to Madame Ostrolenka. She is now
protecting the child of the woman he has
murdered ; and has also  we have agreed
that she has  possession of his missing
papers."

** I see all that," says Restigouche, allowing
a smile of approbation to play over his
face.

** Thou seest it ! well now, I come to my
point. I will save everyone from risk. Why
has Gould come over here ? Because I have
written that the child is here. I inform him
where the child is. He must get that child,
and he must dispose of Madame Ostrolenka.
He will go down to Rouen to commit the
double crime ; but I  I will previously put the

police on his track, I will give information,
he shall be arrested down there, you will
accompany him to Rouen and lead him into
the trap."

' \  I  accompany him, my friend?"
stammers Restigouche. ** The plan is admirable,
this villain should be removed, but 
surely  this may connect us too much with
the affair, bring us too forward," and he passes
his hand nervously through his bristles.

** I have no fear of that. It is my plan, and
I have said it ; also I have already seen the
Commissaire of police on it ; we are agreed in
every detail*'

** Mille Diables ! " says Restigouche in a
tone of expostulation. ** I wish you had consulted
me. I say I do not like it. In fact I
shall think twice about going''

Dubois looks up and fixes him with his eye.

** Don't be a fool, Restigouche, you will
have to go, the plan is settled, and why do I
send you ? Because my friend the Commissaire
saw at once that Gould might accuse
you of being a party to the crime. You were
in Boulogne, she of the apples saw you there,
you have been there since, you have possessed

yourself of the assassin's boots. Now tell me
if you think you can refuse to aid justice in
seizing this criminal ? "

** I do not want to prevent his arrest,"
whines Restigouche.

** You do not  you cannot  but  let us see.
Let us see your plan  which can only be to
arrest him here  in Paris. He is arrested 
there is no evidence of his intention to commit
this second crime  the murder at St. Martin 
and he, as I said before, implicates you. I
tell you, imbecile, I have done this for your
good. Take your own way and I will go
mine."

 For the love of God," cries Restigouche,
with a cold perspiration standing in beads on
his forehead,  '*by all that's holy, don't
desert me ! Have I not always served you
faithfully?"

** It is not who desert y(7//," says Dubois
coldly  ** I am trying to help you ; but you
refuse my assistance, you leave me no alternative
but to protect myself."

** Say no more, my valued friend," whimpers
Restigouche, wiping his forehead with his
hand, and flicking his fingers behind him to

remove the moisture. '* Say no more. I go.
I do as you wish."

** That is all right," says Dubois calmly.
*now please go and fetch Gould. I shall
be ready to see him in an hour. But be
careful you say nothing to him  leave me to
speak."

** Certainly  and is there anything else?"

*' Yes  an important thing  you may have
no better opportunity. Purchase a bottle of
chloroform on your way here with him  at
some well-known chemist's. I have a reason."

Then immediately Restigouche has gone
Dubois goes off and has a long interview with
the head of the Detective Department, and
returns in time to receive Gould in the Rue
St. Anne.

Dubois meets him with effusion, and but that
he remembers that Englishmen dislike to be
slobbered over by persons of their own sex,
would follow the precedent of Judas. Gould
is also very cordial. He is in the highest
spirits; his interview vith Horsford has made
everything as plain as daylight, and he comes
now hoping to see his way to get over his
other difficulties.

Dubois does not disappoint him. He enters
into minute details as to how he came on the
track of the documents. He was indeed
thankful to have this opportunity of proving
his sincere regard for his friend Gould ;
especially as there had been a little friction
over the matter of the bonds. Then he explained
how he had devoted his time and
attention to ascertain the true facts in connection
with the murder at Boulogne ; and,
he was thankful to say, he believed the
true murderer was a common man still in
Boulogne. And these investigations had led
to the finding of the lost child and  what was
still more strange and equally important  to
the finding of Gould's documents. But to
cap all, Gould now learns that the child is at
a certain place in the keeping of the English
ladies who formerly occupied the rooms here
au cinquieme.

This nearly takes Gould's breath away, for
instantly the consequences of this unaccountable
circumstance flash on him. The child
actually with Madame Ostrolenka ! Of all
persons in the world, the very last into whose
hands she should have fallen. What may not

happen ? For a moment he sees all his bright
hopes shattered. Dubois sees his agitation.

** Be not alarmed, my friend. Dubois does
not do things by halves for his friends. Allis
safe  all can be arranged."

** But, my dear sir, you have no possible
conception what this means ! " says Gould
excitedly. ** And the papers? "

** They are safe, for the present, in the
keeping of people near the child."

** Good Heavens ! not with Madame Ostro-
lena ? " says Gould, turning white.

** No, not yet,, but they will be soon ; that
is why I have sent for you. For you are a
man of prompt action. You will know how to
decide. Listen, I will explain. The child is
in a certain farmhouse in Normandy : the
papers are there. Restigouche has been to
reconnoitre. These English ladies are there,
and your child. What is more strange too is
that there is no doubt Madame Richard came
there with the child, from the Impasse and
left again to meet her doom in Boulogne."

'* God ! you don't say she was there, was
she ? I knew she had been away from Bologna.
What you say is inconceivably important.

I must go down at once to see what I
can do. Where is this place in Normandy ? "

"Yes, my friend, you must go, for it is to
your interest not to lose time. I have already
prepared everything. Restigouche will accompany
you. He is my friend. I am the friend
of the police. His presence will be of service
in case of any misunderstanding as to the
motive of your visit. You comprehend?"

'* Indeed, I do," says Gould. '* I am most
grateful to you both ! "

** Everything is prepared for to-night,"
goes on Dubois. *' We have secured an ally
in the house. The servant of the farmer is in
my power, through the police. She will be
ready to deliver to you the child and the
papers. You will not be afraid to use some
force with the child ? You must keep her
from crying. Our good friend here has provided
himself with the wherewithal. But the
utmost secrecy must be observed ; for to abduct
this child by force at night is certainly open
to question, though she is legitimately yours.
You will understand ? Inviolable secrecy, and
your parole that you do not say anything to
any one before you get there."

*' My dear sir," said Gould, taking both his
hands. ** It is not necessary to caution me,
I am a man of experience. As to the child,
she shall make no noise. Her life is of less
importance than the possession of her person."

At which a rapid glance is exchanged between
Dubois and Restigouche. This may bea
damning statement to have made and an
easy one for these traitors to swear to ; for
the most accomplished perjurers find it easier
to swear where there is some substratum of
truth. It is less tax on the memory.

Restigouche in the meanwhile has looked up
the time-tables. Their destination is Rouen.
There is a train in an hour. Will Gould be
ready ?

** Quite ready," replies Gould. *' I have
nothing to do."

And as the men leave the office, Dubois
whispers to Restigouche not to lose sight of
Gould again.

FROM BEYOND THE GRAVE.

On the day following Rosalie's arrival at the
Manoir, Madeline had to go to Marseilles to
await the arrival of the two steamers from the
East  both due within a few hours of each
other, as at that particular moment a spasmodic
attempt had been made to run an opposition
line to the old established one. On board the
steamer from Smyrna were Ostrolenka and
Dumont, and on board the vessel from Bey-rout
was Nellie.

Madeline waits in her hotel with a feeling
of almost sickening suspense, but her trial is
cut short by the steamer arriving an hour or
two before time; and in a few minutes after
she has made fast to the buoy, Ostrolenka has
received a note from Madeline by the hand of
a boatman, dispatched with the object of bringing
him to her hotel. She could not meet

him in public after these years of separation.
But there are scenes on earthy rare it is true,
of such pure and unalloyed happiness that the
veil should not be drawn aside which hides
them from common gaze. And this, undoubtedly,
might be called one of such.
Their years of separation, their long pilgrimage
of sorrow  all seem to vanish  to roll
away like mist on a mountain as they once
more looked into each other's eyes. For both
it was to recover the most beloved object on
earth from the grave  a veritable resurrection
for each had firmly believed the other to be
dead. All through the long, blank, hopeless
years that had passed since they were
torn asunder at Beyrout, this idea had been
ever present, and by lapse of time had even
become to be recognized by both of them asa
sparing act of Providence. Not that this
lessened the delight of meeting  nothing could
do that  but it only marked the deep and
settled despair which finally seeks consolation
in such thoughts when everything else has
failed. Resignation is Kismet's younger sister.
Submission is impossible whilst Hope lives.
To bear our ills without complaining is heroic

to say we accept them gratefully is always
and for ever hypocritical.

Nor was it the least part of the pleasure that
these two people felt in being restored to each
other's arms to note that time had done little
or nothing to impair the looks and bodily
advantages of either of them. To Madeline
her husband's face seemed to have grown
more purified, more refined, doubtless owing
to the fortitude of the mind within, and
possibly that the spare diet of prison life had
accentuated the delicate chiselling of his
features. As to Madeline, she was still the
same sweet womanly creature he had Iqved
so passionately; the same tender grey eyes
looked in his ; the same sweet mouth, loving,
compassionate and firm. Adversity had only
glorified her beauty, and he loved her now
more ardently than when she had forsaken all
for his sake, and had turned her back on
her home to follow him.

But scarce had they had time to compare
the most cursory notes, before the arrival of
the second steamer was announced; and
Madeline, with all that unselfishness which
distinguished her in everything she did, tore

herself away from Otho, her husband, to goon
board and meet Nellie. She could not
allow her to arrive and find no one there to
greet her. And Madeline had requested Otho
not to accompany her on board. Since Nellie
had left for Syria, this terrible affair of Gould's
bigamy had taken place ; and Madeline felt
that such a painful disclosure  for it must be
made sooner or later  should be made
privately.

As Madeline went off in the boat to the
steamer, the contrast between her situation
and that of the woman she was going to
meet, forced itself irresistibly on her ; and still
more so, the singular coincidence that this
same villain of a man of whose crime she was
to be the unwilling messenger had been the
prime mover in all her, Madeline's, misery.
It seemed as if her reward and his crime were
to be meted out in the same day.

But Madeline's only consolation in the
painful scene which lay before her was the
knowledge that Nellie, though she might be
shocked to hear of such a scandal, would not
suffer in her heart ; for she knew that that
heart held no sentiments for Gould but those of

loathing and repugnance. Nor was it without
comfort to reflect that the commission of this
offence would enable Nellie to shake herself
clear of this scoundrel for ever, establishing
her right to a divorce by every law human
and ecclesiastical.

But in spite of all this reasoning, the contrast
between the two friends as they clasped
each other was very marked  Nellie beaming
and brimming over with her good news ;
Madeline subdued and almost silent, beyond
expressions of the warmest congratulations
on Nellie's safe return. As yet, Madeline
knew nothing of Nellie's discoveries, for. the
latter had had no opportunity of writing before
starting; and, therefore, Madeline felt that what
she herself had to tell was more important
than what she had to hear. And her sad
face shocked Nellie.

*' Tell me, Madeline dear, what is it? " says
Nellie, dreading to hear bad news. ** Not our
pet  ill, I hope?"  and the colour leaves
Nellie's face as a terrible thought crosses
her that, after all, all her discoveries may be
worthless.

**No, no, Nellie! Thank God, she's per-vol.

III. 15

fectly well. It is something about  about
yourself, darling'

** Oh ! never mind me," says Nellie, recovering
her spirits. ** Nothing can happen to me
now that I care about. Nothing in comparison
with what I have to tell you, Madeline.
But  '' and she hesitates  *you must prepare
yourself, Madeline, for God has been wonderfully
good to you, and to me too, for I have
my reward in serving you."

' What is it? " says Madeline, with a look of
extraordinary interest.

They are in Nellie's cabin, Madeline seated
on the red velvet couch, Nellie with her arm
over the edge of the upper berth facing her.

** Madeline," says Nellie, in quite a solemn
tone, *sit is no wonder you loved our little
pet at first sight. She is not Gracie  she 
she "

Madeline springs up and catches her hand.

*' Nellie! Nellie! what are you saying?
Are my dreams then true ? Is this my own
little child,  kept from me ? Oh God ! how
often I have thought it impossible she could
be any one else ! "

*' Yes, Madeline, your instinct has been true.

She is your own little girl. But sit down," 
for Nellie sees Madeline trembling from head
to foot.

*rare you then positive, Nellie? Is it impossible
there can be a mistake?"

*not possible. I will explain all. It is
Alantha, as true as I am standing here."

Then for a few moments there is silence ; for
Madeline, who recognises the hand of Godin
everything, has knelt down, and poured out
her grateful heart.

Then she rises  composed  places her arms
round Nellie, who still stands before her and
says, 

** Tell me, my dearest, my faithful friend."

And briefly Nellie gave an outline of all
she had heard from Marigo, sufficient, however,
to leave no doubt on Madeline's mind of the
truth of the story as told by the Greek. But
during all the recital, Madeline never lost sight
of the terrible news she had for Nellie ; and it
was with extreme pain that she now approached
the subject. However, there was no help for
it. They were all to return to St. Martin, but
Rosalie was lying ill there  too ill to move 
and it was not impossible that it would be too

painful for Nellie to meet her  these two wives
of this one monster.

Nellie, too, had not forgotten, for Madeline's
manner still bore traces of depression ; and now
she turned to her friend and said quietly 

' Now tell me your bad news. It is about
myself. There is no ill  save one  that can
befall me in this life  that and the death of my
parents  which I trust has not happened? "

'* No, Nellie. It is about your husband ; he
has committed a great crime, but stop" for
Nellie's face blanches  'stop, my dear Nellie,
and hear. It is not the worst, He has taken
another wife. He has married another woman''

Nellie starts to her feet.

** The insane, wicked wretch ! " she exclaims.
*' What can he mean ? That he is not properly
married to me' Do you think I would not
have left him, the very day after I married
him, for I loathed him so, if I had not known
how hopelessly, miserably, irrevocably married
I was to him ? "

** Of course, Nellie, I know that ; but the
fact remains  he has equally hopelessly and
irrevocably married another woman."

** It seems incredible," says Nellie, staring

blankly at her own face in the looking-glass,
over above the rack holding the water bottle
and tumbler. Then she helps herself to some
water and gulps it down.

*ewe were married in all due form,
Madeline  you have seen the certificate 
married at the Consulate in Pera, by the
Bishop of Arran, an old friend of all the
Carnegie; you might as well say that the
Queen was not married properly to the Prince
Consort."

** I wish I could think you were not so
much married," says Madeline, '* though that
is selfish, for I have a tremendous interest in
this. I have not told you whom he has
married, and you  you will scarcely credit it
when I tell you."

'* Madame Artaki, of course," says Nellie,
** though I never thought she would be fool
enough. But it must be she ; they are trusting
to finding the certificate, and between
them to make out was not properly married."

** Would to God it was Madame Artaki,"
replies Madeline. **No, dear, it is actually
my own sister Rosalie whom he has led into
this shameful trap."

** Your sister, Madeline ! impossible. Then
clearly she knew nothing about his first
marriage ? "

No, not a word. She came to us quite
by chance  to the Manoir  and that was the
first she ever heard of it. Nor did we even
know she was married. It has made her
desperately ils. It would kill her to move her,
and so, dear Nellie, I have thought I must
ask you whether you will go back there, or let
me find some place temporarily for you ? "

*why should I not go?" says Nellie,
without a moment's hesitation. ''' \i\ your
sister, Madeline. How can I feel resentment
against her ? Are we not both equally deluded,
and outraged, by this man-devil ? "

*' That is bravely spoken, Nellie. Let us
then decide to take the night train ; we shall
be there tomorrow."

Then having got together her traps they
disembarked, and after some irritating formalities
at the Custom House, and half stifled
by the intolerable stenches which abound near
that locality, they reached the hotel where
Ostrolenka was anxiously waiting the return
of his wife.

Then follow further explanations and revelations,
all of which the reader is already
familiar with, and after dispatching a telegram
to Mrs. Romeyn, to announce the safe arrival
of the travellers, and informing her what time
to expect them on the following day, they
separated until the hour fixed for dinner;
Dumont taking charge of Nellie, who had no
intention of being crushed by the news which
she had heard and which she already welcomed
as opening a door of escape from the tyranny
and bondage she had so long endured.
On the following morning the party at the
Manoir were all on the qui-vive, and strange
to say, Rosalie had so far recovered the shock
of the news she had heard, that she was able
to get up and had dressed herself with the
aid of the ever-willing Perotte.

For, to Rosalie, reflection had brought the
consoling idea that beyond the publicity and
consequent scandal of this horrid affair, she
should not be so badly off as she might have
been linked for life to Gould. The philosophy
of her London training was that nine days
was the utmost span allowed to any wonder.
Generally three days sufficed to provide a new

topic  and as she had left him at the altar,
there were no painful reminiscences for her
personally. At the expected hour of arrival,
Mrs. Romeyn and her little . grand-daughter
(unconscious of their relationship to each
other) were on the lawn. Rosalie, however,
had for obvious reasons preferred to remain
indoors. She cannot face Nellie at first in
public  she has not the least idea how she will
be received. For it is indeed a most distressing
and exceptional situation.

And by-and-bye those on the lawn saw a
small cloud of white dust on the road towards
Rouen, and soon after heard the cracking of a
whip. Alantha, as we must now call her, was
all excitement. She had not ceased to enquire
for her ** Other Mummy," as she calls
Madeline, who had indeed already very much
taken the place of Nellie, during the long
absence of the latter. Then the child ran
and stood by the side of the large beaten-iron
gates, which led into the avenue, looking
a picture of childish loveliness, with a large
bunch of flowers in her little hands which she
had gathered to welcome the travellers. And
as the carriage stopped for the coachman to

open the gates, Madeline sprang down and
clasped the child in her arms, almost smothering
her in her embrace. Then the child looked
up and saw a strange man standing by her
*' Mummy's" side ; and to her surprise he too
caught her up, and held her high off the
ground in his arms and gazed longingly and
lovingly at her.

** And who's 00? '' says Alantha.

*' Fm your father, my child, your true
father''

'* And the horrid one, the black one, where' s
he?"

"Gone from you for ever, my sweet pet,"
says Ostrolenka. ** But here, here's your old
Mummy," for he has caught sight of Nellie's
face, looking so sad ! In restoring them
their child she has lost one she loved as
dearly as if it had been her own.

Nellie takes the child and kisses her
passionately.

** Yes, my pet, that is "your papa now, a
good kind one, darling, and Aunty Madge is
your mamma."

But it is beyond the child's comprehension,
nor is there any necessity to try and make her

understand it now. She will come to understand
it in time. But the unsympathetic Jehu
has become impatient, having mounted his
box again, and sitting there with the expression
of a surly bull dog.

'eh Hen, Mesdames ! '*'* he says. *' What
is to be. Go on, or disembark here ? "

** Drive on ! " calls out Ostrolenka in a tone
so sharp that the man gives a perceptible
start. *ewe will follow on foot."

Nellie, who has given back Alantha to her
father, remains in the carriage, and in a
few moments is warmly greeted by Mrs.
Romeyn.

'' My dearest Nellie," says Mrs. Romeyn,
addressing her kindly by her Christian name,
** of course you have heard all ! "

** Yes, I have. She's here, is she not? *'

"Yes ; dear, will you see her? It is better
you should meet at once."

* Of course, dear Mrs. Romeyn, why should
we not ? "

And then the others join them, and there is
much greeting and some dim eyes  and
wonderment and thankfulness as everything
is explained.

And then Madeline takes Nellie's hand, and
leads her into the old oak dining-room, wherein
the recess of the deep window they find
Rosalie.

How strange a meeting !  the two wives of
one man, neither of them with the key to this
bewildering enigma.

** FUIT ILIUM."

The more Romeyn reflected on the extraordinary
piece of information Gizzard had given
him as to Gould, the more persuaded he felt
that Hercea was innocent of complicity in this
offence. It was too wildly improbable that
she should lend herself to anything so foolish.
Whatever the solution of it was, she would
come out of it with clean hands.

And he had with him a document prepared
by Gizzard, which he felt perfectly certain she
would fearlessly sign  disclaiming formally
any responsibility for Gould's crime  a document
of not much legal validity  but still an
awkward, one, should anything hereafter transpire
to prove that it was untrue.

His separation from her had only rendered
her more dear. He longed to see her again

with an intensity which astonished even himself
and at every railway station, after entering
Italy, he made minute enquiries as to the progress
of the cholera. And each enquiry gave
him hope and comfort : the malady was decreasing
everywhere : people were already
beginning to return to their houses : most of
the cordons had been removed, and circulation
was unimpeded.

Arrived at Sarzana he learnt, however, that
San Terenzo itself was still encircled with
troops. Anyone might enter the zone, but
none could come out. However, this presented
no obstacle to Romeyn, for nothing short of
physical detention would have now kept him
away from Heroea. So he immediately hired
a carriage and drove to Salary ; the point
whence his journey would have to be performed
on foot  some three-quarters of a mile or
more. Just outside the large wooden gate
leading into the grounds of the villa, he came
across the line of troops, bivouacked amongst
the olives, and in a cottage by the side of the
gate, saw the young Italian officer, whom
Romeyn accosted in French, enquiring what
news he had of the people at the *' Palazzo."

The SIgnora Confess was quite well, replied
the officer, but the English maid had died.
This gave Romeyn a shock. Heroea had not
mentioned this death in her letters ; wishing to
spare him unnecessary anxiety, no doubt.

Then seeing that Romeyn was about to pass
the line of sentries, the young man politely
informed him that once in he must stay in.
*' Though not for long I hope, Signor, for I
hear the cordon will be removed in a day or
two."

This was excellent news, and, wishing the
officer good-day, Romeyn hurried down the
rough path, through the olives and vines
where masses of fruit lay rotting and neglected,
thanks to the wisdom of the official
numb-skulls who had warned the poor peasants
that nothing could be more deadly during the
epidemic than to eat the only food they were
accustomed to at this season of the year.

And now Romeyn caught sight of the
rough red roof of the villa with large stone
vases, standing in a line on the coping, in
clear contrast against the blue sea beyond,
whose mimic waves he could hear breaking
with regular plash on the silvery beach. All

was silent at this early hour ; the sun, rising
behind him, just beginning to tip the distant
islands with golden light. Then Romeyn
stopped for a moment  it was the spot where
he had said good-bye to her  and his soul
exulted to think how soon he should see that
face again ; once more lift that beautiful
mouth towards his  the head thrown back,
displaying the majesty of her throat, and gaze
into the deep unfathomable lustre of those
solemn eyes. His thoughts, unbidden, fly
forward. He sees her where she now lies 
possibly asleep  in the villa below him, and
for a moment he feels that the pleasure of this
meeting is almost too great to be realized.
He stands still for another moment  like to
a woman who tremblingly delays to open the
casket which she knows contains a costly gift ;
or like the lover whose hand remains suspended
for a moment e'er he knocks at the door of
his bride's chamber. Yes ! here they stood,
and here she solemnly promised to be faithful
to him. Were those the words or the looks
of a faithless woman ? Could she even then
have been hiding from him this hideous
scandal ? No  ten thousand times no ! and

whoever said so, he would thrust the lie down
their throat. What was the world to him in
comparison with her smile ? What ! was
Gould  that black-souled scowling villain  to
come between him and her ?

He flung all such thoughts behind him.
No, he would go to her without a shadow to
darken their happy meeting. He would find
her there  as his fancy had painted her  he
might even have to rouse her from her balmy
morning sleep, the soft sea breeze stealing into
woo her  lifting the light drapery that
curtained her goddess form.

Then he moves on again, moves on rapidly,
taking short cuts amongst the twisted ilex
roots, where the ground is bare and parched
with the long drought : over a short plot of
grass, overgrown in places with tall bamboo-like
canes, and then down a few broad steps
which lead to the main entrance of the villa,
whose great door stands open. This is unusual
at this early hour. Some one has been
here early. The sea-gate of the massively
built' hall is also open and he sees the silent
blue water beyond. This is the hour she often
bathes ; and here, waiting for her, is her pretty

bathing dress, hanging on a large towel-horse
to dry. He touches it. Lovely are the limbs
that it clings to, out there, in that laughing
and rippling sea, with the white arms glancing
as she swims or lies floating with all the grace
of Nereid.

There is not a sound in the house, not a
soul stirring, but he remembers that all the
servants have fled.

** Luiga ! Luiga ! '' he calls, but there is no
answer. ** Gone to the village, I suppose, for
the early supplies," he soliloquizes.

Then he mounts the stairs, broad and cool,
everything Is as if he were entirely alone 
not even the chirp of her small green parrot.
This, however, he can account for easily
enough ; for the habits of this creature have
been entirely changed through the caprice
of its mistress, who has taught it to sleep
amongst strips of paper In ?ipentola an earthen
cooking pot, and covered over with a cloth 
when it is then placed in a dark cupboard in her
own room. But as Heroea Invariably releases
the bird the moment she rises and as the bird
then pipes and chirps, sitting on the edge of
her bath and amusing itself by pecking play-vol.

III. 16

fully at her fair white skin, Romeyn knows
that the bird's mistress is not yet up, or he
would hear the familiar noise. However, he
thinks it will be no indiscretion to awaken her.

So he crosses the large sala., surprised to
note that all the windows are open, his eyes
falling, as he goes, on all the little indications
of her presence : her open book, with the
marker in its place: her fan: and her delicately
scented handkerchief, which he takes up,
presses to his lips and puts into his bosom.
Then he approaches her door, pulls aside the
portiere and knocks, gently at first, then louder;
no answer : then he gently turns the handle :
the door is locked, and he feels somehow that
he has committed a profane act.

*' She is sleeping soundly," he says, and
deliberates whether he will awaken her. ' No,
she may have been up late. It is very early."
So he walks out on to the terrace and tries
to overcome his impatience. He utterly fails
and soon returns, and, this time, he knocks
loudly. Still no answer ; nothing but the
mocking echo of his knuckles in the stone
corridors outside. He becomes alarmed and
again tries the handle.

** Heroea, my love ! " he calls ; " awake 
rm here. Let me hear your voice'*

But there is no response. There is nothing
for it but to go out on to the terrace and see
what has become of her  for her window
opens on to the terrace  and if it is trespassing
on her privacy, still he must do it ; he cannot
bear the suspense. He will just look in. If
she is asleep, he will leave her.

He steps noiselessly along the terrace  her
window is open. He stands aside and again
calls her name, and is answered by a ' cheep
cheep," in a confined voice, from Fra Diavolo,
the parrot, evidently weary of being so long
shut up.

Then he steps forward and looks in. The
room is not very light

*' Almighty God!" he exclaims, and steps
back, ** what can be the matter! " for he sees
her, lying apparently asleep, stretched on the
floor in her lightness, her hair all loose and
lying across her breast, one arm extended,
the other across her body.

*she has swooned; she is ill," he says.
'* Good God! who is there here to help?"

He springs through the window, throwing

the shutters wide open, a flood of light streams
in. He rushes towards her, but suddenly starts
back petrified with horror. Her eyes are half
open and have a fixed meaningless stare, the
lids lying rigid : her lips, which are slightly
blue, are parted, just sufficient to show her
pearly teeth : the pallor which is only once
seen on all faces is on hers  she is dead 
stone dead.

To him, however, it is impossible to realize
such a terrible catastrophe. No 1 she cannot
be dead ! It is the choleraic swoon. He
has often seen it before, and seen people
recover. If he had but remedies ! His brave
heart refuses to believe she has been taken from
horn. He bends over her; oh! how lovingly.
He takes her in his arms, calling her name the
while. Not without difficulty, and with the
utmost delicacy and respect for her unconscious
state, he lays her on the bed; but
alas ! ah ! ghastly sign, in moving her her
head rolls helplessly across his shoulder  he
feels her clay-cold cheek press against his
neck  her arms lie across his  her limbs fall
lifeless on the bed. With a steadily growing
conviction that all is over, he reverently



stretches her out, lifts the golden coils of
her hair and lays them about her bosom.

He gives a deep groan. He knows now she
is dead, for he now observes the corrugated
and shrivelled skin of her hands and feet 
that sure and fatal sign of one of the most
terrible forms of cholera, in which the sufferer
is struck down in an hour, often in less. Nota
sign of the disease is to be discovered in any
other form. It is apparently some sudden and
terrific spasm of the entire nervous system ;
attacking without the smallest premonitory
symptom, and destroying the strongest as
easily as the weak and decrepit. Romeyn
knows these signs well ; and, with great
nerve, at once abandons all ideas of procuring
assistance. None shall approach her but
himself. He stands gazing on the pallid,
beautiful face, appalled at the thought how
she, so admirable in her divine beauty, so strong
in her health and youth, has been so suddenly
hurried away out of life. How inscrutable !
How incomprehensible ! And is this really the
total and entire end of her, the finish of so marvellous
a piece of workmanship ? Was it worth
while for the whole universe, to toil to this end?

But at last he rouses himself. There are
sad duties to perform, and first of all these,
as she must lie in a foreign land, is to protect
her remains from the cupidity of the living,
who will not allow her to rest in her grave
if she is buried with the superb jewels which
still deck her hands. So with the utmost
tenderness he removes those great rings, his
own gifts. Then he closes the heavy lids,
but the act of shutting out those eyes from
him for ever almost unmans him. He kneels
down, winds his arms once-round her, presses
his mouth to hers and moans

** Ah ! my lost love ! my lost love. If I knew
where you are gone, if I knew for certain I
could find you, I would follow you. What is
there left to me? "

Then he rose ; and once more *' Cheep,
cheep," sounded from the cupboard where
the imprisoned Diavolo lay in darkness.

It broke the spell a little. He went and
released the bird ; but, the next moment, was
compelled to imprison him again, for the
*' Fra" immediately hopped up on to the bed
and began nibbling at the white arms which
lay folded across the dead woman's breast.

*come, Diavolo," says Romeyn. " She has
left us both, my poor little fellow," and he
consigns him once more to his pectora until
he can procure a cage or some means of
transporting him. Then he looks about the
room to see if there is anything he must
put away before strangers come. It is a
terrible ordeal. Everything speaks to him of
the adored life that has only fled a few hours.
Her watch still ticks on the dressing table,
marking time long after the hand that set its
wheels in motion is launched into the silence
of eternity ; the last clothes she wore lie about,
reminding him so painfully of her that he. can
scarcely bear to look at them. Still he has this
mournful duty to do. He cannot allow letters
or papers of importance to fall into the hands
of strangers. He has to search  even her
very pockets.

In this way an hour is spent. He has
secured her keys, locked away her jewel case,
done all he can think of, and then sallies forth,

The rest he can leave until after the word,

her burial, remains fast in his throat. Then
he will have ample time; for here he must
remain in this dreary house, alone, until he

can obtain permission to depart ; until the
cordon is removed. Once more he approaches
the bed and once more he kneels down and
looking on the calm serenity of her face
whose exquisite beauty is strangely heightened
by its now marble, statuesque outline, he says
bitterly to himself, 

** Is it possible this can be the eyed? Listen
to me, Heroea. In spite of all my philosophy,
I won't believe that you end here. You pzus
have had a Soul."

He remains a long time on his knees ; then
he rises, carefully shuts and bars the windows,
leaves the room and locks the door behind
him, but carrying away in his hand the
pectora with Fra Diavolo in it. The idea of
leaving this live creature in there alone with
the dead seems to shock him.

Then he goes downstairs hoping every
moment to hear Luiga returning. Outside he
sees the bent form of the old contains.
Romeyn can speak sufficient Italian to make
himself understood. He calls the old man,
who stares at seeing him.

"' Where is Luiga ? " says Romeyn.

** Luiga ! " gasps the old man. *has not

the SIgnora told you ! She is dead, Gran
Dio I she is dead ! "

*' Dead ? when?" says Romeyn, as a new-thought
crosses him, the thought of a lonely,
solitary death.

** She died yesterday afternoon ; taken ill
the day before," says the contains, *' It was
a very bad case and no one but the Signora
to nurse her. They took away the body last
night."

*sand was there no one in the house all
night?" says Romeyn,  with an effort at
composure.

**No, Signore, no one; no one would stay.
They all say there is a curse on the house, but
why, God knows," says the old man, crossing
himself. *' For if ever there was an Angel of
misericordia in this world it is the Signora."

*' So no one stayed with the lady? When
did anyone go to see her last? "

** I went yesterday evening. I went again
at night, at ten ; I offered to sleep downstairs,
as she will tell you, but the Signora said no,
she was not afraid of being alone. I was
going up now to see what I could do for her 
to get her a servant."

** My friend," says Romeyn, laying his hand
kindly on the old man's shoulder. *' She requires
no one. She has gone too."

But the news is too terrible to credit.

No, no, Signore ; whoever has told you this
is not telling the truth. Come, let us go up.
God would not be so unmerciful ! "

" Hush, my old friend. Don't go f It is
true. I have been in."

And then the contains believes. And at
this moment up comes the old man's daughter,
who on hearing the news gives a loud scream
and rushes away wildly. In ten minutes every
soul in the village has heard it. A crowd of
terrified men and women, many of both sexes
weeping loudly, gather round the gates of the
villa, wringing their hands and wailing, with
ten times more grief than they have displayed,
at the death of any of their own relatives.

Romeyn is deeply touched.

Here are hundreds bewailing her death 
hundreds to whom she was the mercy of their
God made manifest, whilst to others  she was
the incarnation of evil ! But how little any of
us  even I  really knew her."

Then followed the last rites. He, with

money, was able to secure for her hallowed
remains some better receptacle than the poor
shells which were hastily put together for the
villagers ; but he refused an offer of a separate
burial place, preferring that she should lie
amongst all those unfortunate people whose
passing agonies she herself had striven so hard
to rob of their misery. So her last resting-place
was on the hill-side above the Silurian fishing
village, where she sleeps under the silver olives.

Romeyn returned to the Palazzo. During the
day some of the contained s women-folk came
in and cooked for him and made his bed ; but
otherwise he spent the next ten days  until
the cordon was removed  entirely alone in the
great rambling villa, he and Fra Diavolo, who
now attached himself to Romeyn, never leaving
his side, hopping about after him whereever
he went ; so much so that the simpleminded
Italians,  themselves half crazy with
fear whenever they came into the villa 
declared the bird saw the ghosts which now
haunted it more than ever, and was afraid to
leave the side of his master.

Hercea's death was the last case of cholera
in San Terenzo. The weather soon after set

in extremely stormy; and the wind, which made
the shutters of the old villa bang and went
howling along the empty corridors like human
voices shrieking after each other, swept the
polluted air out uf every nook and cranny of
the village. The epidemic had worn itself
out ; all the faster, none doubted, for the
heroism, prudence and generosity of its last
victim, whom, as if in sheer spite, it had struck
down with its last strength.

Before leaving San Terenzo, Romeyn sought
out all those who were specially afflicted, and
did what he could for them, leaving money for
orphans and widows.

As for all Heroea's things, dreading lest
they should fall Into profane hands, he caused
a large pile of oak and cedar wood to be
made on the beach, on which everything was
placed. It was then set on fire, and the ashes
scattered into the sea.

Some few precious relics he doubtless preserved,
for It was known afterwards that
there was a case, kept in his room in England,
into which no mortal eye but his ever
looked.

And then he turned his steps once more



towards England, an altered man, accompanied
by the faithful Diavolo, and went back to
Wimpole Street.

He shortly after his arrival called on Messrs.
Gizzard and Stretchitit, who as yet knew nothing
of what had happened, for he had not thought
it necessary to write.

He briefly explained to the astonished
Gizzard how it was he returned with the
document unsigned. But he wished, he said,
everything to remain as had been arranged
by Mrs. Romeyn.

** And  and the divorce ? " says Gizzard.

** On the original plea  that was, my 'apparent
intimacy with  with the lady now dead,
it must be abandoned. I could not desecrate
her memory by tacitly admitting such an
atrocious lie*'

*' Ah ! " says Gizzard slowly. ** Mrs. Romeyn
will hardly wish that''

** No, and hark ye, my old friend. Be just
to her,  to the dead  see that her memory is
not blackened. Do not let them throw this
stone "

*' I will do my best, my dear sir  but I must
ask one thing. With regard to the deceased's

promise to restore your grandchild to her
mother?"

** I have in my possession everything necessary
to establish her identification, and a
quantity of papers to enable her to inherit her
lawful property. These Madame Artaki confided
to me some time ago. You shall have
them, to do whatever you like with."

*' I am indeed glad of this. It is an act of
restitution which will outlive the memory of
many other things."

*eyes, Gizzard; one stone less to fling at
her."

And when Romeyn had left, Gizzard called
Stretchitit into his office; for Gizzard was the
senior partner, and sat in a large bay window
looking into the Row, whereas Stretchitit had
only a kind of den at the back with a long slit
in his wall for a window, which, for all architectural
design it possessed, might have been
the effect of an earthquake, hastily repaired
and glazed over, and distant about three feet
from a dead wall opposite.

*' Stretchitit ! " says Gizzard, after telling him
the news, *you know I'm not a religious man,
in the canting sense of the word; but hang

me, if, in all my experience, I ever saw so
much good come out of what I thought was
unmitigated evil. There is not a single
member of this Romeyn family who is not
better off now than they were before this lady
who was to give so much trouble, came on the
scene. Every man-Jack  and Jill too  of them,
will now have a considerable sum of money
of their own  all Mrs. Romeyn's family provided
for  nieces into the bargain. Even the
daughter Rosalie is better off, only she doesn't
see it yet ; and as to Romeyn ! she did more to
break down his stubborn, obstinate, overbearing
pride during the few weeks he knew her, ian
the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury,
and everything in the shape of a parson could
have done, firing away at him till Doomsday.
Now, what I say is this, Stretchitit  for bear in
mind I'm not a religious man  is this all
chance ? Can you and /, or anyone else,
make good come out of evil ? No, I'll be
hanged if you can ! "

And Gizzard swings one leg over the other,
and looks quite cross at Stretchitit, as if he had
dared to say he could.

Dunois* PIT.

Seldom had Gould been in better spirits than
as he sat over an excellent dinner with
Restigouche at the hotel at Rouen, that evenings
after his interview with Dubois. Everything
seemed prospering exactly as he could
have wished ; and, thanks to these two admirable
Frenchmen, he would soon be relieved
of all serious foreboding for his future. He
chatted and laughed gaily, and in the exuberance
of his good humour confided to the
astonished Restigouche the fact of his second
marriage, painting his bride in such glowing
colours that his listener could do nothing but
lean back in his chair, with his arms akimbo
and his fat hands spread out on his fat knees,
and repeat,

** Ma foil friend, thou hast luck! '*

From this Gould proceeded to narrate incidents

and amorous adventures in his past
life by which, even on his own showing, there
appeared to be hardly a scandalous offence
which he had not been in the frequent habit
of committing. From the age of fourteen the
ruin of virtue seemed to have been his pastime,
and to betray men or women his every day
amusement. In comparison with him Iscariot
must have been a faithful friend, and ' Le
Boyne Amatory'' a virtuous and respectable
member of society.

** Intrepid ! It is thou that hast seen life ! "
says the Frenchman, anxious to keep him ina
good humour.

** You are right, Restigouche, I have seen
it  thoroughly  all. ' '

** And thou wilt see more, Hein ?''

A knowing look and a leer suffice for
answer.

*Thou art right," says Restigouche. ''A
man has but one life ; he is but one, women are
numerous ; they are light : they are easy : they
love us."

**I agree with you  my day is not over
yet."

**No, not yet I hope' says Restigouche;

VOL. III. 17

but his thoughts go forward to certain haystacks
near the Manoir where Dubois has
informed him it has been agreed to have the
police posted.

After dark Restigouche went out and ordered
a carriage. "The night is fine," says Rests
to the waiter, " it will be pleasant to
make an excursion into the country."

"But how about the driver; does he know
where we are going ? " says Gould, turning to
Restigouche, and speaking English.

*' I have thought of that ; it is all right. I
will tell him when we get outside the town ;
for the matter of that though, he is a man I
know, he will have twenty francs  the coachman
of France is discreet. Fa / "

The night is fine, but dark. When within
a quarter of a mile of the Manoir, Restigouche
stops the carriage. It is a dark corner of the
road and there is a small wood on one side
with a gate  open  leading in to it.

This is the place I have thought of for the
carriage to remain," says Restigouche. "We
will walk on from here, and he will wait. Jump
out; I will speak to the coachman, and you
had better walk on a few paces'*

Gould does as he is bid, throwing away the
end of his cigar as he alights. The coachman
is evidently of quick comprehension, for he
seems to grasp immediately what is expected
of him.

*' A sharp fellow, that," says Gould.

*eyes, sharp  very sharp'' replies Rests
Sharp indeed ! for the man has been
put up to what is going on by the police who
have arranged for this driver. Everything
has been prepared properly and systematically
in Paris.

Then Restigouche passes his arm through
Gould's, and they move forward along the
grass which borders the road towards the
gates of the Manoir. Just as they are about
to enter a rustic appears from the hedge by
the road side and salutes them with a bonne
nuit, which makes Restigouche give a start.
But the man passes away down the road
to where the carriage stands, and the other
two continue their journey in the direction of
the Manoir whose high gables now loom up
against the dark sky.

** There are lights in the rez de chaussee
says Restigouche, as they draw near.

** Yes, so I see," replies Gould, whose voice
has dropped to a low tone. *' Can we get
near, without risk? I would like to make a
thorough reconnaissance first, so as to know
what we are about."

*eyes," says Restigouche; *' I learnt all
about the place, we can approach the windows
by the lawn."

And everything is ready? The woman 
she understands? "

*' Everything ; and here,  Dubois very
thoughtfully provided some chloroform, incase
the child should be noisy. Will you
take it?"

** Not now, ril ask you for it  if I want it
but if I get my hand round that child's
throat, she won't want much chloroform I
What time was the dairy-maid to be ready? "

** By ten. She thought the ladies would be
out of the way at that time, for they go to
supper in the front room at that hour."

Then the two men creep forward under the
tall yew hedge which runs across from the
avenue and skirts the house. Just as they
get near the building, they hear voices on the
lawn.

It is a nervous moment ; Gould's Dutch
courage rapidly oozes away ; Restigouche,
who is also shaking, feels a tremor pass
through the man's arm.

** Courage, my friend. Be not afraid,"
whispers the Frenchman  ** The dairymaid
is faithful."

'' Fm not afraid," snarls Gould, "I feel
chilly, that's all." But he lies  for he is afraid
with a strange presentiment of evil stealing
over him.

** Stoop ! " says Restigouche, drawing him
down behind the hedge. ** Stoop down, someone
is coming."

And as they crouch down they see four
figures advancing from the lawn  a tall man
and three women.

As the figures come nearer 

*look, look," whispers Restigouche. 'Did
I not tell thee true. Is it not they  the
ladies of the CinquiemeV

''By the Lord, you're right ! " says Gould.
For the first two are Mrs. Romeyn and Madeline
; and as they cross the broad band of light
streaming from one of the open windows Gould
sees their faces distinctly. The man and the

Other woman are a few steps behind, the
former a step or two in advance.

*' No. I don't know him," whispers Gould,
in answer to Restigouche's question as to who
he is.  And yet  I have seen him  I cannot
help thinking I have seen him."

But the next moment Restigouche feels
Gould give a great start and sees him drawback
still further  though he is perfectly safe
where he is.

For the fourth figure has passed.

Tt is Rosalie.

'* Who is that whispers Restigouche
quickly.

*' It is another daughter of Mrs. Romeyn's,"
says Gould, recovering his presence of mind.
** I have known her in London."

All four persons have passed into the house
through the open window.

Gould straightens himself up.

** Come  damn it, Restigouche, I don't
like this affair, not the way it is going. I
will confide in you. I must not be seen
by the last lady, not for thousands of
pounds."

' Hein ! what is that?" says Restigouche,

Still subduing his voice, but with anger in th:.
tone.

**I say I shall go away  to-night. We must
try this again," for Gould thinks he must get
Rosalie in his power before any possible difficulty
arises through this other matter.

*' You cannot go," says Restigouche, detaining
him. ** Everything will be spoilt ! "
and for a moment he thinks of giving the
preconceived signal. However he checks this
desire and says,  ** It is perfectly safe tonight.
Move on to a safer place, and if you
will crouch down here we can peep in at the
window where the child lies."

** No risk, mind!" says Gould; ** and remember,
I don't value the life of this cursed
child two straws. I must have the papers,
though. And here, if this comes off all
right, I'll give you a thousand pound?,
Restigouche."

For Gould has become quite unnerved at
sight of Rosalie. Her presence is utterly
inexplicable.

*' Never mind the money," says Rests
; ** I am thy friend. Come, let us
look into the room."

A buttress overhung with thick ivy projects
from the wall close to the window indicated
by Restigouche, who has had the locality
accurately explained by Dubois.

*ewe are quite safe here," says Rests
; and he plunges his hand down
into his pocket, to make sure he has the
whistle ready by which he is to give the
signal to the police, who, as he knows, are
lurking within ten yards of the spot where
they stand.

A transparent muslin curtain is stretched
across the window, which is wide open. By
moving aside the ivy they look right into the
room. A night-light burns in a tumbler half
full of oil, but the heavy oak panelling renders
the corners of the room obscure. In the
farther end from the window is a little bed,
where a child lies peacefully sleeping. A
larger bed occupies another corner, and, across
this, a woman's clothes have been thrown, as
if some one had prepared for the night and
had temporarily left the room. On one side
of the room a door stands ajar, leading into
a dark passage beyond.

The two men gaze in.

** I could take her now, easily' says Gould.
** Give me the chloroform."

Restigouche reflects for a moment. Is this
the best plan ? Shall he let Gould get
into the room and then make the signal ?
It is the very thing  admirable  caught red-handed
!

** Quick ! " says Gould, growing feverishly
impatient. *' I'll seize the child. They are
all at supper, for we can hear them talking.
We can't have a better chance. You can wait
and meet the woman with the papers. I'll
keep the carriage for you," and his spirits
seem quite to revive. Restigouche hands him
the chloroform.

*you must come in with me," says Gould.
The child is rather strong, she may struggle
and I  well  I don't want to have to squeeze
her throat too tight, and chloroform is so slow,
and uncertain."

** No, my friend, that is not part of our
programme. I stay here."

*' D  n you ! you're afraid ! " says Gould
angrily. ** Ah !  there ! too late ; curse your
indecision. Don't you hear? Some one is
coming. Keep back, keep back ! "

And the click-click of high-heels coming
along the passage falls on their ears.

Both men hold their breath and peer close
in. A woman  looking like a ghost, in her
long, white dressing-gown, her hair hanging
down. There is something wan and spectre-like
about her as she moves through the
semi-obscurity of the big room.

But in a moment they can see her face, for
the light of the veilleuse falls on it.

Involuntarily both men clutch at each other.
Gould staggers against the wall, his heart
stops beating, his throat dries up. But Rests
has fallen to the ground and, falling,
has given a long and piercing scream.

For both men have recognised that it is
Nellie, the murdered woman. It is her wraith.

But Gould, who stands rooted to the spot,
sees, what he believes to be the spectre instantly
vanish. But before he can move or
even think how to proceed, with the Frenchman
still lying screaming at his feet and
loudly calling on his mother, men come
rushing out, as if out of ambush,  some
eight or ten of them ; and, before he can
form the wildest idea of what is going on he

is seized, he is thrown to the ground whilst
handcuffs are rapidly and unceremoniously
forced over his wrists. And even in this
moment he can that see Restigouche is being
treated in precisely a similar way, except that
there is no necessity to knock him down as he
still lies grovelling on the earth, uttering the
wildest screams of terror.

Then both men are placed on their feet,
Gould looking angrily, and half mad, at his
captors; Restigouche whimpering, scarce able
to stand.

But in the meanwhile the party has been
augmented by all the inmates of the house 
except Alantha. Lanterns are produced and a
babel of voices is heard. Old Dumont appears
with a pitchfork in a long shirt, but without
his nether garments : his spouse is in the
garb of night : Perotte has hastily wrapped a
blanket round her and stands there with bare
feet in the costume of a Rigi Sunrise : Nellie,
in her long white wrapper, with a look of speechless
bewilderment, clings to Rosalie ; whilst
the rest of the party, having sprung up from
the supper-table, have rushed out through the
window, and complete the group.

But the captors of the hand-cuffed men allow
no time for recognition or explanation. Gould,
however, has his senses enough about him to see
both his wives standing before him  a thought
so puzzling as nearly to turn his brain. It is
so astounding that he cannot form the remotest
conception of what it means. And now too
he has recognised Ostrolenka ; and as he is
dragged away struggling and resisting, he
keeps turning his head to gaze after this man,
who seems to him  like Nellie  to have come
from the grave to take his revenge.

In the meanwhile, Restigouche has sufficiently
recovered from his terror to be able to
grasp the situation, and is now expostulating
and imprecating by turns.

*sit is a mistake," he cries. "Release
me, I say, release me!" and he makes futile
attempts to loosen his hands.

** Silence miscreant," cries out a man in
uniform, who appears to be directing the
movements of the others ; who are indeed all
policemen in disguise. '* Silence ! " says the
man angrily, " We know thee well ! We have
our warrants, have we not ? Off with them
both. To the carriage! to the carriage!"

And before the astonished spectators can make
head or tail of what is going on, the captors
and the captured have hurried off, almost at
a run, two of the former holding each of the
latter by the nape of the neck and some part of
their garments lower down and thus propelling
them forward with a momentum in which there
is neither dignity nor comfort.

There is something so inexpressibly ludicrous
in the appearance of Gould and Restigouche
under this treatment, that, serious as the consequences
may be for them, the party on the
lawn, all except Nellie and Rosalie, cannot
refrain from laughing ; especially old Dumont,
who, regardless of the singularity of his attire,
fairly dances about, indulging in immoderate
mirth.

The prisoners are bundled neck and crop
into the carriage they themselves had brought
from Rouen, and again Restigouche makes an
appeal.

** It is all a mistake. I am the friend of
M. Dubois. I was sent down to conduct
this affair. I will soon let the police know ! "
To all of which the sergeant of police turns
a deaf ear. He is accustomed to this kind

of explanation, which his experience teaches
him generally does more harm than good.

And then Gould endeavoured to obtain a
hearing, and to ask what it was all about ;
but what with his foreign pronunciation, the
cracking of the coachman's whip, and the
jumping and jolting of the carriage as they
rattled over the paved road, not much could
be made of it, except  that he was arrested
on a charge of murder.

Arrived in Rouen they were immediately
taken to the police office, and here Gould
heard his formal charge, that he had murdered
a woman in Boulogne.

'* Impossible'' says Gould. *' She  the n

dead woman, was not my wife. She in

fact "

** The Detective Department of France is
perfectly aware of all this. The accused does
not improve matters," replies the Head of the
Police Station. *' The lady, your wife, is at

the Manoir ; but the person you murdered

that  is another affair."

Gould glares at him.

** Stop ! " he cries. ** This is nonsense,
this "

** Silence, assassin," replies the police
sergeant. ** Behold the informer, thy associate,
 thickest thou he does not know thy
stick, is not intimate with thy boots ? "

And the man points theatrically to Rests
who is being supported between two
constables whilst the charge is being read
over.

Gould stands like a dumb beast. It is
impossible to understand it. His looks flash
furiously on Restigouche ; and yet, here is
Restigouche himself a prisoner and dissolved
with fears, as well. He loses all self-control,
he begins to rave and swear in English,
Arabic, French, anything he can think of,
cursing Nellie above all, who he believes to
be at the bottom of it. Opposite him
stands Restigouche, with a palsy-stricken look
on his face, which seems already to have
shrunk ; his eyes rolling fearfully, his lips
quivering, moisture running from his mouth
unheeded. Then the police officer reads the
charge against Restigouche. He is an accomplice.
He has aided and abetted. He has
planned this second crime. He has bought
chloroform.

But all the latter part is unheard by the
miserable man. Those who hold him have
let him slip down on the floor, where he lies
a mere bundle ; they can support his weight
no longer. Then Gould is marched off and
locked up ; a procession following behind
along the narrow stone passage carrying
the inanimate form of Restigouche. And
as the key turns on Gould he hears them
depositing their burden in a neighbouring cell.
Gould passes a terrible night in feverish
anxiety, haunted by imagined perplexity.
Who can this other woman be who came and
killed herself in Nellie's house ? Was it anyone
of his own innumerable victims  any of
those women of whom he narrated the downfall
with such glee and merriment only a few hours
ago to Restigouche, to that thief and traitor
whom he hears whimpering and moaning in
the cell hard by ; and calling ceaselessly on his
mother, and on the saints to protect him ? It
is not impossible. God knows there have been
enough of these unfortunates !

In the morning they are both arraigned
before the Judge of First Instruction, a gentleman
whose duty it is in France to lay every

sis

trap his Ingenuity can devise by which the
accused shall be ensnared into incriminatory
admissions. In fact, he prepares the brief
for the Public Prosecutor ; a useful custom
where political bias outweighs any abstract
ideas of justice. And Gould and Restigouche
stand aghast at the marvellous amount of
information in this person's hands, and both
immediately see that no one but Dubois could
have put together such a perfect dovetailing
of evidence. His treachery is too stupendous !
To have destroyed them both  to have rid
himself of both of them at one stroke  to have
used every word Restigouche had breathed into
his ear in order to effect his ruin. No wonder
Dubois sat pricking his ear with that pen ;
it required something approaching to devilish
ingenuity to have devised all this. But not
only is nothing wanting, but what there is, is
twisted and misrepresented in the most wonderful
manner. * The murdered woman was
Gould's and Restigouche' s joint mistress.
Gould's wife and child fly from his brutality.
He and Restigouche decoy their mistress to
the Impasse. The miscreants are tired of her.
She knows secrets. Restigouche goes to

VOL. III. 1 8

Boulogne, and it is decided they will rid themselves
of her. At night the horrid deed is done.
Gould flies, but Restigouche with the infatuation
of assassins returns to the scene of his
crime. He is recognised by a vendor of
apples ; he, too, flies. He is seen making his
way to the railway station in haste. But
Gould has been incautious. He leaves his
stick in the room of murder, and then his
boots at the Hotel. He will not venture over
to recover these, but with superior cunning induces
his accomplice to go again to Boulogne
and, if possible, obtain them. Restigouche
goes  and he endeavours to tamper with the
police ; offers money to one Antoine Rohart 
ostensibly for the stick or photographs  it is
immaterial. He goes to the Hotel and by
threats and bribes succeeds in recovering the
boots. And what does he do ? Is he honest
even with Gould ? Why does he keep the
boots wrapped up in paper ? Why not destroy
them ? - Because he has already planned
treason ; because he intends to bring them forward,
and to split on his accomplice if he sees
things becoming dangerous for himself. And
now what does this double criminal Rests

do ? He seeks out his employer, one
of the most honourable men in France ; a
citizen without fear or reproach, the excellent
Monsieur Dubois ; late deputy for Belleville.
He tries to draw this loyal person into his
abominable snare. He proposes pits for him.
He invents a story of some robbery in the house
belonging to Dubois ; but this recoils on himself,
for \}c\conciei'ge comes forward and actually
proves that Restigouche and Gould were the
real thieves. But does he frighten the good
Dubois ? No. But that wise person is silent;
that justice may fall on this accursed foreigner
who dishonours France by his presence, *and
on his hardly less odious associate. He
keeps his own counsel. He learns that they
intend to commit further infamies. He sees
the Police ; everything is arranged  admirably
 as is everything where the Police of
France is concerned, and the villains fall into
their own net.'

This was what the Juge d' Instruction had to
say, and he would like to see how the prisoners
could get out of it.

But both held their peace ; both knew that
it was too serious an affair for an amateur

defence to be set up. They would await the
regular trial.

And then came the peroration.

*What was the case he, the Judge, would
have to submit ? Two villains, one with chloroform
in his pocket, the other with the deadly
Revol-vaire I It was time France purged herself
of these bloodthirsty aliens, mostly sons of
Albion, who had been saturating her sacred
soil for years with the blood of French citizens.
These were the people who had conducted the
crimes of the Commune ; these and such as
these, disgracing the Mother of all Nations in
the eyes of the world  always turned towards
her. There was scarcely a crime committed
in Paris and in France, where the hand of
foreigners could not be traced ; and he now
asked people to look at Gould and say what
they thought of him. He trusted justice would
be done. It was time.'

And by this time, having lashed himself
into a perfect frenzy by his own rhetoric,
lie brought the scene to a close by calling fora
pen and then, amidst the respectful hush
of the court, with an air as if performing
some function of State importance, he adjusted

his spectacles and scratched his autograph
across the Ate d' Accusation, winding up
with flourishes and spots wherever he could
find room for them. Then, taking off his
spectacles, he handed the document to a
clerk, who reverently sprinkled sand over it,
and laid it down again before him. This was
the signal for the whole court to rise, the
Judge amongst them, who then, fixing his
eyes fiercely on the prisoners, shouted out,
** Away, Brigands ! to the dungeons ! "
When Gould got back to his cell he began
to realise the terrible position affairs had assumed.
In a moment, through treachery where
he had least expected it, he had been seized ina
grip from which escape was hopeless. The
evidence the judge had already produced
seemed more than sufficient to send him to the
guillotine ; and though he knew the leniency
of France for her own native-born murderers,
still he did not in the least expect they would
extend clemency to a foreigner, above all to
an Englishman. And how could he acquit
himself? What possible defence could he
make ? Absolutely none, except lack of motive.
But this evidently would be supplied by the

judge himself. Turn where he would, not a
ray of light could he see. And, if he did
escape this frightful doom, what was there for
him, but years of imprisonment ? And, should
he ever regain his liberty, what could he do
with this bigamy staring him in the face  with
Ostrolenka ready to strike him to the earth 
with Heroea  of whose fate he knew nothing
estranged from him ? Where could he turn ?
His thoughts became maddening, intolerable ;
and but that he was watched, he would have
taken his own life, if he could have devised the
means.

As to Restigouche he had been carried back
to his cell  utterly collapsed  in a state bordering
on idiocy; and when he did recover,
after many hours lying prone on the floor,
he drew himself up to the grating and piteously
endeavoured to engage in conversation
every warder who passed ; not so much on the
merits of his case, as from the abject terror
instilled into him by the terrible silence which
surrounded him.

But Gould sat a brooding, sullen man 
bereft of all hope  and as the warder peered
in at him through the small aperture in the

door, even this man, accustomed as he was
to the face of crime, shrank back with disgust
and loathing.

* Ak f Qa ! Vrai gibier de potence  a true

gallows-bird !

OMEGA.

In vivid contrast to the appalling misery of the
cells of Rouen was the happiness that reigned
at the Manoir, scarce three miles off.

Otho and Madeline, with their child seated
between them, felt the cup of their joy overflowing.
Further investigation of the documents
received from Restigouche went to show that
they might certainly recover their property
if the all-powerful personal resistance of
Madame Artaki were removed. And in a
few days they learnt  with a feeling of awe
that they need no longer dread this resistance,
for she had quitted life for ever. And
she had made full atonement  by the papers
she had given to Madeline's father, which
now reached their hands from Mr. Gizzard.
Nothing now prevented them from formally
and officially seeking redress. And this they

received with more promptitude than could
have been expected ; for, as the party in power
in Turkey were those originally concerned in the
Syrian frauds, they were anything but desirous
of having the whole affair raked up again,
which Ostrolenka, from the safe distance of
Paris or London could very easily do. Moreover
the death of Madame Artaki had removed
the only person who now counted for anything,
or who was deeply concerned in retaining
possession of the property which had been
confiscated. So Ostrolenka was shortly informed
that the Ottoman Ambassador in Paris
had full power to deal with the matter  which
was settled by Ostrolenka receiving a full
equivalent for all he had lost and a handsome
compensation for his long years of false
imprisonment, together with an official declaration
that mistakes had been made on the part
of the Government, and that he himself had
been entirely free from blame. Nor was there
any question raised as to Alantha's claim to
inherit her deceased uncle's property, the
whole of which, consisting mostly of valuable
lands about Beyrout, was restored. Thus in
every respect things turned out well for this

once cruelly persecuted family, and last  but
not least, Romeyn begged Mr. Gizzard to
bring about a reconciliation between himself
and the Ostrolenkas, which was in due time
effected, and was accompanied by his making
a large settlement on Madeline.

As to Mrs. Romeyn, she was heartily thankful
there was to be no divorce, especially as
Mr. Gizzard assured her that the pecuniary
arrangements for the rest of the family were
to be adhered to.

Nellie lost no time in obtaining a divorce
from Gould. It was merely a matter of form,
as every offence that human being is capable
of against the laws of matrimony had been
demonstrably committed by the already condemned
criminal. In the meanwhile Madeline
had written a long letter to Nellie's
parents with the result that, with much doubt
how to accomplish the journey, the worthy
Perthshire yeoman finally found his way to the
Manoir where most of the family and of these
new-made friends were still assembled. Here
he was reconciled to his daughter and carried
her away north with him to her Highland home,
where, strange to say, not a whisper ever

reached of all the sad past. And here, as we
must say good-bye to her, It may be recorded
that a year after her divorce had been
obtained, she became Mrs. Carnegie of Ardoch,
marrying her first and only love, who now
reigned in the place of his deceased father.
And no man ever took to him truer wife, ora
more noble, unselfish woman, who through
all her sore trials  except for that one fatal
slip of which he alone in their world had any
knowledge  had come out deathless. Her
husband soon grew to love her with a depth
and force that knew no bounds ; the fulness
of his great love making due amends for all
the misery and degradation he had brought on
her. And after the nine days' wonder of this
marriage had died out in the county, her grace,
her wit, and her sweet temper gained her a
place amongst his friends, to which many a fine
lady in the same * set '' could never attain.

For Rosalie It was a fortunate day when she
came to the Manoir  not immediately  but
ultimately. The shock of the scene, when
Gould and Restigouche were arrested, brought
on a serious illness, from which, however, she
arose free for ever from anything to remind

her of the terrible past  free from all reproach
except her own conscience-stings. She
never married, but seemed perfectly happy,
spending a good deal of her time with Madeline
and paying visits. Romeyn, however, had
now no fixed abode. For many years he
disappeared from Europe, and, accompanied
by Fra Diavolo, returned to New Zealand.

But to return for a moment to the cells
of Rouen. The day at last came, with slow
foot, for the trial, and what with the animus
of the Ate d"* Accusation the vehemence of
the Public Prosecutor and the hostility of the
jury, it was clear from the very beginning there
would be a conviction. And so there was,
for complicity in the murder of a woman
unknown But strong extenuating circumstances
were found for Restigouche on the
plea that he had been maddened to crime by
love for this woman, and by drink offered to
him by Gould to spur him on. As to Gould,
the jury added a rider that he was a disgrace
to the human race, and that leniency was but
crime, with a few other of those phrases so
dear to our phrase-loving neighbours. Then
came the sentence, fully expected by Gould,

who had felt his case hopeless from the first,
and had been suffering the pains of death for
weeks in anticipation. But Restigouche, upto
the last had hoped that he would have the
sympathy of his countrymen in the jury-box.

The sentences were  for Gould  death  for
Restigouche, fifteen years' penal servitude.

But Gould did not hear his sentence actually
passed. Reading his doom in the face of the
judge, and weakened by weeks and weeks of
hopeless waiting, he had sunk down in the
dock, and so was spared the jeers and taunts,
the hisses and cat-calls of the brutal crowd,
delighted beyond measure that he was condemned.
When he awoke he found himself
with gaolers on either side of him. And then
began another period of living death, starting
at every sound, thinking each footstep was
that of the executioner, for in France the
condemned have no notice given them  there
is no date fixed for execution.

He now spends the day mumbling what he
can think of in the shape of prayers, turning
now to the God Whom he has blasphemed and
outraged every hour of his life. The nights and
days seem whirling by with lightning speed, as

if anxious to rob him of the last remnants of his
miserable life. He is utterly alone  awaiting
his doom  with not a single human being in the
wide world who will lift a finger to save him.

But the final decree for his execution delayed
its coming, for the head of the State seemed to
entertain a personal affection for assassins, and
nothing in the world would induce him to
perform his duty in signing a death warrant.
This criminal leniency, which had quadrupled
murder in the length and breadth of France,
now came to the rescue of Gould. His sentence
was commuted into penal servitude for life.
And when the news was communicated to him
so inexpressibly dear is life  the wretched
man swooned away.

But after both he and Restigouche had been
confined for upwards of two years, a strange
circumstance came to light, no less than the
identification of the body of the woman whom
they were supposed to have murdered.

A woman had returned to Boulogne from
America. Before going to that country she
and her daughter had occupied the rooms in
the Impasse afterwards rented by Gould. The
cooper, however, was not the landlord in those

days and had known nothing of her. Her
daughter ran away with a man to the United
States, who deserted her. Thereupon the
mother, hearing of her daughter's destitute condition,
had gone in search of her. But in the
meanwhile the girl had raised enough money to
return to France, and came to Boulogne inquest
of her mother. She had gone straight
to the Impasse in a state of despair, but not
finding her mother there, and not knowing
where to turn for food or shelter, had committed
suicide by cutting her throat. The
mother, on arriving in Boulogne, after her
long and fruitless search for the missing girl,
had heard of this strange murder in the old
house in the Impasse, and had, out of curiosity,
gone to the police station. There, from descriptions
of marks on the body of the woman and
the photographs, she had instantly declared
that beyond doubt it was her daughter.

Then enquiries had been made, and it was
ascertained that the dead woman was known
to have been in New York some ten days
before the murder, that she had taken a
passage to Havre and only arrived in Boulogne
a few hours before she met her death.

It therefore seemed altogether improbable
that Gould and Restigouche could have had
any motive in committing the crime, and on
a review of the whole case it seemed to the
minister of justice that the story the prisoners
had told was probable enough. So both men
were liberated, but Dubois who thought it
inconvenient to have them loose, gave information
as to the robbery of the bonds in
his house in the Rue St. Anne, and both the
miserable creatures were at once arrested.

Restigouche, however, to Dubois' dismay
and disgust, was acquitted. The newspapers
had taken up his case and had decided on it
before it came into Court. For they had been
pleased to take the view that Restigouche had
all along been the dupe and victim of a vile
English Assassin, who, although he had been
released, was doubtless guilty of this and many
other murders. It was time these Bandits were
put down. So Restigouche became popular :
was elected a member of the Municipal Council
in course of time, and, shortly afterwards, a
Deputy ; with twenty-five francs a day from a
grateful country for sitting in her councils.

But Gould never got as far as being tried 

at least, not here  for this offence. Completely
shattered in mind and body, when he
was seized for the second time, he at once
determined to put an end to his life, and this
he found means to do ; for, not being so closely
watched in the prison where he awaited his
trial, he succeeded in hanging himself with his
braces.

And by a singular coincidence Chertsey
happened to have run over to Paris on some
business matter to see Dubois on the very
evening after Gould had taken his Oven life.
He and Dubois were dining very cosily at a
card on the Boulevard, when the eye of the
latter caught sight of Gould's name in the
evening paper. He glanced over it, gave a
momentary start, and then handed it to
Chertsey, who, however, being a bad French
scholar, required an explanation. And when
he had heard it he said coldly and unconcernedly,


** A devilish good riddance of bad rubbish.
Gould was a dangerous brute. Thank God,
he's gone'*

And that was Gould's funeral oration.

Pitt remains to be accounted for, His career

VOL. III. I)

was short.  He went to the Cape and at once
enlisted in an Irregular Cavalry force, and went
to the front in the Zulu War. In an early engagement
he was mortally wounded and sometime
after, Madeline received a letter from
the comrade in whose arms he had breathed
his last. This letter described how quickly
Pitt had risen to distinction as a brave and
gallant soldier, and said that every one
regretted him. *' He died very quietly, and
painlessly,' went on the letter. * I was holding
him in my arms and I saw his last moment had
come.  He was talking to himself, and then,
with what strength he had, he fumbled about
and pulled out a paper from his breast with
the address on it of this letter. I presumed
what he meant was that I was to write to you.
Then he lay quiet again ; and then I heard
him saying something about seeing purple
islands  and then he went on, with long
pauses, 'Part of the host  have crossed the
stream '  and I thought he meant the Val
River  but then he said  * And part are
crossing  now  ' and he died as he said the
last word, and then I remembered that the
words came out of a hymn'* 

And so that was the end of Pitt  and surely
a noble end and one to be desired  for here
below there is none nobler.

Thus swiftly had Death the Weaver thrown
his shuttle amongst the threads of these people's
lives ; but not before each one had left a pattern
on the marvellously-interwoven woof of other
lives. So with us all. Nor do any of us ever
know what that pattern is, as it is never seen
until after we are gone.

Reader, Farewell !

FINIS.

3 0112 045850747

IS B @ @ @ @ Ml a
