Chapter I.

Twenty-one.

She stood at the open window, hands
linked behind her, a piece of sugar held
between her lips, and a coaxing smile in
her large blue eyes, as she watched a
canary perched on the top of his cage.
The bird glanced with a critical turn of
the head, now at the pretty temptress,
and again at the open window which
offered him freedom.

He yielded, fluttered down to her

VOL. I. B

shoulder  then, after one or two sly
glances, darted at the sugar, snatched
it from her lips and flew into his cage
with the prize.

She laughed, a fine healthy girlish
laugh of triumph.

Ah, birdie, you like sugar better than
liberty ! Silly thing ! If I had been you
I would have been off through the window
and taken my chance with the sparrows
and crows. You don't know what a
merry life they lead, flying away wherever
they please and when they please.
They don't get sugar, perhaps, but they
don't care, and neither would I. You area
fat, lazy bird, and have no notion of
what your wings were meant for. I should
like to be a bird."

To fly away, Davie ? "

** I suppose so," she replied, without

turning to the gentleman who had just
entered the room, and closing the door
of the cage as she continued : "I have
such a longing to he able to flit about
all over the world like the birds ! "

*but they have to encounter storms
and dangers in their way as we have in
ours."

That would be the fun of it."

*' You think so now."

* And will always."

He shook his head, smiling at her
humour.

** You do not knows what the world is."

*but I want to know," she answered,
as if wondering at his stupidity''

Have you been so very unhappy here,
then ? "

She turned to him quickly  a clear
honest face ; fair, soft features surmounted

by thick bands of silky hair of
a light sand colour.

There was no sign of appreciation of
his pain in her expression, only a dreamy
sort of wonder that he did not understand
her vague desire to step out of
the dull routine of the life she had been
leading.

What could make you ask such a
question, Medwyn ? I have always been
happy here, and since  " (a little hesitation
at this point, because she was
touching a sad memory) '  and since
your mother died, nobody could have been
kinder than you. You have done everything
for me that she could have wished ;
you have given me the best tutors ; I
know all about the geology of Lo chore ;
I can read French, although I can't speak
it ; I know the multiplication table, and

the dates of the reigns of all the Kings
and Queens since the arrival of William
the Conqueror ; and I can make porridge
and bannocks ! Only, sometimes," she
went on, laughing, * I wonder what it is
to be in a ball-room, and passing through
all the gaieties Aunt Wybrant writes
about, and I make up my mind to runaway.
But then, I Hke the old place,
and, with all its drowsy dulness, I feel as
if I could never leave it'*

Davie, will you "

He had taken her hand and was speaking
with unusual earnestness, when her
look of simple inquiry checked him. He
patted the hand, and looking into her
eyes with a suppressed laugh at some
joke that was only visible to himself, he
said quietly 

*' You will soon have an opportunity

of acting very much as your own will
dictates."

'Tliat will be splendid," she cried,
without the least idea of the struggle
through which the man had so quickly
passed, or of the emotion he had overcome.


He saw that, and it helped him to
speak composedly.

* Do you know what day tomorrow
is?"

The sixth of August, of course, and
my birthday."

*your twenty-first, and according to
your father's will you are to pass a year
with Mrs. Wybrant, and then you are to
determine whether you are to remain
under her care, or to adopt some other
plan of which your guardians, Mr. Bons-field
and myself, may approve."

** And that is what you call being left
to follow the dictates of my own will !
Birdie, birdie  I suppose you were wise to
take the sugar and go back to your cage."

* You are not afraid that your guardians
would interfere with any reasonable
wish you might express?"

** That's just it  any reasonable wish !
But suppose I where to do something that
was not reasonable?"

** I am sure you will never do that."

*' I don't know. Mr. Bonsfield is too
busy with his farming, and shooting, and
fishing, and his wife, to care a pin about
what I might do. He would say * All
right ' if I proposed a trip to the moon,
and leave me to find the way myself.
Mrs. Wybrant would be delighted by
anything ridiculous ; but you "

She paused. She had been talking

gaily, running on without heeding what
she was saying until she came to this
point; and now she felt awkward, for
the grave quiet eyes of Medwyn Corbett
were fixed upon her with an expression
of amazed curiosity and some sadness.

She went close to him and rested her
head on his arm.

' You would not permit me to do anything
foolish," she said, completing the
sentence.

* Not if I could prevent it, Davie.
And yet I sometimes think that if you
very much desired it, I would yield to
anything you proposed."

 Then I should think you as big a
fool as myself  and bigger, because you
are old enough to be wise."

'* I never felt myself so old as I do
now," he said, passing his fingers through

his bristly black hair, in which there were
a few streaks of silver.

He was only forty ; but then she was
only on the eve of twenty-one, when
even five or ten years appear to mark
the difference between youth and age.

"But you are not so very old, Medwyn,
after all. Why, we used to romp together
as if you were a boy like myself 
I mean, a boy just as I was a girl ; and I
forgot you were a man. That was before
your mother died. You seemed to grow
very old after that, and I don't wonder,
she was so good and loving, and  forgive
me, Medwyn, I did not mean to pain
you."

Go on. I like to hear you speak kindly
of my mother, because I wish to believe
that I have done for you all that she
would have wished me to do."

And you have  indeed, you have ! "

She rested her head on his shoulder
with the confident affection of a daughter
leaning upon a parent.

'* I have tried to he kind," he said, very
quietly.  Before my mother left us,
seven years ago  how short the time
seems to me, and yet how long !  before
she left us, she gave you to my care, as
your father had done. She desired me todo
all that might seem best for your
future happiness ; and I have tried to doit.
But Bonsfield left me to act entirely
on my own judgment "

' Just like him," she interrupted, with
a laugh.

* Sometimes I think that it would have
been better if, instead of educating you at
home, I had sent you to a school either
in England or on the Continent; you

would have been better prepared to enter
the world to which Mrs. Wybrant will
introduce you.

I have thought of that too," she said
honestly ; ** for we are very quiet here,
and often the moors, and the loch, and
the hills have seemed to me as if they
were all asleep ; and I have had a silly
fancy that I was like the sleeping beauty
in the wood, and that by-and-by I would
waken up in some bright world of sunshine,
with a gay cavalier who had broken
through the spell of the wicked fairy, waiting
to carry me off to the realms of wonder
and delight. And yet I love the dear old
place  and the dogs, and the cows, and
the horses  and I don't know how I could
manage to live away from them''

You do not include me in the list of
your pet animals."

*you!" she cried; ' I like you best
of them all ! "

Oh, Davie, Davie, what a reckless
speech! How long is it since you discovered
that I was your first favourite ? "

** As long ago as I can remember ; but
I discovered it first on that day when
Meg refused to let me join the party
going to Aberdeen, and you persuaded her
to yield the point. Then I thought you
the boldest and grandest man in all the
world to dispute Meg's will on my
account. And you behaved so pretty
that day. Do you see this ? "

She showed him a Httle onyx cross
with a centre of opals which was suspended
to a simple necklet of black
velvet. He smiled : it was very pleasant
to the man to listen to all this prattle,
although he knew that it was no more

than the frank confession of a childish
admiration.

** You have preserved it well."

** Because I am very fond of it, and
when you gave it to me I would have
kissed you if we had not been in a shop
in Union Street'*

That was a loss to me''

"Was it?  then, why don't you wish
me many happy returns of my birthday ? "
this with a roguish smile.

He kissed her on the brow.

** May every new birthday bring you
happiness enough to compensate you for
the youth that is passing away."

You speak as solemnly as a minister
at a funeral," she said gaily, and moved
towards an old-fashioned cabinet that
stood in the corner.

'* Because I know what it is to wish

for youth," he continued sadly, ''to wish
to be able to begin Hfe again. Some day,
perhaps, you will understand the feeling ;
I fear neither man nor woman can escape
it  we always see so much more clearly
what we ought to have done than what
we ought to do."

*' That's too deep into history for me.
You are gloomy  here is something to
make you merry. Guess what I have
been doing this morning. You can't ?
Well, I have been looking over your
birthday gifts, and there is such a pile
of them, for I have preserved them all."

What made you do that ? "

'' I don't know  because you gave
them, I suppose." She opened the
cabinet. 'there is a big doll first."

A pretty one, I hope."

I thought it lovely ! But you see

its nose is smashed, the chin has melted,
the eyes have fallen out, and its beauty
'is a' were away'" She sang the last
words, and continued to hum the pathetic
air of '* The Flowers of the Forest " as
she gazed with a kind of comical gravity
at the wreck of beauty. Then, * I wonder
if I shall be like that when I am old."

'impossible," said Medwyn, standing
behind.

She was sitting on a low stool gazing
dreamily at her treasures.

*' I am glad you think so. Here is
Sandford and Merton,' and ' Watts's
Hymns,' and 'A Good Book for Good
Girls ' "

'' Surely I never gave you that ? "

"You did, and I deserved it, for you
see how nice and clean it is, and how
few cf the leaves have been cut. I used

to look at it and wonder what it was all
about, but whenever I began to read, I
grew sleepy, or wanted to speak to the
dogs or something. So I never learned
what a good book or a good girl was."

'* What a fool you must have thought
me ! " he muttered with impatience 
thinking of himself.
'' A fool ! why ? "
To give you such silly presents''
I didn't think them silly ; I was very
proud of them, and used to watch for them,
and wonder what would come next."
** And which did you like best ? "
 I scarcely know; each was delightful
in its turn. But I think I liked the
cross best, for when your mother asked
where it came from, you told her that
you had bought it for your little sweetheart
; and I thought it was so nice to

be the sweetheart of a big grown-up
man. Wasn't it funny ? "

"Yes, if you thought so. But I must
not call you sweetheart any more."

"Why not?"

She asked the question wonderingly.
She was not thinking of the different
meaning which the title bore when addressed
to a child and to a woman of
twenty-one.

I must not call you sweetheart anymore,"
he answered, laughing, " because
you will soon have others who will have
a right to call you so, and whom you
will like better "

Oh, Medwyn, what nonsense you are
talking 1 "

You will not think so by-and-by.
Let me finish my nonsense. To-morrow
my personal care of you ends, although

VOL. I. C

I shall still remain one of the trustees
of your fortune. Now, I want you to
promise me something, Davie."

"Yes."

She answered mechanically, for she
was trying to solve the problem of the
change which had taken place and had
separated her from her brother and
guardian, and which was to remove her
from the place that was always " home "
in her eyes.

Although I am no longer to direct
your ways, I want you to promise me
that whenever you are bothered about
anything, or whenever you are meditating
any important step  marriage, for
instance  that you will make me your
confidant."

Of course I will. Who else should
I go to?"

'* You promise that you will never be
afraid to tell me all that may concern
your life ? "

* Yes, I will tell you everything," she
answered dreamily, for she was still
busy with her problem.

** That's a bargain, then. Now, suppose
you put on your hat and come fora
walk round the loch. Mr. Bonsfield
and Mrs. Wybrant cannot arrive before
seven, so Meg is to have dinner at
eight, and we have a long day before
us. How long will it take you to get
ready?"

 Ten minutes."

"You will find me at the door."

She locked the cabinet and went away,
still dreaming.

Chapter II.

leg's prisoner.

Twenty-one, and she was to begin the
world as a grown woman ; at liberty to
choose her own way in Hfe, and provided
with, a fortune which seemed to her
sufficient for a princess ! She ran up
the stairs to get her hat and jacket.
There was a kind of music in her blood,
and her steps were light and joyfuL

She was to leave the place in which
she had grown up, the people with whom
she had been so long associated, and
now she discovered that place and people

were very dear to her. Davina Morrison
whose awkward, half-masculine name
was always softened into " Davie " by
her friends  had a grateful nature, and
she felt some twinges of pain at the
pleasure she found in the mysterious
attractions of the new world which tomorrow
was to throw open to her. Yet
she could not help the thrills of joy
with which she thought of the undiscovered
glories of life in cities. She
had read novels, and from them she
knew that the world was full of lovers
and rivals for the hand of every woman.
It would be such a delightful experience
to find ever so many fond swains fighting
for the honour of her hand. There were
no duels now ; that was a pity, for it
would have been such fun to know that
there were a couple of gentlemen anxious

to blow each other's brains ont, all for
love of her ! Then she would laugh at
them and tell them what fools they were,
because she did not care about either of
them and had fully made up her mind
to be an old maid, giving all her attention
to cats and dogs. That would be
fun !

Then there was her boundless wealth 
a thousand a year entirely at her own
command ! How could she spend it all ?
What ecstasy there would be in being
able to dress as she pleased, and to play
the good fairy to anybody who was in
trouble about money ! There was Sandy
"White, with his dozen children, his farm
of sixty acres, and his rheumatism  she
could relieve him of the difficulty he was
always in about his rent, and she could
enable him to carry out his cherished

idea of sending his seventh son to the
University to prepare for the Kirk. With
such boundless wealth as hers, what was
there that she could not do to make
others happy ?

What a glorious thing to be twenty-one,
with riches galore, and free to use
them as you please ! That was the
burthen of her thought, and the visions
and hopes which it stirred within her ,
were so bright that they dazzled and confused
her.

This was ecstasy. Her movements
were usually of a somewhat sedate order ;
but the exhilarating air of the morning,
and the excitement of the changed conditions
of her life, made her feel incapable
of walking steadily : she felt that she
must dance and sing.

The morning was very bright and beautiful.

The few brown leaves here and
there imparted colour to the landscape,
and suggested nothing of decay. The
morning of her life, too, was unclouded.

As she stepped out into the sunlight on
the lawn there was a chorus of dogs.
First, her three favourites : Ohio, a delicate
Italian greyhound, who had a trick of
rolling himself up in his mistress's shawl,
and lying on the couch in her room until
she happened to be going out  a fact
which he discovered by some instinct, for
he never moved when she was only going
from one part of the house to another ;
next, Pab, a shaggy little terrier whose
customary place was on the mat before
the door of whatever room Davie might
be in, and there he kept strict guard, very
chary of giving entrance to any unknown
visitor ; and then there was Lulu, a tiny

black and tan terrier, who skipped about
everywhere with extraordinary vivacity,
and who on occasions of mirth, such as
the beginning of a walk, contrived with
a shrill voice, and a silver bell pendant to
her neck, to make as much noise as the
other two.

In addition to the din which these three
made, there was the deep bay of Leo, a
mastiff who was chained at the back of
the house, and who knew by the voices
of Ohio, Pab, and Lulu, that an excursion
was meditated.

 I must have Leo with us this morning,"
cried Davie, as she saw Medwyn
approaching. " We must make this a
holiday for the dogs."

Leo was only permitted to leave his
chain on fete days, when Davie was ready
to take care of him, because he had a droll

habit of seizing any stranger lie might
find within the precincts of Balnagairn,
and marching him up to the house to be
examined by the butler or some person of
authority. If the stranger happened to
be a ragged tramp, he was lugged along
unceremoniously ; but if he happened to
be well dressed he was conducted quietly,
although resolutely, by the coat-tail or
sleeves. This habit was inconvenient
when he was accompanying ladies, and
had led to many ridiculous scenes.

Leo rushed round the house with a loud
*' wows " of joy, dashed across the lawn,
clearing a large bed of geraniums at one
bound, and returned to Davie at a jumping
gallop, proclaiming his delight with a big
voice, as if he knew that he owed his
liberty to her. He performed elephantine
gambols round about her in expression of

his gratitude. The other dogs barked at
him, and jumped upon him, risking their
lives every moment under his heavy paws ;
but with the careless pride of strength he
contrived to avoid them, and spared
even Lulu, who, with the spitefulness of
a little nature, snapped at him and
strained to reach his neck, interfering
with his movements, but not in the least
disturbing his good humour.

'Off!" cried Davie, and Leo sped
down the avenue, Pab, Ohio, and Lulu
barking in full chase after him.

But the three soon halted and rejoined
their mistress.

*you had better walk on," said Corbett,
' Mathers wants to speak to me. I
shall overtake you."

He entered the house, and she walked
slowly across the lawn. Pab fell into his

place, walking sedately at her heels ; Ohio
and Lulu made excursions to right and
left and returned barking, looking up to
her as if for approval of their enterprise.


As she entered the avenue she was
startled to see Leo holding a strange
gentleman by the skirt of his coat and
leading him towards her.

He was a young, handsome fellow, with
dark curly hair and a black moustache.
After a momentary awkwardness, he
laughed frankly as if amused by the
position in which he was discovered by
the lady.

He patted the dog's head and tried to
coax him to release his gripe ; but Leo
eyed him with calm resolution, and would
not be bribed. The stranger's good-humoured
submission to his fate amused

Davie, and made her feel the more
annoyed with the dog.

 Come here, Leo, you bad dog," she
cried, her face flushing.

Leo very leisurely obeyed, and took his
place by her side, still eyeing the stranger
with an expression which hinted that he
had better be on his good behaviour.

The young fellow, laughing, Hated his
hat. *' I have to thank you for rescuing
me from this ridiculous position. Your dog
is a capital fellow, and was as civil as a
bailiff who expects a tip, when be arrested
me. But he must be rather alarming:
to strangers who are not accustomed to
dogs."

He is usually chained, sir, and I am
sorry that he has been so rude, for he has
just obtained his liberty at my request.
But he is very gentle and good-natured."

*'I would not like to offend him,
thongs ; for those enormous jaws of his
would make an ugly impression if he
cared to use them ; and I must own that
I am very well pleased to find myseK free
again. I see you are fond of dogs."

Ohio and Lulu were sniffing round the
stranger suspiciously; he spoke to them
and tried to coax them into friendship.
Pah remained in the background, growling
in an undertone which threatened to
become 'a furious bark if the man advanced
a step farther.

'Be quiet," commanded Davie, and
the dogs obeyed.

* I never found dogs so unwilling to
make friends with me before," said the
stranger, still laughing, and without the
least sign of annoyance. ' I suppose it
is because they are faithful watchmen and

know that they have a treasure to guard.
I presume I have the pleasure of addressing
Miss Morrison ? "
'' Yes."

* Then I shall always be Leo's debtor
for the introduction. But I must complete
his work by telling you my name is
Eglinton."
She bowed.

** Mr. Corbett will be pleasantly surprised,
for he did not expect you till
evening."

As she spoke Corbett appeared, and
he did look surprised to see Davie and
the visitor together. While cordially
shaking the latter' s hand, he asked 

'how did you manage to get here so
early ? "

'' I was just going to explain to Miss
Morrison. I contrived to reach Boyne

last night, slept at the inn, and this
morning, being in the humour for a
good walk, thought I would indulge the
humour and take you by surprise*'

*' I am glad to see you, and you look
as if hard work agreed with you."

*' So it does. Hard work is the best
medicine for a fellow who is inclined
to be so lazy as I am. Your dog there
has presented me to Miss Morrison ina
funny way, and she has reversed the
order of romance, for in this case it is
the beautiful lady who rescued the
knight from the dragon of the enchanted
forest. Miss Morrison has
evidently quite forgotten me."

 It is nearly ten years since you
were here, and she was a child then."

*' But I remember Mr. Eglinton," said
Davie. ' You have so offcen spoken

about him that lie comes like an old
friend."

** I hope you will always regard meas
one, for I am anxious to feel that
you have forgiven me for shooting your
tame fox. I have been haunted by his
ghost ever since, and am filled with
shame and remorse whenever I think
of the pride with which I marched into
the house with my prize ; then I see
you sitting on the floor, crying over
your dead pet. But, I assure you, the
fellow was prowling about the hen-house
as thief-like as if he had never known
better than his kindred. Besides, who
could have imagined that you had contrived
to tame such an animal ? You
hated me then, did you not ? '*

"I did, with all my heart, for I was
very proud of the amazement he caused

VOL. I. D

when people saw him following me about
just like a dog''

It was all a part of his cunning. He
knew that under your protection he had
the free use of the poultry yard, and
that was much more agreeable than
taking his chance of an occasional
chicken, with every gun in the house
ready to slay him. I don't believe you
tamed him after all  he managed to
deceive you."

 I am afraid I shall not be able to
forgive you even now if you talk so ! "

*' Forget, then, if you cannot forgive 
the fox is gone, the goose remains, and
that is some satisfaction, however poor
the goose may be."

In George Eglinton's manner there
was a frankness, approaching to boldness,
which was apt to make strangers

shrink from him ; but they soon came
to like him, for it was evident that he
was perfectly honest in whatever he said,
although it was equally evident that
he uttered the thought which turned
uppermost without the least reflection.

'ewe had better say no more about
the fox and the goose," interrupted
Corbett. ' I suppose you would like to
go into the house and have a rest ? "

Not at all ; I can do ten miles
without fatigue, and I would much
prefer to accompany you, if you will
permit me ? "

'' Come, then ; we are only going fora
turn round by the loch. The waggonette
is going to Aboyne in the
afternoon to take up Mrs. Brunt and
some other friends. That will be time
enough for your traps ? "

* Thank you, that will do excellently.
I am glad I came in time to have a
quiet walk and gossip with you before
the others arrive  it gives me a capital
opportunity to make my peace with
Miss Morrison'

Corbett did not reply to this, for,
whilst glad to see his friend, his early
arrival had caused him some disappointment.
He had calculated on spending
this morning alone with Davie, revisiting
familiar haunts and recalling their
happy associations, which in future
could only appear to him through a
mist of sad reflections.

His disappointment became almost
chagrin as he found Eglinton, with the
blissful inconsiderateness of youth, taking
possession of everything and everybody.
He talked and seemed to incite Davie to

talk as she had never done before. At
the same time he kept up a parenthetical
conversation with the dogs, so that when
they passed from the grounds on to the
moor, even Leo seemed to accept him asa
friend ; as for the flighty Lulu and the
shy Ohio, they had long ago surrendered
to his fascination. But Pab was  dour,"
and apparently as far as ever from being
satisfied with the new comer.

Davie could not help being impressed
by the glamour which the mere gaiety of
this thoughtless youth threw over the
place. She had been so long accustomed
to the quietude of the moorland, the
dark silence of the loch, and the solemn
grandeur of the distant mountains, that
at first she was almost startled by the
noise Eglinton seemed to make. Presently,
however, his strange chatter

amused her, and by-and-by the novelty of
bis manner and conversation interested
her. She laughed at his stale jokes,
which were all new to her. The sweet
eyes opened with an expression of quiet
wonder, and were turned full upon him ashe
spoke of the merry life in London, in
Paris, Berlin, New York, Boston, and
Saratoga, with a glance at the pleasant
wildness of San Francisco and its neighbourhood.


It was Hke a new chapter of Tulliver's
Travels to her, but it was so much more
enjoyable because it was all true, and it
was what she herself might one day see.

** But do you really mean that the
people in California go about with
revolvers in their pockets, and are ready
to shoot one another when they are
angry ? "

They all carry revolvers, some in the
breast, some in the side pocket, and some
in pockets made for the purpose behind
them. So when you are in a row and see
a fellow putting his hand anywhere, you
cry *' hands up," and if he doesn't hold
up on the moment, you fire, or the
chances are you'll get a pellet yourself.
I saw a fellow knocked over in the main
street in broad daylight, only on account
of a quarrel about a bet."

Davie shuddered, but was still interested.
Corbett and Pab marched on in
silence. The fun was much too fast for
them, the danger too apparent.

Chapter III.

Mistress meg's OPINION.

Davie felt as if the spirit incarnate of
restlessness had taken possession of the
whole place. Even Miss Corbett, the
sharp, stern, and not-to-be-contradicted
commander-in-chief at Balnagairn  Meg,
at whose bidding Davie and Medwyn
went and came submissively  even Meg
was for a little while dumb and meek in
the presence of this youth, with his
boisterous clatter. He seemed to have
been everywhere and done everything,
and he seemed to know everybody. He

made Miss Corbett for a moment anxious
about the lunch  a sensation she had
rarely experienced since the days of her
youth  how long ago !  when she first
took the reins of government into her
hands.

That was a triumph for Eglinton, if
he had only known it, and there was a
wicked twinkle of amusement in Davie's
eyes as she watched Meg's wonderment,
followed by a very sharp commentary on
the remarkable changes in the young men
of the present day when compared with
the young men of her day. For Meg was
one of the few sensible maiden ladies who
are not afraid of their age being known.

She was forty-nine. Her black hair
showed many streaks of grey : it was
brought close down the sides of her cheeks,
and wound in a thin wisp at the back.

She wore no cap, but a very high and
broad tortoiseshell comb secured the
wisp, and rose over her head in such a
formidable way that Davie had christened
it the  Tower of Babel." It certainly
shook in a very funny manner at any
offender who had succeeded in rousing
Mistress Meg so far as to induce her to
' speak her mind."

Her face was fresh and handsome,
although the features were of a masculine
cast; the expression, that of one who
had serious business in hand ; and her
keen grey eyes were always on the lookout
for something to set right  a speck
of dust here, a chair out of place there,
an anti-macassar or a table-cloth turned
awry, and she never was so happy as
when hard at work at something, * 
" everything everywhere, frequently

to the great discomfort of her
brother. He dished fuss of all kinds ;
he hated the prim fastidiousness which
insisted upon a chair being always placed
in a particular position, as if it had been
intended for looking at and not for use.
Whenever he saw his sister in one of her
* redding-up " humours, he made his way
to the library and shut himself in ; or he
whistled for the dogs, and took a long
walk across the moors.

It must not be thought, however, that
Mistress Meg was exactly fussy. She was
simply imbued  as so many of her old-fashioned
country-women were and are
imbued  with the spirit of the martinet ;
she would have everything in order and
in its right place. Rebellion against this
law was a capital offence and involved
severe punishment  to say nothing of her

"reasoning" with the offender, wMcL
was the worst part of the punishment.

Davie was frequently subjected to these
'* reasonings," and she would Ksten with
a demure face and downcast eyes. She
had learned somehow to call Mistress
Meg, Aunt, although the relationship was
that of cousins, and in her affectionate
way she always used the homely form of
the word, ' Aunty." So, whilst she was
submitting to the lectures, she would
only reply at appropriate intervals, "Yes,
Aunty," "I understand. Aunty," and so
forth. But generally there was a light in
the corners of her eyes, and an occasional
movement of the lips, as if the fun of the
words of wisdom that were being poured
upon her affected her more towards
laughter than towards serious reflection.

As lunch proceeded Mistress Meg recovered

her self-possession, and in her
own opinion she successfully and repeatedly
** set down " this chattering
young man, Eglinton. He, unfortunately,
turned upon the subject of French
cookery, and was beginning to describe
some special dinner in the Palais Royal ;
but Meg could not stand that, for with
the help of ' Meg Dots," and her own
skill, she could defy all the French cooks
in Christendom to produce such a dinner
as on special occasions was to be found
on the table at Balnagairn.

**Awa' wi' your whigmaleeries and
paddock' legs. I mind fine when you
could sup your parritch and milk in the
kitchen with the herd-laddie, and be
thankful for them. Ay, and you looked
a heap bonnier then than you do now,
with all your travels'*

* That's prejudice, Miss Corbett'
answered Eglinton, laughing ; ' ' but the
porridge is a substantial fact, and on one
occasion at least the remembrance of it
made my teeth water, and it seemed tome
the most delicious food that ever man
had tasted."

* I'm glad you had as muckle judgment
as to think about them."

* I could not help myself  for I was
starving at the time."

*' Ay, and when was that ? "

** Only last year, when I was in the
States. I was out with an exploring
party in the Yellowstone Region  went
into the pine forest in search of a path,
lost my way, lost my companions, and
for seven days lived upon nothing but
thistle roots."

*' You seem'd to have thriven brawly

on your natural provender," observed
Mistress Meg dryly, congratulating herself
upon again setting down this
boisterous young man.

Davie's face flushed, and Meg's quick
eyes noted the change of colour. Med-gwyn
moved uneasily in his chair, and
nodded to his guest as if he would say 
You have got it this time, my friend ;
but grin and bear."

That was just what Eglinton did. He
gave instant relief to Davie and Medwyn
by the heartiness of his laughter.

' That scores a bull's-eye for you, Miss
Corbett," he said, still laughing; *ewe
are just that fu' o' wut we cannot help
saying clever things. But, mind, I mark
it against you, and shall have my revenge.
I shall ask you to give me porridge tomorrow,
made by your own hands, and

you shall see that I have neither lost my
liking for it nor my appreciation of your
skill in making it."

Meg was flattered, but half suspicious
that he was making fun of her, and the
Tower of Babel shook at him warningly.

I'll make the porridge, but I'll have
you to sup them."

' You shall not be disappointed."

Davie and Medwyn were relieved by
this comical treaty between the opposing
forces, and the meal was continued
merrily; Davie and Eglinton chatting
away like old friends who are delighted
to meet again after a long separation, and
Mistress Meg breaking in occasionally
with some sharp comment upon their
conversation.

Medwyn rarely spoke, and when he did
so it was with an effort. Something was

troubling the man. He was glad when
they all rose from the table.

*i'll get you a cigar," he said, " and
we can have a smoke outside."

He went into the library, whither he
found Meg had preceded him. There
was an anxious expression on her face.

*i'm no entertained with that young
man ; he's no what he was, and he has
come here to steal."

"Steal! what? '

"Davie."

Medwyn's lips closed tightly, and his
face became pale ; but he answered
quietly 

Well, if she likes him, so be it ; you
know that I can never marry her or anyone
else."

VOL. I.

Chapter IV.

medwyn's secret.

** You're just a business, havering body'
was the severe comment which Mistress
Meg muttered as she stalked out of the
room, her nose uplifted, anger and disappointment
in her grey eyes.

She had observed that, during the
past six months especially, her brother
had become strangely abstracted and
silent. He had never been boisterous
like Eghnton, but he had been mirthful
and happy in his nature; could laugh,
could sing and make little jokes as well

as heartily enjoy those of others  which
is almost a greater gift than the talent
for making them oneself. He would
whistle gaily of a morning as he went
out to consult with the grieve and the
cattleman and the keepers about the business
of the day ; and the springiness of
his step indicated that he was still a
youth at heart. Now, he never sang, he
never whistled, except for the dogs; he
so rarely laughed that when he did soit
caused uneasy surprise. He smiled
always when Davie appeared  as if she
were the sunlight bursting through dark
mists and lighting up his face  but the
smile was a sad one.

Davie had always regarded Medwyn
as a man so much absorbed in his books,
and deeply occupied, not only with the
affairs of his own property, but also with

UNIVERSITY OF ILLlMOU
LIBRARY

the great and mysterious affairs of the
State, that although she observed the
change she did not think it at all extraordinary.
She attributed it to two
causes ; first to the death of his mother,
and second, to the ceaseless labour which
he had expended in preparing certain
agricultural statistics to be presented by
the member for the county to Parliament.
He had been twice invited to stand for
the county himself, and had declined,
saying that he could be more useful by
living amongst the people than by spending
six or eight months of the year at St.
Stephen's. He did his best to prove this
by supplying the sitting member withall
the information which his local and
general knowledge could afford  and
that was both practical and considerable.


His sister saw more and understood
more than Davie did ; she could almost
fix the date on which the change began.
The first symptoms appeared after he had
had a long conversation with his sick
mother, just six days before her death.
He had come out of the room with
vacant eyes and white face, passing his
sister in the hall apparently without
seeing her. His look was so strange
that even Mistress Meg did not feel able
to stop and question him. He had
attended to all the details of the funeral
with perfect composure ; no one saw tears
in his eyes, or heard him sob, although
in giving his directions he would occasionally
pause as if to gain breath, and
perhaps, for a second, turn away his head.
Otherwise there was only the white, sad
face to suggest that he was suffering, but

would not wear his sorrow on his
sleeve.

Then came a period during which Meg
said he was in a 'dwam," a sort of
waking stupor, and Meg used all the
powers of a sharp tongue and an active
mind to rouse him from it. She scolded
him from early morning till night, she
discovered all sorts of work for him todo,
and he obeyed her patiently : that
aggravated her the more. She brought
all the prettiest girls of the county 
every one endowed with a considerable
'* tocher "  to the house; she gave
dinners, suppers, and dances, but without
much effect. Medwyn, whilst always
courteous, seemed to act his part as host
rather as a duty than as a matter of
pleasure. The many bright eyes turned
upon him with a sympathy which might

readily have developed into a still more
precious sentiment, had no further effect
than to arouse his gratitude for the kindliness
of all his neighbours.

'lord save us!" exclaimed Mistress
Meg, as she was undressing one night,
after having made her greatest efforts
to rouse him out of his morbid humour
by the help of pretty faces and jovial
youths, ** Lord save us !  the man's clean
off his head  he doesna' even care for
the lasses ! "

Still she did not despair; she never
did. She  banged through "  as her own
phrase went  with whatever she took in
hand, and she had found that banging
through was a much better way of doing
anything, whether it turned out right
or wrong, than standing by wondering
whether to do it this way or that way,

and ending in nine cases out of ten by-losing
the opportunity of doing it at all.

One morning she suddenly entered
the library. Medwyn was seated with
elbows resting on the table and his
fingers clasped tightly over his brow,
gazing intently at a book which lay open
before him. She had little respect for
his studies  indeed, she had rather a
contempt for them as being partly the
cause of his present unhealthy condition.
So, as he did not observe her entrance,
she advanced briskly to address him ;
but when she reached the corner of the
table there was an abrupt halt and something
like a start of surprise. The expression
of the woman's face was that
of unutterable amazement, and her mouth
was open as if she were about to speak.

Medwyn was not reading. He was looking

at the photograph of a charming
girl, whose smiling face was partly
shadowed by the broad brim of a gipsy
hat, the ribbons of which two dainty
hands (dainty even in a photograph!)
were tying into a bow. It was Davie's
portrait.

The effect upon Mistress Meg was like
a transformation trick in a pantomime.
Davie, who had been in her eyes only
a bit bairns hitherto, became a grown
woman, with lovers and prospects of
marriage. The idea was, like all other
new ideas which are suddenly thrust on
one, startling; and yet Mistress Meg
wondered that it had never occurred to
her before. She ought to have seen it
she ought to have known it long ago,
for she had had some experience in lovers'
ways. She had had  offers," and might

have been mistress of some bien"
house of her own at this date if she
had chosen, only the right man had not
turned up. The immediate effect of the
discovery that her brother was thinking
of Davie was to make her feel that she
must be growing very old  and that is
always a disagreeable sensation when it is
first experienced.

*'I see you are busy with your book,
Medwyn," she said in her shrill voice.
"I'll no fash you at present  I'll come
back in a while."

Is it you, Meg?" he answered, raising
his eyes slowly, as if they were reluctant
to leave the beautiful vision before them.
* I am not busy ; I was only looking at
this photograph which Davie had taken
the last time she was in Aberdeen, and
trying to see in this bonnie lady something

of the child we used to know. Is
it not fine ? "

He handed the photograph to his sister
without the least sign of embarrassment.
She was disappointed by his coolness,
for she had been congratulating herself
upon having discovered the lever by
which she might raise him into happiness.
Still she was not deceived by his
apparent indifference ; she formed a resolution
on the instant.

' Davie can do it, and she shall," washer
thought ; what she said was  ' Ou
ay, it's good enough in its way, but
it's no nearly so bonnie as Davie  though
some folks say that a body looks better ina
picture than in reality."

"That's true, Meg  no art could produce
a face like Davie's," he exclaimed,
with brightening eyes; "it is like the

sun, and we cannot look at it long enough
to copy all its beauties."

* You might put green specs on," said
Meg, practically. *' But there is no
need of specs to see Davie ; and I'm
thinking, Medwyn, that we had better
keep her here."

 But we cannot. The instructions
are clear, and  what would Mrs. Wybrant
say ? "

*' I care nothing about what she would
say. I say, keep Davie here."

''I should be very glad to do so," he
answered, amused by his sister's singular
earnestness ; ' but how can we ? "

* Just make her the mistress of Bal-again."


He started, and looked like one who
is suddenly made aware that a precious
secret has been discovered. He made

an attempt to appear as if lie regarded
the suggestion as a joke.

** You are not serious, Meg," he said,
leaning back in his chair, and steadily
meeting the keen eyes of his sister.

'* Serious !  'deed am I, and I have
just planned the whole business. You'll
marry Davie  it's a fair match for both
of you  and I'll take up my abode at
Greenstone."

* No, no, Meg ; if such an event as
my marriage were possible, you should
stay here."

* Hoots, man, you're but a loonie yet.
The saying that twa's company but
three's name is truer as regards families
than as regards strangers. I'll come to
you when you need me, buff I'll no
bide with you. Greenstone is my own
place, and when there is a mistress here,

I mean to go there, and I hope it will
not be long before the time comes forme
to flit."

He closed the book, shutting up the
photograph in it, and rose from his
seat. There was no further attempt to
make light of her suggestion.

*you will never require to flit, Meg,
unless you wish to do so on your own
account ; what you wish for on my
account can never be realized. Now, if
you wish to prove to me that you still
care for me, don't speak of this again,
because  it hurts me."

She saw that it did by the effort he
made to remain calm, and by the slight
tremor of his lips. He had often puzzled
her ; he puzzled her more than ever by
his present manner.

CHAPTEK V.

SPECULATIONS.

When Medwyn went out with the cigars,
he saw Egerton leaning on the ledge
of the dining-room window talking to
Davie, and they were both evidently
enjoying the conversation. As he approached
them he heard Meg's shrill
voice calling from within 

* Davie, come here. I want you."

Davie lifted her eyebrows and glanced

at Medwyn with a comical smile. Then,

nodding to Eglinton, she disappeared.

Medwyn smiled, too, at the evident

resolution of his sister to keep the
enemy outside the gates at any sacrifice.
Eglinton was not exactly disconcerted,
but he did not feel joyful in finding
that his pleasant Ute-astute was checked
from two quarters at the same moment.


* I was just saying, Corbett," he
remarked as he lit his cigar,  that you
must have a delightful time of it in
this quiet place, with such a pretty
cousin for your daily companion."

f< We get along comfortably ; but I
did not imagine that you admired quiet
places."

'' That depends. I am seriously thinking
of settling down."

'' Since when has that serious thought
occurred to you ?"

** Within the last three hours."

Medwyn laughed. He understood perfectly
whence the inspiration had come.

"Impetuous as ever!" he said, with
the good-natured tolerance which an old
man might give to the waywardness of
a boy, although Eglinton was no more
than ten years his junior. " And tomorrow
you will be packing your portmanteau
to start on some wild goose
chase to the Antipodes ? "

"No, not this time. I shall give up
roving if "

"Wel, if what?"

If what I wish comes to pass," answered
Eglinton, emitting clouds of
smoke and staring into them as if he
perceived there some glorious vision.

Let us hope your wishes may be
realized," said Medwyn quietly, as they
walked down a path sheltered on each

VOL. I. F

side by huge, close-cut box trees, the
growth of many years and the pride
of Balnagairn. ' Meanwhile, tell me
something about what you have been
doing."

' Hunting for silver mines, copper
mines, lead mines, or anything else the
search for which would afford excitement
and the discovery, a fortune."

* Have you found your Golconda ? "
' We have  or, rather, we have found
a man who discovered it for us. It is a
silver mine which will make us all
wealthy in a few years. I went into
the thing myself, made careful inspections,
and found everything as he described.
He is a mining engineer of
long experience, and as I know something
of the science, he could not easily
take me in."

*eyes, you know a little about many
things," said Medwyn dryly.

'sat any rate, I have satisfied myself
about this speculation, and mean to put
into it everything I have, and everything
I can beg, borrow, or  no, not steal, but
raise."

* Synonymous terms," observed Med-gwyn,
smiling at the enthusiasm of his
friend ; '' the only difference is that in
one case you are tried in a police court,
and in the other you become bankrupt
and pay a penny in the pound."

' What a cynic you have become!"
exclaimed Eglinton, taking the cigar
from his mouth and looking at him with
an expression of curiosity.

"You ought to say how old I have
grown. But who is this man, and why
does he not keep this enormous fortune
to himself?"

** Because lie can't keep it to himself,"
answered Eglinton, a little nettled by
the scepticism of his friend. Youth always
resents any doubt of its wisdom. ' He
requires capital to work it, and so he is
forming a company. The shares will go
like wildfire as soon as our announcements
and reports are published. I am
to be one of the London directors."

' Oh ! " There was a wonderful
variety of meaning in that simple exclamation,
as Medwyn turned his cigar
round between his fingers. " But about
the man?"

Eglinton evidently felt the question
not so much as an awkward one to
answer, but as one which he ought to
have asked himself before.

'upon my word, Corbett, there you
puzzle me. He puzzled me too; but

Leighton and I were so satisfied by our
investigations made on the spot that we
did not care who the man was. You
know it does not do to inquire too
closely into the antecedents of a man
out there."

 The more reason why you should be
careful, Eglinton, with all due respect
to your own skill. Where did you meet
him?"

 In 'Frisco ; and what made us become
friendly was the fact that he was
a fellow-countryman, and when you area
long way from home you do draw
towards a countryman as if he belonged
to the same family. But what made me
still more friendly with him was the discovery
that he had known you and your
father and all the people in Balnagairn."

* What was his name? "

Davidson."

Medwyn repeated the name several
times, as if searching his memory for
its associations with the past.

' I cannot recollect any one of that
name who was in your friend's profession,"
he said at length; "but the circumstance
is curious. Are you sure
that you did not give him the key to the
names of your friends, and he used it
to inspire confidence?"

You are the most suspicious beggar
I ever came across," replied Eglinton,
laughing. " He happened to ask if I
had ever been in this district, and I only
said,  Yes, I have friends at Balnagairn.'
Then he inquired about every one of
sou by name, not forgetting your sister's
big comb. More than that, he asked if
I knew what had become of Miss Morrison's

father, and of course I could not
answer, but it showed me that he really
had known yon all. By the way, what
did become of Morrison ? "

' He is dead. Shortly after his wife's
funeral he settled his affairs here, left
his daughter to our care, and wont to
India to superintend some engineering
works for which he had obtained the
contract. Two years afterwards we received
a letter from Bombay announcing
his death. The contract had turned out
well, for his bankers remitted a considerable
sum to be invested on his daughter's
behoof. What made you ask ? "

Medwyn's quick eyes scanned the face
of his companion, and observed a little
hesitation ; but the habitual frankness of
the man soon relieved him, and he made
answer 

curiosity, first; personal interest,
second  no, I ought to reverse the position
of these two reasons. Suppose them
reversed. My third reason is because
Davidson asked me, and I want you to
see that he was not an impostor, so far as
his acquaintance with you folk of Balna-
gain was concerned."

** Was he an educated man ? "

** Decidedly, and reputed to be one of
the cleverest men going."

V' How old?"

* About a hundred, if a bald head,
white hair, and a face  at least what you
could see of it  scored with lines like
Bradshaw's railway map count for anything.
Now, what do you think of
him?"

*' That you should not risk your fortune
in his scheme."

** He was beforehand with you in that
advice ; that is, he said no man should
put all his eggs into one basket, although
he had no doubt of the result of the
speculation. Neither have I, and I am
going to make a plunge. . . . What are
you speculating about now ? " he added,
seeing Medwyn looking at him with a
curious expression.

* About the plunge you are going to
make, and about what may come of it."

Eglinton only laughed and smoked.

Chapter YI.

DAVIE.

The  plunge " towhicli Medwyn referred
was not the mining speculation, but the
plunge into love with Davie ; and it
became a grave question with him as her
guardian whether or not he should permit
such a man to become her suitor.
That was why he had looked so curiously
at his friend.

George Eglinton had been and was
always impetuous in everything he took
in hand; he had been volatile in his
youth (Medwyn feared that he might be

SO still), and during the last five or six
years he lead been a restless wanderer over
the world. At eighteen he had been
required to make choice of a profession,
not from necessity, but because his father
wished him to have something to do in
order to steady him.

Nothing like having something practical
to occupy the mind, George," the
old laird had said.

 Yes, sir," the dutiful son replied,
with a sly twinkle in his eyes; '* but
when you have solved the problem of
the Parallel Eoads, what will become of
you?"

*' I shall find some other great problem
in nature to occupy me," was the answer.

Mr. Eglinton had spent the greater
part of his life in the endeavour to clear
up the mystery of the Parallel Roads ; he

was an enthusiastic geologist and archaeologist,
and his son had been left very
much to his teachers and himself.

But George saw the wisdom of his
father's words, and, being ambitious to do
something in the world, he entered into
the scheme at once. The Bar was his
first choice, and for a year he worked
vigorously at the preliminary studies
necessary to qualify himself for the profession
of an advocate; then he gave it
up. Next, he turned his attention to the
Church; tiring of that, he turned to
medicine, with the same result  always
giving the same reason : he did not feel
qualified for any of these professions, and
there was no use in entering one for
which a man had no special talent.

But when he turned to engineering he
seemed at last to have fallen into his

right place, and he really did work hard
until he became entitled to write C.E.
after his name. Then he had set off on
his wanderings, on the plea that he
wanted to do something on a big scale,
like Lesseps.

** A railway to the moon wouldn't be a
bad idea," suggested his father, as they
were parting; * it would save astronomers
a great deal of trouble if they could make
their observations of its nature on the
spot."

And now at twenty-nine, George Eg-linton
returned with no grander scheme
matured than that of investing all he
possessed and all he could obtain in a
silver mine ! This was indeed a fall from
the ambitious visions with which he had
set out upon his travels; but he did not
appear to feel the downcome much. Indeed,

he seemed to regard this mining
speculation as the preliminary step towards
the  something big " which he was
yet to accomplish.

Medwyn, aware of all this, felt the responsibility
of his position in relation to
Davie weigh heavily upon him at this
moment, as he walked up and down the
library floor. Eglinton was certainly a
pleasant companion and a handsome
fellow ; it was in every way probable that
he would win Davie's affection if opportunity
were afforded him.

Should the opportunity be afforded
him ?

Medwyn halted. He searched his own
heart, questioning himself if there were
no selfish interest which caused his hesitation
to allow this man to win her if he
could ? It might be so, but he was not

conscious of it. He felt the pain of losing
her, but he believed that he would place
her hand in that of the man she chose,
and say fervently, '' God bless you and
make you happy, Davie." Why should
not Eglinton be the man ? He had many
good qualities, and love would draw them
forth.

Even if he should ruin himself by this
speculation, Davie had enough to enable
them to live comfortably, and Medwyn
felt sure that he could arrange her
marriage settlements so that no one
could touch her fortune. Still, he wished
that the responsibility had rested on other
shoulders.

That wish somehow recalled the wild
idea which had occurred to him whilst
Eglinton was describing Davidson. The
description of the man and his occupation

had in some mysterious way revived the
memory of Davie's father and the circumstances
of his death. He remembered a
man full of nervous activity, successful
in so many undertakings, and yet failing
to secure domestic happiness because of
the irritable, passionate nature which is
so often the attendant demon of the inventive
brain.

In a fit of jealous anger, David Morrison
had left his home ; but he was, according
to his lights, just even in his wrath. He
made proper provision for his wife and
child, making only one condition, that
they should live near his sister, Mrs.
Corbett, His condition was obeyed, but
Mrs. Morrison felt her position keenly,
and rarely showed herself in the village
on busy days. One night, returning to
her own house from Balnagairn, through

a bitter east wind and a sharp, pelting
rain, she caught cold, became feverish,
and her husband  summoned by Med-gwyn's
father  only arrived two days before
she died. During that time he was constant
and most devoted in his attendance
upon her, and she seemed to have satisfied
him that he had misjudged her conduct.

In his remorse the man was as unreasonable
as in his passion : he determined
to leave the country, never to
return. He desired that his child should
think of him, too, as of one dead. So he
made the arrangements which Medwyn
explained to Eglinton, and went away,
the successful completion of his contract
in India being followed quickly by the
report of his death. He had done everything
in the most orderly manner: all
due instructions for the settlement of his

VOL. I. G

affairs had been carefully drawn up by an
eminent firm of solicitors, and bis will
was beyond dispute.

<' Why on earth should Eglinton's
chatter recall all this to me ? " muttered
Corbett, as he gazed vacantly out at the
window. 'It is ridiculous to fancy that
Morrison could have carried his foolish
idea to such an extent as to pretend that
he had died. . . . This man Davidson is
so like him in his eagerness to carry out
a favourite project at anybody's expense,
and then, suddenly pitying the gullibility
of Eglinton, giving him a warning not to
be too sanguine. I wish I could find out
what kind of man he is, before Eglinton
involves himself too far."

He still stared vacantly into the
shrubbery outside, and presently turned
to his chair.

*' Tush, it is nonsense," he muttered
impatiently, taking up the Field and attempting
to read.

But the printed characters appeared
like simple Hack lines to his eyes, and
his thoughts were busy with the strange
possibilities which surrounded Davie.
Her mother's short life had been sad
enough ; he was eager that the life of the
daughter should be as free from care as
human foresight could make it.

Then he tried to divert his thoughts by
writing letters which he desired to have
ready for the evening post at Aboyne,
whither the waggonette would be going
presently.

Chapter VII.

THE FIRST ARROW.

In spite of Eglinton's confidence in his
own judgment, after a practical examination
of the mine in which he was ahoiit
to sink his fortune, the scepticism of
Medwyn had caused him to reflect  sofar
as he could reflect ; for he was one of
those who jump to conclusions, clearing
quicksands at a bound, and ignoring their
existence until the fatal day when they
sink into one.

'' It's always a safe thing to predict a
failure ! " he exclaimed manfully. * If the

thing turns up a trump, you can say with
a grace how glad you are that you were
mistaken ; and if it does fail, you can
shrug your shoulders in triumphant pity
and say, ' I told you so, but you would
not be advised'  which just means,  Serve
you right for not believing me to be a
Solomon What can Corbett know
about mining ? ''

But mines and disagreeable advice
were at once forgotten when, as he
walked down the garden, he saw Davie
gathering flowers, with which she intended
to decorate the dinner-table.

He halted a moment, admiring the tall
graceful form of the girl  rendered more
graceful by the delicate folds of the perfectly
plain lavender dress she wore.
Her fair hair, simply drawn over the head
and arranged in a plaited rosette at the

back, was radiant under the soft glow of
the afternoon sun. At her feet was a flat
basket, in which she had already placed a
goodly array of ferns and flowers. She
was stooping to take it up when Eglinton
stepped forward.

'' Let me carry the basket, Miss Morrison,"
he said eagerly.

'' Thank you, Mr. Eglinton, but it is
quite light," she answered, a Httle surprised
by his sudden appearance.

They were both stooping, each with
a hand upon the handle of the flower
basket ; they would have looked very
ridiculous in the eyes of a bystander if
one had seen them in that position.
They rose, their eyes met  his full of
admiration, hers full of mirth. Their
hands, somehow, met in the playful
contest for the possession of the basket.

and Davie had no notion that the proper
thing for her to do was to instantly withdraw
her hand. She was utterly devoid
of that self-consciousness by which the
girl of the period instantly detects the
point at which an acquaintance or a friend
begins to change into the character of
a lover. It was to her nothing more
than a bit of fun on the part of a very
agreeable, if somewhat audacious acquaintance.


 Do let me carry it," he said, as if his
whole life depended upon her granting
the appeal.

She laughed, and relinquished the
basket.

* Well, if you are so very anxious to
play carrier, you may ; but you have not
to bear the burden far  only into the
dining-room."

* I would carry it to the world's end,"
he exclaimed, with a grand, melodramatic
air and a merry light in his eyes, and
adding quickly in softer tones   if you
were with me."

* I am afraid I should get tired before
we had gone many miles on the way, and
then you would have to carry me as well
as the basket."

' I would enjoy it all the more."
' Your enjoyment would not last long."
'* It would  and will  last for ever ! "
There was too much fervour in that
exclamation  too abrupt a change from
the tone of banter in which they had
been conversing.

Davie had not the least experience in
flirtation ; she was one of the very few
girls who reach their majority without
having had a love affair of any sort. She

had no skill in the arts of coquetry, and
no suspicion that her innocent enjoyment
of his droll humour might be misunderstood
by a man who had moved about the
world a good deal, and had encountered
many of the ordinary types of girlhood
and womanhood, to whom flattery and
admiration were always acceptable, being
always suggestive of possible marriage
settlements.

But there was something in the tone
of his last words, something in the expression
of his face so earnest, that her
fawn-like eyes opened wonderingly and
gazed upon him with a dreamy sort of
pleasure, behind which lurked a vague
fear : it was just such an expression as
that with which a child first looks upon
a mechanical mouse, or a speaking doll.
Then, still in a dreamy way, still uncertain

about her own thoughts, she said
very gently 

* I am going in now."

** Will you not gather some more
flowers ? I was hoping to be your escort
round the garden, and to obtain a lesson
in floriculture. I am very fond of
flowers, but I am the most ignorant
fellow in the world regarding their
names."

* You must wait for your lesson,
then," she answered, and she came back
from dreamland to the common earth ;
** for I have enough flowers, and have to
arrange them and to dress myself before
Aunt Wybrant arrives. You know she
believes in fashion, and she would refuse
to acknowledge me if I appeared without
dressing in her especial honour."

*then she must be " a fool he

was going to say ; but, recollecting Itself
in time, turned the phrase into 
** She must be very fastidious if she
would not be pleased with you as you
are now, for you could not look more
beautiful than at this moment even if
you were robed like the Queen of
Sheba."

Davie laughed heartily at this extravagant
comparison ; it seemed the
more funny as she recalled at the same
time some of the long epistles in which
Aunt Wybrant endeavoured to impress
upon her the high duty she owed to
herself, and particularly to society, to
dress well and in the fashion. She had
dutifully acknowledged the receipt of the
words of wisdom, and, like other sensible
women, followed her own simple
taste.

' That is a compliment," and she
made a pretty how; 'thank you, but I
am afraid my aunt and you will never
agree."

'' I only care to agree with you ; hut
if you wish me to please your aunt, I
shall say that her knowledge of what
ought to be is perfect, that her taste is
sublime, and that "

'' That I think you had better wait
until you see her," interrupted Davie,
again surveying him with that strange,
wondering look. She could not understand
him. She moved on towards the
house.

He felt a sudden chill. He had been
frivolous and too bold, forgetting that
this was not the child he used to tease
long ago, but a young lady to whom he
was almost a stranger. Therefore, he

was silent for a few minutes ; and then,
swinging the flower-basket on his forefinger,
and watching its motion as if he
were calculating something, he said 

I hope I have not done anything to
displease you. Miss Morrison ? ''

"What could make you think so?"
she asked, in new surprise.

'' Your aunt'

**I see she has already taken possession
of you, and I expect to see you
become her slave from the moment of
her arrival. She always contrives to
make everybody do everything for her."

Then I shall join the throng  for
your sake. Having made that promise,
you can allow me to go in and watch
you arranging the flowers."

He entered the dining-room with her,
and when she had seated herself in a

large armchair by the window, he placed
himself before her, humbly holding the
basket. She proceeded to arrange the
flowers with deft fingers, but whilst she
was picking some from the basket, a
forget-me-not and a pansy fell upon the
floor.

** This is for me  it is from you," cried
Eglinton, dropping on his knees to pickup
the tiny treasure.

The door opened, and Mistress Meg
entered. She was thunderstruck at
sight of the position in which she discovered
Eglinton, and was only able to
cry in her shrill voice 

'' Davie ! ''

CHAPTER VIII.

AT Hazard.

 Prepare to receive cavalry "was what
Eglinton said to himself, as he turned his
frank face to meet the astounded and
indignant gaze of Mistress Meg. The
Tower of Babel was absolutely quivering
with agitation.

Most men would have been abashed,
and made some blundering explanation of
the position. Eglinton took a wicked
delight in Mistress Meg's bewilderment,
and he would have been very willing to
increase it had he not observed that

Davie's cheeks were crimson, and that
her hands showed signs of nervousness as
they fastened the flowers together.

I was just picking up these flowers,
Miss Corhett," he said, rising composedly
; '' and I have been admiring the
genius Miss Morrison displays for this
kind of work."

"Ay, she's clever at it," was the
somewhat dry response ; ' but you have
not seen her at her best, for what she has
done to-day is not nearly so good as
usual. I'm thinking, Mr. Eglinton, you
have been havering till her and taking
her mind off what she was doing."

Oh, no, Aunty, he did not disturb mein
the least," cried Davie, smiling, " and
I fancied that I was to make a very
pretty display on the table this evening."


'* And I shall make bold to say that
the effect will be very pretty, although
Miss Corbett should condemn me to
banishment from the table and to porridge
in the kitchen for daring to contradict
her."

Mistress Meg forced herself to smile,
but the expression was so gruesome that
Eglinton's eyes meeting those of Davie
they had difficulty in restraining a burst
of laughter.

'i'll no be so cruel as that for a first
offence, Mr. Eglinton " (she used to call
him George) ; '' but I'll take you to the
new billiard room, and Medwyn and you
can entertain yourselves while we get on
with our work. I have no liking for men
pottering about among womenfolk, for
they are for aye in the road."

I would like to see this task finished

VOL I, H

I am interested," pleaded Clinton
; ' besides, Corbett has letters to
write."

'' Aye, but be has finished them and
was asking for you. It'll please me if
you leave Davie and me to finish what
we have to do in quietness."

* I obey. When you say it is to please
you. Miss Corbett, there is no alternative
left me," he said gallantly. Then, as he
bowed to Davie, he showed a sprig of the
forget-me-not in his hand, saying  "I
shall keep this, if you please. I am very
fond of this flower. May I take it ? "

'Oh, certainly," exclaimed Davie;
* you can have a whole bunch if you like.
"We have plenty of them."

He wondered  was she making fun of
him ? or did she really not understand the
reason why he chose this flower ?

I shall be content with this if you
give it to me."

** Come away, Mr. Eglinton," said
Mistress Meg; and she marshalled the
way along the hall, through a conservatory,
and into the new billiard room.
There she left him with the parting word
of consolation  '* I'll send Medwyn to
you in a minute. You'll find a game
with the boots a heap more entertaining
than a senseless gossip with a lassie like
Davie."

Eglinton had his own opinion on that
score, and a very decided one. He
wished Mistress Meg had been  anywhere
except in the dining-room to
interrupt what had been a pleasant conversation,
and, what had promised to be
still more interesting, a playful lesson in
coquetry. He was fond of billiards, and

yet when he took up a cue  without any
of that careful inspection of its fitness
which those who are experts always displays
banged away at the balls as if
he were trying to knock down somebody
who had annoyed him. The balls
clacked, ran up and down and across
the table in a wild way, and he scarcely
waited for them to stop before he made
another stroke, sending them flying about
again.

Medwyn entered, and for a minute
looked on with an amused smile at his
friend's performance.

' Are you trying flukes, Eglinton?
They sometimes turn up trumps, but
they don't win in the long run. I would
give you fifty in a hundred if you were
going to play in that way*'

All right, come on; but no, we shall

start even, and I shall do my best to
beat you. I know you won't bet, or I
would stake my "

He paused, and Medwyn, as he quietly
chalked his cue, suggested 

*' Your silver mine ? "

Eglinton had been about to say, ' My
hopes of winning Davie on the game,"
but he discreetly kept that idea to himself,
and said, 'No; my shilling against
your sixpence. Come, break your rule
for once ; it adds to the zest of the game
when there is something depending on
the result, and I am in the humour to
play for something more than fun at
present'*

** That is a bad humour; I think that
play should always be for fun, as a distinction
between it and work, which
should be always earnest and for a definite

object. But I can gratify your
whim without altering my rule ; suppose
you think of something that you wish
very much to obtain, and play for that."

* Agreed," cried Eglinton gaily, taking
off his coat and hanging it up; but I
shall not tell you what the something
is until we have finished."

'As you please. A hundred up and
you can break."

Eglinton began merrily, but taking
some care now that he had an opponent,
and he scored fifty when Medwyn had
only scored thirteen. The latter played
steadily and quietly, never attempting
a fluke, and watching the result of each
stroke with the interest which a chemist
feels in some new experiment. The more
points he gained the more excited Clinton
became, and his eagerness to win

rendered him somewhat nervous. This
excitement increased as he found Med-gwyn
gaining upon him and gradually reducing
the number of points between
them. He changed his cue, suggested
that the chalk was damp (bad signs
always), and finally observed that he
was not " in form " that afternoon, and
that he could always play much better
by gaslight than by daylight. During
the first part of the game he had been
laughing boisterously at every good stroke
he made and at every failure of his antagonist.


"You are faint-hearted, Corbett," he
said, as he took the rest and prepared
to make a good stroke ; " and you know
faint heart never won either fair lady or
billiards."

** We shall see," was Medwyn's answer,

smiling at his friend's philosophy as he
had done at his enthusiasm about the
mine.

But by-and-by Eglinton's mirth disappeared,
and his countenance assumed
that sour and yet despairing expression
of the gambler who has staked his last
sovereign. The score still stood in his
favour, ninety-nine, and he had only to
make one stroke to win the game.
Medwyn had now ninety-five to his credit,
and it was his turn to play. He chalked
his cue with unusual deliberation as he
put the question 

 You seem so anxious, Eglinton, that
I would like to know what it is you are
playing for  is it much ? "

"Everything; but go on. You have
the game  cannon off the red and pocket.
You can do it easily if you try; and as

I believe yon would not try if you knew
what I was thinking about, I shall not
tell you until you have played."

Medwyn played with every appearance
of care, and placed the ball close to one
of the upper pockets. Eglinton's next
stroke finished the game in his favour.

'won!" he cried joyfully, and then,
as if struck with commiseration for his
opponent, he added, but you ought not
to have missed that shot ; I thought you
could not help taking it."

*what is won?" asked Corbett, undisturbed;
*I was not playing for any
stake."

'but I was, as you know, and the
stake was Miss Morrison. Funny idea,
wasn't it ? But it took possession of
me, and upon my word I felt as if all
my hopes depended on the game. Of

course it's only a joke, but I have won
and shall enjoy my dinner."

* You cannot rate your hopes very
highly, or you would not have hazarded
them in such a way as that," observed
Corbett ; " and I am sure the lady would
not regard your joke as a compliment."

Eglinton seated himself on the edge
of the billiard table and regarded his
friend with an expression of curiosity.

*'Do you always take the whims of
the moment so seriously, Corbett ? If
that is the effect of a quiet, steady-going
life such as yours, I give up the idea I
had a few hours ago of trying to imitate
your ways and give my adherence to
bustle, speculation, success, and the enjoyment
of it when it comes."

But if it should be failure instead of
success ? "

'' The best skaters have an occasional
tumble, but they get up and fire away
again. That is what I would do. Here
is an aphorism  good digestion is the
secret of success in life ; and whenever
I see a man dealing with trifles as
solemnly as you do, I always say  that
man's dinner doesn't agree with him."

 I hope you will never have to learn
how much your digestion depends upon
your circumstances. But I had no intention
of stirring up these extraordinary
depths of philosophy which you so suddenly
reveal to me. I only intended to
hint that when a man sees a lady whom
he thinks he would like to make his
wife, the matter is not one to joke about.
Most men find it a very serious business
indeed."

True enough," exclaimed Eglinton,

when mentally he said, ' the man is
surely in love with her himself."

And for the first time it occurred to
him that Corhett was not so old as he
looked.

CHAPTER IX.

THE GUESTS.

Five guests arrived at Balnagairn on the
eve of Davie's majority. First, Harry
Bousfield, of Colborough, Yorkshire, and
his wife. He was a man over six feet
in height, broad in proportion, with a
solid head and a stood expression  his
wife always affectionately addressed him
and spoke of him as her 'stupid old
man," and he once observed that the
appellation was quite correct, because
he had married her. It was the only
joke he had ever attempted to make.

He had always been accounted a dunce
at school, and after his marriage he
continued to he regarded as a dunce at
home. His breed of cattle, however, was
not only famous in Yorkshire, but at
Smithfield and elsewhere ; and he was
universally acknowledged to be a high
authority in scientific farming. Every
new invention for lessening labour and
improving crops was sure to find a fair
trial on the lands of Harry Bousfield.
The cottages which he erected for his
labourers were accepted as models of
all the elements of utility, comfort, and
cheapness ; and he was eagerly sought
after as a judge at all the local and
county agricultural shows. At home he
remained the ' stupid old man," although
he was little more than forty, and possessed
of the vigour of youth.

Mrs. Bousfield was the daughter of a
Bradford woollen manufacturer who had
made a large fortune. She was a plump,
pretty matron of thirty, with the skittishness
of a kitten, a passion for society,
a firm belief that life should be made
up of one continuous stream of laughter,
and with a secret craving for titles of
any kind, whilst affecting to be indifferent
to them. With this worthy
couple was Miss Hannah Schooner,
who had been Mrs. Bousfield's school
companion and confidant, and continued
to be her most intimate friend. She
was a tall, graceful lady, with a pale
face and singularly bright eyes ; features
irregular, and when in repose presenting
no special attraction; but when she was
stirred by mirth or by interest in any
subject of conversation, the pale cheeks

flushed, the eyes sparkled, and she became
beautiful. She was about the
same age as her friend, Mrs. Bousfield,
who, in the playful way she had of
giving nicknames to everybody, had
christened her her  dear old Blue,"
because Miss Schoumert was given to
much study of various kinds, and was
strongly suspected of holding advanced
opinions in regard to woman's rights
and the equality of the sexes.

Captain Albert Graham, Ken., and 
most important of all  Mrs. Beatrice
Wy brant, the sister of Davie's father
and of Medwyn's mother, completed the
number of guests who arrived in the
waggonette.

There was such a bustle in and about
the house as had not been known therefor
many years. Mathers, the old butler,

reflected sadly that he was not so young
as he used to be, and that he would
not be able to stand much of this sort
of thing. It was all very well for an
evening when people came and went at
a decent hour, and there was no more
to do about them ; but when they came
to stay for a fortnight, and probably
longer, it became a serious affair, and
he was sure that the master could not
understand how his strength and patience
was taxed. He believed, however,
that he could have given full attention
to everybody if only Mrs. Wy brant had
been absent. He had had experience
of her  visitations," and the prospect
of another had cast a shadow over his
life during the last few days, notwithstanding
the pleasure he took in doing
anything in honour of Miss Davie.

VOL. I. I

His forebodings were promptly fulfilled.
Mrs. Wybrant was a widow, forty
at least in the estimation of others,
about sixteen in her own, in her robust
spirits, and in her utter insensibility to
the responsibilities of tomorrow. She
lived for the day and thoroughly enjoyed
it, never heeding who might be
suffering. She had an income of 500
a year, was always in a state of impecuniosity,
and yet never hesitated to
gratify her fancy for anything in the
way of dress or luxury. On one of the
many occasions when Medwyn had come
to her relief she appeared to be in the
extremity of distress, and with the
money he gave her to pay pressing
debts she bought a parrot and a diamond
ring ! How she managed to get
on only her friends and her creditors

knew. She had no idea about it herself.


She had apartments in a side street
sufficiently near Park Lane to be on
the borders of that mysterious and undefined
circle called  society." In the
season she hired a brougham, left cards
everywhere, and in return received cards,
invitations to afternoon tea, to * at
homes," where she saw *' everybody,"
and occasionally to dinner at the houses
of some old friends of her brother.
She regarded herself as a most distinguished
lady of fashion.

About ten minutes after her arrival at
Balnagairn she had successfully upset all
poor Mathers' arrangements for the
evening. She seemed to spend her time
in ringing the bell for the most trivial
requirements, and the door was scarcely

closed when she remembered something
else, so that the bell rang again, and
there was a constant trotting up and
down the servants' staircase to her room.
Mr. Mathers was a very respectable
man ; he had been an esteemed member
of the Free Kirk since the Disruption ;
faithful to his master's interests, and
steady in the performance of his duty.
He had so strong an objection to worldly
frivolities that he declined a very advantageous
engagement because he would
be required to goto London in the season.
London was in his eyes the magnet
which attracted all wickedness ; and he
would not go, lest he should fall. Mrs.
Wybrant lived in London ; she took part
in all its frivolities.; and that was
enough to make him her enemy. But
when she came to upset all the arrangements

of this orderly household, he felt
that the burden was almost greater than
he could bear.

Mistress Meg had a similar opinion on
this subject, but she had the relief of
being occasionally able to express it. As
when the company had been kept waiting
more than half-an-hour Mrs. Wybrant
entered the drawing-room with the
exclamation 

' My dear Margaret, I hope I have not
kept you waiting."

'Deed have you, though, and everything
will be business in consequence,"
was the disagreeably honest reply.

 I am so sorry, my dear," said Mrs.
Wybrant, with an emphasis on the  so,"
but the tone conveyed not the slightest
indication of regret for any inconvenience
she might have caused. ' You see, the

time was so short that one could scarcely
make oneself look like a Christian without
a little delay."

Hie was a short, stout, florid woman,
With small quick eyes, and if she was not
witty in herself she was unconsciously
the source of much amusement to others.
Turning to Davie, who was talking with
Mr. and Mrs. Bousfield, she kissed her
effusively.

' You look charming, my dear, hut  "
whispering with affectionate anxiety 
'why do you wear a yellow rose? It
does not become your complexion at all.
You must study these things  they are
of the greatest importance to a girl in
your position."

Eglinton had a faint recollection of
having seen this fussy little lady long ago,
and the recollection was not an agreeable

one ; therefore lie was chagrined when he
found himself appointed to conduct her
to the dinner table. That was no doubt
a cruel joke on Corbett's part, he
thought ; but if there was any fun in it
at all, the credit of the arrangement was
due to Mistress Meg, who had resolved
to keep him as far apart from Davie as
possible. Eglinton had a knack of suiting
himself to circumstances, and remembering
the position which Mrs. Wybrant
held in relation to Miss Morrison, he set
himself with all his might to please her.
He succeeded to such an extent that
when the ladies adjourned to the drawings
Mrs. Wybrant's first exclamation
was 

' What an exceedingly pleasant young
man Eglinton has turned out ! He was
a mere boy when I saw him last, and, to

tell you the truth, my dear, I thought
him a fool."

She extolled him as a marvel of the
beneficial effects of travelling, and hinted
that her niece must prepare herself to
undergo a similar process of cultivation ;
she tried to repeat some of the funny
stories with which he had so amused her
that she had been scarcely able to take
her dinner for laughing  but she did not
remember the point of one of them, and
could only assure her auditors that it
really was * very nice."

She would have spoken differently if
she could only have known with what
relish Eglinton emptied his glass of champagne
when the door closed upon the
ladies, and said to himself  " Thank
heaven, that's over."

'by-the-way, Bousfield," said Medwyn

as lie passed the claret, ' have you any
spare money to invest? Because our
friend Eglinton has come back to us with
a scheme for making our fortunes by
means of a silver mine which he and
some friends of his have discovered."

I only said it was as promising a
speculation as I have ever come across,"
interpolated Eglinton, *' and if it proves
to be a mistake, don't blame me. I believe
in it, and that's why I risk everything
in it. Davidson believes in it, and
he is 'cute enough to know on which side
his bread is buttered."

*' Davidson," muttered Bousfield ;
' why, that was the name of one of
the fellows Morrison took out with him
to India."

That is just what I wanted to learn,"
said Corbett. ' You were the last who

saw Morrison before he left England, and
as this Davidson appears to know something
about ns, I was curious to know
something about him. What was he ? "

'I don't know," replied Bousfield, in
his slow way, " but according to Morrison's
account he was one of the cleverest
fellows in the world  up to all sorts of
tricks, as sharp as a razor, with a hawkeye
for the main chance in everything,
and cunning enough to keep always on
the right side of the law. The only
objection Morrison had to him was that
he was too clever. Where did you meet
him?"

Eglinton explained, and Bousfield with
a loud laugh answered :

'' Well, I never give advice  I only say
what I would, do ; and if this man be the
same we are thinking about, and if I were

you, I would get out of the business as
quickly as possible."

The servant entered and presented a
card to Corbett. He looked up in amazement,
and then, smiling, said 

* Gentlemen, it will surprise you, but
I have to announce the arrival of Mr.
Davidson. Show him in, please."

CHAPTEK X.

AN Interesting Visitor.

Me. Davidson ! It was a matter of amusement
as well as amazement to the company
that the man about whom they had
been speaking so much should turn up
just at that moment, the more surprising
as the place was one not easily reached.

Bousfield muttered *' Speak of the
something and there you are." A tall
gentleman just such as Eglinton had described
entered the room. There was a
curious combination of age and yet of
nervous activity. Very calm and evidently

a man capable of taking advantage
of every opportunity to serve himself.

Corbett rose and for a moment paused
with an expression of bewilderment on
his face.

 I am pleased to see you, sir," he said
with some awkwardness, owing to his
astonishment ; *but you are so strangely
like a friend of ours that your appearance
startled me for the moment."

Eglinton, who had already risen from
his chair, shook hands with the visitor
with much warmth, and said, show on
earth did you come here at this time ? "

Mr. Davidson smiled. *' I ought to
have apologised before now for being hereat
all, but my friend Morrison was so
closely attached to me in friendship that,
having business to do in Aberdeen, I have
taken the liberty to come here to ask you

to permit me to see Miss Morrison,
knowing that she attains her majority tomorrow."


Corbett still looked puzzled, but maintained
the courtesy of a host, and after
offering the usual civilities, which Mr.
Davidson declined, saying that his time
was short, conducted him into the library.
Then he sent for Davie. Whilst they
were waiting for her, Corbett expressed
his surprise at the singular resemblance
of Mr. Davidson to Miss Morrison's
father.

''He used to laugh at that," answered
Davidson; "it was often remarked
amongst us. In our expeditions we
were usually taken for brothers. It is
singular how these resemblances occur.
But nature plays strange freaks."

This was said with a curious laugh,

which Corbett could not understand, but
he noticed the peculiar expression on the
man's face as he spoke.

At that moment Davie entered the
room, and Medwyn introduced her to the
strange visitor. Davidson turned to him,
and said 

'I am obliged to ask your leave to
permit me to speak to Miss Morrison
alone."

Davie was as much amazed by his.
singular request as Corbett was himself.

Davidson observed this, and added, '' I
ought to say that I have a particular
reason for this request."

Corbett looked for a moment at Davie,
and as she seemed to give consent he
bowed and left the room.

Then Mr. Davidson offered her a chair.
She sat down ; utterly bewildered by the

singular position in which she was placed,
and yet not displeased by the presence of
the stranger, who was polite, and his
white beard entitled him to some respect,
but she had an amount of reserve which
prevented her from at once admitting
him to the privilege of friendship.

' I have no doubt you are surprised by
my singular request to see you alone.
Do you not know me ? "

She was startled by the strange question,
and drew back. The man smiled at her
terror. " I did not think you could, but
perhaps you will be surprised and, it maybe,
not pleased when you learn that I am
your father."

The gentlemen had gone up to the
drawing-room, and the ladies were most
gracious; but to Eglinton the whole

thing was stale, flat, and unprofitable
because Davie was not there. At last he
took courage to ask where she was, and
as he did so Mr. Davidson led her into
the room.

She looked very pale, but quiet. There
was a strange light in her eyes, as if
there was something she could not understand
in the whole proceeding.

Mr. Davidson', cool as ever, walked
forward to Corbett, and said to him, ' I
have now seen Miss Morrison, and I am
satisfied. I wish you good night."

Corbett, with his sense of hospitality,
and in spite of his intense dislike to the
man, said, * No ; you must stay here tonight,
and I must ask you to go with me
into another room, as I have something
to say to you."

Davidson bowed, and said ' Certainly."

VOL. I. K

They walked together into the library,
leaving Davie sitting in a strange dazed
way on the couch.

When Corbett was alone with him, he
first offered him a cigar ; then, when
Davidson had seated himself, Corbett,
standing by the fireplace, said 

u There is something very peculiar, Mr.
Davidson, in your arrival and in the
effect which your conversation has produced
upon Miss Morrison. Will you
explain to me what it means ? "

'I have no explanation to offer. My
conversation with her related to her
father, and to him alone."

'you were with him when he died, I
believe ? "

There was that strange smile again
upon Davidson's face as he answered,
*eyes," with a peculiar emphasis upon

the word, ' and I saw him die. You are
aware that I arranged all his affairs for
him, and Messieurs Take & Co., Calcutta,
will supply you with any further information
you may require."

"But, come now," said Corhett, "can
we not come to some understanding ; or
will you wait over to-night, and perhaps
tomorrow you may be more willing to
speak ? "

Davidson remained silent.

Corhett rang the hell. When the
servant came he requested that Mr.
Eglinton should he sent down to him.
When Eglinton came in, Corhett suggested
that they should have some conversation
about the mine, and then left
the room. He went straight to the
drawing-room, and, with an apology to
the guests, took Davie by the hand and

led her out. When they had got into
the parlour, he held her by both hands,
and looking at her with earnest affection,
he said, *' Tell me, Davie. What has
this man been saying ? "
She was silent.

'' Speak, Davie. I know he has told
you something which has frightened you.
You promised that when you were in
trouble you would speak to me. Speak
to me now."

*' I. cannot answer," she replied, and
poor Davie's face was full of sorrow.

"I will not press you any farther just
now, but I know there is something that
he has said to you that is causing you
great trouble, and I know that when you
think a little longer you will tell me what
it is. Be sure that I am ready to do anything
that will serve you."

And then suddenly drawing her head
towards him and kissing her on the brow,
he murmured, ' My darling, why is it you
won't trust me ? ''

Looking at him with apathetic quietness
in her eyes, she answered 

 Medwyn, why will you not trust me ?
I cannot tell you what he has said, but
it has been something to startle me 
something so strange that I don't know
how to believe it. If it is true, then all
you have told me was wrong, and I cannot
believe that either. Do forgive me for
to-night. Let me go to my room. Tomorrow
I shall be calmer, and then I maybe
able to take your advice. But I cannot
tell you what this man has said."

Corbett released her hands and said,
* My poor child, you need rest ; but
before this man leaves the house I will
discover the cause of your trouble."

CHAPTEK XI.

THE PUZZLE.

Davie in her own room sat down and cried.
The revelation had been so strange, and
the conditions attaching to it so much
stranger, that the poor child felt as if the
whole sunshine of her young life had
disappeared.

How was it this man could claim her
as his child ?

He had shown her the letters of her
mother, which she could recognize, and
how could she doubt that he was the man
he represented himself to be ?

The strange words which he had spoken
to her told her a strange story  that he
had for reasons of his own made use of
the death of Davidson to assume his
place, and had for so many years been
silent because he wished to tell her that
when he claimed her as his daughter she
was the heiress of a large fortune. He
had done so much already  he had won
so much and lost so much  that he still
hoped he would be able to make her
one of the richest women in the country.
But fortune had gone against him  only
for a nettle while, for he knew that he had
the power to overcome fortune. She was
to wait only for a little while and he
would prove to her that she was the
daughter of a man of genius.

But, meanwhile, she was to be absolutely
silent about his re-appearance.

She had no reason to complain, for he
had left her sufficient to make her life
easy and comfortable ; as she was already-aware.


All this was true, and therefore Davie
was astounded  the more astounded
when she read the letters of her mother.
How could she doubt when there were
these treasures presented to her to prove
the truth of what the man said ? And
yet there was a doubt in her mind which
she could not explain even to herself.
That he was like her father she knew
from Medwyn's exclamation ; that he
was her father seemed true, because he
had her mother's letters ; more so that
he showed her a portion of her mother's
hair  at which her heart grew sore, for
she had no such relic.

She swayed to and fro in her chair

trying to work out the problem how she
was to act. To tell Medwyn was to
break the pledge she had given to the
man ; to deny Medwyn was to break
the promise she had given to him. She
could not see any way out of the difficulty.


But while she was crying and trying
to solve this curious puzzle Mrs. Wybrant
burst into the room.

My dear child, what is the meaning,
of all this? You are ill. We must see
at once what we can do for you ; and
the first thing that I think should be
done is that we should have a pic-nic
tomorrow."

The absurdity of this proposal in contrast
with the grief of the girl was even
to her in her condition enough to cause
a smile.

Mrs. Wybrant regarded that as a good
sign, and thought her influence was
already proving of good effect.

' I would rather be left at home today,
if you please, for just now there are
matters stranger than you can imagine
passing within me."

' What nonsense, my dear child !
You have nothing of serious consequence
to trouble you. You are rich  comparatively,
that is; you are free  that
is to say, you can do as you like ; and
yet you are fretting, as if you were a
woman with all the cares of the world
upon your head. They will come soon
enough : don't meet them. I have had
troubles, too, but I always left them
aside, and took to the pleasure that was
given to me."

Davie raised her head in a wearied way

and said  'saint Wybrant, will you
leave me ? "

< Why so ? Surely I can comfort you,
surely I can be of use to you ? "

*No," lie answered sadly; 'no one
can be of use to me just now."

Mrs. Wybrant, with her breast swelling
like that of a pigeon in the presence of
a rival, and with an amount of severity
in her voice, said: "That is not right,
Davie. You understand that I am now
your guardian,  I am, indeed, your
mother ; or at least I take your mother's
place; and I demand to know why you
are ill and who has made you ill ? "

Davie, with a helpless look, implored
her to leave her alone.

Very good, child ; I shall leave you
alone till tomorrow ; and then I expect
you to be ready to drive with us to
Braemar."

* To-morrow is Sunday," pleaded
Davie.

' So much the better ; we shall go to
the church, and maybe see the Queen
and the rest of the royal family. That
would be a very good idea," said Mrs.
Wybrant, with a laugh. 'rit is rather
a long drive ; but we can do it easily,
and I see an outing will do you good."

Very well, I will do whatever you
wish," said Davie, " if you will only leave
me alone just now."

Leave you alone, poor child ! " Mrs.
"Wybrant said, with that assumption of
authority and that intonation of forced
affection which is always disagreeable 
certainly, if you wish me to do so. But
why should I leave you ? "

Davie's face suddenly became hard and
cold. She rose ; then, with a voice so

firm that it astounded her aunt, answered


"Because I wish it."

Oh, very well, my dear. I wanted to
comfort you. I do not wish to disturb
you. But remember that tomorrow you
must be ready to go with us on our proposed
journey. It will be delightful
going over the hills ; delightful to be at
the church ; delightful to have dinner at
Braemar ; and altogether we shall have ,
a day of unmitigated enjoyment."

With that she swept out of the room
with the air of one who had done the
duty of a good Samaritan, and immediately
went to the piano in the drawing-room,
where she strummed in such a way
as to cause annoyance to everybody,
although politeness would not allow anybody
to speak.

Corbett had again returned to the room
and inquired for Eghnton, who presently
appeared ; and on asking him where Mr.
Davidson was, he received the information
that he had gone.

' Gone where," said Corbett, '' at this
time of night ? "

** Well," replied Eglinton, ' he said he
was going to Aboyne. He had his horse
ready, and in this house he could not
rest. He asked me to make an excuse
for him, but I am forced to tell the
truth."

Corbett shrugged his shoulders.

'' Well, he is simply the most incomprehensible
being that I have ever met.
What do you think of him ? "

' Just what I have told you before 
that he is the cleverest fellow I have ever
met."

At this juncture Bousfield, in his rough
way, said 

 He is a most inconsiderate scoundrel,
and if I were you I would at once pursue
him and force him to explain the reasons
of his visit here and how he has so
affected Miss Morrison."

Medwynfelt that there was truth in the
words, and that he had failed in the
purpose he had intended. The man's
escape was almost more than he could
endure, and he felt inclined to follow
Bousfield's advice and to pursue him as
fast as possible. He stood for a moment
in hesitation ; then he shook his head,
saying

* We can wait."

CHAPTEK XII.

THE Excursion.

A BEiGHT morning, with the sun shining
on the dull grey landscape. Eglinton
was out early ready for the journey, and
again found Davie in the garden. All
round about was the bloom of the
heather; within their immediate circle
were the blossoms of many trees and
the fragrance of many roses.

He, advancing to her, congratulated
her upon the day of her majority, and
hoped that many birthdays might return
in happiness.

As they walked along the shaded path,
he talked nonsense and quoted poetry.
She listened, with sad eyes, occasionally
speaking a word and saying yes, it was
good, or it was bad.

'' Shall I tell you," said Eglinton,
' one of the old verses of Tennyson which
I have associated with you ? The lines
are short, and I will repeat them if you
will listen.

She walked on with a bowed head, and
he murmured that old sonnet : 

As when with downcast eyes we muse and brood,
And ebb into a former life, we seem
To lapse far back in a confused dream

To states of mystical similitude ;

If one but speaks or hems or stirs his chair,
Ever the wonder waxeth more and more,
So that we say, ' all this hath been before.

All this hath been I know not when or where.
So. friend, when first I looked upon your face

Our thoughts gave answer, each to each so true 

VOL. I. L

Opposed mirrors each reflecting each 

Altho' I knew not in what time or place,
Methought that I had often met with you
And each had lived in the other's heart and speech."

Davie was in a too distressed state of
mind to appreciate the lines which Egerton
quoted. But she felt that in his
words there was something more than
mere quotation.

She mentally echoed them, and then
said 

'' The lines are interesting; where did
you learn them, and why ? "

 I learned them for you."

He pressed her hand in such a way
that she drew back, and he instantly
said 

< Forgive me, I have been too rash,
but the morning and the place seemed
suitable for a confession of "

' Of what ? " she asked, somewhat
sternly.

'' Of the fact that I love you."

The underlying sense of humour which
Davie possessed rose at that moment,
and in spite of all the sorrow which
had been suddenly cast upon her, she
felt like her old self, and said with a
laugh 

'don't you think, Mr. Eglinton, that
you should wait a little before you make
such a serious assertion. I am quite
ready to believe in your sincerity, but I
would prefer to have a little longer
acquaintance before I accept the offer of
your love  if we may call it so."

'' Call it so ? Why not ? I do love
you. You may not believe it, but I have
thought of you since you were a child.
I have remembered you in many strange

situations and many strange places, and
now I come to claim you."

Davie, still treating the matter as one
of fun, answered 

' Mr. Egiinton, you are really very
humorous, but you must not think that I
can believe all you say. I am amused by
what you have told me, and interested in
the verses you have quoted ; but, for the
rest, you must wait."

He, bowing his head seriously, said, ** I
shall wait  wait until you are ready and
willing to give me your hand."

She laughed at his earnestness and
seemed to be merrier than she had been
for some time.

'Yery good, Mr. Egiinton, when Leo
again brings you to me I will give you an
answer."

At that time there was a general

summons to dress for the excursion, and,
much to his chagrin, Eglinton was separated
from Davie.

The large waggonette was the vehicle
chosen for the drive over the hills. Mrs.
Wybrant appeared in a flaring hat and
high-coloured dress, which was sufficient
to attract the attention of anybody. Miss
Schoubert was very quietly dressed, and
Davie, of course, appeared in the simplest
possible costume. Bousfield decided to
drive, and the party started in all good
humour  the fact that Mr. Davidson had
taken his departure having apparently
made a satisfactory impression upon all
the company.

They drove up the grey roads, the
perfume of the heather in their nostrils,
the keen air exhilarating their spirits,
and the waving lines of hills suggesting
beauty and interest to their minds.

In the drive Davie almost forgot the
trouble which had come upon her. She
seemed to begin a new life.

A new life due to the wonderful recuperative
powers of youth. The scent
of the heather delighted her, and when
on reaching the first height they came to
a well, the stonework of which had been
arranged by a village simpleton in remembrance
of his benefactor, she jumped
out quite gaily and drank a cup of the
water to the memory of the unknown
hero who was in this strange place endowed
with monumental honours. To
most of the party it was a surprise to
find deep vales and hills covered with
sheep ; and then broad stretches of moorland
; and again farms and villages withall
the signs of homely comfort about
them. At one place they passed over

a bridge that spanned a deep ravine,
the road having a peculiar turn at that
point which required skilful management
of horses to cross in safety. But Bousfield
was a good driver and he only laughed
at the hysterical exclamations of Mrs.
Wybrant. She became more fussy and
hysterical when E glint on' s hat was blown
off and flew down the scarp of the hill,
and he had to follow it, with apparently
every danger of tumbling headlong over
the rough boulders into the ravine.

He secured his hat, however, and returned
with a merry smile upon his face,
which was only the reflection of that of
all the party except Mrs. Wybrant.

 It is easier to get down than up,"
said Eglinton laughing. ' I am sorry to
have kept you waiting, but one can't go
driving through the country without a
hat."

' Good gracious, Mr. Eglinton," said
Mrs. Wybrant, "I did not think you
would risk your life for the sake of a hat."

' There was no risk at all," he said reassuringly,
and the whole party laughed.

To all the party except Medwyn and
Davie it was a new world they had
entered. They had passed the Grampians
on one side in proceeding to Aberdeen,
and on the other side as they had
journeyed by rail down the side of the
Dee to Ballater, but they had never
understood that on the top of the hills
was a large population.

' Dear me," exclaimed Mrs. Wybrant,
'I thought there was nothing but snow
on the tops of the Grampians, and here I
find people and schools and churches and
I must say a very lovely country."

Medwyn smiled and said 

*' You see you have always made your
journey by the railway, and therefore you
could not conceive how much beauty there
was on the hill-tops. But you can judge
for yourself of the beauty of the place,
although you may still see snow on some
of the cairns or on Lochnagar. I assure
you people can live very happily here."

' No doubt," she said snappishly ;
"that is, people who care for nothing
else but living."

Bousfield broke in with his hearty'
laugh 

And what else are the people to do
but to think of their living and what they
can get to live upon ? I should say that
the happiest state we could reach would
be that in which we should have no
thought of living at all but simply to
vegetate."

Mrs. Wybrant turned her head away,
disdaining to answer such a proposition.

To the others the question and the
answer afforded much merriment.

They arrived at Ballater in time to
have breakfast, change horses, and to
proceed to Craigie.

To Medwyn the outing was anything
but pleasant. Apart from his annoyance
at the fact that Davidson had escaped
him, there was before his eyes a very clear
evidence that Davie and Eglinton were
becoming more than friends. He blamed
himself for feeling vexed at this; he
reproached himself for even wishing to
interfere  and yet he was sorely troubled.
At last he owned to himself that he could
not part with Davie.

On the top of Morven the sun shone
brilliantly, and as they passed Abergeldie

they were not a little amused to see
some of the domestics of the Prince of
Wales crossing the river in a basket
swung on a rope. They came to the
grey church of Craigie, situated upon a
hill looking so peaceful that it seemed
a fitting place for calm worship. When
they entered church they found it
crammed with visitors, and the ordinary
congregation almost driven out of their
places. Her Majesty entered by the
private staircase, and as much attention
was shown in the eyes of the people to
the Prince and Princess of Wales as to
herself. The service proceeded without
any distinct recognition of royalty being
present.

The preacher, a tall man with an intellectual
face, an eminent professor in
one of our northern colleges, delivered

his sermon without any reference and
without any apparent deference to the
distinguished audience to which he had
to preach. It was notable that he did
not even Hft his eyes to any of the royal
party, hut proceeded as calmly as if he
had been preaching to an ordinary congregation.
The sermon certainly touched
upon the affairs of the world, but only
on the affairs which were always occurring.
His text was a simple one, and
when he prayed it was that the world
might have peace. When the service
was over the people quitted the church
in quite as orderly a way as if no one
of distinction had been present.

Mrs. Wybrant, however, highly excited
by the pleasure of seeing royalty, was
much disappointed that there was no
element of excitement in the other

people. She could not understand the
Queen appearing in such a small, stuffy
church, as she called it, without anybody
recognizing her. She just seemed
to be like an ordinary woman, the only
difference being that her Majesty left the
church before the other people.

They returned to the waggonette,
which had been put up at a small wayside
inn, and Davie laughed very much
at her aunt's indignation that the Queen
had not made a speech or done something
unusual. Then they drove on,
still by the river, past the Lion's Face,
past the Castle of Braemar, and presently
arrived at Braemar itself, where they
had arranged to dine.

But as there was some time to wait
for dinner the party separated with the
intention of taking a view of the surrounding

scenery. The Linn of Quoich
was an object of interest to Davie,
and with willing steps she accompanied
Eglinton in order to obtain at least a
glimpse of it. But somehow they wandered
down by the river at the back of
the village, and lingered long gazing at
the water as it flowed onwards. They
were under the shade of the trees, and
Eglinton again took his opportunity.
The river, shallow and glistening under
the sunlight, and reflecting the trees,
seemed as it murmured along to be a
fitting chorus to a tale of love.

' Fine scenery round about here. Miss
Morrison," said Eglinton, with a chuckle
of enjoyment at his own commonplace
observation.

' Beautiful," was her answer, with an
equal sense of the commonplace but with

deeper feeling of the beauty of the
scenery which surrounded her.

'don't you think that one could be
happy in such a place as this?"

'' Yes, one might be, but two might
not," she answered with a laugh. '' I
have often puzzled myself by what rule
of arithmetic two are made into one,
but I always understood the people who
marry were transformed into that singular
condition. Although, by the way,
I find that railway clerks do not recognize
it. They show their wisdom in
that, because ifc so seldom happens that
the two are one in reality. The man is
fond and often foolish at first. The
woman is flattered and weak, and yields
to his approaches. By-and-by there comes
a time when each draws back from the
other, and discovers that a mistake has
been made.

* Could that be in our case ? "

I don't know, but it is very probable.
Two people are very apt to imagine that
their future is to be one of entire bliss,
but they do not make allowance for the
change of thought and feeling which
comes with better acquaintance. You
know the old proverb which so many
people illustrate,  Marry in haste and repent
at leisure.' "

I see you are a philosopher," said
Eglinton, smiling, and then suddenly
changing his tone. 'I had no idea that
you had studied life so deeply as to become
such a cynic."

A cynic is often best able to answer
folly."

'you are playing with me. Can you
not be serious for one moment. Can
you not tell me in all earnestness that

THE EXCURSION. 161

I may hope some day you will think of
me  that you will love me."

Davie looked at him with that strange
expression of surprise that she had
often shown, and then with, a frankness
which few women show she answered "

'' Love you ? I think I do so now."

Egiinton, amazed and delighted by
this confession, took her in his arms
intending to kiss her. She thrust him
back, and at that moment Corbett's voice
was heard behind them saying quietly 

' You will be late for dinner if you do
not come at once."

Both were startled by this sudden interruption.
Davie blushed. Egiinton
looked confused and then murmured,
' We were ojilj interested in some
matters concerning ourselves and you
must excuse our delay. The scenery is

VOL. I. M

very beautiful, we were both interested
in it."

Corbett gazed from one to the other,
and the sad look which had so often
appeared in his eyes was there again,
in his mind was the sad cry 

 Oh, Davie, why will you not trust
me?"

Eglinton was full of joy, he had won
the prize he had sought, and although
lie was sorry for Corbett, there was too
much pleasure in his own triumph to
permit him to yield a point to his adversary.


Corbett only saw that some understanding
had occurred between them and was
silent. Eglinton gaily said 

** Come, let us go to dinner."

Chapter XIII.

THE NEW LIGHT.

The party was a merry one. They had
been lucky enough to secure a private
room in the hotel, and were consequently
free from the disagreeable feeling that
other people were listening to their conversation.
Mrs. Wy brant was brilliant
in her own estimation  and made much
fun, as she thought, of Bousfield's stolid
manners, and of Graham.

The latter certainly had an idiosyncrasy
which would have astonished as well as
amused most people. Although he had

(lone good service in the navy, he disliked
the sea.

' It is all very well for boys who have
been reading Marryat," he said; ' but
after you have been a dozen years upon
the water you tire of it  at least I have
done so, and keep away from it except
widen I am compelled to go on duty."

' That's a joke, Graham," said Corbett,
'for we know what you have
done."

eyes," answered Graham with epigrammatic
severity, ' but there is a difference
between doing one's duty and
liking it."

To Davie the whole scene was one of
intense enjoyment ; she laughed at Bouse
when he attempted to make a joke,
and at Graham when he railed against
the sea ; the new light that had flashed

upon her made all the world beautiful.
Only the sad expression in Medwyn's
eyes disturbed her happiness. What
could she do for him to make him
happy like herself, to make him feel the
pleasure of the sunshine and the air, of
the singing of the birds and the murmur
of the water ?

She tried hard to rouse him, and
he responded with gentle words and evident
pleasure in the recognition of her
endeavours to please him ; but the remembrance
of what he had seen was
still in his mind, and he almost shrunk
from her approaches. He commanded
himself, however, because he was eager
to avoid causing her pain, and she, still
unconscious of the feelings with which
he regarded her, tried by trifling attentions,
to show that she was happy, expecting

that he would be happy too in
knowing it.

But he was not happy, in spite of his
effort to believe that he could be content
with any arrangement which satisfied
lier. He had decided that he was never
to marry, but as soon as he saw that
Davie was being taken away from him,
he had become conscious that his resolution
was very feeble indeed. He
wished to study her interests, he wished
to see her in the future a woman in comfortable
circumstances and free from care.
But the character of Eglinton did not
please him, and he was frightened at
what the issue might be.

The party, however, went on merrily,
and on the return journey Mrs. Wy brant
was gratified with another sight of the
Queen. As the outsider approached, the

carriage stopped, and the gentlemen
rose and lifted their hats. Her Majesty-bowed
and smiled, as Eglinton suggested,
at the extravagant dress of Mrs. Wybrant.
This was the source of much
merriment to the party, and they drove
on admiring the scenery in its calm sundown
light, the grey green shades predominant,
and rabbits starting hither
and thither as if they were conscious of
being safe from the guns. When they
reached Balnagairn, Mistress Meg received
them with due honours, but she
kept her distance from Eglinton, who
had quite clearly foiled her plan unsettling
Medwyn comfortably and of
giving Davie a good husband.

The party had been so very happy
that Medwyn thought there was no

chance of danger ; he even fancied that
what he had seen had been some accidental
movement of Eglintqn's which
had deceived him. But still there was
the doubt, and still there was the worrying
thought within his own mind  should
he permit this to go on. Apparently
Davie was quite agreeable. She continued
to puzzle herself about the strange
joy which had entered her life ; a joy
which filled her heart with wonders ; a
joy which filled her mind with vague and
wondrous visions of the future.

This made the road homeward bright
as a day in June, and then roses would
have perfumed the way ; and indeed it
was remarkable to observe how many
roses garnished the cottages which they
passed, even at this time of year. Clinton
was merry, for happy thoughts were
in his mind, and so he asked  

*'Do you often have such bloom on
the heather?"

Davie laughed, saying  ' Why, that's
not heather at all  that is broom."

Eglinton looked put out, but still
quite cool, for he had got his hold of
Davie, and whatever she might do he
was still able to claim her. Corbett was
quite aware of this from what he had observed
on the hillside, and so he drew



hack without the slightest sign of animosity.
But there was a feeling that
suggested that she had never thought of
him as a lover, and that was the un-kindest
cut of all. He endured his disappointment
with marvellous calmness ;
hut he did feel pain  a pain such as a
long life could not overcome.

Chapter XIV.

BETWEEN TWO FIRES.

When they reached Balnagairn there was
a general expression of the pleasure
which the excursion had afforded. Mrs.
Warrant was quite sure that the Queen
had honoured her with a special bow, and
was happy. Mrs. Bousfield and Mrs.
Schoumert smiled at her vanity, and
then proceeded to their rooms to arrange
their dresses.

Davie had already done so, and Corbett
had asked her to see him in the
library, whilst Eglinton had made his

claim to a meeting iu the Boxwood
Park.

She went first to Corbett.

"It is strange Davie, that we cannot
understand each other," he said smilingly ;
"hut I suppose it is the nature of a
woman to be a mystery to those who
love her most."

What mystery is there, Medwyn ? I
know of none."

Oh, Davie, the mystery is in my
feeling for you, and the future will be a
blank to me without you."

"I do not know what you mean," she
said quietly.

Then I shall not tell you," he said.
Our relationship has been of such longstanding
that I suppose you cannot believe
in the existence of something more
than a brotherly feeling ? "

She placed her hands uponhis shoulders,
and her large blue eyes scanned his face
curiously.

*' What is it that makes you so strange
  we are good friends, and you were the
dearest that I ever had ? Why is it that
now you look so sadly at me ? "

' Can you not gn less ? " he said in a
low tone, and looking at her with sad
eyes.

'No."

''ThenshaUItellyou?"

*' Yes. I would like to know. Lately
you have not been like yourself with
me, and it would be some satisfaction
to know what I have done to cause such
a change ? "

' Oh, Davie," was his exclamation,
'' you know "

*'I do not  I only know that you

are a father to me as well as a
friend."

* That is the unkindness cut of all.
I wish to be more than a friend. I wish
to be your husband."

She, with a look that expressed wonder
and something like fear, gazed at him,
and then made the simple exclamation 

'' Medwyn ! "

There was such a strange look in her
eyes that he paused, and hesitated to
make the revelation which was on his
lips. Was it possible that in such a
short time she could have given up all
the love that had been bestowed upon
her, and could be ready to give herself
to one who was a comparative stranger,
without one apparent thought of the
pain she was causing ?

He patted her on the head 

* Quite right, Davie ; so long as you
make things plain there is no difficulty.
What you wish shall he done. I have
only desired to secure your happiness,
and evidently I have failed."

'' Don't talk like that, Medwyn. You
have been kind and generous. If my
thoughts have wandered in other ways
than those in which you would have
wished them to go, I cannot help it.
But for you there is all the gratitude
my heart is capable of feeling."

' Davie," he murmured,  why do you
speak as if there had been nothing more
between us but ordinary intercourse ?
I have held back for a long time. My
thoughts have been with you day and
night ; I held back because I loved you
so, and because there is a reason why
we should not be together."

*'Wliat reason?" asked Davie, wonderingly.
'' You know, Medwyn, that
you have always been very dear to me.
Something new has happened, and I don't
understand myself."

*' Medwyn smiled, and taking up a
book, played with it in his hand.

*' I understand you, Davie  you have
lost yourself."

*' Not quite," she said with a sly
twinkle in her eyes; "but I know what
you mean, and I will be frank with you.
I am going to meet Eglinton in the
Boxwood Park. He will be there, and
I will talk to him and laugh with him,
and maybe  this with a smile  make
love with him. Will you be very
angry ? "

"No, darling. Whatever pleases you
will satisfy me until there comes a point

at which there is danger, and I am
afraid that is very near. Don't think
I have any angry thoughts towards Eg-linton.
He is a good fellow, and would
not do any harm if he could help it ;
but, unfortunately, his good intentions
only pave the way to his blunders.
Davie, Davie,* can you not understand
how eager I am to save you from harm
how my whole life is devoted to
you ! "

She bent down upon the couch, hiding
her head and sobbing.

*' Oh, Medwyn, you are cruel to me in
your kindness. I cannot give you what
you ask. I am walking blindly in a
path which is strange to me, but you
arc and always will be very dear to me."

* So be it, Davie. We can agree
between ourselves. Let the future be

what it may, we shall always be at least
brotherly and sisterly."

* Oh, more than that, Medwyn," she
exclaimed. ' Much more than that.

And yet " She paused and looked

up to him with a pitiful and tearful face.
*have you no pity, Medwyn? Do you
not see how troubled I am ? "

He placed his hand quietly on her
head, and smoothed her hair with a
tenderness which a father might have
displayed to a vexed child, and then
said 

* Davie, I knew it all. Don't be
ashamed, and don't be afraid. If I find
that Eglinton is a safe man, I shall give
my consent at once to your wishes."

She looked up with such a startled
expression that even Corbett, witch all his
coolness, was astonished.

YOL. I. V

' You are very good. Then let me goto
him."

It was hard upon Corbett, but he took
her hand and led her to the door.

Yes, Davie; go to him, since it is
your wish. For what your wishes are I
want to fulfil."

She went away, but she did not go
immediately into the garden. Medwyn's
tenderness had so affected her, and his
kindness had so impressed her, that she
doubted within herself which of the two
men she loved.

Looking from the window she saw
Eglinton impatiently passing up and
down the path, and there was a certain
sense  a very disagreeable sense  of
having done something wrong in her
mind. There was also a certain longing
to speak to him and to explain that there

must be nothing more between them. It
was a foolish thought, but Hke a woman
she acted upon it and went out to him.
He, as soon as he saw her, darted forward
with an exclamation which rather
astounded her.

 Oh, my daring, why have you stayed
away from me ? I want you to go away
from this place ; take every hazard, and
be my wife. You have said that you love
me, then, what fear should there be
between us ? "

Davie had been prepared for much, but
not for so much. That the effect of the
strange moonlight which had arisen in
her life was very strong she knew, that
Eglinton's influence upon her was very
strong she felt ; but that he should have
discovered it and used the power he
possessed was starting in the extreme.

''I don't know what bar there should
be between us except that we know so
little of each other, and in a little while
you would tire of me, and perhaps I
would tire of you. Can you not understand
that whilst I think of you so much
I may still doubt myself ? "

'* Why doubt yourself? Why doubt
nie ? There is a bright future before us.
We have many things to hope for, many
things to look forward to. Listen to me.
If your heart has come to me, let me take
you too."

There was that sudden change again in
Davie which showed her sense of fun, and
looking askant at him, she said 

** But how do you know that my heart
has gone to you ? "

He drew up, and was almost inclined to
be indignant, but then he softened and

quietly observed :  Because you said so ;
and when a woman once says that she
loves, a man is entitled to claim her love."
Davie's face would have been amusing
to any one who had seen it at that
moment. It expressed the sense that
she did care for him combined with the
foolish feeling of an endeavour to torment
him. She was not quite sure of herself in
what she was doing or saying. And ther
was the dreadful memory that she had
listened to the strange story of Mr.
Davidson. Bound to silence, and yet
knowing what she did, could she accept
the advances of any man ? To the poor
girl the position was very trying. She
was pressed on the one hand to accept
the love of a man who was very dear
to her, and on the other to accept that
of one who had brought fresh thoughts

and prospects into tier eyes. And yet
she dare not speak. She dare not decide.
There was a certain sense of responsibility
in all that she was doing.

' Do not speak to me now, Mr. Clinton,"
she said sadly, 'for I cannot
answer you. You do not know the sad
secret of my life, and I cannot tell you.
Even Medwyn, who has been brother and
friend and father almost to me, does not
know it, and I am helpless. I must obey,
because I know that I am forbidden to let
others know."

'' That is folly," said Eglinton in his
impetuous way. " If any one harms you,
why not speak to those who care for you
and let them protect you ? If any one
threatens you, why not stand back and
tell those who have the power to guard
you?"

There was siicli a pitiful look in Davie's
eyes that even Eglinton, so blind to the
general phases of expression, was impressed,
and he said in a bewildered way :
*'I do not understand what can have
happened to yon."

'* I dare not tell. I have pledged
myself to silence, and the thought of what
has occurred is killing me."

 More fool you," said Eglinton hotly.
' What has occurred cannot be anything
on your account, and your proper course
is to protect yourself."

That was not precisely the language
which a lover might have used, but it was
honest and sincere, and intended for her
interest. She felt that, and did not resent
it. She felt the kindly feeling that was in
his voice and look, and in the touch of
his hand. As they walked along the Boxwood

Park, the soft shadows of the gloaming
falling upon them, she knew that her
heart was indeed gone, and that Eglinton
had got it. She remembered Medwyn,
and there was something of painful regret
in thinking that he would be disappointed
he who had been so good, and had in
every way shown his devotion towards
her. It was hard to think of his suffering,
after what he had just said to her. But
love was more powerful than judgment,
as it always has been; and, come what
might, she had yielded herself to Eglinton.

CHAPTEK XV.

CHANGES.

The struggle in Davie's mind that night
was a cruel one, for the joy she had found
was quite darkened by the consciousness
of the sorrow she had unknowingly
caused. Her self-reproach was of course
foolish, but it was natural enough, considering
the affectionate regard she had
for Medwyn. She felt that she had
neglected many opportunities of doing
him service, and for his sake she felt that
it was almost her duty to turn away from
Eglinton. That thought distracted her

more ; for she could not decide between
lier own inclination and her desire to
make Medwyn happy.

What could she do ?

And with that sad question in her
mind, she fell asleep, only to dream in a
confused way of the troubles which surrounded
her. She remembered vaguely
the sonnet which Eglinton had quoted,
and washed that they might have realized
it. But in her thoughts of Medwyn the
bar between them seemed too great.

She was almost glad when Mistress
Meg  who was like the early bird, first
to learn anything  came to her with the
intelligence that Eglinton had received
an urgent request from his father to
return to him at once. And yet the
thought that the man who had now
become dear to her was going away, and

that they were to be separated, was nota
pleasing one.

She felt his departure the more painful
because at breakfast he seemed to be so
merry that it occurred to her he had no
regret in leaving. He was such a strange
fellow that if she had thought of it she
would have doubted the affection he professed.
But then there was the tender
touch of his hand as he asked her to take
a last walk in the garden. She could not
refuse, and all the dogs followed her when
she went out.

' You will let me now call you Davie ?
You know that we are to each other all
that a man and woman can be until they
are married."

Davie held down her head, for the
struggle was still in her mind as to the
duty which she owed to Medwyn, and
the feeling which she felt for Egiinton.

' I am going away," he continued;
but you will be in my thoughts every
moment. It is no use hiding it from ourselves.
The strange affinity which directs
the fate of us all is between us. You
are strong in owning your fate. Then
do not let us play with it. Let us be
frank, and own that we belong to one
another."

Davie still hesitated  still thought of
Medwyn and of his sorrow.

Give me time," she said. I have
still a year of the training to pass
through, and it is better that I should
pass through that before I give you a
final answer."

* So be it," said Eglinton, with more
seriousness than he had yet displayed.

When he had gone Davie was very
quiet, but in her manner there was an

evident sense of loss. The days passed
quickly ; the gentlemen were quite happy
in their shooting; the ladies amused
themselves as best they could in excursions
through the neighbourhood, with
an occasional sail on the loch. Then
came the time when the party was to
leave for Colborough, where Bousfield
intended, as he said, using an Americanism,
that they should have a good



time. She had often thought of this departure,
often wished for it, and now that
the time had come she felt full of fear, as
if she were leaving the haven in which
she had known happiness to venture out
upon a sea of troubles. Mrs. Wybrant
was of course buoyant in the anticipation
of the merry times she was to have at
Colborough, for, as she whispered to
Davie, Corbett was such a moody creature

that it was scarcely possible to be
gay in his presence, and she hoped that
he was not to be one of the party. Davie
was more shocked by this than by anything
Mrs. Wybrant had said yet.

She thought there was something very
curious in the resemblance between the
manner of Mr. Davidson and Mrs. Wybrant.
Both vexed her by their strange
propositions, and both tried her temper
so that sometimes she had felt inclined
to speak very sharply.

Medwyn had intended to accompany
the party to Yorkshire, but Mistress Meg
spoke so seriously to him, seeing his low
condition, that he agreed to allow them
to go without him, and promised to
follow.

He drove them to the station, and
Davie, sorely troubled by this strange

parting, walked with him up and down
the platform, dreading the moment when
the train would arrive.

*' Are you cold," he said, as he felt her
hand tremble on his arm ?

** Yes, Medwyn, I am shivering. I do
not understand it, but I have a great fear
of leaving you."

* Do not fear," he said; " I shall soon
be with you." 

But there was something so weariful in
his look that she felt still more frightened.

** Are you ill ? " she asked.

He turned to her with one of those sad
smiles.

 I would be well, Davie, if I knew that
you were happy."

 I cannot be happy, Medwyn, so long
as I see you so sad."

He laughed as if there was some joke

in what she had said, and then he pressed
her arm saying 

''I am afraid, Davie, there is some
blunder between us, but we must try to
make the best of it, and, if we can, laugh
rather than cry at our spilt milk. You
will enjoy yourself at Colborough. Bouse
is a good fellow, and he will do all
that possibly can be done to make you
happy. I shall be with you very soon.
At present I have things to do here
which will not allow me to accompany
you."

** Do you still care for me, Medwyn? "

He looked at her in surprise.

' Why do you ask such a question ? "

*' Because you are so cold  because you
allow me to go away with so little sign
that you are sorry for it."

 Oh, my darling," he murmured in her

ear,  you are very cruel to me, and try
me very much." Then, feeling ashamed
of his harshness, he pressed her arm again-and
looked into her eyes tenderly, and
would have taken her in his arms but for
the place in which they were.

The train was approaching. She understood
him, and the tears sprung to her

eyes.

'' How can you say that I am cruel
Medwyn, when I would do anything to
please you? and I am going away too,
and it hurts me very much to leave you
in this unkind way."

'* Do not say unkind, Davie; we shall
all be merry enough by-and-by. Here is
the train."

Bousfield and Graham bustled about
seeing after the ladies' boxes, and then
they all went into the compartment

VOL. I.

Medwyn, standing at the window, said
'' Good bye," promising that it should
only be for a short time.

Davie, sitting by the window when the
train moved, seemed inclined to cry.
She strained her eyes as long as it was
possible to see, and almost wished that
she might have stayed behind, notwithstanding
the visions she had had of
the new life upon which she was now
entering.

Medwyn turned away with a heavy
heart, and yet that look which Davie had
given to him as the train moved out of
the station, and the motion of her hand
in token of adieu, afforded him some
comfort. There had been in the expression
something that made him
think he might almost hope yet to win
her.

On returning to the house he found
some letters and a telegram waiting for
him.

He had been quietly making inquiries
about Mr. Davidson. The letters informed
him that the man was one of the
most dangerous speculators known in the
States. The telegram informed him that
the Silver Mine Company was an utter
failure, and that every one connected
with it would be ruined.

Medwyn started at this with an exclamation
of terror, thinking of the association
of Davie and Eglinton, and
pitying the latter in spite of their rivalry.
He pitied him still more when thinking
of the old man, his father, who
had unconsciously allowed his son to
waste his means, and who would now
be penniless. Although he did not know

much of Mr. Egiinton, senior, he knew
enough to know his simple nature and
his devotion to science, and it distressed
him to think of how this old man was
to be suddenly left without the means
of livelihood. Unfortunately, the letters
did not give him sufficient information
to enable him to act in such a way as
to protect his friends ; but he was resolved
that, come what might, he would
pursue this man until he had discovered
something which would enable him to
bring home the knavery of which he was
sure he was guilty, and to punish it
properly,

Eh, man, have you gone clean
get ? " said Meg, when she saw Med-gwyn
walking up and down the terrace
meditating over the news he had received.
" Can ye no come in to your

dinner like a sensible man, and if you
want comfort  I will comfort you."

This was meant in all good nature, and
Medwyn smiled.

*' Ah, Meg, I wish you could comfort
me. I know you would like to do so,
and I thank you; but you know as well
as I that it is some one else whom I need
to give me happiness."

Meg raised her head and the Tower cf
Babel quivered.

'It's your own fault. Why did you
let that man come into the house ? Wliy
did you let him stay? Why, the very
dogs aroused that he was to bring
mischief with him."

Medwyn shook his head sadly.

 Poor fellow, he has contrived to
bring as much trouble upon himself ashe
has brought of sorrow to me."

CHAPTEK XVI.

COLBOEOUGH.

Bousfield's place was situated in one of
the loveliest valleys in Yorkshire. The
house was a plain old-fashioned building
of red brick, but the colour had been
toned down by age and it now had a
venerable greyish tinge. One side was
completely covered with thick ivy,
through which the windows flashed in
the sunlight, and in the summer evenings
appeared like enormous rubies set
in green.

Behind was a range of hills, the slopes

of which were in some parts densely
wooded; in front was a broad plain of
rich fields full of golden grain rippling
under the wind like the wavelets of a
lake. The plain was bordered by a long
wood through which ran a stream famous
for its trout, and often Bousfield would
be out in the morning with his rod intime
to bring home a sufficient number
of the glistening speckled delicacies
for breakfast. But the wood itself was
famous for its walks, its wild flowers,
and its broad-spreading trees. In winter
it was bleak and weird enough, but in
summer it was the retreat sought by
many tired merchants of Leeds and Bradford.
There they could forget their
cloth manufactories and warehouses, and
relish the homely but ample dinners
supplied at the old inn of the village.

 The house stood on low ground and
several large French windows gave exit
to an extensive lawn which was bordered
by flower beds and shrubberies. Beyond
that was a line of magnificent beech and
chestnut trees, screening a park in which.
Bousfield kept some of his favourite cows.
The farm-buildings and stables were at
the foot of the park and were notable
throughout the country for the trim state
in which they were kept ; the stables
especially and even the pigsty were
sights which other farmers came to see.

Then, in a large shed he had a collection
of all the latest and most improved
agricultural implements and machinery.
A little way from this shed were the
labourers' cottages, built on a plan of his
own and affording to each married mana
comfortable house with a bit of ground

to cultivate on his own account. Bouse
had reason to be proud of his place ;
and whenever he had visitors his first
pleasure was to show them over it ; and
although he had not much to say on
general topics he was fluent enough when
talking of his farming experiments.

So on the first morning after their
arrival Davie and Captain Graham had
to make the round, Bousfield discoursing
all the time about what he was doing for
the benefit of British farmers. Graham,
who was as indifferent to farming as he
professed to be to the sea, put the
pertinent question 

' But does it pay ? "

Bousfield paused, and there was a somewhat
puzzled look on his face for a
moment, then his expression brightened.

*eyes," he answered, 'it pays in two

ways ; first in discovering what may be
done in farming, next in giving one an
occupation and pleasure. But if you
mean profit in money, it is chiefly from
the cattle I obtain that."

Davie was much amused by the discussion
which followed regarding the
advantages of a model farm, but Bouse
insisted that it served a purpose,
and at any rate it pleased him. The
gentlemen were perfectly good-natured
in their argument, and Graham, who
seemed always to take unpleasant views
of everything  most of his friends thought
it was more in jest than anything else 
insisted that Bousfield was wasting his
capital and keeping some good practical
farmer out of an honest living. Bousfield
laughed and pointed to the fields of
ripened grain where the harvesters were

at work, and the most improved reaping
machines were clearing the ground with
a rapidity which made the labour
easy.

*' As long as I can show that," he said,
' and my stock of cattle I may call myself
a practical farmer. You are the most
awful grumbler I ever knew ; and the funis
you grumble most about the things of
which you know least."

'except the sea," suggested Davie,
with a wicked smile.

Bousfield's loud laugh showed how he
appreciated her quickness.

*' You are right, and I beg your pardon,
Graham ; you can grumble about the
thing of which you have knowledge."

* I wish you were at sea. Miss Morrison,"
said Graham, without the shadow
of a smile on his grave face, although he

was paying a compliment, " and then I
would be pleased with it."

' Thank you," replied Davie, merrily,
* but probably I would not be so."

And so they made their first inspection
of Bousfield's place with much banter and
good humour.

Davie had entered upon the new life to
which she had looked forward so eagerly,
but it was not with the free spirit of enjoyment
she had anticipated would be
hers. There was the remembrance of
the sad face of Medwyn as he stood on
the railway platform watching her depart ;
she felt as if she would like to go back
to cheer his lonely life, and she wished
that he would hasten his coming to Col-borough
in order that he might assure
her she had not been unkind to him.
Then for Eglinton there was a vague

longing, and yet she almost wished that
she had never seen him because Medwyn
was unhappy. They were both coming
soon, but instead of being glad on that
account she had something approaching
to a feeling of dread at the meeting of
the two.

Then there was the shadow of the
mysterious Mr. Davidson hanging over
her thoughts and life. 

The hospitality of Colborough was of
the most liberal character, and both Mr.
and Mrs. Bousfield resolved that their
young guest should be well entertained
during her stay with them. There were
dinners, and balls, and picnics amongst
the most picturesque scenery in such
rapid succession that Davie began to
wish for a little quietude. To Mrs.
Wybrant all this was the height of

felicity, and she could not understand
how a young girl like Davie could tire
of it. Bousfield was more considerate,
and, seeing that Davie was becoming
wearied, said to lier 

* I think we had better call a halt to
our outings and have a quiet time at
home. "What do you say ? "

*' That is just what I would like," she
said gladly.

<Yery well, we shall disappoint Mrs.
Wybrant by refusing the invitations for
the next fortnight, but to tell you the
truth, I rather enjoy the fun of disappointing
her."

*sis not that a little unkind?" asked
Davie*'

Yes, it is," replied Bousfield frankly,
and his face showed that he was sorry
to have spoken unkindly even in jest;

'but I'll tell you what we shall do 
leave her to accept what invitations she
pleases for herder. We can have plenty
of amusement, however, for Eglinton is
to be here tomorrow  that's Friday 
and Corbett comes on Saturday."

That was good news for Davie, and
she had pleasant meditations of rambles
through the fields and along the straggling
paths of the wood by the side of ther
stream with Eglinton and Medwyn. She
had once longed for change and to know
something of the gaieties of life ; now
she was longing for the quiet joys which
are only found in undisturbed intercourse
with those whom we love.

Eglinton arrived, gay as ever, for his
father was better and he was still unaware
of the terrible misfortune which
was about to befall him. On the brink

of ruin lie was bright and cheerful, and
the first opportunity of speaking to Davie
alone was after luncheon, when he proposed
that she should show him ' the
way through the wood "  intending a
joke, of course, but serious enough in his
desire to have her all to himself.

She hesitated at first, and as the
woman who hesitates is lost, she presently
consented. He crossed the lawn
to the gate, and in a few minutes she
joined him, so that they thought no one
knew that they had gone together. But
when Mrs. Wy brant, fussily moving about
in search of her, exclaimed  ' Bless my
soul  where can Davie be ? " Bousfield
grinned and glanced at his wife, who
laughed, for both had seen the couple
depart.

She has gone for a walk, I believe ;

and if you go round by the kitchen garden
and take the path up the hill, when you
get to the top you may find her."

Mrs. Wybrant fanned herself in dismay;
the very thought of such an exertion
on such a hot day to one of her plethoric
condition was fatiguing.

* She ought to have told me before
going; but she is a most singular girl.
I could not follow her up there, and 
shall go and write my letters."

When they were alone Bousfield turned
to his wife. He had a shrewd suspicion
in which direction the young people had
turned their steps.

* I say, these two mean to make a
match, and I don't think we should interfere
unless Corbett objects."

'I saw that at Balnagairn," said the
wife, ' and there is no reason why any

VOL. I. p

one should interfere. I like him ; he is
fairly well off, and I think she might
find a worse husband under her aunt's
guidance."

The young people, in happy unconsciousness
that they had been observed,
strolled out in the sunshine of the day,
and of youth  there under the shade
of the trees, which were already marked
with the varied tints of autumn. Beside
them ran the stream glistening like silver,
and the occasional flash of a trout was
like a sunbeam dancing on the water.

Davie gathered wild flowers as they
passed along, and tried by ingenious references
to botany and its pleasures to
prevent him speaking of the subject which
she knew was uppermost in his thoughts
as well as her own  although in a different
way.

Bat they came to a large oak tree,
underneath which was a rustic seat, and
Eghnton insisted that she should sit
down.

' Now," he said, taking her hand in
his,  do you know why I was in such
a hurry to come to Colborough ? "

 I suppose because you wanted to enjoy
yourself."

'' Exactly  in your society. How I
have longed for you ! how I have wearied
for the time when I could be with you
again, and how I weary for the time
when I shall have the right to be with
you always."

 And then how you will weary for
the time when you can get away from
me ! " she said, with one of those smiles
in which good nature and satire were
curiously mingled.

*'Wliy will you not be serious with
me ? " lie said earnestly.

I am quite serious."

*'No, you are laughing at me" (this
with a little impatience).

Davie raised those quiet blue eyes and
met his gaze with an expression partly of
wonder and partly of reproach.

"I could not do that, Mr. Eglinton,"
she said quietly, ' after what I have told
you."

** But is it still true ? " he cried impulsively.
* Have you not changed ? "

She turned away her head.

Why should you think that ? "

because you are so strange in your
manner ; because all the time we have
been walking here you would not allow
me to speak of my love for you."

I said you were to wait  I wish to
make sure of myself,"

'ris it not that you wish to make
sure of me ? " he said with some bitterness.


She rose.

'' I think we had better go now," she
replied, with an attempt at playfulness,
for I think we are about to quarrel."

But he held her firmly by the hand,
and with passionate earnestness said 

'' No, no, Davie, you must not go yet."

'' I do not like 'must'" she replied,
trying to laugh and at the same time to
release her hand.

"Will you not listen to me for one
moment more ? I cannot wait."

Why not ? "

Because I fear to lose you. It is
ridiculous, I dare say, but I have never
known anything like this before, and if
you turn away from me I can never

know anything like it again. There is
pain as well as joy in this experience."

Her head drooped and there was a
serious expression on her face, whilst
her pretty foot patted the ground impatiently.


* There should be no pain."

*' There must be when it is so difficult
to understand you. Give me your promise
to be my wife, and then I will
be all happiness."

She looked up now and responded
firmly 

 It would be folly, Mr. Eglinton, to give
a promise which might be broken ; it
would trouble me and the disappointment
might lead you to think more unkindly
of me than you will do if you
wait until I feel in myself that I can give
you a definite answer."

'' When will that be, then ? " he asked
eagerly.  To-morrow ?  or next day ?
I want it before you leave Colborough."

*' Before I leave Colborough, then, I
shall give you my answer. And now we
must return, for they will be all wondering
what has become of us."

Ah, well, I suppose beggars must
be content with what alms are given
them''

And they retraced their way  silent,
and both having an uncomfortable feeling
that there had been something like a
quarrel between them.

Sunshine still about them, but shadows
in their hearts.

Chapter XVII.

CALAMITY.

The arrival of Medwyn Corbett on the
next day was not altogether pleasing to
Eglinton, for he had a strong suspicion 
and probably it was a justifiable one 
that Davie's hesitation to give the promise
he sought was on account of her
thoughts of him.

He was therefore somewhat cool in his
greeting to him, and he was inclined to
feel irritable at the kindness with which
Corbett grasped his hand. There was
also a sort of pitying look in his eyes

which suddenly suggested to Eglinton
that Davie had akeady pledged herself to
him. He could not imagine that it was
the thought of his impending ruin which
caused the expression.

Davie was full of joy at Medwyn's
arrival, and when he saluted her with a
kiss Eglinton chewed the end of his
moustache in chagrin.

' You are looking well, Davie," said
Medwyn; the Yorkshire air appears to
agree with you. I am afraid you will
not care to visit Balnagairn again."

How can you say that, Medwyn,"
she said reproachfully. ' You know how
dear the place is to me  for your mother's
sake and for your own sake."

That was another sting to Eglinton ;
but if he had not been in love he would
have understood that such a frank conversation

would not have been carried on
in the presence of others by lovers.

He patted her hand affectionately, and
with a brotherly smile he said 

*' That is right, Davie, never forget
your old friends. You have good ones
here, but you can always keep a place in
your heart for us."

' I have been very happy here, indeed,
and if I had a complaint to make it would
be that Mr. and Mrs. Bousfield have been
trying to give me too much pleasure."

*' Nonsense, child," exclaimed Mrs.
Bousfield, laughing, *ewe have only been
having a good time, as the Americans
say; and, as life is short, the more merriment
you can get into it the better."

' So say I," remarked Graham, who
looked as if he had never laughed in his
life. *I like fun and nothing to do but
enjoy it."

*' You want a mixture of work, though,
to enable you to enjoy it thoroughly,"
suggested Bousfield.

*' You are always so practical," was
Mrs. Wybrant's comment.

*'I am sure a day of unmitigated enjoyment
is hard enough work for anybody."


Davie was considerably surprised when
she was told that one of the ploughmen's
wives wished particularly to see her ; and
she was still more so when she went into
the hall and the woman handed her a
letter.

** Beg pardon, miss, but the gentleman
told me I wasn't on no account to give
the letter to anybody but yourself. I
know nought about 'im, but he came to
our house and asked if I knew you, and

when I said yes, sir, he asked me to bring
this to you and to say that you were to
read it when nobody was with you. He
was an old gentleman'*

Davie felt sick at heart, for she at once
surmised from whom the letter came ;
and when she opened it in her own room
her surmise was confirmed.

' Come to me at once," the letter ran ;
'* you will find me at the old oak tree
where you were sitting with Eglinton
yesterday. I did not intend to see you
so soon again, but circumstances have
occurred which render it imperative that
we should meet. Do not fail ; it is your
happiness I am thinking about.

'YouR Father'*

She was bewildered. Her first impulse

was to take the letter to Medwyn and
seek this advice ; then she remembered
the pledge she had given at Balnagairn
not to reveal what this man  she found
it difficult to think of him as her father
had told her.

Then she thought it best to obey the
summons, and making the feeble excuse
to Mrs. Bouslield that she wished to take
a walk, she went out. But as she was
going she heard the voice of her hostess
exclaiming sympathetically 

* Eh, deary, what love will do," for
Mrs. Bousfield had nofc the slightest doubt
that she was going to meet Eglinton.

That gentleman was, however, busily
engaged with his cigar and billiards.

She hurried along, her heart palpitating
with vague fears of the meeting with this
strange man whose claim she doubted,

and yet dared not openly deny after the
proofs he had given her. How could he
have possessed her mother's letters and
her mother's hair if he were not the man
he represented himself to be ? And if he
were, how wicked it was of her to have
such a desire to avoid him.

She was distracted by the doubt
whether or not she ought to keep the
promise she had made to be silent. Atone
moment she believed she had a right
to break it as it was forced from her, and
then the memory of her mother, to which
he had appealed, tied her tongue.

She saw him when she turned the last
bend of the umbrageous path, standing
under the oak tree resting on his staff.
There seemed to be a difference in his
appearance compared with what it had
been when she had seen him last. He

seemed to be feebler, and much older, as
if he had passed through a severe illness.

He advanced a few paces to meet her,
and notwithstanding that doubt in her
mind, she submitted to be kissed on the
brow.

*' It is of good of you, my child, to
come at once," he said softly; you
cannot know how much I have wished
to see you. Of course, I cannot hope
that you will give me a daughter's
affection, since you have never known
me ; but you seem willing to give me a
daughter's duty."

She drew back with something like a
shudder of fear.

'' You are wrong, sir. I v/ill give you
affection when I am quite satisfied that
you are my father."

' It is hard to find that you still doubt

when I have given you such proofs of my
identity. But I will give you another
proof. I am here to warn you against
marrying George Egerton."

She started, blushed, and trembled a
little as she put the question 

* What do you mean ? "

 That he is not the man I would like
my daughter to marry. He has led a
wild life, and is still too unsettled in his
ways. But more important even than
that is the fact that he invested everything
he possessed in a silver mine which
has proved to be a failure, and he is
utterly ruined."

Davie became pale. She had heard
Egiinton talk of the mine and of Mr.
Davidson. It flashed upon her that if
he was ruined the ruin had been brought
about by her father ! The thought made
her shudder.

' Are you sure of this?" she asked
with trembling lips.

* I am, for I, too, have lost in the same
venture, and am now, like him, penniless."

"Was it not you who induced him to
risk his fortune in this speculation ? "

"He may say so, but it is not true.
I believed in the mine, and he, after
making an inspection himself, also believed
in it. I even advised him to be
very careful, as I saw the impetuosity oi
his character. But he would not be
advised."

She looked at him steadily now.

"Your advice was intended to make
him the more eager, and you knew it.
If you are my father, I must try to makeup
to him in some measure for the ruin
you have caused.'

"How can you do that?" he said;

VOL. I. Q

*' and why do yon say if I am your
father ? Do you require further proof? "

*eyes."

He quietly produced a pocket-book and
took from it two rings ; one a wedding
ring, the other set with opals and diamonds.


 I have kept these precious relics
always by me since I took them from
your mother's finger," he said, with a
sad voice ; ' I never intended to part
from them, but now I give them to you.
Inside the opal ring you will find your
mother's name. Show it to Corbett,
and he will tell you that no man except
your father could possess it." ,

She took them from his hand, her own
trembling as she did so, and when she
saw her mother's name, tears filled her
eyes, and she bowed her head.

' I cannot doubt any longer," she said
in subdued tones; what you have told
me must be true."

' Then, if you no longer doubt, will you
promise still to keep my secret ? "

 I promise. But why have you hidden
yourself from me and from your friends
during all these years ? Why do you
still wish to conceal yourself ? "

 It was a resolve  a foolish one,
perhaps  which I took the day your'
mother was buried ; a resolve that, as
soon as I had provided for you, I would
take another name, begin a new life, and
forget the past. When I had completed
the Indian contract, the death of
Davidson afforded me the opportunity
I desired. Often the desire to see you
was in my mind, but I held doggedly to
my resolution until Eglinton met me.

Then his talk of the old place and old
friends and of you overcame my resolution.
I decided to see them once more,
but without revealing myself to any one
except you, and even to you only if you
proved to be like your mother."

' And why was this strange resolve
taken ? " she inquired with wondering
eyes.

A shadow seemed to fall upon his
face, he shook his head and sighed.

' You are too young yet, Davie, forme
to explain that. But this I can tell
you; it was chiefly because I had done
your mother a great wrong, and the
thought of it filled me with remorse.
That was why I wished to forget the
past."

' My poor mother," sobbed Davie,
pressing the rings to her lips.

Whenever she was looking at him, his
face had an expression of grave melancholy,
but when, as now, her eyes were
turned away, there was something in his
gaze which suggested an eager desire to
discover what effect his words had upon
her. He had an expressive visage, and
its rapid changes would have puzzled
the most acute observer to make out
the character of the man.

' You may well say that," was hi?
answer to Davie's exclamation. ' She
suffered much on my account, and I
have found relief from the remembrance
of it only in hard work. But my long
penance should obtain pardon from you,
as it would have obtained forgiveness
from her if she could have known it.
Give me your hand in token that you
pardon me."

She gave him her hand, but did not
look at him ; the poor girl was sobbing
all the time, so many sad thoughts were
passing through her mind. The mother
who had been wronged, the father who
had deserted her and now claimed her
under such strange conditions, formed
a combination of troubles which overwhelmed
her.

' Why do you not speak?" he continued.
" I want you to tell me how
3'ou propose to help Eglinton."

She looked up again and answered
promptly, her voice now quite steady 

' I shall marry him, and the money
you left to me will save him from the
poverty you have brought upon him. I
hesitated when he asked me yesterday,
but now it becomes necessary to atone
for what you have done."

* You are to do nothing of the kind.
Your father has the first claim upon
you, and he requires assistance at present.
But I know you do not mean
what you say, and so we can pass it
over. You will come to London soon
with your aunt, and I wish you to
come to me immediately after your
arrival."

'* I shall go to you since you command
me ; but I do mean what I say, and, amy
husband, he alone will have the right
to control my actions. You have forfeited
a father's rights, and I seek only
to make amends for a father's guilt.
Oh ! can you not understand how the
confession you have made has shocked
and alarmed me."

* These are hard words, coming from
my daughter, and you will be sorry for

having spoken them when you come to
think of it calmly. I forbid yoa to
marry him'*

Here was a divided duty, indeed.
Should she give allegiance to the father
who had left her so long as an orphan,
or should she follow her own generous
impulse and endeavour to redeem his
faults by accepting Eglinton ?

* I will let you consider the matter,"
Davidson said quietly; *' there will be
time enough for me to interfere should
you persist in disobedience. Now we
may say good-bye until you come to
London."

And so they parted.

Chapter XVIII.

Clinton S Trial.

She went back to the house with the
determination that she would speak to
Egerton, and tell him that he need not
wait any longer. She would keep her
promise not to reveal the secret that
Davidson was her father ; but she would
do her utmost to make amends to her
lover, and to comfort him in his misfortune.


She saw Bousfield and Medwyn on the
lawn, talking seriously.

*rit's a bad business," said the former,

' and yon know that I was suspicions of
it when it was first mentioned to me that
Eglinton was obstinate, and I suppose he
took the customary view of good advice,
and thought it was not worth anything."


' It was not so much that as his belief
in the result of his own and his friend
L eight on 's examination of the mine and
the trickery of Davidson which induced
him to go into it."

'* It comes to the same thing in the
end  ruin."

* Absolute ruin, I fear, it is for him.
He said so himself when he received the
news to-day."

Davie overheard the words, and hastened
on to the house. There she inquired
for Eglinton, and told the servant
to say that she desired to speak to him

in the drawing-room, which she had observed
was vacant.

He came in, pale and wearied looking.
She met him with both hands extended ;
he grasped them, and there was a grateful,
although faint, smile on his face.

"It was good of you to send for me,
Davie ; the sight of you is a relief greater
than I can tell or you imagine to the
misery of my position. It is not myself
I care about, but my poor father. I aaa
going to him at once to tell him how I
have blundered. The news may kiU him,
for he loves the old place and its surroundings.
Oh ! Davie, could you only
know the suffering which my folly has
caused me ! "

She put her hands upon his head, and
drawing him towards her, kissed him.
The man's eyes glistened as if with tears
at this sign of tender sympathy.

' Let me share the trouble with you'
she murmured. ' I will try to comfort
you, and my fortune will save your father
from the necessity of quitting his house.
You asked me yesterday to be your wife,
and I hesitated. To-day, in your hour of
sorrow, I say  Yes."

 Davie ! " he cried in joyful surprise,
and clasped her in his arms with passionate
fondness.

She yielded to him, resting her head
upon his shoulder and breathing quickly.
This new life upon which she had entered
seemed to be full of sorrow instead of the
joys to which she had looked forward.
Still, there might be a future in which
happiness would be found. She was
young ; she could hope !

To him the sudden realization of the
bliss for which he had craved for the

moment made him forget his misfortune
and all that it involved. She was therein
his arms, and as he kissed her again
and again he repeated the dearest title
which can be given to a woman 

* My wife  my own wife ! You come
like a guardian angel to lift me from
despair. If it were not for my father I
would now almost rejoice in this misfortune
because it has brought you tome
 my darling ! " *

"Yes, it is the misfortune which has
brought me to you, and it is in misfortune
that we find our friends."

'' You mean that we find out how few
they are," he said bitterly. '' But, Davie,
I have something to say which will perhaps
displease you. Can you bear
it?"

"Anything from you now," she answered,

her head still resting on his
shoulder.

He tightened his arms around her and
there was deep sorrow in his voice.

''Do not be angry with me, if you can
help it. I have been thinking during the
last minute that we must wait. I cannot
accept relief from your fortune  oh, my
darling, do not misunderstand me ! I
must work, and by-and-by, when I have
redeemed the follies of the past, I can
claim you. I shall work now in earnest,
and will make myself worthy of you.
Till then, be free. It costs me more to
say that than you can think."

'' Why say it?" she answered, hiding
her face.

'' I have been thinking during the last
few minutes what a mean fellow you
would believe you had married if I
accepted your generous offer."

' Never," she interrupted eagerly. ' I
have reasons for believing that you should
have all I possess."

He was amazed and puzzled; the statement
was so strange and her agitation so
inexplicable.

*' What reasons ? "

*' Do not ask  if you care for me at all,
do not ask. You are suffering, but I am
suffering more because I do not tell the
cause of it. I implore you not to press*
me further. I will do all I can to help
you  have I not proved it by offering you
myself and all I own ? I would call you
cruel but that I know how much you are
distressed."

'not cruel, Davie, but grateful  most
grateful and happy even in this trial, now
that I know you care for me so much.
But I dislike secrets which cannot be explained.

Secrets are always dangerous
barriers between those who love."

I am sorry I said it, then, since I
cannot explain  in time it will all be
clear to you."

He held her out from him and gazed
long at her tearful face ; then drawing her
to him again 

'* So be it. I shall wait till you are
ready to explain. Meanwhile, I leave
here to-night, in order that I may be the
first to bear the bad news to my father.
But oh, Davie, you do not know how hard
you have tried me in giving me another
chance of taking you just now. I crave
so much for you that, if you had been
penniless like myself, I would have said 
 Come with me.' "

Then he released her and she went to
the window She did not understand

how difficult it had been for Eglinton
to come to what was really a wise and
generous resolution. She only felt that
she had tried to relieve him and that
he had declined to accept her aid.

' You are vexed with me," he said
sadly. *' Do not add in that way to the
burden which is already hard enough to
bear."

' I have shown you how the burden
might be taken off at once," she answered,
and there was certainly temper in the
way she spoke. '' You refuse it. I have
nothing more to say."

He approached her and placed his hand
tenderly on her shoulder ; she made a
movement as if to throw it off.

' You should pity me, Davie, rather
than be angry with me. I do not refuse
your help. I only say that I wish

VOL. I. It

to prove myself worthy of you by my
endeavour to save my father pain, and to
be able to come to you as an equal."

She could not resist that appeal, and she
turned to him again.

'you are much changed," she said,
and there were tears in her eyes.

Yes ; I am changed, and I hope for
the better; I only want you to believe
in me, and it will be for the better."

With one of her impulsive movements,
she placed her hands on his shoulders and
gazed in his face for a long time before
she spoke. Then with a tender voice 

I ivill believe in you, but you must
let me help you."

"You have helped me, and the future
will prove that the thought of you has
enabled me to overcome mountains."

Davie smiled, and with a slight trembling
of the lip 

 That is what you say ; it will be
some time before I know that it is what
you feel."

'' Then the time will come. Oh, Davie,
have you no faith in me at all ? At one
moment you seem to love me, and at the
next you seem to laugh at me."

 There is no laughing now," she
answered with drooping head.

He clasped her in his arms.

' Then if I live, and health is granted'
to me, there shall be laughter by-and-by."

He felt convinced that he had strength
enough to fight with fate. She felt sure
that he loved her ; and that to a woman
of right mind is the best thought of all.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE GAEEET.

Daddy Maydew never called it the garret :



his imaginative way of looking at everything
and his remembrance of old times
in Leeds and Bradford impelled him to
speak of his apartment as * the factory."

* Or rather," he would explain, * I
ought to call it the manufactory ; because,
you see, everything in it is done
by my own hand. I can't pay for assistants,
or some of these great ideas would

have been perfected by this time, and
would have realized millions, sir 
millions ! "

There was a pathetic mingling of half-conscious
bombast, real faith in the losses
he had sustained by his inability to obtain
help, and regret at not having been able
to complete with his own hand some of
those great ideas to which he referred.
They were scattered about the room,
hanging upon the walls, arranged upon
shelves in the shape of unfinished models
of every description of machinery.

The apartment was of considerable size,
for it took in nearly the whole length
and breadth of the house beneath ; and,
although the roof sloped, there were two
good square windows which gave him
plenty of light. In front of one of them
his bench or work-table was placed. In

another part of the room were a turning
lathe, and a bench  the latter constructed
by himself, with all necessary mechanical
contrivances for assisting the workman in
his labours of filing, cutting, punching,
and planing; and in the rack behind it
was ranged somewhat carelessly an assortment
of tools.

He was seated at the table, his genial
face aglow with enthusiasm, in his hand
a small model of a machine which was tq
work wonders for cloth manufacturers.
He was describing its merits to a girl
who stood behind him, one hand resting
affectionately on his shoulder, the other
holding a letter, the contents of which
she was scanning eagerly whilst she was
supposed to be listening to the old
man's eloquence.

' Now you understand the whole thing.

Kosie-posie/' he exclaimed proudly, the
wrinkles on his face transformed by the
spirit of the satisfied inventor into ripples
of laughter; sand you can see what a
grand thing it is."

Yes, Daddy; it is wonderful," she
replied  whilst mentally crying, *what
shall we do if papa and mamma really
mean this ? "

Daddy was as much delighted with her
approval as if the patent had been
granted, and demands for the machine
were pouring in upon him from all
directions. He chuckled and admired the
product of his genius.

 Nothing can beat it, although in its
way that outside window-cleaner is of
quite as much importance to the public.
How many lives that would save, and
what incalculable comfort it would give

the world, whilst the present insane construction
of window frames is continued !
There, with that little thing, you have
only to stand comfortably inside your
room, turn a little handle, and in five
minutes you would have the advantage
of all the daylight that is to be had.
But that was a small thing, and nobody
would take it up, because it was thought
to be too much of a toy. A toy, indeed !
as if the invention of a good toy wasn't a
blessing ! "

eyes, Daddy," was the response;
** Poor Linton, it is very hard upon
you 1 " were the words in her mind.

' This machine, however, is a big thing,
and appeals to large interests all over the
world. It must be taken up  the manufacturers
can't help themselves. I have
only to satisfy myself about the best size

this one wheel should be, and then, Posies
then !  there is a fortune for you
and success at last for me ! "

"You deserve it. Daddy," she murmured
warmly, and half-recalling herself
from the letter, hut returning to it instantly
with glowing cheeks. " He is to
be at the gate to-night in spite of everything
! "

Of course there will be a little delay
at first  there always is in these things,
my dear," Daddy Maydew proceeded ;
"but once it is launched it will go like
wildfire. You and Linton are to have
the big share of it, and  won't you be
happy ! Aha 1 that is worth living for."

He chuckled again joyfully ; but there
was a kind of spasmodic tightening of the
hand that rested on his shoulder and a
faint sound as of a subdued sob which

caused him to look up. He did not look
round at her, however, but at a little
mirror opposite. There he saw Elsie
with head bowed over a letter, and
apparently crying.

There was a spasm of disappointment
in the old man's heart as he comprehended
the position. That passed like
an electric flash. Quietly and carefully
he placed the model on the table, and
turned to her.

' Elsie!"

She, too, was quick to understand the
tone of mingled sympathy and regret.
In an instant she was down before him,
head bowed on his knees, sobbing confusedly.


* Oh, grandpa, forgive me ! "

The old man made no reply other than
might be understood by the gentle patting

of her head. He was disappointed. Here
had he been revealing to her all the glories
of his new work, feeling proud and sustained
by what appeared to be her sympathy
and appreciation ; and lo ! her
sympathy and appreciation had been all
his own gift ! She had been busy with
her own affairs all the time. But wasn't
there a lesson in this? The fact was
that inventors had to produce something
which interested many individually.
Well, either he had not done that or she
was not one of the many who would be
interested in his discovery. But he could
not explain all that to her without adding
to her pain.

* Don't bother about it, my Posies
he said at length, as he kissed
the top of her head. *' I was very selfish,
and inflicted upon you a great many

details which might have been left
out. But you know when I am started
on one of these things there is no stopping
me. . . . Poor Eosie !  I know it
must have been something very troublesome
that took your attention away from
me, for you have always been such a
good "

** Oh, Daddy, I have not been good ! "
she interrupted, with an exaggerated sense
of her own wickedness.

You have been very good indeed, my
child," he went on cheerily, ** and you
have listened to me and helped me day
after day, when everybody else was
laughing at me and calling me an old
fool. . . . Ah, my Eosie ! you do not
know how much joy you have brought
into my life  and, what is worse, I shall
never be able to explain it to you. Now,

now, come up and sit on my knee, and
tell me all about the ugly giants who
have got into the castle of my beauty.
Then see if I can't invent some engine
to blow them all out again."

He spoke quite cheerfully as he finished,
and drew her up until she was sitting on
his knee, her arms round his neck, and
head resting on his shoulder.

' It is a letter from Linton, grandpa."

'well well! What does he say?
What is the result of bearding the lion
in his den? Did the lion eat him up,
or did he ask him to dinner ? "

Eosie's first impulse was to hand him
the letter to read; but although it contained
nothing which he did not know
already  except the information which
she would have to give him in any case
  it contained certain expressions of sacred

import to herself and to her lover, which
might appear foolish to a third person,
and so she was obliged to explain.

** You can easily guess what the result
has been when Linton writes instead of
coming to me. . . . Oh, grandpa  if you
only had money ! "

She sobbed as she gave vent to that
ejaculation, and hid her face on his
shoulder.

The pang which shot through his heart
was indicated by the nervous twitching
of lips and eyelids. But he only patted
her head soothingly, and murmured 

*eyes, Eosie, it is a pity. That is
what everybody says  if I had money !
But, you know, that is a cry which is
never satisfied, my child. Even the
millionaire utters it. Happiness is like
water  it always find its own level, and

money is not the source of it. You
know how poor I am and have been,
and yet I have had much happiness. I
do believe more happiness has been
given to me who have failed in everything
than to your father who has
succeeded in everything."

I don't understand that. I only
know it is the want of money which
makes Linton and me so miserable just
now. Oh, grandpa, if only one of your
inventions had succeeded ! "

She clung to him weeping, and the old
man bowed his head in regretful shame.
It was a harder hit than the girl could
have imagined. He had been busy all
his life and had failed in everything.
This child's grief made him more painfully
conscious of the fact than anything
had ever done before.

Ay, if only one of the many great ideas
he was so proud of had brought in its due
harvest !

He leaned back in his chair, eyes closed
that he might not see her tears, and
perhaps that the mental vision might
be clearer in its search for some way to
help her.

' You are very fond of Linton ? " he
said meditatively.

Her answer was another Httle sob and
a tightening of her arm round his neck.

* And you are quite, quite sure that
nothing the world can ever do  nothing
that he can ever do, will make you wish
that you had never cared for him, or
allow you to fancy that you might have
been happier with somebody else  Mr,
Jephson, for instance ? "

''I hate Mr. Jephson!" was her passionate

cry. " I don't care for the world.
I only care for Linton  and you."

"And a little for your mother and
father, I hope," he said with gentle
reproof, opening his eyes in some
astonishment at her passion.

Oh yes, I did not mean to leave
them out, but . I cannot help feeling
vexed."

* Because you cannot have all your
own way. . . . There, I am not going to
scold you. We are often vexed with the
folk we like most, and for the same reason."

*but don't you think. Daddy, that I
ought to have my own way in the choice
of of Linton ? "

I am not sure about that."

*you know he is good  and clever 
and that he is sure to be successful sometime."


*' I will admit him to be everything
you like. But let us try to look at the
matter like two wise people. We ought
to be wise, Kosie, for you have youth,
impulse, and hope on your side, and I
have on mine, age, experience (a very
expensive article seldom turned to the
most advantage), and a desire to see you
happy. Let us see what wee can make
of the position. We'll make a plan of it.
Give me my pencil and a piece of paper."

Having supplied these materials, she
drew a hassock close to his feet, and,
kneeling on it, watched his face and the
odd dots and strokes he made on the
paper as he proceeded.

** Here is a young lady up in this
corner who wants to marry that young
man up in the other corner ; but between
them are these two bars, her father and

VOL. HI. C

mother. They are not unkind parents ;
but they have had experience of the
world, have a keen appreciation of the
comforts which money can buy, and,
being satisfied that prosperity should
be progressive, are desirous that their
daughter should start where they are
ending, that is to say, with her carriage.
This young man up in the corner does
not "

*what a shaky-looking pothook you
have made him, grandpa ! " she interrupted.


* That is to show the possibilities for
the development of character, my child'*
was the impressive response, and he continued
to study the position. 'This
young man does not possess a carriage
and is not likely to have one for a longtime.
So the parents say positively,

'This will never do for our daughter.'
Now, the question is how to reconcile
these opposing elements so that they
shall all have their own way and be
happy."

He looked at the figures with a puzzled
expression, rubbing his nose with the
pencil meanwhile.

 Well, how is it to be done ? " inquired
the girl eagerly.

' I don't see exactly how it is to be
done," he answered with evident distress.

She moved away from him disappointed
and went to the window. Down below
there was the green common of Pelham
Eye, with its patch of water glistening in
the sunlight. It was Saturday, and the
common was made lively by swarms of
cricketers and of youths shying sticks at
cocoa-nuts. The curving range of the

Sydenham hills, dotted with comfortable
villas, formed the background, and the
tower of the Crystal Palace gleamed like
a beacon over all. But her eyes were
blurred and saw nothing, although she
and Daddy always called the attention
of their friends to this pleasant prospect.

Gazing at his hieroglyphics with an
expression of childish puzzlement, he did
not observe the change in the girl's
manner, and went on innocently adding
to her distress.

' You see, they are not unkind parents.
Your mother has done a daughter's duty
to me, and your father  well, he has not
objected. Now, we know what they have
been and are, but we don't know what
Linton may turn out to be."

' I know what he is and always will
be to me ; and I know what he will

always try to do  to make me as happy
as he can."

There was a little passion in her voice,
and the old man looked up in dismay.

Ah, my child, that is the idea so
many people started with, only to find
themselves cruelly disappointed by-and-by.
It is so impossible to tell what
change may come over man or woman
as years and circumstances try them."

 Nothing will alter him," she said
proudly.

' We don't know  something might
alter you'"

'' Why do you say that ? "

"Because people do change," was the
only reply he could give, and it was
accompanied by a sad smile.

She had seen that smile on two or
three occasions before, and she had

learned that the sadness was associated
with some remembrance of old times.
But he had never told her why the
memory was sad  never hinted that once
it had been very bitter, although now the
alchemist, Time, had transmuted all the
bitterness into simple regret that man or
woman should be subjected to such disappointment
as he had experienced.

There was not much in the story as he
looked back upon it now, and he even
wondered at the storm of passion which
his disappointment had roused in him.
He had married the wrong woman  that
was all. She had squandered the fortune
he had inherited from his father, whilst
she ridiculed the experiments in which he
was continually engaged. Then had come
the cruel awakening. He could have
borne the knowledge that his means where

wasted ; but he could not bear the shock
of the discovery that he was not and
never had been loved.

' Come here, Rosie," he said tenderly,
thinking how much he would do to save
her from such a disappointment as that.
Then, when she was kneeling on the
hassock at his feet again, he continued,
as he passed his hand over her head,
' You are quite sure that there is no
mistake between you and Linton ? "

* I love him, grandpa," was her frank
and conclusive answer.

Then there was a little pause, and
Daddy Maydew's eyes were gazing into
space. By-and-by he said dreamily 

Very well, my child, very well ; I will
find a way to put this matter right."

But how was it to be done ? He could

not see kis way ; and yet he was determined
that the way should he found.
Linton Foster was clever  there was no
doubt about that ; he had already won
some distinction in his profession  an
eminent authority had spoken of him as
one of the most promising of the new
generation of civil engineers. But this
had not brought him fortune yet. However,
the fortune would come in time.

Meanwhile what Daddy had to consider
was that Kosie's whole heart was given
to him, and Foster was worthy of the gift
he would prize and cherish it always.
With him she would have the chance
which comes to so few women, and of
which so few women, are worthy  the
chance of being appreciated as a wife
even more than as a sweetheart. With
Harry Jephson she would become only a

person whose chief duty it was to look
after his house, and to dress in such
manner as would best advertise the wares
of Nettleton and Jephson's ** Universal
Emporium."

Come what might, Rosie should not be
doomed to such a life as that.

CHAPTER II.

THE FAMILY BURDEN.

Mr. Nettleton was astounded, Mrs.
Nettleton was indignant, when Daddy
Maydew once more appealed to them on
behalf of the young people.

'I have forbidden Mr. Foster to cross
my doorstep again," said the gentleman
sharply; 'rand when I say the word I
mean it. Now, let us have done with
this rubbish once and for all. I give my
daughter credit for having sense enough
to appreciate the difference between
buttered toast and dry crusts. I request

that you will not meddle with my domestic
affairs, Mr. Maydew, or mention
this particular subject again under any
pretence."

Mr. Nettleton was a little man, dark
and thin. He had a hungry look which
nothing could satisfy, and a wiry frame
which nothing could tire. He had begun
life as a message boy, and was proud of
it ; he was now the head of the great firm
of Nettleton and Jephson, the proprietors
of ' The Universal Emporium"  a stupendous
establishment, which had grown out
of a nutshell of drapery to be really what
its tijle implied. To a man who had
created a business of this magnitude, and
who had about two hundred * persons "
of both sexes under his control, it was
monstrous to be told by an old dotard,
who had never done anything useful in

the world, that he was not the best judge
of what would be most conducive to his
daughter's future happiness.

He had suffered his wife's father to live
in the house and to potter away with
his toys  he would have been content to
allow him to go on in the same manner
for ever ; but he could not allow him to
disturb the peace of the household by
raising his voice in its affairs. This was
too much for Mr. Nettleton, and was, in
short, an outrage upon his patience, as
well as a proof of the old man's rank
ingratitude.

Mrs. Nettleton was entirely in sympathy
with her husband, and was even more
annoyed than he was with her father,
who had never before in her recollection
breathed a word in opposition to the will
of anybody. It was beyond her comprehension

how lie could even think of
appealing against a decision arrived at by
her husband and herself.

She was a somewhat stout lady, who
ought to have been ruddy and good-natured
; but she never had any colour in
her cheeks, unless an occasional tinge of
yellow might be referred to in speaking
of a lady's complexion. It was chiefly
noticeable when she was very much out
of humour, and at this moment the tinge
was unpleasantly conspicuous.

It is perfectly ridiculous," she said
impatiently; ' and, all things considered,
father, I think Paul ought to be the last
man you should choose to worry with
your absurd fancies. We can't believe 
and I don't see how you can suppose 
that you can have our daughter's welfare
more at heart than we have."

' Certainly not, my dear, certainly
not," replied the old man meekly, and
with a deprecatory movement of his
hands.

< Very well, then, it ought to be enough
for you that we have considered the
matter and decided what we ought to do.
Nothing you can say will make us change
our minds except in regard to yourself.
Can't you see how disagreeable you force
me to be what is the use of doing
that?"

 I want to save you and your husband
from making a great mistake as well
as from doing a cruel thing," was the
quiet answer.

Daddy Maydew had been all these
years treated by Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton
as a harmless simpleton, incapable of
forming an opinion about anything.

When they said ' This is to be so," or
That is to be so," he had been silent.
Bitterly conscious that he was tolerated
as a harmless idiot, he had never before
attempted to argue with them about anything.
He had smiled to himself at his
own position sometimes, and looked forward
with hopefulness to the day when
some of his inventions should prove to
them that he was not the fool they took
him for.

He did not blame his daughter very
much : he remembered how early she had
been taught, by example if not by direct
instruction, to laugh at his theories and
profitless visions, and he was sorry. But
he did not complain : he submitted to
their wishes, and was content in being
allowed to produce his unfinished models
of new machinery without interference.

He was grateful to Jane and to her
husband, and shut his eyes to their
disrespect. He did save them from one
stupid act ; but he had contrived to do it
in such a way that they still took credit
to themselves for having discovered the
mistake in time without anybody's aid.
Mrs. Nettleton had resolved to have her
child named after the Queen  * Victoria
Regina." Daddy managed to show
them that  Regina " was not exactly a
name by slyly reading to them a full
explanation of what the initials Yer.
really meant. Thereupon the mother 
moved by the regret and even vexation
she had long experienced on account of
being endowed with the commonplace
name of Jane  resolving that her daughter
should still have a cognomen of which
she might be proud hereafter, said, *' We

shall call her Victoria Rosalind; and
then, you see, she can sign herself Y.E.
all the same as if we could have used
Regina ! " Of that brilliant idea she was
proud ; but the Victoria had dropped out
of use, and simple Kosie took the place of
Eosahnd.

With this exception Daddy had never
dared to pretend to know better than his
daughter and son-in-law in any circumstance
of their lives. Yet, here he was
now, not only assuming to know better,
but insisting upon it with a quiet firmness
which was irritating to people who
had been accustomed to humble submission
from him.

*' Save me from making a mistake  
you!" exclaimed Mr. Nettleton, letting
his paper fall slowly down in front of him
in his utter amazement at this audacity.

VOL. III. D

*' Save me from doing a cruel thing ! "
chimed in the wife, aghast at her father's
sudden temerity.

Daddy was evidently impressed by the
indignation he had evoked, but he held
firmly to his purpose.

' I really don't want to vex you, Paul
upon my word, Jane, I should be glad
not to have this to do, but it is my duty."

Mrs. Nettleton was unable to speak ;
her husband, however, was a man of business
whose time was valuable, and he was
not disposed to waste it in useless discussion
with a foolish old man.

' You have done your duty, Mr. May-dew,"
he said severely, ' and a little more
than your duty, in my humble opinion.
But having done it, let us have an end
of it."

'eyes, yes, Paul, when I have done it

but it is not done yet. I know that
I am a burden on the family, and some
people would think that I had no business
to open my mouth. But I don't think
they would be right. Your partner
Jephson is a good fellow, no doubt ; and
he has brought a heap of money into
your business  but that can't make him
the man who is to make Eosie happy.
Can't you see that ? "

No, I cannot,"

Then I am sorry for you," observed
Daddy, with a gravity which imparted
unusual dignity to his manner. ' You
have nothing to say against Linton except
that he has no money. But, sir, he
has brains, and he is heir to a great
fortune."

*what nonsense you are talking,
father," said Mrs. Nefctleton. ''I wish

you wouldn't make such an exhibition of
yourself. Where is his fortune to come
from, I should like to know ? "

From me," replied her father calmly,
and drawing himself up proudly.

'what rubbish ! " muttered Mr. Nettle-ton,
as he raised his paper again and
applied himself to its contents, abandoning
all hope of reasoning with the man.

'' I shall leave all my work to Eosie, on
condition that she marries Linton. If
she does not become his wife, then
everything will go to him without her."

"All right. Give him everything you
possess, and welcome."

Mr. Nettleton sat down smiling at his
father-in-law's odd humour, regarding it
as the result of an excess of delusion
about the value of his inventions.

"You will not be warned in time,"

said Daddy in a melancholy tone ; adding
with a sigh, *' Ah, well, I am sorry that it
should pass out of the family, but I have
done my best to prevent it."

And then he went away muttering
something to himself.

*' Jane," said Mr. Nettleton, addressing
his wife with sudden gravity, ' I hope
there is nothing seriously wrong with
your father. You know people who are
queer in the head like him may be harmless
enough for years and all of a sudden
burst out into raving madness, murdering
everybody they can lay hands on."

* Gracious goodness, Paul, what do you
mean by saying such dreadful things?"
almost screamed the affrighted Mrs.
Nettleton.

** I don't want to scare you unnecessarily,
my dear, but we mustn't shut our

eyes to facts. I have just been reading
a case in the paper here about a man who
has killed his whole family, and then tried
to cut his own throat."

 Dreadful 1"

** It's horrible ; and nobody had any
warning of it except that he had been
gloomy and out of sorts owing to some
losses in business. Now, you know, your
father may feel his disappointments about
those confounded things upstairs more
than we guess ; and he has such a crazy
fancy for that fellow Foster that our
rejection of him might turn his brain
altogether. I did not like his looks just
now as he was going out of the room."

** I don't think we need be afraid of
any violence from father," was Mrs. Nettleton's
comment ; but it was evident that
her husband's suggestion had alarmed her,

and that she spoke under the influence
of hope rather than that of conviction.
However, she had considerable confidence
in herself and her power over the mild
old gentleman upstairs ; so she added,
'' But I shall look after him."

*you had better keep a pretty close
watch on him, and I will get Dr. Harvey
to see him in the course of the day. At
the same time you had better keep a sharp
look-out on Eosie's correspondence. It's
no use telling Foster not to come to the
house if they can carry on their sentimental
nonsense through the post. That
would not be fair to Jephson."

ril make her promise to-day that she
is to have no communication with him
whatever."

It's your duty to see that she doesn't,
whether she promises or not. There's to

be no underhand letter-writing or 
in my house. I forbid it,
and I expect you to see that my orders
are obeyed."

*you needn't get into a temper over
it, Paul. I won't allow her to write,
and who is there to carry messages for
her?"

** Who ?  you can guess well enough,
and you must take care it doesn't happen,
that's all. There's one thing more I must
say, Jane. I haven't complained much
about keeping your father, although you
have so many other relations ' '

' They have all as much as they can
do to keep themselves," interrupted Mrs.
Nettleton, her complexion becoming again
very yellow.

* That may be, but they ought to have
done something, and all I've got to say

is that they'll have to do it if he doesn't
obey the regulations I make in my own
house."

This ungracious speech was instantly
resented, although Mrs. Nettleton had
said something to much the same effect
herself.

 There is one thing I have to say,
Paul  you are not to forget that it was
my father's money which gave you the
chance of starting in business, and he
has never interfered with you before."

'*I have paid him fifty times over all
I got from him," he replied calmly, but
with an expression which the employed
of the '' Universal Emporium " knew welland
did not like; 'but I am not complaining
even now, and it would certainly
be very stupid of us to have any words
on the subject."

< Why do you begin it, then ? "
* I really didn't mean to begin it, and
so let us drop it. What I want you want,
and you know that you are as angry as I
am at his meddling. The girl would never
have been such a fool as to say * No '
to our wishes if it hadn't been for the
nonsense he has put into her head. Our
business is to get it out again as quickly
as we can."

* That is exactly what I think."
So the scene ended, and Mr. Nettleton
proceeded to the '* Universal Emporium "
with an unruffled countenance, satisfied
that he would hear no more of Daddy
Maydew's sentimental nonsense. But
Mrs. Nettleton was not so happy in her
mind, as her servants speedily discovered.
She could not overcome in a moment the
chagrin of being again reminded that her

father was a burden on the family. And
then, if he should become violently
insane, what was to be the consequence ?
what dreadful things might happen?
The chagrin and the fright combined to
give her the appearance of one threatened
with an attack of jaundice.

Chapter III.

A POOR RELATION.

He had promised to make it all right for
Kosie and her lover, and it seemed that
he had only made things, if possible,
worse than before. He knew perfectly
well that Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton would
resent his interference with an acrimony
which would probably induce them to be
more relentless than they might have
been if he had held his tongue.

So thought poor Daddy Maydew, ashe
marched up and down his garret, with
hands clasped nervously behind him under

his coat. That villain who had indicated
his character and work by a wicked pun
was right after all  Daddy May do was
his proper designation.

Was he to be obliged to own to himself,
then, after all those years, that he
was an arrant fool? He looked round
upon the many works of his brain and
hands. Was it possible that he who had
moulded all these useful ideas into practical
form should be unable to convince
two people (whose good-nature was for
the moment confused by their ambition)
that real love was not dependent on
money, and that happiness could not
be purchased by all the gold in the
world ?

He believed that he was right ; but
then he believed that his machines were
right, whilst other people would not

believe it. What wonder, then, that his
daughter and son-in-law should prefer to
be guided by the principles of ordinary-life,
and refuse to trust their daughter's
comfort to the bubbles of hope and expectation
? They were acting wisely and
kindly according to their lights, and
although they were quite able to give
their daughter such a dowry as would
secure her from any danger of poverty,
they were reasonable enough in desiring
that she should have additional security
in the assured position of her future
husband.

Looking round at all the evidences of
his failures, it did seem not only absurd
but criminal to attempt to force his
opinions on those who had succeeded.
But  and it was a big hut this time 
the matter at stake was one of happiness,

not money, and he had found
infinite happiness even in his failures !

And that was how it would be with
Eosie and Linton Foster  they would be
happy even if they did not become
millionaires.

There was no use arguing about it ; he
intended that the young people should
have their way, and the only question
was how to bring it about. What a
helpless, useless creature he must be if .
he could do nothing for them ! He
might appeal to Jephson to give up
thinking of Eosie ; but Jephson was a
young man of thirty-five, who had a
strong conviction that no man should
marry before that age, and not even
then unless his position was secured.
Any assistant of  The Universal Emporium
" who sought* an increase of

salary on account of the multiplication
of domestic responsibilities was certain
of a month's notice on the spot. So it
was no use appealing to Mr. Jephson.

Whilst these cogitations were distracting
him, the door opened softly, and a
tall, thin, sharp-featured lady entered.
Her veil, hastily tossed back from her
face, had assumed an erect and defiant
shape on the top of her bonnet ; there
was anxiety in the grey eyes, but there
was greed in them too, which instantly
checked the sympathy a first glance at
her excited. She was little over forty,
but looked much older. '

The old man halted, looked at her ina
dreamy, bewildered way, and then
exclaimed in a tone of distress 

** Barry is out of work again, and you
have come for money ? "

'sit is true, uncle," replied Mrs. Barry,
trying to modulate a shrill voice into soft
tones. *' Barry was obliged to resign his
appointment, because the principal of his
department was a vulgar fellow, who did
not know how to treat him as a gentleman
should be treated. What could
poor Horace do but instantly send in
his resignation to the Directors of the
Company ? "

' Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! " groaned Daddy,
with increasing bewilderment and distress;
'rit seems to me that the first duty
of a gentleman is to support his wife and
family. What has he to do with people's
manners ? If he does his work he earns
his money, aud he can afford to pity the
man who does not treat him like a gentleman.
He would be more like one, and
maybe make others feel that he was one,

VOL. III. E

by doing what was offered him than by
Bending his wife about begging for him."

There was neither irritation nor reproach
in Daddy's voice  only sheer
despair on account of his niece. She,
however, apparently stifling sobs, took
out her handkerchief and wiped her eyes,
while she said as plaintively as her voice
would allow 

*' You are very hard upon us  very
hard. We do not want to trouble you,
or anybody, I am sure; but we have
been very unfortunate, and you are our
only friend. I know that we have had
to appeal to you too often, but Horace
will repay everything as soon as he gets
a suitable appointment."

*why, he has had situation after
situation, and he has never kept one
more than six months ! "

** You know that he was educated and
brought up as a gentleman, and you
must make allowances. He cannot
submit to the indignities which common
people pass unnoticed, because they are
too ignorant to perceive them."

* I don't understand it I can't understand
it : people who do their work need
not bother themselves about indignities.
But how much is it you want this time ? ' '

** Only five pounds," replied Mrs. Barry
greedily ;  only five pounds to make up
the rent. We must pay it tomorrow, or
they will turn us out of the house, and
that would be death to me and the
children."

Five pounds !  only five pounds ! "
cried Daddy hopelessly, as he Hated his
hands. ' I haven't got it."

** Then we are ruined  absolutely ruined.

ONlVtHSITY Of IIUNOIV
LIBRARY

Oh, my poor children, is there nobody to
help us!"

She bowed her head, and all the sobs
she had thus far suppressed were concentrated
in one long wailing sigh.

' Have you spoken to Jane ? " inquired
the distracted inventor nervously.

"It is quite useless," was the bitter
reply; 'my cousin is like her husband,
and can find no excuse for misfortune
when it comes asking for help in money.
If we had only been Hottentots, or wild
beasts, of some kind  and I wish we had
been, with all my heart  they would have
given us plenty, and thought themselves
benefactors of the world, when they saw
their names in the newspaper amongst
the generous donors. But, as we are
only poor relations, they will do nothing
for us."

**I really  really think you ought to
speak to her again, Agnes; she is not
kindhearted."

''I cannot. But never mind, dear
uncle ; I know you would gladly help us
if you could. As it is not in your power
to do so, we must submit to our hard fate,

and go to the work Oh, I cannot

name the dreadful place ! "

* No, no ; it is not so bad as that. I
can manage to give you a sovereign, I
dare say, and with it you will be able to
hold out until Barry finds some friend to
put him on his feet again. I did badly
want the money to buy materials to complete
this new machine ; but you shall
have it  you shall have it,"

He went hastily to a cupboard in the
corner ; but he had mislaid the key, and,
after fumbling about in all his pockets,

went to the bench in search of it. The
key was not of much consequence, for he
had little to lock up that was of value to
any one, except himself. Even if there
had been a treasure to hide, the secret
drawer which he had constructed within
the cupboard would have baffled any one
who attempted to open it without the
knowledge requisite, or a pickaxe. Only
Daddy himself and Eosie knew the secret
of that drawer, and it was great fun to
them having this little bit of mystery
between them.

' That's where I keep all that is most
precious to me, next to Rosie," he used
to say, as he amused himself by allowing
some curious person to try his or her best
to discover the trick of the lock.
 The words had taken a firm hold of
Mrs. Barry's mind from the first, and year

by year her imagination had exaggerated
their importance as her needs increased,
until at last she became convinced that
there was untold wealth concealed in that
drawer. Her uncle was a miser, and
there lay his hoard.

He was keeping it all for his favourite,
and doled out a pittance to her only by
the repetition of such appeals as the present
one. The farce had been enacted
many times and always with the same
conclusion : he went to the secret place,
produced a sovereign, or two sovereigns ;
she accepted the gift with lip gratitude
and inward indignation ajb his cruelty
and selfishness to those who stood in
need for the sake of one who was
amply dowered. She had questioned
Rosie about the contents of the secret
drawer with elaborate cunning. The

reply was that it contained nothing more
than some designs and the little money-daddy
was able to put by at times in
order to purchase materials for his work.
Mrs. Barry did not believe a word of it.
Eosie was a deceitful minx, conspiring
with her uncle to hide the truth that he
had plenty of money. Eosie, questioned
again at a different time, still gave the
same answer, and this satisfied the impecunious
niece that her suspicions were
correct. The suspicion had developed
into such perfect conviction that the farce
which had hitherto ended so quietly
was to have an important variation this
time.

He found the key, opened the cupboard
and then the drawer. One of the most
important peculiarities of the secret
fastenings was that he could undo them

in the presence of any one without the
onlooker being able to discover how he
did it. Then, with a wistful look in his
eyes, he took out a sovereign. Much ashe
pitied his niece, he felt bitterly disappointed
that his charity would delay the
completion of his machine for months.

* Here it is, Agnes  it is all I have got ;
and you don't know what a loss it is tome.
. . . But never mind, "he added with
an attempt to be cheerful;  better times
will come  only they might have come
sooner if I had had that sovereign."

Mrs. Barry did not, as was usual, hold
out her hand eagerly for the gift. She
stared at him with a curious expression,
in which dismay, anger, and spleen were
combined.

* That is no use," she said huskily.

** Bless my soul!" exclaimed Daddy,

looking at her, *' what is the matter with
you?"

' Haven't I told you ? " she said, swaying
her shoulders a little as if his dulness
were unendurable. ** Ruin is the matter
with me  starvation for me and my children.
. I will own, uncle, that I have
sometimes come to you for money, when,
maybe, it would have been better for us
if we could not have counted upon you.
I don't mean to blame Barry, mind," she
added hurriedly.  He is doing his best,
poor fellow ! but he never was fitted or
intended for business, and he can't help
things going wrong."

'* I didn't mean to blame him or you,"
said Daddy consolingly. ** Misfortunes
happen to everybody, and I only wish
that I could help you completely out of
them ; but this is all I can do."

' I repeat, uncle, that it is no use. We
must have five pounds to-day, and I know
quite well that you can give it to me if
you like  I know that you could give me
five hundred if you pleased."

* Me give you love hundred ! " said
Daddy, his arms dropping by his side,
his eyes opening and staring at her in
amazement.

*eyes, or eye thousand!" the woman
went on passionately ; whilst the eyes of
her uncle started in more and more
astonishment as she proceeded. * You
can't deceive me any longer. I know
that whilst you have been making believe
that you have never got anything for
your work, yoa have been all these years
getting something from dozens of people
for your improvements in machinery.
Oh, you needn't try to hide it any longer!

I have been reading about it ; I have
been reading about the fortunes Nasmyth
has got and Bessemer has got ; and there
is one of your machines going at Bradford;
and you are hoarding up all this
fortune for Eosie, whilst we are starving."

** One of my machines going at Bradford
! " said Daddy, rubbing his nose with
the sovereign and trying to make out
whether or not this was a dream.

* You know that well enough. I daresay
you have made your will, and that
you have left us something in it; but
what is that to us ? Give it to us now,
and you will have some good of our
gratitude  you can't get much good of
it when you are dead. . I am only
asking this very little from you to-day."

She was in earnest. There could be
no mistaking that look, that tone; and

even if a mistake might have been made
about them, it would have been impossible
to misunderstand the sincerity of
her spiteful rage. She was envious of
Kosie ; she really believed that he had
a secret hoard of treasure  she really
believed that his inventions were bringing
him in money ! He felt as grateful to
her as if she had given him the fortune
she imagined he possessed. The bewilderment
with which he had listened
to her at first gave place to a glow of intense
gratification. Kosie often made him
happy because of her thorough conviction
that his work ought to produce millions ;
but here was a woman who believed that
they had done so, and he was grateful.

But it was of Rosie he had been thinking
before Mrs. Barry's appearance, and
of how he was to help her to happiness.

Mrs. Barry had unconsciously enabled
him to see a possible way of achieving
that end. He had always liked her and
pitied her, finding much excuse for her
selfishness and bad management of her
household in her devotion to her husband
and children ; but he liked her more than
ever at this moment.

' Bless my soul!" he gasped, with a
degree of nervous hesitation, which she
misunderstood for distinct symptoms of
annoyance at having been detected in his
deceit. ' How could you have discovered
all that ? I didn't think there was a
living creature who believed in my work
except Eosie and myself."

*'Ah, but you see you were mistaken,
uncle," replied Mrs. Barry eagerly. 'you
see I believed in it and I know what it is
worth."

And you really believe that I am
making a fortune ! "

* Now do stop all this pretending with
me, please. I will keep your secret if
you want it kept ; but don't try to keep
up the pretence with me any longer. I
am sure it is not very much I am asking
from you just now."

There was a curious quiver about his
lips which might have developed into a
smile, but he checked it, and said, still
somewhat dreamily 

You want five pounds ? "

 That is all at present."

< Very well," he said with sudden
energy, as he pocketed the sovereign ;
and Mrs. Barry felt her heart sink at the
thought that he was about to deny her
even that small sum. She was regretting
that she had not taken it when first

offered, but was relieved by his next
words,  *' Very well, you shall have ten
pounds this afternoon provided you ask
me no questions. But you must come
back this afternoon  say, at four or five
o'clock. I don't keep much money about
me, and must go into town to get it."

* I shall wait for you, and I shall do
everything in my power to show my gratitude
for the relief you have given us.
You will forgive me, uncle, for being so
persistent, but I knew that you could
help us, and I can quite understand your
desire to make us do all that we can
for ourselves in the first place. I shall
wait for you. Jane will not refuse to
allow me to stay in the house, although
she would refuse to give us the money."

* Don't forget how much she has given
you already," he said hastily. ' There,

we will say no more about that. Go down
to her at once, and wait till I come back.
There is no saying what extraordinary
things may come out of these poor things
yet," he added, glancing round the room
at his models.

*' There is a great deal more come out
of them already than people fancy," she
said, smiling as she quitted the room.

VOL. III.

Chapter IV.

AT Work.

In dealing with her numerous poor relations,
Mrs. Nettleton was careful to
receive them in the stateliest room of
her house  that is, the drawing-room 
and with the extremity of polite formality.
She found that this course asa
rule was highly successful in modifying
the claims made upon her, and sometimes
had even shut the mouths of the
applicants altogether.

So she received Mrs. Barry in the
drawing-room, and they were still standing,

after having shaken hands stiffly,
when Mrs. Nettleton saw her father
rush past the windows as if hurrying
to catch a train. She observed with
displeasure that his collar was not properly
put on, that the ends of his necktie
were flying about his ears, and that
his coat was buttoned in a most careless
fashion. She had long ago given up all
hope of persuading him to pay attention
to his dress in the house, but she still
felt annoyance when she saw him in the
street so negligently attired as he was at
present.

'* Dear me, where can he be going to
like that ? " she could not help exclaiming.


"Your father, you mean," said Mrs.
Barry complacently. *'I believe he is
going into town, and he bade me wait

till he came back. Of course I am very
glad to do so, as it gives me the chance
of having a nice long chat with you, Jane;
we haven't had one for ages."

Mrs. Barry's explanation and manner
relieved Mrs. Nettleton, whilst they excited
her curiosity. She was relieved to
find that it was only a chat her cousin
wanted, and at the same time she was
curious to discover what her visit had todo
with Daddy's sudden flight to town.

'' I haven't got time for gossip to-day,
and must ask you to excuse me. As my
father has gone into town  I suppose to
waste some more money  there is no
saying when he may come back, for he
has no notion of the value of time.
When he gets into one of those
machinery shops he loses all count of it."

' Pray do not let me interfere with

anything you have to do, Jane dear.
I would not disturb you for the world.
But my uncle said he would be back
about four, and if you don't very much
mind I would rather wait, because it
would be such a long walk for me to
go home and return. You see, even the
expense of an omnibus is a consideration
to me  although I do not expect it will
be so long now."

She added the latter words with a*
significant smile and nod which somehow
annoyed her cousin.

* I am sure I hope not, and I am glad
to find that you have at last come to
consider how you spend your money. I
wish you could get my father to do the
same."

* You ought not to be so severe upon
him, Jane," counselled Mrs. Barry sweetly;

* you don't know what reason you may
have to be sorry for it by-and-by. He
hasn't gone into town to spend money as
you suppose, but to draw some."

 Draw money  from what?" Mrs.
Nettleton regarded her with lofty pity.

 I am not at liberty to say anything
more  indeed, I have already said too
much. But I could not help giving you
the friendly hint that uncle is not the
silly old man you all take him for, and
that he has not been wasting his time
and money as you all fancy."

* I am very glad to hear it, and shall
be still more glad when I see some proof
of it. I'll send Eosie to you presently."

Mrs. Nettleton felt that she had not
conducted this interview with her customary
dignity, and that, whatever the
cause, a singular change had taken place

in her cousin's manner. Hitherto she
had always been, if not exactly humble,
most respectful; now she had suddenly
become as arrogant, although in a quiet
way, as if she had inherited a fortune.
Yet there was no palpable reason for the
change, unless it had something to do
with those foolish references to Uncle
Maydew and some mystery about his
work.

As if, indeed, there could be any mystery
about anything Mrs. Nettleton's father
had done and she not know it ! All the
same, the change in Mrs. Barry was remarkable.
She had never before come
to the house without asking for some
more substantial favour than leave to
remain for a few hours. This time she
had sought nothing more, except the
' nice long chat," which she had suggested

as if they were in positions of
perfect equality.

Daddy Maydew went down to the
Pelham Eye station, and took a first-class
return ticket to Victoria. The
booking clerk, who knew him well by
sight, and that he always travelled third,
repeated inquiringly, ** First, sir ? "

* Yes, first-class return, if you please,"
said Daddy, laying down his ninepence
with a grand air of indifference to
expense.

Nobody would have had the least suspicion
that whilst going through this
performance he was perfectly aware of
the neighbourhood of a smartly-dressed
man, who evidently desired to avoid him.
But as soon as he had got his ticket,
Daddy wheeled round and addressed the
skulker.

' How do you do, Mr. Jephson ?  hope
you are quite well. Have important business
at Westminster. I suppose you are
going to Lydgate. In a hurry  goodbye
! "

Mr. Jephson was taken aback at being
discovered, but muttered something which
was doubtless intended to be courteous, in
response to the hurried salutation. He
was relieved when he saw Daddy prancing
up the stairs as if there was not a minute
to spare. Looking at Mr. Jephson, of
Nettleton and Jephson, proprietors of
'the Universal Emporium," and observing
his fine raiment, and plain but sensible
face, you would have called him a gentleman.
If you had known that he skulked
behind Daddy because he believed the old
man was going third class rather than
because of the feeling of dislike he had

for him  what would you have called Mr.
Jephson then ?

 What's in the wind now'' he was
mentally asking himself as he secured his
own ticket.  There is something up
with the old boy when he has important
business at Westminster and travels first.
I don't believe he ever did it before.
Something is up."

Henry Jephson was a man of average
height, with thin red hair, a thick pale
moustache, and short crisp whiskers.
He had invested considerable capital
(inherited from his father) in *' The Universal
Emporium," and was now the possessor
of a handsome fortune, whilst still
under forty. He was a smart man in
business, although when away from it he
was weak enough to desire to make people
believe that he had no connection with

trade. At Brighton he delighted to pose
as a gentleman of no occupation.

He desired to marry his partner's
daughter for two good reasons : first,
because she was an only child, and consequently
the whole business of the
* Emporium" would thus fall into his
hands ; second, because he liked her as
well as a man who always thought of
himself first was capable of liking a
woman, and he fancied they would 'pull 
together" as satisfactorily as most couples.
Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton were entirely of
his way of thinking ; but the young lady
was not, and she was supported in rebellion
by her grandfather. That was why
he did not care for Daddy ; but he would
have ridiculed his opposition if it had not
been that Linton Foster was an important
item, which had to be taken into account.

However, Foster was a poor beggar
who had nothing to depend on but his
brains, and long before they could win for
him a decent income Jephson had no
doubt the girl would be his wife, and
grateful to him for having saved her from
the pitfall which sentiment and inexperience
had dug for her. It never occurred
to him that sentiment, directed by sincerity,
is frequently wiser than experience
directed by selfishness. It never occurred
to him that Daddy Maydew had been
longer in the world than he had been,
and had passed through some very cruel
experiences in this very matter of matrimony.
To Henry Jephson, as to so many
others, Maydew was simply an old fool,
but in his case he had unfortunately the
power to be a somewhat troublesome one.

However, Jephson had the happy faculty

of dismissing disagreeable subjects from
his mind when the moment in which they
absolutely demanded attention had passed.
So he went on his way with delightful
self-satisfaction.

Daddy was self-satisfied, too, on this
day. The forest of chimney-pots through
which the train was carrying him seemed
to suggest agreeable thoughts, and even
the huge black gasometers near Vauxhall
told him some exquisite joke. '

He got out of the train at Victoria with
a nimbleness which surprised himself.
He glanced cunningly up and down the
platform, but saw no one he knew. If
there had been any person in the crowd
who might have carried the story to his
son-in-law, he would have taken a cab.
As it was he walked at his best speed to
Westminster Chambers. Passing through

one of the large doorways, he hurried up
the stairs and entered an office which
was hae hidden at the end of a long
passage.

'ris Mr. Foster in?" he said to a
youth, who was diligently reading a novel
which was concealed from chance comers
by the Hd of a huge ledger.

Yes, sir  what name ? " was the
prompt answer, as the ledger closed on
the novel.

Mr. Foster appeared from the inner
room as soon as he heard the name of
the visitor, and welcomed him heartily.
He was a strong, frank-faced, 
fellow, but there was
some anxiety in his expression as he
inquired immediately after closing the
door of his private room 

Have you brought me any message,

Mr. Maydew ? You know the turn things
have taken now ? ''

*eyes, yes, I know all about that. J
have no message ; but it will be all right
in the end  don't lose heart  get me ten
pounds  make out an assignment of my
window cleaner and anything else you
like  and it will be all right in the end."

Daddy spoke disjointed in his haste,
and Linton Foster was a good deal perplexed
as well as amused by his excitement.
He was also disappointed that
there was no message from Eosie.

Is she well ?  how is she bearing
it?"

** She is bearing it well enough  I'll see
that she keeps up her heart, and if you
want to make her happy get me that ten
pounds  in sovereigns  all new sovereigns."


** Of course I shall get what you want,
but I wish you would explain "

Now, now, you are not to ask for any
explanation," interrupted Daddy. 'you
must trust everything to me and do
exactly as I bid you. You believe that
you can make her happy  don't you ? "

''I do' was the quiet response.

''So do I, and so does she, but her
father and mother do not, and you must
take them into account. They can't
understand your business or mine. All
they know is that you are a civil engineer,
that you sit in this office which would belike
a bandbox in the 'Emporium,' and
you haven't even got any stock in the
bandbox beyond some sheets of paper
with a lot of lines on them They can't
see how a fortune is to come out of that.
Don't be angry with them  they can't

help it. It's a pity, and you must forgive
them. But what is the use of our talking
about this ? I tell you it will be all
right if you do what I ask."

Foster filled up a cheque and sent his
lad to the bank with instructions to
ask for new sovereigns, in obedience to
Daddy's whimsical request. He comprehended
that the old man had some plan
in his head by which he hoped to reconcile
Kosie's parents to her union with
him; and although he would have felt
more satisfied if he had been allowed to
take an intelligent part in carrying it
into effect, he was content to be led
blindfold so long as he could believe that
he was being guided towards her.

'I shall do whatever you tell me, Mr.
Maydew," he said, " but I hope you will
not keep up this mystery with me longer

VOL. III. u-

than is positively necessary. For the
present, I shall only ask, when may I
hope to see her again ? "

'* I don't know, lad," said Daddy, laying
a hand paternally on his shoulder ;
*' but if you keep quiet, and if I am not
blundering more than I have ever done
in all my blundering life, you will have
an invitation to Windsor House from
Mrs. Nettleton before long''

Foster smiled and shook his head
doubtingly.

 You might persuade her to do that,
but Nettleton will never agree. He not
only told me plainly that I am not to
enter his house again, but he has written
to say that he trusts to my honour asa
gentleman not to force my attentions
upon his daughter in any clandestine
way. These are his words  the letter

arrived only a few minutes before you
came in'*

** Never mind that ; you may be sure
that he will agree to whatever Jane says,
and she will say in a very short time that
she will be pleased to see you. Keep up
your heart, Linton: you and Eosie will
be happy yet. Look after the assignment
of the patent window-cleaner, and you
may as well throw in the automaton
shoe-brush."

"Oh, that reminds me ! I showed the
window-cleaner to young Seton, the architect,
and he thinks there is something
in it''

"I Tcnow there is a great deal in it,"
said Daddy proudly, " and a great deal
more in another machine, which you
shall see when it is quite finished. Only
Kosie has seen it as yet, and she is "

He stopped. He had been about to say
that she had been much impressed by it ;
but remembering what he had seen in the
mirror, and how she had been occupied
during his explanation, a droll smile came
over his face as he said instead, " Well,
she didn't quite understand it at the time.
However, you must put down the assignments
as made in consideration of the
sum of fifty thousand pounds."

'' Fifty thousand ! My dear Mr. May-dew,
how am I to do that ? "

' By writing the words in the bond, of
course. Don't say any more  remember
our bargain : you are to do what I tell
you and ask no questions."

Foster laughed good-humouredly.

* I see you have some practical joke in
your head, although what it can be is a
puzzle at present. I'll get the agreement

written out at once, but I suppose it is
not necessary to go to the expense of
stamping it at present."

** Maybe it is a joke and maybe it is
not ; and whether it is worth stamping or
not we shall soon discover. Good-bye ;
have it ready tomorrow, and you may
expect me here about this hour."

* Will you bring me any message from
her?" asked the lover, forgetting all his
curiosity about Daddy's joke in his eagerness
to have some hope of a sign from his
mistress.

*' Can't say, can't say. I suppose there
will be no harm in telling you that she is
well, or ill and had to take physic. We'll
see."

That was the only assurance Daddy
would give. The ten bright sovereigns
were made into a roll with tissue paper,
and he bustled out of the office.

He next called at the International
Patent Office, and made some inquiries
which involved correspondence. Then he
visited in succession the representatives
of our colonial governments, and from
each he was courteously promised answers
to his various inquiries within a few days.
Lastly, he called on Messrs. Terrified,
Jailer, & Co., a firm of highly respectable
old-fashioned City solicitors in Cannon
Street, who had for many years transacted
business for him. After a brief interview
with the senior partner, Mr. Terrified,
he took train from Lydgate Hill, and was
again in the garret of Windsor House
shortly after four o'clock.

Then he had a mysterious interview
with Mrs. Barry, In her presence he
took from the secret drawer a roll of gold,
and slowly counted into her hand the

ten fascinating bits of metal, so slowly
that it seemed as if he felt a pang at
the parting with each piece. When he
had done he sighed,

Now, Agnes, that's a great deal of
money for you to have all at once," he
said, holding her hand as if half inclined
to take it back ; " and I hope you will
use it properly, and that it may enable
you and Barry to pull through your
present straits. Mind, this is so much'
taken off whatever it may be in my
power to leave you and your children.
But this can't be repeated. I am not
made of money, although your good
opinion of my work makes you think
so. And there is one thing which I
must impress upon you very strongly 
very strongly indeed."

Say what it is, uncle ; you know

that I have always been obedient to
you, no matter what others might say
or do," answered the niece with real
warmth and sincerity, for the advantage
was entirely on her side.

*' That is very good of you. I don't
ask anything you cannot agree to, for all
that I want is that you will hold your
tongue about where you got this money.
You understand ? "

' Oh, quite well ! Nobody shall have
the least hint from me  I'm sure they
shan't." To herself she added, **I am
not such a fool as to tell others where
the golden nest lies."

 Thank you, my dear. You know
that I don't like to be worried about
money, and if  well, if anybody should
discover that I was able to give you so
much, there would be no more peace

for me, and peace is essential to my
work. 1 must have quiet  you can
understand? "

' Oh yes, uncle, perfectly ! and I
shall do nothing to cause you annoyance."


'' It will be all the better for yourself,
remember that."

She did remember that; but Mrs.
Barry's greed had to contend with her
vanity, and the latter generally got the
best of the struggle. So in the present
instance, whilst expressing her gratitude
with a profusion of words and a few real
tears of joy, resolving in her own mind
that for her own sake she would keep
the miser's secret, her humour gradually
changed as she began to descend the
staircase. Her nose went up into the
air, her shoulders were thrown back, and

she could not help prancing into the
parlour with an air of smirking condescension,
holding the now inflated purse
ostentatiously in her hand. She felt that
she had already touched the position of
independence, in which she could afford
to be offensive to her cousin, who was
the wife of a mere tradesman. Her husband
was a gentleman with ancestors,
and he was still entitled to rank higher
than the shopkeeper, notwithstanding
the unfortunate circumstances which required
him occasionally to obtain temporary
advances from that low personage.
She could not help dropping more
mysterious hints about the boundless
fortune they had in prospect. She could
not help begging with sweet humility
that her dear Jane would allow one of
the servants to call a cab, as she felt so

overcome with fatigue and also distressed
in mind about poor dear Eosie, who
looked really ill and appeared to be
suffering from some great mental depression.
She could not help giving her
dear cousin some patronizing counsel
about the management of the dear child.

When she went away Mrs. Nettleton
stared after the cab in a state of frowning
bewilderment. Surely the malady which
Nettleton had hinted as affecting her
father could not be infectious ! Agnes
certainly had behaved in a most extraordinary
manner during this visit.

She had not asked for anything ! She
had displayed all the airs of a fine lady,
and patronized her with an assumption of
superiority which Mrs. Nettleton had not
observed since the first few months after
her marriage with '* Gentleman " Barry.

Yet the man was out of work ! (That
was the coarse way Mrs. Nettleton put
it : she did not stoop to the refinement
of saying that he was * disengaged," or
had no " appointment " at present.) And
what was more  Nettleton had emphatically
declared that he would not recommend
him to another situation. Yet for
the first time in the course of years Mrs.
Barry had gone away without asking for
any assistance from her rich relative,
had gone away in as much state as if she
had been the possessor of thousands a
year.

Mrs. Nettleton was very irritable under
the influence of her cousin's conduct, and
was on the point of going to ask Kosie if.
she understood it, when Dr. Harvey was
announced.

' I am very much disturbed about my

father, doctor," she said. ' I suppose
Nettleton has told you what we fear. I
do hope it is not so bad as that."

** We will soon see, Mrs. Nettleton,"
returned Dr. Harvey, a tall, kindly faced
old gentleman, wearing a broad white
choker. ' You had better let me go upto
him at once, and I dare say we shall
soon find out what is the matter."

The doctor expected to see Daddy
May dew busy as usual with his models,
but found him at the unusual occupation
of letter writing, and so busy that he did
not at first lift his head.

/* One moment, doctor, excuse me," he
said ; and having finished a sentence, rose
to shake hands with him.

' Busy as usual," observed the doctor
cheerily, and noticing that Daddy's hair
was much tossed, that his eyes were unusually

bright, and his cheeks somewhat
flushed.

* Yes, very busy, and this time to some
purpose." Daddy rubbed his hands together
with delight. *' I shall have a
pleasant bit of news for you in a few
days, but for the present I don't care to
speak about it. I have had so many
disappointments in my life that I don't
want to say a word about this affair until
all the deeds are signed, sealed, and
delivered."

* That is a sensible way of acting, Mr.
Maydew; but you must be careful to avoid
excitement."

* How can you help being excited
when one of the things you have set
your heart upon is, after so many
failures, suddenly accomplished ? But
I don't want to speak rashly. You know

how Nettleton has laughed at me. I
don't blame him, you know: I would
have done the same myself if our positions
had been changed. This time I
have kept my secret. Even Kosie does
not know it. The news will be the
pleasant to them all when it comes
as an accomplished fact. Don't you
think so ? "

*not doubt fit."

** Well, these papers and the payment
of a certain sum to account satisfy me
that there is no mistake this time. You
must have had a patient, doctor  say, an
only child  whose life hung upon a single
thread. You saw how frail the thread
was, you saw the anxious eyes of mother
and father ; you would have liked to say
* Hope,' and you dared not lest the thread
should snap and their agony be all the

greater because of the brief joy you had
given them. So instead of * Hope ' you
say ' Wait.' Well, I too say ' Wait : ' a
few days will decide the case, and you
shall congratulate us."

' I shall be glad to do that."

 Oh, you shall have the opportunity,
never fear ! . . . Bless my soul, how I
am chattering ! But you know, doctor,
suppose, in the case of your patient, the
thread instead of snapping gains strength,
and the little one rises into new life, and
you see the bright happy faces glowing
with gratitude  you knows that you must
have felt a bit excited as I do now. You
must have been inclined to chatter, too,
in your pleasure if you happened in the
first glow of it to have the ear of an old
friend who would not misunderstand your
self-congratulations. ' '

*'I am perfectly sure of it," rejoined
the doctor, laughing, and much pleased
to think that he could report satisfactorily
to Mrs. Nettleton as to the mental condition
of her father.

* You won't mention my chatter downstairs,
doctor ; the thread may snap, you
know, and if it does I should like to bear
all the sorrow myself."

The doctor had no intention of betraying
the confidence thus reposed in him, .
but it was impossible to avoid saying to
Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton that they were
quite mistaken about Mr. Maydew, and
that he believed they would have a
pleasant surprise in a few days. The
son-in-law was disappointed by the
doctor's good report ; the daughter forgot
that she had been in any way
anxious about her father's mental con-vol.

III. H

edition in her increasing curiosity as to
the meaning of the effect he had produced
on two such different people as
Dr. Harvey and Mrs. Barry. The former
had evidently learned something which
he believed would be agreeable to them
all when they came to know it ; the latter
had decidedly found out something much
to her advantage.

Then came to Mrs. Nettleton the remembrance
of the purse, and with it the
recollection of the suggestion which had
been often made by various poor relatives
that her father was a miser, hoarding up
treasure untold in his secret drawer whilst
pretending to be possessed of nothing
beyond the fifty pounds a year which had
been saved from the wreck of his fortune.
Might there not be some truth in the
suggestion? He was a man who never

locked up anything : money, papers,
models, everything he possessed were
open to the inspection of any one who
chose to inspect his rooms. Yet a few
years ago he had constructed this secret
drawer, and only Eosie knew what it
contained. To crown all, there was the
warning he had given them that they
were making a mistake, and that whatever
he had to leave would only go to
his grandchild in the event of her marrying
Linton Foster, in whose ability he
had such infatuated confidence.

The reel which these thoughts and
speculations danced in her brain kept
Mrs. Nettleton awake during the greater
part of the night, to the serious inconvenience
of her husband, who only growled
out ** Eubbish ! " whenever she endeavoured
to discuss the subject with him.

Chapter V.

THE Woe GOES ON.

But even Mr. Nettleton opened his eyes a
little when the morning postman knocked
twice, indicating that the despatches he
carried could not he got into the letter-box;
and when, the door being opened,
he delivered a number of letters and
packets all bearing official stamps on
the covers, which were addressed to ' S.
May dew, Esq," Nettleton pretended to
be looking through the bundle for his
own letters, but he was really doing ina
furtive way what his wife was doing

openly  reading the names of the firms
and government offices from which the
despatches came.

"Here is one from Terrified and
Jailer," she exclaimed. "Father never
had anything to do with them except
on most important business. . . . Paul,
there is something in all this."

"Eubbish!" growled Mr. Nettleton
again ; but he was inwardly not quite
so certain of that as he affected to be.

As post after post throughout the day
brought letters and packets for her father,
and as he was continually sending out
letters to the post-office, Mrs. Nettleton
felt that she certainly would have an
attack of jaundice if she did not speedily
get to the bottom of this mystery. Her
excitement reached a climax when a
telegram came, and the boy said he

was to wait an answer, as reply was
paid.

She went up to the garret herself with
the telegram.

* What is all this about, father  what
has happened? "she inquired, making no
attempt to conceal her determination to
know what it was about.

** Nothing has happened yet, Jane,"
he answered in his mild way; *but I
hope something agreeable is going to
happen soon, and I hope you will be
pleased with it."

 What is it?"

**Ah, you must try to guess for the
present, as I am not going to tell you
until it is all quite settled. You and
Paul have so often laughed at me for
my foolish dreams, that  in short, I am
not going to tell you."

Oh, you have got some of your
inventions taken up at last," she said,
smiling with more pleasantness in the
expression than she had shown for a
long time.

I hope so," he answered humbly.

But why shouldn't you tell me all
about it ? Nobody can have so much
interest in it as I have."

*'I am not; sure of that," he said
deliberately. *' You must not forget
that I was in earnest in what I said
to you downstairs the other day. . . .
But there, don't let us talk about it at
present. You will know all about it ina
very little while, and I must answer
this telegram."

** I will take it downstairs for you."

'' Thank you."

He read the telegram ; his face

brightened, and she could not refrain
from inquiring again, ' What is it
about?"

*you would not be interested unless
I could give you the explanation, which
you cannot have yet."

She bit her lip. He laid the paper
on the table whilst he proceeded to
write the answer. Without altering her
position Mrs. Nettleton could read
the message. It was from Linton
Foster.

 All your terms are agreed to. Shall
I close the bargain f "

As he wrote it she could read the
answer 

* Certainly; consider the matter settled.
The only difficulty that can arise till be
as to time'"

1 hope the arrangement is a satisfactory

one," lie said, still trying to
find out the nature of it.

** I have no doubt you will agree with
me that it is  by-and-by."

I never saw you in such a state
before, father."

"No, my dear, because I never had
such an important negotiation on hand
before."

He smiled pleasantly, and she smiled
too, as she glanced round the room.
She had no doubt of being able to solve
the mystery by an inspection of his
papers after he had gone to bed. Daddy
had been always careless about his
correspondence, laying letters down anywhere
which anybody who chose might
read. Books may lie about long enough
without any one troubling to read them ;
but drop a letter on the floor and nineteen

out of every twenty passers-by will
at least scan its contents before thinking
of restoring it to the owner.

Mrs. Nettleton had scolded her father
for this negligence. ' But, my dear,
what does it matter?" he would say.
u There is nothing in them that can
interest any one except the writers and
myself." . To that the lady replied :
* They contain statements about  about
relatives whose position I do not like
every servant who comes into the house
to be acquainted with." "Ah, then, I
see you have been reading the letters
yourself, Jane," was his comment, with
that merry twinkle in his eyes which so
often puzzled her and Nettleton. He
was always seeing jokes where they could
see none.

He did not mend his ways in this

respect ; and on the present occasion
Mrs. Nettleton was glad of it. Before
the night was over she would learn
everything. Several nights, however,
passed before she discovered anything
except envelopes bearing imposing official
stamps, some of them being ** On Her
Majesty's Service." He was evidently
on his guard, and that fact rendered her
more certain than anything else could
have done that the ** something " he was 
concealing was of importance.

But one night Daddy went to bed
earlier than usual, Eosie had gone to
her room, and Mr. Nettleton was out
at a vestry meeting, declaiming bombastic
platitudes which he believed to
be common sense, only adorned with
the eloquence natural to a man who
was thoroughly in earnest about the

parish roads and pavements. Then Mrs.
Nettleton went up to the workshop and
lit the gas, determined to have a thorough
search.

This time there were heaps of letters
from poor relations who had not been
heard of for years, all praying for help,
and hinting that when he could do so
much for Mrs. Barry they had no doubt
he would spare a little for them from his
boundless stores. For this they would
bless him and be for ever grateful. Mrs.
Nettleton did not like to be reminded of
this army of poor relations who had been,
thanks to her management, kept at bay
so long ; but they enabled her to understand
the position. Her father had
somehow come into possession of money,
and that fool Barry had been the first to
profit by it. She must have been talking

in her vanity and so set the whole pack
upon him.

Where had he got it, and how ? She
found the answer on a neatly folded large
sheet of foolscap paper, which purported
to he the draft of an agreement between
Samuel Maydew, Esq., on the one part,
and Linton Foster on the other, setting
forth that in consideration of the sum
of fifty thousand pounds the aforesaid
Samuel Maydew assigned all his rights *
and interests in certain patents to the
said Linton Foster and George Seton.

Mrs. Nettleton trembled with astonishment
and excitement ; the sheet of paper
shook as if it were held up in a gale.

What could this mean? She looked
round the room, and to her dizzy eyes
the models appeared to be dancing a
wild reel of triumphant joy. They were

laughing at her as they whirled about ;
and as the gas wavered in the draught
caused by the open door, the long
shadows on the slanting ceiling bowed
to her with mocking condescension. . . .
But she must have read the words
wrongly. No ; there they were in square
lawyer-like penmanship  fifty thousand
pounds sterling !

This, then, was why he had been so
bold as to tell her and her husband that
they were making a mistake in not taking
his advice to let their daughter have her
own way in the choice of a husband.
This was what lay behind his warning
that they would regret the step they
had taken in forbidding Foster to come
to the house  he, Foster, was to be the
sole heir if Eosie did not marry him.
This explained the sudden accumulation

of correspondence  letters, papers, telegrams
 and the rush of poor relations,
clamouring for assistance. This, too,
explained the strange conduct of Mrs.
Barry. She  bitter thought to the
wealthy tradesman's wife  had been
admitted to share this great secret of
Daddy's wealth before his own daughter.
It was positively wicked of him never
to have spoken a word about it to those
who had the best right to know. It
might be even that this was not all 
Mrs. Barry had said many times that
her uncle was a miser, and Mrs. Nettleton
was now able to recall numerous confirmatory
circumstances ; as, for instance,
the way in which at every meal he would
gather up the bits of bread left on the
table, and carry them upstairs to rub
out the blunders in his useless drawings,

in order to spare a penny for india-rubber
(they really went to feed his family, ashe
called the fat sparrows which swarmed
on the window-ledge every morning).
Then how careful he was about his
money, never taking 'bus or tram if he
could walk the distance ; how he would
never give a penny to a beggar, although
he would buy him bread ; and how he
was always lamenting his poverty, saying
if he had money to buy this or that, if
he could only find enough to complete
some piece of work to his liking  when
she knew quite well that he had sufficient
for his purpose. All these were unmistakable
signs of the miser's spirit, and
the proof that he was under its influence
was in her hand.

Mingled with these reproachful thoughts
was the chagrin that she had been so long

hoodwinked by her father, and that she
had not been the first to understand his
ways. She had not yet reached the
point where she could regret having
been so unsympathetic in her treatment
of him.

What was she to do now ? Consult
Nettleton, of course, and see what he
had to say on this important subject.

Nettleton returned from the vestry
meeting glowing with triumph because
he had carried his resolution to have a
new street thoroughly paved and the
road made passable at once. (He had
half a dozen or so small houses in that
street, for which he could not obtain
tenants in consequence of the state of
the thoroughfare.) But even this triumph
was forgotten in his amazement at the
contents of the document which his wife

YOL. III. I

after due consideration  gave him to
peruse.

* Some more rubbish, I suppose," was
his first remark. But when he saw the
document and grasped its nature he was
silent for a little, examining suspiciously
every word and line. Then, " That
Seton must be the son of the alderman,
and if he is in it the thing is safe. . . .
I suppose they are going to form a
company. Why didn't he tell me
about it ? I could have managed so that
we could have kept the lion's share in
the family. As it is, you see, he gives
up everything to them."

*but you know, Paul, we would not
believe in anything he was doing. You
said it was all rubbish, and I thought yoii
knew best about these things."

* Did he give you this to show me ? "

**No." And she thereupon truthfully
explained how the document had come
into her possession.

' Put it back in its place and don't let
him know that we have seen it. . . . Is
Eosie in the secret ? "

'I asked her, and all she seems to
have been told is that there is something
very particular going to happen soon."

< Very well, we shall not speak about
it until he tells us himself; but it's a
pity I couldn't have had the management
of it. I must have a look at the things
he has upstairs. It is possible, after all,
that we have been mistaken about him,
as he said the other day. . . . He ought
not to have been hiding things from us
in this way, though. I am sure he has
had everything he could want from me."

*' What will Jephson say to this ? " exclaimed

Mrs. Nettleton, thinking of the
glory which would fall upon the family.

** Jephson won't be interested when he
knows that he won't get a penny out of
it," rejoined the husband thoughtfully.
'I wonder how it could have been
managed so quietly," he added, after a
pause. *' I dare say he will be at us
again about the marriage. Has Eosie
said anything ? "

No, poor child ! I think she is becoming
really ill." Mrs. Nettleton was
beginning to think that, after all, it might
not be such a bad thing to let the girl
have her way.

 Eubbish ! Harvey tells me there is
nothing the matter with her or your
father. She is only sulking, and I wish
she would stop it, for it is confoundedly
uncomfortable. A downright illness of
some sort would not be half so bad."

CHAPTER VI.

More MYSTERIES.

It was true that Rosie sulked ; and most
people will agree with Mr. Nettleton that
sulks are not only harder to hear than
real illness, but become under certain
circumstances intolerable. In the one
case, every feeling of sympathy is
aroused ; in the other, every feeling
of resentment, without the power of
finding anything definite to resent. You
cannot scold a person because the face
is gloomy and responses are given in
uninterested monosyllables; or because

you are looked at with a dull, dogged
stare when you offer friendly counsel.
Verbally the person is most obedient,
and you feel that the utmost ridicule
would fall upon you if you quarrelled
about mere looks. That is why sulks,
if properly sustained, may rule a whole
household.

Eosie did not mean to be openly
defiant, and she was not so except in
one particular  that was, she would not
marry Henry Jephson. To her father
and mother she was obedient in every
other respect but that of being gracious
to the man they had chosen for her
husband. She had done her best to
be gracious to him until Linton Foster
had been forbidden to come to the house.
After that she disliked the man Jephson,
and could not conceal the sentiment even

if she had wished to do so. She did not
like him and could not help it. She said,
' Thank you," when he rendered some
service at table  for of course he was a
frequent guest at Windsor House,  and
said, " No, thank you," when he offered
something she did not want. But every
word she uttered was expressed with the
excess of courtesy which implies contempt.
She had been much more
friendly in her conduct towards him
when Linton had been a guest at the
same time.

Jephson did not understand that delicacy
which inspired the extra kindliness
to him on the occasions when she fancied
he must be aware of the difference with
which she regarded him and the man
who had secured the freehold of her
heart.

Jephson did not trouble his head much
about where her heart went so long as
she was prepared to perform the duties
of a wife ; and the most important of all
these duties was, in his estimation, to
make her husband comfortable. When
he found that in her father's house she
had such power to make him uncomfortable,
he began to speculate as to what
would be the state of things when she
should be the mistress of his household,
and possessed of illimitable power to
make him miserable by a combination
of trifling acts or omissions.

So he said to his partner the day after
a little dinner-party at Windsor House 

* Look here, Nettleton, I don't think
Bowie is using me as I have a right to
expect, considering the position we are
supposed to hold to each other. Everybody

could see it last night as well as
me, and I don't like to be made a fool of
  and I won't either."

** Why, what has she done ? You took
her in to dinner, and I didn't notice her
do anything to offend you."

** What has she done ! "  but there
Jephson paused with the exclamation ;
for the bother was that he did not know
how to explain what she had done. At
length he added, ' She makes herself
confoundedly disagreeable  that's something,
I should say. Any of the servants
get more conversation out of her than
I can. A fellow cannot go on in that
way, without having some explanation
of it."

** Well, you know that she is a bit out
of sorts at present, but she will be all
right by-and-by, unless you cut up rough

with her just when she is in a pet about
not having her own way. Give her time,
man, give her time'*

 I am willing enough to give her time,
but I do expect her to be civil."

*' That is only fair. I'll speak to her
myself," answered the father, feeling that
the request was just.

He did remonstrate with Eosie that
afternoon about her treatment of Jephson,
and she said  nothing ! Had. he done
anything to offend her? She would not
speak. Was he not as good a match as
she could hope to find? She made no
reply, but there was just the faintest
gleam of a scornful smile on her pretty
face as she mentally compared Jephson
with Linton Foster. The father frowned,
and for the moment felt capable of any
act of tyranny that might be done to

compel her to behave like a sensible
woman and an obedient child.

Still, she would not speak ; and inch
as men have complained of the feminine
tongue when it has been set in motion,
they find its reproach still more severe
when it does not move. To save himself
from appearing ridiculous in his own
eyes, Mr. Nettleton was obliged to order
her to her room. She promptly obeyed.

'' The girl is becoming idiotic with
sheer stubbornness," he said angrily to
his wife ; ' and the end of it will be
that Jephson will throw up the whole
thing. It would serve her right if he
did  but look at the scandal upon us ! "

They both felt the enormity of such a
calamity, and were willing to do anything
to prevent it. They assured Jephson
that he had nothing to fear, that Kosie

would be all right in time, and that
nothing could affect their confidence in
the happiness of the union. Jephson
was gratified, and the vanity of the man
was keenly alive to the fact that some
ridicule would attach to him if, with
fortune and her parents on his side, he
failed to overcome the objections of a
girl who fancied she could only be happy
with a penniless clerk  for so he styled
Foster.

There were other matters continuing
to puzzle and in some degree to disturb
Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton ; and,
without any definite reason why, they
associated Eosie's strange conduct with
them. These were Daddy Maydew's
affairs. His remarkable correspondence
daily increased : there came letters of
congratulation on his success from the

most unexpected quarters ; and people
who for years had apparently forgotten
his existence suddenly presented themselves
to inquire about his health and
to invite him to return their visits.
Combined with these facts was the
excited manner of Daddy : he was
continually smiling, and seemed to skip
about as if his youth had been renewed
and he was enjoying some grand frolic.

Nettleton pretended not to have observed
these things in his brief colloquies
with Daddy, although Mrs. Nettleton
carefully posted him up in every new
phase of the metamorphosis in her
father's position and humour. But his
pretended indifference broke down when,
on a Tuesday morning, there came to
Samuel Maydew, Esquire, an invitation
from the Lord Mayor to a banquet at the

Guildhall to be given to eminent men of
science. It had been one of the greatest
ambitions of Paul Nettleton's life to have
an invitation to a Lord Mayor's banquet,
and hitherto he had been denied the
honour which he was so thoroughly
convinced was his due. He, the head
of * The Universal Emporium," a mainstay
of the commerce of Great Britain,
had been left out in the cold, whilst this
old man who lived in his garret was
deemed worthy of the distinction !

To the amazement of Daddy, his son-in-law
appeared in the garret. More
than that, he sat down, and although
evidently put out on some account, he
was in a kindly mood.

*hope I don't disturb you, Daddy?"
he said courteously.

 Not a bit  how could you think so ?

Glad to see you, I am sure. You don't
often come upstairs."

Daddy spoke gleefully, for lie was just
putting the finishing touch to that
machine which was to revolutionize the
cloth manufacture of the country and to
realize millions for Rosie.

** Well, I thought I might be disturbing
you, because I have heard that men like
you are so easily turned off the rails, and
I didn't want to do that."

*'Ah," replied Daddy, thoughtfully,
*' if you could put me off the rails, the
fact of your saying you did not want todo
it would not matter much. Once
interrupted, your going or staying is of
no consequence ; but your saying that
you don't want to interrupt puts me in
the unpleasant x of having to say that
you have done it, or of having to spare

your feelings and my own by telling a
fib. However, don't be uneasy; at
present it is all right. I have got the
machine all but perfect. . . . Look at
it!"

' I cannot stop for that just now,"
answered Nettleton, without heeding the
lesson Daddy had been reading him. ' I
want you to answer a question  What's
up?"

' How do you mean ? " rejoined Daddy,
surprised by the sharp tone in which the
question was put. ' Is there anything
wrong ? "

*' I hope not," replied Nettleton, with
a quiet smile at what he regarded as the
attempt of the inventor to hoodwink him
at the start. * I only want to know what
is the meaning of all these goings-on. I
think I have some right to know. You

don't get an invitation to the Lord
Mayor's banquet for nothing."

It's a great honour, a great surprise,"
was the humble answer ; " but it is not
of much consequence to me, as you see I
cannot accept it."

* Cannot go!"  no number of exclamation
marks would suffice to indicate
the bewilderment of Mr. Nettleton at the
idea of a man receiving such an invitation
and calmly saying he could not accept it.

** No ; what would an old fellow like
me do there ? Besides, I want to satisfy
myself about this machine and banquets
are not in my way. But if you can
manage to pass, why should not you go
instead?"

"Eubbish!" said Mr. Nettleton, impatiently;
but there was a sudden glow
in his breast at the thought of being able

VOL. III. K

to attain the object of his ambition even
in this way. ** What I want to know is
about all these letters  all these callers.
What's np ? I say again."

Daddy rubbed his hands with pleasure.

Is it not very kind of everybody ?
They are interested in my machine at
last  that is, they say so. Maybe it is
only because I am an old curiosity; but
we'll see  we'll soon see."

' What is going to happen ? "

Daddy shook his head, smiling at his
son-in-law.

' I am not to tell that until it is all
settled. Now, don't try to persuade me,
because I shall not tell you anything

more."

 Then something is going to happen? "

I am sure of it ; something that I

have set my whole heart upon. But

don't worry yourself about it, Paul. You
will learn in good time, as I said to Jane
in good time."

*rand you still mean to keep to that
resolution of giving everything to a
stranger, unless "

** Oh, that arrangement has been made
long ago. Please don't let us open up
old scores."

Nettleton could make nothing of him,
and he told his wife.

I know how we shall find it all out,"
she said promptly.  We'll ask Foster
and his friend Seton to dinner. I'll get
it out of them if there is anything in it,
and it will do no harm to let Jephson feel
that we are not his abject slaves inKosie's
settlement. I did not like the way he
spoke to you the last time he was here."

I did not like it myself ; but we must

be cautious. It would never do to break
vith him unless we had very good grounds
for doing it  very good grounds indeed."

Still, Linton Foster and George Seton
came to dinner. Jephson was not there,
although he had, as a matter of course,
received an invitation. Mrs. Nettleton
had in the most considerate way informed
him that Mr. Foster was to be one of the
party, and, as she calculated, 'the Other
One " would not join it. He had his
revenge, however, by leaving her in
doubt and spoiling the dinner by keeping
it waiting more than half an hour
for his arrival. He had accepted the
invitation, but in such conditional phrase
that he was expected and yet could
appeal to his letter to excuse his nonappearance.


Eosie was happy again : the colour

returned to her cheeks, the lightness to
her step. The parents observed the
agreeable change, although their whole
minds were bent on keeping the lovers
apart and on coaxing out of Foster and
Seton the explanation of Daddy's mysterious
ways. But all that Mrs. Nettle-ton
could extract from Foster was a
smile, a discreet shake of the head, and
this apology, uttered in a tone of much
regret : 

* You must excuse me, Mrs. Nettle ton ;
I am not at liberty to speak of Mr.
May dew's affairs at present."

All that her husband could get out of
Seton was a confidential whisper, accompanied
by a nod of congratulation 

There's a big thing on. But  
mum's the word."

During the evening, the host and

hostess were conscious that the person
who was of most importance in the eyes
of all the guests was Daddy. He, goodman,
had little to say ; but he was in
excellent humour, and constantly discovering
most entertaining jokes which
were quite invisible to his daughter and
son-in-law.

There were never two people more
distressed in mind by their position than
were Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton in this
singular period of their lives. There
was Jephson continually snarling ; Eosie
always sulking, except when she had a
chance of seeing Foster; and Daddy forever
grinning and rubbing his hands with
a glee, the reason for which he kept all
to himself. But worse was to come.
Jephson began to pay such marked attentions
to the bouncing daughter of a

wealthy builder and contractor, that in
the wide circle of  The Universal Emporium
" the rumour speedily grew loud
that Miss Nettleton had been jilted.
This they might have treated with scorn ;
but the worst came soon afterwards, in
the shape of Jephson himself carrying
a large bundle of letters and postcards,
which he flung down on the table before
the astonished eyes of Kosie's parents.

** I want to know what is the meaning
of all this ? " he said, trying to hide his
cruelly wounded vanity under a cool
sneering manner. * I cannot stand it
any longer. I should like to know at
once how many people there are who
may expect me to lend them five pounds
because I am going to marry your
daughter, and so become, as they are
pleased to say, their ' dear relative.' "

The poor man's irritation was excusable.
He had been badgered nearly out
of his life by visits and letters ; for it
seemed as if all the needy relations of
numerous generations of Littleton and
Maidens had combined to claim an
interest in his anticipated kinship and
a share in his purse.

* You need not pay any attention to
them," answered the bewildered Nettle-ton
; he had never before known that his
kindred was so extensive. 'You cannot
expect us to be responsible for every
begging-letter writer. Pay no attention,
and they'll soon drop it. They never
bother me."

' It might be as well to drop the whole
connection," suggested Jephson bitterly.

*' "We didn't ask you to marry our
daughter," ejaculated Mrs. Nettleton

with temper, and growing very yellow
indeed. '' You begged that we should
allow you to have her, and we consented.
If you think it's a favour you are granting,
I should think that the sooner we
drop the whole connection the better.
Eosie will be glad enough to do it."

Jephson had not been prepared for
such an outburst, and still less prepared
to find himself taken so promptly at his
word.

*/ Pardon, madam, I did not mean to
say anything that might be in the least
disrespectful. But this is annoying.
Why, the servants at the house and the
clerks at the office are laughing at me,
on account of the queer customers who
are calling for me at every hour of the
day."

Mr. Nettleton's pride was as much

hurt as that of his wife, but her interruption
allowed him breathing space, in
which he recollected that he was dealing
with his partner in business  a man of
substance, not ideas ; and so he answered
calmly, with thorough sympathy on the
one point 

* It is most annoying, Mr. Jephson.
I have been looking at some of these
letters, and, having gone through a
similar experience myself, I can only
repeat that the writers will soon stop
bothering if you pay no attention to
them. As for the other matter "

*' I can put the letters in the fire easily
enough," interrupted Jephson; ** but I
can't do that with the writers when they
come to the house or the office."

*' I am at a loss to comprehend their
audacity," Nettleton continued, as if he

were addressing a vestry meeting ; * but
I observe that every one of these letter
begins in much the same terms, namely,
that, having been assured by one who
knows you well that you are not only
rich, but a man of most generous, openhanded
nature, they hope  and so on.
Now, the person who gave these people
that assurance is the cause of your
annoyance. We did not do it."

Neither the speaker nor the listener
was conscious of the sarcasm expressed
in this argument. Jephson took it asa
component, and declared that he
wished to be generous ; at the same
time, he could not support a whole population.


*' I should be very sorry if any such
necessity was imposed on you through
your relationship with our family," continued

Nettleton, with the same bland
tones in which lie had been wont, informer
days, to assure a customer that
he was offering a bargain. *' And as you
are apparently desirous to break off your
engagement with our daughter, we shall
consider the affair at an end from this
moment. We will make the fact known
to her at once."

*' Oh, if you take it that way, so let
it be," returned Jephson, his vanity again
in the ascendant, and the bouncing
daughter of the wealthy contractor in
prospect.

''So let it be," echoed Nettleton;
*' and I am glad we have been able to
arrange so amicably a delicate matter
which often provokes much ill-feeling.
We remain friends in spite of this
misunderstanding."

*' Of course. I don't see why we
should not be friends. And for myself,
I have only to say that if the young lady
wishes the engagement to hold good, I
am ready to stick to it."

' You needn't give that a second
thought," broke in Mrs. Nettleton,
sharply. *' She never wanted it, as you
are aware  she never looked on it as an
engagement."

* Thank you. Then, the thing is over,
and we are satisfied all round."

After he had gone 

' I hope we have not made a mistake,
Jane," observed Nettleton, frowning as if
somebody had forced him to act contrary
to his own judgment.

"I'm sure we have not. We should
have quarrelled with him in any case, and
it is better now than after. Besides, the

position of Mr. Foster is different from
what it was when we set our faces against
him; and, as Kosie is so taken up with
him, it will be more comfortable for us tolet
her have her way."

* Yes, that will be a relief, for she has
made the house unpleasant enough to
make me wish her out of it under any
conditions."

When Mr. Jephson got into the hall,
some one grasped him nervously by the
sleeve. It was Daddy.

I want to speak to you very particularly,
Mr. Jephson," he said in a
hurried whisper.

** Haven't time now, Mr. Mayhew. I
am in a hurry."

He snatched up his hat, and made for
the door, which the servant was holding
open.

*' Oh, I'll walk out with yon. I can
tell you as we go along  it won't take
more than two minutes to explain."

Jephson walked fast across the Rye,
and Daddy trotted beside him, talking
earnestly, but spasmodically, owing to the
pace he was obliged to maintain.

* I have been waiting for a chance to
speak to you ever since you came this
afternoon. As soon as I heard your
knock, I said to myseK,  There's the man
who will help me over this difficulty.' "

At the word '* difficulty," Jephson
quickened his steps and ground his teeth.

' It's only a little thing that is wanted
to finish the machine," Daddy went on ;
*but there is no use speaking to Nettle-ton
 he doesn't believe in anything. Now
you do, Mr. Jephson ; and if you could
only lend me a few pounds ' '

* Go to the devil ! " shouted JeJ)hson,
and fairly ran away from the old man.

Daddy halted, and stood for a few
minutes looking after him, grinning as
if something peculiarly amusing had
happened.

Chapter VII.

THE Secret OUT.

Although impervious to everything like
sentiment, Mr. Nettleton could not help
admitting to himself that there was a
decided improvement in his household
comfort from the moment Kosie learned
that she was to be no longer pestered
about Mr. Jephson, and that Foster might
call when he pleased.

What made the difference Mr. Nettle-ton
could not understand : his coffee in
the morning had the same attention atone
time as the other ; his dinner was not

VOL. III. L

a bit better cooked now than before. Yet
there was a difference, and he felt it.
He did not think it could be altogether
owing to the smiles he now saw on
Eosie's face instead of the sulks which
had irritated him so ; or to the fact that
she greeted him with ' dear papa " and a
loudly pronounced kiss, as she had been
accustomed to do before this worry began.
His wife, too, seemed to be gentler in
manner and voice, and she rarely revealed
the yellow tinge of irritability. He even
fancied that he got on better with
Jephson in the office than he had been
doing for some time in their strained
relationship of prospective father and
son-in-law. Whatever the cause, there
was undoubtedly the change ; and he
found himself speaking at the vestry
meetings and at the fortnightly gatherings

of the young people attached to ' The
Universal Emporium " with an eloquence
which astounded himself. It was a change
as delightful as it was mysterious.

Mrs. Nettleton experienced the same
sensations, and even Mrs. Barry ceased
to trouble her. Bat she had an idea of
the meaning of it.

*' It's because we are all going on so
nice together," she said, with a benignant
smile, as if she were conscious of having *
done her duty in bringing it all about.
* Eosie's happy now, with Linton coming
whenever he likes and going to be married
as soon as they please. Then, you see,
he is a great deal more respectful to you
and me than Jephson ever was  I wonder
how we could ever have thought so
much of him ; and it's a comfort to think
he's as rich as him any day, and likely to

be richer, not to mention that he can
speak to the Prince of Wales himself at
those engineer meetings."

There was something in this which
Nettleton could understand, and he cordially
shared his wife's satisfaction. At
the same time, there was a vague feeling
of displeasure occasionally in his mind
because Daddy would explain nothing
about his inventions, and would not give
him a chance of buying at advantage
shares in the company which was being
formed, and of becoming a director.
Daddy always said that the company
being formed consisted, for the present,
of only two people, and that Linton had
and would have a big share in it. Nettle-ton
was obliged to be content with this
assurance, although the curious smile on
Daddy's face perplexed him very much.

It seemed a simple smile ; and yet it
suggested great self-content and triumphant
cunning. But what did the old
man's playful mystery matter when
Linton Foster cheerfully signed the
settlements prepared by Mr. Nettleton's
own solicitor under Mr. Nettleton's personal
instructions ? The settlements
assigned everything Eosie possessed, or
might after inherit (it was before the
Married Women's Property Act), to her
own sole use and to be at her disposal in
every way.

You might add to it," said Linton,
with full heart and bright eyes, ' that
everything I may possess is under her
control for her sole use if she pleases. We
shall have no squabbles on that score."

Nothing could be more satisfactory
than this ; and Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton

privately congratulated themselves on
the happy choice of a husband Kosie had
made, especially when it was taken into
consideration that he was quite as rich
as the one they had chosen for her.

Daddy was an object of much solicitude
in Windsor House throughout the period
of these arrangements. He might have
brought his models into the drawing-room
if he had chosen, for his daughter
and her husband were anxious to please
him in every respect. But Daddy continued
to receive their favours with
humble gratitude, whilst he refused to
leave his garret.

' You see, it has been my home for
years," he said, looking affectionately
round at his numerous models which had
been so long regarded as useless toys, but
which were now dignified by the title of

great inventions, ' and I can't bear to
leave it. I have all my things about me,
and can work at them without feeling
that I am disturbing anybody." Then
he would add, as if half regretting the
possible change,  Maybe I shall go to
Eosie, by-and-by. You see, Linton hasa
notion of these sort of things, and talks
of fitting up a regular workshop for me
with all sorts of lathes and useful tools.
. . But I don't think I'll go, unless you.
turn me out."

At that ridiculous notion of turning
the old man out there would be a hearty
laugh, and Nettleton would say 

'all right; if you wait till then you
will see us both in Unheard."

Foster, backed up by Daddy, was eager
to have the wedding-day fixed at once.
Eosie, blushing, only said 

I would like to do what Linton
wishes."

To Nettleton, Foster said 

** I think I can find bread and cheese
for her in the meanwhile, and, by-and-by,
perhaps butter."

Nettleton smiled with self-satisfaction,
chuckling at the thought which he expressed
to himself in this way : 

What a sly young dog he thinks
himself ! He doesn't know that I know
what I know. What fools they must
think Jane and I are ! "

So the wedding-day was fixed; and,
although it was much against the will
of Mrs. Nettleton, it was agreed that the
ceremony should be gone through without
any of the ordinary justification. No
stream of carriages, no grand breakfast,
no speeches (how Nettleton winced at

the loss of this grand opportunity to
display his eloquence !), and no show of
bridal gifts were to be allowed. The
only outsiders who were to be present
at the ceremony were George Seton, the
architect, and one of Kosie's cousins.

After much discussion, the parents of
the bride agreed to this arrangement,
consoling themselves by inviting a large
number of guests to a dinner-party in
the evening to celebrate the event.

George Seton was not personally
known to anybody present except the
family ; but Mr. and Mrs. Nettleton had
managed to make every one aware that
he was the son of Alderman Seton, who
would soon be Lord Mayor. There was
accordingly a general murmur of satisfaction
when he rose to propose the
health of the bride and bridegroom.

It was such a speech ! Seton was a
young man whose nature and position
inclined him to rhodomontade, and whose
kindly heart always sought the best side
of everything. So he painted in glowing
colours the future of the two people who
had been that day launched, as he said,
on the ocean of felicity. Of the lady,
he need say nothing. Of Linton Foster,
his schoolmate and friend, he could say,
that amongst all the men he knew,
amongst all the men he had read of, there
was not one who possessed in a greater
degree the power of doing the right thing
at the right time than the gentleman
who had been so happy as to take away
the darling of their hosts. There they
were, smiling upon them. Did they not
deserve to have such a son and such a
daughter ? It was quite beyond his

power to express the pleasure he felt in
being present at such a ceremony; for
they must understand that it was not
merely the union of two young people
who were fond of each other, but the
climax of a great invention.

Then Mr. Nettleton found his opportunity.
He had never thought Seton
such a fine fellow as at that moment.
He was aglow with admiration of that
eloquent speaker  and of himself. He 
had no words in which to express his
own humility and his deep sense of
respect for the gentleman who had spoken
so kindly of him, and of the lady who
had made his life so happy and prosperous
(all who were there would know
how much he was indebted to her for
his success) ; he was only able to say at
that moment  for a moment like that

came seldom in a lifetime  and it was
only possible to say that lie was deeply
sensible of the obligation lie owed, not
only to his wife, but to her father. There
sat the grand old man (Daddy rubbed
his hands and chuckled as if very much
pleased with himself). He had taught
them the greatest lesson which man or
woman had ever learned -he had taught
them to respect the noble endeavours of
a noble man. He had taught them to
respect the riches of intellect and to
set aside, for the time being, the
contemptible question of a bank account.
He trusted that nobody there would think
the less of his dear son-in-law, because
he thus rudely referred to the fact that
he was not a rich man  indeed, he knew
that everybody there would appreciate
the feeling which he expressed in these

words  man made the money, and not
money the man. He had himself, as
they all knew, begun life in humble
circumstances, and he had risen by his
own exertions to what he was. He had
no doubt that his son-in-law would not
only obtain wealth, but distinction, such
as had been denied to him.

' Great distinction," chuckled Daddy,
great distinction ; everybody here will be
proud of having shaken hands with him".

As my worthy friend, the father of
Mrs. Nettleton, observes, he is certain to
obtain great distinction," continued Mr.
Nettleton, his fingers playing nervously
with his watch-chain.  I have watched
his career for a number of years, and  I
hope you will not misunderstand me in
alluding to one so near and dear to me as
Mr. Maydew  I have learned from that

gentleman to appreciate Mr. Foster properly.
Mr. Maydew, I should tell you,
lias been too long hiding his light under
a bushel ; but it has been discovered at
last, and you will all soon learn that he
is a man of mark. That, however, is a
matter apart from my present purpose 
which is simply to express my cordial
reciprocation of your good wishes. I
have not said anything like what I feel ;
but I am sure you will appreciate all that
I mean ; and that you will believe at least
in this  that Mrs. Nettleton and I are
proud to see you here on this occasion.
Mr. Seton, as the groomsman, will speak
for my son-in-law,"

Then there were great clinking of
glasses and murmurs of applause, which
was too polite to be spoken aloud. Then
George Seton got up again.

159'

* I suppose I represent the bridegroom.
But I can only imagine how warmly he
would express his gratitude to you for
your congratulations, and how earnestly
he would tell you that everything in his
power should be done to realize some of
your good wishes for the future of his
young wife. Most of you know what a
fellow's feelings are in this position, and
we poor bachelors hope to know them
some day. So, I need only say, Linton
Foster thanks you and drinks to you."

At that there were pleasant smiles, and
glasses went to the lips in cordial response.


*snow, as to my friend Mr. Maydew,"
Seton proceeded, 'let me tell you he is
the most remarkable man of the present
century  although he doesn't know it."

*' Yes, he does," muttered Daddy,

yes, he does  knows it quite well; inch
more remarkable man than anybody else
thinks."

But he was chuckling to himself all the
time, as usual, seeing some joke which he
fancied nobody else could see.

When Seton was going away that
evening, he grasped Daddy's hand very
warmly, saying 

 You will hear something that will
astonish you in a few days."

*' I have no doubt of it," said Daddy,
quite as warmly.  I shall learn that
Jane and Paul are contented."

Daddy went on talking to himself and
rubbing his hands, still seeing jokes which
nobody else could see ; and Nettleton
went on gleefully enjoying the joke which
he could see  that he had married his
daughter to a richer man than Jephson.

But  the day of reckoning came. It
was discovered that there was no fifty
thousand pounds forthcoming from the
sale of the window cleaner or the other
machines, and that Linton Foster was
not a penny richer than he had been in
the beginning. Then came Paul Nettle-ton
up to the garret, as Daddy had expected,
with white face, but, as he had
not expected, gentle manner. And instead
of being very angry with him, he
laid a hand softly on his shoulder, and
he used the word which he used so
seldom : 

' Daddy, what is the meaning of
this?"

And Daddy seemed to realize the
change in his son-in-law. He rose, and
taking off his old faded cap, he bowed
and said 

VOL. III. M

** Paul, it is one of my inventions''
The man looked stern for a moment ;
then clasped both his hands and went
away. He, too, understood. He had
learned that love was more than money 
he had learned that in his whole life he
had never obtained so large a profit as he
had gained from this simple device of the
old man, in teaching him that happiness
was obtained by love alone.

When Seton said, ' You will hear
something that will astonish you in a few
days," he did not understand the meaning
which Daddy put upon the words.
Daddy's notion was simply what he said
that he would hear, and be delighted to
hear, that his son-in-law and his daughter
would be contented. But although that
astonishment had been very complete in
itself, making him as happy as if he had

really gained a fortune, Seton's words
had another meaning.

The second meaning came in the shape
of a tall gentleman, whose name was
announced as Colonel Brown. He was
very carefully dressed in all respects,
except that, instead of the ordinary
chimney-pot hat, he used a wideawake
which he carried under his arm as he
entered the garret.

Well, sir, I come on a most important
mission, and I am real proud to shake
hands with you." At that he grasped
Daddy by the hand coldly, although he
evidently meant to be earnest enough.
I come to tell you that we have made a
big thing with that affair of yours."

Daddy looked at the man in surprise,
mingled with a kind of awe, as if he had
been favoured with a visit from Mephistopheles.

The man came in so quietly,
looked so thin and hard, and yet said
such nice things. Then there was a kind
of bursting sensation in his breast, as he
asked himself the question, *' Can it be
that at last something I have done has
made a mark ? ' Next he said to his
visitor in a very humble, tremulous
tone 

 I don't quite understand, Colonel
Brown. What is the big thing ? "

Colonel Brown was incapable of expressing
astonishment ; but he did lift his
eyebrows and regard Daddy with a kind
of pity.

' Well, sir, you are the very first man
who ever made a fortune and didn't know
it. The machines are going all over the
States, and I am to start the new company
which is to work them here. But I

guess you're wanting to have a little joke
with me."

** I  hope you are not joking with me,"
gasped Daddy.

** No, sir; I never joke," said the
colonel, with an expression which indicated
that he could not if he would.
* But if you are in any doubt about the
matter, your agents, Foster and Seton,
will satisfy you of the genuineness of
these drafts which I have got to handover
to you."

Daddy took the papers with trembling
fingers, and then stared helplessly at this
strange visitor. *' Is he the devil, and is
he wanting to buy my soul ? " was his
next mental query. Then aloud 

"You  you don't want anything particular
from me for these ? "

Nothing, sir, except your receipt duly
stamped."

' There's nothing behind it, is there ?
You don't want to come upon me
afterwards for anything else ? "

I don't know that there can be anything
I could come upon you for, except
improvements upon the machines. That's
a fact."

Wait a minute," said Daddy, hastily.
*' Excuse me, I am a little excited. I'll
be with you in a minute."

Daddy shouted at the top of the staircase
with a voice that alarmed the whole
household.

' Jane  Paul  Jane  Paul  come
here ! "

And they came, and Daddy placed in
Nettleton's hands the drafts he had just
received, whilst the colonel stood by with
something like a frown on his face.
But Daddy turned to him, and taking

his hand, led him towards his amazed
daughter and her husband.

''He brought them, Paul; it has come
at last. There's Eosie's fortune."

A few words between the two men of
business enabled Nettleton to realize the
whole position. Then, when his wife had
done hugging and kissing her father, he
said quietly 

I am glad of this, Daddy, because it
makes you glad. I suppose this is what
Seton meant and you did not know it,
but you gave us the true fortune before
this arrived. However," he added, with
a smile, '' I have no doubt the young
people will have no objection to this one."

Yes," said Daddy, drooping his head,
'' I have no doubt they will be glad. But
it is droll that this, which has been the
aim of so many years, does not give me

half SO much joy as I felt on the day they
were married ; for, you see, on that day I
felt that I had brought about the happiness
of two living souls. After all, our
fortunes are in our thoughts and not in
our pockets'

Chapter I.

HIMSELF.

Well, Jack, comfortable now, eh ? Ah,'
I thought so. You look it  thank goodness,
we have had one satisfactory meal.
I ought to say you have had, for I have
not been able to swallow a bite, although
I tried my best. Never mind ; you are
comfortable, and that's something. Now,
look how we stand  are you thinking of
what I say ?  that steak and this bottle
cleared me out. Look  empty pockets !

Not another farthing to bless ourselves
with, and old Griggs will be in for the
rent tomorrow morning. Just think! 
no, don't think, it would spoil your digestion
: she will say we are rogues and send
us to the workhouse. There, that will be
fun  won't it ?

Ah, Jack, Jack, my poor friend, I wish
you had known me in the old days ! But,
maybe, then I wouldn't have minded you
so much, there were so many running
about me. They thought I was coming
into a great fortune, and it was worth
while keeping on good terms with me.
They didn't care a button for me, you
know  some of them didn't even mean to
borrow from me  but it's always pleasant
to be able to say that Jim Crown, or
whatever his name may be, who is worth
so much, is your friend. They would

have done anything for me : they petted
me as much as if I had been a Derby

favourite, and

What became of them ? you ask, old
boy. "Why, they acted like the friends
of the Derby favourite who loses the race
they left me. Even she. . . .

But that's no matter. You have stuck
by me, Jack ; and, by the Lord ! if things
ever come right again you shall not be
sorry for it. . . . Things come right*
again? What nonsense I talk! The
fortune may come ; but what's the use of
it to me, since I have awakened and find
that what might have made life beautiful
has only turned it into a dreary farce on
which one is anxious to have the curtain
down as quickly as possible. . . . Bah !
wait till I have mixed some grog, and I
will tell you my dream. You would like

to hear it, wouldn't you ? It amuses me
thinking over it ; and somehow the whole
thing comes back to me to-night as if it
were a play in which I was acting my
part and feeling it, although I know all
the incidents and the bitter end. Give
us your hand, old fellow, and I'll tell you
all about it. Wait, I must shut my eyes.
Now I see her  but how different she
looks ! I want to see her as she was in the
old time  how long ago is it ? Centuries.
Yet a minute changed it all ! I laugh at
myself. Jack  I cannot laugh at her.

There she is in the sunshine  an
ordinary girl and homely enough looking
to others' eyes, but to mine most beautiful.
So quiet, so simple that you felt a
blessed sense of peace in her presence,
and safety under that calm steady gaze of
hers. She did not stare, and yet she

looked straight in your face, making you
feel that her nature was of the finely
strung kind which was ready to make its
music merry or sad, as might be most in
accord with your humour of the moment.

I had read what seemed to me sentimental
nonsense about souls flying out to
meet each other. My soul did go out to
her. Oh, the bitterness of it ! To think
that she would have looked just in the
same way at any comer !  that the ex 
pression which in an instant transformed
me had no more meaning than that of
the glass eyes in a doll ! The translator
did not know himself : he made the poem
he translated. It's wonderful, Jack, how
often the same mistake is made.

But I want to go through it as if living
it all over again ; and as I see her now
everything comes back to me  every

word, every look is repeated. . . .Be
quiet, Jack ; I hear her as well as see her.
Do you think I can mistake that low
sweet voice ? Do you think I do not feel
every note of it, and recognize my love ?
How beautiful she is  how gentle in
every movement ! Do not misunderstand
me : her beauty is not that of mere form
and complexion. I have seen many
women who, judged in that way, were
angels of light compared to her. They
had won my admiration  that's all mere
beauty of form can win from a man; it
never touches his love. I have always
thought that it would be an insult to a
true woman to say, 'you have a pretty
face; I love you for it." No, Jack; the
beauty which wins love is that of the soul.
And she possessed it  as I dreamed.

CHAPTER II.

HIS Story.

* Papa told me to say that he was very-sorry
to be absent when you arrived, Mr.
Hartington, and he bade me do every
thing I could to make you comfortable
until he returned."

The girl held out her hand in the calm,
self-possessed way of one accustomed to
meet many people. There was nothing
special in the movement, nothing special
in the smile which accompanied the words.
Yet Lawrence Hartington fancied that he
must have touched an electric battery of

VOL. III. N

delight when he took her hand. He was
amused with himself. There was a decided
thrill throughout his nervous system
as he took her hand. There was no mistake
about it. The sensation was as distinct
as that of the toothache  only the
pain was of joy. She was so different
from every other woman he had seen.
He supposed that was the sort of thing
which people called love at first sight 
as if any sensible man was likely to give
up himself to a person he knew nothing
at all about ! It was simply one of those
agreeable first impressions which quickly
pass into acquaintanceship, and frequently
ripen into friendship. So, with a frankness
which would have been boldness
had it not been thoroughly sincere, he
answered, laughing 

*upon my word. Miss Fothergill, I

regard your father's absence as my good
fortune."

She bent her head slightly in acknowledgment
of the compliment.

** It is very kind of you to say so. Papa
thought you would have so little time to
spare that you might not be able to wait
for him."

**I was in a hurry, but the hurry is
over. I can wait, and will, if you do not
mind." 

 Papa said I was to make you comfortable,"
was the demure observation, in the
soft low voice, with a faint suggestion of
hesitation which added sweetness to the
tones and grace to the figure ; " but I do
not know exactly what to do with you.
Have you had lunch ? "

 Not yet."

** Then that is something to do."

She led him into the pretty old-fashioned
cottage, gave him a newspaper,
and asked to be excused for a few minutes.
Every incident was of the most ordinary
kind, and yet she moved through all with
an indefinable sweetness which somehow
made the man's heart beat fast. She was
an extraordinary creature  so frank, and
yet preserving that maidenly reserve
which forms a complete guard against
undue familiarity; so simple, and yet so
prompt and practical in going about her
household duties. He was delighted with
her, and puzzled with himself.

He had come there with his mind full
of perplexing matters of great importance
to his future  matters which had kept
him awake for many nights, and had
given him no rest by day. They had all
vanished at sight of this lady. The hours

passed in her presence were filled with the
most ordinary occupations  eating, chatting
about the weather, and discussions
about books read or to be read. Yet
she inspired all with a mystical sense of
beauty. He was under a delightful spell,
which he imagined must be similar to that
of the opium-eater in the stage of rhapsody.
Would he have as bitter a penalty
to pay for this brief joy ?

He did not care to inquire too
curiously ; but when Captain Fothergill
arrived in the afternoon, he could not help
the feeling that he had been roused from
a delicious dreamland in which he would
have been glad to pass his life away, and
he exclaimed 

I did not think you could be here so
soon."

*' So soon ! My daughter tells me you

have been waiting for nearly four hours ! "
was the captain's astonished but merry
reply. " I hope you haven't been making
love to her, Hartington, at your first
meeting. That would make me think
you very bold, and that she had been
very imprudent."

"I assure you, sir " began the young

man, looking foolish, and conscious that
he did so, whilst a painful sense of the
very, very commonplace conversation
which had entertained him so much
passed through his mind.

He was spared explanation by the
good-natured interruption of his friend.

* There  all right. Don't blush like
a child at a silly joke. I can trust you
not to be impertinent, and," he added
this with much significance, " I can trust
her to be prudent."

* We talked only of the most ordinary
things. The weather "

Just so," again interrupted the captain;
* that's how it begins. Everybody
laughs at everybody for opening conversation
with a remark about the weather, but
nobody considers what a dangerous topic
the weather is. I have known of women
ay, and men too  whose ruin began
with nothing more than 'It's a fine day,'
or * It's a wet day,' or * It looks like raii,'
and so on, and so on."

*'I hope, sir, that in this case the
commonplace may not lead to a tragedy,"
said Hartington, beginning to feel more
at ease under the captain's raillery, and
smiling.

So do I ; but I was not meaning anything
personal. You know my way of
chattering  can't help it  ' 'tis my nature

to.' What was chiefly running in my
head was the fun of your finding that I
had a daughter old enough to make mea
father-in-law at any moment. You
wouldn't have thought it  would you ? "

Certainly not, captain ; you look
young enough to "

* To be her brother, you would say."
(That was not what Hartington had been
going to say, but knowing his friend's
inveterate habit of interrupting people
and completing their sentences according
to his own fancy, he allowed it to pass.)
* Thank you," continued the captain;
*' many people think the same. Married
young, you see  very young. That's
why we live in this poor place."

He waved his hand as if to indicate the
whole of the pretty cottage in which they
stood.

But you must have found some happiness
in your early marriage, or you could
not look so fresh now."

"Oh, no reflections on the late Mrs.
Fothergill, my dear boy. She could not
help births and deaths and doctors' bills
not to mention the tradespeople. Lord !
how their bills did multiply ! But she did
her best, and so did I, and we scrambled
along somehow; and  here we are 
'Melia, myself, and four others  left to
take care of ourselves." Here he drew
breath, and, opening his eyes as if awaking
from sleep, exclaimed, " But, bless
my soul, how have I dropped into this
prattle!"

The captain had frequent occasion to
use that phrase. Although a shrewd man
in many respects, he had this weakness,
of which shrewder men knew how to take

advantage  his thoughts were easily diverted
into a long parenthesis about something
quite apart from the matter in hand.
The point of setting off was generally
forgotten by the time he returned to it.

* You started from a very agreeable
subject, captain  your daughter."

" Ah ! yes, of course. Now we will get
to your own affairs. I have seen our
friend Mrs. Knowles, and fear that I have
done more harm than good."

 How can that be?"

"Because she is vicious, and only
regards your friendly approaches as
attempts at bribery, and proofs of your
knowledge of the weakness of your case.
She is resolved to dispute the will to the
last. She insists that it was obtained
by force and fraud from a man in an
enfeebled state of mind."

' How can she pretend to think that; of
our uncle? "

"Because she wishes to do so, and
because she is a widow with a family. All
the same, we must admit that there is
some reason in her argument. Consider
all the facts of the case. Your uncle's 
well, we shall say  dislike of your father
was well known, for it was often enough
expressed ; whilst his liking for his sister,
Mrs. Knowles's mother, was equally well*
known. When your father got into difficulties,
your uncle might easily have
saved him and would not ; but to his
sister and her daughter he denied
nothing. When your father died it was
not surprising that his rich brother should
relent so far as to help your mother and
yourself. But on the death of Mr. George
Hartington, it was surprising to find that

by a recent will he should have given you
the bulk of his fortune, and to Mrs.
Knowles only a comparatively small
portion of it. There was no apparent
motive for this sudden change."

ic Tjere was a motive," said Hartington,
with a shadow on his face.

Then, for goodness' sake, declare it,
and the day is won," exclaimed the
captain warmly.

' No  at least not in a law-court ; but
I may tell you. My mother was the
cause of the brothers' quarrel : and the
memory of what she had once been to
him was the cause of Uncle George's
kindness to me."

The captain's little eyes opened wide
with surprise and sympathy. Then a
smile of self-satisfaction lighted his face :
he was proud of his quick apprehension.

Ah, I see the whole thing now, and
yes, it is clear as day  it was a revival
of the old sentiment in regard to your
mother. I dare say you have not observed
 I did not observe it myself until
this moment  the date of the will is that
of the day on which your mother's funeral
took place."

* I did not observe it before," exclaimed
Hartington, roused from a reverie in
which his mother and Miss Fothergill
had a part. ' Surely that explains
everything."

Yes, yes  to us; but I doubt if it will
have much effect in a court of law. It is
important ; that is the most we can say.
But to me it is a complete explanation
why a man of such strict business habits
as your uncle should have chosen suddenly
to draw up his own will, and have it

witnessed by two of his servants, instead
of sending for his lawyer and having it
done in due form."

"Perhaps he did not care to risk the
detection of the motive which actuated
him."

"I have no doubt it was so; but, you
see, that would be regarded as a sign of
weakness, which is the very thing the
other side wishes to prove."

True," muttered Hartington thoughtfully.


And then it is awkward that both
witnesses should have gone away, leaving
no trace of their whereabouts."

You know my opinion regarding their
disappearance."

That they have been bribed. Very
likely  but by whom ? "

It would be my interest to find them."

"Not if the will had been obtained
under the circumstances which the other
side advance as the main argument
against its validity. Of course, I cannot
think you would do it, and I don't like to
think that Mrs. Knowles could do it.
But she has an intimate friend who is, I
believe, quite capable of it."

Who is he ? "

'* There, Hartington, you ask too much.
I shall not commit myself on a mere,
suspicion  have I committed myself?
I did not even say that this friend was
a he."

Oh, you have not committed yourself
in the least," replied Hartington, laughing,
" except to be my friend. You have
been my cousin's friend, too, although
she will not own it. Thank you for this
effort you have made to settle the matter

quietly. The case must now run its
course, and I have no doubt of the issue."

I have no doubt either. There is
one thing against you, however  she has
money to go on with and you have not
much."

Certainly not much ; but I suppose
my prospects are worth something. My
solicitors and counsel are as confident
as myself if we could only find those two
men who "

"Witnessed the will. Yes, yes, of
course ; but that means everything, and
the expense of hunting them down will
be immense. We must think about it.
I have been thinking about it, and begin
to see something like daylight. Not
clear enough yet to explain to you  but
it will be in a day or two. We'll find
the men somehow."

Hartington was pleased to think that
he would have occasion to call again at
Briarmount Cottage  and to see Miss
Fothergill.

When he had gone, the captain said
cheerily to his daughter 

*' How did you like Hartington, my
dear?"

Yery well," was the placid answer,
and the father knew that no special
impression had been made. '

 He is a fine fellow  I like him. His
father once did me a service, and I mean
to do one for the son. I should not like
to see him come to any harm."

"Is he in danger of any ?'"

In danger of losing a large fortune,
and I think he has lost something else : "
this with a merry smile and look at her ;
hut she did not understand. He went

VOL. III. u

on, ' Wish I could render him material
service at once ; but that is out of the
question. A captain's half-pay and occasional
odd jobs on commission, even with
a few guineas as director of a company,
do not leave a man who has a family with
much loose cash."

CHAPTER III.

HIMSELF.

The bright days, Jack !  the soft smile,
the sympathetic look, and the touch of
her hand, which set all my nerves singing
joyous songs, low and soft like those of
an soliman harp in a light south wind.
She made the commonest things radiant
with beauty, and the commonest duties
were full of poetry as she performed
them. Sewing was an artistic occupation
when in her hands, darning a stocking
was suggestive of all the virtues of wife
and mother ! . . .

Do you think this funny, old fellow,

or ridiculous ? I suppose it must appear
in that light, for I have sat gazing at her
whilst she was engaged in these household
occupations vith as much rapture as if
she had been a great artist and I a humble
student privileged to see her at work.

Then there were the long walks through
the fields in the summer days, by the
river and the green hedgerows. What
did we talk about ? I don't know ; but
she seemed to be pleased, and I was full
of gladness. Beside her no care could
reach me ; no thought of trouble enter
my mind  no doubt of her fidelity enter
the gates of my soul.

Next came the day  down by the river
there, inter the willows  she said she
loved me  tears in her eyes, her whole
form trembling in my arms, and

I cannot go on. Jack ; let me rest a
bit. You are a good fellow.

CHAPTER IV.

HIS Story.

Captain Fotheegill was one of those
unfortunate men who can always be much
more energetic about other peoples
business than their own. Not that he
was a meddler  he was, indeed, careful
never to put his finger in other people's
pies except when he had an invitation.
It was simply that over his own affairs
he was inclined to dawdle, but when pity
or friendship moved him to undertake
some task for another, he never rested
until it was accomplished or proved to

be utterly hopeless. In the case of
Lawrence Hartington he was satisfied
that there was a right thing to do, and
gratitude to the old friend who helped
him at a pinch made him eager to do it.
Although conscious that his services
would not go unrewarded, that idea did
not influence his action in the least.

Strange to say, too, when he observed
the speedy confirmation of his suspicion
that Hartington had tumbled at once into
the sea of trouble called Love, he was not
much impressed by the thought of the
prospective advantages to his daughter.
Of course it would be an excellent match
for her, and he had no doubt that
Hartington would be a loving, faithful
husband. But he had an uncomfortable
sensation that Amelia was of a peculiar
temperament which he had never been

able to understand, and that the difficulty
of making it content might prove more
troublesome to a husband than to her
father. Yet he admired his daughter
extremely. She was a capital manager ;
she was always cool, always sensible.
What flirtations she entered into she
managed so calmly and with so much
discretion that no one had ever thought
of regarding her as a flirt  still less of
imagining her capable of playing with
love. It was impossible for people who
met her in an ordinary way to associate
the idea with one who was so good in
everything, and so quiet 1

And, indeed, she had no intention of
doing wrong to anybody. Her experience
had been unfortunate, and, being of
a practical turn of mind, she came to consider
it a fixed order of things that men

should come, say pretty things, meaning
nothing, and go, pledging eternal fidelity,
but never return. It was a bitter experience
at the beginning ; for she knew that
had she been an heiress, the wooers
would have returned. She did not become
dour" ; only more and more placid
as time went on : ready still to listen and
be amused, never thinking that a man
would suffer pain or sorrow on a woman's
account. Marriage was simply a convenient
arrangement which she would
enter into as soon as a suitable partner
presented himself.

Lawrence Hartington was not yet a
suitable partner, although there were
prospects of his becoming one. Meanwhile
his impetuosity carried everything
before it ; and she was interested in him,
as well as sometimes a little frightened

by his earnestness. It was so unlike anything
she had ever known before. She
did not understand the devotion which
filled the whole man  heart and brain.
It was the impetuous earnestness inspired
by this devotion which won from her that
confession  I love you." And at the
moment she believed it.

For him the admission was life itself.
All the world seemed to have assumed
the characteristics of a new and happy
springtime, and he seemed to have been
endowed with magic power to conquer
everything for her sake.

 I do not care about this confounded
money," he said, as they walked under
the willows down by the river, the sunlight
flashing across their path in golden
streaks, and turning the ripples of the
quiet water into bright smiles. ** I never

expected to have it ; and, but for one
thing, I wish to goodness my uncle had
skipped my name altogether in his will."

'' What is the one thing which prevents
you from wishing that he had omitted
your name ? " she inquired thoughtfully,
her eyes fixed steadily before her.

He turned to gaze with a fond smile in
her face as he pressed her arm tightly
under his own.

' You know, if there had not been all
this bother maybe I should never have
found you, and so I would never have
found happiness."

*' Oh, that is nonsense," she exclaimed
softly, but there was a note of impatience
in the tone which he did not catch.
 You would have found somebody else
soon enough that you would have cared for
just as much as you think you do for me."

' Tliinl I do ! "

"Well  as you do care for me," she
corrected herself, with a smile which
contented him.

"That's better," he said, pressing her
arm again gratefully ; * and if I had been
in the calf-stage of life  say a youth of
twenty or so  it might be true, although
of course I would not admit it then, that
I might say you alone could bring me
happiness, and yet find consolation with
another in a short time. But, you see, I
am not in the calf-stage : I am eight or
ten years beyond it. Can you not see the
difference ? ' '

"Oh yes; of course there is a difference
 a very great difference."

Well, then, you won't say that again,
or think it ? You will remember that T
have passed so far through life, seeing

many pretty faces, knowing some intelligent
women, and no one stirred in me
the thoughts, hopes, and love which you
have done. You understand all that  do
you not ? "

 You always take things so seriously,"
she said playfully, turning her right eyes
dreamily upon him as if wondering what
sort of a man he was  how much jester
and how much fool.

He had a vague consciousness that the
answer was not a very direct one ; but the
look contented him.

'*I cannot help that, and you would
not like me to be otherwise. When a
man feels that everything he cares about
in this world is placed all in one hand, he
cannot help being serious. Your hand
holds everything for me."

*' Are you not placing too much responsibility

on me? Take care  I give
you fair warning  you may be trusting
me too much. ! "

Please don't make fun of me just now.
How can I trust you. too much ? You

who ! There, we are not going to

talk nonsense or rhapsodies. What I
want to be at is to tell you that I do not
care for this fortune except on your
account, and when the case is closed 
whether for or against me  we shall join
hands. Should it go against me  I can
find work."

 You do not mean to say that you
despise fortune ? " this with curious
wonder in her eyes.

* Certainly not. I shall be very glad
to have it if it comes my way, and will do
my best to get it. All that I mean to say
is that it is not absolutely necessary to

have a fortune in order to obtain a fair
share of the joys of the world."

** Ah ! I am glad to hear you say that ;
because, whenever anybody despises fortune,
I set it down to his incapacity to
win it."

She smiled so sweetly and looked so
wise that he was more and more enslaved.
How good she was  how honest ! Even
love could not blind her to the common
prudence which goes so far to ensure the
steady continuance of affection.

'We must go in now," she said, recalling
him to earth ; ' it is tea-time."

They went in ; and it was a delight to
him to stand there in the little parlour
watching the pretty figure gliding about
as she arranged the table with her own
hands. It was to be a tea-dinner, and
the captain had told Lawrence to wait for

him. It was a charming homely picture,
this beautiful woman  ' Queen Mab " was
the fanciful name he gave her  performing
these simple duties so methodically,
so gracefully. He would have liked to
help her, but she had on a former occasion
peremptorily refused to allow him to do so.

"At a picnic, of course, it would be
nice and right enough," she had said;
"but in the house I don't like to see a
man doing women's work."

So now, as he stood with hands clasped
behind him and eyes following every
movement, he spoke 

"Do you know what I am thinking
about, Mab ? "

How should I ? "

Guess, then ? "

There is no time for conundrums. I
have lost a salt-spoon."

Well, I will tell you. I am looking
into the future and seeing us two settled
in a cottage like this, and you busy as
you are now, making ready for the return
of your weary sweetheart-husband. And
he will be thinking of you as he hurries
home, thinking how you grow more and
more beautiful in his eyes every day, in
spite of all cares. Is not that a pleasant
vision ? ' *

*' Oh yes, very butter." The last

word referred to the article which she, at
the moment, placed on the table.

' Then you will hear the gate opening
and be at the door with a bright smile
and something else to welcome me. Will
you not?"

Of course sugar."

Evidently she was too deeply occupied
with her preparations to give a very

attentive ear to him, and lie too entranced
by his day-dream to notice the
peculiarity of her responses. So she
bustled about, and he went on  

Then we stand together in the porch,
roses climbing all over it and making the
air sweet, the merry birds singing goodnight
to each other, and we are glad
because we are together."

'that's it vinegar."

Then we go indoors with grateful
hearts that Heaven has been so kind tous,
and you say

* Good gracious ! the pie will be burnt
to a cinder."

He was roused, laughed blithely, and
caught her in his arms.

Yery likely; and I will do this"
(attempting to kiss her).

** Oh, please don't ! You will make me
VOL. m. P

drop the plates, and I must run to that
pie.'

She put down the plates and ran, he
remaining amused by her household cares
and unconscious of any incongruity in
this mixture of love-making and victuals.

His uppermost thought was, 'What
a happy life we shall have, even without
the fortune ! " Who would not be happy
with such a woman  the embodiment of
every domestic virtue, and gifted with
rare intellect, so cultivated that no task
was too high or too lowly for her to
attempt ? How she had devoted herself
to her father ! and by-and-by, the faithful
daughter would be the faithful wife.

They had only to step over this nagging
present, and the beautiful future would
be theirs  free from ordinary cares if fortune
favoured him ; and if it did not, still

beautiful in the love which would make a
poor home happy and the daily struggle
to keep the pot boiling a pleasure. He
almost wished that they might be tried in
the furnace of poverty, which is said to
sunder so many hearts, in order that they
might prove their faith and pass through
it still united, their souls more closely
bound than ever by the ordeal.

* Come along, come along ; let us have
something to eat," cried the cheery voice
of Captain Fothergill as he entered with
his two youngest children.

Miss Louisa, aged fifteen, was, in the
presence of strangers, very much of a
young lady, not unconscious of considerable
personal attractions, and not insensible
to the possible pretensions of male
persons to become lovers ; but with her
father, and out of reach of the common

gaze, she was an irrepressible romp. Miss
Phoebe, aged twelve, was as primly correct
in manner, speech, and conduct, as a
maiden lady of fifty, or thereabout, who
had proved the vanity of all earthly
things. The captain had two other
children : Lucy, his second child, who
was away in Yorkshire employed as a
governess; and his only son, Dick, who
was engaged in a merchant's office in
town. He had been always very boyish
amongst his children, their comrade and
friend, rather than parent  except with
Amelia, the eldest. He stood somewhat
in awe of her ; and yet she was the one
who invariably attracted the most attention
from outsiders.

After lessons, Louisa and Phoebe had
gone to the station to meet their father
and return with him. The former was

as merry as a child should be until she
perceived that there was a visitor : then
she plumed herself and became proudly
demure. Miss Phoebe advanced at once
with lady-like gravity to shake hands
with the gentleman.

Their entrance had roused Lawrence
from his dreams, and, catching sight of
the blithe faces, he saw the reality of
Love in a cottage. He liked it.

Here you are, Hartington, and here
we are  all as hungry as pikes," said the
captain, with a glance of mock voracity
over the table. '' I don't think there
ever was a man blessed with such an
appetite as mine  and Louis inherits it."

 Oh, papa!"

*' You needn't blush, child. The only
occasion on which it is a mistake to have
an appetite is when you have nothing to

satisfy it with. Do you remember the
Scotch poet's grace ? I never sit down
to table but it turns up in my head.
Some hae meat and canna eat,"  we
don't belong to that party  ' and some
would eat that want it ; '  nor to that
either, thank goodness !  ' but we hae
meat, and we can eat ; '  that's our case
' sae let the Lord be thanks ! ' Come
along, Amelia, or I shall put a board on
my breast with * I am starving ' on it,
and stand at the railway station till
somebody relieves me."

But, notwithstanding the captain's
vivacity, Hartington felt that there was
something forced in it, and noted that
his friend did not meet his gaze with
the customary frankness. Indeed, he
rather seemed to avoid his eyes, and
throughout the meal chatted away to the

young folk, scarcely addressing half a
dozen sentences directly to the guest.

Dinner over, the captain rose immediately.


It's such a splendid evening, Harrington,
I think we'll have a smoke outside.
Look at that sunset  isn't it gorgeous ?
Ah ! 'Melia, if you had only followed up
your painting craze and could have put
on canvas the golden light that is on
those trees over yonder, you would have
got into the Academy. Come along ! "

Captain Eothergill gave a little sigh
as if he were really disappointed that
his daughter had not developed a genius
for painting.

** At one time I really thought she was
going to do something with her brush,"
he went on regretfully, as he lit his cigar,
but also apparently with a desire to postpone

some still less agreeable topic of
conversation; *but she gave it up as
soon as I urged her to go in for hard
study. Poor girl ! she has had too much
to do in looking after us all, and the
only relaxation she has had has been an
occasional outing with me."

"When she has more leisure she may
try again," said Hartington warmly; "I
should like her to do it."

The captain shook his head and seated
himself on a camp-stool. His companion
rested on the arm of a rustic chair. The
patch of green in front of the cottage
was screened from the road by a thick
hedge, some fruit trees, and currant
bushes.

There was silence. The captain was
not admiring the sunset now, and,
although he puffed vigorously, he was

evidently not enjoying his cigar. At
length, abruptly and without looking up 

**I have bad news."

**I thought so," was the calm response.

The other side is in a position to
prove that the two men whose names
are attached to the will as witnesses
were not in your uncle's service for some
months previous to the day on which
it is dated."

That is awkward," said Hartington,
thoughtfully; 'but he might have sent
for them."

*' If he could have sent for them he
could have sent for some of his City
friends; and, in a matter of so much
importance, he was much more likely
to have done that than call in a couple
of servants who had been dismissed."

* I am sure that Brownrigg was not

dismissed, and I believe Short was only
sent away because my uncle gave up
the carriage and had no further use for
him. However, I was in Germany at
the time, and do not know exactly on
what terms they left."

' If we can only show that they parted
on good terms with their master, that
would be something. But all this only
goes to prove the necessity of finding
the men. We are on the track of
Brownrigg. He went to Melbourne,
and your lawyers have sent instructions
to their agents there to make inquiries
about him. Even if he is found at once,
however, it will be months before he can
be brought here ; and in the meanwhile
we have to discover Short."

' No answers have come to the advertisements?
"

* Not one."

** I told Bassnett that his mother lived
somewhere in Hackney."

** Yes ; but they can find no trace of
her either."

Hartington reflected for a few moments,
and then, as quietly as if the affair were
of no special importance to himself, he
said 

** I will try to unearth him. He used
to profess all sorts of gratitude to me
because I did one or two little things
for him, and if his gratitude was not
altogether sham, he will not refuse to
give evidence, whether it be for or
against me."

**I was going to suggest that you
should see what you could do in the way
of hunting him up. But don't count on
gratitude for favours done  it is only the

gratitude for favours to come which is

worth counting on."

** I suppose if we find him he can be

compelled to speak the truth, and that is

all we want."

*' Umph  I am not sure about being

able to compel him to speak the truth.

However, what we have to do is to get

hold of him in the first place."

' I shall begin my search to-night."
' Very good. Then there is another

person we have to find out  and find out

in more senses than one."
 Who is that ? "
* Mrs. Knowles's friend Jarvis."
* What has he to do with the case ? "
** I believe he is at the bottom of the

whole mischief. More, I believe that

Mrs. Knowles intends to give her two

booby sons a step-father. I never saw

the man ; but when talking the matter
over with her, I could see plainly enough
that she had a particular  I may say a
very particular  regard for Mr. Jarvis.
She perpetually quoted him as her
authority for everything she did and said.
I have already told you what sort of
hanky-panky might be going on, and atone
time it seemed to me that the sons
were the mischief workers. My opinion
now is that the man Jarvis is tha
Mephistopheles, and I mean to give my
special attention to him."

They were interrupted by Miss Others
who came hastily forward, saying 

Papa, there is Mr. Walpole at the
gate'

At the same time there came up the
path a tall slim gentleman in a light
brown tweed suit. He shook hands with

the lady, and next with her father. There
was no expression on his face : indeed,
the face seemed incapable of any expression.
And yet it was not a hard face,
and not a stupid face either. It was one
which revealed perfect self-satisfaction
and insensibility to the pleasure or displeasure
of those with whom he came in
contact. But, although he shook hands
with Miss Fothergill first, he had the
grace to address her father 

** Glad to see you again, captain, and
hope I find you well. I suppose you are
surprised by my sudden appearance here.
Fact is, I am staying with a neighbour of
yours, and remembering the address you
gave me at Harrogate, I took the Liberty
of calling, in order to renew our pleasant
acquaintanceship."

*' It is very good of you to remember

US," said the captain, somewhat coldly, ashe
rose.

Mr. Walpole was evidently a man of
the world  accustomed to make great
allowances for the humours of people he
met. He was, or appeared to be, insensible
to the coldness of his reception.
He accepted the captain's formal courtesy
with the placid indifference of one who
expected no more ; and turned at once to
Miss Fothergill as if he had been an old-friend.


Hartington, after the first surprise at
this invasion, scrutinized the man, and
said to himself, "I do not like him."
But then he had not been introduced.
The captain had either forgotten to perform
that ceremony, or did not wish to
perform it. Moved by one of those vague
feelings of antipathy which rise apparently

without reason in the human breast,
he could only repeat to himself, ''I do
not like him." And when he came to
think of it, he was annoyed that such a
feeling should stir within him, as there
was no tangible cause for it. He could
have understood it if amelia had shown
any special favour to the new guest. But
she had not done so. She had announced
his arrival as calmly as if he had been one
of the most ordinary visitors to the cottage.
There was not the slightest change
in her complexion, voice, or manner. The
same perfect self-possession characterized
her speech and manner now as always.
Then why should he be displeased ? He
did not know.

Mr. Walpole took his leave, with many
expressions of pleasure at finding his
friends so well, and promised to return

at an early date. Amelia went indoors
immediately after his departure.

I don't know why it is," said the
captain meditatively, * but I sort of hate
that man. We met him at Harrogate 
he forced his acquaintance upon us 
found out our address  and here he is.
He seems to be a fellow who moves indecent
society ; but I wish he had left
us alone. What the devil he wants
pouncing upon us in this fashion, I can't
make out. If I had been in a position to
give a fortune to 'Melia, the case would
have been clear enough. But as he knows
she hasn't a penny, I don't understand
him, and I don't like him."

' I don't like him either," said Hartington
in a low but emphatic tone.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEK V.

HIMSELF.

Why should I have bothered myself
about the man ? He was a decent sort
of fellow, I dare say, and would, no doubt,
have proved an agreeable acquaintance
if I could only have got over that ridiculous
and unreasonable antipathy which
took possession of me the moment he
appeared.

Come, Jack, confess you have felt that
too. Why, don't you regulate your whole
course of conduct by it ? You go up and
sniff at a fellow you meet in the street,

and you walk straight away from him, or
you stop to have a lark.

Well, this man, Walpole, was one of
those fellows that I would have walked
away from if it had been possible. But I
could not without being offensive and
stupid-like, and you can guess I did not
wish to appear to be either in the eyes of
Queen Mab. . . . When I yoked at her
sweet, calm face, I felt ashamed to such
a degree that if she had asked me I would
have sworn eternal love and friendship
to this man, although there was no hiding
the fact from myself  I hated him.

I don't know why it was  unless it maybe
my inveterate dislike to a man who
permits himself to be turned out as a
tailor's advertisement. He was too perfectly
got up. And yet there was nothing
about him which could have offended the

most fastidious taste. He was simply
clean, neat, and sweet from top to toe 
his polished boots and yellow gaiters were
certainly vulgar to my eyes, but they
would not have appeared so to many
others.

But, then, my notions about these
things are so droll that they count for
nothing, and as soon as I was free from
my friends, I put the question straight
to myself

 Is this some cursed sting of that
petty frenzy, jealousy ? "

Then I smiled in contempt at myself :
for it was one of my nonsensical theories
that no man should be jealous  no
woman should be jealous  for the manor
woman who could rouse such a passion
was not worthy of love. It implies falsehood
d on the part of the loved one, and

for falsehood, scorn, not jealousy, was
the right sort of feeling to have.

Falsehood ! and Mab !

I dared not lift my eyes to the calm,
beautiful sky of that night as I walked
away from the cottage, for very shame
because its calmness seemed, like her
eyes, rebuking me  so sweetly, oh, so
sweetly  for my baseness in associating
her dear soul with a moment's doubt.

*' No," I said ; ' come what may  I
trust her ; I shall never doubt her."

CHAPTER VI.

HIS Story.

Harrington made his way to Hackney,
found the street and the row of red-brick
almshouse-looking cottages to which Joe
Short had one day pointed as the place
where his mother resided. Although the
place had been only vaguely indicated by
a movement of the whip as they drove
by in a phaeton, Hartington had an
impression that when Short said, ** That's
where mother lives," it was about the
centre of the roW.

Accordingly he made his first inquiries

at No. 21. The name was unknown to
the present occupants ; but they had
only been in the house a few weeks, and
were unacquainted with their neighbours.
Maybe the people next door could tell
him what he wanted to know. But the
people next door could not help him
either ; for they also were new-comers.
The row belonged to that class of * weekly
tenements " into which and out of which
workmen move with their families as
frequently as the locality of their employment
changes.

Hartington was certain that this was
the place, and so began a house-toulouse
visitation. At length he came to an old
ruddy-faced man who, although at the
moment occupied in mending a wheelbarrow,
was a gardener, as the little signboard
over his door intimated, ready to

give estimates for garden work by the
day, week, or year.

* Missus Short," he repeated in answer
to Hartington's question, and pausing in
his work, resting the hammer on the edge
of the wheelbarrow as if it had been a
spade stuck in the ground. He looked
up with the leisurely stare common to
gardeners who are interested in any topic
which gives them an excuse for halting
in their toil. ' Missus Short  there ain't
nobody as I knows on of the name living
hereabout'*

'' But do you remember any one of the
name who lived here about two years
ago?"

Well, yes; there was a woman of that
name lived with the Harpoons, two doors
off."

'' Thank you. Which house is it ? "

"Ah, the Harpoons have gone away
months ago."

Did Mrs. Short go with them ? '*
Not exactly. She went before them."
** Have yon any notion where she is
living now? "

The old gardener wiped his brow as if
the process of thought were a serious
physical labour. The sun was shining,
but the wind was from the east, so that it
was not the heat of the day which made
him feel as if he were perspiring ; and his
exertions over the wheelbarrow had not
made him do so. Long habit had rendered
the movement mechanical, and no
doubt it afforded him some sort of relief .
Are you a friend of hers, sir ? "
** I do not know her, but I want to
learn from her where her son is. Joseph
was his name'*

Oh, then I don't know where she is
living, but you'll find her somewhere about
Abbey Park ; and if you go over to that
shop, there, you'll hear more about her
and her son nor I can tell you."

He pointed towards a shop on the
opposite side of the street. The woodwork
was painted black, with a thin, gold
border. The window was of stained
glass, and on it, in black letters, the
words were painted,  J. Congreve, undertaker."


Hartington understood, and for a
moment he was at a loss what to do.
There was something unpleasant in the
thought of pursuing the living through
the dead: and yet mingled with that
feeling of unpleasantness, there was, to
him, the much more unpleasant realization
of the fact that one can be very

indifferent in conversation about the death
of those who are unknown to us.

The gardener closed his hand on the
half-crown which was placed in it, and
gave his thanks with much more warmth
than he had given his information.

* I don't know where she lays, sir, or
I'd tell you. But, you see, I wasn't asked
to the funeral : and people come here and
they go away in a green grocer's cart or ina
hearse, as may be, and we don't know
anything more about them. We do know
a little more about them as goes in the
hearse nor about them as goes t'other
way, though."

At the undertaker's Hartington found
a little gentleman dressed in black, who
received him with becoming solemnity,
thinking his visit was in the usual way of
business. But as soon as he learned that *

it was only a question as to the address of
a living person, there was a brief shade
of disappointment, and then a pleasant
twinkle dispelled the solemnity of the
visage.

' I shall be pleased to give you any
information that is in my power, sir.
Pray take a seat."

He turned to his account books, and
apparently did not observe that his visitor
remained standing. The undertaker had
discarded all his professional solemnity,
and his somewhat sallow but good-natured
visage had much the same smirk as that
of a draper who is vaunting his wares.

Short  Short," he muttered as he
glanced down the index of his ledger and
continued to chat with his visitor. ' Very
fine day this, sir. We have not had anything
like sunshine for a long time. , But

the wind keeps in the east, or the northeast,
and in our way we find business very
heavy at such times."

' Do you find busy times oppressive ? ''
said Hartington, with a faint, curious
smile.

The man  keeping his finger on the
place he had last scanned in the book 
looked up with a good-natured expression,
as if he was amused.

*' No, sir, we do not find them oppressive
 at least I don't. You see, I was
brought up amongst coffins, and they
don't bother me more than tea-chests
bother a grocer, or the number of certificates
of the cause of death affects a doctor.
We get used to the last sad duties, as
they are called, and we cannot afford to
be sorry for everybody who wants a shell.
More than that, we do have a certain

satisfaction when we have an order for a
funeral in first-rate style. It's business,
sir, and our business is like other people's
business. You see, people will die, and
they must be buried. Somebody has got
to do it."

* Was the funeral I am inquiring about
one of your first-class style ? "

Short  Elizabeth Short ; I have got
it. Folio one hundred and fifteen. No,
sir, it was an ordinary affair, and the
money was paid prompt by the woman's
son, Joseph Short. But he gave his
mother's address, and he doesn't Hve
there now ; so I am afraid I cannot give
you the information you require."

' That is unfortunate," said Hartington;
*but thank you all the same."

Stop a minute ! I remember the man
now. He mentioned that he had come

all the way from Carlisle and wanted to
get back by the night mail. That was
why he paid at once  you understand,
it is not our custom to press for our
charges until a decent time for mourning
has been allowed to elapse. We lose
by that system occasionally, but not
often."

** Then that is all you can tell me
about him  that he was in business in
Carlisle ? "

* That is all, I am sorry to say."
Hartington expressed his obligations to
the cheerful undertaker, and left the shop.
By the time he reached the pavement, he
had determined what to do. He would
go to Carlisle that evening. The place,
although important in border history,
was not extensive, and a man who was
in business would be easily found there.

First, however, he must run down to
Dunthorpe and tell ' Queen Mab " that
he was to be away for a few days ; and
if trains would not suit, he must telegraph.
In any case, he was resolved
to start that night ; for he could not
endure the thought of even twenty-four
hours' inactivity. Now that he was on
the scent, the spirit of the sleuth-hound
animated him.

It was a curious coincidence that ashe
lifted his head he saw Mr. Augustus
Walpole. The latter, as neat and trim as
ever, bowed and passed on.

' What the devil is that man doing in
this quarter of the town?" was Harrington's
irritable thought.

He took a hansom and drove to the
Liverpool Street Station.

He had still time to go to Dunthorpe,

have an hour there, and be hack in time
for the evening mail at Euston.

On arriving at Dunthorpe, another
curious incident occurred. He found
Miss Fothergill at the station apparently
waiting for some one, but, of course, not
for him. Her manner, although calm as
usual in outward bearing, was to his eyes
evidently maintained by a severe effort of
self-control. He had never seen such
signs of agitation in her before ; and yet
any passer-by would have regarded her asa
person whose life and thoughts were
perfectly placid.

** I thought it possible that papa might
come by this train," she explained,
** and as I was in the town for some
things, I thought I would come and meet
him."

' That was lucky for me'* exclaimed

VOL. III. R

Hartington cordially, for I can tell you
everything as we walk back."

* Yes, yes  excuse me one moment."
They had entered the booking-office,
through which was the main exit to the
road. She returned to the platform and
disappeared. Was she still thinking that
her father might have come by that
train ? She came back, and there was
still that inexplicable flutter underlying
her calmness. She was either unconscious
of it herself, or, being conscious,
she pretended to ignore it. To him she
was gracious  indeed, over-gracious : so
much so as to make him feel uncomfortable.
That was only for a moment,
however. He remembered his resolve to
trust her to the uttermost, and he felt
angry with himself, that for an instant
even he should have faltered in his faith.

Give me your arm," he said tenderly,
and he pressed it close to him as she
immediately complied with his wish. ** I
am going away, Mab."

** Going away  for how long?" she
said absently, and yet there was something
in the tone which suggested that
she was relieved by the prospect.

** Only for a few days  no further than
Carlisle. I have just learned that one of
the witnesses to the will is in business .
there ; and when I find him, that will bea
capital thug for us. You would be
amused if you knew how I discovered his
whereabouts. It was through an undertaker.
I shall tell you all about it another
time. At present I am bothered by the
thought of leaving you even for a few
days. I don't know what it is  I suppose
it's my nonsense  but I feel as if I

were going away upon a long journey, not
in search of a witness to the will, but in
search of you, and that at the end of it
I should not find you. Is not that
droll?"

' Yes, very," she answered, and something
in the tone made him aware that
she had not been paying attention to
what he had been saying.

Are you sorry that I am going
away ? "

He glanced towards her and noted that
her head was bowed ; her eyes fixed upon
the ground ; her expression cold and
hard. She did not answer.

 Did you not hear?"

She raised her head as if startled.

' What did you say ?  I beg your
pardon. I did not hear."

He did not know whether it was the

chill air of the afternoon or some nervous
affection of the heart, but it seemed as if
the cold blast of an east wind had passed
through his whole system.

I only said that I was going away fora
few days. Are you sorry ? "

* Well  I suppose it would be
pleasant if you did not go away, but
when business requires your absence, it
would be very selfish of me to wish you
to stay."

*eyes, of course, that is the sensible
way of looking at it."

But somehow he did not appreciate
the good sense she displayed on this
occasion so much as he had been
accustomed to do when he observed it
under other conditions. And there was
neither warmth nor playfulness in her
voice, even when she 'supposed" it

would be pleasant if he had not to go
away. He could not help taking notice
of her strange manner.

"Are you not well to-day?" he
asked.

** I am a little out of sorts  a slight
headache  nothing to speak of. I shall
be better by-and-by." Then with a
forced smile she added, " Women cannot
be always cheerful and well, you
know, any more than men. Don't pay
any attention to it and I shall recover
the sooner. . So, you do not think
you will be long away ? "

The effort to turn the conversation was
:tis palpable as the effort to smile. He
was disturbed and thoughtful, but he
answered softly 

' I may be able to return the day after
tomorrow."

** So soon !  then there will be no
necessity for writing. I never was a good
correspondent even to my father, and I
have always had an unspeakable horror of
what people call love-letters."

There was a slight indication of a suppressed
hysterical laugh ; and he became
still more thoughtful than before as he
replied 

*any kind of letter becomes a love-letter
when it is written by one who loves. *
There is no need for protestations or
endearments in it; all that is wanted is
that it should be a sign that the absent
one is being remembered."

But I should have nothing to say !
You would not care much to learn that I
had mended a shirt, or a pair of gloves, or
darned a stocking, or spoiled the dinner."

** Even such items as these would

interest me, because they would help
me to see you in your daily life."

"Nothing of the kind  you would
think me a silly, stupid woman, and
would be tired of me before you had read
a dozen lines."

I shall never think you stupid," he
said slowly, and looking at her as if she
stood afar off, although she was by his
side, her arm linked in his.

Now she did laugh, and in spite of
himself he felt that there was something
harsh in the sound.

"It is fortunate for me that you will
not be put to the test just yet, because,
as you are to be back so soon, I need not
afflict you with a letter."

I shall telegraph tomorrow, and if I
am unable to return by the evening train,
I should like you to send me a few lines.

if they only tell me that you are quite
free from headache."

' Oh, dear !  how sorry I am for you ! "
And she meant it. He did not know
exactly how to take the exclamation ; he
wanted to accept it as a good sign that
she was getting over her unaccountable
nervousness and was able to jest even
in this feeble way. But nervousness is
infectious, and some of hers had taken
possession of him. Much to his chagrin
he caught himself thinking strange, unpardonable
thoughts about the possible
meaning of her curious manner. He
strove to put the ugly things away from
him  out of pure selfishness he strove
hard, for he knew that he would be
wretched indeed if he went away with the
notion that she was glad of his going.
So he compelled himself to take the

view of the case that he wished to take.
She had a headache, she was out of sorts
and no wonder, considering all she had
to do. Allowance must be made  much
greater allowance than in his stupid
selfishness he had hitherto done  for the
thousand and one trifling difficulties she
had to encounter every day, and which,
accumulating, became serious causes of
worry. Did he not know that petty
worries cause more wear and tear of
brain and muscle than huge calamities ?

Poor Queen Mab ! how sorely she must
have been tried before she permitted her
trouble to become apparent to him or to
any one. He said very tenderly 

 I wish you would tell me what has
upset you to-day. The mere telling it
might give you some relief; for people
often find that things which are big bugbears

in their own brooding become very
poor shadows as soon as they begin to
speak of them."

*' I thought I asked you to help me to
get better by not paying any attention
to whatever you see unusual about me.
There now, please don't trouble  ask my
father : he will tell you that I always get
over things soonest when nobody minds
me 1 Won't you be kind, and not make
me worse by useless questions ? "

 Very well," he answered gently ; but
he was sorry to find that he had not yet
acquired the power to soothe her when
others could not.

He had half an hour to spend at the
cottage before starting for his train ; and
more than half that time was occupied
in writing a note to Captain Fothergill,
informing him of the discovery he had

made, and requesting him to telegraph or
write to the Station Hotel, Carlisle, if any
suggestions for his guidance should occur
to him.

I suppose we are to say good-bye now,
Mab," he said, taking her hands.

For a moment her head was turned
away, and then she looked pityingly into
his sad eyes.

'* No ; I will go to the station with you
we may meet my father,"

His eyes brightened instantly, and a
happy smile flashed on his face.

*' That is kind of you, Mab. I am
greedy of every moment that may be
spent in your presence. I wish you could
go with me all the way, and then I
should be no longer haunted by that
horrid nightmare of seeking for you and
not finding you."

Chapter VII.

HIMSELF.

Oh ! Jack, Jack, that journey ! You
don't know anything about Dante or
Don Quevedo, but all their travels
through the infernal regions were pleasure
trips compared to my passage from Euston
to Carlisle  a commonplace excursion
which people make every day and think
nothing at all about it ; but in that
brief journey of little more than seven
hours I passed through ages of purgatory.
Why was I so miserable ? How good
and kind she had been all through this

courtship which had been carried on
tinder the torments of doubt and hope !
At any moment I might be a rich man 
at any moment a penniless duffer, without
trade or profession at command to
earn a crust. Yet to the last she was
kind. We kissed ; we parted. That
was all.

I wished to say something cheery and
the words would not come. She did not
say, hope : she looked wretched  as if
hope could never find any place in her
mind again.

Why was she so kind and yet so cruel ?
If she could only have smiled  only
have said, * Take courage ! " I should
have been brave as a lion. But she
could not do it ; and still her hand
lingered in mine as if she were afraid
to take it away  as if she, too, felt those

vague alarms which had taken possession
of me that there was something fatal
in this parting.

It is only for a few days, I said again
and again to myself; it is ridiculous to
think of it so seriously. It is one of the
commonest incidents in life. Men go
forth to their business or to their pleasure
; the women remain at home to keep
it in order, and to be ready to give their
wanderers a cheery welcome. They take
it as a matter of course, the going to
and fro, and are content.

Why, then, should we part in such
gloom ? What children we were to
imagine that a few hours' separation
could count for anything in the long
years that we were to spend together !

Oh ! Mab, dear Mab, you are my sun,
and the clouds cover you in this cold

morning; but you will burst through
them and gladden me with your bright
face by-and-by !

I tried to laugh at myself, Jack, to
scoff at my rhapsodies and absurdities
as the train went flying along to the
cold north. But the more I tried to
laugh and scoff, the darker became that
cloud which covered the face of my sun ;
and at last the cloud took the shape and
features of that man Walpole.

The devil of doubt had got possession
of me, and I could not help myself.

CHAPTER VIII.

HIS STORY.

There was no sleep for him during that
weary night journey, and yet it was little
more than seven hours. Seven years
seemed more like the time to him. The
temptation to get out at every station
at which the train stopped, and to make
his way back to London by the first
mail, became a distressing mania that
he found difficulty in controlling.

A little after four o'clock in the morning
he stepped out of the train at Carlisle,
and the raw cold atmosphere of that

VOL. III. s

hour refreshed him. He was still more
refreshed by the fact that he had completed
his journey without doing anything
foolish. How Mab  although she
was the Queen of Dreams  would have
laughed at him with contempt if he had
given way to his weakness and returned
to her, the object of his mission unaccomplished
!

When he got into the hotel, he went
to bed in the hope of securing a couple
of hours' sleep before beginning the
business of the day. He was drowsy
for a few minutes, and then tossed about
restlessly for an hour. He got up, bathed
and dressed. Then he took out his
writing-case and began a letter to Mab.
Talking to her, even in this way, relieved
him, and when he had told her, in as
jocular a way as was possible for him.

all about his foolish nightmares, he felt
much better.

He went out for a walk. The cold
grey town looked miserable in the misty
morning, and he was glad to find his
way past the ancient castle to the river.
There was something companionable in
the motion and murmur of the water.
He could imagine that he was again
walking with her by that pleasant river
in the gentle south  walking with her .
under the willows, where she had told
him that great mystery of a woman's
heart  she loved him !

There was the charm which dispelled
all troublous thoughts. He could hear
the low whisper, he could feel the warm
breath on his cheek, see the drooping
tearful eyes, and feel the touch of her
dear hands on his shoulder. She loved

him ! He was happy, and the remembrance
of that scene burst like sunlight
through the mist.

The morning was no longer dull, the
grey town no longer miserable ; the
touch of her hand had brightened
everything he looked upon.

When he arrived at the hotel, a telegram
was handed to him. Was it from
her? No, the captain.

** Sorry to miss you," it said. *' Think
you have done right. Find that man
and all is safe. Letter follows."

After breakfast Hartington saw the
manager of the hotel and began his
inquiries about Joseph Short with him.
No one of that name was known to the
manager. The directory was examined :
there were half a dozen Shorts, but only
one who bore the Christian name of

Joseph, and he was a shoemaker. On
referring to the advertisement pages of
the book, Hartington learned that this
man had been " established thirty years "
in the town.

That is not the man, for the one I
am seeking could not have left my uncle's
house more than three years ago."

Bufc have you no idea what kind of
business he would be likely to go into ?"
inquired the manager.

"Well, it just occurs to me that on
one occasion he told me his idea of comfortable
retirement was to have a quiet
'pub,' as he called it, in some country
town. I suppose that is the business he
has gone into."

Then the list of publicans was searched,
without result.

It might be that he has bought somebody's

business and is carrying it on
under the name of the original proprietor,"
suggested the manager.

That's it," said Hartington, calling to
mind that if the captain's suspicion were
correct  if Short had been bribed by
Mrs. Knowles or her friends to keep out
of the way  this was the very thing he
would do. *' The matter must have
passed through the hands of some agent.
I shall inquire of every one in the
town."

He telegraphed to Mab that he would
not be able to return for a few days, and
asked her to write. Then he visited
solicitors, auctioneers, and estate agents,
but none of them had transferred any
lease or property to the person named.
Late in the afternoon he sent the letter
written early in the morning with some

additions to Mab. He also wrote to
the captain and to Mr. Bassnett, his
lawyer.

On the following morning he was up
early and eagerly inquired for his letters.
There was one from Captain Fothergill,
not a sign from her. The chief information
conveyed in the captain's letter was
that Brownrigg had been found in Sydney,
and was willing to return to England, ashe
had lost all his money. Further, Mr,
Bassnett's inquiries about Joseph Short
promised to be successful.

Hartington wrote again to Mab, giving
a faithful account of his proceedings, and
still trying to write cheerily whilst he
reminded her gently that he longed fora
few words from her, to keep him in
patience with the seemingly wild-goose
chase in which he was engaged.

Another day  another night. Still no
letter from her. The silence was very
strange.

On the third day after his arrival in
Carlisle he discovered the place of the
man he sought by the help of a constable.
A small tavern in one of the side streets,
not far from the hotel, had been bought
by Short from its former tenant, whose
name still remained over the door. It
was an old-fashioned place, frequented
chiefly by sailors, their sweethearts and
wives, railway porters, navvies, and a
curious mongrel sort of people who had
no special vocation but managed to pickup
a livelihood as hawkers, tinkers, chair-renders,
and by helping themselves when
occasion offered to anything that was at
hand.

Short was not at home. He had gone

away two days before, and it was not
known when he might return.

" I must wait for him," said Harrington,
as he turned away wearily from the
tavern.

A week passed ; eight, nine, ten,
eleven days passed, and still there was
no sign from her. The silence was very
strange.

It could not be that she was ill ;
because he had frequent letters from her 
father, and there was no mention of illness
at the cottage. Surely her father
would have told him if she had been ill.

He had written every day, and notwithstanding
all her declared aversion to
letter-writing, it was impossible to conceive
how she should be so insensible to
his anxiety as to remain perfectly silent,
when he daily implored her to send him

only one word to assure him that she was
well.

He wrote to the captain asking if there
was anything the matter with her. This
singular reply came : 

I have just spoken to Bassnett. He
has sent a man to look after Joseph
Short. You need not remain any longer
unless you like to do so. I should say
you had better stay  hut please yourself.

Regarding my daughter  she is well
enough, so far as I can see ; but I do not
know anything about her private affairs,
and therefore cannot explain why she has
not replied to your letters. Brownrigg is
returning from Sydney and is on your
side. My own idea is that you should
leave the whole thing to Bassnett, and
not bother any more about the evidence.
Bassnett is of the same opinion."

This alone would have decided him to
return at once; but his resolution was
quickened by the arrival of a * person "
who presented the card of Hartington's
solicitors. He was an intelligent man of
business, who gathered at once all that
Hartington had learned, and satisfied
him that his presence was no longer
requisite.

Hartington was anxious to get back to
London and to Briarmount Cottage, and
he listened with pleased ears to the man
who had been sent to relieve him.

*The fact is, sir," said Mr. Ivy, the
representative of Bassnett and Co. for
the time being, 'these little affairs are
managed best by strangers. You see, the
man we want  Short by name  got notice
of your arrival here and he skedaddled.
He won't do that when a stranger is on

the scent. All the same it's to your
advantage that he should try to keep out
of the way."

Hartington having given Mr. Ivy all the
information he possessed, took the next
train back to London. He was too much
disturbed by the strange silence of his
betrothed to care whether Short was
found or not.

* * *

** Papa," said Miss Fothergill, entering
her father's snuggery  a little cupboard
room, where he usually smoked and had
his glass of grog when alone of an
evening  'I want to speak to you
about something of importance."

* What is it?"

The captain was not pleased ; and it
was not because his daughter interfered
with his meditations. She often came

to him in his little sanctum, and he had
been hitherto pleased to see her.

She answered as calmly as if she were
referring to the latest prices of butter or
bacon 

'I am going to marry Mr. Walpole,
and I want you to tell Mr. Hartington."

The father laid down his pipe, dropped
the paper he had been reading to one side
of his chair, and said quietly 

I thought that was coming, Amelia ;
Do you think you are acting rightly or
wisely ? '*

 I don't know what you mean, papa,"
was the placid reply, her eyes opening a
little as if she were as much surprised as
she was capable of being at anything by
the strange remark and manner of her
father.

* My meaning is plain enough : do

you think you are acting rightly hy this
conduct towards Hartington, or wisely
in accepting a man like Mr. Walpole
whose acquaintance is not six weeks
old?"

He spoke with a gravity she had not
seen in him before.

Miss Fothergill gently rubbed one hand
on the other, and proceeded calmly 

 I have thought of it, papa, and think
do you not ?  that it is wiser and
better to change one's mind before marriage
than to be sorry afterwards."

 Undoubtedly," said the captain drily;
 but the change should be made before
matters have gone quite so far as they
have between you and Hartington."

' 1 have too much confidence in Mr.
Hartington to believe that he would wish
me to act otherwise when he learns that

I consider this course the best for him as
well as for myself."

** I am sure he will not desire to have
anything further to do with you when he
learns that you are capable of even thinking
of jilting him in this way," interrupted
the father hotly.

That being the case, papa," she went
on without appearing to observe that his
temper was disturbed, 'you cannot say
that I have not acted rightly. As for Mr-walpole,
we know that he is a gentleman
of fortune and position."

The captain eyed her keenly, his brows
knitting into broad wrinkles.

* Do you care for the man ? "

* I suppose so."

*rand on the supposition you are content
to throw over one about whom we
know everything ? Amelia, Amelia  I am

glad your mother cannot hear you. We
have only Walpole's word for it that he
has either fortune or position."

' We know that he is staying with the
earl," she replied as calmly as ever, whilst
still rubbing the one hand on the back of
the other.

** Yes, staying because he has come
to induce the earl to lend his name as
chairman to a rotten company."

* Oh, papa, you must be mistaken; he
has known his lordship for a long time,
and he has told me all about the
company."

That fact satisfied her that her father
was mistaken. He frowned.

' I know that he is a dishonourable
man, and came to my house for a dishonourable
purpose, which through your
folly he has been enabled to accomplish."

She was still unmoved. Her faith iu
'fortune and position" was not to be
dispelled by a few angry words and accusations
even when they came from her
father. She smiled in her placid way.

*' Your interest in Mr. Hartington
makes you unjust, papa. What possible
motive could Mr. Walpole have in coming
here except to see us ? And how could
my folly, as you call it, help him in the
least little bit to carry out the wicked *
designs with which you charge him ? "

* By telling him " The captain

began impulsively and stopped abruptly.
He proceeded with stern calmness. ' You
are old enough to take the matter into
your own hands. Do so ; marry him if
you please against my will; but expect
neither pity nor sympathy from me when
you discover your mistake. You are

VOL, in. X

casting aside a man who would be better
as a beggar than that fellow as a millionaire.
I have spoken my last word on the
subject; but, as your father, I ask you
to consider carefully what you are about
to do, and give me some credit for a desire
to see you happy. Hartington will be here
tomorrow : tell him yourself what you
have decided to do."

With that Captain Fothergill went out
to the meadow at the back of the cottage
to smoke and walk off his perturbation.

' Papa is in a passion," she said, as
she walked to the window. She was
expecting Mr. Walpole.

She was always thoughtful in her
manner ; but at this moment her expression
was more thoughtful than usual.
Was she making a mistake ? As to the
annoyance Mr. Hartington might feel

when lie learned that she had changed
her mind, of course he would speedily get
over that. He would call her a few had
names and then go and enjoy himself as
other men did under similar circumstances.
Nothing more would happen in
that respect.

But was she making a mistake ? She
knew perfectly well that her father did
desire to see her happy. She knew
also perfectly well that he was nota
man to speak ill of another without
strong grounds for doing so. Then, if
what he said were true, or even partly
true  this Walpole was an impostor, and
she could have nothing further to do with
him. On the other hand, her father compassionate
took strong likes and dislikes
had blundered before now in his impetuous
judgment of men ; and in the

present case his prejudice no ' doubt
affected his judgment.

Why had he not given her his reasons
for what he said?  some proof? No
gammer of the reason entered her mind :
he could not trust her so long as she
maintained an obstinate belief in Mr.
Walpole.

However, it was easy to apply the test
which would satisfy her by putting a few
plain questions to the man himself.
There he is coming up the path from
the gate.

Mr. Walpole entered, smartly dressed
as usual, and advanced gaily to the lady
who had promised to marry him. He
kissed her, and she shrank a little from
the kiss. Slight as the movement was,
he observed it, and regarding her with
surprise, inquired the cause.

"You are puzzling me. Speak out at
once, my dear Amelia ; what is it ? "

My father objects," she answered,
without turning round.

"You expected that, and so did I," he
said quite cheerfully, and as if there was
nothing at all to be bothered about on
that score.

But he has also . he has also
informed me that I misunderstand your
real position."

Why, how can that be, when I have
told you all about it ? "

He thinks you have not told me the
whole truth."

''Oh!'' exclaimed Mr. Walpole with'
various inflections of the voice  surprise,
curiosity, and indifference.

At the same time he drew back, lifting
his head with as fair an appearance of
haughtiness as could be expected from
any man who found his honour suddenly
questioned. Next he acted as any honest
man would do under the peculiar circumstances.
He advanced and took her
hand. The full light of the window fell
on their faces.

*' Look at me," he said calmly. '' Say,
do you think I have not told you the
truth?"

*' If you say that my father is mistaken,
I suppose I shall believe you," she
answered with proper caution.

'that's all right. Where is your
father?"

He went out a few minutes ago ; but
1 do not think he will see you."

* Ah, but he must see me. He must
come with me to my solicitors tomorrow,
and satisfy himself that you have heard
nothing but the truth from me ; satisfy
himself that he has listened too readily
to calumny. Luckily, I know who the
calumniator is, and he shall be brought
to book for it."

Nothing could be more natural thai
his indignation, nothing more natural
and straightforward than his conduct.
She was satisfied : she was certain her
father would have been, had he been
present ; and there was a slight glow on
her pale face as she spoke 

'* You know the calumniator  who is
he?"

You do not require to ask that. You

know the only person who could have a
motive for this outrage. . . . When does
he return to London ? "

The name of Hartington had not
been mentioned, and yet she understood
perfectly that the question referred to
him.

** He is to be here to-morrow' was her
response ; *but I believe you wrong him
as much by your suspicions as my father
wronged you by his : give up that idea,
please."

 He shall have ample opportunity of
clearing himself, as he is to be here tomorrow,
you say."

*eyes."

Then, first, I hold you to your
promise ; tell him what we have decided
upon doing. See, then, if he does not
betray himself. This is not very like

a lovers' meeting; but you must be
satisfied and your father must be satisfied
of my honour. I wish to write a line
asking your father to meet me."

She supplied him with the materials,
and he hurriedly wrote a few lines, she
observing him with a placid expression
of admiration. There was a kind of
triumph to her in proving to her father
that he had made a mistake. She would
not make any exertion to secure a triumph
of this or any other kind; but when it
came in her way she was gratified by it.

*she comes tomorrow," repeated
Walpole whilst closing the envelope.

* My father says so."

**Do you know the time?  has he
succeeded in his business ? "

I should imagine he must have done
so, or he would not return."

* Did your father say he had ? "

*' No ; he was too much displeased to
speak about anything except the "

* Except the mistake you make in
preferring me to his friend," he said,
taking up the sentence which she seemed
unwilling to complete. He was smiling
with evident self-satisfaction. 'Ah,
well, tomorrow we shall have the pleasure
of convincing your father that you have
acted like the good, sensible darling that
you are."

Then he rose, and they stood together
at the window, his arm round her, heads
close together. And they talked in low
tones as the twilight deepened, and Miss
Fothergill never thought of lighting the
lamp until he had gone away, promising
to return with her father on the following
evening, when he expected to learn that

Hartington had got his dismissal. His
confidence inspired her with confidence ;
and she could not comprehend how her
father could possibly entertain a doubt
of the honour of one who was acting so
straightforwardly.

The light showed her the note lying
on the table. She wished that she had
thought of asking him to tell her its
contents, so that she should be prepared
for anything her father might say. But,
of course, he had taken for granted that
she understood what he was writing 
a formal request that the captain should
meet him at his solicitors' tomorrow, in
order that everything might be investigated
and explained. Still, she would
have liked to read the letter. Whatever
doubt the earnest warning of her father
had stirred, had been completely dismissed

as long as Walpole remained with
her ; and now that she was alone, it was
not exactly doubt which affected her,
but curiosity  at least, so she assured
herself.

Captain Fothergill returned late. He
had been paying a visit to a neighbour,
he said ; for Amelia was waiting up for
him, occupied with her needle and her
thoughts.

He opened Walpole's note, read it,
frowned, tore it, and threw the fragments
into the grate.

* I hope you will consent to meet Mr.
Walpole tomorrow, papa," she said,
without looking up from her seam.

Certainly not."

That is unfair to him and  to me.
He wants to take you to his solicitors to
satisfy you about everything."

The father's eyes were sad as they
rested on his daughter.

*poor child! that note only invited
me to lunch with him at the Cosmos."

"Yes, but to go with him afterwards
to his lawyers."

His lawyers !  Mrs. Knowles's
lawyers, you mean."

*well, I suppose they have more
clients than one, and you have yourself
said they are very respectable people.
You ought to be the more ready to goto
them and to believe in him."

She had seen the man again; she had
tested him, and still believed in him, in
spite of earnest warning ! Was this
infatuation or merely obstinate defence
of her own weakness? Whichever it
might be. Captain Fothergill was distressed
by it, and felt that he dare not

yet tell her what had come to his knowledge.
He winced at the thought that
after years of close companionship she
placed more trust in the word of a
stranger than in that of her father.

Well, he supposed it was natural, and
he must submit like other parents. The
change was sure to come sooner or later :
the stranger steps in, and father and
mother must stand aside.

She saw his trouble, and did what was
for her an extraordinary thing. She
put aside her sewing, and placing her
arms round his neck, kissed his cheek.

 Please don't worry course about me,
papa. You will find everything right tomorrow.
Good night  sound sleep ! "

He was glad she went away, for that
embrace had almost tempted him to tell
her everything, and Hartington's affairs

might be again muddled by bis indiscretion
in trusting her whilst Walpole
was still hovering about the place.

But he was greatly relieved ; she was
not so utterly callous, after all, as she
had made herder appear to be. She
was only taking the man's part because
it was a perverse way of hers always to
stand up for anybody who was being
abused by others, and to find excuses
for every sinner, however wicked he or
she might be. This was an excellent
characteristic in the abstract ; but when
it came to be practically endorsed by
giving herself to a scoundrel and rejecting
an honest man !  the captain considered
the characteristic* a very bad one
indeed. She would soon learn what the
man really was, however, and then she
would turn to Hartington again with all

the more devotion because she had so
narrowly escaped doing him a grievous
wrong.

UnfortunatelyMissFothergill's thoughts
were not running in the same groove asher
father's. She certainly was conscious
of much mental disturbance when
she rose next morning with the remembrance
that Hartington was coming and
what she had to say to him. But she
had no thought of not saying it, or of
even postponing the time of saying it :
she had made up her mind, and the
sooner the thing was done the better.

Besides, she discovered many reasons
why, apart from Walpole, life with
Hartington would be unendurable  he
was too passionate  too unpractical  too
full of ridiculous sentiment. There
would be no peace or rest for her with

a man of such an impetuous nature, and
she was quite positive that she would
make him miserable. That last consideration
assumed exaggerated importance
in her eyes. She was satisfied that
what she was doing was a noble thing, and
more for his good even than her own.

And so, when he came she told him
quietly, with downcast sorrowful eyes, but
resolutely, that their engagement was at
an end : she could not make him happy, >
and she was going to marry another.

* Why have you done this ? " he asked
with strange calmness.

** Well, you were not here," she said
awkwardly, "or it might have been
different."

It may be different yet."

' Never ! " And that was firmly
spoken.

VOL. III. U

Chapter IX.

HIMSELF.

I DID not curse her, Jack. Ah no : she
was still so beautiful that she could not
be cruel, she could not be wrong in sending
me away. I was dumb. I would
have been glad to cry as I had done long
ago in baby days when my mother sent
me to bed before I wanted to go. Unmanly
? . . . Perhaps ; but the manhood
is somehow frightened out of a
fellow by such a shock as that.

And presently it seemed as if this
beautiful vision before me was not my

Queen Mab at all  only her picture without
the soul.

I did not, and never will, understand
it. Either there were depths in her
nature which I was incapable of sounding
; or it was so shallow that everything
lay plain on the surface and I blundered
by straining to find what was not there.
I do not know ; but the woman I loved
melted away into the clouds, and my
breast and life were empty.

What did I do ? Nothing. I cannot
tell what became of me after that picture
spoke to me and I knew that She was
gone. Maybe it was yesterday; maybe
it was a year ago. It is all a blank tome
 but you ought to know, you were
with me everywhere. Ay, you were
faithful when everybody turned away
from me. Or did I turn from them?

Did I give up life as a bad joke, and drift,
drift, drift to this ? You ought to know.

Don't be a fool. Jack  what are you
whining at ? Dying for love ! Tut, man,
tut, there is no such thing. Only a cold
congested lungs  recklessness  madness
 and here the end. That's what it
is, and she is well rid of me. What
misery we have both escaped ! I am glad
of that ; and she will be glad. . . .

But why have you set me talking of
this ? She has been always faithful 
faithful as yourself, old friend. She
walks with me through those strange
dark places in which my life passes. I
feel the touch of her hand, see the sad
sweet eyes looking so lovingly into mine,
and hear that low voice saying again and
again :  I love you." And it seems as if
she was always saying it for the first

time, for the same great joy trembles
through me and I am happy.  Ah, Lord,
how happy !

I wish you could understand it.
Jack. You look as if you pitied me,
thinking me miserable. Me, miserable !
There is not a man in all the world so
blessed. You have not my eyes, poor
fellow, or you would see her and be happy
too. I wish you could know how beautiful
she is  in soul, mind you, as well as
in form ; and how tenderly she is watching
me now. There again  I love
you," she is saying.

What is the matter with the light?
. . Ah, the candle has burnt out.

CHAPTER X.

HIS STORY.

A SHORT, narrow, dirty-looking street of
two-story houses lying just within the
four-mile radius of Charing Cross. Children
with mud-besmeared faces and
tattered clothes romping in the occasional
glimpses of sunshine much
more merrily than they could have done
if they had been decked in fine array.
Mongrel dogs prowled about in search
of bones or to chat with their cronies ;
and cats stealthily crossed the road at
intervals, avoiding the boisterous groups

of children and the dogs. Few vehicles
except coal carts and bakers' barrows
entered this street, for one end of it was
blocked by a black paling, behind which
was a prosperous market-garden.

Suddenly into this happy playground
dashed a hansom at high speed. Children,
dogs, and cats scampered to either
side of the way, and then stood staring
in amazement at this spectacle, which,
although not unusual in itself, was very
unusual in that particular street.

The cab was stopped at the door of one
of the dingiest-looking houses in the row.
Captain Fothergill jumped out. He was
much excited and in a great hurry, but
he noticed the dirt, and the shabby
woollen curtains drawn close over the
lower window, as if to hide the poverty
within.

' Good heavens  can it be here ! " he
exclaimed to himself as he knocked.

A tall, pale-faced woman opened the
door. Her expression was one of mingled
defiance and timidity, for the knock had
been so lord that she concluded the
visitor must have come for the rent she
was not prepared to pay. Tax and rent
collectors appear to find some special fun
in frightening poor folk with their deafening
knocks. She was reassured by the
appearance of the gentleman and his
inquiry 

*rare you Mrs. Griggs?  Does Mr.
Hartington lodge here ? "

'* Yes, sir, that's my name, and the
poor gentleman is in a bad way, sir  been
in a very bad way for modern six months.
And you are the gentleman as I took the
liberty of sending a line to ? Hope you'll
kindly pardon me, sir."

'' I only wish yoii had done it sooner.
Where is he ? "

He was impatient, but Mrs. Griggs was
to have her say out.

** Thank you kindly, sir, but there
wasn't no chance, and I didn't like to
meddle till I saw him and that poor dog
of his getting like skeletons and no rent
coming in. So I thought it a Christian
duty to find out some of his friends and
tell them  for I was always sure as he was,
a gentleman. And when he was out on
one of his walks  Lor', sir, how him and
his dog did walk !  all night a-many a
time  I found the letter with your
name, and took on myself to tell you
as how "

''AH right, my good woman; I thank
you, and you shall be well repaid for your
kindness to my friend. Where is he ? "

* This way, sir."

The captain was bursting with impatience
and anxiety as he entered the
room. The close curtains made a twilight
in the place although it was noon
and the sun shining. He saw Hartington
lying back in an old, worn armchair, with
eyes turned towards the door as if expecting
him. The dog Jack, who had been
lying curled up at his master's feet, started
with a sharp growl at the sudden entrance
of the captain. The latter did not wait
for any greeting from his friend, but at
once proclaimed his glad news.

' The case is decided, Hartington, the
fortune is yours ! Brownrigg was brought
back from Australia and told the truth,
which the rascal Joe Short had been
bribed by that scoundrel Walpole to deny.
They were not in your uncle's service

when they witnessed the will, but he had
sent for them for the purpose and given
each a substantial gift for their pains.
As soon as Brownrigg appeared, the whole
thing was easily settled  and I congratulate
you."

Hartington did not move or speak.

'' Are you not glad, man ? By the
Lord, I am as glad as if the fortune had
come to myself. As for Walpole  damn
him !  Jarvis is another of his names  he .
has managed to escape. He has been
Mrs. Knowles's evil genius  it was he
who induced her to dispute the will  it
was he who bribed Short, and it was he
who telegraphed to him to keep out of
your way when you went to seek him at
Carlisle. He came to my house for the
purpose of spying into our actions and
taking advantage of us. But we shall

hear no more of him  even 'Melia is satisfied
now that he was a villain and she a
fool. . . . Why don't you speak, man ?
Have I spoken too suddenly ? Is it too
much for you ? ' '

Hartington did not move or answer;
and in the pause which ensued the dog
plucked at his master's coat and whined.

Captain Fothergill touched him on the
shoulder ; then suddenly drew open the
faded curtains, and a sunbeam flashed
across the white, sad face.

'' My God ! he is dead."

* * *

And so the dream was over. The fortune
had come too late. Had it come
sooner, would the dream have lasted
longer ? Would he have gone on through
years still seeing the beautiful vision and
endowing it with all the warmth of his

own passionate nature ? Or would he
have wakened to curse his own folly and
hers ? Who knows ?

Miss Fothergill married a successful
merchant. She is regarded as a model of
propriety, a model wife and mother.

Jack has found in the captain a kind
master and proves himself a grateful comrade
; but he still at times looks wistfully
up and down the road as if expecting
some one.

