CHAPTER I.

THE Sources OF Selkirk.

Up wi' the sisters o' Selkirk,

And down wi' the Earl o' Home, 

And up wi' a' the braw lads

That sew the single-soled shoon.

Fye upon yellow and yellow.

And fye upon yellow and green ;
But up wi' the true blue and scarlet,
And up wi' the single-soled sheen.

Up wi' the sisters o' Selkirk,

For they are faith trusty and leal ;
And up wi' the men o' the Forest,
And down wi' the Merse to the deil."

Old Ballad.

It was not with the best grace possible that
Ding-a'-Doon started from the Tower at

VOL. II. B

midnight, upon the commission of his
master to Selkirk, after what he had seen
and heard. The companionship of the dwarf
did not help much to reassure him, for he had
a notion that Hornie himself was uncanny.

As an addition to his discomfort, the
night was dark and cold. Heavy rains
had cleared away the snow, and had swollen
streams and rivers, so that it became a
serious matter to ford the Ettrick.

Seeking the safest part to ford. Pate and
his companion rode cautiously down the
water side. The former had not the
slightest thought of helping the journey
with good humour ; he was surly and silent.
He was all the more surly when he heard
Hornie chuckling to himself, as if he had
fallen upon some excellent jest.

Suddenly, the dwarf 

sat's adarknicht. Pate."

 Ay, it's dark eneuch."

'Dark eneuch to make the deil's licht
welcome."

*' No  no," bellowed Pate, looking around

him uncomfortably, as if he expected to
see the light appear at its mention; 'no,
it's never dark eneuch for that, and we'd
better no speak about sic things enoo."

The latter words were uttered in a
threatening growl. Whether he was affected
by the threat or not, Hornie allowed the
conversation to drop until they were about
to attempt the ford.

' Did ye no hear ony thing, Pate ? " he
queried, under his breath.

No what?" 

'* Down there in the water."

* I diana hear  what was it like ? ''

' Like the groan o' a man drowning i'
the hands o' a kelpie."

' I diana hear  but we'll gang farer toon.
The water's over high at this spot."

Ding-a'-Doon was frightened ; he could
not have concealed that fact had there been
any light to show his big frame shaking in
the saddle. As it was, he had betrayed
himself to the dwarf, and that worthy rode
beside him chuckling in great glee.

They had not proceeded many yards from
the place at which they had paused, when
Hornie was startled by the sudden stoppage
of his comrade, and a loud groan  rather
of terror than of pain, however.

'' "What's the matter wi' ye. Pate ? "

** So  so  somebody's gripped me by the
throat," gasped the giant.

'ding him toon, then," was the sagacious
advice of the little man.

"I  I canna see him," half-blubbered
Pate, '* it nun be the  a  ow ! "

shaw, haw, haw!" roared Hornie, who
had ridden back just as Pate released himself
from a branch of a tree, which had
caught him under the chin, stopped his
progress, and half-frightened the wits out
of him.

After this mishap, and its consequent
display of weakness, Ding-a'-Doon was
more surly and silent than ever. He did
not even make an effort to check the mirth
of Hornie, to whom the incident seemed
to present a marvellous anoint of fun.

But he resolved in his own mind that he
would have the laugh on his side some day.

When they reached the next place where
they were to attempt to ford the river,
Hornie griped one end of Pate's Jeddart
axe, and they urged their horses into the
water. The cmTent was so swollen that
the horses were more than once almost
lifted off their feet.

They had got about half-way across, when
Hornie reached forward and caught the
sleeve of his comrade's jerkin.

*' Did ye no hear anything, Pate ? "

** Ay, deil burn ye, ay."

*' It was the same sound as ye heard
before ? "

 Ay  let go your baud; let go, or I'll
brain ye,"

He spoke in agitation, but with a fury
that was not to be gainsaid. Hornie relaxed
his hold of the sleeve and the axe.

The instant he felt himself free. Pate
struck his horse with hands and feet, so
that the animal struggled forward with all

its might, and speedily reached the embankment.
He halted there to see if his
comrade had followed him.

But the dwarf had remained in the water,
listening for the repetition of the feeble
sound which had so frightened .
He did not hear it again, and he
was about to make his way to land, when
something struck against the side of his
horse. He seized it, and drew it across his
saddle.

It was the body of a man.

At this, he gave vent to an eldritch shriek
that startled a dozen echoes. Then he
heard the clatter of horse's hoofs, and he
knew that the giant was off as fast as a
stout horse could carry him.

Satisfied upon that point, Hornie made
for land, carrying his sad burthen with
him.

Ding-a'-Doon did not draw rein until he
had reached Selkirk; and as he had made
a long debouch round Merlin's Cairn,  in
order to avoid the neighbourhood of Kirsty

Hyslop, his horse and himself were considerably
fatigued at the end of the journey.
He was rejoined by the dwarf a couple of
hours after his arrival in Selkirk.

Before daybreak there were busy doings
at the Tower of Tushielaw. There were
furbishing and cleaning and cooking enough
to suggest that the King was hunting in
the forest, and meant to dine at the Tower.
All the men were busy with their horses
and accoutrements; all the women were
occupied with a hundred unusual household
duties. On ordinary occasions they had
little difficulty in completing the requirements
of their lords; but upon this day
the master had issued more orders concerning
the house affairs than he had ever given
during all his life previously.

So all were blithe and busy, except the
master himself. He shut the door of his
chamber, and only appeared occasionally
to give some direction in a gruff, angry
voice.

The only person admitted to him was
Mess Simon, as all the folk called B arras,
and he did not seem to improve matters,
for the master was gruffer and mortier than
ever after the sham friar had been with
him for a little while.

The gloom which enveloped the master
of the house spread itself over all his followers
and domestics ; for Eddie Craig and
Yetholm Will had gone about with sour
looks and dark shaking of heads, and muttering
mysteriously about the luck of
Tushielaw being that day destroyed. They
had not dared to break their master's injunction
of secrecy as to the occurrence of
the previous night ; but the mysterious
conduct alluded to was quite as effective
in alarming their fellows as if they had
told the whole story.

At any rate, this day, which Tushielaw
had intended to make the merriest the
Tower had ever witnessed, opened with
foreboding and gloom.

He was conscious of all this ; but in spite

of Fate itself, he was resolved to can his
intent to its fulfilment. The cup was in
his hand, and there was no power to restrain
him from draining it to the dregs.

So, with twenty stout men at his back,
the unhappy Lady Spens, cold and silent,
on a palfrey by his side, and attended by
a couple of women, he started for Selkirk
as the morning mistily dawned over the
hills and forest.

The chapel stood upon the remains of
the abbey, which had sprung up partly in
connection with the royal hunting seat of
David and the Alexanders, and had given
name to the town  See (holy) Church,
The monks having removed to Kelso for
better accommodation, the abbey had
dwindled down to a simple chapel, attended
by three friars, with occasional visits from
brethren of the parent establishment, and
from Melrose, Roxburgh, and, at rarer
intervals, from Jedburgh.

The chapel bells were tolling mournfully.
The morning observance was just over, and

mass had been said for the Selkkk burgesses
whom William Briton had left upon the
field of Flodden. The good folks who had
attended the service where quietly returning
to their homes and avocations, when
Tushielaw's cavalcade rode up to the gate.

Some of the women folk stayed to see
what was about to happen, and some of
the men stayed to keep them company.
Several of them recognised the Border chief,
and whispers passed from group to group.

Ding a-Do on and Hornie were at the
gate waiting when their master arrived.
The party dismounted, and Heron Barras,
now dressed in the leather jerkin and
accoutrements of a Borderer, conducted his
sister into the chapel. They were followed
by Tushielaw with a number of his men, allarmed
as if for a battle-field rather than a
church. Their spurs and heavy boots clanked
upon the stone floor as they advanced to the
altar, and their weapons rattled.

There was a slight commotion heard outside,
caused by several of the burgesses

attempting to gain access, and, being
stopped by Pate and the half dozen men
who remained in charge of the horses, the
enters persisted in their effort, and the
gates were closed in their faces.

Whilst this contest was proceeding outside,
the party within ranged in front of the
altar, Tushielaw's followers forming a guard
round their chief, his bride, B arras, and the
priests.

One of the two holy men who were there
apparently prepared to perform the ceremony
advanced, as Tushielaw thought, to
unite him at once to the lady. He was
taken wholly by surprise when, in a mild
low voice, the priest inquired the purport of
their coming.

** Om purport !  by the  I mean that you
amaze me since I sent here a messenger
some hours gone to acquaint you with our
coming and our intent."

'' Soothly I remember an unruly fellow
did summon us during the night ; but we
gave no heed to his errand, for his speech
did not make it welcome."

 His speech was nothing to the purpose,
maybe ; but his errand was of importance.
It was to desire your favour in wedding this
lady and myself to-day."

** It was of import truly; but you chose
a strange time to acquaint us of your desire
and a rude messenger to carry the
tidings."

'' Save you, father, his rudeness and my
haste shall fill your coffers; wherefore, I
pray you, let the ceremony begin without
more delay."

' Surely, my son, you shall have your
wish, all things agreeing."

 I shall have my way whether all things
agree or no."

The priest did not show by any sign that
he had heard this gruff speech. Turning to
the lady, who was standing a little apart,
and retained there by Heron Barras, he said
in his mild even voice 

* Advance, my daughter, and say if it be
your will that this marriage should take
place."

It is her will," broke in Tushielaw impatiently.


' She must answer for herself."

 Beware how you speak," whispered
her brother as he released her hand.
'' Remember, the fate of your child and of
Gilbert Elliot hangs upon your words."

The instant she was released Lady Spens
advanced quickly to the priest and threw
herself on her knees before him. She
seized the rosary which hung suspended
from his waist, and holding it up raised her
eyes appealingly to his face.

 Good father, I conjure you by this
sacred symbol to save me from these
men."

* She is mad," thundered Tushielaw,
starting forward.

Back, sirrah," cried the priest, raising
his hands majestically, ' advance one step
upon the sacred ground whereon this poor
lady rests and the anathema of the Church
shall fall upon you with its blight."

Tushielaw stood still, abashed somewhat

by the threat, but not in the least degree
turned from his purpose.

' She is mad, I say; she came here of
her own wil."

*rit was to crave your protection, holy
father ; it was to cry for mercy at your feet ;
it was to appeal for help against those who
have neither pity nor mercy."

'* It is with my authority that this union
is to be formed," said Barras harshly.

* What is your authority ? " demanded
the friar sternly.

The second priest had advanced behind
the other as if to support him.

My authority is that of her brother, and
her only guardian."

 Has she none other? "

' None since her husband is dead."

*' Are you sure that you are the only one
who owns any control over this lady ? ' '

*I swear it."

*rand so, master priest, let your prayer
be said and we shall go," added Tushielaw.

Your prayer will be a curse, holy

father," cried Mistress Spens passionately.
' Your prayer would doom me to perdition
for ever, for the day that I am made his
wife I  kill myself."

' Peace, mistress; you have given me your
promise and I will hold you to it. Are you
ready, sir priest? "

'' Not yet."

It was the second friar who spoke this
time, and at the sound of his voice Tushie-
law", Barras, and Lady Spens started. The
latter listened with trembling expectancy 
for the next words, and the eyes of the
three were fixed upon the tall hooded form.

 You have seen," said the second priest
quietly, ' how sorely this lady is troubled
by the thought of the union you propose.
Why then persist ? It is not love which
urges you on ; and if it be merely to obtain
possession of what wealth she owns  whatever
your object  I charge you think well
before you push the matter to extremity."

*' Our purpose is our own to hide or
reveal as we think best."

 Then out of pity spare the dame, and
let your purpose fail."

' It shall not fail whilst we have life and
strength to carry it. Wherefore, waste no
more words."

' You cannot look upon her misery and say
you care not that you are the cause of it ? "

' By the Rood, my patience has lasted
longer than your argument, sir priest,"
cried Tushielaw fiercely. *' Answer now,
will you wed us  yea or nay ? "

 Not till you have satisfied us that it is
her wish, and that she is free to wed even
when it is her will."

* Enough said; another priest will serve
us with fewer .words and better grace. Nay,
never look dark and frown at me, for dark
looks and frowns will never hurt me. Come,
mistress, you have played us a trick that
you shall not try again. Come."

He stepped forward as if to drag her from
the protecting hand of the first priest, when
the second priest stepped before him.

' Hold, if you value life."

I have risked that with less cause ere

now."

** You shall not touch this woman."

And who shall stay me ? "

*0r who shall stay me?" said Barras,
advancing with his accomplice.

'san authority stronger than yours,
Tushielaw, and of more sacred kinship than
yours, Heron Barras."

"Whose authority?" cried the two
villains in one breath.

"Mine."

The priest threw off his hood and revealed
a knight in chain armour.

Lady Spens sprung to her feet and threw
herself into his arms.

"Husband!"

Wife !  they shall never harm you

now."

"Wat Spens ! " ejaculated Barras, starting
back.

A thousand fiends," growled Tushielaw,
in confusion.

Which of you two villains will dare to

VOL. II. c

lay a finger on this lady now ? What, are
you such poor knaves that you quail and
tremble at the sight of one honest man
among you? Out upon you, it is such
wolves as you, who sack defenceless homes,
and frighten helpless women to their destruction,
that should be hunted to death,
rather than the beasts of the forest. It is
such knaves as you that should be burnt in
the market place, and, with Our Lady's help,
I shall do something toward obtaining for
you your meed."

 See you to your sister, Barras," roared
the Border chief, '' I'll see to that cause loon
who speaks so big."

Sir Walter whipped his sword from its
scabbard. The lady hid her face upon his
breast.

 This is my wife," said the knight
calmly, ' and the man that touches her
dies."

' Have at you, then."

And Tushielaw was about to spring forward,
sword in hand.

The priest stepped between 

"Back, sacrilegious man; would you do
murder upon the altar of heaven ? "

Out of the way, idiot, else I shall begin
with you."

Sir Walter spoke some words hastily in
the ear of the priest, and the latter instantly
took Mistress Spens by the hand.

This way, lady, this way," he whispered;
** do not pause a moment ; your husband
shall be saved."

He led or rather half dragged her from
her husband's side, for she was unwilling to*
leave him in that peril in which, only a
minute before, she had been restored to
him.

Tushielaw's fury, when he saw his victim
escaping from his grasp, became boundless.

"Look you, lads," he bellowed to his
men, " yonder is the traitor who betrayed
our King at Flodden, and for his head the
Queen will give a thousand marks."

There was a savage yell and a clatter of
weapons at mention of the reward, and

the men immediately began to surround

Spens.

Barras made a fierce effort to pass the
knight and reach his sister, at the same
time Tushielaw began an attack upon the
solitary foe. But Spens adroitly eluded
the attack of Tushielaw, met Barras and
tripped him, so that he fell heavily to the

floor.

Tushielaw, with his men in a body, was
now about to rush upon the victim, when
the sisters' cry rang through the chapel.

' Sisters ane, sisters twa,
Sisters o' the back raw,
Up an' gie the deil a law."

A defiant shout followed. Then a small
door at the back of the altar place was
burst open and a body of Selkirk burgesses,
sisters, hammered, and others, rushed
into the chapel with Andrew Howie at their
head, armed with axes, swords, spears, and
miscellaneous weapons.

There was neither parley nor delay. The
struggle commenced at once, and although

they disputed every inch, of ground stoutly,
Tushielaw and his men were beaten back to
the main entrance of the chapel. There
they made a desperate stand, seeing their
chief engaged with Sir Walter Spens and
hard pressed by him.

The shout of triumph was now with the
sisters and again with the borderers ; but
the clatter of weapons, the yells of pain, and
the oaths of rage never ceased.

With all the might of his strong arms
and all the weight of his heavy two-handed
sword, Tushielaw struck at his foe. But*
the perfect mastership of his weapon possessed
by Spens enabled him to meet his
opponent on something more than equal
terms despite his strength. So it happened
that for every inch of ground Tushielaw
gained, he lost two, and it was more than
probable that the final issue would have
been against him.

The issue, however, was not tried ; for
Barras, having relieved himself of the
antagonist with whom he had been engaged,

immediately upon regaining his feet, crept
with the swiftness and stealth of a tiger to
the back of Sir Walter with intent to cut
him down.

But by the timely intervention of Andrew
Howie and a couple of others, B arras was
beaten back, and Tushielaw was separated
from his opponent at the very moment
when he was smarting with the pain of a
deep cut on the left arm.

He was hemmed in on every side, he was
hampered at back and front, so that he
could not use his sword with sufficient
]sower to cut a way through the midst of
his assailants. He was growing faint from
loss of blood ; and whilst the number of his
followers was rapidly diminishing the number
of the sisters was rapidly increasing.

He saw that victory was impossible, defeat
certain, and he turned his face toward the
door. Barras had already escaped, and the
Border chief could scarcely see one of his
own party amidst the crowd of rampant
victors.

It seemed likely that the passage to the
door would be the hardest he had ever made
supposing he did succeed in making it.
There was a doubt of that, but he clenched
his teeth and set to work vigorously.

Happily affairs obtained a slight turn in
his favour ; for his plight was made known
to Ding-a'-Doon by Barras ; and the giant,
clutching his Jeddart axe, with sulky fury
rushed into the chapel, and swinging his
weapon round him with Herculean strength
cleared a way to the side of his chief, and
cleared a way back to the door and out of
the chapel.

The rest of the Borderers were already
mounted, and there were nine horses riderless.


A few minutes breathing space was obtained
for them by the success of ,
who managed to close the gates upon
the enemy and kept them within the chapel
long enough to give the Borderers a clear
start. Of this they availed themselves, and
rode through a shower of stones and vegetables

poured upon them by the matrons of
Selkirk, away from the town, cursing the
wedding day with all their remaining pith.
It was such a rout as Tushielaw had never
previously known.

Chapter II.

merlin's cain.

The flower hangs its head, waving at times to the
gale. Why dost thou awake me, gale ? it seems to
say. I am covered with the drops of heaven. The time
of my fading is near, the blast that shall scatter my
leaves. To-morrow shall the traveller come  he that
saw me in my beauty shall come. His eyes shall
search the field. They will not find me. So shall they
search in vain for the voice of Con after it has failed
in the field."  Ossian.

As from a long hideous nightmare  Gilbert
Elliot awoke slowly. Little by little consciousness
returned to him. First he perceived
light, and for awhile he could not
bear it, his sight had become so enfeebled
by the long darkness through which he had
passed. His eyelids closed again, and he
began, without any effort of will, to listen.

Once or twice he heard a rustling sound as
of a woman's dress, and that led him to an
attempt to explain his position by recalling
the past.

One by one the incidents recurred to his
memory up till the moment when he had
begun the endeavour to escape from the
cell in Tushielaw Tower by lifting one of
the stones of the floor. After that he could
recollect nothing; and yet he was dimly
aware that many days had elapsed.

All the dreamy self-questioning of returning
health followed, and by-and-bye he
re-opened his eyes to discover if possible
in what place his fortune had disposed
him.

He was lying upon a species of settle-bed
in a rude chamber, of which the walls were
plastered and bare. The furniture was of
the most primitive and poorest character ;
and the window, which was nearly opposite
the foot of his bed, was small, square, and
filled with greenish knotty glass.

But everything was clean, and, in spite of

the cold foggy winter day which looked in
upon him at the window, the place had a
comfortable kindly atmosphere most grateful
to the returning senses of the invalid.

He at once concluded that, under some
circumstances which at present he was
unable to recall, he had become the guest
of one of the mountain shepherds, who had
tended him through his illness  whatever
that had been caused by  and had healed
him.

Satisfied with this explanation, he turned
his eyes dreamily to the blackened cross
beams of the roof, and at that moment again
heard the rustle of a woman's gown.

This was his good fairy, no doubt, he
dreamily speculated ; the shepherd's goodwife
or daughter. He cast his eyes backward
and became aware of a dark gipsy face
bending over him with an expression of
earnest questioning.

It was a woman's face, and a bonnie one.
Bright big dark eyes, rich glossy black hair,
snorted up in a silken fillet ; soft ripe lips,

upon which the words of the eager question
her eyes asked seemed to tremble.

This was no shepherd's wife or daughter.
Dreamily he owned the fact ; and dreamily
he thought that it was a face he knew.

Are you better, Master Elliot ? " queried
a soft voice, that fell upon his ears sweetly,
as the sound of the distant music of home
falls upon the ears of a wanderer.

He recognised the speaker, and although
everything around him presented too much
of a visionary aspect to his newly awakened
senses to permit him to be much surprised
at anything, he was still dreamily desirous
of finding some clue whereby he might
reconcile with that place the presence of
pretty Mary Douglas, the Queen's lady.

She read his thought, and smiled. But it
was not the old bright coquettish smile ;
there was a shade of melancholy in it ; and
the invalid perceived that her face was paler
than he had formerly known it.

* You are surprised to find me here," she
said. *' Well, I, too, am surprised."

 Yon are here only by chance, then ? "

Yes ; I came here by accident, and
accident has caused me to remain."

* Will you tell me, then, the nature of
the accident ? "

He spoke in a feeble voice, but without
difficulty.

Mistress Douglas bent over him, peering
gravely into his face.

' Do you think your doctor would permit
me to gossip with you in your present
state ? "

* I am well, now ; I have no pain."

She shook her head, still doubting the
propriety of conversing with him.

** My doctor would not bid you be silent if
he knew how pleasing your voice is to my
ear."

She turned away her face carelessly.

'your doctor is a singular being, and
might object to any interference."

'who is he?"

"No he at all, i' faith," she answered,
laughing; " but an old woman."

* An old woman  who is she ? "

*thirsty Hyslop."

'' The witch wife ? "

'' Hush exactly."

' Then we are at Merlin's Cairn ? "

*' That is precisely where we are  and
now I see you are not only much better,
but almost well."

He passed his hand across his brow, his
eyes fixed bewilderedly on the wall. Presently
he looked into the face of his friend.

** My thoughts are so confused that I can
understand nothing of what has happened.
For pity's sake, then, explain to me, how
I am here  how are you here  what does it
mean ? "

There was some pain in the anxiety he
displayed.

What it all means I know as little
as yourself; but something of what has
occurred I can relate to you."

Drawing a rough stool to the bedside,
Mistress Douglas  whose quick, lively, but
withal gentle manner was a rare treasure

for a sick room  seated herself, as if preparatory
to a lengthy gossip. Gilbert now
perceived that her dress was arranged as if
she had been within doors for some time,
instead of being habited, as he had expected
to see her, in her riding dress, fresh from
the journey of this charitable visit. He
was the more puzzled in consequence, and
waited eagerly for the explanation.

* Where shall I begin?" she said,
smiling (still with the unusual shade of
melancholy perceptible), and playing with
the frills of her cuffs. ' With yourself ? 
that will be best ; but you must promise "

' I will  anything."

** You are rash to bind yourself. However,
I only want you to promise not to
become excited."

** I promise."

** Thank you; and I promise that the
instant I observe the slightest indication
of forgetfulness my mouth shall close."

' I shall remember."

' I am going to be precise in my statement;

and so, to begin with figures  it is
three weeks and two days since the day-appointed
for your meeting with the Master
of Tushielaw in defence of"  the voice
faltered a little here  'in defence of Mistress
Spens. You did not appear to redeem
your pledge for the truth of her husband

and herself "

'* I was trepanned, betrayed "

She raised her hand warningly, and he
checked himself.

"I know all that," she proceeded, softly.
You were betrayed, made captive, and
cast into a dungeon in the Tower of
Tushielaw. Beneath that dungeon there
is a tunnel through which water flows of
depth enough to drown any ordinary man.
In the floor of the dungeon there is a secret
trap, which opens to the touch of a spring,
and drops disagreeable people such as yourself
into the depths below, out of which
they do not usually rise again."

 Horrible  by what miracle have I escaped?"


On the third night of your imprisonment
the spring was either touched by your
enemies, or you, by some accident, touched
it yourself, and fell into the abyss. Happily
for you, the water was swollen and the
current strong, and you were borne through
the tunnel and into the river Ettrick. Out
of the river you were plucked by a friend,
who carried you to this house, where you
have lain since in fever, and with the hand
of death so close upon you that none of
us dared even to hope that it would be
withdrawn."

*' You said its  then you have been here
sometime?"

*' Yes, ten days."

*' So long?  you have not told me how
you came ! "

'By accident, as I have said. Her
Majesty has taken a whim to hunt in
Ettrick, and we moved to Kelso. In following
the chase I became separated from
my friends, lost my way, and at length
wandered to this house, or hut, I should

VOL. II. D

call it. Not knowing its ill repute, I stayed
to rest and inquire my way. You raved in
your fever, and whilst I was in the other
room I heard your voice. Upon the assurance
of my regard for you, and upon a
promise of secrecy, I was permitted to see
you, and  and  finally, seeing you were so
very ill, a messenger was despatched to
Kelso, and I remained here to watch you
die, as we thought."

She had faltered very much during the
latter portion of her explanation, and it
was evident that there was something she
desired to conceal.

* Good friend," murmured Gilbert, gratefully,
as he seized her hand and pressed it
between his own.

She withdrew the hand gently, and, as
one might have supposed, even with reluctance,
but firmly.

"You talked much when you were unconscious,"
she said, with a steady voice;
and, now that you have recovered, I shall
be able to leave you."

The blood crimsoned Ms face as he felt
the significance of her first words.

' I spoke of friends, perhaps?" he said,
with a feeble smile.

 Yes "  (this unsteadily).

' I shall pray now for strength to rejoin
them. First, I shall pay my respects to
Captain Lindsay "

' No, no," she interrupted, hastily; you
must not show yourself to him or to any one
of the Court till you may do so in safety."

 In safety ?  how, what danger have I
to fear?"

'Ah, I forgot," she cried, agitatedly;
*you did not know."

 Know what?"

*hush, I can tell you nothing more till
you are stronger. To-morrow, perhaps, you
will be able to hear everything. Now be
anent."

He saw that she was resolute, and as she
moved softly from the chamber he closed
his eyes as if to sleep.

Chapter III.

A CONFESSION AND A NEW PERIL.

sacred hunger of ambitious minds,
And impotent desire of men to raine !
Whom neither dread of God that devils binds
Nor lawes of men that common-wales contains,
Nor bands of Nature that wilde beasts restrain
Can keep from outrage and from doing wrong,
Where they may hope a kingdom to obtained :
No faith so firme, no trust can be so strong.
No love so lasting then, that may endure long.

Spenser.

But, try as tie might, Gilbert could not
sleep. The face and voice of Mistress
Douglas haunted him and seemed to upbraid
him for something he had done.

He did not like to feel that, however unwittingly
he had caused her pain. He owed
her much ; he owed to her his appointment

to the Queen's Guard; and now lie owed
to her care his life, perhaps. She was generous
beyond measure and beautiful  why it
was villainous to injure so kind a lady ever
so slightly or unintentionally.

If he could have only discovered the
nature of her wound, he would have healed
it; ay, at the cost of the life she had
rescued.

But wherefore should he conclude that it
was any wound at all ; or, if there were,
that he had caused it ?

He did not know. One of those instinctive
perceptions which men and women at
times experience in their relations with each
other taught him that the shade of melancholy
he had observed indicated a wound,
and impulse thrust him to the conclusion
that he was himself the cause. How that
came about he was utterly unable to comprehend.


She was very beautiful  Jiotv beautiful he
had strangely neglected to remark before.
That she was pretty and a little coquettish

he had, of course, been aware this long time ;
but now  he could not find any reason for
this either  she appeared to him absolutely
beautiful.

She was kind  so kind that he could
never hope to redeem the debt of gratitude
under which she had placed him. What
had she not risked  what petty inconveniences
had she not endured in coming to this
poor hut to nurse him back to life ; and all
out of simple friendship, and because he had
once rendered her a slight service. She
was indeed kind, generous, and beautiful.

And whilst he was thinking of these
matters there gilded quietly between him
and his thoughts a pale sweet face that
made his heart bound and the blood grow
hot. It was the face of Lady Spens that
seemed to be regarding him with a sad
chiding expression.

' I know, I know," he murmured feebly,
that I have done you grievous wrong ;
but the saints above know how cruelly I
was betrayed ; they know how eagerly I

would have entered the lists to serve your
cause, how gladly I would die now if I could
redeem the past. But our Holy Mother will
give me strength to save you yet. Dear
Lady, you would not doubt the fidelity
wherewith I serve you, if you could only
know that had I dared to love my dead
guardian's wife I would have loved you,
Margaret Spens, I would have loved you ! "

The vision of the face seemed to fade away
from him at this, and he opened his eyes.
The chamber was in darkness. The daylight
had faded, and he could see only a subdued,
misty glamour upon the window.

*' How weak I have grown," he said, half
in anger with himself;  Mistress Spens
will not doubt my truth, and, for the rest,
let me but regain strength, then place me
face to face with Tushielaw and they shall
have proof enough of his villainy."

The door opened gently, as if the opener
feared to disturb a sleeper, and Mistress
Douglas entered carrying a lighted cruse.
She paused as she closed the door and looked

towards the couch. The light shone upon
her face, and Gilbert was startled by its exceeding
paler.

He did not speak, and as she advanced to
him he closed his eyes involuntarily; he
did not like to see her distress.

He felt that she was standing beside him,
that she was peering into his face, and he
fancied that he could hear her heart beating
tumultuously.

A subdued sigh caused him to look up
quickly with an exclamation of surprise.

 Something afflicted you, sweet mistress;
tell me what it is that I may learn how to
help you."

She drew back hastily, and, as it seemed,
with a degree of embarrassment, in being
observed in so bad a humour.

* You are not sleeping," she ejaculated
vexedly.

* I could not sleep ; all that you have told
me frets me with impatience to be up again
and able to serve my friends," he answered
hotly.

She raised her finger warningly and
smiled; but he felt that the smile was forced.

* Then the more your impatience frets
you, the longer it will be till you are able
to rise to the service of any one. And I
shall blame myself for retarding your recovery
"

No, no, you must not do that."

How can I do otherwise since you have
said that my intelligence frets you ? ' '

Now St. Andrew judge me, there was
no breath of reproach in my meaning."

Then you must be very calm and quiet," 
she said, playfully serious.

' Ah, madam, let us be honest with each
other. I cannot be calm, I cannot rest
while I see your face so pale, so full of
trouble. I cannot be patient whilst I feel
that in some way I have been the luckless
cause of the sorrow you are trying to hide."

The playful smile had faded from her face
while he spoke ; her lips had closed tightly,
and an instant she seemed to hold her
breath in the effort to restrain her emotion.

But, with drooping eyelids, she answered
steadily 

You are mistaken, Master Elliot, I do
not charge you with any share in causing
my sorrow  for that I have a sorrow I will
no longer seek to conceal from you."

* I know, I know you do not charge me
with any share in it  but, be frank, trust
me, and tell me what it is that distresses
you."

She turned away her head.

 I cannot tell you."

'' At least, give me some clue to it."

She appeared to hesitate and to be perplexed.


' I do not know that I should tell you
anything ; but you are my friend "

Ay, and a faithful one, as the Holy
Mother knows."

'This much, then, I will tell you; my
brother Angus has discovered my absence
from Kelso ; he is seeking me, and I must
return. Should he discover the cause of my
absence "

She stopped and looked confused.

'' Well ? "

He is passionate' she resumed hesitatingly,
" and  and "

*' Would blame you  would perhaps injure
you."

* I do not fear him," she returned proudly,
and then softening, 'but that only vexes
me, for his disfavour can do me little harm ;
my sorrow springs more from matters of
higher import."

Connected with whom ? "

Her embarrassment became more marked.

Presently 

' Give me your word that you will not
refer to this matter again until I seek your
help, and I will speak ? "

*' Can you fear that I would say or do
aught wittingly that was not to your liking ? "

'* I do not fear, and therefore I will speak
freely. My brother is ambitious  there is
no height to which his ambition cannot rise,
no object too dangerous of achievement that
he would not attempt to gain."

* What is it he seeks now ? Does he not
stand at the head of our nobles in the Council
and in the grace of her Majesty ? What
more can he desire ? "

' He desires to wed."

'* Is there anything very terrible in that ? "

As he spoke the memory of the conversation
he had heard between Angus, Tushie-
law, and Barras flashed upon him.

/ There is, for the wife he seeks is the
Queen herself."

Prepared as he was for the disclosure,
Gilbert was startled by its nature. When
he had learned the object of the ambitious
Douglas on that night in Edinburgh at the
house to which the Chevalier Night had conducted
him, he had been impressed by it
rather as one is impressed by a singular
dream than by a matter of fact. In the
whirl of events through which he had passed
the subject had almost entirely escaped his
memory. Now, it came back to him and
struck him with all the force of something
of which he had been long dimly conscious.

and which was at length laid bare to his
ken.

*'He is a bold man," exclaimed Gilbert
thoughtfully, 'rand I fear he may overshoot
his mark."

'' My fear is greater than that," cried
Mistress Douglas excitedly, and beginning
to pace the narrow limits of the chamber,
with hands clasped tightly, as if to control
her emotion.

'' Bending what way ? "

'can you not divine ? "

Nothing clearly."

Oh, can you not understand  the man
who Avould mate with the Queen Regent of
Scotland, be he what he may, must be an
object of suspicion to the peers ; but when
that man is the head of the house of
Douglas he becomes the object of their hate
and fear."

"What then?" his eyes kindling with
excitement, and partly raising his head.

What then  why plots, enmity without
end, and perhaps murder."

' But that can only be should the Queen
favour his suit."

 And the Queen does favour his suit."

A pause, during which Mistress Douglas
continued to pace the floor ; and Gilbert lay
musing upon her singular revelation. At
length he said 

 What would you do?"

' I would save him, if that were possible,
from the ruin towards which he is rushing."

Gilbert shook his head discouragingly 

*' Think you he can be turned from his
bent?"

He may be shown its madness  or he
may be frustrated."

'' That will be no easy task."

I have surely a few friends to aid me ? "

'' I am one of them "

*' You ? "  her face brightened for an
instant and then grew dark; * but no,
there is danger "

''I am not afraid," he said, as if somewhat
pained by the suggestion.

But I am, for your sake." She

crimsoned as the impulsive words left lier
lips, and again became pallid  ' I mean
that that  I do not wish to be more indebted
to you than I am already."

 I am the debtor, and I shall think that
you hold my friendship without value if you
refuse my aid in this."

*' I am too poor in friends to slight any,
and you I value most of all."

 Then I am with you in aught that you
do, come good or ill."

*' You shall be my first councillor and
general. There is my hand."

She smiled half sadly as he pressed it
reverently to his lips.

* I shall be well tomorrow, since you
need my help."

** No compliments, or I leave you."

I shall be gruff as Tushielaw himself if
so you would have me."

'* Be what you will, but be secret."

* Ay, as the grave. I will only report
myself to Captain Lindsay, obtain a few
weeks' grace "

*' Stop, stop, you must not be in such hot
haste to see Captain Lindsay."

' And wherefore, since it is my duty ? "

She turned away her face again, while
she spoke as if to conceal her agitation.

' You have already been absent four
weeks without permission, and "

' Go on  why do you stop ? Do I lose
my commission ? "

(i Worse ; you may be condemned to
death for desertion, which is equivalent to
treason."

His countenance was overshadowed by
the consciousness of a new difficulty.

I will straight to Edinburgh, nevertheless,
so soon as my limbs have strength
enough to steady me in the saddle."

She would have pleaded with him to be
wary, but a tap at the door interrupted her.
She answered the summons. Something
was whispered to her. She passed out,
closing the door after her.

The summoner was Kirsty Hyslop. This
strange creature, who has been so frequently

mentioned in this chronicle, was a woman
whose appearance was as peculiar as her
reputation.

She would have been tall had she not
stooped so much that she appeared to be
rather under than over the average height.
Her body was stout  not fat  and her
hands were long and marked on the back by
veins and sinews. Her features were harsh
and haggard, forming a singular contrast to
her robust body ; and her eyes were red and
fiery as those of the basilisk. To conceal
them she had apparently contracted a habit,
of keeping the lids half closed so that she
looked always as if she were hae asleep.
When she raised the eyelids the effect of
the large burning eyes was all the more
startling.

Her dress was composed of a petticoat of
the commonest stuff, striped red; a short-gown
of brownish hue, and a large red
kerchief wound round her head so as to
conceal her brow partly and her hair entirely.
For the rest she was reticent to a degree,

VOL. II. E

and singularly noiseless in lier movements.
Her age was as great a mystery as her life.
The oldest men of the country-side declared
themselves to have been familiar with the
dreaded name of Kirsty Hyslop from their
infancy.

She lived upon the contributions of the
country folk who sought her assistance in
sickness and distress. Their propitiatory
gifts were enough to have enabled her to
live well; yet she always seemed to be in
poverty. Some said her evil master carried
away the greater share of her profits ; but
there were also strange tales told of gifts of
produce finding their way mysteriously into
the hovels of the poor. There had been
talk of burning her at one time, but she had
somehow hitherto escaped the usual fate of
acknowledged witches. That might have
been partly on account of the protection
extended to her by Sir Walter Spens of
Halstane when his word was of import in
Ettrick and Yarrow.

These were the words that Kirsty whispered
to Mistress Mary 

** There's a man at the door wants to see

ye."

 Who is it?"

 The same ye sent upon the errand to
Kelso."

She was about to hasten to the door
when the spaewife detained her, griping
her skirt.

*' Well ? " queried the lady in surprise.

Kirsty seemed to be searching for something
in the bonnie dark face wherein lay
all the fierceness of which her own haggard
countenance was capable, only more subdued
and more hidden by the beauty of the
features.

'' Well ? " repeated Lady Mary.

"Diana see him," said Kirsty in her
whispering voice.

 I must ; he comes from my friend, who
may have tidings of deep moment for me."

Kirsty gave her high shoulders a jerk
and released her hold. There was no
change of expression, but the movement
made the lady pause. The movement said 

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

*I have warned you  take your own
course. I care nothing what laps."

Overcoming her momentary hesitation
she passed to the door where the man was
waiting. He placed in her hand a piece of
ribbon upon which were three knots.

 I was to gie ye this token," he said,
*' and to tell ye frae your friend' that him ye
ken o' has fan ye foot and will be here the-night."


The friend alluded to was one of the
Queen's ladies, to whom Mistress Douglas
had intrusted the secret of her whereabouts
so that she might give her timely warning
of any matter of moment.

The message she had now received
alarmed her, for she had no time given
her to seek concealment.

* Did you receive no other message ? "
she queried, breathlessly.

*inane ava."

 No letter or packet?"

* Name, for the teddy was heart that I
might hae been gripped on the way."

 How did she know they would be here
to-night ? " exclaimed Mistress Mary, rather
to herself than to the messenger.

The latter, however, responded.

*I cinna ken, for the teddy diana say.
But wha isn't ye're explain? Gin it's a
band o' braw horsemen they're coming up
the glen."

 Coming up the glen ! "

** Ay, can ye no hear the horses an' the
clink o' armour? "

'It is them  it is them!" she cried,
below her breath, and looking around*
bewilderedly, seeking some place of hiding
or some means of escape.

The rage of her brother ; the shame that
in his passion he might heap upon her on
finding her there filled her with dread, but
it was a dread that would have been only
momentary had there not flashed before her
vividly the sight of the helpless invalid in
the inner chamber whose life might be the
forfeit of her being found under the same
roof with him.

She became conscious that the burning
eyes of Kirsty Hyslop were fixed upon her
inquisitively; and in her confusion she
resented the look as treacherous. She suspected
her of having played traitor and
relented the minute afterwards ; but it was
a minute too late.

Come with me and close the door,"
whispered Kirsty. I can save ye from
them if they were a thousand strong."

* Gin ye gang but the house they're sure
to find ye," said the messenger, who appeared
suddenly to comprehend the whole
position. 'come wi' me, teddy; I ken a
pass toon the cairn, an' ye can hide safe i'
the glen till they gang away."

*' Yes, yes, that will be safest. Goon."


She had not followed her guide more than
half a dozen yards when she regretted the
suspicion that had caused her to lose faith
in the wife of Merlin's Cairn ; but she heard
the tramp of horses' hoofs, the clank of
armour  she fancied she could discern the

steel plates glistening  she heard the door
of the hut close behind her, and it was too
late to turn back. So she went on after the
man towards the pass.

Gilbert lay a long while waiting and
watching for the return of his gentle nurse ;
but she did not come.

Soon after she had left him he had heard
sundry noises without, as if a number of
horsemen were surrounding the building.
Then voices, and a word of command passed
for some quick movement. Clatter ensued ;
he raised himself in the bed excitedly to
listen, and a shriek, subdued by distance,
seemed to rise up to his ears and make his
flesh creep.

It was the cry of a woman in sore distress,
and the big bound of his heart,
the wild throbbing of his pulse, told him
that it was Mary Douglas who needed
aid.

From what ?  from whom ?

He sprang from the couch, but the instant

his feet touched the earthen floor his head
swam, his eyes became dazed, he reeled and
fell.

There was a sudden stillness, as it seemed
to him  a stillness so strange that, as he
lay upon the floor, he began to doubt that
the peculiar sound which had disturbed him
was a mere trick of his fevered brain. He
was perfectly conscious of everything in the
chamber, even to the flickering of the
cruse. The moment his head rested upon
the ground all the dizziness had left him,
and he listened calmly for some corroboration
of the singular occurrences he had
fancied going forward outside. But he
heard nothing, and he became half convinced
that he had been dreaming.

So he crawled back to his couch and lay
a long while watching and waiting for the
return of Lady Mary.

He could form no idea of the length of
time he had waited, he only perceived that
the light was burning dimly and would soon
expire; he only knew that the gloomy

thoughts and fears which were flitting
through his mind were rapidly bringing
back the fever of his blood.

The door creaked upon its hinges, and
the haggard face (with downcast eyelids)
of Kirsty Hyslop appeared.

He regarded this queer vision with an
odd feeling of amaze. He had expected to
see the bonnie face of Mary Douglas, and
the one he saw in its stead appeared to be
anything but a happy substitute.

' Would ye like anything?" questioned
the woman, in a whispering voice.

'' No I where is she ? "

** Mistress Douglas ?  I cinna ken."

How ?  she was here only a little while
gone?"

** Four hours syne  ay; but she has
gone wa and might be at Kelso by this
time."

* She did not tell me she was going."

 Maybe she diana ken herself," was the
dry response.

*but she would not have gone without

bidding me adieu. Stay, tell me lias she
been forced hence ? "

*' She gazed foot of her ain will. I ken nae
mair. Drink this, and the-morn we'll maybe
learn what's lapped."

*' Ah, then, something has lapped "

 Drink this."

I cannot till I know more."

"Drink this or maybe ye'll never ken

mair."

There was a stolid firmness in her persistence
that overcame him, and in the hope
of satisfying her and of thereby obtaining
satisfaction for himself he took the wooden
coggie she offered him and drank.

The instant afterwards he returned to his
inquiry, but without obtaining further information
than that he had already received.
Presently his tongue moved awkwardly, as
if it had been tied ; his ideas grew confused,
and, as a faint suspicion flashed across him
that he had been drugged, his head drooped,
and his eyes closed.

Whatever object of good or evil the weird

woman of the cairn had in thus quieting
her patient there was no indication of its
tenor in her hard features. Stolidly she
watched him fall into insensibility, and then
stolidly she turned from the chamber, carrying
the Hght with her.

CHAPTER IV.

THE HOSPICE OF ST. MARY.

*' Whilst thou wast hence, all dead in dole did lie ;
The woods were heard to while full many a sigh,
And all their birds with silence to complain :
The fields with faded flowers did seem to mourn,
And all their flocks from feeding to ref raine :
The running waters wept for thy return,
And all their fish with languor did lament :
But now, both woods and fields and flowers revive
Sith thou art come."

The Faery Queene,

The hue and cry rang loudly through the
land from Berwick to John Groat's. Sir
Walter Spens, the suspected assassin of the
late King, lived, and had been seen at
Selkirk. The punishment of death was
proclaimed against all who gave him shelter.

For three weeks the wardens of the Border
lands, the sheriffs of every shire, the provosts
and bailies of every town, the people
and the soldiers everywhere were on the
alert. Everybody suspected everybody of
being the traitor, and several unfortunate
fellows were laid in the tolbooth under the
suspicion of being Spens himself or of aiding
him in his evasion of justice.

But in the end they were released, and
as the excitement began gradually to fade
under the light of other events, it was
admitted that the outlaw had cunningly
baffled all pursuit. Some doubted the
truth of the report that he had been seen
alive, only they were puzzled to account for
the fact that he had carried off his wife
when she had been about to be married to
some one in Selkirk Chapel.

Amongst the most persistent of the
pursuers  if not the most persistent  was
Adam Scott of Tushielaw. But even he
had failed to obtain the slightest clue to
the hiding place of the fugitives. At least

SO he had acknowledged to the Lords of the
Council. He, however, prayed their lordships
to retain possession of the child Alice
Spens, and he pledged himself, in consideration
of certain privileges and gifts, that he
would bring before them Sir Walter Spens,
alive, by the end of three months.

During this time the Eoyal party was
still at Kelso Abbey following the chase
almost daily and partaking of what other
entertainment the good Abbot Thomas 
who had been released from the thraldom of
Lord Home  could devise to pleasure his
guests.

Wherever the Queen was, the Earl of
Angus was sure to be near ; and there were
not a few murmurs of discontent at the
supposed influence he exercised over her
Majesty. That there were grounds for the
supposition was soon afterwards placed
beyond doubt. Meanwhile, the lady walked
with so much circumspection that there
were several of her Court who discredited
the rumour of her favour to Angus. Outside,

there were few who heard the rumour,
or suspected what was about to happen.

Affairs, generally, were in this unsatisfactory
position when the fatal year 1513
died, and its successor came to add its
number to the century.

There was feasting and mirth in the
Abbey Hall. The royal party was about
to return to Holyrood, and good Father
Thomas desired to impress her Majesty and
the young King with a pleasant memory
of Kelso. He had made an effort to render
the last days of their residence at the
Abbey memorable in the gratitude of the
stomach, and he had set his banquet with
the rarest dishes, meats, and fruits that
money or labour could obtain. The banquet
began about dusk, and rarely ended much
before midnight; for, although the Queen
and her ladies retired from the board indecorous
time, many of her lords and
squires sat long wine-bibbing. So the lights
were glaring, the jest and song were passing,

and the Abbot's cellars were tested
thoroughly. The only quarter which was
quite dark was that of the Abbot's private
chambers. From these a narrow staircase
conducted to a small door, of which the
holy father alone possessed the key.

This door opened quietly, and a man,
dressed in dark garments, stepped out upon
the frosty lawn. The door closed behind
him, and, after glancing quickly around as
if to assure himself that he was unobserved,
he passed quickly round by the fish-pond
and over to the wall. He entered a thicket
of shrubbery and trees, where he found a
horse saddled and bridled. He led the
animal out of the thicket, and through a
low doorway in the wall. When he had
secured the door, he sprang into the saddle
and rode quietly away, without wardens or
sentinels being in the least aware that anybody
had passed out under their very noses,
so to speak.

The horseman at first seemed to be
moving towards Selkirk, but as soon as he

had got half a mile from Kelso, he put his
steed to the gallop, and turned its head a
little more to the north than a traveller
proceeding to the sisters' town would have
done had he been acquainted with his route.
This traveller proceeded with so much decision
that he clearly knew his way well.

The night was keenly cold, and the frost
on the ground and skeleton trees glistened
in the soft, clear light of the stars. When
the horseman had crossed the Melrose road,
he proceeded by a rough pathway which
led to the hospice of St. Mary.

The hospice was a small building in-
habited by a few Franciscan monks, who
employed themselves in the kindly offices
of sheltering all pilgrims who might, by
necessity or liking, desire to spend the
night with them ; and, by tending within
the walls of their house the sick and
wounded, using all their simples and art to
restore health. They welcomed all, without
biding to ask of what country or faith the
pilgrim or invalid might be.

VOL. II. F

The hospice, or Maison Dieu, was a
species of tower outwardly; and within
there was a small chapel, guest-hall, chambers
for the invalids and wayfarers. At
the top of the tower a light burned always
through the night, to guide the weary or
wandering traveller to its hospitable walls,
and the friendly beacon was of vast service.
On all these accounts the place was regarded
with awe and reverence by the
common people, and held sacred from harm
even by the wildest of the borderers.

The horseman who had journeyed from
Kelso with such hot speed, was within
about two hundred yards of the hospice
gate when his horse suddenly swayed and
reared backward, as if startled by some
object on the ground. The rider, looking
down, perceived that a man was lying upon
the road dead, exhausted, or drunk.

He dismounted, in order to discover the
nature of the man's plight.

He found him apparently in a faint, as
if from fatigue and privation ; and, guessing

by the pilgrim's gown which the man wore,
his unshorn beard, and matted hair, he
appeared to have been performing a pilgrimage,
in observance of some vow.

He was no Christian who would hesitate
to relieve a fellow-mortal in so sad a plight
as this ; and the horseman instantly raised
the insensible pilgrim on to the horse, and
conveyed him to the hospice. His voice
was apparently well known to the warden,
for the gate was speedily thrown open at
his summons.

When the stranger had passed within the
Abbey gates, however, he did not, as was
usual with the comers to the kindly house,
proceed by the main entrance into the guest-hall.
He passed round to a small arched
door, which stood by the side of a buttress,
knocked, and waited for the response. A
few minutes, and the door was opened.

' The night is dark'' said the horseman,
in a low tone.

But dawn approaches," was the answer,
in a solemn voice.

At the same time a cover was raised from
a lantern, and its light revealed the person
of the holder. He was one of the holy-brothers,
and was dressed in the simple
garments of his order. His features were
prominent, and rendered sharp by the lack
of flesh. The eyes and cheeks were somewhat
sunken ; his age might have been
about forty years, but he looked more than
fifty. His whole bearing was that of a man
who had in all sincerity devoted his life
to the service of his Master, and who rendered
that service in the most austere
fashion.

You have brought a guest, my son,"
he said, in his solemn, mild voice, and advancing
to lift the insensible man from the
saddle.

Ay, Father Michael ; a pilgrim he seems
to be, and I found him not many yards
from the gate, lying on the road exhausted,
as you see him."

As one in need of help, he is welcome ;
but you should be wary."

"I know, and yet I dared not pass him
without helping him hither. How is my
lady?"

"Well, but sadly impatient for your
return, to gain tidings of her child."

Poor dame, I shall be with her speedily,"
and the speaker proceeded with his horse
to the stables at the rear of the building;
the while Father Michael carried the pilgrim
into the house and placed him under
the care of the brethren, who exerted themselves,
in the first instance, to restore their
patient to consciousness.

The mysterious rider from Kelso Abbey,
having groomed his horse without waking
the stableman, returned to the door beside
the buttress, and, as it opened to his touch,
he entered a dark passage. But he was
apparently well acquainted with the place,
and the darkness did not make him hesitate.
He hurried along the passage, turned
to the right, and found another door, which
also opened upon slight pressure. He
ascended a narrow, winding staircase, until

he reached a small landing. Here he halted
and listened.

Satisfied by the silence-which prevailed,
he touched a spring, and an oaken panel
moved aside. The aperture was covered by
a thick velvet screen. This he raised, and
then entered a chamber, the furniture of
which was massive, but simple. He slid
the secret panel into its place, dropped the
screen over it, and turned as if expecting
to see some one.

The chamber was untenanted. He
touched a little silver bell, and immediately
the hangings at the farther end of the
apartment were thrust aside, and a lady
entered. With a half subdued cry of joy,
she sprang to his arms.

 Walter."

'' My bonnie Made."

These were the exclamations of the
gladness of two hearts, and after they had
been uttered there was silence. Her hands
were clasped around his neck ; and he held
her head a little way from him, the while

his eyes sought the depths of hers with a
passionate yearning. Then he drew the
head toward him, and kissed her with
serious fondness on the how.

There was a quiet nobility in his bearing,
a firmness in the expression of his sharply-defined
features, and a keenness and, withal,
frankness in his dark searching eyes, that
marked him a man of generous mind and
brave heart.

The outlaw, Walter Spens.

'you have failed?" at length said the
lady very slowly, and as if she feared the
import of her words.

He seemed to be startled from a reverie.

** Not wholly, wife, albeit I bring you
less of comfort than I had hoped. Our
bairn is safe."

 But not with you?"

'' No " (huskily).

The lady's head sank upon his breast.

'but have good cheer, wife, for though
she, poor thing, be held captive, happily it
is a gentle captivity, and her jailor is the

Queen herself. I have failed to bring our
Alice back to you, but for the rest  by my
hand  we have reason to thank our Holy
Mother."

' Ah, then the proclamation is withdrawn'
she cried, eagerly; *the brand is
lifted from your name "

' Nay, nay, you are too fast. I have told
you, so long as Earl Angus is at the head of
affairs, my credit can only be redeemed by
such broad proof of innocence as the bitterest
foe dared not dispute''

Then we are still in danger ? "

He regarded her for a moment sadly and
even doubtingly.

"Are you so soon weary of sharing my
danger; so soon made hopeless by our
exile?"

She looked up with a reassuring smile.

a Were the danger a thousand times more
terrible, the exile a thousand times more
cruel, I should still find gladness in your
presence."

My bonnie wife."

'but when you are absent, then I feel
the many perils through which you walk,
and every coming footstep which is not
yours makes my heart sick with fear lest it
bring tidings of your doom."

* Then think that I am always with you,
as my heart is; Madge. Think that there is
a good angel watching over us that will
hold me scatheless till the truth be made
known."

'I will try to think all that," she
responded, brightening.

 Think of our enemies "

Her eyes flashed angrily, and she interrupted
him 

'' Ay, when I think of them all sense of
danger leaves me, and some evil power
within makes me fierce  unwomanly, so
that I long to be with you, in despite of
peril, seeking retribution."

Heyday, my mistress," he cried,
laughing, *' we can be fierce betimes. I
rede you heed that Father Michael sees
nothing of this humour, else he may ask

yon to find other lodging than in the secret
chamber of the Maison Dien."

*' He would not blame me, knowing all
that we have suffered."

* He could not, poor lass ; but let the
jest go. You must content yourself to bide
here in safetv for AHe's sake. There are
only two people in the hospice besides ourselves
who know the secret of these chambers
 Father Michael and one of his holy
brethren. Wherefore, even if our hiding
place were suspected, it would not readily
be discovered. So, knowing that you are
safe, I can work more boldly for my friends
and for our cause."

But should the conspiracy be detected ? "

* There is no fear of that; and if there
were any danger  then Arran is strong
enough to defend himself and his compatriots
till all find means to escape to
other lands."

"I would that you could avoid this
perilous venture now, and leave our name
to the cleansing hand of time," she said,
thoughtfully.

** No, you do not wish that, Madge  it is
not alone my honour that is to be redeemed.
We have a loyal cause to serve  to save our
Queen from an ambitious husband, and our
country from a despot."

'angus is powerful."

Arran is powerful, too''

Angus is your foe, you say."

'because Arran is my friend; and perhaps
because the tools with which he
desires to work his way to the throne have
reason to fear me. But why do we talk of
this ? You, Madge, you would not have,
me turn aside from the path which loyalty
alone, and honour, have marked out for me? "

My heart is so sick with hope and fear
that sometimes I feel that I would have
you fly from the midst of all these broils.
Again, the vane of my heart is blown quite
the other way, and I would have you fight
the good fight out, and win or die fighting."

"As I shall, wife, as I shall," he murmured,
with a subdued passion in voice and
look.

A low whistle interrupted them. Spens
raised the velvet screen that covered the
moveable panel by which he had entered
the apartment. He tapped upon the panel
lightly, and immediately it was opened.
Father Michael presented himself.

Peace be with you, my children," said
the friar, in his quiet voice ; ' I have come
to separate you."

' Separate us ! " ejaculated Mistress Spens.

' Be not afraid, daughter, it is only for a
brief space."

*' "What is the cause, father ? " said Spens.

*' The unhappy pilgrim whom you conveyed
to the hospice is dying, and prays
that he may be permitted to see you before
his eyes are closed for ever upon the
world."

< Why should he wish to see me ? "

*she had been acquainted that a friend
found him exhausted on the way and
brought him to our house. He will not
be satisfied till he sees you, and to us it
seems that he has left some mission unfulfilled,

and would seek your aid to complete
it, that his bones may rest in peace."

Spens reflected ; he saw that there was
danger in seeing a stranger, even when the
man was supposed to be dying. Presently 

I will go to him."

He drew a black silk mask from a leathern
pouch that hung at his girdle, covered his
face with it, and with decisive step followed
the friar.

"Be wary," said Lady Margaret, warningly,
as the panel closed and she was left
alone.

A little while she remained motionless
and thoughtful. At length, starting from
her reverie 

My heart trembles strangely, and I feel
that evil is near us. Ah, sweet Mother,
guard him  save him," she murmured, as
she knelt before the small crucifix of a
quaintly carved prayer desk. The light fell
upon a pale troubled countenance which
gradually became calm.

Chapter V.

THE pilgrim's REVELATION.

' ' Then sith. ye needs,' quoth he, ' will know my shame,
And all the ill which chance to me of late,
I shortly will to you rehearse the same
In hope ye will not turn misfortune to my blame.' "

Spenser.

The pilgrim lay on a simple pallet. His
face was haggard and his eyes were dull.
At his feet knelt one of the fairs, who held
up a large oaken cross, upon which the eyes
of the apparently dying man were fixed.
The chamber was dimly lighted by a single
lamp, which sufficed to show the severe
simplicity of the furniture and to inspire a
sense of awe in the prevailing cold silence
of the place.

Father Michael and his masked companion
had entered the room and had been standing

several seconds beside the pilgrim's couch
before lie showed any sign of having
observed their presence.

"You are devout, my son'' said Father
Michael softly.

The man slowly, and, as it seemed,
reluctantly, withdrew his gaze from the
sacred emblem and turned his dull eyes
upon the speaker. His eyes seemed to
brighten, and he made a feeble effort to
extend his hand'.

Father Michael took the hand.

Do not exert yourself, you are too much-exhausted.
I have brought the friend you
desired to see."

"Ah, holy father, I am indeed sorely exhausted
; but I have gained much strength
from your prayers and the prayers of the
good man you left with me. I am very
weak, and I feel that my last moment is
close at hand, else I would try to tell you
all the gratitude that fills my heart."

We have our reward if we have given
your last moments some Christian comfort."

' Yon have, you have "  a hollow cough
stopped his utterance.

The cough continued several minutes and
appeared to leave him utterly helpless, for
he lay with arms outstretched and a vacant,
glazed look in his eyes, as if he had spoken
his last.

Father Michael regarded him anxiously ;
and after a brief silence spoke 

' My son, I dare not hide from you what
is written upon your face  your end is near.
Wherefore, say quickly that which you may
desire to have done, for time passes swiftly."

The man made many efforts to speak,
and, failing in that, he made a feeble
motion with his hand, the meaning of
which was not intelligible. The friar bent
down and placed his ear close to the
invalid's mouth.

*' Leave me  good father  leave me  fora
little while with the friend who brought
me here," were the words which were
spoken so faintly that they were with
difficulty caught.

*'Do you fear to speak before us?"
queried Father Michael, surprised.

 No, no, I will tell you all, good father 
but  faces confuse me  I cannot explain 
it is the prayer of a dying man  you will
not deny it."

 Would you not be shriven ? "

*yea, but not in the presence of other
than yourself  grant my prayer."

' As you will."

Father Michael beckoned to his brother
monk, and together they noiselessly quitted
the chamber.

Spens had been standing hitherto a little
in the background, but, obeying the motion
of the pilgrim's hand, he now stepped close
up to the couch. He noted that the man
seemed startled on looking up and observing
the black mask which covered his face.

* Are you he who lifted me from the road
and carried me hither ? " was the faint
query.

I am he," answered Spens, marvelling
what could be the nature of the mysterious

VOL. II. G

communication he was evidently about to
receive.

' Why do you hide your face ? " gasped
the dying pilgrim.

 I have reasons."

' You will not trust me with them ? "

'I cannot."

The man drew a long breath, which
might have been accounted a sigh of regret.
He seemed to be regaining strength rapidly
from the instant the friars had left the
room. This, however, did not strike Sir
"Walter as particularly notable.

' Water."

A jar stood close at hand, and the
parched lips of the invalid were speedily
moistened.

 Thanks, thanks, my friend  I am better
now. But bend near to me, for my voice is
feeble, and the effort to speak exhausts me."

*' Delay then till the morning."

The man shook his head hopelessly.

The morning will be too late."

*' Nay, nay, you will recover."

"I cannot trust to that. I must find
some friend whose hand is strong and whose
heart is generous  I must find him at once.
Are you the man ? "

 My hand is none of the weakest, and
for my heart  well, it has never yet refused
pity to the unfortunate. But before pledging
myself to you I must know the service
yon would have done."

*rit is honourable."

without doubt, and I divine by your
eagerness that it is of import."

' Ay, it is of high import, for it concerns
the good name of a noble lady  perhaps
concerns her life."

*' And you can save her ? "

*' I could have saved her had not this
illness come upon me. But now  you see
how powerless I am."

 Then you would have me undertake the
work."

'* That is what I would implore you todo."


'you cannot understand the circumstances

wliicli hamper my actions, and I
cannot explain them. But to this I pledge
myself that, these circumstances permitting,
I will do the service you desire."

'I cannot thank you enough for that
pledge ; but you will know how much I feel
when I tell you without your promise my
death would have been miserable, my spirit
could never have found peace."

'' Be satisfied, I shall not be easily turned
from the accomplishment of your desire."

 I believe that  I believe that."

' Who is the lady?"

' Give me your hand."

Spens obeyed, and somehow as the
pilgrim grasped his hand, he felt a chill
as if a cold draught of wind had passed
through the chamber. At the same time a
strange fancy flashed upon his mind  that
a diabolic gleam of triumph had been for an
instant faintly visible in the dying man's
sunken e3es. But he endeavoured to thrust
the fancy aside, and in the endeavour he
remembered with some surprise the utterly

exhausted condition of the man only a fev,
minutes previous, and contrasted it with the
comparative ease with which he spoke now.
That, however, might be accounted for by
the great anxiety he felt to relieve himself
of a matter which evidently weighed
heavily upon him.

So Sir Walter gave him his hand frankly,
and awaited the revelation which appeared
to be of so much import.

The pilgrim held the hand between his
own, as if it were his last hope, with an
eager suspense upon his haggard countenance,
but withal possessing in his manner
and look a species of undercurrent which
kept suspicion alive in the mind of the observer
despite of himself. Holding the
hand tightly, and partly raising himself
upon his elbow, he peered at the masked
face as if vainly endeavouring to pierce the
disguise.

At length 

* Give me one promise," he gasped.

'' Of what nature ? " demanded Sir Walter

with that sense of suspicion strong upon
him.

* That you will not betray me whatever
I may reveal."

*' I promise," was the hasty response ; for
as the man appeared to be dying it did noir
seem to matter anything whether he were
betrayed or not.

'' Enough. I can speak freely now."

'a listen."

 It is not easy even after your promise
to make known my guilt. The cord should
have been round my neck long ago, and folk
would have been the better for it. But I
have escaped it, as you see, and am like to
escape it altogether."

Sir "Walter made a slight attempt to
withdraw his hand, but the man held it
with all his strength.

 Don't draw away from me  I have repented,
and I have suffered bitterly for my
crimes. I am called Eitchie, and have
spent most of my time on the Borders. I
was one of the band of traitors who at Flodden

turned upon Sir Walter Spens what
made you start ? "

*' Nothing, nothing ! go on."

' I was one of them, and was commanded
to aim at the life of Spens "

*' By whom commanded ? " was the somewhat
excited interruption.

** By Heron Barras."

The villain ! what motive can he have
had ? "

' You are a friend to Spens, I see," said
Eitchie with a strange quietness of manner,
and he now slowly released the hand he had
been holding.

Sir Walter was startled by the remark
into a consciousness that he was betraying
himself.

** Yes  yes," he answered quickly; * I
know Spens, and will swear he has given
Barras no cause for enmity." 

*You are right, no doubt; but enmity
springs from odd sources sometimes. Barras
and Spens have not met for years  I do not
think they would recognise each other were

they to meet now. But Spens holds in his
possession the proofs which would give to
an unknoTi lad the title and wealth to
which B arras aspires."

Say you ? "

 The good knight of Halstane must
suspect as much, but of course you did
not know the circumstance. Do you not
think there might be cause enough for
enmity in that ? "

*' Mayhap there is ; but to your own
matter."

I come to that. I was to aim at the
knight's life, and in my effort to obey the
command I would have fallen had not the
generous Spens, even in the heat of battle,
listened to my prayer for mercy, and spared
me."

Yet you turned against him."

* Not after that. I was grateful, and
resolved that when the fight was done I
would seek him out and warn him of the
treachery which surrounded him."

'* Were you faithful to this resolve ? "

'* So far that I sought him, but failed to
find him. He had fallen, some said ; he
was prisoner, others said. At all events I
did not find him, and I rem-ned to my old
master."

 That was a sorry end to yom gratitude."

* You shall see. I had my purpose now ;
and that purpose was to learn the plans of
Barras and give Lady Spens timely tidings
of any evil he might threaten to her. But
he is wary, and trusts no more to his tools
than is enough to enable them to execute
his infernal work. I learned very little f
his intentions, and that little was not learned
early enough to be of service to the lady,
else much of the evil that has befallen her
might have been guarded against."

swell?"

Ritchie had paused as if his exertions
were fast overcoming him. He passed his
hand slowly over his brow, and resumed.

* I watched him narrowly, and tried hard
to find some means of showing my gratitude
to Spens, but failed. x\t last I discovered

this  that Gilbert Elliot loved Mistress
Spens, and that she regarded him with
some favour ' '

'It is false!" cried Sir Walter Spens
passionately and forgetting himseK.

Eitchie seemed startled by his companion's
vehemence, and that suspicious expression
before alluded to glimmered for an instant
in his eyes.

*rand wherefore so?" he asked, with
every appearance of simple amaze at the
flat denial given to his words by the masked
knight.

The latter responded somewhat vexedly,
as was apparent in manner and voice.

'I mean  that is, I should have said,
that it seems false to me."

Howtoyou?"

'I know the folk. Elliot is a mere
stripling, and has learned to regard Lady
Spens too much as a mother ever to fix
on her the eyes of a lover."

Eitchie shook his head doubtingly.

He is a man in years, in action, and in

thought. She is very fair, I am told, and
still young."

' True, true," muttered Sir Walter
meditatively.

Eitchie went on in a slow tone, pausing
often between his words as if for lack of
pith, but in reality to note the effect of the
poison upon his hearer.

' He is a comely youth as you would say,,
had you ever seen him. He is brave, and
when Flodden fight was lost he fled to her
with the tidings of her husband's death."

'Not so. He endeavoured to give her
hope."

 Ay, but in such a way that he filled
her with despair."

Sir Walter clenched his hands behind
him and closed his lips tightly, trying withall
his might to suppress the indignation
which the man aroused. He kept singing
to himself that the man lied ; natheless his
blood grew hot and his brain feverish.

When she was driven from Halstane
he came to her aid ; he watched over her

day and night with an ardour which nothing
but love could inspire. She could not fail
to observe the nature of his regard  she
could not fail to like him for his devotion.
Soothly, they were not human if they could
be so much together and not learn to feel
something more than mere respect for each
other."

' Well, well, but what has this to do witch
the service you seek from me ? " said Sir
Walter sharply, and unable to conceal his
impatience.

 You will understand presently. Would
you know the writing of Mistress Spens ? "

 Perhaps."

 Then read this. Barras took it by
force from the messenger who was despatched
to Elliot with it, and I stole it
from Barras."

His pilgrim's gown was lying upon the
couch beside him, and from a pocket in the
breast of it he drew a scrap of paper.

Sir Walter took the paper, and, despite
himself, his hand shook slightly. He read 

< My good friend and lover, Gilbert Elliot,
greeting.  Dear heart, why should you risk
your life and my hope in this contest with
Tushielaw ? Should you be victor that will
not bring the dead to life ; should you fail,
the shame which now lies upon us will be
confirmed for ever. I would have you live
for sake of one who loves you more than all
the world beside. Wherefore I pray you,
pause, and go not into battle.  ' M. S."

It was with difficulty that the knight
suppressed a cry of pain. The letter was
written by his wife  it was no counterfeit,
he could have sworn  and it gave a terrible
confirmation to all that Eitchie had said.
He had discredited him all along, or he had
found some probable explanation for all
that was imputed to his lady. But now ?

What explanation could he find for this
letter ? How argue away the . meaning of
the words  " live for sake of one who loves
you more than all the world beside ? " There
was no explanation, no argument that he
could find to alter the conclusion to which

the mind leapt at first sight of this letter 
that his wife was untrue to him, and that
Gilbert Elliot was his foe.

His pulse seemed to stand still; and yet
his brain seemed to swell and beat wildly
against his skull. He became giddy, sick,
and suffocated. He wanted air, and as he
staggered toward the window a thousand
lights seemed to be dancing in the chamber
like so many fiends mocking his agony,
and through it all he was conscious of two
dark evil eyes fixed steadily upon him.

He thrust the window open and looked
out into the cold dark night. He raised
his mask and allowed the sharp wind to
play upon his face.

His vision cleared, the oppressive throbbing
of the brain ceased, and he seemed to
waken from a horrible dream. It was no
more than a dream ; he would not believe
that it was more, for he knew her love, and
in spite of every proof he would trust in it
till she herself told him that it was no
longer his. He would forget the dream.

He drew the mask over his face again,
closed the window, and returned to the
invalid's couch.

' Were you ill?" asked the latter, faintly.

Spens answered, calmly.

** I fancied I heard some one without
there, and desired to assure myseK that
there was no spy observing us. I pray you
be brief with what remains to tel."

*few words will serve. When that
letter came into my hand I thought of
delivering it to him for whom it was
intended. Before I could accomplish that.
I learned that Spens still lived."

"What then?"

I donned the pilgrim's garb in which
you found me, and resolved to seek him
through the land by night and day so that
I might acquaint him with the danger
which threatened him  a danger which his
generous heart could never have suspected.
For weeks I have been seeking him ; butin
vain. Three days ago sickness seized
me, and when struggling to reach this house

to crave help I fell where you found me
helpless and dying."

' Have you finished ? "

*' I have finished. I pray you to take up
the work which I have left undone. Seek
the brave Knight of Halstane and acquaint
him with all that I have related to you."

 Be sure that he shall know all."

' Then I am satisfied to die now."

 Should you live, I shall send you some
token when the task is completed."

' The Holy Mother's blessing be with
you ; for I can only hope for pardon through
my exertions to atone for the past."

'If there be any atonement in making
Spens acquainted with these matters, you
may count that it is made. And now, goodnight."


'' Good night."

Eitchie caught Sir Walter's hand and
pressed it to his lips with every appearance
of humble gratitude. Spens somewhat
abruptly drew his hand away and quitted
the room.

The pilgrim lay for several minutes
watching the door. A strange grin as of
triumph slowly dawned upon his face, the
sunken eyes brightened, and at length he
gave vent to a low chuckle of impish delight.


' Won," he muttered,  won, by the mass.
Now, let me see the loss and gain. It is
he himself who has been with me. Then
this is his hiding-place. He did not believe
what I told him, but he felt it, and betrayed
himself. It will work upon him, do what he
will; that letter will poison his rest and
make him hate the man who would have
been of most service to him. Well, they
will meet, perhaps fight, and one will fall.
I do not care which. What next ? in any
case he will say nothing of Binram for a
while, and in that while the lordship will
be mine."

He drew his hand meditatively over his
tangled beard and again laughed.

*what comes next? Why, that if
Tushielaw be not a bigger dolt than I take

YOL. II. H

him to be we may ride our quarry down ere
another sunset."

He half rose in the bed, and, bending
forward toward the door, listened.

There was no sound to indicate the
approach of any one.

The pretended invalid stepped stealthily
out of bed and secured the door by placing
one of the chairs against it in such a way
that the latch rested upon the back and so
rendered the door fast.

He stepped to the window, threw it open,
and looked out. He gave vent to a peculiar
sound like the tu-whit tu-who of the owl.

A few minutes passed; the wind swept
moaning and coldly in upon him. Then
from no great distance came what might
have been the echo of the owlish sound.

He repeated it once, then leaned over the
window ledge.

** Deil's bird," he said, in a low voice.

* Here," responded some one from below.

** Hark, and mind well. The prey is
here ; the word is, * the night is dark and

the answer, * dawn approaches.' Get the
place surrounded and we win everything."

A'richt."

The false pilgrim stealthily closed the
window, withdrew the chair from the door,
slipped into bed, and was as faint and helpless
as man might be  in appearance  when
the friars returned to tend him.

Chapter VI.

AN UNPLEASANT RECEPTION.

To seek het water beneath caned ice,
Surely it is a great folie 
I have asked grace at a graceless face,

But there is name for my men an' me.
But had I kennedy ere I cam' frae hame
How thou unkind widest been to me,
I wad have keepit the Border side
In spite of all thy force an' thee."

Johnnie Armstrong.

When Gilbert awakened from the sleep into
wliicli lie had been thrown by the potion
which Kirsty Hyslop had given him, he
experienced a peculiar sense of gratitude
and relief. He looked back to his illness,
to the presence of Mistress Douglas, and to
her strange disappearance as one might
have looked to something that had hai



opened a long time ago. But this calmness
was gradually overcome by an eager desire
to be up from his couch and out in the
world doing the work that had fallen to
him.

Youth and the kindly treatment of his
strange doctor and nurse  Kirsty  worked
wonders. She had told him of the ominous
manner in which Mistress Douglas had
gone, or, rather, had been stolen away, and
when at length he stood dressed upon the
floor, with renewed health fluttering through
his blood, one of his first thoughts was of
his fair friend, and he was ready for her
sake to confront even the great Earl Angus.

A few days more, and he was able to walk
about, and at last came the day when he
was able to take leave of the spaewife.

Kirsty stood with her hands clasped
behind her, and with a queer inquisitive
look upon her face.

* So ye're weel noo, an' ye're wa frae
the nest as soon as your wings can bear ye.
But ye'll come back again."

She spoke as if she were quite indifferent
on the subject, and as if indicating a necessity
rather than a probability.

*' I will come back, Kirsty, be sure," he
said, gratefully, " and I'll try to make my
coming worth looking for."

' Nae coot but ye'll live to come on your
ain account, no mine."

' Whatever it may be, I will be here
before long."

Whilst he had been lying under the
woman's care he had become so familiar
with her appearance that all her peculiarities
disappeared. He had learned, too, that
beneath a rough exterior lay much kindness,
although its expression might be made in
the grimmest manner. So he spoke with
freedom to her, and with gratitude.

He walked to Selkirk, and there procured
a horse at the Sisters' Inn. From the
garrulous host he learned something of
Tushielaw's rout and the occasion of it.

At first he attributed the report that Sir
Walter Spens had appeared in person to

rescue his wife from the Borderer as a mistake
arising from the timely interposition of
some unknown knight. But when he was
shown the proclamation of the council of a
reward for the head of the traitor Spens,
who had been seen in Selkirk, he became
convinced and joyous.

Marvelling at the strange story which
had been related to him, he rode to Edinburgh.


He put up at the hostelry of St. Andrew's
Eest, and there he heard something further
of the discovery that Spens still lived, and
of the unavailing efforts that had been made
to capture him. The joy afforded him by
the tidings was not affected by the knowledge
that they involved a change in the
nature of the thoughts he had lately given
to Lady Spens. He had always regarded
her with affection ; but he had never
dreamed of any tenderer relationship than
that of brotherhood until he had seen hera
widow, as he believed, and friendless.
Then for a brief space he imagined that he

might win the right to become what duty
seemed to require him to be  her protector.
The hope was dismissed without a pang.
And now the bright face of Mary Douglas
shone full upon him, filling him with
strange sensations of unaccountable happiness
and fear.

He pledged his friends in a cup of
Burgundy, and then, feeling very much as
if he had been left alone in the world, he
proceeded to Holyrood.

He was informed there that her Majesty
and the King and Court had returned from
Kelso on the previous day, and were at
present at the castle, where he would find
Captain Lindsay.

To the castle Gilbert hastened, and his
heart palpitated a little as an ordinary
ushered him into his captain's presence.

Not a word was spoken until the door was
closed ; then Captain Lindsay, who was engaged
deciphering some despatches, looked
up sharply. There was, however, a faint
gleam of surprise and pleasure perceptible

in his eyes in spite of the abrupt, unsympathetic
manner in which he spoke 

*' "What the devil brings you here, sir ? ''

I have come to deliver myself to you,
captain."

deliver yourself! Are you tired of
life?"

 Not yet."

No ? Then I suppose you thought it
was never too late to be shot."

* I have not yet been tried."

 It's all the same. You have deserted.
You are held a coward in failing to enter
the lists against the Borderer. You will be
condemned. Zounds, sir, why didn't you
stay where you were ? "

Gilbert's face flushed at the word coward.

' I thought, captain, that my duty called
upon me to report myself to you whenever
I had freedom and strength to do so. That
I am here is surely some proof that I am no
coward? "

 Humph, that is so ; but it will not save
you."

 Then I must suffer."

' You take it coolly; but what the devil
am I to say to  to  the person who obtained
you your appointment ? "

' Say that I was trepanned by a villain
who feared to meet me in the lists. That
I was carried away, and my life aimed at.
A lucky accident saved me, and I hastened
hither to declare my innocence of intent to
desert either my regiment or my duty."

' Have you any one to bear testimony
that this is truth ? "

Yes; one."

'whom?"

One whose word will not be doubted 
one who ' '

He stopped, and looked confused. He
remembered that in bringing forward Mary
Douglas as a witness in his favour, he was
risking her reputation, and certainly exposing
her to the malice of her proud brother
Angus.

"Well, well, go on," said Lindsay, impatiently.


I  I was mistaken. I have no witness
no proof beyond my own assertion."

Yoii said but now that there was one
who could testify to what you state."

*I have no witness," he repeated, slowly.

"Humph; that looks bad  bad." Stepping
to the door  " Sergeant."

A soldier entered.

Master Gilbert Elliot is under arrest.
Take him hence. Give him whatever he
requires." (This in an undertone.)

The sergeant saluted his captain, and
motioned to Gilbert to follow him.

At the door the prisoner paused.

Can I speak with you for an instant,
captain ? "

"Yes."

The sergeant withdrew in obedience to a
sign from Lindsay.

"I only wanted to tell you this, sir,"
Gilbert said, quietly. " There is one who
could testify to all that I have told you,
and to all that I will tell my judges,
but "

*' Well, what do you stop for now ? "

' I speak to yoii, sir, as a friend, and as
one who will regard my confidence as
sacred."

' Go on."

Were I to name the witness to whom I
refer I would compromise a lady. Therefore
I must be silent."

The captain strode up to him, took his
hand, and peered into his face. Presently 

' I understand ; and I believe you."

Gilbert left the chamber. He found the
sergeant waiting outside, and by him he
was conducted to one of the cells of the
castle.

The good-natured captain, who tried so
hard to speak and act in the most disagreeable
manner, paced his room for half an
hour afterwards in perturbation, growling at
every piece of furniture that came in his
way as if it had done him an inexcusable
injury, and growling at Elliot for turning
up again.

Captain Lindsay had received from nature

two gifts which did not work well together
or rather, which he fancied did not work
well together. First, he had been endowed
with a tender heart ; next, he had been
endowed with an overpowering passion for
arms. In thee course of his career he had
often found his heart severely tried by the
duties which his position as a soldier forced
upon him. Hence he adopted that sharp,
unceremonious manner which has been
observable in him. He endeavoured to
convince himself that he was overcoming
the weakness of his nature, and that he
was ready to execute any duty which
might devolve upon him without a single
twinge.

But this affair of Master Elliot upset his
calculations. He liked the youth, admired
his courage and frankness in returning to
Edinburgh ; and, having no hope of being
able to save him from the penalty of his
apparent desertion, he was perplexed and
fretted.

The forebodings of the captain found a too

speedy corroboration. In two days after
his return Gilbert was tried under the martial
law. He pleaded the ruse by which he had
been taken away, and related all that had
happened. But he had nobody to confirm
his statements, unless they would send for
Kirsty Hyslop, and this his judges declined
to do. There was no one else to help him
in his difficulty ; and the only kindly word
spoken for him was the argument of Captain
Lindsay, that had he deserted of his own
will he would not have returned, knowing,
as he must have done, the penalty of his
offence.

To the judges the case appeared to be
clear, and were they to pardon one offender
there would be nothing to prevent the
whole of the guardsmen taking flight when
the whim seized them. Therefore an
example must be made, and he was condemned
to death.

Lindsay followed him to his cell, apparently
gruffer, if possible, than usual in his
manner.

* Good-bye, captain," said Gilbert, smiling
sadly, when he stood again in the gloomy
prison which he was only to quit for the
grave; * I will try to die as becomes a
gentleman of your company."

'* I am sure of that."

One word before you go : I believe that
I have not been fairly tried "

u What what?"

*I am convinced that my fate was decided
before I had spoken a word. Whatever the
reason, my judges met to condemn me."

* That's treason; but what the devil did
you come back for ? "

And, as if afraid that he might show more
of his weakness than he would like to think
about afterwards, he hurried away, leaving
Elliot to find what comfort he might in
knowing that at least one man behoved him
innocent and injured.

He was perfectly calm ; and, whether or
not engendered by a touch of frenzy which
had lurked somewhere in his blood as a
lingering result of his late fever, he was

even disposed to be mirthful towards evening.
At any rate he astonished the sentinel
by suddenly bursting into a snatch of song
and beating time with his fettered feet upon
the floor, whereby he produced a clank,
clanking sound. The indignity of the
fetters was hardest to bear.

' Hallo, sir ! what's like the matter wi'
ye ? " asked the sentinel.

' A malady for which there is no cure
that I wot of."

' An' what may that be ? "
* Sentence of death my doctors call it."
 Weel, ye seem till take kindly wi' it."
' I don't like it at all, and so I try to forget
it. Am I not wise ?

' Oh, the King went seeking a pretty maid
Man Yarrow braes sae bonnie, oh ;
An' he met wi' a mast cantankerous jade
That would be won by ony, oh.' "

 Pair soul, he's daft," muttered the
sentinel, moving away.

But when the night closed, and he sat
upon his stone seat in darkness, his humour

changed. Through the loophole, which
served as a window to his cell, he could seethe
stars shining, and, watching them, there
slowly crept upon him a sense of loss.
Another night, and he would never look
upon the stars again from this side of the
grave. Another night past, and all that
he had ever dreamed of achieving would
have vanished from him.

*' Is all hope gone, then ? " he asked himself.


Yes, it was all gone, and he bowed his
head upon his hands to pray. But he could
not pray. Thoughts glanced through his
mind like the shadows of birds upon a lake,
never pausing, never leaving any trace
behind.

As one who has been a long time trying
to sleep begins mechanically to count the
ticking of a clock, so he began to count the
steps of the sentinel, and he was startled
almost when suddenly the steps ceased.
He listened for them, and waited for them
with the impatience of a child waiting for a

YOL. II. I

toy. The absurdity of this state of mind
presently occurred to him, and he made an
effort to shake it off.

This effort was assisted by a peculiar circumstance.


The key turned in the lock of his cell,
the chain was removed, the door opened
cautiously, and some one appeared to enter,
but he was unable to assure himself of that,
as there was no Hght. Soft breathing,
however, speedily confirmed his impression
that he had a visitor.

Who, and for what purpose ?

' Are you there. Master Elliot ? " said a
low voice.

'' Yes. Who are you that ask ? "

 A friend."

Why are you here, and why come so
stealthily?"

' I am here to lead you back to Liberty ;
that is why I come so stealthily."

To liberty ! What is your meaning ?
Has the judgment of to-day been revoked ?
Have they recalled me to life ? "

'* It is I only who revoke the judgment
and who recalls you to life."

It was a woman's voice, its sweet sadness
revealed so much ; but the speaker had her
mouth covered with the fold of a cloak,
and by that means disguised the voice so
that he could not recognize it. He had a
suspicion, though.

** You bewilder me by these riddles. Tell
me simply, how am I to regain my liberty?"

** The doors and gates are open : here is
the key of your fetters. Walk forth. At
the foot of the West Bow you will find a,
man waiting with a horse. Mount and ride
for your life from Edinburgh."

*Ah, then this is not by order of the
Court ; it is an escape that you offer me ? "

Yes; and you must quickly accept, or
escape will be impossible."

A slight pause, during which Gilbert was
endeavouring to reconcile the voice and
circumstance with his surmise as to the
identity of his friend.

'' Give me your hand," he said, '' and let

me know who is the friend to whom I may
owe my life."

*' Stay where you are, Master Elliot ;
you must not touch me or seek to know
me. You must leave Scotland, until the
friends you have at Court can obtain pardon
for you."

' I have been guilty of no crime, and
therefore need no pardon. Some have
called me coward, and were I to fly even
from the unjust verdict which condemns
me, others would join the cry. I shall give
them the lie."

This is rashness."

' Say rather it is calm resolution. For,
observe, there is another reason why I
should reject this offer to run Hke a thief
from my prison. My escape would attach
blame to Captain Lindsay, under whose
charge I have been placed. I will not have
suspicion cast upon him, and shame upon
myself, even for life, which is precious tome
now as ever. I will not go."

* Think again  think of the future that

yon are throwing away ; think of the wrong
you are doing to those who love you."

'* They are few, and would not wish to
see me disgraced."

*I tell you that you will be recalled.
Your escape is but to procure time to prove
your truth."

'* I will not go," he repeated, doggedly.

* Gilbert ! "  it was a cry of pain.

He sprang towards her ; but, swifter than
he, she had withdrawn and closed the door
before he could touch her. So sudden indeed
was her departure, that for an instant
Gilbert stood in doubt as to whether or
not he had been dreaming all the while.
But there was a faint perfume in the
chamber which sufficed to convince him
that it had been no dream  that he had
been offered liberty, and he had refused it.

He did not repine, much as he valued
the treasure he had refused to accept. He
would have refused it again, for he was
resolved to pass forth with reputation untarnished
or to die.

But the friend who had come to him in
his need ? There was only one who could
or would do so much, and he blessed her
for the act. So he waited quietly for the
day of execution.

CHAPTEK VII.

IN THE TOILS.

Is the night chilly and dark ?
The night is chilly but not dark ;
The thin grey cloud is spread on high 
It covers but not hides the sky.
The moon is behind and at the full,
And yet she looks both small and dull.
The night is chill, the cloud is grey."

Christie.

Sir Walter Spens was pale and his eyes
glistened with excitement when he removed
the mask from his face in the secret chamber
in which his lady awaited him.

' You are agitated," said the wife, regarding
him earnestly. ** What was it the
stranger sought with you ? "

' Nothing  nothing of import."
She regarded him questioningly.

* Then why are you so troubled ? A little
while ago you left me, and your brow was
unruffled and your voice steady. You come
back to me, and your brow is clouded, your
voice is hoarse, and you speak hesitatingly."

* Is it so ? You are watchful. I forgot
to tell you that I must leave you again
presently. Perhaps that will account for
my  the change which you observe."

' But you will not go to-night ? "

' Yes, to-night  within the hour."

*' So soon ? "

*rit must be. Wherefore, good wife, take
comfort and pray for my return."

*' I would that I could hold you here ; but,
since that may not be, I pray Heaven speed
you back again."

**My faith, sweet dame, you will learn
wisdom betimes," he broke out with a short
unpleasant laugh.

Why think you so ? "

 You take my going with so much philosophy."


There were surprise, pain, and fear in the

look she fixed upon him. His eyes sought
the ground uneasily.

'sit is scarce an hour gone," she said,
quietly, * since you were chiding me for the
weakness which feared your absence, and
now  you seem to chide me for having hid
the aching of my heart that the thought of
my unhappiness might not mar you in the
work you have to do. The Virgin Mother
knows how hard has been the struggle
to wear the mask which veils the sore you
make in leaving me."

He folded her in his arms and kissed her
passionately. ' My sooth, I think I grow
peevish, wife, and weak as you grow
stronger. But we shall mend in time."

What was that noise ? " she cried, starting.


>' I heard none."

** It was like the clank of armour."

* My sword perhaps struck the chair."

*sand my watchful ears gave it all the
significance of an armed force come to arrest
you."

* We are safe here."

I do not tank we are safe anywhere in
Scotland," she said, shaking her head sadly.
* Let us talk of other things, and be happy
if we can for the little while you may be with
me. I have a commission for you."

And she forced a smile as if anxious to
win him from the gloom which she saw
hung over him despite himself.

 A commission ? "

'* Yes, and one of import too. A friend
whom we prize dearly, and who, when all
the world was most against us, was most
our friend, has fallen into the hands of our
envious foes, and for our sakes I fear will
die. I would have you learn his fate, and
save him if he still lives."

* You mean "

'' Gilbert Eliot."

Sir Walter's mouth twitched and his eyes
wavered. The name jarred upon some
chord of his nature, although before it had
been pronounced he had known whose name
she had on her lips.

' I will seek him," lie said, as if the
promise distressed him in some degree.

'He wished to serve us, and so made
Tushielaw his enemy," she merged; 'he has
been betrayed "

She stopped, for she began to perceive
that her words fretted Spens for some
reason which she was utterly at a loss to
divine.

Before she could express her marvel at
this, both were startled by a distant murmur
of voices, then a sharp cry of some one in
pain or great terror.

They listened with bated breath ; and the
cry was repeated. This time the sound
appeared to be close at hand.

* There is some one on the secret staircase,"
said Spens, in a low firm voice, coolly.
* I fear our burrow has been sniffed by the
bloodhounds. But they must be cunning
indeed, if we do not outwit them."

' They are trying the panel," whispered
Mistress Spens. 'what are you about todo?"


He had approached the door, and in
answer to her question, signalled her to be
silent. He drew the tapestry aside, and
placed his ear to the panel.

* Save me  save me ! " moaned a feeble
voice without.

Spens hesitated, then touched the spring.

The evil face of the false pilgrim glistened
as it were out of the darkness. There was
a shout of triumph. Spens gripped the
man, and dragged him through the aperture
into the room. He regained his feet instantly,
and, with a malicious glare in his
eyes, appeared to be about to spring upon
Sir Walter. But suddenly he sunk upon
the floor, as if overcome by weakness. He
had observed that Lady Spens had closed
the panel, and stood watching him.

He cleverly concealed his face from her
in falling to the floor, where he lay moaning
helplessly.

There were footsteps on the staircase
without.

"Why and how are you here ? " said

Spens, under his breath, and hastily removing
his mask.

*I have been tracked," moaned the
man, in a shrill voice. ** I heard their
voices "

' Not so loud ; and tell me whose voices,"
interrupted the knight.

' The soldiers. Barras has sent them
after me. I know he is here himself; and
despair gave me strength to rise from the
bed and fly through the corridor, I did not
know whither. Groping along the wall
of a dark passage below, one of the holy
fathers met me, and when I told him that
the crime for which I was pursued was my
fidelity to the poor knight Sir Walter Spens,
he thrust me through a dark doorway. I fell
upon the staircase which took me up here."

** Not so loud, or by my soul I will helps
nature's work with my poignard."

Mercy, mercy "

Be still, then. Since you were seeking
to escape, how was it that you shouted so
loud?"

I was in darkness  I was bewildered
mad. I did not know what I was doing.
Save me, save me, good master, and the
Knight of Halstane will thank you."

'' Humph ! I am not so sure of that ; and,
besides, you told me that which might
make Spens desire to see you dead rather
than alive."

 Save me  save me ! " cried the man,
again raising his voice shrilly, as the noise
of clanking armour indicated the precincts
of the pursuers.

 I will," said Spens, sharply. "In herewith
you."

He half dragged, half carried the man
into the inner chamber, left him there,
closed the door, and fastened it.

The secret panel had been discovered,
and was yielding to pressure and the heavy
blows of two strong men. It was smashed
into pieces, and half a dozen men burst into
the room just as the Knight of Halstane
and his lady had passed into a small square
closet at the farther corner.

Tushielaw, grim, fierce, and sallow by
repeated disappointment, was the first to
appear. After him came Ding-a'-Doon,
Hornie, and others. They all stood staring
at each other and the walls when they perceived
that the chamber was untenanted by
other than themselves.

' A thousand curses," muttered the
Border chief, gnashing his teeth. *rare
we to be again tricked ? Seek, lads  seek
every corner for them."

** Open, open quickly."

This was the voice of Heron Barras, and
proceeded from the inner apartment.

One kick from the heavy foot of the giant
Ding-a'-Doon broke open the door, and the
false pilgrim sprung forth.

Have you got them ? "

*' No. Where are they?" growled
Tushielaw.

 They were here a minute ago  they
must be here still. Curse you, why did you
not speed  three minutes sooner, and we
would have had them safe ? "

*' We had trouble with one of the friars,
who struggled with us like a devil, and
managed to close the door in the wall.
Why did you not lay hold of him ? "

' Never mind the why now. Search 
ha, yonder closet. Quick, we have them
yet."

The door of the closet was fastened, but
with the help of a couple of spears it was
soon forced open. The closet was empty,
and the men stared at each other in bewilderment.
A slight noise as of the creaking of
a board overhead attracted their attention.
They looked up, and Tushielaw, snatching
a spear from one of his men, struck the
planks of the ceiling. They were loose, and
the mode of escape was made clear. They
did not stop to speculate how it was possible
for a woman to get up to the roof.

' Here, Pate, give me a shoulder," said
Tushielaw, briskly.

Ding-a'-Doon leaned his head and arms
against the wall, and his master climbed
upon his back, reached the ceiling, easily

knocked the boards aside, and drew himself
up through the aperture. Barras followed.

** Bring the light, one of you," he
shouted, looking back.

Hornie, with the nimbleness of a monkey,
climbed up the giant's back, holding the
cruse in his hand. But as he was holding
it out to Barras, accidentally or intentionally,
the cruse dropped to the ground and
the light was extinguished. Barras swore,
and Tushielaw growled, for they were now
in complete darkness. Hornie descended
swiftly to the floor and made a great ado
seeking the lamp.

One of the men produced a flint, and
presently a light was obtained. This time
the dwarf managed to hand it up safely, and
followed it himself. Ding-a'-Doon ascended
next, and in a few minutes all were up except
one man.

They found themselves in a narrow, low-roofed
passage, along which they moved
cautiously, fearing some trap. The passage
appeared to extend around the building, and

VOL. II. K

all the cunning of Tushielaw and B arras
failed to discover any outlet in the walls or
floor. They congratulated themselves upon
this, for the fewer the outlets the less
chance there would be of escaping ; and if
the fugitives were penned in the passage,
they would be captured with little trouble.

The passion with which he regarded
Mistress Spens  a passion rendered all the
more fierce by the difficulty he had found
in achieving its object  and the cupidity
which attracted him to the wealth of Hal-stane,
rendered Tushielaw eager in the
pursuit. But another and stronger motive
still urged him forward in the evil work : he
knew that between Spens and him there
was only one way of settling accounts  it
was life against life.

With Barras there was a certain enmity
arising from chagrin and disappointed ambition.
He would not have troubled himself
in the least about Spens had he not barred
the way to the lordship of Binram. But
since the way was barred, he wished to

remove the obstacle as speedily and as
effectually as possible. So these two united
to hunt him down.

It was well that they had been proceeding
cautiously, for at the angle of the building
they came upon a chasm in the floor of
about six feet wide. There was darkness
below and darkness beyond. Their light
only sufficed to show them the width of the
hole, and to indicate the depth ; it revealed
no means of crossing or descending.

** Who joins me?" said Tushielaw.  I
shall jump across." *

Do," said Barras, drily ;  and you will
probably alight upon some trap which will
hurl you into the arms of the fiend who
waits for you."

'I have another plan, then"  and the
Borderer smiled grimly  ' which will cheat
the fiend and our foes together."

He took the Jeddart axes from his foster-brother
and two of the men. Having placed
them across the chasm, he cautiously tried
their strength, then crawled across them

and reached the other side in safety. He
found that the suspicion of B arras had been
nearer the mark than they had calculated.
Sitting on the side of the chasm, he pressed
the floor with his hand; it yielded to the
slightest touch, and sunk downward. Had
he jumped, as he had proposed at first, he
would not have troubled Spens again.
Having warned his followers of the danger
he easily stepped over the trap and waited
for the others. B arras joined him immediately,
and the rest followed.

They now proceeded with even more
caution than before, and about twenty steps
brought them to the end of the passage,
where they found two doors, one of them of
strong oak, studded with iron nails, opened
into the tower where the friendly beacon of
the hospice was kindled every night, and
was now burning. The other door opened
to the roof or ramparts of the building.

The first was fast, the second open ; and
the pursuers, leaving one man to guard the
entrance to the tower, passed out upon the

roof. Tushielaw again made use of his
gigantic foster-brother's shoulders, this time
to enable him to look in at one of the
windows of the tower.

With a subdued growl of satisfaction he
slipped to the ground again.

*' They are there  I saw them."

Ding-a'-Doon and three men were posted
at the corners of the tower, whilst Tushielaw,
Barras, and the others returned to the door.
At first they attacked the portal with their
axes ; but it soon became apparent that the
iron-studded woodwork was strong enough
to resist their efforts for several hours.
They were at this juncture at some loss
for a battering-ram or other engine by
which an entrance might have been
speedily forced.

Tushielaw, skilled in all the tricks of
Border broils, hit upon an expedient.

He set the men to work chipping the
door which led to the roof. The splinters
flew about like hail, and were hastily collected
into a pile at the foot of the door

they wished to force. Tushielaw applied a
torch, but the chips were damp and for
some time refused to kindle. At length,
however, by dint of much coaxing in the
way of puffing and blowing from Tushielaw,
who knelt before the pile with all the eagerness
and devotion of a fire-worshipper before
his deity, a bright flame shot up, illuming
his dark countenance.

Whilst the blue smoke curled and
wreathed upward and over him, and the
chips crackled and sent their sparks flying
up into his face and around him, Tushielaw
remained upon his knees encouraging the
flame by feeding it with chips and blowing
upon it vigorously. - He smiled with diabolical
satisfaction as he saw the flame rapidly
increase.

The stout oaken door blistered and fretted
and hissed, as the tire began to take effect
upon it ; whilst Barras and the men,
encouraged by the success of the project
thus far, continued lustily chopping the
wood.

Chapter VIII.

AN ESCAPE.

They hurried but, they hurried ben,
But what to gang they diana ken."

Old Ballad.

On entering the closet of the secret chamber,
the fugitives had found a light ladder which
was always there to be ready for emergency
such as this. Having ascended to the
passage above, Sir Walter had drawn up
the ladder and replaced the short planks
on the floor. Then, carrying the ladder
and leading his wife by the hand, he had
moved quickly along the passage till they
had reached the chasm at the angle of the
building. There he had hesitated. He
knew that by descending he could readily
obtain egress from the Hospice ; but he did

not doubt that the place was surrounded,
and so he would only escape from foes
behind him to fall into the hands of those
in front. Aided by his knowledge of the
place, his decision was promptly made. By
means of the ladder he conducted his lady
across the opening. Then he let the ladder
down to the floor beneath, giving it a shove
over to the side they had just quitted. By
this means he hoped to lead their pursuers
into the belief that they had made their
way to the lower part of the building with
intent to escape thence. Lest the wolves
should not be caught by the trick, he
loosened the bolt of the spring trap, and
felt convinced that if the ruse was unsuccessful
the trap would save him further
trouble.

As has been seen, the ruse and the trap
were both avoided  the one by accident,
the other by cunning caution.

The fugitives then hurried on to the
tower, and, as another bait to catch their
foes tripping, Spens left the door to the

roof unfastened. For, should the pursuers
pass out upon the roof, he would be able
to double upon them, and, as a last resource,
venture a descent.

In all these anticipations he was disappointed,
and husband and wife now stood
prisoners within the tower with men outside
thirsting for his life in which hers was
bound, and the enemy Fire creeping in
upon them. There was terrible suspense
and fear in their hearts as they listened to
the work progressing outside ; and both
were pallid with emotion, but calm and
firm.

Silently they joined hands, as if with
hand linked in hand to die.

' If I have ever wronged you in thought
or act, forgive me now, Madge," he said,
in a low tremulous voice.

*' I forgive, and grant you me like mercy."

He kissed her sadly for answer.

Then with firm hand he drew his sword.
The place was nearly filled with thick,
blinding smoke which the damp wood

produced. A few minutes more and they
would not be able to see each other.

Outside the smoke was even more dense
and suffocating, so that Barras and the
men had ceased chopping the wood and
had stepped out to the roof. Tushielaw
still knelt, fanning the flame. In that
position the smoke did not affect him unbearably,
and behind him crouched the
dwarf, with eyes strangely red and malignant.


The burning door was suddenly flung
open. Before the gust of wind and swirl
of the smoke enabled him to comprehend
what had taken place, a foot was planted
upon his shoulder, some one sprang over
him and disappeared in the cloud of smoke
which filled the passage.

Tushielaw sprang to his feet with a shout
of rage. Barras and the men, mistaking
the import of the shout, rushed into the
tower.

Tushielaw darted along the passage ; only
a few yards, however, and he fell heavily

over something  the dwarf. But before
Scott could discover the cause of the tumble
Hornie was up and away.

Spens had taken the desperate resolve to
peril all on one last venture for life. So,
gripping his wife stoutly with one arm, and
bidding her cling to him with all her might,
sword in hand he burst forth upon his foes.
Fortune favoured him ; and having passed
Tushielaw, he dashed onward to the opening
in the floor. [ He avoided the trap ; then
bending down, slipped over the side of the
chasm, and dropped to the floor beneath
Mistress Spens clinging , to his neck the
while, and leaving both his arms free.

She was now able to relieve him of her
weight entirely, and they descended a narrow
staircase into another passage, like the
one above. Here they paused an instant to
listen.

There was a soft pattering sound, as of
some one with hopeless feet close behind
them. Farther back a tramp of heavy feet,
and a murmur of angry voices.

They hurried on, but presently some one
behind them whispered, sharply 

schist  stop a wee. Ye're rinnin' right
into the arms o' the guard."

Spens recognized the voice, and slackened
his pace.

Hornie?"

'Mysel' but cinna talk." The little
man had griped Sir Walter's arm now, and
leading the way, continued in a whisper 
 All the friars are tied up hand and foot.
I could get warning' o' this  the place is
surrounded, an' I maun get a road cleared
for ye."

They reached the ground floor, and
emerged into the entrance hall.

' Stan' ye in that hole a mint."

Hornie indicated a recess in the wall
which had been intended for the statue
of some saint. Then the singular being
rushed out at the open door, shouting
loudly 

' Help here, help, some o' ye. There's
the deil's work ganging' on ben the house.

an' ye're a' standing' like sae mony gowks
out there."

Several men rushed into the hall.

'sein, rin, straight on," shouted the
manikin, and the men with a great clatter
obeyed him.

* Wa wi' ye now," he whispered to the
fugitives,  straight out at the yet. Ye'll
find horses there ; tak your will o' them,
an' wa."

' And you?" said Mistress Spens, quickly.

Doam it, my lady, never mind me," he
said, impatiently.

Spens dragged her away in the direction
indicated.

The dwarf ran back along the hall, and
out at the side door into the gardens. He
fired a petronel, and hallooing and screaming,
galloped about like one mad. The ruse
took, and a fruitless search commenced.

The torches flashed in the night through
bush and brake. Hither and thither rushed
the border chief, foaming with passion and
swearing roundly at the stupidity of his

men in allowing the fugitives to pass
through their midst unseen.

The passion and chagrin of B arras were
as great as that of Tushielaw, hut the expression
was very different. He remained
perfectly cool and deliberative, and, in consequence,
he had nearly discovered the
route of Spens and his lady.

He went round the several posts and
counted the horses ; the absence of two
opposite the chief gate of the hospice at
once suggested that the fugitives had found
an opportune moment and escaped southward
with the horses of their foes.

He was on the point of giving the word
to mount and pursue when suddenly the
horses, frightened by the hubbub and the
flashing torches, neighed wildly, reared,
kicked, broke their halters, and ran helter-skelter
amongst the searchers, scattering
them to right and left, alarming and bewildering
them.

This delayed pursuit considerably, and
as Barras, discomfited and enraged, ran

amongst the men to allay any superstitious
fears they might obtain from this event,
Hornie stood grinning broadly at him, and
congratulating himself upon having for
once outwitted the contingent knave in all
Scotland.

CHAPTER IX.

THE EXECUTION.

Adieu the lily and the rose,
The primrose fair to see :
Adieu my lady and only joy,

For I may not stay with thee.
O, ye may weep an' wring your hands,

Nae comfort can I gie.
For falsely hae they judgit me,
An' here noo maun I die."

Lord Maxwell.

On the morning of the day fixed for the
execution of Master Elliot, Gentleman of
the Queen's Guard, there was as much
bustle in the town as there had been on
the occasion of the expected trial by combat
between the now condemned man and
the Border outlaw. The burgesses were
eager to witness all spectacles ; and there

had been an unusual degree of interest
excited in the spectacle of this day by the
remembrance of the disappointment Master
Elliot had given City and Court on a former
occasion. But interest and curiosity were
most excited by certain rumours which had
got about, to the effect that the condemned
had been unfairly dealt with at his trial,
and unjustly convicted.

Their Majesties and Court were at Holy-rood,
and the execution was to take place
on the Castle Esplanade. A dozen of the
best marksmen of the arquebusiers had
been deputed to carry the harsh sentence
into effect at noon.

As the sun climbed through the morning
mists toward meridian, the twelve men
were together in the guard-room. They
knew nothing of the man who was to die
under their hands, yet their faces were
gloomy, and they had clearly no relish for
the work.

"By my ban' this day," said an old
soldier, whose scarred brown face betokened

VOL. ir. L

active service, ' I'd rather be the worst
marksman o' us a' than hae to share intaking
that young chief's life."

' I say vi' you, comrade," added another,
grimly plucking at his beard with a big
rough hand.

*' He's a braw callant," said a third, ' an'
I'se warrant him a true man, for a' my
lords hae condemned him  craving their
honours' pardon for tooting' their judgment."


' Weel, comrades, it's name o' our doing,"
said the first speaker; 'ewe hae just to
blaze wa at command, and that's a' our
concern''

He's deserted," broke in one sour-visaged
fellow; ' and if you or I, comrades,
had done the same, we'd have been
punished in like way, with a dooms less
fash about it. Let him have it, then, say
I ; and my musket shall let fly as fairly as
ever she did in the Low Countries."

But this ill-natured observation found no
response. The men were called out to

parade, and were soon busy enough with
their own affairs.

The burgesses began to ascend the Castle
Hill at an early hour, and continued to
arrive at intervals in groups and companies
till noon.

Meanwhile, the prisoner within his cell
awaited his doom with a calmness which
amazed the holy father who attended to
shrive him and prepare his soul for its
passage.

He was pale ; and a subdued sorrow in
the expression of his eyes, as now and again
they turned from the face of the friar to
the loophole by which the sunlight gleamed
in upon the dark chamber and lingered
upon it, indicated that his resignation was
not obtained without a struggle, and a
severe one. The regret with which he
quitted life was painfully expressed in one
little action.

It was close upon the hour when he was
to be led forth ; a ray of sunlight streamed
into the cell, forming a slanting column of

light that fancy might have pictured as a
path upward. At sight of this, Gilbert
suddenly rose from his chair, and with a
tender yearning stretched out his hands
until the ray of light touched them and
brightened them.

Then one big sob, and he sank back upon
his chair.

The friar had raised his head from the
illuminated missal he had been reading,
and watched this movement. The goodman's
eyes glistened with pity.

You still ching to Hfe, my son," he said,
shaking his head sadly.

*Ah, father, forgive me, but it is hard,
hard, hard, when the heart is so young, to
quit the world; to close the eyes for ever
to the warm sunlight ; and lie down in the
cold earth. And to die in this way ! "

He shuddered, and covered his face with
his hands.

The friar compassionately remained silent
for several minutes ; he felt that only the
bitterest anguish had wrung the words from
the man.

Then he rose and laid his hand kindly
upon the shoulder of the condemned.

** It is only the body, my son, that lies in
the cold earth," he said in a low voice ;
*' the soul rises to the source of sunlight."

* Thank you, thank you, father ; I am
still weak, you see, although I accepted
your good counsel in faith and thought
myself resigned. But there, I am better
now. You shall see that my step is firm
and my face calm as if I walked to a post
of honour."

Gilbert clasped his hands tightly together
and turned his face to the dark side of the
cell so that his thoughts might not be
distracted by the light, with its whisperings
of the world, its ambition and strife.

Very soon he had regained his self-possession,
and when the drum beat in the
square without he rose to his feet perfectly
calm.

The voice of the holy father, monotonously
repeating the usual exhortations of
the occasion, sounded drowsily in his ears,

like the hum of bees ; and listening to it
and trying to occupy himself with obedience
to the words, he still heard every other
Bound with acute distinctness.

There was the steady tramp of feet in the
passage outside ; the halt, the grating of
the bolts, and the slow opening of the
massive door ; then the guard appeared,
waiting for him.

The officer in command summoned him
forth.

He obeyed quietly, and took his place
without a word. There were four soldiers
behind him and four in front. The friar
walked by his side, and, with head erect
and firm tread, he marched out to the
daylight once again.

They passed across the square, and were
joined by the arquebusiers. Then slowly,
with the muffled drum beating before them,
they marched to the Esplanade.

There the whole force of the Castle was
drawn up, forming three sides of a square.
Behind the soldiers, and perched at every

available standpoint, crowded the citizens,
from whom arose a murmur of commiseration
as the condemned appeared, for his manly
form and resolute bearing commanded their
sympathy at once. The rumour of unfair
treatment suddenly obtained a strong semblance
of truth ; and the crowd immediately
accepted the semblance for the fact.

The murmur of sympathy passed down
the Castle hill, and at the foot took shape
and passed back from lip to lip in words
of discontent. A name, too, was whispered
amongst the crowd; a name at sound of
which some looked scared, others doubtful,
and many ill-humoured. The name was
that of Angus, and it was associated with
the deed about to be performed as the main
cause of it all  whether the deed were just
or wrong. None seemed to know by whom
amongst them the name had been first
pronounced and associated with the event
of the day.

But one may form a fair guess as to the
origin of the whisper when it is known that

the faction of Arran was represented in the
crowd, and it was of some import that the
growing distrust of the ambitious Douglas
should be fostered.

The murmurs of the people served only
to quicken the Governor of the Castle to
the conclusion of the work in hand.

The condemned had taken his place
beside the oaken trough which was so soon
to close upon him. As his eyes first
alighted on this object a momentary tremor
passed over him ; then he was calm and
firm again.

He bowed his head while the priest
pronounced his last benediction, and the
sun shone radiantly down upon the glittering
armour and the sea of excited faces.

The twelve arquebusiers were drawn up
in line at twenty paces from their victim ;
and the drummer stood by ready to drown
the outcries of the condemned should he
utter any. The twelve men stood with their
muskets at rest, still and grim as death.

A sergeant of the guard prepared to

bandage Gilbert's eyes ; and at that
juncture Captain Lindsay rode forward to
the prisoner.

The Captain was evidently struggling
hard to preserve that stern expression
which he believed to be the necessary
adjunct of his authority. He bent down
and gave his hand to Gilbert.

** Have you no message, no word to send
any one that I can take for you, Master
Elliot?" he said huskily.

 None, Captain Lindsay," was the quiet
answer ; ' but none the less thanks to y9U
for your kindly offer."

** Damn it," ejaculated the stern soldier,
drawing his gloved hand across his eyes,
* is there nothing I can do for you ? "

Gilbert shook his head with a sad smile ;
and at the same time his eyes lighted upon
the sergeant, who was standing with a silken
sash for a bandage.

* Stop, Captain, there is one service you
can render me."

'' Out with it."

*' Let me die with my eyes open and not
blindfolded ; and let me give the word to
fire."

'' You shall have your wish."

* Many thanks. I wish only that I had
lived long enough to show you that your
kindness has not been shown to one without
gratitude. Good-bye."

The Captain wrung his hand, and, without
trusting himself to speak again, galloped
away.

A few minutes after the Captain had rejoined
his brother officers one of the Guardsmen
approached and whispered hastily 

* There's a man tearing up the Canonization
horseback as if he were crazed."

Captain Lindsay wheeled his horse about
and went to see what purport there might
be in the haste of the rider.

A murmur swelling up from the foot of
the Castle hill rendered the Governor somewhat
uneasy, and he hastily passed the word
for the execution to proceed promptly.

The bell of St. Giles's tolled noon.

Gilbert was now standing alone,, the friar
and the Guard having retired to the rear of
the arquebusiers.

He clasped his hands behind him offering
a fair mark to the executioners, and, whilst
the hour was still tolling, gave the word 

Eeady."

The murmur of the crowd was still swelling
enrolling over him like the sound of
distant thunder.

* Present," he said in a steady voice.

The twelve muskets were levelled at his
breast.

The murmur of the populace burst into a
loud shout like a clap of thunder.

Gilbert pronounced the final word 

'' Fire."

The sharp volley of the guns rang deafening
amidst a wild confusion of voices
shouting, shrieking, and commanding, and
waving of hands and caps.

' A respite, a respite," were the only intelligible
words of the many voices for the
first few seconds, and a horseman, having a

despatch in his hand, galloped into the
midst of the arquehusiers before the smoke
of their guns had cleared away.

Gilbert had fallen prone to the earth.

Captain Lindsay was beside him instantly,
and raised him from the ground, endeavouring
with much agitation to make him understand
that the Queen had been pleased to
accord him a free pardon at the earnest
entreaty of certain friends.

* It is too late," he muttered, and turning
sharply to a sergeant bade him seek the
surgeon.

But that gentleman was already hastening
forward to render what assistance was in
his power.

He examined the body, and was somewhat
astonished to discover only one wound ; it
was in the left shoulder, and had the bullet
entered only two inches lower it would have
pierced the heart, and death would have
been instantaneous.

* As it is," said the surgeon, in answer to
Captain Lindsay, **I do not think the wound

will prove fatal if we can only find the bullet.
It is lucky as well as singular that only one
man hit him."

The truth was that eleven of the men had
fired high and so missed the mark intentionally.


The whole force of the Castle was now
occupied in keeping the populace at bay.
The citizens, knowing that a pardon had
arrived, and having seen the man fall, were
eager to learn his fate ; and the haste of the
Governor promised to bring about the riot
he had hoped, by haste in completing the
work, to avoid. The verdict of the physician,
however, was made known and quickly
spread amongst the crowd. The intelligence
appeased the citizens, and soon afterwards
they began leisurely to disperse. But during
the whole afternoon there were many groups
about the Luckenbooths, and about High
Street and the Grassmarket busy discussing
the event of the day.

Master Elliot, wholly unconscious of the
happy turn affairs had taken, was conveyed

to a chamber above the old Portcullis
Gate.

He was laid upon a couch, undressed,
and then the surgeon succeeded in extracting
the bullet. Captain Lindsay was present
during the operation, and as soon as it was
finished he resumed his abrupt stern manner,
being assured now that the patient was
certain to recover.

The prediction was verified. At the time
he received the wound Gilbert had almost
completely recovered from his previous illness,
and so escaped fever. In a week he
was able to sit up in bed and talk with
Captain Lindsay, who acquainted him with
what had occurred after he had fallen.

* But who were the friends whose solicitation
obtained this act of clemency ? "
queried Gilbert, puzzled.

The Captain smiled grimly and did not
answer.

* You were one of them ? " proceeded the
invalid.

'' Kight.'

'* But who were the others ? "

*' Can you not think of any one who may
have the ear of her Majesty, and who is
interested in you ? "

' Not one "  and as soon as the words
were out he crimsoned and corrected himself
 ' Yes, there is one."

Well, one true friend, with opportunity
at command, can do much to help a friend
out of a difficulty. I can say no more."

He had said enough, however, to convince
Gilbert that pretty Mistress Douglas was
the friend to whom he owed the pardon.

In another week he was able to rise from
his couch and to sit for several hours by the
window, looking down the Castle hill, watching
the Esplanade and the promenading
citizens. Here at twelve noon he was
punctually visited by the Captain.

' I have good tidings for you. Master
Elliot," he said, in his abrupt way; your
appointment to the Queen's Guard has been
renewed."

Gilbert's pale face glowed with pleasure,
and with gratitude to her Majesty.

*' I will live, I trust, to show our gracious
Mistress that I am a loyal servant."

At the end of the third week he was able
to walk out on the battlements, and when
the fourth week drew to a close he professed
himself ready to join his company. Captain
Lindsay's gratification was apparent through
all his sternness, and it was arranged that
in two days Gilbert should take his place
amongst his comrades at Holyrood.

On the second morning after this was
agreed upon a soldier informed him that an
old man was waiting without to see him,
bearing a message of import. The messenger
was admitted, and Gilbert greeted him
with pleased surprise.

* Andrew Howie ! " he exclaimed.

' That's me," answered the old servitor,
with a grin upon his weather-beaten countenance
; ' an' right glad am I till see ye in
life again, Maister Elliot, for certes it's a
pleasure I diana expect two or three days
syne."

* What tidings do you bring me of our

lady  is she well and safe ?  and Daly,
where are they?  when "

'Hooly maister, holy," cried Andrew;
' I canna answer a' that in a breath.
Besides, I'm no at liberty till speak to a
Gentleman o' the Queen's Guard a' I ken.
But she's weel an' safe."

' Saints be praised for that. You come
from her ? "

Andrew shook his head.

'No exactly."

 From whom, then ? "

I'm here to tell ye that if ye'll be in the
north aisle of St, Cuthbert's the-morn'&
night at vespers ye'll see ane that ye would
like to see, an' ye'll ken a' that ye would
like to ken."

Not a word beyond this would Andrew
declare. That was his message, and he
wasna at liberty to say mair."

Gilbert promised to keep the mysterious
assignation, and Andrew left him to puzzle
his wits as to the probable import of the
message.

VOL. II. H

CHAPTEK X.

THE ASSIGNATION AT ST. CUTHBERT's.

Viponf. What ails thee, noble youth ? What means
this pause ?
Thou, dost not rue thy generosity ?

Gordon. I have been hurried on by strong impulse.
Like a bark that scuds before the storm,
Till driven upon some strange and distant coast,
Which never pilot dream'd of."

Helicon Hill.

When the bells of the abbeys of Grey-friars,
Blackfriars, and St. Cuthbert's were
chiming to vespers, and the good people of
the city were flocking to prayers in larger
numbers than usual on account of certain
rumours that the plague which had so
recently devastated their homes had appeared
amongst them again. Master Elliot

walked down from the Castle to keep his
assignation.

His step was firm, his form erect, and,
but for the pallor of his countenance, none
would have guessed that only a few days
had elapsed since he had been rescued from
the brink of the grave.

He was amongst the last of those who
entered the abbey, and as his eyes wandered
up the great aisle, the massive masonry of
which was always sombre even in daylight,
and was now positively gloomy in the feeble
light of the small lamps hung upon the
columns at long intervals, and leading to
the blaze of wax candles upon the altar, he
experienced that sense of awe which this
cunning arrangement of lights was calculated
to inspire.

Bowing low and muttering a paternoster,
he glided round to the north aisle in the
shadow of the arches. He felt almost as if he
were committing sacrilege holding an assignation
in this sacred house at the time when
the people were engaged in their devotions.

The voices of the monks intoning their
exercises in Latin innrnmred along the
aisles solemnly, and the responses of the
people swelled upward to the roof, now like
the subdued moan of distress and again like
the cry of joy.

The north aisle was almost in total darkness
; only one feeble lamp scattered the
shadows for a small space round a column
upon which hung a painting of the Virgin.
The column opposite rose like a gaunt grey
ghost dimly out of the darkness.

Here Master Elliot halted, leaning his
back against the pillar, with arms folded
and head sunk upon his breast.

He had been standing for nearly half an
hour in this position, glancing at intervals
sideways towards the picture of the Virgin
on the opposite pillar, when a low voice
sounded in his ear and made his pulse
quicken with pleasure.

Do not budge from your present position,
Master Elliot, but listen. I fear weare
watched."

Gilbert so far controlled himself that he
did not shift his position ; but his eyes
could move without danger of being observed,
and he saw a lady in black with
hands crossed upon her breast, kneeling
devoutly before the painting of the Holy
Mother. A black veil covered her face.

' By whom are we watched ? " he said in
an under tone.

** By some of Angus's creatures ; and
therefore I am unable to explain to you what
I had purposed in coming hither. Can you
trust me without explanation  can you
follow me in the dark ? "

'* My life is yours," he answered promptly.

 But your honour  can you risk that tome?"


I confide in yours."

' Holy Mother grant that your confidence
be not misplaced; for I am only a weak
woman, following a strange course in the
hope that I may save from ruin those whom
Hove."

' You mean your brother ? "

 And our Queen  I would save him from
the destruction which will fall upon him
when he becomes her husband; I would
save her from the disgrace which this hasty-marriage
will bring to her."

' Is the union so certain, then ? "

' Alas, yes ; I believe it is already-arranged
; and the Lords of Council meet in
secret to-night, with Angus at their head."

 With what design?"

' Should the marriage take place, they
propose summoning his Grace of Albany
from France to take the Regency."

 That is treason."

'eyes, but they are powerful; Douglas is
hated, and the Queen can only be saved
by preventing the union."

'' What would you have me do ? "

'' You will be on guard tomorrow night
at Holyrood. You must give me the watchword,
and leave the portal of the Palace
garden open "

'' Stay, for pity's sake ; are you not asking
me to betray my post ? "

You said only now that you would confide
in me."

** Yes, but this you propose is treachery'*

*Do not trust me, then," she said, sadly,
' and let the ruin come."

The sad tone disturbed him, and he answered
falteringly 

 Will you not explain ? "

' To-morrow night you shall know all."

* But why not now ? " he said, thoughtfully,
his eyes fixed upon the ground.

No answer.

He looked round quickly. The lady who
had been kneeling before the Virgin's image
had disappeared. He fancied that he caught
a glimpse of her dress fading into the darkness
of the recesses of the aisles, and he
took a few swift strides in that direction.
He was suddenly checked by the voice of
the lady with whom he had been conversing.
It sounded quite close to him.

** For our dear lady's sake, do not attempt
to follow me."

*' I shall obey you, but of one thing I

must be first assured," he said, a suspicion
flashing upon his mind that in all he had
heard there might have been some trick 
 are you Mistress Douglas ? "

 Can you doubt that ? "

The reproach conveyed in the tone stung
him, and he responded quickly 

"I am satisfied; and if I may do so
without dishonour, I will serve you in all
that you desire."

He waited for some acknowledgment of
this pledge, but none came. She had gone,
and he was chagrined with himself that he
had pained her by his hesitation. He
wished that he had promised at once to
sacrifice for her the life she had twice saved.
That he was willing to do at any moment ;
but to betray his post  he could not do
that, even for her sake.

He paced slowly down the aisles towards
the west doorway.

"Do I not wrong her with these suspicions?"
he reflected ; " has she not told me
that she desires to save the Queen and her

brother  to save Scotland from the thrall
of France in the person of Albany ? And
I dare to suspect her  to suspect the
noblest heart, the loveliest lady "

He checked himself there ; he began to
fear that it was her beauty which influenced
him.

*I dare not hide from myself that she
is allied to the conspirators whom Arran
leads. . . . Would that I knew how to act.
To-morrow night, she said, I shall know
all."

Chapter XI.

THE RIVALS.

Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
Hath not yet div'd into the world's deceit."

Richard III.

On the succeeding day Master Elliot was in
his place amongst the Gentlemen of the
Queen's Guard at Holyrood.

Her Majesty had decided upon laying
aside her mourning that there might be
more festivity at the Court to amuse the
child-King, as was given out. The event
was to be celebrated by a masquerade and
the illumination of the Palace Gardens at
night, under the direction of the Ambassador
of France and several French gentlemen of
his suite.

Workmen were busy in the gardens all

the morning hanging ornamental lamps-upon
the trees and shrubbery. There was
bustle in many parts of the Palace preparing
for the evening's fete.

At noon the King, carrying his tennis,
ball with more genuine pleasure than his
sceptre was ever to afford him, and accompanied
by his Eoyal mother, Angus,
and Arran, walked forth to see the present
which had arrived that morning from the
Earl of Perth. The gift was a singular one
it was a wild boar which had been
captured alive and secured in a massive
iron cage.

His Majesty viewed the animal with
childish wonder and delight. But he soon
tired of staring at its fierce red eyes and
dangerous-looking tusks, and of listening to
its savage grunts as it beat against the bars
of its prison. He began to play with his.
tennis ball, the grim Angus joining gravely
in the sport. The earl threw the ball up
into the air; it rebounded from the earth
into the boar's cage.

''My ball, my ball," cried bis Majesty
lustily and petulantly.

'' I will get you another," said Angus.

'' But I want that ball," continued the
child-King, who, like other children who
find themselves pampered, was apt to take
whims and cry for what there was most
difficulty in obtaining.

But there seemed to be no one willing to
gratify his present whim until one of the
Gentlemen of the Guard advanced quietly
to the cage, thrust his left arm in between
the bars, and drew forth the ball.

There was a little scream from all the
Queen's ladies except one  Mistress Douglas.
She became ashy pale, and uttered
no sound. The gentlemen stared in mute
amaze.

Master Elliot, the hero of the moment,
advanced to the King, and, bowing low,
presented the toy. His Majesty took the
ball, smiling happily, and instantly dropped
it with a cry of horror.

The ball was covered with blood, as was

the arm of the guard. The boar had
managed to tear off a piece of the flesh
before he had succeeded in withdrawing his
hand.

The King, in the first moment of his
childish terror at the sight of the bleeding
arm, had fled to his mother and hid his face
in the folds of her skirt. Her Majesty
speedily coaxed him out of his fright, and
on looking round shyly he saw that Captain
Lindsay was busy binding the wounded
gentleman's arm with a silken kerchief
which one of the maids of honour had given
to him.

** Your Majesty sees how ready your
people are to stake their lives for you," said
Angus, smiling.

' Are they all my people  all my men-at-arms
? " queried the King, opening his eyes
and still clinging to his Eoyal mother's skirt.

* Every one of them, and I like the rest."

' Would you stake your life for me?"
pursued the little King, as if struck by
some comical idea.

'most assuredly, if your Majesty required
it," returned Angus.

'then why didn't you get the ball?"
said his Majesty, with an old-fashioned grin.

The gentlemen in waiting laughed at the
King's wit more than Angus deemed the
joke warranted, and the ladies smiled. The
little King, without giving Douglas time to
reply, marched over to the Gentleman of
the Guard.

I am very much pleased with you,
Master Elliot, and I am sorry that you
were hurt," said the boy, gravely ; " and I
will give you a share of these comfits
which Arran gave me this morning.' '

He produced a small ornamental box
from his pouch. Master Elliot bowed as
the King proceeded to open the box.

Stay, your Majesty," said Angus,
advancing hastily with an expression of
suspicion; "who, say you, gave you this
box ? "

"Arran."

With the Queen's leave ? "

**Wliy should he ask her leave?" said
the King innocently, about to place one of
the sweets in his mouth.

** Pardon me, your Majesty, but you must
not eat these until they are examined."

He held out his hand for the box.

Arran, frowning darkly, had advanced to
the spot. He now stepped between Angus
and the King, and snatched his present
from the hands of the boy.

*your Majesty will forgive me, and will
understand me when you are a year or two
older," he said with a short laugh, and
woolly beginning to munch the sweets himself;
 these are pleasant to the taste,
although I am too little of a gourmand to
be much of a judge. They have a rare
flavour to my palate ; but those who have
most liking for your Majesty fear that they
might disagree with you. Eor that I can
say nought ; they were given me by his
lordship the Ambassador of France  an
honourable gentleman, as I take him, and
one who hopes I will be sworn to see your

Majesty ruling Scotland with the sceptre in
your own hand. They are very excellent
sweets."

He handed the box back to his Majesty.
All the time he had been speaking his eyes
had been fixed upon Douglas, although his
words were addressed to the King.

"But you have eaten them all," cried his
Majesty, disappointed.

Our cousin Angus will procure more for
your Majesty  with the Queen's leave, no
doubt," said Arran, drily.

"His Majesty's life is valuable," said
Angus, hotly, " and comfits from France are
not the safest things in the world."

"He has eaten them all," muttered the
little King, " and he will make himself
sick."

There was a likelihood of an open rupture
between the rival earls; for Angus, at all
times hot-headed, was smarting under the
laugh which had been raised against him
only a few minutes previously; and Arran
was indignant at the suspicion which had

been cast upon him. The Queen Regent,
however, was observing them, and, fearing
the issue of the warm interchange of words
between their lordships, gave instant directions
for the party to re-enter the Palace.
This separated Douglas and Hamilton for
the time, and delayed the rupture which
came soon afterward, and of which she herself
was the main cause.

The Eoyal party retired within doors.
The preparations for the evening's fete proceeded
briskly. When the night fell, the
gardens of the Palace were aglow with the
lights of the many-coloured lamps which
the Parisian taste of the French ambassador
had prepared. The great hall of the Palace
was decorated under the directions of the
same nobleman, who had also procured the
services of a number of musicians from his
own country for the occasion.

The masques were rich and curiously
varied, and the festival promised to be one
of the gayest which the Court of Scotland
had witnessed for many a day  certainly

VOL. II. N

the gayest since the coffers of the late
chivalrous King had become exhausted.
James lY. had expended the wealth which
the almost miserly care of his father had
left to him on tournaments and festivities of
this character ; and his memory was revived
hy the present event.

The mirth was at its height, the musicians
were performing at their hest, when
the King was most unwillingly conducted
to his bedchamber, and the guards were
placed for the night.

'your conduct to-day has procured you
a post of honour," said Captain Lindsay to
Master Elliot ;  that is, if you still persist
in going on duty despite your wound."

* It is a mere scratch, sir ; and besides, it
is my left arm."

 Have your way, then. You will guard
the private entrance from the gardens to
his Majesty's apartments, with six men-at-arms."



u r

The word for the night ? "
'scotland for the King!"

Master Elliot selected his company and
was conducted to his post by the Captain.

The part of the gardens which lay behind
the King's chambers was only faintly illuminated
by a few lamps placed at such distances
apart that the spaces between were
quite dark. This arrangement was observed
in order that the masquers should not penetrate
to this place and disturb the repose of
his Majesty. The pathway from the portal
of the wall which separated the gardens and
the park was not lighted at all.

The keys of this portal, and of the gate
which guarded the entrance to the small
court in which was the private entrance to
his Majesty's chambers, were delivered to
Gilbert. He placed his men, and, although
the fire in the guard-room burned pleasantly,
he proceeded to pace up and down in front
of the gate instead of taking his ease within.

His feelings were a puzzle to himself. He
felt that it would have been better to have
availed himself of the excuse his wound
supplied of shirking duty on that night, for

he instinctively and unaccountably feared
the issue. Yet lie was eager again to meet
Mistress Douglas, that lie might better
express his gratitude to her than he had
done, and that he might receive from her
the explanation she had promised.

Captain Lindsay had told him that he
was deputed to this post on account of his
conduct during the day.

How, then, did Mistress Douglas know
on the night previous that he would be
on guard here ?

It was singular, and seemed as if the
action of the day had been made the excuse
for appointing him to the post which it
had been previously determined he should
guard.

By whom was this arranged ?

Chapter XII.

THE POST OF Honour.

A hundred torches flashing bright
Dispelled at once the gloomy night

That hour's along the walls,
And show'd the King's astonish'd sight

The inmates of the halls." 

The Bridal of Triermain.

For nearly an hour Master Elliot continued
his solitary promenade, without other interruption
to his meditations than the occasional
sound of music which the wind
brought to him from the farther end of the
Palace.

But at length he came to an abrupt halt,
at the sound of the voice of one of the
sentries.

'" Stand; who goes there ? "

'' A friend," answered a low voice, which
sent a thrill through Gilbert's heart.

' The word?"

' She has not got the word, for I was
to give it to her," thought Gilbert; and
almost as the thought flashed upon his
mind, the answer was given.

'' Scotland for the King."

Breathless and amazed, Gilbert now
waited for the appearance of the pretty
intricate. He strained his eyes through
the dim light in the direction whence the
sound of the voice had proceeded; but he
saw nothing, heard nothing more.

Ten minutes  it seemed more than half
an hour to him  he waited, and then strode
hastily forward to the sentinel's post. The
soldier was not there. Gilbert walked over
the man's ground, and still failed to find
him.

He went on to seek the second sentinel.
He, too, had apparently deserted his post.
Gilbert called to him by name 

' MKay."

No response. Becoming now alarmed as
well as perplexed, he hurried on to the
third sentinel's post, at the portal of the
park.

The man was there ; but he was sitting
upon the ground, his back leaning against
the wall, and fast asleep. Gilbert shook
him violently, but the soldier only answered
with a drunken snort.

With a cry of alarm, Gilbert rushed back
to the gate, convinced that there was some
treacherous act in progress. He had the
key in his hand, intending to summon the
Gentlemen of the Guard from the King's
ante-chamber, when his arm was gently
grasped by some one behind him.

He wheeled round, and descried a lady
one of the masquers  in the dress of an
Egyptian girl. Her face was concealed by
a mask of lace.

' Stay, Master Elliot, do you not wait forme?"


'' Mistress Douglas ? "

She removed the mask from her face.

* Are you surprised that I am here  have
you forgotten your promise ? "

No, madam, I have not forgotten it,"
he said, taking her hand respectfully ; * and
you, I hope, have not forgotten how the
promise was given  it was without knowledge
or suspicion of what it might lead me
to. You said I should know all to-night."

* And so you shall. If, after you have
heard me," she said, sadly, 'you wish to
withdraw your promise, do so ; but there
our friendship ends."

He touched her hand with his lips
almost reverently.

'I owe you my life, Mistress Douglas,
and in your service I will yield it whenever
and wherever you may command me ; but
the service must be yours."

The latter words were spoken firmly.

* And is it not my service when I ask
you to save our house from ruin, my brother
from assassination ? "

* Show me the destroyers, and here is
my sword."

She hesitated, as if his manner rendered
her communication perplexing.

' It is not swords, but stratagem, that
must serve me in this pass," she said,
slowly.

 Then I am sorry; but speak on."

I wish to prevent this marriage of
Angus with the Queen, for the reasons I
have already made known to you."

* That is that Arran and the others will
call Albany from France to the Regency."

 Yes ; and banish, if they do not kill,
Angus. But neither Arran nor the other
Lords of Council desire to have Albany here ;
but they would rather twenty times that he
should rule than Douglas. Prevent this
marriage and all goes well."

How would you prevent it? "

She pressed his arm spasmodically with
her hand as she whispered in his ear 

* The Lords of Council have resolved to'
obtain possession of the King."

Gilbert started  she placed her hand
upon his mouth.

** Hush  they are his Majesty's loyal subjects,
and they dread what might befall him
should Douglas gain his object."

What then?" (He spoke calmly but
with difficulty.)

* The Countess of Arran waits with horses
and an escort at the end of the Park  the
Gentlemen of the Guard are with us  all save
you ; and you will act with us for my sake."

In what way?"

Open this gate ; come with me to the
King's chamber and carry his Majesty to
the Countess."

* And tomorrow  where will his Majesty
be?"

* At Stirling, surrounded by his friends,
and those who were the staunchest friends
of his father. Then with the King's
authority the marriage which lords and
people fear can be interdicted. You have
heard all now. Say, will you serve me  I
who have risked so much for you ? "

' Your words pain me," he said bitterly,
' and you intended that they should do so."

 Do you hesitate ? "

"No, Mistress Douglas, I do not hesitate
I take back my promise. I gave my
word as I am ready to give my Hfe to you ;
but I did not pledge myself to become the
instrument of ambitious lords. I do not
blame you, dear lady, for I believe you have
been deceived into the part you play.
Have they not told you that they wish
only to sustain her Majesty in power by
preventing this marriage."

I have said so."

"But they have not told you how they
have spread among the people the foul
suspicion that Queen Margaret, as sister of
Harry of England, is willing to bend Scotland
to the yoke of England. They have
not told you that their real object in
obtaining possession of the King is to force
her Majesty from the Regency, to disgrace
your brother, and to summon Albany from
France. Oh, it is foul treason that you
have been dragged into. Break, break now
from the mesh of lies in which you are

involved and return to your allegiance.
You will serve neither the Queen nor your
brother by aiding this plot ; you will destroy
both."

Whilst he spoke Mistress Douglas had
clasped her hands upon her breast as if in
pain ; but when he finished she answered
haughtily 

' Mary Douglas is more faithful to her
promise than you whom she trusted."

' Again you reproach me. Ah, madam,
you cannot know how much bitterness your
words cause me," he cried passionately;
*for I love you, Mary Douglas, and in you
my every hope of happiness is centred.
But this is a choice between my country
and myself ; and not even to win you will I
dishonour myself. You would despise me
for it when you learned how cruelly you had
been deceived. I am here to guard the
entrance to the King's chambers, and I will
guard it against all comers. I stand hereto
save the King, and I will be against even
you, if you would force a way to him."

* I have promised that yonder gate shall
be opened, and I will keep my word," she
said in half-smothered voice.

 Back  hack, or I will sound the alarm
of treason."

' Call, then  it is I whom you will destroy."


Ho, there, Scotland for the King," he
shouted at the top of his voice ; *' treason,
treason."

She rushed by him, and with the key she
held ready opened the gate of the Court.

'swithin there," she cried, 'sto the
King's rescue."

She was about to pass through the gateway
when Gilbert grasped her by the arm
and held her back.

"For our Holy Mother's sake do not
blindly rush upon disgrace," he said hastily ;
the alarm has been caught up, and the
sentinels are passing the warning  hark ! "

She listened: first, Hke the shout of
despair, the word "treason" passed from
mouth to mouth of the alarmed sentinels.

who did not know in which direction to
expect the appearance of the enemy. Then,
like the swell of the wave upon the shore,
came the distant sound of the hurst of
amaze and horror amongst the masquers
when the terrible word "treason" fell
upon their ears while folly was rampant.

The festivities ceased upon the instant,
and every man and woman regarded each
other with suspicion.

It was only an instant Mistress Douglas
paused to hear all this ; and then she
attempted to relieve herself of Gilbert's
grasp. But she had scarcely made a movement
when a tall man in the attire of a red-cross
knight, with vizor drawn and sword in
hand, rushed forth from the Court. He
stopped at sight of Mistress Douglas and
spoke quickly in a low voice, which Gilbert
recognized as that of Arran.

We are betrayed  Captain Lindsay with
the Queen's guard have surprised our
friends. Ely."

"The King is no longer in danger," said

Gilbert to the lady; "and my sword is at
your service."

I know you no more, Master Elliot,"
she responded haughtily, and with a sad
glance in the bright dark eyes.

Another red-cross knight rushed from the
Court.

< Why do you halt here ? " he said
hurriedly to Arran ; " everything is lost, and
nearly all our friends are taken."

* Go you, then," answered the Earl resolutely,
' and bid the Countess take heed
to herself in instant flight. I will back and
die with our friends."

* Madness ! " cried the second knight,
barring the way; " our hopes rest with you.
Away, then, and I will guard the portal. I
will keep them long enough in killing me to
give you time to escape. Away."

Eor the King's sake, Spens, I again become
your debtor."

Arran hastened to the portal and passed
into the Park. Spens placed himself on
guard.

During the brief colloquy of the two
knights, Gilbert had rather dragged than
led Mistress Douglas to a path which
opened amongst the shrubbery.

' If you are not bent upon destroying
yourself take this path," he whispered
eagerly; * it leads to the central garden,
where you will find the masquers assembled.
Once amongst them you are safe."

** I will not move," she said firmly, while
the clatter of armour and the hurried tramp
of feet rung in her ears, and while the rapid
movements of the many pursuers were indicated
by the red flashes of the torches
though the trees.

* You are resolved to perish," he said
calmly, " while there is yet a way open for
your escape ? Be it so, then ; I shall stay
with you, and at least I will give back the
life you gave me in defending you."

"No, no," she cried hastily, and as if
awakening from a species of torpor, " that
must not be. Holy Mother, help me  I
think I am crazed by what has happened

and by thought of what may happen. I
will do as yon wish  I will save myself.
Farewell  good friend  for ever."

He had no time to speak; she sprang
from him and disappeared amongst the
shrubbery.

He rushed back toward the gate and encountered
half a dozen men-at-arms with
torches, about to take the path by which
Mary Douglas was escaping.

'' This way, this way," he cried confusedly,
' to the portal of the Park."

The men recognized him, and, without
hesitation, followed him. They found the
portal guarded by the red-cross knight.

' Make way there," shouted Gilbert.

You cannot pass here, master," responded
the knight coolly, and placing himself
in an attitude of defence.

* Make way or we strike."

 You cannot pass here," was the answer,
in the same stolid voice as before.

' Traitor, then have at you."

Gilbert attacked him fiercely : their swords

YOL. II. O

clashed and flashed in the torchlight. They
paused an instant, each as if waiting for the
other to strike. The knight quietly raised
his vizor.

' Spens ! " cried Gilbert, starting and
withdrawing his sword in his amaze. ** You
against the King ? "

'' No, Master Elliot," said Spens, coldly.
*' I am not against the King, but against
you and any one who would pass here."

Do you not see  defence is useless."

The sound of horses' hoof-treads were
heard in the distance.

* The traitor has escaped," shouted Captain
Lindsay, rushing forward with another
body of men-at-arms, the glare of the torches
flashing upon their steel breastplates and
headpieces. ** Hark, there go the horses."

' Then Arran is safe," muttered Spens to
himself; and then aloud, ' To you, Master
Elliot, who should have been my friend,
I surrender my sword."

And he allowed the weapon to drop from
his hand to the ground as he spoke.

Gilbert was surprised by this sudden encounter
with the man whom he had sometime
thought dead, and of whose Use he had
heard with so much joy. Now, he was dismayed
by the circumstances under which
they met. He had, however, no alternative
but to place him under arrest.

* You may think hard of me for this," he
whispered in the ear of the prisoner as they
were conducting him to the guard-room;
' but be of good cheer, sir, for you shall not
die if my life can save yours."

Spens made no reply, and Gilbert moved
to the front of his men with a new twinge
of pain at his heart. This seemed the
cruellest thing of all that night's suffering 
to have been compelled to arrest the man
under whose protection he had been reared,
and whom he loved.

Although the knight had not answered
the pledge of fidelity which had been tendered
to him, he thought that the words
were not those of the man who had been
represented to him as trying to win his

wife from her allegiance. Still that note 
written beyond doubt by Margaret's hand 
which the false pilgrim had given to him,
tortured him ; because he had not yet dared
to ask Mistress Spens for the explanation
which might have relieved him at once of
doubt, and he had failed to discover any
explanation for himself other than that she
had learned to regard the youth with deeper
feelings than those of a friend.

They marched through the gardens, passing
many excited groups of soldiers and
masquers, who peered at them curiously.
Lindsay, walking first, refused to give any
information to those lords and ladies who
made inquiry.

Everywhere signals of alarm were found ;
but most of all in the hurried passing to and
fro of the men-at-arms, and in the appointment
of double sentinels at every gate and
doorway.

Having placed the prisoner in the guardroom.
Captain Lindsay beckoned Master
EUiot to follow him. . As soon as they were

in the court the Captain halted abruptly,
and by the torchlight, which made every
object palpable almost as at noontide, he
scanned the features of the guard closely.

show did the gate of the court and the
portal of the Park come to be open ? " he
demanded sharply.

sphere are the keys you gave to my
charge," answered Gilbert, frankly ; 'they
have not been used since I received them."

<' Why had you quitted the gate  that
was your post ? "

This question was not so readily answered.
He had resolved that no power should force
from him the disclosure of the part Mistress
Douglas had played in the night's work, and
so he was for the moment at a loss. Then 

*I found that the sentinels had been
whiled from their posts; I raised the cry
of treason, and left the gate to follow one
whom I suspected, but whom I lost sight of
in the darkness."

 I am glad your answers are satisfactory.
I trust you with the prisoner."

The Captain turned upon his heel and
entered the Palace to seek instructions.

Gilbert hastened back to the guard-room,
hoping to obtain a few minutes' conversation
with the friend from whom he had been
parted on the fatal field of Flodden, and
whom he had met again under such unhappy
circumstances.

In the Queen's ante-room Captain Lindsay
found Angus in close conversation with
a sallow-faced cunning-eyed man, who instantly
became silent on his entrance.

 Sir Walter Spens has been taken, my
lord," said the Captain.

"No one else?" queried Angus, apparently
disappointed.

No one else, my lord. What shall we
do with him ? "

The man of the sallow face whispered a
word to the Earl, who thereupon spoke
fiercely 

Cast him into the safest and deepest
dungeon of the Castle and let him lie
there."

Chapter XIII.

IN THE DUNGEONS OF THE CASTLE.

What things lie hidden there
No man, I wot, can say 
Hope's lost in deep despair,

Yet calm is he alway.
In anguish still he keeps his faith ;
Tortured, still is true as death,
And will not breathe a treach'rous breath."

Marjorie.

Sir Walter Spens, with arms folded upon
Ms breast, and head bowed as if in deep
meditation, sat upon one of the wooden
benches of the guard-room. His vizor was
partly down, but Gilbert saw that the face
was pallid and sad, and that the mouth was
closed firmly.

Four men-at-arms and a sergeant were on

duty. Gilbert requested the sergeant to
withdraw his men.

** Pardon, master," said the man, but
the Captain's order is that we do not budge
hence till he returns."

Gilbert, without attempting to alter this
decree, advanced to Sir Walter with extended
hand. The Knight of Halstane
did not unfold his arms or look up. Gilbert,
astonished and pained, waited an instant,
and then slowly dropped his hand to his
side.

' Have I offended you, Spens ? " he said,
with difficulty subduing his agitation.
' Heaven knows that I would rather you
had run me through than surrendered your
sword to me."

* You did your duty, Master Elliot, as a
Gentleman of the Queen's Guard was bound
to do ; and I should have despised you had
you acted otherwise."

*say, my duty thrust the accursed task
upon me ; and you say I have done well in
fulfilling that duty despite the anguish it

has cost me. How, then, are you so cold
with me  why treat me so like the enemy
which accident has made me appear ? Why
do this  yon who have filled the place of a
father to me  of a brother and protector to
my poor mother  and who are dear to meas
a father might have been ? "

For a minute Spens was silent, then
with a sudden revulsion of his old love for
the youth who had grown up under him
and who had stood by his side in all
dangers, he threw suspicion away and held
out his hand.

'* I believe you are honest, Gilbert, and
that you would not wittingly wrong me."

 I would die rather."

*I believe you speak truly. Forgive me
that the lies of a villain made me for a
time doubt your truth."

 What villain  what doubt ? "

* Heron Barras "

'* cursed knave !  what lie could he
tell you that you should credit it even for
an instant ? "

 He spoke when I believed him to be a
dying pilgrim, and backed his words with
a proof that maddened me, I think, and
made me doubt not only yon, Gilbert, but
my true wife also ; for he said you liked her
better than you should have done if you
respected my peace."

Gilbert flushed crimson and then became
pallid. The change of countenance struck
Spens as singular and renewed his misgiving,
for Gilbert's answer was prevented
by the abrupt appearance of Captain
Lindsay.

'Keturn to your post. Master Elliot,"
said the Captain, sharply. *' I have chosen
six men for you and they wait outside."

'' Whither do you take Sir Walter ? "

' To the Castle."

* Shall I be permitted to see him tomorrow?
"

**I can say nothing of the morrow. Sir
Walter Spens, we attend you."

Spens rose on the instant. Gilbert
clasped his hand warmly.

Do not doubt me till you have heard

me."

The knight became cold again.

'* There is something to explain, then ? "

*from me, but not from her," he
answered falteringly.

*you delay us. Master Elliot," broke in
the Captain, impatiently.

A twinge of acute pain passed over
Gilbert's face as he withdrew. He knew
the Captain's reverence for discipline, and
feared that he might injure the cause of
Spens by delaying further.

Attended by six men-at-arms the Captain
conveyed the prisoner to the Castle in
safety.

He placed him in the  traitor's dungeon,"
a damp gloomy cell underground, to which
daylight never penetrated. Air was obtained
from the passage through a number
of small perforations in the wall above the
iron door and close to the roof. A table, a
stool, and a straw mattress were the only
articles of furniture in the place.

' I will direct a fire to be kindled for
you," said Lindsay gruffly, but evidently
regretting the harsh, command which compelled
him to place a noble gentleman in
this loathsome cell.

A small cruse had been left with the
prisoner, and its feeble light scattered the
darkness of the centre of the dungeon, but
left the sides and corners in gloom.

Sir Walter quietly took off his helmet and
laid it upon the table. Then he threw himself
upon the mattress, with his arms crossed
under his head and his eyes fixed upon the
blank damp roof.

sphere ends the venture for me," he said
calmly, reflecting;  escape is impossible;
the sentence is inevitable. How long before
it comes? . . . Not long, for in my death
Angus rids himself of a troublesome enemy ;
Barras gains Binram, and Tushielaw safety
from the discovery of his treachery to the
King."

He smiled half contemptuously as he
heard the footsteps of a sentinel passing
and repassing the door of the cell.

 They value my safe keeping rarely since
these walls and yonder iron door are not
secure enough without a guard of honour.
. . Umph, I may outwit them yet. Arran
will not desert me in this extremity; and
Gilbert "

He paused at the name.

' Is he honest ? His manner was
strange ; the note is unexplained. Tush !
it is all a lie, made to set me against those
I love. I will trust them in spite of everything
until they tell me that they wish me
dead."

The door opened, and a sergeant, with
four men carrying torches, entered.

*your attendance is required in the
Council Chamber, Sir Knight."

I am ready."

He took his place between the soldiers,
and was conducted along the narrow underground
passage, up a narrow winding staircase,
across a court, and into the tower in
which the Council and Parliament anciently
met.

The sergeant's guard remained at the
door of the Council Chamber, and Spens
was ushered in. He found there the Governor
of the Castle, and beside him a tall man,
whose face was concealed by the plumes of
his hat, which drooped over it as he bent to
read some document he held in his hand.
His body was covered by a large roquelaire,
but Spens had no difficulty in recognising
Angus.

At the table sat a clerk, pen in hand, as if
ready to write at a signal from his masters.

The Knight of Halstane felt his pulse
quicken as the suspicion flashed upon him
that he was to be judged here by Douglas
alone, for the Governor would not dare to
oppose his judgment. He remained, however,
perfectly calm, waiting the issue.

Angus looked up suddenly.

 Walter Spens, you are aware of the
dangerous position in which you stand ? "
he said, in a harsh deliberate tone.

"I am aware that I stand in the midst
of enemies," was the quiet answer.

You are aware that you are an outlaw,
condemned by the Lords in Council to death
for treachery to his late Majesty James IV."

*I am aware that I was condemned unheard,
and on the word of a villain who
hoped by my death to screen himself."

* You speak with mighty coolness of the
matter," said Angus, feeling irritated by the
calm dignity of the man whom he had
hoped to awe into submission. * But beware,
sir ; for even had the former charge
been proven false, your life is now forfeit
for your attempt to steal the King from
his lawful and loving guardians."

'* I sought to save my country from more
useless bloodshed and my Queen from
shame."

Angus scowled fiercely, and, in the effort
to subdue his passion, gnawed his lip until
the blood started. At length 

' I am not here to bandy words with an
outlaw," he said haughtily. '' I am hereto
show you that the Queen, whom you
would have grievously wronged, and the

King, whom you would have stolen from his
friends, for what evil purpose you know best
can be merciful even to you."

I do not doubt the mercy which comes
through my Lord Angus must be paid for.
I listen."

Again Douglas with difficulty suppressed
his rage ; and only the warning look of the
Governor enabled him to succeed.

You do not wish to die, I presume ? "

 Not more than other men, my lord."

*' Then if a few words could obtain for
you liberty  complete liberty, with the
former sentence of the Council rescinded,
and all consequences of the plot you have
been engaged in avoided  would you refuse
to speak those few words ? " *

*' There are some words, my lord, which
are worth more than as many heads as they
require letters to spell them."

 Do you refuse ? " demanded Angus, with
barely controlled choler.

* I must first know what you desire me
to say."

' If words be sometimes worth heads, take
care that silence does not cost you yours."

I wait, my lord."

Answer only one question, and the gates
are open to you. Who were your accomplices
in your attempt to carry off the
King?"

Spens was silent.

** Your head is in the balance, Sir Walter;
be silent if you dare."

Still Spens did not open his lips.

* Not only your head," said Angus,
fiercely, '' but the happiness of your wife
and child depend upon your answering."

* That is a sorry threat, my lord, but it
fails the mark ; for the happiness of my
poor" wife and bairn will be safer if I die an
honest man than if I live a knave."

' Have you not heard my question  will
you not answer? "

* I cannot ; for were I to tell you I made
the attempt alone you would not believe
me."

"No, surely."

VOL. II. r

Then if I denounce them who may-have
placed confidence in me I should be a
knave and a poltroon. Wherefore, my lord,
yoa see it behoves me to remain silent."

* Is that your final decision ? "

** It is the last word I have to speak upon
the subject, credit me."

Probably I would credit you in this,"
said Angus, sneering, "were it not that we
happen to have some marvellous instruments
here which have the power of making even
the dumb speak."

<< Try them, my lord."

And he bowed with a smile of resolution
which brought a darker frown to the brow
of Douglas than anything that had yet
occurred had done.

At a signal from the Governor of the
Castle the door was thrown open, the sergeant's
guard entered, and Sir Walter Spens
was conducted back to his dungeon.

When he had been taken from the
Council Chamber, Angus plucked at his
beard savagely. He had counted upon

bringing Arran to disgrace through this
man, who, with his life in the balance, had
refused to speak the words which would
have achieved so much for him.

The Governor touched him on the arm
and he started from his reverie.

**I know something of faces, my lord,"
he said, * and torture will fail to make
yonder man speak. He will die ; and that
is aU."

** We shall see," muttered Angus, chagrined
and disappointed.

Spens had no means of marking the
progress of time, but he divined that morning
had arrived by the degree of coldness
which the atmosphere obtained. His cell
remained as dark as at midnight.

He slept soundly upon his rude couch,
and started to his feet refreshed at the
entrance of a trooper with some bread and
ale. Of these Spens partook with a relish
which surprised his attendant.

Another long interval and the man appeared
with the same articles of diet.

* How goes the sun, my friend ? " queried
the prisoner.

'' I am not free to answer," said the man,
respectfully.

' What, is it treason to tell a poor wretch
who cannot see for himself how the time
goes?"

*' Those who enter here are not permitted
to measure time in any way ; and we are
not allowed to say when the sun rises or
sets."

There was something exquisitely cruel
in thus closing the door upon time, by
which life is usually measured ; and the
prisoner was silent. He felt that if he
were to be kept there long in darkness
without one gleam of light to tell him when
day came and closed, he would go mad.

He calculated that about twenty hours
had passed since he had bearded Angus
in the Council Chamber, when he heard the
clank of footsteps upon the stone floor of
the passage without.

The door opened, and the sergeant, with

his four men carrying torches, appeared as
they had done on the previous occasion.

** Will you accompany us, Sir Knight ? "
said the sergeant.

Spens took his place in their midst as
before, and was conducted from the dungeon.
This time, however, they turned
to the right, descended a narrow damp
staircase, and seemed to be going to some
place farther underground than even his
cell.

At the end of a long dark passage, upon
the grimy walls of which the light of the
torches sparkled, they entered an oblong
chamber, which was illumined by four
torches placed in iron rings upon the
walls.

A clerk sat before a small desk at one end
of the room with paper, pens, and ink before
him. Hanged round the sides were sinister-looking
instruments of various forms, which
seemed the more ghastly in the red light
which shone upon them.

Chains, pincers, mallets, thumb screws 

some of them covered with blood  ropes,
vices, and other tools lay scattered about ina
horrible confusion.

Beside the clerk stood the Governor of
the Castle, quiet, and apparently grieved
by the work he had before him. Behind
him stood a man dressed in black, whom
Spens easily guessed to be a surgeon.

* The last hour has come," he thought ;
* sweet Mother of Heaven, to you I commend
my poor wife and bairn."

The Governor bowed to him gravely.

* You heard, Sir Walter Spens," he said
slowly, ' what my Lord Angus desired you
to do. Are you still bent upon refusing to
comply with his terms ? "

' I told the Lord of Angus I would not
comply with them," he answered firmly.

'I wish to warn you, sir, that I have
received directions to put you to the severest
test the law allows if you persist in
your silence."

* You will do your duty, sir ; I will try
to do mine."

' You have nothing further, then, to
declare ? ''

'' Nothing."

 I am very sorry that I must proceed to
the test."

The clerk had written down the questions
and responses.

The Governor raised his hand, and at
the signal two men, masked, and with bare
brawny arms, started out from a dark corner
of the chamber in which they had been
standing unobserved and seized their
victim.

He offered no resistance, and they
speedily removed his light coat of mail.
They laid his neck and his left foot bare.
Then an iron chair was wheeled into the
middle of the chamber and Spens was placed
in it. Stout cords were drawn across his
breast and secured to the back of the chair ;
then his arms and legs were bound to the
sides, so that he was unable to move a
limb. The chair was finally screwed to the
floor.

The surgeon approached the patient and
felt his pulse ; it beat with firmness and
regularity.

** Are you still resolved to keep silence ? "
said the Governor, apparently unwilling to
proceed to extremity.

 You would not have me desert when in
front of the enemy," answered Spens with a
pale smile.

' Then the order must be executed."

One of the two torturers brought two
large pails full of water to the side of the
victim, with a measure which might hold
about a gallon, and a steel tube about a foot
long with a wide mouth.

' It is the water test ? " exclaimed Spens.

"Yes," answered the surgeon under his
breath; "it kills generally by suffocation;
but if the patient have strength enough to
recover he escapes without mutilation."

With a hasty glance Spens thanked the
Governor for this consideration.

The measure filled with water was held to
his lips and he drank. A second time the

measure was tilled, but lie could not empty
it. One of the men pressed his head back
against the bar of the chair while the other
forced the water down his throat to the last
drop.

The whole frame of the victim quivered
spasmodically. Every vein seemed to be
cracking and bursting. His brain seemed
to swell till his eyes became dazed and his
lungs seemed to be water-logged.

' We are ready to accept your confession,"
said the Governor, anxious to spare him
farther pain.

''No  no  no," gasped the knight feebly,
but with inflexible resolve.

A third measure was raised to his lips.
He took a few mouthfuls, and then his teeth
closed with a convulsive jerk, and he seemed
incapable of opening them.

'' Do you persist still in your silence ? "
interrupted the Governor.

'' Still, and always," was the answer in a
suffocated voice.

One of the executioners with a sharp

instrument like a chisel forced his teeth
open, thrust the steel tube between them
and forced it down his throat.

The third measures of water, and a
fourth, were emptied into the mouth of the
tube.

The colour of the patient changed from
a deathly pallor to a bluish tint, his fingers
clutched the bars of the chair with a vice-like
grip, and his body shook and heaved in
convulsive agony.

The Governor repeated the question.
Spens heard the voice as if it reached him
from afar off; he comprehended the question,
but he was unable to speak, and he
made a slight motion of the head to signify
No."

Another measures was forced down the
tube. The patient writhed, gave vent to a
dull smothered cry of anguish, and burst
the rope which bound his right arm. He
seized the steel tube and with more than
human strength he bent it and broke it in
his hand.

Then lie sank backward insensible.

The surgeon felt the patient's pulse and
placed his ear upon his breast to listen for
the beating of the heart.

* Well? " queried the Governor.

'* He is a man of much vigour," replied
the surgeon, gravely;  and you might force
him to swallow one or two measureless yet ;
but the second will kill him."

The first executioner raised another tube,
and the second stood ready with the
water.

* Is the man in a condition to hear me ? '*
proceeded the Governor.

Hear you ? Mons Meg might be fired
in his ear and he would know nothing of it.
There are, however, means of recalling his
senses."

** What means?"

' Burn him under the ear with the red
irons and put on the boot."

*' The irons are in the fire," said the first
torturer,  and the boot is yonder, and his
foot is bared for it."

The man made a movement as if to procure
the instruments, when the Governor
stopped him by an impatient gesture. An
expression of horror and pity was on his
countenance.

'' Enough, enough, for the present," he
cried.  I will acquaint his lordship with
the result of this test, and we will see what
is to be done after. Carry him to his cell,
and prythee. Master Surgeon, attend to him
for my sake." .

Spens was carried back to his dungeon by
the men-at-arms, and the surgeon, who had
been struck by the fortitude of the victim,
set about reviving him with interest in the
task.

He at first began to entertain doubts of
effecting a cure ; but at the end of several
hours he had succeeded in drawing off the
greater part of the water which had been
forced into the patient's stomach, and he
trusted to the profuse perspiration which
overspread the body to prevent suffusion on
the lungs.

*I predicted how it would be," muttered
the Governor as he proceeded to seek
Angus ;  that man is one of those who die
and speak not."

Chapter XIV.

THE NEW LORD OF BINRAM.

Still worse than apathy had place
On his swart brow and callous face ;
For evil passions cherished long
Had plough'd them with impression strong.
All that gives gloss to sin, all gay
Light folly, pass'd with youth away,
But rooted stood in manhood's hour.
The weeds of vice without their flower."

EOKEBT.

Angus was in the Council Chamber waiting
the issue of the test. He paced the floor
moodily, and his only companion, the
sallow-faced man who had recently become
his prime agent and counsellor, sat
near the table watching him cunningly.

** If we fail to bring this conspiracy
home to Arran," muttered the Earl, * you

may bid good-bye to Binram ; for I shall
have no power to obtain it for you."

The man smiled coldly.

' I do not despair of winning the game,
even if his lordship pass through the fire
scatheless."

'* You are sanguine," replied the other
with a sneer.

' Because I know your position, and
I know that the simplest stratagem will
give you the hand of "

 Stop; here is our friend."

The Governor entered the chamber at
the words and acquainted his lordship with
what had taken place.

'* Humph ! I would that the obstinate
churl had been on my side instead of
Arran's," muttered Angus, dissatisfied.

"You have discovered all, then?" said
the Governor, venturing the question in
the hope of avoiding a repetition of the
unpleasant duty he had just performed.

** Yes, all, without being able to prove
anything."

 You do not desire, then, that the test
should be applied again."

' I will tell you six days hence how her
Majesty may desire to dispose of him.
Come, Barras."

The Earl and his dark agent withdrew
from the chamber to another part of the
Castle.

Since the attempt to carry off the King
their Majesties had removed from Holy-rood
to the Castle as a place of greater
security against attack or conspiracy than
the Palace.

The Queen Regent had been for sometime
aware that the preference she had
shown Douglas, however carefully guarded,
was observed by her nobles, and filled
them with alarm. The dislike which was
general amongst them in their regard of
Angus became strengthened by the favour
he obtained in her eyes, and the distrust
stretched even to herself.

She felt that her position was critical;
but whether the attempt to remove her

royal son from her guardianship frightened
her out of that calmness of judgment
which she had displayed on ordinary occasions,
and rendered her so anxious to
obtain a protector who would be bound
to her by closer ties than those of loyalty
or interest, or whether she was blinded
by her liking for the man, in the moment
of greatest peril she took the step she
should have most avoided.

Four days after the attempt upon the
King, and just eleven months after the
presumed death or murder of James lY.
at Flodden, the Queen Regent gave her
hand in marriage to Douglas, Earl of
Angus.

Many of the nobles instantly withdrew
from the capital, disgusted by the turn
affairs had taken and not quite sure how
Angus might act towards them. Those
who remained limited themselves to the
factions of either Arran or Angus.

Conspiracies were rife, and Arran's party
at first held in secret and afterwards boldly

VOL. II. Q

proclaimed that the Queen by her marriage'
had forfeited the Regency and the right of
guardianship over the King.

Angus surrounded himself with astute
ren who were bound to him by the strongest
ties of self-interest ; and chief amongst them
was Heron Barras, Lord of Binram. The
title and estates had been conferred upon
him as the nephew of the late lord, and in
acknowledgment of secret service to the
Government.

Angus, whose bearing had been always
as haughty as his ambition was great, now
carried himself with so much of the dictatorial
air that all who were not bound to
him by ties of interest or necessity hated
him.

The new Lord of Binram, who wore the
mask of boon companion on his sallow face,
was a puzzle to both factions. One thing
only was certain  that he exercised much
influence upon the proud Douglas.

On the day succeeding the marriage the
Lords of Council were summoned together.

Barely one-half of them answered the summons,
and several of those who did answer
it rose and quitted the chamber, in spite of
the fierce looks of Angus, when they were
informed that the Queen Kegent had already
deputed her new-made husband to act for
her in the Council.

The Council was broken up abruptly, and
Douglas, indignant at the slight cast upon
him, retired. Lord Binram  or B arras, as
we had better continue to call him  had
followed Angus, and when they had reached
a private apartment the Earl turned upon
him sharply.

' Well, what think you of these curs who
would fain bite if they dared?" he said,
grinding his teeth.

< Why, that so long as they dare not,
you need not maid whether they would or
no," responded Barras coolly.

' Ay, but they will try it."

'Let them: you can bite, too, I suppose."


 By the sacred rood, they shall find I
can."

* I am pleased your lordship sees it in
that light ; and so we will change the subject.
Have you decided how you are to
dispose of Spens ? "

*hang him and quarter him for an
obstinate churl."

*she deserves it, certainly, but you will
not do it for all that."

And wherefore not ? "

* Because you must do it publicly; by
doing so you will revive memories of the
late King which may be detrimental to
your affairs at present. No, no, that will
not do."

' Then let him lie where he is till he
rot.'

'That will not do either; but if your
lordship will give me your written order
I think I can remove him quietly and
effectually out of the way."

By what means ? "

 I will hand him over to Scott of Tushie-
law; and if he escape him  why, then let
him live, in the saints' name, say I."

Angus hesitated ; then hastily wrote the
order ; and with it in his possession, B arras,
feeling assured of his triumph, proceeded to
put it in force.

In the court he crossed the path of
Mistress Douglas, who, attended by a page,
was hastening toward the eastern wing of
the quadrangle as if she were going to the
King's chamber.

** A proud wench, soothe, and a bonnie
one," he muttered ; * a rare prize, too, for
the man who hath wit to win her. 'Sdeath,
that man shall be none other than myself,"

As if gratified by the resolution he had
come to he continued his way in search of
the Governor. He found him at length,
and showed the order he had obtained from
the Regent's consort.

' What do you purpose doing with him?"
said the Governor, at once acknowledging
the authority of his visitor.

'* I will see him first, and tell you the
rest after."

Barras was conducted to the dungeon.

At the door lie dismissed the attendants
and entered alone.

The knight, although out of danger, was
still feeble from the effects of the torture he
had undergone. When he heard some one
enter the dungeon he concluded that it was
the warder, and did not look round.

B arras placed the cruse he carried ina
niche in the wall, and then stood for
several minutes eyeing the prostrate form
of the man he hated and had so wronged.

'' V faith you treat your guests coolly,
Sir Knight," he said at length with a dry
laugh.

Spens did not appear to hear him.

' Zounds, man, have you lost your
tongue ? " exclaimed Barras, impatiently.
I come to you as a friend and with a
friend's intent, and you turn your back
upon me as if I were an enemy whom
you feared."

' Feared!" cried Spens, starting.

* Aha, I thought you would speak," said
Barras, sneering ; and, folding his arms, he

stood in the light of the lamp like a fiend
gloating in his triumph over the weak and
helpless.

"Yes, I will speak," said Spens sternly,
rising to his feet with an effort. "Heron
Barras, you are here for some ill purpose ;
perform it at once, then, and rid me of
your presence ; for hy my troth your
bastard kinship with my wife shall no
longer shield you from my wrath."

Why, look ye now, what a fool distemper
may make a man. Well, well, I
am your lady's brother, and for her sake
I will forego the slight you put upon
me."

Spens clenched his hands fiercely ; he
was stifling with rage.
 "You dare not speak of kindred with
her  you who sold her to a villain not
one whit less black than yourself  you
who would have poisoned me against her
and turned my hand against my friend.
By the mass, weak as I am, I have a
mind to strangle you where you stand."

' I sell her !  I poison your mind  e,
my master, that is an unkindly charge."

The callous self-possession of the villain,
and his mocking affectation of innocence,
exasperated Spens beyond bounds, and
obtaining strength from his passion he
sprang upon Barras and griped him by
the throat.

Barras thrust his hand into the breast
of his doublet and grasped a poignard.
But Spens suddenly changed his mind and
flung him aside contemptuously.

' Live, wolf, live ; I will not cheat the
hangman of his due."

He sank down upon the couch exhausted.


Barras coolly dusted his doublet with
his hand, arranged his collar, which had
been ruffled by his assailant, and finally
rubbed his beardless chin.

* I looked for a kindlier reception," he
said coldly,  seeing that I came to offer
you liberty."

' I will not take it at your hands."

'' Wni you buy it, then?"

Nor buy it."

' Ah, well, without doubt, you have
your own ideas upon the subject, and I
have mine. I' faith, I should think twice
before I declined liberty, no matter who
offered it, if I lay waiting for execution,
and knowing that I was to leave a lady
for whom I cared a little to the mercy
of folks I hated."

Spens winced ; but he said quietly 

 I listen to your kindly intent, sirrah."

No, it is not a kindly intent since quill
not have it so. I am here to sell,
and you may buy if it please you ; if not,
why good day to you."

"I am no merchant and know nothing
of the ways of barter. Wherefore, at
once say what you would sell and at what
price."

* Now you are reasonable. Then I have
for sale your liberty, with free passage from
Scotland with any whom you may care to
take with you."

 I understand ; proceed," said Spens,
with evident detestation of the salesman.

'' The next thing is the price for which
I am willing to dispose of these articles.
I offer them to you cheaply  I offer them
to you for a scrap of paper, or the knowledge
of where that scrap of paper maybe
found."

'Go on."

' You can guess what paper it is I
mean."

I am dull of wit."

' Then I must help your dull wit.
I mean a worthless piece of paper professing
to certify that a marriage had
been solemnized between my good uncle
Gilbert Ker of Binram and one Mistress
Elliot, with whose house ours has been
long at feud."

Since the paper is worthless, why are
you so eager to possess it ? "

* A fancy, that is all. Will you give
it?"

'' What if I have not got it ? "

Toil know where it may be found."

"And if I refuse to tell?"

Then we can make no bargain."

So stands it, then ; we can make no
bargain. I hold the parchment in trust for
Gilbert Elliot, the son of Ker, and heir to
Binram. I would have proved his title to
the land and name before now, had not
your treachery and Tushielaw's made me a
fugitive, and compelled me to burrow in the
dark till I found means to prove you what
you are."

B arras shrugged his shoulders with an air
of indifference.

"As you please, good brother. You decline
to bargain with me, and you will be
hanged, drawn, and quartered. In your
death there will be an end to Master Elliot's
silly claim."

"You mistake; for on the day of my
death the present holder of the proofs of
Master Gilbert's birth will step forward in
my name, and proclaim his right."

He will find it hard to obtain credit for

his proclamation; and he will find it still
more difficult to oust me from possession."

** You wOl never be in possession."

B arras laughed.

'you have been out of the world some
days," he said, chuckling, '' else you would
have known that my Lord Angus has
espoused the Queen Kegent, and I, Heron
Barras, have been proclaimed Lord of Bin-ram."


Spens gave vent to a half-smothered
groan, and covered his face with his hands.

*' Lost," he muttered; '' quite lost."

' Eight; everything is lost to you," said
Barras, quickly, *' unless you accept me asa
friend."

Away, knave, away. Do you know so
little of me as to think these arguments will
move me ? "

'' You refuse ? "

' I do ; and would if my refusal involved
twenty lives."

Barras frowned, and nodded his head
slowly.

"It involves more Eves than you wot of:
and on yoii be the blame."

He quitted the dungeon, barred and
locked the door, and took the key with
him.

Two hours afterward a small body of
horsemen, with steel breastplates and
leather caps, and armed with the Jeddart
axe, rode from the Castle southward.

In their midst was a man bound hand
and foot upon a stout black horse.

In another hour the Governor was informed
that a Gentleman of the Queen's
Guard desired to see him, and would not be
denied.

Gilbert Elliot was admitted.

*' Pardon my impatience, sir," he said,
eagerly; "but I have found it so hard to
obtain this order to see the prisoner Walter
Spens, that I feared lest some caprice or
accident might have it cancelled if I did not
use it at once."

The Governor shook his head sadly.

"It is useless now, sir; and those who
gave it you must have known that."

'How? What is it you mean?" cried
Gilbert, alarmed and agitated.

Sir Walter Spens was taken away from
the Castle about an hour ago."

 By whom, and whence ? "

' He was removed under the command of
the Earl of Angus. I know nothing of those
who have charge of him, or of his destination.
I fear it will be a sorry journey to
him."

Without pausing to express thanks for
the information which his agitation had
elicited from the kindly old man, he rushed
from the place, full of a vague terror and a
vague hope.

CHAPTEK XV.

A GAME FOE A LIFE.

In the ante-chamber of the King's room
Captain Lindsay, with twelve Gentlemen of
the Guard, attended his Majesty's pleasure.

The boy-King had been in an ill-temper
for the past two days. He understood little
about marriage ; but he had an undefined
idea that the marriage of his Eoyal mother
with Douglas was somehow to interfere
with his freedom of action. So he was
petulant, angry, and had retired to his room
in the sulks.

On one of the side tables of the antechamber
were writing materials and a
variety of books ; and scattered about were

balls, bats, and other toys which his Majesty
had neglected for two days.

The Gentlemen of the Guard were singularly
silent, and moved about as if they
had been afraid of disturbing a sick person.
Captain Lindsay, with knit brow and hands
clasped behind him, paced the floor. He,
like the rest, looked uncomfortable ; and,
indeed, an uncomfortable feeling prevailed
everywhere, for none could guess what issue
the sudden marriage of the Queen with the
powerful Angus was likely to bring about.

They were thinking of this when they
were almost startled by the appearance of
Angus himself, accompanied by the new
Lord of Binram, Heron B arras.

' Will you acquaint the King that I
crave an audience," said the Earl, respectful
enough in words, but with a slight curl on
his lip which indicated how little he relished
the necessity of comporting himself thus
humbly toward a boy of whom lie was now
the stepfather.

Captain Lindsay bowed.

'* Your lordship will pardon me, but his
Majesty desired that he should not be disturbed
by any one."

'' Is he alone ? ''

*' His tutor is with him, my lord."

* Then if he admits his tutor the order
you have received cannot apply to me""
said Angus.

*' I will acquaint his Majesty that your
lordship attends."

Lindsay passed into the King's chamber-quietly.


Angus and Barras retired to the farther
end of the ante-room and spoke in subdued
voices.

* I doubt that you have dealt too promptly
with that troublesome varlet, Spens," muttered
the Earl, gloomily.

'* If I have done wrong," returned Barras,
deprecatingly, ' your lordship's will and
zeal for his Majesty's safety must bear the
brunt of it. But is not this varlet whom
we have disposed of a condemned traitor,
and did we not capture him in the very act

VOL. II. R

of attempting to carry off, perhaps to assassinate,
his Majesty ? "

 Um  I am not sure that under the
present state of affairs his Majesty might
not have preferred a sojourn at Stirling with
Arran and the rest, to his residence herewith
his Eoyal mother and myself."

Captain Lindsay re-entered the chamber
from the King's apartment.

*' His Majesty desires me to present his
apologies to your lordship "

Angus interrupted the Captain with a
gesture of the hand.

*' Enough, enough; I will return in an
hour, when his Majesty may be more at
leisure."

The Gentlemen of the Guard saluted his
lordship as he retired with his satellite.

' We must see that your haste does not
involve us in any difficulty," said Angus, ashe
passed with impatient steps along the
corridor.

** Close the doors, gentlemen," said
Captain Lindsay, brusquely ; ** the King
will see no one to-night."

They had scarcely resumed their positions
when the door of the main corridor was
thrown violently open, and a gentleman,
wearing their own gay uniform, rushed in
wildly.

 Master Elliot," exclaimed Captain
Lindsay, amazed by the abrupt entrance
and evident distress of his young friend.

* Captain, I want to see the King," cried
Gilbert, agitatedly.
' It is impossible."

 I must see him. Captain  I must see
him."

*' Do not speak so loud, sir, if you please,"
said the Captain, sternly.

*' I will speak in any way you would have
me," exclaimed Gilbert, alternately passionate
and humbly imploring. ' I feel
my brain on fire and I cannot answer for
myself. Captain Lindsay, will you let me
see the King? "

The Captain shook his head as if sorry,
but he spoke firmly 

'master Elliot, I can guess what it is

yon wish to see the King for ; and I would
like to help you, for I, too, respect the
Knight of Halstane. But the King has
only a few minutes since refused to see the
Earl of Angus."

Gilbert passed his trembling hands over
his heated brow.

'But Angus has time to wait," he cried,
raising his voice hotly ; ' but I  I have no
time to wait. No, no, no, a thousand times
no, I cannot wait."

' You forget where you are, sir," said the
Captain, sternly.

Gilbert's frenzy overcame him.

*' Can I help that? I have appealed to
everybody for help, and everybody repulses
me. I have only one hope left. I come
here to see the King, and I wall see the
King. Perdition, you do not know me or
you would not stay me. I arrested Spens.
  I risked my life for the King's pleasure 
1 shall save Spens. The King is in there,
and I will enter there. Must I pass over
your body ? "

'draw, gentlemen, and defend your
post."

Twelve swords leapt from their scabbards
and were held on guard.

'' Strike, strike," cried Gilbert, madly,
strike at head and heart ; but before you
have killed me I will cry so loud that the
King shall hear me and aid me."

He threw himself upon the swords, and
beat them aside with his hands. None of
the gentlemen were willing to take advantage
of his blind frenzy, else any one of them
might have run him through. But when
he had forced his way to the door, hands
were roughly laid upon him, and the end
would have been fatal to him had not the
door been thrown open, and the boy-King
himself appeared.

Gilbert fell upon his knees before him
with clasped hands, and moaning, in tremulous
excitement, '' The King, the King."

There was an instant secession of hostilities,
and swords were sheathed.

'what does all this noise mean?" demanded

his Majesty, looking bewilderedly
at the man kneeling before him and the
flushed faces of the guard.

 Sire, it is a madman," responded Lindsay,
with his sternest expression.

*' Sire, it is I, your servant," said Gilbert,
looking up, and thrusting his long hair back
from his face.

 Master Elliot ! Why, gentlemen, have
you drawn swords against him ? Master
Elliot is my friend. Else. I am glad you
have come, for I am weary and want somebody
to play with me."

''Ah, sire, and I would have spent every
drop of blood in my body to reach your
Majesty."

The King regarded him with a quick old-fashioned
look of cunning.

'' Then you have got something to ask
from me ? You are like all the rest."

Not for myself, sire, not for myself."

'' What does that matter ? I am weary ;
make me laugh, and you shall have your
wish. Come, let us have a game at bat and
ball. Can you play ? "

"Anything, sire, anything to please you,
if you will only listen to me," answered
Gilbert, wringing his hands.

'catch," cried the King, striking the
ball he had picked up with a bat.

Gilbert caught the ball, and threw it
back, moaning 

*' And the life of the bravest, noblest man
in Scotland hangs on the balance of a game
with a child."

'' Catch," cried the King again.

Gilbert was too late this time. The ball
struck him on the side of the head, and
rebounded, hitting the brave Captain Lindsay
on the nose.

The King dropped the bat, laughing with
childish hilarity at the Captain's expression
of confusion.

*' You are laughing, sire ; you will hear
me now, for you are laughing," exclaimed
Gilbert, piteously.

'' And you!" exclaimed the King, amazed,
*you are crying. I don't like to see a big
man like you crying."

"I am sad no more, sire, for I have
won'

** You were gambling, then ? "

* Yes, sire, I gambled with your Majesty
for the life of a comrade  a brother. It was
a cruel game."

'swell, you have won. Master Elliot.
What is it you wish?"

' Your Majesty's pardon for my friend."

Is he guilty ? "

*I do not know; but he loves your
Majesty ; and if he has erred in aught it is
because he loves you, sire."

Then I do not wish him to die. Who
is he?"

' Sir Walter Spens," answered Gilbert
joyfully; * you have said that you do not
wish him to die, and you, sire (with deep
reverence), are the King."

*eyes, I am the King, and he shall not
die. My mother has married Douglas, and
Douglas thinks he can do as he pleases with
me ; he has sent away everybody I like and
left me here as if I were nobody. But he

shall find that I am the King and that there
are dungeons in the Castle."

And his Majesty looked quite big as he
thus delivered his determination.

'* Holy Mother bless you, good little
King," ejaculated Gilbert.

I am not little, and I am the King ;
and if everybody does not obey me everybody
shall go to the dungeons."

*' The Earl of Angus attends your Majesty,"
said an ordinary, entering the ante-chamber,
** accompanied by Lord Binram."

The King's countenance fell and his air
of authority faded.

* The Douglas," he muttered, as if somewhat
afraid ; then speaking aloud, ' Admit
them. Captain."

*your Majesty will remember," said
Gilbert, again trembling for the fate of his
friend.

The King nodded as he climbed upon a
raised seat beside the table.

 I have a better idea than the dungeon.
Master Elliot, you will see."

The Gentlemen of the Guard ranged
themselves round the back of the King's
chair, and Gilbert took his place amongst
them as Angus, followed by B arras, entered.

** Sire, I bring you good news," said
Angus, affecting an ease and pleasure which
he did not feel; *you will be able to ride
out tomorrow."

 And I will not be shut up indoors like
a prisoner any more ? "

' Never again will it be necessary, I
trust."

 Ah, that is good news. Thank you,
Cousin Angus."

 We are a long way from the dungeons,"
moaned Gilbert to himself;  and Spens is
forgotten."

*' I should like to get my boar brought up
here," proceeded the little King, naively;
* and I should like to have Abbot Thomas
here; but I suppose he was one of those
who deceived me, for he told nie that I was
the King and the master of the land. But
he was wrong there, was he not ?  for it is

you, Cousin Angus, and my mother, who
are the masters."

'' Nay, sire, we are only the first of your
Majesty's subjects."

Angus bit his Hp slightly as he made
answer to the next question.

' Then, as subjects, you owe me obedience
eh, cousin ? "

*' We would be rebellious subjects if we
refused."

* We will see about that," thought the
King ; and then simply, ' Well, cousin, I
have been gambling with Master Eliot
here, and I have lost. When a gentleman
loses he ought to pay, and I am a gentleman,
cousin, am I not ? "

** Certainly ; who dare gainsay it ? "

Gilbert understood the King now.

Well, cousin," proceeded the boy, as
if distressed,  I have lost and I am notable
to pay Master Elliot."

* Indeed; then your Majesty must have
staked high."

'eyes, I staked the life of a man; and

it is necessary that that man should live
or the King will not have paid his debt."

There was not one amongst the Gentlemen
of the Guard who did not give a
silent blessing to the cunning little King.
Gilbert barely refrained from uttering it
aloud.

* It affects the life of some State
prisoner, then," said Angus, quietly; *tell
me his name, and the Kegent will not
refuse my plea to pay your Majesty's
debt."

*' I am sure of that. His name is
Walter Spens of Halstane."

Angus and B arras could not conceal
a start of surprise. The former spoke
coldly 

A man guilty of high treason ; of an
attempt upon your Majesty's life, and one
who betrayed the late King  you would
not surely wish him to live ? " said B arras.

I don't know what he has been guilty
of and I don't care," cried the King,
impatiently; sand I did not speak to

you, sir. Grace is accorded  is it not,
cousin ? "

No, sire," replied Angus firmly.

** No ! " ejaculated the King, half crying
with vexation.

Gilbert's head sank upon his breast.

*sit pains me deeply," said the Earl, in
measured accents, * to refuse any request
of your Majesty; but for your own safety
it is necessary that we should be firm in
this matter."

His Majesty looked boldly into the face
of Douglas as he spoke slowly 

* Cousin, there are people who have
told me that you do not care for me.
I would not have believed it yesterday 
but to-day "

*' To-day, your Majesty is in a passion."

'* If you have not deceived me," said
the little King, resolutely, ' you are my
subject. Earl Angus though you be, and
I am the master. Well, I, the King,
extend grace to the Knight of Halstane ;
I desire that he shall go free. I no longer

ask you to do this  I command it to be
done."

belong live the Eng,'' shouted Gilbert,
unable to control himself; and the Gentlemen
of the Guard echoed the cry, despite
the admonitory frown of Captain Lindsay.

Angus stood for an instant as if chagrined
and puzzled, then suddenly he caught the
boy up in his arms and embraced him.

' Yes," he said with emotion, '* long
live the King. Gentlemen, the first command
of his Majesty has been one of
clemency, and his will shall have way."

* Ah, you are a good cousin, and I think
you like me after all," said the King ashe
was replaced in his seat. * I have
beaten him," he thought to himself
proudly.

** My Lord Binram," said Angus promptly,
"will you take a seat at the table and
write ? "

Barras hesitated.

I would like to observe to your lordship
"

Gilbert sprang from his place amongst
the Guards, took a seat at the table, and
snatched up a pen.

I will write faster than any one, my
lord, and I am ready to begin," cried
Gilbert, warmly.

* The pardon first, then," said Angus;
'* in the name of his gracious Majesty
James V. of Scotland "

'' But Spens has been already removed
from the Castle, my lord," interrupted
B arras.

** I will overtake him," said Gilbert.

He proceeded to write with marvellous
speed the pardon dictated by Angus to
Walter Spens of Halstane, on condition
that he quitted Scotland within twelve
hours after receipt of the pardon, and
never returned to the land under penalty
of death.

There, my lord," said Gilbert, presenting
the paper.

Angus signed and sealed it.

*snow," he went on, 'write the King's
order to Adam Scott of Tushielaw."

'* Tushielaw ! " exclaimed Gilbert, trembling.
Then, hastily recollecting himself,
f Forgive me, my lord."

The order directed Tushielaw to deliver
his prisoner scatheless to the bearer of this
missive in despite of any instructions ho
might have previously received.

'But if I might observe to your lordship,"
interrupted Barras again.

'' But hold your tongue, sir," broke in the
King, irritably.

'' This order also is written, my lord''
said Gilbert, rising eagerly from the table,
and presenting the pen to Angus.

You are a brave man. Master Elliot,"
said the Earl, as he signed and sealed the
second order. *' There, you have now all
that is necessary to set your friend at
liberty. The rest depends upon yourself
and your horse."

*' Thanks, thanks, my lord. And, sire,"
throwing himself down upon his knees, and
kissing the King's hand, 'when you need
some man to die for you, send for Gilbert
Elliot."

He moved toward the door.

*'I have paid my debt  eh, Master
EUiot ? " shouted the King after him.

manful, sinful, sire."

** It is time and trouble wasted," said
Barras, scowling ; * for he will arrive too
late."

' I shall arrive in time, sire, or die."

The door closed behind him, and he
hastened to obtain his horse.

Angus bowed low to the King.

** Sire, we have obeyed your Majesty, and
are loyal subjects."

*sand good friends," said the King,
nodding and laughing, as he retired with
the Earl to his private apartment.

YOL. n.

Chapter XVI.

THE king's highway.

His middle ye'll ken by the twa trough states
At the auld door cheeks, an' the black batter'd panes
By the three iron cleeks while he strain in the wa'
Ta tie up wild yards when heigh customers ca'.
Up agen the auld gable 'tis like ye may view
A treeless cart or a cheerless plough,
An' auld deathless harrow, a breeches ring rent,
Wi' mae broken gear while are meant to be ment."

Alex. M'Laggan.

As soon as Barras was relieved of Ms
attendance upon Douglas, lie quitted the
ante-room, and in a very few minutes
afterward he passed out by the postern,
across the drawbridge, and down to the
Cross.

He was wrapped in a large roquelaire,

and a Spanish hat was drawn well over his
brow, so that his face and its passion were
hidden from passing observation.

The day was at its close when he entered
the hostelry of St. Andrew's Eest. In the
common guest-room he found a number of
douce citizens talking in undertones about
the marriage of the Queen Regent with
Douglas, mingled with scared gossip of the
plague which was still hovering about the
city. The rest of the company was of the
usual mixed character, and comprised men-at-arms,
travellers, rich and poor.

Busy arguing with four soldiers some
knotty question as to the superiority of
the Jeddart axe over the broad pike, was
a rough-looking fellow, whose dress was
neither that of civilian nor soldier, but partly
of both.

To him Barras advanced, and, touching
him on the shoulder smartly, beckoned him
to an unoccupied part of the room. Eddie
Craig instantly ceased his discussion and
obeyed the summons.

Take horse at once," said Barras in an
undertone, *' and ride as if your life hung on
your speed. You may overtake Tushielaw
before he reaches the Tower."

*' And syne."

** Give him this knife, and bid him from
me despatch his prisoner without delay,
else he will lose the chance altogether."

*' I'm wa."

* Stop; you must return with half a
dozen men and meet me at Peebles. You
remember the fellow Elliot who managed to
slip through our fingers at the Tower."

Craig nodded to signify yes.

'* Well, he has been sent from the Castle
to release Spens from Tushielaw. He
must never reach his destination. Now
away."

"When Gilbert sprang into the saddle the
groom who had attended him, before
releasing his hold of the saddle, said
warning 

It's a kittle beast, maister, an' she's

name the cannier for ha'in' been fast i' the
stable twa days."

Gilbert nodded impatiently, and the horse
bounded across the yard toward the Portcullis
Gate. Whilst the portcullis was being
raised and the drawbridge lowered, his horse
pawed the earth with as much impatience
as its master.

The road clear, the horse dashed over the
bridge, and was then suddenly stopped by
an old man who griped the bridle stoutly.

Gilbert raised his whip to strike the man,
when the latter raised his face, and unrecognised
Andrew Howie.

* Hands off, Andrew; every instant is
precious, for the life of Spens is on my
speed."

*' Then ye ken Tushielaw has him ? The
dwarf body Hornie told me that nobody
kenned."

 I know all, and I have the King's
pardon here. Do not stay me, man "

*' But my teddy wants to speak wi' ye."

'' Where is she ? "

'' In St. Cuthbert's Abbey."

'ibid her rest there till I return. Let
go, let go."

Andrew could restrain the horse no longer,
as the rider now goaded it with his heels,
and it darted along the Esplanade, down
the High Street, and through the Nether-bow
Port.

Andrew gazed after him with a dissatisfied
expression.

'* The child's daft," he muttered as he
stood puzzling his head as to the course
he should adopt ; '* daft to think that my
teddy would bide here when she kens the
maister is in the hands o' Tushielaw; and
daft to think that single-handed he can
rescue the maister frae Tushielaw's grip on
Yarrow braes. He could dae't even if he
had the King's ain order foret i' his hand."

With his grey head bowed in perplexity
he took a few steps forward, as if about
to return to St. Cuthbert's, and again
halted.

*' There's ane might help us," he said,

glancing wistfully back to the Castle, *4f
I could only win at her. . . . It's a late
hour to gang clapping' at the door o' great
folks ; but they stick i' the bog wha cinna
try to get foot, sae I'll gang back an' speer,
ony way."

He retraced his steps to the Castle ; the
drawbridge had not yet been raised since
Elliot had passed out, so he reached the
postern without difficulty.

He knocked, and was presently answered
by the warder asking the watchword of the
night.

I cinna ken the word, friend', but I want
to see my Teddy Douglas on a matter o' life
an' death."

*you canna pass the-night without the
word," was the gruff response; *get over
the brig as quick as ye cam, for it's gain to
be raised."

* Saints save us, man, dae I no tell ye
it's a matter o' life and death I come
about ? "

* Canna help that."

 Would ye no just speer at Captain
Lindsay if lie would see Andrew Howie ? "

To this there was for several minutes no
response. Then the trap of the postern
was shoved back and the warder eyed the
importunate visitor suspiciously. Satisfied
by his inspection, the postern was opened
and Andrew was admitted.

He found himself in the presence of
Lindsay, who, in going round the guard,
happened to arrive at the gate just as
his name was pronounced. Recognizing
Andrew's voice and name as those of the
man who had called daily to inquire for
Gilbert Elliot during his illness, he gave
orders at once to admit the suitor.

With grateful respect Andrew explained
in an undertone the object of his visit, and
Lindsay promised to assist him and to endeavour
to procure an immediate audience
for him with Mistress Douglas. He consented
to this the more readily as he had
learned that Heron Barras had quitted the
Castle a little time before.

Gilbert reached the ancient burgh of
barony, Linton-on-the-Lynn, without interruption.
But while he was passing through-the
burgh his horse cast a shoe. The day
had already broken, so that he had no difficulty
in finding the smithy, which was close
to the inn, and on the high road to the
South.

He had, however, considerable difficulty
in rousing the smith from his slumbers, for
the honest man, as was his custom, had
taken enough ale before retiring to rest to
ensure his sound-sleeping. The traveller
experienced a further difficulty in persuading
the smith to enter his workshop at
that early hour and repair the accident
which had occurred.

But at length the sight of a large piece
of silver prevailed over the smith's lazy
objections, and he drowsily donned his
clothes, drowsily opened the smithy, and
proceeded to kindle the fire.

All this delay increased Elliot's impatience
to an almost unbearable degree ;

and he moved restlessly about until the
smith became suspicious, in a drowsy way,
that his customer was either out of his
mind or his haste boded no good purpose.


'* Look you, my man," said Gilbert,
stopping suddenly before the smith as he
drowsily blew his bellows, ' here is one
silver crown for your work, and here is
another if you will enable me to start in
ten minutes."

The smith's cupidity was again powerful,
and seemed to wake him up thoroughly.
He whipped the red-hot iron from the fire
and the silence of the morning was again
broken by the busy clank of his hammer
on the anvil.

In very few minutes more than the time
specified the horse was ready for the road,
and Gilbert vaulted into the saddle eagerly.

' Thank you, maister," said the smith,
grinning, as his fingers closed upon the
two pieces of silver, *' an' a safe journey
to ye; but we'd better ca' the beast canny

for a mile or sae ; else ye'll maybe lament
a'thegither."

Gilbert noted the advice, but started
off at a gallop, and it was not until he
was beyond sight of Linton that he
thought of giving effect to the smith's
observation. He slackened the horse's
pace, and chafing at the delay  necessary
as it was  proceeded at an easy trot.

The smith watched him till he had descended
the hill and disappeared. Then
he turned into his smithy chinking the
silver crowns in his hand, and testing
their genuineness with his teeth.

A man in the garb of a peer's courier
with velvet cap, silver badge of office
on his cross belt, to which was suspended
a leathern wallet  galloped up to the
smithy. A bushy red moustache and beard
covered the lower part of his face, the
while his brow and eyes were concealed by
the manner in which he wore his cap.

*' Ho there, my man, ken ye if a fellow
on a grey horse has passed here lately ? "

* Aye, twa minutes syne. His horse
cast a shoe, an' I put it on for him*'

'' Which way did he take ? "

South  he's scarcely a minute foot o'
sight."

The courier threw him a piece of silver,
touched his horse with his spurs, and the
animal hounded away at full speed.

** Certes, the silver's plentiful' this
morning," exclaimed the smith, picking up
the courier's gift, and making a mental
calculation of the number of days this
harvest would enable him to spend comfortably
at the inn hard by.

Gilbert heard the clatter of horses' hoofs
behind him, and turning his head descried
the courier within fifty yards of him, and
rapidly decreasing the distance. The silver
badge glancing in the rays of the morning
sun assured him of the character of the
man, and dispelled any suspicion he might
otherwise have entertained.

 A fair morning, master," said the
courier, slackening his pace as he came
abreast with Gilbert.

The latter assented, but showed that he
had no desire to continue the conversation.

Do you travel far southward ? " persisted
the courier, without appearing to
observe the disposition of his companion.

'not much farther than Peebles; and,
as I have no wish to haste at present,
do not delay your journey on my account."

* I have ridden the first stage hard, and
can take my own pace for a dozen miles
or so."

' Then take your own pace, for I must
speed forward," said Gilbert, becoming
somewhat testy under the persistence of
the fellow.

* Nay, then, I am with you, for I would
be loth to lose good company, it is so
hard to find on the road," rejoined the
courier coolly, and with as much condescension
as if he had been pressed to
keep up with him.

Gilbert had urged his horse into a
gallop ; his companion kept pace with him.
Gilbert remained silent and frowning; the

courier continued to talk with the fluency
and bonhommie of a man who had seen
much of the world and who had encountered
a congenial gossip.

Gilbert was compelled to resign all hope
of getting rid of his troublesome acquaintance
until they reached Peebles.
Arrived at the town, they passed the Ked
Friars' Church of the Holy Cross, and
Gilbert pulled up in front of the ancient
hostelry at the corner of High Street and
Portray.

Much to his surprise and chagrin, the
courier also pulled up there. He, however,
concealed his annoyance, followed his horse
to the stable, and saw it provided with a
feed of corn. He was resolved to escape
from his persistent companion  of whose
character and motives unpleasant suspicions
were beginning to force themselves upon
him  as soon as he could get beyond his
sight.

But it seemed as if his escape were not to
be easily managed, for wherever he went the

courier was at his elbow, gossiping and
laughing as if they had been friends from
boyhood.

'look you, master," said Gilbert, at length
exasperated, ' I have a mind to bear myself
company, and your chatter frets me."

Say you ? " exclaimed the courier, as if
greatly surprised. " Well, well, every man
to his humour, say I ; wherefore I will hold
my peace. Hoy there, host, fetch me a
stoup of wine."

The host accordingly brought in a pint of
Burgundy, and Gilbert immediately ordered
him to bring in another.

He thought he had discovered the way to
escape from his gossip at last. Before the
host returned he rose and walked carelessly
towards the door.

* Here's the wine, maister," said the
landlord, meeting him.

'' Leave it there on the table. I will be
back in a minute. I am just going to look
at my horse."

** The fellow will never suspect that I do

not intend to return while the wine stone
is there waiting me," he muttered, as he
marched off to the stable.

*i'm thinking yon billie has been sleeping
on his wrong side," observed the landlord,
with a grin, as he set down the stoup.

"Like enough," rejoined the courier;
' but he's a surly dog anyway. What think
ye, I've been with him for two hours, and,
as is my custom on the road, I tried to
make the time pass lightly; but all the
thanks he gave me for my pains was to bid
me hold my tongue."

My certes, that was a pair acknowledgment
o' your kindness."

* Faugh ! let him go. Fetch me another
stoup, and have a draught with me."

*' Fist tak' this ane, an' I'll fetch another
when the chief comes back."

*that? No, burn me if I do. Fetch
me another, or I'll have none."

Weel, weel, I'll do your bidding ; but
the ane is as gude as the other, an' maybe a
grain better."

As the landlord quitted the room the
courier smiled grimly ; and, leaping to his
feet, stepped over to Gilbert's stoup. He
took a small packet from the breast of his
doublet, and dropped a few grains of some
powder into the wine.

*she did not intend to come back," he
muttered, sneeringly; but he'll come for
all that."

He hastily resumed his seat as the host
re-entered. They had barely tasted the
second stoup when the prophecy of the
courier was fulfilled, and Master Elliot-returned.


His brow was knit with impatience and
chagrin, and he spoke sharply 

My horse has been tampered with, or
that blundering smith has done his work
ill. There's a nail driven through the hoof
into the flesh, and the poor brute can't
move."

 Weel, maister, though ye look as if ye
were blaming my house for a misfortune
that it has nothing to do wi," said the

VOL. II. T

landlord, somewhat nettled by the angry
manner of his guest, and prepared to treat
him as an ill-humoured fellow on the
showing of the courier, ' I'll help ye as far
I can. We'll get the smith billet directly."

* Can you not let me have another horse? "

*No, I hanna ane."

Gilbert turned abruptly to the courier.

*' It is a matter of life or death that
depends on my speed. Will you, master,
exchange horses with me, and name what
sum you please to take for making the
change ? "

The courier grinned as if gratified by the
request, and he cast a careless glance upon
the anxious face of the guardsman.

*' Thank you, master, and I might have
been willing to favour you, had you been a
little more civil with me. As it is, I have
no mind to swap."

*' Speed you for the smith, host, and you
shall have a gold piece for your troubles
said Gilbert, turning away contemptuously
from the courier.

The latter rose as if to depart as soon as
the landlord had gone.

Gilbert, without looking toward him,
again drank a portion of his wine, and
moved restlessly between the window and
the table.

The courier stretched himself, drained his
stoup, and with an air of blustering good-fellowship,
bade his late companion adieu.
Gilbert answered curtly, and the man went
away. In a few minutes Gilbert saw him
riding out of the inn yard.

He emptied his flagon, and thanked its
stars that the troublesome fellow was out of
the way at last. But as the minutes fled,
and still the smith had not arrived, his
impatience increased, although his movements
gradually became slower.

He began to yawn occasionally, and
before long he seated himself on the bench
by the window. He rested his elbow on the
sill, his chin on his hands, and stared out
upon the street.

His eyes gradually began to look dull, and

then his head nodded as if with sleep. He
started and attempted to rouse himself ; butin
spite of every effort his eyes closed, his
head drooped, and he fell into a species of
stupor just as he fancied he heard the
courier's voice at the door.

* I forgot my whip, confound it, and
have had to come back."

He stopped abruptly. He was walking
over to the seat he had occupied, and where
his whip was lying to confirm his words,
when he noticed that Gilbert was asleep.

He glanced quickly round with an ugly
smile of triumph. He closed the door
cautiously, and then advanced to the
sleeper''

The drug has taken effect sooner than
I expected," he muttered; 'why could I
not have poisoned him as easily ? Ay, but
there would be inquiry, which might be
more dangerous to the Lord of Binram thana
few weeks of this whelp's life can be.
Bah ! enough to take the pardon from him ;
Tushielaw will do the rest."

Quickly and stealthily he opened the
breast of Gilbert's doublet, and took out a
sealed packet. He closed the doublet again,
and passed to the hearth, where a few logs
of wood were burning slowly. He stirred
them into a blaze, and dropped the packet
in the flame. He watched the parchment
burn to a thin white film.

Then he picked up his whip, and swaggered
carelessly from the room.

Chapter XYIL

THE HOSTELRY AT PEEBLES.

*' Good ale for the peasant,

Ripe wine for the lord,

And everything pleasant

That's set on the board.
Ye may cross the whole country

And span every shire 
But the deil may content ye
If mair ye desire."

Old Sign.

The worthy master of the Portbrae hostelry
was sorely perplexed, on returning with the
intelligence that he had found the smith
after spending the better part of an hour in
pursuing him from house to house, to discover
his guest, who had displayed so much
impatience for the road, fast asleep.

*body o' me, but I thocht your honour

was in a hurry," he exclaimed, shaking
Gilbert by the arm.

The sleeper breathed heavily, but showed
no sign of awaking. The landlord scratched
his head and looked increasingly puzzled.
He examined the wine stoup and saw that
it was not quite empty.

' Hie, dame, come ye ben here and speak
wi' me."

There was no answer, and the good man,
whilst waiting the arrival of his better hae
to solve the riddle which he found beyond
his power, smoothed his chin and stared
meditatively at his drowsy guest. His first
call remaining unanswered, he raised his
voice again 

 Jean Stott, ye ''

Whatever the character he had intended
to endow her with, he was not permitted to
express it, for Jean Stott presented herself
at the door and the goodman was humbled.

She was indeed a woman whose appearance
would have made a strong man think
twice before giving her cause of offence.

She was tall, stout, with muscular arms and
rubicund visage that denoted a temper of
the sharpest, and an affection for strong ale
and other beverages.

"Weel, Jock Stott, and what were ye
about till remark ? " she queried in a masculine
voice, that in the dark might have
been associated with the person of a gruff
trooper.

** Ye needna glower as if ye were gain
till eat a body, Jean," said the goodman,
meekly. ** I was only gain till ask ye gin
this chief here has been getting mair drink? "

'* No a drap frae me, but he looks as gin
he'd had mair nor eneuch frae you."

* He just had ae stoup, and if that's over
muckle for ony Christian it's time we were
foot o' this."

 Weel, ye needna fash your thumb about
him ; he'll dae nae ill lying there, and
maybe he'll be a guide wheen the better o't.
Come wa' but."

The law being thus laid down, the liege
host submitted to it, and retired.

So Gilbert, upon whose mission hung life
and death, was left to sleep until the afternoon
shadows began to darken the chamber.
A few of the most notable of the burgesses,
including the smith and the souter, and two
or three travellers, had entered, taken their
refreshment, stared at the sleeper, and gone
away.

His head throbbed and his thoughts were
confused when he awoke. He rubbed his
eyes, started to his feet, and gazed in
puzzled astonishment about him. For a
few minutes he failed to remember how'he
had come to this place, but when the circumstances
recurred to him he called loudly
for the landlord, who speedily answered the
summons.

** Have you got the smith yet ? "

* Lang syne," was the dry response.

How  what do you mean ? "

'* Fist that Middle Tam has been here
an' taken the nail foot o' the pair beast's
foot, an' a gay muckle ane it was tae, an'
nae wonder the pair brute "

Why in the devil's name did you not
tell me the horse was ready ? "

And Gilbert, indignant at what seemed
to be the neglect of the taverner, moved
hastily to the door.

* Lost be here," exclaimed the host,
following him, 'what way could I tell ye
when ye were fast asleep ? "

Gilbert halted and proceeded to question
the host. After learning that he had been
asleep during the day, and so soundly that
no shaking could rouse him, he began to
comprehend that some trick had been
played him. He examined the wine stoup
and discovered the sediments of some
powder. He understood at once that the
wine had been drugged, and his suspicion
fell upon the courier, the remembrance of
whose singular conduct warranted, and even
confirmed, the suspicion. The simplicity
and promptitude with which the landlord
answered all queries exonerated him from
any complicity in the matter.

' If you were again to see the man who

came here with me," proceeded Gilbert,
*' would you know him ? "

*' Ay, brawly; though he diana take gaff
his bonnet and ay kept his chin covered
when ye were in the room, I would ken him
by a blue mark he had on the side o' his
left ere."

' You know nothing of where he came
from or where he was going to ? "

I ken he came frae Edinburgh, an' he
said he was going south ; but that's a' I
ken, for like yourself' he diana gie ony
name."

'' Mine is Gilbert Elliot, and I am
travelling with a message from the King
to Scott of Tushielaw. Holy Mother grant
that this accursed knavery has not made
my journey bootless ! But since it has
lapped, I see plainly that there are knaves
about who would fain foil the King's
merciful intent. Yet, with our good lady's
help, I will baffle them. Fetch me pen and
ink."

The host had grown somewhat paler than

it was his habit to be when he learned that
his guest was an emissary of the King.

' That will I, maister, right speedily;
but I crave your mercy, sir, and hope
you will not blame my poor house for any
ill that has come to ye. I gie ye my
with "

 So far I hold you blameless, but I shall
charge you with a mission, and upon its
fulfilment will depend my satisfaction of
your innocence. Fetch me the pen."

*' I'll dae anything ye wish, maister, but
cinna blame "

u There, there, bring me the things,"
interrupted Gilbert, impatiently.

John Stott bustled out of the room and
returned speedily with writing materials.
Gilbert sat down, briefly narrated what had
occurred, and gave a description of the
courier. He folded up the document and
addressed it to Captain Lindsay, of the
Queen's Guard at the Castle, Edinburgh.

* Now, mark well what I tell you,"
he said, delivering the packet to Stott.

' Should I fail to return here by tomorrow
at even, take you the swiftest horse you can
find in all the town and bear this despatch
to Edinburgh. Tell Captain Lindsay all
you know, and fear nothing for yourself.
Mind, my life will depend on your fidelity''

' I'll dae your bidding, maister, in every
particular, and gin ye're no back here by
the morn's even I'll be in Edinbro' by
midnight."

The man spoke with evident sincerity,
and Gilbert, after thanking him, was hurrying
away. He was arrested by the masculine
voice of Jean Stott, and the protrusion
of her huge person in his way.
Not aU the winks and nods of her goodman
could make her understand that something
more than ordinary civility was required on
this occasion.

' Bide a wee, bide a wee, maister  what
are ye making' a full o' yourself' for, John
Stott ?  there's the laying to pay afore ye
gang  I'll heave a stoup at your head, John
Stott, gin ye mak' another face at me."

With some little difficulty discovering
how much of this parenthetical address
referred to him, Gilbert settled his score
so much to Jean's satisfaction that she
designated him a  decent chief ; " which
was high praise coming from her lips, for
amongst her other characteristics a principal
one was a supreme contempt for male
creatures in general and her goodman in
particular.

The horse was at the door. Gilbert
mounted and quitted Peebles at full gallop.

He forded the Tweed near Horsburgh
Castle, passed through Glens, and held
on by Glengaber to Yarrow. The road he
had chosen was far from the best ; but he
was in no humour to spare either his horse
or himself, if by any exertion he could gain
an hour in reaching his destination.

He skirted Eldinhope and Gilmanscleuch,
and by the time he had reached Active the
day had deepened into a dark gloaming.
He took the bridle path through the forest
for Tushielaw Tower, following closely the

course which afterwards became known as
the King's Highway, in consequence of its
being the route taken by King James V. on
his memorable incursion upon the Border
freebooters.

Eliot's teeth were firmly set, but his
heart throbbed quickly, for he dreaded to
think of what might be the result of his
delay. Bitterly he reproached himself for
his lack of caution in drinking the wine
which had been served him in the presence
of a man whose conduct had been so suspicious
; bitterly he reproached himself for
thinking of bite or sup before he had executed
his mission and released his friend.

He hoped, and yet he feared to hope,
that some whim or some happy chance
had made Tushielaw pause in the completion
of his vengeance. But when he
remembered the character of the Borderer
and the objects which quickened his passion,
he felt as if hope were vain. He ground
his teeth and spurred the wearied horse
forward.

At length Crosbie was left behind him
and the gloomy tower of the river loomed
above him like a black shadow on the
landscape. Impatiently he urged the horse
np the hill, and hailed the warder whilst he
was still approaching the gateway.

Lights gleaming from loophole and window
indicated that there was life within, although
the echo of his halloo died upon the night
unanswered.

He reined up and repeated his summons,
accompanying it with a clatter upon the
gate with the hilt of his sword. Still no
one responded, but the rapid movement of
lights within denoted that he had been
heard, and that  whether caused by his
arrival or not  some confusion prevailed
Persisting in his clamour he succeeded in
bringing forth no less a personage than Pate
Scott the giant.

' What are ye deavin' us for, an' wha the
deil are ye?" growled Ding-a'-doon, wha
was in his surliest humour.

I bear a message to your master from

the King, and I charge you in his name to
give me instant entrance."

Gin ye were the King himsel' I would
open until it was the master's will. What's
your errand ? "

'' That Tushielaw shall know."

By what token am I to ken that yo
come frae Edinbro' and are nae a spy o' the
Johnston or Maxwell ? ' '

** By the token that I, unattended, am
willing to trust myself within your den. I
will satisfy your chief that I have good
warrant for seeking him; so, if ye be not
afraid of a single man, I charge you in the
King's name open."

** Afeard ! " was the scornful exclamation
of Pate; 'gin ye were doubled a hunger
times there's name in Tushielaw would care
a boodle for your pith. But I wat ye's hae
to satisfy the chief or ye's no win foot sae
ready as ye hae win in."

The gates were opened and Gilbert rode
into the Court. Armed men were hurrying
about with torches in their hands as if

VOL. II. u

preparing for some event; and a number
of horses harnessed and ready for the road
stood on the west side waiting the riders.
Other horses were being led to the stables,
and there was an appearance of bustle and
hurry as if one party had just returned from
a raid and another was about to start on
one.

CHAPTEK XVIII.

THE LION AND THE FOX.

What can man speak that I would shrink to hear,
And where the danger I would deign to shun ?
What should appal a man inured to perils ?
Like the bold climber on the crags of Ails,
Winds whistle past him, billows rage below,
The sea-fowl sweep around with shriek and clang :
One single slip, one unadvised pace,
One qualm of giddiness  and peace be with him !
But he whose grasp is sure, whose step is firm.
Whose brain is constant  he makes one proud rock
The means to scale another till he stand
Triumphant on the peak."

Scott's Auchindrane.

About an hour previous to the arrival of
Gilbert at the Tower, Tushielaw, with half
a dozen men straggling somewhat behind
him, galloped up to the gateway. His own

appearance and that of his followers indicated
that they had been riding far and
unsuccessfully, for their clothes and horses
were bespattered with mud. The chiefs
visage was dark with anger, and the gloomy
silence in which he rode had infected the
others so, that they looked as glum as if
they expected to lose their heads or their
supper.

His imperative and impatient summons 
well known to the warder  rang loudly from
his hunting horn, and was echoed and reechoed
down the glen. As if the horn had
possessed some magic power, the gates flew
open on the instant.

The chief found waiting for him there
one whose humour seemed not a whit more
pleasant than his own. Its expression,
however, was different. "Whereas a thundercloud
hung upon the brow of the Borderer,
warning all who might approach him
to pass on, the brow of the other was placid,
and only a sneering curl of the lip and a
quickness of accent betrayed that chagrin he

felt. His garb was that of a courier; his face
was that of Heron Barras, now Lord of Bin-ram,
in right of succession to his late uncle.

He was alone in the great hall. A fire
blazed upon the hearth, and illumed the
huge black rafters above, whilst the farther
corners looked like ghostly shadows frowning
upon him. Wine was on the bench, and
Barras appeared to have used it freely
although it had not robbed him of any of
his wicked wits.

* 'Sdeath," he cried, upon the entrance
of Tushielaw. '' I thought the foul fiend
had laid hold of you before our work was
done."

' That would have been your loss,"
growled the chief, darkly.

'* So ho ! comrade, there's an ill wind
somewhere. Mayhap it blows one of us
good," said Barras, in a lighter tone than
before, and scanning his companion's face
curiously. * Where is your prisoner ? "

* Gone to the devil."

* Glad to hear that. I've been waiting

here for you all day, fretting mightily at the
tardiness of your pace from the city hither.
I've had some of the lads seeking you right
and left, and I've been cursing Craig for
missing you on the road, when I had sent
him after you with special tidings to finish
our plague at once. But, by my sooth, I
would have waited with right good will had
I guessed that your delay was to so much
purpose."

'' You would have guessed wrong, then."

'How? Is he not dead?"

 Maybe."

As he made this laconic response, Tushie-
law filled a bumper of wine, and quaffed it
thirstily.

B arras examined him more curiously than
before, his eyes twinkling with dissatisfaction.


' Maybe ? Now what, in the name of our
master the fiend, can that answer mean ? "
he said sharply.

' This  that he has escaped "

 Perdition ! Are you mad ? "

No ; I say he escaped, closely as lie was
guarded, and fast as he was bound. But
that's not the end of the story."

"If the end be not better than the beginning,
you've made a blunder that may
cost the head of one of us."

Humph ! we'll see about that. We had
him fast as hemp could bind him, and there
were eight of us to guard him."

"Yet he escaped," sneered Barras.

We got on safe enough with him till we
came to the Esk at Roseberry. It was dark
there, as if the clouds had dropped down jn
a body on us : even me, who can see farther
than most folk in the night, could barely
see my horse's head. But I was riding on,
fearing no treachery, when I heard a bit of
a scuffle, and souse gazed somebody into the
water. I wheeled round, and as I did that
there was another plash in the water, and
this time I knew it was a horse.

' It's Yetholm Wil,' shouted Pate,
an' the chief's loose.'

I swore : by some infernal trick Spens

Lad loosened every cord that tied him,
tumbled Will into the water, syne part
the horse spang in with himself and
cross to the other side. I was at his
heels in a minute and the lads after me.
He pinked us about the hills till nearly
morning, but we kept close to him, and
two or three times I nearly gripe him.
But the jade of a beast he had gotten
had learned too well that a follower
meant no favour to its rider and managed
to keep ahead of us. "When we began to
get a glint o' morning I expected to trap
him, buff he cut across the country for the
coast. A hard ride, and it was daylight
when he got to the shore near some fishers
huts. The horse tripped on the beach
and fell. But, as if he had the lives and
strength of half a dozen men, Spens was on
his feet in a minute and looped down to
the water's edge. There was a small boat
lying half in and half out of the water 
for the tide was up  and he launched it
with one shove.

* He put off to sea, and rowed as never
I saw man row before. But he had not
gone more than twenty or thirty ells out
when we were in the water up to the
saddle-girths. There was only one chance
of reaching him, and we took it.

*' Three of us fired at him. He dropped
his oar and tumbled back in the boat
with a skirl that meant death, if ever
I heard the cry of a man who had got
a bullet through his heart. We stopped
a while watching the boat as it drifted
out to sea. We saw no sign of him rising
again, and I thought my grudge against
him was settled at last.

'But after a while, when the boat was gey
far out at sea, we noticed a fishing-smack, as
we thought, make up to it. The speck disappeared
behind the fisher, and we could not
tell whether it was caught or no, or whether,
if it was caught, the man in it was living or
dead. It was that doubt while angered me,
and it was that doubt that made me say
maybe ' when you asked if he was dead."

As he finished speaking the Master of
Tushielaw refreshed himself with another
draught from the wine stoup.

B arras sat with knit brow and arms
folded reflecting upon what he had heard.
He understood now why the Borderer returned
in ill-humour, and why he had
delayed. He thought, too, that there was
some reason for the doubt which Tushielaw
entertained as to the fate of his victim.

' He should be dead," muttered B arras
at length, if you be not a worse marksman
than I think you. At twenty ells
you could not fail him."

* Bah ! I can split a goose-quill at thirty
ells ; and think ye I would miss a man
at twenty ? "

"Why, no; and we can cry gramercy
to his soul. We are done with him if
that be so. But why came you back with
so black a face if you were sure of your
mark ? "

By my hand, that passes my ken.
I'm sure enow of the mark ; but who

knows what help yon fisher brought
him?"

Pshaw ! there's no help for a deadman."


*' Humph, that's as may be; but, whatever
the cause, I'm ill at ease. This business
seems to grow heavier on hand rather
than lighter as we advance. Say the man is
done for, the woman is as far off as ever."

'not so far as you deem, mayhap," said
B arras, nodding significantly. ' I have a
rare plan to bring her ladyship to submission,
as you shall find."

He had no plan ; but he saw that his
comrade was wavering, and that it was
necessary to throw in a fresh bait to
stimulate him to further action. It was
imperative for his own selfish ends that
Tushielaw should continue to be his friend
and tool.

Throughout their conspiracies he had
cunningly contrived to play upon the
strong rough nature of the Borderer, so
that whilst impressing him with the notion

that they were moving forward to a
mutual advantage, he was really using
him as the instrument to effect simply his
own gain. Subtle as a fiend and as callous,
he had hitherto succeeded in leading
Tushielaw very much as he desired.

Certain concessions he made to him ;
but they were concessions which cost
nothing. He sold him his sister; but he
was utterly devoid of the least grain of
sentiment which could have made that
a sacrifice. He had agreed to let him
have Halstane ; but he knew there was
no chance of his ever obtaining it. So
he could easily gift it away when the gift
helped him well toward the great object
of his ambition  the lordship and lands of
Binram.

So far his infernal cunning had been
almost completely successful, and so far
Tushielaw had no suspicion that he was
merely a tool in another's hand. Tushielaw
had brute force enough to have felled an ox
with one blow of his fist, or to have felled

the man dead had he suspected him of
treachery ; he had rare skill in the use of
arms ; he knew every step of the Border
mosses, and could have crossed the Arras
blindfold ; there was no physical danger
that could make him quail ; but he possessed
not the least of that quick cunning which
suspects and seeks out motives. He had
little more skill in reading faces than in
reading books. He knew when a man was
angry or sad, but no more.

The chances are that under favourable
circumstances this renowned river would
have been an honest and industrious yeoman.
But, moving under the subtle influence of
Barras, he became a great muscular power
in evil.

* Ay, ay," looking at the fire as if he saw
some mystic warning there, ' you may have
plans and plans, but I am coming to think
that there's no good luck in the work.
Since ever it commenced I have had no
rest by day or night ; yet here am I not one
jot better for my fash,"

* What, man, is that the white feather I
see where your basket should be ? "

"Damn!" growled Tushielaw, bringing
his clenched fist down furiously on the
board and making it ring again. * A man
who has never shown a foe his back may
fairly blanch when he finds himself in the
lists with fate  for it is fate we are fighting
against, not men'

Senses dead."

We have not seen the end of him yet
mayhap, for all that."

Bah ! you grow timid at shadows."

Shadows?  look you, master, what the
shadows are. The dame, my mother, when
she placed the dish wi' the silver spurs
forefeet me meant that I should ride, and I
went out to harry Halstane. But when the
dame heard that I brought the cattle and
the lady too, she flew off to Harden, bidding
me mind the prophecy."

'* And you laughed at her. Eight ; for it
is an old woman's tale that the loitered
creature of Merlin's Cairn has spread about."

No, I did not laugh at her; but I did
not heed. You mind how the prophecy
was repeated that night before I took the
lady to Selkirk?"

* Ay, but it was a trick that I'll fathom
ere I die."

' Trick or no trick, it had a meaning ; forbad
luck followed it, and worse belike is to
come after. Again, with the stripling Eliot
you would not have me meet him fairly in
the lists when my good lance would have
carried the day. You smuggled him here ;
you buried him in the depths of the keep ;
and lo ! stone walls and stanchions are of no
avail, for he passes scatheless through them
aU."

Barras smoothed his chin and gnawed his
lips with evident chagrin.

** I grant you, there you hit me hard ; but
it was mere chance, as we found, when we
broke down the door ; he had touched the
spring of the trap, the water was high and
bore him along till some meddling fool
picked him out."

' And it was chance, too, you will say,
that brought him a free pardon when by
your influence with Angus he was condemned
to death. It was mere chance, too,
that saved him from the bullets that were
fired with good aim at his breast by a dozen
steady-handed soldiers ? "

* All mere chance."

' So it may be," said the Borderer, darkly
superstitious. *' You may call it chance,
but I call it fate, and so I have a mind
to throw up my hand  for it's ill warring
wi' the wind."

For a few minutes Barras remained silent,
meditatively smoothing his chin with one
hand whilst the other played uneasily with
his courier's bugle.

Tushielaw had taken a seat, and, with
elbows resting on his knees, his grisly-bearded
face upon his hands, he sat staring
at the fire. Dour and dark he looked, as
if the hand of Fate was already closing
upon him. His form and attitude contrasted
strangely with the spare sinewy figure and

cunning face of his companion. It was the
lion and the fox in conclave.

*' You have a mind to give up ? " said
Barras at length, deliberately. ' Well,
you're a fool."

Tushielaw started angrily, checked himself,
and responded with a growl 

'' To your thinking, maybe."

* And you are false to your pledged
word," pursued the tempter calmly.

The chief started to his feet as if with
intent to fall foul of his traducer, but as
before he checked his passion.

"Faugh!" he growled fretfully; "you
lie, and you know it ; a Borderer's word
once pledged is sacred to friend or foe."

Then you are forsworn," persisted Barras
with irritating coolness.

Say how or where my word has failed
and I'll right it  ay, if it were to hack this
right hand from the wrist."

The fox smiled quietly, for his point was
achieved.

You shall hear, and say then if I have

VOL. II. X

wronged you when you tell me that you
mean to throw up our work."

'' I'll hear first."

** When Wat Spens was prisoner at Newcastle
I managed to take from him his left-hand
gauntlet. 1 gave the gauntlet to you
and told you the import it would bear when
presented to his lady. As you took the
gift, you swore to stand firm by me to the
end of my venture, were it good or ill. Say
I not sooth, then, that you are forsworn 
that a Borderer's troth is broken if you
desert me at my sorest need ? "

** That shall you never say," cried the
Borderer, hotly. *' Since you put me tort,
I'll hold to my word although my head go
for it."

Spoken like Scott of Tushielaw," exclaimed
B arras, admiringly.  Now I can
open my heart as to my chosen comrade,
from whose fortunes mine are inseparable,
whose success is my success, and whose
failure is mine too. We have work before
us,"

What in the fiend's name is it, then ? "

A light enow matter as it stands at this
minute, but it may grow serious if we do
not nip our thorn ere it grows. That
stripling Elliot is on his way hither."

How many followers has he ? "

'none."

'' None, and he comes here ? "

'ray; he comes with some silly notion
that he can save Spens from your hands,"
responded Barras carelessly, for he did not
wish his ally to know that Gilbert's errand
was commissioned by the King.

Save my prisoner from my hands ? On
what argument ? "

The saints alone can guess. But he is
a silly boy who comprehends little of men
and their ways."

He has a stout arm none the less ; so
much I'll say for him."

"All the more reason why he should
never return to Edinburgh to bring further
harm on you and me. I marvel much
that he has not denounced me before

this ; but doubtless he is biding his opportunity."


* But he has some favour at Court, and
I do not care to have him poignard here."

a There is no need. Let him go safely
forth. Now, by my faith, yonder signal
came from him. I made him tarry on the
way against his will, but he has made good
use of time."

' What shall I answer him ?  that Spens
is dead?"

 No, keep that hidden. He must not
see me. I'll stand behind the arras and
prompt your answers when need is. Call
Pate."

When the giant appeared, Barras gave
him certain hurried directions. Then had
commenced that hurrying to and fro, and
those preparations as for a foray, which
Gilbert observed in the court.

Neither Barras, Tushielaw, nor 
noticed the broad face of Hornie, the
dwarf, grinning down upon them from the
cross-beam above the bulge of the chimney.

He had readied this eyrie by means of a
small trap in the wall communicating with
the lower staircase, and saw and heard unnoted.


Whatever mischievous purpose he might
have in view, the little man seemed to enjoy
his position immensely.

*why, there is that cunning varlet,
Barras the bastard," he said to himself,
smothering one of his great guffaws, methinks
he is pulling the strings of the puppet, my
master, beautifully ; and my master thinks
he pulls the strings of the puppets about
him, while here am I  poor wee me, deformed
and mocked at, yet can make these
big fools caper as the humour takes me.
There's a purpose in it, too, though it be
rare sport enough."

He had, in fact, an earnest purpose in
his occupation, and he was earnest in fulfilling
it ; although he grinned as broadly
at the sense of the power he wielded as if
he had been taking a game at romps. In
compensation for a deformed body, he

seemed to be gifted with a rare intelligence
and a rare buoyancy of spirits, which enabled
him to feel grave things gravely, yet
smile as calmly upon them as if he had
found the secret of that philosophy which
teaches how to make the best of the worst.
That is a philosophy of more service than
ever the great stone could have been had
it been found.

Hornie disposed himself comfortably in
his shadow-screened eyrie to note the proceedings
below. At the same time Barras
took his stand behind the arras, and a score
of troopers entered the hall.

Chapter XIX.

Reading THE LION.

His men were a' clad in the greene,
The knight was armed capable,
With a bended bow, on a milk-white steed ;

And I wot they ranked right bonnie.
Thereby Boyd kenned he was master-man,
And served him in his ain degree.

God mot thee save braw outlaw Murray,

Thy lady and all thy chivalric."
*' Marry thou's welcome, gentleman.

Some King's messenger thou seems to be."
Song of the Outlaw Murray.

Under the guidance of Ding ado on, Gilbert
was ushered into the hall. He saw
Tushielaw standing surrounded by his followers
all equipped, from the jack-boots to
the leather caps, as if prepared rather for a

raid than the peaceable reception of a
single guest. The chief alone was uncovered,
and that was apparently by accident,
not intent.

This warlike array seemed to promise an
ominous issue to his mission ; and Gilbert's
pulse quickened, not on his own account,
but on that of his friend. However hostile
their purpose toward himself might be, he
never gave a thought to his own peril. He
had on a former occasion observed several
bodies on what was called the  gallows
tree," which stood in front of the tower, and
served to execute the victims of the chiefs
wrath or malice.

He did not even think of that now. His
whole mind was occupied with the one
question whether or not he was in time to
rescue the life of Spens.

Gilbert doffed his hat and saluted the
chief  a little haughtily, perhaps, but
courteously nevertheless. He did not wish
to anger Tushielaw, but it required an effort
to be civil.

*' I salute you, Adam Scott ; and in the
King's name demand that the prisoner you
brought from the Castle at Edinburgh be
delivered safely to me, on peril of his
Majesty's displeasure, and the forfeiture of
all that you possess."

* I salute you, Gilbert Elliot ; but, by the
Eood, you speak somewhat fast for one so
young," said Tushielaw, gruffly.  Had
any spoken so pert to me elsewhere than
under my own roof-tree, he had danced for
it ere now."

* Here is no question of years or courtesy,
Tushielaw. I have spoken on the will of
my master and yours  the King. I wait
your answer."

Before you may receive that, I must
first learn what the questions be. Who is
the man you seek ? "

*' Sir Walter Spens of Halstane, as well
you know."

* What would you have with him ? "

' That you resign all charge over him,
and deliver him to me."

AsJc his authority j'' whispered the voice
behind the arras.

* Softly, softly; you are fast again. I
have no wish to make your journey hither a
barren one ; but before I can resign to you
a charge intrusted to me by those who
represent the King, you must say on what
authority you make the demand."

* I make the demand in the King's name,
from whom I bear the pardon of the good
knight Sir Walter Spens."

Gilbert spoke in a firm authoritative
voice ; and at mention of the free pardon
Tushielaw started uneasily. He had as
little desire at that moment to set the Eoyal
authority at defiance as to deny submission
to the King's own mandate.

' Bid him show it yoUy" said the voice,
quickly.

The chief recovered himself.

*you have the pardon scribed, surely.
Show it me."

atishere."

Gilbert thrust his hand into the breast of

his doublet to produce the precious document.
But it was not there ; and his face
flushed, his Hps quivered with dismay. He
searched every portion of his garments
where he might have stowed it without
avail.

He stood speechless and horror-stricken.
He had indeed blundered, since he had lost
the instrument for which he had striven so
hard, and which alone could save the life of
Spens.

As Tushielaw observed his movements,
and the rapid change of his countenance
from red heat to icy pallor, he entirely
regained his own gruff self-assurance.

 Well," he growled, impatiently,  where
is the parchment ? "

' I have been tricked  robbed," cried
Gilbert, in a choking voice ; ** the packet
has been stolen from me."

Tushielaw received the intelligence with
a loud hoarse laugh.

* Think you, master, that I am a child,
to be fooled by so poor a tale as that ? "

 I swear by our Holy Mother  by
everything that is sacred in Heaven  
a pardon was written for Spens under the
special command of the King," exclaimed
Gilbert, excitedly; '* but I was trepanned
in the hostelry at Peebles and the packet
stolen from me."

* That may be and may not. I have
no proof, and therefore I shall act as my
own instructions direct."

' You will not credit my oath ? "

* I will not credit twenty oaths."

' You lie, Tushielaw : you know that
I speak truth," he cried passionately ; then
subduing his tone, *but, I pray you, give
me twenty-four hours ; I will return within
that space, and bring the pardon signed
and sealed as was the one I have lost,
or place my life at your disposal."

 It is so now."

' Say you ? Then mark me : touch me
and you shall find my sword can pierce
your Border hides; harm but one hair on
the head of Spens and the King himself

shall make your head the forfeit of your
treachery."

** The King is King in Edinburgh, but
I am King at Tushielaw," retorted the
Borderer, proudly.

' If the King has loyal hearts in Scotland
you shall find that he is King as much
in Ettrick's Vales as in Edinburgh Castle.
Make way there, in the King's name, and
let me pass."

Half a dozen troopers had stepped between
him and the door, and stood with
Jeddart axes in rest as if resolute upon
preventing his egress. His command made
in his Majesty's name had not the least
effect upon the moss-troopers, who had, in
fact, come to think of the King as King
at Edinburgh, and Tushielaw as King of
the Borders.

Gilbert plucked his sword from its
scabbard, and as it flashed round his head
he shouted again, * Make way there, or by
St. Andrew some of you will bite the dust.
Make way!"

The troopers simply levelled their weapons
so as to form a complete barrier.

A serious skirmish was like to ensue ;
but whilst Gilbert, furious with indignation
and maddened by the sense of his loss,
paused an instant to see whether or not
the men would give him passage. Ding a*
toon, at a sign from his chief, stole
up behind him, pounced upon him and
pinioned his arms in a vice-like gripe. Before
he could even make an effort to
extricate himself four men sprung upon
him, and with cords, looped as if ready
for the work, secured his wrists and legs.

He was a powerless prisoner in the space
of time one might take to draw a long
breath.

A moment of bewildered surprise was
followed by an impotent attempt to burst
his bonds. A few minutes' vain struggling
and he stood panting, crimson, and conscious
that he was in the power of an
enemy.

*'I should have foreseen this," he said,

breathing heavily, his eyes flashing with
scorn upon his conqueror ; " I should have
foreseen that naught hut the treachery of
the coward and knave was to he found
in Tushielaw."

The chief smiled grimly.

** We can hear your silly taunts, for they
are harmless as the roast-spit you wield."

*rand yet you feared the spit enough
to run from an encounter with it in open
lists  you feared it enough even here to
wrench it from me by a trick."

By my hand, that lying tongue of yours
has need of clipping," growled Tushielaw,
smarting under the reference to the unfought
trial.

** And that poltroon hide of yours has
need of whipping," retorted Gilbert. By
St. Andrew, had I but one hand free, and
fair favour, your black heart should know
the point of my spit."

Under a word of warning from the arras
Tushielaw regained the control of his
temper, which he had been fast losing.

With a coarse laugh he said 

*you speak bravely enow, as all braggarts
do."

*' You shall find that there is meaning in
the words if you will test me. But I waste
words. Do with me as your false heart
may purpose. This you may mind, however
 my fate will not pass unnoted; for
there are those who, failing my return, will
know that I have met foul play at your
hands. Then look to yourself."

Bah ! "What heed I for empty threats ?
What heed I if all Edinburgh turned out
to seek you? And what would it benefit
you if you were hanged before they found
you?"

* I can die knowing that you shall not
pass scatheless in murdering me."

*I have a mind to try how far your
friends would pass on Yarrow Braes or
through Ettrick Vales without a pass from
me. But as I have borne your hot words
calmly by allowing for your youth and
passion, on the same score I'll let them

pass unpunished that you may know me
better. Look you now, Master Elliot, how
much breath you have wasted ; I meant
you no harm, and you shall go hence sound
as you came hither. I but wished to make
you feel that in Tushielaw your life hung on
the bend of my finger."

Gilbert was more amazed by this turn of
affairs than by the treachery which had
captured him so easily. He was still suspicious,
however, and remained silent.

"You doubt me," the chief went on.
'* Well, I make no marvel anent that ; bait
you may doubt me more, mayhap, before
I am done. Know, then, I pledge the word
of a Borderer to you not to raise a finger
against Spens or to let man of mine attempt
to hurt him till the second sunrise hence."

In half that time I shall be back herewith
the pardon," cried Gilbert eagerly, and
thrown entirely off his guard by being released
from his bonds and having his sword
returned to him.

That we shall see ; but meanwhile I

VOL. II. T

must be held blameless in this affair," proceeded
Tushielaw; *' my despatches are
distinct, and if I for a time waive fulfilment
of their behests you must give me some
authority to show for it."

*what token can I give you that will
satisfy you?"

*' Sit you down there and write me a
statement of how you lost the King's
despatch, and how I have agreed, in my
respect for his Majesty, to wait your return."

Gilbert willingly wrote as he was desired,
and rose from the board without suspecting
the import of the document he had indited.
Of course, Tushielaw would only have to
show this to prove that Master Elliot had
quitted the tower in safety.

** I can go now ? "

** Freely; but you will break bread with
us or drain a cup of wine ? "

* Neither, till I have redeemed the wrong
I have done Spens ? "

Ding-a'-doon conducted him from the
hall. His horse as in the court, fastened

to the bridle by an iron ring. The bustle
and life he had found there on his entrance
had disappeared. The court was silent, sad,
and deserted.

His guide, with a torch casting a lurid
glare around them, was leading the way to
the gate when Gilbert, who had mounted,
felt something touch his feet. He glanced
down and saw the dwarf Hornie, who had
apparently something to communicate in
secret, as his finger pressed warningly on his
lip betokened.

Gilbert bent down to hear ; the movement
was observed by Ding-a'-doon, and
he turned round. The dwarf, however,
avoided him by slipping swiftly under the
horse. "Whether the giant suspected anything
or not, he continued to walk beside
the horse till they were across the court.

The moment, however, he advanced to
open the gate, Gilbert stooped. Hornie
darted forward out of the darkness and
whispered 

** 'Ware the glen at Gilmanscleuch."

He had no time to say more, for 
threw the gate open and stood aside
to let the rider pass.

* A safe journey to ye, master," said the
giant grimly, "though the night be dark
and the road a lonely one'*

"It shall be a safe one, though, under
favour of the Holy Mother ; and a gay one
in the hope of a profitable issue to my dealings
with your master."

As Gilbert spoke he pricked his horse
sharply with his spurs, and proceeded at a
gallop down the declivities path.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE FOREST.

The first flight of arrows the Foresters shot

They wounded him on the knee ;
And out speak the seventh Forester,

The next will gar him die.
Johne's set his back against the ask,

His sute against a stane :
And he has slain the seven Foresters,

He has slain them a' but ane.
He has broke three ribs in that ane's side ;

But and his collar bane ;
He laid him twafauld owe his steed 

Bade him carry the tidings hame."

Johne o' Breadislee,

Gilbert rode up the bank of Ettrick water
as if purposing to go through Gilman-

VOL. III. B

screech ; but this was merely to blind whoever
might be following him  for that he
was followed he had no doubt. In reality
meant to avoid the glen, for, knowing
that for some secret reason the dwarf was
a partisan of the cause of Spens, he deemed
his warning worth heeding.

So when he had got about a mile beyond
Crossed, he forded the current and took
the west side of Godhead, with intent to
go by Hindehope to Selkirk, procure a
fresh horse there, and then make straight
for the capital.

He had not, however, advanced more
than half a mile after crossing the Ettrick
when he heard the distant note of a bugle.
Presently the signal was answered by a still
more distant note.

Suspecting that these sounds intimated
the discovery of his change of route, he urged
his jaded horse forward. The poor animal,
already fairly exhausted by its lengthened
journey, made a feeble effort to quicken
its pace in obedience to whip and spur.

But the pace was little increased after all,
and the extra exertion thus forced upon it
served only to exhaust its remaining strength
the sooner.

The feet were lifted like weights and fell
with dull thuds upon the turf. Gradually,
in despite of fiercest promptings, the pace
slackened and the gallop was barely as
fast as a fresh horse might have trotted
with ease.

Now he began to hear the distant treftd
of a body of horse, which rapidly became
louder  louder as the pursuers lessened
the distance between them and the pursued.
At length with the muffled sound of the
hoof-treads was mingled the clatter and
clank of armour.

He had escaped an ambuscade, but it
was clearly not intended that he should
altogether elude his enemies  whoever they
were. Upon the latter score he had little
difficulty in coming to a conclusion ; although
why Tushielaw should allow him to leave
the tower unharmed, and then endeavour

to entrap him on the way, he could not
understand.

The sky was unclouded, the air clear,
the wind subdued, and the stars shed a
soft light on hill and dale. The trees of
the forest made long shadows on the ground,
and beneath them was darkness.

Finding that his pursuers were gaining
rapidly upon him, he forsook the bridle-path
and dived into the forest. About
twenty paces into the darkness and he
halted, intending to wait there till the
pursuers had passed, when he might take
to the hill again and avoid them by passing
round the eastern side of Hindehope.

The pursuers, about twelve in number,
came clattering up and thundered by the
place where their quarry lay concealed.

 They are not likely to fash me again
to-night," he thought, as he began to move
out of his hiding-place.

He checked himself immediately as he
discovered, by the sudden cessation of the
sounds of movement, that the troopers had

halted. They had by some means become
aware that their victim was doubling upon
them.

The moss troopers had been made aware
of this fact by a brace of sleuth-hounds,
whose guidance they were following. The
hounds had overshot the mark by about
twenty ells at the place where Gilbert had
turned into the forest, but, losing the scent,
they turned and ran about, sniffing the
ground and whining.

By crossing the Ettrick, Gilbert would
have eluded the hounds, the running stream
destroying the scent, had not Ding-a'-doon
followed him from the Tower, and marked
his route.

The giant wound his horn and so brought
the men from Gilmanscleuch. Then he took
the dogs across the water, put them on
the track, and they pursued it unerringly
till they reached the point where the prey
had turned aside.

A series of quick sharp yelps speedily
announced to the moss troopers that the

track had been discovered again, and the
hounds darted into the wood.

Gilbert, finding that there was no escape,
prepared to yield his life as became a
soldier.

' They shall pay dearly for it," he
muttered, with his teeth set tightly, 'fifths
good blade will hold to its haft."

He had halted in an open space where
there was only spare room for three horsemen
to stand together. He fastened the
reins to the pommel of his saddle, and
with sword in one hand, a petronel in the
other, he awaited the attack, which was
near, to judge by the loud crackling of
branches and clank of armour.

First came the hounds, yelKng and
barking furiously. One sprang upon him ;
he fired his petronel right into its breast,
and the animal rolled backward, dead; the
other scampered away howling in pain,
with an ear lopped off by one sweep of
his sword.

He dashed the empty petronel into the

face of the trooper who at that moment
urged his horse into the space. The man,
blinded and maddened by the pain, lost
control of his horse, which bounded forward
with him, and knocking his head
against a stout branch tumbled him insensible
to the ground.

Gilbert struck his second assailant with
such good effect that the man fell forward
on his horse ; and as the animal
stood obstinately still, it blocked up the
space, rendering it impossible for more
than one man at a time to attack in front.
It was a brief respite.

Then came Ding-a'-doon, roaring like
an infuriated bear and cursing every tree
in the forest for rendering his Jeddart axe
useless. When he got into the space,
however, where Gilbert awaited him, he
obtained a tolerable sweep for it, and he
brought it down with a giant's strength,
expecting to accomplish his evil mission
with one well aimed blow. But, thanks
to the darkness, his aim was not so sure

as it would have been otherwise, and
thanks to the quick eye of Gilbert somewhat
more accustomed to the darkness
of the place than his opponents. By
making his horse move one step aside,
the blow was avoided.

Ding-a'-doon had been so confident of
the effect of his stroke that he nearly lost
his balance, and before he could recover
himself, Gilbert took advantage of the
opportunity to sever the pole of the axe
with his sword. The giant uttered a growl
of fury, and, standing in his stirrups,
wielding his massive sword with as much
ease as if it had been a feather, closed
fiercely with Gilbert.

The latter, although wielding a much
lighter weapon, and although possessing
much less pith of arm, was more thana
match for his infuriated opponent, in
his perfect coolness and superior knowledge
of fence. He had, too, some advantage of
position.

Still, the great strength of Ding-a'-doon

and the help of his followers would have
made the combat a brief one had not a
slight diversion occurred at this juncture.

The diversion was caused by the appearance
of a light moving rapidly among
the trees. The moss troopers had observed
it, and, superstitious to a degree, instead
of helping Pate and finishing at once
the work they had come upon, they stood
still watching the light, marvelling at it
and dreading its meaning.

Ding-a'-doon was neither coward enough
nor cool enough to think of calling to
his men for aid  especially when dealing
with an opponent whose light figure and
youth he had hitherto despised. The
power which this same despised opponent
now displayed in keeping him so long at
bay, despite his utmost exertion, inflamed
his thirst for victory and added to his
wrath. At every thrust parried, and every
cut warded off, the giant became more
and more passionate and blind.

At length Gilbert pierced him under the

sword arm. The yell of rage to which
Ding-a'-doon gave vent attracted the attention
of his men, who in alarm for his
safety for a moment forgot their superstitious
fears and turned to his assistance.


Eddie Craig slipped from his horse, and,
throwing down his axe, sword in hand
rushed at Gilbert. But finding his cheek
sliced by a side sweep of the foeman's
blade, he thought of an effectual way of
settling the strife. He ran his sword upto
the hilt in the side of Gilbert's horse.

The animal staggered, but before it fell
its rider leapt to the ground, and dashing
in upon Ding-a'-doon, pierced him under
the breastplate.

The next instant he had placed his back
against a tree to encounter Eddie Craig and
Yetholm Will. The others were dismounting
and advancing upon him with axes upraised,
and the combat would have closed
immediately in his death; but, when all
hope had deserted him, the light which had

startled the Borderers at a distance was
thrust between them and their victim.

All the men drew back with a shout of
alarm, and Eddie Craig cried 

* The witch, the witch  Kirsty Hyslop of
Merlin's Cairn."

The appearance of the woman at that
moment and in that place was startling
enough ; but to men accustomed to think
of her as one gifted with the supernatural
power of the Evil Eye, of inflicting disease
and death with a glance  to men accustomed
to avoid her path as they would have
avoided the plague  her appearance was
more than potent enough to make them
pause in the execution of their dark work.

In her hand she held a blazing torch,
which cast a red glare around the place and
upon her own weird figure. She stood gaunt
and erect, her unusually tall figure seeming
at the moment actually to tower above the
crouching forms of the men. As she generally
walked with bent shoulders, the appearance
of increased height added its

influence to awe the rude Borderers. The
red kerchief wound about her head, a hie
cloak falling from her shoulders, revealing
a grey short gown and striped petticoat,
contrived in her present attitude to give
her form a certain wild grace. All this,
with the sallow cheeks and dark eyes
flashing angrily, rendered her a formidable
opponent to the superstitious minds of the
Borderers.

' Which of ye," she demanded, in sharp
shrill voice that was echoed through the
forest,  which of ye will be the first to raise
a hand against this man whom I protect ?
Be he the strongest amongst ye he shall
surely die."

For a little while there seemed to be
none of them willing to test the truth of
her warning. Yet only two began to slink
away ; the others remained as if frozen to
the spot.

The silence was broken by Yetholm Will.

Burn me, lads, but we may as weel doe
at the hands o' the witch here as be swung

up by the maister when we get hame again,
for being cowed by a woman and a single
man. On them, lads, and toon wi' them."

A shout was raised, and in accordance
with their comrade's advice, there was a
movement as if to renew the attack.

Haud a wee, hand a wee," interrupted
the hoarse voice of Ding-a'-doon, now
grown feeble, as if the bulky form was
exhausted at last.

In surprise the men looked in the direction
whence the voice came, and saw the
giant lying, as it seemed, helpless at the
feet of his horse.

Yetholm Will and Craig, with a growl of
amaze and rage, sprang to his side, and
tried to raise him from the ground.

Ye needna fash yourself about me,
lads," groaned the exhausted Ding-a'-doon,
*' I'm bye wi' it. But it was in fair fecit ;
and, damn it, but if he had kilt me twenty
times, I'll say he's a braw chief, an' diana
get fair play. . . . I'm bye wi' it ; but let
the chief gang his gait, and tel ye the

maister I said it. Bid him, if lie will,
avenge me in fair fecit, but let ye the chief
gang  damn him ; he's spoiled me."

Ding-a'-doon's head fell heavily back on
Craig's shoulder, and in the performance of
the one really generous act which his blind
stupidity and fidelity to his foster-brother
permitted him to do in his life, Pate Scott,
the giant, died.

There was gloomy dismay upon the
visages of the Borderers, for Ding-a'-doon
had been liked by them for his simplicity,
and admired on account of his extraordinary
strength and dogged courage. To see him
die now by the hand of a mere youth  one
who was the foe of their chief, and whose
death they had been sent to accomplish 
aroused their fiercest passions. Besides,
they had some reason to dread the wrath
of the master when they returned and told
him what had happened.

During this brief lull Kir sty Hyslop said
in a hasty undertone to Gilbert 

' Pick up your horn and wind a blast

loud as your lungs will blow  there may befriends
near by now."

Gilbert picked up the horn which in the
contest had fallen from Ding-a'-doon.

'' What signals

'' The call."

He put the horn to his lips, and as the
sound rang through the forest Yetholm Will
started to his feet.

* Lads," he shouted, ** we maun avenge
the death of Pate Scott before we look again
on Tushielaw Tower."

The words were answered by a shout of
assent, and the men rushed furiously at the
witch and the man she was endeavouring to
shield.

Recognizing that the spell of her authority
was broken, and hearing the sound of a
bugle at no great distance, she waved the
torch round her head as if to serve asa
signal to guide those who might be approaching,
and then dashed it upon the
ground, extinguishing it with her foot.

A moment of total darkness followed.

She seized Gilbert by the arm and dragged
him away from the place.

*' It is certain death to bide here," she
hissed in his ear.

He submitted, and she guided him by
many turnings through the trees and toward
the bridle-path. Tracked by the crackling
of branches, they were closely pursued by
the enraged moss troopers, who with fierce
oaths curst every obstacle to their vengeance.

In the excitement of the pursuit none of
them heard the fast appro aching hoof-treads
of horses.

When the fugitives passed out upon the
bridle-path they were seen at once by the
pursuers, who rushed at them with furious
yells.

But here they were encountered by seven
horsemen, who laid about them with so
much skill and good will that after a brief
skirmish the tide of affairs was completely
turned. The moss troopers became the fugitives,
and took to the shelter of the wood.

They were not pursued far, and when

the gentlemen comprising the rescue had
gathered together again on the bridle-path,
Gilbert recognized Captain Lindsay himself
and half a dozen Gentlemen of the Queen's
Guard, who seemed to regard the whole
affair as an excellent bit of sport.

*' Silence, gentlemen  silence ! " said the
Captain, with his usual stern regard for
discipline ; "let us understand this matter.
Whose men were these, Master Elliot, who
attacked you ? "

*' Scott of Tushielaw's ; " and Gilbert recounted
briefly what had occurred, and in
concluding said, '' And now. Captain, may
I ask by what miracle you and these
good gentlemen arrived so timely to my
rescue ? "

* By no miracle at all, but simply by
learning that you were in danger; and
obtaining one day's release from duty for
myself and your friends here, who volunteered
to share the journey and the sport
with me, we started at our best speed. On
the way we found that good woman  why,

VOL. III.

where, in the name of saints, has she gone
to?"

* She went up to the clouds on a broomstick,"
exclaimed one gallant, laughing.

it "Wrong," said another ; ' she disappeared
into the earth in a blaze of brimstone."

a Irreverent boys ! " cried a third, who
affected to be more serious than the rest,
and was, in fact, the wildest of the party ;
 the old woman has transformed herself
into a flea, has got upon Ogilvie's back, and
means to ride him to the devil."

* It is singular that she should have runaway
without the smallest acknowledgment
of her services," said the Captain, pretending
not to observe the licence of his
little troop. '' I presume whilst we were
talking she slipped into the wood and so got
away unobserved. It is singular. However,
you can borrow one of the horses of your
enemy, and as we ride along I will explain."

Gilbert, sorry that Kirsty had so abruptly
departed the moment she had seen him in
safety, determined to seek her at Merlin's

Cairn and reward her in whatever fashion
the strange woman would permit. He
easily procured the horse of one of the dead
moss troopers, which was quietly grazing
near the scene of the first encounter in the
wood. As he rode beside the Captain
he received privately the explanations he
desired, whilst his comrades followed, jesting
and laughing gaily.

'* Just after you quitted the Castle, the
servant of Lady Spens obtained admittance.
He acquainted me that he had been told by
a friend that Spens had been taken away by
Scott of Tushielaw, and that he was to be
slain. He said also that your journey, unsupported
by men at your back, would end
in your death, although you had the King's
pardon in your pouch. He wanted to see
Lady Mary Douglas to ask her help."

' Why should he have sought her help ? '*
said Gilbert, innocently.

** Humph! you should know best. At
any rate, next morning her ladyship appealed
to the Queen-regent for assistance

and was refused. Then she came to me.
I obtained leave, as I have told yon already
and for her sake came to your rescue."

* Thanks to her good ladyship and jou."

*' They are all due to her."

*I wish I had something worthier to
offer her."

*' Humph ! if I were a young man  but
pshaw ! what am I saying ? Do not lookin
that quarter too often, Master Elliot, if
you value your own peace."

I have looked too often already," thought
Gilbert, but he kept the thought to himself.

*' Well, on our way, as I was saying, we
met this queer woman of Merlin's Cairn.
She seems to have special information of all
that transpires in Tushielaw Tower. She
conducted us to its precincts, but we missed
you. The woman obtained intelligence of
the direction you had taken, and that you
were pursued, from a dwarfed creature whom
she met at Crossed."

 How were you so long behind her in
reaching me ? '

'* She took the wood with a torch to show
whereabouts she was, whilst we kept the
path."

Gilbert repeated his thanks for the service
which had been rendered him, but Lindsay
stoutly denied any claim to them. The
former then said gloomily 

* How is it you do not ask about Spens ? ''

Lindsay shook his head sadly.

' Because I know that he is beyond all
need of help now''

' What is it you mean ? "

'that he is dead; and that Tushielaw
was for some purpose deceiving you."

The captain repeated the same facts
which Tushielaw gave to Barras relative
to the fate of Spens, and which he had
obtained from Kirsty Hyslop. With 
heavy heart Gilbert now acknowledged that
his journey had been vain indeed, since he
had allowed the precious pardon which had
been obtained with so much difficulty to be
stolen from him, and had by his own carelessness
been kept upon the road till, even

had he possessed the pardon, it would have
been too late to save him.

Captain Lindsay had evidently a very
stern suspicion of his favourite's laxness ;
hut he refrained from expressing it at present.
He divined that his young friend's own
heart would scourge him too bitterly for the
mishap to make any other chastisement
needful or just.

And his conclusion was correct ; for
Elliot's head was bowed upon his breast,
magnifying his accident into a positive
crime, until he felt as if he were already
branded with the scorn and shame a wilful
disregard for the life of his friend would
have merited.

' Courage, comrade ! " whispered the
Captain as they were entering Selkirk, and
thinking now that a word of comfort rather
than reprobation was needed;  the blackest
night may have the sunniest dawn."

Ay, but there can be no dawn to my
night since Spens is dead."

*' Tush, man ! the thing was beyond your

help. Think rather of finding the varlet
who tricked you so. Then you shall make
him pay rarely for his sport."

* As sure as I have death to hide I will
find him," said Gilbert solemnly, and leaving
the issue of the finding to be inferred.

 Have you any means of recognizing
him?"

' I think I would know his voice, and the
host at Peebles acquainted me that the
man had a blue mark on the side of his left
eye."

* These are no very potent signs : a voice
may be altered to suit occasion by those
who have skill in its management ; and for
the scar, why, you will find nine men out
of ten bearing the stamp of some battle or
brawl."

 But this is distinct in hue and place."

'' Not so distinct but that you may pitch
on the wrong man. Why, by the mass, I
have already found one in my memory who
bears the very mark."

'' Whom?"

* None but the new Lord of Binram, the
favourite parasite of Angus."

* And to him my suspicion points as the
knave."

'' Wherefore ? "

** He was Spens's foe and mine. He
tried, as you will mind, to hinder the grant
of the pardon, and for some strange reason
he seems to haunt me like an evil shadow,
marring every hope I have most cherished."

Gilbert narrated all he remembered of the
scene enacted by himself and B arras in the
dungeon of Tushielaw Tower.

** Humph !  there lies more behind this
than we see. The clue to all that has
befallen you lies hidden there."

The Captain said no more at that time,
but the matter occupied his serious thought.

Chapter II.

THE Troth TO THE DEAD.

The made a bier of the broken bough,

The such and the aspen gray, 

And they bore him to the lady chapel
And waked him there all day.

They buried him at the mirk midnight
When the dew fell cold and still,
When the aspen gray forgot to play
And the mist clung to the hill.

They dug his grave but a bare foot deep
By the edge of tie Limestone Burn,
And the prayer they said was a vow to shed
His slayer's blood ere morn."

Old Ballad.

When Captain Lindsay and his party had
retired from the scene of the skirmish, the
routed moss troopers ralHed and with gloomy

visages returned to seek their fallen comrades.


Of the thirteen who had started in pursuit
of Elliot, only eye had escaped with whole
skins, four were dead, and four more were
badly wounded. It had been an unlucky
night's work ; and the five  Eddie Craig was
one of them  who proceeded to help their
wounded comrades worked in grim silence.
Not one of them spoke, for they were disheartened
by their defeat, and entertained
unpleasant forebodings of Tushielaw's wrath.

With some difficulty they succeeded in
securing their horses  excepting the one
Gilbert had taken in exchange for his own
dead steed. Two of the dead troopers were
strapped on one horse, a third on another
horse, and the giant body of Ding-a'-doon
was hoisted to the saddle of the animal he
had ridden so stoutly when alive.

'It's your last ride. Pate," said Craig,
huskily, breaking the silence and apostrophizing
the dead horseman, 'an' I wish it
had been a merrier ane."

''He might like been weel as when lie
started the night if it hanna been for that
donned witch's licht," groaned Yetholm
Will, who was pierced through the right
shoulder.

'deil burn her," growled the Borderers
moodily.

The wounded were next placed in their
saddles, strapped on and supported by their
comrades. Then the procession moved
slowly to the Tower.

Their arrival was greeted with furious
howls and loudly muttered oaths of vengeance
by the comrades of the dead moss-troopers.
Three of the bodies were left in
the court to be looked after by their own
women-folk. But the body of Ding-a'-doon
was carried upon a bier of Jeddart axes into
the hall.

Tushielaw and B arras were thunder-stricken
by the spectacle.

Eddie Craig related all that had occurred
truthfully enough in all particulars except
with regard to the numbers and time of

arrival of the rescuers. Probably he spoke
truth in this respect also according to his
belief, for he had not had a chance to count
their assailants, and his idea of time might
well have been confused by the combat.

He and those with him expected to see
Tushielaw burst into one of his most uncontrollable
passions. They were, therefore,
considerably astonished when he simply
motioned to them to retire.

When all were gone save B arras, he
advanced slowly to the corpse of his foster-brother
and looked with a sort of grim
sorrow on the ghastly grisly-bearded face.
He gazed with a gloomy doubt troubling
his soul, yet with a stern resolution in his
bearing which conferred something of dignity
upon him. So, with hands clasped and head
bowed, he stood for a space.

B arras, frowning and savagely gnawing
the flesh of his finger-tips, his cunning eyes
moving restlessly about the hall and occasionally
glancing askance at the living and
the dead forms near him, waited.

Tushielaw looked up at last.

*' Well, are yon satisfied yet ? Is this the
hand of Fate, or merely chance?" he demanded
deliberately, as one labouring under
an earnest conviction.

** Chance, chance, I say, for each man
holds his fate in his own hands," was the
uneasy rejoinder ; for Barras could barely
conceal from himself that his faith in his
own power was being shaken.

' And I say Fate, Fate, and no man may
command his destiny ! " thundered Tushie-
law. *' But, be the power which rules these
things what it may, your memory, Pate,
shall not He cold; the woman Hyslop, witch
though she be, and Gilbert Elliot, shall die
for your sake before this armour quits my
back  yea, though it should rust there and
my bones rot in it. My hand is given to
the dead in troth upon it." Solemnly he
clasped the dead man's cold hand in his
own ; then laid it almost gently down.

A gleam of fiendish satisfaction flashed in
the eyes of Barras, the crafty.

"And I join my troth with yours' he
said, advancing and touching the breast of
the corpse as he spoke.

Now scheme, for you have a head for
cunning wiles ; and, be your scheme however
bold, there is the hand that will
despatch it."

Kest you here, then, till you have
tidings from me. Trust me, you shall not
tarry long."

Barras took horse at once and set out at
a round pace for Edinburgh.

Tushielaw summoned Craig and bade him
get some of the women-folk to help him in
preparing the body for the grave. There
was little to do, for he directed that the
giant should be buried in his armour as he
had fallen.

Then he retired to the turret chamber
and held no intercourse with any until the
succeeding night, when the burial took
place.

Men, women, and children, all who owed
allegiance to Scott of Tushielaw, formed

in one long procession, with innumerable
torches flaring and casting a lurid light for
miles around. They bore the bodies of the
chief's foster-brother and the men who had
fallen with him to the burying-ground at
the old chapel by St. Mary's Loch.

As the procession moved slowly through
the night it seemed like a great fiery serpent
trailing its length over hill, through vale,
by wood and stream. The bosom of the
loch seemed to be on fire with its reflection
of the torchlight when the procession halted,
stretching far along its margin.

Prayers were said by a simple 'book-
man "  that was, a priest who for some
misdemeanour had been expelled from
orders, and who wandered about amongst
the Border thieves ready to perform any
ceremony of the priestly office for the
biggest sinner, and the least in return for
shelter and protection.

Tushielaw had too long set the ministers
of the Church at defiance, and too often
made free with the belongings of her

sanctuaries, to obtain the service of any
other man of sacred office ; and for the
same reason the bodies had to be buried
just outside the circle of consecrated ground.

The pit in which the moss troopers were
buried, one upon the other, and 
uppermost, was speedily filled up.

'Now for vengeance," said Tushielaw,
as soon as the last shovelful of earth had
been emptied.

He sprang upon his horse, and, followed
by an encouraging cheer from two hundred
voices, he led fifty men away in the direction
of Merlin's Cairn.

The worthy bookman was refreshing his
throat after his exertions with a draught of
good strong ale, when Hornie, riding upon
the biggest horse he had been able to lay
hands upon, trotted up to him.

' Say, Mess Peter," he cried in his bellowing
voice, swill you scribe me an epic
aught." '

' Epi-draught, varlet ! " said Mess Peter,
withdrawing the flagon from his mouth

and smacking his lips with evident relish.
/' Epitaph shouldst say."

*' Weel, weel, epi-draught or epithet, od
wot it's a' ane to you."

** Eight enow, my son, right enow ; for
I can take a draught of good ale with any
man, and scribe with any other."

' Then you shall scribe me this, and stick
over the banes of Pate Scott "  and Hornie
recited with mock gravity these lines 

Here lies a big giant
Wha was sae defiant
He'd bae faced e'en the deil
An' stood bis run weel ;
Sae we card bim Ding-a'-doon,
An' bere be's a' dung-toon.  Amen."

 Out upon ye, sacrilegious son of a
witch," shouted indignant Mess Peter,
raising the flagon as if to heave it at the
head of the offender ; but suddenly altering
his mind to a more Christian frame, or
thinking it a pity to waste good liquor on
such a wretch, he applied the flagon to his
own lips instead. With one of his loud

VOL. III. D

hoarse laughs, Hornie set off at full speed,
and, like the evil spirit most of the folks
of the country-side believed him to be, with
mirth on his lip when there was gloom on
every other brow, he disappeared in the
direction taken by his master.

Tushielaw found the shieling at Merlin's
Cairn empty. The slender furniture had
been removed and nothing but bare walls
left, so that it was evident Kirsty had
obtained knowledge of his intent. He beat
the forest till noon next day ; and then
returned to the tower with his men, as far
from the accomplishment of his vow as
when he had set forth.

Chapter lY.

THE GIPSY LADDIE.

If this be true, thou little foot-pages
If this be true thou tells to me,
The bravest bower in Otterburn
Shall be thy morning's fee.

But if it be false, thou little boy,
But and a lie thou tells to me,
On the highest tree in Otterburn
Wi' my ain hands I'll hang thee hie."

Battle of Otterburn:

As Captain Lindsay had suspected, Kirsty
Hyslop had taken advantage of the opportunity
afforded by his conversation with
his young friend to sHp unperceived into
the wood, and so avoid thanks for which
she cared nothing, and inquiries which

might have been unpleasant. With a
long masculine stride and firm step, which
indicated her familiarity with the windings
of the forest, she hurried to her bield
at Merlin's Cairn. In the small square
window of the shieling a white light was
burning, and served as a beacon to the
wanderer ascending the steep.

When she entered the rude dwelling,
the cheery blaze of a fire, upon which the
fagots had been heaped prodigally, greeted
her. At the same time a welcome was
pronounced by the genial voice of honest
Andrew Howie.

' I'm glad ye hae come back, midwife,"
he whispered; 'for my lady, no satisfied
wi' forcing me to bring her to this quarter
to the very lion's mouth as it might
be  has ta'en the wildest cantrip in her
head ever mortal body heard o'."

Kir sty made no reply, but her usually
dark and almost sullen visage became a
shade darker. She closed the door and
advanced to the hearth, where Lady Spens

was seated in the only chair the shieling
contained.

Her elbow rested on the chair, her cheek
upon her hand, the other arm hanging
listlessly by her side, the while she gazed
with an air of weary abstraction at the
fire.

She wore a black velvet riding-habit,
with a small white collar round the neck ;
and the whiteness of the lace was more
than rivalled by the deathly pallor of her
face.

* The young man is safe," said Kirsty,
abruptly, after gazing an instant at the
lady.

The latter was startled by the voice as
from a trance, and she looked up quickly 
evidently ignorant of what had been said.
Kirsty repeated her words.

I am glad of that  I am glad of that ;
Master Elliot has already sacrificed too
much in our unhappy cause. Pray Heaven
he may now forget us."

*eye speak, my lady, as one who was

done with the world ; yet you are young,
and have still store of fair looks."

Lady Spens raised her hand as if to bar
further speech.

Youth and looks are alike valueless
to me," she said in a sharp tone of pain,
"since my goodman is dead."

Mayhap he lives  Hornie bade me say
Hope ! "

Had he been living, I would have had
some token from him by now."

"Are ye so sure of that? Ye are not
where he left ye, and who knows what
ill-hap may keep him silent for a time ? "

My heart pleads with you ; for I am
like one drowning, and a feather on the
wave quickens the hope that land may be
near. But what feather is there on the
waters of my affliction to bid me hope ?
Did they not see him fall, and does not
Tushielaw boast of being the best marksman
of the borders?"

The best has sometimes missed his

* All that I try  saints know how hard I
try  to believe. But I am none the less
resolved to return to Edinburgh with clear
proof that Spens is innocent of the crime
attached to him, or I never return in life."

'* And to obtain those proofs what would
ye do?"

' Obtain access to the tower of Tushie-
law."

*what, trust yourself within the walls
from which ye have already found it hard
enough to escape ? "

"Even so."

< Why, then, to get in is an easy matter
if ye are bent on it. Ye have only to
send greeting to the king of the Borders,
and say that ye have come to him now
of your own free will. The gates will
open for ye right speedily."

She spoke mockingly, but the lady either
understood that she was anxious for her
safety or was too much depressed to resent
the ill-timed jest.

'you know my meaning, Kirsty," she

said calmly. '' I would enter the tower
of my husband's foe, but it must be in
such guise that even those who know me
best would fail to recognize me."

The calm determination of her ladyship's
manner impressed the witch-wife deeply ;
her tone of raillery and her sullen looks
gave place to a tone and expression of
earnest appeal. Clasping her long bony
fingers, and stretching her hand towards
the lady, she cried 

 To ye and to the Master of Halstane
I owe my life. Ye protected me when a'
beside would have hunted me down and
burnt me at the stake. Minding my debt,
see me kneeling to ye, ready, for your
sake, to give up the life ye have saved,
and praying, for the sake of the Holy
Mother, for the sake of the man ye love,
cinna cinna do this thing ; cinna risk
your life an' honour within the reach of
yon accursed man."

Lady Spens gently raised the old woman
from her knees.

"I know, Kirsty, that it is your heart
speaks, but you cannot alter my resolve.
Were Spens alive  ah, would that I might
dare to hope he is !  there could be no rest,
no safety for him, as there is none for me
whilst this black cloud lowers upon our
name. The pardon granted by the King
is but a confirmation of guilt, since it
condemns him to exile. Better, then, to
die in trying to remove the stain, than
to drawl out a life of misery under its
ban. I charge you, if you feel you owe
us ought, help my purpose forward, not
attempt to stay me. I am resolved upon
the venture."

Since it is your ladyship's will I maun
obey," said Kirsty, with an air of stern
submission.

' Saints boon ! " exclaimed Andrew,
horrified, "is it possible that ye would ? "

He was interrupted by an imperative
gesture from his mistress.

You must be silent, Andrew, and careful
; for to you I confide the charge of

my poor Alice should mischief befall
me."

Andrew was dumb and bewildered.

 Ye will have to wait a day, and maybe
two," said Kirsty, now in her habitually
slow undertone,  till the storm of what
has happened to-night be soothed. For
the present we maun get ye a garb for
your venture, and flit to some hiding-place.


' A hiding-place?"

' Ay. Tushielaw will put on my spells
the credit of having saved yon young man,
and of killing his foster-brother, Pate
Scott. So the hunt will be up against me,
and ye cannot shield me this time."

'* Alas ! it is you who must shield me."

 Do not fear that. There be many
rare nooks in Yarrow Vale and Ettrick that
even Adam Scott woes not of."

** "When must we leave ? "

 The signal for the hunt to rise will
reach me ere a man quits the tower. We
will start then. Ye had better rest a wee

now, and I will prepare what things ye
need to transmogrify a bonnie lady into
a berry-faced laddie."

She conducted Lady Spens " but " to
the chamber in which Gilbert had lain
during his illness, and left her there to
sleep.

Andrew dozed by the fire, dreaming all
sorts of bad dreams, and starting up now
and again to rush to the rescue of his
mistress, who he deemed in imminent peril
But he only saw Kirsty Hyslop with her
dark inscrutable face moving busily and
noiselessly about, so he composed himself
to sleep again.

Early in the morning the signal Kirsty
had anticipated arrived. A white dove
alighted at the door, and under its wing
Kirsty found, secured by a bit of cord, a
wing clipped from a smaller bird.

With Andrew's help, she hurriedly conveyed
the principal pieces of the little
furniture she possessed to a species of
cavern near the foot of the cairn. Then

she aroused Lady Spens and acquainted
her that they must go. The sun was only
a little way on its course when the three
quitted the shieling. Kirsty carried a
bundle and led the way ; Andrew rode with
sundry parcels attached to his saddle, and
followed his mistress. He had serious
doubts as to the manner in which all this
queer work was to end. Sleeping in the
house of a known witch, and then walking
hand-in-hand with her, would have been
to him not the least perilous part of the
business had he not learned to regard Kirsty
as a sensible sort of a woman, whether she
was a witch or no.

Kirsty proceeded down the stream, and
waded part of the way in the water, so as
to baffle the bloodhounds should they be set
upon her track. She conducted her friends
in the direction of St. Mary's Chapel.

Two hours after Tushielaw had returned
in ill-humour from his unsuccessful hunt for
the witch wife, Hornie the dwarf was seen

ascending the steep in front of the tower,
capering and shouting as if he were crazed.
He was dragging behind him a young lad,
round whose waist he had secured one end
of a rope, whilst with the other end over
his shoulder, he tugged the prisoner along.

The luckless lad who was thus forced
to accompany the dwarf seemed to be sadly
frightened by his captor, and unable to
resist his superior strength. He was
dressed in a somewhat ragged garment,
which had evidently belonged formerly to a
man of broad shoulders and stout Hmbs, for
it was much too big for its present owner.
It was a forester's frock, which had once
been of the Lincoln green, but its colour
was now faded and its woof worn threadbare ;
it was fastened round his body by a broad
leather belt. His hose, however, were
bright red, and seemed to be a recent
acquisition.

His visage was handsome, intelligent, and
brown as a berry.

His hair was short, curly, and jet black.

Altogether, his appearance was interesting,
and was that of a child of the woods.

' Now, what prank is this the imp Hornie
is playing?" growled Eddie Craig, as he
observed the dwarf approaching; *' if that,
be not one of those spellmongering Egyptians
that have settled of late in Yetholm, may I
be hanged."

'' Which way will you go now, Satan's
whelp ? " shouted Hornie, dancing into the
court with his captive. *aha! I have ye
fast, and ye shall go the way that pleases
me ; haw, haw, haw ! "

' You hurt me, master," said the boy
meekly. " I will go what way you will an
you will but jerk the rope less."

*' What seek ye wi' the laddie?" said
Craig, striding forward. 'ris he not one of
the Egyptians ? "

Ay is he, and my prisoner, whatever hebe,"
retorted Hornie, pompously. '' But he
shall to the master at once, for he has a
secret that will make him value my captive
rarely."

 Whatis't?"

' That's for our chief's ear. Aha, ye
gowks, ye marvel why I lag behind ye in
the forest ; but I have found a prize this
time that will make ye wish ye had lagged
with me. Give way, give way."

And furiously tugging his youthful
prisoner after him, he pushed his way to
the door of the turret-chamber, where
Tushielaw was moodily pacing the floor,
meditating upon his yet unaccomplished
vengeance. Hornie's loud demand for admission
caused the chief to open the door
speedily.

*' What's all this steer for ? " he growled
angrily, not observing the gipsy lad.

The dwarf entered the chamber with an
air of triumph and pointed to his prisoner.

That's what the steer's about, master."

 Then what, in the fiend's name, do you
make so much steer for anent so small a
matter ? Why have ye brought the calla nt
here ? "

'rit is no small matter, master, as ye

shall learn ; and when ye hae learnt, ye will
ken that I had good reason for bringing the
laddie to ye."

What reason have ye to show why I
should not scourge you for disturbing me ? "

My faith, gin I cinna show ye reason
to reward me wi' something pleasant thana
scourging, ye may scourge wa till your
satisfaction. This gipsy callant has seen
the witch wife, Kirsty Hyslop."

* Ha ! say you ? Speak, lad : where have
you seen the witch ? "

' On Bowerhope Law," answered the
young gipsy, timidly.

'* How long syne ? "

' No more than three hours syne''

* Humph  if this be true ye shall have a
piece of gold for your tidings, and a home
at Tushielaw if ye please. What is your
name ? "

' Kara."

'* An odd name, surely. Where come
you from ? ' '

Yetholm. My folk are resting there ;

they have journeyed a long way from the
east ; but I remember only the green fields
of England and the grey hills of your
country, where I have lived most. Yesterday
the father of our folk cudgelled me
sorely because I had made free to eat a
chicken he had intended for himself. I ran
away, determined never to return to my
tribe. I wandered through the forest to
Yarrow, and went to sleep amongst the
heather on Bowerhope Law."
' Well, what saw you ? "
I wakened in the morning, and saw a
big woman like my gipsy mother stealing
to the top of the hill. She looked east
and west and north and south, as though
she expected to see something. Then she
crept down a hill, and went out of sight
amongst a heap of whigs and heather."
Can you take me to the place ? "
 Ay, easily, for I marked the spot."
' Away, Hornie, and make the lads
saddle with speed, for all must ride on the
instant," cried the river, excitedly.

VOL. III. K

And you will ransom my prisoner with
something else than a scourging, master ? "
queried the dwarf, grinning.

That will I gladly; and if you have
spoken truly, Kaza, you shall be glad that
you deserted your tribe ; but if you have
been lying, you shall find there be stouter
cudgels and stouter arms to wield them at
Tushielaw than any you have kenned at
Yetholm."

In his eagerness to avail himself of the
information he had obtained, the chief
forgot to inquire how Hornie had found the
lad. Had he inquired, he would have been
told that he found him wandering about,
had questioned him, and learned that he
had seen the witch. So he had made him
captive and brought him to the tower.

Under the guidance of the gipsy Kaza,
and headed by Tushielaw, fifty men
quitted the keep in less than half an hour
and made straight for Bowerhope Law.
When near their destination they separated,
and forming a circle round the place where

the prey was believed to be resting, they
advanced upon it simultaneously at sound
of the chief's hunting-horn.

They found a cavern, the mouth of
which was concealed by furze and heather.
Within, the embers of a fire were still
smouldering, proving that the place had
been recently tenanted. This was corroborated
by a pile of heather which had
been used for a bed ; and on the floor a
kerchief, which was recognized by Eddie
Craig as the same he had seen the witch
wearing, proving that Kirsty had been the
tenant. She had evidently again anticipated
Tushielaw's movement and effected her
escape from his pursuit.

A second time the moss troopers returned
to the tower after a futile attempt to
find the witch. Tushielaw, however, was
satisfied that Kaza had spoken truly, and
observed his promise. He gave the lad a
piece of gold bearing the English stamp,
and bade him take up his quarters in the
tower so long as he pleased.

LIBRARY

liNJVERSiry OF ILUNOIJ

So the Borderer supplied the first link in
the chain of evidence against himself, and
admitted the watchful eyes of a spy to his
tower.

Chapter V.

A GATHERING STORM.

No, 'tis slander ;
Whose edge is sharper than the sword."

Cymheline,

The new Lord of Binram occupied an
elegantly furnished suite of apartments on
the second flat of a house in the Canon-gate,
near the Netherbow Port. He had
arrived there early in the morning after
quitting Tushielaw. By means of his
private keys he had admitted himself without
arousing any of his attendants, and
hastily throwing off his courier disguise,
he locked it up in a strong oaken chest,
which was filled with every species of
garment. Then he went to bed and slept
for three hours.

At the end of that time he jumped up,
dressed himself in his most becoming gear,
and proceeded to the castle.

As he was crossing the court, he saw
Captain Lindsay, Gilbert, and three companions
just dismounting. Barras at once
comprehended by whom his intended victim
had been rescued.

'It was no accident which brought them
to his help, curse them !" he muttered nth
clenched teeth.  I will learn by whose instructions
they made the journey, and if it
be as I suspect, this mishap may turn to my
advantage yet."

He saluted one of the Gentlemen of the
Guard who was passing toward the Constable's
Tower.

 Good morrow. Master Ogilvie ; what
expedition has called you forth so early ? "

''A frolic  a frolic, my lord," answered
Ogilvie, laughing; " and some rare sport in
Ettrick Forest."

' So far agate ? What quarry did you
ride?"

A rescue ; nothing more. We made
first to Merlin's Cairn, where an old jezebel
waited his and led us a midnight dance
through the forest till we came upon a
comrade who was sorely put tort for his
life. We brought him off scatheless, and
left a few cracked crowns behind us."

* Who started the game ? "

' Aha, there lies the merit of it all  butin
your ear, it was a fair friend of our
Captain."

Barras nodded his head, and looked wondrous
wise.

'' My hand upon it. Master Ogilvie, but
I will discover the dame at one guess."

'' Say it, then."

Barras whispered, nodded, and the guardsman,
laughing, went on his way. The
schemer's face darkened as, with hands
clasped behind his back and head bowed, he
slowly crossed the court.

It was as I thought," he muttered ;
* but how came she to know that he was in
peril? Does she suspect me, and did she

see me quit the castle ? Or did her knowledge
spring from tender anxiety for his
safety ? Hum  that must be it. We shall
see how my Lord of Angus, the husband of
a Queen, will take this fancy of his sister
for a nameless adventurer."

All the venom of his nature was expressed
in the sneering bitterness with which he
pronounced the words. He sought an
immediate interview with Angus, and his
lordship readily granted the request of one
who appeared to serve him with so much
fidelity.

The suite of chambers occupied by her
Majesty's husband were in the massive pile
called David's Tower. Douglas, whose
haughty spirit, love of power, and the pomp
of power, overshot his caution, and tended
directly to the calamities which soon fell
upon himself and his mistress, with an
impatient gesture dismissed the chamberlain
who had conducted Barras to his
presence.

' What tidings, Binram, and from

whence ? " said the Earl immediately after
the door closed.

111 tidings, my lord, and from Ettrick,"
responded Barras, with the servility of tone
and manner which flattered his master more
than words could ever have done.

* Pronounce them promptly, then; for
ill tidings swiftly told may turn to goodly
counsel, and so win the battle."

' Saints grant that it may be so in your
lordship's case," exclaimed the hypocrite,
with earnestness so well feigned that Angus
was completely imposed upon by it.

Ha ! whence comes the storm your
prayer portends ? " he said quickly, fixing
his eyes upon the man.

Barras seemed to check himself as if
afraid to pronounce the words which had
been on his tongue, and lowering his eyes to
the floor, said quietly 

* Spens escaped."

' Well, if he has quitted the country
the King's pardon will protect him, so let
him go."

' But it is supposed that he was shot in
attempting to escape."

*' Then Arran has one friend the less."

But, by the negligence of his Majesty's
courier, the pardon was lost."

*' Since the man is dead there is no need
for the pardon."

Shall Elliot go unpunished ? "

Angus surveyed the speaker curiously, as
if comprehending that something lay beneath
the question. He spoke slowly.

Master Elliot risked his head to obtain
the pardon, and little as I like him, I will
answer for him that if he failed to deliver
the pardon it was none of his blame. I will
not ask you how his mishap befell. Still,
were it shown that he had been careless in
his embassy, it were enough to degrade him
from the ranks of the guard. But I seek
not that, for I have need of friends, not
enemies; besides, he is a stout youth, and
a favourite with her Majesty."

' Know you why ? "

'for no other reason, I imagine, than

that he is a comely felloW and devoted to
her service."

B arras smiled dubiously, and instantly
made an effort to suppress the smile.

*' Does yom lordship know how this
Master Elliot first obtained his appointment
to the guard ? "

* For some service he had rendered to
Lady Margaret Douglas, I believe."

 Hum  and when your lordship was
furnished with substantial grounds for suspecting
that he was in the pay of my Lord
of Arran, and you took occasion of his
desertion to have him condemned  does
your lordship know by whose intercession
he was saved, even at the hour of execution
? "

* Mistress Douglas interceded for him."

*sand does your lordship see nothing
in all that ? " exclaimed B arras, with an
affectation of difficulty in subduing his
surprise.

' Nothing, save that the lady is grateful."

But the Earl's brow darkened as if he

saw more than lie desired to admit, even to
himself.

*' Then I have nothing more to say, and
only wait your lordship's commands to take
my leave."

He spoke as one who, anxious to do his
friend a service, discovers that the service
is unappreciated ; and he closed his thin
Kps tightly as if resolved not to speak more
on that subject.

* The eagle scents the carrion afar off,"
said Angus, frowning : '' and by my faith I
scent unpleasant matter behind what you
have spoken. Proceed, then  what isn't ? "

Pardon me, my lord, I have no more to
say," was the embarrassed answer.

The Earl gripped him by the arm and led
him to the centre casement.

Look out and tell me what you see
below."

 The loch, shadowed by the precipice."

*' The precipice is two hundred feet in
height, this tower is forty more, and I
would hurl from the battlements the man

who breathed suspicion on my honour with
as Httle care as I should crush the wasp that
stung me."

*' I do not understand your lordship."

* My sister's honour is precious in my
eyes as my own. Your insinuations point
to her. You shall speak your meaning
clearly, then, before you budge one step
hence."

**I desire to serve your lordship," was
the humble rejoinder ; for to your powerful
aid I am indebted for the title I bear and
the lands I own."

'' Speak, then." (Gloomily.)

 I came hither with that intent, and
would have told you everything, but that
your lordship made me believe that you
looked with favourable eye upon the passion
your sister bears this Master Elliot."

* 'Sdeath," cried Angus, starting furiously,
* by what word or look could I give you to
think that I would stand by and see my
sister won by a nameless hind."

I see that I have been mistaken, and

that your lordship has failed to note what
every hireling of the castle makes his common
gossip."

*' By every saint in heaven, if this he as
you say, the loon shall pay dearly for daring
to lift his eyes to a daughter of Douglas.
Go on, man ; let me know all, and speedily."

 I fear that he has not only dared to Hft
his eyes, hut has spoken and been heard
with favour."

* Presumptuous cur ! "

Angus paced the chamber with rapid
strides, his countenance black with rage.

' It was but now," Barras continued, ina
subdued voice like the low hissing of a
serpent, ** that Master Ogilvie of the guard
acquainted me that, by request of Mistress
Douglas, Captain Lindsay, with six gentlemen,
started yestreen for Ettrick Forest
to protect her ladyship's favoured one from
some anticipated peril. Do you but note her
face when Elliot is near as I have done,
and you will be blind indeed if you fail to
find the proof of this  she loves him."

 Something I have noted that this
confirms," muttered the Earl between his
clenched teeth.

He continued for some minutes to pace
the floor as if trying to bring his passion
under control. Barras furtively from beneath
his heavy brows watched him the
while.

At length he halted in front of Barras
and looked him fixedly in the face.

"I know you bear this youth no goodwill,
Barras."

 My lord?"

* Tush, man ! do not affect to deny it.
For some reason, known only to yourself,
you bear him a grudge, and have twice
before set me against him. This time
I would discredit you, but that my own
suspicions tally with your assertions."

 I am sure of that. I have no object
in calumniating the youth, but that my
interest in your lordship "

'* Chut ! I will put your assertions and
your fidelity to the proof. If the first be

true, this hind shall be degraded and
turned hence like a stray cur after a
whipping. Then your fidelity must devise
means to put him for ever beyond the
power of communicating with Mistress
Douglas."

Barras bowed low.

' I accept the trust, and if I might
suggest "

'' Well, go on."

'If I might suggest the means, I think
Mistress Douglas might readily be cured
of any silly regard she may entertain for
the youth."

* She shall forget him at my bidding 
if she ever thought of him otherwise than
as a useful vassal."

Barras shrugged his shoulders and looked
doubtful.

 Women are weak yet so strong, or obstinate
you may call it, in these matters,"
he said deprecatingly, ' that an attempt
to force her ladyship's will may act as the
wind upon a spark of fire on a heath: it

may blow out the spark, but the chances
are that it will fan it into a blaze that
will consume all it meets."

'you have something to propose?"

I have. If it might please you, there
is a simple but effective way to cure her
of this folly  always supposing that she
has been guilty of it," he added hastily.

Name the remedy, and you shall have
thanks for your craft."

* Let her see him degraded and dishonoured.
That will be one step toward
a cure ; for, women when they love, and
ere they wed, make idols of their lovers :
but you have only to present them the
idol in a mean light and  phew !  away
goes love with the gorgeous trappings which
gave it zest."

That may serve."

If that be not enough, then send her
ladyship for a little while to the priory of
St. Margaret, where in solitude she will
right speedily come to a sense of her own
waywardness and folly."

VOL. Ill, F

 It shall be as you say ; and on the
instant I will about the work. Await me
here."

Angus strode from the apartment, and
Barras coolly seated himself with a sneering
smile. He smoothed his close-shaven
chin meditatively, the while he muttered
with intense self-gratification 

'' So I pull the string, and the puppet
dances to the tune that pleases me. He
will to his sister straight, upbraid her
with her passion for a poor hireling ; and
whether she feel it or no, her spirit,
haughty as his own, will rise in such
indignation as will be to him proof strong
as knowledge of my words. Next he will
to her Majesty, and if she heed him one
degree as much as I credit her, Master
Elliot's good fortune will play him an ill
turn. Then to the priory. Mistress Mary,
and once there, I shall find means to reconcile
even the proud Douglas to an
alliance with the Lord of Binram."

Cool, cunning, and utterly selfish, this

man recognized in the success of one evil
scheme only the stepping-stone to another ;
alike indifferent to the fate of high or low,
of kindred or stranger, so that his own
ends were attained.

Chapter VI.

UNDER THE BAN.

*' Half-naked, glistening dark, with oily limbs he came,
His long-nail'd fingers curl'd, this little eyes aflame,
Shrieking in his own tongue as on the chief he flew,
Yield thee thy sword of fame and thine own flesh

thereto ! '
Then Roland gazed and frowned, though nigh unto

his death,
Sat still and drew up all his strength in a great breath,
Pray'd quickly to the saints he served in former days,
With right hand clutched the sword he was too weak

to raise."

Buchanan's Beati of Roland.

Master Elliot occupied, like other Gentlemen
of the Guard, a chamber in the
Constable's Tower, and thither he had
repaired on his return to the castle to
snatch a few hours' slumber after the peril

and fatigue of his recent adventure. It
was about noon when he was startled from
his repose by a repeated loud summons
at his door. He drowsily inquired the
meaning of the disturbance, and was answered
that the most noble lord the Earl
of Angus desired his immediate attendance,
and that the messenger waited to
conduct him to his lordship's presence.

It was several minutes before Gilbert
sufficiently recovered his senses to conj-pretend
the import of the message ; but
the repetition of the all-powerful nobleman's
title quickened his drowsy ideas,
and he sprang alertly from his couch.
He dressed himself with more than usual
speed, and in that occupation had no time
to speculate as to the purport of his
lordship's summons which bore such an
imperative stamp. When, however, he
had completed his attire, opened the door,
and joined the ordinary who waited in the
corridor to conduct him to the presence
of the august lord, he began to marvel

somewhat at the singularity of the circumstance.


As he followed his conductor across the
court, he had a little time to think of the
probable cause of this hasty summons, and
his thought was none of the happiest.
He felt that he had sadly failed in the
discharge of an important trust  a trust,
too, imposed at his own earnest and even
bold solicitation. That fact, which should
have formed the chief ground for his exculpation
from any charge of neglect, was
in his eyes the strongest ground for his
condemnation. For, he argued, with the
self-upbraiding warmth of a generous and
youthful nature, if he had so signally
miscarried a trust in which he was personally
interested, how reckless must he
seem of any trust which simple duty
might impose.

So it was with a heart whose heaviness
and anxiety were reflected in the pallor
which fatigue and distress of mind had
given to his visage, that he found himself

in the ante-room of the Earl's
chamber.

There he was somewhat surprised to find
the six Gentlemen of the Guard who had
come to his rescue on the previous night
assembled and conversing together in
whispers with unusually grave countenances.
Even the gay Ogilvie, whose
disposition to jest was scarcely subdued
on the most solemn occasion, looked
serious.

Whilst the chamberlain proceeded to
intimate to his lordship the arrival of
Master Elliot, the latter advanced to greet
his comrades. He was at once struck by
the singular coldness of their reception 
a coldness so marked in contrast with their
usual hearty manner of welcoming the
arrival of one of their own body, wherever
they met, that it cut him to the quick.

He was denied the opportunity to obtain
an explanation of this conduct by
the re-entrance of the chamberlain, who
beckoned to him with his rod of office,

and, throwing open the folding-doors,
admitted him to the presence of the
Douglas.

More matter for surprise was here presented
to him. First, he observed that a
screen, which stood beside the Earl's chair,
shook as he entered, as if some one behind
had touched it. In front of the
screen stood Captain Lindsay, with an
expression which indicated that something
had occurred to ruffle his humour, for his
lips were compressed, and his brows knit
as if with the effort to preserve an appearance
of becoming respect in the presence
of the husband of his royal mistress.
On the Earl's left stood the Lord of
Binram, cold, composed, and servile as
usual. Near the entrance, with body bent
humbly, and bonnet held in agitated
fingers, stood mine host of Peebles, honest
Jock Stott, looking as uncomfortable as
ever looked fish out of water.

The Earl himself was seated, but bending
slightly forward, as if ready at the

slightest provocation to spring to his feet.
He held certain documents in his hand, and
a frown of the highest displeasure was on
his countenance.

Master Elliot made his obeisance respectfully,
but with that degree of firmness which
denotes the man conscious of a certain
dignity due to himself in the presence of an
enemy, and an enemy Gilbert instinctively
recognized in Douglas.

Angus acknowledged his salutation by
looking him straight in the face with an
expression of scorn which he did not attempt
to conceal.

"If it please you, Master Elliot," he
began in a cold sharp tone, and evidently
subduing with difficulty the wrath he felt
under an air of mock courtesy, * ' you will
understand that I am acting under the commission
of our gracious mistress, the Queen-regent
of Scotland, the natural and lawful
guardian and representative of his most
excellent Majesty the King, in requiring
you to appear before me to answer explicitly

in what manner you have acquitted
yourself in the embassy upon which you
were despatched two days ago."

* So please your lordship, I have but a
sorry account to give of the result of my
mission," answered Gilbert, frankly. '' By
treachery I was detained at the Portbrae
hostelry of Peebles, and robbed of the
pardon of the good knight. Sir Walter
Spens, which the King had been pleased
to grant."

* By whose treachery were you detained
? "

"By that of a man in the garb of a
courier. He drugged a cup of wine which
I had left on the table whilst inquiring
about my horse."

In whose service did he travel ? "

I did not learn, for though he forced his
company upon me, I held little converse
with him, and he wore no badge."

"His name?"

That also I failed to learn ; but, with
your lordship's leave, the host of Peebles,

being here, can speak more distinctly as to
the man than myself."

* First, conclude yom' certainly strange
report of what befell you."

Briefly and honestly Gilbert recounted
all that had occurred, from the moment
he quitted the castle till his return that
morning. As he proceeded, he noted, not
without some qualms, the expression of
incredulity with which the Earl regarded
him throughout.

''I have spoken truly, my lord," he said
simply, in concluding, " and albeit I have
nothing to support my words, I do not
doubt that I shall yet find proof to satisfy
your lordship of their truth."

What proof that will satisfy me that
you have not recklessly miscarried a trust
of high import can you hope to find ? "

'' Under favour, my lord, that I could not
be reckless in my mission, my own anxiety
to procure the pardon of my dear friend
should, I think, be guarantee sufficient that
I was betrayed. I hope to prove it by
discovering the traitor."

' You suspect some one, then ? "

''I do."

"Whom?"

Gilbert hesitated, looking suspiciously at
B arras the while.

"This hesitation. Master Elliot, looks
but ill," said Angus, sternly. " If your
suspicion be a just one, speak."

"I did not wish to speak, my lord, till I
was in position to advance such proof as
would convince your lordship that my
charge was well grounded. But if you
command me in the King's name to speak,
I must obey."

In the King's name, then, I command
you, speak."

Mine host of Peebles acquainted me
that the corner who had arrived at his
house with me had a blue mark over his
left temple. Said you not so, friend ?"

Ou ay, yes, I said say, an' I keep to my
word," rejoined Jock Stott, fidgeting uneasily,
and wishing himself anywhere but in
his present position.

'' You said also that you would recognize
the man under whatever guise he might
appear."

*'0u ay, yes, I thocht sae," was the
answer, in the same uneasy way as before.

' My lord, there is one man who, I
believe, stands well in your lordship's
eyes," proceeded Gilbert, the while Barras
stood cool as the most indifferent spectator.
 That man has the same mark over his left
temple, and is known to me and to others
as the inveterate enemy of Sir Walter Spens
that man, I believe, followed me with
intent to rob me of my charge, and to permit
the knight to perish."

* You mean "

* The man who is now in your lordship's
presence  Heron Barras, otherwise Lord of
Binram."

At this denunciation, delivered in the
firm voice of earnest conviction, Barras
started with every symptom of the most
guiltless indignation and surprise.

show, sirrah," he exclaimed, dare

you to breathe so foul a taint upon my
honour?"

* Your honour, sir, will he little hurt by
any charge, however foul," retorted Gilbert,
quietly.

B arras turned to the Earl and spoke withall
the warmth of injured innocence.

' My lord, the Knight of Halstane was
husband of my sister, and although I frankly
own we were no friends, I had no reason to
wish him harm. But I do your lordship's
judgment discredit in fearing for one instant
that you would fail to see the weakness of
the attempt this springald makes to defend
himself by trumping up this silly calumny
against me."

Gilbert turned to the timorous Jock Stott,
whose knees now were fairly knocking together
in dread of being dragged into a
scrape which threatened to assume a deadly
character.

' Is not this the man who entered your
house with me in the garb of a courier?"
he demanded.

The hostler looked confused, dropped
his bonnet from his hands, stooped to pick
it up, and hoped his '' honour's lordship's
majesty " would excuse him. He glanced
anxiously toward the door, as if vainly
seeking the smallest opportunity to escape.
Seeing none, he sincerely wished that he
could have changed places with his midwife.


* Jean would hae kent what to say in
this predicament," he thought; 'but deil
a bit o' me kens while word should gang
first, or whether or no I ought to tell them
that yon braw chief in the slashed velvet is
the vera billie they're a' squabbling about."

Jock had been honest enough to fulfil
Gilbert's command to carry his note to the
castle in the event of his not returning to
the inn ; but he had not courage enough to
say anything to the detriment of a real lord,
in the lord's presence, and when so much
appeared to depend upon what he might
say.

He had been with Captain Lindsay when

the latter, with the six gentlemen who had
accompanied him on the expedition of the
night, had been summoned to the presence
of Angus. The Captain, expecting that
some inquiry affecting Gilbert was going
forward, had brought the hostler with him
as one whose evidence was likely to be of
service to his young friend.

Gilbert, observing the man's confusion,
repeated his question; and Stott mumbled
confusedly 

' Hem  hem  I'm no just sure  that is,
I'm no precisely prepared to say that he's
no the man. I mean  that is, in fact, I
cinna think the gentleman is the creature
ye take Mdi to be ava."

As soon as he had spoken thus, Angus
waved his hand impatiently, as if to prevent
further discussion.

' I am satisfied. Master Elliot," he said
decisively, "I am satisfied that you have
been mistaken, for I will use no harsher
phrase "

' My lord, my lord," interrupted Gilbert,

earnestly,  I am not mistaken; this poor
wight is too much afraid to speak what he
knows to be truth  that yonder stands the
man who drugged me and robbed me."

It is false," said Barras, with the utmost
self-possession.

*' Then you lie, Heron Barras, and I will
prove it on your body."

 Agreed."

"Peace, you sirrah; and, Binram, be still,"
broke in the Earl, haughtily; "what, is
there no respect due to the majesty I represent
? By the mass, the first of you that
speaks save with my permission shall dearly
rue the indignity he casts upon the Queen
and Douglas."

I humbly crave your lordship's pardon,"
said Binram, with sycophantic servility.
"But your lordship must have noted that
it was only by the reiterated utterance of
the basest accusation that I was forced into
the unseemly forgetfulness of the presence
in which I stand."

Gilbert was silent, but the flush which

VOL. III. G

covered his cheeks and brow betokened the
indignation he suppressed.

Enough, enough," cried Angus, hotly ;
** we have done with this dispute. You,
Master Elliot, have had your say, and you
shall see that I have no wish to deal unjustly
with you. Our gracious lady, the Queen
Regent, has been well disposed toward you.
When you were condemned for an offence
against her person, in deserting from her
guard, she gave you life, she even restored
you to your commission. For so much
favour one would have expected to find a
life's gratitude."

' And such I have tried to show my
royal mistress."

** At your solicitation, the King pardoned
one who has proved himself a false knave
and traitor."

* My lord, Spens was my friend."

*stake heed. Master Elliot; the consort
of traitors can scarcely escape contagion. I
would not that you force me to look on you
as such. When so much favour has been

extended, what shall condone the weakness
which for a cup of wine can risk, not only a
friend's life, but the failure of an embassy
in which the King himself has taken
interest ? "

Gilbert's cheeks burned with shame, and
his heart seemed to leap into his throat,
choking him.

 Nothing can condone such weakness,
my lord," he said huskily, and feeling that
it was vain to strive against the influence
which was pressing him down; but accident
alone caused me to halt on my
journey, and treachery made that halt
fatal''

' Accident and treachery it may have
been," pursued Angus, sternly ; ' but men
upon whose truth and strength depends the
life of Majesty should be beyond the reach
of such accident or treachery as that. You
have said nothing can condone the weakness,
and you have pronounced your own
verdict. But your judge is a lenient one,
and her Majesty requires no further punishment

than that your name be struck from
the roll of the guard. Deliver up your
sword."

A scarcely perceptible smile played about
the thin lips of Barras at this result, and his
cunning eyes wandered questioningly toward
the screen at the other side of the Earl's
chair.

Captain Lindsay breathed hard, and
turned his face away from the culprit ; not,
however, in scorn, but because he felt too
keenly for his degradation to be able to look
on his distress.

Gilbert did not, could not, speak : his
heart was bursting. He felt that he was
bitterly wronged, but he felt, too, that an
attempt to give his sense of wrong words
would betray a weakness which he was too
proud to show in the presence of an enemy.
He understood now the coldness of his
comrades : he had been maligned to them ;
and under this disgrace, without power to
defend himself, how could they do otherwise
than scorn him ?

In silence he slowly drew his sword from
its scabbard, and, placing the point on the
floor, allowed it to drop fi'om his hand, the
hilt toward the Earl's feet.

The hostler drew his cuff across his
eyes, and wished that he had had only a
little more courage to speak the truth.

The silence was broken by Angus.

* Captain, remove Master Elliot, and
see that he quits the castle within the
hour under peril of a still more severe
punishment."

The Captain bowed, and touched his
disgraced friend upon the arm, as if requiring
him to follow. But before they had moved
from the spot, a woman's voice cried
loudly 

' Hold!"

The screen which Gilbert had fancied
moved on his entrance, was thrown down,
and Mistress Mary Douglas, her cheeks
crimson, and her eyes flashing with indignation,
appeared before the astonished gaze of
Lindsay, Gilbert, and Jock Stott, who

started back with eyes and mouth wide
open, as if a ghost or a thunderbolt had
fallen in their midst.

Angus, as Barras calculated, had upbraided
hotly Mistress Douglas for the crime
of loving one so lowly as Gilbert Elliot.
She had answered him in the same passionate
spirit; and he, convinced of the
truth of what he had been told, went
straight to the Queen Regent. To her
he revealed his discovery, and she substantiated
it by reference to the exceeding
interest Lady Mary had displayed in
the young man's behoof. She gave him
the authority to remove the offender by
degrading him from the ranks of the
guard.

Still acting under the evil promptings
of Barras, the Earl had brought his sister
secretly into his chamber and placed her
behind the screen under pretence that she
was to hear an interview of much interest,
and to judge whether or no he acted fairly
in the matter. There she had listened with

perturbed heart and mind to all that had
passed, and at length, unable to control her
emotion, she had presented herself as an
actor in the scene.

Chapter VII.

CROSS FIRING.

I am as peremptory as she proud-minded :
And where two raging fires meet together
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury ;
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all.

I see a woman may be made a fool
If she had not a spirit to resist."

Taming of the Shretu.

At the appearance of his sister Angus
started to his feet. He was incensed by
the thought of the revelation thus made to
Captain Lindsay and Eliot ; and incensed
by his anticipation of her intent. To him
it was mortifying to a degree to be exposed
as an intriguer in the eyes of a man whom

he had just condemned, and it was quite as
mortifying that Captain Lindsay, of whose
favour for the degraded guardsman he had
been made aware by an attempt the Captain
had made to defend him upon first learning
the Earl's purpose, should see the mainspring
of the judgment which had just been
passed.

Barras, on the other hand, was well pleased
by this demonstration, for he perceived in it
the means of decisively advancing his own
designs. So he stood humbly by, secretly
congratulating himself that the ball he had
set in motion rolled precisely in the course
he desired, yet, to all seeming, receiving
impetus from the most natural circumstance.

 Remove your charge. Captain Lindsay,
son the instant," cried Angus, fiercely.

* Stay you still. Captain Lindsay, if you
be a gentleman who cares for truth, as I
take you to be," cried Mistress Douglas,
with as much heat as her brother, clenching
her dainty hand tightly, and stamping her
pretty foot angrily on the floor.

The Earl turned to her furiously.

How now, Mistress, what mean you by
this extravagance ? "

 I mean to show a worthy gentleman
why he is wronged."

' What, have you no shame, is there no
blush upon your cheek in standing forth to
champion the cause of a degraded hireling ? "

 There is a blush upon my cheek," she
answered proudly,  but it is my brother's
shame that calls it up, not my own."

' Be silent, Mistress. Why stand you
there, Lindsay, when I have said go ? Is
it for a woman you set aside my authority ? "

The Captain's lips were compressed,
and his brow knit. He surmised the real
meaning of what had occurred, and the
indignation he had felt before at the magnified
importance given to Elliot's mishap
was heightened by discovering that it was
merely the pretext to get rid of a man
whose presence was obnoxious on other
accounts. Between the courtesy he deemed
due to a lady, and the respect he believed

himself bound to show the husband of his
royal mistress, he hesitated whether to go
or stay.

Mistress Douglas spoke whilst he stood
indecisive.

* I will not be silent, since by your will I
have been a listener to the false charge you
have made. By my own will I shall explain
my share of the injustice which has been
done. Master Elliot, you will understand
that my brother Angus has made a mountain
of a molehill, that he might remove you
from a sphere in which he deemed you too
much favoured by his sister."

'By my soul, you shall go no farther
in your own and my dishonour," cried
Angus, unable to control his passion longer
or to preserve his own dignity.

He seized his sister by the arm and
dragged her forcibly from the chamber into
a retiring-room.

Gilbert, annoyed and somewhat bewildered
by what he saw and heard, had been
standing mutely gazing on the disputants.

But when he saw Angus using actual
violence to his sister, and understood himself
to be the cause, he awakened from
his trance and plucked Lindsay by the
arm.

'Let us retire. I had rather that they
had hacked me in pieces than I should
have seen yonder fair dame used so rudely
for my sake."

With a grim look toward the door by
which the Earl and his sister had retired,
and a glance at B arras, which intimated
to the latter the contempt with which he
was regarded, lord and favourite though
he was, but without uttering a word, the
Captain turned upon his heel and marched
quickly from the chamber.

In passing through the ante-room he
paused an instant to inform the Gentlemen
of the Guard that their attendance was
no longer required by his lordship, and
that they might retire. He then proceeded
with Gilbert to his own lodging
in the Constables' Tower.

As soon as Lindsay had removed the
cause of the late disturbance, Barras
advanced quietly to the dumfoundered
hostler and dropped a couple of pieces
of gold into his hand.

That is for your trouble, my friend,
and there is the door open for you. Be
advised by one who wishes you well; get
you to horse and bide not here or on the
road an instant till you are snug in your
own house ; for I warrant you that which
you have seen and heard renders the
security of your head none of the best so
long as you are within sight of Edinburgh."


' Saints, save's," exclaimed the affrighted
man below his breath. ' I'm muckle beholden
till your honour's lordship, and
I'll no be seen here or onywhar for the
nest towmond."

Barras accompanied him to the entrance
of the ante-room, beckoned to a page, and
enjoined him to see the man safely from
the castle, and without delay.

Then with his cold smile of triumph,
and the stealthy movement of a cat, he
crossed to the door of the retiring-room
and listened.

He heard the voices of Angus and his
sister raised in angry argument.

* On your head rests the blame of whatever
discredit may befall us," said Mistress
Mary in haughty tone.  You wronged
an honourable gentleman, and you would
have made me a party to the wrong. My
sooth, you must have held me in but poor
account since you could have fancied that
I should remain like a timid child in
hiding whilst the base trick was played."

I credited you with the spirit of a
Douglas, and I was mistaken. I find that
my sister is so poor a thing as submit her
name to be a jest for scullions, and stoops
to hold amorous treaty with a nameless
adventurer, and by my soul would mate
with him."

'you fly before the wind, good brother,"
she retorted with mocking bitterness, " for

Master Elliot seeks no mate in me ; and
for myself, I shall fall the easier that
I stoop."

*' Out upon you, woman. Are you so
brazen as thus acknowledge a preference
for this minion? "

*I acknowledge no more than that you
have wronged an honest man, and that
for the sake of the name we bear alike
I will see that the Queen rights him."

*you shall not again approach her till
you have repented of this folly."

'I will see the King."

' Tut, the child can do nothing without
his guardian's sanction."

' Then I will proclaim your treachery,
ay, and your ambition, to the world. I
shall find friends enow, I warrant me, to
save the country and myself from a
despot."

'' It shall be my care to mar your projects,"
returned Angus, apparently forcing
himself to speak with more calmness ;
* and since you take so deep an interest

in this most favoured and most honourable
varlet, who never should have dared to
raise his eyes above the ground you
trode "

 Had other men not dared much more,
he would not now have been disgraced."

 Your own lips have pronounced his
doom, for by Heaven he shall not live to
know how much you favour him. Get
you to your chamber."

Barras had barely time to assume, by
the nearest window, a posture of humble
attendance upon his lordship's pleasure,
before Angus burst into the apartment.

He paced the floor for several minutes,
as if desirous of regaining a degree of
composure before trusting himself to
speech with his evil genius. Meanwhile,
Barras affected to be so deeply absorbed
in contemplation of some object in the
Nor-loch, that he did not observe the
presence of his patron.

This matter goes deeper than I
reckoned," he said at length, but rather

to himself than as if addressing a second
person. ** This fellow, this nameless dog
has won upon her, and he must be
removed."

 Be mine the task, under favour of your
lordship," broke in Barras.  I will pledge
myself that he shall not cross you
again."

*' Ay, but madam, my sister, threatens
to make a talk, and, by the rood, she has
temper enough to fulfil her threat."

Once more, under your favour, my
lord, it is in your power to keep her silent
until she has had time to think of the
course which better becomes her state and
yours."

** Show me how."

Remove her to the Priory of St.
Margaret."

*' Pshaw, how can I remove her? She
will not go freely, and to force her hence
would be much the same as to proclaim
the scandal at the Cross by sound of
drum."

VOL. III. H

**Do but give me authority to act in
this matter, and she shall be carried hence
with all the respect that is due a dame
of her circumstance, and yet with so
much privacy that not even the sentinels
of the castle shall know she has gone
forth''

' Humph ! I do not see your drift,
Barras, but I will trust you. Serve me
but well at this pinch, and whatever
favour you may ask is granted beforehand."


Your lordship does me too much
honour," said the hypocrite, bowing low ;
' but all my poor wit and skill are devoted
to your service. I will about the matter
straight, and clear your lordship's path
of an offensive booby, and rescue sweet
Mistress Mary from the peril in which
caprice has placed her."

As he retired with the swift noiseless
movement of the cat, Angus glanced after
him thoughtfully.

 Humph," he muttered,  I do not like

the man, yet he is serviceable ; neither do
I like this work, yet it is necessary. I
have a mind to call him back. Tush ! it is
but giving her time to cool. So let the
work go on."

Chapter VIII.

WHICH WAY DOES HONOUR LEAD ?

' I cannot see thee, lady fair,

Turned out on the world wide ;
I cannot see thee, lady fair,

Weep on the bleak hillside.
Before such noble stem should bend

To tyrant's treachery,
I'll lay thee with thy gallant sire

Beneath the beechen tree.

And ere thy honour shall be stain'd.

This sword avenge shall thee.
And lay thee with thy gallant kin

Beneath the beechen tree."

Culloden Day  from the Gaelic.

The position of Master Elliot was surely
one of the most melancholy cast. Degraded
from the service in which he had hoped

to gain distinction, his friend Sir Walter
Spens dead, and his lady gone none knew
whither. "Worst of all, the kind benefactress
who had been the good angel of his life was
in peril of enduring disgrace equal to his
own for no other reason than that she had
been his friend.

It was no marvel that his heart was sick
when he threw himself upon a seat in
Captain Lindsay's chamber, and covered
his face with his hands to conceal emotion
which he deemed unbecoming a soldier.

Fortune had indeed played him a sorry
trick, and the Captain, although sympathizing
so earnestly with his condition
as to feel the disgrace almost his own, was
too grim and too indignant to help much to
lighten the gloom which enveloped him.

It was poor comfort to him to be told
that the Queen Kegent could not know the
truth, and was not like to know it since her
husband was his enemy. It was a faint
consolation to him to be advised that since
he had so powerful an enemy at his native

Court, to can his sword to the Low
Countries, and there win name and fortune,
as many good men had done before him.

* It is at least a thought to treasure that
the Queen and his Majesty have not been
my aggressors," said Gilbert, with a vain
effort to conjure up a smile.

' My hand upon it, Elliot," returned the
Captain, brusquely, *did I suspect that
her Majesty had knowledge of the truth,
and yet permitted this to be done, my commission
should be laid at her feet ere sunset ;
and, by the mass, I am disposed to do it
whether or no, for there will be little
pleasure in her service whilst Douglas is
her master."

sand there is some pleasure too," proceeded
Gilbert, not heeding the latter words
of his friend, * in feeling that sweet Mistress
Mary knows me innocent, and holds me in
some little esteem."

'Too much esteem, it would appear*'
was the gruff rejoinder ; * rouse yourself,
man, from dreams that I have warned you

are perilous to yourself and their fair conjuror.
Away with you to a land where your
sword will be useful, and forget her."

 Forget her ! "

He echoed the words dreamily, yet the
tone was that of one who doubted the
possibility of finding oblivion to so precious
a memory.

The Captain regarded him with a look
that was almost grotesque, it was so grim
and yet so full of sincere commiseration
It was as if he looked at a wounded child,
angry with it for some silly desire, yet without
having the heart to chide.

The brief time allowed to Gilbert for
making his preparations to quit the precincts
of the castle had already nearly
elapsed ; and of this disagreeable fact
Lindsay was made aware by the bronze
face of a small Geneva clock which hung
above the chimney board. But the person
most concerned was so lost in sad and
unpleasant reverie that he took no note of
the time.

Only ten minutes remained, and still
Gilbert showed no symptom of stirring to
action. The Captain in silence rose and
went over to an oaken cabinet at the farther
end of the room. From a secret drawer he
produced a purse indifferently well packed
with golden angels. From the lower part
of the cabinet he took, with an air of respect
which was wholly absent in his manner of
handling the purse, a silver-mounted Toledo.
He unsheathed the sword, admired the
finely tempered blade, and, as he reseated
it, looked as if he had some compunction for
what he was about to do.

He shook Gilbert roughly by the shoulder.

"Wake, man, wake," he said warmly.
 Dame Fortune is wooed in action and won
by brave deeds, not idle dreams."

The dreamer started to his feet and
glanced at the clock.

' Forgive me. Captain. In truth, I have
been somewhat absent, and I thank the
hand that rouses me from the unhappy land
of visions to this world with all its bright

and dark realities. With Our Lady's help
you shall find that I can act as well as
dream."

*' Then here is that to act with, and never
man had better tool to cut his way in the
world. 'Tis a rare blade, Gilbert, and to
none other but one who is dear to me as a
son could I have parted with it. By the
mass, you shall bless the day Angus bade
you render up your sword."

' I cannot thank you now, good friend"
was the husky response, *' but may we both
live till I have in some little requited you."

'* Tut, tut, man, 'tis an empty flagon that
chinks. You shall thank me best by using
this well."

 I will try."

'* Meanwhile, here are twenty angels to
keep the stomach in countenance till the
hand find work to do."

This generosity from a man who prided
himself upon his grim visage and stern
adherence to the strict line of duty, although
it did not surprise Gilbert, affected him

deeply, and lie turned away his head as he
answered 

'' That I cannot take."

* Nay, on my soul you shall, though.
What, accept my Toledo and refuse this
damned stuff! Od zooks, comrade, you
reason backward, and place the saddle on
the mule instead of the horse. Or mayhap
you think the Master of Lindsay such a
starved rat that he may not put out a
beggarly twenty angels for a friend's sake
without hungering foret ? "

 No, no, it was not that, but "

'' Then look at the clock, Master Elliot,"
interrupted the good-natured Captain,
assuming his sternest air ; * for five minutes
you are still under my command, and you
know that a breach of discipline is one thing
I can never forgive. Now, I command you
to put that leathern bag in your pouch,
and return it to me crammed with gold
pieces some time between this and the
millennium."

It would have .been an ungrateful offence

not to have accepted a kindness so earnestly
and freely offered. He complied with the
friendly command.

'sand now farewell," said Lindsay, and
despite his effort to preserve a firm accent,
his voice faltered. * Tarry not in the
country, but go straight to the harbour of
Leith and take passage in the first vessel
that sails  no matter whither."

 There I must oppose your authority, sir,"
broke in Gilbert, warmly. ' Before I can
quit my country I must meet Binram "

Madman, think you that he will enter
the lists with one who has been disgraced
like you  with one whose very title to bear
a sword has been taken from him by command
of the Regent ? "

' I shall force him to it."

What, and bring down upon you the
whole wrath of Angus. Away with you,
and leave Binram to me."

' That will I never do. By his falsehood
I am degraded, a good lady's fame is stained,
and I should count myself unworthy to raise

my head amongst honourable men were I to
fly before my sword had proven my truth
upon his base body."

* Too base for such a sword as this to be
defiled with. Nay, Hasten to me," pursued
the Captain, with difficulty controlling his
patience ; * it is not this bastard Barras you
oppose in this matter, it is the law of Scotland
 the authority of Majesty itself. You
have no longer the right to wear a sword in
this land. Were you to force Binram to meet
you, and were you to kill him, the act would
be held a murder, not the assertion of your
truth, and you would be hounded from the
country, or strung up to the nearest tree asa
criminal. Were you to fall, it would be a
dog's death; your body would be pitched
into the first hole, and none would heed
you."

' Live or die, I will not budge from
Scotland till I leave one villain the less
behind me."

 Obstinate ! "

'* In this most obstinate. Ah, my true

friend, for our Holy Mother's sake be not
angry with me, but rather pity me. I
have tried to put a brave face on this
matter, but my heart is sore. You can 
you must feel how my foot would falter,
how my arm would fail me were I on
strange soil fighting a stranger's cause,
knowing the while that I left a name in
my own dear land upon which the shame
of false friend and treacherous soldier had
been branded. I had rather die a felon's
death down yonder in the Grassmarket
with every hind to point in scorn and
jeer at me than suffer that."

 Damn ! " growled the Captain, affected
by the earnestness of his friend's argument,
and as usual trying hard to hide
his tenderness; 'I have a mind to leave
you to your fate  but no, curse me, FU
not do that. Where can you hear from
me ? "

' At the St. Andrew's Kest, at the
Cross."

 Enough ; you know where to communicate

with me. Now away, in God's
name, for your hour is up, and saints
guard you."

A gentle tap at the door stayed Gilbert's
adieu on his lips, and startled both himself
and his companion.

*snow, here is some soft-tongued silken-jerkin
page come to make inquiry of
you. Begone," said Lindsay, grimly,
* and, by the rood, for once they shall find
me wanting in discipline."

He opened the door, and sure enough
there stood a handsome soft-featured youth
in page's garb, who asked if Master Elliot
chanced to be still with the Captain.

 Ay, he is here."

The page stepped into the apartment
without invitation, closed the door, and
with his finger on his lips, as if signalling
the gentlemen to be silent, searched the
breast of his doublet. He produced a
dainty billet, which, with a profound salutation,
he delivered to Gilbert.

The Captain remained silent, with an

expression of mingled suspicion and surprise
on his face, whilst Gilbert read :

'' For the hands of Master Gilbert Elliot,
greeting. These from a friend.

**I am in some trouble on your account,
and much concern for your safety.
But I know that you are true and brave ;
wherefore I bid you be of good heart ; for
though the Kegent cannot now be brought
to favour your cause, there will come a
time when the wrong that has been done
you shall be righted. But, in the meanwhile,
the same reason which has reft you
of your commission imperils your life.
I know this, and pray you to seek safety
in hastening from the city  ay, from the
land. Heed this and obey it. Beware of
Binram, of all villains on the earth, for
he seeks you with treacherous intent.

' For myself, I am forbidden to wait
upon my mistress till she send me further
command. Therefore I too must seek
safety in flight, and am resolved to escape

to my good sister, the lady of Glacis.
If I can but reach her, I think her protection
will suffice to shield me from the
wrath of one who is, I fear, hastening his
own overthrow from a height too great
for his happiness or safety.

'' May Douglas."

The excitement Gilbert experienced at
this new token of the favour of one whose
esteem he had begun to value more than
that of all the world beside, compelled
him to read the epistle a third time before
he had grasped the full import of its
words. His love came to him Hke all truelove,
unawares  without reason, and certainly
without calculation of any kind.
Queen or beggar-maid, she would have been
the same to him. He knew that now.

Then, without pausing to explain anything
 for he feared that an explanation
would result in counsel in direct opposition
to the course his impulse dictated and
which he was bent upon following  he asked

for inkhorn, paper, and quill. Lindsay
pointed to where these articles stood on
the cabinet, and Gilbert hastily wrote : 

' Mistress Mary Douglas, greeting.
These from her devoted servant.

' Sweet Mistress,

*' Under your favour always, if
Binram seek me we shall soon meet, for
I seek him. But I will delay the meeting
if it be your pleasure to command disservice
as your guard to the home of the
Lady of Glacis in the north. Should thisbe
your will, you shall find me at the porch
of St. Cuthbert's to-night when the bell
for vespers begins to toll. I will wear a
black cloak and blameless bonnet. You
shall say  winter has come; and I shall
make answer  the bird flies. Then we
shall know each other, and I will conduct
you to where a couple of horses will be in
waiting.

By tomorrow at noon, with Heaven's
help, you shall be safe with Lady Glacis.

VOL. III. I

I dare not speak the gratitude I feel  the
debt is too heavy now for me ever to
requite it ; and it grows heavier, yet more
pleasing to bear every day.

*' Gilbert Elliot,
In duty, humble service, and life, yours."

When he had carefully folded and sealed
this, he delivered it to the page, who concealed
it under his doublet, and, with
another profound reverence to both gentlemen,
departed in the same mysterious
manner as he had entered.

' There goes the proper carrier of silly
billets, the proper go-between in amorous
intrigues, which have made more pretty
men bite the dust than ever there were
true women enough to replace. Page craft
has indeed lost its lustre and become a
plague."

This, of course, was a growl from Lindsay,
some part in sad earnest, for it was
at this period that the duties of the page
changed from those of the training for

knightly service to those of the mere
servitor and ornamental attendant.

' I knew that you would blame me for
what I have done," said Gilbert, frankly,
 and therefore I told you nothing till my
resolve was beyond the aid of counsel."

He informed him of the contents of the
epistle he had received and the answer he
had written. * She advised you like a
sensible woman, and you have acted like
a fool," commented the Captain. 'And
now I will see you from the castle, for your
way may be barred if I be not by to take
the blame of your tarrying beyond the
hour. You have tied another stone to
your neck with that letter, and if you
do not sink with the weight I shall cry
marvel."

In bidding him farewell at the outer
gate, Gilbert pressed his hand fondly as if
it had been that of a dear parent, and
hurried across the drawbridge. Had he
delayed two minutes longer, the event
Lindsay had feared would have taken place;

for before he had got half-way down the
hill, the warder received intimation to detain
him prisoner if he were not already
beyond the walls of the castle.

The page who bore Master Elliot's
epistle for his mistress, Lady Douglas, had
crossed the court, ascended the broad staircase,
and nth his dainty mincing gait
was passing along the corridor to her ladyship's
apartments, when he was stopped
by a tap on the shoulder from some one
behind.

He wheeled round and met the dark eyes
of Heron Barras. The page bowed with a
mock air of deep respect, for he had already
learned that this gentleman was no favourite
of his mistress.

' Follow me," said Barras, authoritatively.


'' Under favour, my lord, I am bound to
attend my mistress, who awaits me."

Barras frowned.

* Under favour or not, jackanapes, you
shall follow me."

* I am not bound to follow any man's
beck, and will not yom's."

The youth turned as if to pursue his
way. Barras angrily gripped him by the
arm.

' Hark you, siiTah, his lordship of Angus
commands you to attend me to his presence.
Disobey, and  there are dungeons
beneath the tower into which Having men
have entered and never come forth alive
again."

This was said in an ominous whisper.
The youth trembled, hesitated, then meekly
followed.

Barras led him through a number of
corridors, and at length halted before a
door, which he threw open."

"Enter."

Again the page hesitated, and regarded
the man with a suspicious glance." But as
if mesmerized by the dark power of the
man's eyes, he obeyed.

My lord, Angus is not here," he cried,
starting back.

But Barras had closed and secured the
door. Then he gripped the affrighted
youth by the throat, and held his poignard
poised as if to strike.

* Utter one sound above your breath
and it is your last. Be silent, obedient,
and discreet, and you shall have ten gold
pieces as a present guerdon of the favour
of my Lord Angus."

' "What  what  would you have ? " stammered
the page.

*' Show me the letter you got but now
from Master Elliot."

*I  I have none."

 That is a pity, for it would have saved
your life."

The poignard was descending.

'' Stay, stay, master, and I will do anything
you wish."

"With trembling fingers he produced the
letter. Barras slipped his poignard inter
the seal, opened it and read it.

He lit a taper and resealed the letter,
smiling coldly.

'there are the ten gold pieces I promised
you. Take this to your mistress ; it
is not what I expected to find. But mark,
do but hint that you encountered me in
your passage, and no power on earth shall
save you from me. Go, and remember."

He opened the door, and the trembling
page hurried away.

CHAPTEK IX.

THE VEILED LADY.

*' Jessica. Who are you ? Tell me, for more certainty,
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.

Lor. Lorenzo, and thy love.

Tes. Lorenzo, certain ; and my love, indeed ;
For who love I so much ? and now who knows
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours ?

Lor. Heaven, and thy thoughts, are witness that thou

art."

Merchant of Venice.

In discussing his affairs with the warmhearted
but punctilious Lindsay, Gilbert
had carefully subdued any expression of the
sentiment which was most powerful in
determining him to tarry in Scotland until
he had encountered Barras, and by overcoming
him in arms had proven himself an
honest man, in accordance with the creed

which then, and till a much later period,
prevailed, that victory was only vouchsafed
to him whose cause was just.

His own disgrace he felt keenly, for it
effectually barred the way to all further
progress in his native land. But he felt
still more keenly the consciousness that he
had been the unhappy cause of bringing
into question the good name of a fair lady,
to whom, as he himself expressed it, he was
already too much indebted in simple gratitude
for the kindness she had shown him.
When he. had no friend to help him, she,
unsolicited, had opened the way for him to
fortune. Thrice she had snatched him
from the jaws of death  once at the boldest
risk of her own reputation ; and now that
reputation was even sullied by the discovery
of her favour.

The world shall know," he said to himself,
with teeth clenched and brows knit,
** that she is guilty only of possessing a too
gentle heart, which has exalted the small
service I rendered her into a deed beyond

recompense. Ay, sweet mistress, they shall
know that you are good and pure and loyal,
else I shall not live to know that for my
sake you have been shamed."

Even had not his sense of gratitude
urged him to her defence, another and still
more powerful sentiment would have made
him her champion. There was no use
mincing the matter any longer ; the feeling
he had suspected, doubted, and almost
feared, had obtained admission to his breast.
He loved her with his whole heart and soul.
He remembered with a smile the thoughts
with which he had for a brief space regarded
Mistress Spens.

It was the overwhelming passion for
Mistress Mary which he no longer attempted
to disguise to himself that had given the
impulse for the production of the answer
he had made to her warning note : and the
passion seemed rather to gain strength
the more he endeavoured to subdue it by
assuring himself that it was hopeless and
must be put aside. The more he resolved

that once he had placed her iu safety and
settled with Barras, he would quit Scotland
and return no more until he had conquered
his misplaced love, the weaker he felt himself
to carry out the resolution.

At the St. Andrew's Kest he readily
obtained the use of a couple of hacks, and
a small piece of silver placed one of the
grooms entirely at his service for that night.
He then partook of some slight refreshment
and prepared himself to while away the time
till vespers in the best manner possible.
He was obliged to sit in the common room,
which, as the afternoon advanced, became
pretty well occupied by civilians and
soldiers. He sallied forth.

The afternoon was dull and foggy, and
the lowering sky seemed to promise a storm
before many hours had passed. This,
though unpleasant, was certainly propitious
for the project which Gilbert had in view,
for under the screen of the fog he might
easily escape from the city with his fair
prize and defy pursuit.

He stopped at one of the booths which
covered the side of ancient St. Giles's, and
were known as the Barnes. The one at
which he stopped was in the occupation
of a tailor, and a stout dame who stood at
the door advertised the passengers with a
shrill shrewish voice and coaxing looks,
that whatever was needful for the attire of
a braw gentleman or a bonnie teddy might
be had within at the most moderate cost.
Dame Skirlwheel was a notable woman
amongst her neighbours, for albeit her
goodman, Sandie, was reputed to lead the
most henpecked of lives, by her courtesy
to customers she added to his trade, and
was ultimately the main instrument in
making him deacon of his craft.

To gallants she proffered doublets or hose
with a coquettish smirk which, as her face
was not ill-favoured, although her voice was
somewhat of the swan kind, had its effect ;
to the ladies she proffered gowns and hoods
and kirtles, with a curtsy and a word of
flattery which were also effective in pushing

traffic. All this time Sandie, a wiry little
man, sat on his board within the shop in
the midst of his apprentices, stitching and
watching the progress of his helpmate,
chuckling, no doubt, at her success, notwithstanding
her tyranny.

"Would ye deal the day, maister?"
queried the dame, with her most attractive
smile, as Gilbert halted. " We hae braw
silken doublets that would become a fine
gentleman like ye, and silken hose fco
match. I trow, guide as any that ever cam
frae France ; or maybe ye would like "

Gilbert interrupted her in the catalogue
which he knew she was about to supply of
the various articles at his command.

"Nay, dame, I seek only a cloak and
bonnet of simple stuff." '

And that ye shall hae, maister, better
than ye'll get onywhar else in the Lucien
or in Edinbro' for the matter o'
that."

Gilbert entered the shop and speedily
procured the articles he required, but, much

to the dame's chagrin, he chose the plainest
bonnet he could find, and refused to have
a feather of any kind in it. But she was
mollified by a free gift of the beaver he had
been wearing.

A few doors farther on he found an
armourer's, where he procured a poignard
and other requisites. Having secured
these, he quitted the Luckenbooths and
entered the Grassmarket. Then slowly
turned back to the Cross.

The fog was thickening, and, as a drizzling
rain began to fall, the omen of the
approaching storm seemed likely to be fulfilled.
Gilbert curbed his impatience sufficiently
to remain quietly in the hostelry
till the hour he had appointed for the rescue
arrived.

With the first stroke of the vesper bell
he was at the porch of St. Cuthbert's and
standing in the light which proceeded from
the open door, so that he might be readily
observed and recognized by her for whom
he waited. His cloak, however, was drawn

carefully around Mm, and the bonnet well
over his brow, so that the good folks who
were passing into prayers might not descry
his features. It was not without certain
palpitations of hope that she might come
and fear that she would not, but might
deem his proffered service an unwarrantable
piece of presumption, that he prepared to
wait, for he did not expect her to arrive
until the bell had done tolling, and when
the place would be comparatively deserted.

In this, however, presently he had cause
to think himself mistaken. Only twelve
people had entered the chapel. The thirteenth
was a female form muffled in hood
and cloak, and with face screened by a
thick veil. His pulse quickened as the
figure, moving slowly by him, whispered
tremulously, and as if half doubtful if he
were the right person 

'' Winter has come."

sand the bird flies," he responded
quickly, in an undertone. Then, moving
towards the door, PoUow me."

He passed out of the porch, and the
veiled lady, in obedience to his direction,
followed. When they were beyond the
radius of the chapel lights, the evening
being quite dark, Gilbert paused and took
his companion by the hand.

*I must lead your ladyship now," he
said earnestly; 'but be of good cheer, we
shall soon be beyond the reach of your
enemies."

The lady seemed to be too much agitated
to make any reply, and in silence he conducted
her to where the ostler of the
St. Andrew's Eest, faithful to his promise,
waited with the horses. Still in silence,
Mistress Douglas was assisted to the saddle.
An instant afterwards, Gilbert had also
mounted, and the horses' heads were turned
northward.

At first they proceeded at a quick pace,
but as they left the city behind them, the
pace was increased to a smart canter. It
would have been perilous to have increased
the speed further, for the fog was now so

dense that they could not see the road they
were traversing. To add to the inconvenience
of the journey, the rain was falling
heavily, and wild gusts of wind swept along
the road, threatening to tear the travellers*
cloaks from their shoulders.

Gilbert was somewhat surprised by the
continued reticence of his companion, notwithstanding
that the circumstances of her
flight were peculiar and unhappy enough to
render speech irksome to her. After tone
or two questions as to the manner of her
escape from the castle, the principal object
of which was to learn if there were any
probability of a pursuit, and which she
answered in monosyllables, he desisted from
the attempt to draw her into conversation.


They passed Corstorphine, and were
moving straight toward the Stirling road.
The wind soughed through the woods with a
loud murmur like that of an angry sea. At
distant intervals there was a lull in the
storm, which seemed perfect quietude in

VOL. III. - K

contrast with the roar of the boisterous
gale.

During one of these brief kills, Gilbert
fancied that he heard the faint clatter of
horses' hoofs behind. A second time he
heard the ominous sound, and he was convinced
that they were pursued.

He felt that his weapons were in readiness,
and urged the horses to greater speed.

The instant Gilbert had quitted the porch
of St. Cuthbert's, a man dressed like him, in
black cloak and blameless bonnet, took up
the exact position which he had vacated.
The man was about the same height as
Gilbert, and as he had his bonnet drawn
as far down as to conceal the upper part of
his face, whilst his cloak was muffled about
the lower part carefully, it would not have
been easy at a hasty glance to distinguish
him from his prototype.

He stood immovable whilst the people
passed in to prayers, casting many curious
looks upon him. At length, when the bell

had nearly done tolling, a lady, cloaked and
veiled, approached with quick nervous
steps.

 Winter has come," she whispered, after
a timid glance at the man, and seemed
about to pass on. But she halted at his
response 

'' The bird flies."

The man moved slowly from the porch,
and the lady followed. When they were in
the dark, he said in a husky whisper  

 Our lives depend upon your silence and
submission to whatever course I may
adopt."

**I have trusted you," she answered
simply; "and I should not have been here
had I not been prepared to do all that you
might think needful for our safety."

"We must take a roundabout road to
reach our journey's end ; but fear nothing."

I will not fear until I know there is
occasion for it."

Good. I thank you."

He conducted her to where a couple of

horses were in waiting. They mounted,
and rode on at a rapid pace southward,
through mist and rain, with the wind in
their teeth binding them, and rendering ita
difficult task for a rider to divine in what
direction he was moving.

 Have you not mistaken the road,
Master EUiot ? " queried the lady, after an
hour's travel.

 No, no, this is the road ; be confident."

He still spoke in that husky whisper
which he had used when they met, although
there could be no possible reason for sustaining
it.

To this the lady paid no heed, and they
rode on in silence.

Gilbert's conviction that he was pursued
was soon verified, for the hoof-treads behind
were rapidly gaining upon him.

Meanwhile, he was perplexed and much
amazed by the conduct of his companion's
horse ; now it would spring forward as if
eager to distance the pursuers, and anon its

speed would be relaxed, as if it or its rider
were hesitating whether to go on or turn
back.

*'I pray you, Mistress Douglas," said
Gilbert anxiously,  permit me to use my
whip to that stubborn brute ; for I must tell
you that I believe we are followed, and that
at no great distance, and if we come no
better speed than this we shall surely fall
into the hands of those whom for the
present we would avoid."

'rit is none of the horse's blame,"
answered his companion, in a distressed
tone.

The voice startled the hearer, for it was
not like that of Mistress Douglas.

'' Saints defend me ! what can this mean ? "
he cried, checking his horse.

'' I am not she you take me for ; I am the
page Crawford."

Gilbert brought his horse to a stand.
Surprise and indignation rendered him for
one instant speechless. Then 

'' Now Heaven defend me from an im-worthy

act, for my first impulse was to
strike you down from the saddle, as if you
had been some vile leper that had poisoned
my blood."

'' Strike, strike, Master EUiot, for I think
I could die gladly at your hand, since I
have, in base fear for my own life, thus far
helped forward the schemes of a villain and
ruined my sweet mistress. Strike, for I do
not deserve to live, and I am ready to atone
my treachery with my life. Strike, and fly
to save yourself, for there come those behind
us who have been commissioned to destroy
you."

 By whom commissioned and by whose
directions have you thus fooled me and
betrayed your good mistress ? "

'Lord Binram, Lord Binram, he is the
man," cried the page in anguish.

*' As I suspected. His ruffians are close
upon us. Now, if you care for your miserable
life, be silent and obedient."

' I will die if that will serve you or sweet
Mistress Mary."

*' Come, then, we will quit the road, and
let these fellows pass on."

Seizing the reins of the page's horse, heled
it with his own into a thicket close by,
and there waited. The boy Crawford appeared
to be sincerely repentant of his
treachery, and faithfully kept silent, shivering
all the time with cold and alarm.

In a few minutes two horsemen galloped
by the place of ambush, and in a few
minutes more the retreating sound of their
horses' hoofs was lost in the distance.

snow," said Gilbert, sternly,  if you be
really sorry for the misery you have brought
upon your lady, tell me truly how all this
has happened."

*' I will tell you truly," answered the
page, with chattering teeth. *' On my way
to Lady Douglas with your letter. Lord
Binram stopped me, commanded me to
come straight to my Lord Angus. He
forced me along with him to a chamber
where was none but he and I. With
poignard at my throat, he forced me to

yield up your letter. He read it, then
sealed it, and bade me take it to my mistress,
threatening me with instant death if
I ever dared to hint at what had been
done.'

*' And you obeyed ? "

*I was a coward, a false knave  oh!
master, no vile name is vile enough for my
treachery. I was fearful of the death he
threatened me with, and I obeyed him. An
hour before vespers he summoned me, and
my lady having dismissed me for the day,
I went to him. Again, under fear of my
life, he compelled me to don this woman's
garb, and instructed me to meet you at St.
Cuthbert's as I have done. I did not know
the meaning of this masquerading until I
heard him whispering to the two fellows
now just gone by, bidding them follow me,
and as soon as we had got clear of the city
to settle with the man who would be with

me."

' What then?"

 Then I determined that at every risk I

would save you from them. Binram parted
with me near St. Cuthbert's. When you
spoke to me as to Mistress Douglas, I
understood the scheme that was afloat.
You had a secret assignation with my lady ;
believing me to be her, you quitted the
rendezvous with me, and Binram took your
place there to meet my lady."

* How guess you that ? "

*' Because when I parted with him he
was dressed as you are, in a black cloak
and bonnet without a feather. I had not
courage enough to warn you of this while
we were still within that man's reach."

The youth sobbed like a girl for very
shame and aching of heart.

Gilbert did not speak. His wrath
prompted him to strike the traitor to the
earth, but his better nature obtained sway,
and he refrained.

** Now Heaven forgive you the evil you
have done," he said calmly, ' and may you
live to regret it."

He was moving away.

* Ah, let me follow you, good Master
Elliot," cried the page, imploringly. '' Trust
me only once again. I will be your dog,
your slave. I will discover where my dear
mistress has been carried to, and I will help
you to rescue her. There is no power in
torture that will make me a second time
traitor."

I cannot trust you, boy."

Gilbert touched his horse, and it sprang
on to the road. Then with a heavy heart
he turned his face toward the city.

'but I will serve you none the less,"
murmured the page, drawing his cuff across
his eyes ; '' and I will find my lady for you
if I should die for it."

He also retraced his way to the city. He
went to the St. Andrew's Eest, whence he
knew the horses had been procured from
the parting words Gilbert had addressed to
the ostler. He found the latter in the
stables, and in giving him the horse learned
that Master Elliot had already arrived and
was to stay the night.

Chapter X.

THE Priory OF ST. Margaret.

*' With bitter strokes it both began and ended ;
She at the first encounter on him ran
With furious rage, as if she had intended
Out of his breast the very heart have rended ;
But he, that had like tempests often tried,
From that first flaw himself right well defended.
The more she raged the more he did abide ;
She hew'd, she foyn'd, she hasn't, she laid on every

side ;
Yet still her blows he bore and her forbore,
Weeping at last to win advantage new."

The Faery Queen.

Mistress Douglas, all unsuspicious of the
treachery to which she had fallen victim,
accompanied her false guide without again
questioning him as to the route they
travelled. The farther they advanced, however,

the more she became convinced that
they could not be progressing northward.
The conviction sprang from her remembrance
of the course they had taken in
starting, and she could not recollect that
they had yet altered it by any turn.

They passed few habitations ; sometimes
they crossed fields in order to avoid a
village; they forded several currents, and
still the lady found no landmark that
satisfied her as to the course they were
travelling.

At length the mist began to rise from the
valley. She looked back, and saw the
north star shining far behind them ; she
looked forward, and saw that they were
ascending a hill, on the brow of which she
was able to descry only the bare outline of
a dark pile of building.

By this time the rain had ceased, and the
violence of the wind had abated.

'' My faith, Master Elliot," said Mistress
Douglas, gaily, you have been but a dull
cavalier, for you have uttered not a word

these five hours. Pray yoii find your tongue
now, and tell me what house is this we are
nearing, and wherefore is the north star
behind us instead of before us ? "

This, madam, is the Priory of St. Margaret,
on Mount Benger, in Yarrow, and
there we shall pass the rest of the night."

She was dumb-stricken. The voice was
not Elliot's, but that of his foe and hers 
Heron B arras. After the first moments of
unutterable surprise and horror, she did not
faint or scream vainly for help ; her quick
wit instantly sought an expedient whereby
she might escape from the peril into which
she had fallen, by what trick she could not
conceive. She struck her horse smartly,
and it bounded forward, but was immediately
checked and brought back upon its
haunches by the leading rein, which, unknown
to her, Barras had fixed to the
bridle.

 I expected that," he said, with a
mocking laugh, 'sand you see was prepared
for it."

I have no weapon," lie cried, chafing
with rage, ' else, woman as I am, your
insolence should have instant chastisement.
Let go the rein."

High words, my lady, may serve at
whiles," he responded coolly, but they
will not cut this leathern strap or carry you
to your lover."

Villain  and coward as well as villain 
for none but a coward would strike at one
who is defenceless  you shall be bitterly
sorry for this if I live."

 Oh, your life is safe enough, for you
shall find protection within the walls of this
sanctuary."

 Wherefore have you brought me here,
and by what right do you constrain me
to remain ? "

*you have been brought here, madam,
to keep you out of harm's way, and by the
authority of your good brother, my Lord
Angus."

' You lie, sirrah," she cried, indignant as
much at the thought of her brother's complicity

in this outrage as at the insolent
sneer of the man's tone.  Lord Angus
would never have intrusted such as you are
with the custody of his sister."

'lord Angus would intrust such as me
with more things than you wot of, mistress,
to serve his own wise ends. Wherefore,
if you regard your own ease, you will curb
that shrewish tongue of yours, and make a
friend of me. You will the sooner find your
liberty."

*A friend of you," she retorted, scornfully.
'' Ay, when the lamb trusts itself to
the wolf."

*As you please, mistress; but since you
make a wolf of me, you shall find that the
wolf has rare sharp teeth, and knows how
to use them."

To this she made no response. She
perceived that she was unable to cope with
this man, who was apparently ready to
proceed to any extremity of violence should
she give him occasion. She was bitterly
chagrined and enraged by the success of the

ruse to which she had fallen victim, and
was still more enraged to think that her
brother could have committed her to the
care of such a fellow as B arras.

But I shall baulk their purpose, whatever
it be," she said to herself, subduing her
passion, and preparing to avail herself of the
first opportunity that might be presented to
escape.

The priory of St. Margaret on Mount
Benger had been founded in honour of the
good queen of that name. It was a square
building, with lowering battlements. It
was surrounded by a high double wall, and
a similar wall inclosed the extensive gardens
or pleasance in the rear of the building,
where were many verdant nooks and shady
retreats for the sisterhood to pass the brief
time allotted to them between the hours of
religious exercise. But over all the bloom
and verdure of the grounds, the priory
loomed like a black shadow, silent, mysterious,
and sombre. It seemed Hke a
grand tomb in the midst of flowers.

They had now arrived at the gateway,
and on the summons of B arras the postern
was opened for their admission. They
passed into a square court, where Barras
dismounted, and offered his hand to Mistress
Douglas to assist her from the saddle. She
seemed disposed to retain her seat ; suddenly
she altered her mind, and leapt
lightly to the ground, spurning his proffered
hand.

 This way, madam," he said coldly.

She followed, and he, as if well acquainted
with the place, crossed the court, ascended
a flight of stairs, and halted before a low
arched doorway, which he struck thrice
with his whip. Entrance was obtained
immediately, as if their coming had been
expected and awaited.

They were conducted into a small chamber,
in which the only articles of furniture
were an image of the Saviour, a priedieu,
and a block of wood, intended to serve as a
seat for any who might be disposed to sit
whilst waiting the pleasure of the Prioress.

VOL. Iir. L

*' Stay here a few minutes, madam," said
Barras, as he was leaving Mary. "' The
asylum which your good brother has chosen
for you will withdraw you from a corrupt
world, wherein your purity might have
suffered, until such time as you can submit
to his will or take the veil. I go to recommend
you specially to the Lady Superior,
and if my poor credit avails aught, believe
me I shall neglect nothing that can insure
for you here the treatment you merit."

She was a brave woman, but the import
of these words, and the sneer with which
they were accompanied, indicating how
completely she was at this man's mercy,
made her heart quake. She comprehended
now the fate Angus had in store for her,
and she comprehended how far he had
been driven by his hot temper  prompted
doubtless by Barras for some dark purpose
of his own  driven even to a doubt of her
honour.

Her cheeks tingled with the shame the
very thought engendered, and she was as

eager now to meet her brother face to face
as she had been a little while ago to shun
him. The indignity, too, which was being
heaped upon her was not the least of the
hardships she had to endure.

She began to pat the stone floor
impatiently with her foot, and in this occupation
she was only interrupted by the
appearance of an attendant to inform her
that the Prioress awaited her.

She followed the woman to the receiving-room
of the Priory. It was a large chamber,
and was at present illumed by two lamps.
It was divided in the centre by an iron
grating, which was hung with curtains of
black serge ; whilst along the side ranged
a species of low form covered with velvet,
apparently intended for sitting or kneeling.
The thick wall was pierced by three small
windows, which could be reached only by
the four steps built in the recess of each
with that object. On the wall opposite the
windows hung a large and fine painting
representing the Virgin visited by the

angel ; and this, with a beautiful image
in ivory of the crucifixion, were the only
adornments of the place.

The Prioress was seated on a raised chair,
and B arras was standing humbly before her,
bonnet in hand.

Mary fancied that there was a gleam as
of triumph in the man's cunning eyes as she
entered. But, without deigning to notice
his presence, she made a dignified bow to
the Lady Superior, who acknowledged the
salutation by a slow stiff bend of the head.

An incomprehensible shudder as of cold
passed over Mary as she halted before the
chair of the Prioress on the place she was
beckoned to by a long bony hand. With
haughty mien, she waited to learn the
purpose for which she was brought there.
She had not long to wait.

* This is the lady, madam," said B arras ,
addressing the Prioress.  The epistle of
my Lord Angus informs you that I am
charged to see his instructions regarding
her carried out, does it not ? "

The Superior of the Priory referred to
a letter which she held open in her hand.

* It is as you say, my lord."

 His lordship desires that she shall take
the veil of your order in two or three months,
unless before that time she has submitted
herself entirely to his wishes."

* It is even so."

 It is a headstrong spirit she possesses,
I grieve to say. She, unhappily, nourishes
an attachment to the things of the world,
and a guilty passion for one who, besides
being far below her in station, has been
degraded from the ranks of the royal guard.
He desires her to be cured of this passion at
any sacrifice."

' She shall be cured," commented the
Prioress, in her cold methodic voice.

 I know, madam, that you cannot be
otherwise than good with her, for it is in
your pure and gentle character to be always
so. But I must pray you to temper this
extreme goodness with a little firmness.
Believe me, she will else soon find the Away

to render your control of little avail by
taking advantage of your kindness."

' I will remember."

* Mistress Douglas," lie continued with
hypocritical humility, and a sidelong glance
at the fretful victim of his aspersions, '' has
made a bad return for all the kindness of
her brother. She has deceived him, and ina
person so young that indicates a heart
strangely corrupt. Surround her then with
the keenest surveillance, and by your example
and your good counsels endeavour to
win her back to honest sentiments."

'' Acquaint Lord Angus that I am deeply
sensible of his favours, and will obey his
wishes faithfully."

Barras bowed low and retired.

During this conversation, Mary stood
glancing with haughty indignation from one
to the other of the speakers. Several times
she had been upon the point of interrupting
the discourse ; but respect for the place and
the knowledge that any untimely display
of temper would not further but rather
retard her liberation, restrained her.

One contemptuous glance at the man ashe
retired, and she turned to the Prioress.
The latter had raised her veil, and the two
women regarded each other fixedly, as if
measuring strength for the contest which
was about to begin.

The Prioress of St. Margaret was a
woman of about fifty years, and had once
been handsome ; but the austerities of her
religion and the bitter workings of a jealous
spirit had deprived her of that grace which
is in age a second beauty. Her complexion
was yellow as old ivory ; her eyes black and
piercing, her lips thin and discoloured.
The expression of the visage was that of
one habituated to exercise authority, but it
was authority of a martinet sort. There
was something in her whole appearance
strangely hard and unsympathetic ; and
this destroyed the natural advantages of her
person.

Within the walls of the Priory she was
known as the Superior, Mother Ursula ; butin
the world she had been known as Mistress

Elizabeth Barras. She sprang from
an obscure family in Cumberland, and by a
certain talent for intrigue had pushed her
own way in the world. She had met the
master of Ker (father of Lady Spens), and
deemed him worth wedding, having failed
to achieve that object in two or three
other directions. The gentleman, however,
valued her favours lightly, and a couple of
years after she had given birth to a son, he
wedded a lady of the Maxwell family.

Maddened and filled with spleen by this
slight, she entered the convent, where she
turned her intriguing talents to so much
account, that she was in a few years appointed
Prioress of St. Margaret, and had
something to do with the plots of various
scheming prelates, who, since Flodden had
left so many fat livings vacant, were moving
heaven and earth to advance their own
ambitious desires. This was not the least
of the many movements which disturbed
the country and made religion a mockery.
Witness the unseemly appeal to arms of the

three prelates, Gain Douglas, the poet
Bishop of Ducked and uncle of Angus ;
Hepburn, Prior of St. Andrews ; and For-man.
Bishop of St. Andrews, to prove their
title to the Archbishopric of St. Andrews,
rendered vacant by the death of Elphin-
stone.

But the success which attended the
intrigues of the Prioress had not healed
the wound Ker had made in her heart and
pride. She nourished a secret rancour, not
only against the man who had wronged her,
his wife and his daughter, but against the
world, and, especially as years advanced,
against those who had youth and beauty.

Mother Ursula and Mistress Douglas
recognized each other as enemies in that
moment of silent examination. The latter
felt her blood freeze as it were under the
cold rapid glance of the Superior ; and the
Prioress, in the bright loveliness of her new
charge, was reminded of the charms she
had lost, and of the humiliation she had
endured. Hate entered her breast, and the

mission her son Heron Barras had confided
to her became one that, setting aside her
desire to advance his interest on all occasions,
would gratify her to fulfil.

** Welcome, my daughter," she said, with
a pale smile. *your brother, the good
Earl Angus, has wisely chosen a retreat for
you in this pious house which the sinful
noises of the world never penetrate. Rejoice,
my daughter, that you are come
here."

'I would rejoice, madam," replied Mary,
haughtily, ' had I come here by my own
will. But I have been brought here by
treachery, and if I am detained it will be
only by force. You can scarcely expect
that I will rejoice to find this house a
prison, whether it be a pious one or no."

The lips of Ursula were pinched as with
a spasm of rage, but she responded softly 

*' You are not in a prison ; this is a sanctuary
devoted to the service of the Sacred
Mother, by whom you will be protected.
You are young, my daughter, and subject

to the illusions of the world; but in the
profound peace of this mansion you will
learn to forget them ; and I hope you will
soon become one of the blessed troop of
virgins Heaven has confided to my care."

Mary listened to this little discourse with
her eyes fixed on those of the speaker.
The words were soft enough and good
enough in their way, but they were spoken
from habit, not from the heart. Although
disposed to gaiety, and of a quick passionate
nature, Mary was thoroughly sincere in
every thought and act ; so that falsehood
under the cloak of religion was to her
doubly repugnant.

She could not conceal her impression,
and the frown which flitted across the brow
of the Prioress, together with a shade of
pallor, denoted that she observed the effect
of her words. At the same time she comprehended
the spirit she had to deal with in
her prisoner, her own spirit of aversion was
pricked to vigour, and she resolved to subdue
the haughty jade.

I place due value on your kindness,
madam," said Mary, calmly, 'but I will
never become one of yom order."

'' The Holy Mother will accomplish your
conversion."

' Never to that end. But, pray you,
madam, if this house be not a prison forme,
will you throw open the doors, and
permit me to go freely forth ? ' '

"I cannot. You have been committed
to my care by your natural protector, the
Earl of Angus, who is, believe me, wiser in
your behalf than yourself, and you must be
taught submission."

'' I understand, then, that I am a
prisoner."

She was beginning to beat the floor with
her pretty foot  always a sign with her that
her passion was getting beyond her control.
' That is a hard name to give to the
kindness of those who esteem you, my
daughter," rejoined the Prioress, still in her
cold methodic tone.

' Tush, woman ! I am no child or fool, to

swallow poison as a plum because it is
sugared. Do you refuse to let me go
hence?"

* I must."

 Then I must seek a way without your
leave."

The Prioress rose hastily from her seat.

I grieve, my daughter, to see that the
world has so strong a hold of you. I pray
for your conversion."

There was rancour in her tone aud
manner, and she swept out of the room as
if afraid to trust herself longer with one
who had already pierced her mail of cold
self-command.

Mary looked after her with passionate
scornful eyes. Then, finding herself alone,
she hastily examined the room. The door
was fast ; she ran up to each of the
windows, and found them guarded by iron
gratings. It was indeed a prison to which
she had been entrapped.

Baffled in every attempt to discover a
loophole for egress, she was standing vexedly

gazing around her, when the door reopened
and a black veiled sister carrying a light
appeared.

 Madam, I come to take you to your
chamber," said the sister, in a low pleasing
voice.

Mary, eyeing the speaker curiously,
nodded for reply, and followed through a
lengthy corridor, up a narrow staircase,
through another corridor to the door of a
chamber in the north angle of the building.

On the way she had carefully examined
the passage and counted the doors on either
side. She was confident that she could
find the way back again.

' This is your chamber, sister," said the
guide, opening the door ; ' good night."

'goodnight."

Mary entered; the door was closed and
locked.

Chapter XI.

THE Secret OF THE Turret.

*' What tiger or what other savage wight
Ts so exceeding furious and fell ,

As Wrong when it hath arm'd itself with might ?
Not fit 'mongst men that do with reason well,
But 'mongst wild beasts and savage woods to dwell ;
Where still the stronger doth the weak devour,
And they that most in boldness do excel
Are dreaded most and feared for their power."

Spenser.

TusHiELAW, with sullen determination bent
upon keeping the troth he had pledged to
his dead foster-brother, continued to scour
the country round in search of Kirsty
Hyslop ; but still without avail. He had
also despatched Eddie Craig and another
to Edinburgh to act under the orders of

Barras in finding Elliot and settling with
him. As has been related, the timely
warning of the page Crawford rescued
Gilbert from the first attempt of the two
assassins.

So the border chief fretted and fumed and
hunted his human quarry with his dark
purpose still unachieved.

Meanwhile the gipsy youth Kaza, although
he was regarded with little else than scorn
by the greater number of the borderers for
his lack of strength and hardihood, was
pitied by the others on account of being a
natural or sort of harmless idiot, and rapidly
grew in favour with the chief.

None could divine how this favour was
obtained ; but, probably, even the rude
nature of Tushielaw was affected by the
weakness and friendless condition of the lad.
Besides, little wit as Kaza might have, he
appeared to have enough to know that his
condition would be improved in the ratio of
his service to the chief. Accordingly, he
was always ready at his beck to run anywhere

or do anything for him, and in return
Tushielaw, in his rough way, liked the lad,
finding him useful.

With another person Kaza had found
favour, and that was none other than his
captor, the dwarf Hornie. Although the
latter liked rarely to play some trick on
the young gipsy for the amusement of
his master, the deformed man and the half-wit
were great friends.

They were often seen together, often
found in out-of-the-way nooks of the tower,,
playing at hide and seek, as Hornie explained
on being questioned.

On one occasion, when Yetholm Will was
passing the south turret chamber, the door
was slightly ajar, and he overheard the
voices of Hornie and Kaza in what appeared
to be earnest converse. Now, this chamber
was specially devoted to the use of the
master ; the door, which had recently been
renewed, was a double one of strong oak,
and studded with broad-headed nails. He
always carried the key about his person,

VOL. TIT. M

and never permitted any one to enter the
chamber save when he was present.

Curious to know" how the dwarf and the
natural had got into the secret room, and
what they were talking about, Will listened.

' If it be not here, mistress, then it is not
in the tower," said Hornie, in a tone of
respect such as Will had never known him
to use before.

* Then all my labour will be vain ! " sighed
Kaza, more like a woman, Will thought,
than a hall wit gipsy lad.

*' The chamber would ne'er have been
guarded so well had there been no secret
to guard. Make use of the time and seek
high, seek low, seek roof and floor and walls.
I hae kenned a bit of tapestry hide rare
treasures."

At this Will burst into the room, his dull
mind grasping only the commonest notion
that the pair were attempting to rob the
master. This notion was engendered
chiefly by the last word Hornie had uttered
*' treasures."

He found Kaza in the act of raising a
portion of the dust-covered tapestry, which
he dropped as if in alarm the instant the
man appeared. The dwarf was on his knees
on the floor, scrutinizing every seam and
chink.

His attention was attracted hy the noise
Will made in entering, and twisting his head
over his shoulder to see who came, he saluted
him with one of his loud hoarse laughs. He
did not betray the least fear or confusion.

** What, in the fiend's name, are ye twa
seeking here ? " demanded Will gruffly, and
still suspicious.

Come ye hither, Yetholm Will," answered
the dwarf, * an' gives a hand. We're
seeking a treasure, man, that's worth
finding  haw, haw, haw ! ' '

' Out o' this, ye thieving' loons, and ye
shall hear what the master says when he
kens ye hae been here."

* Na, Will, na, we'll no gang foot," said
Hornie, coolly continuing his search, but
now with the air of one seeking some object

which might be easily seen,  We'll no
gang foot, man, but ye'll come and help us
to find the gem that we were sent here to
seek."

were ye sent here?" queried Will,
beginning to think he had made a mistake.

'Ay, what else?"

' Whasent ye?"

' The master, of course."

' What for?"

' Why, ye gowk, to find the dame his
mither's distaff which we are to carry to
Harden. Had it no been for that how do
ye think wee would hae gotten the key to
win in here ? "

** Humph," muttered the man as he retired,
satisfied that he had misunderstood
what he had heard, yet not without casting
another suspicious look at Kaza, who had
now recovered his ordinary manner of
simple interest in everything he saw.

Hornie sprang to his feet, and with quick
but cautious movements closed the door
and bolted it. He leaned his back against

it, and his heavy features were distorted
with the alarm he had so cleverly concealed
whilst the man was in the room.

Certes, my lady," he said in a whisper,
*ewe were near nahbit that time. Ye maun
hae left the door agee."

 But what will we do ? " exclaimed Kaza
in a whisper also, and in much distress;
** he will tell Tushielaw."

Hornie gave his neck an uncomfortable
jerk.

* My eggs, then, if he does tell we'll hae
to wear hempen cravats for an hour or twa.
Tushielaw would hang us foot yonder on the
gallows tree just as though we were twa
kittens over mony for him, if he kent we
had been here. I hae seen him dort before
noo."

Kaza shuddered at the doom which was
suspended over them by such a thin thread
as the chance of Yetholm Will's silence of
speech. Then with an effort he regained
composure and spoke quietly 

** We must make the most of this opportunity,

then, and pray Heaven that we
succeed."

'' That's just my opinion, my lady; sae if
ye'll gang outside and watch, I'll seek the
hiding-place o' the treasure, though Tm
muckle doubtful whether or no the thing ye
want is in existence ; an' if it be ye'll hae
kittle work to win out o' the tower wi' it."

" What I seek is worth dying for."

' Weel, gang ye foot, my lady, and when
ye hear or see anybody coming, whistle 
but ye canna whistle, so just sing a line o' a
sang, and I'll ken what to do."

The gipsy laddie, or, as has doubtless
been already discovered. Lady Spens, went
out to the corridor and remained there upon
the watch for nearly half an hour.

The object for which she had braved every
peril and voluntarily entered the lion's den,
was near its achievement or its utter failure.
If, as Gilbert Elliot had informed her, and
had declared to the Council of State,
Tushielaw was concerned in the treachery
by which Flodden battle was alleged to have

been lost, there must be in the tower some
document relating to the transaction ; and
failing documents, there must be some
portion of English gold sufficiently large to
excite suspicion  for English gold was a
rarity in Scotland at this time.

But she had little hope of being able to
bring home to the Borderer the charge
which Elliot had made, and which she, for
her husband's sake, intended not to repeat
unless she could find the proof of it in some
positive and indisputable shape.

For that proof she had now, with the
assistance of the dwarf, vainly ransacked
every nook and cranny in the tower except
this turret chamber, and here she hoped 
nay, was almost assured  that she would
find what she sought. The singular care
with which the Borderer guarded this room,
and the erection of the new door shortly
after the battle  the particulars of which
she gathered from the troopers and from
Hornie  convinced her that there was some
secret of high import hidden within.

Day after day she had waited for the
opportunity to penetrate the mystery, and
at length Hornie had succeeded in purloining
the key from the doublet of the master.

She had been disappointed upon entering
the room, for it was furnished only with a
table and a couple of high-backed chairs,
which were easily examined, but yielded no
satisfaction. They had been on the point
of searching for some cunningly contrived
hiding-place when they were interrupted by
Yetholm Will.

Better fortune attended the second effort;
during the whole time she remained on the
watch, nobody approached that part of the
house. Her pulse quickened, and her eyes
kindled with expectation as Hornie came
running to her.

''I hae found out the secret," he said, ina
hot whisper, and quivering with eagerness.
'' I hae found the place, and there's wealth
o' good and silver."

* Nothing else?" she said, almost as if
she were disappointed.

* I canna tell, for my e'en were dazzled
sae that I coiildna make out what was a'
there."

' Show me the place."

*i'll bide here and watch: when I whistle
slip out as quick as ye can. Ye '11 easily
find the hiding-place, for it's just under the
window, twa spans from the bottom; ye'll
touch a spring, then the stone moves on a
pivot, and ye'll see sic a sight as will make
your e'en dance as mine did."

She hurried back to the turret chamber
and eagerly recommenced the search  so
eagerly that she forgot to listen for Hornie's
signal of danger.

Following the directions she had received,
she drew aside the tapestry beneath the
window, and without much difficulty found
the secret of the reiver's treasure-chest.
On pressing a small wedge-like stone, a
large square block beneath it moved from its
place, and with a little exertion she turned
it on its pivot, revealing a large dark recess.

She was too anxious in pursuit of her own

object to be surprised by the stores of gold
and silver wbicb lay before her, but she
carefully examined the contents of a leather
bag. It contained probably two hundred
pieces of gold, bearing the English stamp
of Henry VIII.

' This, then, is the price of his treachery,"
she muttered bitterly; *but how can this
discovery serve me if there be no other
proof of his guilt ? ' '

With hands trembling under the excitement
of mingled hope and sickening doubt,
she examined every cranny of the recess
without finding that which she had hoped
for and prayed for. But as with quivering
lips she was about to desist in despair, her
eyes lighted upon the handle of a small key,
which was partly concealed by the leather
bag. Shifting the bag by a great exertion of
her strength, she drew out the key, which was
of peculiar workmanship and much corroded
with rust. Again she eagerly scrutinized the
safe for some lock which this key might open,
and again was disappointed.

She stood for some minutes looking
piteously upon the little rusted instrument
to which her fancy attributed the magic
power of revealing to her a treasure of more
worth than all the gold and silver amongst
which she found it, could she but discover
the lock it served. Then chiding herself
for this delusion, she was about to throw
the key back, concluding that it would have
worn some signs of use, and would not
have been left carelessly to rust there if it
had possessed half the importance which
she was disposed to endow it with, when
Hornie rushed into the room.

 Saints boon," he cried, in a quick
whisper, *did you no hear me whistle like
a mavis over its checking' ? The chiefs
coming himself."

Whilst he was speaking, he moved the
stone of the recess into its place, dropped
the tapestry over it, and hurried the lady
out of the chamber, carefully locking the
door after them.

Then with light steps they sped along

the corridor till they reached a spiral
staircase, by which they ascended to the
ramparts.

The lady, exhausted by her exertions
and agitation, leaned heavily against the
parapet.

The dwarf, with serious visage, bent over
the staircase, listening intently for any
sound of unusual commotion.

'' We are safe yet," he said, presently
looking up ;  he hanna been wanting' to get
into the turret chamber. Have ye found
what ye sought? "

'No."

' Confound it, what will we do then ; for
I must take the key back to his room, so
that he may never know that it has been
wa."

** You can do so, for the search is vain,"
she returned, sadly.

*' Never say that until we are hanged,
for ye never ken what we may learn tomorrow.
But what's that ye hae got in
your hand ? "

The attention of Mistress Spens was thus
called to the rusted key which she unconsciously
retained in her hand. She threw
it carelessly to the dwarf, who snatched
it up with an exclamation of joy, and made
a wild caper with his long arms and short
legs as if he had become suddenly demented.


*' What has happened ? " queried the
lady, wonderingly.

victory, victory !" cried Hornie, with
another caper, and forgetting necessary
caution in his mysterious delight.

* Be still, be still, good friend, and tell
me what this means ! " exclaimed Mistress
Spens, excitedly.

Hornie checked his fantastic movements
and spoke composedly, but with glistening
eyes.

' Bide ye there till I come back, and then
ye shall ken the meaning of it a'."

Before she could attempt to stay him,
he darted down the staircase.

He hastened to the sleeping-room of

Tushielaw, and threw the key of the turret
chamber on the floor so that the chief
might find it, and think that it had fallen
accidentally from his pouch. Without
being seen by any one, Hornie returned
to the rampart, where Lady Spens, in a
state of excited bewilderment, waited for
him.

' Keep me no longer in suspense," she
said, 'but say quickly what matter of joy
you have found ? "

* That will I gladly, my lady ; this rusty
key that ye held of so small account is the
chiefs treasure of the turret chamber."

'Why so?"

because it keeps that which will prove
your goodman an honest knight, and
Tushielaw a doomed scoundrel. I'm sure
the proof exists noo, for if it diana this
bit of old steel would not have been
guarded so siccarly. Come wi' me."

He led the way down to the lowest
dungeons of the keep, pausing only to
procure stealthily a cruse, which, with the

help of flint and steel, he lighted. When
they had entered a dark and damp narrow
passage 

ic There is no muckle fear of anybody
coming down here unless they canna help
it," he said, hurrying forward; 'but keep
your ears open lest ill luck should send
some gowk wandering this gate."

They now entered a passage which appeared
to be roughly hewn out of the rock,
and it gradually narrowed as they advanced,
till, when they reached its extremity, they
could not stand abreast.

Hornie gave the light to his companion,
and bade her stand back a little. Then,
exerting all the strength of his body, he
succeeded in rolling over a block of sandstone,
which was almost as large as himself,
and which had been partly leaning against
the rocky wall that terminated the passage.

He leaped nimbly over the stone and
knelt upon the clammy floor. Mistress
Spens held the light to him, whilst he
scraped aside some earth and revealed an

iron ring : with this lie raised a stone of
about a foot square, beneath, which was a
small iron box banded with steel and riveted
to the rock.

"It's here," he cried gleefully, and then
jumping on to the top of the boulder he
had moved from its place, he seated himself,
with his legs crossed and gripping his
ankles with his hands.

"Now," he continued, "I drill expound
to your ladyship this mystery."

Marvelling at the dwarf's strange conduct,
hoping, yet quivering with doubt,
Mistress Spens listened to his revelation
with deepest interest.

CHAPTEK XII.

THE Dwarf's Story.

*but as lie nigher drew, three knights he spied
All arm'd to point issuing forth apace,
Which toward him with all their power did ride, .
And meeting him right in the middle race,
Did all their spears at once on him enhance
As three great coverings for battery bent,
And levell'd all against one certain place,
Do all at once their thunder's rage forth vent
That makes the walls to stagger with astonishment.' *"

The Faery Queen.

'rit behoves me to acquaint you, my lady,
how it is that ye have found me so ready
to take part in your cause and your goodman's
against the chief I serve," Hornie
commenced with a consequential air; 'but
you will be startled to ken that the man
I serve hanged my father. That's a long

YOL. III. N

while syne, and I mind nothing about it ;
and now he is chasing my mother, intending
to show her the same mark of his
favour."

* Your mother !" exclaimed Lady Spens.

*' Ay, Kirsty Bishop, called the witch,
though, between ourselves, she is nae mair
a witch than I'm a brownie, yet I hae
played some queer cantrips in my time.
She is my mother, and that's how she
came to ken everything that was passing
here, and it was in order that she might
ken, that years syne she forced me to
resign my chance of pushing my fortune
at court  where sic wit as mine can be
properly appreciated  to spend my best
days dancing at the tail of the King of
the Borders waiting for an opportunity to
account wi' him for my father's end.

' Ye ken that ye hae been kind to the
auld wife, and, what was mair to the
purpose, the Knight of Halstane befriended
my father when he lived  rest his soul;
he was an honest man and aye true to

his word, though he did whiles mistake a
neebor's coo for his ain. These were good
reasons why wee should haud our duty to
the Spens' before even our ain desire for
vengeance. Sae, besides watching for our
ain turn, we were watching for yours too ;
but of that only Sir Walter was ware.
This was how he came to need our help.

 It is mair than three years since your
father. Sir Matthew Ker, then warder of
the Middle Marches, was slain when he gad
with peaceful intent to a March meeting."

' I remember," said the lady, sorrowfully.


' But you do not ken who were his
slayers, for there were three of them, and
only one has got his deserts. Well, when
the braw chiefs o' the borders had forgotten
a' their feuds and were amusing these's
drinking an gaming thither, just as if
they had never cried the hot trod after
ane another, or tried the temper o' steel
in earnest. Sir Matthew Ker was bidden
step apart, a quarrel was made, and before

he could cry, * Ker to the rescue,' he was
stricken down by the lance of Heron
B arras, and poignard by Tushielaw and
the other ehiel wha was hanged for it."

** Stay, for pity's sake ! I know that my
brother is base  I know that he has been
most unkind to me  but I cannot credit
that he would have raised his hand to slay
his father."

"Whether he was his father or no  and
black as it may be to think on  Heron
B arras struck the first blow, for I myself'
saw him do it."

* Then, may the sweet Virgin obtain
pardon for him," moaned the poor lady,
subduing her emotion with all the strength
at her command.

' Syne, when it was kent that blood was
drawn, a' the mirth of the day was changed
like magic into the din of battle. There
was riding and fighting, and swearing and
tearing enow, and in the midst of the steer
the three loons were aff safe and sound ;
for Tushielaw hanna men enough wi' him

to have fought his way to the tower,
supposing it had been kent what a finger
he had in the pie, and supposing the gowks
had had wit enough to have combined to
attack the causers of the fray. But he
marched as bravely hame as if he had
been the mast willing of ony to help
justice.

''He carried Barras safely with him and
got him across the border in a day or twa
hale and sound. Well, Sir Walter Spens
learned through me how Sir Matthew had
fallen ; but what wasna sae weel, Tushielaw
soon kent that he kent it. Guide reason
why Tushielaw should set himsel' to work
to get Spens out o' the road. That was
how your goodman first needed my help
and my mother's  to watch the treacherous
movements of Tushielaw and give him
timely tidings that he might circumvent
them.

'' As our duty bound us, we have tried to
act faithfully."

'rand you have done it truly."

' The words are sweet, lady, for it warms
the heart to ken that those we serve vakie
our service. Well, on the night before the
battle of Flodden I was in the English
camp. Two men in black mail with visors
closed sought audience with the Earl Surrey
on a matter of high import to England.
The interview was granted.

 * Raise your visors, sirs,' said the Earl.

* ' We crave indulgence, my noble lord,'
said one of the two. * We are a couple of
unfortunate men, and under your lordship's
favour, must state our business ere we
reveal ourselves.'

'eat first his lordship was not inclined to
comply with the conditions upon which
they desired to be heard; but at last agreed,
in accordance with the advice of cunning
Lord Dares.

' The one of the black mails who had
spoken before took the word again.

' May it please your lordship, we are
borderers both. There is not a morass or
moor, a phil] or dale, on all the debatable

land or twenty miles round it but we
know. If it be your lordship's pleasure to
accept our services, we pledge ourselves
to guide your army by a short and speedy
route through the morass to the rear of the
Scottish army, so that you shall stand
betwixt them and their own country, and
cut off all communication and supplies.'

' ' Ha ! say you ; by St. George, that
were a most worthy service.'

* * And we are prepared to render it.' 

'' ' We accept. But stay ; what condition
do you tag to this proffer of aid ? '

 * Nothing more, my lord, than pardon
for what offences we may have committed
on the borders, and your protection against
the vengeance of the Scots.'

' Surrey consulted with his advisers,
and, agreeably to their lordships' counsel,
said 

< < Provided you have not been guilty of
treason against his Majesty King Henry,
we accede to your supplication, and will
give you freely two hundred gold pieces

each if you can lead us in safety and with
speed to the north of Flodden field.'

*We are guilty of no treason against
his gracious Majesty of England  so wisely
represented in your lordship's noble person
and we will do what we have promised.'

*' ' Show your faces, then, Hke honest
men.'

*the visors were raised, and showed the
faces of Heron B arras and Adam Scott of
Tushielaw.

"Earl Surrey was not well pleased with
what he had done when he knew the men,
but he would not break his word even to
such as them. There was no parchment in
the camp, so a skin was cut from a drum,
and my Lord Surrey divided it into two
parts, and wrote for each of the traitors
a free pardon for any offence they had
hitherto committed, and a promise of two
hundred pounds English money in gold,
on condition that they conducted his army
in safety to the north of Flodden field.

** Barras and Tushielaw fulfilled their part

of the bargain and Surrey his. I managed
to acquaint Spens with what had happened
before morning. He on the instant despatched
a messenger to Lord Home,
desiring him to inform the King, as he was
unable to quit his post.

*' By the treachery of that messenger,
Barras and Tushielaw learned that Spens
was acquainted with their treason. Good
reason why they sought his life in the
battle, and afterwards sent abroad the false
charge that he had betrayed and actually
murdered the King.

When Sir Walter was in hiding at
Merlin's Cairn I was in communication
with him, although I was not able to give
you or him warning of the raid on Hal-stane.


' He bade me seek that precious bit of
drum, which, he said, was of more worth to
him than Tushielaw 's death. I sought it,
but failed to find it.

 Nathless on three several occasions I
observed the chief come to this place alone

and by stealth. I at last came here myself,
shifted that big stone, found the trap
beneath, and saw this iron box. I could
not shift it from its place, and I dared not
ask help from any. I have tried keys of
many shapes and sizes, which mother got
from Selkirk, but till to-day I never saw
the key that would open that box.

' That key will do it ; and I would stake
my head we'll find the ruskin inside o'
this box."

Thus concluding his important narrative,
which had been earnestly told, although
not without frequent displays in tone and
manner of his own consequence, the little
man took the light from Lady Spens and
jumped down from his perch.

While she leaned over the huge stone
which divided her from her accomplice, and
with a painful intentness observed his
movements, he methodically applied the
rusted key to the lock of the strong box.
The key fitted; but for some time all his
efforts to turn it were unavailing. At

length, however, it moved round in the
ward with a sharp grating noise ; bnt the
lid remained as solidly fixed as if it had
been all one piece of iron. He was perplexed
by this, but turned the key again,
this time with even more difficulty than
before.

Still the lid remained fast. With some
vexation he turned the key a third time.
The lid yielded to his touch and opened.

as it there?"

* Saints be praised, and as I'm a leaving
sinner, there lies the very identical bit of
ruskin," he responded, with difficulty
suppressing a shout of triumph.

* Give it me, give it me ! " cried Mistress
Spens, with feverish eagerness stretching
forth her hands to receive the precious
document.

She scrutinized it with avidity, her countenance
alternately flushing and blanching
with excitement. The document was duly
signed and sealed by Surrey and attested by
Lord Dares, and was precisely to the effect

stated by Hornie, granting a free pardon
and two hundred pounds in English gold to
Adam Scott in consideration of his services
rendered to the English army on the night
of the 8th September (the battle was fought
on the 9th), in the year of grace 1513.

*she is saved! he is saved! Oh,
Heaven be thanked for this mercy ! " exclaimed
Mistress Spens, passionately kissing
the document and folding it to her breast.
Now, whether Spens be dead or living 
and my heart tells me that he lives to know
his triumph  none shall dare cast a slur
upon his name from this day forth."

Meanwhile Hornie had carefully re-locked
the now empty box, closed the trap, and
was busy trying to roll the large stone into
its place.

*' We'd better take tent, my lady, and no
let your joy run wa' wi' your wit, for you're
no out o' the tower yet."

The warning was not unneeded, for the
heart of the poor lady had been so long oppressed
that the reaction consequent upon

the discovery by which all her trouble was
to be relieved, and the honour of her
husband proved stainless, was so great that
for a time she forgot the peril that still
surrounded her  peril that was increased in
proportion to the value of the treasure she
carried.

Of this she was reminded by the dwarf's
warning, and with the consciousness of her
danger came increased  strength to carry
her through the trial. Of a sudden she
became more composed and more resolute
than she had yet shown herself.

** Thanks, thanks, my true friend ; when
the work is but half done, this is not the
place or time for rejoicing," she said,
quietly; it will be time for that only
when I stand before the Council of Scotland
with this document in my hand."

She folded up the skin, and carefully
secured it inside the breast of her jerkin
by means of a bit of ribbon.

Hornie extinguished the light, for it was
necessary to observe even more caution in

getting out of the place than in getting
into it. He took the hand of Lady Spens,
and, as if he had been gifted with the
peculiar faculty of the cat, he proceeded as
rapidly along the clammy passages in the
dark as he had done with the lamp.

They soon attained the court, whereafter
Hornie had given her directions how
to proceed, they parted ; for they desired
to avoid being seen together, so that if her
flight were too soon discovered, he, being
unsuspected, might be able to learn the
movement of the enemy in time to prevent
capture.

'' Gang ye to the gate," he whispered ; ' if
they stop ye, say you are on the master's
affairs. Then, fast as ye can run, make for
the nest on Bowerhope Law. Wait there
till dark, when my dam or myself' will be
wi' ye. But if ye can get a horse ony way,
baud on for Peebles. Belike ye '11 meet
with the chief Howie, for he was auld to
bide about the Law for ye, and if ye do
he'll get horses. Noo, wa' wi' ye, my lady,

and saints send ye safe to your journey's
end."

With a hasty expression of gratitude she
proceeded to the gate. The statement that
she was on the chief's errand obtained free
egress for her, and she ran all the way down
the hill, sustaining the same pace till she
was nearly a mile from the tower. Then
she was obliged to walk, but anxiety and
fear gave her steps unusual swiftness.

Hornie watched till he saw her safe beyond
the gateway, and then he waddled
into the kitchen with his ordinary grin of
self-satisfied humour, as if he had been
engaged in the most innocent pastime.
The fore quarters of an ox were being
roasted, and he tendered his services to
turn the spit.

He was thus occupied when Yetholm
Will appeared in a savage humour.

 Whar hae ye been, ye deil's get? " he
growled. * I hae been seeking ye a' over
the house."

' I hae been visiting my father the deil,

Will, an' he was steering wlian ye were
coming hame  haw, haw, haw ! "

''Ye'U laugh to another tune or long.
What hae ye done wi' the gipsy loon ? "

'I died him a broom an' sent him to
soon the lum, sae that the first witch that
came might hae a clear road for carrying
ye away."

 We'll see if that answer will serve the
master," said Will, with a malicious grin ;
' he's waiting for ye in the turret chamber."


The dwarf paled slightly at this ominous
intimation, but he responded with one of
his loud guffaws 

'body o' me, man, why did ye no say
that the master wanted me before noo?
Hey, cook, mind the spit yourself."

With apparent alacrity he jumped to his
feet to obey the summons of the chief.
Will followed him, as if to make sure of
his purpose."

Tushielaw's visage was distorted with
passion, and his dress disordered as if he

had been hurriedly searching it for something,
and had forgotten to arrange it
again.

 So you are there at last," he said
hoarsely, and scowling darkly upon the
dwarf, who met the gaze with the utmost
equanimity :  where is the other ? "

* He canna be found," said Will, '' and
Hornie will no tell me anything about
him."

 Where is the lad Kaza?" demanded
Tushielaw, addressing Hornie.

 Ye diana make Kaza my monkey, or
bid me gang about wi' a string tied to his
neck, so how should I ken where he is more
than the others?"

' Hark ye, Hornie. Ye have had an easy
life with me, and mony a time when I have
suspected you I have held my hand from
braining you because ye were a poor deformed
lump that I thought bound to my
service. But by my hand, if ye speak not
truly ye shall rue the day ye made a play
with me."

VOL. III.

The dwarf gave his high shoulders a shrug
of indifference.

' I canna help that, master ; if it he your
will to choke me ye hae the strength."

* Where is the lad?"

"I canna tell."

"What were you doing with him in this
chamber ? "

"When?"

"An hour syne."

The dwarf looked into the chief's face as
if surprised.

Me here an hour syne ? " he exclaimed.
How could that be when ye ay keep the
key yourself' ? "

"Ay, but to-day the key was stolen from
my pouch, and Will saw ye both here seeking
the dame's distaff, as ye said."

Hornie coolly seized Will by the cuff and
drew him over to the chief.

Noo, Will, look me in the face," he exclaimed
with an air of honest indignation,
and tell me that ye ever saw me in this
chamber before, except when the master
was present ? "

"Ye ken weel that I saw ye and the
other loon here, and ye were talking ahont
treasures and searching behind the tapestry."


And ye ken that ye are seeing, and that
ye are just trying to blacken me in the sight
of the master."

"I ken that I hae spoken truth, and
nought else."

Tushielaw was for a moment perplexed
by the steady denial of the dwarf, but hee
speedily concluded that this was mere subterfuge,
and, as if completely to break down
the bold defence Hornie had set up, a moss-trooper
entered with the intelligence that
Kaza had quitted the tower. Then, holding
out the rusted key of the secret chest, he
said 

* Is this the key ye were seeking,
master?"

Tushielaw snatched it from him eagerly.

Where got yoa this ? "

By the kitchen fire."

That was where Hornie was sitting,"

said Yetholm Will, '' and he has dropped it
there in case we should ripe him."

Such was the case, and Hornie saw that
his last hope of escape was gone.

Tushielaw pounced upon him, and shouting
to the others to hiring lights, dragged
the dwarf down to the cavernous passage.

Whilst the two men stood behind holding
aloof a couple of pine torches, and barring
the way against the culprit should he attempt
to move, the chief examined the iron
box. Finding it empty, he gripped Hornie
savagely by the throat.

' Speak, where is the thief? " he yelled.

Ye are choking me," gasped the prisoner.

' Speak, where is he ? "

''1 cannatell."

' Then ye shall never speak to man or
woman more''

He hurled the unfortunate dwarf into a
dark slimy cell and locked the door upon
him, leaving him to the slow torturing death
of starvation. He took the key with him,
and cast it down the draw-well in the court.

Such. be the doom of all traitors to
Tusliielaw," he said fiercely.  Now to
horse and pursue the other fool. There area
hundred gold pieces to be shared among
ye when the loon is brought back to the
tower, living or dead."

The men flew to the stables, and in less
than ten minutes fifty well-armed horsemen,
with the chief at their head, and accompanied
by a leash of hounds, opened the
pursuit on the gipsy lad Kaza.

CHAPTEK XIII.

A PRETTY HYPOCRITE.

"stay then, if you will have me ride your humour,
You shall find that I can pull long faces too 
Look meek and kindly, mouth stale saws of virtue,
And carry off the other tricks of hypocrites
The while my heart is bursting with its passion.
My mind prick' d up to catch the merest chance
Of bidding you good den, and devil be with you.
Oh, I've studied these things at my glass ere now,
And think that I can play them passing well."

J. Wynn's Cavalier.

The chamber into which Mary Douglas had
been ushered confirmed the impression she
had formed that this sanctuary of religion
was to her a prison. It was not more than
ten feet square, and from the bareness of
the grey stone walls and floors, and the

scantiness of furniture, it obtained a cheerless
aspect.

A loophole, which seemed to serve rather
to show the thickness of the wall than to
admit light, was the only thing in the shape
of a window. Beneath the loophole hung
a small white crucifix ; a single chair, a
table, on which lay a breviary, and a low
settle bed, which appeared to be too narrow
to permit a sleeper to turn without tumbling
on the floor, comprised the whole furnishing.


Mary seated herself on the bed and surveyed
her cell  for chamber she could not
call it  and, brave as she was, her heart
sank when she reflected on her position.

Delivered by her brother to the care of a
ruffian who had skilfully taken advantage
of her own attempt to quit the castle
secretly, to convey her to this place ; debarred
from all communication with the
outer world, and Gilbert Elliot doubtless
betrayed, it might be assassinated,  she was
completely at the mercy of the intriguing

Prioress, and the man whose cunning rendered
him as formidable as he was hateful.

What fate might be in store for her she
could not imagine. She knew that Barras
had deceived her brother, but she could not
form the remotest conception of the end he
might have in view in doing so.

* Whatever it be, I will baulk him or I
will die," she exclaimed, with flashing eyes,
and stamping her pretty foot angrily on the
floor.

When her passion rose, her flagging
spirit recovered from its temporary exhaustion;
but for all that it was a bitter
night she spent. The terrible uncertainty
of the fate in store for her daunted her
brave spirit again, as fancy conjured up
grimmest possibilities of the future.

She waited impatiently during the day
to learn what those in whose power she had
been placed intended to do with her. But
nobody came even to summon her to prayers.
Necessaries were supplied to her by means
of a revolving trap in the wall beside the

door; but no voice addressed her, no face
was shown to her.

Till long after midnight she remained
fretting inter the anguish of suspense, and
then she found unconsciousness in sleep,
but not rest.

A little while after matins on the succeeding
day, she heard a man's footstep
approaching the door. She was now utterly
wearied out, but more composed than she
had been during the previous day, for she
had partly decided upon the course of conduct
she should adopt. She would play the
hypocrite, and foil her jailers with their
own weapons  cunning. Her suspense had
become so insupportable that she was glad
even to see Barras, who now presented
himself; for she would at any rate learn
the worst from him.

He was dressed in the gayest fashion,
with the richest material; his hair was
arranged with foppish care ; and, although
underneath everything he said and did
there was evident consciousness of power

his deportment was respectful. He appeared,
in fact, to have come with intent
to make an impression, and the appearance
was corroborated by the purport of his conversation.


He gave Mistress Douglas good-morrow,
with a low formal bow.

She did not acknowledge the salutation
otherwise than by drawing herself up
haughtily, and saying in a calm firm tone 

I am pleased, my lord, you have favoured
me with this visit."

 You do me too much honour, madam,"
he put in, with another bow, a gratified
smirk, as if acknowledging a compliment.

She took no note of the interruption.

'I am pleased, my lord, because I would
fain know for what crime I am condemned
to this imprisonment."

* If you will give so harsh a name to the
kind restraint of those most deeply interested
in your welfare, madam, then I must answer
you, as your most humble servant, that your
good brother has exerted what may appear

the extremity of his authority, to shield you
from the designing advances of an adventurer."


' Then I am so weak a child that I cannot
protect myself against the designing advances
of adventurers," she exclaimed, with
as much contempt for the sycophantic servility
of the man, so different from the
rudeness with which he had used her inforcing
her into the Priory, as for the insult
implied in the explanation.

The wisest woman, madam, may be
deceived."

'Ay, and the wisest men too. For
instance, my noble brother, whose exceeding
tenderness for my welfare places me
here."

He did not wince in the least under the
gibe.

 I should explain, madam," he proceeded,
exactly as before, suave and servile,
that whenever your ladyship lists the
doors of the Priory will be thrown open to
you."

 Then let them be opened now."

 The instant, madam, you have signed
your submission to your brother's will."

" Just so ; and what may my brother be
pleased to will that needs the threat of a
lifelong imprisonment to obtain my consent
? "

' That you shall wed."

 Ha! whom?"

Your ladyship's most devoted of servants
who stands before you."

*you!"

She retreated to the wall, her eyes fixed
upon the man, contempt, amaze, and loathing
expressed on her face.

None other ; and in acknowledging
myself' deeply honoured by this mark of his
esteem, I can only pledge myself to you
that it will be the chief pleasure of my life
to minister to your happiness."

*sis this my brother's will?" she said
slowly, as if weighing each word.

* It is his will ; and surely it is a happier
state to be the wife of a gentleman of

fortune, family, and title, who is devoted
to your service, than to pass a life of dreary
praying and bead-telling, which is, as you,
madam, have wittily remarked, much the
same as imprisonment."

What token have I that my brother
desires this  this union ? "

*' Here is the written compact, waiting
only your signature to complete it. You
will find here certain arrangements for your
dowry, and the signature of Angus affixed."

He held the parchment towards her ; brut
she shrank from touching it with as much
horror as it had been a leper.

*If there be no other condition by which
my freedom may be obtained," she said,
with a slight quiver in her tone,  then I
shall bide here until death frees me."

He smiled superciliously as he replaced
the parchment in his pouch.

You will alter your resolution, madam,
I hope."

* Never."

' That is a long while ; but tomorrow is

a marvellous enchanter. The current of
to-day is made a river by tomorrow. The
grains of sand, which to-day are blown
hither and thither by the winds, are transformed
to rock by tomorrow."

*' So will be my resolution."

The man who is to-day ready to cut his
throat is praying for years to his life tomorrow
; and, permit me to say, the woman
who is inconsolable to-day, forgets her grief
tomorrow. The human heart, madam, is
happily subject to the same law of change
as all nature. Pardon the sermon ; I do not
often in that way give offence. I can wait."

'' And I can endure."

' That being your mind for the present,
madam, I will no longer intrude on your
privacy. Adieu."

He was moving slowly towards the door.

'' Stay," she faltered, confusedly.

He stopped on the instant.

' I was  that is "  (she felt, now that she
was about to try, that it was not so easy
playing the hypocrite as she had fancied) 

'' I mean that, as your lordship says, one's
mind does alter, and I must have time to
think over my brother's wishes."

 You shall have three months, madam."

*' But in the meanwhile am I to be confined
to this chamber? will I not be permitted
to walk in the grounds  or to have
an attendant ? "

He regarded her curiously, as if trying to
discover to what extent she was deceiving
him.

"The rules of the house are strict," he
said, " and the sisters are required to attend
upon themselves, for the most part, as it
induces thoughts of humility; but I will
endeavour to persuade the Lady Superior
to relax her rigour somewhat, and hermit
you exercise in the grounds."

But may I not even have my page ? "

Your page ! I am afraid that it is quite
beyond the rules to admit a youth who is
not in orders."

*' Yet you are here."

*By special desire of my Lord Angus.

But I will speak to the Superior, and, if it
be practicable, I will obtain the indulgence
you require."

He took ber band : sbe did not snatch it
from bim, as be bad expected ; be touched
it with bis lips, and sbe suffered bim without
shuddering.

He withdrew.

She smote the band angrily, and looked
upon it as if it bad become hateful to ber.
Then she sat down and cried for very spite
that she should have submitted to the
indignity of a touch from the creature sbe
detested.

By means of a secret passage, Barras,
unseen by any, reached the private chamber
of the Prioress. The place was fitted up
with some luxury, and the Superior herself
here seemed to be much less grave and
much more full of spleen than she bad
appeared to Mary in the receiving-room.

* Well, what progress have you made
with our dainty shrew?" she demanded
sharply, as Barras appeared.

* Much more than I bargained for ; the
game is mine if she be not trying to fool
me."

'* Which she is most like to do."

' So be it; she shall find it no easy
matter."

Has she signed the compact ? "

'' Odds bodkins, woman, did you expect
her to consent all at once ? I showed her
the parchment to prove that her brother
desired our union, but she would not look
at it ; so I shall not know for a few days
yet whether I have drawn Angus's name
with sufficient cunning or no ; but it will
serve, I think."

*sit may serve with her; and if it does,
how think you Angus will take it when he
learns that, in trusting you to fetch the
wench hither, he has got a brother-in-law
he did not bargain for? He is wrathful,
and has the power to vent his wrath. Take
heed."

"Pshaw! before she consents I will make
him as eager for the match as I am."

VOL. III. P

** By what means ? "

'why," answered the man, laughing
coarsely, " by hinting that if she wed not
me speedily, she's like to bring him greater
grief than that could be."

But he will come to see her," said the
woman, blushing slightly, ** and find out
you are lying."

' We must prevent that. But for the
present, at my earnest intercession, you
understand, she must be indulged. She
wants her page, too ; can you admit the
boy?"

* What, give her a courier to fetch and
carry for her ? Then good-bye your chance
of winning her."

*' The boy serves me, not her."

 Ay, but she has a face that can make
traitors  we can hide it, however."

Barras proceeded to explain his plans,
the object of which was to convince Mistress
Douglas that he was her truest friend, and
eager to serve her.

The result of this conversation was that

Mary was removed from the cell to another
part of the building, where a couple of
apartments, furnished plainly but comfortably,
were placed at her disposal.

The Prioress summoned her, and received
her much more graciously than on the first
occasion. She told her how earnestly the
Lord Binram had pleaded for some relaxation
of the regulations of the establishment
in her case, and how she had consented
to his importunity, to favour her sofar
as might be consistent with the proper
decorum and modesty of a religious house.

She gave her a white robe and veil, bade
her put them on and keep the face covered,
then she would permit her to promenade
in the grounds, and to give her page her
commands through the grating in the
receiving-room.

To all this Mary listened without once
opening her lips. She had disliked the
woman at first ; she positively hated her
now ; and yet she had not the least knowledge
why, except that she felt her to bea

sanctimonious hypocrite; and she felt,
too, that her sentiment of disHke was reciprocated.
But she was resolved to play
the hypocrite herself until she had got
out of this place, which, notwithstanding
the favour shown her, was still a prison for
her. So she bridled her tongue, and when
the Prioress had finished, begged meekly
to be allowed the use of writing materials.

Her request was immediately granted,
and she retired to her apartments.

In the evening she was required to
attend vespers in the chapel, but she was
not permitted to mix with either the nuns
or the novices. In a gloomy corner by
herself she tried to give her heart and
mind to the service ; but both were refractory,
and repeatedly she chid herself for
thinking rather of the world, from which
she was debarred, than of the devout
things which became the time and place.
On the succeeding day she was permitted
to walk in the grounds after matins. She
examined every part of the walls, but they

were too high, and, although she saw
several doors, they were all too stoutly
formed to yield the slightest hope of escape,
unless she could procure the key of one
of them. At noon she was informed that
a person waited to see her in the receiving-room.
Thither she was conducted, and
was ushered in hy a small side-door  not
the one by which she first entered it  and
found herself behind the large grating.

The black serge hangings were drawn
aside, and peering through the bars she
saw her page Crawford. The visage of the
youth wore a piteous expression at sight
of his mistress.

She was moved by his distress, not
fancying that he was to some extent the
chief cause of her present plight.

You are sorry, Crawford, to see me
here," she said, in a low sad tone.

* Ay, my lady, more sorry than you can
credit, and with more reason than you
can imagine."

' Then you will aid me to escape," she

said, lowering her voice to a scarcely
audible whisper.

ccj will I will."

Know you if Master Elliot be safe ? "

** He is, by his good fortune, and by
baffling those who were sent to slay him."

 Carry this to him, then. Tell him
I dared not seek help from Angus, for he
is leagued with those who persecute me."

*' I will do your bidding, and, if it be
comfort to you, know, my lady, that he is
already acquainted where you are prisoned.
When I was summoned yesternight to
attend you here, I sent him tidings."

' Away, then, and let your horse carry
you swiftly, for I am sorely pressed here."

 Stay, mistress, stay. Here are paper,
ink, and quill; scribe me where you stand
a copy of this missive."

"To what end?"

* You shall know when you are safe, and
unless you scribe as I pray you a copy of
this, I can give you little hope."

Wondering at the strange earnestness of

the youth in his odd request, she complied.
When she handed him the copy, he placed
it carelessly in the breast of his doublet ;
but he had concealed the original beneath
his long fair hair.

Then he promised to be with her on the
morrow, and retired hastily.

In the corridor he was met by Barras.

 Well, has she given you a missive ? '*

* Yes, master," answered the page,
meekly, as he presented the copy.

*' Humph ! it is as I expected," muttered
Barras. ' You can ride as far as Peebles;
then return, and I will tell you what next
to do."

Crawford bowed low, and departed.

Chapter XIV.

THE Christened ARM.

I would rather see thee in thy shroud, lady,

And the could earth for thy bed,
Than ken thee this cause carlin's bride to be, 
Tho' he crowned wi' jewels thy head.

For my father has left a work to me,
And a gift o' hate and wrath 
To smite toon the foes o' our house, lady,
Wi' this arm that no blessing hath."

The Feud.

Gilbert Elliot experienced the disagreeable
truth of the proverb that misfortunes never
come singly. He felt as if there were a
curse upon him which turned every good
thing his hand found to do into evil, and
made it recoil to his own disadvantage and
that of his friends.

He passed the night in restless movement
about the room, and in vain speculation as
to the probable destiny of the lady. Early
in the morning he despatched a message
to Captain Lindsay, informing him of what
had occurred.

Toward noon he received an answer from
the Captain, who informed him that strange
things were happening, and desired him not
to budge from the hostelry till he saw him.
He promised, at the same time, to endeavour
to learn whither Mistress Douglas had been
conducted.

The afternoon, the night, and the forenoon
of the following day passed without
any further tidings being conveyed to
Gilbert. About the gloaming he was unable
to endure inaction any longer, and had
determined to say forth, when Lindsay
himself appeared. Gilbert, sensitive to
everything that boded new calamity, was
at once struck by the gloomy cast of his
friend's visage, and a remarkable change of
his attire ; for Lindsay no longer wore the

uniform of the Captain of the Eoyal Guard,
but the simple garb of a private gentleman.

* I fear you will count it but ill tidings
that I bring," he said in his abrupt fashion,
'* for I have failed to learn where Mistress
Douglas is stowed."

'' No matter, I will find her."

I will join you ; and mayhap my experience
will help to obtain a successful
issue to our quest."

' You will join me, Captain ? "

** Ay ; I am at liberty now to go where I
list and do as I list, for I am no longer
Captain of the Eoyal Guard."

Saints of heaven ! " exclaimed Gilbert,
amazed and afflicted; ' what can that
mean ? Have you, too, suffered for being
my friend ? "

' In faith, it is a horse something of
that colour," responded Lindsay, quietly.
* Angus deemed me too much your friend
to be his ; wherefore Douglas Patched has
been appointed Captain, and I have been
politely dismissed."

Gilbert sat down, and leaning his elbows
on the table, covered his face with his hands
without speaking.

Lindsay regarded him with a rueful
look, apparently pitying him rather than
regretting his own loss.

 You are a fool, Master Gilbert, and by
my hand I think I am a fool too, and that
is why I care so much for you. Why,
man, what harm have you done me ? None
that I wot of, but much good ; for on your
account I have been relieved of a commission
which was daily growing more
irksome to me, and which I had already
determined to resign. Now look up and let
me see you smile, and say that you shall be
glad to have me with you ; for have me
you shall, whether you will or no."

This kindly argument was irresistible,
and Gilbert's passion was speedily so much
subdued by it that he felt half ashamed for
the weakness he had displayed.

The Captain, with friendly cunning, soon
made him forget it entirely in the discussion

of plans for the quest upon which they were
to start immediately.

They were thus engaged, when a tap
came to the door, and the ostler who had
taken charge of the horses for Gilbert two
nights back entered, bowing and blinking
mysteriously.

He desired to see Master Elliot alone ;
but on being told he might speak freely in
presence of the Captain, he delivered a
letter, addressed to Gilbert, in large sprawling
penmanship.

He opened it hastily, and read : * Mistress
Douglas is in the Priory of St. Margaret,
on Mount Benger, by Yarrow Water.
Come to Peebles, and you will learn more. 
One who desires to serve Master Elliot."

Having dismissed the ostler, Gilbert
handed the paper to Lindsay.

' Can you guess who is the writer?"
queried he.

* I fancy it is the page Crawford ; it maybe
honest, but it may be merely a bait to
enable B arras or Tushielaw to entrap me."

'* I believe it to be honest, for it is most
probable that Angus would send her ladyship
to some sanctuary of this kind."

'* We will obey the summons, then, and
start at once."

They procured horses, and just as the
gloaming deepened into darkness they
turned their backs upon the city.

It was near midnight when they reached
Peebles, and they proceeded straight to the
Portbrae Hostelry.

Dame Stott slept lightly, and she was
soon roused by the loud knocking of the
travellers. As for the goodman Jock, he
had not yet recovered from the effects of
the fright he had got in Edinburgh, and
at every unusual sound he flew to a cupboard
or the cellar. On the present occasion
he took shelter under the bed, praying
to all the saints to shield him from his
enemies, and confounding Jean Stott for
not closing the door after her, as the night
air blew rather keenly upon him.

After enduring some sauciness from the

dame for making sic a steer at sic an hour,
Gilbert asked if any inquiry had been made
there for one of his name.

' No, there's been nobody steering for
Master Gilbert Elliot ; and if that's a' you
want to ken, you might hae waited till
morning, and no come making us think
there was a raid on the town."

Much to the indignation of the dame,
and against the persuasion of Lindsay,
Gilbert resolved to pursue the journey as
far as Mount Benger that night. As he
was doggedly bent upon this course, in the
hope of learning something to confirm the
truth or falsehood of the information he
had received, Lindsay yielded.

Jean Stott slammed the door after them,
barred it, and returned to her bed, venting
her ill-humour for being disturbed for so
small occasion on her shivering husband,
who was too thankful for his escape from
the persecution of the Douglas to mind the
customary persecution of his irascible wife.

The night was clear, for the sky was

studded with stars, which shed a soft light
upon the earth. There was only wind
enough to send a gentle whispering sound
along the leaves of the forest. It was a
night for pleasant roaming, and the two
travellers would have enjoyed it to the full
had their business been only a little less
serious.

As it was, they moved forward at an easy
pace, thinking much but speaking little.
They passed through Traquair, and were
approaching Glencabar, when Gilbert suddenly
bent forward on the neck of his
horse, as if peering at something which he
could only dimly descry ahead of them.

*I could have sworn," he muttered,
"that I saw a figure moving on before us.
See ! there again ; and now it has disappeared."


I observed it : be prepared for whatever
may hap, for we are within range of Tushie-
law here ; and if our pretty bird be caged
at Mount Benger, Barras is not far off."

They advanced to the place where they

had observed the figure disappear, and there
drew rein.

It was here I lost sight of it," said
Gilbert, peering around.

 Exactly, our hallo ! "

The horses reared up in affright, as a
gaunt dark form darted out from the thicket
and confronted them.

The hands of the riders were on their
swords, when, simultaneously, they ejaculated


"A woman!"

* By the rood, none other than my friend
the witch of Merlin's Cairn," added Lindsay.

*' And my friend, Dame Hyslop," said
Gilbert, with some respect in his tone.

 Give ye kindly greeting, gentlemen
both," said the woman coldly.

'And we the like to you, dame," said
the Captain; 'but you have a fashion of
coming and going when and where you are
least expected, that would argue ill against
you in a trial for witchery."

"I have been to Traquair to procure by

night the food I dared not seek by day,"
she said drily. * I heard you following, and
having reason to fear all who carry arms, I
hid to let you pass. The voice of Master
Elliot let me ken that ye were not foes, and
I came from my hiding."

' We are friends, dame," rejoined Gilbert;
** and since I am your debtor for some kindness,
say can we not help you in your strait ?
What danger threatens you? "

** The same which threatens yourself,
master ; Tushielaw hunts me like a wolf,
for he has pledged himself to his dead foster-brother
that his death shall be avenged in
your blood and mine."

Gilbert's heart felt heavy under the
thought that even this poor creature had
not escaped the fatality which attended all
who aided him.

<Why stay you here, then?" he asked
huskily.

*' Why ventured you here ? "

*sit is for the sake of others who are in
peril."

VOL. III. Q

 And for the sake of others I stay here.
If you would ken more come with me."

She turned, without waiting an answer,
and stalked rapidly on before. They followed.


She led them into Glengaber, and at a
place she indicated the two men dismounted
and tied their horses to a branch of a tree.
Then Kirsty scrambled up an ascent so
steep that she was obliged to aid herself by
grasping the heather. The others ascended
by the same means.

At length she thrust aside a clump of
whigs, and entered what seemed to be a
natural cavern, which had been evidently
recently tenanted.

A bundle of dry fagots lay ready to her
hand, and she speedily kindled a fire. Seats
there were none, save a heap of heather,
upon which the gentlemen squatted at the
request of their mysterious hostess ; and as
the fire blazed up, illuming the earthen
walls of the cave, the picture presented was
an odd one  the grim Captain sitting with

the gravity of a Mussulman, observant and
observed; the young cavalier beside him,
pale and anxious ; and the weird woman
opposite, pale and sad.

* Have you come hither seeking Mistress
Spens ? " she asked sharply, after they had
been seated for some time in silence.

* No ; she is safe in St. Cuthbert's, as
Andrew Howie acquainted me some days

 Umph ! You will find Howie at Bower-hope
Law if you care to venture so far ;
but the lady you must seek in Tushielaw
Tower."

* How ?  impossible."

* She is there, but in disguise ; no prayer
of mine could stay her; and I wait here
only to see her safe out again  if she ever
come out."

To the bewildered and dismayed listeners
she explained in what disguise Lady Spens
had successfully risked entering the ogre's
den.

** And now," she said, concluding, *' since

ye are not here for her need, will you tell
me why you have come ? "

Ay, freely, for I believe you bear Mistress
Douglas some favour. She has been entrapped
into St. Margaret's Priory, and we
have come with intent to rescue her, although
the tidings you have given me
embarrasses me, and leaves me that I scarce
know how to act."

' I will take heed for Lady Spens ; do
you save Mistress Douglas, and if after
that your help be needed, I will give ye
warning."

*' Thanks, thanks, for your zeal; tomorrow
night shall see Mistress Douglas
free."

* By whom was she entrapped ? "

barras."

* Ay, ay," muttered the woman, hugging
her knees and staring into the fire as if she
were reading something there,  I begin to
see. Ken ye that the Prioress is mother to
Barras ? "

* No. But the knowledge adds tenfold

to my anxiety to rescue Mistress Douglas
from that house."

' Take heed; Barras is cunning, and he
hates you."

*' That he hates me I am aware ; but why
he should hate one who has never harmed
him I cannot guess."

*' Ay, but you have harmed him."

'' In what ? "

* In being your father's son."

 For Heaven's sake be plain. What import
is there in your words ? "

She fixed her searching eyes upon him.

*' You ken nothing, then ? "

* I am ignorant of everything you
hint at."

The woman became absorbed in reflection,
and seemed to be trying to understand
something that lay far back in the buried
years, and gave no attention to Gilbert's
repeated questions.

** I will question her on this head," broke
in Lindsay, authoritatively. 'Now, dame,
spare our patience and our time, and say

briefly what are the secret reasons of
Barras's enmity."

The strange voice roused her, and she
looked round quickly.

'Ay, ay, Captain Lindsay," she responded
slowly.  I will do your bidding,
the more betoken that I have a forewarning
that Master Elliot and I will never meet on
this earth again."

' Tut, tut, dame, that is a silly fancy
which you will live to see set at nought.
Now speak."

 It may be a fancy, master, but it oppresses
me none the less for that."

' Well, well, we wait for your gossip,
whatever it be."

' It is this. More than twenty years and
eight have passed since the deadly feud
between the Hers and Elliotss was at its
height ; and it was said the right arm of
Archibald Elliot was left unchristened that
it might deal the more fatal blows upon the
enemies of his house. He had-rye sons,
brawny lads, and a daughter, bonnie as her

brothers were strong, and all were taught to
hate the Hers as vipers too vile for earth.

At that time Gilbert, Lord Binram,
was head of the house of Ker. Without
knowing each other's family name, Helen
Elliot and the young lord Gilbert met on
Yarrow Braes. The lassie's horse had
fallen, she fainted, and when she opened
her eyes they rested on the winsome form
of Ker.

'' They parted, she knowing only that he
was called Gilbert, and he that she was
called Helen.

 They met again, and they suspected
the black curse that hung between them.
They feared to speak the names that must
part them for ever, until they loved too
dearly to heed the accursed inheritance. At
last the truth was kent, and they thanked
Heaven that the cause for which so much
blood had been shed should be sunk in the
depths of their great love.

*' Ker sent to Elliot fair words and
honest, praying that the feud between them

should be closed for ever in the union of the
two houses by the hand of Helen. Archibald
of the unchristened arm replied by
threatening to hang the messenger, and
would have done it but that he wished him
to carry back the answer to his master 
that he should hack his daughter piecemeal
if he thought she would hold her hand out
to a Ker save with a poignard in it.

*' In secret the lovers met once after this,
and there were tears between them ; so they
found it easier to brave the wrath of all the
Elliotss than to part. She never returned to
her father's house. She fled with Binram,
and they were wed in England.

** For a year they escaped the vengeance
which her kinsmen nourished, and a son
was born to them. The bairn was scarcely
three months old when its father was, while
hunting, attacked by the eye brothers of
his wife. Two of them he slew in defending
himself and escaped. But he could not
bear to meet his wife, his hands red with
the blood of her brothers.

*' So he went away, and for a year lie
wandered restless in foreign lands. Lady
Binram found shelter and protection at
Cessford with the father of Lady Spens.
At the end of the year Lord Binram came
back to his own country, and was hastening
to his kinsman's to see his lady, when he was
met by the Elliotss and foully slain where
Binram Cross now stands.

*' Lady Binram passed herself as simple
Mistress Elliot, and to shield her son from
the dread wrath of her kinsfolk, she never
gave him other name than that of Gilbert
Elliot. Her latter years were spent with
her true friend, Margaret Ker, when she
became Lady Spens of Halstane. Dying,
she bade Sir Walter to reveal nothing to
her son till he had reached his twenty-fourth
year, when she hoped he would be
strong enough, with his father's lands and
title, to defend himself against his foes.

' Heron Barras is the son of the woman
who is now Prioress of St. Margaret's, by
that Knight of Cessford who was slain at

the March meeting three years syne, under
the hands of his own offspring, and the wolf
of Tushielaw. On the score of that kinship,
Barras claimed all that belonged to Binram,
which, by what cunning and knavery none
may guess, he obtained possession of. You
are that Gilbert Ker to whom all which he
now holds by right belongs, and he knows
it. Therefore he hates you, and therefore
he seeks to mar all that you would do  ay,
and seeks to reach even your life."

What proof is there of this romance you
have been telling us?" queried Lindsay,
doubtingly.

** Spens holds them  writings certifying
the marriage of Gilbert Lord Binram with
Mistress Elliot, and certain parchments
affecting the estate and title. Had the
good Knight of Halstane lived but a few
days, these things would have been placed
in Master Ker 's hands."

'but if they still exist we will find
them," said the Captain, satisfied; ' and
then, if there be honest men in Scotland,

B arras shall soon sled his stolen plumes.
How, my lord, what isle in dreamland have
you struck on now ? "

And the Captain shook his newly discovered
lordship by the arm. Gilbert was
roused from a pleasant reverie, of which
bonnie dark-eyed Mary was the presiding
genius. If all that he had heard were true,
he could think freely of her now, far otherwise
than as simple Master Elliot he had
thought it wise to do. The proof had to he
found yet, however, and so he answered with
a sigh 

' A fair isle, comrade, which Heaven grant
I may live to see."

* Amen, if it please you."

* But meanwhile I will not move in
my own affairs until Mistress Douglas is
snatched from yonder false sanctuary, and
Lady Spens is safe out of the wolf's den sho
has too boldly trusted herself into."

* So much I counted on, and as we will
advantage you by guarding one of the ladies
at least, I will not baulk your intent."

** First, then, for the Priory."

* Surely. Let us make the venture that
is most like to hurt you first," said the
Captain, drily; then, looking to Kirsty,
 I'll warrant, dame, you know the secrets
of every house in Yarrow."

'' Mostly."

' Say, then, is there a secret entrance to
the Priory?"

'* Ay, but none have the clue to it save
the Prioress, her son, and six fathers of the
Church."

*' None of whom are like to confer their
knowledge upon us. We must enter by the
gate."

'' But how ? " queried Gilbert.

a There is the riddle I would fain read.
Can you help us, dame ? "

*' If you could get word of your coming
carried to the lady," she responded slowly,
** I think there is a way by which entrance
might be obtained."

** Good ; and, if we are not cheated, there

is a messenger to our hand. We are to
meet him at Peebles."

** I will get you in, then. Your swords
must bring you out."

CHAPTEK XV.

BOBBING THE Priory.

She hanna been in that bigley bower,
Na not a night but barely ane,
Till there was Willie, her ain true love,

Ohapp'd at the door, crying  ' Peace within ! '

*' ' O what is this at my bower door

That chaps sae late or kens the gin ? '
it is Willie, your ain true love,
I pray you rise and let me in.'

An' he's then his true love him behind

And through the greenwood they are gave."

Clinton.

About nine o'clock in the morning Captain
Lindsay rode into Peebles alone. He
entered the Portbrae Hostelry and from
Dame Stott learned that there had not been
any inquiry for Master Elliot, whose name

she had begun almost to fear as much as
she railed at it, for it seemed to haunt her
house since the first day her threshold had
been darkened by its owner.

The Captain, without heeding the cantankerous
dame's vituperation, ordered a
posset of sack, and any fare the house could
supply to satisfy a hungry man. In a brief
space, the materials for a substantial breakfast
were placed before him.

Having eaten, he felt in better humour:
for the task before him, and immediately
posted himself by the window. With the
patience of a faithful sentinel, he kept watch
on the road for nearly two hours. Then he
rose, took a turn across the floor to keep his
legs from being cramped, and returned to
his post.

As the clock was on the stroke of noon,
and still no appearance of Gilbert's correspondent,
he began to feel something like
impatience. But his endurance was not
taxed too far. Just as he muttered,
* 'Sdeath, will the loon never come?" a

soberly dressed youth rode into the court
of the hostelry.

 That's Crawford!"

With the exclamation he hastened out to
the court, and before the page had time
to make any inquiry, touched him on the
arm.

** Captain Lindsay ! " ejaculated young
Crawford, surprised; but not ill pleased to
see so near a friend of the man he had come
to seek.

*' Come with me," said Lindsay, and heled
him into the chamber where he had
waited for him.

He closed the door, secured it with a
thick wooden bolt, and turned to the page.

'* I know your errand, Crawford," he said
in a quick undertone ; ' and you may speak
freely to me."

The youth hesitated ; for although aware
that there was an intimacy between Lindsay
and Elliot, he remembered that the former
was Captain of the Eoyal Guard, and therefore
subject to Angus.

*' Go on, man; what message have you
for Master Elliot ? "

' Where is he?"

*' Within hail of the Priory. Now, will
you speak, or do you suspect me of intent
to betray my friend ? "

' I crave your mercy. Captain Lindsay.
I did not doubt that you were his friend,
but as Captain of the Guard "

** I am so no longer."

' Then my mind is at ease, and I will
speak freely. My mistress is detained at
the Priory by the Lord of Binram, acting,
as he professes, under the authority of Earl
Angus. She gave me this for Master
Elliot."

Lindsay took the missive.

** How did you get safe away with the
despatch?"

' By outwitting the fox. Binram believes
he has bought me body and soul to
his interest, by promising me a hundred
crowns and advancement on the day he
weds my mistress."

VOL. III. R

'' Zounds and the devil ! what is that ? 
him wed Mistress Douglas ? "

* Such is his purpose."

' We'll mar it, then."

 So he permitted me to see her alone,
and she gave me that missive. I got her
to write another, which I could give to his
lordship. That she did ; and when I gave
it him, he believed that I had given him all.
He allowed mo to ride as far as Peebles that
my mistress might believe I journeyed on
her errand, little dreaming that I did so in
truth. He is even now concocting some
scheme to complete the deception he is
practising upon her."

' You have done well, Crawford, and
I for one will not hesitate to trust you in
this business," said Lindsay after having
read the letter, which he had obtained
authority from Gilbert to do.

'* Thank you. Captain, thank you," exclaimed
the page, his eyes glistening with
gratitude for this restoration to confidence.

* Now you must take this letter to her

ladyship, and deliver it to her secretly.
But lest ill should happen it, I will tell
you the contents. It bids Mistress Douglas
hold herself ready during vespers to run
into the court as soon as she shall hear
a bugle sound thrice * the chase is up.'
It bids her make way in spite of every
peril, for in the court she will find friends."

 I will remember, and if it may be
contrived I shall be near her at the hour
to help her away from the chapel."

*' Go, then, and you shall find a better
reward in true service to the unhappy lady
than in all the lying pledges of yon brother
of Satan."

* You shall find me helping the good
work, or you shall find me dead."

Crawford returned to the Priory, the
while Lindsay, having procured certain
articles of apparel he required and a second
horse, made for Glengaber.

Barras was waiting for the page, and
as soon as he appeared questioned him
whether he had seen aught of Elliot.

*' Nothing, my lord."

Good. That will enable yon to play
the part I have prepared for yon with a
tetter grace."

I am ready, my lord," said Crawford,
with every symptom of passive submission
to the will of his new master.

* Yon shall carry this billet back to your
mistress, and tell her that yon have learned
that Master Elliot has fallen by the hands
of some of Tnshielaw's riders, who had
sworn that he should forfeit his life for that
of Pate Scott, whom he had slain."

' Yes, my lord."

** To remove all don't from her mind,
say yon had the news from one of the
fellows who did the work, and that you
bought from him this holy emblem which
had been found on the dead man's neck, in
order that it might be a token to her by
which she should recognize the truth or
falsehood of what you had been told. You
may speak with conviction, for Elliot will
not live to contradict you."

'' Shall I see my lady now? "

eyes."

Crawford was taken into the receiving-room,
and in a few minutes Mistress
Douglas, veiled and in the same white garb
in which he had seen her in the morning,
appeared behind the grating.

His back was towards the door, and he
looked steadily in the face of his mistress,
trying by his expression to show her that
he was repeating a false message. At the
same time he handed to her the missives
he had received from Lindsay and B arras.
The first was uppermost, and she recognized
the penmanship of Gilbert.

This enabled her to understand Crawford's
significant look as he faithfully
echoed the story Barras had taught him,
and delivered to her the small golden
crucifix, which was the same Gilbert had
received from Lady Spens, and which
Barras had taken from him when he was
in the dungeon of Tushielaw Tower.

Catching quickly at her part, Mary

uttered a cry of distress, and clung to the
grating as if to preserve herself from
falling.

*' Then my last hope is gone," she exclaimed
with well-feigned despair.

The Prioress herself, as if attracted by
the cry, entered hurriedly to conduct Mistress
Douglas to her chamber. She heard
the words just spoken, and a cold smile
of satisfaction  hidden by her veil  passed
over her face, which displayed a singular
resemblance to that of her son at the
moment.

To-morrow I shall need you again,
Crawford," Mary said softly, as she submitted
to be led away with an air of
despairing resignation that completely imposed
upon the wily Mother Ursula.

''My daughter," said the latter with
affected sympathy, as soon as she had
closed the door, ''if you have permitted
the passions of the sinful world to hold so
firm a place in your breast that they can
move you to anguish such as you suffer

now, bethink you of the great source of
consolation, and humble your proud heart
at the foot of the cross."

* I will obey you, madam."

' Or if my experience can in any way
comfort you, my daughter, I will stay with
you and "

' You are very kind, madam," interrupted
Mary a little spitefully, and on the brink of
forgetting her mask in her fear of being
burthened with the woman's society ; ' but
I will be better alone, although I am sensible
of the gratitude your proffer merits."

'' May the sweet Virgin soften your heart,
my daughter, for I fear it is even harder
than I at first believed."

*tamen, amen!" ejaculated Mistress
Douglas, crossing her hands with mock
solemnity.

The Prioress regarded her with a sharp,
suspicious glance, then made the sign of
the cross, and, with a sigh for the perversity
of the wicked creature before her, slowly
withdrew.

Mary was inexpressibly relieved when the
woman had gone, for she felt that she could
not have sustained the merest show of submission
or respect many seconds longer.
Remembering that her movements might
be observed by means of some keyhole,
although she was not aware of the existence
of any, she passed into her sleeping apartment,
and there impatiently tore open the
missive she had received from Crawford.

It was from Gilbert, as she had guessed
the moment her eyes had rested on the
superscription. The good tidings it conveyed
set her heart palpitating joyously.
She could with difficulty restrain her delight,
which prompted her to sing and laugh
madly. She was to be rescued, and only
a few hours had to intervene before the
attempt was made.

She sat down, clasping her hands across
her knees, as if trying by main force to
keep her gladness within bounds, she read
the open letter which lay on her lap again
and again.

By-and-by she became sufficiently composed
to meditate upon the most facile way
of carrying out the instructions given her.
Happily she had not yet been required to
join the train of novices, and she was still
during service left alone in the dark corner
of the chapel in which she had been first
placed.

On every occasion of passing to and fro,
she had carefully noted the windings of the
corridors, so that if she could only get opt
of the chapel unobserved, she had no fear
of finding her way to the court. The only
Serious obstacle that she could foresee was
the chance of some of the doors being
locked and the keys withdrawn. That
chance, however, she would have to risk,
and as every inmate of the house, except,
perhaps, the warders and gardeners, would
be in the chapel at the time, she was not
likely to encounter any person to bar her
progress. She had settled the course of
action she was to adopt long before the
hour of its execution arrived.

Then, as the afternoon advanced, she
was afflicted with the innumerable qualms
which are experienced by all who feel themselves
approaching a momentous event.

The first stroke of the vesper-bell thrilled
along her nerves like an electric shock.
It was the signal for the action she had
mentally rehearsed to begin ; but her knees
shook under her ; her pulse fluttered, and
at the moment when she needed most
strength she felt herself weakest.

This weakness, however, was like the first
chill which passes over a swimmer when
he plunges into the water; it was over in
an instant, and the necessity of exertion
produced a reaction in the system which
supplied invigorating warmth and calmness.

With a self-possession and precision of
movement beyond anything she had hoped
to attain, she proceeded to her task. Under
her white gown she secured her cloak and
hood, to have them ready to cover her
noviciate garb as soon as she had got on
the other side of the Priory walls.

Then she marched with deliberately decorous
step to the chancel, and took her
usual place in the corner near the door.

As may be imagined, she heard nothing
of the solemn service that was proceeding,
and more than once would have betrayed
her inattention to any one who had been
observing her. She was busy listening for
the appointed signal of her deliverance.

She had not been more than a quarter
of an hour in the chapel, with her eaiis
strained to catch every sound that might
betoken the arrival of her friends, when
she heard what seemed to be a commotion
in the court. The sound, however, was so
faint that nobody appeared to observe it
except herself.

Breathless she waited for the signal
which was at hand now ; and presently she
distinguished the distant notes of a bugle
thrice winding the hunters' summons to
the chase.

She crept stealthily from her place, and
escaped through the doorway unperceived.

The sounds of commotion she had first
heard were produced in this way.

Immediately after the bell had ceased
tolling, the warder was roused from the
]Peaceful dose which he had anticipated
enjoying undisturbed for an hour at least,
by a loud and imperative knocking at the
postern.

After leisurely grumbling at this unchristian
interruption of his ease, and consulting
his own dignity by keeping the
applicant for admission knocking impatiently
several minutes, the warder opened
the wicket and peered forth.

A man in the grey gown and cowl of a
friar was standing without, and some dark
object was lying at his feet.

*' What seek ye, gossip ? " demanded the
warder, affecting not to perceive the character
of the applicant's garb. ' This is
the hour of prayer, and all good men should
be on their knees."

*' The work of charity must be done at
all hours, my son," retorted the friar, in a

sharp tone of authority.  Wherefore I
charge you open, for here is a man been
found in Yarrow water, and if he have not
speedy help he will die."

** After vespers I'll acquaint the lady
Prioress, and she will admit you."

* What ! and must the man perish meanwhile
? Is this a sanctuary of the church,
and will you dare keep the gate closed
when the life of a fellow-creature is at
stake ? Open, I say, or his death be upon
your head."

The solemn manner of the speaker more
than his words intimidated the sulky
warder, and, after summoning two or three
fellows together, he slowly opened the
postern.

The friar entered hurriedly, carrying the
body of a man who was quite insensible,
if not dead, and whose clothes were soaked
with water, which, dripping from them,
marked the course he was carried.

The warder led the way into his own
watch-room, grumbling all the while to

himself at the trouble he was put to because
a tipsy carle chose to tumble into the
water.

A long form was drawn into the middle
of the room, and upon it the insensible man
was stretched face downwards, so as to
permit the water to run from his mouth.
The friar busied himself in the attempt to
restore consciousness by all the means at
his command.

He undid the collar of the patient's
jerkin, and felt if his pulse continued to
beat. The warder and the two gardeners
who had joined him looked on inactive.

''I fear the earthly sorrows of the poor
man are closed," said the friar, gravely
shaking his head ; '' but let us not reproach
ourselves with the thought that we failed
to give him what help we could yield. Go
you. Master Warder, fetch me some wine ;
and one of you, sirs, get me some feathers."

He began to rub the patient vigorously;
and it was at that moment the bugle
sounded.

feathers you may have, father, but
wine there is none until the Prioress comes
from prayers."

** Then I will seek my good sister herself
since you are so churlish. My gown will
privilege me to pass to the chapel," said
the friar, rising in apparent indignation.

' I will not stay you ; but if our mistress
be wroth you shall bear the blame."

 Enough ; fear nothing."

The friar strode into the court, and
as the men looked after him one of them
muttered 

*' He strides and speaks more like a
trooper than a priest."

The friar walked like one who had received
directions as to his route, rather
than as one thoroughly acquainted with it
or wholly ignorant of it. He seemed to
seek certain landmarks, and twice altered
his course.

He reached the staircase leading to
one of the principal doorways. As he ascended,
the door suddenly opened and two

figures darted out  Mary Douglas and lier
page.

Crawford had been left in the Priory by
Barras, who had gone forth a short while
before vespers. This privilege the page had
turned to the advantage of his mistress, and
had stolen into the corridor leading to the
chapel. There Mary found him on her
escape, and he had conducted her safely
thus far when they encountered the friar.

Both started back in confusion and dismay
at sight of the man ; and Crawford laid
his hand upon his poignard, resolved that
even the gown of the Church should not be
respected if any attempt was made to intercept
their progress.

Bat his courageous resolve was not put
to the proof, for at sight of them the friar
hurriedly doffed his gown and revealed the
person of Captain Lindsay.

*' You are safe, my lady, you are safe ! "
exclaimed Crawford in a joyful whisper;
 here is a friend."

Lindsay hurriedly threw the friar's gown

around Mistress Douglas, muttering at the
same time 

We cannot halloo yet, madam, although
we are nigh through the wood. But be
firm, and we shall speedily be on the right
side of your prison walls."

' I will not fail you," she answered calmly.
* I will not mar your scheme by any
childish weakness. Trust me, my nerves
are steady as your own."

'faith, my lady, that adds to the chance
of our success mightily," he said admiringly.
*' Keep you by your mistress, Crawford,
and strike down the first who lays a finger
upon her."

'' I will."

'' This way, then, quick and softly."

When they were near the gateway Lindsay
halted.

'' Now comes the worst. I may have to
leave you for an instant, but keep close in
the shadow of the arch there, and do not
stir until I am with you again or Elliot
finds you."

VOL. III. s

 Where is he?" she asked under her
breath.

'' At hand."

Lindsay raised his fingers to his lips and
whistled shrilly.

The warder and the two men who were
with him in the watch-room were amazed
by the unusual sound of a profane whistle
within the bounds of the Priory during
vespers. But their amaze was suddenly
turned to helpless consternation when the
drowned man who was lying on the form
sprung to his feet at the signal, whipped his
sword from its scabbard, and seized the
warder by the throat with a grip like iron.

'* Quick ! give me the key of the postern
or you are a dead man," said Gilbert in a
fierce undertone.

* The  the key of the pos  postern,"
stammered the man, trembling in every
limb, and glancing imploringly for help
toward his fellows, who had not yet recovered
wit enough to move either to the
defence of their comrade or flight.

' Ay, the key, and on the instant," said
the lately prostrate man, '' or by Heaven
you shall never draw bolt again."

The man, with more courage than he had
seemed to possess, made an effort to call
help, but Gilbert's lingers tightened upon
his throat and choked the word.

 Another motion such as that and it
is your last  nay, never look to these
fellows for help, for if one of them stir a
foot or raise a hand it will be to lift your
corpse. The key  the key."

' Take it, and a malison with it," said the
warder, dourly.

Gilbert snatched the key from his hand,
and hurled him aside with such violence
that the man tumbled over the form and lay
on the floor groaning.

This roused the two gardeners from the
stupor in which they had hitherto stood
gazing at what passed without interfering.

'' Saints help's but ye shall no carry it
aff that way," cried one of them, springing
to the door and closing it.

The other made a pace toward a musket
which stood near the fireplace.

' Stand you, sirrah, unless you have a
mind to learn what weight of lead this
petronel carries. And you, sirrah, give
way, and let me pass without bloodshed."

* That will I no do. "Whatever ill intent
has brought ye here in traitor fashion ye
shall not go free with my will."

*' Then on your own head rest the blame
of what laps."

With the words Gilbert was about to
advance, but the warder, who had got
behind him, smarting with pain and rage,
sprung suddenly on his back and dragged
him to the floor. Having got him prostrate,
the three would have made short work with
him had not help been near.

The door burst open, and Lindsay dashed
in. With a blow from the butt of a petronel
he felled the man who stood nearest ; next
he knocked up the barrel of the musket
which the other man had levelled. The
gun exploded, and the charge lodged in the

ceiling. Gilbert at the same time released
himself from the warder's grip, and with
Lindsay rushed from the room, pausing,
however, to close and lock the door.

The report of the gun had alarmed the
inmates of the Priory, and footsteps were
heard hurrying across the court to the
scene of action.

Lindsay seized Mistress Douglas by the
hand, and followed by Crawford, drew her
to the postern, which Gilbert had already
opened. The four passed out. Gilbert
locked the gate and threw the key away.
Then, as the sounds of alarm within proclaimed
that the flight was discovered, they
sped down the hill towards Glengaber,
favoured by the darkness which had fallen.

Chapter XVI.

BOWEEHOPE LAW.

Like to an eagle in his kingly pride,
Soaring through his wide empire of the air,
To weather his broad sails, by chance hath spied,
A goshawk which hath seized for her share
Upon some fowl that should her feast prepare ;
With dreadful force he flies at her bylive,
That with his source which none endure dare,
Her from the quarry he away doth drive.
And brother griping pounce the greedy prey doth rive."

The Faery Queen,

The rescue of Mary Douglas from the Priory
of St. Margaret was effected on the same
day that Lady Spens had made her escape
from the tower with the precious proofs of
Tushielaw's baseness.

Mistress Spens, sustained by the feverish
excitement which was inspired by the possession
of the fatal document, and the sense

of the danger it induced, performed the
journey to Bowerhope Law in a much
briefer space of time than would have been
expected. But the sun had sunk far to the
west when she reached the base of the grey
mount, and strained her eyes eagerly through
the darkening shadows to descry the form of
the friend she hoped to find thereabout.

Seeing no one, her heart was thrilled with
fear, for now the fatigue of body and mind
began to tell upon her, and she felt as if it
would be impossible to proceed many paces
farther.

When she had attained the summit of the
hill, she searched the landscape again, and
with the same result as before. She sank
upon the ground to rest for a few minutes ;
but the peril of her position agitated her too
much to permit her to remain long there.

She remembered the cavern to which, by
former arrangement as an introductory service
to Tushielaw, she had conducted him
under pretence that he would there find the
witch wife  the result of which exploit has

been duly chronicled  and thither she now
bent her steps. She had some difficulty in
finding it, for the landmarks by which she
had formerly reached it were not easily distinguished
in the fading light.

When she did gain the entrance and
thrust aside the bushes which concealed it
her transport was exceedingly great, to
perceive the sturdy form of Andrew Howie
stretched upon the earth in a sound sleep.
She touched him with her hand, pronouncing
his name.

He jumped up with an alacrity that was
surprising for a man of his years, and, not
perceiving who stood beside him, laid his
hand upon his vineyard menacingly.

"It's me, Andrew, it's me," she cried
quickly, 'sand I want to get to Edinburgh
at once."

Eh, what, my lady!" he exclaimed,
rubbing his eyes and peering at her. " Noo
Heaven be praised for a' its mercy ! But
are ye safe, and are ye weel, and are ye sure
it's yourself' ? "

Quite sure, Andrew, as you will see by
stepping outside."

* Heaven be thanked  saints be praised,
an' I'll burn a dozen wax candles to our
teddy for her mercy, first in bringing ye
safe out o' the mou' o' the lion's den in
while ye trusted yourself' against my will,
and nest for bringing your mind to the
happy resolve till return to Edinbro'."

Have you the horses near ? "

'' Ay, they are over by there by the waterside.
I hae waited here day after day,
night after night, expecting' to see ye back,
and I ay kept shifting the horses frae place
to place just to keep them frae being
noticed particular. An' when ye diana
come I was gey steered, an' would hae
been up at the Deil's Tower seeking ye,
though I could hae hoped for anything
but to die near ye, my lady, if it hanna been
that the midwife Hyslop cam to me illa
night and auld me that ye were weel sae far.
That satisfied me for the while, but I was
mighty uncomfortable nest morning."

*the day is near, good Andrew, when
I will be able to show you how sincerely I
esteem your fidelity."

Deil hast need I o' anything mair, my
teddy, than a kind word an' a bonnie smile
to show me ye are pleased, though I'm glad
frae the tae to the croon o' my pow to hear
your ladyship speaking wi' sae muckle hope
for yourself."

'' Get the horses, and as we ride I will
acquaint you with what has chanced."

'* Will ye bide here till I come back ? it's
just twa loups and a bittock to the beasts,
an' I'll be wi' ye in eye minutes."

' I will rest here, then, for I am sorely
wearied."

' Sit ye toon there syne; I'll be back
before ye sing the first half of the * Forest
Lads'"

Away he went down the hill at full trot,
his old limbs obtaining all the vigour of
youth in the joy of his errand.

He had not been more than three minutes
gone when Lady Spens was startled by the

distant bay of a hound. She bent toward
the mouth of the cave and listened breathlessly.


Her pulse quickened to pain, her heart
leapt into her mouth, choking her, as she distinguished
the heavy tread of horses' hoofs.
She was pursued  she would be captured.

But she might overtake Andrew yet.

She was about to rush from the cavern
with that intent, when she paused, dropped
upon her knees, and with the poignard she
carried for defence in any extremity that
might arise in her perilous adventure, dug
a hole in the earth.

She took the bit of ruskin from her
doublet, stuffed it into the hole and covered
it with the earth. That done, she felt more
composed, for even if she were captured,
Tushielaw would not find the chief object
of his pursuit.

Then she darted out of the cave, but only
to encounter the hounds, which sprung
upon her and bore her to the ground,
tearing her shoulders with their savage

grip. They would have done her still more
serious injures had not Tushielaw and several
of his men ridden up immediately and beaten
the dogs off.

Tushielaw himself raised the lady, whom
he still believed to be no more than a gipsy
lad who had been employed by Lady Spens,
or some other, to pry into his affairs and
betray him.

She was not insensible, although partly
so, under the pain and fear which the
attack of the ferocious animals produced.
A chill shudder passed over her at the
touch of this man in whose arms she now
lay powerless. She grew sick and faint as
much with the horror of her position as with
the wounds inflicted upon her.

He rapidly searched the pouches of her
jerkin, the breast, and the belt without finding
what he sought.

By this time several torches had been lit,
and Tushielaw, gazing savagely upon her
face, started as he fancied he recognized it.
But not stopping to associate the face with

any lie had formerly seen, being too anxious
about the stolen document, lie shook her
roughly as he growled in her ear 

'* Do you care to live ? "

Yes."

* Then tell me where is that you have
stolen and I will set you free."

*I have not got it," she faltered feebly.

* You lie, whelp. Mind you, we have
stout cords with us, and there are trees at
hand; we shall use them if you are not
wary. But speak truly and you shall go
unhurt. Where is it ? "

'I have not got it," she said with more
strength than before.

 Fiends burn you, then. You shall
swing, and I will find the thing without
your help. Hold him some of you, and
give me a light." Snatching one of the
torches, he entered the cave and made a
hurried examination of every nook in it.
When he had done, he stood irresolute,
frothing at the mouth with impotent fury,
and gazing savagely about him.

Suddenly he called to those without to
fetch him some water. Several men ran to
a spring which trickled down the hill-side,
and brought their leathern caps filled to
the chief.

Carefully with his own hand he emptied
the water on the ground, and, with a growl
of satisfaction, observed that at one spot
near the entrance the water sank more
rapidly than anywhere else.

He knelt down and dug up the earth
with his poignard, and in a little while he
uttered a cry of savage joy as he rose to
his feet with Surrey's pardon in his
hand.

' You shall never run risk of playing me
false again," he muttered huskily, as he
held the skin over the flame of a torch.

With a sardonic smile he watched it curl
and hiss as it was slowly consumed by the
fire. When the last film of ash had floated
to the floor, he returned to the captive.

snow," he said triumphantly, 'the
thing you have to pay so highly for is

ashes, and you shall follow it by another
road. For what you know binds you to me
till death parts us. So to save fash to us
both we will have the parting on the spot.
Hey, Will, give me the cord."

A stout rope of three or four ells' length,
with a noose at one end, was given to him.
He threw the noose round the captive's
neck, tied her hands behind her back, and
in that fashion led her down the hill towards
a cluster of old trees.

The poor lady moaned bitterly, but made
no useless attempt at resistance.

For an instant she entertained the idea
of revealing herself, and so saving her life.
But were he to spare her, even then it
would only be to compel her to a union
with him that was more appalling than
the death to which she was being led. So
she was silent, and they stood beneath a
tree with a stout branch stretching right
across their path.

The rope was thrown over the branch,
and two stout fellows held the end ready to

hoist the victim into the air at the signal
from the chief.

'If you want to say a eaters'' he said
mockingly,  you will have time enough to
say it whilst you are making your dance;
we have not time to wait for your saying
it beforehand."

She was about to cry for mercy, when an
unexpected interruption in the proceedings
was caused by the arrival of Heron Barras,
who galloped up in hot haste.

I have been at the tower seeking you,"
he said, reining up beside Tushielaw ; and
then suddenly perceiving what was going
forward, he cried, ' Why, what play are you
at now?  hallo ! "

The latter exclamation was caused by his
recognition of the victim. He peered into
her face to assure himself that his suspicion
was correct. Then he turned to the reiver
and said in an undertone 

*Do you know who this is you are to
give the crows to pick ? "

' Ay, a young knave who has been

nearer making crow's meat of me than was
ever made before," was the moody answer.

B arras laughed drily.

Why, this is no man at all' he
whispered.

How no man? "

' Why, none bnt the dame you have been
seeking to wives  none other than my much-loved
sister, who has been masquerading in
this fool's garb, for what frolic I cannot
guess."

This explanation astonished Tushielaw,
but it also enabled him to comprehend with
what motive she had risked so much to
obtain the proofs of his guilt.

**By my sword," he muttered presently,
I like her the better foret. She is a rare
wife for a Border rider, and mine she shall
be this time without the aid of priest or
book."

He removed the rope from her neck, bade
one of the troopers dismount, and lifted the
helpless lady into the saddle. She was
stupefied by all that had passed, and only

VOL. III. T

instinct enabled her to grasp the pommel
of the saddle to keep herself from tumbling
down.

Tushielaw led the horse.

' You shall have a rare bridal procession,
mistress," he said, with coarse familiarity,
* to make np for the lack of other ceremony.
Ho ! there, lads, light up torches
every one of you till the forest blaze again,
and the birds begin to sing, thinking that
the sun has risen."

The men, not understanding the reason
for their chiefs altered intention regarding
the culprit, were somewhat puzzled by the
elated command they had just received.
They, however, promptly proceeded to
obey.

Those who had not already procured
torches were still procuring them when
Andrew Howie, with wild mien and sword
drawn, rode furiously into their midst and
made for his lady.

x\t first the suddenness of his attack, and
the doubt whether or not he came alone,

obtained him free passage ; but before he
could reach the side of his mistress his
horse reared back upon its haunches from
the row of Jeddart axes which were levelled
at his breast. Andrew wielded his weapon
with might and skill, but he was no match
single-handed against the crowd of men
who forbore striking him rather out of respect
for his grey hairs than for lack of
opportunity.

Tushielaw looked round to see the cause
of the disturbance, and observing Andrew
laying about him, hastily shouted 

' Bid the old fool back; and if he will
not, cut him down."

The command was no sooner given than
it was executed, and a blow from a Jeddart
axe tumbled the faithful servitor from his
horse with a severe gash on the right
shoulder.

He was left lying where he fell as they
thought dead, and the troop moved at an
easy pace forward to the tower. Barras did
not display the least interest in the fate of

his sister further than by inquiring from
curiosity, not from any care he had for
her, how she had come to be in the peril
in which he had found her, and by bidding
Tushielaw make sure of her this
time. He then explained that he had
ridden to the tower to seek him in order
to arrange some effective way of disposing
of Gilbert Elliot, whom he had the means
of attracting to Yarrow as far as Mount
Benger. Discussing the nefarious scheme,
using such metaphors as might deceive
Lady Spens if she heard and attended to
their gossip, they arrived at the tower.

It was quite dark when Andrew Howie,
parched with thirst and faint with loss of
blood, wakened from the swoon into which
he had fallen. A few seconds sufficed to
enable him to recollect all that had passed.
He had gone for the horses, found that one
of them had broken its halter and got away,
and he had tarried longer than he had intended
trying to recover it. Then he had
returned with the single horse, discovered

his lady a prisoner, and lead been felled in
the attempt to rescue her.

'I wish they had just kilt me outright,"
he groaned, ** and no left me here
girning wi* pain in body and anguish in
saul  for my saul maun be in purgatory
thinking that my pair mistress is in the
grip o' that scoundrel villain again."

His thirst soon became so insupportable
that he crawled, in spite of the acute suffering
the motion caused, to a streamlet, and,
bending his face down to it, lapped the
liquid with rare zest. When he raised his
head his brow was studded with glistening
beads of the water, and he felt so much
refreshed that he had strength enough to
fasten a kerchief across his wound.

Speedily after accomplishing this, he
crawled as far as the cavern. When he
had reached this place of shelter, he resigned
himself to the conflicting thoughts
which the misfortune of his mistress and
his own helpless condition inspired.

The fear which he might naturally have

entertained that lie had received his death-wound
did not afflict him on his own account
at all, but the fact that he was too feeble to
seek assistance for his lady distressed his
faithful nature cruelly. He was sustained-only
by the hope that he might live till
Kirsty Hyslop should come to him, as she
had done every night, to give him the tidings
she regularly received from Hornie as to
how things were passing in the tower.

He had never longed for her arrival m so
much anxiety as now, and the moments of
suspense flitted by with bitter tardiness.
By-and-by, however, he was relieved from
some of his anguish by a species of stupor
which the loss of blood produced, and he
was not roused from this state until the
voice of Kirsty sounded in his ear.

'rare ye there, Andrew Howie?" the
woman repeated several times before any
answer was given.

'ray, ay," he moaned, starting to consciousness
from his semi trance ; "I am
here, dame, wae's me."

'rand what for are ye wae ? " she exclaimed,
with some agitation in her usually
cold, hard voice.

'make a fire and look at me; there's
flint and steel."

She took the articles, which with his left
hand he had drawn from his pouch, and
with some twigs and heather she soon
kindled a fire.

She was alarmed by his appearance as
soon as the light revealed him, and hesaw
that she had an uneasy expression in her
dark eyes, as if something besides his condition
afflicted her.

What is done ? " she cried quickly.

My teddy has been here, and wanted
to go to Edinburgh, but Tushielaw has
dragged her back till his den. If ye cinna
get help for her quick. Heaven kens what
ill may be done her, for I'm no able to stir
to her aid."

The woman clasped her hands wildly.

Has not Hornie been here ? "

"No."

She stood dumbly staring at him for
several minutes ; then with a harsh cry.
as if her heart were being torn 

Ay, now I ken why he hanna been wi'
me  they hae killed my bairn as they killed
his father, and as they will kill the teddy o'
Halstane. An' I hae been helping others
to happiness while my ain flesh and blood
was skirling out for help."

*' Saints save's, woman, what isn't ye
mean? Will ye no gang to Selkirk and
bid them come to my teddy 's rescue."

' The hour of vengeance is at hand," she
went on with an air of sternly subdued
emotion, that indicated at once the strength
of the woman's character and the terrible
depth of her agony,  and my bairn shall
no die for nought. This night, this night,
Adam Scott, the ill that ye hae dune shall
be requited. This night the fire that has
been smouldering i' my breast through lang
years o' pain shall vent its ill and burn ye
frae the earth, root and branch."

The passion of the woman, all the more

.weird that it was so sternly controlled, and
the incomprehensibility of her words, caused
Andrew to gaze with some fear at her.

** What are ye thinking about ? " he asked
hesitatingly.

"Vengeance," was the sharp retort.

* Ay, weel, if Tushielaw be your quarry,
toon wi' him to perdition  but for the
Lord's sake save my teddy."

The woman answered him with a strange
calmness.

' She shall be saved  Spens lives."

'the maister alive!" cried Howie,
bounding on his haunches, forgetting all
pain in his feverish delight. " Say  say
that again, that I may be sure I hear ye
right."

' Spens lives."

'The Holy Mother bless ye for the
word ! "

And the old man sank back exhausted,
tears of joy glistening in his eyes.

Kirsty hurriedly collected sundry dry
heaps of branches and heather at the mouth

of the cave. With a burning branch from
the fire she had abbacy kindled she lit one
outside, and then returned to Howie.

' Come out and tend the beacon I hae
lighted," she said calmly, ** so that they
wha are coming seest and learn frae you
what cause they hae to speed."

And what are ye going ? "

'' To Tushielaw."

 What for?"

''To delay what deil's work he may be
doing till help come  and, like enough, to
dee."

She strode away with a firm swift step,
marching to her sacrifice with the courage
and calmness of a devoted martyr. Her
husband's death and that of the poor deformed
son, whom she loved the more
passionately for his deformity, were to be
avenged, and she did not care to live after.

Chapter XVII.

THE LAST Carouse.

Hark, the loud revel wakes again
To greet the leader of the train.

Mute and uncertain and amazed 

As on a vision Bertram gazed.

'Twas Mortal's bearing, bold and high,

His sinewy frame, bis falcon eye,

His look and accent of command,

The martial gesture of his hand.

His stately form, spare built, and tall.

His war-bleached locks  'twas Mortal all ! "

ROKEBY.

On reaching the tower, Tushielaw conducted,
or rather dragged, Mistress Spens to the
chamber which had formerly been occupied
by Dame Scott, his mother. He opened a
chest, and displayed various dresses and
articles of apparel, which the dame had

forgotten or had not thought it necessary
to take with her to Harden.

' There is gear," he said, roughly, "that
will suit you better than the trollop's garb
you are in now. Have what you will for a
bridal dress, and I will send a wench who
will serve for the present as your tirewoman.
Be speedy, for you must sup with
your new vassals to-night that they may
welcome the bride of Tushielaw."

There was a rude irony in his tone which
chilled her flesh. A weight seemed to rise
from her heart when the door closed behind
him. But she did not move from the chair
on which he had placed her. She remained
motionless as a statue and almost as cold,
stupefied by her despair.

The daughter of one of the troopers, a
stout lass with ruddy cheeks and bright
eyes, came to assist her toilet.

The girl esteemed the honour of being-mistress
of Tushielaw too highly to comprehend
the sufferings of the lady. She
was therefore puzzled by the dulness of her

mistress, who would not take the least
interest in her repeated questions as to
what dress she would please to don oat of
the number that were in the chest. The
delight she herself experienced in handling
the brass of the absent dame made the
apathy of Lady Spens appear to her all
the more singular.

But when the lass had unfastened the
unbecoming jerkin and seen the wounds
which the dogs had inflicted on the lady's
fair shoulders, she uttered many ejaculations
of homely sympathy, and attributed to
these hurts the grief which before she could
not understand.

Passively Mistress Spens submitted to
the bandaging of the wounds, which the
girl performed with all the simple skill she
possessed. Passively she submitted to be
attired in a grey silk gown with lace ruffles,
answering with absent manner in monosyllables
the innumerable questions which
her attendant, with the kindly intent of
cheering her, persisted in making.

When her toilet was completed, the girl
asked if she should inform the master that
the lady was ready.

No, no  not yet. I  stay with me a
little while," exclaimed Mistress Spens,
confusedly starting from her abstraction.

The girl obeyed.

Meanwhile Tushielaw had given his
troopers the reward he had promised them,
and bade the cellarer let wine and ale flow
freely in honour of the bride who had just
come home. On the same score he bade
the kitchen folks serve the table with the
best fare they could command at so brief a
notice. Every man, woman, and child who
owned him chief was to make merry that
night.

So there were bustle and wassail in every
corner of the tower, and the beacon was
kindled to add its glare to the festivities,
and to intimate to friends and foes that an
extraordinary celebration was being made.

It was not long before the ordinary indications
of high revel swelled upon the night.

The loud laugh, the coarse jest, the angry
oath, all rising in the fury of an unrestricted
carouse, soon sent such sounds ringing
through the tower as made the poor lady
who was the unwilling occasion of it shudder
in alarm and abhorrence.

The sound was considerably subdued when
the men had taken their places in the hall
at the supper board, and waited only the
lady to begin the attack upon the substantial
fare which was set before them.

Tushielaw, with Barras  who, having
concluded his arrangements for the decoying
and despatching of Gilbert, delayed hereto
see the end of the cruel sport with his
sister  waited impatiently to receive the
expected intimation that the lady was ready.

The Borderer at length, with a muttered
oath, proceeded to the chamber where Lady
Spens remained, still keeping the girl in the
room under various pretences.

' Ha, mistress, you have not hurried to
grace our banquet," he growled, seizing her
hand. ' But beshrew" me, you look well.

though somewhat of the whitest colour.
You are better as a woman than a man, for
as much as your limbs are worth showing
in the tighter-fitting gear. So, so, have we
some colour in our cheeks now? Come,
then, for the roses suit you, and I would
have you look your best."

He forced her along with him into the
hall, where the vassals rose to receive her.
He placed her on his right, afc the head of
the board. B arras was on his left.

The supper was soon despatched ; but
Mistress Spens did not raise her head or eat
a morsel, although perpetually pressed to do
both by her would-be lord.

When the trenchers had been cleared
away in the readiest fashion possible,
Tushielaw filled a goblet to the brim, and
raising it above his head, shouted 

'' Drink, lads, drink, clean cup out, to the
new mistress of Tushielaw ! "

I salute the happy close of your widowhood,
fair sister," said B arras, in his cool,
mocking way, bending towards her.

The men drank and shouted as if they
were possessed with devils ; and indeed
they were, if the potations they abbacy
indulged in owned anything of evil influence.


While the uproar was at its height,
Tushielaw threw down his goblet, and
placed his arm around the lady's waist.

*' This salute, mistress, shall serve to
bless our union in place of Mess John's
gib muttering."

Ere his lips had touched her, she, as if
stung by an adder, sprang from his grasp,
and made for the door. Taken aback for an
instant by the suddenness of her movement,
he remained still.

' A curse on you for a minx ! " he cried
furiously, bounding after her. ' These cantrips
will not serve you here."

He stretched forth his hand to clutch
her, but the lady was swiftly drawn beyond
his reach, and he found himself face to face
with Kirsty Hyslop, who, with dishevelled
hair, visage flushed, eyes bright as fire, and

VOL. III. U

gaunt form erect, seemed like the fury with
the evil eye she was currently supposed
to be.

Bold as the Borderer was, lightly as he
esteemed the power of man or devil, he
recoiled before this apparition, and a breathless
silence fell upon the place which had
been lately ringing with the din of the
carouse.

Her appearance was so unexpected and
inexplicable  for the gates were secure and
guarded  that these same men, who had
been for days hunting this woman like a
wolf, were as much appalled at sight of her
as if her very glance had stricken them
helpless.

The spell was broken by B arras.

'beshrew me, neighbour," he said,
sneeringly, but it would seem that a
shrivelled beldame has power to set you
and all your riders at defiance. I'll go a
gold piece on it that she will carry the
prize off, and none of you have courage
enough to cross her path."

 'Sdeatli and fury," halloed Tushielaw,
fiercely, senor she nor all the witches 'twixt
this and perdition shall rob me of my prize,
and this one least of all. She has run her
head into the noose, and it shall go hard
with me if she get it out again. Lay hold
of her and swing her out yonder on the
gallows tree in Pate Scott's name."

No man moved.

 What, are ye cowards all? Curse ye !
I will drag her there, then, with my own
hands."

He made a movement towards her, but
was checked by a petronel levelled at his
breast.

* So you play with these things. Then
I will give you a chance for life"  he
snatched up a petronel as he spoke. ' If
you be a witch, common lead will not hurt
you, but if you be no more than the false
Jezebel I take you for, then you shall say
good-bye to earth. Aha, play you so hot?"

She had fired and missed. Before she
could make another effort to save herself,

he had fired, and she fell with a wild shriek
to the floor.

father, son, and mother have fallen by
the same hand," she cried, shrilly. ' The
blight of Heaven light upon it, and all that
it may befriend. Come vengeance swift,
remorseless, and hurl the foul fiend that
owns it down the black gulf."

The weird curse was still echoing among
the rafters and chilling the hearts of those
who heard it, when strange sounds were
heard that seemed to be tokens of its speedy
fulfilment.

There was a rushing sound as of a great
sea breaking upon the shore, a confusion of
voices, and a tramp of many feet, and then,
before the moss troopers had sufficiently
recovered from their surprise, a host of
armed men burst in upon them.

There was a wild din and clatter of arms,
shrieks, groans, and oaths. Above the
babble rose the voice of Sir Walter Spens

** Now, Tushielaw, if you be not as much
coward as villain, defend yourself."

' To me, Barras," shouted Gilbert, encountering
the cunning serpent as he was
quietly seeking some loophole to escape
from the place in the confusion of the
fray.

With a venomous flash in his red eyes,
he crossed swords with Gilbert, acting
wholly on the defensive for some minutes,
and retreating to the wall before his opponent.
Then suddenly darting forward he
nearly succeeded in throwing Gilbert, off
his balance, and took advantage of the
movement to make a savage thrust at his
antagonist. With the rapidity of thought
Gilbert regained his balance, and with a
dexterous swirl of his sword wrenched the
weapon from the hand of Barras and run
him through the body.

The man's countenance was distorted by
an expression of mingled hate and defiance
as he fell dead.

At the same time Tushielaw was crushed
to the floor and the sword of Spens at his
throat.

* Cry mercy now, accurst Image ! " exclaimed
the Knight of Halstane, hotly.

''I seek no mercy," was the surly and
fierce response.

' Then die."

But the Lord Warden of the Middle
Marches, who had been brought thither by
a messenger from. Spens, stayed his hand.

'* I have another fate for the villain.
Away with him to the gallows tree, on
which too many honest men have perished
at his command."

Four sturdy fellows seized the now defenceless
chief of Tushielaw and dragged
him to the gallows tree, the main branch
of which was notched by ropes used in
hanging the victims of his hate or cupidity,
and where now he was to perish himself.

A stout cord was at hand, a noose was
speedily made, and in the red glare of the
torches, Adam Scott, dour, bold, and defiant
to the last, was strung up, and died the
most ignominious of deaths, as he had lived
the most lawless of lives.

The brief contest was over. Lady Spens
had at the beginning of the strife been led
away to a chamber, where she found Mistress
Douglas in the highest glee, only
regretting that she had not been allowed to
wear hose and jerkin for the occasion.

'for it is the merriest night's work weare
likely to see this long while," she said,
laughing gaily and kissing her recovered
friend kindly.

They soon found occupation in tending
the unfortunate Kirsty Hyslop, who was
carried to them. Happily the woman's
hurt was not mortal, and the sight of her
son Gilpin Horner restored her to sensibility
and hope as with the touch of a magician's
wand.

The prison of the dwarf, and the fate
that had been intended for him, had been
revealed by Yetholm Will in the hope of
finding some favour for himself.

As soon as he had been released, and
made aware of the change of affairs in the
tower, Hornie went out to have a look at

Ms late master. He gave one of his great
laughs as lie saw the huge form dangling
lifeless in mid-air  gave a wild caper of
delight around it, then hied him to his
mother, whose vengeance had been that
night achieved.

The party remained till morning in the
tower, and before quitting it, 'Spens, in the
presence of Gilbert and Mary Douglas,
presented to his wife the letter he had
received from Barras in the Hospice.

' This, madam," he said, ' may account
for some coldness in my conduct when we
were last together. Did you scribe it to
Gilbert Elliot ? "

'eyes," she answered, simply.

The knight was startled, looked grave,
and pointed to the line, "for sake of one
who esteems you more than all the world
besides."

'who is this one?" he demanded.

Lady Spens took Mary, whose face was
crimson, by the hand and led her forward.

"This is the lady."

Gilbert dropped upon his knee before her.

* Madam," he said, earnestly, my life
is yours, my heart you have taken long
ago, and therefore I have nought to offer
you, but can only pray that you will be
merciful to one who loves you truly."

Despite her confusion, Mary cast a sly
coquettish glance upon the gainly youth at
her feet.

* Perhaps I will be merciful. Master
Elliot  when we are alone," she said in an
undertone. ' Take this to remind me of
my pledge."

She gave him the small golden crucifix
she had received from Crawford. He recognized
it ; she explained how she had
obtained it, and Lady Spens informed him
that it had been his mother's, showing her
name and his father's engraved on it.

* Then by this it was B arras recognized
me," he said, remembering the scene in the
dungeon of the tower, of which they were
now masters.

The joy of all was great, and a bright

sun seemed to have dawned upon the
morning of their happier life. It is no
marvel that they were filled with excess
of gladness in this happy meeting, to which
they had passed through so many cruel
ordeals.

Chapter XVIII.

JUSTICE.

After long storms and tempests over blown,
The sun at length his joyous face doth clear ;
So when as Fortune all her spite hath shown,
Some blissful hours at last must needs appear,
Else would afflicted wights ofttimes despair."

The Faery Queen.

Spens, upon being fired upon in the boat
after be had escaped from Tushielaw, had
not been struck at all, but had fallen down
in the hope that his pursuers might believe
him dead, and so cease the pursuit.

His anticipation was verified, and the
tide carried the boat safely out to sea.
Picked up by the fishing-smack, he had
been carried safely to France. There he
had learned the intention of the Duke of

Albany to accept the invitation of a large
body of the Scottish nobility to come and
take the Regency of Scotland, on the plea
that the indecorous marriage of Queen
Margaret with the already too powerful
Douglas had destroyed her right to the
Regency and the guardianship of the King.

Whilst Albany was making preparations
for his journey to the north country, Spens
hastened to England and obtained documents
from Surrey certifying his innocence
of the remotest complicity in the
successful manoeuvre which had given
the English army so much advantage at
Flodden.

With this he hastened to Scotland, and
on his way to the capital sought Kirsty
Hyslop to learn whither his lady had fled.
From her he learned in what peril Mistress
Spens had placed herself, and he had gone
straight to the Lord Warden of the Middle
Marches. The absence of the Warden
caused the delay of a night and a day.
But when the Warden returned Spens

displayed Surrey's mandate, acquainted
him with the coming of Albany, and
obtained the assistance of a hundred
troopers, and the company of the Warden
himself. At Mount Benger he again encountered
Dame Hyslop, who informed
him of the exploit of Elliot and Lindsay,
which was then going forward, she having
just sounded the bugle which was the
signal for Mary to escape from the chapel.

Spens, well pleased to find his suspicions
of the character of the attentions
of Gilbert to Lady Margaret thus confuted,
tarried to help his friend in the rescue if
there were need, whilst Kirsty hastened
forward to Bowerhope Law in order to learn
if anything had been heard from the tower.

Gilbert and Mary Douglas, Lindsay and
the page Crawford, hetty pursued by all
the men connected with the priory, found
the protection they needed, but had not
expected to find from Spens, and with him
advanced to Tushielaw.

Andrew Howie's beacon attracted them.

and the intelligence he gave quickened their
pace forward.

During the high revel which was being
held in the tower, it was an easy matter for
Spens to lead his men within its walls by
a secret passage, directions for finding of
which he had received from Kirsty. By
this passage, which she had been made acquainted
with by her son, as it was his
chief means of communication with her,
she had gained admission in time to prevent
the insult proffered to Lady Spens, and
so delayed proceedings till the arrival of
succour.

After the flight of Douglas and his wife,
Queen Margaret, to England, the innocence
of Spens was publicly acknowledged by
the Regent Albany, and his escheated
estates and the little captive Alice restored
to him.

Gilbert's claim to the title and lands of
Binram was established beyond question by
the documents and other proofs which Spens
produced. In his wooing, he sped so well

that a few weeks after his accession to
fortune there was a gay bridal in Edinburgh,
of which the young Lord of Binram and
bonnie Mary Douglas were the hero and
heroine, and the Kegent himself gave away
the bride.

Lindsay became Captain again in the
service of the Duke, and Crawford, who,
from their interview in Peebles, had formed
a strong attachment for him, followed him
faithfully and well, displaying on more
than one occasion a courage and discretion
beyond his years, and which more than
atoned his one mistake. He could not,
however, be induced to return to the service
of his former mistress, although offered a
post of honour by her husband.

Hornie, with a singular tenderness, nursed
his mother through the illness caused
by her wound, and they found a happy
home and rest in the restored Tower of
Halstane, where Andrew Howie grew fat
and merry in the dignity of his ofHce as
henchman to the knight.

The Prioress of St. Margaret went to
Some, and died there the day after her
arrival. Some said she had poisoned
herself; but, perhaps to avoid scandal, the
truth was never revealed.

So our trials are past, our friends are
happy, and the green curtain falls.

