CHAPTER I.

EDEN.

My sister ! my sweet sister ! if a name
Dearer and purer were, it should be thine." ,

This is very wrong, Amy," said her brother when,
returning home after midnight, he found her still
seated by the fire in the little parlour, which served
also as his study ; and in which she had arranged
his supper and was keeping warm the coffee which
he, habitually abstinent rather than temperate, preferred
to any other refreshment after a long night's
work. " I ought to try to realize the fear you pretended
to feel this morning. What did you suppose
I could scold you for then ? I had not time to ask ;
but I certainly have cause to scold you now."

There was as little of displeasure in his tone as of
apprehension in the bright sweet smile with which
Amy received the rebuke.

"You could hardly," she replied, *' expect me to wait
till tomorrow for an account of your success, and you
would not have awakened me to tell me how you had

VOL. II. B

sped. But before I ask you any question I should
give you this letter, as it bears an Indian postmark
; it seems to have gone round by your depot."

There was perhaps a certain degree of amusement
expressed in the demure composure of her lips and
eyes, and still slighter symptoms of embarrassment
in her brother's manner as he tore open the envelope.
But the latter were exchanged for an expression of
evident and serious annoyance as he read.

"Coming over to England!" he said, 'rand with
the idea that the Company, or the Government, or
the Courts, or the deuce knows who  she don't, nor
I  will reverse a decision pronounced some twenty
years ago about a single Zemindarree ! I hope I
may be able and be in time to stop that. Well,
Amy," drawing her to his side as she hovered about
the table, waiting on him with affectionate care and
suppressing all signs of impatient curiosity till she
had supplied his wants ; " you want to know how
I have sped, and I may put you out of pain at once
by saying  infinitely better than I deserved or could
have expected. I could hardly have had a more
disagreeable task to go through, and for no one else
on earth could I have made up my mind to do it. 
No ! dear, for you least of all ; you are too mucha
part of myself.  Nothing can be more intensely
painful and humiliating than to ask favours to which
you have no sort of claim, from men whom you can
approach simply because you are already deeply
indebted to them. Of course it was just because
Evans has shown me so much kindness, and because
Sir Francis was thought to be as well disposed

towards me, that Miss Kavanagh fancied that I might
be able to serve her with them. If I had not
promised, Amy, I simply could not have gone through
with it even for her. It was nothing less than impertinent
presumption to interfere with Evans's policy;
and no words could fully express the preposterous
absurdity of my petition to Sir Francis Clavering to
change his mind on a question of the gravest public
importance, involving no doubt his strongest personal
feelings as well, when, as I knew, he had
already refused to listen to the representative of his
party. The more I thought over it, the more I felt
the ridiculous position in which I was placing myself ;
and perhaps it was as well, since the thing was to
be done, that I had so little time to think overt.
That I was sure to get my knuckles heavily rapped
was the very least of the unpleasantness ; that I was
making a presumptuous ass of myself was a trifle
in comparison with the consciousness of my impertinence,
and something more than impertinence,
in meddling with Sir Francis's views at all. There
was something indelicate in speaking to him on the
subject, if I had known him well, considering years
and comparative positions ; and as it was I hardly
thought I should be able to find words. I should not
have succeeded with either, I take it, but that each
had other reasons for yielding. I had to wait some
most uncomfortable minutes before Sir Francis could

see me; I believe Lord P was with him. I

began by apologizing for calling then ; but reminded
him of his desire that I would ask him whenever he
had it in his power to do me a kindness, and told

him, as well as I could, that I believed myself already
much indebted to him. He received me most kindly,
and said something of obligations towards our father
which he had never been able to fulfil. I hesitated
so much in approaching the favour I wished to ask,
that he encouraged me in the most gracious terms ;
and finally said that, if there were anything he could
do to gratify my mother's son, it would be a greater
pleasure to himself. But when with all possible
apologies I approached the subject, his face darkened
so that I could scarcely go on, and felt utterly hopeless.
It was hardly less than impudence, and the
humiliation I felt was more than I could have borne
if I had not remembered hers. As soon as he understood
what I meant to ask, he said : ' Well ! I knew
Penrith for a scoundrel and a coward ; but I did
not think him cur enough to sue for mercy, and
through her son.' Of course I told him that I was
sure Lord Penrith knew nothing of the matter : I
could not refer to Miss Kavanagh even indirectly, but
I spoke of her mother's state. That did not touch
Sir Francis. He said : ' The sins of the fathers
always are visited on the children. That cannot
be helped, and no crime would ever be punished
if pity for the criminal's friends and family were
to move us.' He listened, however, more patiently
than I could have expected while I told him that,
though I cared nothing for Lord Penrith, and believed
I had reason to look upon him as my father's
enemy  in which I saw by his face I was somehow
mistaken, but the remark pleased him  I should
regard his consent to my petition as the greatest of

sall possible kindnesses; and that whether it were
granted or refused I could never ask another. But I
should have gone away not only mortified and
humbled but disappointed, if I had not made my last
appeal in a name I would not have used to save my
life but for what passed here ; and would not have
used for her, but that she had stooped so far. For
that reason, Amy, and for that alone, I felt that I
must hesitate at no sacrifice of pride or feeling, or
even of propriety. Sir Francis was moved at last,
and I left him without a positive promise, but feeling
tolerably sure that I had gained my point. But I
should not like to see him again. He said before
I left : ' I can trace, my boy, a lady's hand in your
petition. I hope it is a boy's chivalry, not a yOung
man's first love ; for if it be the latter, what with
youth passes for a broken heart is the best thing I can
wish you.'

I had easier work with Evans, though very unpleasant.
He guessed my motive at once, and hit
home more roughly and sharply than Sir Francis.
Of course I caught it there for presumption and
temper, and the folly of letting personal feelings and
entreaties from third parties enter into questions of
professional duty. I told him at last that, if the
Courier persisted in attacking Lord Penrith, I must to
my great regret drop my connection with it. ' Don't
be an ass,' he said, ' don't quarrel with your friends
for a girl's sweet face and soft words. No woman is
worth it ; and no man so ready to quarrel will ever
get on in this world. That is your fault, Darcy ; and
if you don't keep your temper under better control it

will ruin your whole life, and render all your gifts
worthless ; like the one boon of the spiteful fairy that
mars all the favours of fortune showered on her victim
by the rest.'

'' Of course I said that I did not mean to quarrel
with him for anything he had said or might do ; but I
had pledged myself to do my utmost, and I could not
prove that I had kept that pledge if I received any
further favour from those who had refused this. At
last he promised that if Sir Francis dropped his
amendment he would not press the matter further ;
and J had hard work to find fitting words to express
my thanks to him, as to Sir Francis. Then I went
down to the Lords. I soon found that Lord Penrith
was not there, and heard that he would not attempt a
defence. That at least was the general rumour. It
was clearly confirmed when I made my way with no
little difficulty into the Gallery of the Commons.
There the Opposition had just announced their intention
to withdraw their motion. A Minister asked
what course was to be taken on the amendment ; and
then Sir Francis rose amid the deadest silence I could
have conceived possible in so crowded an assembly.
He said very few words, and those in a tone so low
and with so much evident physical weakness that they
were hardly audible in the Gallery ; but so far as I
could understand him he spoke with great dignity, as
one who had simply performed a public duty, and
having defeated an attempted wrong and exposed a
great offence against political and personal good faith,
had no wish to press the matter further to the individual
disgrace or punishment of the offender. It was

evident that the Opposition were not prepared for this ;
and there was a murmur of surprise and relief among
them before he sat down.

You can tell Miss Kavanagh that her commands
have been obeyed. I would not for the world she
should know how much obedience has cost me. It
cost her too much to ask it."

'you had better write yourself," said Amy. "It
would be more natural, and more agreeable to her."

I think not, Amy ; and to write myself would seem
to assert some claim on her  at least to remind her of
what it must be painful enough for her to remember
as it is."

That you have done for her what, as you say, you
would have done for no one else ; that her wish has
availed so far with you ? I don't think, Lionel, she
will be sorry to feel that ; and if you have felt so
bitterly the task she put upon you, though I don't
quite understand why, sm-ely you may take such
reward as you will find in telling her of it yourself? "

Do you forget. Amy, tue have never claimed ' comrade's
aid or fealty's meed ' ? No, if the effort had
cost me less, or if it had given her less pain to ask it,
it might be easier to tell her. But not to make as
light as possible of the matter would be to remind her
of her mortification ; and. Amy, you must say no
more than just what I told you  nothing that could
indicate to any one else what her command was ; and
that is another reason why I will not write myself.
She must be able to show the letter without leading
to question or wonder."

"You cannot expect me, Lion, to write in your style

of old-fashioned courtesy ? Yoio might tell her that
you have ' obeyed her commands ' ; I hardly could. I
will say, if you like, that you have bidden me tell
her so."

There was more of displeasure in Lioness look than
any word or act of hers had ever yet provoked.

'*I might as well write myself," he answered. *'My
purpose in asking you to do it is to keep my name out
of it entirely."

But, Lion," pleaded Amy, a little frightened, but
keenly conscious of the absurdity she was asked to
perpetrate, 'one girl cannot write to another in that
high-flown style ; and if you want the note to attract
no notice, cannot you see that such words signed by
me would excite more curiosity than a direct statement
of what you have done ? "

The discussion might have grown warmer than
would have been agreeable to either, but that Lionel,
now familiar by journalistic habit with various modes
of conveying distinctly what it might not be convenient
or permissible to state directly, scrawled a line
in pencil, and threw it across the table  " You will see
that your commission has been performed," she read.

Yes, T suppose I can write that, though it is cold
and not very kindly. You forget that girls have not
such motives for reserve ; and what might seem
natural deference from you will look like coolness
from me."

No," he replied, after a moment's thought, " she
will know why it was not convenient to say more ; and
the one thing is to spare her any reference, with us or
with her mother, to what took place here."

"I hardly understand, Lion, your exaggerated feeling
about the matter."

"Don't you?" he replied. 'can you conceive
anything more painful than to ask from one to whom
you thought yourself indebted mercy for another's
offences  for me, par exemple i Or anything more
humiliating than to feel yourself guilty at once of outrageous
presumption in meddling with the affairs of
others, your elders and superiors, and incurring new
and deep obligations on the very plea of those conferred
already? I would not for my life that you
should ever stoop as her grandfather's conduct forced
Miss Kavanagh to condescend ; as little that you
should ever do what I have done to-day. And now
your note, darling ; and then good-night, it is far*too
late for you already."

Amy's note was acknowledged in a few words of
deep and almost painful gratitude, addressed to her
but beyond question intended for her brother. Time
passed on in the routine already described, Darcy's
afternoons and nights being chiefly spent at the
office of the Courier, his leisure evenings devoted
as before to Amy's amusement. But Evans, who
seemed to have been rather attracted by the romantic
chivalry of his young contributor and the frankness
with which his own rebukes had been received, than
offended by his urgency, was a more frequent visitor
than before to the cottage ; and Amy was often invited
with her brother to his house, where, under the
auspices of its young and gracious mistress, the elite
of his staff, with the ladies of one or two of their
families, were frequently gathered. On these occasions

Philipsonon never failed to attend, an especially
honoured guest. The most influential of the staff,
bearing a leading part in political and other conversation,
his deferential attention and an occasional graceful
compliment gave Amy more pleasure than she
could analyze or would acknowledge even to herself ;
more than Lionel ever observed. His visits at the
cottage, generally in Evans's company, were also
frequent, and the evenings thus spent at home were
not less agreeable and enlivening to Amy, after the
long hours spent in solitude, than those devoted to
more exciting amusement.

Still remaining with her mother under Lord Penrith's
roof, Alice Kavanagh had not paid another visit
to Amy, and wrote only once  a few brief and rather
constrained lines  to announce their departure from
London, mentioning at the same time her mother's
more and more hopeless state. It was with great
pain though with no surprise that, shortly after their
return to Cumberland, Darcy heard his sister read
from the first column of the Courier the announcement
of Lady Helen Kavanagh's death. A few days
later in another paper appeared a rumour of Lord
Penrith's serious illness ; ascribed by the Opposition
journals to the loss of his daughter, but by the report
of the clubs to mortification at the Parliamentary
exposure and the consequent destruction of his
political career.

'' Amy," said her brother one day, "I wish I saw
my way a little more clearly. I would not tell you
the purport of the official letter I received three days
ago till I knew what answer I could make to it. I

am asked to rejoin, and I wish to do so if I could,

save for your sake. But I have consulted and

and both have assured me, and have written

certificates, that it will for some months to come be
simply impossible for me to return to active service.
It has been intimated to me that if this be the case,
and if I can fairly hope to rejoin somewhat later, my
leave will be extended. For three or four months to
come, then, I need not trouble myself. At the end of
that time I hope and the doctors assure me that I shall
be able to bear the fatigues and chances of military
duty ; and then I must either rejoin or sell out."

*you will never sell out, Lion? You will never
renounce a career so congenial and so promising?
It will break your heart ; and even if I did not kftow
that, I think it would break mine."

Do you remember, darling, the sermon we heard a
few weeks back on the story of Balaam ? The offence
which cost him his life was held up as an example
to those who will not accept the distinct warning of
Providence, whether in the form of conscientious
doubts or of circumstances distinctly indicating their
duty, but insist on what appears to them a politic or
fitting course."

"Yes, I remember," Amy replied, looking up with
an inquiring expression.

Well, if by that time I do not see my way to provide
for you  I mean not in money only but a safe
and happy home, and as yet I don't see any such
possibility  could there be a clearer indication that,
whatever my ambition or my taste, my duty lies at
home and with you ? "

But, Lionel, almost every soldier might plead the
same. Surely every other man who goes out to
India, or the Colonies, or America, has some ties
which might keep him at home if he preferred private
to public duty ; or even domestic duties to his own
career and prospects ? Surely our ancestors must
constantly have left not only sisters but wives and
children in some peril, when called on to join the
standard of their Sovereign, or to assist in the endeavours
to regain the Holy Sepulchre ? No ! if I
am an encumbrance to your career it is not your
career but I"  she hesitated  "my fancy that should
be the sacrifice : the indication from Providence would
not point to your deserting the service, but to my
giving up the world."

What would you have me do with you. Amy? It
is useless to argue ; you know I neither would nor
could leave you uncared for."

Amy's eyes drooped and she averted her head,
hiding her face with her hands as she murmured
almost inaudibly, '' The veil."

'never!" cried her brother, indignantly. ''If
after long reflection you really felt what you call a
vocation, if it were your own earnest and deliberate
choice after some years' experience, after you knew
the world sufficiently to know what you are resigning
and what you are choosing, I might not venture to
interpose a veto. But you shall never enter a convent,
while I live, to relieve me of the charge bequeathed
to me by our father ! No, Amy, it is no
sacrifice : I don't mean to say I sacrifice nothing in
giving up my profession ; but can you doubt how

much more I should sacrifice in giving up my orphan
sister, the one thing I have in this world better and
dearer than ambition ? "

The deep emotion in her brother's face, even more
than the declared preference of herself to a career
that appeared to her romantic imagination in much
more brilliant colours than it wore to his more
experienced eyes, completely overpowered Amy; and
she could offer neither argument nor remonstrance,,
could express the intense feeling which returned his
devotion only by tears and caresses, as she knelt
beside him and hid her face on his breast. They
were presently interrupted by the approach of a
visitor, and Evans entered, as Amy hurried from the
room, to request some exceptional assistance from
Darcy. After giving directions on other topics 

Have you heard," he said, " of Lord Penrith's
death ? No ? I won't ask you to write on the subject
unless you like. I can show you where to find the
materials if you would rather write his life yourself
than trust it to another hand, which would do it more
easily, but might not be quite so careful in dealing
with the last incident of his career. De mortuus  of
course ; but you will have enough to do for the next
few days if you confine yourself to what I have just
told you."

Is Philipsonon away, then ? " Darcy inquired ; " for
these subjects should have been his."

"Yes, of course," replied Evans, with some little
surprise in his tone. "Well, will you do Penrith, or
shall I give him to Richardson ? "

I would rather," said Darcy, " attempt it myself.

though I never wrote, as you know, anything of the
kind before ; and of course you will read carefully
the sentence or two in which one must allude to the
incident that drove him into retirement ?"

Of course," replied Evans. " I should say as little
as possible about it ; something like this :  ' The last
incident in Lord Penrith's public career is so recent
that we need hardly refer to it. Perhaps the error
was not graver than many in the career of our less
scrupulous statesmen that have escaped,' etc. You
know probably that Lord Penrith's successor is a
cripple and invalid, though he has written a few clever
things ; a man to whom the title  which he is not
likely to bear, I believe, for many months  would be
only a burden. Of course you must refer only to his
literary repute. You will find all you want in one or
two books at the office, and can fill in by references to
Hansard and, as he was President of the Board of
Control at the time, to the Indian Mutiny."

The Session was over, and Amy rejoiced in her
brother's more regular hours, his more frequent if not
more certain periods of leisure, always spent with her,
and his gradually returning health and strength.
Many a summer afternoon had been spent in delightful
rambles into the suburbs and country to the northward.
Amy's experience among the mountains of
Cumberland rendering her a suitable companion to a
convalescent. Able to share his excursions on foot,
without restraining them by real weakness, while far
too simple to affect it as a mark of feminine delicacy,
at the same time professed fatigue on her own part
often served to prevent her brother from trying too far

Ms imperfectly recovered vigour. A few of these expeditions
were rendered especially pleasant and fixed
permanently in Amy's memory by the fact that, accidentally
or by prearrangement with his colleague,
Philipsonon joined them at the outset or encountered
them on their way. The girl was too shy to take a
very active part in their conversation, courteously
as Philipsonon always strove to draw her into it ; and
when he fell into political or professional discussion
with Lionel, still more when he contrived to draw out
the latter on the subject of his Indian experience,
social and professional rather than personal, Amy
listened in perfect contentment, conscious only of the
pleasure which she felt in learning more and more of
her brother's life and thought, and in the insight e
gained into subjects profoundly interesting to him ;
but perhaps enjoying fully as much the shrewd remarks,
the larger experiences and wider thought of
their companion; a man who added to all the extensive,
but often imperfect and superficial, knowledge of
a critic and a journalist that kind of practical wisdom
and breadth of view which is only to be acquired, as a
rule, by men more or less familiar in social life with
the actual performers on the world's stage, and with
many of those whose writings influence still more profoundly
and permanently the course of its thought
and movement. On one of these occasions a remark
of Amy's on the resemblance of some part of the
scenery before them to that of Windermere elicited
from rhilipson a reply which proved his own familiarity
with the Lake country, and led to a somewhat prolonged
discussion of its various scenes.

*' Mr. Philipsonon," she remarked to Lionel when they
were again alone, " seems to know the Lakes as well
as we."

"Yes," replied her brother. "You know the
Philippine have left their monuments in one or two
of the oldest churches in Westmoreland. There is
more than one family of the name ; by the way, it
is a cadet branch of his own house that Lord Penrith
represents, one which I believe took the side of the
Parliament in the Civil War. I suppose our friend
belongs to one or other of the few remaining families
of Philippine."

Miss Kavanagh," said Amy, " spoke of him as if
a connection. Must he not be related to Lord Penrith
? "

I suppose so," replied Lionel, startled; for though
painfully alive to the words which had indicated Alice's
intimate acquaintance with his colleague, the family
name of Lord Penrith was so little familiar to his
ears that its identity with his colleague's had never
occurred to him until thus directly reminded of it. "I
cannot ask him, but I dare say I shall find out before
long."

The postman's knock interrupted their conversation,
and Amy brought in a letter, again bearing that
Indian postmark on which she looked with curious
interest and her brother with no little anxiety.

Well," he said, after reading it, with a countenance
in which Amy perceived increasing vexation and
perplexity, " advice is thrown away on women. I
suppose it is the one thing they will never take unless
it happens to suit their own mood, and then it is

needless. The Eanee might have known without my
telling the folly of an appeal to any English authority;
as if it were possible to reconsider here the decisions
of Commissioners upon the spot, confirmed by the
Viceregal Government, upon one in thousands of
c|es of alleged injustice, however specially unjust
that one may be; and after twenty years of acquiescence.
She might have trusted me; I could have
no motive but her interest. However, I won't fret
over what can't be helped. Give me some music,
Amy; some of your old ballads or simple songs,
that may take away the flavour of very disagreeable
thoughts."

The sudden change of temperature and weather
that in this climate generally occurs about the middle
of September, seemed to affect Lionel's health, and
threatened, if not a relapse, at least a serious retardation
of his recovery. Amy, always anxious and
watchful, persuaded him to allay her fear by a prompt
appeal to the professional skill to which he had been
already indebted ; and was rewarded by a decided and
almost imperative recommendation to leave London
at once, and spend at least a month in the pleasant
climate of Devonshire or the Isle of Wight. She was
not a little gratified when her brother, announcing
his intention at once to comply with this advice,
ascribed to her care and management the economy
which had rendered such a holiday no burden on
their resources, and enabled them to enjoy it to the
best advantage, travelling from place to place in
the delightful scenery of the far South-West of England
; scenery, next to that of Wales and Cumberland,

VOL. II. c

the wildest and most beautiful that the southern part
of the island can boast. They were at Torquay when
Amy pointed out in the local paper the announcement
of the death of the invalid who had lately succeeded
to the Earldom of Penrith. Later, on their homeward
way, letters from London met them at Vintner,
and among these was one from Alice Kavanagh  of
greater length, but written with scarcely less reserve,
than the two brief notes which Amy had already
received from her. It contained, however, only one
sentence on which either the brother or the sister was
disposed to dwell. "Let me know, when or if you
write, whether the name of Penrith is still a barrier
to a visit, or whether now you might be permitted to
accept an invitation hither, or would call on us in
London. Of course I do not ask this only in my own
name."

"Can you make this out, Lion?" his sister enquired.


The new Earl of Penrith is, I suppose," he
answered, " the brother of the invalid, and of course
Lady Helen's half-brother and Alice's uncle. But does
she mean that she is to be mistress for the present of
his home, or is he married ? "

There was no "Peerage" in the inn where they
were staying, and neither was in the least acquainted
with the pages of a volume generally more interesting
to those whose names are not and never were to be
found therein, than to those whom it more immediately
concerns ; nor, as has been said, did either of them
know anything of the recent genealogy of their powerful
neighbours. After their return to London a

press of business for the time superseded their interest
in such minor questions. Important news came in
from India, where the last vestiges of the Mutiny,
.and of that greater rebellion of which latterly the
Mutiny had been but a minor element, were being
rapidly obliterated. Colonel Vane bore a brilliant
part in the expeditions sent out in various directions
io crush local risings, and disperse the relics of the
rebellious forces which gathered at various points
beyond the reach of the main British armies. More
than one of these he had commanded. A narrative
of his exploits, for which occasion was furnished by
the Gazette announcing that he had at last received
the red ribbon of the Cab., was the first piece of work
required from Darcy on his return to the office of the
Courier, and no task had ever given him half so much
pleasure. Pride and sympathy in the fame of his late
chief inspired an eloquence of which he was wholly
unconscious; and it surprised him as it delighted
Amy to see his essay quoted in half the papers of
London, and to learn from Evans that it had been
reprinted by most of the leading provincial journals.

Chapter II.

MINE NO MORE.

Their influence kindly stars may shower
On Teviot's tide and Ransome's tower,
For pride is quelled and love is free."

You are very early to-night, Lion ! " observed Amy,,
as her brother entered her drawing-room one evening
about a month after their retm-n to London. " You
are not ill?" she added, noticing the harassed or
troubled expression of his face, and wholly unable to
interpret its meaning or the absence of that smile
which invariably returned her own affectionate greeting.
"Then what," as he shook his head, 'has
brought you home so soon ? You know I am very
glad, but I wish I had expected you ; I am afraid you
will have to wait a long time for supper."

''So much the better, dear; I may have a good
deal to say or to hear, or very little, as may happen ;
and I don't care to be interrupted. No, Crosthwaite
knows I am in; don't ring. Come here," placing
her favourite low chair beside his own, "and answer
me frankly and truly."

What is the matter, Lionel ? " the girl asked, surprised

and startled. "Do I ever speak otherwise than
frankly and truthfully to you ? "

My darling, no ! But  I have been taken by
surprise, and  well, I ought not to doubt that you
have been quite open, so far; but there are some
things, according to novels at least, on which girls
never speak very frankly."

If its immediate application were not instantly
obvious, the general meaning of the allusion was not
to be mistaken. Naturally sensitive to the latter,
Amy coloured brightly, and turned away the eyes
that had looked up inquiringly into his face. Caressing
silently for a full minute her long dark curls, he
spoke again, evidently in hesitating quest of a preamble,
and choosing his words with unusual care*

"Do you remember, Amy, at Vintner, wondering
what was Philipsonon's connection with Lord Penrith's
family?"

"Was it at Vintner?" she said, somewhat evasively.


"Well, never mind. But to my surprise the
matter is of no little interest to me : and  can it be
so to you?"

She looked up in astonishment, but meeting his
glance of inquiry her own sank again.

How ? " she asked, in a low hesitating tone.

Thus, Amy. I did not quite understand why one
so much older, with so much more knowledge and
experience than mine, should have shown me so
much kindness as a colleague and so evidently
sought our society as a friend; but I learn to-day
that it was not to myself that his kindness was

rendered, so much as to your brother ; that it was the
charm of Amy's company and not mine that brought
him so often here, and made him so regular a visitor
at Mrs. Evans's soirees."

The maiden bent her head lower and lower as she
listened, and her face was so completely turned away
that Lionel could read no other expression than that
of pure shyness in her manner and attitude.

"He has behaved as he should," her brother said,
"frankly and loyally, at least now. Nay, I don't
know that he could have spoken sooner," as an
upward movement of Amy's head suggested her
displeasure at a reservation that seemed like censure.
Then his loyalty is not wholly indifferent to you ?
Give me your hand, darling, and let me read your
face if you will not speak out."

"What have I to say?" she murmured, half complying,
still half averting her face. " You have told me
nothing yet."

"You can guess what I have to tell. Amy; but
how much more I shall say must depend on whether
you care to hear."

A slight shy coaxing pressure of the hand was all
her reply. Her brother sighed deeply, and went on,
in the quiet low unimpassioned tone in which, save
when under rarest excitement, he always spoke.

Do you care to see him here again, Amy ? That
is the question. And don't answer hastily or too
positively in either case, for I have something to say
in the matter ; only he must come here as your
suitor with your brother's consent or  not at all."

"He has told you so?" she asked, almost in sl,
whisper.

Of course, Amy. Now if you can without pain to

yourself tell me not to bring him here again "

He paused ; for in the trembling of the hand he held,
in the sudden indignant upward look, momentary as
it was and instantly as the lids drooped again, there
was a meaning that checked him. " You would wish
that he should come ? "

*'Do you dislike him, Lion ? What has he done to
offend you ? Or what  why ."

"Why is it painful to me? Because, Amy, not
only is he the chief of the House that rose on the ruin
of ours  one must forget those things nowadays 
but he is the son of a bad man ; bad in public
conduct, still worse in social reputation. His father
was the treacherous enemy of our mother's .best
friend; the last man with whom our father would
have been willing to see us in any way connected."

But," murmured Amy, her thought, too confused
to seize more than one point at once, dwelling solely
on that which touched her affections most closely and
clearly, 'you would not hate him for his father's
fault ? It was no doing of his."

I don't know. Amy. It cannot be a satisfaction
to me to give you to the son of a bad man, still less
of one who was our parents' enemy."

"You mean Lord Penrith?" she said. "Is  is
Mr. Philipsonon,  you said his son ? "

"If your happiness is already involved, Amy, I

cannot But don't make me pledge myself till I

know. If your suitor cannot be my friend, would
still you wish him to come here as your affianced
husband ? "

His own feelings were too deeply enlisted, his anxiety
too intense, to bear the suspense imposed by Amy's
persistent shyness and silence.

"Look up, child," he said, gently lifting her bent
head and looking into her downcast face.

It is a cruel question, Lionel. If you wish to say
no, say it yourself; don't try to wring it from me.
You are all that is left me, you stand in place of
father and mother. If you think it right I shall
try to obey you, but "  she wrested her hand from
his hold, covered her face, and burst into tears  " I
think it will break my heart."

Knowing much more than was known to her,
feeling more keenly than, had she known, she could
now have felt the meanness and falsehood displayed
by the late Lord Penrith in private as in public life 
much more strongly influenced than girls or even
women ever are by hereditary enmity, and a well-founded
instinctive aversion to the closest relations
with those who, however excellent themselves, inherit
the curse of others' evil  Lionel's strongest, deepest-rooted
feeling, most earnest, abiding, controlling
passion, was after all his love and tenderness for his
orphan sister ; and her bitter passionate weeping left
no doubt whatever to one who knew her so well how
deeply her happiness was really involved.

No, Amy," he answered at last, as much softness
and affection in the tone as in the caress that accompanied
his words, " nothing short of absolute duty,
of clear right, could give me courage to stand between
you and anything on which your heart is set. I see
what answer I have to give, and it shall be given.

Calm yourself, darling ; I have a few words to say
yet," he added, speaking more lightly, "that concern
you much, though they may not interest you quite so
deeply as what I have just said."

Gradually soothed hy her brother's tone and touch,
Amy regained sufficient composure to look up and
speak, though in faltering accents.

"But, Lionel, I cannot, I ought not to part with
you  you who were so ready to give up everything
for me ! No, if you cannot approve, if your heart
cannot go with your words, do what you think best;
but only don't ask me to give an answer I cannot
feel."

You don't understand me. Amy. If I could have
done so without hurting you keenly, I might have
wished to refuse. But "  he tried to smile  " I cannot
utterly part with my sister, and if I must give her
away, it shall be with a free hand and a willing heart.
You must be my sister still. Amy, even  when I must
call you  Lady Penrith."

The girl started, and this time looked frankly up
into the eyes that watched her with affectionate interest
and kindly amusement.

"What do you mean. Lion ? Is . is Mr. Philip-son
heir to the title ? "

He was," Lionel replied, smiling though with an
effort, " heir to his brother, whose death you pointed
out in the paper on our journey. Since his death our
friend has been Lord Penrith, though I did not know
it till to-day. I suspect that he had taken care that I
should hear it first from his own lips, as, since he
found out that I did not know who he was, he has

taken care that no one should tell me of his relation
to the father who many years ago disowned and
drove him from his house ; and perhaps he wished
that I should accept Edward Philipsonon's offer before
I knew that he offered my sister a coronet. Certainly
it would go less against the grain to forgive and forget,
if the world could not say that it must have been so
easy . . ."

*' And," said Amy, shyly, some half-hour later,
do you forget, Lion, if you did not know that Mr.
Philipsonon was Lord Penrith's son, you suspected that
he was Alice Kavanagh's relation ? "

His face clouded. " I did not think you would have
said that. Amy. That went against the grain too,
almost as much as the recollection that while the
great-granddaughter of the last Viscount Ulswater,
the descendant of an immemorial line of French
nobles, is at least the equal of an Earl of Hanoverian
creation, all the world will think us infinitely honoured
by his condescension."

''He won't," Amy answered, something of playfulness
mingled with the half-indignant assertion of
respect at once for herself and her lover ; *' and I
am very sorry, Lionel, if I hurt you by speaking of
Miss Kavanagh. You know I don't think that had
anything to do with your consent; but it pleased
me to think that my  my happiness," she murmured,
shyly, " might lead to yours."

*' No, indeed. Amy ! " her brother returned, with
more sternness than he had ever used to her. "Put
that at once and for ever out of your mind, if you
wish that your marriage should not raise an impassable

barrier between us. For your sake I must give
the world the power if not the right to say what it
would drive me wild to hear. It shall not add that
I had a selfish interest in your marriage."

Of course," thought Lionel, as he lit a cigar by
his own fire, after Amy had retired, "I could not
sacrifice her to traditional feuds or personal pride ;
but it is parting with her  and with all. . . . What
remains of our estates will be a poor dowry for her
father's daughter. . . . Well, I can never hope to
marry; so, after all, the land, that which was confiscated
as well as that which we retain, will come
back to the heirs of its rightful owners. But it is
giving up, and for ever, the one thing I had to love
and live for . . ." He would not for any earthly
price that Amy had witnessed the outbreak of sorrow
and bitterness which, in the security of solitude, the
pride of manhood could no longer control.

CHAPTEK III.

EVE AND THE SERPENT.

The apple had done but little for me
If Eve had not done the rest."

'' Does your brother mean to quarrel with us, Amy? "
said Lord Penrith, entering her boudoir in their
London mansion some months after the date of the
last chapter. " I have tried to find him and failed,
both at the Courier and at the address he gave ; and
though he has called here, he seems to have chosen
a time when he knew we should be out."

'*I hope not," Lady Penrith answered, in a tone,
however, of doubt and almost of dismay. "I told
you that ever since  since he gave his consent to
our marriage, Lionel had seemed saddened and
changed ; and I don't feel as if I understood him any
longer as I used to do. He won't quarrel, of course ;
but I begin to fear that I shall see very little of him.
I think," she added, with some hesitation, "indeed
I know  he did not consent willingly."

*' I understand that," replied her husband, *rand
I don't like him any the worse, so very young ashe
is. What would be temper and folly in a man

of thirty, is but the natural pride of independence,
the natural exaggeration of sensitive self-respect, at
twenty-one. But I should have given Darcy credit
for more consistency and common sense than he is
showing. If I have not read him wholly wrong, he
loves you at least as well as most men love anything
on earth ; and he must know that he cannot hold
aloof from us without causing you pain. It is a
trifle, too, but very significant, that since I asked
permission to propose to you he has never addressed
me, in writing or vivid voce, but by my title."

So did I," said Amy, colouring, " till we were
married."

True," he replied, with a smile. " But what was
natural shyness in you was deliberate choice, iVill
not hurt you by saying affectation, in a colleague
and familiar acquaintance. I could understand it
better if we had not been so distinctly and unquestionably
equals. A man sensitive on that point
might take it into his head to mark his feeling by
formality ; but, to set aside the fact which everybody
in our circle knows and remembers, that he is
himself the heir of an attainted peerage, which would
be restored if he would ask for it, the Marquis of
Ultramar stands at least on an equal footing with
any English peer ; and again, your brother's military
experience should have cured him of such fancies.
The equality of the mess-table is perhaps the most
complete in the world. I am almost! afraid to offend
him by interfering at all in his affairs ; but I have
asked further leave for him, and the Horse Guards
will see that it is given if he chooses to profit by it

It matters the less, though, that the Lancers are
ordered home and will, I think, be quartered in the
South; indeed, they will probably be sent to Aldershot.
Well," after a few moments' further reflection, " I
shall leave him to you. Amy. If you don't mind
telling him that he is wounding you, I give him credit
for too good a heart to go on doing so out of pique 
or what is said to be the Devil's ' darling sin '  * the
pride that apes humility.' "

One word, Edward," interposed Amy, timidly, asher
lord was about to leave the room. '* There maybe
a reason for Lionel's holding aloof, as you say,
which has not occurred to you. And  unless I knew
your mind, I don't know that I can press him, or say
iihat he is wrong."

Lord Penrith turned, closing the door again, and
came back to her side.

Alice?" he said, smiling. " Nothing would please
me better, or  you should know better than I, Amy 
perhaps Alice herself."

"I don't know," she answered; "and if I did, you
don't suppose I would tell you ? But that doubt set
at rest, I cannot hesitate to do all I can, all that can
soothe Lionel's pride or spare him mortification."

Mortification ? " he repeated.

'*Do you forget," asked Amy, timidly, 'that the
first Lord Penrith bought nearly all the forfeited
estates of our ancestor ? Or do you think it strange
that Lionel remembers it ? "

'* I did not think of it," he replied, musing. " But
it is just the thing your brother would remember ; and
though he insisted on it, and I had no power to present

it, no doubt he feels it the more that he has
settled the last remnant of those estates upon you."

*you have never allowed it?" cried Amy, starting
up*!

could not help it, dear; unless," he added,
smiling, "you would have had me refuse to marry till
that deed was cancelled. But he has so settled it that
the land can be sold; I suppose that, if the chance
ever came to him, he might recover it. By the way,
if you see him, tell him that I have inquired carefully
into the Indian case of which he wrote you, and that,
ass he thought, nothing whatever can or will be done.
The sooner the claimant returns to India the better."

While this conversation was passing, its subject
stood in a small meanly furnished sitting-room in the
East of London, some mile from Leadenhall Street,
then the seat of a part at least of the Home Government
of India. By his side was Zela, now in English
dress, grown since we last saw her from the child
almost into the woman, but still retaining much of
the frank impulsiveness of her earlier years, much of
childish simplicity and ignorance ; and still displaying
in the quick changes of colour and suddenly varying
expression of her face, in the restless, constant, but
always graceful movement of her lithe figure, the
eager passionate nature common to her race and
especially characteristic of her own individual temperament.


*' No, Zela," Darcy replied to the girl's last sentences,
her eyes still speaking though her lips were
closed. " I wrote to your mother that she could not
make a greater and more thoroughly hopeless mistake,

and I earnestly hoped that my counsel, which she must
know to be prompted by no feeling but anxiety for her
interest and your own, would have prevailed with her.
I am not surprised that the climate, the voyage, and
the disappointment together have thus broken her
down. I fear, my poor child, you must make up your
mind to the worst, and that before long ; and what
arrangements we can then make I must take time to
consider. The doctors agree that it is impossible for
her to return, that she would not live to reach Suez ;
and under what protection to send you back, or what
you should do on your return home, it is not easy
to see."

The changing colour, the tears gathering in her
eyes, the impatient motion of her form, and especially
the eager restless agitation of her hands and arms,
indicated plainly enough the mingled and by no means
agreeable feelings with which Zela listened. But she
did not interrupt her friend ; hearing his hesitating
remarks to the end with more patience than she had
been wont to show under equal excitement some
eighteen months before.

I have no wish to return to India, Major Darcy.
What should I do there ? I have no friend, no one to
care for me. I am not more lonely and helpless here
than there. I don't wonder that you wish to be rid of
us, but you need not trouble yourself about sending
me back. Unless with my mother, I don't intend
to go."

You are hardly kind or just, Zela," he replied
gently, with forgiving consideration for the many
harassing and painful thoughts that must trouble the

girl's mind, and might have made a far more cultivated,
better disciplined and less impulsive nature
unreasonable and reckless of the pain inflicted on
others. '' I have done my best for you thus far, and
you have no reason to think or say that I have grudged
or could ever grudge any trouble taken for you or your
mother. But, my child, when you come to think
quietly over the matter you will see that, while it maybe
possible to arrange for your safety and comfort in
India, it is impossible here. What at that distance
I could do without provoking comment, without its
being known to any but one or two intimate friends,
I could not do here without injuring more than I
could assist you."

"I see," returned Zela, bitterly; *' it is not that
you will not take trouble for your pupil, but you are
ashamed of her in your own country. I ought to
have known that it must be so ; and. Major Darcy, I
never would have come, I never would have seemed
to claim your protection. You know it was my
mother's doing, and I could not help it."

There is perhaps no quality more dangerous to its
possessor, none more certain to involve him through
life in trouble, embarrassment, and perhaps undeserved
discredit or even disgrace, than the inability
to give pain to a woman ; the tenderness to the sex not
uncommon in men of gentle nature, aggravated by
gentle birth and training, which cannot endure to
speak a timely truth that must inflict suffering and
perhaps humiliation, however wholesome or however
deserved. It would have been hardly more impossible
to Lionel Darcy to strike her than to answer harshly,

VOL. II. D

or even with the unavoidable roughness of simple
truth, the appeal really conveyed under the veil of
reproach in Zela's remonstrance. To relieve the
natural mortification, the sense of loneliness and
abandonment she must be enduring at the moment,
was for him the first and unhappily the paramount
consideration.

''Of course, Zela," he replied, "I know that you
were not responsible for your mother's mistake. I
hoped and believed that she would have trusted more
to the soundness and good faith of my advice ; but
you cannot think that because that advice was
slighted I hold myself one whit the less bound todo
all I can for both of you ; though I fear little or
nothing can now be done for her. Trust me to do for
you, in so far as your own interest will allow, all I
could do for my own sister ; and be sure that if I fail
to do just what you would wish, it is not for want
of will. You never thought me harsh because I
insisted that my pupil should learn what seemed to
her useless and troublesome ; perhaps you have found
out ere this that some lessons which cost you the
most trouble and tears were the most valuable. Can
you not so far trust me as to believe the same still ;
to think that when I insist on what is unpleasant to
you I do so for your sake, and because true kindness
to you leaves me no other choice ? "

If the argument touched Zela's feelings at all, it was
only in virtue of the recollections to which it appealed,
long dwelt on with a fond remembrance of which the
speaker himself had never dreamed.

"You know," she answered, "that I have felt and

Been grateful for your kindness. I don't reproach
you, I don't complain if you cannot or do not wish
to have any more to do with me. But you can't
persuade me that you care for me as you did in India.
Then, with the heat that tried you so, with all your
work among your soldiers, you could always find time
to come to us almost every day ; and now you come
once or twice in the week and stay half an hour or an
hour at most, and talk to my mother only of business,
and to me only of  how you are to get rid of me ! "
she concluded, sharply.

*task your mother, Zela," Darcy answered, stung
to the quick, " whether there be any justice in your
reproaches. She, I think, will understand what you
cannot, and what I cannot explain. I hope when I
next call she may be able to see me ; indeed I will
take care, if I come several times in vain, to see her
soon. But till I see her, it will be better that I should
not see you again."

He held out his hand, taking up his hat with the
other as he spoke. But the gesture of farewell
changed at once Zela's impulsive mood ; or more
probably overcame the anger and mortification of
whose injustice she was at heart conscious. She held
fast the outstretched hand, and burst into almost
hysterical tears.

You must not leave like this ! You must not go
away angry with me! You know your pupil was
always passionate, and what you call petulant. You
bore with my unreasonableness then ; forgive me now,
and say you are friends with me before you go."

The eagerness of her tone, the earnest appeal in

the eyes upraised to his own, prevailed over Darcy's
prudence ; and, for the first time since they had met
again in England, he hent and kissed the girl's
forehead.

"I don't think," he said, endeavouring to speak
lightly, " I don't think I was angry, Zela. But you
reproached me once for treating you too much as a
child ; you are no child now ; do remember that
words and temper which from a child may at most
try one's patience, coming from a maiden grown give
real and sometimes bitter pain."

This will be almost my last piece of work for you,
at least in London," said Darcy, taking from the
hand of the Editor of the Courier a mass of papers on
which a series of what are technically called "headed
articles" was required. "My regiment must, I
fancy, have left Suez by this time, and when they
land I shall be ordered to rejoin. I don't know where
they will be stationed ; the report goes at Aldershot,
or perhaps in Lancashire."

"Well," returned Evans," in either case you will
still be able to do this kind of work, and you can
review; and again, you may send us an article on
any military question you may think worth one. The
reconstruction of our army and the organization of
effective defence are likely to be topics of paramount
interest for some time to come. If you were not tied
by military duties I should have work that would suit
you, I fancy, to the tips of your nails. I can tell you

that, though Lord M has done his uttermost to

prevent it, there will be war in Italy before many

weeks are past ; and war worth seeing. The Emperor
has meant it, certainly ever since his New Year's
speech, I believe ever since Orsini's execution. And
his will is stronger and more resolute than men
suppose; giving way and waiting, very often for a
better opportunity, he gets the credit of irresolution.
But what he means once he means for ever. If you
were free, I can imagine nothing that would suit you
better than to be our correspondent with the French
army."

Impossible, even were I free ; I was born a
Royalist and a Catholic."

Just for that reason the Emperor would receive
you with especial cordiality. In fact, I am not sure
that, promising as your career is here, you would
not do better in France. It is his policy to conciliate
and attach to himself as many as possible of the old
nobility, and the Marquis of Ultramar would be a far
greater man in France under almost any rule than
the most successful English soldier of our day can
hope to be here."

But," answered Darcy, with a smile, '' the Marquis
of Ultramar can follow no French flag but the Lilies."

*sand those France is never likely to see again.
Everything, I think, is possible there, except the one
thing that might give stability to French institutions."

*' ' Nothing is certain but the unforeseen.' "

At this moment the boy in attendance on the editorial
department handed to him a soiled note.

Who brought this ? " said Darcy, taking it up and
recognizing at once the hand of Zela.

"A dirty little ragamuffin, sir," said the boy, whose

hands and clothes stained with printer's ink and
generally shabby appearance gave an irony to the
description of which he was wholly unaware. **I
paid him sixpence for bringing it, and told him to
wait."

'height," said Darcy, throwing him the money.
*' This, Evans, promises trouble. You remember
when I asked you about the Eanee's case, and you
refused to notice it, I told you that I feared she was
dying ? She has died, suddenly, and now "

'rand now," said the other, gravely, " Zela Manton
is on your hands. Well, one knows the result of
those things. In India I believed your honour or
chivalric respect for womanhood and for a mother's
trust would keep your friendship while it lasted
harmless. But "

"Do you think I must be a villain?" Darcy answered,
his face darkening, his eyes lightening in
wrath that with a less intimate and less proven friend
would have burst into indignant passion. " Do you
think a man must sin when opportunity offers, however
slight the temptation, however strong the obligation
to resist it ? Suppose me honest for a moment ;
what am I to do ? "

I don't know what you can do for her either in
India or here : what she will do for you I see plainly
enough. Well, after all, she will be hardly worse off,
probably, than if she had married an Indian Baboon'
or a third-rate Zemindar, to be neglected after a few
years at most for other wives and favourites."

What ! " cried Darcy, indignantly. " Because a
girl is helpless, friendless, thrown on my protection,,
must I betray her ? "

'* You know, Darcy, what * protection ' means ;
depend upon it the euphemism is true to the reality.
What can you do ? ' I don't know ; and just for
that reason I know what you or she will do, unless
Can you ask Lady Penrith to take charge

of her ? "

I could have asked Amy Darcy," said the younger
man, after a few moments' thought.

Then," replied his friend, *' I am glad you cannot.
You would have compromised your sister with
the world without saving Miss Manton's name. If
Lady Penrith were fifteen years older, and her
husband would consent, she might no doubt do what
Miss Darcy could never have done. But to return ;
can you ask her ? " 

*' Why not ? " said Darcy.

*' That is not for me to say; but can you do it ?
And if you did, do you think Lord Penrith would not
have a right to hesitate for the sake of a wife so
young and so little known ? "

There was a long silence, and then, gathering his
papers together, Darcy turned to attend Zela's
summons.

I suppose you have meant kindly," he said. " At
any rate you have given me a warning by which I
ought to profit. If I err now, it must be with my
eyes open."

A few days after the funeral, Darcy stood again
with Zela in her miserable dingy parlour.

"You could not stay here alone, my poor child,
even if Mrs. Brown had been kind and sensible instead
of brutal and greedy ; and if you could, I could hardly

come here to see you. It is very hard, I know, Zela.
I cannot conceive a harder, a more cruel position
than yours ; and it is hard on you  I wish you would
believe it is also hard on me  that your one friend
in England can do no more ; that you must give
up whatever comfort that friendship could afford
you. But you can return to India, and return in
safety. I don't say that you will like either the
journey or the home I have found for you, but I can
do no better. Money can buy the protection of respectability,
and interest can get over the other difficulty
I foresaw. I have found some one who will take
charge of you in the next ship that sails, and the
Plymouth Brothers Female School at Bombay will
receive you."

Zela broke out in a passion of scorn, resentment,
and humiliation.

"And a woman whose respectability can be bought
is so much more respectable than I that she can
make me respectable ! Simply because she is English
you think  you, Major Darcy  that she is so incomparably
my better."

''I don't think anything of the kind, Zela," he
interrupted quietly. ' ' But respectability means safety,
and freedom from annoyances you cannot understand."

I don't care," she went on, impetuously; *'I will
have nothing to do with such protection. And do
you think I will go into a school  and a Missionary
school ? As you said yourself, I am no child now.
Or do you think I will live on your charity when you
will not even visit me, when you are too much
ashamed of your charge to let her remain in your

own country ? I will starve, I will die first ! You
seemed to care for me, you professed to love me and
my mother as a brother or kinsman might ; and when
I need your care, your kindness, most, just when I
am left utterly alone and orphan in the world, you
will have no more to do with me, you are tired and
ashamed of me. And then you think I will eat your
salt and know that I owe the roof over my head, the
clothes I wear, not to your direct kindness but to the
entreaties you have made, the money you have paid
to those who will look down on me, who will think meno
better than a beggar  among the girls they have
picked up from the lowest castes in the streets of
Bombay! If you can cast me away so, you never
ought to have taken me up. If you can be so crrnel,
you should never have won my heart by your kindness,
by your professed affection, to break it by your
scorn and your coldness ! You should have left me
the poor ignorant half-caste child I was  to be
married on the first opportunity to some rich Baboon
or English adventurer, to get from him at least the
home you have taken so much trouble to find me, and
never to know anything better, never to have felt the
difference between such as you and those to whom you
would fling me, like some chattel you don't care for
but cannot for some reason sell or throw away. You,
you spoke always as if you felt for my position even in
India ; you spoke of the claims that the daughter of
an English soldier, the descendant of Indian nobles,
had on a soldier and a gentleman ; and now, when I
am alone and homeless, you show that you are really
ashamed of me, ashamed to be my friend, ashamed

that your English kinsfolk should know that you
visited an Indian woman, that you taught and
protected a half-caste girl."

Surely, Zela, you cannot be so utterly ignorant,
or so wild with sorrow and pain, as not to know how
unjust you are ? But never mind the injustice to me ;
what would you have me do ? What can I do better
than I have offered ? "

** Do nothing ! " she answered, with flashing eyes.
Did I ask you for anything ? It humbled me to
depend on you when I thought you loved me as a
child : do you think I want anything as a woman
from one who cares nothing for me ? "

"Do you not know, Zela," he repeated, quietly,
"that in sending you back to India I prove my care
for you ? Are you really ignorant that to part with
you at once is the best kindness that love ever so
great could render you ? What tenderness I felt for
you as a neglected child at Sivapore I feel tenfold for
the lonely orphan girl in this strange country ; and
because you are dear to me, I must take care not to
expose you to the wonder and rudeness of others.
Has not your landlady shown you already what you
might suffer at such hands as hers, if you remained
in England with no protection but such as I can
give ? "

No indeed! it was because you did not protect me,
because she saw you did not care for me, that she
dared. She dared not speak so to your slave, to your
dog ! She dared not have been half so rude to the
great hound that came with you the other day. He
was yours : if you cared for me as much as for him

you would never drive me away from you ; and with
you I know I should be safe."

Are you really so ignorant as you'seem, Zela ? If
I loved you as well as my own sister, what can I do,
what would you wish me to do ? "

'* But you don't ; or you would never have spoken,
never treated me as you have done ever since we came
here. Is it only in India that you can scorn what
people say of you, that you could defy and put down
their taunts about your kindness to us ? I heard
how you treated Major Thomson; but here you are
afraid."

'*1 told you, Zela," he answered, more and more
bewildered by her apparent ignorance, as confounded
by a feminine vehemence and fluency which might
have overwhelmed the judgment and coolness of a
more experienced man, " that you are as dear to meas
ever. Whatever I can do, whatever in earnest and
deliberately you would wish me to do, I will do if it be
possible."

"You don't mean it, or you would never need to
ask me. What would you do, what did you do for
your sister ? Of course you would do, you ought todo,
nothing like that for me. But you treat me worse
than your dog. He has a place under your roof ; you
can take care of him, speak kindly to him, and stroke
his head. Should I cost you so much ? Or are you
so afraid of English scorn for an Indian girl ? "

Do you not know, Zela, even you, that there is
but one place a girl can hold in the house of one who
is not her kinsman ? "

An English girl, perhaps," said Zela ; " but I am

not English. You Imoww what I should be, what my
mother might have been in an Indian house ; one
among many slaves, though you call them wives ; 
the creatures of a master's will. But I don't ask so
much as that. Let me be your slave in name ; don't
call me, don't treat me as anything more ; but give
me the shelter of your roof, give me such a look, such
a kind word now and then as you give to Afzul or to
that great hound of yours. Why are you so annoyed ?
You say you feel for me as you did in India ; you need
scarcely see more of me ; I suppose I could not cost
you more than there ? "

That Zela was urging him to the verge of heinous
sin, that she was throwing away her own soul, was
a consideration which, nominal Catholic as he was,
never occurred to him, or occurred only to be dismissed
as the fable of a priest. That what she
ignorantly desired meant social ruin and personal
disgrace to her, he knew and realized keenly enough.
But that the best prospect before her was hardly
better, was a fact equally present to his mind. Still
as yet he was not perilously tempted. The sense of
personal honour, the instinct of loyalty which was, as
with so many men of his caste, the paramount
principle of his life, the basis of his ethical code and
guide of his practical conduct, revolted as much as
ever from what still seemed a betrayal of confidence
from such abuse of the influence acquired through
sincere and loyally rendered kindness as would
reflect back on that kindness a stain of selfish impurity.
Moreover, not only was his affection for
Zela passionless and chiefly pitiful, but he was more

or less conscious of love for another to which compliance
with the present temptation, had there been
such, would be disloyalty ; and Zela's reckless impulsiveness
and headstrong passions were less pleasant,
seemed less pardonable, as they contrasted the
character and conduct of her who was for him the
standard of perfect womanhood and maiden delicacy.

''Do you know, have you any idea what you ask,
Zela ? Novo you may set aside my feeling, my wishes,
utterly ; for the world would say nothing against me
that would trouble me for a moment. But you ask
dishonour and ruin for yourself, disgrace in the eyes
of all women and nearly all men. You ask me to do
that which, had your mother foreseen, I should never
have been permitted to enter her house ; that which
would have made her curse me on her death-bed, as a
traitor to her trust and worse than the murderer of
her daughter."

"What do you mean?" said Zela. 'disgrace,
dishonour in the eyes of women ! Can I be lower in
the eyes of your English ladies than I am ? Can they
scorn me more than they did whenever from their
carriages or palanquins they caught sight of me at
Sivapore ? Can they treat me more insolently than
that woman has done ? At the worst, how should I
be more miserable, more friendless after what you call
ruin, than I should be if I returned to India as you
would have me ? And for my mother, what did
she tell me in India ?  to behave to you as a slave to
her master ; and her last words bade me trust to you
and be sure that you would never forsake one who
depended wholly on your kindness. Kemember," she

urged again, as Darcy stood astounded and perplexed,
just sufficiently acquainted with the lower side of the
Eanee's character to believe that Zela gave her words
correctly, while misapplying their sense ;  and realizing
painfully the justice of her intense repugnance to
the life that lay before her in India  " remember you
speak not to an English but an Indian girl ; not even
to an Indian girl with an Indian father and mother,
to whom an ordinary Indian marriage is possible, but
to one outcast from both races alike. And what do I
care what people say or think ? Need I see or hear
them ? Do I wish for kind looks or words from anyone
but you?"

"What," thought Darcy, "am I to say; or, for
that matter, what am I to do ? If I held with the
priests that she is, consciously or not, tempting to
mortal sin, there would be no doubt. If she were
an English girl with the chances, the instincts of
our race, the certainty that sooner or later her spirit
would be broken, her conscience crushed by misfortune,
to believe in the justice of their censures
again there would be no doubt. But thinking
simply what is best for her, is she not right ; would
she not be happier in my hands than in any position
I can secure for her ? And if for the moment I could
compel her compliance, if I could place her in
temporary safety, how long could it be before such
ignorance, such a temperament will make her the
victim of brutal sensual selfishness ? And yet to yield,
and to face the doubts of my own conscience  and 
to face Alice's eyes, to take her hand, if we ever meet
again, with such a secret  to know what she would

feel, how she would shrink from me if she knew it ;
the thing is out of the question! I could not
bear it."

You speak," he said at last, with averted face and
in hesitating tones, "you speak, Zela, of being my
slave. Such a thing does not exist, is not known in
England. Are you so utterly ignorant as not to know
what the world would call you ? "

"Let it!" Zela cried. "Whatever I maybe, if I
am yours, it is better than to be called the pupil,
really the slave, of those missionaries and their hard-faced,
haughty, scornful women ; or to be the same
thing in an Indian zenana, though English conceit and
ignorance might give me another name. What can
the name matter ? You know, Major Darcy, I sam
safe with you ; you know I shall never be safe without
you."

Too true ! " he thought. " If I could depend upon
myself, you would be safe with me. But one has
heard so many stories where men at least as well-meaning,
as resolute as myself have yielded to temptation,
with the strongest determination as to the future ;
and I never heard of one case in which a mistress, the
most loved and loving, was not deserted at last. And
I  'I don't love her, save as a child ; and if she came
to stand between me and Alice I should  but that
can never be. But "  and Darcy started, so distinctly
did a new reflection of his thought (perhaps the
interposition of the more sluggish half of the brain
roused to action by the excitement of the occasion,
perhaps the whisper of conscience, whatever that
may mean) sound like a new voice, another personality,

speaking from within :  ' As you do not love
as you cannot even affect to return her own passionate
love for you, will she not be miserable even with you,
will she not desert you ; and will you not have ensured
her fate by doing wrong as surely as by doing right ?
Only He to whom the future is as the past may dare
to do evil that good may come."

Such reasonings pass quickly indeed within the
thinker's miiid ; and Zela had hardly time to wonder
at the silence which betrayed his hesitation before he
spoke again.

*' You don't know what you ask, and you cannot
know. It would be better for you to die than that I
should do what you would ;  for your sake, Zela, not
for mine."

The girl, by sympathy or by some quick unconscious
reading of his countenance, had been aware of his
doubt, and confidently resolved it in her own favour.
The disappointment to love and to self-esteem, the
despair  for she realized keenly the utter blankness
of the life proposed to her, and feared its solitude, its
friendless isolation, even more than she had been able
to make apparent  the stinging humiliation of a suit
preferred in vain, were more than she could endure,

"Remember," she cried, springing from him angrily
and looking him directly in the face with an expression
of passionate contempt and wrath, 'remember what
you have told me; when I am dead think again
whether you have done your best for me, whether
there has been one word of truth in all your protests
of unselfish affection. And now go, Major Darcy; I
don't accept your offer ; I will ask nothing, I will owe
nothing more to you."

Think," he answered, *' think quietly, Zela, over
the whole matter. I must see you again, and by that
time I trust you will be cooler and wiser. The day
will come when you will know that I could not have
proved the loyalty of my regard for you better than
by leaving you now."

But he was not disposed to leave her to the risk
of insult, harshness, or neglect, or even to the chances
of her own impetuous temper. Like most of her class,
the landlady was one of those women whose notions
of right and respectability, however strong, are not
impregnable. Unassailed, their virtue is stern as it
is aggressive ; it is seldom proof against an adequate
bribe, adroitly combined with an appeal by their
social superiors which flatters the feminine feelings
it imputes. Before Darcy left her, Mrs. Brown had
affected to believe in the perfect loyalty of his
interest in the orphan, and had promised for the
present to use such care as might be possible, and at
least to warn him in time of any sign that might
indicate hasty resolves or hazardous intentions on
her part.

VOL. TI. K

CHAPTEK IV.

SINNED AGAINST OR SINNING ?

Take her up tenderly ; lift her with care ;
Fashioned so slenderly, young, and so fair ! "

Returning to the chambers to which after Amy's
marriage he had removed, to be nearer his work, and
where, Crosthwaite having followed her young mistress,
Afzul was now his only servant  he found side by
side a large official envelope and a tiny note on the
coloured and scented paper which our social critics
delight to ridicule, but which is after all one of the
most graceful, tasteful, and harmless of feminine
fancies. In the latter Amy expostulated playfully but
earnestly against her brother's evident resolution to
decline all social favours and personal courtesies
from the great house with which her marriage had
connected him, and pressed upon him a visit to
Penrith Castle, to which the approaching dissolution
summoned her husband; whose tenants, accustomed
to vote for the Opposition, were under his influence
to be brought to change what they called their minds.
The other supplied an excuse if not an answer,
commanding him in brief official form to join his
regiment at Manchester within a fortnight.

This leaves me short time to deal with Zela's
wilfulness," he thought, after despatching an affectionate
but evasive reply to his sister's entreaty.
Half an hour's consideration brought him no nearer
to a conclusion  a fact which will hardly surprise any
man who has found himself morally responsible for a
girl's or a woman's action, without power of coercion
and having tried persuasion in vain ; and, what maybe
more surprising, a cheroot of that excellent quality
which Anglo-Indians or China merchants only seem
able to procure failed to assist deliberation. True to
his maxim, not to think over what it was hopeless to
help, he took up and applied in earnest to the professional
work with which he had been charged. . It
wanted no long time to midnight, when a hasty and
violent ring at the bell startled him from the labour
in which he had been completely absorbed, and recalled
him to the subject of which only such absorption
could have cleared his mind. The strange feeling
called presentiment, which so often precedes, so much
oftener perhaps appears to memory to have preceded,
the announcement of a calamity, seized him at once ;
and he had sprung from his seat, and his face expressed
eager and painful expectation, as Afzul entered
the room, followed by a '' little ragamuffin," the same
in truth who had thus been described by his quondam
fellow at the Courier office.

Mrs. Brown sent me, sir," said the boy. " I was
to tell you that Miss Manton went out about nine and
has not come back. Mrs. Brown had just stepped
out, and didn't know which way the young lady had
gone. But there was a note for you left on her table."

UNIVERSITY OF
tLLINOIS UBRARTf,

Give it me at once," said Darcy ; and the boy
somewhat reluctantly gave iijp the folded paper, whose
existence in truth was the sole reason of this hasty
summons. But for its appearance, Mrs. Brown would
have postponed till next morning at least the confession
how completely she had failed to fulfil her promise
of vigilance.

*you told me," said the note, "I had better die.
I never disobeyed you till to-day, when you bade me
leave you and go back to India. I will obey you now.
I don't want you to be sorry ; I suppose after all you
did mean kindly."

The last words were half illegible and evidently
blotted with tears.

Do you know anything more ? Can Mrs. Brown
tell me anything ? " inquired Darcy.

"What should I know?" asked the boy, looking
up with a gleam of cunning in his eyes.

I don't care what you should know," replied Darcy
sharply. " Look here," and he held up a half-crown.
Tell me no lies, for whatever trouble it costs I will
find you and thrash you within an inch of your life.
Tell me the truth instantly and you shall have this."

I' see'd the young lady," the little rascal said,,
with promptly quickened intelligence, with all the
sharpness of a London gamin where money is offered
or expected; "she had wrapped her veil round her,,
but I thought she had been crying. She was in a
hurry, and she didn't look which way she went."

"Which way?"

Toward the river, sir ; but she didn't take the
short way. She went along the streets as you would
take in a cab."

' In what direction ? "

'Eh?" said the boy.

Whereabouts would she get to the river ? "

Below Bridge, I think," was the answer.

Go back to Mrs. Brown ; stay there and bring
word here of anything she hears. If I am not in,
wait for me. Afzul, go straight to London Bridge,
take my card, show it to the policeman on duty and
ask if he has seen any one at all like Miss Manton.
Stay there till I come."

Scarcely a minute had passed from the boy's
arrival before Afzul had hastened on his mission in
one cab at the speed of a fire-engine, while Darcy, at
an equal pace, hurried to Scotland Yard. A few
words, backed by a somewhat greater number of
sovereigns, ensured the most active and considerate
assistance of the police, the passing of an urgent
message along the whole line of the river. Afzul' s
inquiry had proved fruitless, and Darcy paced in vain
the bridges and the streets connecting them, and at
last took boat, inquiring at every point on the river
and learning nothing. But at Scotland Yard the
officer to whom he had spoken met him with a face
that at a first glance announced news, and news
decisive whether satisfactory or otherwise.

The Ever Police have found and taken to the
station-house a young lady, not English, they say."

*' Alive ? " said he in horror ; and though there was
no pause, it seemed to him an intolerable time before
the slow answer was given.

They hardly know yet, sir."

"Well, then," Darcy answered, after a moment's

thought, " come down with me; the case must not go
before a magistrate, come what may."

Good-nature and gratitude alike prompted the
officer, whose influence throughout the force was
great and deserved, to comply with Darcy's request ;
though, as they hurried to the station from which the
tidings had come, he warned his anxious companion
that to prevent public scandal might well prove impossible.


"You see, sir, if the charge has been taken down it
cannot be erased; and if not, and the magistrate
heard of it, there'd be a row."

I had rather give the man a year's pay," Darcy
replied, 'than let the story be known. The girl ha
no friend, not even an acquaintance in London or in
England but myself. I will give you my address,
and take the whole responsibility on myself."

That won't much help, though, sir," said the
policeman, as the cab stopped at the station. Butin
the very brief time for consideration which the
journey had allowed, Darcy, who had wished more
than once that he had worn a uniform which might
have told in his favour, had drawn from his breast
the cross which when in mufti he always wore beneath
his clothes secured by a strong steel chain. The
announcement of his name and the sight of the
decoration, more honoured by the mass of Englishmen
than the Garter itself, secured for him the most
deferential respect, the most anxious consideration.
In any case the trouble visible in his face and the
painful nature of the occasion would have ensured
such rude kindness as a body of men, much maligned

on that score at least, had known how to show. But
as it was he was ushered respectfully and with as
little delay as possible into the cell where the victim
of her own rashness had been placed. The drenched
clinging garments visible here and there through the
blankets in which she had been wrapped, the ghostly
face, the long straight hair still wringing wet, the
intense physical suffering evinced in the gasps for
breath, the convulsive shudders, the unconscious
clenching and unclenching of the hands, smote the
young observer to the heart. It happened that he
had never before seen a person recovering from that
strange state in which the drowned are actually dead,
in so far at least that no further loss of consciousness,
no greater and more complete cessation of vital action
is possible, but from which a minute more or less
determines the possibility of restoration; and the
sight was to him, as to all who witness it for the first
time, inexpressibly horrible. An hour passed before
the sufferer, opening her eyes with what was evidently
an effort though but half-conscious, looked up into the
face that bent anxiously over her, and feebly raised
her hand to clasp his.

"Ah, Major Darcy ! " she murmured, "are you
there? Where am I, then? I thought"  after a
few moments  "I thought I was at peace." She
closed her eyes again and a strong convulsive shivering
shook her whole frame. Darcy signed back the
attendants, aware how terrible to her returning consciousness
might be the sight of strange faces, recalling
too soon the recollection of what had really happened.
It was well for Zela that his was the first countenance

on which her eyes unclosed ; that in her half-conscious
state the first sight was reassuring and not startling.
Her hysterical agitation, as she gradually became
aware where she was and from what she had been
brought back to life, was unutterably distressing to
witness ; and stung the young soldier with a sense of
self-reproach, unjust perhaps but utterly intolerable.
Happily, as the Inspector whispered to him, no charge
had been recorded, and after some persuasion, verbal
and other, Zela was resigned to his care and that
of her landlady, who at his summons, though somewhat
reluctantly, had attended to take charge of her.
Wearied out, not so much by fatigue and time as by
excitement and anxiety, most exhausting to that
nervous strength which endures longest while action
is required and gives way first when action is
over, Darcy had fallen fast asleep on the rough
horsehair couch in the little parlour ; and was startled
into waking consciousness to find Zela kneeling beside
him.

They told me not to get up, but I thought you
would not come to me," she murmured, as he sprang
up and looked anxiously on the white face and trembling
form.

Lie down here, Zela," he said, " and don't try to
speak again. I see Mrs. Brown has lighted your fire
while I was asleep ; has she given you breakfast ? "

'No."

Then you must have it at once."

The bell was answered with more than usual
promptitude, and it was a little difficult so to quell
the landlady's inquisitive curiosity as to rid Zela

of looks whose meaning was painfully evident to
Darcy, if not to herself.

You will not scold me ? " faltered the girl, after
a, time recovering her power of speech. ' I could
not go back, and you told me there was no other
choice. And you will not desert me now ? You are
sorry for me, I see ; I did not mean to grieve you so ;
but if you leave me, I tell you "  with a return of
her old impulsive passion, which by the feebleness
of voice and gesture painfully contrasted the energy
which the same feeling had inspired but a few hours
before  " I tell you if you leave me I shall do the
same again. I won't go to India, and I will not, I
cannot, live alone and friendless here."

It was hardly in human nature, at least the nature
of a very young and very sensitive man  certainly
not in one like Darcy's, of which unlimited softness
and tenderness to women and children was at least
as characteristic as fierceness of anger and sternness
of resentment in feud with enemies of his own sex 
to resist an appeal so made, and enforced by so
terrible a lesson.

You must have your way, then, Zela," he owned,
with a deep sigh. ** God grant you don't live to
curse me for yielding  to wish that you had died even
as you tried to die."

It was so cold," she said, shivering and clinging
to him. "I remember thinking you did not know what
it was like or you would never have driven me to it."

I thought I had left you safe against that at least.
God forgive me ; nothing seems harder than to do
right, even when one has no wish to do wrong ! "

Chapter V.

WITHOUT THE PALE.

*' Alas for the rarity of Christian charity
Under the sun ! "

Most of the officers of the 36th Lancers were the
guests of an infantry regiment quartered in a neighbouring
town, and among them was Darcy; whose
decoration and promotion, won by services so distinguished
and at an age so unprecedentedly early, had
rendered him an object of pride and interest if also
of envy to all his brother officers, and indeed to half
the juniors of the Service. It was, however, a
subject of remark and in some sense of complaint
that, though never avoiding duty, indeed performing
it with scrupulous care and anxious attention, and
never asking a comrade to take his place, he was
rarely seen at the mess-table when he could without
offence or irregularity absent himself; and was still
less ready to share the amusements, whether in barracks
or elsewhere, that beguiled the leisure of others.
Much courted at first in the society of Manchester,
he had so systematically declined all invitations save
those which, from their official or regimental character,
it would have been awkward or discourteous to

evade, as to incur a reputation for unsociability that
led at last to speculations and inquiries among the
younger part of the mess which, with somewhat greater
discretion, he might have avoided. He was credited
justly with habits of professional study, then much
less common in the Service than at present. But,
as more than one bootless captain and letterpress subaltern
shrewdly remarked, a man cannot always be
reading. Where his time was chiefly spent, and what
was the attraction pre potent over all the charms of
the ball-room, the billiard table, or the divan, it was
not of course possible long to conceal. It was equally
impossible to prevent jests and observations of a
character intensely irritating to a temper like his ;
but these at least never passed beyond the mess-room.
The promptitude with which Darcy had
resented on one or two occasions words that transcended
the license of military camaraderie kept even
the hardiest and most reckless spirits of the regiment
within certain bounds. Zela at least was safe from
impertinence or annoyance in the certainty that her
protector would keep to the letter the pledge he had
given when one of his comrades ventured to solicit
an introduction.

I will tolerate," he said, *' nothing in her case
that I should resent if she were my wife ; and I
suppose no one is likely to think the opportunity of
insulting a woman worth] the cost and trouble of a
trip to Calais ? "

If not exactly a general favourite, Darcy had as
yet steered a course somewhat solitary indeed, but
uninterrupted by a quarrel or even a serious coolness

with any of his brother officers; while with the
men of his troop he was decidedly popular. The
long absence of his own squadron at Sivapore, the
fall in battle of most of those with whom he had been
previously acquainted, the detention of others in
India, the milder of nearly all of his immediate and
favourite comrades, especially of his late Captain and
of Clay, and the promotion of Vane, had left him
somewhat isolated ; and the warm attachment known
to have existed between the chums was held to explain
in some measure Darcy's marked dislike to fight his
Indian battles over again, and his silence when the
conversation turned on the struggles, perils, and
exploits of the war, or the brighter days of idleness,
amusement, and sport that preceded it.

On the present occasion the incidents of the political
campaign going on around, in which many bitter and
virulent speeches had been already interchanged, led
the talk in the smoking-room to the expediency of
duelling. Most of the officers, and especially of the
younger among them, were disposed not a little to
regret the impossibility, yearly more and more fully
recognized, of checking by the fear of personal responsibility
the growing license of political and social
insults or impertinence.

I quite agree with you," said a young civilian,
who had remained silent during the discussion while
several of his non-military acquaintance embraced
the cause of law and peace. "When once Whigs
and Tories become as foul-mouthed as the Radicals
already are, our Parliamentary and public life will bea
bear-garden from which, more and more, gentlemen

will shrink. One of the most distinguished of our
Lancashire Radicals, certainly the only one of his
party who can pretend to the title of statesman,
spoke at the last election of men, his equals in everything
but fame, as * vermin ' and ' ghouls ' ; and this
insult, gross in any case, was made fouler and more
cowardly by the fact that it was directly addressed to
some three or four gentlemen who had treated him
personally with remarkable forbearance. The greatest
orator, with a single exception, in England seldom
makes a speech without using language of the grossest
personal insult; and, to the disgrace of Parliament
and society, nothing has been done to punish the
offender in any way whatever."

"I think," said another, 'the orator in question
could hold his own in any fashion, non-combatant
though he be."

Probably," replied the first speaker ; '' and it has
come to this  that no man can put down or punish
the grossest insult to man or woman offered by a
bigger and stronger than himself; while a just and
bitter rebuke to such offender gives Jim the opportunity
of striking, without liability to encounter the man he
has struck on equal terms. It is nonsense to talk
of legal redress ; a man must be a fool who cannot
put the foulest insult on another without exposing
himself to a libel suit ; and the worst of all outrages
are always those which cannot be brought into a
court of law. What can you do now to punish insult
to a woman ? "

And," said the Major of the 120th Light Infantry,
a soldier is still worse off. If he pass over an insult

he is liable to a Court-Martial ; if he resent it he is
certainly liable to a civil action and may lose his
commission."

"It seems to me," replied a guest, "that duelling
is open to all the objections you allege against thrashing
the offender, and to some of its own besides. A
good pistol shot, where the duel prevails, has more
than the advantage of physical strength where, as
here, it is forbidden."

"No," said Darcy, speaking for the first time.
*'No man, however good with pistol and sword, but
hesitates to incur a duel for light cause. It is not
worth while to insult a woman or give the lie to a
gentleman, at peril of having to stand fire at a distance
that almost equalizes good and bad shooting, and
makes the issue depend much more on nerve than on
skill. Duelling is like the gallows, the cases in which
the last penalty is brought into play are the cases
of failure. The miscreants who are kept in order for
fear of being called to account, of whom of course we
never hear, prove its efficiency. Is there one man
among us who has not sustained some offence which
he would not have received had it been possible to
parade the offender next morning ? "

"And," said a civilian, quietly, "is there one
among us with a quick temper, who would not have
been shot long ago had duelling been tolerated in
England as in France ? "

Three or four cases of insult endured simply from
the impossibility of resenting it, of outrages which
the fear of punishment would certainly have restrained,
were mentioned ; when, on some hint that

seemed a direct appeal to himself, Darcy spoke
again.

Well, I have more than once been rebuked for
quickness of temper ; but I never had cause to wish
that I could fight save once, and that case I think
illustrates on both sides the gross absurdity and
injustice of the present law. Behind my back a man
accused me in the mess-room and elsewhere of a
disgraceful liaison, I promised, in Parliamentary
terms, when we should meet again unfettered by
military restraint, to call him a liar and a scoundrel.
But I could not otherwise punish the imputation;
nor, had my words been as outrageous as they were
just, do I see what he could do  there'' As he spoke
his eyes were fixed, without apparent intention but
steadily and coldly, on a red-haired hard-featured
Scotsman wearing the uniform of one of the European
regiments newly transferred from the Company's
Service to the Queen's. " Here, if he happen to
dislike my remark, he might of course invite me to
cross the Channel. That is, the only check on outrages
worse than those for which men are daily sent
to Millbank or West Australia, is the fact that duelling
is possible in France  at the price of lifelong exile if
the result be mortal."

Besides the person on whom his glance was quietly
fixed, there were but two or three in the room who
had any idea that the enemy thus directly challenged
was present; unless the deep colour of rage that
suffused the face of the present Lieutenant-colonel of
the 118th betrayed him to some observant eyes.
Most of Darcy's comrades read the anecdote, told in

his usual low, almost languid tone, as a hint intended
for present application and for Zela's protection.
More than one might have been disposed to resent
it, had the supposed menace been less carefully
veiled; but not one felt the slightest inclination to
incur a duel to the death for the sake of indulging in
mere wanton impertinence. A stronger proof of the
truth of Darcy's argument could hardly have been
afforded than his own consciousness of power to
protect Zela from military license, of helplessness
in presence of more probable and grosser insult from
the lowest or the highest of those who, not wearing
the Queen's uniform, are excused from the necessity
of answering in any way for those worst crimes and
wrongs for which the law neither can nor will afford
redress.

"Well," said Kirkpatrick two days afterwards to
Darcy, as they met after parade, "have you heard
from Thomson ? "

No. For the credit of the cloth I wish I had."

He won't fight unless he's forced," replied the
other. " Naturally ; he has a wife and children to
whom the loss of his pay and of whatever insurance
he may have made on his life would be a fearful
calamity ; and as you did not so fix him that no choice
was left but between dishonour visible to all and a
step so desperate as duelling between Englishmen even
on the Continent has now become, I don't much blame
him for his prudence."

"I don't care," said Darcy. "Of course I have
no particular wish to be shot, and still less perhaps to
shoot him. But I will never pass an insult without

either punishing it or returning it fourfold. Have I
kept fully the word I pledged in India ? "

** Quite," said his friend, some ten years older than
himself. "Now, for Heaven's sake, Darcy, drop the
matter ; unless you are challenged, or the man is fool
enough to slander you again in public."

Of course ; do you suppose I want his blood, or
wish to see those pretty little creatures in mourning,
and perhaps reduced to poverty, by my hand ? "

"Take care, though," returned Kirkpatrick, "that
13eo23le don't say that Thomson could not call you out
on their account, and that you knew it."

I went too far for that, Kirkpatrick, and on purpose.
Besides, he has never in any form acknowledged
what I did, and must be taken not to know it."

I suppose so. Well, I hope the liaison in question
won't get you into another and more serious
scrape."

A more serious scrape," thought Darcy as he
walked homeward  if one may call that a home where
Zela awaited him daily with all a young bride's affectionate
eagerness, but with a temper so easily excited,
a jealousy so petulant, that even the facility with
which they were quelled did not reconcile him to the
interruption of peace and confidence. " It would be
almost worth while to end matters in that way, if I
knew how to provide for her afterwards. Well, at any
rate I am not sorry not to have blood on my hands,
even in so clear a cause."

No part of Lionel Darcy's brief life-history will be
intelligible if his biographer have failed to make
evident the peculiarly domestic tone of his tastes and

VOL. II. F

affections. To him that first severance of the hearth-bond
which most young men anticipate with eager
delight had been not emancipation but exile. Had he
foreseen its finality, or shared his father's presentiment
that they would not meet again, the separation
would have exerted that permanently saddening influence
on his temper and character which, rarely as
it is witnessed in youth, is perhaps the only practical
sense of the phrase " it would have broken his heart."
The abandonment of his patrimonial home, quietly ashe
had resolved on it, gave him more pain than would
have done the loss of his commission. The parting
with Amy had so deeply affected him that  amid all
the novel excitement and enjoyment of a happy
marriage, a thoroughly congenial position, of her
removal from seclusion and poverty to wealth and
social brilliance  Amy herself had noticed the marked
and enduring change in her brother's mood and
manner. The same character showed in that affection
for children  so common after five and thirty, so rare
in men under five and twenty  which had been perceptible
to all in the Cave Temple amid the labours
and anxieties of the siege, as on the homeward voyage
under the pain and feverish irritation of wounds and
exhaustion, and which had endeared to him in his own
despite the infant daughters of a hated and despised
enemy. Home-like associations had doubtless served
to render natural and congenial the otherwise somewhat
strange and tedious charge he had, for twelvemonths
before the Mutiny, taken of Zela's education ;
had certainly rendered him insensible alike to the
possible romance and equally possible ridicule of the

situation. And now, if he had half consciously looked
for any compensating satisfaction, any personal pleasure
in their new relation, it was to relief from the
loneliness which, since the loss of the little London
home which Amy had made so dear, he had painfully
felt  to a substitute however flavourless for the home-life
enjoyed with her.

In this, however, he was signally disappointed.
Peace, repose, rest from the worries or drudgery of
outdoor life are the essential features of the home that
such men so prize. These are seldom fully found ina
home relation that Society does not recognize as
legitimate. Perhaps, however, Lionel suffered less
from the vexations naturally incident to this situation
than most men. Zela never fretted or reproached
him for a degradation she had deliberately chosen,
and never felt except when forced on her perception
by direct personal insult. From such insult Lionel's
temper and repute in great measure protected her,
and with a little prudence and self-command on her
part might have shielded her entirely. The men
whose wrath is most dreaded, especially by women
conscious of their immunity from corporeal and their
superiority in verbal violence, are those whose anger
is cold and concentrated, who never storm or bluster,
never stoop to swear or scold ; whom the insolence of
inferiors moves to scorn rather than to rage, and
whose scorn is conveyed in the fewest words and the
slightest change of facial expression. By vulgar,
violent, or aggressive women of whatever rank, Lionel
Darcy was even more bitterly hated than by such
masculine enemies as Colonel Thomson. The half-score

white matrons of Sivapore had wounded and
angered Zela by their silent sneers and arrogant
superiority ; but it is probable that, sensitive as she
was, she had been tenfold avenged, had she but known
it, in the impotent rage and mortification of her
enemies under the polite scorn of one who never forgave
their impertinence. His formal courtesy could
convey the profoundest, most exasperating indifference
to rank or beauty, could express a seemingly unconscious
and therefore more stinging contempt for social
pretension, above all, he thoroughly understood how to
wound female pride by marked deference to a rival or
supposed inferior, with a quiet ease that the studied
foppery, the elaborate sarcasm of men twice his age
could never surpass. No landlady was twice impertinent
to Zela in her lover's presence. One woman
whom he had silently convicted and Zela angrily
accused of peculation was surprised by his entrance
in the midst of a storm of Billingsgate. The quiet
gesture which commanded her instant departure, the
indifferent, almost languid, " You can speak to me 
when you know what you are saying," astounded her
into momentary silence. The look that caught and
quelled her stare of half-drunken insolence with a
contempt too absolute for the shadow of anger  the
look of one who beholds something too loathsome for
pity and too miserable for loathing  sent her to her
kitchen, there to fall into an hysterical paroxysm of
helpless, frantic, furious sobbing; to the utter bewilderment
of the poor slave of all work, who could
hardly conceive the human or superhuman power
capable of resisting, much less of turning back in

discomfiture, the torrent of her tyrant's voluble
brutality.

But if he could command peace for Zela, peace
with Zela was much more difficult to secure ; nor to
be secured at all, perhaps, by the only methods
Lionel ever dreamed of adopting. Few ladies will
deny that there are some women who retain longer
than their childhood the character and temper of"
spoilt children ; and with whom that treatment
best avails which most nearly approaches, so far as
womanhood permits, that whereby spoilt children
may be controlled or cured. Such a woman or such
a child was Zela ; woman in right of her Southern
birth, still child in years and experience, lovable as
loving, passionate in the attachment of which she
had given such proof, absolutely willing to die for
her lover, wishing nothing but to live for him,
capable of any single sudden sacrifice for him, eager
perhaps rather to please than to make him happy,
and miserable when she realized for a moment that
she was doing the very reverse; but as unable to
afford him repose or peace as to comprehend his passionate
desire for it. Like many women, perhaps
most, she never meant half the pain she gave because,
used to vent her own feelings without restraint, she
never believed in feelings repressed in silence. Lionel,
measuring by the standard of English womanhood
the sacrifice she had made and the wrong he had
done her in accepting it, incapable of wilfully reminding
himself that the conscious and perhaps heavier
sacrifice had been his, thought no tenderness, no forbearance,
no patience more than her due who had

given all and seemed to ask nothing. He was too
generous to dwell on her faults, too inexperienced to
perceive the mischief of unlimited indulgence to them.
Her penitence, again, was so speedy, so frank, so
sorrowful, that it seemed more than to atone for
outbreaks whose recurrence it never prevented.
Obedient to his lightest word, so devoted that to
call her faithful would have seemed to insult the
fidelity to which the world contained no other object
of possible regard, manifesting a sense of inferiority
thoroughly painful to him, self-denying to a fault,
considerate and thoughtful for him in all matters
of personal comfort, thinking nothing necessary to
herself, every luxury of Anglo-Indian life a necessity
to him  it would not have seemed too much to say
that she had no fault, no failing but temper ; and
too ignorant of life to know how much that one fault
means, how utterly it may mar all virtues, he could
not be hard upon it. If she were exacting, it was
but of time, attention, and caresses ; if jealous, how
natural to one to whom his whole outdoor life was
a secret, who could never see him in any society but
her own. If petulant and wayward as a child, she
was more than willing to be answered like a child, if
only she might be sure of the full forgiveness and
forgetfulness conceded to childhood's outbreaks.

A somewhat harder heart, a temper under less-perfect
control, would deliberately or by impulse have
broken in her passionate wilful spirit ; and would
have found her only the more companionable, the
less wearying, the more lovable and therefore the
happier. An older man, not less kind in intention.

might have seen that, for the sake of both and of the
love between them, excessive patience was a mistake ;
that if checked by the expression, even the angry
expression, of the feelings she provoked, Zela would
have shed fewer tears over such rebuke than over her
self-created troubles; and would not have incurred
the one great peril that actually threatened such
happiness as she enjoyed  the peril of becoming
through his own indulgence simply wearisome to her
lover, and breaking her heart on finding it out. As
it was, the poor child's bitterest trouble lay in the
sad wearied look which now and then, for all his
self-command, Lionel could not wholly conceal, when
her complaints of his occasional absence in society
had obliged him to remain at home, and she had
shown herself equally jealous of the books that
diverted the attention she would fain have monopolized.


"Dear child," he ventured one evening to remonstrate,
" you are hardly wise or kind. I never leave
you alone merely for my own pleasure ; but I must
go out sometimes, and I must read if I am either to
qualify myself for command as a soldier or to keep
up my education as a gentleman. Cannot you be
content that I am with you, and when I bring my
books home let me read in peace ? I know how hard
your life must be ; I am sorry for it, but "

*' But you are tired of me. That is the truth, and
that is the only hard thing. If I really tease you,
why do you let me ? If my complaining and crying
frets you, why don't you make me leave off? Do
anything rather than look at me like that, as if I

grieved you more than you can endure, as if you
wished me "

Asleep ? Perhaps, now and then. But, Zela, for
your own sake I wish you could take some interest
for a while in something else than myself. If you
were ten times more provoking and unreasonable
than you ever are, you have a right to expect that
I shall bear with you ; but "

Bear with me ! Why should you ? I know
what that means. When you cannot bear any more
you will go out and leave me. I dare say I deserve
it. I wonder you don't do it oftener : but I don't
ask, I don't wish you to bear with me."

"What would you have me do, Zela?" he asked,
smiling.

Do ? Anything but that. I do so often wish you
would get into a passion. Scold me, beat me if you
like. Why not ? I should cry for pain instead of
temper, and then you would forgive me and pet me
to make up for it, and more than make up for it.
Do you think anything would hurt half so much as
your look just now ? Don't you know that the worst
punishment I could suffer is to see you go away in
displeasure and feel that I have driven you from

me?"

*' You never did that, dear child; I never left you
without occasion, whether to punish you, as you say,
or to escape from your tears."

"Have you not? I thought you did, sometimes.
But you will not, no man will, go on bearing. See,"
she continued, encouraged by observing that he had
put aside his book, by the half-amused expression of

his eyes, and the caress of his hand as she knelt by
his chair, " do you forget what a child I am, you who
always call me child ? Promise me now the first time
you feel as if you must, as if you would rather go
away, to be angry instead. I can see it in your eyes ;
why not say it out  give me something to cry for,
as Mrs. Robins says to her brats ? No, don't laugh, I
am in earnest ! I had rather bear anything than be
borne with as you bear with me  till you can bear no
more."

Zela's advice might be sound and was certainly
sincere, but its only effect was to impress on his mind
more deeply than ever the intensity of a love which
ought to cover all faults, to which everything must be
forgiven ; to win more absolute indulgence than ever
to the moods which she could not and he would not
check. Perhaps had he loved her more he might
have been less forbearing ; but the most scrupulous
gentleness, the utmost tenderness that man could give
seemed so poor, so thankless a return for the love
that had no reserve, no self-regard, no thought but of
him, no desire but for his presence and his notice ; so
miserably inadequate, so wretched a substitute for the
love he could not give in return. The difference was
all the more painfully plain to him that he could not
but remember occasionally to whom he could have
given a love, a worship almost as absolute as hers ;
nor was he at all aware of the vast moral difference,
the wide distinction in capacity or delicacy of perception,
between Zela and himself. He could not
guess how deeply she felt and enjoyed his kindness,
how seldom she realized the want of something

warmer and deeper, something which after all she
had hardly expected and hardly missed.

After more than one change, due, as even Darcy
was fain to allow to his own mind, mainly if not
wholly to Zela's want of self-command and courtesy,
he found at length a home in which for the first time
it might be possible to leave her for more than a few
hours, in real security and something like comfort.
Its owner was one who in early life had, rather from
weakness and self-devotion than from passion or
want of principle, found herself in a position not
unlike that of her young guest. By rare good fortune
she had fallen into the'hands of one whose conscience,
not steady enough to resist the temptation of passion,
was strong against the meaner vice of desertion. To
him she had been faithful to the last. His affection
she had retained by a sweetness of temper and resignation
to the hardships of her position which had commanded
and deserved the love that never failed to the
end. In that case marriage had been simply impossible,
her lover being bound by the nominal ties of
wedlock to one who had doubly forfeited the claim she
still retained. Remembering her own early history,
touched by Zela's extreme youth and simplicity, and,
as she became better acquainted with both, still more
touched by Darcy's unwearying care and inexhaustible
patience, Mrs. Eichards, as she was called, came to
take a sympathizing and earnest interest in the young
couple. If she could not approve, she could still
understand the feeling which to Darcy rendered the
idea of marriage with a half-caste too repugnant to
be in any case and under any motive whatsoever

seriously entertained ; while she felt for Zela's inexperience
a sincere pity, and for her evident and all-absorbing
attachment to her lover a profound sympathy.
What sorrow, what peril, lay before the girl
she could fully appreciate ; and her compassion
increased as she became aware how probably the one
mitigation of her own lot might be wanting to a girl
who, lacking the legal and social hold upon him who
was everything to her, also lacked the gentle quiet
tenderness which in rare cases may give almost equal
strength to an illegal tie.

At last a double pressure threatened to interrupt
for a short time the relation which to one was all in
life, to the other a burden that grew daily heavier.
For the first time it had become possible to leave
Zela, and circumstances tended to hasten that first
temporary separation which the girl had always
regarded with intense though unspoken terror, Darcy
with an anxiety and uneasiness which suppressed all
longing for change or relief. On the one hand, attacks
of dizziness recurring more than once on duty had
compelled him to seek the advice, first of the regimental
surgeon, and afterwards of one of the most accomplished
physicians in Manchester. Both had but one
counsel to give.

If you are not overworking your mind," said the
former  " and I hardly see how that is possible, considering
how long you are employed on duty and that
you are not alone at home  something worse than
overwork, worry and want of repose, is telling on
you, while you have not yet recovered sufficiently to
bear it. I should judge from what I have seen of life

you need not tell me whether my guess be corrector
not  that your companion harasses you to death ;
either by the complaints such women always make, or
by the irritable exacting temper that attends the kind
-of character which leads women into such positions.
If so, for her sake and for your own, go away and stay
away as long as you can or dare."

The physician, who knew less, spoke more briefly
to the same effect.

Whatever your life is now, change it as soon and
for as long as you can. If it is work, idle ; if it is
idleness, work. If it be harassing complications
whether of debt or otherwise, get rid of them if you
can, and at aU events get away from them for a
time."

For a few days, natural reluctance to inflict the
apparent unkindness of even a brief desertion on one
so utterly dependent on himself, perhaps still more
his natural incapacity to endure the sight of pain
caused by himself to a girl, and above all to one so
sensitive as Zela, kept Darcy silent and practically
regardless of the advice thus urged upon him. But
n third attack soon enforced the absolute necessity
of compliance. At the same time an urgent
note from Amy conveyed an invitation which under
any circumstances it would have been difficult to
refuse.

*ewe have had Colonel Vane here," she wrote,
"who tells us that he saw you in passing through
Manchester, and spoke anxiously of your health,
evidently thinking that you have not half recovered
from your Indian wounds. He said there could be

no difficulty in your obtaining a month's leave at any
rate. Come to us now, or I must believe what you
have made Edward feel already, that you mean, I will
not say to quarrel, but to let us drop. Lionel, you
cannot mean to treat so cruelly the sister who loved
you so well, and whom you taught to trust and depend
upon your love ? ' '

In the course of an account, written in a livelier
tone, of her occupations and amusements, she dexterously
implied the actual absence of Alice and
Helen Kavanagh ; judging, with more appreciation
of her brother's thought than Lord Penrith's clearer
judgment and longer experience of men had suggested
to him, that whatever pleasure Lionel might feel in
meeting the former, he had made up his mind that
it became him to seek no such meeting. At the
same time," she reflected, *'he will find them hereby
the time he comes, and he cannot scold me for
misleading him. I have not told him how long they
will be away, or connected their absence with my
invitation."

Lionel Darcy was not one of those men  found
often enough, especially among those whose code,
resting on personal honour rather than on religious
moral obligation, does not allow them to contemplate
the possibility of its violation  whose confidence
in themselves is absolute till once tried and overthrown
by temptation. Deliberately to put himself
in the way of another meeting with Alice, while fettered
by an obligation incompatible with the avowal
of his love for her, would have seemed to him a
distinct act of folly and bad faith, had he ever regarded

such an avowal as possible. Holding himself
bound in any case to silence, the force of the new
obstacle did not perhaps so much impress him as
it might otherwise have done ; and he could not deliberately
make up his mind to avoid at all costs and
under all circumstances any chance of a rencontre.
He could not bear to tell himself that he must never
meet Alice Kavanagh again ; yet he would never have
sought a meeting, conscious how difficult it might be
to avoid self-betrayal. But, assured that Alice was
not at present at Penrith Castle, telling himself that
he could withdraw at any moment, he could not
resolve to render a meeting absolutely impossible by
refusing an invitation which in all other points of
view he longed to accept. Though determined to
accept neither personal favour nor even social advantage
at the hands of his brother-in-law, to profit in
no wise by his sister's marriage, he could ill bear the
thought of such permanent estrangement from her
as her repeated remonstrances warned him was likely
to ensue, should he long remain in England and
steadily avoid her home. Zela had already more
than once , reproached him with being weary of her.
The best chance to dispel the suspicion whose truth
he would not admit would lie in meeting her again
with renewed tenderness after a brief separation. On
all accounts, then, he resolved to accept his sister's
invitation if leave could be obtained. The facility
with which, notwithstanding his long previous absence,
the latter was granted a little surprised him,
unaware of the influence that had been already exerted
to ensure a favourable answer to any such application.

To announce his departure to Zela was no pleasant
task. But the poor child surprised him by an unusual
reasonableness. The only illness of which she
had any experience was the disease that had quickly
proved fatal to her mother, and the wounds from
which he had so nearly perished under her own eyes.
It seemed to her, therefore, that if Lionel were ill there
must be serious danger to his life ; and, bitterly as
she wept, she forbore to complain when told that he
must, in obedience to medical advice, leave her fors,
time which he promised should be as short as his
health would allow.

Can you not go somewhere with me ? " was at
first her only argument. ** "Why must you leave me
and go where I cannot go ? " 

"You will be all the more glad to see me when
I return, darling; and I have not seen my sister
thrice since her marriage, and then only for an hour.
You would not have me lose altogether one who has
been so dear to me since, before she could speak
plainly, I carried her to watch the minnows start,
splashing the lake into a ripple as they heard my
steps on the pebbles ? You can, I suppose, allow me
to be fond of her ? "

Zela understood the implied reproach, but hardly
the justice of the claim.

'* / have no one but you," she said, ** and I want
no one else in the world."

True, Zela ; and how often "

"How often do I remind you of it? Too often,
I dare say."

*' That was not what I meant, Zela. Far oftener

than you remind me of it I have to remember it ; to
feel that such isolation is the cruel hardship of your
position, the essence of the wrong I have done you."

"You? " she cried, softened at once by the gentleness
of the words and tone that answered her own
half-petulant outbreak. *' I had no one before ; I
should have been utterly alone but for you. Forgive
me for complaining ; but you will write to me ? "

CHAPTEK VI.

A FALSE STEP.
Too late ! too late ! ye cannot enter now."

Nothing could be more gratifying to Lionel's spirit
than the frank affectionate delight with which his
sister received him for the first time in her splendid
home ; nothing more soothing to one whose life of
late had been so full of petty irritations than her
gentle tenderness, mingled with just so much of
playful reproach as served to remind him of the value
set on his presence. Equally considerate was the
simple matter-of-course courtesy and cordiality of
Lord Penrith; who greeted his guest as one most
welcome at last, without a hint, such as came naturally
from Amy's lips, of the apparent neglect or coldness
with which former invitations had been refused.
Arriving somewhat late in the long afternoon, he had
found both on the Western terrace, from which the
lake and the dark steep mountains, rugged and wild
beyond most of the craggy limestone hills of Northwestern
England, were visible through or over the
larch and pine groves that belted the park. The
scenery, though not the view from this especial standpoint,
was of course familiar to his eyes ; and all the

VOL. II.  G

deeper charms of a native place, intimately known
and passionately loved, were mingled with the attraction
of novelty as he recognized, from perhaps the
only vantage he had never occupied, one after another
of the spots most dear to his boyhood ; every one of
which had for him some memory associated with the
sister who now leaned on his arm. Light steps
behind caused him to turn, after contemplating the
sunset over the highest North-western peaks of Patter-dale
for many minutes in delighted silence  only
expressing the mingled feelings which the sight called
forth by an unconscious pressure of Amy's right hand,
while her left silently pointed to one and another of
the places they had known and loved in common,
revealing new features in the particular light and
aspect in which he now saw them for the first time.

Taken utterly by surprise, Darcy started perceptibly,
and his face grew almost white and then was suddenly
flushed, as he recognized Alice and her sister. The
former was of course prepared for the meeting ; and
even Amy's watchful eyes discerned in her manner no
similar symptoms of interest or emotion, as she quietly
but cordially held out her hand and answered with
perfect self-possession Lionel's somewhat faltering
salutation.

I had not counted on this pleasure," he said, after
a moment's pause. *' Amy knows that ; or she would
hardly have thought that my late acceptance of her
invitation entitled me to the forgiveness she has so
generously extended."

The earnestness which in his own despite emphasized
his first words, and which was the more perceptible

from the usual lowness and somewhat monotonous
calmness of his voice, might perhaps account for the
very slight tinge of colour they called into Alice's face ;
a sign of interest perceptible, however, to Amy alone,
who noticed vigilantly though with carefully suppressed
observance the manner of both on this sudden encounter.


If he would speak," thought the young Countess,
*'I don't much doubt what Alice would answer; but
without betraying her or Edward, to make Lion's lips
speak one half as plainly as his looks did just now 
that will be no easy task."

A certain habitual awe of her brother, and familiar
acquaintance with a temper likely to be driven, by the
slightest perceptible attempt to lead him in any direction,
exactly to the opposite pole of conduct  also
perhaps a consciousness that Alice was the last girl of
her age with whom it would be safe to take the liberty
of those delicate manoeuvres in which womanly tact
excels, but which womanly vigilance so easily detects
compelled Amy to curb very carefully her eager
wish to throw the two together. She would have
wished at least to afford opportunities of eclaircisse-
ment, perhaps to force or provoke Lionel into some
unintentional but irrepressible manifestation of feelings
of whose character she entertained no doubt
whatever. Too thoroughly ladylike and womanly to
place either her brother or her husband's ward and
niece in any position at all embarrassing, or likely to
draw upon them observation or curiosity from which
both would shrink, she would nevertheless  had Lionel
been less wilful or his wilfulness less well known to

her, or had Alice been a shade more impulsive or
more willing to profit by assistance of the kind  have
managed very soon to place them in situations the
most favourable to a mutual understanding ; the most
likely to break down whether by accident, by impulse,
or by irresistible force of mutual sympathy, the pride
which in her belief was the sole obstacle to her
brother's happiness. But as Alice would neither see
nor second the little delicate manoeuvres on which she
could venture, and as Lionel seemed disposed actually
to thwart them, he had been nearly a week at the
Castle before, in the course of a long Sunday afternoon's
walk along the steep slopes of the range of hills
overlooking Ulswater from the South, the pair found
themselves thrown together. They had become
engaged in a conversation or argument which had
interested both deeply, and separated by some half-mile
from their companions, who, turning a corner,
were lost to their eyes and whose route they could
not ascertain. Perhaps a more sentimental vein of
talk would have been less favourable to Amy's object.
Compliment, however deferential, much more anything
wearing the most shadowy semblance of flirtation
 which, however, Lionel's reverence for her
utterly forbade  would have put Alice on her guard
and rather offended than pleased her. She had
already more than once reproached herself with
having gone to the verge of maidenly reserve in the
concession to which gratitude and sympathy had
prompted her on board the Europa ; and yet more
perhaps in her earnest suit on her grandfather's
behalf. If, thus encouraged, the object of her favour

did not speak out frankly and decidedly, she was
resolved to afford no further occasion for mere expressions
of admiration, however reverential, or for attentions
equally significant and resultless, however
chivalrous and delicate the courtesy with which they
were offered. But such resolves are oftener made than
kept, even by women older and colder than Alice
Kavanagh, a girl not yet nineteen. The earnest,
wholly impersonal discussion in which she had become
engaged might have seemed the safest possible form
of conversation. But it was that in which she was
most open to be gratified and touched by the rarest
and most delicate form of flattery  if that can be
called flattery which is perfectly sincere, and of which
neither the giver nor the receiver is conscious.* No
compliment could have been so dangerous as the perfectly
loyal 'and unaffected respect with which, firmly
and even impetuously maintaining his own opinion,
her companion listened to hers ; never playing with
her arguments, never trifling with her earnestness 
except the equally truthful deference with which he
accepted what were not so much arguments as instinctive
moral judgments ; often as these seemed to
pass condemnation on his own views from the higher
standpoint of a purer nature and a better founded
ethical code. No man could have made him listen to
such sentences ; from a priest they would have been
professional commonplaces, from a layman impertinences
which one who could not pretend to act them
out had no right to pronounce ; from Alice's lips they
appealed to his soul as might the counsels of an
Angel  not the less reverenced that they might seem

to befit most properly a nature native to a world
where evil is not practically and intimately known.
And nothing could more please, more conciliate a girl
who, having seen something of society, was heartily
sick of the empty talk, heartily disgusted and offended
by the flattery which while it acknowledged her
charms seemed to insult her understanding, than the
respect paid by a man of intellect to her reasoning, or
even the contradiction which implied at least that
her intelligence could appreciate and her arguments
deserved a reply.

At last, conscious of being left alone, suddenly
aware that their discussion had too completely
absorbed them both, Alice broke it off abruptly to ask,
with some shade of annoyance in her tone and
countenance, what direction the rest of the party
could have taken. This was as doubtful to her escort
as to herself. But in the strange contradictory mood
common to women and; even to men, when in the
company of one they love, but with a love as yet unacknowledged
on either side, Alice was half-pleased,
half secretly mortified by the tact with which, when
it became clear that no trace of their companions was
discernible, Lionel quietly chose the shortest and
most direct homeward route. This, however, was not
precisely the safest ; and at one point he arrested his
companion's somewhat hurried steps to insist on what
seemed to her a needless detour.

"Why, Major Dare ? Surely we can cross those
stones ? My boots are strong, and these loose limestone
fragments that have lain so long on these slopes
don't cut, as I have proved before."

'' They are not safe, Miss Kavanagh. I have
tried "

But by this time, half in temper  why, she could
not have said ; vexed perhaps with herself, perhaps
with her companion, at all events necessarily directing
her vexation against him, the more freely that
she was unconscious of so doing  Alice had quitted
his side and made her way for some yards across a
vast mass of loose stones, originally it would seem
the fragments thrown out from some deserted quarry,
which covered for perhaps half a dozen acres the
steep sloping side of the hill ; at whose foot a precipice
fell suddenly and sharply into the deep lake below.
Darcy had no choice but to follow, and had sprung
instantly to her side with an eagerness that again
somewhat displeased her.

'take my arm, then. Miss Kavanagh," he said;
as she thought, more hastily and imperiously than
he had ever spoken to her, or than is usual in offering
such assistance to a lady.

"Thank you, I am not so utterly unused to these
mountains but that I can take care of myself," she
replied, moving on a little more rapidly.

She was actually and not unnaturally angry when,
in despite of her protest, Lionel, still keeping close
to her side, took her hand and placed it perforce
on his own arm.

"Major Darcy! " she exclaimed, indignantly. But
before she could withdraw her hand, or add anything
to the reproof conveyed by the tone in which she
spoke his name, the reason of his remonstrance and
of his action became apparent.

Lying perfectly loose on the slope of the mountain,
but forming a mass in itself semi-coherent, the entire
body of stones had begun to move under the weight
and hasty steps of the pair; and while in the very
midst, at a serious distance from either side, Alice
became aware that the whole had acquired a motion
constantly more and more rapid, carrying her and
her companion irresistibly downward. It seemed
likely to reach the precipice with an impulse of fatal
force, and hurl them over its edge into the lake
amidst a shower of fragments heavy enough to disable
if not to kill, and to render drowning certain,
if no fatal injury should be received in the fall.
She would have stood still in sheer consternation ;
but this her companion, more experienced in danger,
capable of perfect coolness in peril he understood,
and familiar with the nature of this particular difficulty,
would not permit.

I don't think we can reach the other side," he
said, in a low quick tone, not disposed to waste breath
on words, " before we are swept down to the edge,
but we must try. It is our only chance."

As he spoke, however, a new accident not a little
enhanced a peril already sufficiently threatening.
Unwilling really to lean on the support afforded her
in her own despite, and trusting wholly to her own
strength and steadiness of foot, the young lady slipped,
as most girls would have done in such a situation ;
and though her companion's arm prevented her from
falling, she so sprained her ancle that to walk became
impossible. Darcy recognized the injury at once,
and the impossibility of a moment's delay. By an

exertion of strength, which under the circumstances
taxed severely the muscular and nervous energy of
a frame not naturally powerful nor yet matured, and
still enfeebled by wounds and sickness, he lifted Alice
fairly from the ground; and carrying her, made a
fresh and desperate effort to reach the further side.
But the weight which had given the original downward
impulse and still continued to increase it was
thus concentrated on a smaller base, and drove the
stones immediately beneath him at a greater rate
than that at which, with an already dangerous
rapidity, the entire mass was moving. They were
within fifty yards of the precipice and perhaps half
that distance from the nearest edge of the moving
stone-bed. Darcy looked round for a moment, not
pausing in his effort but recognizing it as utterly
hopeless.

Thank God ! " he murmured, to her extreme
surprise; and, with a more desperate and violent
effort than ever, strained upward and forward. In
another ten seconds he stood still, and to Alice's
surprise they moved no longer, while the mass of
stones rushed by on either side under the impulse
already given. Before she was aware that Darcy
had placed her on the ground, and observed that a
small jutting rock, embedded deeply in the mountain
side, had afforded the only possible salvation, great
part of the stony avalanche crashed and splashed
into the lake ; near enough to render Alice fully
aware how real had been the danger, to make her
shudder as she thought how narrowly she and her
companion had escaped falling amid that ugly hail,

whose amount and violence, sending the spray to
the summit of the rock, told plainly enough what
the result must have been. She saw that by the
promptitude which had discerned and seized on this
one chance her companion had probably saved her
life and his own. They might not have been swept
over the edge, but the chances lay all the other way ;
and to have carried her to the further side in the
time allowed would have been simply impossible;
indeed on foot and uninjured she could hardly have
hoped to reach it. Neither spoke for some little
time. Despite his efforts to suppress it, Darcy's
loud irregular breathing told how great had been the
exertion.

"Now, Miss Kavanagh, we can venture. I must
carry you upwards. If I fail I must lay you down,
and you must try to roll yourself to the further side.
I shall not leave you, but, standing, I may be carried
down faster than you."

*' I can walk," she said, as he attempted to lift her
again. The motion of the stones having stopped
when about one-third of the mass had fallen into the
lake, she no longer realized the danger. But as she
endeavoured to put her foot to the ground, the pain
was so visible in her face that Darcy perceived the
effort to be impossible.

"You must pardon me," he said, again lifting
her. This time, moving upward, he reached the safe
grass, below the rock on which they had rested,
but still further from the fatal precipice. Then,
gently placing his charge upon the ground, he began
to apologize.

"You left me no time to explain, and I had no
choice ; but forgive me if "

His voice sank into silence, and Alice, who had,
not unnaturally, averted her face as he spoke, turned
suddenly in surprise. She saw him stagger, and in
another moment he sank beside her on the grass ;
swooning or nearly so under the sudden reaction from
that violent action of the heart which excitement and
exertion had produced. Not a little frightened, and
thoroughly penitent for the temper which, if not
expressed, she was conscious of having felt, Alice with
eager promptitude  and with that instinctive recollection
of what she had heard as to the right means of
dealing with an unexpected difficulty which, shown intimes
of peril or trouble, wins for its possessor the
reputation of presence of mind  unloosed, though with
trembling fingers, the tight collar and stiff neckband
that formed part of thee young soldier's half-military
costume. In so doing, her fingers touched the steel
chain he wore, and half accidentally, half unconsciously
drew within her sight the Cross, but above the Cross
a locket on which her quick eyes caught her own
cipher, and which as she guessed at once must contain
the lock of hair so reverently, so eagerly asked
and won ; now so carefully and tenderly cherished.
In a few moments Darcy had so far recovered as to
raise himself on his arm, and looking up expressed
his thanks and apologies.

I am ashamed indeed. Miss Kavanagh, to have
so proved my weakness. Perhaps I should have been
stronger had I not suffered more from fright than
from exertion."

'* I don't wonder. I never felt in such instant and
hopeless danger ; and your actual exertion was no
light or ordinary one over such ground."

It might have mortified another girl, it certainly
pleased Alice, that her companion showed no inclination
to avail himself of the opening for the commonplaces
of gallantry.

You must permit me," he] said in a quiet, matter-of-fact
tone, after a few moments, " to undertake the
same duty again. I could not leave you here alone.
You cannot walk, and the only thing to be done is
to carry you down yonder where the lake is accessible,
and try whether we cannot hail a boat. Pardon me,
Miss Kavanagh," he added, more earnestly, as Alice
endeavoured to enforce in words the reluctance sufficiently
evident in her countenance, *' I would not ask
your consent to anything of the kind if there were any
other course open to us."

Not choosing to allow her opportunity for argument
or remonstrance, Darcy again raised her in his arms
and bore her to the point on which he had fixed,
where by the end of the precipice before mentioned
the ground sloped more gently down to the water's
edge. He had forgotten to readjust the collar and
necktie she had loosened ; and as he placed her on a
convenient seat provided by a dry rock rising a couple
of feet above the soil, Alice started as she observed a
deep crimson stain on the front of his shirt.

Your wounds have opened again ! " she said in
great alarm.

"It is nothing," he answered, moving aside for a
few paces to cover the wound itself with his handkerchief

and readjust his dress so as to hide the stain.
Indeed it will not signify, Miss Kavanagh. Lend
me your handkerchief, and I will try to attract the
attention of the boatmen of the inn opposite."

You have risked your life for me again," Alice
said anxiously.

*' Do not shame me by so exaggerating a danger
which but for your accident would have been trivial,"
he answered, smiling, but unconsciously pressing his
hand where he felt the blood still oozing through the
extemporized bandage. " Would God," he added,
passionately, as  involuntarily looking into her face,
inexpressibly lovely with its brightened colour and the
tenderness in the wistful eyes that softened their
usual expression of calm 'self-control and womanly
pride  their glances met, '* would God I might have
died for you  ere now."

He was conscious on the instant of the error into
which a hasty but very natural impulse had hurried
him, and checked himself with a suddenness that did
not escape his companion's notice. It was not without
an effort that she so controlled her own feeling,
much moved by the evident sincerity and heartfelt
earnestness of his words, as to answer lightly :

I thought you too truly courteous to flatter," she
said ; but the sweet, low, almost faltering tone belied
the reproachful meaning she would fain have given to
her words.

"Do you think I could dare to flatter you, Miss
Kavanagh ? I spoke the simple truth, though I had
no right to say it ; and you would hardly think it a
compliment could you realize the worthlessness of a
life like mine."

Yours ? " Alice exclaimed, genuinely surprised ;
*' yours worthless, with such fame already won, such
prospects of glory before you ? "

*fame?" he answered scornfully. *' The shouts
of such a mob as that of Southampton, which would
have hooted me in another minute, had not the sudden
consciousness of your presence softened the scorn I
felt and was nearly expressing ! Glory ? I have won
already the only prize that ever seemed to me worth
an effort, the best reward that the Fountain of
Honour can bestow. What can he look forward to
who at twenty had received this ? "

As he laid his hand upon the hidden Cross of
Valour, the gesture recalled to Alice's memory not
only the many precious associations and reminiscences
connected therewith, but that which she had so lately
seen not less carefully and reverently cherished than
the Cross itself.

And happiness ? " she murmured softly, but not
venturing to look into his face as she spoke.

The only happiness," he replied, in a low tone,
that I can understand or could wish to look forward
to, is such as my sister seems to enjoy ; and that is
for ever denied to me."

Why so ? " asked Alice, almost in a whisper, so
much moved, so deeply interested by his evident
earnestness, and the profound and inexplicable
melancholy which it was impossible to regard as
affectation, as to forget for a moment the personal
application that coxcombry might give to her question,
and the instinctive reserve that would naturally have
checked it.

*' It is a costly luxury," he replied, bitterly, " wholly
beyond the means of an English soldier of fortune 
and a pauper noble of France."

The intense and unquestionably real bitterness of
feelings she could but half understand for at that
moment he remembered another and yet more insuperable
barrier between them than that of which he
spoke  touched to the quick a nature profoundly
sympathetic and generous. If Alice had entertained
no warmer feeling than friendship and gratitude for
one who had served her so often and so well, she could
hardly have failed to answer kindly, endeavouring to
soothe and soften the pain evident in such a sentence.
But as it was she understood instantly and instinctively
what was not spoken, and, half averting hier
face, answered the meaning rather than the mere
words.

Must all the pride be on your side ? " she asked
almost inaudibly. " Must we always accept all and
give nothing in return ? Would you not allow a
woman to rejoice that, while returning love for love,
she could give something in exchange for a name
which any woman must be proud to bear ? "

Lionel was more aware than at the instant was the
speaker herself how much more had been said than
was prudent, or would have been uttered at another
moment. If the impulse of love had left him full
power of self-control, chivalrous loyalty to her sex,
reverent devotion and considerate delicacy to one
whose generosity had so committed her, perhaps a
consciousness that further prudence would presently
wear in her eyes the aspect of ungenerous reserve.

would have irresistibly impelled liii to justify in her
own opinion the unconventional frankness of her
language. However aware that he had already said
far more than he had a right to say, his first impulse
was to give free utterance to the truth which alone
could spare her pain at the moment or humiliation in
its memory  her knowledge of which could alone have
elicited her words.

*' A Prince," he said, with deep feeling, and in the
broken tone of half-suppressed passion, "could not sue
too humbly for the hand of a lady who can so think
and feel ; but the humblest gentleman should be too
proud to accept the wealth it holds."

Is that generous ? " faltered Alice. " Must she be

forced to " Hesitating, and colouring deeply, she

timidly laid her hand on his as she checked her words,
too profoundly moved, too anxious lest his pride
should cost the sacrifice of a love so certainly felt, so
clearly acknowledged on both sides, to yield to that
instinct of reserve and shame that would have averted
her eyes from his. The look and touch thrilled
through his frame and soul, and left him no power,
perhaps no will, to restrain his answer.

"I have spoken as I never should have spoken; but
having said so much, it is due to myself and to you to
say one word more. Almost since we first met, Alice,
I have not so much loved as worshipped you. Perhaps
. a very short time may teach you how hardin
your presence men must ever find it to remember
prudence, justice, or even honour. Then perhaps you
may forgive me  what I can never forgive myself."

"What have I to forgive?" the girl asked softly,

her hand still resting on his, her eyes seeking to read
in his countenance the meaning of words that surprised
and almost chilled her with alarm and perplexity.
But before he could reply, the boat which
had pushed out in answer to his signal from the other
side of the lake, and had been for some minutes concealed
from their sight by the overhanging rock, came
into full view, and the rowers were within hearing of
their words.

VOL. II. H

CHAPTER VII.

FLOUNDERING.

His honour rooted in dishonour stood,
And faith unfaithful kept him falsely true."

In lifting her into the skiff as soon as it touched the
shore and placing himself beside her, Lionel forbore
to look at his companion; even more impressed by
the sense of the wrong done to her in his avowal,
half-impulsive half enforced, than Alice herself by the
recollection of what she was quick to tell herself,
though with much less reason, had been a default
in womanly discretion and maiden reserve. Assured
of his love, a love not less reverent than passionate,
convinced that nothing save her fortune and his
poverty stood between them, it had not unnaturally
been intolerable to her that her happiness and yet
more his own should be sacrificed to a pride so
exaggerated, or a punctilio of conventional propriety.
She knew Darcy well enough to be almost fearless of
misconstruction from him. Few men indeed were
less likely than he to honour her the less because
the generosity of love had proved, in a moment of
deep and disturbing emotion, too strong not for
maidenly delicacy but for conventional prudence.

Youth and chivalry preserved him from the error
into which men of baser, coarser natures constantly
fall, and which, once hastily admitted into practical
minds, only long and varied experience of life and
character can dispel. A girl so little knows what
she is doing when, sought or unsought, she avows
a love of which perhaps she has till the critical
moment been hardly conscious  so little does the
earthlier aspect of what as yet can hardly be called
a passion enter into her thought  that it is rather
conventional teaching, or an instinct resulting from
rule and habit, than any conscious perception of the
principle on which the convention is founded, that
compels her to await the distinct and formal avowal
of her suitor's preference. On this last point Alice
had and could have no doubt whatever. Her lover
had unawares but surely betrayed his feeling to her
intuitive perception long before, under a hasty and
quickly repented but natural and wholly irresistible
impulse, he had to-day declared his love without
venturing to entreat hers. But on his part the sense
of wrong-doing, of an entanglement from which no
honourable extrication was possible, became stronger
and more painful minute by minute, during the short
silence imposed by the presence of strangers as they
were rowed across the narrow lake. The possibility
of requiting Zela's devotion, unsought and wholly unwelcome
as it had been, by the cruelty and cowardice
of desertion, never for a moment occurred to him.
Not sufficiently ignorant or inexperienced to doubt
what under similar circumstances others might have
done, the idea of breaking his tacitly plighted faith,

of betraying one who had so readily, so recklessly
given all she had to give  the unspeakable meanness
of insulting the helplessness of feminine self-abandonment
by a proposal to repay that last sacrifice
of affection with money  was to him too revolting,
too impossible to be seriously contemplated under
any temptation whatsoever. He had from the first
felt that in yielding to Zela's appeal he was abandoning
for ever the hope which he did not own to
himself; nay, more, the right to cherish a love of
which he could not but be conscious. But, this being
so, how ill had he behaved to Alice ; what bitter
contempt, what righteous indignation must colour
her future recollection of his conduct, her future
feeling towards him, when the truth to which as yet
she was altogether blind must be plainly avowed I
He was as incapable of excusing to himself his own
error by recalling the impulsive frankness by which
Alice had induced or unconsciously tempted it, as of
throwing blame on Zela in order to excuse the entanglement
which should have prevented any confession
of his devotion to her rival. He could as soon
have dreamed of pleading to others the moral pressure
which had hurried him into his relation with the
Eurasian, as of using it to justify her desertion to his
own conscience. But the task that lay before him,
the duty of undeceiving Alice, perhaps of avowing to
others the conduct it was impossible to defend  that
must appear to them black and deliberate treachery
rather than the error of a momentary impulse  how
was that to be performed ? How face those clear,
proud, now loving eyes, when their scorn of him should

be embittered and intensified by the sense of humiliation
to which undeserved trust in him had exposed her?
A terrible trial to any man in presence of the woman
he loves ; to Lionel Darcy  proud before all things of
his own loyalty, sensitive to the point of personal
honour far more than to the strongest obligations of
conscience or religion, revering Alice not less than
he loved her  a harder position, a deeper, more cruel
humiliation was not conceivable. He had realized
perhaps the prospect, certainly not the manner in
which it was to be met, when the keel touched ground,
and two or three words to the boatmen gave orders
for the immediate preparation of a car of the local
fashion to convey his charge to Penrith Castle, some
five miles distant.

*' You don't mean to leave me ? " Alice said, as,
after lifting her to her seat, he closed the door of the
open vehicle. " You cannot, you must not walk ;
and besides," she added, in a lower tone and bending
towards him, "people will wonder, will talk ; perhaps
they will do that in any case, but much more if you
let me return alone."

This was true, so true that Darcy felt at once that
no choice was left him but to comply. Happily for
him  if it be happy to delay an explanation that
must come, and becomes more difficult with each
moment of prolonged misconception  the arrangement
of the vehicle made it impossible to exchange
a word that must not be heard by the driver ; and
the pain which, as the excitement of the accident
and of the scene that had followed it subsided, became
more severe and showed itself in her own despite in

Alice's countenance, gave her companion full occupation
in endeavouring to find a comfortable position
for the injured ankle. At the gate of the Castle
gardens they were met by Lord and Lady Penrith
and by Alice's sister, who, having reached home but
half an hour before, had hardly had time to become
anxious about their lost companions, but at Amy's
suggestion had turned back, expecting to meet them
on the road they had themselves followed. After a
very brief explanation Alice, attended by her sister
and by Amy, was conveyed to her own room, and
Lord Penrith, turning to Darcy, said 

"I have brought two letters for you; one probably
of some importance, as it bears Sir Francis Clavering's
seal. The other is from Manchester. I hope it can
bring you no troublesome news ? " as he noticed the
other's change of countenance. " I will leave you ta
read and answer them while I attend to a little business
with my steward. When you have done, or if
you want me, you will find me on the terrace in the
course of another hour or so."

Glad to be alone, Darcy took the letters and turned
towards the library. The fact that Sir Francis
Clavering had written to him excited his curiosity,
since, after their second and last interview, but one
communication had passed between them, when
Lionel formally announced to the head of his mother's
family the engagement of his sister, and received in
reply a brief but courteous congratulation. Zela's
note could hardly contain anything but a short
account of the manner in which her time had been
spent in his absence, and a much longer lament over

that absence itself. Still, as matter of duty and
perhaps of habitual courtesy, hers was the first he
opened. Beyond the topics he had anticipated as a
matter of course, it contained but two or three
sentences.

** I have felt ill," she wrote. *' The smoke and rain
of this detestable place seem always to give me what
you call cold. Still, don't think I complain; it is
better than India after all. I was much annoyed and
vexed yesterday ; but I will tell you of that when you
come back. I hope it will not be so very long as you
seemed to expect."

About to replace her letter in the envelope, Darcy
drew from it a small enclosure which he had at first
overlooked ; a few lines written by their landlady*.

*'I add one word," she wrote, avoiding with
feminine delicacy at once the freedom of employing
the Christian name and the awkwardness of using
either the real or assumed surname by which her
young charge was Mown, "to say that she is really
unwell. The climate even in summer seems too
trying for her ; and, if you approve, I should like to

send for Dr. , who has been kind to me and will

be considerate to her. There may be no mischief,
but where the lungs are concerned you can hardly be
too careful. There is another matter which I should
not mention but that you will, I fear, hear of it from
her. She was recognized yesterday when with me by
a stranger, who is, she says, an officer and an acquaintance
of yours. There was of course no direct
insult, but in the familiarity of his greeting and the
sneer on his face there was something which greatly

stung and alarmed her. I tell you that you may not
be gravely disturbed by what she may say. She will
never leave the house without me ; and as I shall
never leave her alone at home, you need apprehend
nothing beyond such occasional rencontres as in her
position it is impossible always to avoid, and as in
her position are, I fear, inevitably more or less unpleasant."


Thomson, of course," thought Darcy. " I wish I
had been there. One day or other I am sure I shall
pay that scoundrel all I owe him ; just now nothing
would please me better, whatever the issue of our
next meeting may be."

It was characteristic of their relation that, now as
ever, the task of replying to Zela was simply a task,
to be fulfilled at once and dismissed for other more
important and not less interesting duties. He had
sealed and addressed his reply before opening the
other letter. A very short note, written apparently for
no other purpose than to give a character of personal
kindness to the communication, covered an elaborate
letter from Sir Francis Clavering's solicitor. It
announced to Major Darcy that, by an arrangement
with the trustees of Lady Penrith's marriage settlement.
Sir Francis had purchased that remnant of the
Darcy estates which had escaped the confiscation of
1715, and with which its last possessor had so reluctantly
parted, sacrificing the pride that clung to
this last relic of his patrimony to the higher pride
that could not permit a daughter of his house to marry
without a dowry. Cleared of the few debts that
burdened it, a clearance represented as mere matter

of convenience, Sir Francis had executed a deed poll
recovering it to its former owner.

*' Sir Francis," wrote the solicitor, *' desires you to
understand that in taking this step he merely fulfils
an intention defeated by circumstances many years
ago. But for those circumstances he would, as her
guardian and the head of her family, have settled upon
the late Mrs. Darcy on her marriage a property of
equivalent value ; and he takes this opportunity of
rendering to her son the justice he was unhappily
prevented from doing to her."

A graceful and gracious evasion," thought Darcy,
'' but an evasion nevertheless. But for my father's
counsel, I should hardly choose to accept it without
some explanation of the strange circumstanced to
which he refers."

Since, however, the character of the conveyance,
as explained by the solicitor, required no assent, and
hardly admitted of refusal on his part, he could do no
more than acknowledge gratefully the kindness of one
towards whom his father's command had imposed on
him an almost filial respect. Rejoicing in the thought
that it afforded a sure release from the trouble which
had most perplexed him of late, the difficulty of
providing for Zela in the event of his own death  the
perils of his profession rendering insurance hardly
practicable  "now," he thought, after both the letters
were concluded, " I suppose there is nothing left me
but to tell one of those fictions which convention
hardly regards as lies. But for these letters it would
have been hard to find an excuse for leaving at once.
Lord Penrith will hardly feel at liberty to scrutinize

my reasons very closely ; but without a deliberate
and explicit falsehood it will not be easy to escape
Amy's questioning. To leave, I suppose, is to tell
Alice the truth so far as it can be told, and perhaps
with less pain, at all events less insult, than almost
any possible explanation must involve."

Lord Penrith's business had occupied him longer
or taken him further from home than he had expected,
and it was not till the party assembled in the drawing-room
before dinner that Lionel had an opportunity of
speaking either to him or to his sister.

"I am afraid," said Amy, playfully, "you have
not proved yourself worthy of the trust we reposed in
you."

I fear not," he answered, in a tone whose gravity
so contrasted her own, and still more the thought in
her mind, that Amy looked up in surprise and perplexity.
Interpreting, however, his meaning in her
own way, she went on ; still speaking lightly, but with
a double meaning, perceptible to her brother at least,
in her words.

"You have brought Alice, or let her come, to grief,
she says ; and though she pleads for you that it was
the fruit of her own wilfulness, I don't feel disposed to
excuse you so readily. However, you will suffer for
it, for I will not let her come down this evening even
to the drawing-room, and Dr. Fell is doubtful whether
she ought to leave her room tomorrow. Her ankle
will confine her to the sofa for another week, he says,
and you will not have the chance to get her into
another scrape."

"In that case," Lionel replied, as, dinner being

announced, he gave his arm to his sister, 'I am
afraid I shall not see her again. I find I shall have
to return to Manchester tomorrow morning."

Lion ! " cried his sister in surprise, *' what do you
mean? I know you had a month's leave, and you
cannot have been summoned back so peremptorily,
and at so short a notice, unless something has gone
very wrong there."

"You know nothing of regimental rules. Amy," he
replied evasively. " Orders are always peremptory ;
and a soldier is not entitled to notice when summoned
back to his duty."

Nonsense," she answered, as they entered the
dining-room. " They promised Edward, I know, that
you should have a full month's leave, and after what
Alice told me I am sure you are not fit to return. I
should have inquired about your wound, if  I had not
had even more interesting matter to think of," she
murmured, in a tone audible to him alone.

That won't matter, Amy. But return, and return
tomorrow, I certainly must."

His sister looked at him with an expression of
wonder and inquiry visible in her eyes, which embarrassed
him at least as much as her spoken question.

"What is the matter? You have not quarrelled
with Alice, I know. Can you have misunderstood
her ? "

The party was so small that a sotto voce conversation
between the hostess and her brother could not be
prolonged without attracting notice.

I hope I have," Lionel answered aloud, but with
so grave and pointed an emphasis that Amy became

aware of something wrong that could not at that
moment be investigated or, as she thought, set right.
Puzzled and impatient, she was compelled to drop her
questioning, so far as Alice was concerned, for the
moment; but, determined to press her brother hard
on the point immediately at issue, she spoke aloud to
her husband.

Lionel says he is recalled and must leave us tomorrow.
Is it not too bad, Edward ? It is his twenty-second
birthday on Wednesday ; but of course he has
forgotten that, as well as his promise to give us at
least half his leave."

I am as much surprised as you can be, Amy,"
said her husband. "But if your brother says he
must go, go I suppose he will. And yet  Darcy, there
is nothing wrong in Manchester, I hope? I heard

from Lord yesterday, and he mentioned no sort

of disturbance or trouble there which could recal you
to duty so suddenly."

''No, it is no public business," Lionel answered
quietly, having by this time fully recovered his self-possession
; " but recalled, or obliged to return, I am
sorry to say I am."

*ris it not," said Helen Kavanagh  "is it not most
unusual to recal leave once given, except under some
unexpected pressure ? The soldiers I have Mown
have always seemed to regard their holidays as certainly
assured, and quite at their disposal."

"Pressure," said Lionel, much annoyed, but struggling
to conceal his vexation, "may be put on by
regimental incidents as well as by external exigencies."


But it was plain to all that if a regimental call were
the sole motive of this sudden change of intention,
there could be no need to make a secret thereof. It
would have been natural even among strangers, much
more when inflicting so great and unexpected a disappointment
on a favourite sister, that Lionel should
have simply explained the nature of the summons,
even if the presence of the ladies had restrained him
from expressing his annoyance with military emphasis.
It had become plain even to Amy that there was a
mystery, and a mystery which her brother was not
disposed to explain. She, however, ascribed his
resolve to causes nearer home and more interesting
than any sudden disturbance of the arrangements of
the 36th. 

Edward," she said, when about to leave the room,
'* if once you get to cigars and politics on the terrace
I don't know when we shall see you again. Helen
will go up to Alice now ; I shall relieve her for a while
in half an hour ; but before that time I want to have
a word with you."

After he had complied with his wife's request and
remained absent for perhaps a quarter of an hour from
the dining-room, the host returned with a face
manifestly graver. This look, however, was one less
of annoyance or of displeasure than of that slight
perplexity with which a man, shy himself or conscious
that he has to deal with a shy, proud, or awkward
acquaintance, regards the prospect of an embarrassing
but not necessarily disagreeable explanation. When
they left the dining-room. Lord Penrith laid his band
on Lionel's shoulder.

** The sunset is worth looking at from the Western
terrace," he said, "and I know you Hke a cigar
in the fresh air. Vane told me these Manilla
were almost worthy of India ; see whether you find
them so."

Accepting the invitation, Lionel had paced the
terrace more than once he side his brother-in-law
before the latter spoke.

It is best," he said, '* I think, where serious
interests or a life's happiness are involved, to speak
plainly, even at the risk of saying what would not bear
repeating. To sacrifice conventional reserves to the
paramount importance of clear mutual understanding
should always be possible between men of honour;
and must surely be possible between near relatives
who, if not long intimately acquainted, at least wish
each other well and can afford to trust one another
thoroughly. I can gather from Amy what she at
least thinks must be your motive for leaving us so
suddenly ; and if she has rightly conceived it, I can
see no reason for your departure."

"Pardon me," replied Lionel, "if I say that Amy
cannot guess my reason, and that I fear it is so
imperative that no discussion can throw any fresh
light upon it."

Can you tell me in good faith," said Lord Penrith,
with a half smile, "that it is really a regimental
summons that recals you? Or are you not more
anxious to leave Ulswater than to return to Manchester
? "

I will answer that question if you insist upon it ;
but I think," replied Lionel, hesitating more and

more as he felt the exceeding awkwardness of his
position, " that we might best leave the matter where
it is."

I should be sorry to agree with you. If you leave
us now, I hardly see how you could return."

Nor I," interposed Lionel ; and the other went
on 

Any such lasting separation would be so painful
to one very dear to both of us that no trifle ought to
bring it about. Can you not be frank with me if not
with her, sure that I will repeat no word of yours
without your own permission ? . . . Well, then, can you
not conceive it possible that I might feel on certain
matters rather as you do than as the world is apt to
think? I am not indeed Alice Kavanagh's sole
trustee, but in effect her sole guardian."

The persistent silence and evident embarrassment
of' his companion began to perplex and harass Lord
Penrith, who  though disposed to make large allowance
for youthful shyness and for the peculiar temper
of one whose native pride had been intensified and
rendered sore and sensitive by the contrast between
birth and fortune  could not understand a reserve
that was proof against invitations to frankness so
distinct and pressing, encouragement so unmistakable.

Does it really need," he added, after a full
minute's pause, " that I should say more ? "

' No, Lord Penrith ; and if I could have stopped
you, I would not have let you say so much. I can
neither explain nor excuse anything, but I hold to my
purpose."

*' I cannot understand you," returned Lord Penrith

very gravely, and with something of sternness in his
altered tone. " Either Amy must have strangely

misled me, or Has nothing passed this afternoon

that 1 am entitled to know ? "

*'A difficult question to answer," said Lionel,
something of coldness in his voice retorting the
changed manner of his companion. * "What you are
entitled to know, or I to tell, it might not be easy to
determine. I think I spare the necessity for any
decision on that point by leaving at once."

"Darcy," replied the other earnestly, after a prolonged
pause, "we cannot part in this way. I will
not without sure ground distrust the loyalty or even
the discretion of a brother so dear to my wife, nor
will I run the slightest risk of a misunderstanding
which might not be cleared up till it had done irretrievable
and bitter harm. Will you speak to Amy, if
you will not to me ? "

No ! " Lionel answered at last, his tone softening
again in response to the manifest kindness of his
kinsman's intention. "All I can say is this. Whatever
your views regarding your ward, it is too late
for them to affect my conduct."

"Can you have misunderstood her?" asked Lord
Penrith, quickly.

"I am bound," replied Barce, after some consideration,
" to understand Miss Kavanagh in one
way, and in one way only ; to suppose that she has
rejected . . . has heard unwillingly what I ought
never to have said, and can never repeat."

Am I to understand, then," demanded the other,
in a tone of deep but not angry displeasure or

dissatisfaction, " that, whatever has passed this
afternoon, I am not to regard you as my niece's
suitor?"

He paused so long for an answer that at last in
surprise he turned and looked his companion full
in the face. The expression of that face was hard to
read ; but that it was full of pain as well as of
embarrassment, that the moment for whatever reason
was one of inexpressible bitterness, even, it might be
said without exaggeration, of mental agony, to his
young relative. Lord Penrith could not doubt.

Lionel," he said at last, " you know that for your
sister's sake, and I may say for my niece's also, as
well as for your own, it will grieve me bitterly if we
part on such terms. In justice to us all, you must 'feel
that you owe us some explanation of conduct which,
if you remain silent, is certainly inexplicable ; I should
be sorry to think, much more to say, of Amy's
brother  seems hardly honourable."

In the cruel suffering of the hour, the intolerable
humiliation of a position from which extrication was
impossible and in which honour and feeling alike
forbade any attempt at excuse  since even had he
stooped to plead impulse and circumstances, no
vindication, no real explanation was possible that
would not appear more or less to reflect upon Alice 
the last word stung the young hearer beyond endurance.
Drawing himself up haughtily and for the
first time looking the speaker full in the face 

You will answer that word ? " he said, in the low
cold tone of intense passion strongly curbed, his
countenance turning white even to the lips. Lord

VOL. II. I

Penrith retained his grave cain demeanour, and his
tone was sad rather than resentful as he answered 

I will do better, Darcy; I will withdraw it  if you
can tell me, on your word as soldier and gentleman,
that it is not deserved."

The young soldier remained silent, conscience -
stricken, for a full minute ; then  raising his eyes
with an expression that long perplexed Lord Penrith
with the doubt whether, after all, there were not some
explanation, some suppressed fact, that would, have
vindicated Darcy from the imputation which, even if
deserved, its utterer could not but regret  he lifted
his hat in formal salute.

' I shall say, indeed I can say, nothing. I thank
you for the forbearance and consideration you have
shown me under circumstances that perhaps hardly
entitled me to either. We shall not meet again;

give Lady Penrith my excuses, and " But his

voice failed him, and turning away he hurriedly reentered
the house, and sought his own room to pack
the little luggage he had brought, and request a
servant to have it conveyed to the station whereabout
midnight, a train would stoic on its way southward.


But before his task was finished a light tap at the
door disturbed him. He hesitated to answer : it was
repeated, and before he could make up his mind to
refuse admission Amy had entered, and resting her
hand on his shoulder, looked up earnestly into his
averted face.

Do explain, Lion, and don't quarrel with us.
Edward may have spoken hastily, but he has meant

you kindly through all ; and if he has misunderstood
you, it has been more my fault than his."

Nothing," said Darcy, still unable to look at her,
to part with whom was almost as hard as to renounce
for ever the one creature in the world he loved still
better  "nothing. Amy, could have been more kind
or more forbearing than Lord Penrith's conduct, save
a single word which I resented at the moment, but
which I now feel was under the circumstances only
natural. And for you, I suppose you have understood
everything rightly that any one could tell you."

"That cannot be, Lionel; if you have spoken to
Alice as I supposed, and she has answered you as
I am sure she meant to do "

"Hush, Amy," he interrupted impatiently. you
must not say another word of her  to me. I had no
right to speak ; and it is the poorest and meanest of
all excuses to say, * I could not help it.' "

But why not ? Why should you not have spoken ?
I tell you, if you have not understood Alice or Edward,
J do. Do you think I asked you to come here, knowing
you would meet her, knowing or guessing what
might happen  without knowing what Edward
wished ? "

If Alice," he replied at last  " if Miss Kavanagh
had been no richer, had had no other connection with
rank or influence than you had. Amy, a year ago,
still I should have had no right to speak as I spoke
to-day ; and I have no alternative but to go without
seeing her."

Lionel ! what do you mean ? "

What I cannot explain to you. Amy. Simply, it

was  disgraceful," he added, with a violent effort,
but only able to speak in the lowest tone a word of
confession so intensely humiliating, " to betray myself,
and to mislead her, if "

"But, Lionel," she interrupted in a passion of
anxiety, perplexity, and dismay, "you do not mean
that what you said was untrue? No, I know you
love Alice ; I knew that long ago ! "

"That is true  God knows how terribly true! I
tell you. Amy, I cannot explain anything. Try not
to think worse of me than  than you must. I never
meant to have spoken, I never meant to have had
the chance of so speaking to her. Tell her, if you
can and will, that I entreat her one day to forgive
me, to believe that I did not intend "

Lionel, do you think how you are treating her ?
Do you forget what she "

"Silence, Amy! I forget nothing. And now kiss
me, darling  if  if you still can  for we shall not
meet again."

She burst into tears of bitter distress, mortification,
and pain as she threw herself upon her brother's
breast and clasped her arms tightly around his neck

I know you too well, Lionel," she faltered at last.
I know there is some terrible mistake here. At
least wait till I have seen Alice and Edward again.
You will break her heart as you are breaking your
own ; and you cannot have been false. Can you
not, will you not, tell the whole truth to Edward ?
In spite of the word you seem so to resent, he means
kindly by you, and by her ; and for my sake he
would do anything."

*'He can do nothing, Amy. You may tell him
this if you will ; he will understand if you cannot.
There is a barrier between us that I cannot, or rather
must not, break. And now  I have no time to lose ;
farewell, my sister, my darling ! " . . .

Chapter VIII.

A Broken HEART.

One kiss  and not returned  and not returned,
And on a brow so cold ! "

Zela's delighted surprise at his early return failed
to afford relief, save for a few moments, to the intense
pain, the absolute despair, the intolerable humiliation
which had rendered that night journey the season
of bitterest misery that Darcy had known or could
conceive. It was only by a great and evident effort
that he could affect sympathy in her joy, unable to
forget the terrible sacrifice she had cost ; unable
wholly to suppress the exasperating reflection that
the necessity for such a sacrifice was hardly of his
voluntary creation. Ashamed to reproach her even
in, thought for what seemed to him, and probably
was in reality, little more or worse than the reckless
extravagance of a love not of the highest kind, but
essentially true as it was passionate, he strove to
treat her with even more tenderness than usual ; and
succeeded only in making the effort apparent to her
keen instinct, sharpened by a vague half-conscious,
but intense jealousy.

Ah ! " she said after a while, *you are not glad
to come back to me. Well, I don't wonder ; I always
knew you liked your English ladies best; but why
need you have come away ? You would not have
left your sister so soon only because I was not well ;
and really I don't think there is much the matter,
though Mrs. Eichards and the doctor look grave. It
hurts a little when the blood shows on my handkerchief,
but not much. You need not have come for
that."

This mention of a new symptom of mischief, whose
gravity he understood better than herself, happily
for the moment turned his thoughts into another
channel; though underneath all his anxious inquiries,
first of Zela and the landlady, afterwards of the
doctor, the consciousness of the deeper trouble was
ever present, and at every pause again took sole and
overwhelming possession of his mind. The medical
opinion was grave indeed.

The young lady," said the thoughtful physician
aware that in a case where no inquiry into the
possibilities of change or travel could be made, where
recommendations involving personal sacrifice could
not be simply urged and discussed as in the case of
wife or child, perfect frankness was the only safe
course  " might go on for years without suffering
much more than at present, especially in a somewhat
more favourable climate than that of Manchester
and its neighbourhood. But there is so much weakness,
such relaxation of the coats of the pulmonary
blood-vessels, that at any time, especially under the
pressure of great excitement, or more probably of any

accidental cold such as might be trivial to an English
girl in sound health, mischief, and possibly fatal
mischief, might set in with terrible rapidity. In
India  as I understand she was born and bred there
and is half Indian by race  there might be comparatively
little to fear. Here there is probably
more to fear than to hope. Yes," in answer to a
question, 'sone can seldom be so sure of a diagnosis
that one would not rather if possible have a second
opinion, above all the opinion of a specialist ; and
no doubt anything that would enliven her mood,
stimulate the animal spirits, might do good and could
not do harm. Take her to London if you can ; and
it will be no worse for you yourself to take the full
benefit of your leave."

On this counsel Darcy determined to act, most
unwilling to excite question by returning to duty or
even appearing abroad in Manchester till the regular
expiry of his leave. Zela had no liking for London,
where she had spent the dreariest, most hopeless,
loneliest weeks of her life ; but to go anywhere with
him, to see something of that world of which she was
so ignorant, of those wonders of English civilization
which though so long in England she had had no
opportunity to behold, was delightful to her. And
the anxious interest in her health, proved by Darcy's
determination to seek the best professional advice
at once and at such trouble, gratified her far more
than it alarmed. She feared death infinitely less
than the alienation of that affection which was her
all in life, and failed to realize the existence of danger
where the warning of pain was so slight. Had she

suffered much more she would have been unwilling
to complain, reluctant to inflict the kind of pain on
her account which she instinctively understood that
Darcy felt most keenly. One or two visits to the
great London physician whose opinion at that time
was received as law throughout the profession on all
affections of the respiratory system, were to Zela but
trivial interruptions of a period of unmixed pleasure.
To see the wonders of London, to enjoy with infantine
simplicity yet with almost a woman's intelligence
intensely interesting fictions visibly enacted before her
eyes on the stage, to visit with such a companion
the great historical monuments whose meaning and
associations he could so well explain to her, was the
least part of Zela's enjoyment. To be for more thana
fortnight constantly in his society, never left for a
single afternoon alone, to resume in conversation and
in more intimate intercourse the topics of her childish
lessons, rendered this period of her brief life a
delicious oasis in the midst of an existence generally
resembling the scenery of her Eastern home ;  brightness,
warmth, light enough, but a comparatively
desert outlook, save when the storms of tropical
nature produced a brief but delightful revivification
of its dormant splendour. Still Darcy, who watched
her anxiously, was conscious of a physical languor,
of occasional difficulty of breathing or efforts to
breathe, especially in sleep, that often disturbed
her seriously; and, after exertion or under excitement,
of fits of coughing whose violence seemed on
every occasion to increase and always renewed the
symptom which had first really alarmed him. The

time of return drew nigh, and Lionel had written on
business to the kindly hostess of their Manchester
lodging, when, for the first time, the note of a
friend inviting his presence at a West End club
obliged him to leave Zela for the greater part of one
day. Grateful for the long uninterrupted enjoyment of
his society, consoled by the explanation of his absence
which assured her that he would enter no society
alarming to her vigilant and restless jealousy, she
repressed with more than usual self-control the
reluctance, unusually strong, with which she let lingo
; and he repressed more easily a certain presentiment
of evil which seemed as foolish as it was certainly
without foundation in actual visible probabilities.
But for the rest of his life Lionel could never forget
the last words he spoke, as she parted from him at
the threshold of their apartment with an embrace
even more earnest and clinging than usual.

*'I won't ask you to wait to know Mrs. Eichards'
answer till my return ; you know her handwriting
and you may open her letter should it come in my
absence."

Zela had tried to occupy herself according to his
advice with one or other of the books of various
interest with which he was ever careful to furnish her;
and finding this impossible, had sunk into a long
dubious musing as to the unexplained cause of his
sudden return from Ulswater, when she was startled,
much more violently than seemed natural, by a light
tap at the door and the entry of the waiter who
brought the expected letter. Taking it from the
salver she observed the handwriting which gave her

license to open it ; but, perhaps because she had
never before been permitted to read a letter not
addressed to herself, it was with some hesitation
that she broke the seal. The note was brief and not
very interesting, relating only to trivial domestic
arrangements ; but it contained an enclosure bearing
the same postmark as the letters she had received
almost daily from Darcy during his recent absence,
and this unfortunately was unsealed, save by the
pressure it had received in the post-bags, and opened
at a touch. In truth, the writer had left it to Amy's
care ; and Amy, intending at first to enclose a note of
her own, and subsequently deciding to reserve what
she had to say until her husband's letter should have
received an answer, had forgotten to close the envelope
that had thus been left unfastened. Zela's curiosity
was keenly moved, and the temptation was the stronger
that it could so easily and certainly be gratified without
possibility of detection. Gentle as Darcy had
been even with the strongest reasons for displeasure,
tenderly as he had worded the sharpest rebukes she
had ever received from him, Zela stood in far too
much awe of her protector to dream of allowing or
allowing him to discover such an abuse of his confidence,
such a trespass on secrets which, as she knew
or felt, were carefully preserved from her. That she
was doing wrong hardly occurred to her, perhaps
would hardly have troubled her. That she was
betraying the trust of him she loved, was deserving if
she did not incur his displeasure, she did feel, and
this feeling struggled long with her natural and eager
curiosity. But when, since it was fatal to Eve, did

woman's curiosity fail to overcome all restraint of fear
or principle ?

'* Amy," wrote Lord Penrith, '' gave me your
message, which, as you said, I understand better than
she can. I have gathered from her answers to questions
you could hardly have considered unwarranted
more than she herself could possibly have inferred.
The nature of that * barrier ' to which you alluded I
<;an scarcely doubt. The person I might probably conjecture.
How you may have become entangled in a
relation incompatible with that feeling which, even
while she was with you. Amy believed you to entertain
for Alice, my larger experience of life enables me without
much trouble to apprehend. I trust that I am
sufficiently a man of honour to understand how
strong appears to you an obligation which must now
be wholly painful ; but as a man of the world I must
hold that you over-estimate its force, or greatly underestimate
that which should countervail it ; most
probably the former. To provide for one whose claim
on you is neither legal nor permanent is not indeed to
fulfil your obligation ; but having so provided for her,
then to part, is surely a far less cruel wrong to her
than that inflicted on Alice if, having said all you
have said, having perhaps more deeply than you know
or intended involved her happiness, you forsake her
as you have done without excuse or explanation that
she can understand, in what must seem to her wanton
cruelty or something yet more painful to her feelings.
Of course I cannot question her, nor if I could, could
I make use here of what I might gather. I can only
say that, instead of resenting your conduct as I should

have expected from her character and from circumstances,
she is apparently overwhelmed by a sheer
distress and mortification which you may be better
able than I to understand. Consider at least gravely
the conflicting obligations, if they be such, that you
have incurred : as yet you seem only to have remembered
one, and that the less imperative. If you doubt
the justice of my estimate of their comparative force,
you can easily state the case, without giving names, to
such a friend as Colonel Vane or Evans ; and I shall
be greatly surprised if the advice of any such friend
does not concur with my own."

A more cruel, more crushing blow could hardly have
been dealt to a girl whose love was her whole life,
the one all-absorbing thought of her mind, the one
interest, the one passion of her heart ; of whose love
the best, the redeeming element was gratitude and
eagerness to make the happiness of him she loved,
in lieu of the misery she was now forced to learn she
had caused, and who was but too well aware how
absolutely voluntary was the sacrifice which not love
but a sense of duty to her had enforced. No doubt, no
hope was possible. Zela had from the first guessed
but too clearly how strong was her lover's admiration,
how deep his reverence for Alice Kavanagh ; and her
own brief acquaintance with her rival had made that
admiration and reverence seem to her more natural,
more righteous than had appeared the passing fancy
for others which her childish jealousy had attributed to
him, and which she had openly resented. All that had
perplexed her, his sudden return, his evident sadness,
the effort so manifest in his subsequent tenderness

to her, were explained by this revelation, confirmed
and impressed it upon her belief with intolerable
weight and sharpness. Everything was torn from
her in a moment, and in the moment of her surest
confidence, her truest happiness, her brightest hopes.
Her fatal curiosity had rendered her in a single instant
more utterly desolate, more absolutely alone in life
than when, shrinking with terror from the loneliness
of orphanhood, she had thrown herself on the pity
rather than love which had now failed her. Even the
past was blotted out ; even the memory of her brief
period of contentment, the recollections of happy
hours while her doubts had been lulled asleep by the
unfailing kindness she had tried to mistake for
reciprocal attachment, were darkened, destroyed by the
sudden irresistible conviction that throughout she had
been only a burden, a trouble to him to whom she had
given her whole heart and soul, and whose calm, cool,
but ever even and patient tenderness she had accepted
as a sole and sufficient return. The shame, the
agony, the despair of the two or three hours during
which she sat alone  the letter on the table before
her, her head drooping almost to her knees and
buried in her hands ; unable even to weep, scarcely
able to think, conscious only that nothing was left for
her in life while scarcely daring to dream of death 
the feeling that in eternity as in time there was
nothing to hope, nothing to look back upon  would
have been more than punishment sufficient for a far
graver, far more conscious fault than hers. She
hardly could have been other than she was, and being
such could hardly have acted otherwise than she had

done ; and yet, as so often happens in this world,
the penalty that her error had directly and naturally
brought upon her was not one whit less severe, was
perhaps more utterly crushing than that which similarly
falls on those who have erred, with infinitely less
of such justification as may  if there be any truth in
those ideas of Divine justice wherein the best and
soundest thinkers of all races and ages have agreed 
be pleaded with effect before a higher tribunal than
that of society or of Nature. Of all the sounds of the
busy life around her she was utterly unconscious ;
whether she sat in light or darkness she neither knew
nor cared. Yet her sense was so acute in all connected
with the one absorbing feeling, that Darcy's
step in the distant lobby was instantly audible to her.
She sprang up and hurriedly, rather by instinct than
of reflection, slipped the fatal note back into its
envelope before he entered. She had sunk down
again, hiding her face ; and when he first approached,
it was without realizing that there was more the
matter than one of those wayward moods which the
mere length of his absence, though shorter than had
been expected, might have, as such trifles often had,
provoked. But some instinct, or presentiment as most
of us would say  some slight symptom unconsciously
perceived by the sense without being appreciated by
the reason, as sceptical philosophy would suggest 
inspired him with a painful misgiving, even before he
saw her shrink and shiver at the light soothing touch
of his hand on her long dishevelled hair.

"What is it, darling?" he said, striving to raise
her and turn her face towards him.

Then for the first time Zela's emotion found
physical vent. Shuddering almost convulsively from
head to foot, she burst into a passion of sobs utterly
uncontrollable, yet nowise to be called hysterical ;
evidently, even to his inexperienced eye, the outburst
of feeling fearfully strong, whether or not it had a
cause adequate to its unmistakable and terrible
violence. Deeply touched at first, shocked beyond
expression when he perceived the depth and vehemence
of agitation so unparalleled in his experience of a
nature always passionate and ungovernable  unable
to elicit from her a look or word that could enlighten
him, only marking that she turned from his efforts to
soothe with an aversion too instinctive to be ascribed
to temper  Darcy, looking around unconsciously, as
men often do in utter perplexity, caught sight of the
letter. Quitting for one moment his efforts to quiet
Zela he took it up, noted instantly that it was open,
and, even before a hasty glance had shown him its
character, realized what had happened ; knew that the
secret, utterly and for ever destructive of such happiness
as he had been able to give her, was known to
the unfortunate girl for whom he had sacrificed his
o\vn. He stood for some minutes appalled, confounded,
scarcely less paralyzed by the revelation
than Zela herself had been. In vain he endeavoured
to think, to judge calmly what truth or falsehood,
what explanation, what protest might soften to her
the knowledge which, it mattered not by what accident
or what fault, she had so unhappily obtained. He
could but yield to the one paramount impulse, the
one desire to soothe, by every word, tone, and caress

that tenderness and pity could prompt, a suffering
whose intensity he could but too fully realize. It
may be doubted whether the utter incoherence, the
unconscious extravagance of his assurances and expostulations
were more apparent to Zela than to
himself ; whether she were conscious of anything save
words yet more affectionate and tender than those
which she had so long wished to mistake, and could
never again mistake, for the tones vibrating with
passion that come from the heart of real and earnest
love. At last, perhaps because utterly exhausted in
mind and body, and without the will as without the
power to resist, she allowed herself to be raised from
the ground  to be placed on the couch where that
morning she had sat beside him, clinging to the Hand
whose caress seemed to ask pardon for a temporary
and necessary parting ; she submitted to the arm that
drew her head upon his shoulder, so that at last he
could look on the face in which the physical effect of
mental agony was already too plainly to be read.
A minute afterwards . he sprang up in horror, and
reaching with his left hand, his right still supporting
her head, the bell-rope that was happily at hand,
pulled it violently. Before the woman summoned by
the startled waiter  who himself hurried to fetch the
nearest surgeon and then seek the great physician
who had recently pronounced upon Zela's case  had
reached her side, too frightened to be of much service,
the nature and perhaps the extent, certainly the
imminence, of the danger was unmistakable. Each
fit of convulsive sobbing, though less violent than at
first, was followed by a gush of blood from the pale

VOL. ir. K

lips ; and momentarily the sufferer was sinking into
deeper unconsciousness. After remaining for sometime
in what seemed a swoon, when water had been
in vain sprinkled over her face and stimulants uselessly
forced through the clenched teeth, Zela opened
her eyes for a moment and turned them, at first with
the old affectionate trustful tenderness, on those that
watched her with an intense agonizing remorse which
might well have passed for the expression of mingled
love, terror, and sorrow.

*' Never mind," she faltered feebly ; " it is not much,
and you are always kind."

But, as if the last word had recalled the recollection
that had for a moment given way, an expression of
bitter anguish, of hopeless misery, came over the
features just before composed in the calm of extreme
exhaustion ; and another violent shudder was followed
by another outbreak of alarming hemorrhage.

It is not necessary to describe the torturing scene
that endured for some hours longer. To the last,
Zela's head rested on the breast of him for whom she
had thrown away so much, so little conscious of or
perhaps intending self-sacrifice. From time to time
her fingers feebly answered the clasp of his. Twice
only, once almost at the end, her eyes unclosed, and
a few broken words of fondness, only audible to the
ear that was placed close to the scarcely moving-white
lips, assured Darcy that the fatal shock had
been forgotten; that through all those hours, when
conscious at all, she was conscious only of the tenderness
that till this day had rendered her happy.

** Good night," were the last words that reached his

intently listening ear. " I am so tired. . . . But kiss
me ; " and a soft sweet smile told that the caress she
asked for recalled no memory but those dearest and
sweetest to the failing mind.

The relation between the deceased girl and her
only friend had of course nothing to do with the
manner or cause of her death, and in no way concerned
either the public or the law. But it afforded
an excuse for that impertinent intermeddling, that
wandering to the vilest tastes of the vulgar, to which
the lawyers or doctors who owe an official position to
vulgar votes are but too prone ; and which render the
Coroner's Inquest nowadays more often a scandal and
a nuisance than a protection or a benefit to society.
Even, however, in his moments of bitterest sorrow
and most utter prostration, Darcy, as the Coroner
and his jurors learnt, was not a man with whom
liberties might be safely taken. The letter which
had given the fatal shock he had burned ; the moral
cause of the agitation that had brought on the
deadly attack with which alone the Inquest had any
concern, he utterly refused to explain. When bullied
and threatened, his answer astounded the general
audience as much as it exasperated those who were
bent on making the most of their little brief authority,
and pleased the very few men of honour or feeling
present.

You sit there, Sir," he said, " to ascertain whether
the deceased died by the visitation of God or the act
of man. On that question you have heard the doctors,
and there can be no doubt. I will not gratify in a
public Court a prurient curiosity which, out of Court,

I would visit with a signal chastisement that every
gentleman would heartily approve."

The infuriated magistrate could not act or speak
could scarcely think for some minutes. When his
rage became articulate, fear had mastered fury. It
was clear that he had been, in all but the physical
act, publicly kicked; it was not less obvious, as
matter of that legal right which alone he regarded,
that no menace had been uttered, no violence even
conditionally threatened ; and that if the Court had
been treated with contempt, it was a contempt moral
and not conventional, so richly deserved that in
straining the law to avenge it he would only bring
upon himself signal rebuke, and perhaps yet more
serious consequences. Moreover, the young soldier,
at the suggestion of the physician  well acquainted
with the character and quality of a class of legal
officials who, especially in some great towns, are the
opprobrium of their profession  wore his uniform and
decoration ; and to commit for alleged contempt of
a briefless barrister or feelers apothecary, installed in
office by the votes of the rabble, a Major and a
wearer of the Victoria Cross, was in those days beyond
the audacity of democratic insolence  an aggression
which even in Parliament would have found few
defenders. As Darcy left the Court, after receiving
and requiting with interest more than one impertinence,
less gross perhaps but not less wantonly
overstepping the limits alike of decency and of legal
relevance, Evans touched him on the shoulder.

*' I should like," he said, "to give Mr. tomorrow
morning, in print, a more effectual chastisement

than you could administer if his office did not
protect him ; but I know that is the last thing you
would wish."

The less said the better," was Darcy's only reply.
*' Evans, you are almost the only friend of mine who
knew anything of that poor child. May I ask you
to do her the last kindness, the last courtesy inhuman
power ? "

For her sake, as well as yours," answered the
kindly journalist. " I should be sorry to know you
wholly alone on so painful an occasion. Don't forget,
by the way, to ask a prolongation of your leave.
After the report of the inquest your Colonel won't
refuse it, and for many reasons you are better anywhere
than with your regiment for a few days."

A day or two after the remains of the Indian girl
had been committed to the soil of a strange and, to
her and hers, inhospitable land, a message from
Colonel Vane called the young mourner to a military
club at the West End. After a conference which
occupied some half-hour, passing though the hall,
Darcy's ear was caught by the harsh sneering tones
of a voice he knew too well.

'* A damned lucky fellow, and a strangely convenient
release ! " gibed Colonel Thomson, who leaned against
a balustrade in the hall among some half-dozen other
men ; for the most part soldiers, but displaying in their
coarse rough sensual countenances a type of character
comparatively rare in an Army whose officers are, with
few exceptions, gentlemen by birth and feeling as well
as by education. *' Darcy must have had enough of
the girl by this time, and be glad to be so timely rid

of her. For her, she was ready, even when I knew

her in India, to play the with him ; or any one

else, for that matter ! "

Darcy's right hand clenched hard on the walking-cane
he held, but there was no sign of agitation in
countenance, frame, or voice as he confronted the
startled slanderer.

"After what I have heard, Colonel Thomson, you
will not be surprised to hear that I should feel
especially gratified by your company in the visit I
am about to pay to Paris. You will find me at the
Hotel du Louvre."

Thank you," sneered the other, endeavouring to
mimic the cool low courteous tone in which Darcy
spoke, 'but I am sorry that I am otherwise engaged."

In that case, Colonel Thomson, you will of course
apologize at once, and in such terms as I shall dictate,
for the falsehood you have just uttered ? "

'TU see you damned first!" blustered the buys
the colour rushing back to the face from which
Darcy's sudden appearance had driven it.

*' I regret that you should say so. Twice already
in public I have been compelled to challenge your
veracity and your honour ; and you have not chosen
to complain. Since you will neither apologize in
England nor meet me in France, I have no choice
but to brand you indelibly as  liar, and  coward ! "

Each of the bitter epithets was accompanied by
a heavy cut from his cane across the face of his
opponent, who, warned by the fire in his eye and not
by any change in the slow quiet measured voice,
had sprung to his feet : blows certain to leave, as

Darcy had threatened, indelible traces of their infliction.
Blinded by the stroke, maddened with rage
and iDain, the Scotsman, instinctively trusting to far
superior strength and weight, rushed at his assailant ;
but Darcy, who had no taste for a brutal personal
conflict, with a quick whirling movement of his stick
caught the lifted right arm just on the elbow nerve
with a blow that paralysed it for the time. The
beaten man fell back with a groan against the balustrade,
and Darcy, turning to those around, among
whom b} this time was Colonel Vane, spoke; still
in the same calm almost languid tone, the effort that
preserved his equanimity perceptible to few of those
who heard him. 

*'If that cur is not content with his punishment,
he will find me ready to answer for a step forced upon
me against my will. I shall be found at the Louvre
for the next week. After that time, if I do not hear
from Colonel Thomson, I shall hold myself entitled
to repeat my words at any mess-table in the empire."

He walked out, none of the bystanders disposed to
interfere. Vane alone caught his arm as he reached
the street.

"You have thrown away your commission, Darcy,"
he said, '' whether the fellow fights or not ; and fight
now, if he do not care to proclaim himself a coward,
I suppose he must."

*' So much the worse for English honour and the
credit of the Army," was the quick reply. *'If you
heard the scandalous words, you must know that no
gentleman could have done otherwise."

"The horsewhip is a brutal resource, though, and

one hardly ever justifiable between men who stand in
any respect on equal terms."

True ; but when a man refuses both challenge
and apology, what are you to do ? I struck him that
he might be forced to fight ; and I struck him hard
that, if he did not fight, his disgrace might never be
forgotten."

Four days later a waiter at the Hotel du Louvre
brought to Darcy a letter forwarded from his regiment
and an English newspaper; bowing with marked
respect to a guest in whom more than one of the
first gentlemen in Paris had, even in that short time,
welcomed the head of one of the noblest houses
among the Legitimist nobility of France.

The letter, though edged with black, came so
manifestly from some man of business that Darcy,
comparatively uninterested in its contents, took up
first the newspaper evidently forwarded for some
especial reason. As he unfolded it his eyes fell at
once upon a marked paragraph below the last leading
article.

"We regret to announce the death of Sir Francis

Clavering, M.P. for , which took place at his seat

in Northumberland on the 6th instant."

A brief account of the public career of the deceased
baronet followed. Turning to the letter, Darcy
observed on the underside the stamp of the firm with
which he had already been in communication, as the
solicitors of Sir Francis. Its contents caused him
certainly more surprise than pleasure. Indeed, in his
then state of feeling, he was hardly capable of deriving
pleasure from any tidings that could have reached

him. The solicitor enclosed a brief abstract of the
will of the deceased, executed some months before his
death, bequeathing the whole of his personal property,
and his very large unentailed estates, to Lionel
Darcy, *' Marquis of Ultramar in the ancient peerage
of France," as, with the exception of Lord Penrith,
his nearest relative ; and, the testament continued,
' as the child of one who occupied for many years the
place of a daughter in my home and heart." Besides
a few legacies of course, to servants and others, the
only exception was a bequest to Amy, Countess of
Penrith, of such a sum as the testator considered a
fitting dowry for one whom he expressly recognized asa
daughter of his own house. 

As Lionel finished directing and sealing a reply to
the solicitor's request for instructions, a card was
brought to him which bore the name of a British
officer slightly known to him, and not enjoying the
highest possible repute either as a soldier or a man
of honour.

** Ah ! " thought Darcy. " Thomson has chosen a
spy for his second ; a future witness where no man
of true honour would betray either friend or foe."

Soon after sunrise on the morrow, in a secluded
glade of a forest not far from the Belgian frontier,
two men stripped to the shirt stood opposite one
another, waiting the signal to be given by their
seconds  a young French nobleman in the uniform
of the Imperial Guard, and an Englishman whose red
hair, coarse red face, short stature, and somewhat
vulgar bearing presented a remarkable contrast to the
form and carriage of his companion. The duellists

were armed with the sabre : an unusual weapon, but,,
as Darcy had observed to his second, that in the use
of which strength might most avail against skill or
practice. The pistol was out of the question, unless
Colonel Thomson had forgotten the incident that had
caused his first grudge against his present antagonist ;
and Darcy himself had warned his opponent's second
that he had been educated from boyhood  in truth
by his father himself  in the use of the small sword,
the favourite weapon of the French gentleman.

The Count de Noailles gave the signal by clapping
his hands sharply thrice. The sabres were crossed,
and it became immediately evident to the Count  who
had witnessed more than one encounter [and watched
the present conflict with keen anxiety and with the
eye of a connoisseur  that, while his friend employed
the usual tactics of those who have been trained in
the use of the cavalry sword, his antagonist trusted
wholly to sheer strength, hoping to overpower the
guard of the younger and slighter man by heavy
downright blows. But though by no means a perfect
master of the weapon, Darcy, whose hand had
guarded his head against yet more formidable antagonists,
contrived to parry every stroke and to deal
now and then one or two slight wounds, which, instead
of checking the violence, served to exasperate the fury
of his antagonist.

"Still," thought the Frenchman, 'monsieur le
Marquis must have the worst of it if this goes on,
since for mere want of strength he must be wearied
out at last ; and what possesses him to keep his right,
foot advanced so heedlessly? "

Just as the latter thought occurred to him, Thomson,
infuriated by his prolonged failure, caught sight
of the exposed limb. The sabres parted, a savage
downright stroke from the elder of the swordsmen
was evaded by a quick withdrawal of the foot, and
next moment Colonel Thomson fell face downward on
the grass, the blood spouting from below the right
ear. The seconds and the surgeon, who had remained
somewhat to their rear, hurried up at once to the
spot, while the victor, wiping his sword on the grass,
was returning it to the scabbard.

The wound is mortal," said the surgeon, after a
moment's examination. " The carotid artery is severed,
and nothing can check the bleeding."

Make for the frontier at once, Monsieur le Marquis,"
said his second; as Darcy looked somewhat
mournfully on the victim of his successful stroke.

Not while he breathes. I had no choice, seeing
his determination to beat down my guard or wear
out my arm by heavy blows, save to disable or
kill; but I did not aim that fatal wound; indeed I
should not have known how. I struck, whether to
stun or slay, at the head. Well, he deserves his fate ;
but ."

Some weeks after her husband's death, Mrs. Thomson
received, from a firm of solicitors with whom she
was wholly unacquainted, an intimation that some
unknown friend had settled on her and her children
an income which, together with her pension, was precisely
equal to that she had lost by her husband's
death. No inquiry on her part or that of her friends
could trace the unknown benefactor; and if among the

latter there were one or two who suspected that the
gift might be due to secret remorse rather than to unknown
friendship, they were careful not to hint an
idea that never entered into the widow's mind.

Chapter IX.

EXILED IS NOT LOST."

I have lost all my soul held dear,
I am cut off from, all the ties of life
Unmurmuring .' '

Late in the autumn of 1859 two horsemen rode side
by side along a bridle-path leading through the rich
semi-tropical forest scenery of one of the loveliest
districts in Louisiana. The elder, though like most
Southerners a good horseman, had the seat and
carriage of one to whom the saddle was less familiar
than the armchair. Tall, slight, dark-complexioned,
somewhat sallow, wearing the beard and imperial
without whisker or moustache common with Americans,
he looked no less distinctly the civilian and
hard-worked man of business than his companion, in
carriage, bearing, and even to some extent in dress,
still more in the management of his steed and his seat
in the saddle, betrayed the recent recollections of
military habits and training. The latter  still extremely
young, and looking perhaps even younger
than he was, from the soft smoothness of the face
whereof the upper lip alone was shaded by hair, as
dark as the Cavalier-like curls, worn long enough to
show that months at least had passed since their

owner was subject to the regulations of any European
service  had substituted for the usual coat and vest,
even more characteristic of American than of European
civilization, a dark blouse and military belt.

"You really mean to settle here ? " said the elder,
continuing a conversation that had been interrupted
by one of those long silences natural to men of taste
or susceptible feeling, when passing through scenery
so striking and, to one at least of the pair, so unfamiliar.


"Certainly," returned his companion, after whistling
up a powerful mastiff that had loitered behind, in
some danger of losing his way. " I could not endure
the Yankees, and there is no part of Europe to which
I have not some grave objection. Here, no one, I
suppose, will think the worse of me for the fatal result
of a duel in which I punished a foul outrage to the
dead. But that duel has closed for ever my career in
the British Service, and rendered it impossible for me
to set foot on British soil but at peril of my life.
French by descent and title, I could not enter the
service in which many Englishmen have found advancement
and honour ; since Austria was so recently
at war with France, and may be so again. I have no
fancy for Prussian life ; and the same objection, I
hold, applies to Prussia as to Austria. In Italy, if I
attempted to take interest in her politics or service in
the army of any of the States thrown into confusion
by the late struggle, I must be either the enemy of
liberty or the enemy of my Church."

But France herself?" said the American. " You
could hardly find a pleasant home than Paris."

* In France no man loyal to the political faith of
my fathers has a career. The Legitimist nobles, by
far the finest element in French society, are fretting
and deteriorating in enforced abstinence from every
occupation suitable to their traditions and their
temper. And there are reasons which would make
it difficult to me to settle down in any quiet life ;
would render me restless while so near the country
from which I am banished for ever. As I told you, I
don't exactly like slavery, but I don't hate it as I hate
the democracy of your Northern States, and can
become a slave-owner myself without any intolerable
burden on my conscience ; in a country where the
presence of four million negroes among twice that
number of white men makes any other relation than
the present so difficult to establish or even to imagine,
that I feel no call to protest against that which
actually subsists."

*' Then," replied the elder traveller, "I don't think
you can do better than purchase the estate of which I
told you. I believe it will be put up for auction at
first in one lot ; and if the bidding do not come upto
the reserved price, then the land, house, and slaves
will be separately sold. As the plantation is not
large and very profitable, and as that, like the house
and garden grounds, is said to be in exquisite order,
you could hardly do better than purchase the whole.
Minnaroo is one of the most beautiful and healthiest
residences in all Louisiana, I might say in all the Gulf
States."

"Minnaroo!" repeated his companion, startled.
Is not that Mr. Dupont's place ? "

It was ; but Dupont died a few months ago, and
died bankrupt. His failure took the whole community
by surprise, and probably himself not least. Had he
not died so suddenly, had he been aware in time of his
insolvency, he certainly would not have left matters
as they now stand. Did you know him ? "

''I am afraid," said the younger, ''I am afraid it
must be the man I knew in India, where he was
travelling with his daughters. What has become of
them?"

It is a cruel story," rejoined the other, with a sigh ;
a very rare and very painful illustration of what
some of our lawyers, like myself, regard as the worst
feature of institutions like ours. The law parts
sequitur ventre is, you know, as old as the first foundation
of Eoman law, and is a rule almost inseparable
from slavery. But when slave and master are of
different races, it works now and then terrible hardship
and wrong, and constantly encourages that
admixture of blood for which I can see no cure while
slavery exists. And the evil is greatly aggravated bylaws
which render emancipation exceedingly difficult ;
laws for which Northern feeling and Northern Abolitionism
are at least as much to blame as Southern
prejudice. Free men of colour are an abomination
and a danger here, and therefore Southern legislation
has rendered it scarcely possible to emancipate born
slaves without removing them from the State ; while
in the North they are more looked down upon and
infinitely worse treated than here. I need not tell
you that the mixed race are chiefly the offspring of
mean whites, the father generally unknown ; that the

stories of fathers selling their children born of slave
mothers are, if not absolutely and always calumnious,
yet rare and universally reprobated exceptions. But
now and then it has happened that men attempting
to evade the law or to satisfy its hard conditions in
regard to emancipation have failed, and then their
mistresses or wives and children remain slaves by law;
and that has occurred in the case of which we are
speaking."

Good God ! " exclaimed his companion. " What
do you mean ? "

Dupont," said the Louisianian, " married, whether
formally or not seems doubtful, a beautiful Octagon,
the daughter of a Quadroon woman who came from
Savannah. It has been made clear that his "Wife's
mother was and remained to the last a slave. It
seems absolutely certain that, whether he knew it or
not, he took no legal steps to emancipate her daughter,
and by consequence she, following her mother's condition,
remained his slave. She bore him daughters,
of whom four survive them; and these of course,
though so nearly white that only the most careful
scrutiny could detect the traces of African blood,
though I believe one or two of them are much fairer
than most white-born Louisianian ladies, are slaves,
and form one of the most valuable portions of the
bankrupt estate."

Horrible ! " cried the foreign traveller. " Accident
made me well acquainted, though only for a few days,
with Dupont and the young ladies at Sivapore, just
before the outbreak of the Mutiny. They were very
young ; in England one would have called even the

VOL. II. L

eldest a child :  but they were as ladylike, as refined,
as the daughters of the most distinguished English
families, and were received and courted in Anglo-indian
society as might have been the children of
Calhoun or Edward Livingstone."

*' So," returned his companion, "they were here,
until, some months ago, the story of their mother's
birth began to be rumoured. I fancy it was traced
and circulated by a low-bred, low-minded, slave-trading
Yankee ; one of those who disgrace our profession
here, where we have no such discipline as
I believe the Courts and the Inns enforce on both
branches in England. At all events, John B. Ballard
has been most active in hunting up the evidence
which has clenched their fate, and doomed them to
the auction-block. What lies beyond, you can guess
as well as I could tell you."

''No, by God!" cried the other. "I must, cost
what it may, be there in time ; and you must find forme
the means of redeeming them surely and legally."

*' There is no difficulty in purchasing them if you
can afford it ; but of course such girls will command
a far higher price than the most valuable of mechanics
or domestic servants. Ballard himself has, I suspect,
set his mind  heart he has none  upon the eldest,
and will not let her go for a trifle."

If it cost half my fortune, Florence Dupont shall
fall into no such hands. I suppose there will be no
difficulty in rendering my credit available ? "

*' None whatever, to the extent of whatever advances
your bankers at New Orleans will make beyond the
funds you have in their hands."

"When I resolved to settle here," was the reply,
** I drew for all the ready cash I had at home ; and
as I had realized, fearing some risk of forfeiture, most
of the available investments bequeathed to me, I fancy
I may count with certainty on at least a quarter of a
million dollars in the hands of Delavigne and Jeffreys,
or their correspondents."

You may buy the girls, slaves, and estate altogether
for much less than half of that ; but there may be a
difficulty  in our sense. Ballard will be mad with
his disappointment, and there will be rowdies and
loafers in plenty hanging about on such an occasion.
However, a hint may gather the gentlemen of the
neighbourhood, and a word to the Marshal will, I
dare say, ensure the presence of those who can enforce
the law. But, Monsieur le Marquis, as you speak of
redemption, let me remind you that purchase is one
thing and emancipation another. To send them to
Europe, dependent as they must be upon your bounty,
and with slander sure to track and misrepresent the
story, will be a difficult and dubious kindness. In
truth they would be almost as well off with you here.
We have in our own despite a considerable population
of mixed descent, dating from the French days. Their
girls cannot marry white men, and consequently there
is in New Orleans a regular recognized demi-monde,
whose relations may be called those of temporary
marriage with legally enforceable settlements. The
position of such ladies here is better than would be
in the North that of these girls, especially if their
story and the fact that they owed their freedom and
their bread to you followed them, as it surely would."

* Somewhat similar arguments," said the other
sadly, "were used in another case which I have
bitter cause to remember."

I don't counsel you ; I only mean you to understand
this : that whatever steps you took, by the time
you could place them in safety their character, as it
is called, would be much what it would be if they
remained here under your own control. However,
as your adviser, and, if you permit me the name,
your friend, I have nothing to do but to assist you
in making the purchase and to secure its legality."

Some two hours after sunrise of a November morning
in an atmosphere bright and sparkling, warm
and soft as that of an English June, the travellers
aforesaid reined up their horses at the summit of a
wooded slope, where the road, emerging from the
remains of the virgin forest, inclined downward along
a declivity too steep for direct descent. The scene
in front contrasted signally, and in a manner to.
heighten the charms of both, that through which
they had just passed. Their ascent for nearly a
mile had been gradual and easy, the lofty trees
limiting their view. From the height which they
had now reached they looked down on a considerable
expanse of partially cleared and cultivated land,
evidently for a long period the home of owners who
had devoted much taste and care to its adornment.
Everywhere groups of the finest aboriginal trees had
been spared, but so thinned as to afford them free
space for such individual growth as is rarely possible
even to the stateliest monarchs of a natural forest
Here and there, again, were splendid single specimens,

native or transplanted; most, however, even
of the latter of more than thirty years' growth. At
the foot of the hill flowed a silver stream of considerable
width and depth, which, traced upward by the
eye, meandered in natural and artificial windings
throughout the landscape ; now and then widening
into lakes evidently of man's creation, elsewhere
divided into smaller branches, or filling long but
narrow rivulets and watering park and garden,
pleasure and plantation ground ; till lost again in
the forest which formed the background of the entire
landscape at a distance of several miles. Far to the
right the view was bounded by a swamp, its uglier
features hidden by trees judiciously spared or planted.
To the left the ground, gradually rising, was more
and more fully wooded, till at last an almost continuous
line of trees formed the visible horizon. In
the centre of the scene, surrounded by parterres
bright with flowers such as only a semi-tropical
climate could at that season display, and by lawns
seeming in the distance almost as smooth and green
as those of England,  enclosed on the three visible
sides by a broad terrace; in the formation of which
broken shells had been rolled into that consistency
and firmness which makes the famous shell road of
Mobile equal to any macadamized drive in the
environs of London or Paris,  rose a house built
indeed of brick, but so covered with creepers, its
outline so gracefully broken by the pillars that sustained
the flat roof of a broad projecting portico, that
the unsightliness of its original material failed to
offend the eye. The towers which stood forth at

either extremity of the front had in miniature almost
the grace and apparent antiquity of those so-called
castles, in which modern English architecture has
imitated the examples of an age the purpose of whose
buildings was entirely different. Except the towers,
the house was of two stories only ; but the height of
each floor, suited to a climate in which small low
rooms would for the greater part of the year be utterly
uncomfortable, gave sufficient elevation to suit the
style and character of the architecture, strangely
mixed as that was. From the further bank of the
stream a gravelled road sloped up for nearly half
a mile to the gate of the gardens, enclosing perhaps
a dozen acres, that immediately surrounded the
house, shaded by the finest evergreens suitable to the
soil and climate.

That," said the Louisianian, " is Minnaroo.
Does it look as if it would suit you for a home ?"

'' Thoroughly."

"Then I recommend you, even if the price be
somewhat exaggerated, to purchase it with the plantation
behind it, the slaves and the furniture, exactly
as it stands. For three generations its owners have
been men of wealth and taste, and every part and
every detail of arrangement, decoration, furniture,
has been so well adapted to every other and to the
whole, that as a whole it is far more valuable than
its dispersed fragments can possibly be. And the
purchaser of such a place would in any case be looked
upon favourably in the first instance bey his neighbours
; your name, your origin, and the honours
you have obtained as a soldier would ensure you.

whether as a visitor or a settler, a distinguished
reception in any part of this State, whose original
French inhabitants still form a great part of its
natural aristocracy."

"Well, then," replied the other, "I will leave it
to you to purchase the place as it stands, on the best
terms you can ; only I must run no risk of not being
able to command at once the means of securing its
present mistresses against the terrible fate they must
be awaiting in such an intense agony of miserable
expectation. I wish it were possible to spare them
the shame and horror, the publicity, the degradation
of the auction-room."

"It is too late for that," said his companion as
they continued their route, crossing the river 'by a
strong and broad bridge, built however with as much
regard to artistic ornament as to utility ; " and had
there been time, I doubt whether we could successfully
have interfered with the arrangements. Indeed,
if we had attempted to do so, we should probably
have entangled ourselves in some awkward unpleasantness."


As the travellers approached the house, various
little symptoms indicated the character of the occasion.
A few rough-looking loungers in motley garments
and large broad-brimmed straw hats hung
about the portico or under the shade of the nearer
trees ; smoking for the most part, and occasionally
spitting with a vehemence and ostentation that indicated
some pride and pleasure taken in a disgusting
accomplishment. The professional sitters, however,
were a decided minority. The lawyer called a negro,

and giving him a dollar bade him hold the horses.
His client ordered his great hound to lie down without
and wait his return; and the dog obeyed with a
manifest intelligence which, together with his great
size and obvious breeding, attracted not a little attention
from the loungers. The front door stood open,
giving entrance to a wide and lofty hall, through
which the travellers passed into an inner court;
bounded to right and left by wings that contained
on the one side most of the domestic faces, on the
other a billiard-room, ball-room, and chambers intended
to accommodate casual guests in a district where inns
were, when the mansion was built, few and far between,
and hospitality consequently general and
somewhat indiscriminate. The court was nearly
filled with those whom business or curiosity had
drawn to the spot. The majority were evidently
idlers ; but on the one hand there were several the
eagerness of whose brutal or sensual faces and their
occasional coarse remarks, less loudly spoken, however,
than on an English racecourse or in any other
scene where sport or business brings the rough into
contact with his betters, displayed a more serious
interest in the auction ; on the other, a somewhat
larger number of men whose countenances, dress, and
bearing indicated their claim, at any rate in their own
estimation, to the rank of gentlemen  planters, sons
of planters, and professional men  stood for the most
part together ; talking little and chiefly in a low tone,
their countenances in some cases at least expressing
somewhat of disgust and pain. To several of these
his companion, who was received with evident respect,

introduced the stranger by his French title. To more
than one gentleman of French descent there the name
was at least as familiar as to Englishmen of average
education would be that of a Stanley, a Talbot, or a
Howard bearing one of the many titles of those
historic houses ; and these by their words and manner
acquainted their companions with the social standing
of the stranger, and appeared to vouch the reality of
his rank in a community rather inclined to exaggerate
the facility with which French titles and territorial
names are assumed by those who have small claim to
either. He was received, therefore, with that peculiar
courtesy which, in the best society of the Southern
States, then combined and still combines the best
elements of French politeness and English cordiality.
In the centre of the court was a fountain, whose
play, however, was now suspended ; and beside this
stood the temporary desk of the auctioneer, and the
heavy table which was to serve as a block for the
exhibition of those human chattels who were not, or
might happen not to be, included in the general
purchase of the mansion and its appurtenances. The
auctioneer having mounted his rostrum and called
the assembly to order with his hammer, announced
that the estate, the house and furniture, the slave
household, and the negro "field hands" who cultivated
the plantation (the whole about six score in
number), would be first put up for sale in a single lot
under a reserved price ; that if no bidding came up to
the latter, the house with its contents and garden,
then the plantation, would be offered in separate lots,
and the slaves sold severally, as usual. Afterwards,

those slaves who were neither domestic servants nor
outdoor labourers would be individually put up to
auction. There was some murmuring among the
rougher portion of the audience at this arrangement ;
but a division of opinion among themselves, immediately
apparent, prevented any serious clamour.
Those who were prompted by mere curiosity wished
that the most interesting part of the sale should take
place at once ; those who had come with more serious
intentions were not sorry to see the purse of any
wealthy bidder emptied before the appearance of the
'individual lots " might tempt his taste or excite his
compassion. It appeared at first that no bidder was
prepared to offer what the auctioneer had been instructed
to treat as the lowest price for which the
mansion and estate might be sold as they stood ; but
after a pause of two or three minutes the lawyer
approached and spoke apart with the auctioneer.

The last bid was seventy thousand dollars," said
the latter, rapping with his hammer. '' Seventy-five
thousand is bid, and if there is no higher offer the
lot will be sold all together at that rate."

The competition was revived for a minute, but after
two or three close bids eighty thousand dollars were
accepted.

"Who is the purchaser?" said the auctioneer,
turning to the lawyer.

Robert C. Delarue, on the part of the Marquis of
Ultramar," was the answer.

The eyes of the entire audience were turned towards
the stranger, whose name and intention were thus,
suddenly announced to them.

'* We know no Marquises here ! " cried a rough
voice.

"Your client's name and surname, sir? "said the
auctioneer to Mr. Delarue.

Lionel Darcy, late Major in the service of Her
Britannic Majesty."

Chapter X.

AT UTMOST NEED.

The caitiff reeled three paces back, and let the maiden go ;
Yet glared he fiercely round him, and growled in fell harsh tone,
She's mine, and I will have her ; I seek but for mine own ;
She is my slave'"



A VERY few minutes sufficed to fill up the legal document
which formally transferred the estate, as defined
therein, and all the slaves thereon  with four specified
exceptions, whose names the purchaser read with a
flush of anger, disgust, and shame  to the new owner.

** Florence Dupont," called the auctioneer.

Turning away his eyes from a spectacle so painful
and so abhorrent, simply unable to look under such
circumstances and in such a situation upon the girl
he had last seen as a friend and equal, Lionel
whispered to his companion.

*' Better that the bidding come neither from me
nor you directly," replied the other.

Only take care," said Lionel, "that there be no
trick, no mistake."

I will take care. If you do not stop the broker,
he will go on as long as the competition lasts."

** Good ! " and involuntarily turning his head, his
eyes as he raised them fell where a woman of some

forty years, rather better dressed than most even of
the confidential household servants of the South  an
octagon whose countenance still retained the traces
of great youthful beauty, marred at the moment by an
expression anything but pleasant, but which Lionel's
hasty glance failed to understand  led forward a
young girl in deep mourning, and rather lifted than
aided her to mount the table. Scarcely able to
stand, the girl yet leaned rather on the edge of the
auctioneer's desk than on her attendant. Shivering
from head to foot, her dark lids almost hiding eyes
swollen with long-continued weeping, and surrounded
by deep black circles indicating many nights of sleepless
suffering, with face deadly white, and lips of the
palest pink  Lionel could hardly have recognized in
the agonized, crushed victim of humiliation and terror
the bright, happy, lively maiden he had known some
two short years before.

"Poor thing!" muttered a young Southerner, of
not ill-natured though somewhat dissipated countenance,
near his elbow. " I'll have her, if it don't cost
something out of all reason."

"Hold up your face, and let us look at you, pretty
one," said a brutal voice; and one of the biggest,
coarsest, most sensual-looking of the rowdies near the
stand seized Florence's drooping hand and lifted the
chin that had sunk almost upon her breast. Lionel
sprang forward, a passionate impulse overriding at
once all considerations of prudence.

The girl is not yours yet, at any rate," he said.
"Let her alone."

"Who are you to give orders?" cried the huge

ruffian, turning savagely upon him. *' Some damned
Abolitionist, I take it, who makes such a fuss over a
coloured gal, as if it hurt the like of her to be handled
by a free American ! "

But, accustomed to the quick treacherous violence
of his own class, the ruffian, prompt to stand upon
his guard, had at once released Florence from the
touch from which she had shrunk as from defilement,
and which had brought a painful colour into her pale
cheeks. Turning from him, Lionel warmly addressed
the audience at large : 

*' That I am no Abolitionist, those know who have
seen me purchase some hundred slaves just now.
But, to say nothing of humanity or decency, whoever
buys a girl born and bred a lady, like her before us,
has a right to that virginal modesty and unsoiled
self-respect which constitute, I suppose, her special
value ; and that man's brutality is a wrong to her
future owner, if you do hold that a slave has no
rights  not even those common to every woman
whatever her race or rank."

The practical argument in defence of the purchaser's
right, though the speaker simply could not put it into
plain words, reached the dull understanding and
brutal prejudice of one part of the audience, as the
natural humanity and the tone of suppressed scorn
which marked the latter words appealed to the better
feelings of the rest.

"Quite right, sir," said a person apparently in
authority, interposing. " Mr. Ballard, you have no
right to touch the girl till you've bought her."

I have a right to see whether she's worth buying.

whether she's sound and healthy," rejoined the fellow,
giving by tone and look a still more brutal and
offensive sense to his brutal words.

You will touch her again at your peril," said
Lionel, in a tone so low and quiet that the ruffian
stared, while one or two of the more experienced
among the gentlemen present recognized the dangerous
calmness of one who means to save breath and
energy for something stronger than words.

*' You'll hardly hinder me," growled the offender,
lifting, rather by way of defiance than with any
definite purpose, his hand towards the girl ; who stood
half unconscious of the interference, but who, as that
loathed hand again approached her, looked round in
shrinking terrified appeal to the human feeling of the
assembly. That look was not without effect, but
would not have availed to protect her at the moment
but that Lionel, lifting the seemingly light stick he
carried  which his opponent had observed only to
conclude that one who bore so useless an instrument
had no dangerous intention or more formidable
weapon  struck with its loaded end right at the ear
of the rowdy. Into that blow was thrown, not only
the whole muscular force of an arm that owed more
to long careful training than to natural strength, but
the whole nervous energy of a spirit roused to the
uttermost. Under that blow the huge carcase fell
like that of an ox, and lay senseless as an ox under
the stroke of the butcher.

Foul play ! " cried two or three of the rowdies.
*' Ballard was a good bidder, and the stranger wanted
him out of the way."

More than one knife had been drawn, more than
one revolver was grasped and would in another
moment have been produced from the pocket or
breast of its owner, when a gentleman standing somewhat
remote from the others, but noticeable by his
great stature and vigorous frame, and evidently regarded
with much respect by the few who had ventured
to address him and the many who had not,,
interposed energetically and peremptorily.

Take him out and put him under the pump, or
pour a bucket of water over him, and he'll come to
such senses as he has. For the rest, whoever disgraces
Louisiana by drawing knife or revolver on the
stranger, will have to deal with me."

The reputation of the speaker was evidently well
known to all present ; and though some sullen murmurs
were heard among the rowdies, none ventured
on a direct defiance to a personage of whom they all
evidently stood in awe.

"Have you a revolver?" said the tall Louisianian
in a quick whisper to Lionel. " If not, take mine. If
you have, see that it is loaded and ready in case of
danger. And on no account leave this till I speak to
you again."

The bidding, stopped by this scene, now began ;
Florence, whom the pause and the disturbance had
roused from her state of semi-unconscious misery to
fear and horror unspeakable, looking round with
bewildered anxiety as one after another would-be purchaser
shouted his offer. But ever as a pause came
among their bidding, a quiet steady voice from near
the stand outbid the last, and set the competition
afloat again.

Twelve hundred  twelve-fifty  twelve-seventy-five
thirteen hundred  thirteen-fifty  fourteen  ."
" Fifteen hundred," shouted Ballard, who
had promptly recovered under the treatment recommended,
and now leaned, staggering and pale, against
the wall, as far as might be beyond the reach of the
arm he had felt, but regarding his assailant with a
savage intentness of malignant purpose in his gaze.
There was a pause.

** Sixteen hundred," said the quiet voice. " Seventeen
hundred," shouted Ballard again, and as a
momentary hesitation followed, Florence shuddered,
turning her eyes with agonized horror on the last
speaker.

Two thousand." This came from Lionel himself;
but Florence, surprised and startled by the voice,
failed to recognize who had spoken. " Twenty-one
hundred  twenty-one-fifty  twenty-two  twenty-four,
from all sides of the room. " Twenty-six," again said
the quiet voice beside the auctioneer.

"Twenty-eight," shouted Ballard; "I'll have her
whatever it costs, and if any one dare thwart me, he'd
better look out for himself when the sale's over."

Twenty-nine," cried the young Southerner before
mentioned, in prompt defiance of the challenge ; while
Lionel turned and looked the ruffian straight in the
eyes.

Four thousand," he said, in a tone audible to the
auctioneer and understood by the man on whom his
eyes were fixed, but scarcely heard by the rest of the
bidders ; who began shouting again, " Three thousand
 three thousand one hundred."

VOL. II. M

*' Stop," said the auctioneer, "four thousand is
bid."

The Southern youth dashed his hand on the table
with a curse. " Even she ain't worth that ! " he exclaimed.
The price startled Ballard, but his avarice
was a weaker passion than lust and hatred combined.

"Four thousand two hundred," he cried.

Five hundred," came again from the quiet, almost
invisible broker who stood beside the table. The
other bidders, with one or two exceptions, were now
silenced. Even the beauty and grace of the girl
before them, fair as the average brunette of unmixed
Anglo-American race, refined in person and in bearing
as the best-born and best-educated lady of Louisiana,
did not seem worth such a price ; but Ballard would
have risked anything short of utter pecuniary ruin to
attain his object, and had run up the price to no less
than six thousand dollars (1200) when Mr. Plague
interposed.

"Mr. Johnson," he said to the auctioneer, "I
greatly doubt whether Mr. Ballard can lay down the
sum he has offered ; and if not, he has no right to run
up the price against a hondficle bidder."

"Damn you! " cried Ballard. "Who dare say I
am not good for what I offered ? Or who knows what
that broker fellow yonder may be, or whether he can
back his bids ? "

I know him," said the auctioneer quietly, after
glancing at a paper handed to him by Delarue, which
bore the signature of the wealthiest firm of bankers in
Louisiana. " Mr. Ballard, will any one vouch for
your credit ? "

o

"Here," cried Ballard, coming forward and flinging
at the auctioneer's head a purse containing a roll of
dirty notes. " There's six thousand dollars there,
and I can find more if you want it."

Then the bidding may go on," returned, the
auctioneer indifferently.

The competition, however, was now confined to two,
the infuriate Yankee slave-dealer and the quiet broker
who acted under Delarue's instructions.

Sixty-five hundred," cried the former. The latter
looked to Delarue in some doubt, but at a sign from
him replied, " Seven thousand."

I will have your life, you scoundrel ! " cried the
enraged Yankee. ** This is a swindle ; no one would
give such a price in good faith. It is some damned
Abolitionist plot."

Mr. Ballard," said the tall Louisianian before
mentioned, quietly, " you cannot be allowed to intimidate
buyers and injure the creditors by such threats.
If you are not quiet, I shall call on the Marshal to
arrest and remove you."

Either the gentleman's tone and look, or his evident
influence over the assemblage, checked the blustering
rowdy; and he only answered in a sullen tone,
*' Seven five."

"Let us end this scene," Lionel whispered to his
adviser. " Offer what will clinch the matter and
crush that fellow."

I don't know what will," the other answered.
Better let it go on ; it can't last long."

"Ten thousand," was all Lionel's reply; but the
words startled and for a moment silenced the whole

audience. Ballard, with a bitter curse, sprang forward
and snatched his purse from the desk. Then a loud
cheer rang through the court, swelled even by the
voices of those roughs who up to this point had
seemed to sympathize with the worst among them,
but on whom wealth and liberality so combined
and so displayed imposed a sincere if momentary
respect.

Ten thousand, sir ? " said the auctioneer in surprise,
turning to the last bidder. "Did you bid ten
thousand ? "

"Ten thousand," Lionel repeated.

The auctioneer bowed. " The lot is sold," he said,
"Ten thousand dollars." Then to the woman who
throughout had stood beside Florence : " Remove her
and bring the next."

There was an expression of bitter mortification on
the slave woman's face as she assisted the almost
insensible girl from the stand; exchanged, however,
for one of malicious if doubtful hope as she rather
dragged than led Eva to the place her sister had
quitted.

"That is part of my property ?" said Lionel in a
tone of bitter sarcasm, turning to Delarue, and pointing
to the female assistant.

"Yes," replied his friend. "She is one of the
household slaves included in your first purchase."

In the mean time the bidding had commenced, but
with less excited activity than before ; Ballard's
passionate desire to possess himself of the person
of the elder girl having been for the moment quelled
by so signal a defeat, and leaving him without a

present purpose even of revenge. To the young
Louisianian, however, who had shared his disappointment,
Eva's sweet half-childish Saxon face was even
more attractive than that of Florence ; and his eagerness
quickly stimulated a competition in which he did
not apprehend the interference of that overwhelming
purse and utter indifference to cost which had snatched
Florence from his hands  and, as he was humane
enough to understand, not without some sense of
relief, from worse hands than his.

Two thousand dollars had been offered before
Delarue's broker once more interposed with an offer
of '' Two thousand one hundred."

Twenty-two," cried the young Louisianian.

Twenty - four  twenty - five  twenty - seven."
Three thousand," said the quiet broker.

His voice stung Ballard into a passion of malignant
revenge. "You shall pay for it all, with your wax-doll
face and white skin," he muttered in his teeth.
"If your sister cares for you, she shall suffer almost
as much as if that damned fellow had not been caught
by her. "Three thousand two hundred," he cried.
"Three-five," said the Southerner. "Three-seven,"
came from the end of the table, where the quiet
broker, after exchanging signals with Delarue, kept
a close watch upon the proceedings. " Three-eight,"
from the youth. " Three-nine," from Ballard.

Cut it short ! " said Lionel impatiently to Delarue.
"Five thousand." [1000 sterling.]

This was more than the Southerner was disposed
to pay for a toy, or Ballard for a revenge that might betaken
in another way ; and Eva was removed from the

stand. During the whole scene she had remained
almost motionless and apparently unconscious, more
utterly crushed than even Florence by the horror of
her situation; not probably that she felt it more
keenly or realized it so well, but that in mind and
body she was weaker than her sister.

"There are two more, are there not?" enquired
Lionel. "For God's sake, Mr. Delarue, let us get
over this sickening business. Don't let me have to
interfere again. Tell your broker to offer at once a
price utterly beyond what they are thought worth;
five thousand apiece if he likes."

"They are children," said Delarue, "and five
thousand dollars is too much for a few minutes'
shortening of a disgusting spectacle. If you settle
here. Marquis, you must get hardened to such
things."

"You will oblige me, though," replied the other, ina
tone still very low and quiet, but so peremptory
that his adviser almost started at a change so signal
and so sudden.

One thousand dollars was offered by some one in
the crowd for the young girl, about twelve, who was
now exhibited to the assemblage. " Twelve hundred,"
said the broker.  "Thirteen," "fifteen," "seventeen
hundred."  " Two thousand" said the broker again,
and the hammer fell.

The youngest girl was disposed of even more
quickly for 1300 dollars  a little more than 260
sterling. As she was led into the house by the
attendant, Lionel, who had failed to mark the varying
expression of the woman's face, absorbed as he had

been by the feelings of interest and pity on the one
hand, of disgust and abhorrence on the other, which
had concentrated his attention now on the successive
chattels offered for sale and now on the excited
bidders, laid his hand on her shoulder.

"I understand," he said, "that you belong to this
household. If so, you are now my servant. I leave
the young ladies to your care for the present. You
will do, I doubt not, all in your power to soothe their
misery and relieve the terror they must have endured
so long. But don't allow them to harass their
minds with doubts and conjectures about the future.
Let them know that they are safe, and in friendly
hands. You must feel even more keenly than I how
terribly they have suffered, and will know hoW to
tend and care for them under the effects of such
horrors and the reaction."

The woman looked at him in surprise and perplexity;
but better able to understand, probably
better acquainted with the coarser and lower motives
and feelings of mankind at large than the generous
impulses of the few, and ignorant altogether of that
loathing and abhorrence which such a scene was likely
to excite in a European strange to the institution of
slavery itself, all she realized was the youth, the high
spirit, and the passionate temperament of the speaker
facts that dispelled whatever doubts his purchase
of all the sisters had suggested. For some reason
of her own, moreover, the signal beauty of the face
into which she looked, bearing traces of more emotion
than it was wont to exhibit under the strongest
excitement, gratified her. Under her assumed air of

profound reverence and submissive gratitude, a keener
observer might have detected a suppressed gleam of
malice in the dark eyes and full bright lips ; but
Lionel, who scarcely noted the face, turned away
believing that he had committed the temporary
charge of Florence and her sisters to one who would
at least afford such consolation as personal sympathy,
and probably the goodwill of long household acquaintance,
could suggest.

The assemblage was slowly dispersing, while the
purchaser was detained to arrange with the auctioneer
the details of payment and the signature of the
various documents whose legal completeness and
sufficiency Mr. Delarue, at his demand, scanned with
unusual and indeed unnecessary care. The place
was nearly emptied when, talking earnestly with his
adviser, he passed out into the portico. As he
stooped to pat and praise the mastiff who had lain
there so long and quietly, but sprang up eagerly at
his approach, the crack of a pistol startled him, and
a bullet struck his hat from his head. Another
crack ; and another bullet whizzed as close to his ear.
The hound, however, had sprung forward at the first
moment ; and as his master looked for the assailant,
the dog had leaped on and was tearing down a man
who had stood revolver in hand beside one of the
columns, some fifteen paces from his intended victim.
The shots recalled a number of loungers and others,
who had not yet completely dispersed or were still
within sight of the place. In the mean time Lionel
had laid hand on the hound's neck, and recognized in
his assailant the baffled bidder, of whose evil character,

and deliberate malignity towards the unfortunate
victims of a bad law and a father's heedlessness,
Delarue had spoken. Endeavouring with his left
hand to enforce his order to the dog : "Let go,
Rupert ! " he wrested with his right a revolver from
the hand that had so nearly taken his life. The dog,
however, held on tenaciously, and, thrusting the
revolver into his belt, his master had to drag him
away almost by main force ; resting as he did so his
foot, with a heavy and perhaps not wholly unwilling
pressure, upon the person of the prostrate scoundrel.
The latter staggered up with difficulty, supporting
himself against the column, his throat bearing bloody
marks of the hound's sharp white teeth, his dress
torn, his bruised lips breathing savage growls* and
almost equally inarticulate curses.

I feared something like this," said a voice close
to Lionel's ear, "when I bade you wait for me.
Major," and Lionel recognized immediately the tall
Louisianian before mentioned, who had befriended
him in the auction-court. " I will have this fellow
handed over to the Marshal at once. Here," to one
of the roughest of the rowdies who was now approaching,
" fetch the Marshal instantly, and some men who
can be trusted. I will give you a dollar for each on
whom we can depend."

Guess I'll du it, Colonel," replied the man, whose
native sympathy with the scoundrel was not proof
against the offer of money from the upholder of the
law.

Stop," said Lionel, quietly, looking round upon
the small crowd that had already collected, and noting

the presence of a majority of comparatively respectable
men. " Your law, I think, is a little too slow, and
your prisons a little too uncertain, for a rascal like
this. I had rather take his punishment into my own
hands."

Give me back my revolver, then, stranger,"
growled the fellow. " Fight me fair. I ain't afraid
of you,"

"You forget," returned Lionel, coolly, "that you
owe me two shots before we shall be on equal terms."

"Is it nothing, then, that your dog has torn my
throat, and you set your heel in my mouth? " growled
the would-be murderer, a broad black semi-circular
mark on his swollen lips corroborating the last assertion.
" I think we shall start fair now ; and I'll spoil
the pretty face you're so proud of and your gal's curls
there, before you're five minutes older."

"You may take your choice," said Lionel. "Either
accept my terms or  there are enough of your fellow-citizens
here for a jury  I hand you over to Judge
Lynch."

That terrible name appalled the villain much more
than the menace of regular legal prosecution. Condemnation,
in the temper of a mob which, however
prone to hasty and not scrupulously fair assault with
deadly weapons, abhorred the cowardice of an attempt
to effect assassination by surprise, was almost certain;
and the sentences pronounced by Judge Lynch are
generally capital, and more certainly executed than
those of more regular Courts, allowing no appeal to a
needy Governor or soft-minded Home Secretary.

"I will have my two shots at you," said Lionel,.

watching the effect of his words, " at the same distance
at which you fired at me, and then you may goon
; or'  pointing to those who were abbacy forming
themselves as if in an extempore jury-hox  " you
may abide the verdict of these gentlemen."

** Shoot and be damned ! " rejoined the fellow,
though with a manifest tremor. " Guess, if I had a
revolver too, I'd bet on your missing."

* Stand up then and throw up your hands," said
Lionel, more contemptuously than sternly, as he fell
back to the door, thus placing between them the same
distance at which the intending assassin had fired.
'' If you attempt to run I will let my dog go. He'll
stop you soon enough. Throw up your hands," as he
turned.

The meaning of the phrase was intelligible to men
who had witnessed or heard of more than one scene of
lawless outrage, where this precaution had been taken
to prevent the use of concealed weapons by the party
taken at disadvantage ; as is still the case in every
highway robbery on the roads or railways of the Far
West. Blaspheming bitterly, the man flung both his
hands, the palms and fingers extended, above his
head; and as he did so, after a momentary aim,
Lionel discharged, one after another, two of the
remaining barrels of the ruffian's own pistol. With a
terrific yell the man dropped his arms and sank on
his knees at the first shot, at the second fell forward
on his face.

*'He is not killed," said Lionel, quietly, to the
spectators of this singular retribution. " Turn him
over, and you will see how I have punished him. It

will be some time before he plays the assassin again,
at least with his right hand."

*' Or his left either," said a rough fellow, whose face,
however, was free from the brutal ruffianly character
with which Nature had branded the countenances of
most of his associates. " Guess you've smashed his
shoulder-blade. Major."

"He should have stood still, and then I should
have served both hands alike," returned the victor;  a
remark exactly suited to the half-jocular, half savage
temper of the rougher bystanders, who by this time,
gathering round the wounded man, perceived that one
ball had gone straight through the centre of his right
palm, smashing the bones of the hand ; while the
other bullet, adapted to a larger, heavier weapon than
the revolver best known in English shops, had lodged
in the left shoulder as the man dropped to the first.

Their humanity quickened by the present of a five-dollar
note apiece, two of the rowdies carried the
sufferer away; and their comrades, after heartily
cheering the stranger who had so completely adapted
his vengeance to their own taste and their ideas of
natural justice, gradually relieved him of their unwelcome
presence. The gentlemen lingered longer,
congratulating their new neighbour cordially on the
accuracy of his aim, and the spirit with which he had
disposed of a difficulty wherewith the law would
hardly have dealt so promptly, nor perhaps so
severely.

''I reckon," said one of them, "we shall be rid of
that fellow for a while at any rate ; and if he goes back
to his Yankee townsfolk for good, no one here will

miss him. The worst drivers, the lowest, meanest
slave-traders, the masters who drive the negroes mad,
always come from the North. The fellows who
furnish models to Mrs. Beecher Stowe and other
Northern artists in calumny are almost always their
own countrymen."

"I should have thought," replied Lionel, "that in
every society there must be ruffians utterly unfit to
be trusted with absolute power over their fellow-creatures."


That is so. But you see we, the worst as the best
of us, are used to the niggers. We know that nothing
can make them other than God made them : lazy,
thoughtless, thieving, aggravating ; and they don't
make us mad with them. But a Yankee, who has
been used to drive white labourers twelve hours a day
at top speed, thinks he can get more out of niggers
whom he cun lick as he pleases ; and when he finds
that he don't get a dollar's worth of work a day from
a man who has cost fifteen hundred, he goes for him
with a cowhide or a club, whichever comes nearest.
Moreover a born Southerner stands in more fear of
the opinion of his neighbours, and knows there is
nothing we hate worse than a brutal master 
unless it be the Abolitionist into whose hands he
plays. Common sense, sir, might teach you English
and French  I don't know which you are 
that we cannot afford to maltreat chattels that cost
double the price of your best hunters, if we wished it ;
and that if our interest were no check on us, we
dare not madden those who can always cut our
throats, and many of whom could poison us and our

wives, or burn our children in their beds. Negroes
care patient, most of them, it is true ; but if fellows
like that were common, if Mrs. Beecher Stowe's picture
of slavery were true in any single parish, how is
it that you never hear of a Negro insurrection, and
hardly ever of a Slave conspiracy ? How is it that
runaways are so few ? "

"Of course. Sir," replied Lionel, "brutality must
be the exception. But is it, even in your own opinion,
a tolerable thing that such girls as those should, though
in one case out of a hundred thousand, fall into the
hands of such men, if you can call them men, as
Ballard ? "

Something more than a shade of embarrassment
clouded the Southerner's face.

No," he said at last. " I never saw or heard of
a scene quite so ugly as this ; but such things have
occurred, though the circumstances have never in my
experience been so hard, the girls so refined, the
purchasers so brutal. If half a dozen cases at all
parallel to this have occurred in the whole history
of Southern slavery, that figure, sir, is the outside."

It would have surprised the European Abolitionist
of the day, it a little surprised Lionel himself, that
his frank criticism of the scene they had witnessed
was so well received, and met with so much evident
sympathy, among men every one of whom was himself
a slave-owner and prepared to fight for slavery and
State rights ; most of whom probably would have had
as little scruple in hanging a detected Abolitionist
emissary as in committing " Uncle Tom's Cabin "
itself, as a symbol of Abolitionist propagandism, to the

flames. But it must be remembered that the Abolitionist
emissary was always in effect, generally in
intention, a political incendiary of the worst sort  a
traitor to the law under which alone he could claim
the right of citizenship in a Southern State, by which
alone the South was bound to the Union; that his
means were the disturbance of relations generally
those of goodwill and contentment, and that his end
could be attained only through scenes of outrage and
massacre, infamy and horror, far more terrible and
infinitely wider spread than those of the Indian
Mutiny itself. Those who did not scruple to blow
mutinous Sepoyss, maddened by fear for their caste,
from the guns, have no right to reproach those who
tarred and feathered, who sometimes hanged, aid are
said, but without proof, in rare cases to have burnt,
the would-be authors of a servile insurrection.

As Lionel was shaking hands with the Louisiana
before mentioned, the owner of a large estate
in the neighbourhood and State Senator of Louisiana,
who had lingered last of the party, a swarthy horseman
dressed in a light flannel costume of a cut not unlike
an ordinary English travelling suit, or the still looser
attire suitable to the climate and habits of the Gulf
States, but wearing a white turban in lieu of hat or
cap, approached, dismounted, and greeted him with
a military salute.

*' My confidential servant and companion in some
rough work in India," said Lionel, as the Southerner
looked with some surprise on the new arrival. ' Afzul,
I have just bought this estate and all upon it. You
know what slavery means : I leave you in charge fora

little while ; I shall return before nightfall. Meantime
 have you letters for me ? "

"No, sahib," returned Afzul, bringing thereby a
shade of manifest disappointment over his master's
countenance. " Your bankers have none, and there
were none at the post-office in New Orleans."

After a brief pause, during which a close observer
might have discerned in his face the perplexed and
troubled thoughts of one striving to understand and
account to himself for the failure of some event
anxiously anticipated, Lionel spoke at some length
in Hindoostanee, giving instructions to which the
Indian listened attentively, repeating at the close his
usual soldierly salute.

Here, boy ! " said Lionel to the negro who still
held the horses, "tell all the boys  tell every one
on the plantation and in the house that this is my
steward." Then, answering the negro's look of perplexity,
" He's boss under me, and you'll have to
obey his orders."

A nigger boss, Massa ? " said the man in surprise,
and grinning at Afzul with a familiarity half childish,
half impertinent.

Do you suppose every man with a dark skin is
a nigger ? " returned his new master.

*' Don't know, Massa. Plenty of niggers here with
berry white skins," retorted the slave, with an expressive
grin, half sneer, half smile, that greatly
provoked his proprietor.

"Be off with you, and don't let me hear such a
sentence again, if you care for your hide ! Look
here, boy," calling him back. " Let yom fellows

know that if Miss Florence or her sisters find any
difference in your behaviour, because I am your
master and not Mr. Dupont, you will remember it
to the last day you live."

The sharpness of the tone and the emphasis given
to the threat quelled the negro's disposition to make
a pert reply; and he turned away, composing his
countenance to what he thought might pass for an
expression of profound respect and obedience, and
muttering to himself 

"Ain't that good? And what will Auntie Cassia
think ? That'll she say to that ? No difference,
eh ? I'll tell her ; I like to see her face when she's
told to treat Miss Florence as she used to do while
ole Massa was alive ! Well, I ain't sorry. Massa
was good to me, and so were Miss Florence and
Miss Eva, if the little ones did scold when their
ponies wasn't ready to the minute."
 Lionel meanwhile had mounted, riding with Delarue
towards the latter's home, giving instructions and
obtaining advice and information from his lawyer
respecting the legal and recognized rights, incidents,
and obligations of his new situation. Perfectly
content to exercise absolute power over household
servants or labourers, safer in his hands than in their
own, it somewhat surprised and embarrassed him
to understand how absolute, how unlimited by law,
and if not by opinion yet by any effective social
convention, was a master's power over the persons
as well as the conduct of such slaves as those who
had last passed under his control; and how many
obstacles Southern law interposed to "their release.

VOL. ir. N

This latter consideration was rendered the more grave
by the former. To assume the worst in the case of
such a relation was the more natural that the slave's
submission to the most revolting exactions could be
enforced at need by terror or torture ; no such social
stigma attached to the master as might be an effectual
check on the grossest abuse of power. This consideration
suggested an idea against which the lawyer
earnestly protested.

You must not think of leaving your new home
and its inmates unguarded. Remember, slaves are
scarcely protected by the law, except as their owner's
chattels. Slave-stealing is an offence which our laws
and opinion would punish severely, but only as
slave-stealing ; and the loneliness of the place, the
helplessness of the girls themselves, the timidity of
the negroes, the uncertainty of justice, would render
it sheer madness to expose them to such enterprises
as disappointed malice might venture in the master's
absence."

Chapter XI.

ON THE RACK.

Think of thy woman's nature, subdued in helpless thrall,
The easy prey of any, the scoff and scorn of all."

Cassia, the slave housekeeper, formerly maid to Mrs.
Dupont and since nurse to her children, led her two
younger charges quickly and somewhat roughly to
their own chamber. Well for her that her master
could not see the look or hear the tones that, though
restrained in some degree by prudence, and the possibility
that any open manifestation of ill-will might be
reported to one whose intentions she regarded with
much uneasiness, nevertheless revealed such feelings
as were rare indeed among household slaves in the
Southern States. Their own mother would not have
feared for children thus, as from their cradle, committed
to the charge of a confidential and not unkindly
treated attendant.

"You will stay here. Miss Eugenie and Miss Rose,
till your master wants you. Don't you dare to leave
the room and give me trouble to find you when he
calls for you. It'll be the worse for you if you do."

The elder child much resembled Florence when
we first saw her in India, though younger, and if not

less intelligent, without the self-possession and liveliness
acquired by an early introduction to society, but
yet more spirited and of quicker and warmer temper.
She turned in surprise at the unprovoked roughness
and unwonted insolence with which she was addressed.
The colour flushed her clear cheeks, scarcely less
delicate in complexion than those of a healthy English
school-girl; and the fire flashed in the dark brown
eyes, overcoming the weariness and sadness that had
dimmed their light for many a day before. The
youngest girl, a mere child, seeming even younger
than she really was, whose long wavy locks hanging-loose
about her, and soft delicate Saxon features, gave
her a close resemblance to Eva, clung frightened to
the sister on whom her timid nature was accustomed
to lean.

*' How dare you, Cassie ? " exclaimed the former.

Dare ? indeed. Miss Eugenie ! Do you think you
are still the young lady, a mistress here, your father's
pet daughter, and we your servants ? Dare !  If you
dare speak as you used, you'll soon know the difference.
What better are you or Florence now than
any nigger child on the plantation? I need not
teach you ; some one else will break that spirit of
yours, if you don't learn to keep your tongue in check
pretty quickly."

Eugenie's momentary flash of spirit was quelled
at once by the bitter humiliating recollection which
was recalled in full force, less by the words than by
the tone, and the very fact that one so lately an
obsequious servant now ventured to address her in
language of insult and menace. She shrank back.

into a low chair, half screened by the curtains of
her bed from the angry eyes of the woman, who had
turned on the threshold thus to answer her ; still,
however, clasping her little sister, and hiding the
infantine face in her own bosom from the glance
which terrified her by its malignity ; as that of the
rattlesnake is said to appal and paralyze the bird or
squirrel on whom it is fixed, and to deprive the active
creature of the energy which might otherwise save
it from the fatal spring.

'' Yes, indeed," Cassia said to herself as she sharply
closed the door behind her, "you shall know the
difference, both of you, before long. You'll be left
to me, I guess, for the present; the master won't
trouble himself with you yet a while. And it sall go
hard but I pay you brats part of what I owe your
mother ; and give you back with interest every pinch
and slap I had from you, when you were spoilt children
whom I must carry whenever it pleased you to be
tired, and break my sleep to walk up and down whenever
it was your fancy to be restless. But there is
sweeter revenge for me than such as you can feel, yet.
I aren't let that girl know how I hate her ; it would
not do, for if he found it out I should lose my chance
to bring her into trouble that will crush that proud
spirit of hers, so like her mother's, lower than she can
dream of now. I wish those Obi notions may be true,
that the dead can come back, and see those who
cannot see them. Ah, madam, with your fine-lady
airs, playing the white mistress over those as good
as you were,  if you could see your pretty petted
slaughters now! Still better, if you could see what

may be  what shall be if we both live long enough !
Not yet : it may take a while before he will weary of
them. I wish he were not so handsome ; he is less
likely to be jealous. I know the passion that will
make men brutal even to the girls they love  if
masters ever do love a slave. The more he makes of
her at first, the worse for her when he is persuaded
that she has played him false. Guess it would go
hard with any woman, if the man could wreak his.
anger just as he pleased, when once he learns to suspect.
It was bitter to see her, these long years, so
petted and so happy ; so proud even when she condescended
to speak civilly, to throw her careless
'thank you with that pretty soft voice, at us who
were the dust under her feet ! But she'll feel it all
the more now, thank goodness ! A year ago too good
to be the wife of any but one that belonged to the best
white families, and now  what we were to take as an
honour will be bitter shame to her, and she may not
dare to show it. She will, though and that will help
me to my end. I'll crush her, soon or late, whatever
comes of it. I'd have my hands cut off the next day,,
if they may help to strip her soft skin for the lash, to
tie her pretty round arms, that she loved to set off
with gold bracelets and jewels, to the post. What
should I care to be deaf and blind ever after if I'd
seen  and I will see  those slender limbs, just her
mother's over again, writhe under the whip, and hear
that voice shriek for mercy ? I could fancy her her
mother, as she was twenty years ago. He is scarce
the man for my purpose  I wish Ballard had got her.
But he mayn't live for ever ; and after all, if he does.

look softly and speak so fair now, masters harden fast,
and twelve months' possession makes the prettiest
favourite a slave and nothing more. And if she can

see it Bah ! that is nonsense. But I can make

her girls feel, make 'em squirm. I aren't tell Miss
Florence that Ballard has her. . I wish the master
hadn't spoken ; but I can torture her, though, worse
than she has suffered since she knew what was in
store for her."

"With such thoughts in her mind, shortly after
Lionel's departure. Cassia opened hastily the door of
the chamber to which she had consigned her intended
victim ; wilfully separating her from' Eva, whom, with
a few hasty words of menace, she had imprisoned
elsewhere. There was a double purpose in thus parting
the sisters. Cassia had intended not merely to
deprive them of the comfort of companionship in
misery, of the hopes that might be suggested by a
comparison of the fragments of recollection* they
might retain, and from which they might gather
something of their probable fate ; but also to impress
on each the belief that they had fallen into the hands
of different purchasers. In this she had completely
succeeded. Eva had known nothing of what had
passed but the fact that she was sold to some stranger;
but her weaker mind and nerves had so utterly given
way under the protracted agony of suspense that
thought, at least connected thought, was hardly yet
possible to her. Florence, with essentially stronger
character and more self-dependent habit, had still
been far too terrified, shamed and horror-stricken, to
observe the details of the scene in which her liberty,

her honour, her very life had been at stake. That
Ballard was not the purchaser she had realized ; but
as she came to look back and examine her confused
recollections of the sale, she had begun to doubt even
this. Half mad with fear, frenzied by a dread the
more intense from its very vagueness, her one thought
when she recovered a little from the mere physical
exhaustion produced by suspense and inward excitement
 perhaps it would be more correct to say her
one impulse  was escape, in any direction, at any
risk. She had no defined intention, no idea of refuge
or help ; she had not self-possession or coherent
intelligence to think of disguise, or realize the risk of
being detected and stopped before she could leave the
house. It was mere unconscious habit that impelled
her hands to seize the hat, the light mantle, the boots
in which she was accustomed to walk in the grounds
or on the plantation ; the woods being too perilous,
from the presence of poisonous snakes and half wild
swine and cattle, to be traversed alone by girls so well
cared for as she and her sisters had been. To venture
into the stable, to find the pony she had so often
ridden and which might perhaps have carried her
beyond the reach of immediate pursuit, never occurred
to her. She had never saddled him herself ; and her
ignorance on that point would, in her present state of
mind, have sufficed to prevent the idea of such an
attempt finding entrance into her almost overturned
brain. She had just sense to avoid the principal
entrance, slipping out unobserved, as it chanced, by
the household ; who, gathered together in their own
quarters, were discussing, with the thoughtless contentment

and indifference natural to their race and
condition, their change of owners and the fact that
they were not to be dispersed. Through a lower
window of the tower to the left, she gained the garden,
and seeing no one, made hastily through the grounds
for the nearest cover, the wood beyond the stream.
Before she had gone a hundred yards, however, light
quick steps on the turf behind startled her, and looking
around she saw beside her a huge mastiff; a
creature less terrible to her, who had more than once
seen the savage-looking but really harmless bloodhounds
now and then employed to track fugitive
negroes, and often kept as guards or watch-dogs, than
it might have been to an English maiden, but alarming
enough. Left by Lionel on duty, and somehow
fancying that a lady thus stealing from the house
alone was under his charge, whether as an object of
suspicion or of protection, the faithful hound had
followed her at once ; and now, as she started and
instinctively endeavoured to avoid him, he pressed
closer to her side, looking up with an expression
which his owner would have recognized as merely
asserting his right and duty to watch her carefully,
but which to the agitated girl seemed to threaten
hostility. Trembling violently, but gradually reassured
as she found that the dog made no attempt
even to detain her, she hurried on, despite his close
attendance, reached and crossed the bridge, but in
utter bewilderment followed the usual road, which,
traversing the steep slope at a slight incline, lay full
in view of the house. Of this she never thought, but
made the best of her way into the woods, where her

figure was of course soon lost to sight. Here, however,
the mere sight of the long grass, the sound of
the dead twigs crackling under her feet, startled
and frightened her. Her action had been purely
impulsive ; her mind was too much agitated and disturbed
to realize, as she otherwise might have done,
that the worst danger that could befal her there, the
deadly bite of some startled copper-head or angry
rattlesnake, was far preferable to that which she
dreaded at the hands of pursuers and from which she
had fled. A sound, not unlike that of the warning
rattle, roused her for a moment to consciousness of
the peril she had from infancy been taught to avoid
and to exaggerate. It was really no more than the
rattling of the large belike pods of a creeper, in
whose coils she had for a moment entangled herself.
But it sufficed to check her flight, and in her actual
state of bewilderment so deprived her of all presence
of mind, indeed of all mental and physical power,
that, abandoning herself to the very danger she
apprehended, she sank half swooning to the ground.
She had no idea what had happened, what time had
passed, when she felt a gentle touch on her shoulder,
and at the same time became aware of some cold
object pressing her unloved hands as they lay helplessly
relaxed in her lap. The dog was endeavouring
to arouse her by a caress of canine kindness, thrusting
his nose against the powerless fingers. Looking
up, she shuddered violently as a dark but unknown
face met her astonished eyes.

Will you not go back. Miss sahib ? It is dangerous
here ; and the Major left me in charge of all in the
house. May I see you safe to your home ? "

Notwithstanding the kindness of the tone, which
softened even the studiously courteous form of request,
Florence well understood that it conveyed a command
it was useless to resist ; and, rising in silence, she
allowed Afzul to lead her back to the captivity from
which she had so recklessly fled. More than once, from
sheer weakness and fatigue, her limbs almost failed
her ; and she was compelled to accept the assistance
which, with a considerate delicacy worthy of a highbred
European gentleman, the Arab offered only when
he perceived how really it was needed. Teaching thus
the window from which her evasion had taken place,
Afzul, with a courteous reverence, consigned her to
the hands of Cassia, who had been seeking her with
eagerness and alarm  neither feeling prompted by*any
kindness to one who might, for aught she cared, have
fallen a victim to the fangs of the rattlesnake, but that
such a death would have saved her from the prolonged
and far worse fate to which female malice
looked forward with such anxious hope. But it did
not suit Cassia's purpose, matured while she was
seeking the fugitive, to reproach or threaten the
victim now restored to her charge in such a manner
as to reveal her real feeling. It was under the guise
of pity, or at any rate of not hostile warning, that
she could best inflict the deliberate and studied
torments she was preparing. Coldly, therefore, but
without roughness she led the captive back to her
chamber ; and even busied herself in reviving her
from the state of utter nervous exhaustion and almost
unconscious prostration which might have rendered
Florence for some time to come but half sensible tO'

the sting and strain of the torture elaborately devised
for her. Cassia relieved the girl of her outdoor
garments, placed her comfortably in an easy-chair, and
'even brought wine and food and forced them upon
her; and it was not until, a full hour after her
capture, some returning traces of colour in her cheeks
and a more collected expression in her weary eyes
attested Florence's partial recovery, that her temporary
guardian thought it time to enter seriously on
the topics she had chosen for the exhibition of seeming
sympathy, the indulgence of real and measured
cruelty.

It did not suit Cassia to dwell strongly on that
aspect of her victim's situation which might have
seemed most terrible and most revolting. In truth,
she hardly looked upon it in the light in which it
would have appeared to a woman not brought up
under the peculiar social influences of slavery, or
rather of the intermixture of an inferior with a
superior race. She looked back with no shame on
the brief period  the happiest of her life  during
which she had been the illegitimate mistress of her
present home; till superseded by her master's marriage
with one whom she had always bitterly hated, and
whose assumption of superiority, since she had
learned that it did not rest on superior purity of
blood, she resented with the fierce contempt of an
equal who had been deceived into subjection and
submission. It might be that, though she would
have scorned to acknowledge such a weakness to
herself. Cassia simply dared not outrage the young
maiden's innocence by dwelling distinctly on the

ideas most alien from the virginal whiteness of
her soul. Hints and allusions, such as she might
have ventured, would have failed to excite more than
the vague though intense terror that the very fact of
slavery, of absolute subjection to a master's will, had
inspired. Even a mind like Cassia's felt a shame, if
not a scruple, that made it hardly possible to speak with
the coarse brutal plainness which alone could have
effectively alarmed and soiled the purity that awed
her, while she hated and envied it.

*how could you do such a foolish thing. Miss
Florence?" she began. ' Don't you know how
seldom runaway slaves, strong desperate men, escape ?
The country turns out with negro-catchers and dogs
after a field-hand not worth a thousand dollars ; *and
you, for whom your master gave ten this morning 
why, he'd have had you back if they'd had to call
out the militia ; and your little spaniel could have
tracked you ! Weren't you sure to be caught in a few
hours ? Or did you forget how runaway slaves are
punished ? It is the one thing masters never forgive,
not the best of them ; and to run away the moment
he'd bought you, as if you loathed the very sight of
him,  won't he be riled ? "

As each sting was planted, Cassia delighted to seethe
girl wince under taunts skilfully chosen to recal
the memory of her degradation. But at the last
words Florence looked up in a fresh access of intense
agonizing horror.

"He  who? Not that man who  who took hold
of me ? "

On this point Cassia would fain have lied if she

had dared. But she knew that, on the first meeting
with her master, Florence would too surely betray
the deception, and its motive would be apparent.
She could only feast her eyes for some ten seconds,
which seemed to the girl as many minutes, on the
unutterable terror expressed in her victim's countenance,
her clasped hands and shuddering form.

Who ? what, that man, that mean white Ballard ?
No, Miss Florence, I dunno who he is, but he seems
a gentleman. He must ha' fancied you very much to
pay so dear, and fatally he'll be mad to think you
loathed him so."

'' I don't know him, Cassie, so he can't think that."

'' What else can he think. Miss Florence ? I'm
afraid you'll smart for it, at best. But see here.
Missy. He'll hear as soon as he comes, and send
for you. Don't you go to him in all that crape, and
your curls all straightened, and you such a figure.
Let me curl your hair again and smoothe it, and put
on your white and pink dress, and make you look
your prettiest for him. Then, when he speaks to
you, drop on your knees beside him, put your hand
on his, and look up in his face ready to cry, as soft
and beseeching as you know how. Tell horn you
thought Ballard had got you, and it was from him
you were running. All that oughtn't help you with
a mistress ; but a man don't feel like hurting a pretty
girl too much ; and if you do get a whipping, it won't
be so very bad."

Utter innocence and purity of heart protected
Florence, much more than the speaker was aware,
from the worst bitterness of the covert taunts ; but

the appeal to lier personal charms, and the use she
was counselled to make of them, imperfectly as she
understood it, offended the native instincts of feminine
delicacy and maiden self-respect, and called the colour
back to her pale face. Her downcast eyes missed the
look which might have conveyed more than Cassia
dared speak  might perhaps also have told more of
her motives than she intended to betray. But the
last words, wounding her pride to the quick, recalling
all the humiliating possibilities of her condition, and
alarming her with more than mere physical fear,
startled Florence into reply. She looked up quickly,
with a shiver of pain, shame, and distress deeper
than could find utterance in words.

Cassie ! would any man be so hard and cruel to
a girl, when he must feel how frightened, how miserable
I was  that I hardly knew what I did ?  You
mean kindly," she added presently, with an effort in
the midst of her misery to be just and grateful, which
might have touched any heart save that of a vindictive
woman ; " but I cannot take your advice. If I am a
slave, it befits me to look and behave like one. I can
say that I am sorry for my fault, and ask his pardon ;
and then  if my master chooses to punish me, I must
bear it as I may."

Cassia turned her face aside for a moment to
conceal the look of intense malignity of which she
could not but be aware. Florence failed, however,
to observe anything : and the other pursued pitilessly
her course of torture, still veiling her taunts under
the form of friendly warning.

You're a slave. Miss Florence, but not jest' a

servant. It ain't for a girl to vait on him that a
gentleman gives ten thousand dollars. No, it is
a young lady, and a pretty one, that he has bought ;
and he'll expect you to look your best. You'd
best please him of your own accord, before you're
made to."

''He can't make me do wrong," replied Florence,
hastily answering a thought of whose full purport she
herself was hardly conscious.

What's right or wrong to a slave. Miss Florence ? "
returned Cassia bitterly. ' You're his, body and soul,
to do as he likes with ; to beat you or pet you, humble
you or play with you, as he's in the mood. Your
spirit, your saucy speeches, went down very well a
year ago with young gentlemen, who liked you all
the better that you were hard to please. But now it's
for him to be kind or rough, sharp or soft, as he feels
like; and you\e got to coax and soothe and flatter.
I won't ' came easy to a young lady ; but ' you
shall ' comes just as easy to a master ; and you've got
to learn what it means. You talk of bearing punishment,
child ; do you mean a child's or a slave's ? "

Florence quailed and trembled under the look that
emphasized this significant question.

'' Of course," pursued her merciless tormentor, "he
ain't a passionate boy, to give the price of ten stout
field-hands for you and break his costly plaything the
same day. They won't score those soft white shoulders
with the cowhide  at least for years to come ; nor
bruise your limbs with the paddle  just yet. Them
that's tried both says it's worse the whip, but it
tells no after-tales to spoil a slave's value in the

market. But for you, Miss Florence,  a man can
bring you down without doing anything to be called
cruel. Easy for him to break a girl's spirit without
so much as breaking her skin. Ain't it worth while
to change your dress, to give a few soft words and
coaxing looks, to get off? If you are too proud
for that, your pride'll be brought the lower, presently.
You've only to do as you've done all your life  look
as you don't care, speak your mind, try to take your
own way and you'll learn the difference. Provoke
him to tame you ; d'you reckon he won't know how ?
Think a little. He'll send for you, and you'll stand
before him as he lounges in his chair and rates you
like a dog. Answer, and you'll be cuffed for insolence.
Be silent, and  well, you'll only be slapped, * and
slapped right smart, for sulking. Whatever you say,
you'll only make matters worse for yourself. You'll
try excuses  ' you meant no wrong, you won't do it
again ; ' stammering and trembling, as you see he
means it, whether you deserve it or not. Then you'll
stoop to plead and entreat and cry, till he tires of it ;
and then  five minutes will humble you to choke
back your sobs, half wild with rage and shame and
pain, to thank him for letting yo|i off so easily ! . . .
You'd fare much worse but for your sweet voice, your
soft delicate limbs, and your pretty face. Make the
most of them, child ; for they are all that stand
between you and the calaboose, now."

The woman's gloating hatred had in this last threat
gone too far ; carried her utterly beyond the bounds
of credibility and common sense, had Florence's
agony of fear and humiliation allowed her to observe

VOL. II.

or to reason. But evidently the last sentences had
failed of their intended effect, awakening by some
unexpected association a thought in which mere
personal fear was lost for the moment. Cassia
stopped, astounded and amazed, as her victim broke
out in a cry of remorseful sorrow and unselfish
supplication.

Oh ! God forgive me ! I deserve it all, to have
thought so long only of myself. The children! the
children ! And Eva ! my darling, my poor timid
helpless sister ! what will become of Eva ?
Heaven ! have mercy on her ! "

Cassia was silent, bent not to shorten by a minute
the sufferer's agony, but knowing that the first direct
question must compel her to speak the truth upon
this point. But the appeal received its answer in her
despite ; though in a form that gave no immediate
hope to the victim, imposed no instant check on the
torturer. A light tap at the door . it opened, and
a young quadroon girl, coquettishly dressed, with the
usual bad taste of a household servant, but pretty and
with a smile of pleasure on her good-natured face,
appeared.

'lassie, Massa's come in, and you're to take
Misses "

Cassia hurried her out of the room and closed the
door behind them, before Florence caught more than
the first words.

"You's to have de young ladies in dear own
parlour, and Massa be wine to wait on 'em dere.
Don't he speak funny ? And he sent a message to
Miss Florence, something about * flavour ' and ' voo.'

I can't mind his words, but she's to go to him in the
liberty."

*' Very well, Cora. You get the lamps ready; I'll
see to the girls."

She returned to Florence, who had risen on hearing
the summons, and was half-consciously arranging her
dishevelled hair and dress. Fearing to be held
answerable for any striking neglect, Cassia set herself
to work quickly and deftly to render her charge fairly
presentable.

"Beckoned it 'ud be so, Miss Florence. No time
to dress you up and make you pretty, now. But I
must put your curls in order ; you mustn't look as if
nobody had been near you since you were fetched
back. He's heard that ;  you can guess why he-sent
for you there in the study, alone. Well, if it had
been me or Cora, we'd ha' been cut up finely. Mind
what I told you. Miss Florence, and don't shiver so.
A switch don't kill after all. . . . Wish she'd a
chance of it, curse her," muttered Cassia to herself;
"but it's too soon yet. Wait till she gets back her
courage and shows off her airs  it'll humble her then,
if it don't hurt with a cent."

Chapter XII.

A SLAVE AND HER OWNER.

There no mother's eye is near them,
There no mother's ear can hear them."

Led to the door of what had been her father's study
Florence, accepting so far as she thought at all the
truth of Cassia's cruel suggestions, was almost thrust
into the room ; and found herself alone with one
who, as she but too well knew, possessed over her a
power limited in fact as in law only by the nominal
security which the latter afforded to life. He had just
entered by and closed the window through which she
had fled, and was switching in an absent manner the
riding-whip he held. Looking up for a moment
timidly into the countenance in which she might read
her fate, the girl, interpreting the disturbed grave
 harassed look by her own prepossession, fancied an
expression of stern displeasure. In truth, her new
owner had been pondering for some minutes the best
manner of soothing the bitter humiliation of one so
fallen. He feared that the reserved respectful courtesy
suggested by the natural impulses of chivalry might
seem to a girl so inexperienced and so susceptible a
mere mockery of her helplessness; and flinging the

"whip beside his hat on a small card-table, he came
forward quickly, and held out his hand with the frank
cordiality appropriate to their former intimacy. But,
to his pain and surprise, Florence either misconstrued
the intention or refused to accept the greeting. She
stopped, trembling in every limb and turning pale,
then flushing to the brow with shame or mortification;
and stood with arms folded on her bosom, bent head
and downcast eyes, just beyond reach of the outstretched
hand. Still more perplexed how best to
deal tenderly with one so cruelly wounded, he remained
at the same distance, and said gently 

I cannot wonder. Miss Dupont, that your resentment
includes all who seemed to take part in a
painful and disgraceful scene. But if you will think,
I am hardly to blame. The situation, the law, were
not of my making, and I could do nothing but accept
them. It is natural that you should rebel against
the position in which my action places us for the
moment; but even if you would have preferred a
different mode of escape, I had no choice. All others
had given way ; the alternative was between myself
and the very last man into whose hands I could have
borne to let you fall ; and if what I have done have
alarmed or offended you, yet it was the best, it was
all I could do."

The voice seemed familiar to her ear as, even in
the gathering shade, had seemed the form and face ;
but the girl 'was still too much confused by fear,
distress, and humiliation to think coherently. The
sounds that fell on her outward ear conveyed but two
ideas that reached her inward sense ; the recollection

of her deliverance from the ownership which she had
dreaded with unspeakable incomparable loathing, and
the personal offence probably given by her flight.

"I know I have reason to be grateful to you, Sir,
and I must have seemed thankless as well as rebellious;
but . if you could understand how I
have suffered for weeks, thinking all day, and dreaming
whenever I did sleep, of what was to come  how
frightened and stupefied I was this afternoon  I think
you would forgive me. It was very wrong to try to
steal from you what you bought so dear ; I can only
beg your pardon, and submit ."

She stopped suddenly with a shiver of evident
terror, and her cheeks were suffused with scarlet;
but her owner, who had hardly understood her broken
sentences, was yet more at a loss to comprehend this
fresh outburst of overwhelming agitation. Lacking
the clue to her thoughts that only Cassia's conversation
could have furnished, he could never have guessed on
what object her eyes had fixed, or with what idea.
Anxious only to calm her, he took her hand perforce
in his own. It was yielded with instant submission
but not as to a friend ; rather, he thought, as a child
yields to control or guidance it cannot dream to
resist. Leading her to a couch that stood in a further
corner of the room and seating her there, he was
wholly astonished when, after another hasty glance in
the same direction, she turned away, buried her face
in the cushions, and burst into tears. He stood for
some minutes in the helpless embarrassment to which
feminine weeping reduces a man who can neither
check it by scolding nor soothe it by caresses ; till he

began on reflection to recal the terms oi her apology,
while she, finding herself as yet neither hurt nor
scolded, gradually recovered some degree of composure,
and at his first words raised her head as if
endeavouring to overcome no little perplexity or confusion
of mind.

Forgive you ? How can I  till I have some idea
what I am to forgive ? Steal ? We are certainly at
cross purposes. What can you mean. Miss Dupont?"

Pray, pray do not mock me with that name !
Indeed, indeed I have been humbled in these long
weeks of shame and misery ; and to-day  I know you
have cause to be angry ; and I, who thought so little
what our servants might feel, deserve what has come
upon me. But, Sir, you need not remind me sO  so
bitterly  of what I was and what I am. I know that
I am your slave, and an ungrateful, disobedient, runaway
slave  but  don't keep me in this misery, playing
with my fear and humiliation "

* You wrong me, you wrong human nature itself,"
he interrupted, touched to the quick. "I meant
nothing but kindness and respect. I heard of your
wild impulse, of course ; I was bitterly grieved and
pained, as any man would have been, to think what
must have been the horror and misery that had driven
you to such an act of despair. But, even if you knew
into whose hands you had fallen, could I feel anything
but pity ? You tremble still "  taking her hand 
and you seem to accuse me of purposely keeping
you in terror. Even were it possible to wonder at
your flight. Miss Dupont, what is it you fear ? Good
Heavens ! " he exclaimed, half disposed to laugh at

the utter absurdity, half shame-stricken with horror,
as at last, following her looks askance, their object
flashed across his mind,  "you could not think it;
you could not do manhood itself such outrageous
injustice ? "

"I don't understand," Florence said, looking up
timidly to the countenance whose expression in the
fading twilight she could hardly read. " Did you not
mean to use it ? "

The strange quiet matter-of-fact tone was due chiefly
to bewildering confusion of mind, as his excitement
startled her out of the lethargy of exhaustion, quickly
ensuing by reaction on overstrained and terribly
protracted emotion; but it shocked her hearer even
more than her previous passion of terror. This was
not the kind of dread for which he had been prepared,
as naturally incident to the helplessness of female
slavery. Had her mind, he thought, given way for
the moment under the pressure of her sufferings ?

It is useless to talk to you now. Miss Dupont," he
said. Her eyes faintly appealed against the formality
so unsuited to her position. 'florence  you will
understand presently that you can have no cause
for fear. Meanwhile  do you recognize this ? " drawing
from the breast of his tunic a tiny silver casket
or snuff-box, from which he took a carefully preserved
little white glove. " Do you remember when
and to whom this was given?"

Ignorant of the studied care with which her fears
had been suggested and played upon, of the deliberate
process of mental torture she had undergone, he could
only conclude that her mind was really unhinged;

and desired to turn her thoughts to a lighter subject,
and one unconnected with the distressing associations
of the present.

"No," replied Florence, hastily, "I forget. . Do
not be angry, Sir ; but . . . my sisters ? and Eva,
my next sister, my companion, papa's darling . do
tell me, what has become of them  shall I ever see
them again ? "

Still at cross purposes, not doubting that Florence
had recognized him though refusing to acknowledge
the recognition, assuming as of course that she had
left her sisters but a few minutes ago at his summons,
he was painfully confirmed in the apprehension
naturally suggested by her alarm and by her answers.
She on her part was startled into renewed consciousness
of fear by the assumption of decisive though very
gentle control in his words and action, as he took her
hand and placed it within his arm.

*' Come with me. Mademoiselle, we shall find lights
in your own room."

Not daring to demur, she complied with quickened
distrust and alarm, enhanced when she found herself
led through the long gallery into the opposite tower ;
the most secluded part of the dwelling, and most distant
from the servants whom she supposed to be its
sole inmates.

Which is your sitting-room ? " he asked, as they
approached the apartments which, since their mother's
death, had been appropriated to the sisters and their
attendants, Rose and Eugenie occupying what we call
the first storey of the tower, Eva and Florence the
ground floor. She shrank back without reply, and

seeing that there were but two doors before him he
laid his hand on the nearest  '' Is this it ? "

The opening door flooded the dark passage with
bright lamplight ; and Florence, dazzled and bewildered,
heard the door close behind them, and with
an impulse of alarm had snatched her hand from the
arm on which it rested, before she realized the aspect
of the familiar boudoir, and saw that she was not, as
she had thought, alone with her master. The two
little girls were crouched together, whispering low, by
a door that led into their sisters' bedchamber. Eva
sat by the bright wood fire, drooping in a prostration
of despair too absolute for thought and almost for
fear. But she started as the door opened, and seeing
the stranger, sprang up and stood before him, her
eyes fixed on the ground, trembling from head to foot.
Her sisters, following her example, rose, but remained
silent and motionless, looking eagerly into the countenance
wherein they instinctively sought to learn the
character on which their future depended. Approaching
these first, while Florence stood speechless
in incredulous joy, hope, and doubt, their new proprietor
took the hand of each gently in his own as he
kissed her slightly and gravely on the forehead.

' So much, mesdemoiselles," he said, *'I may claim,
perhaps, by an older and better right than that
acquired to-day."

Then turning to Eva, whose extreme agitation on
his entrance had not escaped him, he raised her cold
unresponsive fingers to his lips, and, reseating her by
a gentle guidance of her hand, pressed and released it.

* Your sister," he said, smiling, after a short silence,.

*' declines to recognize her gage ; but I see here " 
touching the skull, nailed on a small projecting stand
over the chimney  " that for which she exchanged it.
Miss Eva, have you forgotten ? "

Mr. Darcy ! " exclaimed Florence in momentary
eagerness, looking up with a smile of pleasure, and
holding out under the impulse of habit the hand from
which, under such different circumstances, he had
withdrawn the glove still held in his left  a token
that now recalled the bright recollections of the
Indian visit she had so keenly enjoyed, and for a
moment dispelled those of the present. For a
moment only; then blushing scarlet with returning
consciousness of humiliation, and the thought that
she had presumed to forget her altered position* she
strove to withdraw the hand that her former cavalier
had clasped as frankly as it was given, and pressed
with somewhat more reserve but not less kindness
than when its friendly clasp was an envied privilege.

Nay, Mademoiselle," he remonstrated, reverting
to the convenient form of address at first suggested
by her French name and origin, and perhaps by half-conscious
pleasure in the indirect assertion of his own
French lineage and nationality. " What have I done
that you should withdraw the privilege you granted
when we parted as familiar friends  parted under the
threatening thunder cloud that burst the next hour
in the storm of the great Mutiny ? If you have forgotten,
I have not, your cordial invitation to visit you.
in your Louisianian home. It gratified me too much.
Must I feel myself unwelcome because I came in time
to help you in a second trouble ? Miss Dupont," he

added earnestly, as he saw that his reference to the
past altogether failed to dispel the shame and sorrow
that crushed her under the burden of the present, ''if
any want of tact, of consideration towards yourself,
gave you offence or pain, may not he who gives you
back your sisters hope to win your pardon ? "

"Don't speak so, Mr. Darcy," Florence replied at
length, though with an effort painfully evident, faintly
returning the pressure of the hand that still retained
hers, and meeting with a look of ineffable gratitude
the eyes that sought her own with anxious inquiry.
You were all kindness and gentleness. I must have
seemed provoking and ungrateful ; but I did not know
anything  I did not recognize you till this minute,
and I had been frightened in ways I cannot tell you.
I knew I had done wrong, and even Cassie thought I
was sure to be severely punished  unless . . . But
have you  are they yours too ? "

She looked up once more with a timid appeal, a
hopeful tremulous anxiety, very painful to witness.

'mine, if you will so put it, just as you are. I
had bought this place, the plantation, your people 
first. Then  could I forget your sisters, for your
sake or their own ? Well that I came ! But that
Heaven had snatched from me at once all I loved,
hoped, wished on earth  but for my ruin, exile,
despair  I had never reached you. Thank God for
the blasted career, the broken heart, that sent me
here in time ! "

The words did what nothing else could have effected.
Moved to utter self-forgetfulness, Florence bent her
lovely head to hide the tears in her eyes, as she

pressed with real feeling the hand that had relaxed
its hold on hers.

Your career ruined, after such an opening ? You
an exile ? Mr. Darcy, how can that be ? "

"English law calls duelling murder; and when I
avenged a dead woman's fame at the sword's point,
I lost all. It was a signal act of Royal mercy that
allowed me to resign my commission. But if I set
foot on British soil my life is forfeit ; and," he added
slowly and sadly, "there is a bitterer loss than that
of career and country."

And you thank God for this ? "

Heartily, since through this He sent me here intime.
What gentleman could regret any sacrifice for
such a result ? Happily, Miss Dupont, you da not,
cannot know "

I know at any rate that I had better, would rather
a thousandfold have died the horrible death from
which you saved my father !  Call me Florence,
please, Mr. Darcy," she added, more timidly, but ina
tone different from that in which she had expressed
the same wish a few minutes before ; and with an
unconscious simplicity which proved that to her at
least the request seemed natural and appropriate.
It will be pleasant for Eva and me in all ways 
now."

The altered tone of her last word, the constrained
look and heightened colour, showed what
cruel sense of degradation oppressed the poor child's
broken spirit.

*' You will never fancy that more familiar kindness
means lessened consideration or respect? And I

must ask you also to forget the name by which you
knew me in India. As subjects of the English Crown
my father and I used only our English name. Dishonoured
and banished by England, I reclaim my
French birthright. In a State settled by Frenchmen
under the royal Lilies, as in France, I resume the old
name of the Marquises of Ultramar. Don't suspect
me of a petty vanity. It is not that I prefer my
French rank, but that I renounce for ever all associations
of my English birth and allegiance."

Half French herself, the child of a father secretly
proud of his ancestral nationality, Florence would
naturally have sympathized with the sentiment that
preferred in America the guise of a French emigre to
that of an English exile. Still more naturally, she
sympathized with the resentment of a duellist condemned
for the defence of a woman's honour. But
the title, whose antiquity and splendour she had
learned from her father, when on their homeward
journey they often canvassed the most interesting and
exciting incident of their Indian travels, reminded
her vividly of the vast inequality  measuring nearly
the whole range of social distinction recognized on
earth  between the French noble, the heir of a great
historic name, and the American slave-girl, degraded
by the taint of African blood below the meanest free
woman of unmixed race.

I think you are quite right  I mean "  blushing
and faltering as the strange and cruel sense of social
and personal humiliation checked her habitual frankness
of speech  "that seems natural, of course.
But . . . you won't be angry with us, especially with

Eva, if we forget now and then at first ? You see we
talked of you so often, and your name is so familiar
to us ; I am afraid Eva will hardly remember. I
ought to. And  forgive me, you know we have no
titles here  how ought we to address you ; I mean in
English?"

I shall not tell you ! " he answered, smiling.
"Eva "  turning to the younger girl, who, though she
remained silent, had been rapidly recovering from her
prostration, relieved from her terror as she found
herself in the hands of a friend, and still more as she
perceived her sister's slowly returning confidence 
is it too much to ask that the informality of address
should be reciprocal? I mean"  in reply to her
somewhat puzzled look  'that Florence and .Eva
should speak to me as I am bidden to call them ? "

"I  I suppose  so," hesitated Eva, naturally inclined
to give the assent required by the form of the
question, but checked by the expression of her sister's
countenance, to which she always looked for guidance
in embarrassment or uncertainty.

I know you mean it in kindness," said Florence
in a low tone, faltering painfully between the necessity
of disobedience, the fear of offending, and the distressing
thoughts evoked by the suggestion; "but,
pardon me, indeed, indeed we cannot. Just because
it is best for you to  to forget the words of ceremony
with us, it would not do for us. What is natural and
kind in you would seem  would be impertinence in
us. You must see it."

Indeed I do not. Miss Dupont."

The name, spoken in haste, was accepted as a

deliberate rebuke, and keenly felt ; the tears rushed to
her eyes, the blood to her face, and she struggled
hard to answer quietly.

**I am sorry to have displeased you," she said at
last, with a submissive gentleness that made Lionel
bite his lip sharply to check the feeling with which he
listened  "but  I must speak what I thought you
would spare me. What is kindness in  a superior 
would be insolence  on our part. Our ser  everybody
who hears you give me that name, will look and
murmur contempt at our ridiculous assumption ; and
if I "

He stooped and kissed her hand with more than his
usual reverent courtesy. "I did not say it intentionally,
Florence, but it was unpardonably inconsiderate.
Forgive me for causing you the pain of such an explanation.
I hope I need not say that from open
annoyance  from insolence of which I could take
notice  you are as safe as ever. But I know there is
an insolence with which it is harder to deal. Forgive
me, once more, and speak as you think best, if
only you will speak frankly and fearlessly, as to a
friend who will give you no cause to repent it."

She dared not attempt to reply in words, but the
momentary grateful glance of her eyes was a sufficient
answer.

And now," he said lightly, after a brief silence,
during which he had considered somewhat carefully
all that might be involved in the trifle of which he
intentionally made a jest, " may I venture to hint
that you have neglected your duty "  Florence started
slightly  " in a matter of some little interest to me

just now ? Unless you keep very early hours, you
cannot have supped yet ; if you are not much later
than my other hosts in this State, it must be time
for supper ; and at any rate, though a soldier should
not mind such trifles  soldiers always do, nevertheless
I am too hungry to stand on ceremony. Mademoiselle
"  bending down to her ear and speaking
rapidly, in a whisper audible only to her  " please
give your orders in my presence just as you would
have done a year ago, and recognize me only as you
would any other guest."

He paused a moment, expecting some word of
assent. But, taking the hint as a command, she
answered only by a look expressing such grateful
comprehension of his considerate intention as wt>uld
richly have repaid a serious effort or a painful sacrifice.
More touched by that look than he cared to
show, he rose, anticipating her movement, and rang.
The young quadroon already mentioned answered the
summons. There was evident surprise but certainly
no offensive meaning in her countenance when, looking
as of course to her new master, she received her
instructions from the young lady who for some weeks
had abdicated her functions as mistress of her late
father's home ; and who, as all the household well
knew, had no longer right or place therein save as the
chattel of its present owner.

Aunty," Cora cried eagerly, as she entered the
distant kitchen, to the lounging cook, " you's to
make coffee right away, and supper,"  and she
delivered a list of details more intelligible to the
elderly negress than they would be to the reader.

VOL. II. p

<< M

'Ain't right, so late. Hope new massa learn
better time-bye, or dis chile won't cook for him long.
And Miss Florence, Cora, and the chiltern  they ain't
had a bit des six hours."

Dey's all right, Aunty, tank de Lord ! Massa
sat dere, little way off ; but he never speak or look,
'kept once when I asked Missy * where ? ' Lord  if
I'd been looking saucy den, dis chile's skin wouldn't be
with a quarter. Tell ye. Aunty  you bet we'd better
scarce de Debit dan him, and better scarce him ten
times than give Miss Florence a pert word, for him to
know it. His eyes frighted dis chile. Dey seemed to
flash and hit like a 'volver. Missy's voice shook a
bit at first, but she spoke for all de world jest as she
used to, till I'd ha' thought we'd dreamed dis last year,
and ole massa was alive, and yonder was only a-visiting'
here or a-courting' o' Miss Eva. Now be smart, for I's
got to set supper out in the dining-parlour for 'em all,
and I guess little misses '11 be almighty hungry by
dis time."

During the meal, though the party were not as in
England constrained by the constant presence of
servants, Florence was aware that her newly regained
friend rather avoided further conversation with her,
exerting himself to set the two children  total
strangers to him  at ease, and draw out their thoughts.
Reverting to the incidents of his former meeting with
Florence and Eva, amusing Rose and Eugenie with
striking stories of Indian manners and adventure, of
war and of the chase, he presently elicited from them,
especially from the latter, anecdotes of their own
home-life and experience ; which, as Florence soon

detected, he turned to account in learning what had
been the customs and arrangements of the household,
before their father's death and the terrible revelation
that ensued had thrown all into confusion. The table
cleared, and before Cora had finally withdrawn, he
turned again to Florence.

Are the keys  I mean those of the house  in your
hands ? No ? Then will you desire Cora to bring
them to you, before you dismiss the servants for the
night as usual ? "

The girl gave the order he required, but with a
nervous doubt and wonder not imperceptible to one
who watched so closely to spare her pain and embarrassment.


Take the keys of your tower, Florence, and Seep
them in your own charge. I don't want to frighten
you, but I should like you to make sure that both
doors and windows are fast before you retire. The
other tower is some way off certainly, but I think I
should hear an alarm. My Indian adventures taught
me to wake quickly at the sound of danger, as well as
to sleep through all others."

She looked up for a moment ; then her drooping
eyes, and a slight tinge of brightening colour, left the
speaker in doubt whether she were moved by the hint
of possible danger, or by the delicate consideration
that hint had been employed to veil.

May Eugenie and Bose go now ? " she asked, in a
shy and hesitating tone. " They did not sleep much
last night, and "

They must indeed be weary ! May they ? They,
and every one else in your home, may do what its

mistress desires, and nothing else. Shall I ring for
Cassia to attend them ? "

Oh, please don't ! " cried Eose, too sleepy to
remember the change whose significance she was
not old enough to feel as keenly as her sisters, and
already at ease with one who was always less constrained
and more natural, and therefore a greater
favourite, with girls in inverse proportion to their
years. 'eugene and I can wait on ourselves; and
Cassie was so unkind to-day."

Indeed," said Lionel, taking his hand from the
bell-rope, and answering the child's appealing look
with a kiss so frank and fraternal that Eose had
returned it warmly, before she had time to feel surprise
or blush for her own untutored impulse. " Good night,
then. Good night, Eugenie, and happier dreams than
you have had of late, poor child !  I will know more
about Cassia's unkindness tomorrow," he thought.
She may hold the key to Florence's strange terror.
Good Heavens ! what put so ugly and so utterly improbable
a fancy into her head? Hardly anything she
can have been used to see or hear  though I suppose
a runaway slave must usually make unpleasantly
intimate acquaintance with the cowhide."

To understand the situation, the reader must appreciate
the peculiarities of Southern sentiment and
society. On the one hand public feeling, Lynch-laws
and the duel then fenced round female honour with
greater security than exists in any other part of the
world. Slavery apart, English maidens would have
felt the position awkward if not perilous, if only
because unguarded companionship with a young man.

would be to them so strange and novel. But it would
hardly have occurred to a Southern maiden, free and
of unmixed blood, to dream of peril to honour or
reputation, any more than to life, in the society of a
Southern gentleman. On the other hand, the only
relations a girl of colour could have with a white man
were hardly deemed dishonouring ; while in the case
of an attractive slave in the hands of a young and
unmarried master, people would take their existence
for granted. The ideas of the former class, however,
were of course those native to Mr. Dupont's daughters,
almost utterly ignorant  as girls more often are than
men believe of the evil around them.

'mademoiselle," said Lionel at last, "I left you,
as I find, for some hours to cruel suffering froid unfounded
terror. You must think me shamefully
inconsiderate, but I fully believed that you would
hear at least that you were in friendly hands. I
must not make the same mistake again. Can you
and Eva sleep in trust to-night, or are you still
troubled by doubts and anxieties that I can remove ? "

Both the girls looked up in surprise, and on
Florence's still pale countenance, and into her dark
mournful eyes, came the light of a smile full of reviving
confidence and comparative peace. That smile
went to the heart of her young guardian. It will
probably be the last earthly recollection to fade from
the shattered tablets of the brain, the best comfort
that the past can afford in the hour when death shall
be the sole concern of the present, and the awful
possibilities beyond the whole prospect of the future.

Can you think us so thankless, so unworthy of

the mercy vouchsafed us in our utmost need ? If we
had dreamed this morning that such a thing was
possible, should we have hoped, have prayed for anything
beyond that which has been granted ? Should
we have asked anything more of you ? Should we
have hesitated at any conditions you might have
imposed, any terms you had exacted, if you could have
anything to demand, or if we had anything left to
give ? If we who were slave-owners find ourselves
slaves, can we pretend to murmur ? Or, if we were
free, could our father himself have wished to place us
in better hands than those of the one friend who would
have thanked God that our safety had cost him all
he prized on earth ? "

Not all, Florence, but all else."

"It is like you to say so. No, I want to know
nothing but that you are sure to treat me better than
I deserve, and that my sisters are safer in your charge
than they could have been in mine. I never thought
Cassie or Cora to be pitied for being my father's
slaves ; am I to murmur at being yours ? "

The serene submission of perfect innocence surprised
one who was not prone to doubt the purity or
the ignorance of maidenhood. But there was something
in Florence's words that rendered him willing,
to give another and somewhat lighter turn to the conversation.


**I don't suppose I am one whit better or more
to be trusted than an average Southern gentleman.
Yet when you only knew that you were in the hands
of such a gentleman, Mademoiselle, you were crushed
to the earth ; you took heartless, senseless brutality sO'

completely for granted that nothing could reassure
you. Will not your terrors return as soon as you are
alone ? "

You forget, I shall not be alone. After you have
have bought us all, after what you have done tonight,
even if you were a stranger I could not feel
again as I did then. You mean kindly to us, and
and "

But surely your terror wronged your countrymen
as much as it wronged me ? No gentleman, no man
of human feeling could have given cause for it."

*'I don't know," she answered, musing sadly. "I
suppose slavery has always meant worse than I feared
for rebels, and above all for runaways. It seemed
very hard when I was told what I must expect ; 'and
yet I am afraid, if Cora had run away a year ago, I
should have thought she deserved it."

*' Probably," he replied, observing a puzzled look
on Eva's face, and wondering what it could mean.
'* Neither slaves nor children would obey unpleasant
orders without compulsion ; and for slaves, I suppose
compulsion has always meant the same thing. But
for women and girls "

They are no better than children ! " interposed
the younger sister.

Eva had taken some little part, with gradually
recovered vivacity, in the conversation of the children
at table ; and had even ventured one or two sentences
slightly tinged by that native playfulness which had
given flavour to her share in their talk, during the few
hours that the present trio had spent together at
Sivapore. Instantly and utterly crushed by the first

blow of the calamity under which her sister's stronger
nature had sunk more gradually, she had never
analysed in thought its true character and consequences.
She had swallowed the bitter draught too
quickly, and been too instantly overpowered by its
effect, to ** search its curious savour," to perceive its
mingled elements of misery and peril, as had Florence ;
more slowly and fully appreciating, as much on Eva's
behalf as her own, the variety of degrading liabilities
incident to their fallen status. The tender consideration
of Florence had kept from Eva the knowledge of
their danger till its certainty was established. She
had then been absolutely stunned, and now on recovery
hardly remembered aught but the terror of
the shock. Above all, she had never shared the keen,
stinging, intolerable sense of humiliation that had
tortured Florence so acutely and so long, and which
the latter would probably continue to feel with even
exaggerated susceptibility to the last. Naturally her
little sallies, faint as had been therein the shadow of
her former liveliness, had given to him at whom they
were aimed a pleasure proportionate to the pain he
felt in the persistent inconsolable self-abasement of
the elder and more truly sensitive sister. The gentle,
earnest, anxious encouragement she received had, for
the time at least, so inspirited Eva that she lost the
remembrance of their changed position so bitterly
evinced in Florence's every look, movement, and spoken
thought. She felt, at least while her mind was
turned in that direction by a presence with which she
associated none but agreeable recollections  memories
of deferential courtesy and flattering attention  as

she had felt when they last met. Thus she received
Lionel's remark as she would then have done, in the
spirit natural to the daughter of a slave-owner, not
to a slave ; as a reproach to the caste in which she
had been born and bred, and in whose habitual sympathies
she forgot the class into which she had fora
moment fallen and to which she still legally belonged.
English lectures, Northern taunts and invectives,
had rendered the high-spirited Southerners very
quick to resent any imputation on their " domestic
institution " ; and Eva took up the gauntlet much asher
father's child might naturally do, answering with
the sweet girlish playfulness of her own temper, and
the pretty feminine malice that delighted to punish
a random hit with the home-thrust of personal
appeal 

"What would you do, Mr. Darcy  what will you
do, by the way  with a slave-girl who won't obey ? "

'* If she would not work without the whip, I suppose
I should part with her."

Sell her to some one who would whip her ? But
few people like to sell a slave, perhaps a girl born in
the house ; and they always dread that above all
things. They would beg to be punished ever so
severely rather than take the chances of sale."

Eva as she sat could not see her sister's face, and
the other dared not turn to encounter the look of
distress he had seen too often that evening.

*' I own that is an evasion of the difficulty. But if
slavery necessitates ill-treatment of women, so much
the worse for slavery."

'you will find," retorted Eva, "that they are

nothing more than full-grown children, and will
listen to no milder reasoning."

'* I have heard that said," he returned, seeking to
turn the conversation once more, " of women generally,
especially of young ladies ! "

"It may be true," laughed Eva. "But, you see,
negroes must be made to obey. I think, if you adhered
strictly to your scruple, yoU would find it difficult to
accomplish that, even with softer and perhaps more
reasonable grown children. If you had perforce to
make me do what I did not choose  and remember you
cannot lock up your slaves, or at least they would
not mind it  how long would it be before I could
make you  well, not strike, but own there was no
other method ? "

"Except, as with all ladies, to let you have your
own way."

That is not possible with the negroes, and you
know it is not always possible with any one. Suppose
I ran away"  Eva was of course wholly unaware of
her sister's escapade, and Lionel almost forgot it in
his anxiety to silence the innocent blunderer without
an actual rebuke  " you could not allow that ? "

There is, you know," he said, with a mock
severity, " one way to punish a young lady who lays
herself fairly open to it."

And that ? " asked Eva, smiling, in despite of his
assumed earnestness.

An ultimatum is always a serious thing. I could
not tell  be careful you never make me show you."

He had forgotten himself for a moment, but Eva at
least did not see the implied reference to their actual

position, of which till uttered he himself was unconscious.


"I defy you," she said, laughing. "You will find
nothing except force that will make a girl do what
she don't choose to."

His affected gravity had missed its aim, so to
speak, with both barrels. Eva did understand thai
she was played with, and persisted in her attack.
Florence, already agitated almost beyond self-control,
was bewildered and half-frightened. A glimpse of
her sorely troubled countenance and tearful imploring
eyes compelled him at once to bring the child's-play
and the evening to an instant close, to save her
from actual hysterics.

You ivill have it, then ? " 

He caught Eva's hands, imprisoning her for a
moment as he laughingly solved her half-spoken
question with a kiss too light to startle, too evidently
playful to offend.

"Now, Mademoiselle, will you not put your baby
to bed ? "

He held the door open for Florence, who eagerly
availed herself of the proffered release.

Good night," he added, with an absolute change
of tone and manner, touching her hand for a moment
as she would have passed with a deep but silent inclination.
" Believe me, I will try to deserve your
trust."

She would not have offered her hand even now,"
he thought, as, in the chamber he had selected for
himself, he lit a cigar and threw himself into a chair
by the fireless hearth. " Poor child ! that word * slave 

seems still to drive the iron into her soul. Well,
Eva's nonsense shows at least how lightly the formal
fact of slavery weighs on her. I trust Delarue will
make them thoroughly safe beyond all risk of legal
flaw or quibble, against my death, and be quick about
it too. It makes one a very coward to feel one's life
so fearfully necessary. Ah, Eupert ! good dog. Watch
your master's rest well, while death means so much
worse than death. By Heaven ! I don't think I can
sleep  for fear ! It is ten times worse than camping
over a suspected mine, or mounting guard on a
magazine under a fire of shell."

CHAPTER XIII.

HIS  BODY AND SOUL ! "

But that one dark loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone,.
And reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown."

He woke with the first light of dawn ; woke to an
instant consciousness of a new and a strange position.
He had resumed the habits of Indian* and
military life, and enjoyed as keenly as all healthful
sensitive natures do the first fresh brightness of
morning. Lionel paced for nearly an hour the somewhat
neglected paths and grassy lawns of his new
home, seeing little of beauties which under other
circumstances would have absorbed his attention and
delighted his taste. The strange situation had been
so suddenly thrust upon him as to leave hitherto
little leisure for reflection, and its incidents had been
too exciting to allow of calm deliberation. To represent
the position as free from temptation, and
strong temptation, would be to falsify human nature ;
and assuredly to distort wholly the character of
one who, generous as were his natural impulses,
loathsome as seemed to him the grosser forms . of
vice, was certainly not less than others susceptible
to such temptation, while free from the restraints

imposed on others by respect to creed and custom.
Educated in a faith wherein his father, the idol of
his boyhood, hardly affected seriously to believe 
quick to discern the apparent hypocrisy of religious
and social conventions which seemed to rest practically
on the vote of a majority whose individual
members fail to observe them  his native pride and
real convictions alike impelled him to defy rather
than respect the rules for which society exacts a
formal regard in lieu of actual obedience. By contradiction,
reaction and prejudice rather than by
reflection, he was a declared partisan of slavery ; and
logic if not sentiment insisted that his right to one
set of human chattels was as good as that by which
he was well content to hold another. The problem
therefore could not assume for him its conventional
and usual form, as a conflict between acknowledged
duties and rebellious passions. It was the far more
dubious struggle between contradictory impulses and
instincts ; especially dubious in a mind to which
what others would call the voice of conscience appeared
little more than the tremor of superstition.
On the other hand, two feelings that might have
had little influence with a more ordinary character
operated powerfully to counteract his natural wish
to keep what purchase, law, and custom had given
him. Zela's fate, for which justly or not he never
ceased bitterly to reproach himself, had inspired a
sort of superstitious terror of relations which, if not
immoral, were at least illicit ; and superstitions once
admitted generally affect us more than reasoned and
reasonable convictions. Again, he felt for Florence

not only a chivalric or romantic sympathy but a sincere
affectionate interest  such as in another nature
might perhaps have been so blended with selfish
desires as to prove more cruel than indifference ; for
Eva the kindly regard she had won as a mere child.
And he was the more loth to soil the purity of either
sentiment, that the opinion he despised would have
sneered at the suggestion that either could be wholly
pure. But  what was he to do ? It was at this
point that his reflections became distinctly conscious.
Marriage  it were an impossible treason to his lost
but still living love; sacrilege against the religious
obligations of name and race. To leave the girls alone
in their present home his adviser had pronounced
impossible. To dispose of them at once in any other
satisfactory manner seemed scarcely less so ; since 
to what guardianship could they  outlawed by their
birth  who in their need had found no friend but himself,
be transferred ? The easiest thing was to postpone
a decision which, after all, might not be urgently and
instantly necessary ; which, as he half consciously
felt, time, circumstances, and the impulse of the
moment would probably settle for him. In the
mean time there was nothing beyond the bare fact
of slavery to compromise the young ladies. The
four sisters were together, in the midst of their late
father's household; their personal attendant an apparently
respectable, staid, confidential servant. He
failed to perceive how completely slavery destroyed
the value such guarantees might elsewhere have possessed.
Knowing theoretically, he could not realize in
all its remote bearings the distinction between slaves

and dependents ; the consequences of the single fact
that it was in his power to make every person about
him the instrument or passive subject of his will ; that
no one, save perhaps the sisters themselves, would
even dream of disputing the master's pleasure. Cassia
had hardly exaggerated the truth in saying that
each was ' his, body and soul." But, if aware of
the fact, it was too strange and novel to be fully
appreciated. Indeed, as one after another of the
practical inconveniences incident to their new status
occurred to him, he instinctively asked himself  ashe
would have done in the case of ordinary wards 
how, without explanations intolerably awkward and
painful, the submission of the younger sisters to novel
but necessary restraint and seclusion was to be obtained
? How if at some point Florence herself should
rebel against precautions that he dared neither neglect
nor justify to her ? This, however, was not a very
pressing perplexity; but  what was to be their actual
relation ? And how was the legal one to be dealt
with, how far to be accepted, how and when to be
terminated ?

He had reached no solution of these questions, when
the appearance of more than one negro servant about
the premises promised the possibility of relief to the
sensations, which had repeatedly and importunately
interrupted his reflections with the memory of breakfast.


The library bell was answered by Cora, who was
well pleased to receive instructions which, for all save
the immediate relief of his own appetite, referred her
for orders to her mistress ; and not less pleased that

a direction to summon Cassia was given unconsciously
in a tone which to the quick observation of a slave,
ever dependent upon a master's humour of the
moment, implied a possibility that the interview might
not be altogether agreeable to one for whom the rest
of the household entertained a mingled fear, jealousy,
and subdued dislike.

It was impossible, however, to elicit from Cassia,
with the very slight grounds of suspicion that her
master had acquired, any confession of her own misconduct;
anything beyond an admission of neglect
or misunderstanding in withholding from Florence
the consolation of her sisters' company after her
return to the house. That Florence had been unaware
that all had been bought by the same bidder,
and were at least free from the danger of immediate
separation, the slave affected to learn with surprise ;
and it is needless to say that of the spiteful malignity
with which she had practised on the mind of the girl
recommended to her kindness, of the elaborate hints
that had menaced the latter with a cruelty in which
Cassia dared not have pretended seriously to believe,
no glimpse was to be obtained. At last, foiled
by an art which might have deceived a much more
suspicious temper, a mind much more experienced in
the capabilities of female spite, her master dismissed
her in the half belief that she really entertained for
her charges the affection naturally expected from one
who had attended them from the cradle ; and that
the unkindness of which Rose had complained was no
more than such incidental roughness as a spoilt nurse,
presuming on her control of her charges' infancy,

VOL. n. Q

might show with no evil intention ; such as even very
young girls, in the state of harassed anxiety, fear, and
exaggerated sensitiveness which their situation must
have produced, might still more naturally resent.

Understand," he said finally, " that you and all
in this house will behave to the 3oung ladies exactly
as when their father was your master, and that Miss
Florence is as distinctly your mistress now as then.
Be kind enough in future to give my messages in my
own words ; and ask Miss Florence if it will be agreeable
to her to give me her company in the garden, as
soon after she has breakfasted as she may find convenient."


It was not without purpose that he selected the
grounds in view of all in the house, but beyond hearing
of the most adroit and venturesome of secret
eavesdroppers, for an interview in which Florence
was to be unaccompanied. After last night's experience,
he felt that Eva's presence would be at least
embarrassing. He did not wish to remind' her of anything
she could forget, to enlighten her happy childish
ignorance ; nor could he foresee what innocent blundering
of hers might enhance the difficulty and painfulness
of explanations which, alone with him, her sister
might hear without offence and even without serious
distress. Before passing out into the garden, Lionel
had lighted for the first time one of those especially
prized products of the Cuban tobacco plantations and
manufactories, which are not generally appreciated
even in the States, and from the enjoyment of which
the smokers of more distant countries are absolutely
excluded. Formed from the fine delicate leaves at

the extremity of the plant, these little cigars, like
some wines much valued by the inhabitants of wine
countries, are perfect in proportion not to their age
but their freshness ; and the peculiarly delicate
aroma, which is their sole merit, is lost by a sea-voyage
of any length. Pacing up and down within
sight of the front door, but at some little distance, to
show to Florence the respect of awaiting her without
the appearance of impatience, he had enjoyed but
half the precious weed before, as he turned and looked
up, the young maiden appeared some twenty paces
distant. The extreme prostration, distress, exhaustion
of the previous day had left evident traces on her
countenance ; but its youthful freshness and colour
had been in some measure restored by the first night
of comparatively tranquil sleep she had enjoyed for
weeks. Her air and carriage were sadly unlike the
lively bearing, the quick elastic movement, the frank
bright countenance that were among the pleasantness
mind-pictures of his Indian days ; but yet, drooping,
dispirited, humbled as she appeared, despite too
the slight evidence of recent tears in her eyes, her
manner had lost not only the terror visible in her
first approach, but the nervous dread of offending, the
constant vague apprehension of some indefinite peril
or unpleasant incident, that had characterized her
demeanour yesternight. She could now, at least fora
moment, voluntarily and frankly meet the eyes of
a friend ; and there was even the shadow of a smile
on her lips as, while he quickened his pace to greet
her, she observed that Lionel threw away the half-smoked
cigar.

Only strangers would have thought it necessary
to do that here  a year ago," she said, her tone changing
and saddening a little at the iause, due to the
difficulty of finding words to express her full meaning;
less because she shrank from the fullest confession
of the change, than because she had noted
how deeply he appeared to be wounded by all that, in
her words and manner, evinced her painful consciousness
thereof.

Some day perhaps I may ask you to endure it in
the open air, as my sister always did," he replied,
smiling. *' These," showing the case as he spoke,
*rare wholly new to me. It is only here or in Cuba
that they are to be had, and few English smokers,
I fancy, would appreciate the peculiar delicacy of their
flavour. I have hardly had time as yet to realize the
loveliness of this place : I have seen but just enough to
make me wish to examine its beauties in detail under
your guidance. I need not ask whether you are fond
of gardens and of flowers ; no one could have lived
in a place like this without learning to enjoy them
thoroughly. But I think you must have found even
the prettiest domestic scenery of other countries dull
and poor in comparison with this."

Florence answered with an obvious effort to speak
lightly and easily, too quickly appreciating, too keenly
grateful for the slightest, most delicate manoeuvres of
kindness, not to understand and assist on her part
his endeavour to commence as naturally and pleasantly
as possible a conversation which was likely to be
grave, and might become painful. Gradually, however,
the effort became less perceptible, the frankness

unci ease more real, if still needing to be sustained of
conscious purpose. More than half an hour had
elapsed before Lionel ventured to approach his real
intention.

"It seems to me," he said at last, "that my first
and most pressing duty is to set your mind at rest
as far as possible on any question that troubles it.
I hope you will tell me presently what those questions
.are ; but on one vital point I know, or at least I judge
by my own anxiety, that you cannot but be anxious.
When I left you so hastily and so long yesterday,
-without personally informing you what had taken
place and reassuring any alarm you might entertain,
it was not only that I naturally felt loth to intrude
on you immediately after a scene infinitely more
trying and painful, but hardly more repugnant and
revolting, to you than to myself. I don't like, by the
way, to let you think that I was so careless as I
seemed of your feelings."

"Believe me, I never thought so," interrupted
Florence, eagerly. " I am sure it was in kindness
that you did not speak to me at once, and indeed
I don't think I could have understood anything
then."

"But," he replied, "it was of course my first duty
to assure you at once of your safety. I thought I
had done so. I find I trusted too much to the good
sense and thoughtfulness of another. I have heard
of the heedlessness, the childish inconsiderateness
characteristic of slaves ; but to a woman like Cassia
I certainly did expect that I might trust the explanation
of all she knew herself."

She meant kindly, I am sure," Florence answered c.
*but I suppose my  my folly frightened her, and
her fright took a form which frightened me still more.
Otherwise she would certainly have known how mucha
very few words might have comforted and relieved
us all."

"Do you think I may trust her, then? I half
doubted ; but you must know best. But when I left
this place for some hours, it was to ensure as far as
possible that no accident should again expose you to
danger. I had had a signal warning of the precariousness
of life."

Florence started. " I heard something, but I did
not understand. You had a difficulty, a quarrel  for
our sake, no doubt ? I see, I do not know even yet
how much you have done for us."

Nay, Mademoiselle, nothing is so painful as undeserved
exaggerated praise or thanks. I should
have been ashamed of such a quarrel if I could see
how I could have escaped it. But as two bullets
passed within an inch or two of my head, it occurred
to me what might have happened if the aim* had been
a little better. Nay," he added interrupting himself
as he observed her shudder of horror at the idea, and
the involuntary unconscious upward look of grateful
sympathy, *you forget how many times I have had
a shower of much heavier balls about my ears. That
did not trouble me ; but the doubt what would happen
if I had left no will. . It seems that the law here
would probably upset a will that directly attempted
to emancipate and provide for  those whom the law
has deprived of freedom. I was bound to meet that

difficulty at whatever cost to my feelings, and even
to your own ; to provide that my death should be no
misfortune to you."

How can you say such a thing?" cried Florence,
with the natural impulse of regard and gratitude.

Thank you," he said, pressing the hand that
timidly touched his own. '*Delarue assures me that
the course I am to take is the only safe one. Will
you forgive me when I tell you that I am to bequeath
my legal and nominal right over you and your sisters
to others ? Nay, Florence  hear me out  in trust
for one whom you will trust more fully than myself 
my own sister. On my death you are to be removed
from this State and sent to her. Nothing is said,
nothing can safely be said about your freedom f but
you know that you will be safe with her and on
English soil. Do you understand, and can you
forgive me ? "

I believe I understand your intention perfectly.
You make us your sister's property after your death,
as we are yours now ; and you mean that we shall
be sent to England because we shall be free there,
but you cannot bind her."

"Yes; that is the result, if not quite the form.
But you will be freed, and cannot be again  again
exposed to danger. Delarue says he can make that
certain beyond risk of evasion. You shall see the
will and hear his explanation yourself. I am ashamed
and grieved ; but he will tell you that this is safe, and
the only safe way."

*' Why should I see him ? Do you think I don't
believe you ? And why do you speak as if your care

and kindness were something for which you need
make excuse  and to us ? Who else would have been
in such haste to protect us against the very possibility
of his own death ? "

*' Because the stake is so terrible, small as may bethe
risk. And can I tell you without pain and shame,
that "

That you have given us as slaves after your
death, even to your sister, and to set us free from all
the danger of our own laws ? How could we complain
if you had left us slaves for ever, to the chances of
the laws our people made and our father used to
defend?"

"I agreed with him," Lionel rejoined, hastily;
anxious only to concur with her, and especially with
the opinion quoted by a child from a father so dearly
loved and so lately lost. '1 came to Louisiana intending
to buy a plantation, and settle near him as a slave-owner
myself."

He could have bitten his lip through and through
with vexation, as the sound of his own words reminded
him of their ambiguous or double bearing.

*' Why then speak as if slavery were too loathsome,
too terrible a fate to be named to your slave ? " asked
Florence ; torturing herself  as the strange unnatural
flush, the forced expression and constrained immobility
of her countenance bore evident witness  in one
of those wayward contradictory impulses of human
nature common to all susceptible tempers, especially
in youth ; less inconsistent perhaps with the moods of
the more inconsistent sex, but not the less inexplicable.
Was it that the humiliation she so wilfully

recalled and dwelt upon seemed so much less dreadful
than in its close, appalling, unendurable reality of
yesterday ? Was it a mere outbreak of that perverse
inverted pride, not uncongenial to her companion's
own nature, which in the poverty of the noble, in the
ruin of the great, so often and so unsuccessfully " apes
humility"? Or did the instinct of sex prompt her to
contradict and thwart, even in his most delicate
tenderness and kindness for herself, a man over whom
she unconsciously felt her power ? Or was it that she
chose to reject that kindness even when utterly dependent
on it, depriving it of the generous gratification it
sought in soothing her cruelly wounded self-respect ?
We may know that women do such things without
being able even to guess icliy ; the analysis of feminine
motives defies the skill of any alchemist who relies on
lawful science alone. Far be it from a writer who
retains the fee simple of his soul to attempt a task
that baffled alike the pupil of Mephistopheles and his
master ! Whatever the meaning of her waywardness,
the young Creole was far too generous and gentle not
to repent the pain she had wantonly inflicted on
another in thus tormenting herself, when she saw the
soldier's lip quiver and his whole frame flinch, asunder
a sharp bodily wound. " I have felt of late,"
she continued, in a different tone and spirit, '' that I
have no right to pity, even from Infinite Pity. If
slavery be the natural, legitimate thing we slave 
owners held it, then ours is no worse than other
reverses of fortune. If to be a slave be the misery
and degradation I feel it, then it is just that we should
drink to the dregs the bitter draught that we and ours

gave without compunction to others. In neither case-could
I, even had I fallen into the hands of a cold
indifferent stranger, deserve the pity you give me, as
if I were the innocent victim of some unutterably
horrible calamity. If, as you seem to feel with me,
my punishment is so dreadful, how richly it is merited!
Even your eagerness to spare me makes me yet more
afraid. I have not been allowed to realize my degradation
yet ; but I shall ! " she said, shuddering.
' Eva's heedless words last night brought home to me
the injustice of my complaints. I thought over them
long before I slept ; and when my dreams  oh, such
dreams," she faltered, unconsciously clinging in sheer
nervous terror to the arm into which, at this point of
her speech, her hand had been drawn by the native
instinct of protecting sympathy  "when my dreams
woke me, I thought and cried over it again. I never-thought
of pitying a runaway for any ordinary punishment
; I might by-and-by have had girls whipped
for smaller faults ; but when I stood before you, and
expected myself "

*ein mercy, Florence, be silent!" he interrupted,
passionately. " Have ?7ie?j no shame, no feeling ? If
you can bear to recal your terror, I cannot bear to be
reminded what you imputed to me ! "

*' Can that be reasonable?" the girl asked, with
unnatural calmness, persisting in her self-imposed
penance. ** You, a slave-owner by choice, will not
bear to hear a slave-girl name what must be done
daily in a Slave State ? "

'* Not to such as you ! It is an utterly different
thing."

*you forget  our blood is the same as that of
thousands of slaves, like Cora. No ; I could not tell
you what I went through in my dreams ; but the
terror, the "

Stop, Mademoiselle ! Can you be in earnest ?"
She tried and failed to look up, in timid wondering rebuke
of the doubt ; but the feelings that kept her head
bent, and her eyes averted from those whose gaze was
so full of profound, painful compassion and sympathy,,
were too apparent not to dispel it. " Then  may I
answer you in earnest, and endeavour to show you
how morbid and unreasonable is this trouble of your
conscience, without fear of giving you offence ? "

'offence  to me? Don't speak so, please;  if
others heard you . if any one else so spoke 
would it not seem a mockery ? . . . You are too kind
to me ; if you could possibly make me feel that I am
mistaken  I should be so much less unhappy  I
mean, so much more at ease with myself."

Do you fancy, Florence, that I respect you less ?  
Who was it said, ' I reverence him whom the good God
hath thought it worth while to punish ' ?  Will you
not speak to me as fearlessly and frankly as before
your helplessness had rendered you sacred to me ?
Could any insult sting like your fear of offending;
anything shame me like you: self-abasement ? It is
not because I do not condemn slavery itself, that I
must approve every law of a Slave-code. The rule
which has been used against you  that the child
follows the mother's condition  strikes at the very
root and justification of negro slavery, is to me.
utterly detestable."

He paused suddenly  not merely to translate his
thought into words fit for a young girl's ear. The
thought itself had got into confusion. What was it
he detested; the law, or the unnatural race-fusion
that had rendered the law so iniquitous in practice 
the existence of such anomalies as the illegitimate
loveliness beside him ? He could not tell that exquisite
fruit of wrong-doing that she had no right to be 
nor could he think it. He had not been able to
dissociate his reasoning from the entanglement of his
reason, when Florence, regarding his hesitation as a
symptom of imperfect sincerity, inquired 

*' Has it not been a part of almost every Slave-code?
Have I not been told that it is an almost
inseparable necessity of slavery? And if you disapprove
it  did our people ? We, whose fathers made
the law, must not we abide by it ? "

This keen cross-questioning surprised and baffled
him. He saw at once how much he had underrated
the knowledge and intelligence of a girl not yet
eighteen, but of quick mind and retentive memory ;
whose natural powers had been cultivated to the
utmost, first by her father's training, and next by her
premature introduction into the society of the
countries in which she had accompanied him on his
travels, and of her native State. He faltered for a
moment  most unhappily. Necessarily willing to be
convinced, though conscientiously afraid to deceive
herself, Florence was peculiarly open to be persuaded
and consoled by the hero of her one childish romance
again the hero of the cruel tragedy of her earliest
womanhood. But, to command her faith, he must

have spoken with the force of full undoiibtmg assurance
; and his hesitation confirmed her fear that he
cared only to say whatever might soothe and comfort
her. Like any other gentleman, he would have done
so without scruple, whatever the falsehood had cost.
But he neither could nor would lie to himself ; and
consequently his arguments or pleading always lacked
the ring of earnest conviction or passionate feeling,
unless he believed his own doctrine much more
thoroughly than he did on this critical question of
legality.

*' At any rate your case is a shameful abuse of the
law. Your father's marriage ought to have secured
the freedom of his wife and children."

*'I think they said the marriage was hardly legal.
And  whatever be the law  is it not the law alone
that makes the slave or the freeman ? There is no
other distinction  no natural rule to give freedom to
one and bondage to another ? It is the law, is it not,
that makes your field-hands your slaves? And has
not the law just as good a right to make us your
slaves ? " What did her anxious, appealing look read
in his face that made her hastily add  'you believe
in your right over them; do you really think you
have not as good a right over us, in so far as you
choose to exercise it ? "

Don't tempt me, Florence," he replied, less lightly
than he intended. '' What must be my wish to decide
that point in my own favour? I don't believe in
abstract rights, after the sense of Mirabeau and Jefferson,
Robespierre and Paine. I may surely think
that on the whole, in a country where one part of

the people consists of the highest, the other of nearly
the lowest of human races, slavery is the natural
relation of negroes to Caucasians, without troubling
myself to decide by what right the negro was
originally brought into this relation? You ask if
the law is not the sole test of slavery or freedom?
Yes. The law must determine at what precise age
a child shall become a free, self-dependent citizen.
But it would be a monstrous abuse if the law kept
men and women of five and thirty, probably as wise
as their parents, in the subjection of infancy. Compared
to the white man, the negro is a child. Slavery
saves him from the extermination which has befallen
every other childish race brought in contact with
ours. The law must determine what proportion of
negro blood makes a legal African and slave. But if
the law pronounces that men and women to all intents
and purposes white, with European intellects, characters,
capacities, and feelings, are African slaves, it
is an iniquity  as monstrous as if it subjected menin
the prime of life to fathers approaching dotage."

"Do you really," she again asked, evidently unconvinced,
" believe that you have a full right to
Cora or Dinah, and no right to us ? If so, what did
you purchase for your eighteen thousand dollars ?
And where is the difference ? "

"What did I purchase ? " he replied, seizing eagerly
on the chance of relief afforded by the confusion of
thought involved in this argument. " Your own
hearts shall answer that, dear Florence; and whatever
interest you allow me there, I shall hold very
cheaply bought very generously given. But I did

not buy what none could sell  the right to enslave
freeborn girls of my own race. . . . What is the
difference? Surely I may think it right, and good
for them, to govern ever so despotically by the strong
hand creatures as far inferior to us as they are
superior to the apes; and yet shrink with horror
from the idea of ruling in the same way, controlling
by the same rough discipline, ladies in every respect
in intelligence, in feeling, in education, in birth
(save for a single mesalliance five generations ago) 
the equals of my own sister ? "

Mr. Darcy," replied Florence earnestly, her eyes
intently fixed upon his  'forgive me, you have not
told me what I only call you  two years ago, you
never guessed, I had scarcely begun to fear, that there
was African blood in our veins. At Sivapore  except
that you were so especially kind, so punctiliously
courteous to such mere children as we were  you
treated us naturally ; you talked to us simply and
easily. Please answer me frankly and from your
heart  if now you are so watchful, so anxious to let
us feel no difference, if you hesitate, apologize, choose
every other word so carefully  is it only because weare
unfortunate ? Is it not to hide from us, perhaps
from yourself, that in your own heart you could no
longer look upon us as equals  even if we were not
your slaves ? "

Could he have anticipated the question, he could
not have doubted how to answer it. But  lying is
an art; it may sometimes be a gentleman's duty;
but, as it can never be a gentleman's habit, it can
never be his first impulse. The truth can be spoken

at once, if it can be spoken at all; falsehood needs
at least reflection long enough to suppress the truth
and find a substitute. However swift the mental
operation, it takes time ; and if that time be but tho
hundredth part of that tenth of a second, said to bethe
least period that the most acute senses of the
finest astronomical observer can be trained to measure,
a woman's instinct, quickened by the intense susceptibility
of wounded feminine pride, will detect it. It
might be urged, moreover  in palliation, not justification,
of his slowness  that in lying Lionel d'Ultramar
had a peculiar constitutional difficulty ; due doubtless
to hereditary disuse of a universal human faculty.
In no case was the heir of ancestors who had been
attainted for loyalty by English Parliaments, butchered
for superiority by French demagogues, generation
after generation, likely to attain the facility of politicians
trained in the school of Gladstone and ,
Bright and Beaconsfield. To do him justice,
he did not pause to consider what was true. His
primary and paramount desire was to utter what was
generous, soothing to a young girl's humbled pride
and wounded feeling; and her last syllable had
scarcely died on the air, before he had caught up and
adopted the critical word with an eagerness manifest
alike in tone and emphasis, eyes and colour  all
loyally seconding the words wherein the heart belied
the bias of the mind  " Equals  God help me, yes ! "
But he knew that Florence disbelieved him before
he knew that he disbelieved himself; he knew that
neither words nor acts of his, however true to the lie
that was better than truth  no gratitude, no confidence,

no affection on her side, however well won
or frankly given  could ever efface the memory of
that infinitesimal instant of doubt, ever alter her
knowledge of his thought or ever heal its sting.

She shook her head, very, very slightly, but very
sadly ; and he would have sold his soul for the only
price the Arch-Trader cannot give  well for us all
that He cannot !  the power to recal one minute of
the past  to retrieve a smile blunder.

Do you forget," he resumed, presently, falling
back on another line of reasoning, *that, after I
sign my Will tomorrow, it is only from me that you
can suffer the humiliations you insist on expecting?
Unless I be utterly ungenerous and unmanly, you
cannot fear "

No, no ! Why should you treat me better than
other gentlemen treat their slaves ! What we and
ours did, and thought no shame, that is what I shall
have to bear. If you give your commands without
harshness, if you scold with some regard to a girl's
feelings, if you don't punish till I deserve it "

*' Florence, in pity to me, if not to spare yourself,
drop these wild exaggerations ! Take your own view
of your case ; you are not more absolutely in my power
than hundreds of men and women were, and were
content to be, in the power of my fathers. Surely
you might trust a gentleman, to whom the trust of
power is a familiar, an hereditary idea ? But whenever
you can think calmly, you will see how utterly
unreal your impression of your own position is. Don't
dwell on this superstitious fantasy now."

I will try to obey you, of course," she replied,

VOL. II. R

with a stubborn submission that made him, for an
instant, wish her child enough to be shaken into
tears and kissed into common sense. He forbore,
however, to reason further with her mood of the
moment, hoping that his arguments might have their
effect later, and failing to appreciate the strong hold
of her mind which the superstitious idea of destined
retribution had obtained.

You are hardly kind to me. But to me say what
you will; speak frankly when it may relieve you to utter
what is in your mind. Only, forgive me if I entreat
you not to talk so before your sisters. Even Eva does
not share the bitter and morbid feeling which has so
naturally but so unfortunately taken possession of you.
Pray leave her and the children at ease with me."

Ought I ? " she hesitated, her whole nature one
painful sore, whose unsoundness extended even to the
working of a naturally sensitive conscience.

Are you afraid that I shall abuse their simple,
kindly confidence ? " he asked quickly, stung by what
seemed to him a hint of distrust, alien to the perfect
purity of her character and thought.

I don't know what you mean. I only thought
they had better learn to understand their position, and
to behave as befits it. And  Eugenie is passionate,
and Eva is thoughtless and sometimes saucy "

"Well?"

"And what men smile at," she pursued, repeating
in bitter sincerity Cassia's cruel teaching, " or will
bear out of courtesy, in young ladies, is insolence in 
in us, now. You will have some patience with them ?
. . you will warn them in time  before "

Florence ! " For the first time, something almost
like anger mingled in the tone of pained surprise and
indignant expostulation. She felt the reproof conveyed
in that mere utterance of her name, and was
silenced by the interruption.

What can I do to reassure you ? If you cannot
trust me even till I can see my own way, what would
sou have ? . . . How came it that I found you friendless
and helpless ? Had you no friends  no relatives
who should have saved your father's children ?"

Papa had many acquaintances, of course. But
. the ladies were indignant that a wife and
daughters of African blood had been introduced into
society  resented it as a deception  an affront. And
the men  were  were not so kindly and so generous
as "

I understand. Poor children !  if God made man,
the Devil made society! But  have you no relatives
? "

Papa always said he had but one ; a half-brother,
a New Englander, settled as a planter in Kentucky.
I tried . I wrote . . . but his letter seemed so

cold  so It was just, no doubt ; but I thought he

might have spared us  such cruel words.  He could
not impoverish his family to assist the children of a
slave mother and a spendthrift father.' "

She fairly broke down here ; and Lionel, not daring
to express his pity in soothing her, gave vent to it ina
venomous and savage malediction.

Cruel, abject, miserly coward ! May it be repaid
him an hundredfold, here and hereafter ! God deny
to him, in his utmost need, the mercy he denied!"

The curse was spoken aside, but not unheard by his
gentle companion.

** Ah, don't ! " she said, visibly shivering. " We
had no right "

No right ! . . . A Slave State, too ! Would they
be safe ? Such a wretch would sell his own daughter
for secrecy and five thousand dollars ! Florence, "
turning to her, " I am not sure it will do, but if it

will The man is bad enough, but he is your

uncle. Will you go to Jim ? "

Oh, don't, don't ! " cried the young girl, in a tone
of passionate reluctance and fear. * Anything but
that ! Give me the harshest mistress in Louisiana,
to work for night and day, always to try to please,
and get only taunts and blows in return ! No, no, no !
If you fear we shall be troublesome, be as severe as
you can ; we will bear everything you think so cruel,
and thank you for it ; but don't hand us over to him
oh, pray don't ! "

She was lovelier than ever now, in the all-forgetting
abandonment of supplication. But  conscious of his
own passion of sympathy, unconsciously alive to her
intense susceptibility of the moment  Lionel dared
not emphasize his assurance even by pressing the
little hands laid on his arm in eager appeal, and only
smiled gravely as he replied 

Do you think I wish it ? Don't take fright ; you
shall be urged to nothing you do not approve. But
remember  you would go to him as relations;
casting no burden on him. He would probably give
you shelter, though he would make no sacrifice for
you; and it would be only till you found another
home . a home of your own."

"Please don't!" implored Florence. 'rand that,
you know, is out of the question for us  as we are."

''Ah  true," he sighed. "Very well. What is
the man's name ? "

"Eli D. Venn, of Green Ever."

"I'll remember that'' he muttered. "Florence,
<2an you really believe that, in my hands, you have
anything to fear ? Well, then, ' Lips that never
blanched or lied ' according to our family legend  do
you think they will lie to you ? If not  if you can
believe my word  whatever it be you fear or fancy
you fear, ask my promise, my oath if you choose,
never to inflict it  never to force your will; or, if
you prefer that, whenever you see fit to demand it,
at once to convey you and your sisters to a Bi-irish
colony. Will not that reassure you ? "

You said your life was in danger there ? What
right have I to ask it  or how could I drag my sisters,
homeless, friendless, helpless, to a foreign country?
It is my only comfort to think that our position gives
them a claim  a right to accept your care and protection
; a place, however humble, in the home that is
now yours."

"I bought it for your sakes. Can you trust your
sisters to me, and not yourself ? "

You don't understand me. It is not that I expect
to be ill-used  we and ours did not ill-use our slaves.
But what slavery means to the slaves of men like
you, and my father, and Colonel Marion, that it is
meant that I shall endure. To be the property of
another  to obey implicitly  to be controlled and
ordered in every act of my life  to have no liberty.

no right whatever, to feel that I may be treated
exactly as my owner pleases, that there is nothing he
has not a right to enforce  that I must ask leave
for everything  that anything I do may be a fault 
that is what I have to experience. I suppose you
can't think what it means to me. May I tell you
by one instance ?  You may laugh at it, but any girl
would feel it."

Florence, I can't laugh, whatever you may say in
this most painful mood."

* You are too kind in pitying me ; I told you, I
don't deserve it. See  no one would call this cruel,,
but I should feel it worse than many cruelties. You
may dress me as you choose  not merely control my
taste in colour or fashion, as an exacting guardian
might  though that vexes a girl's feelings  but you
might clothe me as a child or a peasant  make me
wear a ball or masquerade costume at your caprice,,
and I dare not complain, much less rebel. I heard of
something like this done to a young Quadroon. .
And so in everything else. Must it not be hard on
a girl to be so utterly under another's control ? And
can I forget that, if you don't visit every little fault
of mine, every neglect or disobedience, with punishment,
it is only because you are too kind ? Is it
nothing that an outbreak of temper might at any
moment bring me not only to pain and shame, but
to intolerable open degradation ? "

''Is that sense, Florence? Whatever my legal
power may be, do you not feel that all that, at least
is simply beside the mark  out of the question 
between us ? "

*' It may be ; I am sm-e you think it is. But when
such things are possible, don't you think it is painful
to feel that only your forbearance stands in the way
of their being real ; that if I mistake you, or try you

too far That is what slavery means; that is

the experience I have to learn. Please don't speak
of sending me elsewhere : Providence will not be
played with ; and the lesson is so hard that I would
rather learn it at your hands."

God do so unto me, and more also, if you ever
learn one line of it from me !  Florence, you don't
choose to go to your uncle; you don't wish me to
send you abroad at once, and I don't think it would
do. I am told that I cannot leave you and your
sisters here alone, in possession of your own home ;
that indeed nowhere are you so safe as with me,
while you are still  still outside the full protection
the law gives to other women. But neither you nor
I could bear it, if you are to look upon me as a
master and a possible tyrant, not as a guardian and
a friend. What will set you at ease? What  for
the present  do you wish, that I can do or promise?"

*wish? nothing. What matter a slave's wishes ?
Or what promises can limit a master's power ? "

*' Is this just or generous?" he asked, calmly but
wearily ; the bitter pain and disappointment that he
would not permit to sharpen his tone clearly visible
in his troubled face.

"I am shamefully unjust and ungrateful," cried
the girl, in a frank, almost tearful outburst of
honest generous penitence. "No; I want nothing;
you shall give me no promises. You know what is

wise, what is right, and you shall do with us as
you will; it will be the best for us, I am sure. Only
I do wish you would tell me plainly and simply
what to do. Your careful, considerate phrases only
remind me why you do not speak naturally, or scold
me as my petulance deserves. For instance  if you
had wanted a sister or friend in the garden, you
would have come to the window and called her ; your
formal message only meant : ' Don't tell Florence that
she must.' And  there is nothing I can describe,
nothing to complain of  but your manner and words
make people look  and think . . ."

Think  what you, I hope, will presently think
and feel  that the bondage of which you are so
extravagantly conscious is the veriest shadow of a
name ? I understand, though ; tell me what ' people '
vex you by word or look, and they shall wish themselves
in  Purgatory," he concluded, with a gulp,
trying to tone down the fire of his manner to the
milder temperature of the place he did name. '' I
see I hurt you at every turn, whatever I do or say.
It is very natural ; and I can only ask you to forgive
me now,  you will feel differently in time. I remember,
after I was wounded in half a dozen places
at Kulwar, weeks passed before any one could touch
without seeming to torture me ; and to you, whose
whole nature is as yet one cruel wound, the lightest,
gentlest touch must be agonizing pain  much more
the clumsy kindness of a soldier. But there is only
one point in which you are right. A man utterly
brutal might do all  worse than all  you say. I
dare say it is very hard to feel that you are at the

mercy of one of whom you know so little ; but you
must know that to treat you ill  to inflict what would
be cruelty to you, whether or not it would be cruelty
to born slaves  is practically quite impossible ;
and rendered more than ever impossible by your
sisters' presence. . . . You wish me to speak more
frankly and less formally ; to * tell you what to do ' ?
Well  shall I put your sincerity to proof ? I speak
of you as I should speak to ill-disciplined servants
of any lady ; my sister, if you will. To you, if you
choose, I will speak as I used to speak to Amy, in
telling you what I wish you to do and to avoid."

Speak as to one you have the right to command,
and the power to compel."

No ! It is because I will not give you the opportunity
or excuse to take my requests in that bitter,
resentful spirit that I offer, if you will, to take you
at your word, and speak as I should to a younger
sister. All ladies of your age stand in some need
of counsel, and imperative counsel, from women of
greater experience if possible  if that be denied, then
from men ; and you more than any. Now I don't
know whether a lady could give reasons for such
advice as you need ; I know that I cannot ; and yet,
for your own sake, I must ask you to accept my
counsels and follow them literally without my reasons.
Can you not conceive that even my control may be
your safeguard and protection; and trust me never
to interfere with your actions except when I think it
is so?"

I am sure you are, and will always be, less willing
to command  well, to direct  than I to obey. Yes,

I can very well believe that you may have reasons
you could not bear to give ; and I will never ask for
them."

"But will you take my advice in good part, and
promise to follow it ? Can you not feel how difficult
I must find it, whatever the necessity, to urge
requests which you can treat as commands  that I 
should be apt to fail in a duty that you can render sa
intolerably painful by giving a formal, forced submission
? If I seem to exact the obedience of a child,
it is that, as with a child, I must needs ask you ta
believe in the reasons I cannot explain."

'the obedience of a child?" Florence repeated
half dubiously, half playfully. " That is a very kind
and very pretty way of putting it. But why ask me
to promise what you can compel  and if necessary,
ought of course to compel?"

"That is neither kind nor true, Florence. Give
me a guardian's right, and I will use it ; give me your
promise, and I shall know that you are under the
surest and the only possible compulsion. But give
them only if you believe that I ask them for your own
sake. Even for your sake I will not appear to claim
any right that is not your gift  freely and willingly
given. Can you trust me so far ? "

"Trust you? Of course," she answered, looking
up frankly and kindly, tamed and subdued at last.
For my sake ? Of course it is. You wish to spare
me mortification and to save me from fear ; to remind
me that, till the child is false or disobedient, you can
have no occasion to coerce or correct the slave. No ;
you will not have it so ; but you mean that much, at

least ?  I have been very wayward and trying, and
you have been very good to me. Of course I promise ;
I will obey you as I trust you, loyally and absolutely.
Will you forgive my wilfulness now ? "

Thank you. Now, please never go beyond these
grounds, and do not leave the house, you or your
sisters, without yourselves telling me beforehand ; do
not receive or speak with any one outside the household,
if you can help it, save in my presence ; come
to me frankly and at once, in any difficulty, or in my
absence call Afzul to your help ; and when you come
to me in the library, bring one of your sisters with
you. Shall I take you in now ? it is nearly noon."

Not for the first or last time in human story, the
perfect simplicity, the native instincts against which
experience is ever on its guard were wiser than all the
wisdom of experience. Maternal caution could have
given no serviceable advice to one so utterly dependent
on another's will. The feminine diplomacy of the
cleverest coquette could have established no shadow
of a claim on one to whom nothing could be offered,
because nothing could be withheld. The obedience
Florence had promised was practically no more than
the ignorance of girlhood must have given promised,
the responsibility of masculine guardianship)
necessarily have required. Yet having, as she herself
had said  far indeed from realizing the full meaning
of her words  " nothing to give," she had given the
one thing which in his then mood Lionel most
coveted  the trust of a friend; perhaps he might
have added, the fearless affection of a sister. Trust
voluntary, frank, implicit, given without exchange,.

condition or qualification, assured her all she could
have asked. Far more bravely, far more composedly
could the ex-soldier have stood by his open grave, and
looked upon the levelled rifles of his executioners,
than, alone with her, have read in those deep pleading
eyes the silent reproach, " I did trust you." Impossible
 even when he realized the resistless, almost
hideous power which slavery gave over a chattel passive
t his disposal as an inanimate toy, but possessing all
the attractions and all the sensitiveness of refined
womanhood  the betrayal of her simple confidence.
The personal rights, legal immunities, social protection,
all the safeguards whereof slavery had derived
her, could but have impaired the force of the one
safeguard to which her helplessness had effectually
appealed. A maiden relying in the very innocence
of maidenhood on his kindness and his faith, became
to Lionel's chivalric imagination dear as the ideal of
feminine purity, precious and sacred as the honour
that was her sole guarantee. Happily perchance for
both, every quality of the young girl's nature, almost
every incident of the situation, tended to strengthen
this feeling. Her native softness and her acquired
timidity, her feminine instinct of dependence deepened
by her absolute helplessness ; her strange superstitious
anxiety to acknowledge and accept the providence that
had enslaved her, and the gratitude to him that rendered
her submission to that providence almost endurable
to both; the sensitiveness that was never resentful,
the occasional waywardness, the quick intense feeling
which to him seemed the natural consequence of
unparalleled humiliation, crushing through months

of cruel apprehension a spirit originally high, while
through her painful humility were still discernible the
womanly self-respect, and faint reminiscences of the
aristocratic pride, so congenial to his own temper-all
contributed to render Florence the object of a care
as vigilant as tender, a pity almost reverential ; feelings
that, the very idea of marriage being excluded
from the thoughts of both, gave to a strange and
otherwise perilous relation a sanctity which passion
dared not soil, a simplicity that romance could enjoy
but could not venture to disturb.

Chapter XIV.

CHATTELS FEMININE.

He held his slaves, yet kept withal
His reverence for the human ;
In the dark vassals of his will
He saw but man and woman."

"What does he mean? " muttered Cassia to herself,
as, one bright morning in the semi-tropical Spring of
Louisiana, she watched from the open window of the
younger girls' chamber, which she had with Cora's
help been arranging, the movements of the whole
party in the now trim grounds between the house
and the river, whose position has been already
described. Eose and Eugenie, still dressed in deep
mourning, but with bright happy faces, buoyant
girlish eagerness of movement, which showed that
for the moment at least no weight of sorrow or
anxiety pressed on their minds, were gambolling on
the lawns with Eupert. The mastiff's gigantic size
and strength had at first not a little alarmed them,
but his perfect gentleness and admirable training
had soon dispelled their fears ; and he displayed for
them a patient attentive affection, second only to his
devoted attachment to the master he never willingly

left, and to Florence, whom ever since her escapade
he had apparently regarded as an object especially
precious, and requiring incessant and perhaps half-suspicious
vigilance. Florence herself was seated
under a spreading cedar, sometimes reading, sometimes
watching with pleased amusement her sisters'
play, their silver-ringing laugh often calling to her
lips a smile in which there was no longer the evident
trace of effort or constraint; while Eva, her hand
resting on his arm, paced up and down with her
young guardian, her arch mischievous expression and
his responsive smile attesting, even to the vigilant
spy who could hardly hear a word of their conversation,
that she was teasing or bantering him with her
accustomed playfulness of old. *' What does he mean? "
the woman again repeated to herself, with a bitterness
equal perhaps to that with which the Archangel of
Evil gazed on the yet undisturbed happiness of
Paradise ; not without the Fiend's hope that malice
might yet destroy that scene of intolerable peace and
contentment. 'what did he buy 'em for? They
ain't no good to him, that I can see. It can't be
much amusement to him to be tethered here, like
old Tiger used to be, never going a day's journey out
of reach, and when he does leave 'em for a night or
two leaving that black soldier of his on guard. If
that man speaks true, he'd be more at his ease shooting
buffalo in the West, or fighting them Mexican
robbers on the Rio Grande. And he don't look
neither like one of those white men that can sit week
after week in the verandah or the study, and care for
nothing but their books; or like him in the first

months after he married their mother  curse her I
It might ha' suited him to play the lover with Miss
Florence for a while ; to coax what he might ha'
taken. But it don't look like that neither. If she
were here, she'd hardly see anything to trouble her,
without it be that Miss Florence is more in love with
him by a long sight than he seems ever likely to he
with her. He's as careful of her and with her as if
she were a white girl, with a brother or a father to
take account for her. Since that first evening  and
that was only for half an hour  she's never been
alone with him in the liberty ; and he's never, except
for a minute or two, been to look her up in her room ;
and then Miss Eva or the children has always been
there. If he takes her out, it is in sight, or Miss Eva
or Miss Eugenie's with them. And, I can hardly be
wrong, he's made her safe somehow, if John Ballard
or some one else were to put a ball or a bowie-knife
into him tomorrow. Nobody 'd never guess those
girls were slaves ; and I aren't say much to put 'em
in mind of it neither now, since Miss Eva let slip the
word or two I did say to her. Well, he must get
tired of this soon; that's a comfort. It ain't in a manlike
him to go on very long, making as much of her as
if she were his sister, and no more. I'll have to try,
though, whether I can't make mischief a little quicker.
. . Ain't that a pretty sight, Cora ? " to the young
Quadroon who, having completed her duties for the
moment, was now beside her. " What is there
between him and Miss Florence, though, that he
keeps her, or she him, at arm's length ? "

*' Don't think that, Cassie," answered the girl

simply, as unsuspicious of her companion's real
meaning as incapable of her close observation and
careful inference. "You bet he likes her better
any on 'em, and he'll take more trouble over her
fancies than over anything' any on 'em may ask.
He'll forget Miss Eva's whims, or he'll put off the
chiltern ; but he never forgot anything' she had a mind
for, and never 'dieted her 'bout anything'. Tell ye,
Cassie, guess he means to marry her after all ; he's
a European; they say a European don't mind so
much for a drop of black blood."

Cassia fairly started and turned pale at the idea.
Not likely," she said after a few moments' thought,
"or he wouldn't stay here so long. He'd ha' done
it before now, or not at all." 

"Guess he does," persisted Cora, delighted with
her own conjecture, which in truth had but that
moment occurred to her, and with the acuteness that
had hit on a solution evidently new to her elder and
far more intelligent companion.

Why not Miss Eva just as soon ? " asked Cassia,
wishing to sound the girl's shallow mind, and see
whether her opportunities of observation had afforded
her any facts that had escaped her own vigilant
espionage. " Should say, Cora, he liked Miss Eva
better of the two. She's with him oftener, and he
was taking the pains to give her lessons, a thing he's
never done for the other."

"Miss Florence don't want none!" said the girl
indignantly. " And it's just that, Cassie. He thinks
Miss Eva's a child, as much as Miss Rose or Miss
Eugenie. Didn't Miss Eugenie give it him neither,

VOL. II. s

t'other day, for that ? She won't be a child no moreau
she can help, and no longer."

Give it him ? " said Cassia, ironically, affecting
incredulity to draw out the ignorant heedless girl by
force of contradiction. " No, Cora ; Miss Eugenie's
bold and saucy enough ; but she's not up to that."

** Don't know 'bout boldness, Cassie. It might bea
bold man that should say to him half what Miss
Eugenie says, and he laughs. But t'other day Miss
Bose had been a-listenin' to what he was talking with
Miss Florence in the garden, and she said something'
as riled Miss Florence. Well, he just takes her up
like a baby, and sets her on yon big branch of the cedar
where she couldn't get down, and he says, ' You will
sit there out of mischief a while. Missy,' laughing at
her, but for all that not just well pleased. So Miss
Eugenie she up and scolds him, and says : ' You treat
my sister like a baby,' and a good deal more as I
didn't hear. Then he says, * Remember, there's a
better way to punish you ' ; and when she goes for
him, he snatches her hands and kisses her, ladylike ;
and she pulled them loose and boxed both his ears.
Didn't they sound ? I wouldn't ha' liked it. Then
Miss Florence turned quite white, seen' as he looked
angry ; and he looks from her face to Miss Eugenie's,
and she was as red as a tame turkey-cock, and real
riled. So he says as meek as possible, ' I beg your
pardon ' ; and she turns between laughing' and crying'
and gives him her hand ; but she made him take Miss
Rose off the branch. Guess Missy scolded her when
they got in again."

If that ain't good ! " said Cassie, trying to affect a

good-humoured contempt, but unable to prevent the
bitterness of her tone from reaching even the slow
intelligence of the heedless Quadroon. " It is death
for a nigger to strike a white man ; and for all he's so
patient, Miss Eugenie '11 find out one day or other
that she's only a nigger after all."

A nigger ! " exclaimed Cora, indignantly. " That
may be or it mayn't be, Cassie ; but if you wouldn't
like to be sent down to New Orleans yourself the next
sale day, better not say such a thing within reach of
his ears." '

As Florence suddenly rose and turned towards the
house, the women, conscious of idling, left the window.
Crossing Lionel's path, something in her expression
startled him, and he paused as if expecting her to
speak.

That is Colonel Marion," she said. '' I don't
want him to see me. May not Eva come in with
me?"

Of course," he replied, as, looking towards the
bridge, he recognized on horseback the form of the
tall soldier-like Louisianian gentleman to whose interposition
at the auction both he and Florence had
been somewhat indebted. *' I am sorry you feel it
necessary to run away, but perhaps it is as well that
I should take the opportunity of speaking to him
alone."

As the horseman approached, it was easy to see
that his glance had taken in the whole scene; the
unconstrained gaiety of the younger girls, not even
yet aware of his presence, and the hasty retreat of
the elder. Giving his bridle to a negro who had

observed his arrival, he came up with a somewhat
embarrassed air to the acquaintance who had moved
forward to meet him.

"I was sorry," he said, " Monsieur le Marquis, not
to have been at home when you called ; the more that
I had asked you to do so. If you felt your reception
somewhat cold, you will understand that my absence
is the only apology circumstances allow me to offer ;
and perhaps you will also feel that explanation would
be equally out of place."

No apology. Colonel, is possible for a lady's
humour; it is its own sufficient reason. As to explanation,
I should certainly be glad to learn what
offence I could unconsciously have given either to
Mrs. Marion or her sister ? "

"Personal offence, none, of course," replied the
other. " And since your Cross, your story, and your
own qualities have, I take it, ensured you a sufficiently
cordial welcome from the majority of our ladies, you
may not be aware how a few of the older and stricter
families among us regard matters which are of course
your own exclusive concern, and on which no man
would dream of offering criticism unless he intended
personal insult. But even in England I suppose
ladies regard such questions somewhat differently
from ourselves ? "

"I don't understand you. Colonel. If you intend
me to understand that any part of my conduct towards
those young ladies who have just left me has fallen
under the ban of feminine opinion, I can only be surprised
at the very sudden interest taken in those
whom, in their need, none of their own sex thought it

incumbent upon her to save from much worse hands
than mine."

No one," replied the Louisianian, evidently somewhat
nettled by an answer whose justice was too
apparent to allow him to resent it, ' would dream of
commenting on, or at least of expressing to yourself
their opinion of, your dealing with your own property.
But I suppose that in England, as elsewhere, open
and flagrant defiance of social conventions places a
man at some little disadvantage with the stricter
portion at least of female society ? "

"I have lived too little in English society to know
much on that subject. But I should like to know
what the stricter portion of your feminine society
would have had me do? I was warned that any
charges would not be safe if left alone here. You are
aware of the delays and obstacles your own law interposes
in the way of the preferable solution of the
difficulty."

It was on that point I wished to speak to you, and
I am glad to hear you imply such a preference. I
think myself, and some of my friends  among them
one or two other members of the Legislature  think,
that the case of Mr. Dupont's daughters, the second
of that kind which has occurred here within living
memory, is a reproach to our laws and institutions,
and helps to take from us much of that justification
which we are prepared to plead for slavery in
general."

I agree with you heartily. But if so, I don't quite
see why it was left to a stranger to do what little has
been done to lighten a self-reproach that seems somewhat

tardy in its action, and to make reparation
something better than a mockery of redress."

u riQYQ can be no true redress, I fear," said the
Louisianian, in a somewhat hesitating, half-inquiring
tone.

"You cannot undo or make amends for the past, if
that be what you mean. You cannot relieve those
girls of the agonizing pain and terror they endured
for weeks, or blot out from their memory the horror of
the auction  a scene I cannot bear to remember.
Nor probably can anything ever restore, to one at least
of the sufferers, the bright, innocent joyousness of her
earlier nature ; the youthful life and spirit I remember
two years ago. When I think what she was and what
she is  Colonel Marion, I have taken life, and I shall
never forget it ; but I hardly regret it as I sometimes
regret that I did not take it on this spot. The others,
perhaps, might in time be as happy as ever."

Two of them seem haDpy enough now," replied
the Colonel, as the two children, now aware of his
presence and their sisters' evasion, raced with Eupert
into the house. *but of course they were safe, for
the present, in your hands. It was of the two elder
I thought  I hope, wrongly," he added in a franker,
more distinctly cordial tone, as he looked his companion
in the face, and noticed the set sternness of
the lips and the suppressed fire in the eyes ; whose
glance, as they met his own, was half contemptuous,
half defiant.

"While I will not consent to discuss, directly or
indirectly. Colonel Marion, my ' dealing with my own
property '  or to answer for my conduct in matters-purely

personal, except with my sword  I am too
much indebted to your past kindness, I will add, too
sincerely sympathize with what seems to be your
present errand, to resent your implied question.
When I called upon you, I meant to ask from you
some formal assistance towards my enrolment as a
Louisianian citizen  since Englishman I neither
may nor will, Frenchman, under the present regime,
I cannot be. I shall rejoice as sincerely as yourself
to see a stain like this effaced from the record of my
adopted State. But surely, to make effectual atonement,
you should give more than personal redress,
however complete. You should at least repeal the law
which has made such an iniquity possible."

"I should like to see you draught the act which
would accomplish that end without touching the very
foundations of slavery  taking from the master what
is undoubtedly his property, offering a premium on
evils already grave enough, and encouraging that
admixture of races which we at least regard with
extreme disapproval and dislike."

"You cannot detest it more than I do. But you
must feel that, as the law stands, cases like this may
recur, and redress be simply impossible. What
reparation could you make to girls, pure, refined,
delicate as our own sisters, who had fallen even for a
time into the power of a man like Ballard ? For the
sake of one so cruelly wronged already, not on my
own account, I will say that if Mademoiselle Dupont
or her sister shrink, as now, from the eyes of their
father's friends, it is not from the sense of other
wrong than slavery itself  of any shadow of stain on

the purity even of their thoughts, for which they could
blush before your own wife or daughters, or before
the Mother of God herself."

The Louisianian held out his hand, warmly,
cordially, in a manner quite different from that of his
first formal greeting, and shook heartily that of his
acquaintance of yesterday  his friend from that
moment.

'you put me  put us all to shame," he said. "I
at least ought to have judged more charitably . . .
but "

*' I accepted misjudgment, calumny, as one of the
conditions of a false position," replied Lionel quietly.
*' And yet I thought that men of honour, and above
all that ladies themselves irreproachable, would hesitate
to impute to a gentleman something so far
beyond ordinary profligacy. Is it more incredible
that a man should be simply loyal, for once, toward
women, than that he should wantonly break through
every restraint of good feeling, decency, and common
humanity? Or is it that absolute power renders
utterly worthless every guarantee that  the character
and past relations of my whole household afford ? "

'perhaps so," said the Colonel, thoughtfully.
*' Certainly if neither the girls nor their attendants
were slaves. . . . However, I have only to say, I am
sorry my thought should have wronged you; since,
at this moment, I cannot tell you what arrangement
you could immediately have made that would have
been both sans peur et sans reproche  here. And,
friendless as they are, their position abroad would
hardly be safer or more satisfactory."

** I thought not ; or at least, doubted so much that
I could not press Mademoiselle Dupont against her
will."

"Against her will ? "

Of course I offered her the alternative. Of course
she and her sisters remain with me because and only
while she is willing  that is, while she sees and I can
Propose no distinctly preferable arrangement."

There was a shade of amusement and of wondering
irony in the look of the honourable, high-minded, but
practical and experienced man of the world; which
faded as he realized the perfect simplicity and good
faith with which the other assumed that even so slight
an exercise of his unlimited authority, so natural an
interference with the free-will of one who had no *will
but by his sufferance, was out of the questions-realized,
too, that the half-apologetic tone unconsciously
assumed in the explanatory clause was
prompted solely by a desire to avoid the appearance
of casting upon a lady, and one naturally dependent
upon his counsels, any shadow of responsibility.

"If that be matter of course," he said, "I can
understand why the young lady feels safer in your
hands than she might be in her own. I begin to
understand, too, why you doti't understand the peculiarity
of your position and the construction put upon
it. . . . But I must change or modify my plan. I meant
to propose, with the support of two or three colleagues
in the Legislature, a private Act of Emancipation 
of course with full compensation to yourself. I came,
not very hopefully, to ask from you that consent
without which we should almost certainly have failed.

Of course it is your right that their freedom shall be
your gift ; but still this is the best way of giving it,
as it would express the general sense that they never
should have been enslaved. I will ask you, when weare
prepared to move, to entrust to me, as Senator for
this district, a petition for the emancipation of those
whom it seems you have not only not treated but hardly
regarded as slaves ; and, coming from their owner,
such a proposal may have a fair chance of success. 
One would think. Marquis, by your look and manner,
that you don't like to be reminded of your proprietary
interest, dearly as you paid for it ; and precious as so
close an interest. in such objects must be."

Don't give me mor credit than I deserve, Colonel.
It happened that I knew Mr. Dupont and his two
elder daughters in India ; and, brief as our acquaintance
was, circumstances rendered it somewhat
intimate."

"Are you," asked the other in surprise, 'the
Lieutenant Darcy who shot the tiger the skull of
which Dupont used to show so often, and whose story
he told till it became a proverbial bore ? "

So," continued Lionel, taking no notice of the
interruption, " we met necessarily as friends. And a
man must have more courage or less shame than I,
who could have endured to witness Mademoiselle
Dupont's first terror without reassuring her, or to
betray the assurance which our past relation itself
conveyed. Had they been strangers;  well, most
Europeans would say that my right to them was as
good as my title to the rest of my human chattels."

*' By God ! " said the Colonel, " there are few men

who, so tempted, would not have contrived to decide
that question in their own favour. But with such
feelings, how do you get on in your experiences as a
slave-owner ? "

I made out," replied Lionel, "what the plantation
ought to produce, and what ought to be a fair day's
work. I told my hands that every dollar over the
amount of a fair crop should be divided, taking half
to cover the loss on bad years. They are too heedless,
too incapable of looking ahead to be kept to real
steady work in this way; but I insist on having a
day's work each day."

*' And if you don't get it ? "

"Well, I haven't pledged myself not to use the whip.
I don't know that in an extreme case I would nqjj doit.
But I have made them understand two things
distinctly:  First, if any one won't work without, if
it has to be used save as the rarest exception, I will
sell the offender. Next I told them to run away if
they liked ; but I promised a sound thrashing to any
runaway who came back. One fellow did run ; why,
the Devil may know: I don't, nor he. He had enough
of it, I suppose, and came back at the end of a week,
very ragged and very hungry. He didn't so much
mind the licking  he'd made up his mind to that ; 
but I kept him in irons and on half-rations for
another week, and I don't think he'll run away again.
They tell me it was the fifth or sixth time, but I
fancy I have cured him. But if I had invested my
fortune in a plantation, I think I should grow impatient
of slavery for my own sake ; should see something
to be said for Abolition from our standpoint as

masters. It would try my patience not a little to
depend for my whole income, and perhaps for the
payment of debts, upon creatures no wiser or more
thoughtful than children, whom you cannot trust
with machinery, and who would not work steadily fora
week for wages if there were no immediate penalty
on idleness."

That is what all strangers say, and that is why
Yankees make the worst masters. It is only the
patience of habit and tradition that can put up with
negro perversity and heedlessness."

*rit is provoking. That fellow who holds your
horse there, he's the best and the most intelligent
servant I have ; and if he cares for anything it is for
his young Misses as he would still have called them,
even if I had not enforced it. But because they do
not ride out now, nothing but my going to the stable
every morning would ensure his caring for their
ponies. Eva came to me crying one day over the
condition of her pet steed. I was in a rage ; but the
man was so penitent I could not thrash him ; and yet
he had half-starved the creature, utterly neglected it,
and that though he knew it would grieve bitterly a
young lady for whom I am sure, at need, be would
give his life."

'"VVell, you will learn what negroes are in time.
Meanwhile  you will do as you please, but if I were
you I would not tell"  he paused -" your young
friends the purport of my visit. We may, perhaps
we shall, fail, and it would be well to spare them
disappointment . ' '

In truth. Colonel, except the eldest, I don't think

any of them would feel it acutely. They know that
they are perfectly safe after my death ; and for the
present, I hope, those who are too young to see difficulties
ahead are happy as they are."

* Probably, ' ' said the other drily. '  Good morning. ' '

Chapter XV.

A CASE FOR THE COWHIDE.
Too wholly true to dream untruth in thee."

Well aware how keenly his young charges had enjoyed
the accustomed rides with their father, Lionel
was much mortified when obliged to deny the request
more than once urged by Eugenie or Rose, as they
became better acquainted and more perfectly at ease
with him, that they might accompany him in his
own. The vexation of seeming unkind in a refusal
whose reasons they no more understood than he could
give them, was of course spared him when once
Eugenie, with her usual vehement frankness and
petulant temper, had complained at the supper-table,
where the party generally assembled together, of his
unkindness, and appealed to Florence's recognized
influence.

"He cannot refuse you, Florence; do ask Monseigneur
to take us another day." The name had
been chosen by Eva, and permitted because, as Lionel
was careful to remark when it was first employed,
he had heard it used half playfully to Lord Penrith
by the nieces who in childhood had learnt to address

him by his Christian name alone, and who, as all
grew older, did not like to employ the latter habitually.
Florence's first surprise at the wilfulness of
her sister was natural and not distressing ; but her
deepening colour and quivering lip, when after a
moment's reflection she realized the motives that
forbade the exposure even of such children as Eose
and Eugenie to the comment of strangers under their
altered position, gave him no little pain. But after
two or three days' consideration, he thought it safe
to take the two younger girls with him at an hour
so early that they were hardly likely to attract attention
; and by routes so secluded that, even later in the
day, any awkward rencontre must have been a rare and
doubtful chance. Successful in these experiments,
he had ventured more than once to afford Eva a
similar enjoyment ; but an offer, hinted rather than
directly made, to Florence had so evidently given
more pain than pleasure that it was never repeated.

Eeturning one morning from an expedition in which
Eugenie had been his sole companion, he found Afzul
awaiting him in the study. After reporting various
incidents of ordinary business, the latter paused in
manifest embarrassment ; having evidently something
to communicate which, whether from fear of annoying
his master or for some other reason, he was
averse to express, yet which he dared not withhold.
At last a hint about possible hudmashes loitering
about the premises moved Lionel to actual mirth.

"There is nothing to steal on the plantation,
Afzul. And as to swine, and so forth, they run so
wild here that the people hardly consider it stealing.

At any rate we won't quarrel with them on that

score."

No, sahib, they mayn't come to steal ; but they
may mean worse"  speaking, as he usually did to his
master, in Hindoostanee.

The tone was so significant that Lionel at once
took alarm.

Speak out, and tell me exactly what you have
seen. It may not be serious, but at any rate I must
know."

''I am afraid you will not like it, sahib. I was
down beyond the Negro quarters this morning, and I
saw one of the young ladies with Eupert there."

'well, you know Miss Florence and Miss Eva go
down sometimes, when there is sickness or trouble
among the women or children. What of that ? "

But this was beyond the quarters, sahib. I
thought she oughtn't be safe if she went outside the
compound, even with Eupert. He could do nothing
with a snake, though he might frighten away the wild
cattle or swine. Well, I came through the wood to
the fence, and there was a young gentleman thereon
this side of the fence. The young lady had been
picking flowers ; she had them in a basket on her
arm, and he took some out. Then, perhaps hearing
my step, Eupert growled; but she thought he was
going to fly at the gentleman, and she held him by
the collar. Then the young lady turned  I think she
saw me  and ran away towards the house."

'' Which of them ? Did you recognize her ? "

The eldest young lady, sir," said Afzul, in a low
tone.

** Impossible ! " Lionel cried. And then, checking
himself, " Well, of course you will say nothing to
any one. I can trust the young ladies perfectly, and
they would not like to know that they had been
observed." But here his eyes fell on a vase of flowers,
some of them certainly gathered at the specified spot,
in whose arrangement he recognized the taste and
skill which Florence alone possessed. Indeed, the
attention was one of which Eva or Eugenie had never
thought; but which, always during his absence, he
had often received from the eldest sister. *' Did you
know the trespasser, Afzul ? "

"Yes, sir. It was young Mr. Dampier."

Lionel remembered the name as that of the young
man who had taken part in the bidding against
Ballard and himself, and whom he had once or twice
met in society since ; a man whose countenance and
reputation had both unfavourably impressed him.

The scoundrel ! " he muttered. " I won't have
such fellows sneaking here. By Heaven ! " he added
angrily and, as was his wont in anger, swinging
sharply the riding-cane he had not laid down, '' such
insolence deserves the cowhide ; and it shall not pass
unpunished. . . . Florence, too ! "

He had turned from Afzul with a gesture of dismissal,
as he spoke aloud, but more to himself than
to the other ; and was startled at the moment to see
that Eugenie stood in the open door. It was evident
that she had but just reached it, coming on some
childish errand of her own ; and, merely checked for a
moment by Afzul's presence, could not have heard
more than the last sentence. It took only a few

VOL. II. T

seconds so to repress his irritated feeling as to hear
and answer her with his usual gentle kindness ; but
Eugenie had noticed the unusual cloud on his face,
and the set teeth and compressed lips which gave
emphasis to the angry menace she naturally connected
with the name that followed it. He did not
observe her start as he added 

'' Will you ask Florence if she can spare me a few
minutes in the garden presently ? "

Pondering over what he had heard, but thinking
far more of the intrusion of so unwelcome a stranger,
and of the necessity of stern and prompt repression,
than of any possible want of prudence or loyalty on
Florence's part, the signs of irritated temper, which
though carefully suppressed in their presence the
girls had learnt to understand, were still visible when
with a slight start he saw that his message had been
answered. It was not Florence, however, but Eva
who stood beside him; somewhat embarrassed, he
thought, perhaps merely surprised and rendered
nervous by the sight of his ill-humour.

'florence is not well," she said. "She came in
before breakfast looking pale and almost sick, and
she could not eat. I got her to lie down; and she
has a bad headache. I would not let Eugenie give
her your message till I knew whether you would
choose to disturb her."

Certainly not," he answered as matter of course ;
though, like most men, somewhat disposed to regard a
young lady's headache as an excuse or evasion, when
not another name for ill-temper, of which Florence
was hardly to be suspected. *rand don't let her

know I asked for her, Eva ; or it will put her out,
perhaps, to have refused."

She will coupe at once if you hid her, or if she
hears you have sent for her," Eva said, perhaps a
little sharply.

"And that is why you are not to tell her," he
replied, gently. "I shall go out presently, and I
may not be in till evening. Will you tell her I am
sorry to hear she is not well ? If she don't feel able
to join us at supper, ask if I may come this evening
to see how she is ; but if you think she will be better
alone, don't let me disturb her."

Somehow or other, Eva was convinced that had
Florence made her appearance, something as like
what she called a scolding, when she received it, as
she could imagine inflicted on her graver sister by
one who had always treated her with as much
deference as regard, had been in store for her. But,
thoughtless as she was, she was too considerate to
communicate this impression to Florence, in whose
illness she at least fully believed. She was, however,
a little surprised at the evident restlessness and nervousness
of her sister's manner when towards evening,
recovered in some measure from her indisposition,
she asked more than once whether Monseigneur, as
they called him among themselves, had not yet
returned. '' And yet," thought Eva, " I don't fancy
she particularly wishes to see him."

The subject of these inquiries had in the meantime
ridden to seek Mr. Dampierrere at the house of a
neighbour some twelve miles off, where he was understood
to be staying. It chanced, however, that the



young man was out with some of his friends ; and it
was not till late that Lionel encountered him, with a
party among whom unfortunately were two or three
ladies. Rupert, however, could not understand the
social law which repressed all manifestation of enmity
in their presence, and growled at Mr. Dampierrere in a
manner so marked that the latter could not avoid
noticing it.

''I never saw him show such marked irritation
except to enemies or trespassers," said his master, ina
low emphatic tone, which the man to whom it was
addressed could not but feel. "Colonel Marion,"
continued Lionel to the latter, who was one of the
hearty, an instinctive apprehension of some awkwardness
at hand having collected a few of the gentlemen
beyond the hearing of their fair companions, 'how
do you deal with lurking spies or trespassers here ? "

'' I should have thought," said the other, "the rule
was much the same everywhere."

"I don't know," Lionel answered. " In England,
if a tout hangs about your stables, your grooms may
thrash him till he can't stand. If a man sneaks for
much worse purposes about your house, the practice
if not the law seems more doubtful."

My hospitality in such a case would have a
strong ' flavour of walnut sapling,' " said the Colonel,
quoting the latest of Mr. Lowell's jDarty squibs.

So shall mine, then," said the other, " on a
future occasion, if Eupert does not spare me the
trouble."

He turned with a salute to the ladies, who were
beyond hearing of this brief by-play, and rode slowly

homeward. He had not, however, gone far before he
was overtaken by Colonel Marion, Mr. Dampierrere,
and another gentleman, a Southern officer in the
Federal service.

*' Monsieur le Marquis," said the latter, himself
half a Frenchman, gravely saluting him, "Mr. Dam-pierre
considers himself aggrieved by what you have
just said."

1 said, I think, that I should horsewhip any
sneaking trespasser about my plantation. Mr. Dam-pierre
best knows how that remark can affect him."

A gentleman who has borne Her Britannic
Majesty's commission," returned the young American
soldier, gravely, "will not trifle with a request to
explain or answer for words that were certainly
spoken in a tone likely to give offence ? "

Mr. Dampierrere," replied Lionel quietly, " appears
to think that the words ' sneaking trespasser ' are
particularly appropriate to him. As I happen to
be entirely of the same mind, there is no serious
difference of opinion between me and  yourself.
Colonel Marion, perhaps I may ask you to act as
my friend in this matter ? "

Pistols ? " said the young officer to the latter.

"As the party challenged," interposed Lionel, "I
believe I might claim the choice of weapons. Colonel
Marion happens to know that I should not be under
ordinary circumstances at a disadvantage with the
pistol ; and for that and other reasons I should prefer
the sword. But, Colonel, if your friend objects both
to the small sword and the sabre, accept the pistol,
but on condition that we fight a la harriers. I shall

ride home slowly ; it will not take you long to arrange
matters, and perhaps you may overtake me. I hope
the business may be settled as speedily as possible."

He had not ridden two miles before the Colonel
was again at his side.

*' To-morrow morning at seven," he said.

*' And the weapon ? "

*' They are obliged to leave that to us, of course,
and if you insist they will choose the small sword.
But Damx)ierre is a smaller and slighter man than
yourself, and," said the Colonel, with a contemptuous
smile, " his habits of life have not tended to strengthen
his frame. At close quarters your greater strength
would give you a serious advantage. You have a
right to it, no doubt, but I don't think you're the
man to take it."

Look here, Colonel," replied Lionel calmly, drawing
a revolver from under his tunic. " You see that
red leaf against yonder grey trunk ? I suppose it is
about twenty paces off ? "

He fired once, twice. The horse started simultaneously
with the third report. " That will do, I
suppose ? "

Well done ! " said the Colonel, examining the leaf.
Two balls have gone right through the middle.
The last has grazed the edge, and that is your horse's
fault. I see you could not choose the pistol ; but as
your marksmanship is known, if only by the story
of the tiger, it seemed a superfluity of chivalry to
object."

I objected because I do not intend Mr. Dampierrere
to take a life quite as valuable as his own. With the

sword I could have disabled him ; with the pistol I
may be forced to kill. How do you put us up ? "

*' At the barrier, thirty paces apart, back to back.
You will wheel at the word, walk forward not more
than ten paces  we shall halt you if need be at that
point  and fire when you please after the first signal
is given."

Florence had not availed herself of the offered
permission to avoid the supper table ; and Lionel felt
penitent for his doubts as he recognized in her
manner, her varying colour, her evident nervousness
and depression, the traces of an agitation quite sufficient
in itself to account for such indisposition as she
had pleaded.

"Is she so afraid of me?" he thought. "What
is it that girls dread so intensely in a lecture ? Surely,
especially when it comes from one who has no right
of age or relationship to give it, it cannot be half so
bad as a * blowing-up ' on parade ; and the most shy
of military novices would hardly let himself be worried
like this by the fear of a rating from the hardest-swearing
Colonel in the Army. Or is it that, knowing
herself wrong and with a conscience so sensitive as
hers, she fears the echo of her own self-reproach ?
But surely that conscience must have kept her out
of any , serious intentional misdoing ? One might
think it mere coquettish folly under other circumstances
 though that is not like her  but Florence
has felt her position too keenly, and has seemed to
understand things too well."

As they rose from table, having waited for the
master of the house till a later hour than usual, the

younger girls at once retired ; and Eva, after exchanging
a few sentences with him, during which she
was evidently absent, stealing now and then a nervous
glance at her sister, followed them. Florence seemed
to linger for a moment, whether as having something
to say or as expecting him to speak: but it was with
evident relief that she accepted his 'good night." Her
face was averted as she gave her hand, and there was
something more than usually timid  or was it cold ?
in its pressure. But as their fingers parted, she
turned for a single moment to his countenance a look
half-inquiring, half-pleading, resembling at once that
of a wounded deer and that of a frightened child,
which certainly meant something, but whose meaning
he felt it impossible to read. No sooner had he retired
to his study and endeavoured to find assistance in
the solution of the puzzle from one of his favourite
green Savannahs, than a step outside and a tap at
the door, both heavier than those of the girls,
announced a servant's wish to speak with her master ;
and in answer to his " come in," Cassia made her
appearance. She held a letter in her hand.

*' I have something to say to you. Sir. I am afraid
you won't like to hear it ; and I don't like to say it.
You won't think I wish to get any of my  my master's
children into trouble ; but they might get themselves
into worse trouble if you did not know. You've taken
so much care of them that they should ha' known
how to take care of themselves. At least they should
be ashamed to deceive you, to be shy with you and
forward with any one else."

** Cassia," he answered coolly, not at first looking

up, 'tell what you have to tell, but be good enough
to make no such comments upon any of your young
mistresses."

He had often used the word, and it always stung
the woman before him. It reminded her of her bitter
grudge against the children of a rival, as she constantly
repeated to herself, " no better than she was " ;
it also recalled the daily repeated mortifications
inflicted by the sight of his studious respect for the
sisters, and especially for Florence, and the bitter
disappointment of her expected triumph in their
suffering and humiliation. The rebuke, and the
terms in which it was expressed  the deference for
them, the implied depreciation of herself  so galled
her that it was all she could do not to let her spite
become plainly manifest.

"I guess. Sir," she said, "you'll be sorry to hear
that one of them has been meeting with a gentleman,
and a gentleman their father would never have cared to
see here. Even in his life Mr. Dampierrere could have
meant them no good; and now he can mean them
nothing but harm. How Miss Florence can't see that
I don't know; but I know she's met him and she's
had a letter from him. I saw it on her table, and I
knew how it came ; but I don't know what she's done
with it now. I don't think she's destroyed it; and
you can make her give it you and see whether I speak
the truth. Now, this afternoon, she gave a letter to
Cora to take for him. I could not let that go on, and
I made Cora give it to me."

Is that it in your hand ? " he said, looking up with
a face in which at last Cassia thought to discern a

first promise of gratification for her spite ; a feeling
which, if worked upon, might yet bring on Florence
some such humiliating punishment as she would have
given her soul to compass.

"This is it. Sir," as he extended his hand to take
it. She had hoped to see it opened, to watch his face
as he read, and was not a little mortified to see it laid
aside With apparent if not effortless calm.

You are right, so far. I could not in justice to
the young lady allow her to commit herself by the
mistake of writing, for whatever reason, to such a
person ; but you will say nothing to her. Cora must
not venture to convey any more letters, but you must
take care that she does not disturb her mistress with
the knowledge that this has been intercepted. I shall
know how to deal with an infamous and deliberate
treachery."

Infamous, deliberate treachery," murmured the
slave to herself, as the door closed behind her.
Well, that's what it must seem to him, after he's
been fool enough to treat her like a lady, and take as
much pains for her that every one in the house should
know how things stand, as if she were his own sister.
Hope she'll be insolent. With that high spirit of hers,
when she finds herself driven into the corner, it's just
as like as not. It'll need that, or even jealousy  and
he is jealous of her  won't make him change so very
far all at once. But he is mad with her, thank
Heaven ; and now he's given loose to his anger, and
forgets to speak of her as if she were a lady, it won't
be long before he'll be provoked to remember that he
can punish her as a slave."

Eugenie and Cassia had fallen into the same error.
Eugenie did not know, and Cassia characteristically
forgot, that there was another offender, not, like
Florence, by right of helpless defenceless subjection
sacred even from angry thoughts.

Chapter I.

PISTOL-practice EXTRAORDINARY.

The shadows of his stormy life that instant fell apart,
And they who blamed the bloody hand forgave the loving heart."

The sun had risen, but his rays did not directly pierce
the masses of foliage, and he had not reached a height
from which they could shine straight down into the
open glade, in which next morning two men stood
back to back at thirty paces, with pistol in hand, in
closely buttoned coats showing no spot of white. At
ten paces from each, across the line between them,
lay large stakes marking the limits of their permitted
advance. Colonel Marion, the young American
officer, and a surgeon stood aside some ten paces
from the centre of the line.

I shall give the signal," said the elder second.
"When I clap my hands the third time, you will turn,
and fire when you please. One  two  three."

Both wheeled and stepped forward ; the Louisianian
with tolerable firmness but with a rather pale face,
flushed here and there, as if he had striven after a

VOL. III. B

restless night to steady his nerves with something
stronger than coffee. His antagonist paced the
ground with the measured tread and erect bearing of
a soldier on parade, with an absolute composure in
whose very calmness a certain constraint and effort
might have been detected. Now for the first time an
observer might have seen that each carried not an
ordinary duelling pistol but a revolver. One barrel,
however, of each only was loaded. Lionel, his arm
slightly bent, but perfectly free from the sort of stiffness
perceptible to a practised eye in the similar
position of his antagonist's limb, kept his weapon
steadily levelled at the other's breast and looked him
directly in the eyes. Whether so intended or not, the
sight of the barrel thus pointed and the steady gaze
disturbed Dampierrere's nerves, if they did not actually
shake his courage. "Whatever deficiency of the latter
might be conjectured, or might actually exist, was due
rather to the weakness or unsteadiness of spirit and
frame produced by dissipation, than to any discreditable
unwillingness or inability to face death with at
least average readiness. But perfect coolness would
have preserved him from the error of firing at the
fifth pace, while twenty steps still parted him from an
adversary whose marksmanship he knew to be far
superior to his own. It was not surprising that his
shot utterly missed. If the rule of that manner of
combat, and Louisianian notions of fair play, would
have allowed the unhurt and still armed duellist to
avail himself further of the right of advance, and
permitted him to aim at leisure, Lionel had no idea
of taking so questionable an advantage. Within a

couple of seconds the report of his pistol followed the
other, and the raised right arm of his antagonist
dropped to his side, while a low half-suppressed cry or
scream told how acute was the pain of the wound. In
another instant Dampierrere staggered, and fell before
the surgeon could reach him.

The seconds ran to assist ; the victor, knowing that
his aid was as needless as it might be unwelcome,
stood a little apart, till Colonel Marion, leaving the
wounded man, came to his side.

You have shattered his elbow," said the latter ina
low tone.

I am sorry to hear it," replied his principal. *' He
must have moved his elbow at the moment then, I
suppose. I meant to break the bone below it. For
that reason, if he had not fired first, I should hav
taken the shortest distance allowed me. When one's
own life hangs on the . shot, one's aim may be a little
shaken, and at twenty paces one might be tempted to
make too sure."

What instinct or habit induced Lionel as he returned
to load every barrel of the revolver he' had
carried empty to the field, he himself could never
have told. It was his practice, however, since the
auction day had so painfully impressed upon him
the value of his own life, always to be armed ;
though invariably keeping his weapon carefully concealed,
to avoid the provocation to quarrel that seems
to be involved in the open display of deadly weapons.
Indeed in that society in which he moved, in the
expeditions of sport or business in which he was
frequently engaged, occasion for the use of the pistol

was scarcely more probable than in England. With
nearly all the white men around him he was on
friendly terms, and from his slaves he never dreamed
of danger. On the contrary, he would not have
hesitated at need to arm them in defence of their
master, and of the place which they all considered
almost as much and as permanently their home
as his. He still carried the weapon in his breast
when, springing from his horse under the portico,
he entered by the front door. Throwing his hat and
whip as usual in the embrasure of the nearest window,
and encumbered by the revolver, he laid it unawares
beside them ; contrary to the practice he had observed
ever since he had been not a little annoyed
and alarmed by finding it undergoing a curious and
somewhat dangerous examination in the hands of
Eose and Eugenie. Passing on into the study, he
rang, and the bell was answered by Cassia, not by
Cora, who was at that moment in attendance on her
young mistress ; and it was therefore to Cassia that
his orders were given, though as it happened he did
not notice which of the servants received them.

Will you bring my breakfast here at once, and
tell Miss Florence I shall be glad if, an hour hence
or so, she will come to me here. Tell her it has
been raining all night, and the garden is too wet to
be pleasant : and ask her, if she will not mind it,
to come by herself."

More disturbed than he had chosen to appear before
the witnesses of the duel, Lionel unconsciously spoke
with clouded face and in an irritable tone, of which
Cassia was not the only observer. Hardly intending

to play the spy, Eugenie had watched his return,
noticed his unusually rapid pace and gloomy look,
and stood concealed with some half-formed purpose
close to the open window as the message was given.
As the speaker turned in that direction, she ran back
under the portico, and was screened from his sight ashe
went to visit the stable. Loitering in the hall,
she caught some fragments of Cassia's muttering
as the latter passed through the gallery on her
errand.

"You'll catch it this time. Missy," she growled to
herself, but audibly, unaware that any one was
within hearing. *' If he thinks you deserve the
cowhide, he ain't so far wrong ; and  ' infamous
treachery! '  well, that sounds better 'n I hoped for.
I'd ha' thought he'd ha' given her anything, and kept
it to themselves, before he'd ha' spoken so about
her to me."

Cassia perhaps 'reasoned right from wrong premises."
Her master could doubtless as soon have
outraged his own reverence for his ward by personal
violence, as by opprobrious language applied to her ina
servant's presence. It had never occurred to the
slave-woman that the anger of a gentleman was
turned, primarily and almost exclusively, upon the
male offender. As Eugenie heard and pieced Cassia's
misconceptions on to her own, her eye fell on the
revolver. At first she took it up in mere wilful
mischief, perhaps from that instinct of disobedience
which was strong in her wayward temper. Presently
some thought occurred to her, and carefully concealing
it under her dress she carried off the weapon,

hoping that its owner would not miss it, or would
not ask her what had become of it, before the time
at which a half-theatrical, half-passionate, wholly
childish fancy suggested that it might be made
effective.

'what have I done with my revolver?" said
Lionel to himself, as he re-entered the study some
ten minutes later. '' I have not got it about me, and
I can hardly have taken it out in the stable. It is
not over-wise to leave such a thing about, either. In
spite of the lecture I gave them about meddling with
firearms, I doubt if Eugenie's or Eose's fingers would
not be again tempted by the very danger. Well, I
suppose they're at breakfast now; when I've done
ni' own I will find it, before they can get into
mischief."

But when the tray was removed, he sought the
weapon in vain throughout the study, and equally in
vain in the stable. Some accident caused him to,
return from the rear of the house through the hall,
which, as has been said, led directly from the front
door to the court, at right angles to the gallery that
formed the front of the main building and connected
the turret-like wings. As he turned into the gallery,
Eugenie stopped him with an eager and excited air,
Int her purpose was not very intelligible. In truth,
she hardly knew how to enter on the subject in her
mind ; and he, the morning's irritation revived by the
fruitless search, and anticipating with anything but
pleasure the momently approaching interview with
Florence, shook her off somewhat impatiently. Repenting
the next moment of seeming unkindness, he

turned with his hand on the handle of the study door,
and to his infinite surprise and annoyance saw the
missing weapon inthe hands of the most restless and
excitable of his chattels ; saw too, though he hardly
noticed for the moment, that her cheeks were flushed
with an unusual depth of colour, and that even more
excitement than was common in her most passionate
moods sparkled in her eyes and trembled in her
quivering lip.

' You foolish child ! Give me that directly, and
never touch it again ! In such hands as yours it might
be the death of one of your sisters, and make your life
a misery ever after. Eugenie, I don't like to speak to
you of command or obedience ; but I will not have
that one rule set at nought. Give it me at once."

Amazed at the tacit refusal, emphasized by the
girl's retreat to a greater distance, he was about leo
enforce the very reasonable command, when, lifting
the weapon, and with her hand, as he noticed to his
no small alarm, on the trigger, she cried 

Not till you promise me you won't "

Give it me this instant ! " he exclaimed, observing
that the revolver was, intentionally or otherwise,
directly levelled at his breast, and that a slight movement,
very probable in the child's excitement, might
send the ball through his heart. He advanced
towards her, catching up the cane from the window,
intending in case of need to strike aside either the
weapon or the hand that held it ; aware of the imminent
risk to both if, closing with her, the girl should
resist his attempt to wrest it by force from her grasp.
As she still evaded him, feeling that the danger could

not be trifled with, and naturally angry as well as
alarmed 

Put it down this instant ! " he exclaimed, '' or  "
Expecting a blow which he could not bear to strike
till too late, excited beyond self-control or self-recollection,
the child pressed the trigger. Fortunately for
both, she had not calculated the effort required to
discharge, not a toy such as one sees nowadays in
many English houses, but an effective military six-shooter.
Eugenie had no idea of the manner in which
in unpractised hands the weight of the *pull," to use
a technical phrase, and the movement of the barrel
itself, divert the aim. The ball which, as she held
the pistol the moment before, would have gone straight
through Lionel's breast, actually grazed his left arm
and broke the window nearest to him. For a moment
both stood in equal amaze and horror :  the girl suddenly
shocked into a partial perception of the nature
of her impulsive act ; the man more utterly astounded
than either alarmed or angry, but very much alarmed
and  as is often the case with men and women whose
courage is matter of will and not of insensible nerves
very angry indeed under the first impulse of extreme
surprise and fear, as well as the sting of sharp bodily
pain. Of course the latter first recovered power to
will and act ; and before Eugenie realized what she
had done, much more before she could think or move,
he had snatched the weapon from her grasp, caught
her up, and almost flung her into the study.

"You little fiend!" he exclaimed, as the door
slammed behind them.
Panting, whether from want of breath or from still

persisting agitation, seizing her again with more
roughness than he was aware, a moment or two
passed before he added, still under the same first
impulse, " If you are child enough to commit murder
in sheer childish passion, you are child enough to
smart for it ! "

Eugenie, to do her justice, had acted on the passionate
but still hardly more than half-conscious impulse
of a moment. She had possessed herself of the
revolver with the half-formed, very ridiculous idea of
interposing to protect her sister from  she hardly
knew what. When she pointed it and refused to give
it up, her thought was still to exact a ]Promise by
threats which she had no idea of fulfilling ; and perhaps
surprise and terror had as much as anger todo
with that pressure on the trigger which might
so easily have cost the loss of one life, and not improbably
the incurable unendurable misery of others.
Shocked by her own act, even more than terrified by
violence the more alarming as coming from one who
had always been so gentle and forbearing to her, she
had attempted neither resistance nor appeal. What
was coming she had hardly time to wonder or to fear ;
and, happily perhaps for himself, Lionel never knew
how far in the execution of his menace anger would
have carried him before self-recollection interposed.
Neither of them heard the gentle tap at the door.
Eugenie had her back turned to it, but Lionel started,
recalled to partial self-possession at least, and relaxed
without quite releasing his grasp of the frightened
child, as Florence's timid gentle countenance appeared.
Her look of utter astonishment, it seemed to

him reproachful astonishment, abashed and sobered
him at once ; and in another moment he had dropped
his hold on Eugenie altogether, as he strove to answer
that look with an affectation of something like composure.


I don't defend myself, Florence. I know nothing
would excuse to you such rough treatment of your
sister. But  is there no limit to what a man must
bear from anything in petticoats ? "

Startled by a bitterness and roughness of tone
strangely contrasting the deference to herself evinced
in his usual manner and language, by a countenance
which would not be calm, and a voice which
would tremble, Florence was even more  astounded
than at first. Surely no offence of Eugenie's could
have so affected him ? Was he vindicating a right to
deal as roughly with herself? She was silent in a
dismay which he mistook for persistent displeasure.

*' I know what you will say. She is old enough to
claim a woman's privileges, but too young to be held
liable for a crime."

'' Crime ? " repeated Florence, bewildered as well as
frightened.

Of course there can be no crime in an infant !
But  is it quite fair to expect me to remember at
the same moment that she is too childish for responsibility,
and not child enough for summary
chastisement ? "

Used to see not only the outward indulgence but
the very symptoms and tones of his temper suppressed
in her presence, Florence, in her helpless dismay,
very nearly fell back upon the one resource that

would have instantly recalled the accustomed gentleness
and consideration she now missed for the first
time. Her eyes filled with tears, and it was with a
great effort that she restrained them.

I don't understand," she said, almost piteously.
"What have I said? and what has Eugenie done?
She must have been very naughty if you can "

"So far forget myself in your presence? True,
Florence. But you shall judge the case yourself, and
be as hard on me as you think I deserve. Very
naughty ! Is that your word ? Your sister had got
my revolver. I told her sharply to put it down. She
refused. She held it pointed at my breast with her
finger on the trigger. I saw that my life hung on the
steadiness of a hand shaking with excitement. There
was not a moment to lose, and I fancy I threatened
her. Then she fired."

She has hit you ! There is blood on your hand ! "
cried the girl, shuddering.

He involuntarily turned back his left sleeve, and
saw the shirt crimson with blood, where the stream
had trickled down unnoticed to the wrist.

"Happily the weapon was too heavy for her. The
shot grazed my arm : it was aimed at my heart."

Aimed ? Oh Heaven, no ! don't say such a dreadful
thing ! You might well be angry ; she deserved
any punishment . . . but you could not think she
would murder you."

She meant to hill'" he answered, with recovered
composure. "I would not call a passionate child's
violence, murder ; but don't be too hard on me if "

At the words " she meant to kill," Florence's glance

had turned on the silent half-sullen, half-appalled
culprit, expecting an impassioned denial. She read
confession in the crimson cheeks, downcast eyes, and
drooping form, and turned away in sickening horror.
Still, when her eyes met those to which their wonted
tenderness for herself had now returned, she could not
realize the truth.

"Meant?" she faltered. "Oh no! you cannot
think that ! You don't, or you would not have checked
your anger ; you would not have cared what I might
feel, or "

*' What could I do  in your presence ? You don't
suppose I could have acted so violently, when I had a
moment to think ? I said you should judge the case,
and you shall ; but don't judge me as if I had acted
deliberately."

You! If I seemed  remember, I knew nothing 
'how could I guess ? And you had always been so
gentle. . I am very sorry I came."

I am very glad, Florence, if I may horde that you
can now excuse my intemperance. I trust I should
have remembered myself in time, but it is as well you
came to bring me to my senses."

"I wish I had not; then you might have  but
you would have forgiven her afterwards. Now  oh,
what will you do ? And oh ! does any one know 9 "

"Who could, and what matters?" he answered,
remembering enough of the slave code partially to
understand her new alarm. "HI call it an accident,
who can interfere ? There is that consolation, at

least, a she is amenable, practically, only to

domestic jurisdiction. It is as well you missed,

Eugenie. Had you succeeded, you would have
found harder measure than mine, and certainly not
so gentle a judge as now."

Florence fairly started at the look and tone. The
words addressed to Eugenie were ironical and even
mocking, but there was nothing of bitterness in the
sarcasm, and the mockery was almost kindly. In
truth, his anger had been the mere physical outbreak
of alarm and pain, and the bitterness of his first words
was due to the mortification of being found in the
wrong by Florence  a feeling which was more than
appeased by her acknowledgment of injustice. Hardly
able to believe in his returning good humour, she
looked towards her sister, expecting to witness its effect
on her ; but, to her infinite surprise and pain, Eugenie
stood untouched, unsubdued, impenitent. 

Stubborn, shameless ! " thought Florence. "He
cannot forgive ; and what will become of her ? "

The double thought, that the offender deserved no
mercy, and that rejecting what was almost offered she
would find none, was so legible in her face, that Lionel
smiled as he answered the look which scarcely dared
to be deprecating.

Afraid 7102, Florence ? Have I so utterly forfeited
your confidence by once behaving ill under provocation
? I ought, of course, to be used to bullets, as
eels to skinning ; but to be shot at by a child 
the danger is so ridiculous, I confess it does put
one out."

Oh, don't ! " she cried. *' Don't make a jest of it !
I ought to have known you must be right, but "

But I was not. Never mind ; I told you you

should pass judgment yourself. Surely Eugenie is
safe with you? "

"Do you mean that, really? No . . . you
cannot . . . and what can I say ? She deserves the
worst . I suppose. . . . But, whatever you do
now, will you forgive her afterwards ? No . of
course you can't ; and I ought not to ask it. You
would keep your word, I know, but I have no right.
Of course you will send her away . . . you
can't bear her near you again . . . but "

Faltering and hesitating thus far with the plea she
could not conscientiously utter, Florence's voice failed
her.

"Do you think I am afraid?" he asked, fairly
laughing. " She took me by surprise to-day, but in
future I will keep my temper, even if she take better
aim next time."

Don't ! " implored Florence. " What could make
her ? She must have been mad."

Frantic with passion ; as I was, next moment. I
had spoken to her very roughly, and when her finger
was on the trigger, I am afraid she thought I was going
to strike her. I only meant to make her drop it at
once ; but it enraged her, and she fired instead."

She would have murdered you, because you scolded
her for such wicked folly? It is too horrible to
believe ! "

Why were you so obstinate, Eugenie ? I don't
ask why you fired; I understand that. But why
would you not give it up when I bade you first ? "

Too much agitated to think, too proud to plead
for mercy while punishment impended, Eugenie was

softened by the tone of this question. Lionel's immediate
submission to the check imposed by Florence's
presence, his appeal to Florence's arbitration, forced
her to feel the absurdity of her original apprehension ;
while she slowly realized the atrocity of her act in any
case, the shameful ingratitude to their benefactor, and
not least, the danger of utter ruin, of unspeakable
misery, to which she had so nearly exposed her sisters.
Whatever their master might have done, or might yet
inflict, would be far less than she deserved ; and it
was not fear or anger on her own account that had
prompted her fault or delayed her repentance.

It was not that," she said at last, with a violent
burst of tears. "But I  I would not let you ill-use
Florence."

Florence ? " he repeated, in sheer bewilderment
scarcely remembering the summons that had brought
the elder sister upon the scene, or its motive. But
Florence's perception was keener and her memory
quicker.

More shame for you, Eugenie ! What right had
you to interfere, or I to rebel ? Could you not leave
him to deal with me as I deserve, to do what he
thought right ; could you forget what we owe to him ?
Did you care to think from what we have been saved,
or what you were bringing upon us all ? What can
you or I expect, now that "

Nonsense, Eugenie ! Don't scold her now,
Florence," interposed Lionel, with all a man's susceptibility
to girlish tears, all a man's impatience
of feminine hardness to feminine distress. " Let
her go now; she has had more than enough of a

lesson in the fright I gave her, and she shall not
have the chance to play with six-shooters again.
Come, Eugenie, child ; whatever you feared or fancied
for Florence, you can surely trust her alone with
me now ? "

He advanced to lead the child from the room, and
was at first intensely surprised when she shrank from
his touch, snatched her hand away, and covered her
face.

No, no ! " she exclaimed, her voice half choked
by passionate sobs. " Don't speak so kindly ; don't
laugh at my wickedness. I know  I cannot say 
how very, very wicked I have been. Indeed, indeed,
I had rather you would punish me as I deserve 
whatever can be bad enough for me  than speak
like this. You must hate me, of course :  and
Florence will hate me too, now."

Her thoroughly sincere passion of shame and sorrow
could find no adequate utterance; but it touched
him profoundly. If a spark of resentment had still
smouldered in his breast, her tears, her penitence,
and above all the despairing earnestness of her last
words, would have quenched it at once.

"Hate you, child? On the contrary, I shall love
you all the better for your love to your sister ; and
you will understand by-and-by that you may trust
me, even with a thing so precious as Florence. Now,
give me a kiss, dear ; and don't cry any more. Nay,
Eugenie ; we were both to blame ; and I promise you
you have heard the last of it."

The child shrank, abashed and remorseful, from the
kiss of reconciliation, and her hand dared not return

the kindly pressure of that which led her from the
room. But in both she felt the comfort they were
meant to give, and the impulse, as well of genuine
sympathy as of compassion and forgiveness, that
prompted them. If she had never before comprehended
him, if she had imperfectly appreciated alike
her original obligation, and the considerate kindness
and often-needed forbearance she had since received,
Eugenie's thoroughly generous heart was won, at once
and for ever, by a generosity she could understand
and could hardly fail to exaggerate. Of the promised
impunity indeed, she remained for a day or two half-incredulous,
more certain that Florence had not forgiven
her than that Lionel had : nor was the assurance,
when it came, a source of unmixed satisfaction. She
would have submitted willingly to any penance that
savouring of atonement, might have lightened her
shame and self-reproach, without impairing to her
spirit the fulness of the unexpected incredible pardon.
What she dreaded, and felt that she had deserved, was
the cold lasting displeasure that would not condescend
to punish ; that, if it had not deprived her of her
home, would have made her an alien and an outlaw
there, estranged from its master's kindness and from
the frank, all-healing affection and ease that pervaded
it. Against this Lionel's fraternal " kiss of peace "
had warranted her ; she felt in it more than she could
believe  the seal of a full and frank *' act of oblivion."
For weeks, though it was hard to meet his look fairly
and freely, she felt safer from reproach in his presence
than when alone with her sisters  though even Florence
dared not in words infringe his pledge that she
VOL. in. c

'' had heard the last of it." As day by day some look,
word, act of natural and yet, it seemed, special and
studied home-kindness reminded her ivy her temper
was carefully spared, her sensibility peculiarly considered,
the young girl learnt to feel for her guardian a
strong, warm, cordial, but perfectly simple and domestic
affection  affection as pure and frank as that of a
child-sister for the brother who fills to her a father's
place ; more close and earnest perhaps than that
cherished by Eose and Eva for their protector, but yet
more distinct from that which rendered Florence unconsciously
timid, shy, and almost wayward with one
who had loaded her with a weight of obligation that
would have made most women  hate him.

Chapter 11.

UNDER THE ROD.
So trust me not at all or all in all."

Closing the door behind Eugenie, Lionel saw that
Florence had sunk into the nearest seat, trembling in
an agitation due probably even more to the scene
through which she had passed than to that she apprehended.
But, ascribing it wholly to the latter, he
became more and more reluctant to speak, more and
more uncertain how to begin.

You sent for me," said Florence at last, finding it
easier to plunge at once into what she most dreaded
than to bear the suspense of silence. ** You had
something to say to me ? "

*' I would rather ask you," he answered, "whether
you have nothing to tell me ; nothing it might be well
that you should explain ? Don't mistake me ; above
all, don't mistake the kind of right I pretend to ask
for your confidence. You promised compliance with
my advice ; and you may remember why I asked it.
Is not this just the occasion on which my control
may be your protection ? "

*' I remember  too well. You preferred a child's
obedience to a slave's. You made me promise, that
you might not have to compel. I wish I had never
promised ! Now, I have not only disobeyed but lied
to you. I know the consequence, and must bear it.
Call me to account as harshly as you will, I have
nothing to say against it."

The girl, scarcely conscious of the full meaning of
her words, was wholly unconscious of the resentful
tone which stung him to the heart. They were at
cross purposes already. Florence was in a mood to
remember only that she had to answer to unlimited
power ; Lionel equally sensible that the guardianship
he could not choose but enforce rested on no moral or
natural right. She was disposed to exaggerate her
own error, and to see in his every word a step to merciless
condemnation : he, most loth to wound her,
almost as of course expecting her to rebel, and yet
naturally taking symptoms of rebellion as presumptive
evidence of a fault. Both were susceptible and
nervous from the consciousness of a false position.
Never did accused so sorely need that, in the old
English phrase, the Court should be her counsel.
Never was Court more favourably biassed ; and
never did defendant more wilfully throw away her
advantage.

In most of us irritation is the instinctive reaction
of self-reproach. Her youth and sex rendered this
especially natural in her. Little could Lionel guess
how, ever since her detection by Afzul, Florence had
dwelt and brooded on the coming enquiry; how  fretting,
thinking, probably crying over the matter for a

hole day and great part of the night, rehearsing infancy
and in dreams the dreaded interview  she had
so magnified her fault and its natural consequences
that, as hardly any view of her conduct seemed too
harsh for the aspect it must wear to him, so hardly
any penalty seemed improbable or undeserved. Seemingly
at ease with him, he had no conception how her
original superstition as to coming retribution had
lingered in her mind ; aggravated, and the details of
fear and shame filled in, by Cassia's malignant suggestions.
He had treated her and her sisters as ladies ;
but that, to her mind, was purely supererogatory kindness.
If they should forfeit it by their own conduct,
as she told herself that she had forfeited it, what
could they expect but the treatment which, though an
impossible outrage to ladies, would be only legitimate
severity to slaves ?

Think for a moment, Florence. It must be hard
to render account to me; but should I do well to
forego explanation ? Do you do wisely to refuse
it?"

*refuse? I never refused. Question me; if I
don't answer, you will know what to do."

'' Shall I ? . . . Florence, do spare me the pain of
seeming to treat you as a culprit ! . . . Well, if you
will not tell me anything, I will tell you something.
Ending out yesterday, I met a young acquaintance
and spoke to him very sharply about trespassing."
He looked for the first time directly in her face as he
spoke the last word, and was even more dismayed by
the shame and confusion than pained by the distress
it expressed. *' He took it amiss. I met him again

this morning : lie took worse aim than Eugenie's, and
he won't trespass again for some little time. Still
silent, Florence ? Can you not supply the name I
have not mentioned ? "

Florence had shivered and looked up as the duel
and its result were thus briefly told, but her glance'
instantly fell again.

"I know," she faltered, almost in a whisper. " I
have nothing to say for myself. I disobeyed you,
though I did not mean to do it, at first ; and I have
disobeyed you worse since."

'' But why, Florence ? You must have far too much
good sense and good taste not to know "

*' That I was doing wrong ? " she said, filling up
from her own thought the sentence he found it
difficult to conclude in accordance with his extreme
anxiety not to wound her pride or offend her delicacy.
I know "

But, Florence, that was not what I meant. Where
was the temptation, to such as you ? Of course he
would say anything. Better men than he will lie
shamelessly to women. But you might have known
he could mean you and yours no good. If it had been
any other girl  but you, who have suffered so much ;
you so conscientious, so simply truthful  you cannot
have been misled into what at best would be thoughtless
coquetry ; you could not be carried away by
mere reckless impulse. Will you not explain ? . .
Then "  taking from his pocket the letter which
Cassia had placed in his hand  " is this really your
writing ? "

She scarcely glanced at the envelope, but her

I

deepening colour and evident trembling answered,
even before her lips murmured, " Yes, Monseigneur."

Take it, then. I think I can trust you now not
to send that or any other. Could you think that it
was safe, or that it was not a breach of your promise
not to speak ?  no, you are above such an
evasion ; but I thought you above all fal  concealment.
Florence, will you not explain ? If I distress
you, do you think I do not feel yet more pain in
seeing you troubled and ashamed ? Do you think
this is pleasant to me ? "

The extreme bitterness of the tone, the vexation,
the pain that her ear and heart could not mistake in
his voice and manner, were more than she could
endure in silence.

I don't think so," she murmured. *' You have
trusted me and you have been deceived. You have
been most kind, forbearing  and you are forced into
severity. I know you hate it ; but what can I say ? I
have deceived you ; you cannot judge me too hardly ;
do what you please."

'that is childish, Florence. You are not a child,
to be corrected or confined ; and if you were, you are
not my child. Will you not trust me ; or if you will
not speak, will you let me read that letter ? "

Why do you mock me with such a question ? Of
course you have read it."

How dare you, Florence ! "

They were the first words of anger he had ever
addressed to her, and she looked up in sheer amazement.


Your seal is unbroken. Do you think I would

have opened it in your absence ? I will not open
it now. Destroy it, or give it to me, as you choose."

Not of course ignorant of the conventional sacredness
of letters, but used to strict paternal control over
her correspondence, accustomed freely to interchange
with Eva the letters each received  accepting her
young guardian's authority much more implicitly
than he, anxious to avoid its exercise, ever understood
 it would never have occurred to Florence that,
while compelled to action so decided and to an
interference whose necessity she fully acknowledged,
he could not endure, upon whatever suspicion or
provocation, to read without her consent what it had
been disobedience and deception to write.

Forgive me," she said gently, opening the envelope
and handing it to him. It seemed very carelessly
fastened for such a letter, so easily did it yield to
those trembling fingers. '' Head it, Monseigneur, and
then I will give you "

She watched his face almost furtively as he glanced
over the contents. He had taken the paper half-reluctantly,
though with a manifest relief, an evident
hope that his faith in Florence's purity and truthfulness
 scarcely shaken by Afzul's report or Cassia's
charges, or even by her own handwriting ; which had
yielded slowly and partially even to her own confession
and the far more damning evidence of embarrassment
and shame in her manner  would be presently
restored and justified. A first rapid glance at the
few blotted half-legible lines changed that expression
to one of bewildered amazement, which deepened into
wonder, incredulity, disgust, on a second and third

careful perusal. But all other feelings seemed merged
in one of bitter, profound, unspeakable scorn, as 
with a gesture not actually rude but indicating contempt
as plainly as formal courtesy would permit  he
rather flung the paper under her eyes than handed it
to her, and turned as from an object too revolting to
be willingly looked upon. And when, with difficulty,
she obeyed his repeated injunction to read, her dismay
and distress were too absolute for words, almost
for coherent thought. Unfortunately he did not see
her face, and therefore felt in her silence only natural
shame and confusion.

If," he said at last, in the low deep tone of intense
mental suffering, his voice hoarse and rough with
suppressed passion  " if the hearest friend I knew on
hearth had told me this, I should have given him the
lie, and shot him with less compunction than a mach
dog. Miss Dupont, it was hardly worthy of you to
reproach Eugenie for trying to remove the protection
you thought an insult, the life that was only a barrier
between you and  Dampierrere."

'' How can you ? " exclaimed Florence, stung to
utterance by wounded affection and outraged delicacy.
'You, who could not bear the thought of striking
me, can lash me with such words as these ! I am
your slave ; you have a right to punish me, to scourge
me, as you please. But it is unmanly to insult me
with such language as this."

Insult you. Mademoiselle ! "

The words were spoken in a calmer tone, as his
passion yielded somewhat to her indignant rebuke ;
yet to her sense they conveyed the thought that the
hearer had fallen below the possibility of insult.

** Head your own words aloud. Ah, no wonder yon
falter ! By God, you women are made of other flesh
than ours ! A man would find the knout less torture,
the gallows less shame, than to read such words to
one who never wronged you by word or look  no, not
by a disloyal thought."

She read, her voice giving neither emphasis nor
even intelligent connection to the words : 

I write in the hope to put an end to our state full
of fear and harassing without further shame. If you
will have my love, you must kill him. I had rather
not. You know how dear I hold you ; but my
hate for him will not fail. I will, I will be free from
protection that so cruelly and meanly insults my fallen
position."

Of course Florence gave no effect to, what Lionel's
more careful and perhaps less astounded eyes had seen
without observing, the frequent blots and erasures, the
very uneven and in some places scarcely legible
writing. But she read mechanically, and hesitating
here and there, as if memory in nowise assisted her to
decipher her own characters.

Well," he said, as she stood silent and confounded,.

I don't wonder. It must be hard to justify, even to
your own heart, the assertion that the protection you
have received from me has insulted you."

"From you!" she cried, roused at last. "It is

not ! There is nothing like that in it. How can

you?"

He pointed indignantly to the lines which were
still lying under her eyes. "You must have relied
very absolutely on my patience, on my courtesy. Miss

Dupont, when you could venture to bid me read such
a letter. It is well for Dampierrere I could not open it
before. His life was at my mercy, and had I read
this by God, he should have paid the forfeit ! "

I don't understand," the girl cried at last, breaking
down utterly in a passionate flood of tears ; tears which
for the first time in his life he witnessed, if not with
unmoved composure, in perfect silence. Perhaps they
somewhat relieved her bewilderment ; perhaps the
pause of two or three minutes thus secured enabled
her to think. At any rate, when with great difficulty
she recovered her voice, she was able at last to
attempt, if not defence, something like explanation
or apology.

*'I know I have forfeited all your kindness, all the
privileges you have allowed me. I cannot expect you
now to treat me as other than a slave, and a slave
who has deserved anything you choose to inflict. But
do with me as you will ; don't think I am quite so bad.
See, he  he wrote to me yesterday. The letter was
given me ; I was going to destroy it : but I thought
I would keep it to show you if you heard, as I felt
sure you would, of the  the meeting "she shivered
at the word  "that I had never even opened it."
She drew a letter from her bosom as she spoke, but
before looking at or handing it to him she went
on : "I cannot understand the other. I did not
mean that. I  I don't understand. And here, see,
I never "

She paused, her eyes opening widely, staring at
the envelope with a fixed frightened gaze, more
hopeless if not more helpless than that with which

she had regarded her own writing, so recently forced
upon her perusal. The letter was undoubtedly open.
Florence was utterly overwhelmed by this crowning
disaster. The double disappointment broke down her
last hope of exculpation or excuse ; intensified into
sheer despair the dismay, distress and alarm which
every incident of the scene, every occurrence of the
last twenty-four hours, had tended to excite and
increase. She could do or say nothing, now, to
weaken the effect of the letter she had just been
compelled to read aloud ; and she felt keenly, in the
midst of her confusion, what that effect must be. Such
an exposure before one so kind, so generous, so loyal,
would have shamed and terrified a less sensitive, less
dependent creature. And Florence was not only
a culprit, not only a dependent, but a slave. If she
had never been allowed to feel this truth in her relations
with him, she owed it solely to the considerate
tenderness, the compassionate reverence, that she
had so violently revolted. She had lost by her own
fault the immunity she had enjoyed  had no more
right to the privileges of sex and weakness than
any other slave-girl. She had really  so she told
herself  deserved disgrace ; to him she must seem
worthy of the severest and most degrading punishment
that her situation and his authority entitled
and empowered him to inflict. And in his language,
tone, and countenance she read the ratification of
her self-judgment  the confirmation of her worst
fears. Untruly, of course ; yet not unnaturally.
The wall of observance and honour, of reserve and
reverence, with which his own loyalty had fenced

round the defenceless loveliness placed by law and
circumstance so absolutely at his disposal, had suddenly
broken down. She felt herself at the moment,
and for the first time, no longer absolutely safe in
his hands ; and interpreted by her own fears and experiences
the change whose nature she could not
conceive.

Another trivial incident assisted, perhaps, to define
and enhance her terrors, by recalling the vivid picture
of probable humiliation drawn in such cruel sharpness
by Cassia's malignant fancy. She had sprung to her
feet in her momentary outbreak of indignant resentment
; now, as Lionel retained his seat, and she had
fallen back into the attitude, moral and physical, of
a conscious culprit, she stood before her master somewhat
as the spiteful imagination of the confidential
housekeeper had represented. Shame rather than
fear kept her looks fixed on the ground ; intense pain,
bitter disappointment averted his from the humiliation
of one he had honoured and trusted so thoroughly
till that moment. She instinctively shrank from
the plain direct words that would have forced him
to understand the real meaning of her supplications ;
he never saw the quivering lips and trembling limbs
that evinced her unaffected agony of terror  a terror
he could not have borne for a single instant to look
upon.

"I have nothing to say for myself, now  not a
word. What would be the use ? how could you
believe me? I know what you will, you must do;
and yet  the worst is what you must think of me.
You cannot despise me more, you cannot be harder,

ERRANT.

more disgusted, than I should be in your place. I
should feel no pity ; I suppose I deserve none. And
yet  but it is useless, you can't believe me. What
can you do with a girl so lost  so shameless, so
thankless  but punish her as a lying, treacherous
slave ? I dare not beg for mercy ; you must scorn and
laugh at me for pretending to shame  to delicacy,
to womanly feeling  now. But  you  you have been
kind so long, so kind to me above all  have you not
some pity for me left ? You love  the children  still.
. . Deal with me as you will, yourself; but  for
their sakes  spare me what they would feel so keenly.
You will not  you surely will not  disgrace me before
others ? "

Certainly not. Be open, be truthful at last,
Florence ; and fear nothing."

She was too utterly terrified to observe the tremulous
wavering of voice that belied his coldness ; that
might have assured her of the groundlessness of her
alarms. These were too remote from his thought
to be conveyed by her language ; the possibility of
physical fear did not occur to him. He never guessed
what she dreaded, what she intended to accept as due
to her apparent if not to her real fault ; what aggravation
of her sentence she so passionately deprecated.
He had never dreamed how constantly the fact of
slavery was present to her mind ; how, kept in trembling
alarm by Cassia's cautious malice, she was daily
reminded that every privilege, every exemption was
granted and might be revoked by an irresponsible
owner's arbitrary pleasure. In his actual presence,
she had not till now been able to fear him ; but it

"would have wounded him to the quick to know
how often the voice and form that her waking consciousness
could associate only with her security and
happiness, were in the poor child's sleeping visions
connected with sounds of terror, with scenes of
misery and shame. On her part, Florence understood
his words as conveying a conditional promise,
and therefore implying an alternative menace. If
she confessed her guilt in full, she need fear nothing ;
if she persisted in silence or denial, she might expect
the worst  and that worst would at least involve
the bitter servile indignity of personal chastisement.
It was as well, perhaps, that, sorely tempted as she
was, her native truthfulness, her conscientious and
religious principles, were reinforced by her conscious
inability to devise a plausible or even coherent fiction.

You must do what you think right," she faltered
at last. *' Whatever you choose to inflict, I can't
complain ; I know I must seem to deserve it all. But
indeed, indeed I can't say what you must believe to
be true; and if I speak the truth, you will be sure
that I am lying. Don't tempt me ; remember I am a
girl, almost a child; and I am so utterly in your
power. Pain and shame would make me say anything.
Punish me as you will, with your own hand ;
strike as hard as you can bear to ; but "

He broke in upon her supplication with a cry of
amazement, distress, and horror whose absolute sincerity,
terrified and bewildered as she was, she could
not but feel immediately and intuitively.

'florence ! What have I ever done, what have I
said even now, that you should shame me by such

terrors ? If I spoke roughly, rudely  was it strange ?
I thought I had won your confidence, and was stung
to the heart to read what you wrote of me to another.
But if you can fear such things, if you think me
capable of them, no wonder you so long to be freed
from me."

No, no ! no indeed, Monseigneur ! " cried Florence
eagerly ; deeply moved, and forgetting all else in her
desire to repudiate the feelings ascribed to her, and
soften the bitter pain evinced in the very tone of his
remonstrance. " It was because you were so carefully,
so anxiously kind and considerate that you
must feel so hurt, so angry. And if . . . and I
feared nothing worse than I might have done myself ;
nothing you have not a right to do, and reason for
doing. What can I expect but the treatment of a
slave who has worn out even such indulgence as
yours ? I could not think you harsh if "

"Look into my eyes, Florence," he interrupted;
"and tell me, if you can, that you think such a
thing the more possible because it is legal ; that you
feel less safe in my hands because I have the power,
and what you call the right, to punish you as I please.
It is because you have no security, no protection but
my honour and your own helplessness, that I am
ashamed to have spoken to you as I did."

Touched by this appeal to her better judgment and
truer instinct, Florence looked up as she was bidden ;
and, so looking into the eyes to which the almost
remorseful horror and wondering self-reproach excited
by her strange terrors had recalled a shadow
of their habitual expression of reverent, loyal tenderness

for herself, she could not but feel, at once and
irresistibly, the utter futility of her fears. On his
part, meeting that frank and once more trustful gaze,
Lionel felt not less keenly the impossibility of believing
her guilty of dishonour, of ungrateful falsehood,
even of wilful and deliberate coquetry. He was the
.last man to mistake the stainless purity, the perfect
honesty of the soul that looked into his from the
depths of those clear, limpid, lustrous eyes. And as
their glances met, unavailing and unashamed, there
came into hers a new expression; a wistful, unconscious,
almost hopeless appeal to his knowledge of
the nature he ought to have understood too well to
believe it, on any evidence, mean, disloyal, and thankless.
He looked at her earnestly and long before
shyness rather than timidity called a brighter colour
to her cheek, and caused the drooping lids with their
long soft fringe to veil the half-tearful eyes from his
unspoken questioning. " Florence is true, or there
is no truth in womanhood," was the result of his
scrutiny. " If those looks can lie, I might as well
disbelieve my senses as my instinct."

I did not send for you to treat you as a culprit,"
he said, gently. "If I spoke roughly when I saw
that letter, I spoke to a friend I had cause to reproach,
not to a  a child accountable for her fault.
I waive even such guardianship as you once voluntarily
accepted ; I claim no right to question, no confidence
you cannot willingly give. But for your own sake,
would it not be well to trust me frankly and fully  to
tell me the whole truth ? "

'' Don't  pray don't speak so ! " pleaded Florence,

VOL. HI. D

earnestly. " I know you can't forgive me ;  at least
yet. But do not cast me off in that way ; don't,
because I have broken faith with you once, renounce
the obedience I promised you. Don't tell me you
will leave me to myself, when you have just seen how
much I need to be controlled and warned. You were
quite right to call me to account ; and you spoke only
too kindly and gently. Indeed, indeed I will try to tell
you the truth  but  what is the use, now ? With that
letter before you, how can you believe a word I say ? "

*' Try to forget the letter, then, for the present.
Tell your story in your own way, in your own words,
and trust me not again to frighten or to wound you.
Can you doubt that I shall be only too glad to forgive,
if you have any error to own or to excuse ; still more
glad if it be I who have to ask your pardon for hasty
and unjust suspicion ? Not believe you ? My one
difficulty would be to doubt your word ;  and remember,
Florence, I did not doubt you on any evidence
but your own."

"But," she said piteously, "how can you believe
me any longer ? But I will tell you, and you must 
you must think I am deceiving you  you cannot help
it. I heard that Sambo's child was sick ; and you were
out. I could not ask you, and I thought you would
not be displeased that I went to her. It was wrong,
perhaps ; but I meant to have told you. Then I
went on to the thicket at the end by the fence, where
the flowers grow I have so often picked for you. I
was gathering them, when Eupert, who had followed
me, began to growl. I looked up, and saw . . . Mr.
Dampierrere. He spoke to me  I hardly know what,

I was so frightened and wanted to get away. He
talked  don't ask me to repeat it  nonsense ; but
his face meant more than nonsense ; and he took
some flowers out of the basket. That roused me to
run away, and I ran too fast to think ; but I fancied
I saw Afzul. I suppose he told you."

"Well," he answered, as she paused. "Go on;
let me hear about the letters."

*' This," she said, pointing to that which still lay
open but unread by either on the table, "was given
me yesterday. I did not  but it is no use telling you
that."

You did not open it, you mean ? "

"But you see it is open. Then  I know I did
very wrong indeed  but I did not know what to do.
I was afraid to tell you, and I thought to end his
annoyance and escape by threatening to tell you ; and
so I wrote to him, and gave the letter to "

She stopped just in time. Willing to abide his
sentence on herself, she would not betray another to
his probable anger. But to Lionel nothing seemed
more absolutely natural than this precaution.

You gave it  to whom ? You may tell me safely ;
I know, and I only wish to compare what you tell me
with what I have heard already. Nay, don't be
offended ; I wish to sift this matter ; not that I doubt
you."

Offended ? doubt me ? " she murmured, sadly.
How can you believe a word I say ? You will keep
your anger for me ; you will not punish the servant
who was used always to obey me ? "

Certainly not. You gave the letter, then, to Cora ?

Well, and why and what did you write ? Now, Florence,
pray answer frankly and exactly, though it must be
painful to you."

I wrote," she replied, for a moment forgetting the
letter still lying under her hand, "that if he would

not leave me alone I must tell you ; and " The

paper, though not its contents, caught her eye ; and
she stopped again, blushing and trembling.

Try to tell me," he said, very gently, " what you
did write ; and never mind this "  taking the paper
from her hands. " I can understand that you don't
like to repeat all you said, and it pains me to press
you. But I must have the whole truth, for your own
sake."

"I think I said that I wished to end his hateful
harassing with no more harm. That if he would not
leave me alone I must tell you. I told him it would
cost him dear  I did not want you to kill him. But
I know I told him that if he persisted inform you I
would ; that his professions were only an insult in my
present position."

While she spoke his eyes were fixed not upon her
face, but on the fatal lines traced in her own handwriting,
and acknowledged by herself. Observing
this, she stopped; and, blushing painfully, with a
colour that suffused her neck and face to the very
roots of the hair, continued 

I know  please don't question me any more  you
can't possibly believe me. Say, do, as you think fit ;
I shall not think it unkind  I don't wish you to spare
me when you cannot really forgive such  what seems
such thankless insolence. But "

"What do you mean?" he asked. "You forget
that you have just given me an account of this letter
in which there is no trace of * insolence,'  no trace, I
mean, of anything that I could wish you had not
written, except the letter itself. Why could you not
trust me, Florence ? Surely you know it would have
been wisest to tell me at once, and leave it to me to
deal with the difficulty ? "

But I dared not. I did not want him killed, bad
as he was ; and I was of course terribly afraid."

For me ? " he asked, half smiling.

She paused, naturally tempted to avail herself of
such a plea ; but the instinct and habit of truth were
scarcely less imperious with Florence, conscientious
by training, religion, and native purity, than with
him to whom chivalric honour made the name of a lie,
more hateful than death ; and she answered truthfully,
but with a hard and sustained effort.

"No, it was not that. I never thought to fear for
you. I felt so sure. But  you had been very kind
to me ; I had no right to be afraid of you ; but I knew
I had done wrong to begin with. I thought you
might be very, very angry ; and "

Still, Florence, you might have trusted me.
Surely, if I had so far forgotten myself as to speak
harshly to join  did I ever do so till now?  it was
better than to run the risk of corresponding with such
a man ; to say nothing of the probability of being
found out."

"You speak," she answered, still with an evident
struggle, " as if you were speaking to your sister ; to
some free English girl under your guardianship.

When the worst a girl fears, can have to fear, is to be
Scolded, or even locked up, no doubt she can speak
the truth. And  I ought to have been true with you,
whatever came of it  but . it is not the same
thing when  if you had not believed me  there was
nothing to prevent . . . you know what you might
have done. Of course I have deserved it now ; I have
got myself into worse trouble ; but . . . can you not
understand ? "

*' Was that your real feeling, Florence ? Could you
Still believe that, at the worst, however angry, however
I might fancy you to blame, I dare treat you
more harshly than a sister who had given me equal
offence ? Can you not see that, just because your
legal position renders you so sensitive, I must feel that
I owe you a more careful, watchful gentleness ? Have
you really lived all these weeks in the belief that your
liability to  to personal indignities could ever be more
than a name ; can you have fancied your womanhood
at the mercy of my temper ? If it be so  Florence,
I cannot tell you how this wounds me. We will let
that drop. Now, will you, if you can  will you come
here?"

The appeal conveyed in tone and gesture drew herat
once close to his side, though she came with an
evident lingering apprehension she could not perhaps
herself have defined.

*' Look over this letter with me, and tell me exactly
what you did write."

He took her hand and placed in it the pencil with
which he himself had been tracing the written
characters as she verbally explained her intention ;

while he looked up as she leant on his chair with an
expression in which, if she could not believe fully in
the restored confidence it implied, she could at least
read nothing but kindness. Thus encouraged, she
ventured to look once more upon the lines in her own
hand that had so distressed and alarmed her.

** * I write in the hope to put an end to ' Is that

our state ' yours ? "

I think  not," she answered doubtfully. *' I
think I wrote  no, I said nothing about * state ' or
our.' I told him to leave off his hateful, offensive
harassing before harm came of it."

' Without further harm ' or * shame ' ? " continued
Lionel. " I understand : I fear I have done you cruel
injustice, Florence."

"How can you say so?" the girl answered, still
unable wholly to comprehend the purpose of his
minute enquiries, nor yet catching a glimpse of the
more than suspicion already formed, and almost established
as a conclusion, in his mind. ** I know I have
been wrong from first to last ; and you have not said
a syllable I don't deserve. You have scarcely spoken
a word of reproach to me."

More than I can forget," he replied with a
sigh. '* Will you read on ? "

*' * If you will have my love ' " She started with

unmistakable frankness of shame and horror. ** I
never, never could have written, have thought  I
could not say such words to you ; to any one," she
added, checking herself. ** I told him to leave me

alone."

** Ah ! there is a blank before the * leave ' which

has been turned into * have.' Florence, some one
imitates your hand wonderfully well. *If you will
not leave me alone '  it was, ' I must ; ' and ' tell ' has
been altered into ' kill.' *I had rather not ; you know
how dear ' Then this ' I hold.' "

* How dear it would cost you ' I wrote," she cried.
Cost ' has a blot over it. I did not blot it that way ;
at least I don't think so. And *my hate'  Monseigneur,
could you think I so wrote of you ? I wonder
that, believing that, seeing it in my hand, you could
spare me for a moment."

*' * At any rate'" he puzzled out, *'*and for,' 
those are your letters ? "

** But there is a blot. *At any rate inform him
without fail I will,' " Florence said, recovering her
self-possession as she began to realize the trick that
had been played upon her.

*' Ah ! " he said, with a sigh half of relief, half of
self-reproach, '' now I see it all. And ' professions '
has been turned into * protection.' This, then, is
what you really wrote ? " and, taking the pencil, he
rapidly scrawled beneath her signature the following
words : 

*' I write in the hope to put an end to your hateful,
offensive harassing without further harm. If you
will not leave me alone I must tell him. I had
rather not ; you know how dear it would cost you.
At any rate inform him without fail I will. I will
be free from professions that so cruelly and meanly
insult my fallen position."

'' That, or nearly that," she answered, after twice
reading the lines.

*'Isee the whole now," he cried, "except  yes,"
examining the envelope. " This letter was ill-sealed.
The bearer has opened and altered it."

* Impossible ! " said Florence. " Why should Cora
wish to do me such a terrible injury ? And she is
not half clever enough; indeed, she can hardly write."

'* No, Florence. This letter has passed through
another hand beside hers. I see it all. Can you
ever forgive me for the rudeness of my words, when
stung by what seemed so gross and wanton an unkindness
 for fancying you capable of such a thing ? "

"Forgive you? Could you help it? I have been
very, very wrong ; and if you had not been most
kind, most patient, I should never have known the
truth myself. I should have felt that I had forfeited
the right to be believed ; deserved  what you will not
let me name. I ought never to have written ; I ought
to have told you at once ; and I deserve all the sorrow
and fright I have had."

A very heavy penalty for a very natural error,"
he answered, sadly. "It is well something in your
manner, and your look of bewilderment when I made
you read out this letter, excited my doubt before 
nay, Florence, before I might have said what you
could hardly forget or forgive. The worst into which
I could have been betrayed would have been words
less harsh than you yourself applied to what you
thought your conduct must appear to me."

What words could be half strong enough for it,
if I could have acted and have written so? But
could you believe it of me ? "

"I ought not; and, Florence, I honestly think I

should have believed the letter a forgery, had I been
able to open it before. But remember, when I saw
it, you had just avouched it your own ; and this
ingenious altering might well mislead me, since fora
while you doubted yourself whether it were yours
or not."

** I began to think some evil spirit must have made
me write the very opposite of what I intended. But
who could be so wicked ; who could try so hard to
bring disgrace and punishment on me  to make you
despise and hate me ? "

"I could tell you, Florence, who has altered this
letter, but I had rather not. . . . Yes, I will tell
you; but you must not betray that you have been
told;  only you must never trust her again, or
suppose her to be a friend  till I can resolve how
to deal with her."

'* Who ? " cried Florence in horror. " The servants
cannot write. Oh, do not think that one of my sisters
could have done this ! "

No, no ; but one whose malignity to you seems
utterly inexplicable. Why  I begin to believe now
that, the first day I was here, it was by deliberate
intention that you were kept in ignorance and terror
so long. Florence, this forgery was Cassia's work."

Ah ! " cried Florence, after a full minute's pause.
And she did say such cruel things ; did say all that
could terrify and torture me, before I came to you
that evening. I thought she was warning and pitying
me ; perhaps she was. It seems so strange ; she
must be going out of her mind. I never did anything
unkind to her."

I have to thank Cassia, then, for your wild
imaginings that day? She told you what you had
to fear ? Well, it was foolish enough on your part : on
hers it must have been deliberate invention, merely
to make you suffer in imagination  what no doubt
she would have liked you to suffer in fact."

f Chapter III.

SUNSHINE BEFORE THE STORM.

Years of his youth, how rapidly ye fled
In that beloved solitude."

Florence, I should like to ask you one question,
if I may be sure not to offend or pain you. Have
you altogether and for ever forgotten, thrown away,
the fears with which you so long tortured yourself
and wronged me ;  the idea that your legal position
could possibly mean in my hands anything worse or
more than  it has meant as yet ? "

It was late in the Summer, a season when, in
Louisiana, laziness has charms, exertion disagreements,
even for those who keep up as anxiously and conscientiously
as did the ex-soldier European habits of
activity, and aristocratic love of hardier sports than
Southern and Western Europe afford ; and the
speaker lay at length under the shade of the great
cedar mentioned in a previous chapter, at the feet
of the Creole maiden he addressed ; who  seated ina
light garden chair, her fingers somewhat irregularly
occupied with a piece of the embroidery of the day,
sarcastically described as cutting holes to sew them
up again  raised her eyes from time to time to watch

the occupation of her sisters. These found the heat
far too oppressive for those active gambols with Eupert
in which we saw them engaged, in the same place
and under not dissimilar circumstances, earlier in
the year, but were still amusing themselves with the
great mastiff; Eose and Eugenie weaving a broad
bright collar of flowers for his thick shaggy neck, and
Eva, laughing over the incongruity which gave zest
to this childish amusement, now and then patting
her favourite to keep him quiet under the frequent
and somewhat teasing manoeuvres of the children.
But no other interest, no occupation, though much
more absorbing than those which now engaged her
hands and eyes, could ever render Florence inattentive
for a moment to the voice that had just addressed
her, or detain her looks elsewhere when fair anti
sufficient cause was given to turn them on the eyes
now earnestly looking up into her own.

"You mean," she answered, with a half-smile, and
an increase of colour so slight as to him, who understood
his own feeling and hers, almost to answer his
question  "you mean  am I still afraid that under
any provocation you could persuade yourself to . . .
why, you can't bear the very word ! No. If you
could not make up your mind to deal in that way with
Cassia, no slave could possibly forfeit, in your eyes,
the privileges of a woman. And," she added in a
lower and softer tone, " whatever you could bear to
inflict, Monseigneur, I think any of us might be
content to suffer. Yours would be the sharper pain."

You do believe that, at last ? But I was not
thinking only, or directly, of such gross and impossible

abuses of your legal subjection, but rather of
the subjection itself. I find myself obliged to confess,
Florence, that I have not done my duty, have not
behaved well to you ; and I can hardly hope for your
pardon if your sense of wrong be still as keen as at
first. You must have been anxious, the more perhaps
because you never spoke on the subject, that the
necessary measures to redress that wrong should be
carried out ; and you must have thought me strangely
negligent if not wilfully slow."

What meant her now rapidly brightening colour ?
the strange half-wistful, half-ashamed expression of
her dark eyes, that were not turned from him but
would not meet his own ? Was it pain at the recollection
thus recalled to her, pain in the humiliation
she had felt so keenly at first and never wholly
forgotten? Was it a reproach she would not put
into words, and would not willingly express even by
look? Some such meaning it must bear for him.
Had her mother been alive and present, she might
have put another interpretation on the changing
complexion, and the kind of shrinking from some
more or less unwelcome thought  a shrinking of
which the girl was half unconscious, half ashamed 
which maternal quickness of observation might have
discerned in the eyes and attitude.

I have not behaved quite so ill as it may seem,"
he went on, "and yet I must not excuse myself untruthfully.
I am afraid I have not been so eager or
earnest as I ought, from the moment I knew that
you were safe ; safe at any rate from every one but
myself. In truth, Florence, I have been happy here ;

happy in a kind of home to which I had no right,
but which you and your sisters have made scarcely
less dear and pleasant to me than was that I have
forfeited for ever in England, while my father and
Bister were with me. And, knowing that any other
home is denied me by the same circumstances that
drove me into exile, I have been selfishly loth to breakup
this."

Her eyes had drooped, her face was almost turned
from his at this confession ; but he was too conscious
of the error he confessed to look at her just now,
and he received her low murmur, " I am glad; it is
kind of you to say so, to feel so," simply as a kindly
tribute to his own penitence, prompted by a mere
impulse of consideration for him, and nowise as
implying the slightest personal sympathy with his
clinging to the actual state of things.

*' Colonel Marion," he went on, " spoke to me some
months ago  you remember, perhaps, his first visit
here ? He suggested that you should be emancipated
by a private Act of the Legislature, and gave reasons
why that course should be taken."

*' But," interrupted Florence, with some embarrassment,
and yet with a certain eagerness, "what right
had he ? He did not attempt to help us at our need.
Surely it was strange for him to interfere with your
dealing with your own ? "

He thought, rightly, Florence, that your case was
a disgrace to the State, and that full justice could
best be done by a measure which would seem like
a confession and reparation of injustice by the State.
Of course they could not take away my property

without what the law calls compensation ; they proposed
 not to make up to me the loss of my interest
in you, nothing could do that, but  to pay me the
supposed money value of possessions so precious."

"Compensate?" Florence exclaimed. "As if we
had been of any use or value to you ; as if you had

treated us Compensate !  That sounds more like

insult than justice ! Compensate you in money for
relieving you of an anxious charge ; pay you to take
from you the care of those you have cared for like
sisters ! They were not so tender to us before ;  and,
but for you, how ever would they have compensated us }
What would have been left to emancipate ? what redress
could they have given ? "

She paused, not aware even when her words were
spoken of the full meaning of the ideas they conveyed 
uttered as they were under the impulse of gratitude
and indignation, rather than as the expression of
distinctly realized reflections  but conscious that they
meant more than she would have cared to say.

True, Florence ; but the Providence that sent me
here in time had made it possible to give you some
measure of redress ; and it speaks well for Colonel
Marion that he was anxious to do it. But they did
not propose to do it without my assent ; indeed they
knew they could not, and it was my assent he came
here to ask."

"And you gave it?" she enquired, still avoiding to
look him in the face. " You agreed to sell our freedom
for money, as if "

Florence, you hardly mean what sou are saying.
You know that no price would induce me to part with

you, if I had a right to refuse ; you can hardly think
that the compensation was a matter of any interest tome.
I could not but wish that justice should be done
you, but there was so much doubt about their success
that I did not tell you ; and as you never
reproached me, as you never expressed the anxiety
you must have felt, I put off explanation from day today.
I fear you have thought me very cruel to trifle
with what must have been your chief anxiety, your
principal thought."

*' Indeed no ! " cried Florence eagerly. " I had no
right  and, after all, why. should I think of it? I
don't think you understand. To be a slave was unspeakable
humiliation. But having been a slave,
I could not get rid of that by having my freedom purchased
and given me again. I should still be a slavey
by birth, still belong to a class lower than the lowest
freeborn people ; and having been your slaves, it
would have been ungrateful indeed for all your kindness
had we been so untrustfuUy impatient to escape
from the yoke we have never been allowed to feel.
Besides, I think I told you, for my sisters, I was so
glad to remember that, as they had no other friend in
the world, as their only relation was so selfish, so
heartless  as it would have been the worst misfortune
to them to fall under his charge  I was glad to think
they had a right to your care, though it was only the
right of slaves. You have taught us to feel what my
father so often said, and we used to believe :  that for
those who cannot protect themselves, slavery, which
gives them a legal right to protection and help, maybe
better than freedom which leaves them friendless to

VOL. III. E

do the best they can for themselves, in the midst of a
world that will do its worst ior them."

He was surprised, and perhaps a little perplexed,
by what nevertheless seemed to him no more than
exaggerated gratitude and consideration. The one
element in Florence's thought which would probably
have been common to other Southern girls in a
similar position was hardly intelligible to one who,
brought up in a land where slavery and its traditions
are forgotten, had seen it too recently and too completely
from without to realize the ideas of a slave-holding
community. That slavery itself, however
lightly enforced, was an intolerable degradation to
those who had been born or at least brought up in
freedom, seemed to him a natural and necessary idea.
That to have been a slave , inflicted an indelible
stigma  that an even deeper stigma lay in that
fact of race admixture which had reduced them to
slavery  was novel and almost unintelligible. Nor
could he now realize the state of feeling natural
to one brought up among such institutions and
ideas ; any more than he suspected the sentiment,
never yet acknowledged or realized in her own
breast, which, now that emancipation was brought
for the first time to her thought as an immediate
probability, made it more painful than pleasant to
Florence.

I am afraid you will be bitterly disappointed,
nevertheless," he replied, after a brief pause, '' when
I tell you that Colonel Marion has written me that, in
the present state of public feeling, a private Act of
Emancipation is simply hopeless."

The maiden's heart beat fast, throbbed with a feeling
she could not, perhaps would not, understand, but
"svhich certainly was not wholly a feeling of pain. She
had not been allowed to feel the shadow of alarm
respecting the fitness or rectitude of the situation,
strange as it was. As has been already said, the tone
of Southern society, the stringent character of the
protection its thought and usages afforded to maiden
honour, had given an unconscious ease and security
which girls accustomed to the vigilant guardianship
of Europe would not have enjoyed. Slavery did away
with this, as with all protection ; and the very idea of
slavery had inspired Florence with a terror not less
intense because it was indefinite. But the greater that
terror, the more naturally the sisters felt only relief,
comfort, safety in the fate that had given them into
friendly hands. From the fears which absolute subjection
even to his will might have excited, Lionel's
quiet, tacit, but complete abnegation of the tone and
claims of ownership had effectually screened them.
On the other hand, slavery had rendered their retention
in the home which had passed along with themselves
into their master's possession natural and
inevitable. He had taken care to surround them from
the first with a delicate considerate reserve and
courtesy, which precluded the occurrence of any incident
that might have startled into consciousness the
instincts of maiden innocence. They had never
known how a master's power could be abused ; and
nothing could suggest it while, slaves in law, they
were treated in fact as free, as wards entitled
to honourable observance and scrupulous respect.

mERSlVf OF
fit Into I .

Lionel's frank, affectionate, fraternal kindness to the
younger sisters, softened by an especial deference, a
reverential tenderness towards the eldest, removed
from the necessary reserves of their life any sense
of constraint that could have made Florence ask herself
why constraint was required. Even her panic
fears had resulted in enhanced confidence, by bringing
naturally to light the depth of his personal reverence
for herself, to which the very thought of servile indignities
inflicted on her was an intolerable outrage.
She was too perfectly, absolutely secure consciously to
tell herself that she was safe with him ; too happily
at rest in present relief from the prolonged terror and
torture of the past, to have asked herself as yet what
the future was to bring. The first idea or rather
feeling suggested by the approach of freedom regarded,
of course, the loss of their present home and guardianship;
and there was enough that was necessarily
painful and alarming in this to conceal from the girl's
own conscience the keener and more bitter pain with
which she anticipated the personal separation that
would follow.

You have not," he went on, '' taken much interest
in politics, I suppose. You have not heard much
from me. Indeed, till lately I saw no reason to trouble
myself about the political affairs of a country with
which I have but so very recent and imperfect an
acquaintance. But of late the excitement has been
too universal and too violent to allow me to remain
careless of its meaning ; and when once I began to
enquire what it meant, the prospect was too grave tolet
any one whose interests are in any way concerned

here neglect the political situation. Ahohtionism,
which had seemed to me at a distance a mere theoretical
question, appears to have become now a pressing
danger. So far as I can see, so far as I can learn
from what seems to be the universal opinion here, the
Presidential election of this Autumn is to be fought
out, not indeed on the direct issue of slavery or emancipation
throughout the States, but on a question of
sectional hostility between North and South, of which,
whether the North mean it or not, this must be the
outcome. I can read in your face, Florence, that still
your sympathies go with your section ; you feel still
as a Louisianian, and you will not blame me if it
should be my fate to fight for the laws that have done
you such bitter wrong. Well ; but this is the point,
this is the way in which this excitement bears on you?
On the subject of slavery and everything touching the
slave code, the feeling here and throughout the Gulf
States is so passionate, so sensitive, that it is dangerous
to touch it ; and there is no more chance of
carrying a measure of justice, even to an individual
victim of that code, at this moment, than there would
be of passing a grant to Eoman Catholic schools in
England in the midst of a furious No-popery agitation.
80 I find that in postponing all other steps, all endeavours
to emancipate you and your sisters by my
own act, and relying on Colonel's Marion's plan, I
have made it impossible to restore your legal freedom,
at least for months to come. I know I am to blame ;
but don't think too hardly of me. It was not that I
would have consciously, willingly have neglected anything
I knew to be necessary towards your freedom ;

but, knowing you safe after my death, I was not so
eager to j)artwith you as I ought to have been."

"I could not understand that," Florence said, in a.
low faltering tone that rapidly gained force and
firmness, " if you had not taken such anxious thought
and pains for our happiness that your success  the
sight of those whom you found in such misery and
have rendered so happy  must have been a pleasure
to yourself. If you do care for us, if you like to see
us about you, it can only be because you have been sO'
kind to us. What right have we to wish you to give
up what you bought so dear? You have as full a
right to us as ever owner had to slaves ; and while
you choose to retain us  don't think us so ungrateful
as to complain that you are slow to send us out into
the world. I won't say I have never thought about
it ; but I have thought less and less of late ; and for
my sisters, they don't think at all. If it were not fora
look or a sneer now and then, that may after all be
my own imagination, perhaps a perter answer to
Eugenie's temper, perhaps a little more neglect of
Eva's fancies, there would be nothing to remind us ;
and I don't think they ever do remember. At least,
Eva tells me everything she feels or thinks  she
cannot keep a thought to herself even when she had
better, and we have never had a secret from one
another; and Eva  well, she has once or twice
remembered, but it has only been when she must ask
you something, or must not venture to one or two
places she used to go to; and the others  Eugenie
threw it at you once in a passion that she was a
slave ; but it hurt you a thousand times more than.

her, and I am sure she has never thought of it

again."

''I know," he replied, somewhat relieved. "The
two are such children ; and Eva is too light-hearted
to think gravely of anything. I should hardly
perhaps reproach myself as I ought for neglecting
what is due to them. What I can't forget is that I
have been too slack, too careless in relieving you of a
burden which, if it is but nominal, you have shown
that you feel so bitterly."

"I was very foolish and very wilful," Florence
answered, frankly. 'rand, as you know, that woman
had frightened me ; and I never had the sense, the
openness to tell you how, or you would have made
me feel as safe at first as I do now. And I don't
think you quite understood my fears "  she hesitated
and coloured  '' and I am afraid I can't explain.
Some kind of fear there is that seems to haunt my
dreams still. I never know what it is exactly : something
much worse than any possible severity from
you would seem, now. But whatever it is, I always
think  look to you to save me."

Was the shade that had come over her face due to
the rapid overclouding of the summer sky with the
threatening of a thunderstorm? He was about to
reply, fearing that the dreams of which she spoke
had left a more than merely fanciful impression on
Florence's sensitive and somewhat superstitious spirit ;
but the falling of three or four heavy drops recalled
both their thoughts to a more practical if yet more
trivial alarm.

'deva! Eose ! " he called out hurriedly to the

children. '' Come, Florence, you must not risk a
soaking even for a few minutes."

They had scarce a hundred yards to go, and he
hurried her onward when she would have paused, to
wait for the sisters for whom she always manifested a
half-maternal care and sense of responsibility. But
before they reached the house her light white dress,
still bearing traces of mourning in the black sash and
ribbons, was drenched through; and he anxiously
bade her change her own clothing and leave the
others to the care and assistance of Cora, who had
now taken Cassia's place as their immediate personal
attendant. Half an hour later they had all reassembled
in the gallery, where, when confined to the
house during the day, the younger girls were wont to
amuse themselves with romps or more regular play.
It was characteristic of the ease and innocent intimacy
very gradually established between them, that
Florence had seated herself almost as matter of
course in the embrasure nearest to the study, where
Lionel leaned against the wall ; equally characteristic
of the deferential courtesy that never disappeared
from his manner that, as he took from his tunic the
cigar case which had been thrust inside to escape the
shower, he turned to her with something more than a
merely formal appeal for her permission.

"This storm has cut off the pleasure I had promised
myself in one of these, the last I got from Cuba
and have not tasted yet; and if I may not smoke
here, I shall not know till evening what they are good
for. No; you don't suppose I am going to shut
myself up alone for that indulgence ? "

'how you men do csiie for tobacco!" Florence
;answered, laughing. " I wonder what the charm can
foe ? You are better m that way than almost any one
I Ime ; and yet I believe sou. would be less vexed to
lose your breakfast than your cigar afterwards."

Perhaps," he said. " I tried hard to give it up
altogether, after it had been forbidden me on shipboard
for many weeks. But the temptation was too
strong, the minute I came among men, away from
home, again."

"Why should you?" asked Florence, with evident
interest.

Because it seems at best a selfish and somewhat
unmannerly indulgence. One can hardly justify to
one's self, as thoroughly courteous and respectful,
smoking in a lady's presence ; and if we don't yield
so far as that, we do what is worse."

"Indeed," she answered, laughing again, "I think
even of you we should see less than we do, were you
to insist on that scruple. . . . See, Monseigneur ! "
she said, suddenly changing her tone for one of some
embarrassment and dismay, "are not they"  pointing
to two figures on horseback that had just crossed
the bridge  " coming here ? "

Yes ; they will want to take shelter. You shall
not run away this time," he said, laying his hand
gently on her arm, and detaining her with a decision
against which she could not rebel. " Those who ask
our hospitality must take it on our own terms ; and,
thank Heaven, this is not England," he added, aside.
"Men soon learn courtesy among a people who never
fail to resent an affront, and even women's insolence

is curbed by knowing that it must be answered, not
by themselves but by others.  No, Florence, you
shall not go ! I think I know the man, too. Yes, it
is General Vane  Sir Philip now. And the lady
seems English, and much younger. I heard, I fancy,
that he was married. Florence, will you and Eva
take her to your own room ? If they stay, you will
tell Cora, I suppose, to give them the rooms above
my own."

He drew the girl's hand within his arm as he
spoke, and released it only when, opening the front
door, he stepped forward to assist the stranger to
dismount before turning to greet his former chief,
now promoted to the rank of Major General and
honoured with the second rank in the knighthood of
the Bath. Consigning the lady directly and formally
to the care of Florence, who obeyed with manifest
reluctance and shyness, and of Eva, whose simple
fearless frankness made amends for her sister's silent
shrinking reserve, he led the General to his own
chamber, opening out of his study, before more than
the happiest greeting had passed between them.

Have you made a home here, Darcy ? " said the
latter, presently.

'' Did you not hear me name Mademoiselle Dupont
to her who, I suppose, is Lady Vane? Don't you
remember her with her father in India? Or have
you heard nothing of her terrible story? I need
hardly tell you. Sir Philip," he added, looking gravely
and almost sternly into the face of his old commander,,
what the introduction itself implied and avouched ? "

You need not," replied Sir Philip. " I know you,,

and I know your pride alone would keep you clear
of all errors but those for which, as you would say,
you can answer with your sword. Moreover, I think
I heard in New Orleans something of the story your
little household recals ; and if so, Louisa  Lady
Vane  as well as myself must feel for them all the
respect that the most cruel of undeserved misfortunes
can command. But how is it that every one at home
is in profoundest ignorance of your whereabouts ?
Except through your agents. Lord Penrith could not
even ascertain that you were living. They could only
tell him that you had drawn on them through correspondents
in New York and New Orleans within the
last six months."

*' I received one brief note from him, in reply to
my own on a single important question, before leaving
Europe. After that, I wrote to him once, to
Amy, under cover to him, twice; and receiving no
answer assumed that circumstances, of which you
may or may not have heard, had rendered him unwilling
that she should reply. I acknowledge his
right to drop my acquaintance : I thought it somewhat
hard that my only sister should be compelled todo
the same."

*' I am sure," replied Vane, ' that there has been
no such compulsion ; very nearly sure that your last
letter at least has never reached their hands."

*' Strange," musingly observed the other ; " but
more likely perhaps than that Amy should willingly,
for whatever cause, have so treated me. Well, I am
glad of your coming on all accounts; and on this
especially, that I can give to you, if you are likely to-return

to Europe soon, a packet for her which I did
not choose to trust to the post  certain relics of our
mother and traces of her early history, which were
among the papers left to my charge by Sir Francis
Clavering. Of course you will ask Lord Penrith's
leave to do so, before putting them in her hands."

**I can assure you," rejoined Vane, 'that your
punctilio is as unfounded as it seems extravagant.
Lord Penrith is the last man to play the tyrant to his
wife ; and were it otherwise, he has spoken only with
kindness of yourself. I thought you had given grave
offence in another quarter ; but only such offence as
would disappear in the first half-hour's interview. . . .
I forgot, though "

"You forgot the law that will neither defend a
gentleman's honour nor allow him to avenge it," returned
Lionel bitterly. " Well, I have no more wish
than power to return to England. I have renounced
the name of Englishman for ever, and often wish I
could relieve myself of the one remnant of English
feeling that has excluded me from every service where
I might have to draw my sword against her or France.
It has shut me out from the only career for which
I. was fitted  a career which, if I were not enthusiastic
about it whilst I was a soldier, I have never ceased
to pine for since I was compelled to quit it."

If one might trust Louisianian talk," said the
other  " it is wild and fierce enough, but the fierceness
is so universal as to be likely to realize its own wild
suggestions  you might have your fill of fighting here
before very long."

'every likely. I was popular enough with my

neighbours till I spoke my mind somewhat rashly on
that point. It seems to me most probable that, if
Lincoln is elected, this and half a dozen other States
at any rate will secede. They have talked so loud
and so hotly that mere consistency, mere dread of
seeming ridiculous, would force less high-spirited men
to give effect to their threats. And yet half of them
really believe that because they can secede legally 
of which I have no doubt, since it seems that Virginia
at least reserved from the first the right to do so 
they will be allowed to secede peaceably. I put to
Colonel Marion, one of the most sober among them,
the other day an argument which seems to me unanswerable.
The North agreed, before emigration had
well established itself in the North-West, while the
North meant little more than the States between the
AUeghanies and the sea, to purchase this territory,
despite a good deal of fierce party and sectional
opposition. Now, when half the North lies West of
the AUeghanies, when the balance of power is held
by States all whose rivers fall into the Mississippi,,
of which New Orleans is the natural emporium and
outlet, would any law whatever, any obligation, any
oaths, any principle of consistency (and I grant they
are bound by all these) induce them to let us go
peaceably  to allow the lower half of this great river
to be held by an dependent, a jealous, and probably
a hostile Power ? The thing seems to me sheer absurdity.
If we mean to secede in earnest, we shall have
to fight ; and if we have to fight  well, the Northerners
have given some reason for the taunts heaped upon
them ; but if there be any English blood in them, if

they be not utterly degenerate, it ought to be a very
serious thing indeed for six millions to fight twenty-two,
with all Europe open to them, with every resource
closed to us ; without powder, without guns,
without clothing, without the means of manufacturing,
without a ship ; against a Power that ought to
be  that can be if it pleases  second only to England
on the sea, and at any rate thrice as strong as we are
on land. It is not for me to meddle  till it comes to
that. Happily I should not be ruined if I lost this
estate, and the slaves who form the most valuable part
of the property. But of two things I feel sure. This
State, next to the Border States that may join us, will
be the first and the greatest sufferer ; and secondly,
however the war goes, it will be fatal to the institution
which, after all, is at the bottom of the whole
matter. I despise the English cant about slavery ;
I am heartily willing to fight for it if need be. But,
it seems to me, the last charge to which my neighbours,
as rational men, should be open is the charge
of fighting for slavery ; since the one thing certain is
that slavery can hardly outlast civil war, end how it
may."

You think they will fight, then ? "

"You mean, I suppose, do I think they will secede?
I think so, I am not quite sure. Butler, Ballard and
others, splitting up the Democratic majority, have
made Lincoln's election almost certain ; and that the
South will hardly stand. But that if they secede
they will fight, and fight as hard as any people ever
fought for life, for honour, for independence,  of that
I know them too well to doubt for a moment."

'you talk," said Vane, "as if you were heart and
soul a Louisianian yourself."

Louisianian, no; Southerner, yes! This is the
one country peopled by the Anglo-saxon race whose
habit of thought, whose institutions, the character of
whose society are endurable. The South is the only
country in which I could live without constantly
fretting at some point against the curb, without
cursing every day the laws under which I must live ;
and it is worth fighting for the home I have chosen.
At any rate, the man who would not fight for it must
be a cur."

"And yet," observed Vane, "not for yourself but
for others, you must fret, I think, against some of
the results of Southern law?"

I don't know. In India I learned to look on
Mademoiselle Dupont and her sister as friends and
equals. Therefore to find them here cast down into
slavery was horrible, to treat them as slaves impossible.
But, after all, their position resulted from
an evasion of the law; had their father observed it
the case could never have arisen. And my feeling
for them is a mere accident of personal sympathy;
I don't know that it affects my view of slavery in
general."

Chapter IV.

'florence IT IS WAR."

The shadowy hosts are closing on the plain :
Now, God and Santiago strike, for the good cause of Spain ! "

Florence sat alone in her vouloir, musing over the
possible consequences to her own life, and those in
whom that life was bound up, involved in the critical
fortunes of her country, rather than on those fortunes
themselves. In the latter, however, she took an
intelligent and eager interest, much more reasonable
and reasoning, as well as founded on a much fuller
knowledge of facts, than in the most exciting political
crises English girls commonly acquire or display.
Finding by her questions, and her profound attention
to his replies, that she was fully capable of appreciating
at any rate the general outline of the questions
at issue, and felt not as one whom Abolition might
emancipate from a degrading and perilous position
but as the daughter of a Southern gentleman, Lionel
had taken care for some time past to furnish her with
the newspapers that eagerly discussed day by day the
varying probabilities of the political situation. She
had learned the fatal disruption of the great Democratic
majority, the consequent election of the representative

of Northern aggression by a minority of two
to three, in which minority was scarcely one Southern
vote; the secession of the seven Gulf States; their
threatened coercion in despite of Constitutional views
a year before yet more fiercely upheld by the North
than by the South. Now, the vital question concerned
the probable action of Virginia and the other Border
States, whose institutions and convictions bound them
to their Southern sisters, while policy and practical
interest rendered them averse to the precipitate course
pursued by the latter. Closely interwoven with both
her personal and patriotic feelings, emblematic as
it were of both and of their intimate connection,
was the work that covered the table behind her;
half folded, partly concealed too by the skeins of
silken and silver thread that were loosely heaped
upon it, but displaying plainly enough to any one
acquainted with them the colours of the flag then
adopted by the South  the crimson field crossed by
a broad belt of white, while occupying the place of the
Union Jack on our naval ensign, nearest the staff, was
the blue canton with the seven silver mullets arranged
as a wreath or crown  the Stars and Bars of the
original Confederacy. On these colours Florence and
her sisters had been employed for some two or three
weeks, and their work, which her nervous eagerness
had lately hurried, was all but complete.

The young maiden's musings were frequently interrupted,
as she raised her head to listen for sounds
outside, and not hearing the hoof-beat for which she
was waiting, wondered somewhat uneasily what could
detain her guardian so long after the April twilight

VOL. in. F

of that climate had faded into almost utter darkness.
He had refused to take any part in political discussion
so long as Secession was yet an open question, beyond
the frank expression of the military views he had
briefly explained to General Vane. But from the
moment when Secession was an accomplished fact,
he had thrown himself heartily and eagerly into the
counsels of those who understood the full gravity of
the policy to which they stood committed ; had placed
his professional experience and his personal services
absolutely at the disposal of the authorities, and was
constantly engaged in assisting the organization and
drilling of the volunteers who had the sense and spirit
to prepare themselves to defend their State, in an
emergency which none could deny to be at least
possible. But at present his duties lay near home,
and this evening he had expected to return early.
Florence had insisted on the retirement of her
younger sisters after the supper, long postponed in
hope of his return, had been eaten in comparative
dulness and silence; and now loitered alone in her
dressing-gown, her long dark hair unbound, combed
out to its full extent and veiling her form, as its ends
concealed the seat of her chair ; not expecting to see
him, but unwilling, perhaps unable, to sleep without
hearing his return.

'florence," said Eva's voice through the open
door of their chamber, " do come to bed now. I daresay
he won't come in to-night, and if he does he won't
like you to go to him."

Of course not, Eva ; but I think he will come in,
and I want to be sure whether he has. Surely that

was a horse's tramp on the bridge ? Yes ; and that
is a horse at gallop. It is very fast :  oh, I hope
nothing has happened ! "

She was hardly reassured when the animal stopped,
its pace checked with unwonted suddenness, at the
front door. It was only when this opened, and she
heard the well-known step in the gallery, that her
hastily conceived fears were relieved. She half rose,
as if forgetful of the impossibility that she should
personally welcome her friend at that hour and in
that attire; and sudden self-recollection probably
contributed to her nervous start as the familiar footstep,
instead of turning towards the study, approached
her own chamber, and she heard the gentle tap at the
door which occasionally, but never before at such an
hour, had asked admission to the apartments sloe
shared with her sister.

Come in," she cried quickly ; as quickly closing
with a backward movement of her hand, but without
rising, the door of her sleeping-room. He hesitated,
on seeing how unseasonably he had intruded; but,
instantly aware that his retreat would now mark his
sense of indiscretion, and deepen any embarrassment
or annoyance that Florence might feel, he came forward
at once and took her hand as usual.

"I would not have come here so late, of course, if
I had not something to say which you would hardly
forgive me for putting off till morning. Florence  it
is War ! "

How ? " she asked eagerly. " Have they declared
it ? Or has there been bloodshed ? And where, and
how ? "

"You remember, our Commissioners sent word that
Seward had pledged himself and their President that
there should be no attempt to relieve Sumter ? Under
cover of that promise they have sent a fleet, which
tried to force its way into the harbour, evidently
intending to surprise Charleston. Of course Beauregard
had no choice. The heavy shore guns kept
off the fleet, and Sumter could do nothing. Anderson
has hauled down his flag."

Florence clasped her hands and sprang to her feet
in eager delight ; then, looking in his face, felt surprised
and half rebuked by its expression of grave
regret or dissatisfaction.

*' You look displeased," she said timidly. 'what
is it ? Is there anything wrong ? Has anything else
happened ?"

"No, my dear child," he answered with a sigh,
speaking with less thought of his words under the
influence of deeper feeling than usual. "You don't
know all that this means. Lie as they may and
will, of course the real attack came from their side,,
and a very treacherous one it was ! But we have
fired on their flag, and that that decides everything."


It is war, as you said, of course. But surely we
need not flinch from war ? Surely our people can-hold
their own ? "

One to four, Florence ; with nothing but bread,
and with four millions of slaves? . . . The Border
States will be with us now, of course. But they have
the ships, the money, the guns, clothing, medicine,
everything. All your Southern pride of race, your

trust in superior moral quality, superior martial
spirit, are very fine, very inspiring, when war has
to be fought out ; very well in songs ; very useful,
no doubt, to encourage women who are frightened,
or induce soldiers to confront odds in a position that
must be held. But they are the veriest folly when
they enter into the calculations or influence the
conduct of statesmen or communities, while they
have yet to choose between war and peace. You were
hardly pleased with me for leaving you for a whole
month on a Northward journey, in which you could
see neither purpose nor necessity. But as a soldier
I wished to see, to judge. Florence, I have seen
war ; and though it was on a small scale, though
my experience was brief, no man who has seen war
looks upon it as women and boys and an ignorant
democracy do. I think more meanly of the Yankees
than I did ; but even the Yankees will fight now ;
and they have hundreds of thousands of Germans
and Irishmen who will make the best soldiers in the
world, except our own. And war means much to us ; 
to you, child. If Lincoln be not the utterly ignorant
boor they represent him here  I saw him, and I don't
think so ; at any rate Seward knows what he is about
if they have any soldier worth his salt in their
councils, or any seaman who knows anything of his
profession in theory or practice, their first blow will
be struck here, for the Mississippi and for New Orleans.
If I commanded there, I would amuse the Northern
rabble and the Southern armies with the parade of
an attack on Virginia, and throw their whole force on
this line. Then to hold this State  except by something

like a desperate guerilla war . . . Ah ! you have
no notion what that means."

"Monseigneur," Florence said, 'rit seems strange  "
But she was interrupted by a livelier, less hesitating
voice ; and to her great surprise and somewhat exaggerated
annoyance saw that Eva, wrapping herself in
her dressing-gown, excited by the conversation she
heard not very clearly, had thrown open the door of
her chamber and come forward to take part in it.

Monseigneur," said the younger girl, laughing,
colouring a little, perhaps at the consciousness of her
own intrusion, but too innocent to feel the slightest
suspicion that more than the breach of a conventional
restraint, inapplicable to their intimacy, could be involved
; " if it were not for that skull and for your
Cross I should  now, Florence, you won't let him
beat me !  I should say . it looked . as if you
were  afraid."

He turned with a smile which entirely dispelled
whatever shadow of sincerity there might have been
in Eva's pretended fear of his displeasure. "You
know," he said, '' what you deserve, though I should
choose a different mode of correction, but that you
are out of reach for the moment ! Yes, I am afraid,
Eva ; because I have been a soldier ; and the more
men know of what war means the more they are
afraid of it."

'' But," said Florence, " you need not meddle with
it. You  I must not say you are an Englishman 
but at any rate you are not a Southerner ; you have
nothing to do with our quarrel."

'' I should not like to look in your face six months;

hence, Florence, if I were to take you at your word.
Any man must fight, if there is to be fighting, for his
home and the country of his adoption, if not of his
birth. Our State has few trained soldiers, and very
few indeed who have ever served in a cavalry regiment
; and training cavalry is a long and difficult
work. I shall wait a few days, because I think they
will make me some definite proposal. If not, I shall
offer my sword to the Governor in any position in
which he may think it useful."

*' Ah, why ? " cried Florence. " Now it seems as
if all the strange fear of my dreams were coming
true. You don't care for slavery ; you would as soon
set your people free as not. You will not like to fight
for the law that has made " She paused, conscious
that she was using an argument in which she
herself had no belief, which was false to her actual
sympathies ; and aware by the expression of his face
that it deeply pained without in the least degree
prevailing with him.

** I hope I shall do my duty, Florence ; I thought
to have your entire sympathy."

You must know that you have," she interrupted"
eagerly. " The cause is ours, not yours. But surely
you know my  our hearts would go with you in whatever
cause ? Only I wish you did not think it your
duty. Forgive me ; I spoke, thinking only how strange
that you should choose to risk your life for a cause in
which you seemed but half to believe ; I never meant
what I was beginning to say."

Thank you," he answered gravely. *' We do not
fight for slavery but for self-government. Meantime

it is my strong impression, though I don't think our
neighbours share it, that this State will very soon be
no place for women ; and for many reasons you above
all . I mean," he said, checking himself, " I should
like to see you clear of it. They will close our ports
in a few weeks. Meantime I will manage somehow,
and at any cost of difficulty or trouble, to send you
wherever you would choose to go ; but I should say
by preference to Jamaica. Hush, for one moment,
Florence. It has occurred to me that, when I first
proposed the same measure, you might think I did
not mean it loyally, because I did not explain what
provision was to be made for you there. Now, of
course I never meant to leave you in any doubt or
difficulty on that point. I have no doubt I can find
you a home there, not perhaps so pleasant to you butin
most respects as comfortable as this."

*' Thank you, Monseigneur," said Florence, colouring
deeply. " That is a very different thing. You
know by what right you care for us here. Do you
suppose that, when that tie is cut loose, we could live
on your charity elsewhere ? Do you think we will
leave you in danger, a danger that belongs to us, not
to you ; a danger into which you thrust yourself for
us and for our people ; and be your pensioners in
the country from which you have been driven, whilst
you are to be alone in peril, perhaps wounded or sick,
fighting for ours ? No ! that is too much ! "

We cannot discuss it to-night, Florence. I came
in to tell you the tidings I knew you would not like to
wait for. Good-night, now; and think this matter
over quietly before I speak of it again."

*****

Something has happened, Monseigneur," said
Florence  giving to a name that had always more of
playful kindliness than of formality or subservience
an expression of more than usual softness and tenderness
 as she noted the weary harassed look on that
young face, when Lionel returned some weeks later
from one of the absences, lasting for days at a time,
that had now become habitual ; " something, I am
afraid, that has pained or troubled you ? "

Two things, Florence ; one of which troubles me
bitterly on your own account. The other, save for
you, would be more welcome to myself than I fear it
can be to you. The enemy have closed the port."

Florence turned her face aside to conceal the delight
of which she was conscious, and which showed itself
without restraint in Eva's and eugene's brightening
eyes and colour, while Eose actually clapped her*
hands with pleasure.

I ought to have insisted, to have enforced my
counsel ; but it has always been hard to me to exact
compliance from you, and it was especially hard where
what was best for you was so great a sacrifice to me.
But I reproach myself bitterly with what has been,
I fear, one continuous failure in duty, from the first
difficulty I found in your emancipation to the present
hour."

*'Do not, do not say so!" Florence answered,
.echoed by Eva for once with almost equal earnestness.
** Monseigneur," said the latter, " what could emancipation
have done for us, but to deprive us of the only
friend we have? If," she continued, dealing frankly
and clearly, from her very innocence of its full meaning,

with the thought that Florence had instinctively
evaded  "if you could have placed us at once in other
guardianship, equally safe if not so kind, perhaps it
might have been best ; I can understand that. But
you knew from the first it could not be ; and you knew
that what might have been less well if we had been
free was only kindness as we were, and as ]People
think of us. And to send us away now! Florence
was quite right ; we could not have gone. You could
not make us, but by force  and really and truly,
Monseigneur, I had rather you had beaten me ! I
should have been less hurt and felt less ashamed,
than if you had driven us from you now."

"Thank you, dear Eva," he replied. "If I have
done anything for you  and whatever you may say I
know how much more I ought to have done  I am
tenfold repaid in your unfailing, and I fear undeserved,
kindness. But there is another reason that makes
me wish I had insisted. General Marion has communicated
to me the orders he has received. You
must not talk of them ; they must not get abroad fora
day or two "

But Florence had turned as white as death, feeling
what was to come. Then the colour rushed back to
her cheeks, the tears to her eyes, and her agitation
was so manifest that he paused and turned to her with
anxious consideration.

You are ill ? " he said, with prompt, earnest sympathy.


No," she gasped, trying to control herself. *' Goon
; what were you going to say ? "

As I say, you must not repeat it  may I trust

you, Eose and Eugenie  still the day after tomorrow?

We march for Virginia this week."

*****

It was necessary that Lionel should start at sunrise
to join the cavalry regiment he had principally contributed
to raise, had drilled and  securing the confidence
both of the men and of the Government by his
reputation, his Cross, and his unquestionable skill and
energy, especially in the maintenance of a better
discipline than existed in most of the volunteer regiments
 had been appointed to command. In despite
of his remonstrances, the girls had all insisted on
rising long before daylight to bid him farewell ; and
the whole party were assembled at the unusually early
morning meal, which was eaten in a silence broken
only by his own occasional efforts to engage Eva in
her usual kind of half-bantering conversation ; by a *
few words spoken now and then in a low faltering tone
by Florence, generally ending in a hardly-suppressed
sob ; and by the not infrequent weeping, utterly unconcealed,
of the two youngest, from whom he had
won the frank confident affection of childhood  mingled
perhaps with something of deeper tenderness, since
the regard originally inspired by gratitude had been
quickened and softened by fear of an absolutely irreparable
loss.

Come, Eugenie ! " he said at last, as the most
passionate of the family gave way more completely
than either of her two weaker sisters, *rit is not very
likely, except perhaps on one or two rare occasions,
that an enemy will come within half the length of this
gallery, and if they do  well, I may fire first."

Ah, that is cruel ! " she cried, in a tone of such
real and earnest feeling, such acute and heartfelt pain,
that Lionel instantly and keenly repented the kindly
meant but certainly thoughtless levity of an allusion
to which he had not supposed her so sensitive. " I
thought you saw how grieved and ashamed I was 
though I did not know how to tell you  when you
would not punish me ; I could have borne it better if
you had. You seemed so sorry for me, you were so
very kind to me afterwards  I felt that no one else
would have known how to forgive like you, even if anyone
else would have pardoned me ; and that has made
me so miserable ever since."

"Don't speak of punishment or pardon, dear child,"
the young soldier answered, much more moved than at
such a moment he dared show; rising as he spoke
and buckling on his sword-belt, to which, as Florence
now observed, was attached a sword-knot formed of a
long thick braid of glossy straight black hair, bound
here and there with silver. "I can't take credit for
forgiveness, Eugenie ; it would have broken my heart
to quarrel with you in earnest. Nay, my little sister,
I have always been grateful for the misunderstanding
that helped us to understand one another ; give me a
sister's farewell kiss, and forget that I ever vexed
you."

The kiss was given with frank, affectionate warmth
and willingness; but next moment Eugenie turned
hastily away and left the apartment. Rose's embrace,
volunteered with the unconscious eagerness of childhood,
ended in a childish outburst of unrestrained
weeping. It was a harder task to take leave of the

elder sisters. At such a moment an excess of reserve
was likely to defeat its own pm-pose ; to suggest the
shyness or doubt he had been so careful never to arouse,
and lead Eva for the first time to ask herself why
there should be less than fraternal tenderness in the
farewell of one for whom she at least entertained
absolutely and simply a sister's affection. When
fully accoutred  the light grey helmet worn by his
regiment almost alone in the Confederate army,
crowned not as usual by the plume of red and black,
but by a lace scarf of the same colours carefully
fastened to the crest  he stooped to the young girl,
who had kept close beside him, rendering such assistance
as her slender trembling fingers might, while her
curls almost touched his shoulder ; and holding her fora
moment within his left arm, pressed a kiss upon
her brow. Then at the very last, aware perhaps that '
a single moment's lingering after that farewell would
be intolerable, he drew Florence a little apart into the
window next to the open door. " It has been hard
for Afzul not to accompany me," he said. '' But I
leave you the best, bravest, and most loyal guardian
I could choose. In any case, from any danger, he
will save you or die."

He took her hand and lifted it to his lips ; but, as
she raised her tearful eyes to his face, there was in
them a look of enquiring reproach of which she herself
was probably unconscious, which his heart could no
more brook than his reason could answer. He bent to
salute her as he had done her sister ; but, before his
lips had touched her brow, the closing eyes, the form
drooping from his hold, warned him that she was all

"but insensible to the pain she had not strength to
endure.

She is fainting, Eva. Take her quickly. . . . Best
so," he thought ; the door closed, and Florence opened
her eyes only in time to catch one glimpse of his
figure as he crossed the bridge at a gallop.

Chapter V.

FRIENDS AFAR.

"Yet, oh yet thyself deceive not ;
Love may sink by slow decay ;
But by sudden wrench believe not
Hearts can thus be torn away."

Among the party assembled at Penrith Castle many
months later was a young Southerner belonging to
one of the proudest of the F. F. V. (the first families,
who in the Old Dominion formed an aristocracy
worthy of the English Cavaliers to whom it traced
its lineage) ; the empty right sleeve of his coat
fastened across his breast, a shade hiding the left
eye and a certain weakness but too perceptible in the
other, suffering, as is too often the case, from the
injury which its fellow had received. Greatly admiring
Miss Kavanagh, he was not a little gratified,
perhaps a little surprised, by the willingness with
which she seemed to submit to the adroit manoeuvres
whereby he succeeded in securing her as his companion
at the dinner-table. What interest his conversation
might have for her, apart from personal
sympathy for a wounded soldier or for his cause and
country, the young attache to the unrecognized Confederate
Embassy could hardly conjecture; or he

might have talked with less of the freedom and
fluency natural to masculine vanity under the most
delicate feminine encouragement.

'* No," he said, in answer to some remark of hers
about slavery, " you English, taking your ideas from
Mrs. Stowe, whose book is one continuous slander,
and from a fellow like Sumner, as utterly misconceive
the real nature of our relations with our servants,
as the cant of Northern newspapers misrepresents
the feeling or the position of your working
classes. You would not care to hear me argue or
generalize on the subject, but I can tell you one little
anecdote  thoroughly characteristic  that fell within
my own experience, or nearly so, if you care to listen.
A young Frenchman  by the way, he wears your
Victoria Cross  commanded a regiment of Louisianian
cavalry on the very critical duty of reconnoitring the
front of the enemy, during their advance on Manassas.
He had that distrust of volunteers and untrained
troops that all trained soldiers have, though
he was perhaps the youngest officer in his own regiment
; and it troubled him not a little that with the
force immediately in his front was a regiment of the
Federal regular horse, though most of its former
officers were serving in our ranks. He had with him
a big negro whom he had cured of the trick of
running away. I could tell you that story, but it
would be too long. So he said to this fellow : ' Cuffs,.
you ran away and came back to please yourself ; now
you shall do the same thing to please me.' * No,
Massa,' the negro said, * I was too hungry dat time.*
Look here,' his master answered, ' for every cut I

gave you then you shall have an eagle now, if you
do what I tell you. Go to the enemy, report yourself
as a runaway slave, and tell them tomorrow night
that you can guide them to  such and such a place 
where they can cut off a company of ours. Come
with them; only, when they find us, look out for
squalls. Remember, if they keep you, they'll hang
you.' Well, Beauregard had sent me down to the
outposts that night ; and, though I. had no business
to stay there, when I heard this story I waited to seethe
end of it. There was the appearance of a picket,
with guard carelessly kept and horses standing about.
But, hidden by the trees on either side, were half the
20th Louisiana Cavalry, one squadron mounted, the
other on foot, with carbines loaded. The Federals
made a dash and got, of course, into a little con-
fusion; when d'Ultramar "  Alice started at the
name, but her companion, whether from dimness of
sight or interest in his own tale, did not perceive it 
d'Ultramar cried  his voice, low and lazy anywhere
else, ringing like a trumpet on the battle-field 
fire ! '  and the volley crashed from the other side
into the rear of the astounded Regulars : ' Charge ! '
and his own squadron dashed upon them. I don't
think half a dozen men out of the hundred got away.
When it was all over, the nigger came up to him, and
the Colonel flung him his purse. * Now,' he said,
you've earned your freedom. You may go North
as soon as you please. But keep out of the hands
of those fellows.' 'No, Massa,' the boy said. 'What
good would freedom do dis chile? But, Massa, I
nebber knew what fun running' 'way could be. Jest
VOL. nr. G

gib dis chile 'nobler chance to run 'way 'mong them
Yankees.' "

Alice had listened to this anecdote with sparkling
eyes, and a colour deepening much more than she
was aware ; but in another minute her attention was
diverted from her much-flattered companion by the
voice of General Vane, speaking a little louder than
was his wont.

Yes," he said, " I was by Beauregard's side at the
outset, and with General Marion, who commanded
the Louisianians and Texans, during some of the
hardest lighting. I saw the Virginian regiments
earn the title which has since been given to their
chief; raw recruits standing as English veterans
might have done, ' like a stone wall ' under the pelting
fire. I saw the charge of the 4th Alabama, and,
for untrained troops, I never saw a better thing.
There was only one feat like it, and that I did not
see but from a distance. Captain Curtis, you carried
the order, I think, that hurled the Louisiana Lancers
on that terrible battery ? "

'eyes, Sir," said the young American. *but it
was hardly the order that did it. When the battery
began to sweep our front, crushing the Texan infantry
so that no men could stand it long, I was riding along
the front of the cavalry, who were half sheltered by
the ground. I saw the Colonel, sitting his horse
quietly and steadily as if on parade, in their front ;
but not sitting erect as men who have only to obey
orders generally do ; stooping and looking forward
eagerly. As I came up to him and reined my horse
for a moment to ask a question, a shell tore past him

and cut over two men and horses out of each rank.
His face turned white. I thought, though I should
have known him letter, he was scared  men are
scared by such things for the moment  but I was
mistaken. He turned round, and though his men
stood it pretty well, his voice trembled with rage ashe
called ' Steady  close up there ! ' Then he turned
to me ; he scarcely heard my question, and his voice
quivered with anger and impatience as he said : ' Do
ask the General to let me go for that battery. He
can afford to lose a regiment, but he can't afford to
keep the line where it is, if he will not. British
infantry would not stand that ! '  as another volley
swept through the grey battalions on his right. I
passed General .Marion as I rode back. I saw it
would be too late for orders from the Chief, and told
him ; and he bade me go back and tell the Colonel
of the 20th to do as he pleased. As I said before,
I had no business there, but I stayed to see what I
thought would be Balaclava over again. I noticed
then  it was a strange thing to notice at such a
moment  that, conspicuous by the Cross, riband, and
medal on his breast in front of his Lancers, he had
made himself still more distinguishable by wearing
on his grey helmet, instead of their usual plume, a
lady's lace scarf of the same colours, black and red ;
fastened in with extreme care, as if he would not lose
it but with his life. He turned to his men, his face
flushed with delight. ' Steady ! ' he said. ' Be cool
before all things ; and keep your ranks. When we
get into the battery, right section, first company, take
care of the limbers; left section, look to the guns;

spike or disable them if we cannot carry them off.
Now, keep your dressing  trot ! ' They came over
the ridge full in view of the battery ; but the one
thing he thought of was to keep them back, steady
and in line ; a very difficult thing with volunteers,
impossible then with any other regiment in our
service. But he had an unusual proportion of old
soldiers from all parts of the world. We had got
about half-way when I saw that the guns were trained
upon us. Then that awful shower of shell tore
through us and left, I suppose, a fourth of the whole
regiment, men or horses, on the ground. They
wavered for a moment ; but keeping them so well
in hand he got them clear, and closed them up ina
few seconds ; and then ' Charge ! ' he cried ; and
before the enemy could reload we were masters of the
battery, and speared half the gunners  all, I might
say, that did not run. Then again the man's coolness
told. There was a whole division of Federal infantry
not far to the rear, and if we had gone on, as we
should have done but for him, we should have been
annihilated and the battery recovered. As it was,
in three minutes, almost before the untrained infantry
in our front had recovered nerve sufficiently to form
square  a stupid thing to do, for their fire would
have destroyed us before we could reach them  we
had disabled, or dragged away  rendered useless
somehow  every gun of the sixteen. One regiment,
better commanded than the rest, fired a volley into
us, and that was all I knew till next day. It saved
that part of the line. Before other guns could be
brought up, relief had come and the battle was
decided."

When the ladies had withdrawn after dinner, Alice
much pondering over what she had heard, much
impressed, as women always are, by the soldierly
reputation of the lover whose written entreaty through
Lord Penrith for permission to explain or apologize
to her she had rejected with indignant silence,
deeply touched by the description in which she recognized
her own gage, still cherished by one she
knew to have been untrue to her  stood apart in
one of the drawing-room windows, overlooking the
Western terrace before mentioned. Lord Penrith
and General Vane, pacing this retired ground alone,
passed and repassed, their lighted cigars and the heavy
military tread of the soldier rendering her aware of
their approach in the darkness. She had not heard
more of their conversation than seemed to indicate
its reference to the war which then absorbed so mu(?h
of English attention, and the impending struggle
upon which the fate of New Orleans depended. But
as they paused for a moment, at some little distance
from the open window, she caught some sentences
that had a deeper interest for her.

Can't you see, can't you guess ? " said the
General. " Mind, he has not told me one word ;
and I dared not, even I, have asked him a question.
That name has never been mentioned between us.
But he nearly fought a duel  would have done had
it been possible  in Lydia, when the character of his
intimacy with her and her mother was called in
question. I was sure at Kulwar that she, no longer
the child he thought her, was more in love than
he would ever be. She was left friendless, helpless

here. I know the Eurasian temperament : I can
guess what happened, though if he heard me I should
have to answer for my guess. And, once thrown on
him, whatever it cost he would be true to her; h&
would never think that a money provision could
release him from the obligation or satisfy her claim,
as other men think and hold themselves generous
in thinking. I can conceive Lionel Darcy capable,
where a woman is concerned, of any headlong error
whose motive was not consciously selfish or disloyal.
Misguided by pride, passion, or false principle  quite
possible ; but, much more probably, misled by overstrained
generosity. Quixotic honour, or ,
if he had to wrong some one, to hold to the
weakest, probably the least enforceable claim. Ruthless,
fierce, merciless, as merciless to himself as to
others, utterly unbending and unforgiving  yes ; wilfully
false, treacherous, even ungenerous  never."

Half perplexed, half convinced, far too intensely
interested to remember that she had no right to hear
what none would wittingly have spoken in her
presence, she could not even will to withdraw before
she heard the answer in the cold measured thoughtful
tone of her kinsman.

Yes, all that I can believe : I can guess or I can
understand everything else ; and Heaven knows,
considering what men are and do, I would not
venture to blame him for anything  but that, knowing
what he knew, he should have spoken to Alice as I am
sure he did speak."

They passed on, and the rest of the argument
was lost to her; but what she had heard made it

hard, if not impossible, for her to play her part composedly
in the general conversation that ensued when
the gentlemen, a few minutes later, entered the
drawing-room. The young Confederate attache was
strangely out of conceit with himself, and wondered
at the utter fruitlessness of his efforts to revive the
interest he had thought to have won with her an hour
before.

She sat alone in her room, having dismissed her
maid, listlessly from time to time passing the brush
over her long thick brown tresses, the golden tinge so
beautiful in sunlight scarcely perceptible by that of
her lamp, when a repeated tap at the door, seeming
to insist on admission, roused her from her reverie.
She started and coloured when she saw who was the
visitor. She guessed instinctively on what subject
Lady Vane, a sufficiently intimate friend to venture
on home questions, had sought so late an interview.
The visitor drew a chair beside her, and looked
earnestly into her face before she spoke.

"Alice," she said, "we have been intimate friends
since we were school-girls together; and you may
quarrel with me if you please, but for your sake I
mean to use, perhaps to press, the privileges of
friendship to the utmost. I can guess what, even more
than the fatal folly of his duel, drove Major Darcy
from Europe. It was natural you should act as you
did then, and those who might suspect the truth
could not have ventured to explain it to you. Without
entering into a subject neither of us would care to
discuss, let me tell you what my husband said. You
know he is not one to trifle with the obligations of

honour or right because, where women are concerned,
men are too apt to make light of them ; but he has
said to me over and over again : * If it be possible fora
man to be almost blameless in such a case, I believe
that Darcy was so at first ; and that what seemed at
last sheer treachery was what Alice herself, if she
could understand the case, would recognize as the
bitterest sacrifice of inclination to a mistaken sense
of duty.' What neither he nor any other man will
understand or can imagine, is why, how, fettered ashe
was. Major Darcy could have spoken to you. Alice,
a woman can guess, if she can hardly dare to ask. It
is for you to judge how far your conscience can find
excuse for that one offence which your friends refuse
to pardon or to understand."

The painful deepening of the girl's colour, the
drooping eyes and form, spoke so plainly of the
extreme distress she was enduring, that Lady Vane,
whose sympathies thus far had gone rather with her
husband's friend than with her own, felt repentant,
and certainly unable to proceed. She rose and laid
her hand gently on the bent head, as she kissed her
friend with something of the caressing half-maternal
fondness of an elder sister.

Nay, Alice, don't fancy I think you have done
anything, said anything, that in your place I should
not have said or done myself. I would not have
spoken thus, I would not have referred to the subject
at all, but  but that  your happiness is in your own
hands still. You know, I think, that we spent one
night at Minnaroo, the plantation which Major
Darcy has bought ? You have heard, probably, the

story of that purchase ; and you will understand
that, stormy as it was, we should not have stayed
there, had my husband not been as sure of his friend's
loyalty as I was that those girls to whose care he
entrusted me when we entered, drenched to the skin
by the sudden thunderstorm, were as utterly innocent,
not only of wrong but of the very thought or fear of
wrong, as you and Helen. Philip happened to mention
your name in speaking of Lord and Lady Penrith,
and of our English friends. He did not chance to
look at Major Darcy's face as he spoke : I did ; and I
saw more bitter pain, more passionate feeling, suppressed
with greater effort, than I ever saw words
produce in a human countenance before. Now, you
must judge for yourself. You know how far you care,
and what you think the love he still bears you worth.
He will never speak again. He has accepted you
answer or your silence as deserved, or at least as so
fully justified by the appearances against him, which
he will never explain, that if he would stoop to plead
and he might do so for you, though no other woman
in the world would win such a concession from him 
he would hold it useless."

Lady Vane had already left her friend, to think
over what had passed, probably, rather than to sleep,
when Lord Penrith entered his wife's dressing-room.

*' Still up. Amy? You Ime. I should be kept
late. I hoped to have found you asleep."

' I could not sleep," she answered, " till I had
shown you the packet you gave me. It was so like
his punctilious loyalty to send it through you, so like
his temper and his pride to doubt that you would

allow me to receive it ! But you will see the explanation
of his silence : that my last letters never
reached him ; only the brief hurried frightened note
I wrote after the duel, in which I was forced to be
simply silent on the one point on which he most cared
to. hear, has ever come into his hands. You know we
had no address after Hamburgh, and evidently the
letter I sent thither missed ; and, not being received,
he has concluded that you would not let me write. He
has written this time to send me one or two papers
of our mother's writing in her earliest girlhood, that
he found in the packet Sir Francis left sealed and
addressed to him. I don't understand the other 
the verses in Sir Francis' own hand,  and he don't
explain."

The note which, leaning over her shoulder, her
husband read as she held it for him was brief and
almost cold.

Lionel to Amy.

I may wonder, though not much  I may feel
bitterly hurt, but I suppose I have no right to resent
it  if your husband chooses to interrupt all further
communication between us. He must think even
worse of me than I deserve ; and for my conduct to
in that matter I can offer no excuse or explanation.
For the duel, I don't repent and will not affect to
regret. A cowardly public insult to a woman's
memory is cheaply atoned by death. But if you
have heard the story which led me to purchase this
place, you will have heard it in a form which will
render Lord Penrith still less desirous of any further

intercourse between us  a feeling for which I can
only say there is no true cause. I cannot regret all
that I have lost, when I remember that, but for that
loss, the worst that could have happened must have
befallen the young ladies of whom, and of our meeting
at Sivapore, I have often told you. But my
purpose in writing these lines is not to question your
husband's judgment, or to complain of what you know
I must feel so deeply  this utter severance of the
only close natural tie left me in the world.

"Among the packet of papers left me by Sir
Francis were many relating to our mother. They
explain all that we could not understand ; but that
explanation I cannot give you, unless from the enclosed
verses you can gather something of his feeling.
Her error was no more than mistrust of one who had
not deserved to be mistrusted, a mistrust deliberately*
and spitefully fostered by others whose motives she
could not possibly read. I trust this packet to
General Yane, who promises to place it in Lord
Penrith's own hands. It may be long, therefore,
before you receive it ; and when you do, civil war,
which every day seems to bring nearer, may have
closed all certain methods of communication. But
any letter which once reaches the Southern States
will reach me if I am then living. I need hardly tell
you that, if my adopted country is engaged in a
struggle for independence, my sword will be at her
command. If, then, these lines reach you, Am}
take them for what may well be my last adieu to the
person dearest to me in all the world, save one ; no
less dear now than you ever were to  L. d'U."

"I suppose," said Lord Penrith, "never man
tortured himself in act and thought more ingeniously
and perversely than your brother. Well, such self-torture
is common enough, though not carried to
such a degree, in very young men ; and he bids fair
to know enough of real trouble and sorrow in early
life to be cured of making it for himself."

You are a little hard on him, I think," replied Amy.
Not hearing from me in such bitter misfortune, and
with his feelings so cruelly wounded in another way ;  .
Edward  I cannot bear to speak about that. I don't
suppose that Alice has been to blame ; but, whatever
you may say, I can never believe that Lionel could
have acted so ungenerously, so disloyally as you
think. I don't wonder you think so, for he seemed
to admit it. But I have known him so intimately,
so perfectly all our lives ; and  it is simply impossible."


Still doubtful, and yet most unwilling to dispute
her profound faith in one to whom her isolation and
her early orphanhood had bound her so closely, Lord
Penrith evaded the subject by taking up the first of
the enclosed papers  a copy of verses in the well-known
hand of Sir Francis Clavering. What was
the history they implied, what the feeling they expressed,
even if he possessed a somewhat better clue
to them than his wife, he could not or would not
explain to the daughter of her to whom the bitter
reproach conveyed in the last stanzas seemed to be
addressed.

Human Sacrifice.

*' Not in the storm that sweeps the battle-plain,
For hearth and home, freedom and fatherland,
Where manhood's passion quells Death's sting of pain : 
To wile thy tedium, on yon crimson sand,
Caesar, we march to die !

Not by the soldier's weapon but the slave's,
Not by a foe's but comrade's hand we fall,
Your sport, your mockery  yours ! What soldier braves,
Caesar Commander, that which waits us all
Who may nor yield nor fly ?

Lounge on your cushions, and with bended thumb
Reprieve or doom us in the ignoble strife !
Yet, as the victim waits jour sentence, dumb,
Is all yon Eoman rabble worth one life
Of all that die to-day ?

Ave, Imperator ! morituri te

Salutary ! throned in more than god-like power,
Lord of the world, whose meanest slaves are we 
Yet, in a Eoman life's most glorious hour
What wont the slave to say ?

"Ave, Caesar Imperator! 'niorituri te salutary ! 

From earth as from mine eyes, thank God ! that scene,
That startled Hell to laughter, fades away.
But if aghast I doubt * have such things been ? '
Need I look far for Caesar's throne to-day,
Or the stern Sacrifice ?

White hands, soft hearts ! who shudder but to think
What Eoman maidens watched with eager gaze ;
At sight of flowing blood who sicken and shrink.
And note the scars of shot or sabre-graze
With half-averted eyes ;

"Horror-struck, that to amuse a listless Court

Brave men should fight and fall and quickly die,
Cast you the stones at Caesar ? For your sport
No soul of man writhes through worse agony
To madness and to crime ?

Your low sweet tones, your downcast eyes demure,
Ne'er bade a comrade pierce a comrade's heart :

Ne'er from behind the shield of sex secure.

Slew stainless life with slander's poisoned dart : 
Such sins have passed their time ?

Ave, Ccesar Imperator ! morituri te salutary I

And yet  the visioned death-march and the ' Hail ! '
Thrill all my soul with pain's familiar tone.
Before the sword-clenched hands and faces pale
Ever a woman's form fills Caesar's throne,
And proves my dream too true.

'Ave ! ' The anguish quivering in that breath !
The bitter scorn that stern salute can hide !
The slow firm march to meet the lingering death

Of shattered brains, crushed hearts, and manhood's pride
Humbled to dust  for you!

Ave, Caesar Imperator ! morihiri te salutary !

Take, as we give you, freely ! Shall we care,

Your poison drained, the empty gourd to keep ?
If still our pangs amuse you, shall you spare ?
Or we grudge toil for you, who dread the sleep
Ye haunt with dreams of pain ?

Shall Caesar marvel why at his command

Slaves, whom he could but kill, march on to die ?
Shall hearts like yours our fealty understand ?
Enough for you, when on our help you cry.
You shall not call in vain.

Only the hands that smite you may caress ;

Ye soothe and fondle whom ye dare not prove.
Wronged, tortured, spurned, we serve you none the less 
Why waste the clinging clasp of anxious love
On necks that steel can chain r

*' Ave, Ccesar Imperator ! morituri te salutary !

Take all  but spare to thank us ! Not for us
Cushion and canopy, soft word and smile !
Ours but to suffer, so your rose-leaves thus
Be smooth'  or die, your leisure to beguile.
Or spare your childish tears.

' Your smiles our gift, your ease our travail's crown,
That not on us you smile, shall we complain ?
Who thanks the hand that piles her couch of down,
Or prizes kindness while she knows not pain,
Or loves but whom she fears ?-

Ave, Ccesar Imperator ! viorituri te salutary !

*' Ave, Imjperatrix ! Couldst thou feel the care

In girlhood's thoughtless flower familiar grown ?
Couldst thou be grateful to the vital air,

Too soft, too close, too constant to be known

While storms ne'er broke the spell ?

' Thankless ? ' Thy welfare, not thy thanks, I sought ;

Not for thy love, but love of thee, have striven.
Hast wronged me ? ' Past all words !  but how, untaught,

Shouldst thou have read my soul ? Go, child, forgiven ! 
Ask'st thou ' for what ? ' Farewell.

** Ave, Ccesar Imperator ! morituri te salutary 1

What had I left to give, when all was given ?

What couldst thou give in turn, that I should prize ?
Yea :  that one sob, when on thy soul driven
The meaning of a ten-years' sacrifice

Flashed  brief as falling stars !

And yet  as powers God gave for use on Earth
Fade out unused, in darker dearer void
That death's  I doubt. . . . Can womanhood be worth
The life one woman's folly hath destroyed,
The mind one falsehood mars ?

"Ave, Caesar Imperator ! morituri te salutary!"

Chapter VI.

A GLIMPSE OF HOME.

*' When pain and angela wring the brow,
A ministering angel thou."

Florence to Lionel.

Minnaroo, L**-, Sepf-, 1861.

*' . We hear that nothing is doing in Eastern
Virginia. Do you not mean to come home for a while,
now that you could so well ask for leave? Mrs.
Duval says that quite a number of officers and privates
from this neighbourhood are back on furlough.
She is most kind and most useful ; saves me all that
I felt or fancied awkward in managing the household,
after Cassia was gone ; affords all the advice and protection
that any governess could give, and yet is
almost too considerate, too careful not to interfere
except to enforce my wishes, and to make me what
you insisted that I should be, mistress in your absence.
It is much pleasant not to feel directly and
solely in charge of Eugenie and Rose, as they are
are growing older  though they are very good to me.
. . But surely you are coming home this fall?" . . .

Lionel to Florence,

"Camp at Manassas, V*-, Sept., 1861.

. Your countrymen have yet to learn that
fighting is an occasional episode in a soldier's duty ;
not, as they fancy, the whole of it. They are asking
or taking leave by thousands, and it becomes a professional
soldier to set them a better example. Manassas
put an end to active operations on this line ; it
was decided that we could not march on Washington,
and they are in no condition to advance again.
Mcclellan, by far the best man they have, is drilling,
organizing, manufacturing an army and a staff out of
a collection of the mobs with rifles and uniforms that
they call regiments  very hard and thankless work.
I find it quite enough to discipline eight hundred men
into an effective regiment ; and yet, I can tell soil,
Florence, I begin to be proud of mine. I have refused
promotion, partly because I, as a foreigner, should
have trouble with men who did not know me personally
; partly because I am resolved that my Lancers
shall not degenerate into mounted riflemen, shooting
from cover, unable to charge, and ignorant of the use
of sword and lance, like all the enemy's cavalry, and
much of ours.

*' I trust that your sisters are reconciled ere this to
our arrangement, and to Mrs. Duval. Even had you
not agreed with me so decidedly, I should have known
that you would soon appreciate the assistance of a
nominal and responsible housekeeper in place of a
slave, and the protection of an experienced and well-educated
woman. I only wish she could have been a

VOL. m. H

lady by birth, and of unmixed race  but you know
how we failed in that. I am glad you feel able to
dispense with Afzul. In a more settled state of things
I hope that, despite the war, it may soon be possible
to take decisive steps for the restoration of your legal
rights. . I wish I could feel sure, Florence, that
you not only forgive my original slackness ; that you
do not merely conceal for my sake the distress and
vexation at its consequences you never allow me
to perceive?" .

Lionel to Florence.

Camp near Columbus, January 1862.

Dear Florence,  Your name, as you see, I can
trace for myself ; a brother officer is kind enough to
write the rest for me. I have been constantly and
closely engaged since they sent General Marion's force
here : where, as I think, the crisis of this struggle must
be decided. Foreign, and even Northern attention
seems centred on Virginia ; but if we lose the Mississippi,
the Confederacy is cut in two, and the operation
may well be mortal, Marion was disabled  I fear, for
life  in one of our first combats in this State. Since
then, though I have again refused the promotion
pressed on me in flattering terms, I have commanded
a cavalry brigade ; and three days ago was in charge,
as senior officer, of a considerable force sent on a raid
far into the enemy's rear. It was a complete success.
The journals will tell you what supplies we captured ;
I am sure we destroyed thrice as much. We cut in on
a convoy under a strong escort of artillery and infantry,

and had a sharp encounter : in which we
proved to my satisfaction, and I hope to that of the
General in command here, what good cavalry handled
as cavalry can effect. We captured the guns, broke
the infantry squares, and made havoc to our hearts'
content ; not without loss, of course. 1 was cut off,
at one moment, with about a score of ours ; and we
came off hardly enough. Afzul, saving my life not
for the first time well-nigh at the cost of his own, is
severely wounded. My own hurts I cannot regret, if
the surgeons persist in their proposal to send me
home to be nursed  though I am sorry to inflict such
a burden on you all. They forbid another word; I
may only sign my initials  L. d'U."

More seriously injured than his consideration would
allow him to acknowledge to Florence, in this raid,
which inflicted on the enemy as much harm as the
loss of a minor battle, Lionel, with his devoted servant
and comrade, was conveyed by steamer  the Mississippi
being still under Confederate command  to a
point not very far from Minnaroo, and carried home
by his slaves on a rudely improvised litter, with a
care and skill, suggested by sincere simple affection,
of which he had thought them incapable. There he
was now nursed by Florence and Eva, watched and
waited on by the younger girls, with an affectionate,
unfailing, vigilant care and attention which more
than supplied the place of experience ; and more deeply
than ever endeared to him those to whom, according
to even the surgeon's admission, he probably owed
his life. But the intense, anxious, devoted tenderness

of Florence, the light-handed, quiet, gentle consideration
into which Eva's livelier temper was subdued,
however they might gratify and affect, could not
surprise him. "What seemed less matter of course,
perhaps less natural, was the unwearied eager watchfulness
of Eugenie; and, stranger still, the success
with which her vehemence, her restlessness, even her
passionate anxiety to be useful, were toned down and
tamed to the moderation, the careful lightness of step
and movement, the avoidance of all too energetic
service, too earnest expression of feeling, desirable ina
sick-room. He woke early one morning from a
long sleep  produced by opiates given to quell less
the pain than the feverish excitement, almost amounting
to delirium, under which he had suffered for
several restless nights and days  to note the young
girl's eyes bent upon him with a close observant
scrutiny, whose meaning he was too weak to understand,
but which argued not only a tenderness but an
intelligence hardly to have been expected from her.
Her hands held the needle which she had been
somewhat listlessly plying, and a corner of the new
flag bearing the Starry Cross on the crimson field 
the later battle-flag of the Confederacy  which
Florence had somewhat reluctantly been induced to
entrust to other hands than her own, and nearly the
whole of which was her work.

'ris it you, Eugenie ? " he asked faintly. *' Are you
alone there ? No, no ! don't disturb Florence or Eva
on any account. I know how tired they must be. It
was the last thing I remember, telling Florence she
must go. " This had been many hours before he

fell into the slumber over the latter part of which
Eugenie had watched, and he was wholly unaware
that Florence had since then taken another turn of
duty in the sick-room. This proof, as she thought it,
of failing memory a little startled the very young
nurse, who had noted in the calmer, clearer expression
of her patient's eyes the symptom for which she
had been told to watch ; since at this critical juncture
his composure or renewed excitement on waking would
indicate the chances of recovery or of rapid sinking.

What is the matter ? " he said, reading the girl's
disappointment in her too expressive countenance.
Oh, I dare say it is long since then ; but you need
not disturb them now. I want nothing."

She brought, however, the dose she had been told to
administer, steadying perforce the wrist so prone to
tremble with every varying emotion ; and was gratified
to find it accepted as unquestioningly from her hand
as from those to which he was more accustomed to
trust.

*' That is something new? " he observed, as she set
the cup down. "Well, you know, of course, child.
Now be content. I am sure I am quite safe in your
hands ; you won't miss the mark."

Something in the peculiar turn of the phrase called
the colour to her cheeks, and reminded him of an incident
to which he certainly had not meant to allude.

You had never seen before what wounds mean,"
he said smiling. " I don't think, now, you could shoot
at an enemy. Now, can you not forgive yourself what
I never resented, never thought the worse of you for,
when I understood what you meant? You did for

Florence only what I had been doing an hour before,
and would do again. Well, if that will not console you,
YOU have more than made up for a worse unkindness
than that. I have seen, I have watched you, when
I have lain so long half-stupid or too weak to talk ;
seen how quiet, how gentle, how kind you can be, how
goodwill and pity can make you as careful and skilful
a nurse as Eva or Florence. And if you put me in some
danger then, you have done much more to spare me
suffering and give me a chance of recovery now. Dear
child, I know I owe almost as much to you as to
either of them."

As he spoke, he took the hand that rested on the
coverlet, and kissed it with something of the same
old-fashioned courtesy with which she had often seen
him salute Eva and, much less often but even more
earnestly and reverently, Florence herself. The
childish face, to which his words had recalled all the
bright colour somewhat paled by long and close
watching, evinced how much the respect as well as
the tenderness touched her ; and it was with difficulty
that she controlled an impulse too eager, too vehement
to accord with the restraint which, conscious of
her own impetuosity, she had observed perhaps even
more carefully than her elder sisters in the performance
of her self-imposed duties.

I shall never understand you," she said, speaking
quietly, but unable to prevent her voice from trembling
with feeling. " I shall never understand how you
could so seem to forgive it away from your mind 
your memory. Only that you could not laugh at me
and play with me quite as you used, you were just the

same to me. No !  for you took such pains to make
me feel forgiven, to seem to like me ; made me ride
and walk with you, and sit next you at supper  and
talk to you, when I was ashamed to speak at all, instead
of thinking me sullen. You wanted Florence 
yes, you wanted me  to forget that I had tried to
murder you ; you would have it as if I had been good
and grateful like the others. You would never even
let me tell you  if I could have found words  how
utterly grieved and ashamed I was ; would not let
me say ' forgive me.' Every day you made me feel
it more and more. How could you bear to have me
near you, to look at me, to hear me ?  how could you

take the hand that But I have tried to do my

best, now you have been so very kind to let me help
to nurse you  do let me ask your forgiveness now 
and do say in words * I forgive ! ' " 

Dear child," he answered, reading in the tearful
eyes and trembling lip the emotion to which she
would not give more passionate expression, '' can
you not believe that, if I had need to forgive, I forgave
from the first ; that I have never had an angry thought
towards you ? If, as you say, I was a little more
careful afterwards, it was not from resentment. I
was afraid  no, not afraid of your temper ; I knew it
would be under control for the future  but I had
learnt how easy it was to wound you more deeply than
careless words commonly wound children so young.
And I speak only the literal truth when I say, I have
liked you better ever since ; thought better of you,
that you could so utterly forget everything else in the
wish to prevent or avenge a wrong to your sister."

"You don't, you cannot like me better for being
passionate and revengeful, even if I had not been so
near "

I respect," he answered, 'sand sympathize heartily
with the revenge that cannot forgive wrong to another.
As Florence probably was much more angry with you
than I, so I feel with you  it might have been possible
to you to forgive me if I had ill-used yourself ; you no
more than I could dream of forgiving an outrage to
one you loved."

Not quite satisfied perhaps with his own morality,
as uttered to a young girl, or wishing to relieve her
evidently deep feeling on the subject, he added more
lightly

I thought it was you who bore malice, Eugenie.
Remember, you would hardly accept my kiss. Will
you take it now, and forget for ever what I promise
never to remind you of again, even in jest ? "

The young girl yielded readily to the hand that
drew her close to him, and accepted frankly the caress
which, for both, only sealed the pardon in which she
had found it hitherto impossible fully to believe.
But still for a few moments she sat a little behind and
out of sight of her patient, and remained silent till,
busying herself so noiselessly about some trifle in the
room, she asked 

*' You are better now, are you not ? "

"Yes," he answered. "Better, because till now I
scarcely distinguished between dreams and realities,
and my head was heavy with confusion, and everything
tired or excited me. Now  no," as she turned
somewhat hastily towards him; "you have not

disturbed me in the least, and there is nothing for
which you should break your sisters' rest, so long as
they will leave me to your care."

"But," she said, "if you are better, do you think
Florence will ever forgive me for not telling her at
once ? Do you think she can really rest, even when
she is asleep, while "

It occurred to her on a sudden that she ought not
even to reveal to the patient the extreme anxiety they
had felt on his account. But he understood the
pause, and answered with an expression half of
amusement 

Do you all forget that I am a soldier, Eugenie ?
that the chance of life or death so constantly turns
on the incidents of a moment that, whether in the
field or on a sick-bed, the nearness of danger can
hardly disturb us ? I did not think last night that
I should recover : I have no doubt this morning.
But you have kept back the papers, you have told me
nothing for some days."

*' Only two days," Eugenie said, eagerly. " I told
you all I knew on Monday evening."

"And this is Thursday?* Tell me, now; it is
easier to you than to Florence, who thinks every word
will hurt me."

There is very little to tell," Eugenie said, somewhat
doubtfully, "but I know it would be useless to
keep anything from you. They say our army across
the river is still falling back ; and, what you will not
like to hear, the enemy's fleet off the bar has been
strengthened. They talk about transports, and of
trying to force the river,"

'* Transports ? " he said ; "of course, then, that
means an immediate attack, and a serious one. The
ships might run by, but if they have brought up
transports they mean to take the forts. I don't think
they can, but I wish . . . Have you any idea when
the surgeon will let me move again ? "

But you don't want to take your regiment there ?
Surely, if I understand anything you have told me,
cavalry could do nothing against ships ? "

Cavalry have done strange things in this war,"
he answered. [This was long before Magruder's
Texan 'horse-marines" captured some Federal gunboats
at Galveston.] '' But I don't want my
regiment. Only . if New Orleans is in danger, a
Louisianian would like to be there."

He had not noticed as he spoke, nor she, intent
only on communicating unpleasant tidings as gently
and safely as possible, that the door had opened too
softly for either to be roused by the sound, and
Florence had heard the latter words. He caught,
however, the look with which alone she dared in his
presence reproach what she thought her sister's heedlessness
; and answered it at once.

If I could find fault with your devoted, faultless
care, Florence, I should tell you that you have no
idea what a mistake is that keeping back of bad news
from an invalid, at a time when he knows that news
of some kind there must be ; and if too nervous to
ask, frets all the more over the thought that he is
kept in the dark. But Eugenie has been almost, if
that were possible, as good and careful a nurse as
yourself."

The change in the tone of his voice, the collected
intelligence in the eyes, as well as the quiet good
sense of his reasoning, conveyed to Florence tidings
for which, keen patriot as she was, she cared infinitely
more than for the pending fate of the chief city of the
Confederacy, and its effect upon the fortunes of her
own State.

Chapter VII.

DISASTER.

One look, one last look, to our cots and our towers,
To the rows of our vines and the beds of our flowers ! "

During his somewhat rapid recovery, or what he
affirmed to he such, Lionel naturally enjoyed the
society of his wards, and especially the unfailing
kindness, the affectionate care of Florence, the more
intensely for their long separation. ** It is well worth
being wounded for," he said to her, calling a bright
flush of delight to her face. The life was even more
thoroughly homelike than before, as his dependence on
them removed much of the reserve which his own prudence
 seconded, so far as in her perfect innocence was
possible, by the instinctive shyness of Florence  had
formerly maintained. It was impossible, however, as
the need of constant attendance gradually disappeared,
while he was still confined to his home, to revert naturally
and easily to the usages whose meaning it would
have been contrary to the whole law of his conduct to
hint ; and this difficulty was perhaps an important if
not the chief motive of the decision with which, in

spite of the surgeon's warning and the girls' entreaties,
he insisted on taking an early opportunity, afforded by
the passage of one of the few steamers now plying on
that part of the river, to reach the threatened city.
His regiment, with many other Louisianian and Trans-reverie
corps, had been recalled by the news of
pressing danger to their native State and to a position
so important to the Confederacy at large ; but
the Lancers were not ordered to the vicinity of New
Orleans. They had suffered fearfully in the campaign,
reduced to less than half their original numbers ; and
he was anxious to fill up their ranks with men of the
same picked class from whom they had been at first
recruited  partly young Louisianian gentlemen of
French blood and French chivalric spirit, partly
rough, active, somewhat lawless spirits of a lower
social grade  Texan and Arkansas pioneers as well
as Louisianians. But his chief purpose was to render
what individual aid he could in drilling, organizing,
and disciplining such new levies as, under the pressing
danger, a State the flower of whose military population
was already in the field could muster. He had
worked hard for a week, and was weary in body, depressed
by nervous exhaustion, as well as by deliberate
judgment very uneasy for the future, when late one
evening he repaired to refresh his spirits  ever greatly
dependent on the exhilaration of female society, when
the keener exhilaration of active warfare was withdrawn
 in the drawing-room of one of the pleasantness
houses in the most agreeable and most social city of
the South. He was talking earnestly with a fair
young girl, an ardent patriot, of American birth and

pure English descent, in the window opening on the
half-lighted street, when a sudden sound like that of
distant thunder startled them both. She looked up
for a moment to the sky, and saw at once in the
uninterrupted splendour of the semi-tropical heavens
every star, from the Pole to the Southern horizon,
clearly visible  that the sound was due to no atmospheric
disturbance. It was repeated again, louder
and louder; and the girl's cheeks whitened, her lip
quivered as she looked to her companion, who knew
that her father held high rank among the defenders
of the two forts at some distance down the river ; on
which, and on the defences or obstructions they commanded,
the Crescent City relied for her safety. She
laid her hand on his arm, seeing his unwillingness to
speak and interpreting it only too truly.

"What does it mean. Colonel d'Ultramar? Tell
me, pray tell me the truth. It can hardly be worse
than I fear."

*' It is very bad. Miss Aspeden, I am afraid."

The forts are engaged ? "

Yes, the forts are engaged. But that means something
more. The enemy are trying to force their way
past, and that means that they know  more than I do
of the chances of success."

The noise grew louder and more constant, till the
practised ears of the many soldiers present had little
difficulty in recognizing the increased intensity and
quickness of the fire, and the increasing number of
guns that must be taking part therein; also, the probability
that instead of being repulsed the enemy were
gaining ground, since only a limited number of vessels

could engage the forts from below, and if that number
were exceeded it implied that some at least had run
past. To run past, however, would not be enough.
It might endanger the Crescent City, but could give no
solid advantage to the enemy, unless their transports
could come up the river ; and this could hardly be till
the fire of the forts was silenced by force or fraud.
Men and women crowded to the windows, listening
eagerly and looking out, though their sight could by
no possibility discern anything that could add to or
explain the inferences drawn from sound. Here and
there in the far distance, a sudden flash or persistent
glare against the dark sky night indicate the bursting
of shells with less or greater frequency, but no more.
So they stood, talking now and then in low tones,
often absolutely silent for many minutes at a time,
during two or three long hours. The mistress of the
house  a lady most highly esteemed not only in New
Orleans but throughout the State, as proud as fond of
her distinguished husband  contrived to remain to all
appearance calm, to perform such of the duties of
hospitality as the absorbed attention of her guests
would allow, with her usual composure. But as
Colonel d' Ultramar turned to take leave he saw in
the absent eyes, felt in the half-tremulous voice, her
torturing anxiety.

We all feel, Mrs. Aspeden, that the fate of New
Orleans, which hangs on yonder forts as the fate of
Louisiana on that of the city, could not be in better
hands. The General will hold out as long as his guns
can fire, and happily those forts are strong; the
enemy's round shot may dismantle the batteries in the

end, but their shells, I hope and believe, can hardly do
much harm among the defenders."

There was so much of earnest sympathy in his tone
so greatly had the repute of his military dash and
daring exaggerated, among the ladies of Louisiana, the
idea of his military knowledge  that she expressed in
reply, more freely than she would have done to many
an older acquaintance and more experienced soldier,
the feeling dominant in her mind.

I might bear that ; I cannot bear to think what
will happen if the passage is forced. He will never
endure to see New Orleans in the enemy's hands, and
know that he is held responsible."

*' No soldier, Mrs. Aspeden, will dream of holding
him answerable for the fortune of war. After all,
forts cannot hold out for ever."

But these were expected to do so, or our fate
would never have been entrusted to them. And,"
she added almost in a whisper, " I know he never
thought so."

Temporarily attached to the staff of the General in
command, Lionel remained in New Orleans, constantly
busy but chafing under a sense of enforced inaction,
during the trying period that followed. It seemed at
last a relief when  the enemy's ships having forced the
passage, the Confederate flotilla being destroyed after
a desperate conflict, and the cannon of the victors
commanding the city they could not occupy  it was
agreed between the civil and military authorities that
New Orleans should be abandoned by the latter. The
general reputation of the enemy, the intense patriotism
of the Southern women, and above all the character

of the Commander of the Federal land forces  then
low, now blackened in history with indelible disgrace
determined many ladies at whatever sacrifice to quit
their homes, and retire to that part of the State which
it was hoped might still be held, even should the forts
fall, and the enemy's troops be consequently able to
occupy the city and make it a base of offensive operations.
To Mrs. Aspeden and her daughters in particular,
as to more than one other family, Lionel did
not hesitate to offer the hospitality of Minnaroo. The
story of his wards was well known to the first-named
lady, as indeed there were few who had not heard
some version of it. It was for her to decide how far
the fact should influence her.

As he was about to rejoin the troops already commencing
their retreat, Mrs. Aspeden detained him fora
moment. m

I hope," she said, with some hesitation, " you
have not felt compelled by this exigency to  offer us a
hospitality that  at another time you might  have
thought it better to withhold ? "

From almost any other, man or woman, he would
have resented the question. But  dependent as are
few men of his years, fewer of his profession, on
feminine society and domestic kindness  he had
found almost a home in that house during the rare
leisure hours of his sojourn in New Orleans. He had
been grateful for the almost maternal kindness of
his hostess to one whose youth, personal beauty, and
combination of fiery temper with chivalric courtesy
reminded her of her own lost eldest-born ; and her
tone now had been kindly and considerate. The look

VOL. m. I

that met this quick defiant glance was sad rather
than suspicious.

Under other circumstances, I might have felt
bound to ascertain beforehand the feelings of those
whose wrongs have naturally rendered them acutely
sensitive. But at this juncture I know too well what
would be the wishes of Mademoiselle Dupont  in
feeling and spirit, as in descent for generations, in refinement
and education, as thoroughly a Louisianian
lady as Miss Aspeden herself. Visitors to Minnaroo are
her guests rather than mine. Whether I be there or
not," he added in a different tone, " I shall be glad to
feel that she and her sisters have the advantage of a
lady's presence. I should have been utterly unworthy
of your friendship for myself, if I could not frankly ask
you to be the friend of my wards."

I thank you," she answered gently, evidently
moved by this appeal to feminine sympathy. '' Under
your roof we may well forget the prejudices you have
earned the right to rebuke."

Chapter VIII.

THE AVENGER OF BLOOD.

Vengeance is God's :
But God doth oftentimes dispense it here
By human ministration."

Colonel d'Ultramar felt by no means so confident as
did his guests and their advisers respecting the safety
of Minnaroo. It stood at some distance from the
Mississippi, and so far from New Orleans that, while
the Confederate troops still held their ground to
protect as much as possible of the inland country, it
could hardly fall into Federal hands. But a cavalry
raid, or an attack from forces landed by a flotilla, such
as might possibly pass the guns of the Mississippian
positions commanding the river, might reach and
destroy it. As yet, however, there had been comparatively
few of those senseless, wanton outrages on
individual homes which afterwards cast so deep a stain
on the character of nearly every Federal commander
and of. the Federal Government. For some time
nothing occurred to alarm Lionel for the immediate
safety of his guests during his absence . with the
Louisianian forces that were maintaining a war,
which gradually assumed more and more of a partisan

or guerilla character, along the military frontier. In
this service the 20th Louisiana Cavalry much distinguished
themselves; their operations, despite the
prejudices of their commander, became more and
more irregular in character ; but their utility was so
obvious that he soon learned to make even freer use
of the various qualifications of his strangely assorted
troops, the skill of the lawless desperadoes from the
Texan and Arkansas frontiers that formed a considerable
part of the corps, their ingenuity, resource,
and very unmilitary weapons, than almost any other
Confederate officer. On one or two occasions he
brought in prisoners, caught by the lasso as a small
party dashed at full speed across the outposts of
some Federal force too strong for a direct attack. On
others he had stolen by night far within the enemy's
lines, cutting off pickets, destroying patrols, capturing
couriers and convoys, and making his name a terror
to the whole line of the invader's advanced posts.
Under a General utterly without the feelings of a
gentleman or the experience of a soldier, the undisciplined
volunteers from Massachusetts and the
rest of New England, especially fierce political partisans
as well as savage enemies, became infuriated by
the harassing duty, the incessant vigilance required
of them, the constant uneasiness created by these
attacks ; and began to avenge themselves on helpless
victims for the injuries received from an eijiemy it
was not easy to catch nor perhaps very safe to come
up with. Accounts of devastated plantations, and
defenceless dwellings burnt in mere wanton ferocity,
exasperated Lionel's soldierly spirit as much as they

roused the vindictive passion of the Southerners
themselves ; and it was in an evil temper that he
bade his trumpet sound the revelled, when a negro
fugitive brought him word of a Federal infantry
force threatening two or three plantations within ten
miles of the quarters, on an island of firm ground in
the midst of a dense swamp accessible only by one
circuitous path, where he had made his camp.

Approaching stealthily, and sending forward scouts
picked from among the most skilful and experienced
of the Western hunters and trappers under his command,
he became aware that the rear of the invading
force was but ill-covered, while the main body was
employed in the work of destruction, guarding somewhat
more carefully its front and flanks. Reconnoitring
minutely that which, according to General
Pope, should be a commander's sole care, the line,
of the enemy's retreat  with which, by the way, that
renowned strategist never found himself practically
concerned  Colonel d'Ultramar perceived that, unless
they should clear their way far to their left, their
route must narrow itself, between swamp and impassable
jungle on one side and an fordable river
on the other, into a defile of some two furlongs in
width and more than a mile in length, where a rough
country road passed through a wood, practicable
enough, but affording excellent shelter to infantry or
dismounted horse. Occupying this with half his
force, dismounted, and armed with what were called
carbines  a rifle somewhat lighter than that of the
infantry  he was advancing with the rest upon the
rear of the enemy's left flank, so closely that absolute

silence in the ranks had been strictly enforced ; whenas
he rode forward a little to reconnoitre, a frightened
flying girl, boundless and with dishevelled hair,
almost ran against his horse unawares, and then,
seeing a soldier and not in her confusion recognizing
the uniform, endeavoured to escape the new peril.
He sprang down and caught her by the hand.

'' Stop ! " he said, with difficulty controlling his
voice to that calm tone, which of itself was more likely
to soothe her terror than words she would hardly
understand. "Can you not see we are friends?
What has happened ? "

The fugitive, almost a child, looked up, quieted
rather by his manner, and by the youthful beauty
of the face into which she gazed, than by the sight of
the uniform whose colour at that moment she hardly
saw or would have remembered.

They are burning our house there. Do you not
see ? " she panted, pointing where a column of smoke
was visible through the trees. " Papa fired at them,
. . and they have killed him, I believe. And "

"Well, that will do," he said, his clenched teeth
suppressing with difficulty the curse that rose to his
lips. " Are any of them standing in line  on guard ?
Do you understand me ? Are any of them what we
call formed? Have you seen our soldiers under
arms ? "

The child made a desperate effort to compose
herself, to understand and to answer. " No," she
said, "not there; but over yonder," pointing to her
left, " I saw a long line of steel flashing in the sun."

"Here," he said, leading her by the hand to the

foot of a tall tree with dense foliage that stood near.
'you can climb into this; you will not be safe on
the ground. Climb as far as you can. Let me lift
you."

The girl complied; and obtaining a foothold on
the lowest branch, obeyed his directions with more
promptitude than he could have expected; and,
despite her terror, looked forth eagerly from among
the branches on the steady quietly advancing line,
till they halted for a moment as their leader once
more rode forward alone to observe the enemy whom
she could and he could not see.

There they are," she cried, pointing. He could
not see, but heard. " They have their backs to you, I
think."

He reined up at once, resuming his place at the
head of his squadrons. " Now, men, be steady ; keep)
cool ; kill, but don't pursue. Charge ! "

They dashed forward at speed. Taken by surprise
and at terrible disadvantage, it did credit to the half-trained,
half-demoralized Massachusetts Volunteers
that they did not run. Facing about, they could but
fire one aimless and ineffectual volley before, their
commander three lengths in front, the Lancers burst
upon them. The best European infantry, formed in
square, might have failed to repel that charge with
the bayonet alone ; the inexperienced Unionists were
powerless as children to stand against it. Their line
was instantly broken up, overwhelmed, crushed by
the shock. The actual slaughter was terrible, for the
exasperated Confederates made no prisoners : as an
available military force this entire wing of the Federal

brigade was simply annihilated. The scattered parties
engaged in the actual work of robbery and arson,
sometimes caught flagrante delicto, sometimes flying,
in one or two cases huddling together in larger
numbers without formation, were destroyed or dispersed
 falling in scores by the lance, the sword, or
the bullet. Then, recalling his men to their ranks,
Colonel d' Ultramar swept along what had been the
Federal front ; till, where a thin grove of trees
screened a large open space, the wasted fields of two
contiguous plantations, beyond which lay the defile
he had already seized, he caught sight of a considerable
body of the " blue-coats " in regular formation, rather
more than a quarter of a mile distant. Wheeling
into line, and passing at a slow walk through the
trees, he was able so to control the fiery spirits he
commanded as to restore the regularity of their order
in front of the levelled rifles, too distant and too
unsteadily held to do serious execution. Halting
immediately in advance of the trees, they saw that
the remnant of the enemy, some six hundred strong,
were retiring quickly but in order and by alternate
sections,, each facing about as the other retreated.

Quietly, men ! " cried Lionel, as the Lancers were
again on the point of breaking loose, some five
hundred yards from the enemy. "We have them ina
net ; and I am not going to waste your lives in order
that they may break its meshes."

He halted the line a while ; and then, following at
such a distance as rendered the enemy's fire ineffective,
threatened momently to charge ; thus quickening
their retreat, and shaking more and more the nerve of

men demoralized by the work in which they had
been engaged, by the slaughter of their comrades, and
by the apprehension that in the apparently probable
case of defeat  defeat is ever the anticipation of
young soldiers forced to retreat  no quarter would be
given by those who had witnessed their crime. The
Southern leader had rightly calculated the effect of
the terror which the fugitives from the detachments
first destroyed had spread among their comrades.
Scarcely any of them had nerve to take aim even
when they did fire ; and it was with no slight difficulty
that their officers kept up the appearance of
steadiness in their ranks, as they fell back before the
advancing cavalry towards the wood in which they
hoped to find shelter. The constant visible menace
of an attack sufficed utterly to prevent the discomfited
Unionists  volunteers who had never seen a pitched
battle  from recovering nerve and firmness for a
single moment. At last a certain wavering, a halt
in the retreating division, and then a cry of dismay,
told that the occupation of the wood had been, if not
discovered, guessed by those who had hoped it would
afford them a refuge. The Federal commander
struggled desperately to form his men so as to oppose
a steady line to the charge of the cavalry in the rear,
while endeavouring to force what might still prove to
be only a thin curtain of skirmishers in his front.
Alone perhaps among his infuriated followers. Colonel
d'Ultramar could admire the coolness, the indifference
to personal exposure, the bitter indignation with
the cowardice of the soldiery whom after all the
license he and his superiors had permitted had

turned into cowards, displayed as the mounted officer
spurred his white steed along the wavering line of
Federal bayonets. The Lancers were at this moment
halted. Their chief, after a minute's hesitation,
turned to the man immediately on his right rear,
a reckless Texan rider and the most splendid marksman
in the regiment.

*' Bring down that Colonel, Douglas ! "

Almost before the words were spoken the white
charger reared, sharply bitted by his rider in the
death-agony ; then darted away as the horseman fell
heavily to the ground. A ringing cheer burst from the
Confederate line. The leader turned, rebuking it with
a look of bitter scorn.

Steady yet ! " he said, turning again and fixing
his eyes on the wood, while his men watched impatiently
the endeavours to form still continued by
the Yankee officers, without appreciating as he did
their utter futility. At last, as the companies facing
the defile which was now the immediate objective of
the Federal march approached within some two
hundred yards of the wood, a crashing volley from
thence shattered their ranks and threw the whole
force into confusion.

*' Now, charge. Lancers ! " cried their Colonel, himself
setting spurs to his horse.

There was nothing like organized resistance. Most
of those who fronted the wood turned to the rear;
those confronting the Confederate cavalry ran for the
shelter of the wood, to be shot down as they neared
it. A few braver individuals stood fast and tired, but
with little effect. They were cut down but a few

moments sooner than those who threw away their
weapons and ran for their Ives in every direction.
Victorious soldiers, justly infuriated by the sight of
wanton outrage and havoc, show little mercy ; and
Lionel, though he disdained to take any personal
share in the vengeance of his men, did not choose to
restrain it. In his opinion it was the fitting military
retribution for such crimes, and the most effectual
method of checking them, and affording to the defenceless
women and children of Louisiana that protection
which it was his paramount duty to give.

'' I wish all such crimes may be as well avenged,"

he said. " General will have something to

answer for to his Government, if they are."

Turning his horse and riding towards the house,
while the trumpet sounded the recal, he looked fora
few minutes on the scene of crime and havoc that
he had so fully avenged. An old man, his hand still
clasping the rifle with which he had so fruitlessly
endeavoured to defend his dwelling, lay dead on the
threshold, the corpse scorched by the flames that were
still raging there. Lionel drew it beyond their reach.
*' We will bury him with our own dead," he muttered.
For yonder felons, let the crows and wolves have
their carcasses." While the grave was hastily dug
with tools collected from the negro quarters, he rode
back to the tree where he had left the girl. Only part
of the terrible scenes through which he had passed
had been visible to her ; but she had heard the order
to "kill," and by the screams that had scarcely yet
ceased she judged how well it had been obeyed. Her
fair childish face, naturally soft and gentle as it was,

was set in a stern vindictive expression, scarcely more
unnatural than that which had transfigured to her
tearless blue eyes the features of the young soldier.
He sprang from his horse and assisted her to the
ground.

"I have avenged you," he said, ''if the death of
some hundreds of those wretches be vengeance, to
your heart's content."

The girl placed her own right hand frankly in that
which had assisted her descent, without shuddering
at the blood that stained it.

I thank you," she replied. '' Was vengeance all
you could give ? "

All ; except the last honours to your dead and
our own. I came to ask if you will be present
while these are paid ? "

The white face whitened to an even deeper pallor,
a slight shiver came over the form so unnaturally
erect ; but she bowed her head in compliance and
walked steadily beside him as he led his horse by the
bridle, till they reached the place where the grave
was already yawning to receive some score and a half
of Confederate soldiers and the grey-haired citizen.
The consideration of some of the gentlemen of the
corps had enveloped the latter in a cloak taken from
the saddle of the Federal Colonel.

Not that ! " said the girl, shuddering, as she
plucked it off and looked on the calm set face, peaceful
as in sleep, save for the deep black hole in the centre
of the forehead.

At the risk of his life, a Louisianian officer had
plunged into the burning building and contrived to

drag from it a blanket in which to envelope the
corpse. For their dead comrades no such shroud,
no concealment of the features was needed. Those
who alone were present to mourn them were well
accustomed to look on death. Standing at the head
of the grave, the young girl now supporting herself
by his arm, Lionel repeated a few of the most familiar
parts of the Anglican ritual he had so often heard at
a soldier's funeral. Then, as he turned to look on
his now trembling companion, he was deeply touched
to see that one of his youngest soldiers last of three
sons of a widowed mother, whose elder brothers had
already fallen in the ranks of the Lancers  had placed
in her hand some dozen white blossoms, picked from
among-the ruins of what had been that morning her
own flower-garden. At a light touch of the Colonel's
fingers on her hand she dropped them into the grave ;
and he led her away while the earth was filled in by
his men, and a volley from a hundred carbines at
once honoured the lost and celebrated the victory.

"We have no leisure, no time to stay here," he
said to her. " And you, I fear, have no time for
mourning. "What can we do for you ? Where can
we take you?"

She tried to speak ; but to his infinite relief this
last effort broke down her unnatural composure, and
she burst into violent weeping. He stood patiently
supporting her till the grave had been filled up, the
regiment, under the direction of other officers, had
remounted and reformed, and only waited till he
should give the signal for the march.

** Can you not tell me," he repeated, " to what friend

I can now convey you? We will send you safely,
wherever it be, within our lines."

"No," she answered. "Our neighbours' houses
have perished like our own. I know no one to whom
I could go now."

Then," he said, "you must be my guest, as are
several ladies now ; more than one of whom will
show, I doubt not, a mother's care for you. Mr.
Francis "  to the young private who had procured
the flowers  " it shall be your duty to escort this
young lady to Minnaroo. Take four of your comrades
"  and he scratched a few lines in pencil on a
leaf of his pocket-book and tore it out. " Take this ;
it is not often one can write home. Nay," he added,
as the young soldier's face seemed to show some
surprise or reluctance, "you will come back quickly;
but you have earned this trust. The fittest guardian,
for the moment, of an orphan's solitude "  speaking
in a tone audible only to the youth  "is he who
showed the keenest instinctive sympathy, paid the
most graceful attention to her sorrow."

The boy, he was certainly no more, blushed with
pleasure at the compliment from one to whom all his
soldiers had learned to look up, with a feeling that
partook almost as much of awe as of regard and
admiration. The silence of his charge on their route
left him ample time to muse on the strange contrast
of feeling in the soldier, who within one half-hour
could witness the slaughter of hundreds, could look
with apparent indifference on the massacre of a
routed foe, and could note so closely and approve so
heartily that little touch of delicate kindness to a
solitary mourner.

As he had sent forward one of his comrades to
announce their approach and the nature of his charge,
the party were received under the portico of Minnaroo
by Florence; rather perhaps by Mrs. Aspeden who
accompanied her, but whose consideration  bespoken
by Lionel and thoroughly won by the unconscious
appeal of the young Creole's shrinking timidity and the
frank simplicity of her sisters  took care at once that
the mistress of the house should have her proper
place, and that she should feel neither difficulty nor
awkwardness in the actual performance of its duties.

Dismounting, and saluting with profound respect
first the wife of a distinguished Confederate officer
now languishing in a Federal prison, none the less
respected for the hard fate which had compelled
him to surrender a critical position  next, the silent
girl whose story he had heard, and whom he instinctively
recognized as one for whom his commander
would exact a stricter reverence than for the
proudest lady in Louisiana  Francis handed to the
latter the pencilled note. She read it hastily, and
then pointing to a spot he had not noticed 

It is red ! " she exclaimed. " Is he wounded ? "

*' I think not," Francis answered, perplexed and
doubtful.

The young orphan with him, who still clung to
the support which Mrs. Aspeden's motherly arm had
afforded to her fatigue, shyness, and sorrow, interposed
with kindly consideration ; prompted probably
rather by grateful recollections of the writer .than
by interest in the receiver of the missive.

"That can hardly be, if the note were given you

by your Colonel," she said. '' It was he, was it not,
who stood by me at  at the funeral? He was with
me for ten minutes before that, and he walked and
stood quite steadily, and gave me his arm during the
ceremony."

' We had been through sanguinary work," said
the youthful soldier to Florence. " I don't think
Colonel d'Ultramar can be hurt. Will you give meany
message for him in return ? We must rejoin at
once."

These words roused Florence to a consciousness of
the hospitality due to any party entrusted with such
a mission, but most of all to the comrades of the
owner of the dwelling before which they stood. She
was almost too timid to speak, however, and Mrs.
Aspeden gracefully relieved her of the difficulty.

*' Shall I," she said, *' ask Mrs. Duval to attend to
the refreshment of these gentlemen while you write
your note ?"

The girl gratefully embraced the opportunity of
retreat, but did not reappear ; and it was by Eugenie's
hands that her little packet was transmitted to its
bearer.

Tell Colonel d'Ultramar," said the young girl, as
the soldier, scarcely three years her senior, looked
admiringly into her bright frank face, *' that we are
comfortable ; more so than we have ever been before
in his absence. But tell him I wish "  she hesitated
a good deal  " I wish  not for myself  that he would
come back, if only for a day. If not, let him send
me word if he is wounded, not to my sister."

She coloured and stopped, as if conscious of an

indiscretion, which, however, appeared a very matter
of course to him who heard her.

*you forget," said the Lancer, saluting, 'you
have not told me whose message I am to give to my
Colonel ; and though it would be easy to describe you,
he is not one with whom a young soldier ventures to
take a liberty."

Her lips parted, as if to answer simply and in one
word. Then, perhaps for the first time, she realized
the loss even of name that slavery involved.

Give it me back for a moment," she said, and
wrote a few characters in the corner.

Francis did not of course venture to examine them
in her presence ; but at the first halt he drew forth
the note, presumably to ascertain its safety, and looked
somewhat curiously at the pencilled line on the outside.
If he wished to learn the name of the young maiden,
whose beauty and spirit had interested him more than
the riper loveliness which, he supposed, belonged to
one whose rival he could not even in fancy have presumed
to become, he was disappointed. The message
ran : 

Send bad news to me, not to F.  Eu."

VOL. HI.

CHAPTER IX.

Reconciliation.

'forgive me  mine was jealousy in love.'
That is love's curse : pass on, my Queen, forgiven.' "

The guest-rooms of Minnaroo afforded fair accommodation
for the considerable numbers of the party that
now occupied them ; and Mrs. Aspeden had not
allowed Florence to disturb herself or her sisters in
the apartments appropriated to themselves almost
since their infancy ; feeling perhaps that one so shy,
so conscious of her social disadvantage as the young
hostess, required the shelter of a privacy upon which
her guests were not likely to intrude. She herself,
if not the eldest, the highest in social rank among
them, set the example of respecting this privacy so
strictly that it startled Florence and Eva not a little 
when, somewhat late one evening, her gentle tap
requested admission to their boudoir. One glance at
her face, carefully as it had been composed, suggested
alarm to the quick, sensitive, and now ever-fearful
girl.

*' You have bad news?" she said, instantly and
almost breathlessly, springing to her feet. " Tell meat
once, quick, the worst ! Don't stop to break it ! "

No, Florence ; it is not so very bad, especially
if you will bear it with composure. You know the
enemy have been driving back our troops rapidly of
late ? And we heard  though I did not like to tell
you, I think you know  that the General had resolved
to make a stand; and that sharp fighting
might be expected, but on ground advantageous to our
men."

Stop, pray ! " cried Florence. "You cannot mean
that he is killed ; but is he wounded or prisoner ? "

*hurt, but not dangerously," Mrs. Aspeden continued.
" It seems that the infantry lined a long
trench or series of trenches dug in the wood on two
sides. Between these was a wide open space that had
once been a plantation ; and here the infantry were
supported by the cavalry under Colonel d'Ultramar.
The enemy so placed their artillery that its fire converged
on the centre, and within a few minutes the
infantry there were broken. Then the enemy's cavalry
charged to scatter them completely. Colonel d'Ultra-
mar's brigade met, broke and drove them back with
terrible slaughter. But for once they seem to have
got out of hand, or he did not know where the guns
were ; for as they fell back they were shattered by a
terrific artillery fire. Under cover of this the enemy
sent a brigade of infantry to force the centre. They
say that everything hung on the holding that part of
the line for five minutes, till the reserves could come
up. Colonel d'Ultramar threw himself with the remainder
of his brigade upon the enemy's bayonets, or
rather into their converging rifle fire. The survivors
reached and broke the line  they say no other

cavalry in the Confederacy can charge through fires
he has taught his men to do and they saved the-day
; but the brigade is almost annihilated. The
position has been turned and evacuated, and it will
grieve the Colonel deeply that his splendid force has
been destroyed and so many of his dearest friends and
comrades killed, so gloriously, indeed, but to so little
practical purpose."

' But he ? " urged Florence, impatiently. ' ' He ? "
He would hardly have cared to come unwounded
out of such a service. He is hurt, but they say not
very severely ; and, Florence, they are bringing him
here. He spoke very gratefully of the care and judgment
you and your sisters showed in nursing him
before. But you will let me help you now ? To keep
him quiet, spare him excitement and strong feeling,
will be the great thing ; for I must tell you it is not
the wounds I fear. In New Orleans I saw how feverish
he still was, how imperfectly he had recovered. Dear
child, you had better know the whole truth. The
fatigues of the campaign have told terribly on his
strength. It seems he was wounded in that skirmish
of which Mr. Francis told us, and neglecting what he
called a scratch, it had become serious. The wounds
he has received now the doctors say are not dangerous
in themselves ; but he has no strength left, and
they tell me that the surgeon fears what we call the
country fever. You know what that means."

Too well," said Florence, turning deadly pale
That cost both the lives I held dearest ; and now, is
it to take him who, for me and my sisters, has almost
made up the loss of both ? You will help me ? Yes,

but you will not expect me to think of myself, of anything
else, till he is better ? He would have told you,
if you had asked him, that we did not talk, did not
trouble him. You may trust us now."

Mrs. Aspeden could not tell Florence what she
really feared ; less any indiscretion, any strong manifestation
of feeling on the girl's part than that too
eager interest, too conscious insight on his side which,
under the circumstances, other and elder female friends
in the house, Florence's anxious devotion, Florence's
constant attendance might excite. And there was
excitement in store of another kind, excitement which
she knew not how to spare. It was a strange but
probably a sound intuition which entrusted the charge
fco so young a girl ; for, after all, the instincts of
affection and the knowledge of intimate acquaintance
might be worth more than the prudence acquired by
mere lapse of years and experience.

"Do you know," she asked, "whether Colonel
d'Ultramar has been anxious about his friends in
England ; whether he hears often from them ?"

I think," Florence replied, "he has never heard;
.and he has never spoken. Ah ! but," she said, the
recollection flashing across her mind, "he spoke once
when he came here first. What is it ? There might
be news, I don't know what, from England that
might trouble him terribly."

And," said Mrs. Aspeden, " we can of course form
no notion what the news is. But a blockade-runner
brought to the British Consulate at Charleston the
other day a packet which has been forwarded by a
-special courier  which was brought across the Mississippi

by a boat engaged on purpose. Either it is of
great importance, or his friends are eager at any cost
to reopen communication with him. We cannot well
withhold it ; and yet  "

Trust it to me," Florence said, quietly. "I will
manage to give it to him at the right time, at least
that it shall do as little harm as possible."

Whether Mrs. Aspeden herself had over-estimated
the illness reported by an orderly sent on to prepare
the household for its owner's arrival, whether she
had underrated his previous illness, or whether
Florence had received a more alarming impression
than her friend had intended, the first sight of the
young soldier's face as he was lifted from the litter
and carried by Afzul (who had accompanied him
during the last operations) and by the orderly into
his room, caused her less fear than relief. He did not
seem worse than on the former occasion, if even to
her eyes visibly weaker from prolonged fatigue, and
from loss of blood. He was calmer, more collected
than then, and his wounds themselves, she soon
learned, were not dangerous. It was in truth the
anxiety, the hardship, the strain on nerve and muscle,
not the actual injury received from ball and blade,
that had tried so severely a frame never quite strong
enough for the spirit that animated it. For sometime,
whether through his own or Mrs. Aspeden's
management, Florence never found herself long at
a time alone with her patient, had no opportunity
of preparing him for the receipt of what she could
not but conjecture  remembering the strong language
in which he had described the misfortunes-that

had sent him as an exile to Louisiana at the
critical moment of her fate  might be tidings of
painful, at any rate of extreme interest to him. On
the third day after his arrival she was still doubtful
of the nature of the fever that undoubtedly hung
about him ; not recognizing the decided symptoms of
that severe malarial disorder which, in the lower lying
regions of the Gulf States and of the Carolinas, is
scarcely less dreaded than the awful scourge of yellow
fever itself. But seeing as yet fewer indications of
that extreme excitement, verging on delirium, which
had alarmed her before  since the most discouraging
symptom was mere weakness, a weakness that would
not yield to rest, stimulants, or food  Florence, whose
limited experience did not realize the seriousness of
this peculiarity, thought that she might safely venture
on giving what indeed it was impossible long to
withhold. She had engaged him gently in conversation,
allowing him to observe that she avoided the
one topic which engrossed the thoughts of both  the
war which more and more overbore all other questions
of public and private interest, as it came nearer to
Southern homes, besides cutting off so many of those
on whose lives the brightness of those homes depended.
It might seem to be for this reason alone
that she drew him to speak of England and of his
English friends, almost for the first time.

Yes," he said in answer to a shy question of hers,
I wrote to my sister by General Vane, but I have
very little hope of an answer."

 "Did General Vane think she would not answer
you ? I could not believe it ; you seem to have loved

her so dearly,  she could hardly be willing,, whatever
had happened, to forego a last chance like that ; to
answer you again with silence."

"You forgot," he said, with a sigh, *how terribly
difficult communication has now become. Even if
Amy wished to write, she would know that her letters
were more likely to fall into the enemy's hands than
mine."

"Ah, no!" Florence answered. "So many
blockade-runners do get in, and I know they have
brought letters lately ; " and she looked half playfully,
yet with earnest sympathy, the suggestion she was
afraid to speak.

"Are there any?" he cried, with a momentary
excitement that made her doubt her own judgment.
Then, as he saw its effect, carefully suppressing all
sign of agitation :  " Are there ? Yes, I see there are !
Thank you, Florence ; it is fitting that Amy's first
letter should come to me by your hand."

He tore the packet open with an eagerness forgetful
even of her presence. With no thought of intrusive
curiosity, consequently with no fear of seeming intrusive,
she watched his face as he turned over the four
or five enclosures. As he came to the last, she was
alarmed to see the sudden change of countenance.
The deadly pallor, the trembling of the whole frame,
the startling lustre that came into the eyes at first
half-eager, half-dazed, gave proof of vehement emotion
of whatever kind ; and she wondered the more that
his hands seemed almost to flinch from opening it.
Surprised into consciousness, she was drawing back
out of sight and reach when he, even then alive to

her feelings, turned for a moment and pressed her
hand.

Thank you once more. You have given me more
here than I had any idea of. No, don't go away,
Florence ; if you will pardon my reading these in your
presence."

She drew back nevertheless where he could not see
her without turning from his letters, and so placed
herself that she could not even seem to be a spy on
the emotions with which he opened them. But she
could not help observing that, though some minutes
passed before he could open it, that which he had
taken up last was the first he perused ; and that more
than half an hour elapsed before he even looked at
any of the accompanying enclosures. The sight of
that unfamiliar but instantly recognized handwriting
utterly overpowered him. Even had Alice but directed
by chance some papers in which she had no interest,
even if she only wrote to reproach  such were the
self-torturing fancies, as reasonless as Florence herself
could have entertained, that passed through his mind
still how much it was to see those characters again !
It was at first with almost as much incredulity as
gratitude  an incredulity arising from the very delirium
of joy  that he read what Alice had written
the day after her midnight interview with Lady Vane.

Alice to Lionel,

I never felt, never understood how I had wronged

you, Lionel, till last night one whom I think we both

alike esteem and honour said  not knowing that I

heard him : * I can conceive L. D. capable, where

women are concerned, of any error that is not selfish
or disloyal. Misguided by passion, pride, false principle
 very possibly ; more probably misled by overstrained
generosity or exaggerated tenderness. Fierce,
merciless to himself and others, utterly unbending
and unforgiving  yes ; wilfully false, disloyal, ungenerous
 never ! ' And Penrith himself answered r
It may well have been as you say. I can guess or
understand all, I can venture to blame him for nothing,

but that he should have spoken to Alice  when .'

I heard no more ; but I had heard enough. Others 
men knowing you and your story  men so sternly
honourable as Sir Philip Vane, so coldly high-minded
as my own guardian, could hold you almost blameless
where I would listen to no excuse ; could recognize
generosity and loyalty to another, where my pride
would see only the affront to itself, and judged that
beyond possibility of pardon. You used so to overrate
me  do you yet think well enough of me to
understand, to believe how it shames me that I should
have been the one to wrong you ; that I, who should
have trusted to the last, whose faith in you should have
withstood all but absolute proof, was the first to condemn,
the least believing, the most bitter ; that I,
whose love once promised should have pleaded for you
against others' harshness, made my resentment the
barrier between you and those who were more worthy
of you ? I felt then the justice of the reproach I had
seen so often in Amy's eyes, though she would never
speak it. I had no answer when, some hours later,
Louisa Yane almost told me, in so many words, that
she could read the riddle of the conduct they could

not explain ; that I could furnish the justification of
which no suffering, no unjust reproach, could wring
a hint from you. They all believed in you  and yet
none knew, and Amy will not let me tell, how I drew
you on, almost forced you, to speak what had I been
less forward you would have withheld. It is just that
I should have to write this confession of my fault;
should humble myself to own that I repent my conduct
to you. I deserve the humiliation :  but, Lionel, you
are proud enough to 'know what such humiliation is,
generous enough to feel for me, and to accept this
as a sufficient atonement to the pride I wounded so
deeply. You would not have me say more ; and if
then you spoke to spare my feelings, you will spare
them now ? If my repentance be too late ; if you
too have repented, or if you cannot forgive  then
pray, pray read no further ; destroy this at once and
only let Amy tell me that it has reached you.

*but  one who was by your side told me of a
lady's scarf you wore when every moment might be
your last. I recognized you in that  and it seemed
the same you took from my hand on the Europa. If
that scarf were mine, if you wore it because  the
giver was still dear to you  do not let me forfeit your
esteem by what may seem too like a renewal of my
former error. When we last met, I spoke because I
thought that my fortune kept you silent : I cannot
bear that the memory of my pride and mistrust
should part us now. You will not misunderstand
me ; if till now you were willingly silent, be silent
still. Only if you still feel as I thought you felt
that last afternoon, do not let doubt of me, the

recollection of my want of faith in you, disturb you ;
above all, do not be troubled by the thought that
there are still things you cannot or will not explain.
I care to know nothing but  what your answer or
your silence must tell. I know you will not deceive
me by word or act ; you will let me do nothing that,
if I knew all, would put me in the wrong before God
or my conscience. I want no other assurance. Do
not fancy that I shall ever distrust you again ; ever
vex you with mean or unworthy thoughts. It was
not that I felt " [two or three half-finished sentences
were here erased]  ' but I cannot explain the past ;
I can only bid you trust me in future. If I would
not ask you to leave your adopted country or to give
up the cause in which  how strange it seems ! but
you know that your cause must be mine  you have
engaged, still less could I wish you to resign the
charge it was so like you to undertake. You could
hardly reproach me more severely than by thinking
such a sacrifice necessary or desirable. Amy, I
believe, writes to urge you to send your wards to her
care. You will not think that I consent to that
request ? If you can bid me come to you in the
home you cannot now leave  surely there can be no
cause ? . If you receive this letter not as an act
of maidenly forwardness, but as the strongest proof
of womanly trust that a maiden could give, you will
not refuse me that proof that you trust me as wholly
as I trust you ? You will not think that those who
owe safety and happiness to you will be less secure,
less happy because  if  I share your charge ? . . .
There are words I may not use till you give me the

right ; but, if this letter seem cold or unkind, is not
all I could say, I am afraid much more than I ought
to say, told by my writing at all ? I could not do it,
if sou had not said and done so much, or if I had not
requited you so ill. In any case, forgive me, and try
not to condemn.  A. K."

Chapter X.

PARTING.

1.

Enough, we parted : why recal
The scene of anguish known to all ? "

Lord Penrith's letter, kindly, a little satirical perhaps
upon his kinsman's perverse distrust, scarcely
referred to Alice; but it confirmed and enforced
the offer mentioned in her letter, set forth and urged
at length, with perhaps unnecessary earnestness of
reasoning and entreaty, by Amy. But for the restoration
of his hopes of Alice, or rather the permission
now given to entertain a hope he had never
felt before, compliance with Amy's counsel must have
been intensely painful. It could not now be yielded
without a keen pang ; but it was too clear and
obvious a duty to admit of hesitation. A happy, a
safe, an honourable home once offered them, in a
society where their extraction would neither be known
nor if known seriously affect them, under a protection
that would silence absolutely all offensive
whispers or questions respecting their past or their
relation to himself, it would have been no less than
selfish deliberate injustice to his wards to palter or
refuse. And now  war raging round them, threatening,

though as yet but remotely, even the home
he had been able to give them  had there been no
reason, no obligation to part them from himself, he
would have embraced with eagerness, no matter how
terrible the wrench to his own heart-strings, the
proffer of a secure asylum.

"I am to lose you, Florence," he said, after more
than an hour's silence, endeavouring to speak lightly
and as if more pleased with the prospect than he
could really feel. ** Nay, it is ungracious and ungrateful
to put it in that way. At last an opportunity
of repairing, I hope almost entirely, the cruel
wrong you suffered at first from the law, the injury
my selfish heedlessness, my lingering reluctance to
part with you has since done you, is  I cannot say
given, but  absolutely forced upon me. I can give
you the home that of all others in the world I should
have chosen for you; where no possible event can
threaten your freedom, where neither your legal
misfortune nor the chance of birth will be known,
or would, however fully known, do aught but; excite
greater sympathy and interest for you with all you
may meet. See, Florence, I can show you this part
of my sister's letter  do not read beyond. " Not " 
he added, noticing but not understanding the very
painful blushes that covered her cheek, the manifest
embarrassment and reluctance of her manner  " that
there is anything in it that could hurt you on your
own account; but there are sentences which I deserve,
but which might wound your exaggerated consideration
for me."

The handwriting, exquisitely feminine and much

smaller, yet bore in its clearness, its firmness, and
the distinct formation of every letter, with the utter
absence of the flourishes of female or clerkly affectation,
a striking resemblance to his own. The passage,
commencing with the second sheet and continuing
to the end of its third page, committed ta
Florence's hands, read as follows : 

Amy to Lionel.

** . . . This makes it easier to urge a request
which I fear must give you pain, even if it bring you
comfort. You would as soon flinch from a post of
danger as from a painful duty ; and you must see
that I am acting a sister's part in earnestly pressing
you to send to us at once those cherished wards of
whom Sir Philip speaks with such cordial admiration,
and Lady Yane with sincerest heartfelt sympathy.
Lion, you cannot, you must not hesitate. Of course
the parting must grieve you. But it shall give you
no pain, no uneasiness that Penrith or I can spare
you. Pray understand that the request is his as
much as mine ; that he agrees with and approves
every word I write, and will keep my promises as his
own. We shall recognize, as they will necessarily
feel, that while entrusted to us the young ladies are
your charge, your wards. Need I assure you that
in every point they shall be dealt with as you director
as you would wish ; that I will never forget from
what care I took them, or give them reason to regret
it ; that those who are dear to you by right of all
you have done for them shall be dear to me for your
sake as for their own ; that if they ever seem to need

indulgence, I will remember who has spoilt them?
You cannot doubt how deeply their story has interested
us in them. Remember too that if it were
known here  which of course it will not be unless
you wish it  it would only make them objects of
general interest and consideration in English society.
You will feel how great are the advantages, as regards
the social introduction of the elder and the
education of the younger pair, which London or
Ulswater offer as compared with Minnaroo.

But you will not frighten the latter  remembering
what you said of their sisters at the same age,
I must not call them children  with the idea of an
English school ? I do not ask you to trust them to
any hands but my own. Surely you will content yourself
and them with your Amy's assurance that she
will neglect nothing to make their girlhood as happy
as you made hers ? In the charming friends of your
last pleasant days in India, before the horrors of the
Mutiny, I cannot expect strangers, but companions
with whom I shall feel as much at home as ' I give
you my promise ' to make them, Lionel, you will
not show that you doubt the pledge you taught me
to hold inviolable, unquestionable : * Woman's faith
as manhood's word ' ? You cannot, you will not
hesitate for a moment to commit to my care those for
whom you have now done all that a man can do ? "

It was not till, after she had had ample time to
read it thrice over, he turned and looked with some
surprise towards her, that Florence, startled into
consciousness, folded and returned the paper.

VOL. HI. L

Well," he said, " could we wish for anything
better, anything more perfectly satisfactory, Florence ?
I am sorry that there will be a certain danger, a
certain difficulty, no doubt ; but on board a blockade-runner
chased by a Federal cruiser you will scarcely
run more risk than here ; and in the worst case,
should you fall into the enemy's hands, you see that
all the influence of our  I mean, Her Majesty's 
ambassador would be used, if necessary, to secure your
immediate release and remission to England. You
don't know Amy ; but you will find the refuge offered
you in her personal kindness not less satisfactory,
not less all we could wish, than in every other respect.
Is it that you fear to reproach me, in acknowledging
what we both owe to another who has repaired my
omission ? Is it that you would not pain me by
owning how glad you will be to find yourself and your
sisters in safer, more appropriate care ? "

Her silence, her evident embarrassment, something
which looked like reluctance or trouble rather than
satisfaction in her attitude, and in such symptoms
of feeling as instinct can gather from the manner of
those we know well even when their countenances are
turned from us, perplexed and surprised him ; and
he was neither relieved nor enlightened by the constrained
words and tone in which at last she forced
herself to answer.

Lady Penrith is very, very kind. I understand
better, now, how yom love the sister who is willing
to take so much trouble, to promise so much in order
to set your mind at rest, and take on herself such
an anxious and inconvenient charge. And yet," she

faltered, either unwilling to speak her mind clearly,
or, more probably, not fully conscious what her own
feelings were, " she writes as if  as if you would not
like it, or she were forcing something upon you. Is
it only that she thinks you will be afraid for us ? Or
that "

She did not finish her sentence, but he had little
difficulty in concluding it for her.

That I am selfishly grieved at what I ought to
have endeavoured to make, as I hope I am thankful
that it has been made, possible ? Of course it pains
me to part with you. Equally of course I should
have wished it under any circumstances for your
sakes ; and in our present perils it is not merely a
duty but a relief."

'* But if you don't like it," she asked, speaking low
and with downcast eyes, " why should you do* it *?
You are master ; and only English people could
expect you to give up what cost you so much, if you
cared to keep it. Remember what I have always
said ; we whose fathers made the law could have
no right to complain, however strictly the law were
enforced against us. And," she added earnestly, ina
firmer, clearer tone, " setting the law aside, you
have earned by your kindness a right which even
you need not scruple to exercise."

And which," he answered, " I should cancel,
should convert into a cruel wrong, if I were to doubt
for a moment. Here, Florence, it has always seemed
perhaps I have always chosen to think it  doubtful
whether I could do better for you than I have done.
In England there is no question whatever. The very

best thing that could be placed within my reach for
you is exactly what Amy offers. I ought not perhaps
to let you know how much selfish regret I feel at
what must be altogether pleasant to you."

*' Pleasant ! " she exclaimed, almost bitterly. " Do
you think so ill of us ? Do you think us so utterly
ungrateful ? "

'* I have lived these last four years in your kindness,
Florence. Don't talk of gratitude ; my service
to you cost me little, and I owe my life to your care,
but don't let us reckon what each has done or given.
I don't think you have been so unhappy in my care
that you will not feel sorry for a while to leave your
home, or even to put four thousand miles between us.
But I have seen for a long time that, whatever might
be the case with your sisters, you would never be at
ease or happy in the South. In England you will
easily forget what there, as Amy says, would tell
rather in your favour."

'' And you," said Florence, *' we should leave you 
no  no, surely not till you are well ? How could I
tell your sister that you were left alone as you are
now?"

"Not quite alone; though no other care can be
what yours has been. But don't let us discuss the
matter now ; I shall see my way presently. Only you
will have to start very soon and very suddenly. Now,
will you give me my writing materials, and send
Afzul here while you tell your sisters of their good
fortune."

She rose, but lingered for some moments beside him
after she had given him the pencil and the spring-clasped

board that held the paper, enabling him to
write in his recumbent posture. He looked up at last,
and saw in her eyes the tears he could hardly keep
back from his own.

*' Thank you," he said, pressing her hand to his
lips, " I understand. Go now, dear Florence ; this
tries me more than I can bear."

It was perhaps rather for selfish reasons than from
mere consideration for her, that from all the discussions
necessary before the journey could be finally
arranged Florence was studiously excluded ; that she
heard nothing till the arrangements, so far as they
were independent of her own and her sisters' simple
preparations, were complete. General Aspeden was
anxious that his wife and daughters should no longer
be exposed to the dangers which, though now a prisoner,
he saw gathering daily closer around tiieni.
The young orphan rescued from the ashes of her"
home was committed to their care ; it being easy for
Colonel d'Ultramar, the main part of whose fortune
consisted of his English estates, to provide for her
without, at any rate for the present, communicating to
her the arrangements for that purpose made with
Mrs. Aspeden. The four sisters were to accompany
the latter ; and she tO whose maternal kindness they
were committed promised in no case to part with them,
till she should herself deliver them into the care of
Lord or Lady Penrith, or at least of some one deputed
by them to receive their guests on landing in England.
Nor even when all was arranged, could Lionel makeup
his mind personally to announce the fact to the
precious charge he resigned with such painful loyalty.

This task he left to Eugenie, whose frank outbursts
of grief and affection were easier to bear than her
sister's quieter and deeper emotion. A small escort
drawn from his own regiment, quartered at no great
distance, was to protect the party till on board
the river steamer, which would land them safely
on the eastern bank at a point still firmly held by
the Confederates. Those detailed for this duty were
quartered in and about the house and outbuildings on
the last night ; and their officers, with two or three
gentlemen privates, joined the party in the drawing-room.
The talk was for the most part broken, subdued
in spirit, and carried on in a somewhat low tone.
Some remarks on the state of English sympathies
gave Florence an opportunity of addressing a question
to Mr. Delarue ; who, like thousands of other men of
sears equally grave and profession equally pacific,
had taken arms in this desperate peril of his country,
and commanded a troop or company of the Lancers.

Do you not think that Mr. Carlyle's definition of
slaves as ' servants hired for life ' is a sound argument
in our favour ? "

Yes," replied the lawyer, entering somewhat more
eagerly than might have been expected into the vindication
thus suggested. " They say we pay our slaves
no wages. We feed them and clothe them for fifteen
or sixteen years before they are of any use, for many
years in age during which they are a burden ; and as
they cost us more in proportion to their work than
free labourers would, we can hardly be accused of
wronging them in that way."

*' And," said Florence, "are not English labourers

and servants liable to starve when they can work no
longer ? "

She did not seem to take profound interest in the
somewhat long and declamatory answer which contrasted
the old age of a slave with that of an English
pauper ; but said when he concluded 

*' Then a master has no right, no power to part
with his slaves except by sale ? He cannot cast them
off by law, any more than in fact, because they are
useless or he is tired of them ? "

** Certainly not ; I should have thought you knew
that as well as I."

I knew it was never done ; but I was not sure
whether the slave had any legal right."

*' But you know. Miss Dupont, that a master cannot
even emancipate his slaves without making provision
for them."

"And has he," asked Florence, " a right to emancipate
them against their own will ? "

*'I don't quite see," rejoined the lawyer, pondering
this curious problem, with no idea that it could have
any other than a purely technical interest, *' how a
slave could have a legal will till he was emancipated ;
but I should say, no."

Mrs. Aspeden, who took on herself such of the
duties of hostess as she could perform without appearing
to usurp the place that Florence was only too
willing to abandon, now suggested, first to her daughters
and afterwards to others, a resort to music, as the best
means of relieving the sadness that made conversation
all but impossible to many of the intending
exiles. Sweet as her voice was, Florence was carefully

sheltered by the same considerate kindness
from a demand to which she was manifestly unequal.
One little piece in praise of the various State troops
that had at first composed the victorious Army of
Northern Virginia was sung by male and female voices
combined : 

As granite cliffs, spray-spattered,

The tempest-surges mock,

So, by the war-storm battered,

Stands firm our earth-fast rock :
As by the lion scattered

Huddles the horned flock,
Recoils the invader, shattered
By Alabama's shock.

Hark to the rifle's rattle.

The cannon's roaring mouth !
Arise, Lord God of Battle,
Defend, avenge the South !

Wave after wave they dash on

Virginia's stonewall line :

Firm, in old English fashion,

Stands Georgia's mountain-pine ;
The cannon-lightnings flash on,

The gleaming sabres shine,
Where Carolinian passion
And Creole fire combine.

Hark to the rifle's rattle.

The cannon's roaring mouth !
Arise, Lord God of Battle,
Defend, avenge the South !

Where on our front converging
Swept down the storm of shell,
There onward, onward surging,

The Tennessee fell.
Where longest, sharpest, quickest,

Pelted the hail of lead,
There rank on rank the thickest
Lie Mississippi's dead.

Hark to the rifle's rattle.

The cannot's roaring mouth!
Arise, Lord God of Battle,
Defend, avenge the South !

Squares shivered, squadrons sundered,
The battle's corpse-piled marge,
Mark through the midst where thundered

The Texans' reckless charge.
Grey veterans growled and wondered,

And cursed the lore of years,
As on to victory blundered
Our beardless volunteers.

Hark to the rifle's rattle,

The cannon's roaring mouth !
Arise, Lord God of Battle,
Defend, avenge the South ! "

Afterwards Delarue called on some half-dozen of his
comrades to give in chorus a spirited, however rough,
bivouac song then in much favour. It was a species
of satiric parody, not more unfair than those which
Mr. Lowell has not shamed to reprint since the war,
put into the mouths of Federal soldiery alarmed, as
for a long time the army of the Potomac was ever
alarmed, by the reported approach of the most famous
of the Confederate leaders.

John Brown in earth is mouldering', his soul is marching' on ;
And we, our rifles shouldering', when all our foes are gone,
We fuller, lick 'em holler  What's that ? by George, a gun !
Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! dash that fifin' drumming' noise,
We're only three to one ! Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! runaway,
boys, run.

Run, boys, run ! Cut away like fun !

Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! run, boys, run !

** They say he's short of rations, so he's lookin' up Nat Banks : 
Bad luck for us ! Tarnation, keep silence in the ranks !
Loi'd help the Commissary ! *  Wasn't yon the Rebel yell ?
That's the shout to sheer us, boys ! hist ! the Rebs'll hear us, boys !
'Ain't the time to swell ! Stonewall Jackson's near us, boys j won't

he give us ?

Brun, boys, run ! there's another gun !

Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! run, boys, run !

Banks was so called from the quantity and value of the supplies
taken from him by the destitute Confederates,

** Skedaddle, boys, skedaddle ! There goes our braggart Pope, 
Whipped out o' coat and saddle, running' like Johnny Cope !
He can't ha' failed his promise  it's we've mistook the front 
Run and we'll receive him, boys ! run, we mustn't grieve him, boy ;
Pope must bear the brunt. 'Wasn't perlite to leave him, boys 
guess the Rebels won't.

Run, boys, run ! every mother's son !

Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! run, boys, run !

Hark ! closer comes the yelling'  run for your lives, boys, run!
Pelham our rear is shells' : there's Ashy, horse and gun.
John Pope can't seem to see it  unless he's eyes behind !
Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys : guess we'll pay for humming,*

boys !
Cut away like wind! Hark! the bullets cummin', boys; run,
boys, go it blind !

Run, boys, run ! fling off pack and gun !

Stonewall Jackson's coming', boys ! run, boys, run ! *'

The inspiriting strains, given with hearty sarcastic
emphasis, a Kettle enlivened the party, and only Mrs.
Aspeden noticed, when the chorus of laughter and
applause subsided, that Florence had disappeared.

Poor child ! " she thought. " No doubt where she
has gone. I don't wonder. But if she were not leaving
so soon I should fear : and yet no harm might
come. I don't think he shares our caste feeling ; and,
that forgotten, even he might well be proud and fond
of such a wife."

Her sisters' leave had been taken earlier in the
evening; though at parting Eugenie and Eva had
asked permission to see their guardian for one moment
before starting, promising not to wake him should hebe
then asleep.

That is not likely," he said. " I don't think I
shall sleep much to-night. Nay," as he noticed a

" Summers "  the straggling robbers and incendiaries that accompanied
the march of Sherman, Sheridan, etc.

sadder, more wistful expression than he had seen
before in Eya's sweet blue eyes, " I have left much of
my writing to the last, and I have two letters which
Florence must deliver. Don't let her come in the
morning, if you can help it, Eva, without hurting her ;

and " He paused for a moment, and then, when

the last embrace had been given in tearful silence, with
sisterly warmth and frankness, with as much of simple
affection as of well-earned gratitude, he singled out
and detained Eugenie for one minute.

I suppose you can be silent, dear ; and I can give
you a message which would hurt Eva too much. The

rest of you will forget more easily, if you hear what

Come, Eugenie ! you know you and I have both had
that probability in view for a year past, at least.
Thei  don't cry so, child, or I can't speak !  then
say another good-bye to Florence for me ; I shall
remember her, I know, at the last."

No one but Eva saw Florence that evening after the
parting interview ; nor would Lionel allow even Afzul,
who was to see the sisters actually embarked at Mobile
on board one of the most successful blockade-runners,
to remain with him. The devoted servant and trusty
soldier remained close, erect as a sentinel on duty,
outside the door during the whole night, listening for
the slightest sound that might summon or require his
presence. But many weeks afterwards, in England,
the traces of tears were perceptible on the letters
written during that night and the preceding day, when
opened by those to whom they were addressed ; on
those passages especially which commended the young
Creoles, and Florence above all, to the protecting

care of Amy, the friendship and sympathy of Alice
Kavanagh.

Lionel to Lord Penrith.

. I have told Miss Kavanagh that she must be
bound by no engagement. I mean it. Pray take care
that no shadow of obligation rests on her  above all
that nothing is known to others. While the war lasts
it would be a sin, a cruelty to claim her; and you
need not be told how wrong it would be to bind her to
await its end. But there is more ; much that I could
not write to her, and you must do her justice. Therefore
I must put plainly before you what neither she
nor Amy should be told. This is no case of the
ordinary hazards of war. The Southerners grow
desperate as the North grows stubborn. We shall
fight, not while there is hope, but while the South has
strength to stand. We shall be killed down, not
beaten. I don't think half of us will survive defeat ;
and the very few whose judgment I trust  keep this
strictly secret  since Vicksburg has fallen, evidently
expect defeat. If the North, wasting the waste manhood
of Europe without scruple, choose to persist
while giving two lives for one, they must wear us out.
And this is not all. Our officers, from Lee and the
Johnston down to the youngest lieutenant, are recklessly
prodigal of their lives ; and in this lies, I think,
the secret of that superior quality but for which our
troops must ere this have been simply crushed by
numbers. In our last battle my own regiment was
almost annihilated. But before that our loss had
been terrible. My men, seasoned desperadoes or high-spirited

youths of family, needed less leading if more
control than almost any, the Virginians perhaps
excepted. Yet  we mustered eight hundred lances
and thirty officers when we first took the field. A
month ago there were seven hundred and sixty men
with the colours  of whom three hundred and twenty
were recruits. Of the officers, nine only had held
commissions at Manassas, and of these four had been
so wounded that I never expected to see them again.
Of the twenty-one missing, two are prisoners, three
crippled for life, the rest . . . You will see that the
position of Confederate officers is that of enfants
perdus, and you will understand what is due to your
niece. I ought not perhaps to avail myself of this
opportunity to interest her in my fate ; but not to
avow my love when I learnt at last that I might hope
for her pardon  that was a height of sacrifice I Could
not reach. ."

These last words brought a half-smile to Lord Penrith's
countenance, which had been very grave and
sad when he read the earlier part of the letter. " I
begin to understand Amy's feeling about him," he
said to himself. "Is it that he can't or won't see that
he is quite as much to Alice as she to him ; that all
sacrifices ' cost her at least as much ? Or am I not
to guess how much more than pardon she implied, if
she did not write it ?  or both ? Well  if women were
all that he fancies them, or the best of us approached
to Amy's ideal me, romance would not be folly, nor
marriage disenchantment."

Chapter XI.

A Fever-DREAM.

*then with both her hands enfolding both of his she softly told him,
Bertram, if I say I love thee, 'tis the Vision only speaks.' "

Late the next evening Lionel lay in a restless, painful
slumber, enforced by an opiate administered
by the surgeon ; who had learned from Afzul at
the last moment that his patient had not slept
during the preceding night, and that after the
very brief parting interview with his three younger
wards in the morning he had been, as the loyal
delicacy of the Arab phrased it, " very ill." What he
ascribed to mental rather than physical suffering,
what he knew his master would never willingly have
betrayed, nothing could induce him to reveal. The
lamp was turned very low, but any one who could
have looked on the patient's face might have seen
that the slumber was unnatural, and visited though
not broken by a sort of strange restless movement,
more than is common under the influence of the most
vivid dreams. Even his occasional murmuring were
unusually intelligible, had there been any one to hear
them. It was the sleep or trance of one on the verge
of delirium ; a sleep haunted with the consciousness

of place and time, and of many of those recent
incidents which had most impressed the waking
mind.

'hardly like Florence," he murmured, "and yet I
thought "

He woke with a violent start  that kind of sudden
terrified start with which sick men wake from such a
slumber, when the force of the opiate is not exhausted
but broken by loud sound or rough touch; and yet
there was neither sound nor touch nor movement to
arouse him. Probably the quick, instinctive sense
of the soldier who had lived for so many months in
incessant peril  sleeping often almost within the
enemy's lines, and where at any rate his own life
and that of all around him depended on the extremest
vigilance of their sentries, and their own readiness to
start to lance and saddle at a moment's warning 
suggested an unexpected and therefore alarming
presence. Almost involuntarily his hand sought the
place where in the camp his sword would have lain,
and failing to find it groped around, scarcely aided by
the eye, till it met and grasped a light switch that
happened to rest against the head of the couch. Then
he turned and looked in the direction where the light
of the lamp, placed within reach of his hand, would
fall on the chair usually occupied by nurse or watcher.
He started violently as fancy or fact presented to his
eyes what seemed a feminine figure, too young and
slight for the only lady left in the house, who had
occupied that seat when he fell asleep; too delicate,
refined, and elegant in form, dress, and carriage for
housekeeper or servant. In another moment, even by

the dim light, it assumed a familiar character ; each
detail realized more and more distinctly by actual sight
or intensely impressed imagination. There was the
white dress, low and sleeveless when fashioned years
ago for a young girl's appearance at her first ball ;
now adapted to ordinary evening wear, since he had
admired it, by the addition of a black scarf that hid
the neck and shoulders, and by such other alterations
as feminine taste and skill can always furnish at
need. He seemed to recognize the black sash, the
black and white ribbons and lace in the hair that
prolonged the orphan's mourning ; the peculiar drooping
attitude, so well remembered whenever a hinted
or fancied reproof or self-reproach oppressed a too
sensitive spirit  an attitude so sad and yet so graceful
; the slight figure, the long slender limbs that gave
all the elegance of stature to one actually below the
average height of woman ; the exquisite shape of the
small head, that ever seemed almost overloaded with
its luxuriance of dark curling tresses ; the tiny half-hidden
ears, the perfect curves of the form, the fine
rather small features, the large dark eyes ; the lips in
whose riper, fuller beauty alone there was a scarcely
visible trace of another parentage than that which
had bestowed the signal delicacy of every other detail
of that long familiar loveliness. Could fancy so
mould any other living form ? Was it that melancholy
or brooding, mental or physical fever, had called out
of nothing an actual illusion of the sense ? He
closed his eyes as long as he could bear to do so, and
looked again. The apparition was no less distinct
than at first. Could opium produce so marvellous a

waking dream ? Or was reason giving way under the
effects of pain, exhaustion, overstrained nerves, restless
nights and anxious days ? If the fever of wounds
or malaria had so gained on him, him whose imagination
had never before under any circumstances so
deceived him  surely neither mind nor life could long
endure. Too well informed for the superstitions
equally incident to ignorant religion or ill-grounded
unbelief, his first terror was almost unnaturally logical ;
logical perhaps with that strange lucidity which sometimes
accompanies the nerve-quelling effects of opium.
"Am I going mad? Am I delirious?" he muttered.
Then :  " If you are a real woman, speak
at once and say who you are, for I am bewildered by
some strange illusion. Silent still," he thought,
*rand still there. Then it is an apparition. They
are all gone, I know; I did not dream that.* I
remember everything too well. Their frank sorrow
and sisterly affection, her tears, her wistful looks and
words meaning something she would not say, I could
not understand  I remember all that clearly. What
can this be ? Yes, and it moves too, slightly ; it
seems to breathe. Good Heaven ! I can bear it no
more ! " He struggled in vain against the mere
nervous terror that was gradually overpowering alike
his reason and his courage ; both shaken by long
suffering and the near approach of delirium. " Take
care," he cried at last, sharply. " If you be real, if
you be a woman, go, send Afzul here " (forgetting the
man's absence). *' I tell you it is not safe ; my mind
is going, and I cannot trust myself. Speak, or go, in
God's name ! . It is her figure, her face," he

VOL. in. M

murmured, half aloud. " Can harm have come to
her ? Nonsense !  and yet  Florence ! "

It was a cry more of horror than even of amazement.
The long persistence of such an apparition
might have driven to frenzy a man in health and
vigour, equally convinced that its reality was impossible.
He half sprang up, turning the lamp to its full
brightness, and was the only more appalled when
the Vision rose and approached; but so slowly, so
noiselessly that to his excited senses it seemed to glide
not walk, and to glide without sound of footfall or
rustling of robes. Half in the anger of extreme terror,
half in the mere physical instinct of self-defence  so
deeply rooted in manhood that man's first impulse is
to strike at danger, however aware of his impotence,
whether against a lion or a spectre  he lifted the
switch and struck the figure sharply across the
shoulders. With more horror and consternation than
if the blow had passed through unresisting air, he felt
it meet the resistance of a material form ; heard a
faint, half-suppressed scream of pain, a cry unquestionably
human and feminine. The nervous force
that had for a moment strung his wasted frame at
once deserted him, and he fell back powerless.

Forgive me," he gasped. '' How could I ? . . .
But I thought you an illusion. I warned you ; I bade
you go. Why would you not speak ? And who, what
are you ? "

The movement, arrested for an instant, continued ;
the figure still approached, but with arms extended
and head bent as in supplication, or deprecating anger
or surprise. Still incredulous and bewildered, he saw

it kneel close beside him, saw the hands outstretched
to reach his own. The clasp laid upon these was
warm and soft; the clasp of living flesh and blood.
The crimson cheeks, the parted lips with their half-smile,
the dark pleading eyes, the tears that moistened
their fringe, enforced their reality on his sense before
the low, eager, faltering tones reached his ear.

Forgive me, forgive me, Monseigneur ! I could
not leave you, and leave you so ill, helpless, alone.
Could you expect it of me ? Could you think so
meanly of me, you who would not have forsaken us in
pain or peril, if it had cost your life ? "

Florence ! Florence ! My God ! what have you
done?"

She understood the tone, the feeling, if she did not
realize the meaning of that cry. It was grief, fear for
her, and for her alone. If there mingled in it the
slightest note of displeasure, it was for her own sake
that he was vexed with her.

"You meant kindness, and I have disappointed
you. But could you really think it was kind to me ;
could you not feel it must break my heart to be
driven from you, and when you needed me ? What
must you think me, if anything that could be offered
me elsewhere could make me desert you ? And you
told me I must be glad ! How could you ? That was
harder, more cruel than when you believed that letter ;
and you had no cause now. If I could have gone, it
would have been because I must be so hateful a
burden to you, if you held me so selfish, so thankless.
But you would not let me feel so. You made me
know how sorry you were."

Overpowered, in his utter weakness of mind and
body, by the vehemence and passion of her outbreak,
he interrupted her here.

God forgive me ! I ought never to have let you
know that."

"What! would you have made all the past, all
your kindness, all your tenderness for me even more
than the rest, a memory of pain and shame ? Would
you have had me believe it a weary unwelcome task,,
with no touch of feeling in it but pity ? But all that
is done ; I am here, and I will not go. You cannot
deny my right, now you have exercised yours. See""
flinging aside the scarf and revealing her soft rounded
shoulders, the red bar of the whip-stroke cruelly
distinct on the delicate white skin, " you have written
your title there."

She was sorry for this half-earnest appeal, as she
felt in his look and tone much more than the natural
pity and self-reproach of manhood for physical injury
done, however unwittingly, to one so fair and fragile.
The very sight of the crimson mark left by his own
hand inspired all the horror and shame with which
a gentleman trained in European conventions  much
more one with whom profound reverence for the code
of chivalric honour and courtesy was at once an
hereditary instinct and a personal passion  regarded
as the lowest depth of disgrace, the fact of striking a
woman.

'what can I say, what can I do, when you
reproach me with that ? You know I could not, had
I thought you a woman at ah. You know I struck in
the impulse of horror at what I took for an illusion of
my own fevered brain. You know "

4C

I know, Monseigneur, you would not have hurt
even the vision of Florence, if you had thought it
could be hurt ! But I am glad you did it ; it was my
fault. If you had fired instead of striking, no one
but I would have been to blame. I did not expect the
blow ; but if it had occurred to me, I would still have
let you do it."

'' What do you mean, except to reproach me ? Are
you falling back into those old superstitious fancies,
fears I thought  you promised me  we had done
with ? "

No, no ; but you seem  you may call it superstition
again, perhaps it is ; but, not meaning it, you
have accepted what I meant, what made my right to
come back. Because you never would remember it,
because it has only made you more considerate, more
generous, made you treat me more like a princess
than the friend and ward you called me  do you think
I have forgotten ? Was it not too hard, was it possible
? If it were only for all we owe you, and I above
all, how could I leave you when you needed my care
do not think it presumptuous  almost as much as
we needed the care you have given us so long ? But
I suppose it was your right to decide  it would have
been your ward's duty to obey, though I don't know
how I could. But  is my duty to you less clear, less
binding, do I owe you less the loyalty, the care, if
need be the self-sacrifice  because you never would
acknowledge, would have tried to prevent my remembering,
what your claim and my duty really were ? No !
you have not the right to cast off  your slave. She
has a right to do all she can for you, who have made

slavery better, safer, happier for her, for us all, than
freedom could well have been. Indeed, indeed I will
be no burden, no charge to you now ! I want, I could
accept no more the delicate considerate kindness that
would not allow me to be what law, and a right we at
least could not dispute, had made me. You will let
me nurse you, care for you, watch over you till you
are well  till you can, if you must, go back, take your
part once more in this dreadful war ; and then you
need not, you shall not trouble yourself further forme
than for the rest of those who belong to you no
more and no less than I."

Florence had not observed, while she poured forth
her passionate pleading, its effect upon the invalid.
Looking earnestly into his eyes for the condemnation
she feared, the pardon rather than approval she
scarcely ventured to hope, she thought of, observed
only their expression ; and did not see even there the
evidences of exhaustion both of mind and body, of
fading coherence of thought, of the returning effect
of the opiate, the overpowering influence of fever,
which at another moment she would have been the
first to observe, and whose significance she would not
have underrated. He himself was conscious how
little self-possession, how little control of his own
thought or feeling was left to him ; but he struggled
earnestly to preserve command of mind, words and!
manner long enough to soothe her agitation, to
relieve her anxiety ; to protect the self-respect which,
as yet hardly startled into consciousness by her own
act, might be fatally, cruelly, irreparably wounded by
any error, especially by any want either of tenderness
or of accustomed respect, on his part.

"Do you think," he said, speaking with an effort
physical and mental of which she was wholly unaware,
but which made her conscious of something strange
and changed in his tone, " do you think I can mistake
your motive or be ungrateful for your self-sacrifice ?
I wish you had not done it, Florence. You cannot
see, I hope you never will see, what a mistake you
have made. But can you so wrong me as to think
that I honour or respect you less because you could
not, would not leave in sickness and helplessness one
who has at least tried, wished to be a true and loyal
friend to you ? For my sake, if not for your own, drop
now from your thoughts as well as from your speech
the word, the idea I have tried, and almost hoped I
had been able, to make you forget. Of course you
are more sacred, more precious to me than ever,
because you have forgotten yourself in your care forme
; and "  he hesitated, partly in confusion of mind,
partly with a dim consciousness that the promise he
was about to make might not be easy of fulfilment,
might depend on the will of others who would too
probably judge Florence's impetuous self-devotion less
gently and less justly than himself  " it shall not be
my fault if you have cause to repent ; if you have
sacrificed more than immediate release and security
from the dangers that hang about you here."

No, no, Monseigneur ! " Florence rejoined, endeavouring
to give to the title something of the formal
meaning it had wholly lost on her lips and her sisters',
for whom it had been, in so far as their respective
age, position, and relations would admit, something
more like a sisterly pet-name. *' After disappointing

your kindness, disobeying your wishes, I cannot let
you feel, let others say  I cannot be made to feel
myself  that I have forced myself back into a position
to which I had no right ; that I have burdened you
with the continuance of the care you have shown me
hitherto, whether you will or no. Say or show  yes,
if you show it only by str  by touching me as you
did just now  that you accept my return as an act of

loyal service and duty, not " Her voice failed

her, but the earnest entreaty in her eyes, the tremulous
clasp of her hands, avouched the sincerity of her
strange pleading, and spoke perhaps more than words
could have done. It was with no common effort that
for a moment he regained sufficient clearness of perception
and memory to think, what answer might best
serve the one purpose his mind could now retain ; the
generous anxiety to spare a young girl's feelings, to
save feminine pride from humiliation which, if not
felt at the time, might be cruelly painful when recollection
and reflection returned ;  to be all that was
gentle, kind, affectionate to Florence, grateful for
her affection even more than for the service it had
prompted, and yet to retain unstained, unbroken, the
loyalty to another which, in essence at least, he felt
even then no temptation to violate.

I accept what you have done, dear child, in the
spirit in which I know you have done it ;  as a
friend's, a sister's kindness for one who has tried to
treat you as a sister, but who certainly has owed at
least as much to you as you can fancy you owe to
him."

There was still a painful expression of doubt.

timidity, expostulation, almost of shame, in the look
that strove to read yet dared not meet his own. It
might be a foolish  woman's harsh judgment, woman's
jealousy could hardly have considered it an evil or
sinful  impulse; Alice Kavanagh, had she known
all, would never have thought it a disloyal one  that
prompted him, instead of the stroke Florence had
invited, to lay his feeble hand on the shoulders where
the cruel bruise was still plainly visible to his failing
sight, and, drawing her towards him, to touch with
fevered lips her crimson cheek. The action pacified
and did not startle or alarm her. Instinctively she
felt that it spoke no warmer, no less pure or less
reverent affection  perhaps something even less of
tenderness, if not less of regardful desire to evince
it  than his every word, look, and act had displayed
during the long period of intimate daily intercourse
when such a caress would have seemed simply
impermissible to him and would have surprised,
perhaps alarmed, perhaps offended her. When he
released her, she still remained for some minutes
kneeling beside the couch ; her fear at least of his
displeasure or disapproval, if not the doubt of herself
that as yet she refused to recognize, soothed by the looks
of gratitude and confidence that he continued to turn
upon her after speech had become too great an effort ;
still more perhaps soothed and comforted by the expression
of rest, the half-conscious sense of satisfaction
and security, she thought to read in his countenance
when, overpowered by exhaustion and sleep, he could
no longer even by looks respond to her kindness as
it deserved ; till at last she saw that he had sunk into

a slumber more quiet and composed than that from
which her presence had startled him. She did not
note as anxiously as she would have done, at anytime
when her own feelings did not divert her attention
from one for whom she cared infinitely more
than for herself, the symptoms of increased and
probably dangerous fever which, even in that sleep,
might have been perceptible to a less experienced and
ordinarily less vigilant nurse.

CHAPTEK XII.

TROTH-PLIGHT.

I could not love thee, dear, so well
Loved I not honour more."

Lord Penrith himself had met the party who landed
at Southampton from the West Indian packet, to
which the blockade-runner had safely transferred
them. His return to London with her new charges
was anxiously awaited by Amy ; not less, perhaps
more so by Alice Kavanagh, now her only companion,
for Helen had been a year married, and was
now with her husband, the representative of England
at a minor German Court. Lady Penrith had not
chosen to show to Alice the mysterious telegraphic
message which had preceded the party by a couple of
hours, and which she had fortunately received when
alone.

There is news you will not like. Not danger to
your brother: don't show surprise or ask many
questions till we are alone."

Utterly unwilling to distrust her brother, but realizing,
as her letter showed, the possible difficulties of his
position  better aware than many sisters of the attraction
his personal beauty, his manner, his military

fame, and, when better known, his character were
likely to exert over other women, especially while very
young  Amy had always felt a secret misgiving that
some awkward inexplicable incident might yet occur
to thwart her favourite hope of his union with the
only woman she thought fully worthy of him; the
only one she held capable of so thoroughly enthralling
his heart as to keep it proof for the future against
those charms which had ever cost the men of his
house so dear, and had cost him once already more
than he would willingly have paid for anything that
any woman but one could give. She guessed the
meaning of her husband's message at the first moment
when, reaching with Alice the foot of the staircase
as he led her guests into the hall, she saw but three,
and knew intuitively and at once which was missing.
Restraining, even beyond the rule imposed by
Lord Penrith's message, her natural surprise and
curiosity, she had led them to the rooms prepared for
them  had seen her maid busied in attendance on
Eugenie and Rose, and was about to lead Eva into
the next chamber, intended for her and Florence, without
asking a single question regarding the latter 
when Eugenie shyly but earnestly interposed.

Lady Penrith," she said, "Florence gave me the
letters that Monseigneur  Colonel d'Ultramar  had
put in her charge. I did not know then what she
meant, what she was going to do. But this was for
you ; that for Lord Penrith I have given him already,
and this  I know Colonel d'Ultramar told her to give
it into Miss Kavanagh's own hand. Will you let me
-do so ? "

f>

Amy glanced from one to the other of the sisters, and
saw at once in Eva's frightened manner, her drooping
head and averted face, how painful and awkward
any questioning there would he ; while Eugenie's
frank fearless look indicated a courage and decision
which, despite embarrassment, could be relied on fora
brief straightforward simple explanation, that would
not miss the points on which alone explanation was
really required ; while there was the tact to spare
both the absent and the present excuses or details
that could only be distressing. She hesitated for a
moment ; but took her part at once when she saw
through the half-open door that Alice already awaited
Eva in the room next her own, which had been assigned
at her request to the two elder sisters.

*' Yes, you shall give it her at once," she answered,,
leading her young guest forward. " Alice, Eugenie hasa
letter for you. I suspect it will not explain what
we don't understand, but I will see you again in ten
minutes."

As she spoke, Alice had taken, and, with an eagerness
that all her self-command could not repress, had
opened the letter. Its mere existence contradicted
the terrible anticipation she had half formed from the
fact of Florence's absence. Lionel could not have
written to reject, would not have entrusted in so
formal a manner to a stranger anything it could
grieve or wound her to receive. The very first words
were decisive, and all her alarms were forgotten ina
feeling which, but for her own extreme anxiety and
trouble, Amy would have been quicker to read.

Don't distress yourself till then with doubts that
after all "

"Doubts!" Alice answered, in a low tone, but
looking frankly and somewhat indignantly in her face,
with a gaze that surprised and for the moment satisfied
Amy  at least so far as concerned the character
of her brother's reply. That look came, no doubt,
from the heart; and yet in the hand laid on that
heart with an almost convulsive pressure, the sort of
gasp that followed the word. Amy felt the presence of
bitter pain, and probably of an anxiety to which her
own was nowise to be compared. Leaving Eva alone
with one to whom she felt for the present even that
timid, shrinking, embarrassed guest might be safely
trusted, one who would never show to Florence's sister
either a curiosity or a suspicion she would not own to
herself, she turned back and closed the door ; leaving
Alice to repress with no common effort her eager longing
to read all that had been written to her, to know
all that had happened, till she had done the utmost
that kindness as well as courtesy could suggest to set
Eva at her ease. No hour in her life seemed half so
long as the five minutes that elapsed before she could
again turn to the letter she held in her trembling hand.

Lionel to Alice.

"Alice, my Alice ! I no more hoped than I deserved
that Heaven would ever be so good to me ; that I
should ever be allowed to call you mine indeed. And
even now a great fear overshadows the intense joy
and gratitude I feel. When I lost all, and felt only
that I had lost you, and that no other loss was worth
a regret in presence of that one  when passionate
impatience to be as far as possible from the faces I

would never see again, and the country which had cast
me out, drove me hither, just in time to save the girls
of whom I will only say that they are worthy to be
your friends  I thought that in making me the instrument
of their rescue Providence had forgiven me,
and I thanked Him for all. But now that the price
is returned me  is it strange that I am afraid ?

There is much in your letter that it gave me pain
to read ; nothing that is not true to the nature whichever
seemed to me the ideal of perfect womanhood.
In answer to your self-reproach I will only say  I
deserved your condemnation infinitely better than I
can ever hope to deserve your pardon ; and if I
thought that, had you known all I could not and
cannot tell, you might have judged me less severely,
I accepted your sentence as the only one that was
possible to you. And, but for the evident fear that
must have made the effort so painful, it would never
have occurred to me that woman or man could think
your forgiveness open to misconstruction. For myself,
I have ever thought of maiden love, alike in its
usual conventional reserve and its rare impulses of
sacred frankness, in the words of the chivalrous legend
which heraldic irony has assigned to the least chivalrous
of nations : ' Hon soit qui mal y pense.* I wish I
could ever hope to be worthy of the generosity that I
once requited so ungenerously, and that can nevertheless
resolve to give me another chance of happiness, a
second opportunity of hope ; but at least I am not so
utterly lost as to wrong or misconceive it. If you
could understand, Alice, what it is to have lost four
years with you, out of a life so brief and a still briefer

youth, you would think me sufficiently punished by
that irreparable, unforgotten loss for all in which I
have really wronged, and all in which I must submit to
seem to have wronged you. But in the present and
the future, your forgiveness  let me write frankly,
your love, my own Alice  has changed all for me ;
the world and my heart, life and death. Ten days
ago, I was content to live, I dared not wish for death,
because I feared for the helpless ones so strangely
entrusted to my care ;  now, life is more precious
than words can tell, since to live means to regain you ;
and yet the worst bitterness of death is taken away,
since I feel that I shall die regretted and forgiven.

'' I could in no case accept your offer to spare me
the pain of parting with those whom I can loyally and
trustfully commend to your kindness in England. To
no other woman could man write what I write fearlessly
to you  love them because I love them ; be kind to

them because they have been so long my chief care,
because it would make me restless and miserable to
doubt that they were safe and happy. Florence
especially I recommend to your friendship, because
she has been so sacred a charge to me ; because she
deserves it, and because she will have need of all your
indulgence, as well as of your support and encouragement.
Hers must have been originally a sensitive,
morbidly susceptible temperament ; and the horrors
of impending and the humiliation of actual slavery
have tortured it into a condition that needs such
watchful care and tenderness as you can give. I
cannot come near enough to help or understand her ;
you can persuade her to be at ease with those wha

will receive her from the first as a friend and equal 
you will restore her to what she was when I first met
her in India. The parting is painful, Alice, but I
think I shall have most of the pain to myself ; and
once again in the field, it will be an inexpressible
relief to feel that I can be spared : ' strongest when
we stand alone ! '

*' Florence, who shall give this into your own hand,
will tell you that though in little danger, I am feverish
from pain and sleeplessness  I am disabled, unfortunately,
for the second time. This must plead my
excuse if, in writing the small part of all I feel that I
dare utter, my answer to a letter like yours be more
passionate or less coherent than befits the reverence
of the love I have ever borne you. Yes  did you not
see, feel it, when I dared not own it ?  almost from
the hour of our first terrible meeting. I fear that it
makes the conduct I cannot explain yet more utterly
inexcusable ; but, Alice, you will not withdraw your
forgiveness because there has been no moment of these
five years when you were not infinitely dearer to me
than all the world besides  none when I would not
have given everything but honour for a word or a
smile from you, when I did not look up to you with
a devotion that was rather worship than love. Did
you never ask yourself what I must feel for her who
took so calmly from my hand the terrible security of
death at will ; what a soldier thought of her whom he
could trust confidently to that one safeguard ? When
my sword-arm fell useless to my side as the enemy
swept over the summit of the breach at Kulwar, I
had one moment to feel that life was over and that

 VOL. III. N

all was lost. In that moment the worst pang of defeat
was that it cost your life, the bitterest memory of the
past your unspoken displeasure ; your pardoning expression
of a hope that we might meet again, the one
thought of a possible future. I can explain nothing,
Alice. I can neither accept the exculpation which
reflects on one who atoned too fearfully for errors that
were hardly conscious, nor the excuse by which you
take blame to yourself.

"Language could not tell what I renounce, in saying
that we cannot meet till the war is over. You could
not conceive  I dare not use the words that after all
would fail to convey  what it would be to call you
indeed my own, my bride ; to enjoy the fruition of
your promise though but for a week  for a single day.
If I must lose that  and as I write I know that I am
probably losing it for ever  there is nothing in the
treasure-house of Heaven that can compensate me.
My darling ! my own ! if a lost soul suffers, in turning
from the gates of Eternal Happiness, half what I suffer
in refusing the present glimpse of Heaven on earth
you offer me, the imagery of our preachers is feeble
indeed beside the truth ! If my love for you were
less  or if it were possible to love you as you are, and
not to honour even more than love  I could not but
bid you come to me, or come to you  to Europe 
myself. For one month's possession of you, I could
and must renounce all  forsake my comrades, fail my
country, desert my flag  but that I could not live to
read my dishonour in your clear truthful eyes ; I could
not offer you a tainted name. Nor can you come
here. Terrible as the temptation is, I dare not yield

to my passionate craving to see you again  to the
longing that exceeds a thousandfold the hunger of
starving sailors, the dreadful thirst of wounded soldiers
on our parched, burning battle-fields. Easier immeasurably
to refuse water, as Sidney did, in that
almost insane agony ;  I have known it. But I have
no choice. It would be the consummation of selfishness
to sacrifice your whole life to the desire of a few
days or weeks with you  that is all it could be ; and
yet that little ' all ' is worth all else that Time or
Eternity can have to offer ! Since the fall of New
Orleans, this unhappy State is no place for women.
Were there no other reason, I should eagerly have
embraced Amy's offer, which takes from my heart a
load almost as heavy as it bore at Kulwar. How coidd
I bring you where I dare not let these remain ?

Alice, you must not feel yourself, you are not
bound. But, darling, you will understand that on
this subject I cannot bear to write  to you. Lord
Penrith or Amy must do you justice  must urge what
I cannot endure to remember.

"And now, I can only say that, till I return to
duty, your letter will never leave me for a moment ;
that when I leave home again it shall be destroyed.
It is very, very hard to promise this ; but you would
be hurt to think that other eyes might see it ; and,
whether left here or carried with me, an enemy may''
tomorrow be my heir. I must, I dare write no more,
lest the fever which overmasters me should speak forme,
and say  not more than I feel, but more than you
could bear to read. You will not, you cannot doubt
my love. Farewell : may we meet once again, at

least, were it only at the last, and in our dreams. My
Alice, my darling, my adored ! my good angel, my
love for whom has been my safeguard from worse sins
than even you could pardon  farewell !  my own !
write if and when you can  they can tell you how 
once more, dear Alice, farewell. For ever, as ever,
yours  Ultramarine

soon as Eugenie was disembarrassed of her
wrappings. Lady Penrith turned to Eose.

Crosthwaite shall stay with you, dear child, till
your sister comes back," she said, smoothing the child's
fair curls and kissing her tenderly. " You will spare
her to me for a little while, and not be frightened ?
Eugenie, will you mind coming with me to my own
room ? we can talk there more easily than here."

'lady Penrith," said Eugenie, as soon as they

were alone, " I have been thinking "Will you

read your letter first ? Colonel d'Ultramar wrote it,
I think, after his last parting with Florence. You
will see what he meant, and then I will tell you what
has happened."

Lionel to Amy,

Minnaroo, August 4tli, 1863.

** Words of gratitude, my darling sister, are hardly
natural between us ; and no words could convey my
sense of obligation to Lord Penrith. Endeavour to
make him understand how deeply I feel his share in
your kindness. Ask him to complete it by carrying
out, as trustee for those I transfer to your joint care,
the money arrangements of which my solicitors will

advise him. I do not affect to part with those who
have been to me as sisters for the last four years without
pain, sharper and deeper than you can understand
till you know them. Some time hack, though not less
grateful to you, I might have wished, very selfishly,
not to have such cause for gratitude. Minnaroo has
been a home to me ; it was the only one I hoped for
till now ; and its breaking up cannot be pleasant.
But now that I have seen the blazing roofs, the
charred ruins of homes not more insecure, your offer
takes a weight of terror from my heart, as well as
what might have been remorse from my conscience.

Of course. Amy, I trust you. I know you will not
leave your work, like mine, half done. Having given
these orphan exiles a home, I know how happy you
will make it. I cannot write at length, but I must
give you the outline of your charge. Florence  to
whose unremitting devotion and care I owe my life 
I have commended to the only friendship I could compare
with yours. She deserves both  can I say more ?
And yet I can understand that she may sometimes
perplex and provoke both. Perhaps you will understand
what I mean best from a single fact :  of course
you must remain unconscious of it !  Florence never
forgets for a moment what the others never remembered
after the first week. Various inconveniences
remind her that she is still legally a slave. It is not
that;  but I am ashamed to write it  that she is mj/
slave. She is too just, too kindly, too extravagantly
grateful to bear malice on that account; but the
thought used to break out in fears and fancies wilder
than I can describe, and shows itself still. So, while

it is hard to lose her, I feel that she will only recover
her wounded self-respect when she is not merely free inlaw
and fact, but far away from the person to whom
she holds so intolerable a relation, however nominal
it be. Eva forgot it the first evening. She is a
charming, companionable, simple, lively maiden 
whom a sarcastic word from Lord Penrith or a look of
reproof from you would crush for ever into a timid

silent doll.

*' Eose, a mere child, is but a paler Eva. Eugenie,
the third sister, is a generous, high-minded, high-spirited
damsel  who can when she chooses be a spoilt
child, and chooses for half an hour in every three
months. She is Florence's opposite; and yet shows
now and then glimpses of Florence's most distressing
characteristic, a morbid tendency to exaggerated self-reproach
; only, if Florence had even one of Eugenie's
leccadillos to reproach herself with, she would think
no penance sufficient, no absolution satisfactory-amy,
how strange you women are ! One thing more.
If you wish to sleep without hideous dreams, never
ask, never hear, what these could tell you of the
scenes amid which I have lived of late. I am fevered
and tired ; it is past midnight, and they start at
five. I must write no more. But if we don't meet
again  and I shall hardly return to Europe  comfort
yourself, my darling, with the remembrance that,
among all the happy years I owe you, you never gave
me an unhappy hour ; and that your last kindness has
been the greatest I ever received or care to receive
from woman or man. So, good-bye.  L. d'U."

** Then," said Amy, when she had read the letter
and reversed one or two passages, *' Florence was
to have accompanied you when this was written ? "

Certainly ; but. Lady Penrith, you don't know, I
should not like to tell you, only I must you will see
that I must  how we left him. I don't wish to hurt
or frighten you  you will forgive me, will you not, for
speaking out ? because you cannot understand unless
I do."

I understand. In any case, dear, I should wish
to hear all."

Do you know, then, that Colonel d'Ultramar was
wounded in the Western fighting, and we nursed him
through a long illness and fever afterwards? "

*' I suppose  yes, that is what he refers to in this
letter. Well?"

*'He was not half recovered when the Federals
attacked New Orleans, but he would go. Then, you
know, there has been hard fighting, constant cruel
fighting, for a year past all along the line between the
country our people held and theirs. Colonel d'Ultra-
mar commanded a cavalry brigade. He was wounded
again in one of the most savage combats of that war,
when he caught them burning some plantations.
They say but you will not like to hear that."

*' What is it ? " Amy said, wholly misunderstanding
the meaning of the girl's pause.

** Our men were very angry, and Colonel d'Ultramar
was as angry as anybody. They say ours would give
no quarter, and the enemy were slaughtered almost to
a man. But though he was wounded there, he would
take no notice. We did not see him again till there

had been a regular battle, where they say he did what
cavalry very seldom have done  charged with his
whole brigade on the line of infantry fire, under the
very muzzles of twenty guns. Of course his brigade
was destroyed ; and though he succeeded, I think that
did him more harm than his own wounds. At any
rate they brought him to Minnaroo, and he seemed tome
worse then than before ; and when the letters from
England came, I watched day after day while he was
making arrangements to send us away. It was killing
him. I was sure he was more and more sick, more
than even Florence knew ; because he was always on
his guard and very quiet when she was there. When
she was gone it seemed as if he gave up, and in trying
to explain the plan to me I felt sure he did not always
know what he was saying. In truth. Lady Penrith,
he was not fit to be left, but he twould send us all.
Eva could tell you, I cannot, about the last night. I
know only how ill, how miserable Florence looked the
next morning. But when she gave me these letters 
we were then more than half-way to the river  I was
stupid, and never thought what she meant. We did
not find that she had gone back till it was too late.
You see, all had been arranged to catch that one
blockade-runner. We had but just time : it might
have been weeks, months before another chance could
have been found ; and Colonel d' Ultramar and Mrs.
Aspeden, and everybody, were determined that we 
her daughters and half a dozen other ladies were with
us  should be got away from Louisiana. We missed
Florence as we got on board the river steamer. At
first I thought she had hidden herself  she is very

shy, and she was very, very unhappy. But when we
could not find her, I remembered she had given me a
little note for Mrs. Aspeden, saying, * if anything
happens to me ' ; and it told that she had gone
back. Mrs. Aspeden waited as long as she dared,
and sent men back to look for her. You will be vexed,
I know ; but. Lady Penrith, if you ever see your
brother again, it will be because Florence went back."

*' He did not know, then ? "

Of course not ! " Eugenie answered, almost indignantly.
"No one but Florence dared have so
disobeyed him. You should know him, Lady Penrith,
better than I; but when Colonel d'Ultramar says
must,' there is no man under his orders, much less
a girl used to obey and look up to him, that would
dream of saying no  or doing it."

Amy smiled at the young girl's earnestness. Accustomed
herself to defer very implicitly to her brother's
will, it had been so seldom pressed against her, she
had seen so little of that hereditary " soul of steel"
whose temper was shown in conflict and in pain,
that Eugenie's words seemed to her somewhat
exaggerated.

"He must have been sterner to you than I like to
think?" she said, half playfully, half inquiringly.

Ta us ? No, Lady Penrith ! Once, for a minute,
he was angry  I could not tell you how wicked I had
been : and I never wished again to know what his
anger was like ; but afterwards he was so tender, so
careful  when no other man would ever have forgiven.
But, don't you know, women may be startled, they
are not much frightened, when men speak sharp and

loud in anger ? the men you dare not, cannot disobey
are those who always speak quietly and rather low,
and when they are thoroughly roused speak a little
lower and slower ; but they look straight in your eyes,
and make you feel  it is well you are a lady ! Stern ?
I can never tell you how kind, how gentle  what he
made home to us ; and least of all how he treated
her, as if she were something so unspeakably precious
and so easily hurt. . So she is ; and somehow she
was more afraid to vex him than any of us. I don't
know how Florence dared : and I dare say she ought
not to have done it ; but "  her voice took a pleading
piteous tone that would have been absolutely irresistible
to a colder heart than Amy's  'she always felt
as if she owed him for all of us, and he had been so
good, so generous to us all  we all loved him so
dearly. And he did not know  perhaps he did,
though ; I almost think he did  but Florence knew 
it was leaving him, who had given us everything, to
die  alone."

Eager at once to set her friend's mind at rest, as
soon as she had conducted Eugenie to her room
and could without positive unkindness leave her alone
with Eose, Amy sought Alice in her own chamber.

Best come to the point at once," she said, speaking
quickly and hurriedly, as both men and women
do when they have sense and tact to know that one
point only is of moment, and to reach it direct through
all irrelevant or secondary matter. '' Lionel sent
her with the others. She turned back, without his
knowledge, against his will."

*' Of course ! " Alice answered in simple genuine

amazement. *' How could he send the rest and let
her stay ? and his letter is quite clear ; but "

*' Eugenie says," interposed Amy, seeing that Alice
began to hesitate, " that he was wounded, in fever,
almost delirious ; and I suppose she could not bear
at the last to leave him alone."

Alice drew a long sigh, half of relief, half of pain.

*' I understand her, then ; how could she ? "

*' And yet," observed Amy, a little later, " there is
something that pains, that troubles you still. What
is it? Alice, I am sure you may trust Eugenie's
story ; it agrees so exactly with his letter."

Do you think I doubt ? Amy, have you known
your brother so much longer than I and can doubt
him, you who trusted so thoroughly before ? No 
but if, as seems too likely, Florence has compromised
herself irretrievably for him "

She could not go on; and Amy, startled by a
thought which had not occurred to her before, ran
rapidly over the various considerations that occurred
to her own mind before she could answer, and
answered at last with more of hesitation in her tone
than she intended to be apparent 

** If he have not promised, if he have not answered
your letter as he should have done, if he can think

himself free Alice, I am sure of one thing, no

temptation could  nay, nothing to him would be a
temptation to forfeit you. Few women, I take it, are
loved as he loves you. But all the more, if he is not

bound he may think What has he said to you?

Nay, I don't ask, I know you cannot show his letter ;
but " The brightening colour, the look of pride

in the dark grey Irish eyes sufficiently answered her.
Well, then, if he has given his word, he will keep
that. To break it under any temptation, under any
compulsion, is to him the one thing impossible. If it
were possible to save Florence, he would do it,
perhaps, at any sacrifice. But if he has given his
word, you are as safe as if actually married to him.
No claim that law or religion could give you would
create for him an impossibility half so absolute, so
insuperable as his word of honour."

*' Poor security, I should say," said Lord Penrith,
when Amy repeated this assertion to him, " if love of
her and knowledge of her love would not bind him."

You don't know him, Edward. You don't know
how absolute, how imperious a religion to him is the
tradition of chivalry. I did not choose to tell Alice
that the sacrifice he would make, in giving his hand
and name to one whose birth would mean as much to
him as it seems to mean to our Southern friends,
would be all but as great as the sacrifice of her;
because the greater the sacrifice the more likely is
Lionel to make it. But he cannot conceive the
possibility of breaking his word once given."

What Alice thought and felt may be best understood
from the letter which she wrote a few days
afterwards. It did not reach its destination till
Fate had solved the question on which it dwelt so
anxiously.

Alice to Lionel,

You have so much cause to doubt my faith in you
that your perplexity, your pain, may well be even

greater than was my own at the first moment, before
I had opened your letter. Its first words relieved all
doubts, all fears  but one. I had not cared to ask
Eva a single question, if common kindness would
have permitted one. I understood what must have
happened as soon as I could read your answer, even
before Amy came to repeat to me Eugenie's explanation.
Only, Eugenie will not tell me  what I think
she has told Amy  of the danger you so carefully
conceal ; I see you were worse than they will let me
know. I need say no more about our common
disappointment. Surely I need not tell you that I
have never doubted the sincerity with which you
recommended Florence to my friendship, or that I
would have been true to your charge. But to her 
give her my love, my thanks, as well as Amy's. "We
can well understand why she felt it impossible to
desert you in suffering and danger ; that your very
eagerness to , place her and her sisters in safety
made it more than ever intolerable to leave you
uncared for, who had cared so long and so kindly for
them. What that care has been, the little I have
heard from Eva, and Amy from Eugenie, tells better
than they themselves are aware. Florence cannot
doubt that, when she can come to us, she shall be the
more welcome, the dearer to all who love you for a
delay so caused.

*' You will not doubt me, Lionel ; doubt that I mean
and will be true to every word I write ? If not  if
you can really feel the full, the generous confidence
your letter expresses and makes me so anxious to
deserve, and if this be not too late  I can have nothing

to fear. Do not, pray do not misunderstand me  it
is not that I doubt your love or distrust your loyalty,
but that I dread your generosity. Florence has risked
so much for you  you may well be driven to think
that you must protect her, at whatever cost, from the
consequences of her heedless self-devotion. And if
you can do so willingly  she has deserved your love
better than I do or ever can  if you can really give it
her, do not think that I will reproach you, even in
thought. Above all, I would not have you feel as Amy
says you will feel, bound by what you have written tome,
if your heart were not in the words. But I have
read them again and again, trying hard to weigh them
fairly, and I cannot think that you felt less than you
have written. If it be so  then, Lionel, be true before
you try to be generous  true to her as well as to yourself
and to me. Do not pretend to give her what it
will break her heart to find a pretence. To a girl
such as you describe her, as her sisters' clinging
affection bespeaks her, as she has proved herself,
what undeserved reproach from the world would behalf
so cruel as the reproach you would imply, if you
thought her error so fatal that you must sacrifice
yourself to cover it ? What could so ill requite her
unselfish impulse ? What could so outrage a woman's
delicacy, a woman's love, as a marriage of compassion
? If that alone could save her  and if you could
ensure her against discovering the truth  perhaps . . .
But surely it is not so ; at least, if you can trust my
faith, and give me the power and the right to protect
her in your name ? Surely  forgive me if in so
grave a matter I disregard all conventional reserve,

and care only that you understand me clearly  surely
the friendship, the companionship, the sisterly affection
of your betrothed wife must set her right with the
world, and even if need be with her own sensitive
spirit, yet more completely than you could do ? Will
you not believe that she will be safer with me than
even before she had risked so much for you ? But if
you have decided otherwise, if my assurance come too
late, if . do not reproach yourself, Lionel, or think
that I reproach you. If you can forget that you are
breaking my heart, it will be because you feel only
that you are breaking your own. In that case, never,
never let her guess what she has cost you ; never let
her know how dear you were, I fear must always be,
to her who, while you can keep faith with her  till
you yourself tell her that you have broken it  is eVer
your own Alice."

Chapter XIII.

LOVE-LOYAL.

And peradventure, had lie seen her first,
She might have made this and that other world
Another world for the sick man."

Lionel was still sleeping when Mrs. Duval insisted on
relieving Florence's guard, though but for the two
hours that might elapse before the surgeon's visit ;
and Florence knew nothing of the use made, immediately
on his awakening, of the brief period of her
absence. At conscious imminent risk, by sheer force
of will, the invalid for a short time quelled the raging
lever, drove back or crushed down the rising delirium,
forced the reeling brain to coherent thought and intelligible
expression, compelled the feeble trembling
fingers to trace the lines his failing sight refused to
follow, told Florence's story simply, truthfully, touchingly,
and concluded with an earnest passionate appeal.


*' She deserves your kindness. Amy, as she needs it,
more than ever. Will you withdraw it because she
could not leave your brother, her guardian, to die like
a dog, alone, uncared for ? "

So ended the letter which Lady Penrith received,

with the endorsement of the State Department at
Washington as "Captured at Sea," soon after the
close of the war. A few words had been appended by
the surgeon in attendance : 

"At the writer's request I avouch that Miss Dupont
returned to nurse him in great danger  greater than
either is fully aware. Whatever the purport of this
letter, he has certainly and knowingly risked life to
write it."

So much love, so little trust ! " murmured Amy,
sadly, as her tears fell fast over the strangely wavering
lines, the formal signature, never before employed in
addressing her  " Ultramar "  and the seal with its
familiar star and sword, and the legend  Loyal a
mort'' 9

Florence would hardly have felt so confident in the
justification of her return, had she conceived how far
the agitation it had caused had contributed to the
alarming increase of fever, the uncontrollable delirium,
the terrible failing of strength, which were apparent
when she re-entered the sick-room. For weeks the
invalid's life was absolutely dependent on an incessant
care, vigilance, and skill that no one but herself, or
perhaps Afzul, whose absolute fealty to his master
truly "passed the love of woman," would or could have
given. Till Afzul's return Florence never long left
her patient ; afterwards one or the other sat by the
pillow by day or by night, till at last the light of collected
consciousness returned to the eyes so long
brilliant with fever. But the patient's weakness was
such that, even then, his nurse's alarm was long
protracted.

VOL. III.

Once more, Miss Dupont," said the doctor at last,
*' our friend certainly owes you his life. I may tell
you now, I did not think he would long survive your
departure ; still less did I think he would recover after
the night of your return. Only such nursing as yours
could a second time have pulled him through ; and
even that must have failed had he lived as most young
men, I suppose especially most soldiers, do. There is
the strength of hereditary as well as personal temperance
of every kind, the vigour of systematic physical
training pursued for years, in that frame, or it could
not have survived what would have killed men with
four times his natural vitality. I wish we could move
him ; Minnaroo will not be safe long. And do you
know, moreover, that you will be absolutely alone
after to-day? Mrs. Peyton is going; I must say I
advise you to go with her. I can arrange it with our
patient without agitating him as you would do, if you
will let me."

'* Indeed I will not. I could not repeat to you the
defence of my disobedience I made to him. But you
know what I am in reality, however he has chosen to
treat me differently ; and if I owed him nothing but
that treatment, how could I leave him now ? "

The doctor looked upon her with more compassion
than surprise, neither perhaps quite complimentary ;
as one who thinks : " Well, it is the old story over
again, and one knows the end." Like all his comrades
profoundly admiring the brilliant soldier, it
seemed to him natural enough that Florence should
be passionately in love with her young protector ; not
strange that she should sacrifice everything to that

love. But that the sacrifice could have any other
issue than the loss of all that one who was a slave by
birth and law had yet to lose, never occurred to him.

Long before he could write himself, Lionel had
employed Florence as his amanuensis in an important
correspondence with the State and military authorities.
To reconstitute his almost annihilated regiment
in its old form was, for more than one reason, little to
his mind. By gathering from all the trans-Mississippi
States men of the type he preferred to command,
numbers of whom were eager to serve under him, he
could create a larger and more formidable force, and
one upon which a distinctive character might be yet
more easily impressed. With some difficulty, and
with the support of more than one distinguished
Confederate leader, he obtained permission to organize
a so-called Legion ; to which, however, he gave
the form and internal order of a brigade consisting of
two regiments, each of from seven to eight hundred
lances and carbines. The drilling and disciplining of
this force  in which enlisted multitudes of lawless
spirits from all quarters, as well as men of higher
quality and education attracted by the character of
the probable service and the name of their leader 
was carried on under his minute instructions by the
surviving officers of the 20th Louisiana, and several
others, selected with the utmost care from among
those with whose capacity his previous experience
had acquainted him, and who seemed best fitted to
his especial purpose.

He remembered very imperfectly the conversation
of that critical evening, and was naturally most averse

to renew the argument, which nevertheless the consequences
of Florence's return and the gathering perils
of the position must compel him speedily to reopen
and to settle. Repugnant as was to him the idea of
marriage with a lady of mixed race, however refined,
attractive, lovable in herself, so strong was his sense
of what was due to Florence's self-abandonment and
devotion that, but for the counter-obligations of love
and loyalty to another, he would have felt such a
marriage almost forced upon him. He was able to
move about the house, and was daily expecting decisive
orders, when accident rather than deliberate purpose
brought about the inevitable explanation. Florence
had persistently evaded the resumption of her former
position ; allowing none of the old restraints to interfere
with her care of or services to him, but declining
as far as possible the kindly and equal tone of their
habitual intercourse. This waywardness, and perhaps
on his own part something of the susceptibility of
illness, provoked a discussion much more definite and
decisive than he had intended.

*' Florence," he said, in reply to a sentence in which
she insisted as before on the reality of their legal relation,
'' you know how deeply such language, such an
attitude must grieve me ; but that is a secondary consideration.
What is of moment is, that when you
speak of yourself as a slave in more than form and
name, you say what is no more true than it is kind ;
what besides puts you in a false, it might possibly
prove a dangerous, position."

'' No, Monseigneur ! Except that if I fell into the
enemy's hands they might possibly treat a slave even

worse than a free-woman, your slave is as safe as I
could wish to be. You have made me secure if I could
be so miserable as to outlive you, and meantime that
title is the surest protection a coloured girl could enjoy.
No one dare wrong what is yours ; and I don't wish 
how could I ?  to be released from your control : I owe
too much to it."

"You don't know what you are saying, Florence.
You are trusting me further than any lady should
trust  further," he added, half aside, " than any man
should be tempted. And "  he hesitated, almost as
much embarrassed as a girl at finding himself forced
into explanation likely to be awkward or unpleasant to
feminine feelings  " that is not all. A man can and
ought to defy all that may be said of him ; a lady,
especially one so young, must defer to the opini(5li of
the world to which she belongs."

*' And to what world do I belong ? To the world of
slaves who think it a distinction to be your slave, a
rare honour to be a favourite chattel of yours ? Or to
the world of slave-owners who know that a slave has
no power, no will of her own save by sufferance ? No,
Colonel d'Ultramar ; if I have doubted what one or
two seemed to think of me lately, it is only because
you have taken so much pains to make them forget
what duty I owe you."

*' Spare me, Florence, if you will not spare yourself!
Such words can only remind me by what
grievous fault of mine it is possible for you to use
them ; and they are not true. You were free in fact 
would have been in a few days free under the English
flag. It is to your own spontaneous kindness that I

owe the care which has a second time saved my life.
Will you force me to feel that it was far too dearly
bought?"

"As if a hundred such as I were worth a life like
yours, in the sight of Heaven or of our country ! Monseigneur,
it was as your slave that I had a right to
return ; and in that character I can he no burden, no
trouble to you. But do not praise me for returning :
I cannot bear it. I did come back for your sake, to
care for, to nurse you, knowing you were more sick
than you would own and in greater danger than even
you knew. But that was not ail. I could not bear
to go ; and if the world says that I was glad of an
excuse in my own eyes and in yours, it will say no
worse of me than I deserve."

This confession, the last thing he had expected,
confounded and bewildered him. He was silent perforce,
and Florence presently continued 

If a slave could be compromised, my return has
done all the harm that anything can do, and you cannot
undo it now. It was no fault of yours ; I would
not be saved at such a price ; and I don't, I cannot
repent while you speak kindly and look at me with no
contempt in your eyes. And how can that be wrong
now which was right three months ago ? People may
talk, may think  but what of that ? All the harm it
can do me is done already ; and surely you will not
grieve and wound me, you will not condemn my
return by sending me away, for anything that anybody
dare say of you ? . . . unless you have learned toto
despise me," she faltered, in a tone so low
that he scarcely caught the words.

She looked up shyly for a moment as she spoke.
Certainly there was nothing in his countenance which
her acutely sensitive, waywardly susceptible spirit
could imagine to express reproach or even displeasure.
But there was an intense regret, a sad sorrowful pity
which surprised and almost awed her. In truth
Lionel at that moment bitterly and naturally blamed
himself for all that had happened. He could not
reproach himself for treating a sensitive, dependent,
most unfortunate girl with anxious kindness and consideration;
but she should not have remained so
long, so closely dependent on himself. Doubtless,
since he had so unexpectedly renewed his acquaintance
with Florence in her sorest need, in his own
hour of bitterest pain and loneliness, the rupture of
all dearer and closer ties, as well as the strange
character of their relation, and her own intense
sensitiveness and helpless clinging dependence, had
infused into his feeling as well as his manner towards
her a deeper tenderness than he would have owned to
himself. But, despite one fatal experience, he remained
incredulous as ever that maiden love could
be won unsought. Men are sometimes harshly
censured for such errors; but a man who should
take care that girls should not fall in love with him,
would display an offensive conceit pretty sure to
render precaution needless. Conscious of a personal
beauty too striking to be ignored, Lionel never dreamt
that it could seriously affect the fancy of women. If
he entertained a single disparaging idea of the sex,
it was a half-formed notion that they were more
attracted by a form of comeliness lower and less like

their own  the big-featured blistered face, the
broad large-boned frame called especially masculine.
He had fancied Florence more oppressed by the
recollection of their legal than gratified by the kindliness
of their practical relation, till the truth was
revealed by her return and her avowal.

The last thought that could occur to me," he
said at length, ** would be to slight or wrong the
affectionate impulse to which I owe so much. But,
dearest Florence, you must say no more. Trust my
counsel now as you have always done. Don't force
me to explain. Enough that Minnaroo will not long
be a safe home for you, for any lady."

Let me remain near, where I can nurse you if
you are wounded again. Let me belong to you, be of
use to you  and send me where you like ; but don't
send me away from you again. It was hard enough
to be sent to England, to your own sister ; it would
be worse, far worse, anywhere in the South. I dare
not, you know I dare not  you have never thought I
should be safe without your protection. Monseigneur,
you will not, you cannot lie ; say that it is only beyond
the enemy's reach that you wish to send me, and I
will obey  no, I suppose I must obey  but I will be
content."

'' Child, I know  you do not know, do not mean
what you ask. You say rightly, I will not lie to you.
There are perils almost worse than capture. Will
you not believe that it wrings my heart to part with
you, that I do it for your own sake, and spare me 
what I cannot bear to speak or you to hear ? "

*for my sake, of course; but it is mistaken

kindness. What have I left to lose ? Believe me,
you cannot hurt me  at least, you can say nothing,
do nothing I will not willingly bear, except that you
should condemn my return, and show what you think
of it by sending me away, so probably never to see
you again. I cannot bear that. But speak, Monseigneur,
and see if there be anything else I would
not endure from you or for you."

His voice faltered, his face was turned aside as he
answered hoarsely and low, in a tone of indescribable
sadness and pain 

* You wring my words from me ; I would rather
give my heart's blood, if it would spare us both.
Forgive me  if that be possible. Florence, I was
once, or thought myself, compelled to accept a
similar sacrifice. It ended  as such things always
end ; and I have never ceased to reproach myself with
the guilt of blood." 

Do you think I should grudge you my life ? I
will give it as freely as your soldiers give theirs everyday.
And you cannot blame yourself; it is my
prayer : whatever happens, the fault, if there be any,
rests on me."

Florence, will you not understand? Do you not
know that there is but one right by which you could
remain with me ? Unless I could make you  my
wife  I must part with you."

She had listened with bent head and countenance
half concealed, partly in formal submission, partly
no doubt really afraid to encounter his eyes as he
uttered the warning so extorted and so prefaced. But
now she rose erect, and for a moment at least looked

fearlessly and frankly into a face fuller of shame and
pain than her own.

'your wife ?  Never, Colonel d'Ultramar ! If you
had wished it, if you had loved me even as I love you,
do you think I would let you so disgrace yourself
before your comrades, your soldiers, and the whole
South  worse than all, in your own eyes ? On that
subject you are as proud as the proudest gentleman of
Virginia or South Carolina, prouder than a Curtis ora
Hampton ; and well you may !  But you don't wish
it ; you would never give me your name except to
cover the dishonour of mine. Could anything so
degrade, so shame a woman ? Could anything tell
me more plainly that you thought  what others may
think if they please ? How would my return seem
then, even to you and to myself ? No, Monseigneur ;
I am your slave, whether you will or no ; yours to
serve, to live, to die for you  yes ! Yours to degrade
and dishonour you, to ruin your pride, your heart,
your life ; to be your reproach and your burden ! 
never ! "

The bitter sincerity with which the young maiden
repudiated an idea essentially as dishonouring to
herself as in her view it would have been degrading
to him, was beyond doubt or question. And he understood
and appreciated her feeling, as he had understood
throughout the nature and the limits of her error;
had felt that she was pleading not for indulgence to a
passion of whose meaning she was unconscious, but
for liberty to defy the conventions that could hardly
apply to her position, the censures of a world that
could hardly wrong her more deeply than it had done

already. She owed everything to the very protection
of which that world would deprive her. Remembering
her nominal master's long, loyal, vigilant guardianship,
aware that she could not be more absolutely in
his power than she had always been, half-distraught
between love, loneliness, and fear  it was not strange
that she failed to comprehend the change effected by
her sisters' absence and her own avowal. She knew
that, both in her return and in her confession, she had
infringed the rules applicable to a different social
position ; but she failed to discern that the social law
could justly affect one whom it had outlawed, or be
morally binding on the conscience of a slave. It was
no doubt partly under the influence of this feeling
that she insisted so strongly on that aspect of her
situation. What must be the final relation of such a
slave to such a master had never occurred to her ; till
some sort of misgiving, some formless shadow, of
uneasiness was first cast upon her conscience by
Lionel's own urgency for her departure. Of sinful
intention she was wholly innocent ; of practical danger
almost absolutely unconscious.

Her reply brought the conversation to a dead-lock.
Lionel felt that there was but one thing left to do, one
word to speak  and that thing impossible, that word
unutterable. Florence knew nothing of Alice, had never
heard her name save in connection with the letter she
was to have delivered ; and he had now made reference
to her, avowal of the truth, doubly impossible by
the suggestion on which he had ventured only in full
assurance that it would terminate the discussion at
once. To say that he was conscious of no temptation

not wholly unselfish would be to say that he was lessor
more than man ; either that, in the flush of youth,
high-spirited, fiery, passionate, susceptible alike by
personal character and hereditary temperament, he
was insensible to love that might have won the coldest
heart, to loveliness that might have maddened alike a
profligate or a poet  or that he possessed the calm
self-control of a saint, the last character to which he
could or would have pretended. But no selfish temptation
could have rendered him a second time untrue
to Alice ; false this time to plighted faith. Nor, while
Florence remained true to herself, could he have endured
to soil the loyalty that had so endeared and
hallowed their strange relation, had given to the least
natural of ties the tenderness, sacredness, simplicity
of home affection. Of the parity of that relation he
was keenly jealous and justly proud ; nor did Florence's
unconscious error release the bond. Truly
had he told her that she did not know, did not mean
what she asked. The trust he had invited and accepted
was never more binding than now, when her
absolute confidence in him, the devotion which his
own conduct had won, had drawn her so close to the
verge of peril. The temptation was subtler, deeper,
stronger, that it appealed less to selfish desires than
to the vigilant, unselfish, considerate tenderness by
which such desires had been so long suppressed, so
completely quelled. To repulse, insult, humble to the
dust her whom it had been the religion of his recent
life to shelter, to screen from every pang of mortification,
every shadow of abasement ; to bruise, to
crush the heart whose sensitive, shrinking delicacy he

knew so well and had shielded so anxiously  this was
the supreme, present, overwhelming impossibility.
Baffled, distressed, bewildered  for it had never occurred
to him that, the case as he saw it once stated,
Florence could fail to see it in the same light ; nor
had he realized how difficult escape had become, how
far the mischief was all but irreparable  he turned
instinctively to the countenance from which as he
spoke he had as instinctively averted his eyes. The
sight of that clinging, defenceless, appealing girlhood
smote, stung him to the heart. He shivered from
head to foot. Well for both that Florence dreamed
not to what she tempted ; that he whom she tried so
sorely understood and reverenced her still. Had a
shadow rested on her purity of soul, or darkened the
clearness of his absolute faith in her, self-control
might hardly have been possible. He stood silent,
shaken to the soul, for a time not to be measuredby
the seconds that may have elapsed. When he gained
strength to speak, the instinct of chivalry, the habit
of reverential tenderness for her, had reasserted their
wonted ascendency alike over the almost forgotten
necessity of the future and the vanquished peril of
the moment. His one thought was to spare and
soothe her feelings, to lull the quick susceptibility of
unrequited affection, to heal the wounded pride of
womanhood.

*' Forgive me, Florence ! I knew not what to say,
how to explain. Forgive me what I should not have
let you force from me. But you cannot doubt either
my affection or my respect. I am not worth, no man
could be worth, the least part of all I have cost you

already ; it would break my heart to cost you more.
But you know you cannot be less, you are if possible
more to me than you have always been ; more
precious and more honoured since you have given
such costly proof of your uncalculating, devoted
kindness. I see  " he broke off with an unconscious
sigh of intense relief, as they stood by the window of
his study, " Afzul brings me despatches, probably
orders, to which I must attend at once. Leave me
now, dear Florence. Think once again, and think if
you can more wisely, more of yourself and less of me."

The last words were characteristic, the more so
because spoken in such perfect simplicity. Happy
for the speaker, perhaps, that he never had the
opportunity to put his estimate of woman's love to
the test of experience.

Florence was not convinced ; for the words which
might have been conclusive were neutralized to her
mind and heart by a fact which Lionel had wholly
forgotten, but which, when it recurred to her remembrance,
gave to his argument a meaning altogether
deceptive. Marriage, legal, valid marriage, such as
alone she could conceive to be within his meaning,
was impossible between master and slave. But for
that insuperable bar he might, she thought, have
returned her affection ; so far had the fatal tenderness
of his last words effaced the impression of all that had
preceded. Did not the very fact that she could never
be more to him entitle her without doubt or reproach
to remain what she was, since he would not allow her
to be less ? Perhaps she could not remain under his
roof ; that was a question for his decision, but it was

not the vital question. She had dreaded with extreme,
perhaps exaggerated, but certainly not ungrounded
terror, the helpless, friendless solitude of her position
if finally separated from him. But now  she could
trust all to the thoughtful vigilant consideration that
had never failed her, that had sheltered her and her
sisters as effectually when he was serving in Virginia
or Kentucky as while he remained at Minnaroo. Her
removal, at this period of incessant alarm and ceaseless
occupation, must be matter of time. Meanwhile
the necessities of war excused whatever might have
seemed unbecoming in peace. She would be left
with him for a while  and how much he still needed
her !  not as the slave she claimed her right to be,
but as the friend, the cherished and honoured ward
he had ever chosen to consider her. And when they
must part  well, while the tie was unbroken, they
were parted only as war had parted and must again
part them ; and if they lived, surely they would meet
again under happier conditions. Florence assumed
that her return had forfeited finally Lady Penrith's
offered protection, and on this point Lionel dared not
contradict her. Of his love for another, it has already
been said, she had no suspicion. That love was the
bitterest of those English recollections whereof he
never spoke, on which his wards had never ventured
to touch ; and the same packet that brought Alice's
forgiveness having brought Amy's offer to take charge
of them  the next few days having been occupied in
the arrangements for their journey  Alice's name had
never been mentioned in Florence's hearing till, at
the last moment of a bitterly painful parting, the

letter had been almost silently given into her
care.

The necessity of farther debate, of immediate action,
was averted by the contents of the despatches which
had caused so welcome an interruption. General
Marion, still unable to command in the field, had
been charged with important military duties in that
part of Louisiana ; and, his own home having perished,
requested for himself and his staff the hospitality
which Colonel d'Ultramar rejoiced to afford. For
nearly a month the invalid soldier was engaged almost
constantly in such duties as a convalescence, apparently
more rapid than he himself could have
hoped, enabled him to perform. On the General's
departure, he would be left in command of his own
Legion, and some other irregular forces, and in charge
of an extensive line of military frontier, with orders
to occupy a strong and central but concealed position,
and to harass the enemy by an incessant active
partisan warfare. He learnt with bitter pain that
permanent defence was hardly possible, and that the
fate of Minnaroo, though it might be postponed,
could scarcely be doubtful. He did not know till
then how dearly he loved the home whose beauty
was its least charm for him, and which his soldierly
fame had marked as an object of dastardly vengeance
to an enemy who never respected the laws either of
war or of honour. But he could not stoop to utter a
word of complaint or regret in the presence of those
who had suffered far more terribly; who had witnessed
the destruction, not only of ancestral homes,
but of acquired or inherited fortunes ; who had seen

mothers and sisters, wives and children, reduced at
once from wealth to indigence, and driven into (homeless
exile.

Amid all his cares, anxieties and labours, Florence
found herself more than ever the foremost object of
his thought. He would not let her feel or fancy that
any estrangement, any new constraint, had been
created; and the presence of others was turned to
account to render their intercourse at once safe and
easy. No day passed on which, more than once, a
few kindly sentences were not interchanged between
them, unheard by other ears. General Marion, much
attached to his young lieutenant, treated Florence
with paternal kindness, with a delicate courtesy that
went far to set even that timid, sensitive spirit at
ease. She would if possible have shrunk from the
presence of strangers ; but this Lionel, well aware
what inferences would be drawn from such seclusion,
would not permit. Assisted by the considerate kindness
of his chief, he obliged the shy, shrinking girl
to take the same part, ensured for her the same
respect and deference, that she would have enjoyed
in her father's lifetime as the rightful mistress of the
house ; while all was so arranged and conducted as
to render clear and obvious the character of her
relation to its present owner. Lionel had contrived,
moreover, to her infinite relief and consolation, several
apparently accidental tete-astute interviews; protected,
by the delicate consideration imposed on all by the
example of the General, alike from the appearance
of secrecy and the reality of intrusion. Meanwhile,
without reverting to other reasons, he had quietly

VOL. HI. p

taken for granted the imperative necessity of her
departure from so dangerous a situation, and had
secured her tacit submission to a half-complete plan
first mooted in her presence by General Marion.
But before this could be carried out, the retirement
of their guests left Colonel d'Ultramar in charge of
the Confederate forces near Minnaroo. To Florence
alone did he entrust the secret of their position. To
her he described it so minutely that she, whose rides
with her father had long ago made her acquainted
with almost every road and bridle-path for many a mile
around, could at any time have made her way thither ;
so that she could indicate a direct route to its nearest
outpost to any messenger familiar with the principal
landmarks of the neighbourhood.

But," she pleaded, when a carefully worded
sentence startled her into the apprehension of the
purpose he had studiously concealed till ail was
prepared for its execution  looking up into his face
with a painful alarm, an intense anxiety that for the
moment overpowered all shame, all shyness, almost
all reserve  " why should you go  to-night above all ?
I am sure they don't expect it of you; you are not
fit; you are in no state to bear camping out in the
open air ; you will be ill again before you yourself
expect to meet the enemy. Stay, do stay, just a
little while longer. They can send for you ; they can
report to you here ; you will be just as useful here
as there. It is not that the General and his staff are
gone ; that makes no difference ; they did not meddle
with your command, of late. And  it is the first
time  I shall be all alone. Ah  is that your reason ?

It is not kind, it is a reproach to me, if you leave
me for that. What have I to do with the fancies of
white ladies, now ? Is it not telling me how wrong
I was to return ? And even if this were not your
home, or if I had not so long held the place in it
that you took such thought and pains to make for me
if we were strangers, if I were neither what I amin
fact, nor what your kindness has chosen to call
me  you need not be so careful, so ceremonious, now.
"Would you be very angry if I gave a night's shelter
to any Southern soldier in your absence ? The
people that choose to think evil will not be prevented
by anything you can do now : and those who know
you would think it only natural that I should remain
with you  till you can send me away. Is not that
hard enough  too hard to bear  when I have lost
friends, sisters, everything for you, for the right to
belong to you and to do my duty by you ?  yes, joriy
duty, if it were only because I am not a slave in
more than name. I would not go unless you forced
me, only that it would grieve you so terribly if I came
to any harm by staying. And, here or there, I am
yours ; you promised me that ; you will not break
my heart by forgetting it ? But while you let me
stay here, you must not leave me  me who have left
myself nothing else. I am so utterly, so terribly
alone."

Her voice, tremulous with agitation, passionate in
its earnest pleading as if beseeching for very life, the
strange excitement of her tone and manner  in truth,
the poor girl was well-nigh frantic with grief, distress,
and terror  made him turn to look into her face. Its

expression might possibly have shaken his resolve ;
but the head had drooped on his shoulder, and the
quivering lips, changeful colour, and wistful, frightened
eyes were concealed from his sight.

'monseigneur, it is not kind; it is not like you.
And I dare not be left alone : I dare not," she went
on, earnestly, and shuddering violently in a terror
evidently extreme and unaffected. " I dreamt last
night  ah, such a dream . so long, so distinct, so-dreadfully
cruel  and so terrible at last. I was so
lonely ; no one was kind, no one would speak to me
not even Eva. But you were always the same
supporting, helping me, as gentle, as courteous as
ever. Then people gathered round us  all the evil
faces I ever saw; and I was frightened to death
no ! much worse than that  till I felt that you
held me, you were carrying me. There was a fire all
round us, like that of which Miss Edwards spoke sa
often with such horror ; and men, like devils, yelling
and snatching. But you held me fast through all-then
I was lying  I don't know where, but I should
know the place again if I saw it. I felt your arm
round me : I was happy, only that you seemed so sad,
so sorry for me. Then on a sudden it grew dark; but
through the dark I saw Oh, do hold me "  clinging
close to him, and looking up in eager appeal, as he
instinctively drew her within his arm. " It was  I
knew him at once  it was Death ; and he seized and
dragged me away. You would not or could not hold
me fast ; and I woke with a scream, trembling all over.
Ah, do not, do not leave me to that, whatever it
meant ! . . . Bather than that, hold me one minute

an your arms, kiss me once as you kissed me the night
I came back  and then kill me yourself before I know
it, before you go. You may  you can  remember !
Ah, if you could feel, could know ! . Do hear me 
you have been so careful, so tender of me ; listen now.
Nothing, the worst I ever feared, was half so terrible
as what I fear now. You would not, you could not
leave me if you could understand, if you would believe
how frightened I am, even if it were mere foolish fear.
But I am sure there is more than that."

She shivered so violently as the recollection of this
terror seemed to overpower all the softer, warmer,
more natural emotions that had prompted her previous
words and looks of appeal, that he almost shrank
from the parting on which he had determined ; drew
her close to his bosom, and soothed her with caressing
and protecting clasp as he answered 

I shall see you again, no doubt, and often, dear
Florence. But I must go now. You know how to send
for me if I am wanted. Our outposts, remember, are
ten miles south of this ; they hold the river bank at

 and form a line twelve miles inland from that ;

and by their report there is no enemy within two days'
inarch of you. Dear child, you are still in my guard,
remember ; can you not trust to it ? Well, I will
have you really, perfectly safe in a few days : nay,
nay, Florence, I shall, I will, see you again before I
come to take leave of you. . It is lonely for you,
though, quite alone here. I wish it were not so.
Well, dear, if you are afraid keep Mrs. Duval with
you, take the upper rooms and fasten your doors.
You know you can bar them so that no force could

break them down. Then perhaps you will sleep more
fearlessly; though in truth you are as safe as if I
were here, and half a troop encamped on the lawn
yonder. Now, dearest, I must go. It is no kindness
to either to make the parting longer. Au revoir''

He stooped, kissed her with a tenderness which on
this occasion at any rate was simply impulsive, natural
and unstudied; and almost wrenched himself from
her clinging clasp to spring through the window,
mount the horse that was held for him outside, and
ride away at a pace at which practised riders seldom
start, unless there be instant work ahead or pain
from which they would fain escape behind them.

It was done in truest love and loyalty, in sincerest,
deepest, most unselfish kindness. But to his last
hour Lionel never ceased to repent and reproach himself
with that parting ; to curse that regard for her
name, that deference for her sake to the world's conventions,
that led him to deny Florence's prayer, that
made him deaf to the pleadings of her terror, hardened
him against the agonized entreaty of those wild,
frightened eyes. The worst sin of a long life of evil
could hardly be regretted with keener, bitterer, crueller
remorse than followed, to his dying day, that act of
untimely or ill-fated virtue.

Chapter XIV.

ON THE BLUE Bridge.

"No; vainly to each holy shrine
In mutual pilgrimage they drew,
'* Implored in vain the grace divine

For chiefs their own red falchions slew.
While Cessford owns the rule of Carr,

While Ettrick boasts the line of Scott,
The slaughtered chiefs, the mortal jar,
The havoc of the feudal war,
Shall never, never be forgot."

At a late period in the war  when the outer shell of
the Confederate defence had been pierced in one
direction after another, and its hollowness, through
the sheer exhaustion of the military population of the
South, was apparent to the Southerners themselves,
and to the few cool judges in the North and in
Europe who understood the meaning of Northern
successes everywhere else coupled with repeated,
signal Northern defeats in Virginia  two men rode
slowly up the Eastern slope of the Blue Eidge, the
beautiful range of mountains that forms the Eastern
boundary of the loveliest and wealthiest part of the
Old Dominion  known generally as the Valley of
Virginia, in a more limited geographical sense as the
Valley of the Shenandoah. One, the younger, wore

a uniform evidently Southern, though the grey helmet
with its red and black bands, a few red and black
feathers forming the crest, was unique ; as the conspicuous
red and black facings were altogether exceptional
in the Confederate service. The elder,
heavier horseman, deeply bearded and with a complexion
bronzed under a warmer sun than that even
of the Gulf States, seemed to have taken some pains
to give to what looked like the dress of an English
Volunteer, save that buttons and facings had been
removed, a close resemblance to the general uniform
of the Confederates.

You should understand fully," said the former,
'* what you are doing. Do not think that joining ours
is like joining any other regiment even in our service;
and our service now means much more than an even
chance of death  most of us, I think, rather hope to
die  before the war is over. You say you have known
the Colonel in India : you knew him then as I knew
him before the calamities, the wrongs that have made
him what he is. Even now his appearance, his
manner, the very tones of his voice in peace  I mean
in the quiet of the bivouac, the only home he knows
make the contrast of his bearing in the field still
more strange and terrible. He had rendered his
name dreaded along all the debatable ground of
Louisiana before the fatal day that made him what
he is now. If I live, which is not likely, to extremest
old age, whatever I may see hereafter, the memory of
that day will be the most terrible, the most vivid
of my life, and will be present to me fifty years hence
as it is now. I never think of it, speak of it, but the

whole scene is before me and almost makes me
shudder ; and yet no one has been through this war,
as I have, without seeing such sights as might appal
ii trained veteran. I was on guard at the inner picket
of our camp when a negro, reeling in his saddle,
galloped in and told me in five words that at least
two thousand of the enemy, commanded by General
Ballard  one of those attorney-Generals, politicians
turned into bad soldiers, who are the opprobrium of
the Federal service  were threatening Minnaroo, our
Colonel's home. I knew they would burn it. I knew
there was a woman there, a girl I had once seen. I
cannot, and would not now, describe a beauty the like
of which I never saw. She was by law a slave, but
by birth, breeding, education a lady as refined as any
in Louisiana. It happened that I had carried her the
news of a former sharp action, and had then seen in
her face, before she could speak, her fear, her intense
anxiety for our chief. The boy fell half-dead as he
told his message. I could not wait ; I ordered my
men to be ready as I mounted and galloped to his
quarters, some half-mile further in. I had rather a
hundred times have faced the heaviest fire of shot and
shell I ever knew, than have done what I had to do.
He was sleeping, sleeping as he always does by the
bivouac fire, the sword belted on, only his helmet off,
not even his saddle for a pillow, for he will not even
unsaddle when danger is near, but only loosens the
girths. Before I could reach him he had sprung to
his feet ; and he read, I suppose, what I had to say in
my face, for before I spoke the name of Minnaroo his
own turned white as death. I should not have known

the voice, I could have sworn it was not his; as unlike
his tone in peace as in the battle-words that have so
often rung along our line, as he said 

' Sound the revelled. Tell Colonel Pereiro to
bring on the rest of the Legion  to surround and
close in upon them.'

He was in the saddle ; he had gathered some fifty
men, and went forward at full gallop. I caught them
up within half a mile from Minnaroo, just in view of
the enemy's line. The flames were rising already
behind, and some four hundred men were straight
before us, drawn up steadily, rifles ready and bayonets
fixed. It seemed by instinct that he halted us  we
were at full gallop  for one half-minute to form our
line. I said to him :  It is sheer madness ! ' for he
vas mad ; but he half turned and only answered in
his usual tone of command, ' Silence in the ranks !
Charge ! ' Their fire disabled one-half our men or
horses ; but he was in front, and there was not one
who would have hesitated to follow him through the
flames of Hell. We broke them  dashed through 
there were not more than five and twenty following
him. Two strokes he struck with his own sword to
right and left as we charged through. I learnt then
for the first time how the spirit can strengthen the
arm. One right hand, with the sword it held  an
officer's, of course  was actually lopped off; and the
other man's head dropped to one side, the neck cut
half through. I never saw an uglier sight ; as a rule,
cavalry combats don't leave such hideous traces.
Scores of men were dispersed, plundering or setting
fire to the house in new places ; but one group weathered

under the window where, the flames having,
already caught the rooms below, that young girl
stood. I heard a voice I had heard before, their
Brigadier's, mocking 

 Come, be quick, pretty one ; unbar the door, and
we will bring you out safe. There are worse things,
you see, than slavery, even to me.'

"We had broken the line so quickly, we dashed at
such speed up the slope, that they were not aware,
could not turn till we were upon them. But the
Colonel struck not a blow till he reached him; and
struck him twice, like lightning, but I am sure both
blows were well and truly aimed  and not to kill.
The first gashed his face from eyes to chin, so that
the mother who bore him could never have endured
to look on the ghastly object again ; the second caught
him above the hips, crippling him horribly, and forever.
The man's screams were hideous to hear.
Then the enemy rushed in and closed round us,
happily before he had time to dismount. I never
saw, never shall see again a fight like that  twenty-five
to two hundred at least ; every man of us would
have been killed at once if they could have reached
us. But they crowded and hampered themselves ;
and we fought, as they say, ' like devils 'sat any rate
as men seldom have the chance to fight. We had
actually cleared a space around us, walled in by the
piles of dead. How many shots had been fired among
us I don't know  probably at least as many as there
were enemies around  and half our men were out of
their saddles, fighting even as they lay on the ground,
shooting with their revolvers, striking with lance or

carbine-butt even in the death-agony. But he 
neither bullet nor bayonet seemed to touch him ; and
yet they were aiming at his life above all. His sword
never rested, and never seemed to come down without
being answered by a death-yell. For one moment  I
don't know how it was  I looked up, and that young
girl was watching still, but her eyes fixed only on
him. A spark had set her dress on fire ; she seemed
as if her efforts to put it out were only instinctive,
her whole mind and soul in the gaze she bent on the
fight. It could not last long  we were all hewn or
pushed from our saddles at last ; but dismounted,
streaming with blood, his clothes cut through till
they hung in rags  thank Heaven for the chance
that made him that day wear a shirt of mail  many
-of us wear these, or captured cuirasses  else he would
have been cut into mince-meat. As it was, I wonder
he could stand, much less strike, for mere loss of
blood. The enemy's second in command called to
him  I think he guessed the truth, and pitied his
desperation :  ' Yield, and quarter.' He answered
with a stroke that clove the man's head. And then
I did not see him borne down, for by that time I
was senseless myself. When I came to my senses
I saw what had happened. His orders had been
obeyed ; our men had come up, and had surrounded
the enemy on three sides ; the stream, with only one
bridge, was on the other, and they were trying to
escape by it. But Unfold had brought two expounders
to bear on it with grape, and scarcely a
man got across. Our horsemen were slaughtering
the fugitives like sheep. Elsewhere the enemy were

fighting hard still, as ours pressed them back upon
the blazing building and into the courtyard. I looked
for him as soon as my eyes opened. At that moment
he had just laid her down under a tree ; a couple of
slave-girls, our surgeon, and an assistant tending her,
while a few men  their backs turned to the sight, and
they were glad of it  were guarding her from any
chance injury in the melee that surged up and down.
They had been taken at a terrible disadvantage, half
of them dispersed in plundering, and our dash had
shattered their nerve. Those who could not escape
were driven in, some three hundred of them pent in
the courtyard; others howling for quarter, sabred,
stabbed, shot down in the garden, on the terrace,
under the very portico ; and I heard him call : * Drive
them back into the flames.' One fellow, wounded
already, called for pity, and one of our men would
have spared him. I never heard the Colonel speak
to a soldier as he spoke then''

Mercy,' he said, sto those who show no mercy
even to women ? Mercy to thieves and murderers ?
What if some are more guilty than their comrades ?
Kill all; be sure the Devil knows his own.'

I can't describe it, it was too horrible. Our men
stood round, and as the Yankees tried to escape from
the flames, he had them driven back at the point
of the lance. Then, when the howling and yelling
from within the building became fainter, when that
business was well-nigh done, he came where Ballard
lay. The felon was screaming, but was half silent
with terror when, somehow or other, despite the
wound that blinded him, he became aware of d' Ultra-mar's

approach  as if he had anything left to fear,
except life. The Colonel seemed as if he would set
his foot on the wretch's throat and trample out his
soul ; but he forbore, looking coolly for a minute on
the hideous sight, and the yet more hideous terror of
the scoundrel ; utterly pitiless, for  he had seen her
suffer. At last he spoke, with a scorn that seemed
too cold for rage, and even for hatred.  You hound !
if there were a spark of manhood in you, I would put
you out of pain ; I leave you the life of a crushed
worm, to remind your fellows what such a scoundrel
will suffer before he dares to die ! ' "Well, I don't like
to remember it; and you won't care to hear anymore."


The Englishman had listened with more sympathy,
perhaps, for the savage vengeance than the young
Southerner who had actually seen it inflicted could
feel.

'' Any death a soldier could give was too merciful
for such a hound. But what became of the girl ? "

It was some moments before his companion could
answer, and by that time they had crossed an intervening
ridge, and reached a level so near the summit
that from beyond they could just catch sight of a
lurid glow on the darkening horizon to the West.

More of the same work," said the young
Southerner. " Sheridan has been robbing, burning,
wasting in this valley for several days and in the
richest, happiest part of the Old Dominion there is
scarcely anything left but the ashes of such part of
the harvest as they could not carry away, and the
brick chimneys of hundreds of peaceful homes, to

tell what the Valley was. Scores of women and
children have found refuge in our camp and been
escorted to distant places of safety. I don't wonder
our men are savage. I only hope the Colonel's
judgment will be too much for his temper ; but if he
sees a chance he will not lose it for want of daring,
or fear of such reprimands as the Chief, Hampton,
and FitzLee have given him a score of times. I
suppose they sent him here because, if any man can
and will read those fiends a lesson, it is he. . . . You
asked what became of her. I could not see, could
not know anything again till they carried me with
our other wounded into our camp. She lingered a
few days ; and I was just able to stand when the
Colonel's orderly  he is an East Indian soldier, an
Arab he calls him, I don't know why  brought mea,
request, not command, to wait upon our chief.
They had raised a hut of reeds and branches, hind
made it look quite neat, quite pretty for her. She
lay  she did not seem to suffer much ; I believe they
had managed to wrap her from head to foot in cotton
wool. But there was death in that sweet face ; and
yet it was so serene, so happy, and to the last her
look into his eyes  well, I won't describe it. There
was a priest there  I believe Colonel d'Ultramar is a
Catholic  and when I and some dozen other officers
had assembled, wondering for what, the Colonel knelt
beside her and held her hand in his. His face was
s much changed from what I knew it in the happier
days as from what I had seen it on the march or in
the field ; soft, gentle as when I had seen him speak
to women, but with a sad wistful tenderness you will

never believe it could have worn. He whispered a
very few words ; and, dying as she was, they called
some little colour to her cheek. Then the priest
began, and I became aware that it was the Marriage
Service he was reading. When it was over, the
Colonel bent and kissed her, and then stood up before
us all and faced us as if we were on parade.

 You will bear witness,' he said. * I owed justice,
not for wrong done but for kindness and devotion received
; and he who loves me as comrade and gentleman
will draw sword or pistol whenever a doubt shall
be hinted that touches ever so faintly the honour of
my wife, the name of the Marquise d'Ultramar.'

At midnight, half a dozen officers of ours carried
her to her grave in that lonely island among the
swamps. He had contrived to have a stone cross
prepared, roughly enough, but no doubt those graven
letters will be as clear a hundred years hence as when
I read them. They gave only her Christian name and
married title, her age and the date."

I guessed the outline of your story," said the
Englishman, ' ' when you first mentioned but did not
name her. These startled his friends in England
not a little." He handed to his companion two small
slips cut from a newspaper and carefully pasted on
a folded card. " You cannot read them by this light,.

of course, but I remember every word. ' On ,

1863, at the camp of the Louisiana Cavalry Legion,
Lionel, Marquis d'Ultramar, Colonel C.S.A., to-florence,
daughter of the late Mr. Dupont, of ,
Louisiana,' and, under the next heading,
Died '  with the same date  ' of injuries received in

the burning of her home by Federal incendiaries,
Florence, Marquise d'Ultramar, aged 21.'"

"And since then," continued the Louisianian, " the
one thought in his heart, his one care, his one wish
seems to be for vengeance. You will see the weapon
he carries, a long, heavy, straight two-edged sword,
sharp as a razor (he will allow none but leathern
scabbards) ; because, as he once said to me, keen as
his sabre was and terribly as I have seen him use it,
the sabre is too apt to disable, not to kill.' He will
take any trouble to surprise and destroy marauders.
I have known him dash many miles deep through the
enemy's advanced posts, simply to avenge by the
slaughter of a particular party some outrage that has
come to his knowledge. Yet, before Minnaroo, he
seldom drew sword or revolver but in self-defence ;
and even now he forbids, as he did from the first,
the practice of 'potting' sentries when he don't intend
an attack. But where he used to call it murder,
now he only calls it ' soldierly.' About the end of
the war, for victory or defeat, for fame or promotion,
he does not seem to care ; nay, he has refused promotion
over and over again, and though he commands
the full force of a brigade, he is only a colonel, as he
was at the outset. But no man in our service has
slain so many enemies with his own hand, no corps
has a record of slaughter to be compared with ours.
Four times my battalion has been thinned down to
some three hundred or less ; four times he has
managed to fill the ranks up again ; every desperado,
every man too fierce for ordinary discipline, every
youth too inexperienced to be content with the

VOL. in. Q

ordinary duties of a soldier comes to him ; and yet
the discipline of ours is the strictest in the service.
The man would be bold indeed, and must take his life
in his hand, who would question an order given in
that voice, or face the look in those eyes that never
lighten but when the bolt is ready. There they areas
they turned a corner and saw, in a sort of basin
enclosed by the highest ridges of the hill and thus
concealed from the observation of enemies in the
valley, the bivouac fires of a somewhat extensive
camp. As they approached the nearest of these the
young Confederate held up his hand to check his comrade's
pace. 'shark!" he said. "They would not
sing that if he were here. He hates braggadocio, or
what the Yankees call high-saluting', as you English
do."

A chorus of soldierly voices broke forth in a regimental
song, certainly open to the objection which the
officer's last words had suggested : 

Shout, for the wail affrighted !

Shout, for the North's lament !
For men through flames they lighted

To flame eternal sent !
Hurrah ! the hounds of plunder

Quail from the scourge of War ;
The Lancers' charge of thunder,

The sword of Ultramar !

Dogs ! where the father's dwelling
Blazed o'er the children's head,
Told not your comrades' yelling
How theft and murder sped ?
Through wildest storm of slaughter
 Rang out the cold stern tone : 

No flinching and no quarter ;
The Devil knows his own ! '

The flame our land that scorches

Your furthest homes shall feel,
Oft as the assassin's torches

Flash on the avenger's steel.
No soldier-grace to murder,

No ruth to arson shown 
Along that wasted border

The Devil knows his own ! *

Limbers for flight the cannon,

The horsemen break and wheel,
Where glows the red-black pennon,

Where gleams the ice-grey steel.
The rifle shakes and quavers,

As burst on trench or square
The charge that never wavers.

The points that never spare !

** Save wrack of corpses gory

Flung where the war-tides blend,
None ever told the story

Who stayed to learn the end !
What in the bellay chances

Ask those who, flying far,
Looked back upon the lances

Led on by Ultramar !

The ranks, unchecked that speed them

Through bullets, grape, and shell,
Unchecked, with him to lead them,

Would charge the gates of Hell.
Call Southern manhood hollow.

Call chivalry a weed.
When Lancers fear to follow,

Or Ultramar to lead ! "

Chapter XV.

THE BIVOUAC.

"Vengeance, deep-brooding o'er the slain,
Had locked the source of softer woe."

The song ceased somewhat abruptly as a horse's hoof-beats
were heard, and into the circle of light cast by
the great fire came a splendid powerful black stallion ;
bearing a rider who wore a uniform identical with
that of the young officer before mentioned, save that
the feathers were missing from the crest, and something
scarcely distinguishable in that light but evidently
of the common colours of the regiment, the
suggestive red and black, was fastened around the
upper part of the helmet. But the Englishman's eye,
accustomed to note with military promptitude accoutrements
and weapons rather than mere ornaments
of dress, observed the two large heavy " six-shooters"
carried one in the holster and one in the belt, the long,
straight, heavy sword belonging to a day when the
sword had to cleave steel as well as flesh and bone,
even more than the Victoria Cross, the Indian medal
and ribbon, which seemed to afford so fair a guide to
a Yankee rifle aimed at the heart. The horseman
caught sight at once of the new-comers, looked for

half a minute with wonder and eagerness in the
Englishman's face, and then riding forward frankly
held out his hand in welcome.

James ! " he said heartily. *' Of all men I know,
hardly one I should he more glad to see here. But
what in the world has brought you ? Ours is the last
camp to which curiosity should bring a traveller, and
ours the last force a neutral should accompany."

I ran the blockade to reach you, Colonel d'Ultra-
mar," replied the stranger, who had accepted the hand-clasp
with something of shyness, and when it was
disengaged raised his right to his cap, as it were by
force of habit, in military salute. " You may forget,
I do not, what I owe to you. You first acknowledged
me, a trooper in your regiment, as the gentleman I
had been ten years before. Your selection, your confidence
gave me the chance that restored me to that
rank, that won for me my commission, and afforded
me an opportunity of retrieving all errors by winning,
after you left India, a reward which," he added,
after a moment, his voice trembling with a depth of
feeling seldom shown by Englishmen, " derives its
chief value for me from the fact that you wear it also.
I have neither wife nor child ; I have resigned my
commission as Captain in Her Majesty's Service, and,
if you will have me, I come to ask leave to fight, I
don't care if it be to die, beside you."

A cloud of something more than doubt or sadness 
was it possibly of shame ?  came over the features of
the Confederate leader. But before he spoke they
had settled back into the usual haughty, cold calm
that befitted them almost as well as the kindlier,

brighter look to which the other had been accustomed.
Only the long curls  suggesting a resemblance, marked
if not striking, to the portrait of the best, noblest, and
most slandered of Scottish Cavaliers  startled an eye
accustomed to the strict uniformity of English military
usages. Yet, at a second glance, they accorded well
with other evidences whether of personal vanity or
simply of the pride in dress and personal appearance
hereditary among the old chivalry both of France and
England, and encouraged no doubt in the wearer by
the kind of foppery natural and common among young
soldiers conscious of personal advantages.

You shall share my supper," he said, leading his
guest a little apart to a spot where two or three
rocks made a sort of half-sheltered privacy ; a spot
so evidently respected that, as the Englishman observed,
throughout the evening no soldier, no officer
except on duty approached near enough to overhear
their low-toned conversation : " and we will talk over
this matter. You see, James, you don't know what
you are asking. Enter into any other regiment in
our service, I shall be glad that the Confederacy has
gained a stout arm and a brave heart ; and if you fall,
it is the fortune of war."

"A moment, Colonel," interrupted the other. "I
have brought something which I must ask your pardon
for forgetting for an instant, in my gladness to see
you again, and still more in the frank and friendly
welcome you have given to one you met last with such
an infinite distance between us ; but which to you
will be worth more than any comrade, were he fifty
times a better man than I ever was or shall be."

He drew forth as he spoke a small packet carefully
wrapped in silk and oilskin, showing the bearer's
anxious care for its security ; and took from it a
directed envelope, the white paper with its black edge
as unsoiled as when he received it from the hand
that had written the address. There was an almost
hungry eagerness in the look with which the Southern
soldier took it. He seemed about to raise it to his
lips ; it did not appear to be the presence of the
bringer that checked the impulse; but he did not
break the seal at once, rather laid it aside carefully,
-and it seemed almost reverently, as if something too
sacred for hasty touch, while he turned to renew the
conversation.

'' I thank you ; you could have brought me nothing
more precious, whatever it may contain. But understand
me, James. I dare say Captain Francis has
told you something of the character I bear, and that
my Legion bears, both in our service and with the
enemy. Nothing but the good conduct of my men on
twenty hard-fought fields would fully compensate for
that with which I am best pleased  the ruthless unsparing
vengeance we have wrought on those who have
fired our. homes and " He paused abruptly, suppressing
the bitter passion of his tone, and continued
very quietly and coldly : "On principle, I never spare
thieves or incendiaries taken red-handed, whether in
or out of uniform. But this leads to revenge, and
revenge provokes us to retaliate ; till now, as we
rarely give quarter, so we never ask or receive it. L-
don't know that they would murder prisoners of the
Legion in cold blood ; they have made none for

months. But in Louisiana, where I held a sort of

independent command, B hanged a private of

mine. I surprised one of their posts a few days
afterwards, picked out three field-orders, the highest
in rank I could catch, and left them hanging there.
I sent back one  a mere boy  to tell their General of
the reprisal, and to promise him that for every murder
of the kind I would, cost what it might, inflict a
similar threefold vengeance on the officers of highest
rank in my power. Loathsome work ; but I think ita
duty, while Lincoln commissions men that are
neither soldiers nor gentlemen, and returns our demands
for enquiry or redress with insult. Southern
opinion is with me, I think, but our Government
and Head-quarters won't act ; and now we are getting
the worst of it, and far more Confederate prisoners
are in their hands than Federals in ours ; besides
which, I am too near one whom I dare not disobey to
venture on making reprisals on my own account."

'swell," replied the Englishman, lightly, "all I
have to care then is that, wounded or not, I don't fall
alive into their hands. What do you expect if yoit>
do?"

I? " said the Colonel, drawing a tiny quill from
the lining of his collar. " Li the time of uttermost
danger  when we surrendered at the Residency  I
gave this to one of those ladies for whose fate we, who
looked forward so cheerfully to our own, were in such
terror. She returned it to me on board the Ava. It
will save me as effectually from Federal vengeance as
it might "

It seemed as if he could not even speak of such a
possibility in connection with her he so revered.

Sleep, then, if you can," he added, after a few
moments' pause. *' You may be awakened very soon
and suddenly. My scouts are out at infinite peril
closely watching the march of yonder felons, and,
cost what it may, I will strike a blow if there be any
chance."

When left alone, the Confederate officer unfolded
very slowly, and as it seemed half-apprehensively, the
packet left with him. It contained only a single sheet
of letter-paper, somewhat closely written, but with this
a little round tablet of the thinnest ivory, carefully
enfolded in tissue paper and gold leaf ; on which he
gazed long, fondly, eagerly before, drawing from his
breast a locket in which already a tress of colour
matching those of the portrait was folded, he secured
the tiny miniature therein, and returned the locket
to its hiding-place. The letter, dated nearly three
months ago, ran as follows :  

Alice to Lionel.

"I hope, I trust, Lionel, that this may reach you
safely by the hands of a former comrade, who, through
Sir Philip Vane, asks 'the best recommendation he
can carry to you.' He wears a better on his breast ;
the same Indian medal and Cross of Valour which,
they say, make yours the mark of so many rifles. I
must not beg you to be less daring ; I am too proud of
your fame ; yet  may I not remind you that it is not
only your life you take in your hand so often ? If you
really think ' you can be spared,' if you forget the
many lives over which your loss would cast a lasting
shadow, remember to what remorse and misery you

leave me, if you fall in a war in which, but for me,
you would never have engaged; if, in that dreadful
irreparable loneliness, I am to feel that I have driven
you on your death ; if all who love me for your sake,
even Amy, are forced to think of me less as your
betrothed than your murderess. Do you think I can
ever forget thy we are parted, why you are in peril ?
The thought makes my punishment almost greater
than I can bear. I wake by night, again and again,
to think with a start of terror what news the day may
bring. The morning hours before the papers reach
us are terrible in their long suspense ; but when they
come in I cannot open them : I can only watch Penrith's
or Amy's face to read there the tidings I dare
not ask. Amy is tenderness itself, is all your sister
can be to your betrothed ; she speaks and looks as if
my anxiety deserved only the deepest, gentlest pity ;
but I feel that she can no more really forget  than I.
"My only consolation comes from your own considerate
saying  from the remembrance that you
thought life, and more than life, a cheap price for the
Providential mercy that sent you to Minnaroo in the
hour of need ; and of this consolation their presence
daily reminds me. Eva is my chief comfort ; the
more that she is so constant a care. What seemed at
first only the shyness that shrinks from self-expression
was, I found, the lost, bewildered feeling of one who
missed the dearer half of herself. Those two seem
never to have been apart by night or day : and it is
strange to see how Eva can only think, feel, wish at
second hand ;  Florence would think, Florence would
like.' Missing that support, she clings to me as even

Helen giver did. From her I gather much of your
life fit Minnaroo, and am glad to feel that I had not
made it wholly desolate. They speak of you constantly,
so frankly and naturally, with a simple
sisterly affection too unconscious for gratitude, because
it takes your utmost kindness and care for granted.
Only Eugenie lets fall now and then a word that
sounds as if she ought not to have shared that kindness
: yet I should say she had been a favourite ; the
spoilt child ' of your household in its earlier, happier
days ? For the last two years it seems that they have
scarcely seen you, save for a flying visit once or twice,
but when you were disabled and suffering so severely
after the Kentuckian campaign. This may explain
why she is hardly like your description ; quiet, self-reliant,
sensible rather than spirited ; considerate and
rather dutiful than grateful to Amy, with me somewhat
reserved and distant. It pains me a little that
she never speaks and will hardly let Eose speak of
Florence, for I know from Amy that she feels
acutely ; is longing, pining for news of the sister they
all love so dearly, who has evidently been so much to
their orphan girlhood.

I need not say how we all look and long for the
tidings so strangely delayed. My letter must have
shown only too plainly how anxiously I expect your
reply, though I try to repress an impatience, a fear,
which wrong you. I know it is, can be no neglect, no
unkindness of yours ; you would feel too deeply for 
for all of us. We hear that many vessels have been
captured lately, and that many of your ports are in
Northern hands. But it is hard never to have heard

except that once. My uncle obtained a private pledge
from Washington that none of the girls should be

detained in any case ; but Lord L says it would

be in vain to ask that your letters should be forwarded.
Northern journals report you in the field again  that
is all we know. But something must have gone
wrong. Surely, if our letters arrived in time, before
now Florence herself. . . ."

Thus far, if it trembled a little in the last few lines,
Alice's handwriting was clear, distinct, even, beautiful
as ever ; beautiful and even as beseemed that equable
temper, that calm steady self-command he so deeply
admired, and the womanly dignity as remarkable in
her demeanour as her stainless loyalty, her feminine
sweetness. But here she had been interrupted : haste,
agitation, trouble, perhaps a certain conflict of feeling,
were not less evident in the occasional wavering, the
slightly uneven lines, the two or three blots, the
blurred letters that almost looked as if tears had
stained the paper, which deformed from this point
to the close the beauty of the regular, rounded,
exquisitely formed characters.

*' So far I had written when the brief, formal
announcements in the Charleston Mercury reached
us, followed by your note from the camp. I cannot
tell you how I have grieved, have cried over her fate ;
how I feel that I should have been with you to share,
if I could not comfort, your terrible sorrow. Of her
sisters' anguish I can say nothing but this  it proves
what she must have been to them, and helps me to
understand what you must suffer. Do not think I
regret what you have given her, or doubt that you

did well. Florence deserved all that could honour
her memory, all that could comfort the last hours
of a life so beautiful, so short, so fearfully troubled.
Do not take amiss what I must add. You know I
shall be sorry to hurt or grieve you; but I should
be false if I let you think that this is all I feel, and 
Lionel, I cannot bear that you should always, as I
fear you always have done, so overrate me, fancy me
so much nobler than I am. I cannot put aside your
words as mere lover's flattery ; I think you would not
believe me capable of enjoying flattery, if you could
stoop to be insincere. So I had rather, even if it hurt
you as well as lower me in your eyes, that you should
know what I am half ashamed to own. It is not that
I would have denied to Florence the affection you
must have given her as long as she had lived, or
the place she must now hold in your memory. But
do not blame me too much for wishing that* she
had not had so clear, so terrible a right to the name
that I could not bear to give to any other. Is it not
natural ? Can it ever be quite so much my own as
if it had not been first given to her, and so given that
it must always remind us of her ? Forgive me ; I
can grudge nothing to her of whom Eugenie said,
Lady Penrith, if you ever see your brother again,
it will be because Florence went back.' I do not,
I never will ask anything that it might pain you to
tell, even to me. Let me believe, if possible, that
to your heart as to mine our engagement has never
been broken ; that I have never lost the right I can
never bear to forego to write myself ever, come what
may, your own  Alice."

Chapter XVI.

IN THE VALLEY.

"Sound, I sap, the charge at venture;
'Tis not naked steel we fear.
Better perish in the melee

Than be shot like driven deer."

A STRONG brigade of Federal cavalry were moving,
through the closing twilight which mingled with the
rays of the rising moon, along the upjoer part of the
Shenandoah Valley. The main body was many miles
to their front ; but, no strong Confederate force being
supposed to threaten the flank of the ravaging army,
this rear-guard was thought powerful enough to
ensure its own safety. Thus, observing the usual
precautions, it moved without uneasiness, though the
delays incident to the duties of its position were likely
to throw it every hour further and further from its
comrades, of whose operations its leaders saw the
traces at almost every mile.

**I don't like this work," said the commander to
a young officer who rode beside him. " Eight enough
to carry off whatever can be useful to ourselves, to
destroy whatever might afford supplies to the enemy.
But burning defenceless houses, driving women and
children from their homes by the score, is mere

wanton cruelty; and such utter vandalism as the
destruction of colleges, college libraries, public
archives, outrages all the laws of civilized warfare
and of common sense."

You need hardly be so tender for rebels. General,"
returned the other. * England was not very scrupulous
in putting down the Indian Mutiny, nor, if report
speak true, very lenient in her dealings with your
own countrymen some seventy years ago."

"Rebels ? Well, that is your affair as an American,
rather than mine as a soldier of fortune. But it
seems to me that nearly every man on both sides
fights for his own State ; and look here, didn't you
threaten to secede yourselves, to get rid of that
infernal scandal, the Fugitive Slave Law ? And
didn't Virginia reserve the right to secede when she
joined the Union ? If so, by what law are her
citizens rebels ? Could not she hang them for high
treason if they fought against her ? At any rate we
cannot decently claim the right to treat as rebels,
80 far at least as the rules of war are concerned,
those from whom we constantly receive flags of truce,
and with whom till lately we conducted regular exchanges.
And if Davis chose to order reprisals, how
should we feel then ? "

"They have been savage enough sometimes,"
returned the other, *' if all tales are true. The
massacre at Minnaroo was worse than anything we
have done."

*they report," returned the Irish officer, a strong,
tall, erect, soldierly man of middle age, wearing the
insignia of a Brigadier General and one or two Orders

which told of service under more Sovereigns than
one, of distinction earned in more than one quarter
of the globe ; ' they report that d'Ultramar is not far
from us now. If our scouts told us truly, the red
and black facings were seen among the dead in the
last skirmish ; and Winthrop told me in confidence
that Sheridan had received information that d'Ultra-
mar had been sent in this direction with his command."


'rand you have kept it from our men? Well, you
may be right ; the utter recklessness of their chief,
the ferocious fury of the men, picked, they say, from
half the Confederacy as the most vindictive or the
most desperate spirits of the South, have scared ours
not a little. Our soldiers will face the ordinary
dangers of battle ; but they don't like the idea of an
enemy who neither gives nor takes quarter. I was
present when, in one of the skirmishes on the line of
the Capitan, after the Rebels had made one of their
raids into our rear, we cut to pieces a troop of the
Legion that were surprised and intercepted in their
retreat. They fought literally like devils. They got
their backs against the steep, wall-like bank of a
stream, having dismounted when they saw that escape
was impossible. They lined the bank at the bottom
of the slope on our side, and went on firing into us,
as if their only thought was to kill us, and being
killed of no consequence whatever. Half of them had
been shot before we came within pistol range, and
nearly all their ammunition was exhausted. But
when we closed upon the remainder, ten to one, they
stood and fought with clubbed carbine, lance, or sabre.

man by man. One fellow, with one leg broken and
the other disabled by a flesh-wound, sat deliberately
tiring into us with his revolver, and when we closed
upon him cut at our knees, fighting like a frantic
badger. Another, lying helpless and half senseless on
the ground as our men trod over him, contrived to
raise himself and drive the end of his broken lance
into the bowels of an officer, picking him out deliberately;
and not one, however badly wounded, asked
quarter, or even spared to make his death certain by
shooting and stabbing to the last."

"And," said another of the General's immediate
staff, who had hitherto been listening in silence,

*' when they caught half our convoy at they had

hemmed it in front and rear, right and left, so that
none could escape, and they cut down not only the
escort but the very drivers and commissaries. In
Louisiana it was reported that a price, ten thousand
dollars they said, had been put on their Colonel's
head. If it were true I suppose the Government rebuked

it, for B never avowed it. But it cost us dear.

D'Ultramar heard of it  he is splendidly served by
scouts and spies  and one day a negro told Colonel
Mather, of the 160th Massachusetts, that he could
guide him to cut off the rebel Colonel and a squadron
of his Legion. Mather was much wronged if he did
not care as much for money as for fame or service.
He followed the guide with his whole regiment, taking,
however, the precautions any man of sense would do
in front of such an enemy. He came upon the
squadron as he expected. They were overpowered
and fled at once, and he pursued at full speed for

VOL. III. K

many miles. D' Ultramar was really there ; and if
he had set a trap, one would have thought he would
not make himself part of a bait sure in any event to
be so terribly mauled. Suddenly Mather found himself
in an open space, some half-mile square, surrounded
by swamps and impassable streams and
jungles. Then the fugitives turned, and two more
squadrons dashed out in front to support them ; a fire
being poured in at the same time from every bunch of
reeds, every tree, every bit of ground that could give
cover to a single man. About one-fourth of the
regiment cut their way out by the route by which
they had entered ; even that was all but effectually
closed : the rest perished to a man."

One has heard," said the other officer, '' a dozen
tales like that; and certainly. General, if you want
to keep ours on the alert you should tell them who is
near. The very name of that Legion  ugly as it
is, it is pretty well deserved  would keep the sleepiest
patrol's eyes and ears open."

The conversation was interrupted, a horseman from
the advanced party riding at full speed up to the
General.

"The enemy are in front. General, about a mile
forward, and in force."

*' What force ? " asked his commander, calmly.

Cavalry ; perhaps twelve hundred. I was to tell
you, General, that they seem to know of our approach,
and were wheeling across the road with their right
upon the river  and there is no ford upon this side of
them  about half a mile beyond yonder farm which is
still burning."

A very few minutes sufficed to form the whole of
the Federal rear-guard in line. Sweeping round
some rough wooded ground, immediately between
their left and the bank of the Shenandoah, which
concealed from their sight all but the smoke of the
conflagration, they came at once in sight of the
blazing dwelling and offices, some two hundred yards
to their right front ; and of a line of horsemen about
as far to the northward of the scene of havoc, on whose
forms, chargers, and equipments the bright light fell
full and clear, relieving them signally against the
darkness behind. All recognized the red and black
facings on the grey ground of the uniforms, and, a
little in front of the line and carried beside a single
horseman  who sat erect and motionless on a somewhat
restless black charger, nearly a hand higher
than any of those behind him  the Confederate flag ;
a silken banner unusually large and perfect, .with
the azure saltire, its gleaming silver stars and silver
border, on the crimson ground, and surrounding
all a significant broad edging of black crape. A
strange hoarse sound, half perhaps murmur of
soldierly interest in encountering a famous and formidable
enemy, half cry of panic, ran along the
Federal front 

The Devil's Own ! The Devil's Own ! "
"Steady," cried their chief. "Remember, they
cannot charge through our fire. There is no time to
dismount," he muttered to the nearest officer; "we
must fire from horseback. Unsling your rifles ; take
good aim. By George ! "  this to himself  " they ivill
charge ! Second rank, reserve your fire. Front

rank," as the enemy dashed forward at a rapid pace
but preserving their dressing with wonderful perfection
on the smooth unbroken turf, "front rank, fire !"

The Confederates, exposed to the full effect of a
volley fired with disciplined steadiness, were almost
shaken. Their ranks were broken up by the fall of
men, the floundering of wounded horses, the breaking
away of many chargers sharply reined to right or
left, or struck with the spur by their reeling or unconscious
riders. For a moment it seemed that they
would waver, would halt, and lose the whole advantage
of that impetus to gain which they had submitted to
receive, without anticipating or returning, the discharge.
But their leader's voice rang out clear and
calm, heard from end to end of either line 

Now, men, don't break your pace ; follow me
steadily. Charge ! "

With that half-conscious irresistible habit of
obedience to command and example which it is the
especial purpose and effect of discipline to impress
upon the soldier, which gives to disciplined troops
their almost incalculable advantage, the Confederates
obeyed; and broke with the full force of that tremendous
gallop upon the halted line of their opponents.
The Federal Chief had trusted, reasonably
enough, to the effect of the fire, which had emptied at
least one-fifth of the enemy's saddles. Few troops
can stand such a shock ; but on the other hand none,,
mounted or dismounted, could possibly resist the
momentum of that furious charge when once their
fire had failed to break it. Almost every man of the
first Federal rank went down, pierced by the lance, or

sent horse and all to the ground by the mere collision.
Sabres were drawn and blows exchanged in another
moment in personal conflict with the horsemen of the
second rank, who in the confusion had delivered their
volley almost without effect, and were behind-hand,
though but by some ten seconds, it might be, in drawing
the swords they had seldom had occasion to use.
Driven back into this line, the Federal General found
himself individually confronted with him who had
led the attack. A thoroughly brave man and practised
soldier, he was nevertheless conscious at once of the
advantage his assailant derived from the height of his
steed and the length and weight of his weapon, and
endeavoured to close and thrust at the heart. He
might have prevailed, might at any rate have held his
own till the defeat or flight of those around him
brought upon him more than one antagonist, but that,
suddenly dropping his rein on the neck of his very
steed, which stood at once perfectly still with down-bent
head  the position safest for himself and most
convenient to his rider  the Confederate Colonel drew
his revolver with the left hand as he parried the sabre
with the other. Shot through the brain, the General
fell at once and heavily to the ground. His fall completed
the discouragement of his men ; and the Confederate
leader had opportunity to deal but a few
heavy blows to right and left before the second
rank was as utterly broken and shattered as the first,
though with less loss of life. The victors, forbidden to
pursue, made short work of such as remained within
their reach ; and more than half the vanquished were
left for dead. Before ten minutes had elapsed from

the first fire the work was done ; the Confederate hne
terribly thinned, was re-formed, those of then* wounded
who could sit in the saddle had been remounted, and
the rest were carried in advance, each by four dismounted
comrades, while the force wheeled and fell
back, as quickly as this incumbrance permitted,
towards the mountains dimly visible in the moonlight

That comes," said Lionel to his new volunteer,
who rode beside him, " of burning, plundering, and
outrage. But for those I should hardly have received
the exact, detailed information that has kept me aware
for many days of every movement of the enemy ;
that enabled me to judge exactly where this rearguard
would be found, how strong it was, and how far
from the main body. Happily atrocities of this kind
repay themselves in a measure, making every concomitant,
every woman and child in an invaded
district not merely an enemy but a spy, willing to
risk, at need to give, life for vengeance. But such
blows must be calculated very closely, and dealt very
quickly, against such an enemy as Sheridan. If those
men could have stood for two hours, the chances are
that before we got away we should have had a whole
division on our rear."

The Confederate leader did not seem, to his companion's
practised observation, very certain that this
might not yet happen. His precautions indicated
extraordinary vigilance ; and at last, as they neared
the mountains, he rode himself to visit the party
guarding the left rear, the point nearest the enemy
He had not ridden five minutes with the half-troop oui
duty in this quarter when his quick, ever-attentive ear

caught the sounds of a horse's feet. *' One, and at
full gallop," he said to the Lieutenant beside him.
In another minute the stranger came within the
distance at which in the moonlight a single figure
could be distinguished ; and, with an exclamation of
great surprise, the Colonel rode forward to meet a
young girl, almost a child, boundless, habitless, and
riding as he noted an unsaddled steed, half horse,
half pony. She reined up promptly, and ordering his
men to proceed. Colonel d'Ultramar rode by her side
a little "in their rear.

"Very bravely and kindly done. Miss Everett," he
said. " I am glad to see you, whatever news you
bring ; it shows that my fears when you returned
before Averse exaggerated."

The girl's face flushed painfully, and her lips set
closely over the clenched teeth.

*' I paid for it," she said. "But see here. Colonel.
General Sheridan has heard the fate of his rearguard.
He will turn back upon you ; the order was
given to start at the earliest twilight, and they know
where your camp was last night."

Thanks," he answered. " Is that all ? "

All I know ; but I think he sent an orderly off to
the eastward."

I suppose, then, there is no enemy between us
and their head-quarters, except fugitives of the brigade
we shattered this evening?"

I met none, and I don't think there are any."

He halted his men, giving them orders that would
bring them nearer to the main body, which they
were to rejoin at a given point, directed a patrol to

the rear with minute instructions, and then turned
again to his young companion.

"You must not go back this time; it is too dangerous.
They would hardly hang a girl, but you area
spy by their law."

I don't mean to go back," she answered, in a
tone whose bitterness of passion, not of fear, he recognized
at once.

'then," he said, "I must send you with our
wounded to . For their sake, I mean to be pursued.
They must take a new direction; and take
this, you will need it, and you have earned it nobly."

He held out his iwrtcmonnaie, evidently not very
well stocked, as he spoke. The girl, however, refused
it peremptorily but courteously.

No, Colonel. No Virginian would refuse me
shelter, or take money for giving it. But "  hesitating
a little  '' if you think I have served you well,
will you do me one favour ? "

*' Any that I can. Miss Everett. You have deserved
well not only of our force but of the Confederacy ; and
I will take care, whether I survive the night or not,
that the President is made aware of it."

"No," she said, " I beg you never to mention my
name. I could not bear "  she checked herself.
"But "

"Well, what is it I can do for you ? Kemember, I
owe it you, whatever it cost."

You will promise not to name me ? Well, then,
. . you know General Venn, the renegade Kentuckian
? He commands a brigade of infantry attached
to Sheridan's force. If you have the chance,
don't make him prisoner ; kill him."

The soldier whose hand had never spared in battle,
whose merciless vengeance was a bye-word with both
armies, started at the request, and looked closely
into his young companion's face. Whatever it was
that he read there by the doubtful light, caused him
in natural courtesy to avert his eyes as he answered,
quietly and simply 

I will try. If he comes under my own hand, or
under the rifles of my men, I will do my best to
silence him for ever. That is your wish ? "

She bent her head in assent, and as by this time
they had rejoined the main body of his force, the
Confederate leader escorted her to the head of those
who were charged to convey the wounded to a place of
safety, in a direction remote from that pursued by the
Legion ; and commended her especially to the care of
the officer in command, but, as the latter observed,
without naming her. 

The faintest twilight was perceptible in the East
as the Confederate cavalry entered a long winding
pass through the Blue Eidge Mountains, which once
traversed in safety would bring them within easy
reach of support ; beyond whose further entrance
they were not very likely to be pursued. The Colonel,
riding a little in front of his advanced guard, reconnoitring
in person as under perilous circumstances
he always chose to do, was surprised to see a boy not
more than twelve years old start up from the shelter
afforded by a rock. He had so placed himself that
the utmost vigilance of a careful patrol would probably
have failed to observe him.

Are you," he asked, " one of the Devil's Own ? "

''I command," Lionel replied, "the force to which
our enemies give that name."

Then," said the boy, "listen a minute, and don't
let your men go on."

Halt ! " cried the Colonel. " Side back, Johnson,
and tell Pereiro to halt the main body. Now, what
is it ? "

You know Randall's Farm ? He is my father.
He sent me to warn you the enemy came there about
two hours ago, about twelve hundred infantry and
eight guns. They are lying in wait for you."

"Trapped!" murmured the soldier to himself.
We can't turn back. Before we were well in the
Valley we should have Sheridan upon us ; and to

break through Who commands ? "

"General Venn," replied the boy. "But listen,
Colonel. My father told me that, if you will give
him a signal, he will set fire to the whole place, barns,
stacks, house and all. That will throw them into
confusion, and you may breath through them."

Offered like a Virginian ! Do you know how to
give him the signal ?
"Yes."

"Very well. Now tell me, is there any path by
which a part of our force could come upon their flank
or rear any way either for cavalry or infantry ? You
see, I want to hide them for a little while, so that they
shall strike an unexpected blow from another direction
at the same moment that we charge in front. Half
an hour before we do that, the torch should be

lighted."

I think I understand," the child replied. "Half

a mile above the farm there is a ridge, very roughs
and behind which I could hide a hundred men conveniently.
It don't show much, don't look like a
hiding-place from below ; and the path from here is
very bad, but I have ridden it and walked it too'*

*' Good. Now you know if they catch you "

** They'll hang me," said the boy. " All right."

* Well, guide there the men I will send with you.
When you get there, make the signal to your father
in your own way. When we see the flames break
out, we shall attack. How far from the house is the
last turn that will conceal us ? "

"Not quite a quarter of a mile," answered the
intelligent and thoughtful child. " But they are
sure to have a post there."

Yes ; I don't mind that. I don't reckon on a
surprise, but I want to know how far we must ride
through their fire." 

He rode back to his men and detached a troop
to follow the guidance of the child, who rode on their
leader's saddle ; then moved forward slowly' with the
remainder of his force in three divisions. His orders
had been given minutely and with the fullest recollection
of ground he had previously traversed. Just
before sunrise a brilliant blaze shot up a couple of
miles in their front.

That is our signal ! Trot ! "

The first squadrons moved forward quickly, closely
followed by the others till they came in sight of the
enemy's outposts. The picket, not intended to hold
the position, and desperately alarmed by the unexpected
conflagration which had thrown their comrades

into no little confusion, broke and ran for their
lives. The Confederate advance wheeled round the
corner, formed at once in line, and saw straight
before them a long line of rifles, crowded, however,
into some confusion by the conflagration which raged
on their left ; one blaze of light, extending, as it
seemed at a hasty glance, over some six acres, and
rendering the position of any troops posted in that
quarter untenable. The Confederate leader looked
for the guns, but failed to see them till, as he gave
the signal to charge, the hastily formed infantry
instead of firing broke to right and left, disclosing the
battery in their immediate rear.

*' I have done right, then," thought the Colonel.
*' Men, never mind the slaughter. Charge and follow
me ! "

They dashed forward with a promptitude and
rapidity, unchecked by the sight of the guns, which
the enemy had not anticipated. A tremendous
volley from eight pieces tore through their ranks and
veiled the scene in smoke, hiding the effect of the
discharge from the gunners themselves.

Quick, load again ! " cried the artillery officer.
*' Send 'em all to the Devil before they can rally."

'islay and spare none ! the Devil knows his own ! "
was the startling answer, as through the veil of smoke,
to the utter astonishment and consternation of those
who had expected to stop the charge by terror if not
by actual slaughter, the well-known black charger of
the Confederate leader dashed into their midst,
followed by some threescore of his men. Half the
gunners were cut down before they could recover

themselves ; the others fought desperately. Had
they run, they would for once have done more wisely,
the close intermingling of friend and foe hindering
the fire of the infantry on either flank. Scores of
these, however, rushed in to partake in the hand-to-hand
conflict, and the small body of Confederates
were surrounded and outnumbered by five to one.
They fought with their usual desperate reckless fire
and fierceness, rallying around their leader, who,
dropping as was his wont at such close quarters the
reins on his horse's neck, the revolver in his left hand,
the sword in his right, had piled around him a ghastly
heap of dead. One-third of their number were dismounted
and disabled before they became aware that
the enemy's courage was failing, the force of the
attack slackening. The second and third squadrons
had charged, as directed, upon the infantry to either
side of the battery; and the Federals on the left,
afraid of being driven back into the flames, fired but
one ill-aimed volley and then fled in confusion.
Their more numerous comrades on the right fired
more steadily and with terrible effect, and then stood
firm with the bayonet. But the right squadron of the
Confederates  wheeling on its left and, having once
scattered the force opposed to it, sparing to pursue
them  charged on the rear of the wing that still held
its ground ; at the same time that the detachment
in ambush swept down, well guided through the
flames by the youthful scout, upon the now uncovered
flank of the battery. At their Captain's command
two-thirds of them dismounted, advanced with loaded
carbines into the very thick of the strife, and finally

ended the resistance at that pont by a volley fired
within a score of yards into the rear of the defenders.
Then those Federal soldiers who had still stood fast
found their position utterly hopeless. Those on the
extreme right fled and scattered on the hillside; the
rest were cut down almost to a man. As the Confederate
Colonel extricated himself from the vielce
now almost ended, he saw among the fugitives a
mounted officer, in whom he guessed at once the
General so specially commended to his attention.
Turning to a gaunt Texan beside him, whose sword's
edge was broken, bent and notched till useless, who
held but a broken half of his lance, but who carried
a large coil of leather thong at his saddle-bow, he
said : ** Follow me, we'll catch that General."

The runaway, however, had gained such a start
that on the rough ground Lionel's powerful stallion,
fatigued by the long night's work, could not overtake
him. Motioning with a silent gesture to the Texan,
the latter, pressing forward to the uttermost, flung his
lasso ; and in another instant the fugitive, half
throttled, was hurled from his saddle and dragged
over stones and through mire to the feet of the
Confederate Colonel ; who, snatching his comrade's
broken lance, sprang down and held it at the throat
of the fallen man. At the same moment, '' Brought
him in, Colonel d'Ultramar," said the Texan, saluting.

The captive struggled . to disengage the noose
round his throat as the victorious chief sprang to the
ground. He had risen to his knees and, catching the
name, cried, " Quarter, mercy. Colonel d'Ultramar !
My name is Venn ; you remember my nieces "

With the broken butt of the lance Lionel struck
the suppliant in the mouth, a blow that levelled him
with the ground, and set his heel heavily on his
throat.

"Dare you appeal to that memory, miser and
dastard? For that reason alone I would rid the
earth of such a cur. But there is another." As he
spoke he held the lance point within six inches of the
doomed man's eye. "1 promised a young lady, you
can guess whom, if I ever met with you to deal with
you  thus."

He paused long enough to see a flush of shame
struggling with the pallid terror of the victim's face,
to let him taste the full bitterness of death, and then
drove the point steadily and heavily home into the
brain. In another moment the trumpet sounded to
mount and re-form, and a patrol galloped in from
the rear. 

Sheridan's advanced guard are ascending the hill
at the other end of the pass. Colonel."

I thought so. We have not a moment to lose.
Mr. Randall," to the farmer ; " catch horses for yourself
and your boy, and come with us. You must not
stay. Men, help all who can ride into their saddles ;
we can do nothing for the rest."

A look of bitter intense pain came over the stern
cold face as he spoke ; and James, watching him
linger to the last, catching the look of longing regret
he cast back upon the wounded comrades he was
compelled to abandon, understood the strong affection
that mingled with the awe and admiration their
young commander's courage, skill, and stern discipline

had inspired among his followers. Of nearly twelve
hundred men who shared the charge that scattered
the Federal rear-guard the night before, scarce two-thirds
followed the colours down the Eastward slope
of the Blue Eidge ; and of these no small proportion
were so wounded that only by a desperate effort, in
many cases only by the aid of their comrades, could
they keep the saddle.

CHAPTEK XVII.

MYSTERY.

"Which forerun
The darkness of that battle in the West,
Where all of high and holy dies away."

It was the morning of the 7th April, 1865, the morning
of her twenty-fifth birthday ; her chamber in Penrith
Castle, looking to the West, was still almost dark, as
Alice Kavanagh woke with a start, and sitting up,
gazed around her with a look as if seeking something
she at once longed and feared to behold. A gentle
touch called her attention to the companion who lay
beside her, and had apparently awakened almost at
the same moment as herself. Eva, of whom she had
taken the same close, personal, tender charge that
Lionel had asked for one who could hardly have
needed it more, was trembling with an evident agitation
for which even a dream as vivid as her own had
been would scarcely, thought Alice, account ; and
the habit of protection, the desire of calming Eva,
diverted her mind for the moment from the idea,
whatever it was, that had so disturbed herself. She
noticed  it was a very trifle, but she observed it with

VOL. III. s

a sort of shudder  that her companion's arm, as the
momentary touch was timidly withdrawn, lay outside
the soft down quilt that covered them, as if its
warmth on that mild morning had been excessive.

"Alice!" the young girl almost gasped. "Oh
dear ! I dreamt . . . was it a dream ? it was so
clear, so real. Did you touch me, my hand, before
I touched you ? "

I think not," the elder lady answered, soothingly.
I was wakened myself by a vivid and rather painful
dream."

"Ah, then, it was so ! " Eva said with a tremulous
sigh. " Miss Kavanagh  Alice  you dreamt . . .
was it not the same ? "

Not at all likely," Alice answered, trying to speak
with a composure and levity she did not feel. "What
was it, Eva? "

"He," faltered the younger girl, looking up into
her companion's face and reading there the expression
that belied her assumed indifference,  " Colonel
d'Ultramar, I mean. You have seen him ? " as Alice
shivered and turned pale at a name that might more
naturally have called the colour into her cheeks.

Yes," she said at last, taking Eva's hand in hers.
"I did. Don't be frightened; it was natural we
should both dream of him. You could not but think
of one you knew so well, had so much reason to like,
at such a time as this. And for me "

But it was no dream : we should not have-dreamed
alike. Tell me yours . . . only . I saw
so little ; but you were both standing beside me, and
he stooped and kissed my hand, and that woke me."

Alice's face grew graver but perhaps calmer as she
listened.

"It is strange. Then I suppose it was something
more than a mere dream. Well, Eva, I thought that
I turned suddenly ; I was conscious, as we seldom are
in sleep, where I was and that you lay beside me ; and
looking up I saw him standing by the mantelpiece,
close by yonder crucifix of yours and his own
miniature. I noticed even the uniform you have so
often described ; but, as if the coat were parted, I
saw under it a gleam like that of steel or silver."

Ah ! " said Eva, with something between a
shudder and a sob, ''he and many of his men wear
a breastplate or shirt of mail. They are laughed at
for it ; but he said his horsemen were meant for close
fighting, not for firing at a distance. You would not
know that ; that shows sou it was real."

*' I am not sure," Alice answered. '' You may have
told me of it before, though I did not think what it
was. Well, all was so vivid that I was startled at
first, and," she added, with a faint shadow of a smile,
shocked almost, as if he had no business there.
But in a moment I was standing beside him ; and, as
you say, he came forward and kissed your hand,
looking up at me as he did so, as if I might . It
reminded me of something that happened in India.
Then we passed into the next room, and stood
together, looking at your sisters. I felt that I had led
him there to take leave of ' the children ' ; and that
Eugenie would be so grieved not to have seen him.
Suddenly I heard a trumpet or bugle sound, once ; a
clear distinct call. I did not know what it meant -

but I felt that it was his own, and that he heard
and understood it. I said, ' Kiss them, and go ; you
will be late.' But he turned to me instead, and . . .
Somehow the whole scene was so real, so present,
so clear to me that I was startled, thinking of the
place and time and . . . and I shrank back for a
moment. I just saw the look  such bitter pain,
such sad, reproachful resignation  in his countenance
; and then . he was gone ; and I heard, on
the turf of the park, the sound of a horse's hoofs at
full gallop."

*rit was no dream," Eva said, emphatically. "I
saw him just as you saw him ; I felt the touch of his
lips on my hand, and that startled me into waking ;
and you were standing beside him just as you say.
Alice, do you remember your dress ? "

Alice half smiled, half coloured. '' Not in the
least ; it was not likely ; except at the last moment.
Then I thought I must be  but I never saw or noticed
it."

"You were in black," murmured Eva; "in crape.
I observed that ; and "

Her overstrained feelings relieved themselves in a
passionate outburst of tears. It might have been
well for Alice, far stronger but far more sorely tried,
and almost as deeply impressed by what she struggled
to explain as mere coincidence or dismiss as superstition,
if she could have found a similar relief. She was
pale, trembling, as she came down unusually late to
the breakfast table where, fortunately for her self-command,
only the family were gathered ; and Amy
observed, with a painful feeling for which she could

not account to herself, that on this day  an epoch
of some natural interest in her life  Alice wore not
actual mourning, but a black dress scarcely less
sombre than those which the three sisters had not
yet discarded, and had laid aside every ornament but
one. That one conveyed no shade of relief to Amy's
mysterious discomfort. It was a ring which, as one
of the few cherished heirlooms retained by a family
so often ruined and plundered, she had herself
transferred to her brother's betrothed ; telling Alice,
as she placed it on her finger, that it had been for
generations the "engagement ring" of the brides of
the Darcies of Ulswater. It was a strange one ; a
hoop of six large choice pearls, with a black one of
exceptional magnificence in the centre. To-day it
reminded Amy that Alice was the seventh lady who
had worn it, and wore it as the gift of the last heir
of the line ; and she noticed the coincidence with the
strange thrill that is excited by an " evil omen."

But intimate as was their relation, close and dear
friends as they had been ever since Amy's marriage,
Alice was not one to be easily or lightly questioned
where her feelings were involved; and it was from
Eva, despite a half-promise to preserve her companion's
confidence, that Lady Penrith learnt the
strange coincidence of the dreams, and the painful
significance attached to it by both. It impressed her
more than she would have liked to own; the more
so that she shrank from communicating it to her
husband, whose cool practical sense would have given
it some mere physical interpretation not wholly
agreeable to her feelings. She noticed with earnest

compassionate interest the efforts that Alice made to-seem
cheerful throughout the day ; which would have
made greater calls on her energy and spirits but that,
in the extremely precarious situation of him to whom
she was betrothed  a betrothal which notwithstanding,
or perhaps in consequence of, his objection
she had allowed to become generally known  it had
been arranged that all festivity, all presence of
strangers should be avoided.

The family gathered in the evening in Amy's boudoir.
Eugenie and Eose, from whom the painful secret had
been kept, had at her request seated themselves at
the piano; for Amy felt that music might conceal
from themselves that shrinking from conversation
which  natural as it was to the occasion and to the
anxiety that weighed more or less heavily on all 
the effort to talk would only render more apparent.
Lacking Eva's sweet voice, the younger girls naturally
turned to the Confederate war-songs in which they
felt a patriotic pride and sympathy; and presently,
after a whisper to her sister, Eugenie turned round.

You will like this, perhaps. Lady Penrith. It was
a favourite with Colonel d' Ultramar ; I fancy it was
his own, though he would never admit it."

His often-routed Roundhead boors when Cromwell strove to bring
To face the gallant gentlemen who fought for Church and King,
The law that nerved the Puritan to conquer or to die
Was ' put your trust in God, my lads, and keep your powder dry.'

Soon learned Prince Rupert's chivalry the value of the spell ;
'Twas proved where Londonderry fought  'twas felt when Limerick

fell.
And never soldiers' hearts or thews have failed a chief whose eye
Avouched at need his trust in God, and kept the powder dry.

Scoffers, who ne'er faced gleam of steel, nor bent the knees in
prayer,
May laugh to scorn the soldier-trust belied by soldier-care.
But ne'er did veteran chief of men the worth of faith decry,
Nor ever leader trusted God but kept the powder dry.

Who honours Nature's Lord reveres the law through Nature given,
That human mind by human might works out the ends of Heaven.
Through man the God of Sinai spoke ; as Man He came to die ;
And whoso trusts the Lord of Hosts will keep the powder dry.

*' ' Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God ; ' so answered He who
held
The powers of Nature in His hand : that word the Tempter quelled.
Let fanatic or charlatan call lightning from the sky ;
Alone he trusts aright in God who keeps his powder dry.

Not in the tempest or the flame, the shock when earth did quake.
But in the still small Voice at last the God of Battle spake.
He fires the heart that nerves the arm ; breathes courage firm and

high ;
Give me the men who trust in Him  I Icnoiv the powder's dry."

Amy had asked and the girls had commenced a
softer and less suggestive if somewhat mournful
ballad, when Amy observed that Alice seemed to
have sunk into something more than mere reverie ;
appeared absolutely unconscious of what was passing
around. Her eyes were half-closed, her figure perfectly
motionless. Was she sleeping ? On that supposition
Amy raised her hand to request silence as
the song came to an end. The clock struck the hour
before midnight, and Eugenie suddenly exclaimed, "I
suppose it is near sunset now in Virginia ? " Was it
that name that had roused Alice ? Amy started as
she heard a voice that was Alice's, and yet whose tone
and accent seemed almost as a stranger's ; while the
lady herself sat still, strangely still, but with interest
passion of terror and eagerness visible in her working
features.

*' Lionel, no ! " she exclaimed. 'rit is sheer madness
! Oh, horrible ! " after a few minutes' pause.
But he has come out alive. Ah, but how few ! . . .
Oh ! they have blown it up, and they cannot, they
cannot escape ! They are lost ! "

All present were appalled. Even Lord Penrith for
the moment so lost his usual calm self-possession that
the idea of waking the somnambulist, which, however
unwise, would have been his first impulse in an ordinary
state of feeling, never occurred-to him. Alice
sank into quiet and stillness for a while, and when her
uncle at last aroused himself and would have gone upto
her. Amy interposed; instinctively fearing the
effect of any interference in so strange and abnormal
a state. After a few minutes more, with a violent
start, and changing her attitude, previously relaxed
and drooping, for one strangely erect and rigid, the
entranced maiden cried again, in the same sharp tone
of agonized terror and entreaty 

Lionel, surrender, surrender ! It is but throwing
away your life  and theirs. . . . Oh ! for my sake ! . . .
Ah, spare him, spare him, Count ! Make prisoners,
don't kill. . . . Ah ! he is gone . . . no. . . . Ah ! the
brave horse ! it will save him yet. . . . There ! holdfast,
hold fast ! Oh !  you have let go ! " . . .

The last words, notably commonplace as they
seemed, were uttered in a tone of uttermost horror,
half-reproachful, and yet of misery too deep for reproach
: thought Lord Penrith, as a woman might
speak who saw a suicide committed under her eyes
while powerless to interfere. Every cheek in the room
was white as death ; the ladies, with one exception.

trembling so violently that none had the physical
strength, had they commanded at that moment the
judgment and presence of mind, to act. Eugenie
only, pale as the rest, but with compressed lips and
an expression of resolve as well as of awe in her bright
eyes, had reached the sufferer's side as she fell into
violent convulsions ; displaying greater promptitude
and nerve than even Lord Penrith himself, who, however,
followed instantly an example he could hardly
have set. Together they raised Alice and carried her
to her room ; Amy and Eva with extreme difficulty
recovering themselves so far as to follow, and undertake
the charge Lord Penrith left to them when he
quitted the chamber to send instantly for the local
practitioner.

With the perversity of " common sense," he gave
to the adviser he called in no further hint of the
mental agony that had preceded and probably pro*
seduced the physical convulsions, than was contained
in the simple statement that the patient had seemed
asleep, and speaking in her sleep of her betrothed ; of
whose position in the then greatly imperilled Confederate
army the medical attendant of the family was of
course not unaware. The latter, however, was something
of a philosopher, a man of wider general culture
than country practitioners are wont to acquire ; and
after prescribing remedies which might quell physical
excitement and give such help to recovery as enforced
rest might afford, he asked from Lady Penrith a fuller
account of the tasi- somnambulistic vision of which
he had received so mere a hint. The story, told in
Eva's presence, was confirmed by her in every detail.

Strange ! " said the doctor. *' There are strange
coincidences no doubt, and there are stranger things
in this world than mere coincidence will account for.
Still, if possible, don't lead the patient to dwell on this
fancy. She may forget when she wakes ; and if she
does it is the best thing that can befal her. If not,
Miss Dupont must on no account confirm and deepen
the impression by repeating her testimony to her
own contemporaneous dream. You will hear, of
course, before very long whether any actual event were
concurrent with the scene that passed before Miss
Kavanagh in her trance. If so, it would be a favour
to let me know the facts before, by dwelling on and
discussing them, the two stories  the details of Miss
Kavanagh's vision and of what actually passed  are
blended and identified in your minds."

The doctor so far acted on his own counsel as to
commit to writing forthwith the whole of the narrative
received from Lady Penrith and from Eva. The
reader has an advantage denied to him, for whom Amy
could of course copy but a small portion of the letter
long after received from the Confederate camp, and
dated some three or four hours earlier than that of
Alice's waking; a date which, considering the difference
of longitude, brings its story to coincide exactly with
the period of the two girls' concurrent dream.

Lionel to Alice.

I know not when this may reach you ; I can only
trust it to a comrade, and no one of us is so likely to
survive as to perish within a few days or hours. I
cannot, therefore, address this; nor dare I write anything

which, falling into an enemy's hands, would
expose you to annoyance. Pity me, Alice, for the additional
risk I am obliged to run that this may never
reach you, the additional restraint under which I write
my last farewell : a farewell, and I dare hardly wish
that it were otherwise. Don't misread me, dearest.
Eternity can give nothing that could compensate the
loss of what life would have in store, if your promise
might be fulfilled for ever so brief a time. But I so
honour you, so reverence your purity of womanhood,
that if I regret, I dare not murmur at the fate
which secures you from the profanation of my touch,
the polluting scenes that haunt my memory. Therefore
I strive to be content to die. Better so, for you,
than that you should learn to know me as I now am.
Not that I repent or would recal anything done in this
war ; least of all the oath sworn on that lonely Cross,
and kept, I think, to the letter  never to rest or spar
while there were Yankee soldiers to kill and Northern
homes to desolate. It is God's vengeance that I have
wrought, and to Him I can answer it. But you, Alice,
should never bear a name so savagely hated and defamed.
A hand so red as mine should never soil the
whiteness of yours ; never clasp you to a heart whose
bitter passions, so alien to your own nature and experience,
could not but grieve and shame and at last
estrange your love. Best then, my own, as it has been
ordered.

I have received my warning, Alice. It was no mere
vision, whether you remember it or not. My prayer
has been granted; we have met, though only at the
last and in our dreams. You would understand why

I wrote so briefly about Minnaroo and what followed ;
but this one thing I can tell you now, and you will
know how to tell her sisters. At the last I had some
few hours alone with Florence, when pain I hope and
believe was over. She had said all she cared to say,
heard all I could bear to speak ; and towards the end
she asked me to read from her  your  English Bible
the closing scene of the Passion. At one point I was
stopped by a slight convulsive clasp of the hand I held.
I turned, saw for one moment a bright, almost joyous
light in her eyes ; then it faded, and the hand loosed its
hold  for ever. I had hardly heeded what I was reading
; but the last words she heard have rung in my
memory ever since, and wakened me from many a
dream as her voice seemed to utter them  the answering
promise to the repentant thief. Strange ! she had
no need of them.

I said I have had my warning. It woke me soon
after midnight  early morning with you of this 7th
April ;  otherwise I should not be writing now. Weare
in retreat, hard pressed; and I was wearied,
marching, fighting all day. The constant tramp of
troops, waggon-trains, artillery over the bridge some
half-mile hence never disturbed me for an instant ;
the dream woke me completely, and I could have no
inclination to sleep again, even were this not my last
chance to write to you. I lay by the bivouac fire
when I fell asleep. I found myself looking on a scene
I knew well  the view from the West front of Penrith
Castle, but in a chamber I had never entered before.
I could describe it if I had time and if it mattered ;
but over the mantelpiece was my own miniature, and

under it the crucifix I gave to Eva when we parted.
You stood beside me ; she was sleeping there, her
hand on the coverlet. You drew me to the bedside,
and looking in your eyes for permission, I stooped and
kissed it. She seemed about to awake, but you led me
through a door between the bed and the window, and
in the next room Eugenie and Eose were sleeping.
As we stood together  you had guided me by the
hand  I heard  you seemed to hear it too  the trumpet
call of my own Legion, that summons us to release
our pocketed horses, saddle and prepare to mount. I
knew this would give me a couple of minutes at least ;
but you said, * Kiss them and go, you will be late.*
I turned to you instead ; but you seemed to shrink
from me  not strangely ; and in an instant I was
far away on my favourite black charger, galloping for
life up a long smooth slope, closely pursued I knew,
but neither knew nor cared by what. Suddenly I became
aware that the slope ended in a precipice or gulf,
utterly dark, though there was a clear sunset sky
above. Horror came over me ; I dared not look behind
or pause ; yet I knew I was galloping to certain
death. Suddenly, beyond the gulf, became visible a
scene like that of blue mountains in the sunniest distance,
and yet but some few yards in front. There
Florence stood, holding out her arms as if I could
reach across that vast black abyss ; and she spoke 
not called  in her natural sweet low voice the last
words she had heard on earth : ' This day shalt thou
be with me.' Before she had ended I had spurred
my horse into space, felt myself falling, flung towards
her the colours she herself embroidered, which somehow
were in my hand, and  woke.

Best so, Alice. Still, it does seem hard even on
me, to whom life promised so much and has given so
little ; hard above all on you, who have wasted your
youth in waiting for a hope never to be fulfilled.
And yet better death than the disappointment you
would have known. Don't think I fear to die ; except
to lose you. Even timid men must grow callous to
death who have looked it in the face on so many fields,
who have been so close to it as every man among us
has been daily for the last six months. But to leave
the brightest hope that life could offer  even that
visionary kiss refused ! Perhaps even in a dream it
was not fit. . . . That is the trumpet of my dream ;
it announces the beginning of my last day's work.
Before you receive this you will know that all is lost
here : I hope I may add, fors Honneur. My darling
for the last time, my own,  farewell ! "

Chapter XVIII.

SUNSET.

He stood the cast his rashness played,
Left not the victims he had made,
Dug his red grave with his own blade.
And on the field he lost was laid,
Abhorred  but not despised."

Their ranks, refilled again and again, once more
sorely thinned at Five Forks, where their splendid
charge upon the enemy's formidable artillery had
elicited from FitzLee himself the " well done,
d'Ultramar ! " that the young soldier prized beyond
all other forms of honour, reward, or fame, the
Legion  so composed of recruits from every State in
the Confederacy and from half the countries of Europe
that it could bear no regular name but that of its
leader  occupied an open field on the Western bank
of a deep, narrow Virginian stream, fordable but
spanned by a wide, strong wooden railway-bridge.
Over this, during the whole of the night between the
6th and 7th of April, the retreating forces of the Confederacy
 forty-five thousand men when they were
driven into the lines around Richmond and Petersburg,
fewer than twenty-eight thousand when they commenced
their retreat, and now dwindled down to not

more than half that number  filed on their ways to a
refuge they rather strove than hoped to reach. The
revelled beaten among the infantry in the neighbourhood
gave a signal that was answered by their own
clarion ; and rising to his feet as the latter sounded
Colonel d' Ultramar folded and sealed a letter and gave
it into the hands of Captain James, who still accompanied
him, and had earned an honourable place
among the bravest subalterns of the splendid cavalry
of the Army of Northern Virginia, a cavalry not surpassed
in the world for dash, daring, and practical
efficiency.

*' I dare not," he said, *' address it. There is no
name within or without ; but you will not accompany
me longer, and you know to whom to give it. I have
orders to send an officer to Danville with despatches

for General , and I have chosen you that you

may deliver this."

Hard on me. Colonel. I have nothing to live for,
and there are many of ours who have."

'they," answered his commander, "are Southerners.
I decline to sacrifice an English life where it is
mere sacrifice ; where even sour daring, steadiness,
and skill can render no valuable service. You know
as well as I do, as every man in the army knows, that
all is lost  that though we must still struggle to reach
a point where possibly our Chief thinks we may hold
out for better terms, success in that is scarcely conceivable,
and any further success the wildest of dreams.
You carry also my testimony to your services, endorsed
by FitzLee in terms that are ]perhaps, next to the
Cross you already wear, the highest honour a soldier

could receive. It is a pity the Confederacy has no
visible tokens of distinction for the best and noblest
soldiers that ever fought for a losing cause. Now,
James, don't pain me by remonstrating; I tell you
if you could save my life, if I knew that I was throwing
it away in dismissing you, for my own sake I
would still send you. To have that letter delivered,
without so directing it that an enemy could find out
for whom it is meant, is now my dearest aim in
this world. Now mount and report yourself to the
General and " He drew from his breast the precious
locket that contained Alice's hair and miniature.
He gave it without speaking. His comrade could not
look into the face he loved best on earth ; for now,
for the first time since he had been a soldier, he knew
that his own eyes were full of tears. At this moment
the hardened veteran felt perhaps the sharpest pang
of his life, for he knew how utterly his dearly loved
comrade and commander had resigned all hope when
he gave up such a possession.

''I keep one thing of hers, the scarf; but this " 
he took from the breast of his tunic a tiny silver box
"this you will ask her to give to Eva Dupont; it
contains the first and last tokens of her sister's friendship.
Now go at once  farewell."

The earnest brief hand-clasp spoke as much feeling
as Englishmen ever, no matter how deep their friendship,
how painful their parting, display to men or
before men ; and then the last visible link with his
former life and its dearest interests vanished from
the eyes of the Confederate soldier. His men were
now drawn up in order and he rode to their head.

VOL. ni. T

Francis, who had joined him as a private, was,
through the havoc of a hundred desperate conflicts,
now his second in command ; and to him alone
Colonel d'Ultramar spoke.

Don't throw away lives for nothing to-day,
Francis ; neither your own nor that of any other
man who has something to live for. A mother's last
support and hope in life, the bread, the happiness of
wives and children, are too dear, too sacred to be
sacrificed to a point of honour or of fantasy, when the
possibility of serving our country is so nearly at an
end as it is now. Most of us, as you know, have
little or nothing to regret in life ; but those who have
must not be wantonly sacrificed."

There is not a man," the young officer answered,
who will leave you, Colonel, or the colours. If you
want us to care for ourselves, you will have to set the
example."

''I fancy you will understand," his comrade replied,
wearily, " what I mean when the critical moment
comes. At any rate, if I am not living then, remember
what I have said. When you have done
your duty, don't take the weight of innocent blood on
your soul for nothing."

You speak as if you were doomed : and you have
ridden safe through as hard fields as we are likely to
meet with to-day."

No, Francis. Sheridan's cavalry, outnumbering
our whole force of all arms, are pressing us, if they
have not headed us. Lee hopes still, or he would
surrender."

Never ! " cried the young Louisianian. " Better
die fighting ! "

*'He," replied the Colonel, "the very pattern of
Christian chivalry, understands his responsibilities
better. He will fight while there is a hope that fighting
can be of use to his country. He will save his
men's lives, when that is the last service he can render
her."

Francis looked wistfully, wonderingly into the grave,
sad face of one but six or seven years his senior, which
had always looked so sternly on the worst chances of
battle, so eagerly on the approach of conflict, so coldly
on slaughter, so resolutely even on the havoc wrought
in his own ranks.

Certainly, he thought. Colonel d'Ultramar had
seemed to feel heavily the loss of nearly all his earlier
friends, of almost every officer and the great majority
of the soldiers to whom, in the first years of the war,
he had been linked by the ties of personal intimacy or
simple comradeship. But the present mood of. one
whose eyes had ever lightened at the gleam of naked
steel, whose blood had ever seemed to warm at the
approach of the enemy's fire, surprised and almost
awed him. The sad, thoughtful eyes brightened presently
as, with the two or three remaining officers of
his staff, one of the ablest of those Lieutenants who
Lad succeeded to the places of Stonewall Jackson,
Stuart, and Hill killed, and Longstreet disabled, rode
down swiftly from the direction in which were known
to lie the quarters of the Commander-in-chief. ' ' There
comes our work and my release," said the Colonel
quietly.

Francis saluted and reined back as the General
approached ; noting with some little surprise that the

staff had done the same, that the General evidently
intended to speak alone to the commander of the
Legion.

* Colonel d'Ultramar, the enemy are close on om-rear,
and still some precious trains, and artillery
which could do little at this point, are on the other
side of the bridge. It is to be blown up, but not till
the last moment; if possible not till after the last
trains have passed. We must leave a rear-guard to
hold it until this is done ; and that rear-guard  well,
in plain language, they must be sacrificed, surrender,
or disperse. Your work is to cover the bridge from
the other side. Cover it to the last : if you are
utterly beaten before the trains and cannon have
passed, give the signal for its destruction ; but don't
do so till the last moment, till you can hold the
enemy back no longer. Of course such of you as can
may cross it then."

He paused, and the other saluted in silence, as
one who has received and understands the order he
intends to carry out to the letter.

'Do you understand me?" the General added ina
low tone. " The bridge once blown up, your work
is done. If you could rejoin us, it would matter little,,
except to yourselves. If a way be open, save yourselves.
The fate of the army is a mere matter of time,,
and will probably be decided before you could rejoin ;
if, the bridge destroyed, you could possibly get clear of
the enemy."

"I understand. General"  as the other seemed to
wait for a reply. "I don't think you will see one of
us on this side the river again, unless, at the last, it

be found possible to save the colours. If they are
brought back to you, tell General Lee that we have
done our duty."

His commander, who knew him earlier and better
than others, and esteemed him more highly for other
and finer qualities than the mere courage and skill
admired by the entire Confederate army, was a little
surprised by what seemed more than calmness and
composure ; the apparently absolute indifference with
which a soldier so young, not by birth a Southerner,
reputed rich, certainly handsome, loved by women,
respected perforce by men, accepted what he must
know to be an almost unconditional death-warrant.

"I hate this duty," he said, almost passionately;
'* but you know, as I do, it is duty  harder for me
perhaps than even for you."

"Very much so," Colonel d'Ultramar replied. " I
thank you, General ; you give us the place of honour ;
and if this be our last battle, I think I can promise
you that the honor' of the Starry Cross shall be
maintained to the last."

He rode to the head of his Legion, formed them in
column, and having with some difficulty cleared the
passage, led them across the bridge. Some half-mile
from it, a wooded ridge, forming the lesser part of a
semicircle, covered and concealed the further bank of
the river from the North and East. To the Southeast
the ground was comparatively open, and it was
from this direction that the Confederate trains, and a
few shrunken battalions and batteries mixed with
them, were slowly filing in retreat. D'Ultramar dismounted
one half of his men, and placed them personally

and with extreme care in the best positions
for the defence of the ridge. The remainder, some
four hundred strong, were kept standing by their
horses in the immediate vicinity of the river ; leaving
the passage free but watching the open ground, and
ready to strike at once at any enemy approaching
in that direction. A couple of hours had passed,
when a rattling rifle-fire on his left told the Colonel
that an attempt was being made to force the ridge.
He rode up and scanned earnestly the character of
the attack. The enemy outnumbered his men by five
or six to one, but, advancing over open ground, seemed
to hesitate and waver ; and, picked off one by one by
marksmen whose aim hardly ever failed, were not
pressing forward resolutely, suffering of course more,
as is always the case, for their irresolution than if
they had rushed boldly on at once. A mark for their
fire as he rode slowly along his own line, no bullet
touched him, and the black charger endured almost as
coolly as his rider the hail of balls that cut twigs and
leaves from the trees around, behind, in front, and
whizzed constantly in the closest proximity to his
ears. He started, however, as one bullet struck the
saddle and, turned aside by the revolver in the holster,
very slightly grazed his neck. '' Steady, Lancival,"
said his master, patting him. "I thought so, b}
Jove ! this was meant to occupy us while they throw
cavalry on the trains." He galloped down to the head
of his main body, who had already mounted, formed
in a double line. A body of the enemy's cavalry were
threatening the trains still slowly making their way to
the bridge. Unaware that any considerable mounted

force was in their neighbourhood, they were approaching
with more eagerness than order, and fell into
some little confusion as they suddenly perceived the
Lancers facing them at some five furlongs' distance.

Keep your squadron in reserve, Francis. Support
us if we need it. Sound the charge ! " cried the
Colonel, seizing the momentary opportunity.

The Lancers dashed forward. Their opponents,
Yankees from New England, northern New York, and
Pennsylvania, few of whom had ever mounted a horse
till enlisted as cavalry in the latter part of the war,
had been accustomed to dismount and use the rifle,
not to fight on horseback. They had come to attack
trains and limbered artillery, at most to encounter
the fire of an infantry escort ; and were confounded
and dismayed on this, the first occasion on which
they had been called to use the weapons or confront
the charge of cavalry. Their officers could hardly
form them in time to get into a sort of shambling
trot wherewith to meet the thundering gallop of the
perfectly dressed Confederate line. The unequal collision
threw them at once into utter confusion. Their
numbers were so superior that the individual hand-to-hand
fighting of the braver among them gave the
assailants enough to do for some three or four
minutes, at the end of which time the Yankee force
was scattered, the vast majority having turned their
horses' heads and made " a strategic movement to
the rear " which was not arrested till they were far
out of sight of an enemy too judicious to pursue
them. The victors raised a loud shout of derision as
their commander imperatively halted them to re-form.

Silence, men," he cried, "and listen. You have
scattered that canaille pretty easily : but there are
better cavalry than those in Sheridan's corps. Have
you forgotten the Dutchmen at Five Forks ? They
"will not be beaten by shouting ; and we shall have
them here when Sheridan learns what has become
of those fellows."

The Lancers having resumed their position, their
commander rode once more along the line where the
dismounted horsemen still with comparative ease
maintained their critical position. This forced, the
bridge would be inevitably lost. The enemy, by
bringing up even light artillery to the ridge, would be
sure of dispersing any force that might attempt for a
moment to hold that bank of the river, and would so
command the bridge as to destroy all who attempted
to cross it. But their infantry had been beaten back
or had given way, and the commander of the defenders
at once perceived that they were about to
bring up field artillery to a point out of reach of his
rifles but from which they could shell the ridge.

Lie down," he cried, " and keep close, so long as
they confine themselves to artillery fire. Have you
ammunition? "

Not enough," said the officer to whom he spoke,
in a low tone, " for a long defence."

I will send you some. Pass the word to the men
that they shall be supplied."

He rode down to the train that was at that moment
passing, and with some difficulty succeeded in diverting
to his own use a sufficient quantity of the store
of cartridges, captured not long ago from the enemy,

that were destined to supply the retreating Army of
Northern Virginia in view of a possible battle. These
despatched to the men on the ridge, he noted with
comparative indifference the constant bursting of shells
in the wood, aware that, covered as his men were,
the slaughter could not be great, and relying with
absolute confidence on the steadiness of such veteran
troops against the panic which it is the chief use of
shells to inspire among sheltered infantry unsupported
by artillery. At last, however, the shells came
flying over the trees, and while two burst above the
mounted Lancers, several more whizzed over their
heads; one striking the bridge and doing no little
mischief there, the others plunging harmlessly into
the stream or beyond it. At the same time he noted
that the defenders of the ridge had sprung up and
were firing with all their former eagerness, reckless
of the consequent exposure. " The batteries have
come nearer," he said. Placing himself at the head
of his men, again formed in two divisions, the second
considerably in rear, and ordering the latter to wheel
on the right flank of the first just before the enemy's
fire should be delivered, he swept round the end of
the ridge, whose elevation and the trees upon it
screened his small mounted force from the observation
of the gunners. They were nearer than he
thought, and had not time to limber and wheel their
guns so as to bear effectively upon him, before he
dashed among them. The gunners ran, however,
escaping with comparatively little loss. The caissons
were dragged off by their horses ; and with the guns
themselves he could do little or nothing, since he

dared not await the advance of a body of infantry
visible at no great distance ; aware that, if steadily
handled, their fire would annihilate his small force,
and render the longer maintenance of his all-important
position impossible. His charge, therefore,
did little more than relieve the defenders of the ridge
for an hour or so from the harassing but not very
destructive artillery fire.

And now the sun was descending towards the West,
the last train was filing over the bridge, when his
eyes, drawn in the direction from whence it had come,
observed the approach of a column of Federal cavalry,
certainly twice as strong as his own force. Scanning
them carefully through his field-glass, he recognized
a well-known enemy ; too fond of the rifle, and averse
to as little experienced in close hand-to-hand conflict,
but brave and resolute in their own fashion of fighting.
A minute sufficed to form his resolution on more
points than one.

'Afzul," he said, turning to his orderly. "Ah!
you are badly wounded. Cross the bridge. Don't
come back ; I forbid you to return. Tell the of&cer in
charge to blow it up at once. I will keep the enemy
at bay for five minutes ; I can promise no more." He
saw Afzul salute and depart, and then turned to his
men.

"We have one thing more to do, and only one.
We must drive back those horsemen, cut through
them, or perish man by man in keeping them back
for five minutes. After that our work is done. The
bridge will be blown up, and we cannot rejoin the
army; nor would it much matter if we could. To

some of you life is worth having, and there are many
whose duty it is to live, now that their death cannot
serve their country. I shall try to cut through.
Those who get clear have my positive command to
disperse to their homes ; or if they meet the enemy inforce,
to surrender. Before many days are over, a
general capitulation will release them. Charge ! "

The enemy hesitated. They had not time to dismount
and form in their favourite order ; and lacked
decision, spirit, or perhaps merely promptitude to
encounter so formidable an adversary in his own
fashion. The result was fatal to them. Keeping
perfect order to the last, despite their tremendous
speed, the Lancers broke and pierced the line ; no
small number of them actually cutting their way
through and emerging in the rear. The way of
escape was apparently open to these, but not a man
adopted the Colonel's counsel, or regarded his*com-
and. They turned back, assisting in the overthrow
of their antagonists instead of regarding their own
safety ; and after a short, sharp, and sanguinary
struggle the Federals were broken and scattered. As
the Confederates wheeled, returning to their post, a
vast sheet of flame suddenly burst forth ; a tremendous
thunder-crash, then a thick volume of smoke
amid which blazing fragments of wood were hurled in
every direction, told that their work was practically
done ; the bridge was blown up and the Confederate
trains were safe.

The fact was apparent to the enemy, and checked
their further movements for a time, probably till the
occurrence was reported to their General. To work

out his plan, to complete the net he was drawing
round the relics of the Virginian army, the stream
must be crossed higher or lower, or both, where fords
might be found or bridges constructed. However
promptly this might be done, it would be too late to
intercept the trains, and it was probable that the retreating
force might be found drawn up in a position
suitable for defence. To attack it in such a position
was no longer the aim of the Commander-in-chief,
or of the able subordinate who was pressing on the
retreat. The former had attacked the Confederate
lines over and over again with overwhelming numbers,
and had been signally beaten on every occasion. His
policy in so doing has since been vindicated on the
ground that he could afford to throw away three lives
for one, and that, in wearing out by such a course the
strength of an army that could no longer be recruited,
he was playing a sure and skilful if a cruel and very
expensive game. But now the game was won ; checkmate
was a question only of days or hours ; and the
same cold calculating temper that could deliberately
sacrifice fifty thousand lives in defeat after defeat to
destroy one-third of that number, restrained all idea
of a premature development of the final moves. It
was probably therefore the decision of the Commander
of the Federal cavalry simply to throw upon the
Southern rear-guard a force sufficient to compel its
surrender. That this would be easily done could
hardly seem doubtful to one who knew their numbers
with tolerable accuracy, and knew also that retreat
was impossible, and escape, even by utter dispersal,
almost equally so.

There was therefore no further pressure on the
force that held the ridge ; both batteries and infantry
were withdrawn beyond reach of fire, and the Confederate
leader, promptly observing this, ordered the
men to mount, and formed his Legion, or rather its
relics, less now than the original strength of a single
regiment, in line between the river's bank and the
nearest part of the ridge, facing South-Eastward. No
enemy were actually within sight. On the other side
of the river suddenly appeared a group of riders among
whom the devoted Confederates recognized their adored
General. They could not read the expression of his
face at that distance ; but, made aware by a movement
among them that some incident of interest was occurring
in that direction, their leader turned his field-glass
on the group, and fancied that he could discern an expression
of suppressed but bitter pain on the face of
him who, under a stern and cruel sense of duty,*had
doomed them to a fate he would fain have shared.
Raising his sword in salute, Lionel gave the signal
to his men, and three ringing cheers, sharper and
shriller in tone than those of Englishmen or Northerners,
and known by that peculiarity as the *' Rebel
yell," saluted for the last time the peerless Chief
under whose eyes every man of that loyal army was
more than ready to die. Then their Colonel turned
and faced them.

We cannot possibly rejoin them," he said. "All
the fords VvU be occupied, and there is none within
some miles of us. There is no more to be done, and
I had rather not sacrifice in a mere combat of despair
lives that are precious to others than their owners.

Those of you who have mothers, wives, and children
for whom it is a duty to Hve, and all who care to
survive their country, fall out now, and try whether
singly or together you cannot get away. Even if
made prisoners you will pretty surely be released
before* long."

Not a man stirred ; and looking on the stern set
faces Colonel d'Ultramar felt that something more
was required from him.

Major Francis, you are the last child of your
widowed mother. She has given enough to the Cause,
and nothing more can be done for it. You have not
the right to throw your life away : set the example.
Men, there is no shame, no want of faith or courage
in disbanding now ; I order those who have homes,
who have others dependent on them, to tmn and leave
me. I will not have their blood upon my soul."

"Colonel," replied Major Francis, aloud, 'for
once, for the first and the last time, I refuse to obey
your order. My mother would not recognize her
son, the brother of two brave men who have fallen
under your command, in a deserter."

The speech was answered by a shout of assent from
the whole regiment. A look of bitter regret and pain
came over their leader's face.

You cast a heavy load on my conscience," he
said. "God acquit me of your blood; I have
enough to answer for. For God's sake, Francis,"
he added, in a lower tone. " This is the last chance ;
there comes our fate."

A brigade of cavalry, in the blue uniform, had
wheeled round the point where, some two miles

distant, a line of trees, some farm buildings, and
the conformation of the gromid formed a screen for
the enemy's movements ; and directly confronted the
Lancers, with nothing but open ground between them.
They moved regularly, firmly, evenly, if not with all
the exquisite precision, yet with all the substantial
accuracy and steadiness of the English light cavalry
that formed Lionel's own model of perfection ; and
not only he but all behind him recognized the one
corps in the Federal army which they regarded with
respect, the only horsemen that had held their own
with the Legion on anything like equal terms; the
*' Dutchmen " or Germans who had crossed swords
with them a few days before at Five Forks. A
hearty cheer from the Confederates greeted 'foemen
worthy of their steel ; " and both sides advanced,
slowly.

Within some half-mile, just as Colonel d'Ultrtoar
was about to bid his trumpet sound the charge, the
Germans halted, and to his extreme surprise sent
forward a flag of truce accompanied by the General
himself. D'Ultramar rode out alone to meet him.

' Surrender, Sir," said his opponent in excellent
English, with a German accent scarcely perceptible.
You have done the work you were sent to do. You
are surrounded; our own force is, as you must see,
sufficient to destroy you utterly. It would be a frantic
waste of life to persist."

The Confederate leader listened quietly but coldly ;
his eyes, though fixed on his adversary's countenance,
seemed to look not at but through him, at some dim
prospect in the infinite distance.

*ewe know all that," he said. "I thank 3011,
nevertheless."

"Darcy!" cried the other; and Colonel d'Ultra-
mar started at the name unheard for years. 'for
God's sake, surrender ! Don't force an old friend and
comrade to give orders for your own death, and what
will be no better than the massacre of your men."

You need have no scruples on that score. General
Yon Arnheim. My men will take care to reconcile
the matter to your consciences."

So much the worse ! " answered the German,
greatly agitated. " What right have you to destroy
life on either side to no earthly purpose ? How will
you answer for what is no better than suicide in you,
and the reckless butchery of some hundreds of gallant
men ? Surrender, Darcy ; I have influence enough
to ensure your life, much more those of your officers."
He came as close as comrade or brother might have
done, and touched his antagonist's sword-arm with
his weaponless hand as he continued' in a low tone :
"Darcy  I was at Lord Penrith's house in London
before I left Europe. For her sake, surrender."

"Tell her. Yon Arnheim, that I chose to die as
became him who was honoured by her love. Now
go back to your men. The instant I rejoin mine, you
will hear my trumpet sound the charge."

The German turned away with a heavy sigh, an
expression of deep pain and sorrow visible on his hard,
rugged, manly countenance. Its pallor, its evident
look of suffering startled all those of his men who
were cool enough to look upon it, as he returned to
their head.

Make prisoners if you can, rather than kill," he
said. " A thousand dollars to him who will bring
me that Confederate Colonel alive and unhurt; five
hundred if you can take him living."

Colonel d' Ultramar paused once again in front of
his line. "Men," he repeated, facing them, "those
who will surrender are free to do so. Let them part
from us."

Not a man stirred.

Then," he said, " do your best ; strike hard and
strike home, and rally to the last around the colours.
Remember who looks on."

He was mistaken there, or his orders might have
been interfered with. The Confederate ,
the noblest Christian and soldier of his age,
would hardly have permitted that useless suicide of a
whole regiment under his own eyes. The awful overwhelming
weight of the force they were about to
attack pressed on the spirits of men prepared to die,
but painfully conscious of the impossibility of success,
of the certainty of an almost ignominious
defeat. Their chief felt their mood, and, determined
that their last exploit should be as brilliant as any
they had performed, appealed to their pride by the
familiar name, which they had heard often in praise
or reproach, in taunt or admiration, from the lips of
friend or foe, but never from his. Waving his hand
io the trumpeter beside him, he shouted 

Forward, the Devil's Own !  Charge ! "

The moment the note of their clarion was heard it
was answered ; and the Germans, as well mounted,
as well led, almost as well disciplined and seasoned

VOL. ni. \ u

as themselves, but outnumbering them by three to
one, dashed forward at a gallop scarcely less furious
than theirs. The lines met front to front, and in half
a minute nearly every man in the front rank on either
side, and more than half the horses, were rolling on
the ground. The Confederate chief had cloven his
way into the second rank, a couple of his best soldiers
beside him, and with them, as even in that moment
he recognized with bitter regret, the second in command
he had been so anxious to save. His splendid
black charger, the tallest and most powerful there,,
his well-known figure, the swift heavy strokes of his
long two-edged sword clearing once and again a
space about him, marked out that spot as a rallying
point for his followers ; and they closed as far as
possible around him in a dense mass, no longer
preserving even the form of military order, each man
striking for life and for vengeance with all his remaining
strength. They went down, of course, oneby
one, crowded on front and flanks and almost on
the rear. Broken up into small bodies, fighting hard
to the last, disabling, perhaps, more than their own
number of the enemy, those who still surrounded the
colours were beaten back step by step almost to the
river's bank. Then for an instant the enemy so far
opened and recoiled as to leave room for free movement
to the survivors ; and Lionel, looking round,
saw that not more than a score or so of his men still

gathered round his standard, now borne by Major
Francis."

'' Once more," he cried. ' Charge ! "
There was no space, however, to obtain the impetus

that had made that charge so formidable; and by
sheer weight, and the overwhelming numbers of the
enemy, more than by use of weapons, they were
forced back, till only five or six clustered on the very
edge of the river, whose dark rapid current whirled
along a foot or two below them, around the well-known
battle-flag  recognized with a thrill of strangely
mingled feeling by nearly every soldier in the hostile
ranks  the Confederate Starry Cross on the crimson
field, with the broad black crape border that distinguished
the Devil's Own.

"Once more, surrender! " cried the German commander,
parrying a blow aimed by one of the few
survives. " Surrender, Colonel d'Ultramar ! This
is suicide or massacre, not war."

Too late ! " was the only answer.

The setting sun flashed its last rays in the eyes of
the Germans, and gave a moment's advantage goethe
defenders of the standard. As he parried a sabre
thrust, and cut down with his own more formidable
weapon the man who delivered it, the Confederate
leader heard a smothered cry beside him, and saw
Francis with the colours reeling from the saddle.
True to the end, as throughout that day, to the
tradition of his ancestry, ever

Calm wlieii life is on the cast,
Deadliest when they strike their last,"

he snatched the staff from his friend's relaxing grasp ;
flung his empty revolver right in the teeth of his
nearest opponent, hurling him senseless from the
saddle ; struck right and left two mortal blows, with

the last of which his sword shivered almost to the
hilt ; and then the sword-arm fell broken to his side.
The colours held firmly in that which grasped the
reins, he pulled back his horse with all his might and
fell with a heavy splash into the river.

Halt ! stop, dastards ! " cried Von Arnheim to
some of his men, who missing their rifles to fire.
Murderers ! do you call yourselves soldiers and fire
on such an enemy when disarmed and helpless ? "
He looked anxiously for the horse and rider, and felt
some hope as he saw the latter still keeping the saddle
and inducing the charger to throw his head above the
stream. Two or three men  one of whom he recognized
even at that moment and in that light as Darcy's
Indian servant and fellow soldier  ran down the
further bank, reckless of their own danger, to assist
and save their comrade. Controlled perhaps by their
leader's late rebuke, perhaps by their own better feelings,
now that a few moments' jDause had cooled the
passion of hand-to-hand fighting, the Germans forbore
to fire. Presently Von Arnheim saw the black charger
gallop riderless along the opposite shore, and entertained
little doubt that, however wounded, his friend

had at least been saved from the stream.

* * * *

An hour afterwards a group of Confederate staff-officers
were gathered round the Commander-in-chief,
still in the saddle, when they observed a rider in the
well-known uniform with the red and black facings
approach them, carrying the equally well-known
standard. To their surprise they observed that the
trooper's face was dark as that of a mulatto ; and yet

he bore no other resemblance to the race whom their
defeat was about finally to emancipate.

Colonel d'Ultramar's Indian comrade and constant
attendant," said the General who had conveyed the
fatal order to the rear-guard.

Afzul approached, dismounted with extreme difficulty,
and reeling with wounds and weakness, saluted
and held forth the standard.

"Colonel d'Ultramar's last desire," he said, 'was
to deliver the colours into your hands," addressing
himself to the immediate superior of his chief, who
had stepped forward a pace or two from the rest.

You rescued it ? " inquired one of the principal
staff-officers.

No, sir. The Colonel sent me with an order
across the bridge, and forbade me to return. I should
have disobeyed him, but the order was to blow up the
bridge and it was carried out at once. I could *not
swim. When it was all over, when the Dutch cut
them down to a man, the Colonel reined back his
horse into the stream with this in one hand  the
sword-arm broken. We ran down  they might have
shot us all, but did not  and got hold of the horse's
bridle. But he was out of the saddle ; and then one
not wounded as I am dashed into the stream and
caught hold of the staff. We should have drawn him
to shore, but when he saw that the colours were safe,
he "

Speaking so faintly that only a few of those nearest
him caught the last words, the wounded soldier fell to
the ground. He never spoke again ; and despite all
the care which under such circumstances the surgeon,

specially enjoined to save him if possible, could bestow,
lie did not survive more than a couple of hours the
master he had so devotedly loved and served.

This, then," said Lionel's immediate commander,
with a sadness even deeper than that with which
he had that morning parted from the leader of the
doomed Legion, his voice trembling, while those next
him thought, even in that rapidly darkening twilight,
there were tears in his eyes, *' this, then, is all that
remains of Lionel d'Ultramar and the Devil's Own ! "

