chapter descriptive of Waldine de
Stair. She has a way of creeping into things
without cutting any particular figure when
she gets there  like an insect  which is at
once her satisfaction and her bane. It is

something in this way that she crept into
Whiteknyghts and Lord Grenvers' heart  that
being the precise order of her aim for the
position. She is well-born and well-to-do :
she has been, and indeed still is, exceedingly
pretty. It was just a chance she did not
marry the Count de Stair herself ; but as she
did not, she blamed her sister for having done
so. Lady Grenvers has been fortunate without
any intrinsic merit or special plan. She
owns it herself, with that descent from the
general to the particular which gives such
]point to her otherwise vague speeches : * I
was made to sympathise ; my peculiar quality
is for the sphere of mercy  so lucky that
Grenvers is an invalid ! ' But this form of
speech, this accidental commentary of self-explanation,
together with her mania for
avoiding  or leading up to  'scenes' by
little notes, has been illustrated already.

Lady Grenvers is eight and thirty. She
has a way of saying that she is ' so much
younger than poor Edith was;' but, literally,
this formula has become untrue. She was a

year younger than Madame de Stair when
Madame de Stair died, more than a year ago.
She is now rather older than Waldine's mother
lived to be. But the formula has not varied,
and it will not vary. It is elastic and convenient
; and much of Lady Grenvers' conversation,
as well as much of her figure, is
made up of elastic and convenient formulas.

Lady Grenvers is fond of saying that she is
never bored' ; which, unlike many of her
formulas, is wholly true ; but it is doubtful
whether she deserves praise for her contentment.
It is difficult to imagine a moth bored :
if there is no flame to fly into, there is at least
something to gnaw into holes. She is also
fond of saying that 'wherever she is, she
makes her own little world about her;' but
then, to start with, her ' own little world ' is
in great measure the creation of her fancy.

In fine, she is contented mainly because her
sphere is infinitesimally small ; it is bounded,
one might say, by ' self and something to
worry'  opposite poles which she is fond of
bringing into relation with each other.

Although Lady Grenvers is, in a sense,
romantic, there is no one whom the real
romance of things more readily escapes. She
is so busy weaving little webs about herself
that she has no manner of perception how the
webs which fortune really weaves for others'
central selves cross and recross her. One
expects a nature like this to awaken at last
and perceive the truth  to awaken paralysed
and suffocated at what it finds has been done
about it, not wholly without its own agency,
while it has been occupied, to the best ot its
intentions, upon quite other things. But it
does not awaken ; it is not in its nature to
awaken because it has not slept. What has
seemed like sleep is its capacity of normal
vigilance. There is a restlessness which is
more blind than slumber.

Lady Grenvers, if she is attached to anyone,
is attached to her husband : she has novices.
She scarcely believes in vices, because
the amount of passion vice requires is beyond
her ken ; and the county considers her a model
wife, because she is a stay-at-home and no

flirt. ' Dear Ethelinda,' her neighbour often
says ; * give her a bit of looking-glass and a
powder-puff, with a quire of scented notepaper,
and she's happy for a week ;' which is a
brusque rendering of her ladyship's own pet
description of herself as ' a philosopher  so
fond of contemplation.'

It is not strange that Lady Grenvers should
be fond of her husband : he merits a tender
touch in description, for he bears a maimed
life patiently.

Some accident out hunting has transformed
him from a hale squire in middle age to a
merely helpless sufferer. Before this accident
befell him he was so much addicted to out-door
pleasures that, beyond thinking his wife very
pretty and very charming, he troubled little
about her ; but since he has been crippled he
has perceived her shallowness only to attempt
to give it depth. He has contrived to make
her happiness the gauge of his ; so that, perhaps,
they are well suited after all. What
Lady Grenvers needs for her pleasure are a long
purse and a little spoiling : give her these, and

she will pose at once for being generous and
sympathetic. His lordship spoils her to her
heart's desire, and, though he is by no means
rich for his rank, he can afford her bric-d-brac
and tea-gowns. There is a story of Lord Renders
that, when the forlorn hope of some great
German doctor's opinion was suggested to him
for his spinal trouble, her ladyship had just
happened to set her mind upon the choice of
sable-tails. The story might be made to sound
more tragic than it should, for no doubt Lord
Grenvers would have sent for the doctor Jaad
he greatly believed in him, while not stinting
his wife in her fineries. And perhaps he was
over particular about his income accounts.
But the fact just stands that, after but a few
minutes' consideration. Lord Grenvers told his
medical advisers that he had no faith in the
chance of cure, and that her ladyship wrote by
the same post to decide upon the selected
sables. It is hard to relate the incident lightly
enough. He was neither mean nor rash : she
was neither cruel nor grasping : but the little
affair suffices to sum up their attitude. And

of such a mutual position, strange to say, it is
not seldom that great love is born. Lord
Grenvers loves his wife gravely and consciously,
and imagines she is more to him than she is ;
Lady Grenvers loves her lord lightly and unconsciously,
and imagines  that she is all the
world and all in all to him ! So ever the
world goes on, and the little easy gift meets
the recompense and passes . for the boon 
deceiving the giver too. And the great gift,
that has no times and seasons and knows no
limit  it is never seen to be a gift at all : it is
just a thing that is  like blood to beat at the
heart or air to breathe. For, if it were not
thus, what would be the need of living life at
all, or what the use of an expected heaven ?

Lord Grenvers has his own rooms and his
own attendants. Over these her ladyship has
what control she will; she comes and goes,
and sends his nurses with orders to her maid.
Over her coming and going he, voluntarily,
has no control, but all the same he is the
lodestar of her life. She has leave to go to
London whenever she will and for as long as

she is likely to be amused there  and she
never cares to go : she may fill Whiteknyghts
with people and have her ' own little world '
about her in the flesh for ever if she wishes it
and she never cares to ask a creature.

Indeed, without being aware of it, she is
almost angry with Lord Grenvers for not
having prevented her asking Waldine to come,
though there never was the remotest chance
that he would prevent it.

For all which, if her coming is not a
success, he will bear the blame. ' She is. an
irresponsible agent,' says their neighbour;
he is a responsible patient.'

It is to these folk, and thus, that Waldine
de Stair has come.

Chapter IV.

IT

And this is her welcome. She is taken up
the broad and trebly-carpeted stairway to
where baize doors shut off Lady Grenvers'
rooms. The whole house looks to her empty
and dull. It is part of Lady Grenvers' programme
that it should look so ; it assists the
impression she makes. And then, almost
before the footman can open the red doors
for her, she finds herself quite smothered and
suffocated in scent and lace, receiving a volley
of kittenish kisses.

'MyYsil; at last !' says her ladyship; *rand
gracious! what a height! sam always considered
tall. How are you ? You shall get your tea-gown
on and have some tea ; I always say that

nothing rests me like complete deshabille. Do
you like mine ? All ! how like your poor father !
just the same straight nose. My nose '

But what the special charm of Lady Renders'
nose is, in her own esteem, Val never
hears ; for with the quickness of nineteen she
interrupts her aunt by a cry of pleasure as
they enter a firelight boudoir on which all her
ladyship's taste  which is of the luxuriously
decorative order  and all Lord Grenvers' spare
shillings have been expended.

Oh 1 what a pretty room !'

 My nest,' says her ladyship blandly,
passing with equal satisfaction from nose to
nest, so only the discussion touches on herself.
My nest, dear Val, where you have entree
libre  unless, of course, I'm writing. Isn't it
sweet ? Pink always suits me  odd, for I'm
so fair.'

Val glances quickly at her aunt, whom she
remembers rather dark than fair ; certainly
there is no question about her ladyship's blonde
tresses now, and the girl passes her hand over
her eyes to be sure that this sylph who makes

her welcome is really the sister who was her
faded mother's junior by but a year.

'So fair murmurs Lady Grenvers pensively,
contemplating her own charms in her
mind's eye till their pathos moves her,  ' So
fair  and 'phil ; now for you, Val, a warm
amber, don't you think, like firelight, or perhaps
French gray  French gray, of course,
first when you begin to leave off your mourning.
Ah ! dear, yes ; it will be something for
us to think of. Where's your maid, dear?
and how did you like the brougham ?'

Everything is charming,' says Val, who
has no foreign accent but just separates her
words from each other a little, as if her native
tongue were not quite usual to her, as indeed
it is not yet. ' But I have no tea-gowns ; I did
not know that you were so smart ; I did not
remember.'

Grenvers likes to see me nice,' says her
ladyship complacently but with a martyr's
sigh; 'Do you think me nice? Tell me,
dear Val, how does everything about me strike
you? first impressions are so much, and I

want your first impressions of me to be nice
ones.' She kisses her niece and holds her at
arm's length, obviously to be observed herself
rather than to observe Val's simple dress.

You strike me as Parisian,' she answers ;
*it is not like the country' (Lady Grenvers
sighs with pleasure), ' and the room is delightful
 what sofas and what flowers ! Oh ! Aunt
Ethelinda, is that picture you

Me, by Millais,' says Lady Grenvers,
rising and contemplating the picture, as she
does a hundred times a day ; ' looks cU>7ie-
up, I always say : like me ten years hence,
not like me now ' (which, perhaps, at the rate
of her rejuvenescence, is true enough) ! ' Here
you have me again by Frank Miles : pretty,
but he hasn't made the body fit me. Me by
Lacretelle  such a good gown. Me and the
dog by a local man. Me on china  horrid ! Me
by myself, on glass  crystoleum, you know,
Val ; nothing like art, is there ? real art, sofar
above photography ! I never made a good
photograph ; this was done from a picture.
Here I am again on this screen, leaning over

VOL. I. 3

Grenvers' chair ; I did it  " like what you remember
Grenvers?" Yes, it's a photograph
of him cut out and stuck on. I got the local
man to touch in the head of me  sweet expression
; he shall paint you. He idealises
a little  quite a genius, in fact  but never
flatters ! '

The portraits of Lady Grenvers with which
she has had to do are like her in all but
feature. She has, as it were, had a portrait of
her gowns, graces, and surroundings, with a
lovely girl's face for central figure, arranged to
suit her own notion of what she would wish to
be ; and to the production of many such a portrait
the local man has lent what gifts he has.

 But you will be quite tired of pictures :
here is tea  do you, or don't you' (in a
whisper) ? ' No ? I always put just the least
drop of something in mine. I'm nervous and
far from strong.'

Fm very strong,' says Val, in her clear,
vibrating voice, 'and not in the least nervous.'

Ah ! ' says her ladyship with an envious
sigh ; and she settles herself in a dormeuse

and pours the brandy into her tea, while she
pushes some sugared cakes to her niece.  Now
tell me all about it  abroad, you know, and
your school  and what are they wearing in
Paris?'

Yal tells her what she can, which is not
much : she tells Lady Grenvers of her regret
at leaving the kind sisters with whom she has
passed so many of her most impressionable
years  to the recital of which regret her ladyship
does not even feign attention, sitting
meanwhile with wide open eyes staring before
her as if she were dead  and she tells her of
the presents that her school friends have made
her, and of visits she has paid to some of them
at French country houses  to all of which
Lady Grenvers, coming to life again a little,
says, ' Ah ! charming ! ' and she tells her what
she knows, which is still less, of the shops in
Paris.

And I have brought you a fan,' she adds
shyly, not quite knowing whether this spoilt
child will care for the gift ;  ' a feather-fan.'

A fan ? ' cries Lady Grenvers, quite alive

again now ; 'feathers ? Oh, Val, if you knew
how I have thirsted for a feather-fan ; where is
it ? Oh your maid must be here : ring the bell !
why didn't you bring it in the brougham "? 
and I will tell you what we will do ; we will
show it to Grenvers. Or no ! you shall come
and see him and say nothing  mind, nothing 
about the fan. And then this evening I will
ivear it  it's black, of course ? yes, mourning ;
you see my tea-gown is mourning, sort of lilac
I will wear it with a mantilla. You have no
notion how well a mantilla suits me : and
Grenvers hasn't seen me in a mantilla for
months. Come and see him ! and then we will
go and dress early  but mind, not a word
about the fan ! ' Lady Grenvers skips off the
sofa, and Val rises, perplexed and rather tired,
to remake acquaintance with her uncle.

The house has struck her as old-fashioned
as she drove up to it ; but all the rooms that
Lady Grenvers favours are Belgravian. It is,
however, to the untouched part that they repair
to find his lordship's rooms, made bright
by his lordship's welcome.

On their way thither Lady Grenvers airily
throws open a door into a comfortable but
ordinary chamber destined for her niece, more
to find out if Yal's maid is unpacking the fan
than to show the girl what preparations have
been made for her comfort. 'No one there
yet ! ' she says in a tone of keen disappointment,
ah well ! you shall explore your own domain
by and by, but you might have brought it
with you. I hate suspense !'

Lord Grenvers is lying, as he ever has to
lie, upon a locomotive couch which science has
invented for him and adapted wonderfully to
his needs. He is looking rather listlessly
out of the window, which frames squarely a
landscape of monotonous hue  for it is twilight
now  only accented by the yellow and
red of single dahlias in the foreground. A
nurse is reading aloud to him something of
Dickens, and it amuses him although he does
not smile : a person who is always pursuing
amusement as a distraction seldom smiles, just
as a snuff-taker seldom sneezes.

But he smiles when her ladyship enters

with Val. ' I am glad you have brought her at
once,' he says, looking at the girl with interest.

There is an age, perhaps it is nineteen,
which resents being looked at with interest.
Deep down in Waldine's organisation there
is, no doubt, a sense of sympathy ; but it
has not yet had its way with her. As Lord
Grenvers takes her hand and gazes at her she
is surprised to find that she feels shy of him :
her robustness shrinks from his soft manner.
This phenomenon of shyness in herself astonishes
her the more because she is anxious
to like her uncle and full of goodwill towards
him, and she knows him to be noteworthy,
though she does not half know how noteworthy
he is. It is an accident of her age,, and it
oppresses her like physical discomfort. And
the worst of it is that Lord Grenvers is clearly
sensitive enough to feel the reaction of this
shyness.

Lady Grenvers, of course, does not feel it ;
she utilise the opportunity of being charming
which the moment lends her. ' I think that
you must Mss your uncle, Val,' she says

with a meditative air, as she seats herself on a
little footstool before the couch, with her back
to the light. The girl colours and laughs, but
she only sits down and stares out of the
window. Lord Grenvers looks at her, his
glance changing a little from its air of kindly
welcome to one of keener observation ; he
does not propose that Waldine should act on
her aunt's suggestion ; on the contrary :

'Ah! Linda,' he says, 'your tame bear is
not kissable now'  which remark only adds
to Val's uneasiness.

But it gives Lady Grenvers another opportunity,
and she effusively stoops forward and
kisses the astrachan rug which covers his
lordship's knees.

It seems to Val as if she had been with
them for years ; but it is not because she feels
at home : it is rather because she feels  all of
a sudden and with the desperate impulse of
her years  that she will never be more at
home with them than she is now; that his
lordship is difficult and her ladyship absurd.

The impression is founded enough, but

she is wrong to put any value upon it at
present.

After watching her for a moment, Lord
Grenvers says gently : ' Yes, Miss Waldine
de Stair, this is what we are. I wonder how
you will like us.'

Oh ! I shall like you very much,' says
Val ; but nothing else comes to her to be
added to this cools promise : her simple and
affectionate days have not furnished her with
a precedent to this little scene.

I don't know that,' he says, ' but we mean
to like you ; and you are to be quite at home
here ; you are to do precisely what you please ;
we don't know much about seventeen'  he
says seventeen, meaning not to patronise Val
but to please Lady Grenvers, this being always
his first thought; nor does it occur to him
that the girl may resent her age being
underrated ; but she does.

I am nineteen,' she answers ; and the fact
of making this" assertion seems to prevent her
being able to thank him for the freedom he is
bestowing upon her, as she had meant to do.

Ah ! nineteen ! ' he says ; ' that is two years
nearer to me, but it's a long way off still.' He
feels, looking at her as she sits there, radiant
and upright, that he has never said a truer
word : and she too feels that there is a whole
lifetime  and the lifetime of a different life
too  between herself and this gentle invalid
who is forty years her senior.

He is not one to make advances ; to stop
an incidental clause of his speech is often to
interrupt the whole, and he does not go on to
tell her any plans he may have roughly sketched
for her amusement. He turns his face towards
his wife ; and as Val steals a glance at it, in
self-reproach, she thinks how distinguished
and handsome he is. 'And you, Linda?' he
says in a tone still more pronounced suited
to a child ; ' what have you been doing all the
afternoon V

Vas memory rushes back to Lady Grenvers'
note and its assertion that her husband was
too ill to be left ; but she need not alarm
herself; her aunt has quite forgotten the
contents of that harmless document.

I, dear ?  a thousand things,' says Lady
Grenvers slowly, lifting her delicate eyebrows
as if she would try and shift the weight of her
occupations by confessing them ; ' you know
how many notes I had to write, and you know
but you never quite realise  how everything
falls on me here : everything wants the architectonic
eye  isn't that good Greek?'  Lady
Grenvers is exceedingly proud of the 'less
Greek ' she knows.

Oh yes ! Aristotelian  Platonic  what
you will.'

'Well,' she goes on, opening and shutting
her eyes at him, like a sleepy cat, ' these
architectonic orbs have had to look through
various books and bills and to catch this short
day's light for a little pursuit of the muses 
the day's are short now, are they not?' she
concludes dreamily, turning to Val,  ' and art
always demands one's hest!

'Oh yes!' says the girl, 'but I like long twilights
; I like to walk in autumn, to walk quickly,
until I feel almost tingling in the still air ; I like
to feel the darkness and the dew stealing down

upon me and up to me, and to think : '* Ah ! I
am so warm and so bright that you cannot chill
me; the darker you fall and the colder you
rise the brighter and the warmer I get. " '

Lady Grenvers shivers a little. 'Horrid!'
she says vaguely,  her synonym for dissent.

His lordship sighs ; he too loved a brisk
walk on October evenings once.

Neither of them can encourage her ; nature
and accident are against her chances. ' I
suppose I may walk here,' she ends rather
flatly, ashamed to have said so much.

You mays walk,' says Lord Grenvers with
forced cheerfulness, *till all is blue.'

Even the tip of your nose,' concludes her
ladyship sweetly:  'But when you've done
making my flesh creep with your damps and
your darks, perhaps you'll let me talk of something
more in my jooor darling's line than long
wet rambles.'

Val is mute ; she blames herself more than
she need ; for she is unaware that her aunt
rides roughshod over her husband's nerves if
she be herself in the mood to describe any

out-door exercise that she may chance to have
enjoyed, for she has what she calls her
Atlanta moments The fact is that she has
learnt so long to think of nobody but herself that
she never perceives what confidences she may
stunt or what companionship she may lose in
others. She kisses the astrachan rug again, and
says, 'You must come into the dining-room
to-night to dinner ; I have done the table with
autumn leaves as a surprise to Val ! Oh ! and
talk of surprises ; I've such a surprise for you /'

'Ah!' says his lordship, while Yal looks
on in astonished silence.

And you'll never guess what it is, says
her ladyship, rising and pouncing on a little
clock which stands by the couch, ' but I'll
give you a hint : I'm going to dress early !
And we are sitting here in pitch darkness,
and I've a hundred things to do first. Oh !
the books are come from Muche's ; I will have
them sent you here. Altogether, you see,
darling, that we cannot stay, for I mean Val
to be my right hand now.'

She gives her niece a sign, links her arm

in lies, and has got her out of the room before
either his lordship or she can utter a syllable
of protest.

Poor saint ! ' she whispers confidentially
to her niece, when they are in the anteroom :
he does hate strangers so ; but he'll get used
to you in time !  You must go to his lordship
now, Sister Frances ; he's quite worn out with
talking ; or stay, will you get the books undone
for me  the books from Muche's ? they
are in my boudoir, and he really had rather be
quite alone for the present ! '

I am so sorry I said that about walking,'
says Val in a contrite voice.

 Oh never mind, dear,'  in the tone of
one who forgives a personal injustice ; ' but
you know I'm not strong, and it makes me
feel my delicacy more when people talk of
active pursuits.' She has quite forgotten that
it was on her husband's behalf she professed to
intervene : what is with her always is the
sense of her central self.

And now they are in the corridor again, on
which Val's room gives : and from its open door

they hear a sound charming to Lady Grenvers'
ears  the rustle of tissue paper and the unclasping
of boxes.

*I will give you your fan says Val,
puzzled and disappointed  a little angry.

Lady Grenvers kisses her as she takes the
box from her hands : then she runs to the glass,
and in an instant is practising with her new
treasure which seems to surpass her utmost expectations,
for Lady Grenvers is very cheaply
and very sincerely pleased. It is merely a
fan of black ostrich feathers with ' Ethelinda *
in silver on the tortoiseshell mounts.

Val goes to the window, half not to laugh
at her aunt and half to see the view. It
is nearly dark now, and there are wavelets
of steamy mist upon the grass. But the
colours of the trees across the park  there is
no telling their beauty. The window is near
a corner of the house, and she can see to
south and east. ' Now tell me where I am,'
she says ; ' it is so long ago that I was here
that I have quite forgotten.'

Oh ! my dear, I never have time to lookout

of the window. Let me try!'  pointing
with the fan ; ' that's the park, as far as you can
see ; my eyes are not good at distance ; but
yours can see Netherfield Church, no doubt,
through the trees  west  and very horrid it
looks if you can. Pretty, the time of year, isn't
it V  as if it had just dawned on her that it is
autumn.

And to the left,' says Val ; ' it looks so
tangled and so leafy there.'

Ah ! it will soon get over looking tangled
and leafy : but beyond it is for ever green.
I thought you would like to see something
which looks always like summer : it was quite
mAj idea to give you this room. When the
leaves fall you will see a fir wood in the distance,
with a sort of fringe of little trees about it,
like fine lace ; I do assure you it gave me an
inspiration for a winter bonnet one year.'

'What is the wood?' says Val, standing
with her hands clasped behind her.

Oh ! it is where the lake is, and where
Grenvers lets nobody go for fear of disturbing
wild ducks  he used to be a great sportsman

once, you know, and they are still his keenest
interest. It's an odd cut-throat looking place,
but the fir-trees are always grand. It is called
the Willow-Garth.'

That moment before evening when the sun
has set but the land is not yet dark : it has
some sadness ever in its calm ! And the girl
is tired, perhaps, with her journey, and the
freshness of her rather tame experiences. Anyway
the place she does not see, but which is
to be her winter surety of summer, seems to
rise up before her through the brown and
crimson leaves. She still stands at the window,
her hands still clasped behind her, the
beautiful curves of her figure showing against
the gray pane ; but a gravity steals over her
flower-like face and her eyes are veiled. Lady
Grenvers only wonders ' where she gets her
stays,' that is just the sort of thing she always
does wonder at a juncture of silence and calm,
but even Lady Grenvers does not ask the
crude question ; even Lady Grenvers, though
she does not know it, is awed for an instant's
space as Waldine from the untroubled sleep of

youth passes to the first flicker of the wings
of her dream.

And then, what is great being vague and
what is trivial being obtrusive, and the song
of the future having  after all  no voice to
compare with the twitter of the present ; the
flight of fate is hushed by the approach of
a lady's-maid, and that heart - fulness which
means presage is dashed by the dressing-bell.

VOL. I.

WALDINE WRITES

Whiteknyghts Court, October 11th.

Dearest Elsie  Will you believe that I miss
you though I am only here since yesterday ?
No, you won't believe it ; but it is true. You
will think I mean by ' miss you ' that I should
like to see you, but I don t ; I mean that I am
absolutely homesick for Brussels. You will
want to know what I do, and one would
think that it was early yet to be able to tell
you that, but it isn't : I feel that the days
will be alike  not that they must be quite all
like to-day, or I shall find myself the owner
of a forest !

Well, but about my advent. You know
that I can't go through the whole story of my

journey: I hate detail unless it is about some
happy moment, and the happy moment was
not there. I arrived  let that suffice. Arrived
to what, do you think ?  a loving Aunt
Ethelinda on the platform to match the note
that summoned me away from you all ? Nothing
of the sort  an empty carriage, and,
when I got here, empty kisses from her ladyship
and empty civility from him. Elsie,
Elsie ! what shall I do here ? You have no
notion how impossible it looks. I am sure
they are going to he hind to me ; and you
know what an unregenerate soul I have in that
matter. I abhor people to be kind to me :
I want them to beat me instead. There is
no one here but my aunt and Lord Grenvers
there is not going to be any one. They are
mostly quite alone, and, to do them justice,
they don't seem to mind it. He, poor fellow,
is paralysed, or something of that sort  and
you know how I dislike people who are ill ;  I
can't help it ; I always think they ought to be
killed off. As for her, she spends her time
in dressing and fancying that she is artistic.

.
 ,

My own idea is that the artistic talent finds
its scope upon her face  for oh ! my dear
Elsie, I really do believe that Aunt Ethelinda
does ujp !

However, she looks very pretty  yesterday
evening looked lovely  in a mantilla, and
with the feather-fan we chose, which has
been a great success : I only hope you and I
may look as well when we're  well, I won't
say how many years of age  say twice as old
as we are now ! And I only hope we may be
as easily pleased with a feather-fan.

But the evening ! Oh ! how dull it was :
they read the papers and yawned. I played
the piano ; but you know I don't care greatly
for the piano, and my violin was not unpacked ;
and, if it had been, I misdoubt Aunt Linda's
skill as an accompanied. I played vilely, and
Lord Grenvers knew it ; she said, ' Charming :
what a gift touch is ! Benedict used to say
there was no touch like mine !' That is just
the kind of thing she always says, really, and,
ambiguous though it be, I always long to
shake her.

Always '  ' always '  and I have been here
twenty-four hours.

But one thing was good : they gave me
leave to walk alone : you may guess that I
availed myself of that leave to-day. One
sleeps well here, and there is no breakfast
hour ; but still I was abroad by half-past
eleven prepared to explore. One wears what
one likes, and I put on my plainest black
stuff dress. The day was so lovely  is so
lovely still, though it is nearly dark, and I
write by owl's light. I had only a straw fiat
no jacket  and I felt  oh ! don't you know
how I feel in the morning ?  as if I must fling
myself into a river and swim, or climb a tree
or  well ! I did neither, but I confess I
jumped the ditches.

Do you remember telling me once that,
wherever I was, things would happen to me ?
Well, even here I have had an adventure ; I
have touched upon it already, have I not ? I
am full of it still  an adventure, for I have
been shopping, and I have bought  a tree !

Listen. My impulse was to get away from

the park  out of sight of the house, anywhere
into the open. So I crossed the carriage drive,
and turned into a little wood. Oh ! if you
could be here and paint the colours of that
little wood ! There is a path through it that
looks as if it led to heaven ; it is overarched
with branches that literally rain down gold.
And all along the hedge, for there is a rose-hedge
at one side of it, it is bright with hips
aren't they called hips, the things that
used to be roses ?  which are like clusters of
coral. I gathered a handful of them, and oh 1
how they pricked my fingers.

The path does not lead to heaven ; it leads
only into a road which is much more of a
thoroughfare  what a word to use in these
wilds!  the road that runs to the station.
One of the posts of a gate there had a little
placard fastened on it  an affiche relating to
the 'sale of timber and firewood at White-knights
to-day,' stating that Messrs. So-ands
and their men would arrange for the
conveyance of the wood purchased, by waggon
or steam, to the railway  just an advertisement,

in fact, of some contractor, but it
sufficed to show me that there was something
more than usual in the air.

Down the road I saw a big break with
some common-looking men in it, who were
drinking beer and eating sandwiches : you
know what a horror I have of common men.
I have also a horror of going back the way I
came, and so I turned into the wilds and found
some fields. Here, at least, I thought, there
can be no ' sale of timber and firewood ; ' but
presently I found I was wrong. For 'the
timber sale was a local one, Elsie, and in the
open air ! The fields were very still, but the
cows in them had a disturbed look, and there
was altogether a different feeling on me to
what I had in the coppice : I felt, although the
solitude was unbroken, that I had left shelter
and come out on to a green stage. The gates
between the meadows were open, and there was
a trodden path between them. I went into
the field where there were fewest cows  and
these at the other end  and shut the gate.
Then I looked about for a seat, for I was tired.

There were scarcely any trees in the field,
though there were several oaks all round it,
some of them wreathed with ivy ; but just in
the centre was an oddly-grown ash-tree, grown
see how learned I am become in trees !  out
of the flat bole of an older ash, which furnished
me with a seat. The growth up from this
trunk divided, so that I could lean back and
look between the stems, which stretched to
the sky like two broad arms. I sat down and
peered up into the branches. The tree was at
its loveliest ; it had not lost a single leaf, but
all the leaves were changed. I had noticed, as
I walked, how the ash throws away its leaves
in green fans and clusters, not waiting for them
to wither or fall separately down, carpeting
the lanes with ferny sprays, all sapful still.
But this tree kept every leaf: there was
not one lying in the meadow, there was not
one missing from the boughs : and every
leaf was gold, and burnt like a fine flame
against the sober sky. It was just the perfect
blossom of the meadow, and completed its perfection
:

Oh ! the oak and the ash and the bonny ivy tree,
They flourish at home in my ain countrey.'

There they were, ' flourishing at home ' in
the country that is mine now. . . . All of a
sudden I saw a knot of men standing in the
field next this one, on the farther side of the
hedge. They were grouped quietly round a
huge fallen log, and the assemblage had the
air of a rustic funeral. I guessed at once that
they had something to do with the  sale of
timber and firewood ' I had seen advertised on
the gatepost. No doubt they were looking at
these stark stripped trees to buy them. It
occurred to me that the trees must have been
blown down first : you see I am not much of
an agriculturist : perhaps that will come.

They were not only looking at them, they
were bidding for them there and then. A
smart-looking auctioneer was standing on the
trunk of a big bare oak, with a pencil and a
catalogue in his hand, and the miscellaneous
crowd was silently nodding as he mounted up
the price. I could not hear, but their gestures
were so simple and so relevant that I could

imagine all that was said. And I was amused
until, with one accord, they turned away and
made for this field of mine. I had not seen
that there was a stile in the hedge between
my field and theirs  across the path I had
come by there lay more fallen timber  so,
thought I, they will only pass through this
meadow, and the chances are that they will
not see me under my tree in the open, away
from the footpath side.

Picture my amazement, Elsie, when the
whole group made steadily for my shelter 
not a woman among them ! What in the
world were they going to do  picnic ?

Not they : the auctioneer stepped forward 
he was on the other side of the tree to where I
sat, but I could see him between the fork of it
and the men closed round him. Then he
began at once : 

Lot eleven  an ash-tree containing fifteen
cubic feet of wood  what shall I say, gentlemen ?
fine-grown tree  now, gentlemen'  he did not
add that there was a fairly fine-grown dryad
concealed behind the tree in a state of shyness

and mystification  ' very fine young ash  anyone
give me a bid \ ten shillings ! '

Elsie, Elsie ! they are going to sell this
crown of the fields, this miracle of the meadows,
this life that had taken years of making 
for ten shillings  the price of one of my
evening shoes, of a stall at a theatre. It
broke upon me all of a sudden, as if I were
seeing a crime. The unconsciousness of the
victim, the coolness of the conspirators ! I
became desperate to hinder them and to
save its life  its life that sheltered me.
*Ten shillings, gentlemen, only ten shillings,
this fine young tree  the boughs alone worth
the money for firewood  shall I say fifteen ?
No  twelve and sixpence then ? Yes. Going
for twelve shillings and sixpence  going,
going. . . :

Fifteen shillings,' I cried out as loudly as
I could, appearing in my excitement from
between the twin trunks of my ash-tree. And
when I had said it I really think I should
have died of shame if it had not been that the
assemblage in general and the smart young

auctioneer in particular looked far more embarrassed
than I was. The auctioneer dropped
his pencil : the crowd stared : as for me, I
thought all at once of a text which reassured
me a little by making me laugh, 'The ass,
speaking with man's voice, rebuked the madness
of the prophet!' I did not qiiote the
text, but I thanked heaven for it in my heart
of hearts, for if I had not laughed I must have
cried ! To make matters worse, down fell my
bunch of berries, and, as I stooped to save
them, that ungrateful ash-tree nearly knocked
my hat off. I suppose there was not a soul
among them knew who I was  how should
they \ and the sting of it was that they were
not all Netherfield men ; there were buyers
from a distance, and they had a more town
look than the rustic contractors in their
corduroys and caps. One of these townsmen,
who was dressed in plaid-patterned knickerbockers
and smoking a cigar, stared at me
with a look I could not escape : when I
laughed, he laughed quite loudly and said,
Ah ! Mr. Thirscombe, you didn't mention

there was a young lady in this lot, or I guess
you'd have run up the price of it a bit.'  I
think that it was he who had nodded the
twelve and sixpence.

And then a man  one of ourselves, you
know, quite different  a man who was standing
behind, and had seemed to be only watching
the sale, went up to him and touched him
on the arm. And I felt I was quite safe.

The auctioneer recovered himself: he was
stupid, he did not take off his hat ; he only said,
Fifteen shillings ?' so that I lost my temper.

I want to buy this tree,' I said, ' do you
not understand ? Fifteen shillings you called :
or I will give you a napoleon ; I do not want
him to have it.'

The crowd tittered a little, and my plaid-pattered
admirer fell back. Then the man
who had prevented his rudeness came across
to me  and, my dear, he knew my name !

Excuse me. Miss de Stair,' he said, taking
off his hat  and yet I could see that he was
far more nervous really than I was  for oh,
Elsie, I was only amused !  ' If you wish this

ash to be spared, will you allow me to tell Mr.
Thirscombe so ? ' Such an odd request from a
stranger ! of course I said, ' Thank you ; I
will pay for the tree if no one else bids more ;
if any one does bid more I will outbid him ;
you need not trouble yourself. I am obliged
to you.'

He looked prodigiously perplexed, but kept
his place by me, as if he had some sort of
right to be there ; and the auctioneer stept
across to him and said something which I
could not hear. But the tree was mine.

Just then an elderly man came from the
field the group had last quitted, and the men
flocked to him, and I suppose they told him
the incident. He was Lord Grenvers' agent,
I have since discovered ; and I imagine that he
hesitated whether to tell me to go about my
business or not, since I had not yet made his
acquaintance. At all events, he did not cross
the meadow to me at first. I was still standing
on the bole of the tree ; my unknown
champion stood a pace or two off; he did not
come nearer and there did not seem anything

impertinent in his attitude ; but I felt the
silence awkward, and, after my manner when
flustered, I launched into rapid speech.

For, as I glanced at him, it occurred to me
that I had seen him before  that he was, in
point of fact, the first person I had seen at
Whiteknyghts, standing in a lane I drove
through from the station.

I think it was you who opened the gate
for me yesterday,' I said.

He bowed, as if his civility had been the
merest duty. I happened to be there she
said quite low, ' and I knew the carriage would
pass.' His manner was so shy, so deferential,
that I took courage and looked at him. From
the vantage-ground of my tree  my own tree,
Elsie !  I was brave. Elsie, he is very handsome
and very gentle  tall and rather foreign-looking,
but yet he has an English face  and
I liked his clothes ; he had a short coat, the
colour of a faded leaf, a plain brown hat and
reddish brown gaiters : he seemed so at home
in the fields, under the boughs of my ash tree 
the beautifully thing I have ever bought.

When I looked at him he coloured like a girl,
so I glanced up into the branches.

What makes the tree cost so little I said,
 and why do they sell it ? '

It is grown from an old stool he said ; ' it
will never be much of a tree : in three years
it will probably die.'

But it is the ornament of the field,' I said,
rather ashamed of my heroism now.

He smiled his lips are soft and his teeth
so white and even.  ' Oh yes,' he said, ' it
looks well here, but it is out of sight ; this
meadow is not in any range of view, and
farmers don't like ash-trees in pasture land.'

Will this tree do much harm if it remains?'
I said, feeling a little guilty.

Oh no, it will not exhaust the soil ; and it
is pretty.'

He looked up at the golden leaves just as I
looked down from them, and I saw full into
his eyes : they were so clear and bright.
Drdle de chose! Elsie, do you know I have
never looked into any man's eyes before ?

He was not observing me ; he was quite

critically examining my purchase, and the smile
was still upon his mouth (I seemed to see his
face so well), and it was pleasant  that was all ;
then I became aware that the group was passing
on, and the agent coming towards us. I stept
down from the tree, and he stooped to pick up
a handful of my red berries from the turf ' I
have to thank you,' I said, by way of leave-taking.


Oh no,' he answered simply, ' I am John
Lyne.'

And he held out the berries ; but it occurred
to me that it would look to the agent as if I
were shaking hands with Mr. ' John Lyne ' if I
took them ; so I did not take them. I only said,
Never mind them, thank you, I have plenty.'

Elsie, he did not do as young men do in
books !  he let them drop. Only I saw that
one spray of rose-leaf and scarlet fruit clung to
his coat by the thorns. I wonder if he ever
found it and remembered that it had been mine ?

Then the agent came up, and I felt shy
again, but only shy of my action, which he
was kind enough to allow. 'The tree is of

VOL. I. 5

small value for timber he said, ' only fit for
firewood ; I am sure that his lordship will
let it stand if you wish it ; there are plenty
more to sell. It has got a name too, because
of its odd double growth : the people hereabouts
call it the Twin.'

I thanked him : ' I will tell my aunt about
it,' I said.

Or John Lyne can tell his lordship,' he
replied ; ' he is going up to the Court while
luncheon is brought here, to report the sale,
which is of a tentative sort in these parts.'

Elsie ! Elsie ! I have told you all the story,
and now do you know what I want to do ? I
want to put my arms round your neck and
my head on your shoulder before I give you
the clue. Let us imagine it ! come closer,
closer : I do not mean you to see my face
while I tell you  not even a bit of my neck
or my ear. Oh ! it is well that you should be
away ; I think my very hair would blush.
Elsie, John Lyne is Uncle Grrenvers' bailiff ! 

Yours, dear, yours, 

Waldine de Stair.

Postscript.  You won't think anything of
my adventure after all, I have told it so ill. I
wanted my last revelation to astonish you as
much as it astonished me, but I was bursting
with it all the while, and it cast its shadow
before. Nor is it really in the least amusing.
After all, what is there funny in his being a
bailiff? But it is nice to have the tree. Those
two slim boughs growing upwards from the
mutual bole : such a curve they take against
the sky ! And then the golden crown which
links them both together. To behold it iS to
envy, to possess it is to be glad. It seems tome
as if within my heart some sudden double
tree were firmly set, topped with such burnished
bloom. . . . One falls a-dreaming ! '

m/

JOHN LYNE's lesson

Then slowly, slowly, she came up.
And slowly she came nigh him.' 

John Lyne has a sweet voice, and he is apt
to beguile the hours therewith as he rides
from farm to hamlet and from hamlet to farm
upon the Denham mare.

The Denham mare has not even a name :
she is John's most intimate comrade, and
often seems by the turn of her ear or the
meditative glance of her mild eye as if she
were sharing his thoughts or listening to his
songs.

But to the Lynes she is only the Denham
mare. There is a fund of gentleness in John
even a possible appreciation of the pathetic

fallacy, but he is no more romanticist than
classics as yet. As yet a horse is only a
horse to him and a tree a tree. The one
means merely locomotion and the other merely
timber. So that to-day he is not a little
puzzled.

Because it has just dawned above his horizon
that there is a way of regarding a tree which
has no practical bearings, and, all the same, is
not without its charm. He has read a considerable
set of books for his station, and
mythological books among them, but he has
never yet applied mythology : he has waited
in ignorance till a young lady, of a type which,
if described to him, he might hitherto have
deemed mythological, should familiarise him
with the notion of a wood-nymph and endow
a worthless ash with significance and feeling.
As the Denham mare takes him along the
well-known bridle-path at a foot's pace he
looks from side to side at the trees, his reins
slack upon the horse's neck, and sings  after
his manner  as he goes.

But he is not thinking of his song ; he is

thinking of the caprice of a woman. He is
wondering which tree would please her ;
whether that bare oak which is but the support
for the dark berried ivy now, or that rare
copper beech, or that variegated maple. He
does not know that any tree would have been
the same to her at that moment and in that
mood : from her whim of an instant he sets to
work to learn a serious lesson in his ever
imaginative leisure. And the Denham mare
looks serious too.

Presently John stops singing to light his
pipe : as he searches his side pocket for a
match his fingers arrest themselves at the
touch of something sharp. He draws it out :
it is Waldine's spray of autumn rose-leaf and
fruit, so that after all, he thinks to himself
as he replaces it, there is no doubt of her
being real ! And very real she begins to grow
for him as he reviews their chance meetings.

"With his face aglow, he recalls the feeling
that had come upon him when she gave him
that incomprehensible little bow on the previous
day :  his brain had photographed her

attitude so well, no wonder that lie recognised
her at once under the ash-tree ;  and thence
he falls to vague musing, uncertain whether
or no she resented also that slight service
which he only rendered as a matter of duty.
It does not occur to him that she judged his
position wrongly. Experience lends him no
precedent which shall guide him to translate
her mien.

And then, the Denham mare chancing to
tread upon a stone, he abruptly wonders
whether she cares for horses, and if she would
not, a fortiori, be more solicitous on their behalf
than on an ash-tree's.

Or on a fir's ? for it is fir-trees that are
now in view : as he rides along the grassy
stone-strewn path the character of the scene
has changed : there is a hint of moorland in
the air, the foliage is wilder, the hedge less
trimmed. It is the way to the Willow-Garth.

He is riding there to see whether some
apparatus for wild-duck shooting has been
properly put up, for it is a survival of Lord
Grenvers' sporting days that he cares still to

have his boats and guns in order. In a valise
slung over John's shoulder there is a length
of gauze, coffee stained into the colour of a
faded leaf, which his lordship has been preparing
all the morning to delude the birds
and hide the rough machinery. And the
Denham mare knows her way to the Willow-garth
: the place is a favourite retreat of her
master's, not only for work and sport but forrest
and reading. There is no place in all the
country-side as undisturbed.

The wood thickens ; it is all firs now  Scotch
firs and larch ; the ride is carpeted with piny
needles ; the weak autumn sun has no strength
through the evergreen branches to light the way
or to disperse the damp ; but at the end of the
thicket there is, as it were, a feathering of
delicate boughs, quite bare of leaf, and underneath
them a rustic gate ; beyond, firs again,
with no clearing or way through them, only
little trodden tracks which lead to the secluded
lake. And the tops of these firs show dark
against the feathering willows.

At the gate John dismounts, and ties the

Denham mare to a post, more from habit than
for prevention of her wandering. Then he
pulls a handful of weeds from a little mound
close by, so bringing to light a rough wooden
slab slanted against the mound, on which some
words are carved. It is here that he buried a
favourite dog last year. The carving is not
ill done, for John is apt to take pains with
what he puts in hand ; and the words are
interspersed with hieroglyphics after a quaint
custom of the country-side. There are two
lines only, and they run thus  

Eye finder, Heart choosetli,
Love binder, Death loosely.' 

illustrated, as might be, by symbols  the eye,
the heart, the little winged love and the
skull ; and underneath the lines is the dog's
name, ' Flirt.' It is John's custom to keep the
slab clear of grass, and to contemplate his
handiwork not without pride when he goes to
the Willow-Garth.

And thither he now goes as noiselessly ashe
can, not to disturb the birds.

So going, he does not disturb either Miss

Waldine de Stair, who is just entering the
copse by a stile lower down ; she has skirted
the enclosure, as a bee flits round a flower,
hesitating whether to go in or not, but the
stile has decided her, and her dress is now
making its little rustle among the reeds.

As she comes up to the wooden slab a ray
of sunshine falling on the carved letters attracts
her quick eyes to it at once.  Some fancy
of Aunt Ethelinda's, this,' she thinks ; and
stoops down to make out the singular inscription.


Its gist is not patent to her at first, but
she is not long before she solves its general
sense : * Flirt,' she says to herself softly, and
then she reads the lines again. Because they
are unusual they seem to her pathetic, and
perhaps there was pathos in their first suggestion.
' That is too real for Aunt Ethelinda,'
she thinks ; and she approves it.

Waldine's letter has cleared her mental
atmosphere : she is one of those girls who can
write off an impression  that is to say, when
it is once registered it has passed. It is

astonishing how easily she has digested the
lesson that John Lyne is only the bailiff at
Whiteknyghts. For two reasons : first, because
the word ' bailiff ' seems to her to belong to a
category of words that have to do with the
country  'squire' is another: to say to
Waldine that Lord Grenvers is a squire and
John Lyne is a bailiff' only conveys to her
that both Lord Grenvers and John Lyne live
in the country : no distinct profession is called
up by either term : she would receive with equal
calm an assertion that Lord Grenvers was a
bailiff and John Lyne a squire, and in her
heart of hearts she believes them both to be
farmers.  Second, because, the previous evening,
when she told Lady Grenvers her adventure,
that lady was in a gushing mood.
She said, ' How nice of you, dear Val, to
be so enthusiastic ! / am always enthusiastic 
hate to see trees cut down. And you were so
safe with John Lyne : isn't he handsome ?
so well bred, and such a good manner. He is
all in all to my poor saint : and as to Charlotte
Lupton  you must really wear that black

gauze veil when we go to see her tomorrow 
so softening ! Charlotte has an eye like a hawk
for subjects; and you 11 have to sit to her:
she's the only decent woman in these parts 
at least, decent, poor darling! she's not:
but so amusing :'  and thus her desultory talk
had merged John's quiet personality into her
neighbour's more robust characteristics ; the
link between them, which did not transpire in
Lady Grenvers' fluent chatter, being that Mrs.
Lupton had once painted John Lyne's portrait.
His position at Whiteknyghts was indeed
that peculiar position into which a man of
quite humble and rustic origin can sooner fall
than his superior in station. Lord Grenvers
treated him almost like a son  was in the habit
of sending for him every day and taking his
advice on more matters connected with the
estate than were strictly in his province. He
was part of Whiteknyghts ; and, if familiarity
has anything to say to possession, the place
was more his than another's, for the old
yeoman breed of which he came had lived
there . from century to century. His interests

were Lord Grenvers' interests  to imagine
that he would run counter to these was
inconceivable to both. A stranger or a man
of means in John Lyne's position would have
been too independent to be treated thus : he
would have had extraneous pursuits, connections
who were not born and bred with
their horizon bounded by Whiteknyghts  so
to be less utterly trusted. With John Lyne
all pursuits and all connections were known,
and the presumption was that all was known
that there was to know in John Lena  a
conclusion one too readily deduces from
premises of custom and likeness.

If Lady Grenvers had ever troubled her
head about any one but herself and formulated
her opinion of John Lyne, she would have
said that he was handsome,  because Charlotte
Lupton had painted him, not because she had
really observed it,  and that he was a blessing,
because he distracted her poor saint, who
relied upon him. Pressed to answer how she
regarded him herself, she would have said
she regarded him as a miracle and as a man

for whom lie, personally, had a strange
attraction  ' as something quite removed from
his own sphere and a sort of ideal being;'
unaware all the while that his opinion of her
was a poor one. Further pressed to answer
whether she viewed him in the light of a
servant, she would have said, ' John Lyne ?
good gracious, no ! he is quite one of ourselves,'
lifted her eyebrows, so laying aside the
weight of the discussion, begged the question
and dropped the subject.

You could never argue with Lady
Grenvers.

Meanwhile Waldine reread Flirt's epitaph,
and wonders whose device it is : until, so
wondering, she sees the Denham mare, looking
almost over her shoulder and wondering very
much about her. Val is fond of animals ; but
as she pats the horse's head over the fence
which is between them she sees that the mare
is saddled and judges the rider to be near
enough to make withdrawal discreet. * Perhaps
it is Mr. John Lyne's horse '  but it has an
attractive nose : she pats it still. And then

there comes a faint wliilF of tobacco smoke on
the still damp air, more perceptible than the
noiseless footstep that follows.

So John Lynesees her there, midway bet ween
his live mare and his dead dog, just within the
gate of the garth, the willows close behind her,
and the reeds and firs in front. The surprise is
all his, for she has made up her mind that it is his
horse long ago  this girl's senses are like flames
and she is glad of the opportunity to set him
in his right place, which the meeting affords : he
is swell bred,' her aunt has said, and she is 'safe
with him ' ; she will show him that she knows
him to be an integral nerve of Whiteknyghts.

Good day to you, Mr. Lyne,' she says
pleasantly, unaware that the prefix has any
novelty or strangeness for him, and only
meaning to be simple and kind.

His greeting in return, as he slips his pipe
into his pocket, is respectful and. slow. He is
too shy of her : she must reassure him ; what
more natural than that she should speak of
the Denham mare ?

Is it Lord Grenvers' horse V she asks.

'No, Miss de Stair, it is mine.' (So bailiffs,
whatever they are, have horses of their own !)
What is its name ? '

Its name ? Oh it has no name; we call her
the Denham mare V

'Why that?'

Because we bought her at a sale at Denham
over yonder ;'  he points with his crop westward.
 ' It is Lord Mountravers' place.'

But you ought to call her by a name,' she
answers :  ' You name your dogs, why don't
you name your horses V

He follows the direction of her look, and
their eyes rest on .Flirt's epitaph.

Oh ! my old dog, Flirt,' he says, a little
sheepishly.

Yes : I knew it was yours ; that is a
very curious inscription, what is it ? " Eye
finder '"

" Heart choose," ' he goes on.

Oh yes, I was right then : but the rest is
less clear. What is that figure with the wings ?'

That is Love  they call him,' says John
Lyne.

" Love bindetli/' ' repeats Waldine slowly.

' Love bindeth/' ' he says again ; ' and the
other carving is Death.'

" Death looseth/' ' the girl concludes.

There is an instant's pause : the words
seem strangely grave, passed between strangers
so. Then 

" Loospth/' ' she asks, or oseth" ? Which
does it mean ? '

I think it is " loose," '  he replies, with
the air of one who has considered the subject.

" Loseth " would rhyme,' she says "absently
; ' but " Love binder. Death loose :"
that makes for the other. " Loose " or
"loseth"  which does death do?' (with a
smile.)

I think it loose,' says John Lyne, ' for
the dead I do not think that there is loss.'

'You should know, as you put it there.
"Death loose".  yes. 'flirt I''  she says
abruptly,  ' I like your epitaph ! Thank you,
Mr. Lyne.'

Thank you, Miss de Stair.'

As he prepares to step aside for her to go,

VOL. I. 6

there is something in the leisure and the
deference of his movements which, now  as
before  impels Waldine to go on talking,
though she is well aware she has paid him all
due attention. How far she is attracted to
him merely by his attractiveness she does not
know : but somewhat.

Is that a bulrush ? ' she asks, her fair
eyes roving a little beyond the cleared space.

Yes, Miss de Stair ; there are several.'

I wish I had a knife.'

Will you allow me to cut it for you ? '

Thank you. If you will lend me your
knife, I should like to get it myself.'

He hands her a large useful knife :  ' Shall
I unclasp it ? '

'Thanks;' she takes the knife which he
has opened, and moves away a few paces,
walking daintily between the reeds. He does
not like to follow, but he moves after her.
It is very much wetter there than it looks,'
he says apprehensively ; but at the same
moment he puts up his hand to raise his cap
before he leaves her  not wishing to seem as

if lie were waiting for his knife : he wants to
leave her free.

Impossible ! Even in that moment she has
made a false step into the deep morass to which
the Willow-Garth tends as it nears the hidden
lake ; she has passed a stalwart tree by but one
step, and her instinct is to save herself by it
without turning round. She is as lithe as a
panther ; she flings her supple body back and
catches  not the fir-tree stem  with her right
hand. John Lyne has reached the tree and his
right arm is raised to his head, close to the
bough. As she grasps  she knows not what,
but it helps her to spring back, the open knife
in her hand strikes deep into his wrist ; for it is
his arm, and not the bough, that she has seized.

It is she that cries out, not he. The thrust
is such a fierce one and has come so suddenly
with a force the girl could not have used in a
case of deliberate aim  that he turns sick and
white ; the blood rushes from his face and lips,
and his arm droops.

Waldine stands by him on firm land.
What has she done ? Will he faint ? The resistance

that the knife-blade found in his flesh
has struck her deadly chill.

I beg your pardon,' he says  but his eyes
close.

In a moment of desperation Waldine has
flung aside the knife  only to see the blood
welling from his wounded wrist. She catches
the handkerchief out of his breast-pocket ; it
is the most evident bandage near. As she
draws it up there comes out with it a spray of
roseleaf and red berry, which falls to the
ground at her feet.

In that moment John has steadied himself,
and the colour returns to his lips.

Pray don't trouble, Miss de Stair,' he says.
It was my fault : I thought to warn you.' He
takes his handkerchief from her and binds his
wrist  not to let her see the gash.

'Are you hurt?' asks Waldine in a low
voice : having once cried out she is more than
calm ; her manner is almost rigid in its intensity
;  but her heart beats fast.

He smiles, ' Oh no, indeed ; I will get you
the bulrush if you like.'

No says the girl, who seems to feel the
air heavy about her,  'No: if you are not
faint and if you can ride, get on your Denham
mare and ride up to the Court : his lordship's
nurses will bind up the wound rightly. Go at
once !'

Her manner is so earnest as to be imperious ;
and the hurt is not slight. Clearly it is
right that he should go  but he leaves her
with hesitation.

Pray do not venture over the reeds to the
lake,' he says ; * there is a footpath to the boathouse
; and the marsh on either side is
treacherous !'

I will keep the path,' she answers.

Then he withdraws, lifting his left hand to
his cap with a smile ; and she, still standing
there, hears him loose the Denham mare and
ride away.

Side away, still thinking, but not singing
any longer  wounded how and where ?

Forecasting

Over the Willow Garth there is a young
moon shining : all the while she has been
there, but it is not till now, when the gray
day wanes in afternoon, that she is seen ; and
she is shining right upon the blade of John
Lyne's knife where it lies at Waldine's feet.

As she hears the paces of the Denham mare
quicken, the girl stoops down and picks it up,
wondering why it is that she should tremble :
I meant to be only nice to him,' she thinks,
and I have stabbed him like this ! '  she is on
the point of shutting it when her warm fingers
touch his blood upon the blade.

A sort of sickness steals upon her nerves
till she averts her eyes ; and then she sees the

spray of roseleaf and red berry which fell from
John's coat-pocket when she bound his hand :
there are no rose-trees near.

She blushes softly :  *Was it mine?' she
asks herself aloud : but she does not care to
answer. Only her instinct is to leave it there :
she has yet so much to learn : life is for her
an immense fund of answers to riddles yet unformed,
and her curiosity knows no limit of
discretion. To know, to discover ! That is
enough for her. Let time and chance arrange !

A faint air stirs the spray ; she grasps .the
knife again and thrusts it through the stems,
the blade's length in the ground : she will not
touch it again.

The young moon brightens over her dark
head in the autumn sky ; the crystal daylight
which she aids shines on the steel handle, on
the red rose-fruit and the golden leaves. The
knife is deep in the cool damp mould, and the
stain on the blade is hidden, but there is
blood upon her fingers  blood.

She rises with a little quick sigh : her face
is very beautiful as its expression of youth is

reasserted after the moment of trouble ; why
should she not go forward to the lake and dip
her hand in the water ? and afterwards ?  her
heart is set upon that bulrush still.

And so it will be with her always, to the
end of time.

THE Chapter Il

AN INTERVIEW

Two suspense hearts meeting thus suddenly
either full of thought for the other, cannot be
called surprised ; but there is a shock in the
revelation of their mutual dependence which
keeps them silent for a moment. The disclosure
is beyond recovery once and for ever.

Strangely enough, it is John Lyne who is
the more confused ; perhaps because he recognises
their position more fully ; he is conscious
that he has been eavesdropping. Waldine is
hardly confused ; to find him there is a
great satisfaction to her, and that is all.
But it is John who speaks first, as first recognising
the need of explanation.

I beg your pardon,' he says in a low voice.'

'Why?' says Waldine vaguely, and then
she adds as an after thought, ' Good-evening.'

Good-evening, Miss de Stair.'

You have, perhaps, come up alDout the
Italian ? '

No,' returns John, too naturally truthful
to be as inventive as he could wish.

Or about something for Lord Grenvers ? '

'No.'

Then why are you come ? ' her voice
trembles a little and yet the chill of the outer
air seems to have frozen it already, her tone
is so distant. The expansive self revealed
looks like a receding ghost to both of them.

'Oh,' says John quickly, 'I came to see
you  to see if you had returned ; I meant no
harm, but I saw the light and '

I do not see that you have done harm.
I am glad to see you.'

The monosyllables drop from her lips with
a graceful frigidity. He cannot wholly hear
the quick breaths taken beneath these frost-wreaths
of rhetoric.

You do not mind my having come ? ' he

asks in an altered voice. He is standing in the
path now, fronting her, and the firelight shines
upon his face.

Mind it ? oh no, what is it to me ? '

Nothing ? '  it is her tone that gives him
courage.

Oh yes  something.' She turns her head
aside and speaks low, as if to herself,  ' I was
just wishing you were here,' she says softly :
and then, as if she recognised the tenderness in
her own voice, ' I was thinking of the tableaux,
Mr. Lyne : ' and John thinks he has never
heard anything sweeter than the sound of his
name as she speaks it.

Shall you really be inclined to teach me
how to say the words right ? ' he hazards.

*0h yes  now if you like, or when you
like, indeed  I have nothing to do here.'

I am afraid you find it dull in our country
after being abroad ? '

No '  the word is spoken on the indrawn

breath, as if she answered him more rapidly

than she would. Her head is still turned

away and he ventures to gaze at her face, not

VOL. I. 13

knowing that she can see him plainly all the
time in some instinctive way. His gaze and
her perception of it make her reiterate her
words, ' No, I am not dull,' she says again ;
I am very happy here  somehow.'

Mrs. Lupton's house makes a change for
you.'

Yes ; but I don't care for change  and I
don't care much for Mrs. Lupton,' she adds
with a little laugh, in complete confidence.
I think I like the country and the quiet and
the winter'  she stretches out her arm from
under the eaves of the window  ' It is raining,'
she says quickly  and indeed the whole air is
wet with soft damp.

It is nothing,' says John  ' a sort of mist :
I have no distance to go.'

You need not go yet.'

Not if you wish me to stay.'

I do not wish you to go. Come in,' she
adds abruptly,  ' I do not see why you should
not come in. I want to show you the bulrushes
for which I never thanked you.'

She goes back into the room, and he,

half wondering at his own temerity, follows
her.

The room is very warm, the air blows
coldly in : ' Shut the window,' she says without
looking round ; he shuts it. Then for an
instant there is utter silence ; their thoughts
race, wind swift, along the tense lines of their
consciousness ; they can hear each other's
hearts beat. John has a strange feeling upon
him that he has done and is doing something
wrong, but Waldine is only bent upon going
with the tide. Whither is she drifting  along
what river to what sea ? she does not ask 
the voyage is too dangerously sweet. Only
let them keep together !

To have come in seems to have changed
the character of their meeting ; the room is so
dark, so warm, so full of intimate life ; its
shelter stifles all formalities, but somehow
neither of them ventures to glance at the
other.

'Those are your bulrushes,' says Waldine
after a moment or two.

They look very beautiful,' says John, in a

tone which is the echo of hers ; they both
speak beneath their breath, as if fearful of
being heard.

As he turns away from where he stands
behind her, to examine the artistic arrangement
of the reeds against the back of the
upright piano, she steals a glance at him and
sees that his coat is wet with the fine mist
that has been falling. ' Won't you take your
coat off, Mr. Lyne V she asks him simply.

I don't think I ought to stay,' says John
suddenly ; ' I am taking ujd your time.'

Oh ! my time,' she interrupts him impatiently
 so impatiently that at last he
looks at her and is amazed at the radiance of
her beauty seen thus near, and undimmed by
the glass between them  ' don't stay if you
don't wish to : but I have spoken to my aunt
about the Italian  the opera is there on the
piano.'

Will her ladyship let you hear me read
the words. Miss de Stair ? '

Of course. Why are you so solemn ? '

'Here, and now V

Of course : she says you are quite one
of ourselves

It seems too much happiness.'

There is no mistaking his tone, whatever
doubt there may be of the meaning of hers.
A mad pleasure steals into her senses ; she
will increase that vibration in his voice, she
will push the charm to its limit. * Her ladyship
says,' she continues slowly, 'that she is glad
you are to be in the tableaux ; that it will be
something for me to do to teach you to say the
words, and that she thinks you had better .read
them with me alone for fear she should distract
your attention because you admire her so much.'

Is that so, Miss de Stair V

It is difficult for him to answer her calmly,
for she is pouring wine into his veins with her
words. But he feels more and more that a
responsibility almost beyond his bearing is
being thrust ujDon him. How can he be with
her alone and not tell her what is in his heart ?

His hesitation and confusion perplex her.
Perhaps you had rather not read them now ? '
she asks, in a tone of disappointment.

Oh ! if you are so kind,' he says in an
easy voice which costs him an effort.

Then take off your coat ; and I will ring
for a lamp

She crosses the room towards the bell ; he
stands for a second irresolute, as if he would
take off his coat as she bids him, and then
impulsively 

No,' he says to her,  do not ring. I want
to speak to you first.'

His tone arrests her as her hand is on the
cord. It is absolutely unlike any tone she
has yet heard ever in any man's voice. It is
a tone of command under which entreaty
pleads. Her hand drops to her side and her
heart stops beating.

'What do you want to say?' she asks,
frightened she knows not why.

I want to say,' says John Lyne, opening
his great-coat as if the warm room choked him,
but not taking it off  on the contrary, holding
his hat in his hand while he speaks,  ' that
very often great things are the result of quite
simple things, and that this simple thing of

your helping me to read some Italian may
become a great thing, and bring about great
things for me. I do not want you to do it
without thought, not knowing what you do.'

She recovers herself a little as she realises
that his tone is merely the effect of his strong
desire for her to do what is right ; as she
recovers herself she becomes intrepid  she is
too direct to return an evasive answer.

I know what I do she says firmly.

'Hardly,'  says John Lyne, taking a step
forward and standing near to her,  * hardly
you can. But it shall not be my fault that
you do not know it. I want to tell you that
it is not the same to me to be with you that it
is to be with her ladyship.'

She does not smile, listening, as she would
smile if she read his speech : her eyes soften as
she looks into the fire : she stands still as stone ;
she comprehends the sweetness of that difference.

To be with you,' he goes on, ' I only
guess what it is to me : but I do guess it and
you cannot : it turns my life to flame. If this
is your will, tell me I may come and I will

come  thankfully  do I say thankfully ? to
come to you will be like heaven. All ! let me
come ! . . . But if you do not want me, say
so now. It will be best.'

I do want you she says in the same voice.
She hears him, but of all he says to her only
those four words, * Ah ! let me come ! ' ring in
her heart.

Still he does not cease to warn her. ' I
came,' he says, 'to see the windows of your
room this evening ; that was all : I find you.
And even now, if you will, I can forget that I
have found you. But after this time I shall
never be able to forget you whenI go away.'

I do not want you to forget me.'

And I shall forget you never. But though
you ask me to stay, though you bid me to
think of you, for your sake I shall not stay
and I shall not think of you without leave.
Will you now, for your own sake, ask your aunt
if I may stay ? '

There is no need. She would not understand.'


Then I shall go to his lordship.'

What shall you say to him ? '

I shall say that you have told me you will
hear me read the words of the chorus, and I
shall ask him if he has any objection to my
going to you now  alone.'

'As you will

If he objects, I shall know that he thinks
me presuming : I shall then ask leave to hear
you read them once, before her ladyship, tomorrow.
And I shall recall them, do not fear.'

If he does not object ? '

If he does not object I shall return.' .

Neither of them speaks another word. They
feel like people who have staked their chance
on the throw of a die. Until they know what
they have cast, they dare not utter. John
crosses the room behind Waldine and goes out
at the door without looking back. Waldine
remains absolutely motionless upon the hearth-rug,
still staring fixedly into the fire. The
only change she has made in her attitude is
that with both her hands she has taken hold
of the back of a chair behind her. She is alone
for several minutes, and she can scarcely be

said to think the while : what she has done
she does not know and she does not care, but
until she sees the upshot of it she cannot
distract her attention. * No doubt he is right
she says to herself presently, aloud.

It is astonishing, the lightning-speed at
which her faith in this man has grown. There
is no appreciable cause for it beyond the facts
that she has always heard him praised, and that
on two occasions he has been of some slight
service to her. Perhaps the insincerity of Lady
Grenvers has something to do with it, and perhaps
not. More likely the mind has followed
up the intuitive judgment of the heart towards
possession.

After about seven minutes a footstep
comes along the passage  a lighter footstep
than John Lyne's  and it is followed by the
entrance of one of Lord Grenvers' nurses.

If you please, Miss de Stair,' says this
functionary, ' have you Moses ? '

Have I lohatf says Waldine impatiently.

'Moses, Miss de Stair. His lordship has
sent me to ask you to bring in Moses.'

Moses is on the piano says Waldine
absently : still like one in a dream site walks
across the room and takes the opera spoken of
in this homely way into her hand  ' Moses is
among the bulrushes,' she adds with a short
 laugh, which is not a laugh of amusement, as
the loose front of her wrapper rustles against
John's reeds that whisper always of the Willow-garth.


Will you take Moses to his lordship ? '
asks the nurse stupidly, not knowing her
errand.

No  yes. Does he wish to see me ? '
If quite convenient, Miss de Stair.'
Without another word Waldine carries the
libretto along the corridor and walks into her
uncle's sitting-room. It is fully lit, and the
light blinds her for an instant.

Oh ! Sister Frances is an emissary for the
gods,' says Lord Grenvers ; ' thank you so much,
Val. I hear you are going to teach John Lyne
Italian. But why should you bother about it ?
I'll put him through his paces. Where are
the words ? Have you nothing smaller than

this tome? Shade of Caxton! what print!
Put the lamp a bit nearer, John, will you ? '
He snatches an unusual pleasure in the sense
of being useful to some one.

John moves the lamp towards the invalid's
left hand: as he does so the glare from its
thick glass globe is full upon his face  his eyes
shine like happy stars. Waldine finds the place
in the libretto, but Lord Grenvers cannot read
the small and cramped letters below the music.
Oh ! you must do it after all,' he says.

'Dal tuo stella soglio, Signor, ti volga
a noi ! ' says Waldine.

Tell him what it means says his lordship,
charmed with the sweet accents.

Down from Thy starry throne. Lord, turn
towards us ! ' she says quickly.

A tremendous nerve-shattering clang from
the hall-gong follows immediately upon her
words. Lord Grenvers starts and puts his
hands to his ears.

My dear Yal,' he says when the hideous
din has ceased, ' it's an incantation ! For God's
sake let's be warned in time ! With all my

other infirmities I can't afford to be made blind
and deaf by microscopic print and responsive
thunder. Evidently the seance must be without
me. You must go to Miss de Stair's
sitting-room tomorrow, John, before you come
to mine. At this rate I shall know when you
are learning Italian by the walls tumbling
about my ears I suppose. Val, you must run
and dress, or you won't be in it with Linda.'

Then they look at each other. John's face
is only happier, more reassured in expression :
Waldine has undergone a transformation ;-she
looks like an incarnate laugh, a live ripple of
water, anything that is all joy and light.
Very well, tomorrow,' she says softly.

Demain, qui sait oil nous serons demain f
Lavender est a Dieu, le temps est dans sa
onainj quotes his lordship in answer. John
opens the door for her, but Waldine does not
glance at him again. Is he not hers  hers ?
need she look at him or speak to him at all ?
She runs upstairs singing ; as John passes out,
a moment later, he hears her lovely voice
along the great staircase 

FAMILIARITY

 Dal t'uo stella soglio,
Signor, ti volga a noV

He goes out into the dripping night; the

prayer is echoed in his heart  poor heart

that is to be the shrine of such a prayer forever

!

QUANDO Legem

But fate intervenes against that meeting as
planned and sanctioned. Fate in the shape
of Ethelinda Grenvers with an ailment 
cold.

Slight cold ; not unbecoming cold, but cold
that requires caresses, companionship, and an
absolutely new tea-gown.  ' For, Yal,' she says
piteously, really I was never puce before
scarlet I've been and mauve, but puce ! 
and my poor little nose so swollen. Give me
that hand-glass, darling, and let me see if it's
worse. And I can't see to read, and my armis
too stiff to write with. You mustn't leave
me a moment this morning. I wish I could
give you my cold, you'd shake it off so much

sooner  and it's not so fatal for you to have
the outlines thicken.'

Thank you says Waldine laughing ; despite
the annoyance of being kept upstairs
all the morning, her mood is so buoyant that
she cannot be ill-tempered.

But I can't, of course ; fragile people
always catch cold but they can't give it.'

'I shall cultivate fragile people,' says the
girl absently, her roving thoughts away
already in the keeping of a man who, if not
Herculean, is certainly not fragile yet.

What were sou going to do this morning,
Val?'

Teach Mr. Lyne Italian.'

Oh ! but I can't be left alone. Don't you
think he'd like to see my tea-gown ? to love
it is a liberal education, as somebody said of
something.'

No doubt he would think it adorable.'

Then he must come up here, Val, to my
boudoir. Yoiire here, so it's quite correct.'

Waldine hesitates : this is not the meeting
of which her dreams have been full.

Aren't you too ilH' she says in a tone
more suggestive than sympathetic.

I don't think so says her ladyship meditatively,
regarding her nose again in the hand-glass
: ' and it is only the left wing that is red.
Perhaps Stephanie has some velocities  though
cosmetics are always dangerous  and I can
turn my left side to the wall. John Lyne is
not so strong as he looks, and perhaps I can
give him my cold ! Anything that I can do for
that good end  short of kissing him' 

Waldine turns away ; of a sudden her face
is like fire : she is silent. But if she were
plum-coloured and dumb, Lady Grenvers
would never know it.

Yes,' she goes on, ' you must write him a
line, this alarm has made my eyes stream
so ; if I can write a note to my dear saint, it's
all I shall be able to do till this evening,
when, come what may, I must be carried
down to see him. Write Mr. Lyne a note,
Val ; I'll dictate it.'

Waldine sits down, all Lady Grenvers'
elaborate writing appointments before her.
VOL. I. 14

She puts pen to paper, a smile hovering about
her beautiful lips.

" Dear Mr. Lyne," ' she writes, * '' come up,
I've something to give you." '

" Something to give him," ' Aunt Linda ? '

Yes, Val, my cold.'

'But he won't understand.'

How do you know what he understands ?
he'll be intrigue beyond anything. Mr. Lyne
and I are very old friends, Val. You've no
notion how spiritiielle his nature is.'

I daresay.'

I believe Charlotte Lupton flirted with
him abominably. The lengths she goes ! But
no doubt it " lifted his horizon," as she says.'

How do you mean ? '  Waldine traces
arabesques on the blotting-paper as she asks
the question.

Oh ! she made him read her all sorts of
poetry while he sat to her  filled his head
with fancies. And look at the result ! he
likes romance  turns from her, with all her
cleverness, to poor romantic me ! '

Turns from her ? '

Well, not really, of course ; but he was
never responsive. Charlotte crawled before
him  crawled, there's no other word. And he
just treated her as if she were a book. He
learned all he could from her, thanked her,
shut her up, and put her back on the shelf.'
What did Mrs. Lupton expect ? '
Lady Grenvers meditatively resumed the
hand-glass  ' I can't imagine ; another slave,
I suppose. You know, Yal, I daresay it seems
odd to you, one's liking John Lyne ; but he's
not like anybody else's bailiff. In the first
place, he comes of an admirable stock  they're
poor as rats, the Lynes, and really I think
that's because they're so honest. Still, as
regards race  you should hear Grenvers trace
them! Then he's so bright. Look at his
talent for music  you may imagine Charlotte
cultivated that  and his voice is lovely. He's
read I don't know what : they say his lectures
to the Netherfield boys are capital  and he has
natural taste: Charlotte never gave him his
taste : I really should not be surprised if he
understood my tea-gown.'

Very likely.'

Of course it's a difficult tea-gown  this
shot-silk always is difficult ; but, when one is
out of sorts, one cries out for a shot-silk. One
mottles, and nothing can contradict motte like
shot I '

No. What else shall I say to Mr. Lyne V

Nothing else ; it's only a word to be
handed him when he conies  so much civilly
than a message 

'dear Mr. Lyne  Come up, I've something
to give you.

'yours truly,

Ethelinda Grenvers." '

I hope the paper smells nice ; does it, Val ? '

'Weeks.'

'You word it coarsely, but I know what
you mean  mousseline. Put a postcript, " Excuse
my tea-gown," or else, perhaps, he won't
give his mind to it. What about the music ?
I do so hate helping people improve themselves
 horrid ! '

It is only the words from More in Egitto
the libretto is in Uncle Egbert's room.'

Then Stephanie can fetch it. Poor darling,
he's not there yet, I suppose : what's the
time?'

Half-past eleven.'

How do you know V

(' How does she know V when all her pulses
are ringing out the hour !)  ' I can see the
time by that horse-shoe clock on the further
table.'

Oh yes ! so can I, though gray eyes are
never strong  what is it they say, Les yeiix
gris '

Vont au Paradis' says Val obligingly.
Lady Grenvers closes the yeux gris with a

pleased smile. ' So nice of you, dear Val,' she
says, as if the quotation were not of her own
seeking  ' now touch that bell and Stephanie
will give the note to James.'

Val folds the note and directs it, experiencing
a definite pleasure as her pen traces
the name which her heart echoes so often.
Then she sits still : there seems nothing left to
long for. Although the meeting will not be
what she has been imagining, there is a trepidation

in her which is glad of her aunt's shelter :
to go and meet him alone would have been difficult
when the moment came. Besides what does
it matter whether there are others present or
not?  to see him again, that is the great thing.

Certainly he looks worth waiting to see
when he makes his appearance ten minutes
later, immediately upon receipt of the summons.
The new excitement he has entered on, by robbing
him of sleep, has added brilliancy to his
look ; his face is flushed and his aspect bright
and eager. Waldine's heart swells with happy
pride as she feels, rather than sees, him
enter.  ' It is my king,' the pulses beat out in
her ears and temples.

As for him, he only knows that he is in her
presence once more ; he does not criticise her
air, though it could bear criticism bravely.
He only knows that the bright boudoir contains
her, that the firelight is upon her, that
Lady Grenvers is near her : nothing has an
independent existence for him now : in her
presence is life for him.

Of which changed mood her ladyship is

naturally unaware. She leans back among lier
cushions with a light laugh, and claps her
tiny hands together childishly.  ' The dear
good fellow !' she cries. * Oh John ! I sent for
you to give you my cold.'

He is not flurried : he smiles pleasantly.
To a nature like his, love is sunshine, breeze,
warm rain. Under the influence of the passion
he expands and thrives.

'I wish I could catch it,' he says; 'I'm
afraid it will be easier caught than an Italian
accent.'

Whose Italian accent he does not say, anymore
than one says of a bright day, ' whose
brightness?'  all that can in any way affect
him must be hers  hers !

She has not spoken yet, and she does not
speak now ; she just stretches out her hand for
the libretto which he has brought upstairs with
him. Nor does she say ' Thank you ' when he
gives it her ; she turns over the pages quickly
to find the place. She has moved round a little
on her chair, so that her back is to the window,
and he, being fresh from out of doors, divines

rather than sees in the shaded light the smile
that is sculptured on her lips, and hides in
her drooped eyelids like scent in rose-leaves.

Meanwhile Lady Grenvers relapses into the
contemplation of her nose. It is characteristic
of her that, for all the precautions she took
against its being observed, it is the first topic
upon which she enters.

A propos of Italian,' she says. ' I wonder
what sort of a nose Venus had ?  not that she
was an Italian, was she, John ? I asked Charlotte
and she said she was 'divinely cosmopolitan":
still there was an Italian Venus 
De Medici or De Canova or something  the
sort of person I could not possibly represent,
by the way  and presumably she had a nose.
Let us hope it was of the port-wine order.'

When are the tableaux to be ?' asks John,
as balancing the probabilities of cure.

The day after tomorrow ! conceive it, in this
weather. And so you are to be in one of them,
John, as Miss de Stair's brother : who was he V

Polynices, his name was,' says John, the
smile widening round his white teeth. ' I

asked his lordship about him last night : ita
fine story.'

It's a horrid name,' says Lady Grenvers,
turning the hand-glass towards the light :   I
always say his lordship and I have got the
most unusual names permissible  Egbert and
Ethelinda  like some dreadful old English
king and queen. I can see them  he with a
short skirt and pointed toes, and she with her
hair in little bird-cages at the side of her head,
sucking poison from his arm  but Polynices 
(a passe la permission! Polynices wlftitf
how thankful one should be that there is a
limit to the license of one's sponsors ! Fancy
Polynices Grenvers  but Polly would save it.'

I'm rather glad my name admits of such
a simple abbreviation,' says Waldine. * I can
forgive my Hungarian godfather.'

"'Wald" is German for woodland,' says
Lady Grenvers, as if she had made an original
discovery in philology :  ' Perhaps Waldine
means the lady of the woodland, Yal V

Perhaps.'

'My name is short enough,' says John

Lyne simply : ' and it's my father's aod grandfather's,
and goes further back than that, by
the tombstones. I'm rather proud of it,
though Mr. Butler, the Netherfield curate, says
it's like a servant's name.'

'At all events it's not so like a servant's name
as " Butler," ' says Yal, ' and for the matter of
that, it's as royal as Egbert or Ethelinda.'

They all laugh at this irrational sally, and
Lady Grenvers  to whom her own name is
really the most beautifully-sounding word in
language, says fatuously, 'Ethelinda, Ethel-inca
!' as if it were the point under discussion.
I always wish Grenvers were a baronet,' she
concludes untruthfully, ' and I were an earl's
daughter  '' Sir Egbert and Lady Ethelinda
Grenvers !" well, perhaps, after all it's as well
that he isn't it's rather too much of a mouthful.
By the bye, Val, you're a countess, of course ! '

John Lyne looks quickly from one to the
other.

Oh ! we're all countesses abroad,' she says
carelessly: 'I am proud to be an "English
meet." '

I wonder whether Mrs. Lupton will have
it on her programmes says Lady Grenvers
apprehensively, ' " The Countess Waldine de
Stair as Antigone ; " it might be a draw ; but
I confess I like to sound the smartest person
there  poor little humble me ! '

*" Faith" says Waldine, quoting from an
imaginary programme,  '' Antigone with the
body of Polynices  Miss Waldine de Stair
and Mr. John Lyne." 'love," 'aphrodite
rising from the sea  The Lady Grenvers of
Whiteknyghts." You shall have the honours.'

The way her sweet young voice has travelled
over their names has caused both John Lyne
and herself a perceptible thrill ; it seems to
bring them leagues nearer together. Lady
Grenvers, of course, is absorbed by the apotheosis
of her own dignity.

Ah ! ' she says with an attentive purr of
pleasure, ' now you go on with Moses, while I
see how my nose is. What a beautiful rhyme!
but I really must attend to that member, and
put poetry aside for the time.'

She rises from her sofa and shimmers into

her dressing-room, which adjoins the boudoir,
where, under cover of calling Stephanie (who
is not there), she bluffs the offending nostril
with pearl powder. For one half minute Waldine
and John are alone. They are seated at
some little distance from each other  she with
her back to the window, he facing the light.
They look at each other, and the look is better
than speech. They will pine for such a look
as that by and by, as cut flowers pine for sunshine.
Then she blushes and ruffles the pages
of the book upon her lap as his gaze steadies
upon her and urges her to utterance.

So, you see, it was all right.'

'But this is not what I wanted.'

What did you want ? '

To be alone with you.'

For an instant she draws in her breath ;
then, ' But you will Italianise yourself better
here, no doubt,' she says provokingly  which
statement he cannot deny.

Lady Grenvers returns, radiant. 'It is
better ! ' she says in triumph ; ' do come to the
light and look at it, Yal; it is only purple now.'

Waldine looks at the medicated feature,
which was never, in reality, so much as pink,
and which is now satin-smooth with powder.
Yes,' she replies absently, as before.

And then the seance, as Lord Grenvers
called it, takes place forthwith, and she
habituates John's voice to the southern
accents. He is an apt pupil.

When they have read and reread the lines,
Lady Grenvers asks him with artless malice,
Did Mrs. Lupton never teach you any Italian,
John?'

Waldine looks at him earnestly as he
answers 'No.' He says nothing more. If
Mrs. Lupton did 'go lengths' with him, asher
ladyship imagines, he is evidently not the
man to narrate them. As a matter of fact
she did not ; the reputation contented her.

Lady Grenvers is a little discomfited ; she
takes refuge again in the question of the hour,
You've no notion, Val, how nervous I feel,'
she says :  * Charlotte has no nerves, and I
don't think you have either ; the other people
will all huddle together, but poor, poor me 

quite alone among the "sad sea waves." I
hope they'll all know who Aphrodite was !
Do you, John ? '

Yes, I do says John Lyne, smiling again,
 thanks to his lordship ; he made me into a
regular classical dictionary last winter. I
know all the loves of all the gods.'

'Ah yes, I remember; now your part is
easy enough. Miss de Stair tells me. You've
only got to lie down and pretend to be dead.
Why, Flirt could have done that ! '

The mention of the dog's name recalls their
meeting in the Willow-Garth to both of them.
There is silence ; in the silence Lady Grenvers
yawns. John feels that he ought to take his
leave. ' I hope I have not tired you,' he says,
rising to go down to Lord Grenvers.

No,' she answers, with innocent candour,
no  not very much ; but you've annoyed mea
little; you've never admired my new tea-gown.
And it is so becoming.'

To tell the truth, he had not even observed
it ; but as she does not wait for him to answer
there is no need for him to forge an excuse.

Till Thursday evening ! ' she says with a
gracious nod.

Then Waldine rises and holds out her hand.
* Good-bye she says ; but she makes a slight
movement towards the door as she says it.
Will not the longing of her soul lead them
unseen away ?

He touches her beautiful hand with his
burning fingers ; it is cool as marble, and
the flush has passed from her face, yet somehow
he divines how the blood is circling round
her heart. He divines also, not amiss, that
she would say some word to him in private.

But this is not to be. ' When I think her
ladyship cries after him, ' of the deshahilU in
which you will see me on Thursday I tremble. I
must try and think you are really dead. Don't
leave me, Val  she concludes, as Waldine,
almost without knowing it, takes a pace or two
after her lover when he goes out :  ' Don't
leave me ! I'm too wretchedly ill ; and besides
if Stephanie were to meet you about the house
before she knew John Lyne was gone, she
would be sure to say I was alone with

him. You've no notion how careful I
have to be. She's as thick as thieves with
Charlotte Lupton's maid, and one can't be
too particular.'

WALDINE WRITES

Whiteknyghts Court, Wednesday, December 6th.

Elsie mine!  Conceive that I am in three
places at once this evening : bodily I-am
sitting with Aunt Ethelinda, mentally I am
with you, spiritually I am  neither here nor
there. I have your letter, which is interesting
enough if I were in the humour to be interested
in it; the fault of it is what Aunt
Ethelinda confessed to me just now was, she
thought, the fault of Mrs. Lupton's conversation,
*You know, Val, she doesn't seem to
understand Me.' I am grown more selfish
than ever, Elsie : I have found a pearl, and so
I don't care any more to hear of pebble playthings.
All the same, tell me your news ; it
VOL. L 15

is good to compare what I have to absorb me
now, with the trifles in which I found all my
interest last year. Is not that precisely the
reverse of what you expected I should write
when I had been a few weeks in the country ?

Elsie, you are very sympathetic and very
kind and all the rest of it, but, frankly, what
you say to me does not do me half the good
that what I say to you does. To recount the
happiness which happens to me ! it is a pursuit
that is half thanksgiving and half prayer. By
the time you say ' Amen '  by post, remember
there is fresh material for both.

You wonder then,' you say, 'that I have
time to write ! ' My dear, one must speak to
some one or else ' break forth in singing ! ' I
can't speak to Aunt Linda ; she shuts me up by
force of sheer inattention ; she is naively unmoved
by anything that I can tell her ; and
so this letter is just instead of speech or song.
It shall be a regular scena. We will commence
with an orchestral description ; we will
proceed to a recitative of meditation ; we will
be as stately as we can in our grand air, and

I advise you to put your fingers in your
ears before the quick movement, in case it
should stun you.

The introduction sounds homelier than it
really is. The scene is Aunt Linda's boudoir,
which is just perfect ; the company Aunt
Linda and myself. She is finally curing a
cold. I confess I never perceived the cold ;
but she made an excuse of it to Mrs. Lupton,
so she has been bound to victimise herself for
it two days : I only hope she really had one,
else I tremble to think in what the aconite
and alarm she has assimilated will result.
She is now on the sofa, sipping some decoction
before she goes to bed and reading
a French journal on dress. I am here to
calm her nerves : we have both got our
dressing-gowns on and have talked ourselves
tired about tomorrow. It is eleven o'clock :
twenty-four hours from now the tableaux will
be a thing of the past. The night is very cold :
I can tell it by the way the fire burns between
the satin curtains in the grate : when I get to my
own room I shall open the window and look out.

For now  (I'm afraid I've launched into
the recitative of meditation already)  now I
am never cold or tired or ill. The day is not
long enough for thinking, the night is too
short for dreams. Things that used to excite
me leave me unmoved, feelings that used to
chill me find me warm. Physically I seem to
have created an atmosphere for myself :
nothing pierces it as far as to the heart of me.
If the house were on fire I should try to be
frightened, if Aunt Ethelinda were burnt I
should try to be sorry. But what she calls
the real Me ' has no room for fear or grief.
It is curious how sometimes even my own
mind does not know the things that are
occupying my own heart. The other day I
was thinking some wholly trivial thought ; if
I recollect rightly, it was that the servants
were very extravagant in candles here.  Yes !
that was exactly it : I was thinking, ' They
put me fresh lights in my looking-glass
brackets every evening, what would Madame
have said to that at Brussels ? ' and glancing,
by accident, between the candles, at my face

in the glass I saw that my eyes and cheeks
were wet with tears. I was not crying for
Brussels, I was not crying about the candles,
I was crying  without knowing it  because
of ' the thoughts of my heart.'

And to-night Aunt Ethelinda was discussing
a ball-gown  for herself, so it really was a
serious matter, and one to which I was giving
my best attention  when she broke off from
her harangue to ask me why I was smiling.
Perhaps it is the heart and not the brain
which brings one tears and smiles. Even
with me, however, there are moments which
make claims on both ; but these are moments
that have not to do with looking-glasses or
ball-gowns !

The other day I passed a cottage where a
woman was sitting writing a letter. She was
absorbed in her task  no easy one for a person
of her station : she was writing at a table with
a large sheet of foreign letter-paper spread out
before her. And she was nursing a little
child. It struck me that if the letter was
hard to write, the pen difficult to handle, the

hardness and the difficulty mattered less to
her because of that little child ; scarcely
could anything vex or please her much that
did not reach her through him. Elsie ! that
little child is like the hope of love in my
heart : it wakes me and it fills my dream : it
is the first fruits of my life. Dors enfant !
. . but though it sleeps it is not gone.

All of which you have not yet found the
maternal instinct to appreciate quite thoroughly ;
so my recitative bores you. Changement de
scene ! I will give you my grand air.

The Hon. L. S. D. has been here again
this afternoon. He comes  occasionally, let
us say, but I do not always see as much of
him as I did this time. When Aunt Ethelinda
is ill she remains in her rooms the greater part
of the day, but, if she happens to have a new
garment on, she likes to see visitors all the
same. And she has a new tea-gown now.

When he called I went down to the drawing-room
to receive him. Aunt Ethelinda said,
Keep him ten minutes before you bring him
up.' She treats herself as if she were a * snapdragon

' for children. She allows no one into
the room before the raisins are alight.  I'm not
sure there isn't a dash of brandy in her illumination
also; but perhaps that's ill-natured!  In
those ten minutes I became better acquainted
with Mr. Denham than I had in the collected
hours of our meetings thitherto. His impression
was that I kept him talking because I
liked to have him all to myself, and, though
I was burning to say frankly ' We must stay
down here till my aunt is arranged I managed
to control the inclination. Why spoil such
innocent sport ?

Mr. Denham,' you say, ' is a very shadowy
figure ! ' My dear Elsie, he may be a great
many things, but he certainly is not that ;
there is plenty of him. I always find myself
compassionate his horse. He is heavy not
only corporeally but mentally  at least I find
him so ; but he means to be nice, and I see
him at a disadvantage because he likes me
and he does not know my tastes at present.
He tries all sorts of channels in his voyages of
discovery to make out what I do like; and

this amuses me into trying to be the more
elusive. If I were married to such a man I
think I should be trying to elude him all my
life. I can conceive of happiness so.

You don't look satisfied about him ! Well,
you shall have the interview word for word.

I came downstairs and walked into the
room. He was standing with his back to me
pretending to look out of the window. He
can't pretend even with his back. I made a
face at his back, but it is not conductive to
his brain ; he did not see the face. I should
not have liked him if he had seen it, but I
despised him because he didn't. I held out
my hand : ' Lady Grenvers will be delighted
to see you, Mr. Denham,'  that was precisely
the witticism with which I favoured him at
starting.

Oh ! thank you. Miss de Stair '  that was
his witticism in reply. Apparently he did not
think it came up to mine. Nor do I. We
sat down.

It was really you I came to see,' he said
in a tentative tone.

Alas it ? ' I answered sweetly ; but I suppose
not so sweetly as was expected of me, for
he added nervously, * about the tableaux.'

Oh ! the tableaux ? '

Yes ; I'm so afraid you thought me an oaf
about the body. Poly  what's his name ? '

Polynices ? ' (remark my air of distinction
and conjecture the cause !)

Oh ! that's it  yes ! I should so have
liked to be in it with you ; but you've no sort
of notion how I'm rigged out as Ham, and that
ark business is the next scene. I couldn't have
got dressed in time, and I thought it wouldn't
do to appear in bathing costume, though I
daresay Ham took a header now and then.'

I fancy not. Orientals are not great
swimmers.'

Oh ! you're so awfully learned. But
seriously ; of course Mr. Lyne is such a
good-looking chap and all that  far better
fitted for the part than I am ; but I should
have liked you to look at me as you looked at
him. And I thought, perhaps, it wasn't too
late for me to nip in ? '

It is too late for you " to nip in," Mr.
Denham. Do you not know that Mr. Lyne
and I rehearse the picture daily from ten till
four.'

You don't think he'd give it up ?  he's
an awfully good-natured chap, you know,
Miss de Stair, a thorough gentleman  if you'd
say the word ? '

I do " say the word"  a thorough gentleman.'
 (You may imagine, my Elsie, that I
got some pleasure out of that little bit of
obtuseness !)

I don't mean that ; I mean if you'd say
you'd like me to be in it.'

 But I shouldn't  I mean I shouldn't like
to have to think of you as dead.' (For, Elsie,
you don't need to be told that there is nothing
I would not have said to retain my original
brother.  * Brother,' that's a very slight relationship,
I think.)

The Hon. Launcelot was greatly pleased
at my answer. Luckily his pleasure flustered
him ; and I was so desperately afraid he
would revert to the subject that I tried to

fluster him still more. Perhaps this flapping
goose would flap away !

We spoke of you this morning,' I said.
Lord Grenvers was immensely amused at a
rustic account that was sent him for some
pew - repairs in church : he says he read
it first, 'the Eight Hon. the Lord Renders,
L. S. D.," and then he saw that the
letters were supposed to be over a little seventeen
and fourpence at the bottom of the
page.'

*And did you remember that those were
my initials ? '

I think so ; I forget if it was his lordship
or I that recollected them.'

Oh ! I'm afraid it must have been his
lordship, for, if you forget that already, you
could hardly be likely to remember my
name.'

\ One would think so. And I always find
the annals of great men so dull.'

A pause ; then he said rather weakly, ' Yes ;
I used to be called " Dibs " at Eton, just because
of those unlucky initials.'

'"Dibs?"'

Yes ; it sounds nice when you say it ; it
means the needful, you know

'The needful Dibs

No, not exactly that ; money  V argent i '
(in a desperate effort to explain, conceiving
that a girl who did not understand slang must
be either a foreigner or a fool !)

Et c'est hen voice petit nom cela  ' de
V argent''

Eh ! I beg your pardon ? '

I thought you wanted to talk French.'

No ; not at all. I say. Miss de Stair,
you're rather hard on a chap ; you won't say
a good word to Mrs. Lupton about the body-snatching
business,' 

Is that your English slang for my beautiful
Antigone picture ? '

Oh ! I never open my mouth but I put
my foot in it, as somebody said; I'm very
sorry. And you're laughing at me in your
sleeve all the time.'

Not in my sleeve, I think.'

Well ! just as you like. I'd rather be

laughed at by you than praised by any one
else in the world.'

You mean, it's such a good compliment ? '

I mean that I never was so far gone  I
mean  Miss de Stair, don't be angry, but will
you let me speak to you ? '

I am here and I listen.'

But that's a formidable way of listening ;
and what I want to say cannot be said when
you are formidable.'

I am as God made me, Mr. Denham.'
'And you are the most perfect work of

God; that is part of what I want to
say

'Then you had better not say anything
more : I was reverent but you blaspheme.'

He got up as if he would come quite close tome
: I got up too  ' Yes,' I added ; ' I suppose
we must go upstairs now.'

soh! no no.'

But naturally I was inexorable, 'pour des
raisons;  among which the chief was that Aunt
Ethelinda's ten minutes were up. I had watched
the clock tick out those foolish moments.

So I marched my recalcitrant swain upstairs,
where the snap-dragon was alight.

Elsie, is that flirting ? It is very like the
nonsense we used to rehearse at Brussels, which
we imagined would seem so intoxicating and so
delicious. But when it came to pass, it did not
amuse me. No pulse quickened : my heart never
beat more evenly. No, it is not flirting ; it is a
concession to flirting. And the distinction is all.

Aunt Ethelinda flirts : I mean she really
does enjoy the insincere emotion : I wish you
could have seen her when I brought Mr.
Denham in. I entered first and there was nota
symptom of a sneeze about her : but as he
followed me in she made the prettiest moue
conceivable, and held up the tiniest handkerchief
with a sneeze like a little cry.

Say " bless you ! " ' she called out, * for I
quite believe I'm dying.'

I'm rather proud of my Aunt Ethelinda,
despite that grim comment of yours :  ' I don't
like her at all.' I'm more than proud of her,
I'm fond of her : one must be, she is so engaging.
And I'm almost ashamed to sit writing all

this about her, while she lies there looking so
pretty. So I won't describe the way she flirted
with 'Launce.'  glance, my dog as Shakespeare
says ! ' that was one of her sweet
nothings  the quotation is surely not quite
correct ? I must ask Mrs. Lupton : the other
day she said to me, * I shall keep a notebook
for Lady Grenvers' quotations ; she's the
typical scholiast.' The pity of it all was that
her flirtation was thrown away on Mr. Denham
not that she could perceive that, her rosy
spectacles are always turned within. But* soit
was. He became silent and shy : only he
managed to say something of what he came to
say before he went. He managed to say how
much luckier he was than most second sons :
he has inherited his mothers fortune, as, I
think, I told you (she was a brewer's
daughter). He said he had everything but a
home and a wife, and he should have to go to
some ' Universal Provider ' for both, for his
life would never be made until he had them.
It never occurred to her ladyship that the wife
in perspective was intended to be me : I fancy

she forgot she was married and made certain
he was going to propose to her ! And she
looked so charmingly embarrassed that I almost
thought so myself, and began to wonder what
combination ' she would devise for her bridesmaids'
dresses. Recovering myself, however,
I appropriately introduced the subject of Venus,
not matrimonial but pictorial ; and he had
then to hear all her qualms about tomorrow
evening. Thereupon tea was brought, and very
soon it was pitch dark, and he had to make
the best of his way home.

It was quite touching,' said my Aunt
Ethelinda, 'the way he spoke of his empty
life. Val, dear, you know I'm rather younger
than your dear mother was, but I want you to
tell me how old you honestly think I look.'
When I said I thought she both looked and
seemed a good deal younger than I was, I am
quite sure she ceased to wonder that Mr.
Denham found his life empty !

What do you think, Elsie ?

Well,' you reply drily, ' what do you ? '

I, what do I think ? Let us strike the last

chord of our grand air, for our heaxi seigneur
having apprised us of the state of his dissections
and the resources of his pocket, is departed.
Let us change the key for the cahaletta  et
puis, cantons !

I think of nothing, nothing ; I love  I am
loved. One does not think of these things,
dear ; one feels and is them : but one thinks
of nothing else. He was here this morning
but I could not see him. Do you fancy it was
Aunt Ethelinda that detained me? No. I
knew when he came into the house, I knew
when he left it. But to be near him, that I
could not venture. I went away and hid
myself. Do I not want to see him ? No.
Do I not miss him ? No. He is here always.
Yesterday he said that he wished to be with
me alone. Perhaps a man has more courage
than a woman. I, for my part, can hardly
conceive that wish. It may happen that we
shall be alone and a word be said. Heaven
happens; but after death. It seems to me that
only through the grave and gate of death shall
we be able to speak face to face . . . and  ah !
VOL. I. 16

beloved !  if to be alive is still to be apart,
were not mutual death far better ?

Fool ! my mouth smiles and my eyes
twitch with tears ; Aunt Ethelinda is singularly
silent ; I wonder if she is reading my
secret through these grimaces she must so
despise. Not she ! I must ring for Stephanie.
Aunt Ethelinda has fallen fast asleep. *To
bed ! to bed ! '  Your belated

Val.

QUEEN VENUS

A CONFLICT between dazzling daylight and
winter cold ! But the daylight, because it is
Mrs. Lupton's daylight, wins its way. Nothing
stands against Mrs Lupton  not even the
bishop or the dowagers have prevailed to
abate one jot or tittle of her programme : how
then should a mere December night suffice to
counteract the weather she ordains? Frost
may do its worst ; it shall not freeze one of
her smiles. If man is master of the elements
at all, how much more woman !

Rain, at least, does not dare to fall : ' Well,'
says Mrs. Lupton, looking disparagingly at the
weather, ' at least it has the decency to be dry.'
She has, moreover, a glance of patronage for the

moon, as who should say, ' If I had had the
making of you, your light should have been
brighter and warmer ; but as I must put up
with your chill pallor, try and do your best

The look of the house is enough to take the
edge off the frost for miles round ; it twinkles
like a storehouse of stars : all about and beyond
it there are lights and echoes : indoors it is a
serene temple, wherein, if frost be dreamed of
at all, it is only as a handy refrigerator for
exhausted air.

The great drawing-room is the auditorium,
the lesser one fortunately communicating with
the huge inner hall which is the playroom of
the actors. Thus the guests are shown to
their places directly from the vestibule, and are
made sensible at once of the contrast between
art and nature, which it is Mrs. Lupton's mission
to elucidate.

The room has had to be emptied of most
furniture but gilt chairs  all silken-cushioned
still Mrs. Lupton has contrived that it
should not seem stripped. The walls are
covered with pictures and art treasures : each

panel is a joy to the eyes from its adornments
native and adventitious. There is a profusion
of flowers, an abundance of light. Above and
beyond all, there is that indescribable sense of
luxury and calm which is only to be found to
perfection in a feminine menage. In such a
room, so soft, so steeped in comfort, so pervading
petted, as it were, one can only conceive
of shooting-boots as admitted for a monstrosity.
One says directly : If you found a bull-dog
here, it would be a caprice : the place is the
antithesis of a kennel. If you found a man
here  he would be a lover, not a husband.
Sampson must lay aside his locks and Mars
his spear  viilgb, you must have your hair cut
and put up your gun, before you are at home
in Mrs. Lupton's drawing-room. It is the
jewel-case of that gem of various facets, Mrs.
Lupton's self.

This Paris diamond contrives to flash upon
her guests before assuming her evening garniture.
She wears a dress which seems to man's
eye a marvel of intricacy and adjustment. It
is only the skilled vision of her own sex that

can qualify them to assert  ' Charlotte's gown,
elaborate as it looks, can be whipped off in a
second : five hooks underneath those bows 
and there you are ! ' a shibboleth which signifies
in this conjuncture that ' there ' would
Mrs. Lupton be found in the sea-green robe of
Pandora. It is a quick-change costume.

She is surrounded by the troop she barefacedly
designates as her * little lovers,' and
they form a pretty numerous bodyguard. The
most ill-natured of the dowagers cannot but
admit that the reception you get from subservient
swains is far more encouraging than
that of an united family. Old Lady Carmine
thinks, with an envious sigh, of her cross-grained
sons and daughters, who stand stiffly
about her, when she receives, and stare at her
guests as if they were their natural foes, without
putting themselves out otherwise than to
pass each other an audible remark of unpalatable
and unvarnished criticism. Mrs. Lupton's
bodyguards are all on duty: they find Lady
Carmine a seat ; they bring her a programme ;
they are like well-drilled servants whose reputation

is at stake, and they do not trust
each other enough  at this early stage in the
evening  even to whisper a comment upon
her flagrant and unhinged peruke. The three
young men who have some claim to being
called individually Mrs. Lupton's second selves
by reason of their doing for her what
musical, artistic, and literary product she
publishes  are adorned with stewards' badges,
which bear a classic device upon a knot of
oriental embroidery.

One of my Turkish chair-backs, wither bit
of silver trimming, from a gown Ethelinda had
the face to wear as Helen of Troy  the
Renaissance Helen or Helen of the middle age
has made them all new men,' says Mrs.
Lupton in confidence to Lord Mountravers.

But it is not to Lord Mountravers alone
that Mrs. Lupton makes her confidences ; she
has a word for the private ear of each fresh
comer. How she avoids a series of imbrogli
that is known only to herself ; but nothing
unpleasant ever seems to transpire from her
trenchant sarcasms. Perhaps it is because

they are either utterly harmless or too desperate
to be lightly repeated. Anyway she
has a knack of establishing little secret understandings
with every one ; which she accomplishes
to such an extent that to watch her
from her vantage-post near the door reviewing
the gradually assembled lines of spectators 
all in her confidence  is as good as a play.
By nine o'clock the room is full, and the
strains of the Netherfield band are audible
from an outside corridor. There is music
from London for the dancing, which is to
follow the performance, but the band is engaged
as a concession to the county. If no
one attends to the overture it plays, it serves,
at least, to mellow the conversation, which
falls into a ceaseless ripple of accompaniment.
Light, wakefulness, music, a crowd; of these
elements there is composed a rising tide on
which Mrs. Lupton feels she may safely start
her venture : a fair sea and a prosperous wind!
To most of the actors who are privileged to
step forward on to the slight stage erected,
and peep between the curtains at the assembled

company, the scene is no novel one ; dress-coats
and bare shoulders, white ties and
diamonds  the cows cVceil is familiar enough.
But to John Lyne it is new. The respect
shown him by all the Netherfield workmen
employed behind the scenes easily secures him
opportunity of observation, for he is ready
enough to get away from the crowd of chattering
strangers who are laughing in the great
hall. He has ranged his men for the chorus
and he surveys the scene.

The tableaux themselves are not matter for
wonder to John ; he knows too well how each
effect is produced. He understands trades:
the lighting is' not a surprise to him, the
gauze is not a mystery ; but the world, of
which he has his first glimpse to-night, that
surprises and mystified him beyond measure.
Take some bright girl out of that crowd ; anyone
of those freshly-dressed, evenly-breathing
young creatures sitting by their mothers, with
expectant eyes. Mrs. Lupton's tableaux vivants
will be a marvel to her ; but the social gathering
of which she and her sister are atoms  it

is in no sense iiiiiisual to lier sight ; it just
divides itself into groups of more known or
less known people. John's point of view is
different. His corner is the auditorium, the
scene before him is the drama.

This wonderful machine  an audience  of
how many factors and of how much change is
it the product ! Ages of gradual assimilation
on innumerable foreign causes have suddenly
set before this stranger's eyes the marvellous
engine at work : society with the fuel of
excitement which it languidly consumes and
wastes. The mood of all these people is the
same. Over their countless varieties of disposition
there is spread, at this instant, a film
of one texture  expectation. John watches
them with a thought in his heart. Of these
she is : this is her sphere. But he cannot
reconcile her to her compeers enough to make
his heart ache.

As is customary with him, his wonder shows
itself in quietness and reserve. Of all the busy
folk behind the scenes you would say he was
the most impassive ; only his eyes are vigilant,

and they occupy themselves with what goes on
before them, as it were with trifles, before the
coming of her for whom he waits. When the
sign is given for music he goes up to the
singers by the small organ in the hall as the
first group of actors files on to the stage.

In a bedroom on the first floor Waldine,
whose single-figure picture comes too soon to
admit of her seeing the ' brazen serpent '
tableau, is being touched into artificial life by
the skilled hands of Stephanie. Lady Renders,
half undressed already for her important
rble is standing over her in a state of entire
agitation, which contrasts curiously with the
girl's apparent coolness. But, as John, below,
is waiting, so Waldine, above, is listening,
with strained nerves, for the ' token of the
presence of one alone. Suddenly she gives a
little start. His voice has reached her, on
the familiar melody. He is there  'Dal tuo
stella soglio, Signor, ti volga a noi!'  Was
ever prayer more fervent ?

'Are you ready, Val?' says Mrs. Lupton's
voice at the door : ' you come next, you know.

I wish you could see them : they're all iu such
a state of nerves except the serpent and that
dear Mr. Lyne. Even the serpent trembles a
little, but it makes him glitter. Listen ! I
know Ethelinda aren't. Her very ears are
tense for the applause that Venus will get ;
but you can listen ! That is John Lyne's
voice, the tenor. There is something that
appeals to one in that voix comme of a
different quality to the rest. If one had an
instant to analyse that in now it might
be an impression. I'm afraid I'm very
wicked.'

The girl does not answer : she sits silent
while Stephanie reddens her parted lips : she
listens. What is a potential impression to Mrs.
Lupton is to her the voice of her heart that
sings : she sees the solitude of the Willow-garth
; she hears, above the sweetness of the
song, the words, ' I want to be with you
alone,' which the same voice has said to her.
Oh ! words of speech and song, whither  once
uttered  do you go *? Are not the souls of
you the myriad stars that make the milky

way of light in the dark heaven of forgetfulness?


Mrs. Lupton has turned to Lady Grenvers.
I do not appeal to you by the Lord Chamberlain,
Ethelinda,' she says tragically, ' because
we are emancipated here ; but I conjure you
by the wife and daughters of my favourite
bishop  all of whom I put up to-night, for
my sins  don't be too classical ! Temper
justice with mercy and let those rosebud-sprays
suggest a sleeve.'

I don't see why, Charlotte,' says Lady
Grenvers piteously, 'Mr. Collington said today,
at that rehearsal we had, that Aphrodite
was a Greek goddess, and my arm is statuesque.
Then who was it said that nothing was indelicate
except the nape of one's neck ? '

Some woman who had an ugly neck, I
should think,' says Mrs. Lupton laughing.

Whoever it was, she's an authority, and
no one will see the nape of mine ; but there's
no authority for armlets.'

Yes there is ; there's the bishop's.'

What does the bishop know about Venus ? '

Oh ! she comes into his diocese.  Now,
Val, that applause is the forerunner of your
doom.' And Mrs. Lupton carries Waldine
away from the perplexed but persistent Aphrodite,
carries her downstairs, and through a
mob of painted mummers who are all laughing
and wrangling as if to make confusion worse
confounded. Pallid Israelites are ' oivinof
wrinkles ' to the family of Noah ; the jingling
serpent is hustled away to make room for a
toy dove. Pretty Mrs. North is whispering
biblical jokes into the flushed ears of Launcelot
Denham  jokes which have been compiled with
considerable pains and a total absence of
reverence ; a band of musicians, nth hushed
snatches of sound, is essaying the Mendelssohn
accompaniments to the Antigone picture. It
is a scene of indescribable bustle  a kind of
kaleidoscopic nightmare of shifting figures
and properties. Miss Denham and John Lyne
are on the stage already, and Waldine is for
the moment the solitary classic figure amid
the oriental herd.

The streaks of paint, upon her mouth and

beneath her eyes, rather heighten than disguise
her radiant loveliness. There is a murmur of
approval, almost of applause, as she passes
through the crowd. But beyond the acknowledgment
of an impartial smile, she has
neither time nor wish to notice it. Mrs.
Lupton notices it, and her heart swells with
pride as she makes Waldine over to her
master of the ceremonies, and watches her step
on to the platform.

On the platform lies John Lyne, the accessories
about him far more complete th on
the day of rehearsal. His eyes meet Waldine's,
as she greets Miss Denham, who supports her
as Ismene. Then the business of their scene
commences at once with the music.

Strange as it may seem, the sensations of
the rehearsal are not repeated in Waldine's
consciousness ; her-pose is exquisitely graceful,
her expression absolutely appropriate.
But to-night her mind is filled with thoughts
too real and tender to suffer her to feel affected
by the mimic passion of the drama. She
hears with critical pleasure the applause that

her appearance excites ; but she feels that it
is not the verdict for which she waits. What
do they matter, all these people ? Does she
please the eyes that watch her under the dark
lashes of Polynices  eyes which can give her
courage to meet all others than themselves ?

When this tableau, which has to be repeated,
is over, she remains in the green-room
during the performance of the next, ' the
Dove's return to the Ark But John Lyne has
disappeared. He has gone to dress himself
again in his plain morning clothes.

For John Lyne has decided not to accept
Mrs. Lupton's invitation to supper. Uncertain
of his welcome, he has wisely thought better
to hazard no awkwardness that might occur.
He has made up his mind to see the tableaux
through, and then to leave before his absence
is observed, and to walk home.

*The Dove's return to the Ark,'  what
Waldine sees of it  is mainly noteworthy for
the amount of giggling it induces. No doubt
from the front the tableau is most edifying
and attractive ; but from Waldine's point of

view it is only wearisome and absurd. The
perpetual laugh wliicli the appellations Mrs.
Noah, Mrs. Shem, Mrs. Ham, Mrs. Japheth
never fail to cause, seems to her the acme of
fatuity. During the picture Beethoven's
Invocation to Hope ' is sung, which has the
effect of soothing her indignation to some
extent while she listens. She leans back on
a low seat just where the staircase descends
into the hall, and half aloud she says with a
tired sigh 

What a pack of fools we are ! ' It is the
utterance of aroused reality.

We are,' says Mrs. Lupton suavely  she is
gliding down in her Pandora dress looking
very pretty and very mysterious :  ' I took a
fancy to you from the first, Val, but I think
I love you now. They are fools : I *' answer
fools according to their folly"  that is, I try to
be a fool ; but my internal revolt at this
entertainment of my own planning convinces
me of wisdom. But you are not a fool, and
to you I can speak out the heart of the best
half of me.'

VOL. I. 17

What do you really like V says Waldine.

I like passion says Mrs. Lupton. ' I like
things violent and sincere : I like people to
have opinions and then to have the courage of
their opinions. I am a living protest against
all formality. Do you know that often I am
glad to hear of crimes ? People so seldom
assert themselves truly in good things  there
is always so much gauze about what is good 
that I take my moral pabulum in infamy.
Do you ever read books *? '

 Sometimes  seldom  never says Yal,
amused and critical of self.

Exactly, never. That is, you read novels.
My dear, novels are all gauze and paint.
My tableaux vivants are not the least like
history. I wish I could explain to you ;
really I'm a good explanation, got up like this
as Pandora. Poor Pandora ! if she had been
wise she would have let Hope go and caught
firm hold of any one of the evils !'

Waldine smiled. ' Do you mean that it is
better to run risks than to be inactive V

I mean that and more : if there is a thing

before you to do, do it. Don't fritter yourself
away in debate. Murder your grandmother ;
don't spend a wasted lifetime in trying to makeup
to her. "You will get a rope round your
neck and you will go to hell V  soit ! At all
events you get something and you go somewhere.
You make a move. Why should you
think that you do better grudgingly to watch
and wear away a life you hate, and drift
into the same futurity by and by ? I often
think that the people who do things and die,
will flame out their punishment and go on
purified, but the inactive smoulder forever.'


Perhaps so.'

Burn, but don't smoulder,' says Mrs.
Lupton, getting quite serious, as her wont is,
at the most unexpected moments. 'Even a
little dancing flame like me makes some sort
of light and warmth about it. As for you,
you beautiful sculptor's dream, you're bound
to have a future.'

I wonder what it will be V

Don't wonder ; take the thing that comes

to your hand. I suppose what comes to you
first must be love.'

I suppose so.'

*" Suppose so!" was there ever such listlessness
in life ? You must come and stay
with me in London (though I always find the
country is the place for adventure)  between
us we will make a blaze. Meanwhile ? Ah !
meanwhile, I fear, there is nothing.  The idea
of Pandora and Antigone discussing what todo
with a nineteenth-century existence.'

To do good is better than to do harm
says Val absently; and makes a question of
the statement.

Mrs. Lupton reserves her opinion :  ' I am
told so,' she answers with caution ; ' I must
needs accept the statement. As an ultimate
truth it is incontrovertible of course. But I
can't let any one judge for me what is good
and what is bad. I have put very little of my
creed into form. To be alive and awake is
good, largely speaking ; to be dead and asleep
and idle  all that is bad. It is not what one
is for. There are separate laws and limits too.

Some fool told me all fungi were poison. I
ate one this afternoon ; I live and thrive.
Now, what if I had really wanted food? 
Imagine one's self on the verge of a passion 
should one wait and wonder ? No. Take the
plunge. If there is not infinite sea beyond it,
well ! there is firm dry land ! In either ease,
will you regret the dull, safe, pebbly shore ? '

*You would not have one do bad things
sooner than good ? '

No. Do all the good you can reach out
to do  all you know how to get at. But it is
very limited ; I find it so. I pass my life
finding the non-poisonous fungi  taking the
plunges and discovering the dry land  a little
refreshed from my bath ! Hardly should I be
sorry to find myself launched for ever. . . .
Space ! that is what one wants ; meanwhile
facts  facts only I I dream the infinite
dream, I read the Newgate Calendar.'

When one looks at life, how roomy it
seems ! '

Then you are in the right mood : to see
your empty day is the step before filling it.

That conviction came to me once in illness.
Other people are " convinced of sin " ; I was
convinced of inanity. I lay still and looked
at the immense and vacant dawn. So many
hours, so many minutes, so many seconds
whereof one is master  every second, minute,
hour capable of the pulsation of one's whole
self. Then I looked at routine  how it eats
one's day ! Habits, meals, formalities  unless
one protests one becomes a slave. And what
do they all mean ? something less than vanity
fatuity. So I made up my mind to be free,
to have varied days, a full life  to lay by
conventionalities and research, to take the
thing that comes to me and to be thankful.
"Good 'evil?" My dear, these things sort
themselves in the most unexpected way ; one
dares to make only wide rules. What is false
is wrong, what is natural is right.'

You are letting loose all the evils on me.
Pandora,' says Waldine with a sigh.

Touch them and they turn to good ; one
has a moral power over wrongs if one will
exert it ; remember I give you Hope. For

myself I keep nothing : I set Hope free : I
drift. As to my pursuits, they are not very
real : what is real is the impulse towards
them ; sometimes I feel convinced that only
impulses are real. What we call realisation is
false as my tableaux. My poor tableaux !
how far we have strayed away from them. 
Ah ! Mr. Denham, has " the Dove " returned
to "the Ark"? Val, we have missed the whole
picture. I shall never forgive you.'

I will go and see yours from the front,
says Waldine gravely. *

Mrs. Lupton's 'Pandora' is a very considerable
success. It has a cleverly-managed
background painted by the indefatigable Mr.
Collington, representing some of the evils
winging their way from the box, among them
a small illumined figure, the light from which
falls straight on Mrs. Lupton's hair. ' Mrs.
Lupton's hair,' by the way, is a crimped wig
which she has donned as a surprise to the
assembly, and which gives her somewhat the
aspect of the famous figure in Rossetti's picture.
The lucidity of the scene is heightened

by the curious music played meanwhile  some
fragments of Berlioz having been welded together
by Mrs. Lupton's 'musical self,' the
whole of it passing with the crowd for hers.
There is nothing less discriminating than a
gathering of the county.

But the interest of the evening culminates
in the contrasted pictures which represent
Charity.' As Mrs. Lupton comes down from
the stage steps, with the Pandora wig in her
hand and her little cropped head sleek and
alert above the sea-green robe, she is confronted
by the apparition of Lady Grenvers,
'ready,' as. she phrases it, 'for Venus.' Lady
Grenvers looks divinely lovely, in a costume
which resolves itself into roses slung together
upon gauze of the same tints as the prismatic
waves which the stage-carpenters are making
ready for her environment. For the moment
she is shrouded in a priceless plush cloak,
lined with pale pink satin, which covers her
from admiring eyes ; but the host of her
adorers who surround her obtain suggestions
of her beauty from one bare arm

which waves a fan incessantly before her.
Walling, in her severe Greek robe, is in
attendance, with her violin in hand. And
just as her ladyship's exquisitely-painted and
superlatively vain face is focusing all attention,
a group of shepherds is making their
way on to the platform for the Scriptural
tableau, and John Lyne's choir ordering itself
in preparation for the carol.

It strikes Mrs. Lupton as a very odd scene ;
she almost manages to get an ' Impression '
out of it. The travelling kings, the simple
shepherds, the homely band of singers eager
on their task, cutting so poor a figure beside
the beauty of one idle woman. 'Aphrodite
Ephemeris,' she murmurs.

They say genius is always nervous,' says
Lady Grenvers artlessly,  ' / am so nervous.'

You mustn't write a note this time, Ethel-inca,'
says Mrs. Lupton, patting her as if she
were a kitten :  * I'm dying to see you. We
shall all go to the front, every one of us except
poor Yal, who must play the cavatina here.
It will be a grand effect, Cecil  sunrise ; just

your lovely picture with the waves all sorts of
colours  then the curtains to open again and
Ethelinda among the roses and the foam.'

Poor little me, Launce says her ladyship,
appealing to Mr. Denham, who gazes at her
with infatuated eyes:  *I wonder if Mars
could swim.'

When the orientalis come trooping off
the stage, and the carol  which is sung from
half way up the stairs to sound more celestial 
is done, so great is the charm of Lady Renders'
most mysterious and fascinating dress,
and of the character she portrays, that all
but the choir (who go upon their way to be
regaled in the housekeeper's room) petition
Mrs. Lupton to find them a standpoint whence
they can view the picture. There is a space
between the stage and the curtains, and there
she packs them away at the wings, as it were,
of her theatre. Only Val, therefore, remains
in the great hall with her violin, the pianist
who accompanies her being in a recess beneath
the staircase. The girl stands forward a little
to be heard by the audience in front, and at a

given signal plays the first magical bars. She
knows that, at the same signal, her ladyship,
in all her unveiled loveliness, dawns upon the
spellbound gaze of the excited assembly. She
is the priestess of that revelation.

At that moment John Lyne, in his everyday
clothes, comes down the staircase  having
despatched his choir by a back way  wishing
to bid Mrs. Lupton his respectful good-night.

HEART TO HEART

She does not hear him or see him : her thought
is with him, though she knows it not, but her
mind is intent upon the glorious air she plays.
She stands in the great hall, a solitary white -
robed figure, her fair cheek resting on her
violin, her fair right arm curved to the bow :
she plays with her full strength, thrusting the
noble phrases out upon the silence  methodist
of the birth of Love.

He waits upon the stair, the velvet pile of
the thick carpet has given back no echo of his
footsteps, and it is a habit of his nature to
stand still. He looks and listens ; the passion
of the strain is borne into his heart. He is
entranced by her gestures of surpassing grace.

her music of surpassing beauty. There is no
life for him existent now, there is no future.
From her, for the sake of her dream, from
him, for her sake, the tide of things recedes,
the fashion of the world passes. They are a
strange token of the mystery which Lady
Grenvers is portraying, and it is strange to
think of the link between their live selves and
her mimic picture. The pulse of Waldine's
heart is the inspiration of her fervid hand, the
music from her hand the inspiration of the
scene. If John were to attract her attention
suddenly, if he were in any way to break the
spell that binds her, that interruption would
be communicated to a roomful of listening
critics.

It is not until a crescendo in the music
causes her to raise her face a little from the
violin that her eyes, slightly upturned, meet
his looking down upon her from the stairway.
It is a dangerous instant, but her nerves are so
tense that they support it firmly. A shade
more vigour, a shade more passion, by these
alone could any listener guess that the player's

mind was moved. But there is one bar of
Kaffs cavatina sacred henceforward, to her.

Not only does the music not hinder her ;
it makes a wave on which she can launch a
little cockleshell of speech : * You are not
gone?' she says quickly and softly across the
sound.

No, I am here ; but I was going at once.'

'Why?'

For all sorts of reasons.'

The energy required by the next bar of the
cavatina excuses speech for a second. After
a rapid introspective glance, she speaks again :
What are they ? '

Although he is not plapng, he too speaks
with soft haste, ' Trifles.'

 As, for instance ? '

That my father may be sitting up for me.
It is not late.'

That I am not dressed like the other men.'

It does not matter,'  a slight impatience
withal in the long broad strokes of the bow.'

That I should not be missed.'

No answer  only that additional crescendo

which is excuse enough for silence : she does
not look at him, but his eyes hold her. It is
his turn for questions now.

Do you wish me to stay V

No  only for a moment The qualifying
clause follows as if without her will ; and the
music rises to drown it : the accompaniment
swells louder and louder. The colours are being
changed in the lights thrown on the tableau.
Venus is rising from the parted waves.

I should like to see the last picture.*

'Why not?'

I thought it best to go : I will do what
you decide.

Stay the stroke of the bow, at the bar,
is so loud that it drowns the impulse in the
word ; but even to John Lyne it has a reckless
tone. Waldine's colour heightens and it seems
as if she played her speech to silence  golden
silence !

And she speaks no more, for at that moment
a thunder of applause from clapping hands
reaches their ears, and her music lapses into
a careless calm, for Love is born !

'Heavenly!' cries Miss Denham, rushing
from her vantage-point of observation at the
wings,  * Oh ! how you played. Dear Miss
de Stair, it gave the scene such dignity and
power !'

John Lyne turns to the left of the steps
which he has descended just as the rest of
the performers come off the stage, and Lady
Grenvers, trembling with excitement, is supported
into the hall by Mr. Collington.

'Brave Ethelinda,' says Mrs. Lupton,
emerging also, in a state of radiance combined
of satisfaction and sarcasm  ' have Ethelinda,
you best of Aphrodites, / do hope you have
not taken cold!'

Oh ! I feel just like Sarah Bernhardt,' says
Lady Grenvers, panting and disengaging herself
partially from the cloak in which Mr.
Collington is smothering her.  ' I was not the
least frightened en scene ; but now that it is allover,
my terror returns. Was I passable ?
Val, darling, I feel quite faint : I've a sort of
notion Stephanie always carries brandy in
one of my dressing-case bottles ; run upstairs

and see  if not she must get some ; tell her to
say it's for you.  Oh ! Charlotte, was I really
your dream f Poor, poor little Venus ! just
one " defenceless head," as the hymn says,
among all those horrid gauze veils. I wonder
how much of me showed.'

Nearly all, I think,' says Mrs. Lupton in
laughing reassurance.

That's right, and now it's over. No ! I
can't do it again : absolutely no ! It's quite
(Dreadful of you to have cast me (don't you say
* cast " me ? like something awful in * one's
eye) for two tableaux running. And I must
be coffee quite differently for Faith. Thank
you, Val  has she got the eau de Cologne f
then I will run upstairs, and you shall come
too.'

You must look your best, Waldine,' says
Mrs. Lupton ;  you have to be an incarnation
of her ethereal ladyship in this next picture.'

I don't think Miss de Stair needs to alter
her expression much,' says Mr. CoUington
softly.

'I will have no flirting, Cecil. This is
VOL. I. 18

business : we three poor women support this
scene, and we decline to be robbed of our
mental balance. The Netherfield band plays
during the interval  ten minutes ; you may
come and help me drape if you like. It would
be shocking, I suppose, to tell a man to dress
one, but it sounds merely artistic to ask him
to " drape the figure." As for Waldine ' 

But Waldine is gone with her aunt, who is
determined not to lose one of the precious ten
minutes. She has not heard Mrs. Lupton's
speech. John Lyne has heard it and it has
sounded to him false and coarse. He finds
his way to the wings of the stage, and waits
for the last picture. The Netherfield band
plays its * battle horse'  the overture to Tanna
The Netherfield band is not at its
best in Wagner's music. But it serves to set
the conversation of the audience free : it is
made up of two themes  Lady Grenvers'
Aphrodite, which is seen, and Miss de Stair's
Love,' which is yet to be. And for Miss de
Stair's Love John Lyne waits.

In a quarter of an hour the curtains part

and the tableau is shown. It is a mediaeval
triptych, Lady Grenvers being the central
figure. She is dressed in white, with golden
tresses which descend to her feet : she is without
the customary cross  in deference to the
bishop ; but her beautiful arms are folded
crosswise upon her bosom. To the left is
Mrs. Lupton in a gown of peculiar green,
her attitude most unconventional and striking.
She is kneeling ; only the outline of her keen
face visible to the assembly, as, with one hand
above her eyebrows, she looks away to some
sea-line depicted on the canvass. In the right-hand
panel, quite close to John Lyne, is
Waldine de Stair. The background of sea
and sky, against which Mrs. Lupton is posed,
is replaced, in her case, by a bower of roses 
the roses of Lady Grenvers' Aphrodite tableau
collected into a mass. Among these roses she
sits, apparently sleeping, with the flame-coloured
robe about her. Her arms are thrown
back behind her head and her hands clasped.
Through the intervening gauze she looks to
John like a waxen image warming into summer

life. Something of Albert Moore, something
of Dante Rossetti, is in this triple picture,
the three panels of which are divided by heavy
bands of gilt. Across the sky are the words,
Spes  Fides  Amor,' in fiery letters. Only
Lady Grenvers is standing, between the kneeling
Mrs. Lupton and the recumbent Waldine ;
it is therefore presumable that she will be the
most observed. And yet John's eyes are not
the only ones which are riveted upon the
sleeping beauty. That fruit-like quality of
Waldine's charm gives a sense of freshness,
perfume, and repose to the picture. It is the
roses that have the acting look, not the actress ;
she is simply natural perfection  Eve.

The band is playing the last act of  Faust,'
and continues to play it when the triptych is
veiled. In a few moments the curtains part
again and the changed picture is revealed.
The three figures are grouped upon a background
of cloud. Lady Grenvers and Mrs.
Lupton stand at Waldine's feet, and the girl
is in the act of giving them a wreath and
crown. The illuminated words upon a scroll

above are now ' Spes  Fides  Capital.' The
picture represents an apotheosis of celestial
love : the music is still the closing scene of
Faust Lady Grenvers stands with an expression
of calm on her countenance, which is
really only the rapt consciousness of its beauty.
Mrs. Lupton, by an impromptu stroke of genius,
has hidden her face in her hands : but Waldine
motionless though she is suggests still,
force, movement, power. Her eyes are turned
upon John Lyne, where he stands at the wings :
they seem to be searching into his very soul.
During the few seconds in which the picture
is shown some fillet of her wavy hair gives
way, and, of a sudden, a long tress falls down
about her shoulder and her waist. It is the
only misadventure of the whole performance,
and it happens at a moment of suspense when
the effect is magical, as if a waxwork breathed.
The entire assembly bursts into a veritable
tumult of applause, and as the curtains join
John sees his lady's lips part in a radiant
smile. His own mouth repeats the smile, but
as the picture is shut away from sight a sense

of chill creeps over him. Who sees the last
of that laughter which is out of reach for
him ? . . .

It is Mr. Launcelot Deiiham who sees the
last of that laughter. He has exchanged his
oriental garb for the evening suit that becomes
him better ; and, faultless in white
waistcoat, gloves, and flower, he hands Miss
de Stair down from the perilous pillar on
which she has been fastened. As he stands
below her for an instant, while she hesitates
upon her pedestal, he marks the warmth of
her smile, he notices her quickened breathing :
a young hope lightens in his heart that with
this elation of hers his presence may perhaps
have something to do.

Oh ! ' he says to her in boyish frankness,
you do look so jolly.'

" Jolie" I hope you mean,' says Val reprovingly
; ' I know you like to speak to mein
French, Monsieur de Sargent.' She does
not take his hand ; she scarcely touches his
arm in her swift descent to the floor. Her
nerves are so strung up with pleasure that she

seems to tread on air. She is full of love and
joy as a flower with perfume and dew. But
the love is not love of Mr. Launcelot Denham,
and the joy is not joy because of him.

They are going to dance almost directly
he says ;  the audience will be sent into the
ballroom, and the theatre is to be made the
supper-room : you will dance with me, won't
you?'

I don't know : I cannot dance in this costume,
can I, Mrs. Lupton ? and if I change I
shall keep Aunt Linda so late.'

Oh ! never mind me,' says Lady Grenvers,
with her favourite martyr air  she has every
intention of dancing herself, and has a brand
new ball-gown upstairs  ' but really, Yal, you
can perfectly well keep on that sacque if
Stephanie arranges it a little.'

'Anyway I must wash my face,' says
Waldine laughing, ' I feel like a clown.'

Horrid,' says Lady Grenvers stupidly :
she has not the smallest wish to wash hers ;
on the contrary, she will make it still more
artificially beautiful before she reappears.

of chill creeps over him. Who sees the last
of that laughter which is out of reach for
him? . . .

It is Mr. Launcelot Deiiham who sees the
last of that laughter. He has exchanged his
oriental garb for the evening suit that becomes
him better ; and, faultless in white
waistcoat, gloves, and flower, he hands Miss
de Stair down from the perilous pillar on
which she has been fastened. As he stands
below her for an instant, while she hesitates
upon her pedestal, he marks the warmth of
her smile, he notices her quickened breathing :
a young hope lightens in his heart that with
this elation of hers his presence may perhaps
have something to do.

Oh ! ' he says to her in boyish frankness,
you do look so jolly.'

" Jolie" I hope you mean,' says Yal reprovingly
;  I know you like to speak to mein
French, Monsieur de Sargent.' She does
not take his hand; she scarcely touches his
arm in her swift descent to the floor. Her
nerves are so strung up with pleasure that she

seems to tread on air. She is full of love and
joy as a flower with perfume and dew. But
the love is not love of Mr. Launcelot Denham,
and the joy is not joy because of him.

They are going to dance almost directly,'
he says ; ' the audience will be sent into the
ballroom, and the theatre is to be made the
supper-room : you will dance with me, won't
you?'

I don't know : I cannot dance in this costume,
can I, Mrs. Lupton ? and if I change I
shall keep Aunt Linda so late.'

 Oh ! never mind me,' says Lady Grenvers,
with her favourite martyr air  she has every
intention of dancing herself, and has a brand
new ball-gown upstairs   but really, Yal, you
can perfectly well keep on that sacque if
Stephanie arranges it a little.'

'Anyway I must wash my face,' says
Waldine laughing, ' I feel like a clown.'

'Horrid,' says Lady Grenvers stupidly:
she has not the smallest wish to wash hers ;
on the contrary, she will make it still more
artificially beautiful before she reappears.

Melos, and indeed her milk-white throat and
cream - smooth arms have something of the
character of marble. But as far as dress can
aid her appearance, this robe of Mrs. Lupton's
choosing aids it. For some moments she
contemplates her beauty; if she thinks of it
at all it is without vanity, as recognising that
the daylight makes the colour of the dress
suit her better than she had thought it would
by day ; then ' this is very pleasant,' she says
to herself as she turns away. Ah ! Waldine,
what is pleasant ? Is it the gaiety of the
evening, or is it Love, which is all about you
to-night, like the flame-coloured dress  the
fiery robe of your soul ?

After a few seconds that restlessness to
which she is fast becoming accustomed takes
hold on her : 'It is impossible to wait for
Aunt Linda here,' she says aloud, ' impossible !'
She has reached the dressing-room through
Lady G-renvers' room  at present the innermost
shrine of the toilet ; but it has another
door which opens on to a corridor. As she
paces the room she incontinently flings open

this door, and finds that she is at the end of
the passage which gives upon a winding stair.
All the noise of voices that reaches her from
the distance echoes up the chief stairway to
the left, and she fancies that, should she
descend this little spiral flight, she can get
into the great hall again unnoticed somewhere
behind the organ : she has observed a curtain
there which, she knows, conceals the communication
between the front and back regions
of the house.

The spirit of the moment is upon* her
that spirit of adventure to which her
guarded life has hitherto always allowed her
to yield without mishap. Perhaps to-night
it is excited and intensified by her talk to
Mrs. Lupton. She passes lightly down the
staircase, and finds herself, as she surmised, on
the wrong side of the portiere which protects
the hall. She hesitates an instant before
raising the curtain ; she does not wish her
entrance to be observed, and the tide of the
assembly is evidently setting towards the
distant ballroom. Voices which sounded

quite loud and near almost directly become
remote and soft as the chatterers wend their
way to the dance. Neither footsteps nor
voices are obtrusively close now : this is her
opportunity  she raises her arm to push back
the hangings ; stay ! they stir and part ; between
their bullion fringes stands John Lyne.

There is no solitude like that of this corner
in a crowd. Every hand in Mrs. Lupton's
employ is busy with the transformation of
the theatre into a supper-room, every guest is
drifting with the dancing tide : these two are
quite alone  what do they want else ? such
old, old friends they seem, with faces daily
familiar to a friendship that is so like love.
The light is full upon her face as she glances
up into his, while he looms dark and tall into
the comparative twilight where she stands.
After one look upon her beauty, he drops the
curtains behind him. They are alone and they
are very young. Youth, loneliness, proximity :
is it a wonder that when they find words at all
they must speak plainly ?

This is the moment,' says John Lyne.

'Yes ; this is the moment.'

May I speak to you V

Oh yes ! if you will.'

They have not stirred : they are still a
yard apart : they do not approach each other
yet.

May I tell you that I love you V

Silence ; only a drooped white face, as if
some wave had struck it, salt and fresh.

Will you tell me that you love me ? '

She recovers herself a little, for that same
wave has nerved her, and her cheek resides
its blush.  'Oh!' she says softly, 'that is
what I want to tell you.' And then, speech
aiding speech  ' I don't know that I want you
to love me : I don't know that I want your
love: I only know one thing'  her voice
grows softer still, her lovely head is raised :
she speaks as if she spoke in a dream :  ' I
love you better than my life,' she says. . . .

Something in her rigid aspect strikes into
John's faithful heart a terror that she will fall
to the ground before him. His own love
needs no expression, hardly could he express

it ; it is all himself. When one draws the
fullest breath of life one does not say ' I
breathe.' The place where they are standing
is hot and close, he knows every turning of
the house ; in a second, ere she can reassure
him or conquer the spasm of heart that makes
her almost senseless, his arm is about her and
he has borne her through a swinging door into a
passage where the garden glimmers at the end.

The cool air that revives her helps his
beating heart to speech : ' I love you,' he says,
 and I love you alone. You are making me
mad with your words and your beauty. Ah !
Waldine, Waldine  forgive me  one love of
all my life, is this nothing or is it all V

It is all,' she says in a whisper ; ' there is
nothing else.'

There is nothing else : it is dark and they
have left the world behind them : they are
come to the end of it : there is nothing before
them but deep blue heaven and white snowdrift
under moon and stars : they have got away
from life and limits, they are face to face with
space and eternity.

Nothing else ? Something else' which waits
a sign.

Under the blue cold heaven a little breeze
is wandering : it wavers round the open door,
it steals in like a spirit with a message in its
wings. It brings  what is the sign ; who
knows ? perhaps a shiver, perhaps a sigh  a
word that is not speech but breath. .

Wait, Aunt Ethelinda ! Wait, Mrs. Lupton !
Wait, dancing hours ! Wait, happy night ! 
Up and away for your work is done, little
whispering winter wind, at whose first caress
they are fast locked in each other's arms !

THE CHAPTER VL

WALDINE WRITES

CuRzoN Street, Christmas Eve.

My own dear love !  These many days you
have lain silent in my heart : I have had no
need of speech. To-night you wake and call,
me : I rise and answer.

Why to-night ? I do not know. I tell you
always I am not sentimental : I do not
believe that anything is happening to you
that should distress me on your account.
I do not think that you are ill or that
you want me. But there are times and
times in love. It has its moods like the sea
poor old simile that has done duty so
often !  and to-night there is a full moon
tide of speech. . I take you out of my deep

VOL. n. 25

heart and I look at you : I love you : let us
take counsel together.

Confession first: mon amour, I have told
nothing to any one : I think you thought I should,
but it was impossible. Life is intricate : to throw
truth to people who don't know what truth is,
you might as well feed a serpent on flowers !
They cry out for something palpitating to
mangle, these cobras of gossip ; and you and
I will not be food for them. Do not look
solemn about it. Trust me, and all will be well.

All is well. John, I wonder whether
English girls often do what I have done  take
an independent journey to satisfy their . . .
caprice  curiosity  what was it ? and then
return to find that they have not been missed
and nothing is said. I feel I did a dreadful
thing, but it is not because I am found out ;
rather, I think, because I am so scot-free, and
my world rolls along so evenly again after the
kick I gave it. I have proved Mrs. Lupton's
maxim true : ' The big things of life remain
unknown.' But for all that they are not
unimportant.

What are you doing % I do not ask : I
know. You are asleep and you dream of me.
It is what I am doing that I want to tell you,
obedient to one of your last suggestions. You
were right to make it : it is good for me to
unfold myself to you. You are the peace and
the calm of my days : I feel myself nervous
and modern in face of your old-time simplicity
and strength. All about you and around you
now there is the immense quiet of the winter
night : leagues upon leagues of unbroken
silence which the town noises never reach.

John, I think of you in your little house as i4
were in a safe grave. It seems to me possible
happily possible  to turn my back upon
the town, to go far and to dig deep and to
find  you : and this ' return upon you ' is the
mainspring of my life. Here is my tendril
token of your hair before me on the table. I
think out all the way to you  the loud and
crowded terminus here, the long journey into
ever purer air, the small country station,
the hill, the road we went together, the lane
to your garden-gate, the pathway with the

roses at the end. I pass x that pathway : I
stand at the barred door. I do not knock,
I enter. It is all so still that I can think I
hear the snow fall. There is no light in the
passage now, no light in either room I know,
but I do not stumble : I go ghostlike up the
stair. Yes, you are safe at home, but you
are not safe from me. I come to you with
the burden of my life, with all its desires and
sighs. And at your door I knock. Oh ! my
love, do you sleep still ? Do you not hear my
tears upon your threshold ? must they fall
there ? . . .

Was it a thunderbolt ? was it a storm that
scared the vision ? Nothing, John, nothing
but the rumbling of some market-cart that
goes belated or beforehand up the street.
Here market-carts, and worse than market-carts,
are for ever scaring my visions. I feel
as if I had got into the heart of some great
beating machine, for which the fuel is the
lives of men. Sometimes when I look out of
my window I thank God for frost or rain.
At least they arc signs to me that there are

elements somewhere which bring gifts of
whiteness and wet. My window at White-knights
 I pant for it, I cannot stay longer
away. Every day it has some new surprise
for me ; some sober glory of winter colour,
some group of sheep or cattle that are at
home there and at ease. There is a farmer
pastures his cows in the park ; at eight in
the morning I see them bounding over the
grass. There is a gladness in the rustle of
their paces, crisp on the snow or thudding in
the thaw. It makes me happy to hear the
beasts begin their free and open day. A
whole long day, it must be so much to a cow
or a sheep ! Here too it may be much, but
it is a muchness of the wrong order  like a
day in the shambles for them.

John, ' my whole day,' was I to tell it you ?
Then it shall be to-day : that's easy. You
don't know what a London fog is ; I shall not
attempt to describe it. One feels as if one
were sitting under the shadow of some awful
and mysterious sorrow. One can imagine
one's self in hell. Sisyphus, Ixion, Tantalus 

in turn one is each and all. Mrs. Lufton hasa
special regime for fogs when she is in the
mood to avoid them. For there are days
when she is m the vein: then she goes out,
and heaven knows what befalls her ! To-day,
however, she was not willingly befogged, and
she fought the stars in their courses. Every
shutter was shut, every blind vas down ; we
played at its being evening. All the pretty
lamps were lit in the boudoir ; they would
amuse you, some of them, supported by
flamingoes, owls and peacocks  quite literally
ivory and apes and peacocks;'  we wore
dressing-gowns and discussed our neighbours.
"What we did ? we chose evening frocks,
availing ourselves of the various lights; mine
is yellow  an appalling colour by daylight,
like the yolk of an Q.gg. Faithful to her
appointment, a dressmaker appeared about
them, and things of so much moment are
not decided in an hour. Mr. Collington came
to luncheon of course and brought a couple of
young actors with him, who delighted in the
artificial glow and the real banquet. They

are getting up a little comedy with Mrs.
Lupton as the heroine, and they rehearsed it
in the afternoon : I stayed in the drawing-room
while they went to the empty music-room,
and before answering some notes I took
up a novel. The fog and the lamps together
had given me a headache, and I went to sleep
which is perhaps the reason why I cannot
sleep to-night, dear comrade of my vigil, and
perhaps it is not why ! I went to sleep and I
dreamed.  Of you ? Yes, first, and then that
Mr. Denham called  and behold ! it was nota
dream ! I awoke and rubbed my eyes ; he
was there in the flesh. What he said ? John,
you are tedious in your demands : I don't
remember. Yes I do. He gave me various
most interesting personal statistics, to which
I listened while I sat and wished that he were
you. He told me who his tailor was and
where he got his flowers ; and that he liked
the roses on my tea-gown, and that he liked
the set o/mj tea-gown, and that he liked mein
my tea-gown. Which was no trouble and
the reverse of unpleasant, but which did not,

if you will believe it, amuse me in the
least.

And then I told him what I thought of
him : I said I thought he was part of the
fuel ' for the machine of life in town and in
the country, to which he replied that he was
very inflammable; and what with the sleep
and the dream I felt so far away from him all
the while that I said, ' Really, do you know,
that's not at all bad for you,' without in the
least remembering that I was speaking to a
real man. At which he was good enough to
laugh not unkindly :  he is not unkind.

John, I am glad you are not rich and do
not wear button-hole bouquets. Mrs. Lupton
said the other day that she 'never got any
tonic out of a scent-bottle.' I am much of
her mind. It keeps one awake, it refreshes
even, but that is the most one can say to
praise it.

Perhaps, however, Mr. Denham is more
than a scent-bottle ; for  I had half forgotten
it  he became rather serious before our 
was interrupted. He referred again to the

demise of his mamma  which made me laugh,
the dear defunct being obviously resuscitated
only as the keystone to more vital relationship.
I suggested that Mrs. Lupton would be a
mother to him gladly if he would allow her.

'And you a sister, do you mean?' he said
imploringly.

I did not quite see how that followed, but
I admitted that the limit of my years would
allow of the relationship. And even then he
was not satisfied ; he said he did not want a
sister. ' Then,' I concluded brilliantly, ' I
shall have to be a mother to you myself
And upon that imaginative basis our friendship
rests for the present.  What ! my real love,
you are not laughing? you look puzzled but
not amused ? I hear you say, in that grave
voice of yours, that you do not want to be
Mr. Denham's stepfather. Very well, then,
very well : all that you wish is very well
to me. Yes ! best of all.

That's now; and which of us two, dear,
shall mind about the future ? That tiresome
future, it is buried deep enough this winter

while ; we shall not hear it start till spring.
Are you not satisfied ? Then come and see
for yourself. London is not so far.

I went to you once  did I not, or is it alla
dream ?  I cannot come again. Mrs. Lufton's
expeditions are ended for this winter ;
she took cold on that last journey, and is
always saying how fortunate I was to have
been safe at home. My conscience does not
sting me, for if ever I was ' safe at home ' it
was then ; with you, John, with you.

Persistent still ? I have said, ' Come and
see ! come and see that I do not forget you !'
but you want to know these little things, and
somehow, all the time, I want to tell you
them. Mr. Denham informs me that the filial
relationship demands a certain confidence ; I
reply that my time and my attention are at
his disposal on foggy days. He remarks that
he hopes it will be foggy all the winter ; I
rejoin that I have every fear his wish may be
fulfilled. There is then a long pause. Am I
sufficiently dramatic ? for you know the accents
of the dialogue. After the pause he said that

he congratulated  was it himself or me ?
that he had got so far. It seemed to me
that he had ' got ' not forward but backward
many weary years, as I found myself with so
full-grown a son, and I ventured that witticism
as well. To which he replied that anything
which neared us to each other seemed a step
forward to him. And, while I thought just
that same thought of you you may guess that
I was not sloan to retort to Ifiim that I found he
was ' quite forward enough ' already !

And it was almost directly after that repartee
that Mrs. Lupton came into the room,
triumphant from the completed rehearsal. . . .
As for us two, John, we are near enough !

How cold it is ! with fire and gas and
lamps I do not feel it here, but I know how
keen the frost is by all the little signs of
London winter  the way the flames burn, the
sounds one hears far off, the sleep, like a thick
cloak, that is upon one the instant one seeks
it. And you sleep sound, I know, nearer
Nature than I, in the home that will be mine
one day.

Oh ! love, love ! there is no rose left in
your garden jt'ithway now ! but this room is
full of roses . . . and they are not all artificial
roses either, for my adopted son sent me a
bouquet this evening in which there are real
rosebuds almost sweet. We went to the first
night of a new burlesque ; when I returned I
found you waiting in my room and sent away
my maid. . . . Here you still are, but I have
failed to write you my day, failed in the expression
of all I would express, only will not
fail in the expression of my love ! I love you
more than you love me, more than you know
that I can love. You think of other things
than love, you think / think of other things
than those ; I think of one thing only, love,
I think of you ! No future planned ; believe
I want no future  that will come. No past
remembered, for I have no memory of the
past  it was not yours !  But / am yours,

Waldine.

Come to me ! when you will, as you will,
only somehow come ! I want to prove you mine.

FROST

Proof ? what proof was needed ? Was he not
hers as wholly as the thorn-stem is the grafted
rose's ? He had no separate existence now,
no aim in life but just to be the standard o
her pride. How best to serve her ? He received
the letter on the 26th of December ;
the letter said,  Come,' and he went next
morning.

It was difficult, but there is a providence
for lovers : Lord Grenvers had long been
wanting a locomotive couch, adapted specially
to his infirmities ; it had been an old suggestion
of his that John Lyne should pay his first
visit to London-town in quest of this, and at
the same time he could take an ornament to

Curzon Street, which was Lady Grenvers'
Christmas gift to Yal, and which thus need
not risk the laden post. It was all settled in
five minutes, and settled without sacrifice of
truth.

Lady Grenvers had said to John,  It is
'polar ; if I drive to Netherfield I die : you
must order me some New Year cards ; only
there is no choice as there is in London.'

I suppose the London shops are very gay
just now,' he said in tentative reply.

What a wistful voice V put in his lordship,
whose daily interview with John Lady Grenvers
had unceremoniously interrupted, ' I believe
you'd like to go and see them ! '

I should like to go to London,' said John
frankly,' with a sort of passive wonder.

And you shall,' cried her ladyship ; ' and
take Val her pendant : I shall never wear that
pearl pendant again, Grenvers ; it was one of
your first presents to me and is only fit for a
girl ! And Val has so few things. It will
still be in the family, and he can get your
chaise longue  order it, at least  and bring

me my New Year cards. Could you not go
tomorrow 1 I really want them.'

Yes, gladly said John, who felt his heart
bound at the possibilities afloat towards him
on the spell of the easy placid voice. And
gladly, when tomorrow came, he went. Another
time it would have seemed a great event
this going to London ; it seemed less than
nothing now, as a mile walk is ajjt to seem a
step in the direction of the beloved. There
were subjects to be considered ; but not in
relation to London, only in relation to one
feminine atom befogged therein whose eye
were poor John's lodestars. There was the
question of dress, there was the question of
times, there was the question of behaviour.
To look worthy of her, to reach her and to be
what she would have him be  this was the
triple problem which extinguished all wonder
as it annulled all distance.

Before Lady Grenvers sent the pearl pendant
across the park to John's home it had flashed
above her mental horizon that she might be
promoting a possible meeting between her

niece and him. But it only occurred to her
as the light for another lamp of self-approbation.
She wrote outside the packet, ' To be
left at 90 Curzon Street, Mrs. Lupton's ; you
need not ask for Mrs. Linton' and slept
soundly under the warm glow of her discretion.
He will have plenty else to do, she thought.

So John registered a mental vow that he
would not ' ask for Mrs. Lupton,' and snatched
his few hours' sleep with a conscience only at
all disturbed by the triple problem. And
when he woke ere daybreak it was solved.
He would just let things slide ; no forethought
thus far could have bettered fate's. He dressed
himself at dawn in his plain Sunday clothes ;
that they were not the clothes in vogue never
suggested itself to him, nor did he balance in
his mind whether they became him as well as
the costume of his daily wear. They were his
better clothes ; there was no choice. In his
breast-pocket was the box containing the
pendant, laid alongside of Waldine's letters,
and therefore safe with his life ; in an outer
pocket was a card on which his name was

written and his address, in case mishap befell
him. London was for him a sort of violent
engine, like the train. ' If I'm killed anywhere,
they shan't have to find her letter to know my
home.'

What he looked like ? Very like a gentleman,
only a touch more manly than most.
The boots were not very shapely and the hat
was wrong, but the walk was such as a prince
might have envied, and the head was as
handsome as a god's. His covert coat was
permissible in town as in the fields ; its earthy
tint became him very well : the general effect
was sombre.

Why, John,' said Mrs. Lyne, ' where's your
coloured scarf ? you don't look half smart for
London.'

Oh ! I'm not going a holiday, mother,' he
answered :  ' It's sober earnest this is, and lots
to think of.'

And much he did think in the train and
much in the streets, but it was not much of
London. It was one thought only  ' Waldine,
Waldine, I come!'

VOL. II. 26

After his four hours' journey, for the morning
train was slow, the day seemed younger in
the city streets than he had left it at Nether-field.
He had this day before him, for there
was a late train back ; and he found himself
in the neighbourhood of the shops for his
commissions.

It did not strike John to drive : he walked
gravely along the foggy thoroughfares ; visited
the place, somewhere in the Strand, for Lord
Grenvers' couch ; and made his way through
Soho into Regent Street ftr her ladyship's cards.
There was an embarrassing choice. He looked
in window after window till perplexity as well
as dust was on his face.

Perhaps,' he said to himself at last, ' perhaps
she would. . . .'

It was half-past one o'clock ; he did not
feel hungry. He went down Conduit Street
and Breton Street. Berkeley Square ! they had
told him that was near his goal.

Afterwards John remembered best of all
his London wanderings the last time he asked
his way to 90 Curzon Street. It was just

opposite to Vanstone House, where the
statue stood dripping under leafless boughs in
shivering feminine contrast to a well-clad
policeman who was contemplating her with
unsympathetic contempt. Mrs. Lupton would
have delighted in the contrast between his
stalwart warmth and that modest chill of hers
which was so much more permanent. And
the group detached that lady's image in John's
mind.

Does Mrs. Lupton live about here V asked
John.

I beg your pardon, sir,' said th astonished
policeman ; and then after a second glance,
which somehow flushed John's temples, he
added, ' I suppose you're from the country ;
don't you know the address V

It was rather a blow to John Lyne, and he
was glad that the subsequent direction should
be plain even to a rustic intelligence, unaware
that of two easy routes his informant chose
the less direct  ' Back a bit and down Berkeley
Street ; past the bottom of 'Ay '111 ; then down
the little tunnel to the right, and there you are.'

It was very foggy, very cold, very still.
He skirted the dead wall and there was the
old-fashioned passage, looking like a vault with
its iron pillar and grimy steps.

Well,' said John to himself, ' it's not as
fine as the lodge at AVhiteknyghts. '

He swung himself down the stairs : the
clank of his footsteps, echoing along the
narrow walls, amused him : perhaps it was his
quickened walking that made this sudden heat
and glow about him ; his whole frame tingled
as he went. Perhaps. . . .

He stopped quite still ; he could not have
advanced a step.

Waldine ! '

She had entered the passage from the
Curzon Street end : indeed it was none other
than she, and, by a final miracle, she was
alone. Surely nothing could befall her between
Curzon Street and Dover Street, where
she was going to luncheon with some friends
arrived from abroad. Nothing did befall her,
but just this : to find the radiant moment of her
life upon the muddy way. So one finds Love.

She was looking exquisitely lovely ; even
her beauty could be heightened by contrast
with dark fur and the rich velvets of Mrs.
Lupton's choice. She had dressed herself with
unusual care, and in this dingy frame and
under this gray sky she was the very picture
of luxury and grace. She walked lightly and
demurely ; her femininity divined a man whom
she must pass  her air was the more reserved
her eyelids proudly drooped.

She came quite close to him : he spoke
aloud, ' Waldine.'

Pace from motion to stillness : lips from
red to white : heart from life to death. And
then with one soft word, with one short step,
lack to red lips and fuller life again.

No one came by : the world was going to
luncheon, and the world's underlings had
ceased purveying it. It was the siesta of
the little dark passage and this word its
midday dream. . . .

You see I have come,' he said at last,
smoothing her hair with his hand where his
lips had stirred it, for she seemed as if she

could not speak to him ; ' and it wasn't so
difficult either ; there were things to be done,
and luckily it fell to me to do them. . . .'

Never mind,' she answered, her senses
returning with the tints of her cheek, 'you
are here and we have met ; you were coming
to find me

I was coming to leave a case of trinkets
for you, from Lady Grenvers ; I was specially
told not to ask for Mrs. Lupton.'

And you would not have asked for her ;
would you have asked for me ? '

I don't know ; it seemed all bound to come
right somehow. AVill you have the trinkets \ '

No :  what do they matter ? you can leave
them by and by. John ! are you glad to seeme?'


Very glad ; but must you be always as
finely dressed as this in London ? '

She sighed. ' No, I suppose not; but I like
clothes, and I am going to such a luncheon
party  the De Lewes',  oh ! you don't know
and to meet royalty.'

Princes and princesses ? '

Not the whole Almanach De Gotha, John 
one English princess and some foreign potentates.
I knew the De Lewes well in Brussels ;
they are at Brown's hotel. The worst of
royalty is that one can't be late, and I don't
see my way to being ill at a moment's notice.'

No/ said John directly, 'you must go.
What time will it be over % '

I can get away at three. Meet me here
then. What shall you do meanwhile ? '

Leave the parcel at Mrs. Lupton's. '

It will take nq minutes, and there is an
hour and a half before you. Perhaps I can
escape before three, but Mrs. Lupton thinks I
shall stay the whole afternoon.'

I will wait for you here ; come when you
can. But Waldine, answer me one question.
Do you care for all this  I mean this gaiety
and pleasure % You are so young, you are so
bright and rare.'

You speak of me as if I were a gem, only
then youth would not add to my value. John,
yes, I care for it all : don't let me undervalue
or underrate things. I care for clothes and

compliments. But I care more for you ; even
with that same me which these things occupy
I care more for you than for them. You are
the great excitement of my life, the thing that
is most at my heart is to tell you how entirely
I love you.'

Oh, Waldine, Waldine, do you speak the
truth ? '

Absolutely. Walk demurely now, as you
saw me walking : there is some one coming
and I feel I am not behaving well. \Yhy in
heaven s name haven't you got a high hat on f

Is it wrong  this hat ? I never thought
and my coat ? '

Looking down from the hat to the coat,
she had to meet the eyes, so that the coat was
never commented upon : she laughed lightly
under her breath and they let the stranger
pass them.

What shall we do this afternoon ? Have
you any sort of plan ? '

I am to get some New Year cards for
Lady Grenvers.'

The very thing : we will go to a shop I

know of together, and choose them ; I shall
buy a thick veil, and then we can go in a
hansom. It is very shocking, but it does not
strike me as wrong. Does it you 1 '

Don't do it another day with Mr. Denham.'

Not with my son ? John, what a look !
He will be at the luncheon : I wish I could
take you. But you would hate it and I should
hate you there ; if you looked at the princess
I should die of jealousy. Do get a high hat,
there are plenty of shops in Bond Street. It
will be something for you to do, and I am
sure it will suit you. What is the time ? '

Ten minutes to two.'

I must go.'  They were standing on the
steps near the pillar.  ' Wish me a pleasant
morning ! I shall be thinking of you all the
while.'

Think of me thus ! '

He had taken her softly in his arms before
she was aware ; * Waldine ! ' he said, ' my wife.'

It was a whisper, like a breath of June.
Ah I how he loved her : even her exactions
were contented now.  That tenderness of his

embrace, that lover's utter gift of self  they
must have left a gust of summer between the
dark walls, a shock of warmth in the cold
pillar, for the next fortunate passer-by. What
was it wandering in the air ? a soul exchanged
or lost ?

A hientdt', she said ; and then, for there
were footsteps, she was gone.

He watched her cross the road and walk
with supple easy motion up Hay Hill. Then
he went through the passage again without
seeing a yard of it : and luckily he could not
miss his way to Mrs. Lupton's house.

He had an hour before him : he went to
Bond Street and bought himself a hat.

I want a high hat, please,' he said, ' like
they are wearing now.'

It was the latest defect licensed : it made
him look very tall, and it was not quite easy
on his curly head. Moreover, it cost a great
deal of money ; that mattered more.

In effect he had left himself a margin of
thirty shillings for the day's expenses, of which
the hat took twenty-five. But n shillings

would suffice for his refreshment, and he had
not told his mother that he had thought of
bringing her a present from London. He put
on the new hat and pocketed the change : he
gave up that notion of a present for his
mother.

Where shall I send your other hat, sir ? '
He did not think of having it sent to the

station : he did not want to give an address :
Will you keep it for me till I call ? ' he said.

(So that perhaps John's hat is at the hatters
still !)

He had a travelling cap in his pocket, that
would do for the train. As for the new one,
he would slink in, at home, and hide it, or
throw it out of the carriage window before he
reached Netherfield : he knew it was an useless
purchase, but it was Waldine's wish that he
should have it  it seemed like the price of his
blissful hour with her.

Now for some dinner,' he said, as he left
the shop. He had a sovereign that Lady
Grenvers had sent him for the New Year
cards ; he must keep that intact : he had his

return ticket and he had five shillings : he was
hungry and would have no further expenses.

Stay ! the cab in which he was to drive
with Waldine by and by ?

He stood still outside the Grosvenor
restaurant and whistled softly.

Then he took his hand out of his pocket
and buttoned his coat.

He had breakfasted betimes and it was
long past his dinner-hour, but there was no
help for it, he could not afford to dine now.
If he could get some bread and cheese ?

But that is a difficulty in Bond Street.
There was a baker's : but by some odd chain
of inferences his high hat prevented his going
there. He had a feeling that it would look
unusual. On the whole, it was easier to be
hungry. ' By Jove,' he said, ' I would eat
my hat if I could.' He could hardly return,
however, to the shop that he had honoured
With his patronage and offer there the old hat
in exchange for a meal. He had put on an
instinct with his London chimney-pot and he
was obliged to obey it. Neither bright

public-house, discharging muddy workmen,
nor pastry-cooks, with supercilious Hebe,
satisfied the requirements of this instinct.
He took exercise instead of luncheon. It was
not so strengthening, but it was cheaper.

The shops bewildered him with their show
of jewels and silks ; but one would not have
guessed his wonderment. Like all country-bred
Englishmen, he had a shyness which
looked very like pride. It was the first time
that this shyness had absolutely gnawed his
vitals, but in the extreme form it shaped
itself into extreme reserve ; just because he
was hungry and shy, his air was consequential
in its nobleness and languor.

People looked at him too ; perhaps what
was attractive in his aspect was that it was
not yet levelled to the ordinary London tone.
Without being odd he had the impropriety of
being brilliantly handsome, and of having the
flesh-tints not effaced by lassitude or dirt.
The hour passed very quickly; his mind
photographed all sorts of pictures  carriages,
horses, corners, faces, but he was unaware of

most of them ; it was an automatic process.
It was only when he turned into Grafton
Street again and saw the Bond Street panorama
still before his eyes that he knew he had
observed intently, that he knew he should
remember. He was in Berkeley Street at ten
minutes to three : she might escape, she had
said, before the appointed hour. He waited a
quarter of an hour, half an hour, an hour 
patient as a dog. It rained. He sheltered
himself under the portico of the passage and
made skirmishes of observation. Presently
from his covert he saw Waldine in a hansom
with Mr. Denham : she fronted John as they
drove down Hay Hill : she was laughing  he
could see that ; her lips were like a scarlet
flower, her teeth like millet ; but he could not
see the way her eyes sought out his figure in
the dark. Despite his hunger and chill, he
felt a great access of angry jealousy inflame
him. He would not be the first to drive with
her that day then, despite her having characterised
the proceeding as very shocking ?
He had told her rightly what his simple

country-breeding meant, with its heritage of
single-hearted passion. He could renounce
her ; he-had hardly sought the boon she had
bestowed on him ; but he could not share her
with another. She would have to understand
that, once and for all.

He straitened himself ud almost fiercely
and lit a cigar to calm his nerves ; the look in
his eyes as the match showed them was a look
of heavy care. How long he might have to
wait he did not know, but it never occurred
to him to go elsewhere. Her word was law.

A sudden rattle of wheels round the corner
of the square  her radiant face was before
him again ; she was alone in the hansom now ;
that flamelike vision burnt up all the smoke
of jealousy and wrath.

Stop,' she called out to the driver, ' stop !
there's my  brother! . . .'

And then she fell back laughing and
covered her burning face with her hands.

Oh John,' she said, ' how different you look
to Launcelot in London ! '

FIRE

John got into the hansom dexterously enough,
considering the difficulties of the vehicle, only
bruising the unaccustomed hat against the
drooping glass. As he settled himself beside
her it seemed to him that Waldine expanded
like some lovely tropical flower ; the sweetness
of her presence made his heart faint with
longing. Excitement, flattery and delicate
fare had all been to her a sort of prelude to
this feast of love. She was warm in every
limb ; her sapphire eyes and vivid lips flashed
smiles ; and this meeting long deferred was to
be the crown of her delight.

That John was jealous, hungry, cold  ill
with the weary and unusual day  never once

occurred to her mind. Was anger possible ?
were there such terrors as fatigue and chill '?
How should she know? she felt like a fairy
queen, commissioned to fling glory through
the town with her fairy prince beside her.

Shut the doors she said, still laughing, ' I
have told him where to go ! What I have
been through to come to you I your providence
almost failed us. . I was in such a
hurry to get away that they all wanted to
know my plans. Mr. Denham said he should
walk back with me ; then I said I was going
in a hansom, and he asked if he might com
too  " Give your brother a lift," he said, for the
cabman to hear him.  I was rxiaee : when we
got into Charles Street I suddenly remembered
that Mrs. Lupton would not like it. I insisted
on his getting out. I drove down
Queen Street and then up Chesterfield Street
I passed him again but he never saw me.
I told the cabman to go to Waterloo Place,
and to Waterloo Place he is going. I took
a hint from Mr. Denham, about whose relationship
to me I am getting horribly confused, and

VOL. II. 27

stopped him to pick up ''my other brother." 
Why don't you speak to me ? Do you mind
the lie?'

I don't mind anything now,' said John,
thawing a little in her sunshiny presence, and
taking her fluttering hand in his ; ' have you
been happy all this while away V

Am I late ?  it seemed endless. Oh ! yes,
I have not been bored : I have a lucky consciousness
moreover that I have not been dull.
I had always rather be bored than dull : one
can blame others if one is bored, but one
cannot forgive one's self if one is dull ! '

Dull, my star ! '

Behind a fog often enough, without you,'
said the girl gently, her eyes brimming with
tears. ' John, I must buy a veil : 1 have seen
three people I know already. Is it not extraordinary
that one cannot drive a moment
in Piccadilly without seeing three people one
knows  and nearly always just the three
people one would rather not see, aren't they V

John looked out of the hansom : there were
not three people that he knew in all London.

Where are we going ? ' lie said after a
moment.

Waldine's answer came from behind the
muff, with which she was shielding her face
from the eyes of a familiar friend.

To a shop where we can get cards and
veil and all  a sort of general village shop,
like the one at Netherfield Gate ! Do you
like driving through these streets ? I adore it.
Look at the lamps ; they have hardly been
put out for days ! We don't live by sunlight
here ! '

'Don't you?' said John rather foolishly,
contemplating what was mere sunlight to him.

You have not said three words she went
on quickly : ' say three words to me, you say
nothing. I must have you say three words to
spoil the sight of those three hideous people ! '

/ love you!

Silence ; then after a pause. ' I surrender,
John, I cannot talk to you : I can write to
you, and often when you are away from me I
can talk to your ghostly presence hour by
hour. But now that you are really here, you

are like a weight upoti my heart and I  I
think  on yours.'

You will have all life to talk to me in, I
trust,' said John.

I think I shall never utter : don't you see,
John, that for us two there is nothing but
love ? If you were any other man I know,
there would be a hundred safety valves of
speech : I could let off the steam. But now
. . you would not care to hear about the
princess' bonnet or the grand duke's appetite,
would you ?  and he did not eat prettily, par
"parentheses /'

John pushed back the offending hat ; she
had never even observed it. ' I care for
nothing here but you, Waldine,' he said :  ' I
came here to see you and I have seen you.
All that you tell me pleases me, because you
say it; but the only thing in London that
there is for me is yourself. Do you not
understand ? You have only to be with me
for me to be happy : it is not what you say
or do that moves me, it is you. Why are
you silent now V

Oh ! go on speaking to me ! Do you
know what your words are ? There is not a
fibre in my heart that they do not thrill : I
think it is your voice that I love.'

I hope that it is me that you love, my
darling, me and my love of you.'

 It is not that latter, I know ; it has
nothing to do with it. I love you as one
loves fresh air and music, reckless if they have
returning love for one or not  never, I fancy,
thinking about that at all. It is your voice,
your hands, your kisses that I love, that make
the world for me.'

'If I were dumb and maimed and absent '

Oh don't talk like that ! horrible ! how
can I tell ? it would not be you. Absent, yes !
I can stand a certain absence . . . would you
love "hue if I were maimed and dumb ? '

Better, if better can be, but it can't : you
are myself for me, Waldine ! A man loves
himself: he talks about it little, but see the
pains he takes to get it happiness : does he
love himself less for such troubles as those ? 
no, but more. It seems to me dreadful, often,

that the only scope for my compassion towards
you is the risk of your love for me.'

I don't want your compassion : I have
made no sacrifices : I have added you to my
life.'

But you are going to make them ? . . .'

Of course ; but if do  or rather when I
do  they won't seem sacrifices. Don't you
see? when I go to you, I. shall go because I
love you just too well to do without you any
longer. Why did you put that tone into your
voice ? Do you think I would ever go back
from my word \ For one thing only in life I
have complete contempt  for its timidity. I
have no qualms, all things are for the best.
Love is the best of things ; there is no second
best.'

You will marry me and share my grooved
career ? '

I have said it ; I will say it as often as
you will hear me. You must trust me, John ;
believe me I was born respectable ! cowardice
is a question of breeding. You have my
word. Listen ! If I ceased to love you I

would marry you still if you wished it. If
you wished it I would even marry you if you
ceased to love me  that's harder, but one does
not give one's word for nothing, one gives
one's worth with it : I have thought out all
this. But I have only begun to love you,
John ; I shall take all my days to learn the
whole lesson ; and you  you have not ceased
to love me yet ? I love you far too well to
dream that you will cease to love me yet '

Not yet,' said John. Again the little
word, the great significance, the mutual thrill.

They were driving down Waterloo Place
now, and it was darker turning from the glare
of Piccadilly; the cold damp air blew fresh
vigour into Waldine's nerves, as if it were a
breath of the sea ; she felt her face cool above
the throbbing of her frame, like ice on fever ;
she stooped it against his shoulder.

Waldine,' he said, ' when shall it be, this
gift of our life to each other V

Oh ! when you will,' she answered ; ' how
can I decide ? we must do what is wisest, and
you are the best judge of that. It bothers me

to make plans, but I shall not quarrel with
yours

Let us think said John gently, ' where
we are . . . He set his mind to ponder.

We are at Howell and James,' she answered
quickly, with a sense of relief, ' and
we have half an hour's work before us ;
give the cabman eighteen pence ; we will be
economical and not keep him ; put on as
brotherly a look as you can, and follow me ! '
The audacity that was upon her was like
possession.

She bought a veil, for which John madly
longed to pay, but the price of which astonished
him greatly. She tied it closely over
her face and set about the selection of poor
Lady Grenvers' New Year emblems as blindfold
as fortune. The warmth and comfort
of the place was new life to John ; starved
and frozen as he was, he glowed and thawed ;
the look of perfect happiness on his flushed
face gave it an ideal  almost transparent 
beauty. Through her veil Waldine watched
him with intense pride. He seemed to her

like a god : the notion that he was straitened
for small change would have been incredible
had it presented itself to her mind ; but she
never thought of him as any way dependant.

Buy me this, John she said when the
parcel was completed, with the air of one who
confers a favour.

It was a little scented sachet of white satin
with a rose outside it  not a thing which she
liked even, not a thing that she needed or
on which she could fasten any association
with the day. He bought it with his last
half-crown.

They went out presently into the street ; it
was nearly five o'clock. The thickness of her
veil prevented her from feeling chilled ; to
John the keen air struck like rain, all saturated
as it was with fog. Strange, for he had never
used to be one to think of weather !

I must be home soon after n', said
Waldine ; * there is a crowd of people coming,
and I have no sort of excuse. We will walk,
John. Oh ! it is not like Whiteknyghts
walking, is it ? '

She paced quickly, but it was not fast for
him ; they had turned southward and went
down the broad steps towards St. James' Park.
They made their way more slowly along the
skirting avenues and by Constitution Hill to
Grosvenor Place, for the Green Park was shut ;
the darkness, the sense of security, the nearness
to the beloved combined to Waldine's entire
elation.

That is where the Prince of Wales lives,'
she said ; * Mrs. Lupton means him to distinguish
me next season. Perhaps next
season we shall be settled in the country and
I shall have forgotten Marlborough House as
much as you will.'

We have such soft evenings at Netherfield,'
said John, ' in summer weather ! Ah, love,
last summer I did not know that the world
had anything like you  is not that strange %
There you were all the time growing up forme,
and there was I all the time waiting for
you ; longing often in the fields, those August
evenings, for some one different to the girls I
saw, to walk with me between the hedgerows

or in the cornfields. I used to wonder how I
should find the sweetheart I wanted ; she
seemed a dream. Till I saw you, and then the
dream faded suddenly out ; because you were
so much more w and fair than the face it held !
How soon you filled my heart  how full you
filled it ! '

Waldiue listened, listened ; his voice, with
its slight throat sound, deepened from fatigue
and vibrating with passion, lulled her into an
ecstasy of which their motion through the
winter air was like the pulse ; she felt as if
they throbbed together in the world without:
volition of their own or individual being.

It was very dark along the lonely road ;
only a few saunterers, who did not heed them,
saw that John had stolen his arm round the
girl's shoulder and that she was walking with
her head against his breast. Under the pressure
of this air, so charged with secrets, he
could tell her his at last. He spoke it as
proximity made it more clear to his own sense :
' I loved you from the first ; I shall love
you till I die. My eyes are blind when I do

not see you, my arms empty when they do
not hold you. For my heart you are life and
death, for my soul you are heaven.'

I cannot stay in London now without
you,' said Waldine after a pause ; ' you have
changed it all for me by this one visit. I did
not know it could contain such bliss. Ah !
John, what immense happiness time holds.
Driving sometimes with Mrs. Lupton I have
thought how charming town-life was with its
gaieties, its perpetual occupation ! I have passed
by Hyde Park corner and I have seen people
sauntering about and never suspected that the
saunterers might wholly despise the busy
drivers, never thought that I should soon
stroll here with my beloved.'

So this is Hyde Park corner,' said John
as they came out on the bewildering lights.

Yes ! and do you see the fog ? we have
hardly felt it  at least I, for you look strangled
and John, I said that every foggy day I was
at Mr. Denham's disposal to give him my
maternal counsel. Do you recollect ? I wrote
to you all about it. Very likely he is waiting

for me now  an idle son with a face full of
confessions.'

Let him wait.'

For ever and a day ! I promise you, now
and for always, that whenever I am with him
I will think of only you.'

That's a pretty promise ! will you keep it?'

With my life ! . . . Love, / must go ; it is
late and I have no excuse  and you must go 
j must think of it ! you have to catch your train ;
I know there is one about six, but we have
loitered here so long you have no time to
spare ; you must take a hansom.'

What are you going to do this evening
while I am hurrying away from you  so fast
so fast ? '

Only heaven and Mrs. Lupton know ; we
have to dine out, else I could avoid the rest.
And anyway it will be long past ten before
you are at home by that slow train ; I suppose
you must go. . . . It is like taking the life
out of my body. Write to me when you are
gone.'

She tied the veil across her face aofain  the

face which John had bared to kiss in the
dusky avenues  and they walked silently along
the south side of Piccadilly. The novelty
of being side by side had become suddenly
familiar : they felt as if they were about to
break off a long while of life together. They
threaded the streets  presently, and it was by
the little dark chapel in Curzon Street that at
last they parted. Many a parting, without
doubt, ere theirs had that little chapel shielded,
many a parting has it shielded since, but
seldom one, perhaps, where the usual mood
was so entirely reversed. Of these two beautiful
and youthful lovers here the girl had all
the enterprise and ardour of a boy, the man
had all the docile constancy of a woman.
Waldine was in the pause of a crowded life,
even physically fuller than John's. This
violent passion of love was the one peaceful
instant of her day ; she was going on from
strength to strength because of it. Well fed,
warm clad, the crimson of superb health staining
her soft lips, she was, as it were, just
wasting a breathing space of existence in

company of the idol she had chosen. As for
him, chilled, hungry, choked with unaccustomed
poison in the air  every nerve and fibre strained
in rapture of earnest, self-upbraiding love 
this was the central pang to which all his
hopes had rounded. When this good-bye was
done he had to get his endless journey over
as he best could, and to live by its remembrance
tortured with jealous pain till kindly fate
might bring him one chance more. And yet
the gift was his, for all that the search was hers.

Say one thing to me, love,' she said,
gazing into his dear, tired face with starlit,
dewy eyes ; ' one word that T may hold within
my heart for ever.'

Kemember,' he answered her, ' once more
remember this is all to me. Withhold everything
or withhold nothing now. I give you
this last chance. I am not cruel  I can
forgive. But choose ! Waldine, my queen, in
the sight of God above us, are you my wife
or not ? '

Yours only, yours ever,' she said in a sigh
that was the echo of his breath.

And then he kissed her aoain

to'

Ten minutes afterwards he was running,
as fast as one can run in London, through
drizzling wet to the station ; and Warlike,
her face only the fairer, her hair only the
sleeker, for the damp, was turning to Mr.
Denham's confidences, from among billowy
sofa-cushions, the inattentive shell of her ear,
in which the humming song of contented
passion was yet awake like music.

THE END OF BOOK III.

CONTEMPT

VOL. II. 28

JOHN LYNE's love-letter

Whiteknyghts Cot, New Year's Eve.

My dearest girl  That is the way that
Keats began his love-letters, and I suppose
Keats had a sort of notion of the right wa}\
That at least is what you are to me, that and
more.

At last I have your leave to write to you 
a leave I hardly dare to take. To bring you
myself, that is one thing, because you have
deigned to accept me, but to bring you my
thoughts, that sounds bold.

Yet surely this is the time and this the
place, if ever anywhere it can be true that I
should write to you as mine.

Waldine, this paper is not worthy of you,

this ink is not clear enough, this pen is not
fine enough. Only the hand that guides the
pen is jours enough ; nothing else enough, but
yours enough, my dear.

What shall I wish you for the coming year ?
in an hour or so it will be here, and everything
is so quiet and the air so still and keen that I
almost fancy I can hear its wings. Perhaps
they're the old year's wings, though, that I'm
so loth should leave us. Stay a bit, old
fellow, you have been the best of friends !
But he won't stay : he is going : and what of
his successor ? I think I'll wish that he may
bring you happiness ; nothing besides ' matters
much,' as you would say.

And you shall give me in return one of
your glancing, omnipotent wishes  for health,
I think : there is no need for you to wish me
happiness ; it is in your own gift.

It makes me half ashamed  only that
shame is not in love at all  to have to want
that you should wish me health. I have been
bad again with that same illness, and it's all
my own fault. I played the fool by hurrying

to the station after our walk together, and
got a sort of chill on the journey, after the
glow you put in me, I fancy. Anyway it was
indoors for me, and no more chances of sporting
the London hat  not even for New Year's
Day ! All the old trouble of cough and blood-streaks
again ; and it goes on still, though
lessened.

And his lordship is ill, and chafes for me to
go to him ; and they say her ladyship is almost
always in her rooms, for fear of draughts, 
and  well ! you see, in fact, we want you back
again to put our lives to music !

For me you are health and summer : I have
no comparisons for your presence ; but when I
shut my eyes and think of you it is as if a
lilac bush in spring were in my room, and on
every bough of it a bird were singing.

You have never seen this room ; it's very
simple. I wonder what you would do with it
if you had it to alter  that passes all my
guessing. It's my bedroom ; and it's got a
nice window with a red curtain, now pulled
back to show the moonlight : and what besides

? a table and an arm-chair  that's newly
added  and a bit of carpet, on which Sep 
that's short for September  Sep, my collie,
Flirt's successor, is asleep before a bright fire.

And here's me, a poor sick fellow that loves
you  that last quality seems to dignify me to
my self  in an old shooting-coat and with an
old pipe for all companion, which, by the way,
IVe let go out already thinking of you.

Me, Waldine, me, what am I ? Just your
slave ; but none the more merry for being such
a wholly useless slave just now. If I were a
poet, or a bit of a writer of any sort, I shouldn't
mind it so much. But this letter when it's
written will be the longest piece of writing
I've ever done, by a great deal, if I say half
that's in my heart to say.

Are you tired of it already % Oh ! I'm not
without qualms. How am I to interest you ?
I only know one subject of very great interest,
and that's a subject you ought to know a good
deal more about than I do, because, my love,
it is your own dear self. But the qualms are
in absence only ; when I am with you I have

none. It seems to me then that I can make
your life. My love is like a deep well : when
I get outside of myself to see it I am struck
by its small surface, but when you sound it I
get a hint of its capacity. All the same it is
you that fill the well. Till you filled it
with the water of love and the light of life it
was merely a hole in. my heart.

That was what ached for emptiness those
summer evenings. Sometimes I have stretched
myself along the grass, almost in physical pain
for what ? I did not know then ; it was
only an immense desire of something vague,
which something vague has shaped itself to
palpable you.

Now the fulness of the well, how to bear
it ? Now the answering arms, how to support
the embrace ? how to wait for it, how to claim
it ? Love, who knows all these things but
Love, whose moods they are ?

Those lonely summer evenings, how indefinite,
how hazy they were ! to-night how
changed the sky ! I wish you could have
seen the sunset. We have winter  arctic

winter  a black frost, not a breath of mist,
not a trace of fog from morning to morning,
absolute crystal clearness in which sun and
moon are plain to see and stars are intimate
lamps. One feels one could blow them
out, if the revelation did not hold one's breath.
I get up and go to the window  was it hours
ago that sunset flamed itself away in saffron
and purple and gold ? Hours or centuries was
it \ What has this deep heaven to do with
that burst of passion ? Oh Love ! the depth
of this dark canopy, the calm and silence of it
which are not death's calm or silence because
of the pulsing stars. Oh Love ! the glory of
the risen moon, which was so faint and pale in
the flooded sunset sky.

It will pass, this fiery insupportable hour
which shakes our senses till we hardly discern
life's full moon dawning for the flush of marriage
saffron all around. Our heaven will
darken, deepen, grow more mystical and
still.

And then the silver light. Waldine, I
have not much to give you : I bring you a

night of stars ! Let the crescent sail in it till
it reach the perfect round.

That's what it seems to me, the life I offer
you  a night of stars. Will it content you,
sweetest, best, and least considerate of self,
after the garish sky ?

Oh ! but the worst of it is this, you ought
to look for noontide, not for moonlight. My
heart misgives me that the sky so bright above
you now is really not sunset's but dawn's.

What if I shall have spoilt your day ?
What if my silver moon and quiet starry night
should find you cold, regretful ever of a vanished
morning \

Already you have spoken me my word of
comfort. You said you had no fears ; you
would own to no regrets. It was easier to
speak in simile  it seemed to shield my poorness
from myself  but that won't do. Let
me show you what it is that we have done.

We have plighted ourselves to each other
for life or death. We shall live always in the
same house, we shall lie for ever in the same
grave. If my station be low, if my grave be

far away, your station and your grave must
be with mine. Be certain that the great glory
that this holds for me holds no reverse for
you. I think we could not live here : that
you will not mind, but realise it once for all.
Our place would be anomalous. Will you
come with me abroad ? Whither you will ;
for me it need not be far, I have so few
acquaintances that I need avoid ; but what of
you % I do not want to weary you with
details, but what could I do in Europe ? I
am the merest Englishman. I think our home
must be American, or in Australia. I do see
somehow there a sphere for me with my
bounded knowledge, a possible wide, hajpy
life for you with your boundless courage and
love. Rustic life  almost wild.

Details I will not give you : if you realise
this, you will not want to be precise about the
where. I will find out all about that. Then
comes the when ? Life is not long : will you
not marry me soon, my love of loves ? My
people are old and well cared for : they have
plenty for their lives laid by : I have been

independent of them for some time past,
saving my means. And mine is yours. Yes,
I have the wings to take us, have you the will
to fly ? Lark, nightingale, dove, what bird
are you that you will make your nest with a
poor daw like me ?

Wife, does it vex you to think that we
must go so far ? Oh ! it is lucky you are young :
surely you are quite free ? London has no
links for you yet, the country-side no chains.
We will forge links and chains out there which
would make the desert home. Now is the
moment. Let us forestall time and death ! .

Come back, and let us speak about it in this
frost until we make the snow thaw with our
promise : we will talk it over all the spring,
and let us go from summer to summer and
find next December an Australian June.
You ought to go a sea voyage,' the doctor
said this morning ; ' you would shake off this
illness altogether so.' And saying it he turned
my heart over in my body with a bound.
Let me build the scheme ! Say you 'yes.' I
ask no more counsel. Come summer noon.

come winter night, no weariness, no chill shall

ever reach you. Through my brain first must

pass any shadow that shall fall upon your eyes,

through my breast force its way any pang

that shall stir your breath to sighing.

I am between you and the world henceforth.

You must peep at it over my shoulder. Mis

view of the world ? Oh love, my world is you !

Your faithful lover,

John.

Midnight.  There go the bells! my life
upon your faith.

God bless you, my darling.

WALDINES REPLY

CuRZON Street, January 2nd.

Yes ! ' you ask it : I say it. ' Yes ' with shut
eyes and fingers in my ears, ' yes ' vigilant
and listening. Why are you troubled ? why
do you make plans ? I have no troubles and
I make no plans. I take you, you take me :
all will be well.

And seriously, my own (my very own I
know for time and for eternity), I am not
wholly irresponsible. I have a sense of
honour : you seem to think I haven't ! In
other senses I am wanting, I have no sense of
distance. England, Italy, Australia  where
that latter is I am most uncertain ; but anyway
the three countries are under one sun, in

one air  better air or worse  and for me they
hold, or may hold, but one presence. I have
a sense of hurry though : don't hasten things !
I mean don't hasten great things : hasten
your coming or my going  our meetings and
our partings shall be how or where you will.
But why disturb a current of existence that
can be as calm as ours ? Do you want to
leave Whiteknyghts and your people and my
uncle ? why should you ? See my prudence :
it is obviously,  nay ! it is inevitably, right.

First of all you have to get well. It sounds
rather dreadful, but your illness is perfectly
intolerable to me. What's the use of chopping
words ? I who greatly desire to tell you
everything that befalls me, should I not tell
you first what I unjust have. I must have you
well again, John, well without more delay.
Don't think either that I grieve because this
illness is, as some would say, my fault.
Honestly, it is not that which grieves me. It
is this : the first thing that I ask of you is
health; devotion afterwards, but capacity before
all else. You must bury sickness with the

buried year: 'alms for oblivion,' John, you
must put weakness into ' Time's wallet.' You
will not disappoint me ?

And you must try and be practical  reasonable
first and practical next. Dearest, I have
a new cream satin dress.  (Oh ! there is something
of my aunt in me, and I never knew
it !)  It was not made for the backwoods.
By and by I will dress myself in serge or
print  nay, in sackcloth for your sake : but
with a new cream satin from Elise and with
you at my side  for what is that path across
the park when I am once at home ?  why
should I not enjoy the pride of both ?

How you have made me argue ! and it is
all such a trifle : you trust me, do you not ?
you are not jealous ? Well then do not be
impatient ! do not spoil tranquil ease by a
snatch at ecstasy with risk. Let us have
peace with honour ! '

These last words have made me lausfh.
They read as if I did not wish to be your
wife ! I have no wish in life but that : it ends
up all my plans. But it eiids them : the plans

beyond are yours. Do you not understand ?
Once given, I lose myself, and rightly. If I
could think for one instant that you doubted
me when I say solemnly that I love you, then
illogical as it sounds  I would marry you
tomorrow ! But you cannot doubt my love
for you any more than I doubt yours for me.
And I do not doubt that at all ; did not doubt
it before I had your letter, do not doubt it
now.

Your letter ! all this while I have not
praised it : I have no words of praise. Dear,
one who loved you less might praise it more
than I.

There I stop short  because  because I
do not want to be ambiguous. I will not
have you think I cannot praise it because I
am too much moved. The reason, the real
reason is that it does not wholly please me.
To think that I should be so difficult !

Once I said to you I was not absolutely
certain that I wished you to love me. Of one
thing I am quite certain : I do not want you
overmuch to express your love. I want you

in my life for many reasons, but the chief
reason is for repression of myself. Let me
be the fluent speaker  it is so easy. Be you
the limitless and throbbing silence. Close up
my chattering day, voiceless interpreter ! . . .
Oh me ! choosing all these fine terms, am I
still afraid of being truthful ? Is the real fact
merely that your way of speaking is not
what I would have it be ? Is your letter,
despite its devotion, or because of its devotion,
a sort of weariness ? I would to God I
knew. . . .

John, don't look hurt ! you would not
dream that I am careless of your love if you
could see me now. I have perused your letter
twenty times : I have no fault to find with it.
But, dear, it does not stir my depths as your
long silence stirred them. Mine be the blame
of this ! But you must know the case : then
you shall write or not write as you will. I
love you with my whole heart, I am not sure
that I love you with one lobe of my brain. I
would let my heart, set free, win the conversion
of my mind.

VOL. II. 29

Enough: my reasoning is all abroad. Only,
once more, don't try to utter fancies : I credit
you with the unutterable always. Just tell
me common facts, if needs be, dates and hours.
What you are to me, have you any notion?
I have no words to tell it you ; but, whatever
it is, it is my heart has made you this for me.
Yet what you did not make, you somehow
still might mar. Can you understand this %
It is simple.

I must try and frame it rationally to your
knowledge. A certain outside self of me is
more the slave of things usual than I thought.
I have speeches made to me all day by one
and the other, with which I do not want to
put your speech into comparison.

It would be like your coming up to London
without a high hat : I don't know why, but it
would : remember you were a shock to me
then ! I have not quite got over it yet !

Be my compass, my mainspring, my prince,
my life, my god ! But, for your own sake,
lift me up to you, do not come down  such a
descent it is !  to me.

There ! I am ill to-night. Surely it must
be illness that makes a woman dispraise herself.
Shall I diagnose my illness for you as
you do for me that most vexatious one of
yours ? I have discussed it with Mrs. Lupton,
and she says it is ambition. For my part I
call it fatigue. She says I want an embassy,
I say I want rest.

Oh ! is the secret to be solved by double
life ? I wonder.

To be happy I desire power, but I desire a
slavery therewith : I have the longing to rule
a kingdom, but be ruled by you. Perhaps
sex is my trouble ; if I were a man I could
lead two lives ; and why not now ? Why try
to run a complex personality in a single
groove ?

Don't think I hesitate or balance any
choice whatever in my mind. I don't : I
have chosen you ; I have foregone success, so
called. And yet, so far as this success maybe
compatible with your possession of me, I
want you to let me taste it. Let me know
the worthlessness of the sphere that I resign

before I resign it in your favour. A concession
like this will be generous.

Very often it seems to me, Join, that I
love you as a man loves a woman. I adore
your beauty, I hold my breath before your
gentleness. I know no sweetness upon earth
like the sweetness of your kiss. But your
protection  do I want that ? Oh ! no a thousand
times ; it only makes me smile. You say
that you will shield me ; but then I have no
wish to be shielded 

. . .in me si move
Un anima selvaggia.'

You have not forgotten your Italian ? 
selvaggia,' yes ! that's it. I am Waldine,
to change the sense a little. I ask for choice,
to choose you always in the end, but to be
forced to decide. How else is there action in
life, how else is there worth in love ? Dear,
don't talk of protecting me  a gun can do as
much ; don't talk of providing for me  a fool
can do more ! Draw out my tears with your
tenderness, draw out my soul with your voice.
That is your province. As to the world and

the world's value, I need no help, no added
courage, to make me face the one or despise
the other.

A thousand pardons ! I ask your pardon
always, I know not why. But one thing in
me needs neither forgiveness nor concessions,
the truth I show you. Is not my truth a
merit ? Yet not mine, but yours. For yours
I am, to take or leave, yours for all claims and
all time. And shall I not be true ? ' Oh
yes ! ' you answer, and your tone, unheard,
thrills me although you are so far away :  ' Oh
yes ! it is surely best for both of us that you
should be true ! ' I will.

Was that a sigh of yours, my love, that
closed the whisper and seemed an answer to
my breath of relief ?  for confession is over :
I have nothing more that is hard to tell you,
all is said and done. I do not want to hear
you sigh like that, when I am alone with you,
like this, of evenings.

For indeed, indeed, you are here ! Wherever
I may be now  at home, abroad, in shops
or theatres  I hold you in my heart : you

are my talisman against another care. I
cannot think of any shame or any sorrow
that one instant of your embrace would
not blot out from me for ever. Strange
gift you give me, absolute intoxication of
sense !  and then to attempt speech of it !
No, no, we shall express things sometime, but
not now.

You are ill, you say. How to amuse you ?
Mrs. Lupton or Lady Grenvers could amuse
you better than I. Love makes me sad, exacting,
cross : it is an enervating mist about me. . . .
Ah ! by the way, John, it is strange that the
only two women I should have seen intimately
since I came to England should guide me 
little dreaming it  more and more straight to
you. My aunt is incarnate vanity. Her
influence has been to set me against self. I
am wholly sickened of her care for her beauty
and her dress. She presents what she would
call mere rustic slavery, by contrast, in its
most attractive form. Her introspection (let
me frame it philosophically if I can) moves me
to expansion the more. Because of her prevailing

powder-puff, I pine for sun-tan and
freckles.

Mrs. Lupton's influence lias been more
dangerous than this incitement by opposites :
she has roused my daring. John, I do not
believe in all Mrs. Lupton's adventures, but I
have got to feel it is my mission to prove them
possible. I furnish the examples to her text
of life. It was her fault at first : it will be her
fault still until her fixncy fails her. She is not
more than a dreamer ; but I have lived her
dream. She often says to me, not I now
believe, from her own experience, ' We modern
women must keep life and love apart.' And
then I come straight to you and say to you,
We have fulfilled Mrs. Lupton's ideal in many
ways : let us fulfil it also in this.'

For a time ! For a time only. I ask you
but a breathing space. And, dear, how
charged with sweetness will be the air
we breathe the while ! My wish is this : 
for you are right that I cannot stay a great
while longer away.  Let me return and let
us live our daily life, glorifying ever what

moments of it you will, by meetings at your
pleasure.

While I am here I am amused  I confess
it ; there would be almost cause for you to be
jealous if you saw my surroundings. But
at Whiteknyghts ! you will not grudge me my
unharmed moments there. There is no one 
scarcely any one, is there ?  that will come as far
as Whiteknyghts to find me, of all my London
friends. I will test them at any rate. ' If they
should come?'  you say. Oh! but they won't.

I had a hundred things to say to you, but
they are too trifling. All that matters really
in what I have written is the news that I am
coming. Early, very early in this young year,
I am coming, to find the one real passion the
world holds for me.

Answer me in a word, you perfect lover !
Shall I not come ? shall it not all be as I will ?
I sail upon the clouds in expectation : do not
make me feel myself only ballooning by the
suggestion of any chain to earth however silken.
Raise your spirits to my level ! Meet me up
here in heaven ! . . .



A shiver brings me back to earth  a shiver
like an omen of evil. The fire is out. My
ecstasy seems to have passed. I am,  once
again,  your poor, perplexed

Waldine.

AN AFFIRMATION

Whiteknyghts Cot, January Hath.

Come then, my dearest, when you will, and
let us lead what life you choose together.
Half together, if not yet wholly ; but not
apart, as now, again.

My last qualm is against letting any words
bind you. For you would always speak the more
generous resolve. I will let only your action
bind you past recall. If you come to me now,
you come as my promised wife. Whether our
Averting day be in summer or winter does not
seem to me to matter. You know what you do.

But, once returned here, whether your home
be at this side of the world or at the other,
you are mine : there is to be no going back.

I was to give you facts. My father is ill.
He has had an accident : and my mother is
worn out with watching him. Think of me as
better, watching too. But it is only half my
sight that watches the old man's sleep ; and
the more wakeful half watches the road for
you.

My child, my mistress 1 it costs me something
to leave the paper blank. And yet I
know how poor my words must seem to you.
Look into my heart : I'll warrant you will not
be disappointed there.

John Lyne

LITTLE FOXES

I HAVE not,' said Mrs. Lupton, summing upas
was her wont, an article of her negative
creed for Waldine's behoof, ' any opinion at
all of my own sex.'

It was an interval in the busy London day,
that opportune moment preceding tea (and the
inevitable tea-side danglers) which she was fond
of improving before she launched into her airy
cynicism. It was a moment full of memories
for Val ; it was for just this hour she had
walked with John Lyne on Constitution Hill.

*Your mood is Delphic,' she answered
absently, ' and that gray velvet gown is
tomh-y, as Aunt Linda would say. Utter, my
oracle, and tell me why ?'

She sat herself at Mrs. Linton's feet ; she
experienced always now a longing for caresses.
She put her head on Mrs. Lupton's knee, Mrs.
Lupton stroked it with her small nervous
hand which felt the softness of the hair
without divining a throb of the brain.

Of you, my dear, I have a sort of notion,
but the most of us are quite elusive ; one
must mistrust us, because trust has no foundation.
Oh ! L don't mean that I have a bad
opinion of women. I mean just what I say 
I have none  we are such a menagerie.
Worldly women are like turkeys and tortoises.
If you don't strut and gobble, and fatten your
body and wrinkle your face, you must get a
shell and creep about beneath it. Ethelinda
has become a tortoise already ; her shell is
self, and how she polishes that shell ! I shall
be a turkey, Yal, I know it. I have shuddered
at Christmas fare like a cannibal, and I suppose
that's the reason. Oh ! the want of courage
that sends us all to the same farmyard or
floor. We who thought once to fly, in the
end we waddle or crawl.'

I suppose I shall finish as one or the
other,' said Val laughing, ' tortoise or turkey,
shall I crawl or gobble?  But I always
thought Aunt Linda was a butterfly.'

It is the butterfly, dear, that swells and
hardens into the tortoise ; I have watched it
often. For myself I have prayed to be neither
tortoise nor turkey, yet I often feel the
clutter in my throat and I know my doom.
But widowhood helps me,' she concluded with
a sigh :  'Be a widow, Val ! It is difficult, but
I don't see why it should be impossible to
forecast it, if you choose your man.'

'Think of some other mode of emancipation,'
said Waldine slowly, repressing an odd
shiver :  ' I want an original life.'

A life,' Mrs. Lupton echoed ; ' we always
say "a life," as if it were a certain line of
tram or railway. Yet Chance is still standing
by us with hands full of varied hours :
the thing is to get a safe foothold within
reach of them. I have made my perch ; it is
not lofty, but it is easy; thence I select
samples of existence.'

Samples would not suffice me ; I am more
robust than you. I want to lose myself.'

 Inartistic ; in fact coarse ! I am convinced
of the need for a safe critical standpoint.
There shall Chance toss you the
hours : play with them what game you will
and let them fall, but keep your foothold.
By the way, Waldine, you must marry soon.'

Indeed, ma'am, and why V

For a reason the reverse of the common ;
most women marry for protection, you must
marry to protect. Your husband must be perpetually
drawing out your masculine qualities,
and you will find the feminine virtues increase
with the demand.'

That's obscure ; but if I understand you,
I think you are right about me.'

What a grave tone ! . . . Mr. Denham ?
Ah ! you have precluded a confession ! I was
going to put some home-questions to Waldine :
and she would have responded . . . who can
prophesy how ? Likely enough, in Chinese
fashion, by more questions ! So that it's as
well you came. But answer, is the fog really

thick enough to warrant your being admitted
again to-day?'

It is black out of doors said Mr. Denham
sheepishly, ' I took for granted that it was fog.'

Waldine had not risen ; she was still gazing
steadily into the fire. He came across to
shake hands with Mrs. Lupton and then
stooped over her ; she took his hand, but it
was only to raise herself from the floor.
When she had done that, she walked away a
step or two, regardless of his having pressed
her fingers. She did not even say 'thank
you ' for his assistance.

Mr. Denham looked at her ; she wore a
simple gown of a sort of soft dark fleece ;
her head showed above it like a flower out of
brown mould. Her face had the sort of
vividness that pales paint. Coming in from
the cold air, she had flushed her cheeks with
rice-flour a little, and a few grains of it rested
upon the ivory and rose of her beauty like an
earthy stain. The texture and tint of her
skin were alike so lovely that the least
artificial touch disfigured them. She was

standing near a lamp, the light from which,
diffused through a white paper shade, was full
upon her hands as she tied and untied a long
brown ribbon knotted in a loose bow upon her
bosom. Her hands were like lilies.

Mr. Denham looked at her. She was to
him an enchantment, a mystery, a goddess.
Mrs. Lupton looked at Mr. Denham and
smiled ; he was not even a riddle to her.

You have no news,' she said in rather a
meaning voice.

No,' he answered, * you always know everything
first. I've nothing to tell you.'

His tone, which he made purposely impressive,
attracted Waldine's attention.

 How comes it you remain in town ? ' she
asked him ; ' I thought you were devoted to
hunting.'

Oh ! I like London too,' he answered,
awkward and crimson ; ' I shall stay up sometime.'


'Shall you?' she said; 'I confess I don't
care for it any more. I would say so to no
hostess but Mrs. Lupton ; she permits whims :
VOL. II. 30

and if I don't like it under her auspices I
should like it less under my aunt's. I have a
caprice for isolation, my palate is cloyed with
pleasure.'

Yes, there is too much pleasure,' said the
Hon. Launcelot sadly, 'but I should have
thought you found Whiteknyghts dull.'

I adore dulness,' said Waldine  ' dulness,
cold, loneliness : I want the tonics of these.
I feel like a Skye terrier that has been kennelled
in a hothouse.'

But surely Whiteknyghts is like a hothouse
quite as much V

I suppose it is not perfect,' she answered
impatiently, ' but attending perfection  that's
a French phrase I fear  it pleases me well
enough.'

You like that part of the world ? '

Sufficiently well '  she stopped short and
put one of her white hands to her head.
There had darted through her mind like a
swift pain the vision of that adorable wild
land about Whiteknyghts which was covert to
the only quest she sought.

You would not hate to make it your
home?' His tone was a little anxious now.

It is my home : you are like Magnate's
questions, only not so well worded. . . . Look
at Mrs. Lupton's visitors, they are more
amusing than I am.  Who is that V

It is Lady Trefusis ; is she not handsome %

Eugenia Trefusis ! the one woman Mrs.
Lupton loves. Let us sit down here and you
shall tell me about her.'

All the world knows : ' She is as good as
she is beautiful," et cetera. None the less I
believe she was once passionately in love with,
a brute called Jarvis. Mrs. Lupton knows
him too.'

That dreadful Captain Jarvis who rides in
the row with Mrs. North V

The same ; the man who married Miss
Buxton.'

I think I can understand the infatuation.'

You ?'

I. Don't look so horrified ; I do not
know him, and I have only seen her in the
distance. I may be wrong ; but I realise the

position. Captain Jarvis was the unknown
for Miss Brand ; she lead no landmarks. Had
she been less angelic she would have been
much harder to deceive.  Does she ever see
him now ? '

Never. She has set up the landmarks
with a vengeance since.'

That also I can understand. What a face
she has ! she makes Mrs. Lupton look like a
wicked doll. 1 suppose everybody in London
has a history.'

Everybody one knows, I should think.
Why that serious look? Do you want a
history ? '

I don't know what I want : I want to
stand bareheaded in the rain  that first.'

It's the heat of the room.  Miss de Stair,
will you let me tell you what it is you want ?
I am the sort of fellow that is very little good
at words, and one does not make speeches
nowadays, you see ; but I think what you
long for is to have your own way in everything,
and what I wish is that you would let
me help you to have it.'

I don't know that you are right, and I
don't see how you can help me

'Don't you?' he Laughed nervously, changing
colour a little, under her steady stare, but
man enough all the while not to flinch from his
position.  ' You might at least let me try. It
is like this. As things are, you have nothing
to gain by anything you may do. But if you
were  different, in different circumstances 
everything you did would matter, and not to
yourself alone.'

*We none of us live to ourselves alone,'
said Waldine with mock solemnity :  ' Have
you any notion how ridiculous you look
lecturing me ? Your face is quite red and the
collar of your coat is on end with excitement.
I never knew men's clothes were sympathetic 
wool to the sheep.'

You are not kind,' said the young man,
dum foundered at her rudeness :  ' But have
you any notion how beautiful you look when
you laugh ? yes, and when you frown too ? I
wish I had your photograph like that.'

Photographs are vulgar things. Mrs.

Lupton and I had a perfect holocaust yesterday
; we burnt you in effigy I can't tell you
how often ; it's a marvel that you have survived
it. You will have to present her with at least
a dozen new-ones to fill the empty frames.'

I have had some new ones taken ; may I
give you one ? if so Mrs. Lupton may have
the rest.'

I suppose you may ; but I shall not
frame it.'

You will not burn it ? '

No, I will take the greatest care of it : I
will put it away in a box, lock the box and
throw away the key.'

Well, as you will. What sort of copy shall
I send you ? they're wonderful fancy affairs,
my new photographs ; plain or embossed ? '

I should think the plain ones would bethe
most like you,' said Waldine carelessly :
and then they both laughed, like children, and
he could not press his suit.

But having silenced him, she returned,
womanlike, to the dangerous ground.

This repartee was but an interlude,' she

said, leaning back in lier chair ; * you were
teaching me my London. Lesson the first, to
disbelieve everything ; I cannot skip so soon
to lesson the last, to believe in you. Tell me ;
it does not trouble you that people have had
histories V

I should have very little sleep at nights if
it did.'

And you sleep well after the " fitful fever "
of your days ? '

Like a dog ; nobody's scrapes bore me ;
even my own don't keep me awake.'

Have you had " a history ? " '

He blushed. ' No  yes ! I suppose so,* a
hundred  nothing considerable.'

Novelettes at most, or shall we say paragraphs
? '

Oh ! I'm not worth discussion ; and 1
believe in fresh starts up to a certain age.'

For a woman also ? May I have novelettes
and paragraphs ? '

You are like nobody else. How am I to
tell you what I think about women ? They
must be very young to start quite fresh . . .

but what do you know ? And I  Miss de Stair,
the feminine world divides itself for me into
* you," and " other women." '

That is a very pretty speech, I suppose ;
I am vain enough to take it so.'

It is meant to be. You see for sine you
can't do wrong. Even when you are hard on
me it seems all right. There is nothing I could
not forgive you, nothing I could not excuse
you. . . . Because I want you so. Oh ! won't
you let me tell you how much I want you ? '

His voice had become quite thick with
emotion ; its low, deep tone, because it did
not melt her in the least, froze Waldine's confidence
 she was half frightened, half amused.

Don't go on talking now,' she said, pushing
her chair aside a little :   Open the door
for Lady Trefusis and bring me some toast.'

The wonder in her heart was answered !
She could envisage choice. From what worse
evil should one pray to be delivered ?

THE WORLD WELL LOST

And it was with the knowledge that she left
a lover, still undeclared, in London, that
Waldine de Stair returned to Whiteknyghts
soon afterwards. Returned to havoc, sorrow,
pain  to the undisguised seams of life. Returned
gladly : she was independent of them
all.

Her latter days in town had been days of
almost unmixed pleasure, but she had not
enjoyed them at the time. Her heart's blood
had absorbed the poison of London variety
and London insincerity without her knowledge,
but the poison left no immediate trace upon
her will. Because still superbly potent above
it was the desire of love.

She came back to the country like a freed
prisoner : her young step bounded up the
broad, still staircase, whispered, rather than
echoed, along the warmed corridors, was
music to Lord Grenvers, and to her ladyship
not seldom perplexity and fear.

Don't bounce into the room, darling she
said at last, when surprised in too flagrant
self contemplation with the familiar hand-glass :
Never houiice or steal. My way of entering
the room has been so much to my poor saint
for years. It's not that I don't want you
always, but my nerves are so sensitive. I
really should have thought your long visit to
Charlotte would have taught you . . . poor
Charlotte ! I never dared enter her room
without knocking, or even go round the corner
without a cough ; but she was younger then !
I suppose noir. . . . And that was different !
By the way, I have never seen a woman let her
complexion go as Charlotte has done  not that
it ever was much  still jea-souj:, really jjea-
soup. My face is a disease to what it was 
yes ! Val, a disease  but it is human flesh.'

There are other things in the world beside
complexions,' said Waldine ; but her ladyship
did not attend ; she was mounted on her
favourite hobby of self and self's demands.

 What was that tiresome game one used to
play?' she went on in a slow, sad voice,
absently taking up the hand-glass again.
" Animal, vegetable, or mineral,"  that was it.
Some women look vegetable or mineral  now
I am animal still.'

You are ethereal,' said the girl laughing.
Lady Grenvers heard that ; her ears contained
some special valve for compliments, which was
always open. They entered in and dwelt
there.

You spoil me, Val,' she said, ' but everyone
has always spoiled me ! No, dear, I am
animal,  a poor worm of course, but not a
potato or a lump of lead ; you are animal too,
Val ; your complexion is almost too  too,
what is it 1  violent. I hope you won't get
apoplectic by and by.'

I hope not,' said AValdine  ' yes. Aunt
Linda, I suppose I am. Animal ? Human ?

Well ! who would really care to be a stone ora
soul ? '

Horrid ! ' said her ladyship, putting a
period to the discussion with her usual
comment as soon as she was out of her
depth.

Were they stones or souls  Waldine
wondered  the people about her \ or were
they just half-people or were they dead ? She
went to the window and looked out from its
one unsullied square  a white world, with
black, snow-fraught sky above it ; somewhere
he was waiting for her now. Was it cold ?
was that the whimper of the wind across the
park ? she did not care.

I think I shall go out for a run,' she said
at last, her tentative tone anticipating a
rebuke. * " The snow lies white," but we maybe
quite snowed in tomorrow.'

Ah ! what a pretty song that was. / used
to sing it. " The snow lies white." ' Lady
Grenvers hummed it to herself over the hand-glass,
which reflected to her that the powder
lay white ' also.

Waldine waved her a kiss and left her.
She preferred the snow for choice.

There was a sort of fire alight in the girl's
senses. The icy airs crept round her in vain ;
the frost only dared the blood to her feet and
hands ; nothing chilled her. Nor was it only
love that warmed her through. She was in
supreme and ardent health ; her restful life of
luxury made her impervious to fatigue or
weather. She was more hardy than her lot
in society demanded ; she had a reserve of
energy and warmth. Why waste it here ?

She fastened some furs round her neck and
put on a velvet hat ; then she glided out of
the door and breathed the fresh wind, crystal
clear, across the waste land and the snow. It
was a fairy scene. To her, so newly steeped
in London fog and gaslight, the purity of this
rare atmosphere, the visible descent of gradual
night were boons that brought intensity of
feeling and succinctness of resolve. As she
stepped quickly over the iron fields, crunching
the drift like salt, her thoughts were travelling
wind-swift in her brain.

Is that the world ? ' she said aloud, ' for
which so many people dare and bear so much 1
I have heard Aunt Linda quite envied : there
has never been any scandal about her ; women
would give their lives to have her wealth, her
reputation, and her husband's love : and yet
the centre of her being, where does one find it ?
In that little ivory knob by which she holds
her powder-puff ! It is there.'  She laughed,
but not unkindly, and kicked the snow as if
it were the orris root and violet meal she
scorned.

' And Mrs. Lupton's world ! it is quite as
trivial really  her life is a twirling toy ; she
can stop it and no one will mind ; she can
change it and only rest people's attention. It
does not do. Does anything do on earth, I
wonder, that has no claims and brings no
suffering ? I had rather have my uncle's life
than hers.'

Her thought saddened as it traversed Lord
Grenvers' sphere ; she walked more slowly
and in silence ; after a moment she smiled.
She was thinking of Mr. Launcelot Denham.

Simply by contrast ! Illness connotes health
and suffering: strength. It was no treasonable
thought ; he meant to have the good things of
the world ; he meant to make a life. So far
very well. But he had made his world spin
and his life hano on her will and from her
finger. And for her, his world with every
other world, his life with every other life,
were so well lost for love.

Love, incarnate and her own, that was
waiting for her under the bare ash-tree boughs !
She had met John every day since her return ;
she had been building busily at that imaginary
dwelling-place wherein their twin souls were
some time to dwell. And here the tree was,
full in sight, and he had not failed her yet.

Her glance was too impassioned now, and
too possessive, to note that lie was changed.
Not less handsome, not less radiant, taller he
looked indeed,  but he had lost flesh, and the
brightness of his eyes burned over hollower 
cheeks ; the voice in which he greeted her was
deeper than of old, had husked its ringing
tone, more muffled day by day.

All ! ' he said, ' you have come at hist.
Kiss me once, twice ; Warlike, I have heavy
news.'

Do not tell it me yet ! Let me be a little
glad of your presence first.'

To be with him was an enchantment to
her, to be in his arms an ecstasy ; she launched
herself upon the tide of love like a boat on
summer waves. For him too her kiss was an
intoxication, an oblivion. . . . They made
June in winter.

What is your bad news ? ' she asked him
at length, smiling up into his face.

He sighed. ' Nothing hurts you that I
can tell you, does it ? ' he said with tender
care.

Nothing ; my only suffering is when I am
absent from you ; then it aches here like
hunger.' She put his strong bare hand upon
her heart. Its beating sent the colour to his
cheeks and lips  the beating of the heart that
made his joy.

Oh ! ' he said softly, ' do not make me too
happy to-day. Waldine, my father is dead.'

The words had little meaning for her ; she had
never known his father ; she had not allowed
herself to think ever about his parents except
as people that must die some day  unwelcome
figures that would yield the stage at last.

She pressed him closer in her arms, with a
sweet gravity of look that soothed him like
music. She took him away from life and, in
the new world that she made for him, she
asked him the very truth.

'It is soon,' she said  'sudden rather.
John, are you very sad  very sorry ? Should
you not have minded this much more a yeas'
ago? Tell me "yes!'

('A year ago!' How could he remember
what he would have minded then ?)

'There is no blank you cannot fill forme
by one dear word,' he answered. 'But
each sad circumstance, each loss that comes tome,
will be a wound until you heal it.'

Tell me about his death,' said Waldine
quickly, with evasive eyes. She looked across
his shoulder, she saw the long cold stretch
toward his home : she sighed.

VOL. II. 31

It is good of you to look sad lie said, ' it
is good of you to sigh. No ! why should I
tell you ? He died this morning, without any
pain, from some brain injury he got in the
fall. He was an old man, sweetheart ; you
are right : I will not be sorry. But I am
troubled about my mother : can you guess
what the loss of him is to her V

I think so. If I thought I should be any
good, I would come with you to see her. 
Perhaps you wished it ? Yes ;  but not just
yet. I cannot act ; and I have no personal
affection for her. Your people were not dear
to me because of you, as they would have
been to some women. They were only people
who had a certain claim upon your love and
upon your time. I have resented them
always.'

You are so strange, Waldine ; sometimes
 I think you are made of marble and sometimes
of fire.'

Common hard stone, call it, for the rest :
mere flame for you  you are not so wholly
wrong. Dearest, be rational ! I see precisely

how things stand. You have thought to
yourself:  "Why, here is her moment ! She
will come and throw herself upon my mother's
neck and be a daughter to her from henceforward."
But that is just what I could never
do. If I went with you now I should either
patronise her or alarm her. Let her consolation
be that you are still hers for a time. 
Ah ! not for long.'

'But by and by?'  said John, doubtful
though half convinced against his will.

By and by she will die too, ' said the girl
impatiently, ' she is not immortal. Oh ! love,
don't look so shocked : don't say I give you
more sorrow ! But can't you see that your
mother and I should not agree under one roof ?
Can't you see, John, that your isolation is the
one thing that makes you possible ? You
have kept yourself apart from the rest to some
good end, but you must be isolated wholly.
I shall give up my world for you, but you
must give up yours for me. And death ends
ties so gently and so well. Oh ! I believe in
death. See ! it is not a doom apart : we

must all die to make way for progress. Is
not that philosophy?'

It may be so : 'tis a new view of death
for me

'* There are no fields of amaranth on this
side the grave," ' she said, ' '' there is no name,
with whatsoever emphasis of passionate love
repeated, of which the echo is not faint at
last." That is Landor's : if I could speak such
honey, it is that I would have said. You
must lose me sometime, or. I must lose you :
or if we kill ourselves together the rest of the
world must lose us. Some day we must lose
each other ! It is written. Not to miss our
happiness while we have it in hand : that is
what matters. Beloved, I resist no longer.
The resolve your news brings me is that I will
marry you tomorrow if you will. I accept
your father s death, not for hindrance but for
spur. Anybody will look after your mother
till she dies!'

But, AValdine,' said John, in utter distraction
of mind, ' what is this that you say ?
Do you not realise how this great loss of hers

must bind me  us  to my mother? How
can I  we  leave her soon 1 how can we
leave her ever ? You are so  is it un-english
? it cannot be heartless. How shall
I teach you life V

You teach me life !' she cried. 'Poor John,
it is not life you have to teach me : it is love
love, as you read it, which indeed I half
approve. I think you love me well, I believe
you will love me for ever. But life ! leave
life to me. You asked me to emigrate : had
I gone with you and your father died afterwards,
as he must have done, we should not
have returned. I would not go : I wished
things to arrange themselves, links to fall off
and leave our freedom clear : now the first
link has fallen. Let us congratulate ourselves
that we did nothing to force it.'

What do you mean ? '

Is impatience then a sealed book to you ? 
Can you not understand the longing to be
free goading one into striking off obstacles, v.
scattering them to right and left. On my life,
I think such a struggle would fill one's days

far better than laments and lassitude. You
look so struck with fear that I am possessed
with a desire to tell you all my worst. John, I
believe I have no heart except to live by : I
know but one sort of love. Don't you think
I would pitch Uncle Grenvers out of window
bath-chair and all  and put arsenic into
my aunt's lip-salve, sooner thar let them part
me from you?'

He smiled at her plain words. ' You area
tigress, my beauty,' he said with reflected
passion, as he strained her in his arms, the
wild blood wakened in him with her laughter.
But it was not the rose-leaf kiss of old :

Come with me now ! ' he murmured.

'Let me go,' she said, still laughing, ' remember
this is your afternoon for sackcloth and ashes,
though it may be also my hour for secret joy.
But I want no secrets from you. John, I
am glad of your father's death, and you must
get over it without my help. Look how dark
it is and feel how cold ! ' she put her cheek
against his hand.

Yes, it is cold,' lie answered, as he loosed

her :  ' Well, what are we to do ? Love, I amin
your hands : I stop the clock of my old
conscience here. At first I shall be a bad echo
to your leaps of time ; but teach me plain
what flights to take.'

I want no flights at present : here we
stand under our own twin tree  my tree : the
one bit of landed property which I possess !
We have youth, health, love  perfect trust.
And I have courage. . . . But it is an odd
sort of courage : it goes from me when you are
not by. There are times when I feel subject
to any moment's magnetism and capable of any
crime : other times there are when I become
an innocent and happy self. Have you no
experience of such changes ? '

I don't think much about them,' said
John humbly, ' I am too simple for you yet :
but I do think, Waldine, that half of your
complexity is youth. You play ball with life
and death because your nerves are not yet
sensible of weight. I shall make you so tame,
my darling, by and by.'

*That will be better than my worsening

you !  Oh wc have talked into hours, and you
are going back to a sad home ! Have I no
compassion ? I ought to be so sorry. Love,
I want to see you again to-night : these stars
do not shine for nothing. And such a moon,
Endymion ! Ah ! she is in love with you, that
foolish moon, to shine upon your face like that.'
She took off his cap, and with her arms clasped
round his neck, she gazed at his beauty, her
whole soul, her whole being, aflame within her
turning eyes.

I will come,' said John, ' if you want to seeme
: I will walk up at nine o'clock this evening,
and stand by the window of your music-room
like last night ! like last night.'

Ah 1 then I am content : I could not say
good-bye. Love, what is that shadow moving
down the road ? '

It is a man on horseback coming from the
Court : it looks like Mr. Denham.'

Impossible : he is in London still. I told
you  did I not ?  that he is in love with
me ?'

I knew it. You did not tell me.'

What a tone ! So lie is best there, is he
not ? we do not want him here ? '

Oh Waldine, do not name him ! should I
ever name another girl to you ? Ah ! well, I
will be silent if you will keep your hand upon
my lips like that. Must you go, sweet, must
you go ? I feel you flutter like a bird within
my arms.'

Now or never. Whisper : you do not
mind about your father any more ? you love
me best ? No words : a whisper is too loud :
I hear it in your heart.  Itt  tell me once ! '

He bent his head over her cheek, his month
to her lovely ear, till her temples flamed at his
breath. . . . Who dares give his words ? He
only knows them who has in such a way, at
such an hour, let loose the floodgates of his
pent-up soul.

Heart of a woman, filled with that full tide,
what in your life is made of the passionate
river ? Only a draught to quench your instant
thirst : only refreshment for bright lips and
luring eyes that afterward shall smile and
shine upon other waters.

WALDINE WHITES

Whiteknyghts, Fehruanj th.

Elsie mine, long neglected : lost and found
again, as one loses and finds one's friends, in
the maze of memory, low shall I excuse myself
for your many letters not answered at all, your
many other letters answered by a hurried line ?
Best, I think, by telling you all my news in
this, such as it is to tell.

Kemember, dear, I am a rustic now. Do
not expect surprises : and keep yourself prepared
for a tone of sadness. I have done with
cities : I want to be a rustic all my life.

This afternoon I have built myself away
from the world : locked doors, closed curtains,
barred shutters : I am going to piece together

my existence for you, to pick up the threads
of my loom. And first you want the figures
of the scene.

You will have heard that my uncle is ill :
his plight is such that at the time you first
heard it probably he was better again : and
by the time you heard he was better he was
certainly worse. I caught Aunt Ethelinda the
other day discussing widow's weeds with him :
what a true disappointment she will feel that
he can never see if they become her ! He
makes all sorts of preparations for his death :
and sets his house in order as a good man
should. I am with him a great deal oftener
than I was at first. My love of the place,
which has grown into a passion, pleases him
more day by day. He understands that my
aunt will never care to live here without him.
I doubt if she knows the landmarks round the
first turn in the road or the look from any
point of view but her boudoir window : I
suppose, after the event she will travel and
become the cynosure of continental hotels. I
often wish that you could hear her ciescendo,

with its gradual changes of tone. It commences
sadly :

'When my poor saint is gone she says,
'gone over to the majority," Val, as the
Greeks used to say  I am half a Greek myself
since those tableaux  Ah ! ivliat is to become
of poor Queen Venus ? Everything goes to a
cousin or something horrid I have never cared
to knoAv : the title is extinct and shoals of
females will divide the spoil, so fat and hideous
they can only marry into the learned professions
Chabot ! . . . He leaves me what he can, I
believe, but what is money to a widow ? My
one comfort is that I shall never be a dowager :
though with a name like mine  made for a
dowager  to evade being " Ethelinda, Lady
Grenvers," is after all not utterly consoling.' 
And then, with rather a more cheerful accent :
' When my poor saint is gone, dear Val, I
shall have to travel. Awful, of course, for
I am such a stay-at-home ; but I can't help
feeling that it will be my only chance. Where
shall I go % some dull place first, I suppose :
Venice. But what is the good of crape at

Venice ? It does not matter what one wears
there : I shall go about in a hat, and lace in the
evening. . . . Have you never been to Venice,
Val ? You shall come with me ! I imagine
it will be next autumn. At first we shall
have to be very quiet, but one may get quite
a rest and change there before  well ! it will
depend on circumstances whether one can go
out or not next season. What do you think ? '
And then she lapses into silence, while the
periods of sorrow are reckoned !

And yet, dear Elsie, when the time is come, I
know she will be inconsolable ; but in the meanwhile
she diverts herself with attention divided
between schemes of mourning and oi trousseaux,
for she has set her heart upon my marriage.

You have guessed to whom ? It is one of
those things that seem fated : ever since I
came here it has been obvious to the meanest
intelligence that sooner or later I must marry
Launcelot Denham. And the worst of it is
that it seems as obvious to him !

Realise my entourage ! an aunt whose folly
is more magnetic and decisive than another

woman's reason ; an uncle of superior gifts
who approves lier judgment in all things;
a lover  well ! one would not wish a fonder
or more earnest lover than the devoted Launce.
Why, the sequel of the story is not worth
writing ! It is a question of date. Give reins
to your conception of eligibility  yes ! and
you may give scope to your fancy too  the
real man would not disappoint you. On the
face of things it would be impossible to refuse
Mr. Denham. Oh ! whither will life lead me ?
I was born to be hanged.

Flippant you say. Remember flippancy
with me was always an excuse from tears. But
I don't want to discuss my failings with you ;
I want to give you statements ; then you shall
mount your tripod and deliver the prophetic roll.
You can predict of me with some experience.

I went to London with Mrs. Lupton ; Mr.
Denham was there. Hardly a day passed
but we met ; and wherever we might chance
to be, he made it plain that there was no
one there for him but me. Not unpleasant ;
there were no exactions ; I bade him farewell

a free woman, as I am to this day. I returned
to Whiteknyghts only glad to leave him in
town. He was to remain there some time
longer. But he did not do so. Listen.

You know  I do not want to write upon
this subject  that I have had a toquade for
'the bailiff' here. Do not misinterpret the cool
tone of this statement ; it is just in this way
that I try to formulate the position to myself.
Whether I have felt superficially or deeply,
whether I have been wise or foolish, these
points are incidental, they do not alter the
fact. I saw 'the bailiff' in London; up to
that meeting he had seemed to me a sort of
god ; since then he has seemed to me only a
rather inexperienced young man. But in my
personal regard  is that the term ?  for him
this made no sort of difference. When I came
back here I was honestly glad to see him
again  glad with my whole heart. If I could
entirely divorce him from surroundings I
should be glad to see him all the days of my
life. But his surroundings have fatigued me
of late. He has lost his father, and his mother

frets herself eastwards as fast as she can.
You, who know me, know how trivial and
commonplace these domestic affections and
afflictions seem to me. It is not so with John
Lyne ; he is absorbed in anxiety and grief.
Moreover he has suffered much in health ; he
has become what I used most to hate  ' an ill
man ;' but I do not hate him yet. One does not
hate, ever, the man that has first brought the
light into one's life. . . . And with his illness,
his anxiety, his grief, he somehow has increased
his demands ; he is not content to be my playfellow.
The situation is serious : what am I
to do ? Now that I write it in this brutal
way it has an ugly look. I must elucidate.

Elsie, attend to this ! One afternoon last
week I met ' the bailiff not by accident, and,
I suppose, gave him  let us figure it thus  a
presumptive right to be jealous. When we
parted I added  shall we call it an order ? 
to come up to Whiteknyghts in the evening.
There intervened an unfortunate moment, for
which the temerity of my town admirer is
responsible. Here's the account.

WALDINE WRITES 209

Returning home, I met Mr. Denham, leading
his horse ! John's eyes had been quicker
than mine ; he had spied him coming from
the Court, where he had been to inquire
for my uncle, who chanced to be better
that afternoon. He had said to me, * There
is Mr. Denham ! ' I had answered, as we
stood together there beneath our ash-tree,
that it was impossible : * He is in London
still,' I had told him, and I believed I
spoke the truth. Mr. Denham, riding from
the Court, had tried a short cut which the
snow disguised ; his horse had stumbled over
some pitfall of the waste land, and was badly
lamed. Recall that I was happy and at peace
with all the world ; recall that Mr. Denham
was glad of the accident which had so far
hindered his return as to let him have a chance
of seeing me. Understand that we were not
far from the Whiteknyghts stable and a very
long distance from Denham. You will conclude
that, almost of necessity, I asked him
back to the Court. For you would have done
so yourself, light-hearted.

VOL. II. 32

He was unafFectedly concerned, at first,
about his horse ; I had no danger signals.
We walked along side by side, and I was
thinking of 'the bailiff.' I forget, Elsie, when
I first perceived that Mr. Denham was talking
at all ! I do remember that he said I did not
look cold. And I laughed because, for some
unknown reason, I was feeling at that instant
much like a live torch. There is a warmth
which has not to do with weather.

He went with his horse to the stable ; I
betook myself to his lordship's room, and interested
him as far as I could in the Hon.
Launce's misadventure. Ill chanced that access
of zeal :  ' I should like to see him,' said
my uncle.

He had been denied admission before, because
it is a rule of the house : indeed he had
only left his card ; but now that he was with
us, my aunt descended to see him. She was
enraptured with her own appearance, and consequently
cordial  his visit happened to cheer
the invalid. In fine, his horse being installed,
the trap that was to have taken him back to

Denham was counter-ordered, and he remained
to dinner.

Hardly, Elsie, can you conceive the change
it made in our dull routine, this impromptu
invitation. Lord Grenvers was wheeled into
the dining-room, and her ladyship and I made
those fancy - dress toilettes one makes in
England when one says, ' We will not dress
this evening.' Mr. Denham put on an elaborate
array of my uncle's while his wet clothes
were dried. And whether it was from the
novelty of the costume or from the rarity of
the circumstances, he became interesting. Of
course we had many London topics in common,
he and I : no doubt it was because of that.
But I have left off trying to find out a reason
for anything. Facts  facts only !

We dine at a punctual eight, and the meal is
not a long one. At a quarter past nine his lordship
was taken back to his own rooms, suffering
slight premonitory symptoms of neuralgic pain.
My aunt, in her familiar rule of the ' Angel in
the House,' floated out by the side of his chair,
and waved a momentary ' dj tantdtJ

I will be back directly,' she said ; ' if you
will have no more wine, Waldine will take
you to her sanctum : let us have our coffee
there together.'

Elsie, when she had left the room, I felt a
wave of fear pass over me. In the warmth,
the daylight, the fragrance of fruit and flowers,
the sense of hen-etre in the charming room,
the complete immunity from interruption, was
there not every incentive to help this young
man, never over-reticent, to speak his mind ?

He fortified himself with another glass of
claret : not to be formal, I got up and stood
by the fire. ' Ah ! ' he said, ' it was almost
too good to be true that I should see you
sitting opposite to me like that at dinner.'

It was not the first time,' I replied, but
I felt the evasion was a poor one ; it gave him
too good a chance of saying that he hoped it
would not be the last  the sort of repartee to
which he is equal, and of which he availed
himself with empressement .

I know 1 you can stop your ears and shut
your eyes ; blind and deaf you could give our

brilliant dialogue almost word for word. He
was very anxious to be serious, I was quite
determined to be trivial. But when lie asked
point-blank to be let speak to me, half to gain
time and half from inadvertence I told him I
would permit his cigarette in my own sitting-room
: I hoped that my aunt, having consigned
her dear saint to his nurses and powdered
her lovely nose, might be there before us, in
order to arrange the lights for her complexion.
She was not there : she had sent a handmaiden
to shroud the lamps becomingly : the
room looked curiously warm and almost
oriental. I never have the curtains drawn
there, 'pour des raisons ; and the pink and
white candle shades told well against the black
background of window glass. Perhaps the
sight was cosy and pretty to envious eyes
without. But how should Mr. Denham think
of any such contingency ? Nor did I, at the
moment ; I was intent on evading a definite
demand. And this demand I have hitherto
evaded.

It was twenty-five minutes past nine : think

that any one who waited outside my window
since nine o'clock, had waited in the snow for
nearly half an hour ! And then think of
this : 

Mr. Denham had dined well : Mr. Denham
wanted to ask me to be his wife. I had
brought him to a place where there was even
less fear of interruption than in the diningroom,
and, as there, we were alone. Add that
Mr. Denham is not diplomatic, he is engagingly
sincere, and you will not be unprepared
for what occurred. He followed me
closely into the room : we had exhausted
conversation, and although we were not even
looking at each other, to an observer our
intimacy must have seemed assured. I stooped
to fasten the case of my violin, which was
lying on the floor, for fear my aunt's long
train should catch the lid, when she came
down. Mr. Denham seized the opportunity
to see what sort of figure he made in a large
looking-glass, which is over the fireplace.
When I glanced up at the same glass, as I
rose, I was greatly amused by his evident

pleasure at the way my uncle's lounging - suit
became him. I burst out laughing ; I had
quite forgotten I was close to my admirer in
the flesh ; I was only taken up by his image
in the glass. Did he read delight in my
mirth ? In a moment he had caught me in
his arms and I felt the breath of his lips upon
my hair. . . .

No, he did not kiss me. I would have
resisted that to the death. But the worst of
it was that my escape from his salute was not
due to any act of intrepidity on my part, but
simply to the noiseless entrance at this juncture
of Aunt Ethelinda. I did not even have
to move aside, my gallant swain caught the
scent of her approach and loosed me.

Elsie, from outside this is what it seemed : a
sudden embrace interrupted by an unwelcome
relative. And I knew for certain I could not
appeal to my aunt. I saw, from her completely
ignoring the proximity in which she found us,
that her one regret was that she had not delayed
her coming five minutes longer. Even as it was
she was delighted. As for Lancelot, what

had he to be ashamed of ? he wished to astonish
me, to take my bashful sense by storm. He
would have tried it again had the opportunity
occurred. I was not ashamed myself: he is
not trifling with me : he has said quite enough to
teach me that I may accept him at any moment
and in any manner : nor had I behaved ill : I
had been just civil to a man who does not displease
me. That was all. But for the burning
heart outside, in weariness and cold, was there
no shame in this ? Elsie, there was a man before
my window whose soul was ashamed of me.

I did not see him ; I had no chance of
explanation.

I know that he was there : had I not bade
him come ? He turned and went away.

Do you care for the sequel of that evening ?
Lord Grenvers was worse, and Aunt Linda
had come to make a courteous adieu to our
unexpected guest. In a quarter of an hour
he had left us, and she, really anxious for
once, had returned to my uncle.

What did I do ? I opened the window and
stepped out upon the terrace in the snow. 0]i !

once, for one last time, let me strip bare to you
my heart of hearts, and tell you what I did. So
soon the falling fleece would mar those careful
footsteps ! I traced them while I could ; I
followed towards the park. I came to a small
flight of steps where one goes down from the
gardens ; you can see a mile before you there ;
I strained my eyes, but he was out of sight.
I stooped and kissed the hand-rail where his
hand had rested, but it was cold already.
The stone of it said, ' iVo,' through my lips to
my life. . *. .

It is an old story now ! I will not be
moved by it again : I pitied myself for a
while. Now I know that it was all for the
best ; at least I hear you say so. But then I
pitied myself. I think that I was mad with
passion and shame. I had wanted so, that
night of all others, to tell him how I loved
him ! I felt one throb of fever. I drank the
snow from his footprints !  But it is days
and days ago, and all is over.

I ought to have pitied him. He went
back to his lonely home and his dying mother

in the murk blackness of the night. Did he
feel the irrevocable as I did, or did he trust
me better than I trust myself? That icy
wind ! it seemed to lay Death's fingers on
my love. I have not seen him since. I have
suffered, I half forget how.

Elsie, I have written too much. I am not
well, and we are an anxious household. It is
as if a shadow brooded over us these winter
days. Under the wings of that shadow what
boon is brought me ? Is it life ? Is it love ?
I think it cannot be both.

I pull myself together to end my letter ;
the pen has outrun me. I meant to patch
you up my life and live under that same patchwork.
And so I will. I have not told you
all, but I have told you something that will
help you to understand me, whichever way
I act. My resolve is, believe me, to do what
is right. I began to write falsely ; let me say
truly, at least, now, that I am
Your true friend,

Waldine de Stair.

February Sth.  I have just heard that John

Lyne's mother died this evening. I have not
heard it from himself; but I think he will
tell me his wish ; they say that he is going'
away. But news comes shrouded here. Elsie,
my uncle cannot live till spring. The story of
my sojourn here is almost done.

A FAREWELL

This was John's letter at last :  .

February I2th.

Waldine, my Love 

I buried my mother to-day; if I seem to
have told you nothing you will the easier forgive
me by and by. Say, at least, 'He kept his
troubles from me.' Say that when I am gone.

If I can do so, let me tell you facts ; it is
what you bade me do.

The worst fact first : I saw you in the
arms of a man who  I suppose  would laugh
if I should call myself his rival. It is now
many days ago, but I see you still. I shall
see you so until I die.

Second fact, harder to write. I do not blame

you : I do not misunderstand. I have thought
it out. You knew that I was there : you would
have spared me this. You were not  are not
bad enough to dismiss me by these means.

But dismiss me you did. Third fact, which
hangs from these : I am going to leave England
at once. My only love, it is the only way. I
sail by the ship Valentine on St. Valentine's
Day  'tis an omen. . I can't put words
together : you freeze the lava of speech, and
in my heart there is no heat against you. It
is right for you to marry Denham. There,
that is said. It was the hardest thrust of all,
that sword thrust of conviction.

Look how I trust your word ! I do not
leave you choice : I go before you can stay me.
I know that you would come, but to your lifelong
sorrow. You love me, do you not ? Ah
yes ! you love me, but I love you better than
you ever loved me. I will die without you
sooner than let you live for me. How should
it not come home to you at last what might
have been? When I am gone, forget me.
You will suffer a little, but you will know (so

soon ! ) that I was right. If 1 could doubt that
Denham loved you ! . . . But now I cannot.

And I am a dying man. If you did come
with me, it would only be for a few months, and
it would unmake all your life. Oh ! if I live or
die, forget me ; remember only that I loved you
well. So well, Waldine  so well  so well !

The words break my spirit. . . . You will
forget or will remember as you choose.

If you will do something for me, take care
of my parents' grave. I would to God  that
after death  the death I go to meet abroad
alone  I too might lie there. If you would
do me some great thing, contrive me this.

My queen, my child, I am gone ! tomorrow
night I sail. Almost I am glad to be
ridding you of such a burthen. Don't be
sorry : I do not need to say this is not want
of love. It is the one thing that a man who
loves you best can do that is best for you.

For me? . . . Darling, there is a star in
my' soul always : I kissed you first.

John Lyne.

THE FLASHED RECALL

And this Waldine's reply : 

'To John Lyne, Ses. Valentine,
Plymouth.

To-morrow | night | at | nine | the | Willow | Garth.'

No other word, she knew it was enough. The
telegram was sent from a post-office, some
miles distant, to which she had gone for
information on the routes abroad which could
not be obtained at Netherfield. And there was
no reply : it was a command, not a prayer, from
a hand which held the issues of life and death.
He could not reach Netherfield direct by
the cross journey, but he came to the terminus
at Newton, within five leagues, and walked
through the declining day.

[and last]

fulfilment

A MAN and woman face to face alone. St.
Valentine's Eve.

.Night in the Willow Garth : winter night
as soft as spring : over the old familiar meeting-place
the old familiar moon, no doubt, but
shrouded from their eyes.

Underfoot the bedded leaves : about and
around the waste of waters filled with melted
February snows. All dark, all still, all wrapped
in gloom like the grave's.

So often they had met here of late. Further
from John's home than from hers  out of all
human ken  its solitude seldom broken, the
strange place had lent them a trysting spot from

the very first. Waldine could have felt her way-through
the tangle blindfold. Beneath the
larches that enclosed the garth there was a little
stem of blood-red maple which had kept its
leaves all through the frosty weather : it had
been her beacon a thousand times, had saved
her from the perils of that marshy tract where
a false step had landed her so nearly.

And there was shelter for the lovers in the
thickset, wind-proof copse. There was the
old boathouse with the half sunk punt in it
which would never carry Lord Grenvers anymore,
in his favourite wild fowl shooting, but
which was for ever sacred from profane hands
as a record of his liking and his skill. It stood
on the very marge of the lake, and the waters
round it were reedy and deep. The wooden shed
was fallen in disrepair : the door swung loose
upon its hinges : one fold of it had dropped already,
and lay stretched across the wrecked boat.

Against the lintel of that door John Lyne

was standing. He leaned there overpowered

with fatigue  with hunger too, poor normal

need of life ! he had not tasted food that day.

AOL. II. 33

An immense joy was upon him : to reach the
presence of his idol, that was his heart's desire.
But there had supervened on this a numbness
that was new.

He had waited for her a weary hour : now
at last she was here. His famished sight
could feast upon her beauty, his thirsty lips
on her fair face. Such a contrast as they
made! John, travel-worn and tired  a big,
gaunt figure in his mourning clothes ; Waldine
with rich furs draping her to her feet, yet not
wholly hiding her white evening dress. Her
cheeks were pale under the feathered shade
of her velvet hat, and by nearness to the
black lace twisted round her neck. But her
eyes were like bright lights in the gloom :
they were full of pride and power : one could
feel that they only veiled laughter, whereas for
John's set mouth the laughing days were done.
He held her in his arms once more: he felt the
seal-skin of her coat soft and warm against his
stiff hands, he felt her breath upon his chin,
her fingers on his neck. In his ears was the
music of her voice, so many days desired.

'What did you think of me?' she said,
speaking quickly and low  'husband, ever
dearest love, had you not my word that I was
yours ? Oh ! to tell you all ! it has seemed
to me, these empty hours, as if the web of life
were closing round me, as if I soon should be
only a poor woven image of a woman in the
loom of the world. Now I have cut the
threads : I am alive once more I You want
me, do you not ?  you did not wish to escape
me. . . . How I must love you, how I must
know you love me, never to dream of that !
My strength, my master, I will go with you
to the end of the world.'

I wanted you,' said John, ' as one wants
heaven. I did all I could for the world's poor
best. But God is too good for us : the world's
poor best is vile.'

'Do not despise the world,' she said and
laughed ; ' we will make something of it between
us. I am so sanguine, John. I have
no fears. See ! we must learn reason : there
are plans to be made. Tell me all you have
done from the very beginning.'

I am gone,' said John, smiling in spite of
the deathly fatigue and illness that was upon
him,  so magnetic was her will :  ' the only
strangeness is that I am here. I have taken
my farewell of Netherfield : it seemed not hard,
with all that I have lost. And I had paved
the way ere now, in case we went together by
and by : Waldine, you are not afraid ? You
will come with me ? It is for life or death.'

Need you ask it ? But to-night the ship
must sail away without you. Never mind
your things ! Let them drift to America, we
shall find them there. Why have you taken
me at unawares ? I have no scheme of action
ready. Is poor Aunt Linda's providence to work
it all ? Dispose of me as you will, my hero ! '

Only a heavy sigh for answer.

John, you have no courage ! you are cold.'
She freed herself and looked him in the
face.  * What is it ? are you tired  or are
you ill ? ' There was a note of impatience in
her tone which did not escape him ; he knew
all her changes.

Aye, that's it he said softly at last with

a great sigh. ' It's the old grievance, beloved,
which you never cared to hear. But it is only
to-night I am so tired. The heaviness will
pass, the joy abide. Plans, Waldine ? yes,
but let me look at you first. My wife, how
beautiful you are ! how strong, how dainty !
Ah ! the regrets I ought to feel for that poor
London that is robbed of you for ever now ;
but I have none. . . . From the first, Waldine,
from the very first ! There is no face in all the
world but this face of yours for me. Oh ! for
life together !  but not here  not here ! ' . . .
Dear, I have been thoughtless of you !
not for the first time. How often I must
have come here these last weeks to meet you,
pampered and warm, while you have been cold
and starved, in failing health ! John, I have
never thought of this at all till now. I will
make amends  amends ? Have I not power
enough for both. Ah ! this is not fatigue ; it
is a faintness that is on you  the journey, the
long day, the griefs that you have suffered.
And now the waiting and the happiness.
I have been blind and selfish always !

Let me begin anew. . . . Answer me ! John !
Oh ! God in heaven. . . . Here !  your head
upon my heart. Love, answer ! Speak ! ' 

He had slowly sunk upon his knees, his
hands still clasped about her. She tore open
her jacket and pressed his head upon her
bosom with a desperate instinct, new born in
her mind, to give him back the warmth of which
her will had robbed him. Her brain was fire ;
the wild thoughts surged in it  unformed,
beyond control. She had no definite hope,
but just to save him and renew his strength.
With her lips to his eyes, her arms round his
body, she held him up in an embrace that was
like life. It could not leave him senseless.

Mine  mine '  he said at last : and
then

They were on the brink of the lake ; he
had slipped a little on the reed-grown bank,
and she, now kneeling forwards to dip her
hand in the icy stream for his refreshment,
felt that it was only by her force that she
prevented his fall. One foot was caught
already in the sedge, and one hand, loosing

her, sought vaguely, weakly, for the boathouse
door. It was quite dark ; the sky
black, whence some star of help should be
born. There was not the light of a wildflower
on those banks that would grow forget-me-not
in spring.

To-morrow '  he said, as the gloom closed
over his eyes, and tried to lift his lips to hers
for one last kiss that should slake more than
thirst.

And even with that word he had fallen
from the girl's grasp into deep water.

It seemed to her, for one sharp instant, as
of Death's, that her very soul had left her.
She gave a sort of moan that was never made
a cry ; and passionately, madly snatched his
left arm as the stream engulfed him. But
the faintness that had seized him left his
limbs quite irresponsive to her grasp. . . .

And then  what was it ? fate ? chance ?
will ? She let go his arm and buried her face
in her hands. She would not save him, but
she could not see him die.

The solution of Death ! It was the only

way. Her entire being would have revolted
from it as a scheme, but as a fact she accepted
it without a sigh. What was there she could
do ? She was not unconscious ; her strong
nerves never failed her; the water was not
hell enough to drown her had she made one
vigorous effort. She did not make it ; she
obeyed her lot, success. It was to be !

'Best so,' she said at last  it was long after 
and stayed upon dry land.

Not otherwise she could have killed him : she
was made of flame, not mud : she was no common
murderess. But thus, by .this calm death, she
let him perish. Was there any lot on earth
that could have soothed him half so well ?

The grim weeds held him fast , the place
was just his grave, no more. As at last, ashen
white, she rose to her feet, her hand stirred
the old punt a little, which his fall had pushed
aside; it settled back into its place again,
undisturbed for many years, over his loving
heart. Thus time withholds eternity.

There was no trace of him left : with him
had sunk the few poor things he had  his

watch, his money, his cigar-case ; had anything
been left it might have moved her to
some human outcry, to some vain trial of her
strength, some disclosure which must have
shamed her for ever. But there was nothing.
What he left her was an immaterial cross.
To take up her racked martyr-life for the sake
of the world's thorn crown. It sounds  or
should sound  hard ; but was it ? Who shall
answer? Perhaps it was the easiest way, as
well as best : the key to such a riddle is not
here. God holds it.

When she stood up she did not feel
remorse : her one sensation was of a great
difficulty evaded, an infinite freedom won.
The heart-break would come later ; her instinct
now was to escape the past. To stay
here, to behold this place again, that were
madness,  at least that way madness lay.

She did not tarry : the whole tragedy had
taken less than an hour. It was a clean
knife-cut across the thread of the winter's life.
The man that had taught her love lay dead in
the woodland like a wild thing shot or a

frozen bird. As for her. . . . She had knelt
on her dark furs ; there was no stain upon
her dress !

A spring of life seemed bounding in her
breast ; she shook herself clear of the low
undergrowth, stooped through the willows
and ran out of the wood. Something white
and ghostly stared at her forth of the dark.
It was the dog's grave.

On the white wood of which she knew the
words, 'Death loose.'

Before she had been many minutes in her
room, a light footfall sounded in the passage
and Lady Grenvers entered, in studied disarray.
Dear Val,' she said, ' I do neglect you so :
I have not been near you this evening. And
I can't go to bed without telling you something
most important. Launcelot Denham has
written to my poor saint about you.  " To be
your Valentine."  It is such an enchantment
to us both. You will not refuse him. The
prospect of the wedding is fresh life to me,

though I ought to be thinking of  but who
thinks of death for long, ever ? . . . Horrid ! 
I promised not to tell you, but I must.
You would know anyway  alas ! so soon 
Val, you know I never cared for the country
and Launce, though he is rich, has no
house. Grenvers is leaving you White-knights
by will ; on condition that  after
your marriage  you make this place your
home. Sleep upon that ! How fresh and
cool your cheek is !  Dear  Good-night ! '

