CHAPTER I.

By the light of the revelation of Colonel
Ernstone's secret, I afterwards read his treatment
of me on the occasion of a confession
which I made to him. The reader of these
reminiscences will have an advantage over
me, in this respect, at the moment of the
occurrences I am about to relate.

We had lounged through Italy, and had
rested at the village of Baveno, where Vanstone
had left me to visit Sir Christopher
Hallam at Milan on a matter of business,
with an arrangement between us that he
would return within a fortnight. He had
hardly left me when I made a delightful discovery
near the dream-like shores of Ago
Maggiore.

To see her was to love her. I fell before
her first glance.

'* Who is she ? " I asked an Italian
peasant.

' Ah ! the beautiful stranger ! " he said,
looking towards the villa that lay at a distance
from the road amidst the clustering
woods.

Nobody knew her. She had bought the
villa, and had lived there for several months
without a visitor. Had she servants ? Oh,
yes, and an old lady sometimes assisted
Father Gabriello to distribute alms for her
among the poor. What country was she ?
French, perhaps. They could not say.
German, possibly, or English? She spoke
Italian with a foreign accent. Her complexion
was fair and her hair a golden-brown.
There were pictures of the Madonna not
unlike her in Italian churches. Perhaps she
was a Venetian. They could not tell. It
was not probable she was English, and she
was too beautifully fair to be French.

I had twice met her in byways leading

from the lake. She was sitting by the side
of an old woman. They were in a carriage
drawn by a pair of horses and driven by a
French coachman. I stood to gaze after her,
not out of impertinent curiosity, but transfixed
with an admiration that overpowered
me. I realised something of the sensations
of Ulysses bound to the mast in presence of
the Syrens. My soul was on fire. I think
at that moment I would have sold it to the
fiend, as Faust did at the sight of Marguerite.
One day she turned her head to look at
me. I could not be mistaken. Not only to
look at me, but to smile upon me. I followed
her carriage on foot, keeping it in
view for some time. I think she ordered the
coachman to drive slowly. Presently, however,
she disappeared. The surrounding
forest closed in upon her. She was gone.
In the distance the villa, where I understood
she lived, caught the last rays of the sun on
traceried tower and window. A brook
came bounding out of the grounds. It sang
praises of her beauty in response to my own

VOL. I. M

ecstacy. Then it wound round in a gentle
curve and turned again as if to encompass
the park-like forest that shut her from me.
I lay upon its banks, I walked among the
boulders in its bed, I followed its course like
a man enchanted.

The next day I returned to the point
where I left it, and continued winding along
the track of it, and hoping that I might
meet the syren of the grove which it watered.
The little estate in which the villa stood
was an island ; and when, immediately on
this discovery, my mind went rambling back
to Ulysses, I rebuked the thought that
entitled it Calypso's Island.

This goddess of the villa was a Diana
rather than a Calypso; but, whatever she
might be, I was her slave. Ah, if the lady
of Warrington Manor had only inspired me
with such mad passion as this ! Then, instead
of emulating the heroic lovers in old Burton's
chronicles, might I not have fulfilled the ambition
of the master of the Cedars, and lived
in uninterrupted felicity and increasing happiness,

like ' Seneca with his Pauline,
Orpheus with Eurydice, Aria with Psetus,
Artemis with Mausoleum, and Rubens
Celia with his lovely Ennea."

My passion for this beautiful stranger, to
whom I had not even spoken, burned with all
the sudden fury and persistent flame that, according
to Burton, belongs to 'love melancholy''
And yet, under the test of the noblest
aspirations of true love, it did not, as Burton
depicts the passion, sacrifice on Hhe altar of
the implacable deity " either the fear of Grot
or man, nor outrage sall laws human and
divine ;" but, ' like the forked lightning of the
angry gods," it laid waste for years a career
and a disposition, where the beneficent hand
of time is only now beginning to cultivate the
buds and blossoms of a new ambition.

I did meet her, and by that very stream,
and I spoke to her, and she to me, her voice
softening as she did so, as voices soften in
conversation with those they love. She had
seen me somewhere before, she said. No,
she was not mistaken. I knew that I had
M 2

only seen her now for the first time. Why-was
I so positive ? Because I had only lived
since I had seen her. Her eyes fell, shadowing
her cheek with long drooping lashes. She
was not displeased. I could see the corners of
her mouth dimple with satisfaction. Nothing
would have restrained me, not even her scorn.
I seized her hand. She did not withdraw it.
I covered it with kisses. I was mad. I told
her that I loved her. If she were to call her
people and have me put upon the rack, I told
her I should say the same. She pressed my
hand, and looked into my eyes. One only
feels the hot mad delight of passion once.
But it is something gained in life to recall it,
whatever its associations may be.

She was a dream of loveliness. Her hand
was made to give her soul away, so soft and
tender was it, so lingering in its touch.
Her eyes were steadfast too. They were a
blue-grey, of liquid depth, and when they
rested on mine I had no thoughts that were
not wholly hers. Tall and graceful, she had
the bust of a Clothe and the head of a Ceres,

'rich-haired." A thin grey merino with a
broad pink sash about her waist, she carried
a great sunshade lined with a sea-shell pink
silk and covered with old point lace. When
she smiled her face was illuminated with a
genial warmth. She was one of those
lovely creations that pervade their surrounding
atmospheres, like the orchids in the
tree-tops of a lowland forest near the equator,
the rhododendrons of American woods, or
the lilies of an English valley. You felt her
presence even if you saw her not. Her
loveliness made a halo for itself. She appeared
to me to be the centre of every spot
upon which her beauty shone, completing a
picture Nature might have left unfinished
that she should adorn it. The personification
of grace and symmetry, she was to me the
type of all that is pure, virtuous, and magnanimous.
In my fancy she was worthy of the
praises which Ossian lavished upon Darthula.
Her beauty was, indeed, entrancing beyond
that of Erin's maid, reflecting as it did the
sunny warmth of a loving nature. Clothed

with the purity of the last of Colla's race, she
was to me not less fascinating than the more
classic goddess of a better-known mythology,
the celestial nymph 'with every beauty
crowned."

Need I say more to make the reader
understand that I was madly in love, and
that the woman of my adoration was '' beautiful
beyond compare ? '' I was utterly unsophisticated
in the seductiveness of the mad
passion. No reason had hitherto presented
itself in my life to exercise the caution that
Southey urges upon youth, how they advance
into the dangerous world. Only our duty can,
he says, conduct us safely. '' Our passions
are seducers ; but of all the strongest Love."
There was no ordinary passion either in
the poetic or m the physical sense in my
love ; it was an uncontrolled and uncontrollable
desire to sit at the feet of this
goddess of the Italian woods, to be near her,
to hear her speak, to have no other ambition
than her sweet companionship.

Looking back upon this youthful dream,

this, on my part, emulative bliss fulness of the
early days of Celadon and his Amelia, I
recall the pathetic glances that now and then
fell from the great eloquent eyes of my first
love ; I recall the furtive sigh, the tender
regretful eloquence of wayward words,
which in those past days had no meaning
for me except as belonging to a generous
loving kindness conferred upon me. It never
entered my arrogant thoughts that any
other mortal had been blessed with her eloquent
speech, her sympathetic glances. Forme
the world had just begun, and the vanity
of this first fair encounter swept my thoughts
clear of yesterdays.

On that next day, to which I just now
referred, she motioned me to a seat beside
her, a rustic couch covered with dainty draperies,
on the margin of the villa's garden,
and close by the rivulet which encircled the
foliated domain.

'' Sit," she said, '' and let us talk."
Her hand rested accidentally near
mine. Overcome with my boyish emotions.

and nerved by a strange courage, I seized it,
and confessed the love with which she had
inspired me.

' But you have only seen me for the first
time within the week," she answered.

'' I loved you at first sight," I said.

Truly," she answered, '' and have you
not made the same confession to half a hundred
women before?"

The coolness of the retort chilled me fora
moment; but before I could reply she
amended her answer.

' Your words are sincere, I do quite believe,"
she said. ' You have not seen the
world."

 Indeed I have," I answered, sand I
know there is no woman in it so lonely, so
kind as you."

She allowed her hand to remain in mine.
It was a soft, plump, white hand.

* You are an Englishman?" she asked,
turning her face towards me.

It was a circular seat upon which we sat,
so that, although we were side by side, we

almost faced each other, and I could note the
expression of her eyes, and the gentle parting
of her lips.

' Yes," I said, ' that is, I am English
born, but my father, heaven rest him, was
of French descent."

' And I am your first love? Was there
no girl-love in your very youthful days?"

'' None," I said, pressing her hand.

No tiny thing in short frocks that you
remember to-day with pleasure or regret?"

* My boyish days belong to the world of
regrets," I answered.

'' You have had sorrows, then?"

Yes."

So long as her soft hand lay in mine I
was content to sit and answer her questions
in a vague impassive way ; though my vanity
was flattered by the interest she evinced in me.

' Great sorrows ? You had a father and
mother who loved you ? "

'' A father and mother? Yes. My mother
would have loved me, had she dared. My
father loved me, and died."

' As dies all human love," she said.

'ewe will make an exception to that
sorrowful rule' I said, '4f you shall deign
to give your love to me."

The ardency of this first inspiration of
passion made me bold, and my courage was
stimulated by the continued possession of
her hand.

' The world is full of deceit and sadness,"
she said.

' We will make a world of our own,
dedicated to love," I said.

You talk as if the repartee of professed
courtship were easy to you," she said;
and before I could respond to this reflection
on my sincerity (for I never dreamed of
taking it as a confession of experience) she
took up the thread of her previous reference
to my early life.

*sin what part of the great world did
you spend your youth ? "

 At Scarsdale, in Derbyshire."

 Derbyshire ! Ah, yes. A very picturesque
county, is it not ? "

a Very."

AndScarsdale?"

' I do not like it."

why?"

' Chiefly because it is associated in my
memory with sad events, a somewhat melancholy
childhood, and a funeral that well-nigh
broke my heart."

' Your father's?"

Yes."

' But sour mother lives ? "

eyes; though I have never seen her
since I left Scarsdale for ever."

She waited for me to continue.

'I like to hear you talk of your boyhood''
she said.  Why did you leave Scarsdale
? And why for ever ? "

' I was unhappy. My mother married
again. Her husband hated me and I him.
He poisoned my mother's mind against
me."

' But before that time," she said,  when
your father lived, were you not happy
then?"

'' Oh yes, I think so."

'' You had companions ? "

'No."

' Not some village girl, some little neighbour,
the memory of whose voice goes with
you through life, a something that might be
part of a dream, not all sadness ?"

I hesitated. Connie Gardner occurred tome;
but the conceit of my love for this
splendid woman checked me. Love may be
that overwhelming passion the poets claim,
but it is diplomatic in spite of all. The desire
to impress the object of your affections
is so prominent a factor in your intercourse
with her, that you are always sufficiently
self-conscious to make the best of yourself.
Your position, your antecedents, your prospects,
your family and connections. Instinct,
under the guidance of this human vanity,
checked my mention of a mere waif and stray
of Scarsdale, whose touching ' Good-bye ! "
came back to me with pathetic force under
the pressure of Calypso-Darthula's inquiries.

' I had no girl companions," I said, fencing

with the question, * nor any boy friends
for that matter. My childhood was lonely.
My father being French in speech and manner
was made a reproach to me by the
ignorant youth of Scarsdale. I remember
even now, with bitterness, the persecutions
which I endured at the hands of one boy-monster
named Barnes, who harassed me
continually. The very elegancies of the
home-life of my father's house offended both
young and old. He was a musician and an
artist ; I suspect the only bit of pure art
atmosphere to be found in Scarsdale was
at Oakfield House, where I lived."

An oasis in a desert of ignorance," she
said, " and you have cherished these memories?"


 Yes."

'' Are you an artist, then ? "

Not by profession."

An amateur ? "

I have some knowledge of music."

You sing ? "

'' A little."

You are an instrumentality ? "

'' I know enough to regret that I know so
little."

You left Scarsdale to go to College, no
doubt?"

No, to live with my uncle."

'' And you are travelling for your
pleasure ? "

For pleasure and experience ; my last
excursion prior to settling down in London to
study for the Bar  at least so it is arranged."

*' You know London, then ? "

'' No."

You have been there often ? "

' Only a few times, but always en route
to the continent."

You have not lived in town  not even
spent a season there ? "

"No ; my uncle has strange views about
London ; a city for men, not for boys, he
always says. He did not exactly forbid me
staying in London, but he talked against

it ; and, as he gave me opportunities to visit
all the world besides, I should have been
ungrateful to disobey him."

' Then you know Paris, Milan, Vienna,
Berlin, perhaps?"

'eyes; and nearly all the other great
European capitals, and some of the Asiatic
cities also."

A great traveller, and so young ? " she
said.

Not so very young," I said, that diplomatic
instinct before mentioned coming to
my aid ; for the possibility of an inequality
in our ages occurred to me as a
possible impediment in regard to her answer,
when I should ask her to be my partner in
those sweet bonds of matrimony that should
make her mine and me hers for ever.

It did not occur to me that for less selfish
purposes in the days of my boyhood I
had challenged Connie Gardner's age and she
mine ; for, as I said before, I strove rather
to shut out these memories than to encourage
them in presence of this splendid creature,

who had already condescended so much in
her notice of me that I dared not challenge
the sincerity of her interest in me by the exhibition
of any latent feeling for so insignificant
a person as the runaway grandchild of
Laudanum Nanny.

' And since those days of Scarsdale you
have found the world a merry place ?" she
said.

'I never dreamed there could be so
much happiness in it until now."

' Paris is as good a tutor, I fancy, in
the small change of so-called love-making
as London," she said, withdrawing her
hand from mine and rising to her feet.

' You do not doubt the sincerity of my
love ! " I exclaimed, and my heart seemed to
stop with a sudden anxiety.

' I have lived in London'' she said,
' and in Paris also, and I know the ring of
the coin which passes current for the true
lover's gold."

As she spoke she beckoned to the old
woman in the distance. The wrinkled but

stately dame came towards us. I felt for a
moment as if a great disaster had befallen
me.

 Madame Fridoline," she said.

' Madame," responded the ancient dame.

** Mr. Horace Durand will call at the
villa tomorrow, and it is my pleasure that
you announce him to me the moment he
arrives."

The dame curtseyed, Madame held out
her hand, I kissed it respectfully ; and the
next moment I was alone with my reflections
and the music of the bubbling brook, now
somewhat out of tune, yet quite in harmony
with the agitation of my mind.

VOL. T. N

CHAPTER II.

OUTSIDE THE GROTTO, AND ADVISED NOT
TO ENTER THERE.

'* How did she know my name ? " I asked
myself twenty times as I retraced my steps
to the little inn, where I remained to await
Colonel Ernstone's return. I do not remember
to have mentioned it ; she might have
learnt it at the inn ; but of course she would
not have taken the trouble to inquire, and
yet she spoke it as familiarly as if she had
known it always! sand why did her
pleasant manner change so abruptly ? "

'' Who is the lady that lives at the villa?"
I asked of the landlord at the inn, who sat

smoking beneath his vine and fig-tree in the
sun.

He did not know.
' She is English, eh ? "
'The English are a great nation," he said.
swill you find out for me, perhaps at
the post-office, her name and quality."

'Eh, Dio!" he said,  the Signora of
the villa would have me shot for such
inquisition ness . ' '

 Has she given orders," I asked,  for
the maintenance of an incognito, then ?''

Madame had given no orders, he answered,
but she was kindness itself. Her money
alleviated the need of all the district. She
was a saint in disguise. When first she
came there she was sick. Father Gabriello
(at whose name he bowed and crossed himself)
had given her religious consolation.
Since then his Church of the Visitation had
been adorned in many ways by the gifts of
the good Signora. He pointed to a tiny
church, nestling on the hill-side, as he spoke.
N 2

It was not necessary that he should confirm
my opinion of her goodness. But why-was
she surrounded with mystery ?

While I was talking with the cautious
master of the inn, the priest, Father Gabriello
himself, came up to eat his daily fare of soup,
birds, and maccaroni, to drink his bottle of
wine, and smoke his cigarette.

I responded to his genial salutation and
begged to be allowed to sit at table with
him in the common room of the inn.

Though I despised myself for trying to
penetrate what she evidently desired to
keep a secret, I could not help talking of
the beautiful lady of the villa. When Father
Gabriello' s courtly manners towards me had
mellowed still more under the effect of the
rich white wine, which had been forthcoming
under special pressure (a concession to
influence and money combined) I opened the
ball.

* You know Madame, the lady of the
villa yonder?" I said, indicating with a nod
the direction of the house in the woods.

' She has honoured me much," he
answered.

' An English lady ? " I remarked.

 The Church is universal; it has no
nationality. Are you one of her sons ? "

' I am a Protestant," I said.

It is a great world," responded the
priest.

' Permit me to say that I have a sincere
respect for the more ancient Church, and
that I admire the devotion of its priesthood."


Father Gabriello bowed.

'' You are English ? " he said.  I entertain
the highest sentiments of admiration for
your nation. I have lived in England."

' Indeed ! I might have guessed it by
the way in which you speak the language."

* You are complimentary. I held a cur
in an English city for many years."

* May I ask what city ? "

 Worcester, the last to stand out against
the arch-fiend Cromwell."

' You surprise me ! "

uliy?"

'' Because my home is in that county,
not more than a score of miles from the
faithful city, as they love to call it."

' Ah, Dio mio ! " he exclaimed, 'rit is
not a great world, it is a small one."

'' How long is it since you left Worcester?"


Five years."

'' Then perhaps you may have met my
uncle, Mr. Richard Grantley ? "

''Of The Cedars, near Breedon?" he
asked, " Dick Grantley ? "

The same," I said.

*' Oh yes ; I met him at Lord Danger's
at dinner, twice ; Lord Danmere, you know,
is a great Tory and a strict Catholic. Your
uncle, if I remember rightly, is the one
and not the other."

"True true," I said; "but a noble,
upright, true, honourable gentleman ! "

"No doubt, no doubt; I have heard
Lord Danmere say so."

Father Gabriello, it gives me more

pleasure than I can put into words to meet
you !" I said.

 Since yoii have learnt that I know your
uncle?" he replied, with a merry twinkle
in his dark brown eyes.

 Oh, yes, and for your own sake too''
I said, quickly. ' I drink to your health,"
I said ; *sto our better acquaintance, and I
hope to our ultimate friendship ! "

 It is well said, sir; I gladly respond,
and beg that we may pledge the name of
Squire Grantley in a mutual toast."

We clanked our glasses together and
drank to the dear old gentleman, whose
generosity enabled me to do this honour, ina
foreign country, to his name and reputation.


'' And now since we know each other so
well," I said, ' will you pardon me for saying
that if I were of the same faith as Lord
Danmere I should just now be not only
anxious to confess to you, but to seek your
advice."

' You may do so without being received

into the Church, and probably in your
present case you may perhaps obtain worldly
advice suitable to your condition."

 I do not understand," I said.

' I saw you to-day sitting by the side of
our beautiful guest of Baveno, the Lady of
the villa."

** Then you have divined half of what I
would confess."

' You do not ask how I saw you and
why I did not present myself to the Signora,
though the Villa Verona is open house tome.
I am Madame's almoner and I am also
her confessor."

*' I love her ! " I exclaimed, rising from
the table and pacing the room.

*' She is a lovable woman."

' I would marry her."

* I hope you will not."

Why?"

' She has resolved to live in Italy; you
would take her to England."

*' I would live wherever she desired."

'She is devoted to the Church; jon

would control her disposition. She is rich ;
the Church is poor ; you would not endow
our charities with her money. You see I
am frank."

I would not touch her money; she
should do whatever she pleased with it."

' How then would you live; you have
no money ?"

* I have a little, I should earn more."

'How?"

' By my profession."

' What profession ?"

'' The law."

 Have you studied the law?"

' Not yet. I could obtain an opening in
journalism and authorship."

' You talk wildly and without thought.
What would your uncle say to your marrying
out of your faith ?"

 He would not object."

' I think he would, and you owe it to
him to ask his permission."

 I would ask it."

af he refused?"

'' It would kill me."

' What if she refused?"

 Judge for yourself; all my hopes in
life would be gone. I am talking wildly, I
admit, madly if you like ; but I am sincere
in all I say, and I have courage enough to
face every possible difficulty that an unkind
fate could lay in my path, fortified with her
encouragement and companionship."

*' A young man should marry in his own
circle ; he should take a wife from among
his own people, one whom he knows, whose
home life he has seen, whose family is
familiar with his own. You seek my advice.
Leave Baveno at once. Travel far and
quickly, and believe that I advise you for
your good."

He laid his hand upon my shoulder in a
fatherly way as he spoke.

' A stranger whom you have only known
for a few days, a lady who is at least ten
years your senior, you cannot afford to give

up the ambition of a life just commencing
for the satisfaction of such a sudden fancy 
perhaps worse, mere transient passion."

 She has invited me to call tomorrow,"
I said, mentally staggering under the priest's
advice.

' It is to tell you, though in more gentle
language, what I tell you now, I feel assured ;
save her the pain of it, and show, that in
asking for good advice you know how to
appreciate it."

 Show a starving man an orchard of ripe
autumn fruit, and tell him it is best he should
not touch it," I said, impatiently.

 He refuses," responded the priest,  and
lives to discover the dead-sea apple that turns
to ashes on the lips."

'' Pardon me," I said, making a great
effort to control myself, '' we will talk no
more of this ; I thank you very much for
advice that is no doubt well meant."

It is hard to bear; whether you act
upon it or not, pray count me among your
friends, and remember that he is not always

the best doctor who leaves the wound un-probed,
and whose remedies are pleasantness
to the taste."

How long the night was, how slow the
weary hours, that lay between the time when
I might once more see the woman who had
entranced me ! The sun had set, and the
moon had risen before Father Gabriello
and I parted. The last glories of the sun
were reflected in the adjacent lake, visible
from the window of my little sitting-room.
A cool breeze, laden with delicious aromatic
scents, stirred the palms that half filled the
shaded balcony. Distant bells chimed the
'' Ave Maria." The musical plash of oars
gave life to the stillness below me. And T
thought of Calypso's island, turning hot and
cold as I did so ; for it seemed as if the scene
before me half realised the celestial land of
the Odyssey.

Without the grot a various sylvan scene
Appear'd around, and groves of living green ;
Poplars and elders ever quivering play'd,
And nodding cypress form'd a fragrant shade.

Four limpid fountains from the clefts distil ;
And every fountain pours a several rill,
In mazy windings wandering down the hill ;
"Where bloomy meads with vivid greens are crown'd,
And glowing violets throw their odour round.

I encouraged my heated imagination into
a half crazy hope that I was indeed about to
repeat one of the Ulysses adventures, and I
flattered myself, that, should the lady in this
case desire to keep me captive, there was no
Jove who could command my release. It
might have been different had not the muddy
Mercury, who brought to the Breedon valley
the news of the fall of Sedan, not so rudely
interrupted a conversation that was gradually
leading up to a serious proposal and a pledge !
But for the battle of Sedan, I should have
left Breedon engaged to Helen Dunstan, and
then it would have been my duty to have resisted
the goddess of the Villa Verona ; and,
had she proved as self-sacrificing as Calypso
herself, I trust I should have remained more
faithful to my vows than Ulysses was, as
touching his adored Penelope.

Heaven forgive me for writing in this

strain of the woman whom I loved so well ! It
arises out of no callousness, believe me, but
is the natural outcome of the inevitable
comparison between myself and the great
Ulysses, forced upon me by circumstances
over which I have no control. Dubbed
Ulysses derisively, and also in token of affection,
it has become a habit with me to see
comparisons and contrasts that have relationship
between my real prosaic career and the
imaginary narrative that sets forth the adventures
of the poetic hero. I protest to the
reader that no special vanity of mine underlies
these references to my own adventures
nor in my association of them with those of
the great pagan ideal. ' A modern Ulysses"
is a nickname as well as a term of endearment;
it represents the scoff of Welby,
as well as the affection that belongs to a
pet name ; and it keeps green the memory
of the dear old gentleman who was
reading the story of Ulysses to the boy in
the velvet frock in the first chapter of this
veritable but ill-constructed history, this

salmagundi of autobiographic notes, which
relies for its taste and flavour upon facts that
are flung together without the sophistication
of literary artifice or design.

I sat at my bedroom window far into the
night, in a half-dazed meditative condition
of mind, not thinking of anything in particular
and yet about everything ; I sat as a
culprit might, awaiting his sentence, with
the feeling that tomorrow is weighted with
his destiny, that when the sun shines once
again he will learn whether his sentence is
to be death or liberty.

As the moon mounted higher in the
heavens, and tree and hill below threw about
them deeper shadows, I surveyed my life ina
dreamy inconsequent fashion, and found
in all my hopes but one goal, the love of
this unknown woman. I had not yet crossed
those hills of my infancy and exploited the
mystery of their wonderful palace ; but herein
the land of song and romance I found myself
face to face with the mystery that is next to
the mystery of death  love. For my uncle's

sake I could not help a passing regret that
the divine passion had not been kindled by
the woman he would have chosen for me.
What bliss had this lady of the Italian villa
been old Dunstan's daughter !

I suppose I entertained myself with these
thoughts and fancies chiefly that I might get
through the night without actually going
mad ; for Father Gabriello had poisoned my
imagination with strange doubts and fears ;
he had given increased significance of ill omen
to my lady's last words. I recalled her
sudden change of manner and the cynicism
of her reference to the current coin of flattery
or so-called courtship ; and it required
my acutest remembrances of her tender
looks and the pressure of her soft hand to
dissipate the augury of misery I found in
that transition from sunshine to shadow, the
latter deepened and made terrible by the
advice sought and obtained from my reverend
friend of the inn.

I fell asleep at last and dreamed that the
Villa Verona was Calypso's grotto, the scent

of the surrounding woods the cedar and
frankincense of the cavern's odorous breath,
which already greeted me as I thrust aside
the deepening vines that screened the magic
portals.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER III.

INSIDE THE GROTTO.

I have seen the day break in many
lands, in the tropics and amidst fields of ice
off Labrador, in the New World, and in the
Old ; at sea and on the mountain tops ; in
peace and in war ; on Mont Blanc and on
Primrose Hill ; in the Malay Archipelago
and camping out luxuriously on the Upper
Thames. But one sunset and one sunrise
live in my recollection for ever. The golden
west and the crimson east ; the pale moon
in a yellow aerial sea; the first red beams of
the risen god ; shall I ever forget those
mysterious lights and shadows and adornments
of natural objects that belong to my

night and day in the Calypso's island of my
earliest travels ?

When I started for the Villa Verona
the world was in fall possession of the sun.
Still it was very early. The people of the
inn were only just awake. White pigeons
were calling to each other. The dew
glistened on tree and flower, and dripped
from the eaves of house and barn. The
bells at Father Gabriello's church were
sounding for some holy office, an early mass
perhaps. I tried to think wisely of my
situation, imported into my intellectual reconnaissance
thoughts of my uncle and of
Helen Dunstan, and made an effort to imagine
myself a real Ulysses under an enchantment
which it was my duty to shake
off. It was of no avail. I had never seen
the world look so lovely, so fresh, never
known it smell so sweet as on this morning.
After a hurried bath and a scanty meal I
set off for the grotto, the strange villa, the
enchanted house, the cave of Darthula-
Calypso. The rivulet met me with a joyous
o2

song, the birds flew before me, peasants
saluted me, the world was alive and full of
hope and promise.

Presently the world became silent and I
was alone. I had entered the magic portals
of my goddess's domain, the garden-like
woods in which the woman who had enthralled
me had control and command.

It was an old Italian villa, seared with
age, beautiful in decay. I stood in front of
it. No sign of life. The terrace walls were
adorned with quaint broken sculpture. Trailing
creepers and flowers made picturesque
efforts to hide the ravages of time.

The spirit of the great ages past seemed
to brood over the spot. A trickling fountain
murmured among a bed of clustering roses.
It was silence emphasised by sound. I flung
myself down under the shade of a spreading
palm.

Under the impressive influence of the
scene contrasts between it and the environs
of Calypso's cavern stirred my inner consciousness,
presenting themselves to my

imagination without effort. I thought of
nothing. My mind was passive. I was ina
new world. I let my thoughts drift as
they listed. No sensual, nor even sensuous,
suggestion shadowed this spot, sacred by
the lapse of time, dedicated to the sublimity
of a pure and noble art. The
ever-new delights of Calypso's island were
not here, nor did the violets recall the
simile of blue veins enamelling the smooth
breasts of fragrant meads. Such inspiration
as might be found, in the grove that clipped
the grotto of my love round about, was
chaste and dealt with the higher life, its
silent voices freighted with memories of a
past, the relics of which have a tender pathos
and the reflected light of which is the halo
of modern art.

As the shadow on the dial that spread
itself to the sun on a mouldering shaft
(whence the fountain trickled among the
waking roses still wet with dew) travelled
slowly along its ancient course I roused
myself to chide the unworthy thoughts that

had more than once afflicted my fancy, in
regard to the living soul that was the centre
of this classic spot. Just as my heart had
offered up a stinging protest to my brain,
vowing the lady to be all that is fair and
good and true and pure, the villa gave such
living tokens of life as Wert must once have
seen before he painted that dream of female
beauty which is entitled Le Bouton Hose.

A lattice was flung open. A woman
looked out upon the garden, a fair hand
drawing a white robe about her bosom.
You know the picture in the Brussels
Gallery, the figure at the open lattice which
redeems the surrounding horrors? Then
picture the sight that riveted my rapturous
gaze !

And our eyes met almost at the same
moment. The surprise and delight were
surely mutual. Her glance was a message
of love; and only a message, a lightning
flash ; for she withdrew on the instant ; but
she left her picture on the retina of my soul.
Had I the painter s art I could limn it now,

though the memory of it is somewhat dimmed
by a more saint-like presentment of the same
lovely face. Other pictures in Life's kaleidoscope
have also claimed places in my
memory, other voices have also touched my
heart.

I look back to the earlier time however.
Presently the carved doors of the villa are
opened. I am beckoned by a servant, the
major-domo of my princess's retainers, the
chief of the Darthula-Colypso bodyguard.
I enter the marble halls. Fruit and wine,
milk and honey, are placed before me. The
room is open to a terrace that gives upon a
garden of sweet flowers shut in by overhanging
trees, that shade it from the burning
sun. Here there is again the quiet music
of trickling fountains. Examined in detail
the room is no doubt rich in art treasures ;
but the general effect is repose, rest, quiet.
The atmosphere of it lulls the senses. Time
passes here, as it were, without leaving a
wrinkle, without disturbing a tone of colour,
moving onwards as it does over the dial-plate

; and yet you feel and know that Time
has lingered day after day in that outer garden
for centuries, and that the silent god has
heard in this room from their own lips the
songs of poets whose memories are enshrined
in their works, but whose bodies have returned
to the dust from whence they sprang.

After a little while I hear the trailing
garments of my love sweep the mosaic floors.
She stands by my side, a vision of mature
beauty, a model of artistic pose and grace.

'your constancy touches me," she says,
with a smile, '' for I was cruel to you in those
last words"'

'' You could not be cruel to any one,
much less to a worshipper'' I answer.

'' Have you spent the night in my garden
surely not ?"

*No, I cannot claim to have been so
happy ; I came here soon after sunrise."

*' And you think the gardens pretty ? "

'' I have never seen anything more
beautiful."

Not the gardens and meadows of your

native place  the Arcadia you told me
of?"

No, nothing''

 Ah ! I fear it is I who have enthralled
your critical faculties, and blunted your sense
of comparison. Love conquers reason. I
believe I was once in love."

She paused and looked at me. I did not
reply.

 You do not like to hear that confession.
Men are selfish. They are vain, too, since
every individual one of them thinks he possesses
the one particular attraction that is to
rivet the attention of one particular woman."

' Men are what women make them," I said.

 No, no ! you reverse the proverb''

She was sitting on a low seat in the
shadow of a purblind by the open terrace-window;
her dress, a pale soft blue Indian
silk. At the end of her short speeches she
fanned herself very quietly with a fan of a
similar material to her dress, but painted indelicate
water-colours, with designs of birds,
and leaves, and flowers.

* I wish I might be so blessed of fortune
as to reverse it then in your case," I said,
with a boldness that came of a great effort to
resist a tendency to stammer like a boy,
instead of laying siege to the goddess of my
idolatry like a, man.

And all at once I thought of Verona and
Juliet, of the old romance, and encouraged
myself to speak what my heart dictated.

' There was a time when you might have
done so," she said.

'' Let the time that is lost go," I answered,
'it is without recall; those lovers in the
story, which might have been inaugurated in
this very palace, looked forward into the
future ; and they were model lovers for all
ages."

'' Do you think so ? " she answered, and I
remember now the touch of critical doubtfulness
there was in the tone of her voice, though
then I only heard its music. "You have
been to Verona ? "

 And walked in the footsteps of the
Capulet and the Montagues," I answered.

' but never felt the depth of the poet's
tale until I knew the Villa Verona, two hours

ago

'J

Let us walk upon the terrace," she said.

As we moved out into the air a flock of
white doves sailed down almost at her feet,
alighting on the balustrades. She returned
to the table, where dainty fare had been
placed for me, and fed them with crumbs.
The music of a harp rippled out upon
the sunny air from a distant wing of the
villa.

'You like music?" she asked, as she
led the way to a shaded corner of the garden,
a bower set into a crumbling wall,
half hidden with trailing vines and floral
creepers.

' I am human," I said.

 These chords might be the creation of
angelic fingers," she said, pointing to a chair,
and at the same time taking an adjacent
seat.

I paused, for it was evident she shed
to say something of the harpist.

 Old Fridoline is a perfect mistress of
that most delightful of instruments. She is
not too pleasant to look upon, but she is
devotion itself."

 The old lady who accompanies you
when you drive ? "

' The same," she said,  you do not like
her."

'' I like anything you like, and am prepared
to do homage even to Madame Crinoline,"
I replied.

* She is wrinkled and old, but age has
softened not hardened her heart. She has
been a mother to me, though in some things
she has not always been true to my interests.
She has an infirmity, a desire to amass
money. Why she is miserly is her own
secret. She has had a strange career. Once
she held a high position in French society,
though when a girl she wandered from town
to town with her father, street musicians.
A composer, and an executant of the highest
merit, she is clever and learned, and accomplished
in many ways. Poor old Crinoline

! I do not know what I should do without
her.

Do you play upon any instrument ?

* Very imperfectly upon the violoncello
in memory, I think, of my father."

' He played?"

' Yes, en amateur P

' When you were a boy at Scarsdale
? "

'' Yes."

' Let us talk of those happy days."

' Since it pleases you, yes," I said, '-' but
they were not happy days always ; may we
not talk of yours ? "

 Oh yes," she answered, 'we have
time enough, and to spare ; when do you
leave Baveno ? ''

' When you order me to go."

' Do you always obey orders ? "

When they are orders that should be
obeyed."

' You did when a boy ? "

* Sometimes. But let us talk of you
when you were a girl."

Be content," she said, and she looked at
me, with an earnestness that I had noticed,
once before, when she was listening to my
first passionate avowals.

I am if only I could know that you
loved me."

She moved as if to interrupt me.

Let me speak, for my words are the
inspiration of that look you gave me; nay
let me speak," I said.

I took her hand and gazed into her face,
and her lips trembled.

'' Do not tell me I have only this moment
seen you. Do not tell me I know nothing
of you. We are in the land of Romeo and
Juliet. He had loved before, and at the
height of his passion for Rosalind he saw and
loved Juliet. He had only that moment
seen her ; she was the daughter of his
bitterest foe ; and she gave him love for
love, though she knew him to be the enemy
of her house. No such barriers separate
us ; if there be any others that I know
not of bid me leap them, and I amon

the other side before you can command
me''

I covered her hand with kisses. The
next moment she was in my arms.

 I do love you, Horace Durand," she
whispered, '' and have ever! "

CHAPTER IV. .

THE SHADOWS OF COMING REVELATIONS.

And, as she thus ministered to my bliss
in this tender confession, the tears rained
down her cheeks. She sobbed convulsively,
as if some terrible weight of grief afflicted
her, rather than the joy my vain imagination
associated with the triumph of my hot,
persistent, and passionate wooing.

Fridoline's harp, which had made intermittent
music in the outer sunshine, now
stopped altogether, and I was glad to
see the dame approach us, so hysterically
was she weeping, this heroine of my Italian
romance.

become, come, love, this will never do,"
said the Dame, ' what is the matter ? "

She did not answer.

' Judith, my dear, Judith'' said the
Dame, patting her hands, * Listen! I have
news for you, news ! "

There was something very earnest in the
Dame's manner, and in her emphasising of the
words * news for you."

She opened her eyes and looked up.

*' A messenger from London."

She rose to her feet, leaning upon my
shoulder.

' Only Simmons ! '' said the Dame.

My love trembled from head to foot.

' Where is he the messenger?" she
asked.

In my room by this time ; I will detain
him till you ring''

 It is well," said my love, ' it is well ;
I am not sorry."

The Dame looked anxiously at her lovely
mistress, and then, kissing her on the forehead,
left her.

VOL. I. P

* We will walk a little way through the
grounds, Horace," said the dear lady of the
villa, *sand then we will say au revoir, and
you will come agMq to-night."

She took my arm and we wandered into
a grove of olives that were banked, as it
were, by a forest of pines, through the red
trunks of which came the warm sun.

I think I have been wrong, Horace, to
encourage you to declare your love so fervently,
and to offer me marriage."

No, no," I protested.

' It is infinitely sweet to me," she went
on, 'but there was a time when it would
have been sweeter and very welcome ! "

And is it not welcome now ? " I asked.
Do not mock me."

'' It is welcome as the sun to the flower ;
welcome as the rain to the parched earth ;
but sometimes sun and rain come too
late."

She spoke with a sad look in her eyes,
and there was a deep pathetic music in her
voice.

' You make my heart ache, when it
should be leaping with joy," I said.

' It would be better for you to conquer
this love, Horace ; better for both of us. I
ought to have resisted it, but, oh, it was so
sweet; so true, so unselfish ; and there are
memories connected with it that make it all
the more welcome."

'' Memories ! " I said, ' What memories?"

some day you shall know; it is the
only bitter in the sweet of this love of ours
that you cannot guess them," she said, turning
her tearful eyes upon me.

' I only know that I love you and shall
ever," I said, ' and I have no memories
worth recalling beyond the moment when
you first let me tell you so''

'' Horace," she said, suddenly,  Fate
may part us. Should it do so, will you try
and think of me as you think now ? Will
you let the recollection of our love be as
sweet as it is to-day, surrounded with the
blessed halo of a pure devotion ? "

'' My darling ! " was all I could say
p 2

Her head lay for a moment upon my
shoulder. She turned her face towards me.
I kissed her.

 Good bye ! " she murmured, " my dear
Horace ! "

* Good bye ! " I exclaimed.

For the present," she said; I must
leave you now to receive this importunate
visitor from London."

 But I am to see you again this
evening ? "

' I hope so," she said, adding, ' why
should a momentary parting like this distress
one so much, when there is an inevitable
day that comes and parts us for ever ?
We are not the first who have breathed to
each other their mutual loves and hopes and
fears in this old palace ; and Romeo and
Juliet is an old, old story."

While these never-to-be-forgotten moments
flew by, Madame Fridoline had laid
her harp aside to take part in the following

episode, the details of which I learned the
same day at the inn.

An English gentleman has made his way
into the entrance hall of the villa. He is a
clean-shaven, well-built, but somewhat ascetic
looking man of about fifty ; dark hair closely
cropped, a strong though slightly pointed
chin, thin lips, a bright bead-like eye, the
tout ensemble being what would be called
distinguished and manly, yet with a certain
judicial coldness that is noticeable in not a
few successful members of the Bar.

'' Madame Fridoline will see you' says
the major-domo of the house,  this way,
thank you."

It is an ante-room adjoining the principal
saloon into which the visitor is shown, and
when the harpist and faithful servant of the
lady of the villa joins him there occurs the
following dialogue.

' It is a great surprise, how did you
come here, my lord ? "

 Don't call me my lord," answered the

visitor, ' my name is Mr. Simmons to you
and to your mistress."

 But since you have been raised to the
Bench?"

Ah, you think that gives you a hold
upon me ; but it does not, my discreet janitor
of the temple of Venus."

 It will serve you now better than the
name of Simmons, to be what you are, my
lord."

contumacious, eh? Well, no matter
since I have unearthed you. Where is
Judith?"

' Madame is out."

madame is at home," answers the
visitor, with an air of authority.

' Madame is at home to no one," is the
equally firm answer.

* Then consider me No One, good Crinoline,
and announce me forthwith."

' That would be to forget your lordship's
dignity and to discount my own veracity."

' If you were beautiful as you are clever,
Fridoline, and young as you are old "

'' I should not condescend to bandy
words with you," says the dame.

 Sharp as ever," says the visitor, ' well
well, we were talking of dignity and
veracity ; my dignity is of no moment, your
veracity is ; so tell the fair Judith that
Somebody has called, and put your smiles
into the message. Here is a souvenir from
London to help you''

He gives her a Bank of England note.
She looks at it.

' It cannot be said against you, Simmons,
or judge, counsel or my lord, that you were
ever ungenerous," she says.

' Simmons, Fridoline, Simmons, if you
love me."

' You give me fifty pounds to announce
you ; I must do so whether you give me the
money or not," she says pocketing the
note.

' You thaw?"

' I do, I am a woman.'

' And know she value of money ? "

' And peace ; I hate to be worried."

 Sit down then and let us chat a
moment. You are in hiding here ? "

 In retreat."

'' Grown tired of the gay world ? "

' Madame has become religious."

sanded!"

'' She has retired from the stage forever."


 Nonsense."

' It is true."

* And I have just bought the lease of the
Regent Theatre."

'why?"

'' To give it to Judith."

''No, truly?"

Indeed I have."

She will not take it."

She shall."

"Madame has resolved, only this very
day, never to return to London."

We will see," says the visitor; "but tell
me what brought you here ? "

Chance. We had travelled far and
wide. This villa attracted Madame. A

priest who lives hereabouts, and knew her in
England, recommended it to her, as quiet,
out of the world, the very spot for her
mood."

'' And how do we spend our time outside
this charmed circle of life ? "

*' We are good, very good."

 What a reformation ! "

' We no longer believe in gaiety, we no
longer intrigue; and we hate all plays, excepta
few passages of the classic and poetic
drama."

delightful! How then do we get
through the long weary days of virtue?"

' We say our prayers."

The visitor laughs.

u Yg gQ Q mass, and take walks of contemplation."


The visitor laughs aloud. The Dame is
encouraged to still further burlesque her
kind and trustful mistress.

' We do a little tapestry ; we read good
books, and "

The Dame drops her voice, and looks

around as if in fear that she may be overheard.


' Yes," says the visitor, leaning towards
her.

 And we are in love ! "

The visitor shows his disappointment.

' Is that so new an incident that you make
a mystery of it ? " he asks.

' It is quite new. There is love andover
I believe ; this new love is true love."

'' No, you astonish me."

*' Do I ? then I ought to feel proud."

 Do not pause to air your wit, dear
Fridoline, tell me of this love "

 Poor dear kind soul, I pity her. She
has fought against it as a prisoner might
against his bars the first time the dungeon
door closes upon him."

'' You have never experienced the sensation,
Dame Fridoline ? "

' 1 have been what you fine gentlemen
call a vagabond, in my time."

 A play-actor, Fridoline ? they are
vagabonds still according to law."

 And deserve to be, so long as they
allow such as you to make the theatre an annexe
to your vices."

Fridoline rises as she speaks, and confronts
the visitor with an unaccustomed flash
in her usually dull eye.

' A stirring sentiment, and well expressed,
Fridoline ; but they do allow it,
they do allow it, old friend; and as life
would be tolerable, somebody says, but
for its pleasures, it would assuredly be unbearable
but for its vices. But let us talk
of this love you mentioned.'

" I will not."

'eyes you will."

"No, I wont."

Where do you invest your savings,
Fridoline ? "

'where?"

Yes, where? There is no stock so safe
now or that pays so reliable a dividend as
United States Bonds."

The Dame is silent, but she taps the
floor with her foot.

 You once told me you had an ambition
to save five thousand pounds ?"

* I have a reason for it ; I am no miser."
I am rich ; I will help you. Let us go
back to Madame's new whim."

* It is not a whim ; it is her first love."
' I thought you said it was new."
'' Old and new, the revival of an old
flame, and it burns with the brightness of
truth and youth. If there be truth in the
re-birth which the Church preaches, Judith
Travers would be worthy of the love she
has won ; though I do not hold her unworthy
of any man that breathes."

' Nor would she. Dame Fridoline, in a
less conventional world than that we have
had the misfortune to be born into."

Heaven help poor women ! It is a
world in which their chances of happiness
are few and their certainties of misery
many."

' Justice herself has begun to acknowledge
that, and the law is making provisions
to increase the chances you speak of. And

who is the happy being who has touched the
heart of Judith Travers in earnest, as you
think ?"

' Ah, you can ask her that yourself. I
have told you no more, I do believe, than
she will tell you, nor half as much. But "

Yes?"

' You said you would help me with that
ambition of mine you were pleased to
mention, Mr. Simmons."

'' Ah, yes; here it is."

It is a small note this time that is
placed in Dame Fridoline's wrinkled hand.
She looks at it without seeming to notice
that it is the smallest they issue from an
English Bank. The tinkle of a distant bell
is heard. She takes her revenge.

" There ! I have held you in conversation
sufficiently long for the visit of the happy
being, whom you mentioned, to come to a
close ; madame is now at liberty and will
see you ; the happy being has retired by the
private path to the lake."

The visitor bites his lip and follows the

servant, who enters the room with orders to
conduct his lordship to the presence of the

lady of the villa.

# * *

Such was the account which Mr. Miller
the Q.C., of my " Feast of St. Partridge "
reminiscences gave me of his interview with
Dame Fridoline. He was the  Simmons"
and the ' Judge " of the dialogue. I found
him at the inn almost as soon as I returned ;
for I had walked leisurely from the villa
wrapped up in my happiness.

'' So' he said,  it is you, my dear
young friend, I am glad to see you ! Let us
talk frankly with each other. I love your
uncle ; I respect you. If I had known as
much of you as of Dick Grantley I should
love you. But we will improve our friendship.
You are in trouble. I must help you.
Your disease is a violent one ; it requires a
violent remedy. I have just come from the
Villa Verona''

With this brief introduction, Mr. Justice
Miller (for he had recently been exalted to

the bench) exacting from me a promise that I
would hear all he had to say, gave me the
above graphic but heartless sketch of the
first part of his visit to the villa. During
the narrative I had to pace the apartment
to keep down the expressions of my indignation
; but considering my state of mind I
bore with commendable patience his ruthless
laceration of my feelings.

'' And now," he said, '' if you like I will
give you an account of my interview with
the lady herself."

* I do not wish to hear any more," I
said.

Better hear all ; you have probably
heard the worst."

 I am very wretched," I answered.

*' Of course you are; but you will recover
; you are taking your punishment with
a calmness that promises a speedy cure.
Shall I go on?"

 You are a cruel physician," I answered.

' My office just now is that of surgeon,"
he said.

' Your knife can never cut her image
from my heart."

* Of course not; nor would I wish to
indulge in such mutilation. But as your
uncle's old friend"

 It is your duty to torture the nephew,"
I said.

' If it is for the nephew's good, certainly,"
responded the judge.

* Continue! I am on the rack whether
you tell me more or not. But beware how
you overstep the borderland between friendship
and enmity, between respect and contempt,
between love and hatred ; you think
I am calm, patient, philosophical ; don't
count too much on my patience.

*' I will only count upon your good sense
and upon the love and duty and respect you
owe to honest Dick Grantley, and to the unblemished
name you inherited from Maximilian
Durand," said the judge.

You must leave me to my own interpretation
of duty, and I do not need the
stimulus of an exordium upon my father's

honour, nor is it necessary to remind me of
the respect I owe to his memory."

 Well said ; we are getting on," answered
the judge, lighting a cigar and
calling for a bottle of wine, adding as the
waiter left the room, '' I have only two
hours at my disposal, we will therefore
waste no more time."

* You leave Baveno to-day?"

' Two hours hence. It is almost accidental
that I am here."

 I am sorry the accidental circumstance
did not take you elsewhere."

You are inhospitable; but as the old
friend of your uncle "

I know, I know," I said interrupting
him.

' Of course you do'' he responded with
a smile, '' take a cigar."

I took a cigar. By the time his narrative
was at an end I had almost eaten it.

VOL. 1. Q

CHAPTER V.

THE JUDGE COMPLETES HIS SKETCH OF JUDITH
TRAVERS.

*' Why did I come here, you ask ?
During my studies at the Bar I often engaged
in amateur detective operations. I
liked the work. Scotland Yard liked me.
The disappearance of Judith Travers, the
famous obedience of the no less famous
Regent Theatre, piqued my feelings as well
as my skill at explorations. Nobody could
find her. I suspect they had not tried.
They were under orders. It was my business
to discover her.

"You did not know that she is an actress ?
Of course not. You thought her a princess

in her own right. Well she is better than
some princesses. She is one of the most
generous women that lives. I have known
her nearly seven years.

' Did I know her when first I met you at
Warrington Manor ? Yes, she was the rage of
London at that time. Is it possible that you
have not heard of Judith Travers ? Not seen
her portrait in the shop windows ? Oh, you
have ! But you did not know that this was
the lovely Judith ? Ah, well, it is a polite
education to know her, and there is no harm
in your going a little mad about her. But
marriage is out of the question. There,
there, don't interrupt the court. If London
could have heard Judith's confession to me
this morning, you would be the envy of
every man in the metropolis ; yes, and the
envy of some of the women too; for Miss
Travers is the most popular artist that ever
trod the stage, in my time at all events.

*' I always vowed that whenever I should
be honoured by advancement to the distinction
of becoming one of Her Majesty's
q2

judges I would make Judith Travers a
present of the lease of the Regent Theatre,
marry, settle down, and be, in every way,
worthy of the Bench. It may be my lot one
day, like the judge in Whittier's poem, to
look back from the matrimonial height, where
I shall perch my hopes, to the ground, upon
which some other poet says Happiness
oftener builds her nest. But the performance
of duty is the first essential of earthly bliss.
You think I am talking with my tongue in
my cheek ? Not at all.

' It is not to be wondered at that you
are over head and ears in love with Judith
Travers. Why she should be over head and
ears in love with you is surprising. I found
her in what I will venture to call a statuesque
frame of mind, cold as an icicle, except when
she spoke of you. ' For the first time in my
wretched life ' she said,  for the first time I
love and am beloved. The dream may not
last, will not, cannot, for he is sure to discover
who I am, what I am.' The last three
words were said with a pathetic force, which

she never reached in her highest flights of
domestic comedy, not even in tragedy itself,
though her Constance in King John was a
fine example of acted feeling.  I could have
wished,' she said, ' that this one romance of
my life might have lasted a little longer, it
has been so sweet, and it seemed as if Heaven
had sent it to give me a pure and true ideal
of manhood, as a wholesome memory, in my
retirement from the world.'

 I ventured to suggest that this was not
very complimentary to an old friend like
myself. She said it was not intended byway
of compliment or reproof.  Perhaps,'
she continued,  you are the least selfish of the
men I know ; the only real truth and honour
and devotion and self-sacrificing affection I
have known have been among my own sex.
We are poor creatures, we women, but we
have higher capacities of friendship and love
than it is possible for man to imagine, much
less to realise.'

' Was there no exception to this sweeping
condemnation, I asked. *None,' she

said,  Not even Mr. Durand ? '  Not even
Horace,' she replied. She spoke of you as
if she had known you for years instead of
only days, but what women and boys call
love has a levelling tendency both as regards
time and persons. You certainly might be
proud of your conquest if the triumph were
not so hampered with sentiment. She declined
my offer of the lease of the Regent
Theatre, but condescended to say she appreciated
my well-intended kindness. A gift
of twenty thousand pounds might have called
for a warmer acknowledgment, for ten years
of the Regent is worth that sum, though she
made it worth it. I certainly looked for a
more liberal return  for her return to town,
at least, as the result of my magnanimity.
But women are indeed incomprehensible.
It is as well, perhaps ; it will be for me less
of a wrench of bachelor habits, easier to withdraw
from artistic society, easier to fulfil
that old vow of mine ; and ten thousand a
year as the endowment of Hymen is not
unworthy the consideration of a judge who

has not saved half as much as he might have
done during a long and lucrative practice.
But I am becoming garrulous. My desire
has been to spare you unnecessary pain at the
discovery that you cannot fulfil the natural
desire of that ardent and honourable passion
which is the privilege and the trouble of
youthful minds ; that you cannot make
Judith Travers Mrs. Horace Durand."

CHAPTER VI.

COLONEL Vanstone TO THE RESCUE.

I told my tormentor, his learned Lordship,
my uncle's old friend, that at present I
had only his evidence to guide my judgment.


reconsider its disinterestedness, its motive,
my dear young friend," he answered.

 I do; but I shall still require another
witness."

'' And where shall you look for that other
witness ? "

'' At the Villa Verona''

*you will call the lady herself?" he
asked.

' She is my other witness," I said.

 I do not object," he answered, ' and I
hope some day you will forgive me for my
intervention. At present you cannot. Nor
will you be able to do so tomorrow, perhaps,
nor next week, nor in a year's time ; but you
will."

 We shall see," I said, and on this we
parted, the notoriously accomplished lawyer
(who to the surprise of those who knew him
best had received the vacant judgeship, but
who, in the estimation of the general public,
had been kept too long outside judicial
honours) for a pleasant vacation trip ; I, to
count the beads of an early sorrow.

It was some kind of relief at the moment
to hear of the return of Colonel Tom
Ernstone. He had met the judge on the
road, the one going, the other coming.
Somehow he did not care for Miller. He
said this as he settled down into his former
corner of our common room, and gave
orders to his man for dinner. No, he did not
like Miller. The famous lawyer always appeared
to be so confoundedly contented

with himself. Was never ruffled. Took life
as calmly as if the world had been made on
purpose for him. Always lucky, and led a
notoriously fast life. Did not matter a bit.
Went into the best society. Made as much
money as he liked. Spent it on himself ; had
no relatives, no antecedents, did not care a
curse for anything or anybody, except, perhaps,
Dick Grantley, though he never visited
him. He called shooting at Warrington
Manor visiting Dick, because the Squire
always made a point of dining with the
Dunstanss the first week in September. Didn't
care whether they made him a judge or not ;
made more money than judges made ; but a
fine thing to be an English judge, and he is as
learned and scholarly as any of them they say.
He will sentence a poor wretch to be hanged
with as much unconcern as he will sum up a
case of breach of promise. That is the kind
of fellow to go through the campaign of life.
No sensibilities, he cannot be wounded ; no
heart, he cannot be killed, except in the ordinary
way ; and he'll choke off fever, smallpox,

liver, and all the physical ills of the
flesh, with his regular living, his dumb-bells,
his horse exercise, his yachting, and his
temperance. He was Tom Miller a few years
ago  barrister and dramatist. Then he was
more barrister than anything. One of the
daily papers betook him up," as the saying
is. He won the big Anglo-Indian Bamboo
case ' off his own bat," they said ; and soon
after that he hanged Billikins the poisoner,
in spite of the most brilliant address for defence
ever heard at the criminal Bar, and the
evident leaning of the judge towards the
prisoner. Then he got silk, and became
Mr. Thomas Miller, Q.C., and a dilettante
patron of the arts, more particularly of the
theatre. Now, by Jupiter, he is my Lord
Judge; and he is not surprised; wouldn't
he if they made him Lord Chief Justice;
dare say they will some day. If he had sentenced
his first prisoner  to be taken to the
place from whence you came, and there be
hanged by your neck till you are dead," he
could not have looked better satisfied than

A MODERN ULYSSES.

when I met him an hour ago, and said  How
do you do ? " and '' Good bye ! '''' And I
prefer saying good bye to such cold-blooded
inventions of old Harry as Tom Miller any
day."

T suppose Colonel Ernstone was encouraged
to spin out this long review of
the judge's career, because I did not interrupt
him. Indeed, I rather encouraged him
by monosyllabic ' oh's," and '' ah's," and
' yeses," and ' I should think so's." The
Colonel was emptying his pockets, opening
letters, and generally clearing up his quarters,
lighting his pipe, and shaking himself clear
of the cobwebs of travel, getting ready to
enjoy a rest, and to forget that he had been
away since the day we first encamped at the
snuggest and most pleasant inn we had met
with during our wanderings. When he found
it difficult to say any more about Judge
Miller, he turned to me in a protesting
kind of fashion.

' Have you nothing to say ? "

*' Speed the parting guest, welcome the

new comer ! " I said, '' I think I hate Miller
too."

' Oh, I don't hate him," said the Colonel,
 but he nettles me ; he is one of the men
whose very presence rubs my moral consciousness
the wrong way."

'1 do hate him," I said.

*you! And why ? He is one of your
uncle's very oldest friends ; but Dick does
not like him for all that ; they were in some
scrape together in town, years ago, a fight
in a gambling hell. Your uncle behaved
very generously to Tom ; it is an old scandal,
there is nothing in it to be ashamed of, and
it is not worth telling ; but Dick Grantley
twisted a knife out of the hand of an Italian
Count, and probably saved Topi Miller's life.
I must do Tom the justice to say that he
has always shown his gratitude to Dick, and
I know that he volunteered to use his influence
in your interest when you go to London
to read for the Bar."

*I shall not go to London to read for
the Bar ; and I shall refuse any assistance
he may offer me."

 Nonsense ! I am sorry I spoke about
him ; he can make your fortune at the law,
and he is not a slave to the conventionalities
of the profession ; he is a man of the world,
and it is as much his knowledge of life as
his legal acumen that has scored for him in
consultations, opinions, and also as an advocate."


' He has given me my first lesson, and
it is evidently worthy of him. Whether he
is moved by honest motives or whether he is
playing an audacious game of bluff I am in
doubt ; and my doubt is mixed up with so
much heart-break and depression of spirit
that I am just now as miserable a personas
your experience or imagination can conceive."


It needed but very small encouragement
to induce me to tell the Colonel the entire
story of my trouble from first to last. It
was then that he sought to console me with
that account of his own experiences, with
which the reader is already acquainted.
When he had finished, the dear, good-hearted

fellow, beseemed to think that, having capped
my wretched situation, I ought to bear my
trouble with a heaven-born resignation. It
appeared to me that he found some kind of
satisfaction in my misery.

' It brings us closer together, don't you
know, and, though I am old enough to be
your father, my heart is young enough to
beat in sympathy with you. The fellows in
London would tell you that I am a cold,
cynical brute, not much better than Miller ;
but they don't know me; you do; let us
shake hands over our misfortunes."

We shook hands.

'' But will you not advise me ? '' I asked.

a will," he said.

Whatoughtltodo?"

*< I will tell you."

CHAPTER VII.

A DANIEL COME TO JUDGMENT.

 In the first place I do not believe the
insinuations of Mr. Justice Miller."

'' Thank you," I said eagerly.

' He is selfish and diplomatic."

Heis."

I have heard of Judith Travers, and
seen her act."

 She is an actress, then ? "

'eyes; but that is no reason why she
should not be a perfectly honest woman."

'' Acting is one of the arts," I said.

Truly, and there have been great and
good women in the profession."

And you think Miss Travers entitled to
be ranked among them ? "

 Yes, I do."

 I would stake my life on her truth and
honour, and on the purity of her life," I
said. '' Miller has some selfish purpose to
serve in what he has done and said. He
may be my rival for her hand."

Encouraged by Ernstone, there was no
imaginable interpretation I was not ready
to put upon the new judge's conduct, that
could tell in my favour and hers.

 Hardly that," said Ernstone, but
there is no woman who lives her life in the
public eye that is not scandalised. An
actress is always a mark for envy and
slander."

'' She did not tell me she acted," I said
reflectively,  but if she had that would not
have made her less beautiful in my eyes.
Colonel Ernstone, if I do not marry that
woman I shall never marry ! "

'* Don't make rash vows," responded the
colonel, "we are the sport of circumstances.
Here comes the dinner."

I cannot eat''
VOL. I. K 

 You must."

' You are hungry, I will walk while you
dine."

* You will dine, otherwise I will offer
you no more advice. Confound it, man, look
at me ! Strong in wind and limb, older
than I look, in perfect health ! I have
cruised about the world with a greater sorrow
than that which can possibly affect you.
But I always made a point of dining for
the sake of These, and dining as well as
the country in which I happened to dine
would let me. Come, come, you need all
your wits in your present situation, and wits
will not work without wattles, as those 
fellows would say, though I
have known troops do wonderful things
on rice and coffee. During our advance on
Cawnpore I think our fellows hardly stopped
to eat at all, that is, with anything like a
show of a comfortable halt, until we were
close upon the brutes' entrenchments. I
shall never forget General Havelock ordering
a halt for two or three hours in the shelter

of a mango grove, where rations were served
and properly cooked, a treat we had not
known for a long time. Sufficient liquor
was given the men to warm their rations,
and pipes and cigars were smoked in something
like comfort. After all it is a wise
thing to feed well before entering upon an
important undertaking."

I could not help seeing that the colonel
was talking to beguile the time, or to divert
my thoughts into a new channel. I listened
to him with respectful attention, not unwilling
to give my mind a rest that I might
re-address myself to the chief object of them,
perhaps from a new basis.

'general Havelock was a humane and
a discreet commander. Nana Sahib had
taken up a position at a village where the
Grand Trunk Road may be said to unite
with the principal road to the military cantonment
of Cawnpore. He had blocked
both roads by formidable entrenchments
and his guns were well mounted all along his
positions, which were a number of villages

skilfully fortified. The Oriental has a habit
of expecting you to attack him where it is
best for him that you should do so. He
throws up his works and plants his guns and
calculates that you will come at him there,
where he is strongest. And so we should
of course if no other course were open.
Havelock was unequalled among Indian generals
in the matter of selecting where and
when to attack, so that his men should sustain
a minimum of harm while doing a maximum
of damage to the enemy. And, as I said
before, he gave us leave to eat and rest
and then moving us off, so that we could
defile round the Nana's left, our guns were
so placed that at the proper moment they
were ready for either attack or defence.
The movement did not escape the enemy's
observation, and he tried to frustrate it ; but
we had dined, we had taken a nip of brandy
in our coffee, we had smoked and pulled
ourselves together, and within less than an
hour we had taken Nana's works, captured
his guns, and routed his devilish horde.

But here comes the dinner, and the moral of
all this is, that, while great things have been
done on empty mummies, much greater have
been done after proper rest and refreshment.
So fall to, Horace, my boy, and when we
have discussed this menu from soup to
thrushes, and from birds to coffee, we will
fall in and take Miller's entrenchments,
capture his guns, and rout him entirely''

 You think we can?" I asked, rising to
the music of this cheery promise.

" Think ! Why certainly ! as that clever
Yankee fellow says in the play," answered
the colonel.

We dined; that is, I ate my dinner.
Ernstone enjoyed his. He talked of all
kinds of things, with snatches of military adventure
in his reminiscences, and incidents of
London life ; and at last he told me the story
of his daughter's engagement with Sir
Christopher Hallam ; told me all the details
of it and his own story, just, so far as the
facts were concerned, as he had told my
uncle and as my uncle had already told me.

This enabled me to think. It was not necessary
that I should listen to him. I reviewed
my own history, tried to examine the immediate
situation judicially as if I were discussing
some other person's doubts and fears
and passion ; but it all ended in a dull vague
stupid kind of way only, leaving me exactly
where I was before I began to think about
it. All the time I could hear Ernstone
droning out his long yarn ; all the time I
could see him blowing clouds of smoke out
into the open air ; all the time T could hear
the distant music of the rivulet that wound
round Villa Verona, just as I heard when I
was a boy the humming of the mill-weir at
Scarsdale.

' You have told Sir Christopher Hallam
all about Threse ?" I said presently, when it
seemed necessary that I should say something.


''No, I have not had the courage; I
believe I was one of the first among Nana
Sahib's beastly blacks, but I am an awful
coward sometimes. I have been all the way

to Milan chiefly for the purpose of telling
Chris everything. I am back again without
having said a word to him ; and yet you
have the folly to ask my advice in your own
affairs. I dare say I am not bad at advising
; I know exactly what I ought to do
and I would make another fellow do it ; but
I am not really plucky myself and that is
the truth."

' You have no doubt as to the result
when you do tell him ?' ' I said, for the first
time getting away from my own affairs.

' Not in the least, ' ' said Ernstone, ' ' though
I hate to tell him ; he is such a happy fellow j
never known trouble of any kind. But we
will talk no more of Hallam, nor of Therese,
heaven bless her, nor of me ; but of you and
of Miss Judith Travers. Your uncle is benton
your marrying Helen Dunstan  an excellent
match in every way. Kind as he is, to
thwart him in this might make you enemies
instead of friends."

 Impossible ! " I said,  he is too good
and too devoted to me and to my happiness."


That very devotion makes obedience
all the more a virtue on your part, not to
say a duty. In case he has talked the match
over with Dunstan, and I believe he has, your
contumacy would be construed into something
more than mere disobedience ; it would
be regarded as an insult to the girl herself."


'' Oh, no, you are putting a very extreme
case," I said.

' I am not, my friend ; view the position
from this stand-point, for the sake of argument.
Would you brave it for this woman,
upon whose reputation there may be a
cloud?"

'whatever and whoever she is, my
feelings would not alter towards the ideal
creature I believe her to be. I am so hard
hit that I would take her now and ask no
questions, take her on the blind faith expressed
in the words of another song, sung
by Miss Dunstan on the night when that
other ballad touched your heart so keenly."

I know not, and I ask not.

If guilt be in thine heart ;
I only know I love thee,

And love thee as thou art.

It was a woman who spoke the sentiment I
know ; I feel it as a man."

'But if all that Miller insinuates is
true ? "

' I might hate her then as I hate him ;
hate her for showing me Paradise and condemning
me to Hades."

' By which you mean you would not
marry her ? " said Ernstone, following my
every word with critical sympathy.

'' I don't know what I mean," I answered.

' Then listen to me ! Keep your appointment.
Be frank with her. Tell her all.
Show her the position you are in. Ask her
advice. If she should then encourage you to
cast in your lot with hers, she being resolved
to leave the stage ; and if you feel what I felt
when a true and honest love took hold of
me ; then, by Jupiter, give reins to the
impulse of your nature and marry her ! A
woman who can interpret nobility of soul in
VOL. I. s

a mimic scene as she can is not the creature
Miller would have us believe. If I am any
judge of character, Judith Travers will not
belie her truthful eyes. She will prove
worthy of your love and friendship."

My dear friend ! " I exclaimed, seizing
the Colonel's hand, '' you only do her common
justice. Your generous advice finds an echo
in my heart, which tells me it is good. I
will go to the Villa now. Wish me good
fortune ! "

*' I do so with all my heart ! " said the

Colonel.

# * * * -* 

The sun had dropped behind the pines
and left the olives dark and sombre, when I
reached the gardens of the Villa Verona. The
fountain was making plaintive music among
the roses by the dial. I listened for Crinoline's
harp. A great stillness prevailed. The
silence struck me with an indefinable fear.
I rang the bell at the portal of the Villa. I
don't know why it sounded to me like a
knell. No footstep responded to it. I rang

again and again. No reply. As I stood in
doubt Father Gabriello appeared in the
garden, coming upon the scene from the
point where I had entered.

' Madame has gone away," he said.

begone away!" I said, re-echoing his
words.

'' She will not return any more to the
Villa Verona," continued the priest,

' Not any more," I said, still echoing him,
' what do you mean?"

'' Only what I say ; only what she requested
me to say ; possibly she has given
you more explicit information in this letter."

I opened the note which he handed to me.
The light had almost faded out of the sky. I
read, with some difficulty, as follows : 

 My departure will make you sad, as it
makes me. But it is best. I was wrong
" to receive you at the Villa. Wrong for
' many reasons. Some day you may know
* what they are. Then you will pity me.
Why did I encourage you to stake your
'' happiness on an impossible dream ? I can
'' hear you ask the question. I can feel its

 rebuke. There is no justification in my
' answer. It was so sweet to realise the
'' holiness of a pure love. I had not strength
'' to resist the temptation of living, if only
 for a time, in such an atmosphere. O
 forgive me, forgive me. The only bitterness
 ' in the dream was the knowledge that you
'' had forgotten me. To-day, on my journey
'' to more restful scenes, what was a bitterness
is so no longer; for it teaches me that Time
 carries healing in his wings for bruised
hearts. I beseech the blessed Virgin, that
she will teach you to forget me now as you
forget her who always remembered you ;
* and in whose voice and touch she recalled
the day when a boy and girl kissed and
parted years ago by the Scarsdale meadows.
Forgive me for this new pang I cause you.
 Think of me with the perfume of new-mown
 hay, and let your memory of me be asso-
' cited with convent bells and sunny skies
 away from cruel cities. Goodbye  forgive
** me  forget me !

'* Constance Gardner."

CHAPTER I.

THE MERCHANT WISHES ME A MERRY CHRISTMAS
AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

Just as the merchant had predicted so
indeed it came to pass. We heard the Christmas
bells ringing out their " glad tidings of
great joy " over the wonderful town.

Listen!" said the merchant as we
pulled up at Long's Hotel in Bond Street,
he and I, with two attendant cabs of luggage,
there they go, the Christmas bells! "

We had arrived at the London Docks ina
P. and 0. steamer. It was a moonlight
night. The Thames was a revelation to me.
A strange weird black-looking stream, with
miles of hard business-like buildings on
either side of it. It might have been the

VOL. II. Q

Styx after Paradise, so uninviting was the
contrast between it and the rivers I had left
behind me.

And the grimy looking porters and
river-side men, the unpicturesque cabbies,
the dingy vehicles ; even the moonlight
could not redeem their ugliness !

We rumbled along through back slums,
over rattling roads, by blind-looking buildings
with darkened windows ; then we passed
the flashing lights of gin-palaces, and there
were crowds in all the streets. How strange
it all seemed ! The barbarism I had left
was decked with flowers, radiant with sunshine,
blessed with clear streams and lovely
valleys. Civilisation ! How dark and dirty
and miserable it looked ; and with all its
bustle how inexpressibly lonely it seemed !

The merchant did not speak a word
through all that long dreary ride westward.
Arrived at the hotel however he
seemed to experience a special pleasure in
calling my attention to the music of the
bells.

I have not heard them for five-and-twenty
years," he said, "the Christmas
bells ! "

It was Christmas eve, and close upon
midnight. The cold was piercing. We
had provided against it by laying in a stock
of furs en route. The P. and O. captain
had given us good advice. He had
telegraphed to Long's for our rooms. They
were ready when we arrived. Great fires
were blazing in the grates. This was the
first home-like influence I experienced, the
firelight falling upon an English hearth-rug,
casting a ruddy glimmer upon the
counterpane of an old-fashioned bed, making
dark corners and suggesting fearless slumbers.


We had a sitting-room in common, the
merchant and I. Supper was laid for us.
A sirloin of beef white on the top with
scraped horse-radish; a pair of chickens
decorated with parsley; a Yorkshire ham
partly cut, a dish of mince-pies, a Stilton
cheese, celery in a tall glass, and a set of
Q 2

pickle-cruets. The repast was laid out upon
a side-board. A waiter was assigned to the
duty of handing it to us. It seemed a strange
meal.

"A bottle of champagne, waiter," said
the merchant.

Yessir," said the waiter.
Christmas beef," said the merchant,
u and mince-pies for happy months."

I am not sure that I would not have
preferred some fruit and a curry, ,, I said.

Let us say grace ! " said the merchant,
"I always did so when a boy. For what
we are going to receive may the Lord make
us truly thankful ! "

Amen ! V I said.

The champagne, waiter " said the merchant.


Yessir, here it is, sir."

Long ale-glasses, waiter."

Yessir, I will get two, sir."

u My father always drank champagne
out of long ale-glasses ; we only had it once
a year, on Christmas eve," said the merchant.

u Indeed," I said, " you are reviving the
days of your youth."

"I hope to do so somewhat," he said,
u I will tomorrow show you the house where
I lived as a boy ; I drink your health, Mr.
Horace Durand; and I wish you a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year ! "

And I wish you the same, with all my
heart ! " I said.

The undercut, waiter, and I think you
shall place it on the table ; I will carve it."

Yessir, if you please, sir."

My father was quite an adept at
carving ; I will tomorrow show you where
he is buried. Do you like it underdone ? "

Well done, thank you," I replied.

11 Any pickled cabbage, waiter?"

Yes, sir."

Thank you. My mother used to make
the best pickled cabbage I ever tasted. She
bought the cabbages at Covent Garden. I
remember the very shop. It was half way
down that avenue, or arcade, where in spite
of your eastern travels you may still, I daresay,

see the loveliest flowers and the choicest
fruits the world produces. Poor, dear soul,
she died six months after my father ! But
for that, I should have returned to London
within two years after I left it. I never
quite felt that either of them were dead
until two hours ago, when I saw the London
Docks once again. Yet, now that I hear
the Christmas bells, I feel as if I had only
been away a month or two, and that I shall
find them at home in the parlour, at the
back of the dear old shop in Oxford Street.
My thoughts are in a jumble, like bells that
jangle out of tune. I have seen trials and
troubles innumerable, passed through dangers
of shipwreck and bondage in savage lands as
you have ; it is five-and-twenty years since
I have seen my native land until to-day ; and
yet I cannot say that I feel an old man."

You are not so old as my uncle," I
said, " and you look twenty years younger."

I am sixty," he said.

You look forty."

And I feel five-and-thirty," he said,

and that was about my age when I left
London for a holiday and business excursion
to Ceylon, Java, Borneo, Manilla, India,
and the East generally. I always liked
the sea, but was rarely absent from the
parental roof for more than two months at
a time, until I was thirty-five, as I tell you.
My father and I had been companions more
than anything else, ever since I was eighteen.
Let us divide a happy month. My father
and I were wont to do so on Christmas
Eve, making my mother have a whole one,
because we were so fond of her."

The merchant cut a mince-pie in two
parts, and called for "two nips of brandy
just to settle them," he said, " before the
cheese."

An hour later we sat over the fire,
smoking long pipes and drinking rum punch.

When a man is nearing the end of his
journey," said the merchant, " he wants to
go home to the haunts of his youth. I am
not old and I am strong, yet during the
past five years I have been longing for this

day, longing to come home. My father
died two years after I left London, and he
appeared to me as his soul left his body."

Appeared to you ? "

At Manilla. I had been there three
months, a guest at the house which I afterwards
purchased, and which I only parted
with nine months back. It was sunset; I
was alone, smoking in the verandah, and
thinking of home. I had that very day
written a long letter to my mother, saying
that I should return within a year. Suddenly
I was conscious of a figure moving
towards me. It halted close by me ; it was
a white-haired old man. l Father ! ' I exclaimed.
There was a smile on its pale
familiar features. I stepped towards it, and
the next moment it was gone, fading out
gradually as a mirage at sea."

Your thoughts are surely very gloomy,"
I said, " seeing that this is Christmas Eve f
and you are once more safe and well in
your native London."

"No, no, not gloomy, death is not a

gloomy business, my friend. It is only sad,
it seems to me, when you cannot die where
you were born, when you cannot live your
last days among the scenes of your boyhood.
I came to this very hotel often with my
father, to see customers from the country.
My father was considered to be the best
chronometer-maker in London, and the wisest
judge of gold and stones. Dealers from all
parts of the world came to consult him and
trade with him. Do you object to this talk
about myself and my people ? It is arrogant,
but I would like you to know something of
the man who has done business with you, and
who is your partner in at least one profitable
transaction."

Mr. Waller, I feel deeply interested in
all you say."

You wonder, no doubt, why I did not
return home after my father's death. It
was more than nine months before I really
learnt that he was dead ; for his appearance
on the Manilla verandah did not at that
time convince me of his departure, though

it filled me with alarm. So much so, that I
resolved to hasten my journey home ; but
my mother died exactly six months after
my father, and while I was preparing to
leave Manilla. I had nearly forgotten the
apparition of the dear old gentleman, when
almost at the same time in the afternoon, as
the sun was going down, the shadow of
my mother filled the same spot where my
father had smiled upon me. It was the
same sweet rosy face, with greyish curls
about the temples, that I had last looked
upon in London. As soon as it had noted
my recognition of it, the shadowy form
moved towards the western end of the
balcony. A shadowy hand appeared. She
laid her own upon it ; and then I saw my
father. Companions on earth since the age
of seventeen, they are companion ghosts in
the spirit world. That night I knew my
father and mother were dead; for I dreamed
it also ; and a week later, when I was ready
to leave Manilla, I saw them standing hand-in-hand
in my garden, two old London

people looking at my flower-beds, as if they
had come to stay with me. An inward
voice at the same moment seemed to say,
1 They are happy here ; stay you yet a little
while.' "

I began to think that my friend was a
monomaniac. He spoke on this at once as
if he read my thoughts, as he had often
done before.

These things are marvellous to you, but
they are true. To me it is only strange that
it is given unto so few in this world to seethe
spirits of the other. But we will change
the subject."

No, no, pray continue."

For the present, yes ; I see that I disturb
you. Let us to our affairs. I hope
you do not regret our partnership in the
Mermaid. Your original scruples did you
honour. But you are inexperienced in the
trade of precious stones and gems. c Diamond
cut diamond ' was my father's motto in
regard to that branch of our business. I

owe you ten thousand pounds. My agent at
Pekin sent me to Singapore drafts for that
amount on Rothschild. The Emperor of
China overwhelmed him with thanks. He
reckons the Mermaid the finest pearl the
world has ever seen."

You did not tell me what became of
Prince Tawe."

You never asked me ; I thought you
preferred to forget the subject. After the
ceremony of restoring the pearl to the deep,
where the ancient fisherman had first seen
it, Prince Tawe obtained permission to make
a visit to China, as you know. We saw the
Sultan's yacht sail to put him aboard a
Pacific steamer. He offered his spurious
gem to my Pekin agent, who buys for the
Emperor, and who happened to be at Hong
Kong when Prince Tawe arrived."

With what result ? "

My agent is the shrewdest man I have
ever met. He matriculated in Persia, extended
his studies in India, bought experience

in Paris and Amsterdam, studied
diamond-mining in the Brazils, had pearl-fisheries
of his own at Ceylon, graduated asa
trader at St. Petersburg, practised in Paris,
Berlin, Vienna, London ; and settled finally
at Pekin. Some men would have denounced
Tawe as a fraud, or laughed at him as a fool.
But what did our Pekin friend do ? Saved
us all. Manilla, Sooloo, Meimbong, the
Eastern Seas are not closed to us by the
enmity of Prince Tawe if we chose to go
back. Tawe had other pearls to sell, other
gems to barter. Our agent, for in this he
was yours too, ridiculed Tawe's estimate of
1 the Mermaid ' but thought it best to buy
it, and lumped it with the rest, reckoning it
at two thousand pounds, 'for,' said he, 'I
think that was the wisest course.' I think
so too, and you ? "

I prefer not to think about it now; I
left myself in your hands ; I am not a
merchant nor a trader, I have no knowledge
of business ; you are wise and experienced ;
you have been kind to me, and I am content,"

I said, still with a feeling that the
transaction was not altogether honourable.

"That is true, you are not a business
man. Well, well, skill in trade does not
come by nature, and dealing in precious
stones is both a science and an art. Let us
thank Heaven for all its mercies, my friend ;
good night ! "

The next morning I wished to telegraph
to Sir Christopher Hallam. He would communicate
with Ernstone and thus spread the
news of my safe return. It was Christmas-day
; I must therefore wait. There were no
telegraph operators in attendance, at the
little town near Sir Christopher's place, on
Sundays.

Come with me," said the merchant
after breakfast, " I will show you the house
where I lived as a boy."

It was a cold frosty day. There were
many people in the streets, some going to
church, others wandering aimlessly about.
Bond Street looked as strange to me as the
people. Muffled in our furs we evidently

looked oddly to the people. The merchant
told the driver (we were in an open carriage)
to go slowly.

Turn to the right," he said, " get into
Regent Street, and then drive at a fast
pace down Oxford Street."

You have a good memory," I said.

I shall need it. Bond Street is much
altered. It seems to me that there is nothing
left of it but Long's Hotel. My friend, I
feel very sad."

The merchant sighed and stared about
him, as one who had never seen a city
before.

All changed, all changed ! " he said,
u except myself, except myself! "

Arrived in Oxford Street, a gleam of
satisfaction passed over his face ; but only a
gleam, a passing light.

You have come too far," he said
presently, " go back beyond Marylebone
Lane. Pull up at the end there, and we
will alight,"

The carriage stopped by-and-by. We

stepped out. The merchant stood upon the
pavement and looked up and down the
street. Several boys touched their hats and
held the carriage-door. A policeman paused
and looked on. The merchant backed into
the road, looking up at the handsome
buildings.

"Anything wrong, sir?" asked the
policeman.

Yes, I fear so," said the merchant
coming to my side and leaning upon my
arm.

Lost anything, sir ? "

Yes, I am afraid so."

"What is it, sir?"

An old house."

The policeman looked at me.

We are looking for a particular shop
or house hereabouts."

In the antiquarian line, or old friends?"
asked the policeman, with an amiable smile.

Old friends," said the merchant
sadly.

Did you ever hear the name of Waller ?''

Can't say as I have ? "

11 Not John Jeffrey Waller and Son,
late Warbeck and Co. ?"

"Well, no, sir."

Famous chronometer makers and diamond
merchants ? "

No, sir."

What shop is this ? "

Drapers and furriers and the like."

Gone," said the merchant re-entering
the carriage, " gone ! "

Where next ? " asked the driver.

To Marylebone church."

Presently we stood by a flat tombstone,
a dingy, neglected, record with two names
upon it, " John Jeffrey Waller and Mary
his wife."

After gazing upon the memorial for a
few minutes, he said, " A cold, hard, cruel,
resting-place ! "

The organ pealed out the opening strains
of a Christmas anthem. The choir followed
with a burst of heavenly music.

Ah, one needs something to sweeten

VOL. II. R

the atmosphere," he said, looking up, " come
away, my son, come away, it is horrible ! "

Where next ? " asked the driver.

To Manilla" answered the merchant.

CHAPTER II.

COLONEL Vanstone ARRIVES IN LONDON, AND
THE MERCHANT LEAVES IT.

I had read the carpenter's story on my
way home from Singapore. The day after
Christmas-day, I called upon the Editor of
The Daily Telegraph and gave him the
sequel to it.

The great London office was a very
different place to that of The Breedon Times,
where I had " fleshed my maiden pen," as
young writers describe their first effort in
journalism.

My surprise equalled my satisfaction
when I found that the gentleman who did
me the honour to receive me was acquainted
R 2

with my name. He remembered my St.
Partridge sketch in The May fair Magazine.
It turned out that he was not the Editor of
The Telegraph, but one of that gentleman's
responsible subordinates. " But," he said,
I happen to be the Editor of The May fair
Magazine, and we have often wondered why
you never followed up that very successful
essay which you contributed to our first
number."

Here was a revelation, after all these
years ! Here was a chance that had been
waiting for me on that very day when I
stood on the quay at Gloucester ! Fate was
there with two roads open to me. I wonder
if I took the right one! I think I did.
What would have been my lot if I had gone
straight to London, and sought journalistic
and literary employment then, instead of
going to sea. Heaven only knows ! I might
have struggled on in obscurity and wretchedness,
dropping manuscripts into editors'
boxes, with the same kind of results as
dropping them into the sea with stones tied

round them, like weights about the necks of
blind puppies ; who knows ?

The May fair Magazine" said my
newly-made friend, " is prosperous, it is
backed by a large capital, and after your
short account of The Phoebe has appeared
in The Telegraph I shall be glad to give
you quite your own terms for a special
paper in The Mayfair on the Bulonagan
Islands, and your proposals for an expedition
to Kututu. I think it will make a great
sensation ! And I will have it duly announced
and advertised that you have
promised further exclusive details and other
startling revelations to The Mayfair ', to which
you made your first literary contribution."

I was overwhelmed with my sudden prospects
of wealth and fame. I had an immediate
inspiration to refuse my share of the
Sooloo pearl transaction. Later in the day,
when I had the opportunity of consulting
Colonel Ernstone upon the subject, he said
I was a fool to think of such a sacrifice of
money. " Not fairly won ! " he exclaimed,

nonsense, my dear fellow, nonsense; if all
the merchandise, in the way of precious
stones and pearls, that come to London
was as fairly won as that, there would not
be much to complain of in regard to commercial
morality." I did not agree with the
colonel. But to return to my sub-editorial
friend in Fleet Street ; he showed me into
a small scantily furnished, but warm and
substantial looking room, supplied me with
pens, ink, and paper.

"Not too much," he said, "just the
entire story closely told ; don't dwell on
the wreck of The Phoebe, but emphasise
it, because we were charged with what is
called writing up the carpenter's story."

I found myself somewhat bewildered
with the multitude of my facts, for it will
be easily understood that I was not at that
time an expert in journalistic composition.
But I put the matter into a column and a
half, writing it simply, more like a letter to
a friend than anything else. It briefly
referred to the carpenter's story, endorsing

his account of the wreck, and giving a few
details of my detention by the Bulonagans,
and my ultimate escape.

I referred, in passing, to Kututu and its
Irish king, intimating that at a future day I
would return to the subject with especial
reference to certain proposals for an expedition
to Kututu and Bulonagan, with a view
to an investigation of the condition of these
unknown islands of the sea.

At night in response to my telegrams (in
which I stated that I could not leave London
at present) Colonel Ernstone arrived at Long's
Hotel. It did me good to look upon his
kind and honest face once more. I thought
he would never leave off shaking hands with
me and slapping me on the back. Not that
he was one of those effusive persons who continually
indulge in that kind of salutation.
But he was almost beside himself with
delight. It was quite unlike him to be so
demonstrative.

How he talked ! How we both talked !
I learnt that my uncle was well ; that he

spoke of me occasionally, but without any
indication of forgiveness ; that my mother
and Miss Dunstan were intimate friends ; that
my step-father was a minister without a seat
in the Cabinet, and as canting a humbug
as ever he was; that Miss Dunstan had
a town-house at Kensington and a countryseat
near Scarsdale in Derbyshire ; that
she had lost a considerable sum of money
in a colliery investment which the Right
Hon. Mr. Welby, M.P. had introduced
to her notice ; that her name and my
mother's were familiar in connection with
most of  the great philanthropic works of the
time; that the Hallamss were a very happy
family ; and that with my return Ernstone
might now say he had nothing in life to
desire.

We will have a jolly week together in
London," he said ; " I know the place better
than you do ; I will show you the sights."

You got my letters ?'' I asked.

The last time I heard from you was
nearly two years ago, dated City of Brune'

Is it so long since ? " I said, " it seems
but yesterday. You have told me nothing
of Judith Travers''

I met Father Gabriello in an odd way
at Havre not very long since ; I was coming
from Normandy, he was going to Paris, and
thence to Antwerp. He told me that the
lady of the villa was a Sister of the House
of Mary near that city."

Anything else ? Was she well ? "

Not very."

"111?"

"Yes."

I thought so "

"Why?"

"I cannot tell."

"You have not forgotten her ? "

I never shall."

But your feelings have changed somewhat,
eh ? "

If you mean do I want to marry her,
they have."

You found a pretty Malay or a Sooloo
beauty ? "

There were beautiful girls out there," I
said, " and there were also the Bulonagans."

"Ah, I knew you would get over it,"
said the Colonel.

If you mean that I shall ever get rid of
a touch of the heart-ache when I think of
Constance Gardner you do not know me.
If you think that were she free to-day, from
that bondage of the Church which she has
embraced, I would not marry her whatever
happened, you are equally wrong."

Well, my dear Horace, all I can say is
that your feelings do you honour. You
have not inquired after Mr. Justice Miller."

Hang Mr. Justice Miller! "

"Let us pray he may never have the
chance of hanging us. I see by the papers
he has annoyed some of the Bar by insisting
upon sitting through the usual Christmas
vacation. He is on the bench at the Old
Bailey."

He may be under it for all I care' I
said.

"Don't be too hard on him; he always

inquires after you, and is under the impression
that he did you a good turn."

Indeed!"

And really, Horace, I think he did."

You did not think so at the time."

I tried not to think so."

You succeeded. I remember your
denunciation of him."

My heart more than my head was
engaged in it," said the Colonel ; " some day
you may thank him."

Never."

I think you will ; but don't let us have
a row about it."

My dear Ernstone, whatever you may
say to me, that can never happen. Come, it
is time for dinner, and I want to introduce
you to the merchant."

Arrived at Long's Hotel, I found
dinner laid for me, and on the table a letter
carefully sealed.

From your friend," said the waiter;
he left for Paris an hour ago."

Left ! " I exclaimed.

Yessir."

For Paris?"

And Marseilles, sir. You was to have
this the moment you came in. ,,

I opened the letter and read 
"My dear Friend,

I inclose you draft on Rothschild's
1 to your order for the sum I owe you,
10,000. I hope to catch the French mail
i steamer at Marseilles for Singapore. In
my dreams, sometimes in my waking
1 moments, under the palms at Manilla, I
1 have seen those two dear people whose
names you read on that bitter, hard, slab.
1 The old house too, I have seen it many a
time as I sat in my verandah at sundown.
1 I go back to dream those dreams again.
It may be that their spirits followed me
1 to my eastern home. I will try and think
so. The haunts of my boyhood are blotted
i out, London knows me no more. Those
good, kind, people, my father and mother,
1 have no association with the charnel-house
I leave behind me. They are spirits, their
bodies are dust. To them distance, space,
i has no meaning. A thought will carry
them over the seas, in reality, as it carries

us in imagination. I cannot see them
here. The old house exists no longer to
attract them hither, and, without a living
tie of blood and kindred, what shall keep
released spirits hovering over London,
except to guard those they love, to bathe
with tears the footsteps of the lonely, the
wretched, and the starving, and to mourn
over the cruelties that are committed in
the name of civilisation. Ah, my friend,
I fear our modern poet wrote in ignorance
when he said, Better fifty years of Europe
than a cycle of Cathay. God help us, weare
poor creatures. I could not stay to
wish you good-bye, lest my purpose should
change. When the driver asked me where
he should drive us next, you thought my
reply l To Manilla ' was a cry of bitterness
from a bruised heart, a cynicism in
which my disappointment found expression.
Know then, my friend, that it was an involuntary
utterance. And do you remember
when you laid your hand in mine
in kindly sympathy, I said, ' Yes, to
Manilla ? ' It seemed to me that my
mother might have said, ' To Manilla ! '
and that I answered, ' Yes. 1 Good-bye, my

friend, my son let me say, for I am
much attached to you. Letters addressed,
Care of Johnston and Co., Singapore, will
find me. I have given instructions to my
lawyers here to acquaint you with my
further intentions, and I beg you to feel
assured of my esteem for your character,
u and my interest in your welfare.
"Yours, to command,

Jeffrey Waller."

end OF VOL. II.

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

Hsawv

BEING

THE LIFE, LOVES, ADVENTURES, AND

STRANGE EXPERIENCES OF

HORACE Durant.

BY

JOSEPH HATTON,

AUTHOR OF "THREE RECRUITS," "TO DAY IN AMERICA," "CLTTIE,'
THE QUEEN OP BOHEMIA," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:

CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, HENRIETTA ST.

CO VENT GARDEN.

1883.

[All Right Reserved.]

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

25, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CONTENTS.

BOOK I.

I. The dramatic Sequel to my meeting with

George Harmer and his Wife at Antwerp 3

II. I become famous . 23

III. With Father Gabriello . 50

IV. Sister Constance . 65
V. In which I meet my Mother and Helen Dunstan

at Antwerp 80

VI. Still lingers under the Chimes at Antwerp 104

VII Reflections and Reminiscences . . .121

VIII. The Confession of Judith Travers . . 131

BOOK IL
I. The house where I was born
11. Exploration leads to Discovery

III. I ENGAGE IN A VULGAR BrAWL

IV. A Bundle of Letters
V. The Palace

VI. Some of the Mb'D shall stick
VII. On the way to the Cedars
VIII. The ship sails home at last.










END.

VOL. III.

BOOK I.

He wept : '' The earth hath kindness

The sea, the starry poles ;
Earth, sea, and skt/, and God above 

But, ah, not human souls ! "

In summer in the woodlands,

The Baltic sea along,
Sits Neckar, with his harp of gold,

And sings this plaintive song.

Matthew Arnold.

VOL. m. B

THE DRAMATIC SEQUEL TO MY MEETING WITH
GEORGE HARMER AND HIS WIFE AT ANTWERP.

' Come out," said Colonel Ernstone, the
next morning, or you will be a candidate
for a lunatic asylum. Distraction is what
you want  change of scene ; come out, we
will go for a stroll, nobody knows you as
yet ; stop thinking for an hour or two ; that is
the only remedy ; come out, Horace."

I had not slept. The merchant's sudden
departure, and his touching letter, had quite
upset me. During breakfast six strangers
had called to see me, and ten had left their
cards. Ernstone had received the six for me.
The Telegraph story, it seemed, had created a
great sensation.

B 2

'If you don't come out you will be
worried to death," said Colonel Ernstone.

He little thought of the new surprise to
which he was about to introduce me.

 Nothing like walking when you are
bothered," said Ernstone.

We walked to Oxford Circus.

Not down the street," I said, for I was
not willing to pass the end of Marylebone
Lane at present.

 No, we will go up the street," he said.

 The extraordinary shipwreck and
adventures with savages ! " cried a newspaper
vendor, thrusting a Telegraph at us.

' That's you ! " said Ernstone, nudging
me ;  you will understand what Fame is by
this time tomorrow ! "

Oxford Street appeared to me very bright
and dazzling, compared with its aspect on
Christmas-day. The weather was cold, but
the sun was shining. There were holly and
mistletoe in shop-windows here and there.
The traffic bewildered me ; but the scene
generally struck me as singularly cheerful.

Thinking of the somewhat gloomy appearance
of the streets on Christmas-day, no
doubt made me see more colour in them now
than I otherwise should have done but for
this contrast.

 I don't know anything after all that
carries a fellow more out of himself than a
court of law; that is, when he has no personal
interest in the business ; no fear as to the
verdict of the jury, and all that sort of thing.
Hi, hansom ! "

'Ere yeare. Sir!" responded a nimble
driver.

' Old Bailey," said Ernstone.

Yessir," said cabby, and away we
went.

Having vainly endeavoured to run down
two omnibuses, and made a vigorous attempt
to annihilate a crossing-sweeper, ' 'Ere'
are-sir," landed us safely, though not without
some violence, at the Old Bailey.

As we entered the Criminal Court the
business was proceeding in a leisurely, dull
kind of way.

 Sit down here," said Ernstone, ' we
shall not be noticed. If the case is not
amusing we will leave. But I am sure
Miller will interest you. Besides, he will
carry your mind back to Breedon, and, hush !
come closer, by Jove he is reading in The
Telegraph all about your return."

I had only a side-glimpse of the judge's
face. Wearing his heavy official robes,
he was reading a newspaper, and at the
same time listening to the address of one of
the counsel. Very few people were in court.
The winter sun was falling upon the table,
round which several barristers were sorting
papers. I took a seat with my friend
almost opposite what turned out to be the
dock. The learned counsel for the prisoner
was just closing what seemed to be a laboured
appeal to the jury, more with the object of
exciting their sympathies than to secure
justice for his client. He referred particularly
to a previous conviction, the importance
of which he did not attempt to
disguise ; but at the same time he dwelt upon

the fact that the prisoner, during his penal
servitude, had behaved well enough to obtain
a ticket-of-leave, and that, in addition to this,
his conduct, on being released, had been
*' spoken to " by most reliable and responsible
witnesses. He begged the jury, in considering
their verdict, to remember these facts, and to
try and realise the possibility of the forged
money which had been found in the prisoner's
possession being none of his, and having been
unwittingly received by him. It seemed tome,
as I listened to the advocate, that the
case against the prisoner was a foregone
conclusion. This was evidently the belief
of the Court, for no one paid any particular
attention to the learned counsel's address,
and when he sat down the judge proceeded
to sum up with a calm, judicial intimation to
the jury that they had but one duty to perform,
and that was to pronounce the prisoner
guilty. It appeared that he had been previously
convicted as a coiner, and that within
two months of his release he had been taken
with a packet of forged money in his possession.

The prisoner, on being arrested, stated
that the money was placed in his hand by a
woman, that he did not know the contents,
nor had the slightest idea of them until the
packet was opened before his eyes at the
police station. There was no evidence to
support this apparently lame statement ; the
case against the prisoner was only too conclusive
; and the appeal of the learned advocate
for the accused was rather one to betaken
into consideration by the judge, in
pronouncing sentence, than by the jury in
considering their verdict.

Finding the business of the Court so uninteresting
I was just about to give Ernstone
a suggestive nudge for withdrawing, when a
very earnest voice said, ' My Lord, before the
jury gives their verdict may I say a word?"

There was something so pathetic in the
tone of the prisoner's voice, though the
appeal in itself was ordinary enough, that
the whole Court turned its eyes in the direction
of the dock. I had previously only
glanced at the prisoner, and had done sounder

the generally lazy influence of the Court,
without paying any particular attention to
the appearance of the accused. Looking
now into his pale, haggard face I seemed to
recall features I had seen before under peculiar
circumstances. It was a careworn,
thoughtful face, a mouth more generous than
sensual, and eyes that certainly did not speak
the criminal. It was the face of a man who
had suffered much, but crime had not left
its indelible and unmistakable marks upon it.
I do not mean to imply that it was a frank,
honest face, but there was more in it of
sorrow and sadness and mental pain than of
cupidity and vice. I had seen it before.
I never forget a face. I tried hard to
remember the circumstances under which I
had met the prisoner.

'I have seen that man before," I whispered
to Ernstone.

 Have you? Where''

 I cannot remember ; but I know him''

' Your counsel has spoken for you," said
Mr. Justice Miller, in his hard judicial voice

(how it carried me back to Baveno ! ),  but
I will hear you."

' I wish," said the prisoner, to ask the
policeman a question."

* Great heavens!" I exclaimed,  it is
George Harmer ! "

 Silence in the Court ! " cried the usher.

I had half risen. Ernstone pulled me
back upon my seat.

The judge intimated that the prisoner's
application was out of order. The counsel
for the prosecution, however, rose *in reply
to inform the Court that he had no objection
to offer against it. Counsel for the prisoner
shrugged his shoulders, and intimated that
he was in the hands of the Court.

 I hadn't thought to say a word, your
lordship," said the prisoner, in a tremulous
voice, but with a certain confidence and
clearness of elocution that seemed to promise
something worth hearing, '' but I feel that I
ow-e something to the kind friends who have
spoken for me, and that the previous conviction
which has been mentioned may, if I

remain silent, send me back to transportation
for life''

(It was George Harmer. I watched him
with an eager eye. I listened to every word
that was said with breathless attention.)

 If your counsel sees fit," said the
judge,  you will have an opportunity of
addressing the Court later."

 I only wish to ask the policeman a
question''

' Policeman, stand forward," said the
judge.

An intelligent looking officer stepped into
the witness-box.

' You may put your question through
me'' said the judge.

 Will your lordship ask who gave him
the information upon which I was arrested ? ''

Counsel for the prosecution rose to object.
Scotland Yard, he said, had necessarily its
secret sources of information, and apart from
that the question was one which could
hardly be considered relevant as touching
the evidence before the Court. Counsel for

the defendant ventured to differ, and the
Court ruled in favour of the prisoner.

** Will your lordship ask him if it was a
woman ? '' said the prisoner.

'was it a woman who gave you the
information upon which you arrested the
prisoner ? " asked the judge,

' It was, your lordship," said the policeman.


'' Will you ask him," said the prisoner,
'' if she is in Court ? "

Counsel for the prosecution again objected,
and an interesting wrangle on both sides
was finally concluded in favour of the question
being put.

 She is in Court, your lordship," said
the policeman.

There sat within a short distance from
the witness-box a woman, whose features
were partly veiled by what ladies, I believe,
describe as a  complexion fall." As the
prisoner spoke she raised her head, with a
defiant glance towards the dock, and then at
the counsel for the prosecution. It was then

that I noticed an expression which, like a
flash of thought, brought back to me the
two young people, Mr. and Mrs. Harmer,
whom I had met on their honeymoon at
Antwerp. There was noticeable in the
woman the same calm, statuesque beauty, the
straight classic nose, the low forehead, the
bluish-grey eyes, the strongly-marked chin,
which had previously impressed me. Here,
then, at the Old Bailey was the sequel to the
Antwerp holiday, the consummation of my
own forecast of trouble.

'' Is that the woman who informed against
me ? " asked the prisoner, pointing to the
seat she occupied, all the time turning his
head in a different direction.

 It is," said the officer.

My lord and gentlemen," said the
prisoner, 'that woman is my wife I "

There was something so dramatic in the
declaration that it sent a thrill of surprise
through the court, and you may be sure
that I was deeply moved.

The judge raised his double eye-glasses

to look at the woman and her husband, as
the latter proceeded, without further remark,
to make a statement to the jury.

' My lord and gentlemen, I will, in a
few words, put my case before you. If,
when you have heard it, you think I am
worthy to be sent back to Millbank for the
rest of my miserable days, I shall not complain.
Six years ago I had a studio in
Newman Street. I was a decorative artist.
It was necessary for the purpose of my work
that I should have a model from which to
design a figure of Victory for a panel at
Norfolk House. One day my patron sent
me a beautiful young woman for this purpose.
I fell in love with her, and six months
afterwards I married her. I had saved two
hundred pounds, and was making generally
an income of three to four hundred a year.
I took her for our honeymoon on a tour
through France, Holland, and Belgium. I
had studied as a boy in Holland, and had
made many pilgrimages to Antwerp. I was
anxious to show her the scenes which had

inspired what little ability I possessed. We
returned to London. My wife developed
very extravagant tastes. She ran me into
debt and ruined me. All this time my one
object was to please her. It did not matter
to me what she asked or what she desired,
so long as I could administer to her happiness.
We drifted into bad society. She
introduced me to strange people of strange
habits. One night we visited together a
coiner. He was a Dutchman. I joined
his confederacy. My artistic qualifications
made me a valuable acquisition to the band.
I became a manufacturer of spurious money,
my wife one of three women who passed
most of the spurious coinage, in London,
Paris, Vienna, and Berlin. Eventually we
were taken. I was advised by my counsel
that if I made certain declarations my wife
would escape the punishment of her crime.
She pleaded that she acted under my control
and authority ; I strengthened her plea by
fully endorsing it. She wept plentifully ; I
think I did so too, as she stood by me in

the dock. She was acquitted ; I was sentenced
to five years' penal servitude. Two
months ago I was released on a ticket-leave,
and a few pounds were given me by
the officer of a charitable society. I sought
out my wife, and found her living with
another man. She did not confess this tome,
I discovered it for myself. I took a
lodging, begged her to come home tome,
and to rest assured that I would
retrieve the past by an honest course of
life. I had, while in prison, been allowed
to do something in the way of my art. She
said it was impossible for her to come tome
at once, but she would in a fortnight.
I obtained employment with the firm, the
members of which have given me the character
you have heard. I found my wife's
address, and sent her, each week, money that
she might not be dependent upon any one
else. The fortnight passed; she did not
return. I saw her occasionally, still influenced
by my former infatuation and love
for her, and now by a new desire to lead

her into a better life. Six weeks went by
in this manner, when one morning I received
a letter from her appointing to meet me that
night by the Grower Street Station of the
Underground Railway. I had passionately
urged her to come back to me and had
intimated that it was unwise for her to
tempt me to take vengeance upon the man
who kept her from me. She begged me to
meet her at nine o'clock, and promised she
would go home with me. I was there
punctually. She came to me, and, placing
in my hands a small parcel, she said,
There, George, is all the money you have
sent me ; I have saved every penny of it :
hold it for a minute. Dutchy, as you call
him, is round the corner ; he is quite reconciled
to my going; I promised that if you
were here to keep your appointment I would
go back for a minute and say good-bye forever.'
I pressed her hand ; said  God
bless you ! and I forgive him ! ' She hurried
away and I waited. Five minutes had not
elapsed when the policeman came up to me,

VOL. III. c

and said,  Your name is George Harmer.' I
said  Yes, it is.' 'You have a ticket-of-leave,'
he said. I said, ' Yes, that is true.' ' Then
I arrest you for being in the possession of
counterfeit coin.' I told him he had made
a mistake. I did not, however, object to
accompany him to the station-house, but I
was waiting for my wife, and begged him
not to take me away for a few minutes
longer. He said that was a pretty tale to
tell; I must come along and explain it to
the inspector. I went with him, the packet
in my hand just as it was when she gave
it me. They opened it at the station-house,
and found it to be a packet of spurious gold
and silver; and that, your lordship and
gentlemen of the jury, is the simple truth
from first to last."

Nobody doubted it for a moment.

'' Not Guilty I " was the prompt and

decisive verdict of the jury.

*' A pitiful story, truly," said the judge,

looking at the prisoner ; " true or false, it

has obtained your acquittal. You are discharged."



' It is true, my lord."

' I believe it is, said the judge.

'' I know it is ! " I said, rising, and
pushing my way towards the prisoner.

 Silence ! " cried the usher.

' Who is this person ? " asked the judge,
' let him stand forward ! "

 It is Mr. Horace Durand!" said Colonel
Ernstone, rising in his seat.

' Indeed ! an unexpected pleasure," said
Mr. Justice Miller, looking at me through
his eye-glasses.

 Usher, show Mr. Durand to a seat on
the bench. And request the discharged
prisoner to come to my room.

 Yes, your lordship."

Harmer disappeared beneath the dock.

'' And Colonel Ernstone, I would like
to speak with you."

Only a few minutes had elapsed before
I was shaking hands with Mr. Justice
Miller. The Bar was greatly excited. While
Ernstone was explaining to the counsel that
I was the Durand whose adventures were
c2

referred to in the morning paper, and that
my uncle was the judge's intimate friend,
Mr. Justice Miller was congratulating me
on my safety and welcoming me back to
England.

' Not quite the hard-hearted judge you
would have thought, eh ? " he said, with a
somewhat cold smile.

' You have tempered justice with mercy,
in the only case I have heard you try, sir,"
I answered.

'' But you do not love me in your heart.
No matter, tell me how I can serve you."

Is it possible you did not know who
this man was whom your patience, let me
say your kindness, has saved from the vilest
of vile conspiracies ? " I asked.

'' Not my patience, nor my kindness,
Mr. Durand," said the judge, ' but duty.
You know this man. I believe I have seen
him before; I occasionally see a criminal
twice ; but that never changes my neutral
feeling towards him; I am the servant of
the Law."

'This poor wretch," I said,  shot with
you on a first of September at Dunstan's."

 Is it possible ? " said the judge.

'' He was the decorative artist whom the
Squire, in his hospitable way, invited to join
our party in the Breedon Valley," I said.

*' Dunstan gave his social instincts a wide
range," said the judge, looking up towards
the Bar for the first time.

' May it please your lordship," said an
elderly barrister, '' in the case of "

' Mr. Durand, good day! '' said the judge,
I hope we shall meet again soon; my
secretary will show you to my room ; you
will find this person, Alexander D. Russell,
alias George Harmer, there ; if I can assist
any philanthropic designs which you and
Colonel Ernstone may entertain in his interest
you may command my services."

'* Thank you very much, my lord," I
said.

Colonel Ernstone had indeed succeeded
in turning my thoughts into new channels.
Trying to recognise the hand of Providence

in this last incident, I am bewildered with
the complications that belong to it.

When I went into the judge's room,
George Harmer was standing in the middle
of it, pale and agitated.

' My poor friend ! " I said, taking his
hand, which he tried to withdraw from me,
' you have indeed suffered."

He gripped my hand, his lips quivered,
and great tears rolled down his pale, worn
cheeks.

CHAPTER II.

I BECOME FAMOUS.

Antiquity has a maxim which describes
Fame as resembling the shadow that retires
when pursued, but follows when shunned.
A certain philosopher, who has written very
pleasantly upon aphoristic and other subjects,
contests the truth of the maxim in question.
' A pretty metaphor," he says, * will often
give currency to a falsehood." He thinks
that, if a man chooses to let fame alone,
fame will be very content to let him alone."
I am not anxious to take up the cudgels in
favour of proverbs and the like, but I present
myself as a living example of the wisdom
of the ancient writer who likened fame to the
shadow that follows when shunned.

At the same time I might point to my
career as an instance of the amiable philosophy
that ' everything happens for the
best." Who would have thought that the
calamity of my being disowned by my uncle
Grantley would be my first step to fame and
fortune ? The preacher previously quoted
declares, that, if the votaries of celebrity
knew how seldom the most conspicuous
names form the subject of thought or discourse,
they would not be so eager to chase
' the phantom Fame." Seeing that I never
dreamed of being celebrated, I have not
been afflicted with the passion for notoriety
against which many writers have so much to
advance ; but, in spite of the inconvenience,
not to say annoyance, which the fame of my
exploits inflicted upon me during the first
few weeks of my experiences of becoming
celebrated, I am free to confess there is a
certain amount of pleasurable emotion in
standing apart from the crowd, and in feeling
that after death one will not be altogether
forgotten.

As if it were not a sufficient claim to
*' limitation " that I was the hero of an
appalling shipwreck and the discoverer of a
new group of remarkable islands, the Old
Bailey incident was a newspaper and society
topic the next day. I awoke, indeed, to find
myself famous. My name was in every newspaper
and on every lip. The  manliness"
of my conduct in Court was in keeping with
the modesty which I had exhibited in regard
to my singular adventures and remarkable
discoveries. The incident of the Old Bailey
occupied a prominent space in the London
daily papers; and I was invited by a
dramatist to join him in weaving it into a
story for representation on the stage.

Indeed, I should like the reader to try
and guess something that I was not invited
to do at this period of my career. It seemed
to me as if London for forty-eight hours
simply concentrated itself upon me and my
affairs.

Invitations poured in upon me from all
quarters, invitations to dine, to dance, to

breakfast, to lunch, to subscribe to hospitals,
to attend meetings of the Aborigines' Aid
Society ; invitations to consider suggestions
for the conversion of the Bulonagan and
Kututu islands into Joint Stock Companies ;
to form associations for pearl-fishing, dia-condemning,
collecting gutta, and tropical
farming ; invitations to write for this paper
and that magazine, to give this publisher
the honour of publishing the book which of
course I should write, fully describing my
adventures ; invitations to sit to fourteen
different photographers, three of whom in
the most delicate way offered me a royalty
on the sale of every copy sold ; invitations it
seemed to me from everybody, to do everything,
except an invitation from my uncle
Grantley, towards whom my heart was
yearning for friendship and forgiving recognition,
and in the absence of which even a
command to the royal presence at Windsor
was not sufficient compensation.

If in my wildest moments I had dreamed
that all this notoriety awaited me in London

I should not have had the courage to face it.
Bewilderment but feebly describes my
general condition. An outcast, who five
years previously had gladly embraced an
offer of little less than labourer's work on
the quay at Gloucester to be received in
the royal presence chamber of the greatest
and most gracious Queen known to history,
was something too overwhelming for realisation.
Nothing could have been more
considerate or amiable than the royal
interest in the story of my adventures, more
particularly in that part of the narrative which
dealt with my intercourse with the King of
Kututu. It would not become me to enter
into particulars of my visit to Windsor, the
recollection of which will however always
remain with me as one of the most cherished
remembrances of my life.

For a whole week I was kept in a
continual whirl of excitement. The Geographical
Society invited me to address a
meeting on the new islands. I did so, and
relieved myself of one half of Mr. Jeffrey

Waller's draft I concluded my sketch of
the Bulonagans by offering a subscription
of OjOOOZ. towards the costs of an expedition
to these islands, and for the relief of the
King of Kututu. The next morning the
press, in referring to my remarks, commended
my generosity, and I fear that this somewhat
ill-advised disclosure of my wealth must
have excited the envy or jealousy of rival
lions and struggling merit ; for there appeared
in one or two journals articles openly
questioning my veracity and sneering at
my ostentation. My association with a
convicted coiner was remarked upon with
playful vindictiveness. The Superfine (bless
its honest spoken scepticism !) challenged my
geographical knowledge, and almost in the
language of a modern classic declared it
did not believe there was any such personas
the King of Kututu. Indeed, the unsympathetic
and daring reviewer had the
audacity to suggest that the entire business
had been got up in Peterborough Court to
extend still further ' the largest circulation."

Orders rolled in for The May fair Magazine
nevertheless. The editor rubbed his hands
with delight at the sensation which he had
initiated, when he handed me pen, ink,
and paper in the little room adjoining the
editorial chambers. I was greatly impressed
with the profitable nature of writing for the
press when a cheque for a hundred guineas
was posted to me for the Shipwreck article
with thanks." All of a sudden I understood
the meaning of  the wages of an ambassador
and the treatment of a gentleman ; " and I
offer this experience of mine as ample
endorsement of Mr. James Pain's Nineteenth
Century praises of the profession
of writing. It is true that The Mayfair
Magazine only sent me two guineas for
that early sketch which the editor had
remembered so long in connection with my
name. But the circumstances attending the
two contributions were of course entirely
different, and I can quite understand why
London journalists now-a-days ride in the
Park, and hob-nob with princes. One

hundred guineas for a contribution a little
over a column in length! At that rate
I could have afforded to give all my ten
thousand pounds away. I don't know that I
argued the business out in this manner, but
I might have done so, and acting upon such
conclusions should of course have come to
grief. I had, however, no time to theorise
nor to speculate, events carried me from one
excitement to another with such great rapidity.


At first I was inclined to be very angry
with my hostile critics. For an entire half-hour
I had serious thoughts of going to the
office of The Superfine and thrashing somebody.


But Colonel Ernstone said  that would
never do." ' The proper course," he argued,
' would be to go and make friends with
them."

I laughed satirically at the suggestion.

*you are wrong, my friend," he went
on,  never quarrel with a newspaper  they
always have the last word. I give you the

same advice that Baron Anderson or Martin,

I forget which, gave to my old friend the
Bishop of Durham. It was that bishop who
was so awfully rich, and whom The Times
attacked. The churchman asked the judge's
advice. When the assizes were on in the
North, the two old boys dined together at
the deanery.  I think I shall write to the
Times and explain where the writer is wrong ! '
Don't do anything of the kind,' said the
judge, * take my advice ; you have no chance
in a fight with an editor. If The Times
charged me with murdering my grandmother,
I should certainly offer no defence. Supposing
I did, and they apologised or explained,
they would probably say that,  it is true, it
seems, that the learned judge did not murder
his grandmother, but it is well known that
he is an adulterer, which, in the eye of the
Church, is a crime of almost equal importance
; ' no, my dear Bishop, don't write to
The Times, they will have the last word,
whatever you may say I ' And I repeat that
counsel to you, Horace." I accepted it.

The very next night Ernstone introduced
me to the editor of The Superfine himself,
a pleasant unassuming old gentleman, who
did not hesitate to denounce the writer
who had contributed the objectionable article
in question to his pages. He quite disagreed
with it, and he should, most assuredly,
acquaint the author with his opinion upon
the subject. I sometimes wonder if he
 laughed in his sleeve," as he said
so. He certainly had no opportunity of
laughing anywhere else, for I watched
him narrowly. Later I met the author himself.
Did I shoot him? No. He turned
out to be one of the most inoffensive of men ;
and moreover he most emphatically denied all
knowledge of the article in question. I was
telling this to the editor of a popular
weekly paper the other day, who said he
was quite right to deny the authorship of
the article if it suited his convenience.
 I frequently," he said,  write to angry
correspondents, and declare that the objectionable
paragraph to which you allude

 quite escaped my notice,' when I had
really written it myself  it saves such
a lot of trouble and bother." My
friend in this case is a wag. He might
have been telling me the truth or not.
One of his leading views of journalism I
know is, that it is the first duty of an editor
to make his paper entertaining. Similarly I
can testify to the fact that he holds it to be of
primary social importance that a host should
amuse as well as feed his guests. My critic
in The Superfine turned out, as I have already
explained, to be one of the mildest mannered
and pleasantness of men. In regard to the
special work which he was employed to do
he frankly admitted that he was not a newspaper
fellow, don't you know, but was
studying for the bar, my dear friend, and
hated sensationalism of all kinds, and especially
when it was associated with exploration
or geography, or travel, don't you
know; but at the same time he confessed he
liked me and he would make it all right,
dear friend, in an article for another paper.

VOL. III. D

Could not of course ask The Superfine to
withdraw what it had said, but I might rely
on him to put the case for the other side in
glowing colours in The Censor, He was
utterly indifferent to the responsibilities or
duties of journalism, being as it seemed a
mere contributor to the press and not a
member of the so-called journalistic profession.
I was very sorry that I had mentioned
the matter at all to this gentleman,
he was really so apologetic in his remarks
and so full of assurance of his kindly feelings
towards me. I believe it is characteristic
of critics and reviewers that writers who are
most aggressive on paper are often the
mildest and most genial creatures away
from their desks. A similar peculiarity
obtains among commercial men. I have
heard persons from London who used to
visit Squire Dunstan in the old days say,
that, while he was a prince of good fellows
and the most generous of hosts outside business,
he was a perfect fiend in a monetary
transaction. ' ' Will have his pound of flesh ? "

a certain City man said in the hearing of
Dunstan himself;  that's not it at all;
wouldn't mind if he would be content with
that, but he will have a pound and a half."
Yet what a kindly, generous, considerate,
liberal fellow he was outside what these
people call business !

Ah how well I remember the dear old
squire, his choice Madeira, his travels on
wheels about the Manor House, his pleasant
dinner parties, his remarkable guests from
town, his splendid horses, and his handsome
unsophisticated yet accomplished and clever
daughter ! He was a model squire, and she
was a delightful lady of the manor. It was
difficult to realise the solemn fact that he
was dead, that Warrington Manor had
passed into other hands, that Helen Dunstan
was now what might be called a woman of
the world, since in the interest of true charity
she had done battle against some of the
harpies who make it a stalking-horse for
their own selfish aggrandisement. Ernstone
told me that she had only sold the manor on
da

lease of years, that she still retained the
freehold, and he believed she had parted
from it for a time because the pleasant
memories that once belonged to it had become
sour and harsh anal disagreeable. He
suggested that the day might come when
Miss Dunstan, like my friend the merchant,
would feel that longing of old age which
stretches out imaginary arms to the scenes
of its childhood. As if Helen Dunstan could
ever be old ! The idea seemed to me to be
perfectly preposterous.

I think as we grow older our memory
for the earliest incidents and scenes of our
youthful days strengthens. The happiest
periods of our life remain with us, oases in
the desert ; and the bitterest things that have
occurred also remain, as if to heighten by
contrast the effect of the events that are
sweet. To-day I seem to hate the spot
where Welby threatened and persecuted me,
though my heart goes out in tenderness and
love to my father's tomb close by ; while the
stale Hobaccoy" smell of the * Angel, "where

my uncle bade me seek him if ever I should
be in trouble, is as delicious to me, in its
way, as the perfume of gardenia that reminds
me of my dream in the gardens of
the Villa Verona.

It was little time that I had for these and
other reflections during my busy week in
London, busy with emotions and incidents,
busy with fame and fortune. By the end of
the week I was so *played out," to use a
graphic Americanism, that I was not sorry to
receive a telegram from Father Gabriello
requesting me to go to Antwerp immediately,
and naming my favourite hotel as the place
of rendezvous. Ernstone had only just gone
down into the country to arrange for my
visiting the Hallamss, and to get my uncle
there, he said, when this message reached
me. I telegraphed to his Yorkshire address,
and the next evening at Antwerp received
his reply, ' Oddly enough*' it ran, ' your
mother and Miss Dunstan are at Brussels ; I
have wired them to await me there  be
prepared to see us at Antwerp  let me beg

of you not to leave , at all events until you
see me there."

It will be readily understood that my
feelings continued to be in a state of great
disturbance at the prospect of renewing my
acquaintance with Father Gabriello, seeing
Constance Gardner and Helen Dunstan
again, and meeting my mother once more.
If London was a city of emotions for me,
Antwerp promised it a strange and exciting
rivalry. It seemed as if I was hurried from
one sensation to another. Since I had
landed at the London Docks I had gone
through a round of adventures, and Ernstone
predicted that one of the most surprising
experiences of all was in store for me in the
interview I had yet to have with the agents
of Mr. Jeffrey Waller. The head of a distinguished
firm of solicitors had left his card
at Long's Hotel, with a request that I would
fix a time when I would call upon him, or
when he should repeat his visit to me. While
therefore my trunks were being packed for
the night mail to Brussels, I telegraphed to

Messrs. Blandford and Blandford, of Essex
Street, Strand, informing them that they
might expect to see me almost as soon as
they would get my message.

In all my experiences of savage life, at
all events dating from my left-handed escape
from the ovens of Bulonagan, I do not think
I have ever felt a more nervous fear of
disaster than I endured in the first few days
of my navigating the London streets, immediately
after my arrival from the East by
the P. and O. steamer. It seemed to me as
if every hansom was engaged in running
the gauntlet of all the other vehicular traffic,
with a view to taking all the possible risks
of coming to grief. On one day I tried
a private brougham, but the competing
carriages, cabs, and waggons seemed to be
engaged in a conspiracy to run me down.
Possibly my sailor-life, passed so much on
broad ocean paths, and my long habit of
comparative seclusion among those sunny
islands of the sea, basking under an equatorial
sun, had unfitted me for the hurry and

bustle, the feverish stir, and perpetual motion
of the London streets.

Mr. Blandford, the senior partner of the
firm of Blandford and Blandford, smiled
at me in a curiously interested way, when
I told him what my impressions of the
London streets were ; and I was prompted
to the confession simply because the
hansom in which I was driven tried to
enter Essex-street through the shop-window
at the Strand corner of it, and was only
prevented from doing so by the considerate
intervention of a policeman who happened
to be passing at the moment. I am told
that the London cabman are the best drivers
in the world. If recklessness is the chief
factor in good driving, then I think they
are. Ernstone says the cabbies have greatly
degenerated since he was a young fellow
in town, and I should not wonder if the
statistics of accidents in the streets do not
prove his assertion.

Mr. Blandford said he did not ride in
cabs much ; and he advised me to invest ina

good useful brougham, a pair of sturdy-cobs
quiet to ride or drive, and an experienced
and sober coachman.

 For," said he,  except from choice,
there is not the smallest necessity that you
should distress yourself with the apparent
vexation you feel in regard to the use of
public cabs''

' Indeed ! " I said,  I suppose my offer
of 5,000Z. towards an expedition to Kututu
has led you, like the rest, into the belief that
I am a very wealthy man, though as Mr.
Jeffrey Waller's solicitor I should have expected
that you might have known better."

sand I hope after this interview, Mr.
Durand, we may say as your solicitors also.
Blandford and Blandford, I need hardly
remark, do not go a begging for clients ;
quite the contrary ; we are continually declining
them ; but in your case we shall
feel a great personal interest in attending
to your business."

' But, my dear sir, I have no business
that requires attention," I said, * and, while

thanking you very much for your compliments,
I can hardly think you have desired
me to call for the purpose of making proposals
for the management of my affairs,
when in truth I have no affairs."

'' You are a man of business, 1 see," said
Mr. Blandford;  I feared you were not, from
what Mr. Waller said about you, and judging
from your irritation at the traffic of the
London streets. Mr. Durand, I am glad to
make your acquaintance, and I hope we
may be good friends. Mr. Jeffrey Waller
has charged me with the duty of informing
you that he has made you his heir."

* His heir ! " I exclaimed.

His heir," said Mr. Blandford, sand
there is only one condition attached to his
munificence. Mr. Jeffrey Waller is the
descendant of an old family of London
merchants, known throughout many generations
for their probity and honour. Electing
to enjoy the freedom of bachelorhood, Mr.
Waller has no children, nor is he likely to
marry. At his demise he makes your title

to succeed to his wealth depend only upon
your consent to add his family and his
Christian name to your own. It would
stand thus  Horace Durand Jeffrey Waller;
and it seems to me, I take the liberty of saying,
an improvement. In the meantime he
places to your credit, through me, the sum
of twenty thousand pounds, which is at your
service, to be returned at your convenience
in case you do not accept his proposal, which,
in case you do, is to be considered as forming
part of his estate. You hesitate ? "

' I am slightly bewildered," I said, ' and
on the spur of the moment do not know
what to say except that I thank you, sir, for
the information you have given me, and that
I am grateful to Mr. Jeffrey Waller for the
interest he has taken in my welfare."

 But you decline his generous dispositions
in your favour, eh ?" said Mr. Bland -
ford rising from his seat and standing in
front of his fire, with his back to the ruddy
blaze. ' You say 'No,' as Waller suggested
you might ? Are you so full of false

pride as our dear old friend thinks, or are
you the man of business I believe you to be?"

Mr. Blandford was a grey-headed gentleman,
with a clean-shaven face, and a pair of
dark piercing eyes. He was dressed a little
after the fashion of my uncle, and looked
more like a country gentleman than a
London solicitor. He eyed me curiously,
but not without something of a friendly
expression of countenance.

' Mr. Blandford," I said,  I have undergone
so many surprises of late that you
must forgive me if I ask you to repeat to me
the proposal which you seem to think I
ought to refuse."

No, sir, not ought; my view would be
that you ought to say ' Yes ' to it at once ; to
hesitate is, I should say, to trifle with good
fortune, if not to fly straight into the face of
Providence ; but Mr. Jeffrey Waller had an
idea that you might refuse, and in that case
he has instructed us as to an alternative will.
The proposal, or rather let me say the invitation,
is this "

He repeated the heads of his previous
communication, and while he did so I tried
to master the situation.

* And," said Mr. Blandford in conclusion,
* I do not know any family which might
not consider it an honour to quarter upon its
escutcheon the arms of the Wallers, and no
name that could be lowered by association
with that of our esteemed and honoured
client."

' I don't know that I have an escutcheon
to quarter anybody's arms upon for that
matter," I said ;  but I have a name that is
honourable if not distinguished."

' And on that matter," said Mr. Blandford,
 I really do not know that Mr. Waller
rejoices in the luxury of a coat of arms ; my
reference to armorial bearings was a figure
of speech, my tribute to the honour and
probity of the Wallers is a matter of fact."

'' Mr. Waller has been most kind to me,"
I said,  and I was deeply moved to see him
so distressed when he could find no trace of
his old home in Oxford Street. His sudden

departure filled me with regret and his letter
with wonder. This that you have now told
me, as I said before, surprises and bewilders
me. Is it necessary that I should give you
an immediate answer ?"

'' No, not at all ; tomorrow will do, or
next week, or next month, or next year.
Mr. Waller has made his will, but he would
like to be informed of your views speedily,
and we are instructed to telegraph to hin at
Singapore the result of this interview."

Then tell him, Mr. Blandford, that I
am deeply sensible of his kindness ; that I
am now on my way to the continent ; but
I hope to return in a few days, when I will
give you my answer."

' Which will be sufficiently prompt, seeing
that he cannot arrive at Singapore under a
month," said Mr. Blandford, '' and in the
meantime you understand that you may
draw upon me for any sum you please up to
twenty thousand pounds."

' Thank you very much," 1 said.  I
do not require money, and that I am comparatively

rich is partly through Mr. Waller;
though I have brought some little property
from the East in the way of pearls and other
things that are easy of realisation."

' As you please, Mr. Durand; and let
me say in conclusion, that, if you would like
to consult any other lawyer in the matter or
place me in communication with any other
firm of solicitors, we hold ourselves entirely
at your command''

 You are very good; whether I say ' Yes '
or ' No,' Mr. Blandford, it will not be necessary
to say it through any third person."

' Good-day, Mr. Durand; pardon me for
saying you are a very lucky fellow."

' I have heard so before, Mr. Blandford,"
I replied,  and sometimes I think I am."

I travelled all that night on my way to
Antwerp via Brussels. It was bitterly cold.
I felt the harshness of the weather keenly in
spite of my furs and wraps. The tub of a
boat in which I crossed the channel reminded
me of The Flioebe. I do not say this disparagingly
of that excellent but ill-fated

craft. There was nothing in common between
the two vessels ; one sailed, the other steamed,
yet I was reminded of The Fhoebe as we
ploughed through the waters plunging and
rolling ; and it seemed to me that I ought
to have placed myself in communication
with the owners. When I came to reflect
upon the matter, it appeared odd that they
had not written to me, seeing how much
noise my article in The Telegraph had made,
and that the entire press of the country was
discussing my proposal for an expedition to
Kututu and the Bulonagans. As I looked
out into the dark night, I recounted to
myself some of the perils I had gone through
as a mariner, and I began to wonder whether
the carpenter of The Fhoehe still lived. I
talked to one of the men on board the channel
boat, but the sailor-men of that craft
were of an entirely different mould to the
mariners who had been my shipmates onboard
The Fhoebe, I made a note in my
mind to write to the owners of The Fhoebe
from Antwerp, making inquiries after the

carpenter, and tendering my evidence to
them in regard to the loss of the vessel.
Moreover I had hardly had time to think of
George Harmer, whose misfortunes recurred
to me now with double force as I travelled
onwards towards the two cities where I had
encountered him, at the height of his happiness,
and seen also the gathering of that
terrible storm which was eventually to overwhelm
him.

VOL. Il E

CHAPTER III.

WITH FATHER Gabrielle.

I found Father Gabriello at the hotel
when I arrived at Antwerp. He had not
changed in appearance nor in manners. He
was the same genial cleric as of yore. A
man of medium height, he was thick set,
broad of shoulder, and of a robust habit. He
was addicted to no mortification of the flesh.
Great fasting formed no part of his religious
exercises. Yet he was, I should say, a priest
of the strictest morality, and he certainly
had a kind heart. A round-faced, florid complexioned,
grey-headed man, he had genial
eyes, and there was firmness as well as
generosity in the form and expression of his

mouth. I feel quite sure that in saying he
was heartily glad to see me again he delivered
himself of no mere formula of courtesy.

You look tanned and weather-beaten,"
he said, ' and I suspect your mind has been
as well disciplined as your body since last
we met."

 I have seen the world, father," I
answered.

' When we parted last you were a
smoothed-faced enthusiastic youth ; to-day
you are a man with a beard on your face,
and in your experience, I make no doubt ;
let me congratulate you upon your prosperous
and safe return''

He shook my hand warmly.

You have read the English papers,
then?"

' Yes, and the French."

 Has my return, then, interested France?"

 All the world, I think," said the priest,
'' for your name is in every newspaper I
have seen during the past week, French,
German, or English."

e2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois

 And yet my uncle has made no sign,"
I said. ' You know him well, do you think
he will?"

'' Not until you run up your signals of
friendship," he said.

If I thought the response would be
what I could desire, I would signal him
immediately," I said.

'' There is time enough," answered the
priest. ' You have not seen him lately ? "

'not for years, and he has probably
forgotten all about me ; but I have heard of
him."

I did not learn until a later day that
Father Gabriello is a distinguished member
of the Society of Jesus with considerable
liberty of action, and that he is personally
known in all the great cities of Europe.

'' And Colonel Ernstone, I hope he is
well?" he said presently; ''no young man
had ever a more devoted or attached friend
than you have in that distinguished military
officer."

"He is well, I thank you, and I am

fully sensible of his great kindness to me.
I seem to have the faculty of making friends.
Some weakness in my character, I suspect,
excites the sympathy of stronger individuality.
I have recently had a very remarkable
evidence of the most unselfish generosity;
but I need go no further than ' present
company as they say. Believe mo, I
sincerely appreciate the interest you take
in me and my fortunes."

' A truce to compliments," responded
the father, ' let us discuss events ; and, above
all, let me explain why I took the liberty of
sending for you."

By this time we were comfortably seated
near the stove, in the room that had been
set apart for me, and the priest gradually
introduced into his conversation the name of
Constance Gardner.

' Soeur Constance," he said, ' was broken
in health when you knew her under her
worldly name of Judith Travers. She has
not improved since then physically, but she is
perfectly happy in her mind. Our Little House

of Mary is a holy place. The sisters do not
belong to one of the strictest orders of the
Church. Life under the dear Lady Superior
is made as cheerful as the constant performance
of religious duties will permit. Dame
Fridoline belongs to the lay sisterhood, and
her harp is heard in the choir. She had a
hobby, as you know, for saving money. Only
yesterday, she confessed to me what the
object of it was and desired my assistance.
The hand of Providence must have been in
your return to England. Dame Fridoline had
an only son who had fallen into bad ways and
been sent to prison. She was saving money
that she might place him above temptation
when he should be released. A letter
which she wrote to him a short time since,
to the care of the prison authorities, was
returned to her, with the information that
he had been discharged on a ticket-of-leave,
granted to him not only upon the ordinary
regulations of the prison, but through the
influence of some friends by whom he had
once been employed as a decorative artist,

and who were enabled to lay before the
Home Secretary some important exculpatory
facts connected with his career and his crime.

'' Surely you cannot be speaking of
George Harmer ! " I exclaimed.

 I am. Since his discharge he has
made no sign to his mother ; and I only
gather by the newspaper reports of the story
at the Old Bailey that he is the son for
whom the harpist has been saving, and who
is grieving for news of him. The explanation
of his silence is apparent. How could
he tell her that he was once more a prisoner,
re-committed for trial ? "

dear me!" I said,  I begin to think
that I was born to be useful in spite of the
prognostications lavished upon me in my
youth that I should come to no good."

'ewe all have our allotted missions,"
said the priest.

*I suppose so'' I answered; 'I do not
quite know what mine is yet; my experiences
are very mixed, and at present the
results are not particularly definite."

* Carry the cross and the civilisation of
commerce to those savage islands of the
Eastern seas! What higher mission can a
man be born to ? "

Poor old lady!" I said, allowing this
remark to pass through one ear and out
at the other, '* what a happy woman
she will be, when with news of her son's
safety she receives him back to her arms !
A mother's love is said to be the most
beautiful, self-denying, and the holiest earthly
passion.

It is; and Holy Church has typified it
in exalting the Mother of Christ to an
equality with Him, which your Protestant
Church rejects."

Indeed," I said, ' I am not a theologian,
and if I were I believe I should range
myself on the side of simplicity of doctrine
and ritual, as opposed to complicated faiths
and mysterious ceremonials. But let us talk
of "

' Soeur Constance ? " said the priest.

'' Yes," I said.

She has asked about you frequently of
late, and on the very day of your return
expressed a wish to see you ;  for she said,
I shall be called away soon, and I would like
to say good-bye.' "

An hour after this conversation I was
being driven with Father Gabriello a few
miles out of Antwerp to the Little House of
Mary. I had taken a travelling bag, the
priest having begged me to remain all night
as the guest of the Lady Superior.

There is a small house not far from the
convent gates'' he said,  where visitors are
provided with beds ; and the entertainment is
not to be despised even by guests who have
visited royalty."

The snow fell as we journeyed onwards.
It was quite dark when we arrived at a small
house which Father Gabriello entered,
telling the man to put up his horse at the
blacksmith's close by, where he would be
accommodated with refreshment and a bed.

There was no person in the little house
except ourselves. Our footsteps sounded

strange and hollow. A pleasant smell of
burning wood pervaded the place. The
priest struck a match, lighted a candle, and
led the way into a small comfortable room,
warmed by a modern German stove. A
white cloth was laid for supper. The priest
placed a candle in the window.

' You appear to be surprised at our
quarters ? " he said.

'' No, I have ceased to be surprised at
anything."

'' The explanation is very simple," said
the priest ;  male visitors come to the
Little House of Mary, priests, friends, and
relations of the sisters ; hospitality is one of
the divine tenets of the Church; it is dispensed
here outside the precincts of the
convent."

While he was showing me my room and
explaining that we would visit the convent
tomorrow, when I might see my sister
Constance, as he called her, two lay-sisters
came into the house and placed a hot and
dainty dinner upon the table. Having

seen us  fall-to" they left tis as unceremoniously
as they had come.

You recovered in due time from the
youthful madness which was afflicting you atour
last meeting ; of course I knew you
would, with the assistance of the explanation
that was given to you by our friend the
judge," said the priest as we sipped our coffee.

Does one ever recover from such madness,
as you call it ?"

'' Oh yes !"

' Your sacred calling forbids that you
should speak from experience ?" I said.

' I vas once a youth and not always a
priest," said the father ; ' but we will talk of
you. Let us for example go back to your
uncle. Colonel Ernstone told me something
touching the matter that separated you."

'I could not comply with a wish that
was dear to him ; he resented it by disowning
me."

You must have crossed him at a serious
point."

' I suppose I did."

'' You can atone ?"

' I cannot recall the past, I cannot
restore the dead to life. Squire Dunstan,
in regard to whose views my action was
inimical, is no more. His death may even
have increased my uncle's grievance."

He is an old man, and should have
ceased to cultivate resentments. You say
you have not sought him by message or
by letter since your return ?"

No."

'' You must."

'' I bear no malice," I said, ' and I have
a real affection for him. But why, Father,
do you turn our conversation away from
Miss  Sister Constance ? Ah, sitting herewith
you I can almost feel as if tomorrow I
should see again the Villa Verona and the
gracious lady who "

"' Then, my son, do not encourage such
thoughts, unless you can feel that the lady
of the Villa is no more."

'' No more'' I exclaimed.

'' Judith Travers is dead," he said. * But

Sister Constance lives ! Attune your mind to
that. Listen ! "

As he spoke, he opened the lattice. The
strains of a distant chant came faintly in
upon the cold winter wind. I thought I
heard the sound of harps. The voices of
the singers were women's. It was like celestial
music.

'' Think of saint-like women," he said,
'' on their way to the better land, when you
think of Constance Gardner."

I went to bed with these words in my
mind, and I awoke in the night, at the
sighing of the wind, with them still there.
*' Think of saint-like women on their way to
the better land." I felt lonely and sad. The
darkness was black. No sound could be
heard but the moaning of the wind. Not
even the distant bark of a watch-dog broke
in upon the monotony of it, nor any other
noise that suggested life or home. I was
cold and wretched. ' Why did I return ? "
I asked myself. ' Why did I not remain in
that land where it is always afternoon ? '' It

seemed to me that ease and sunshine, and
the unsophisticated manners of an uncivilised
people, presented far more possibilities of
happiness than this every-day world of
Europe, with its conventionalities and its
everlasting fight for life. And yet I had a
vague longing to see my old room at The
Cedars, to sit in the garden with my uncle,
to chat with Sandy, the old Scotch servant,
to fish in the Avon, to ride over the
dewy meadows, to wander, gun in hand, over
the autumn stubble.

When I slept I dreamed of Jeffrey Waller
and Helen Dunstan. She had gone to live
at Manilla, and had become his ward. In
command of an expedition to Bulonagan,
he had picked up my Irish king in an open
boat at sea. He had been defeated in a
battle with the Bulonagans, and had escaped
in the pinnace of The ~Phoehe with the carpenter
and old Dick Smith. I was in charge
of my own steamer, one of the most superb
boats ever built on the Clyde. Colonel Vanstone
was with me, and we landed, with our

Irish friend and the carpenter, at Manilla,
where the merchant received us. I was not
the least surprised when Helen Dunstan came
forward to welcome us. She was dressed ina
picturesque Eastern costume, and looked
very handsome. ' We are to be married tomorrow
! " she said, sand Mr. Waller has
arranged that my dear father's spirit shall
bless our union at the altar." The Irish king,
overhearing her, said he had hoped to find
the practice of human sacrifice abolished, at
all events in Manilla. ' Bi jabers," he exclaimed,
slapping me on the back, shave I
saved you from the voracious maw of Lofulu,
to have you gobbled up by a princess of
Manilla ? " It seemed perfectly natural that
he should say this, and that Helen Dunstan
should only smile at him, and take me into
the house, which gradually changed from an
Oriental dwelling-place, with palms and giant
ferns shading the windows, to the cosy
library of The Cedars, where my uncle
was waiting for us.  Ah, this is as it should
be, my dear boy ; welcome both of you

to The Cedars, and may we never part
again ! "

Then I awoke and heard the convent
bells chiming through the frosty air. It
was morning. There was a thick rime
upon the window-panes, and snow upon the
branches of a clump of elms that stood like
grim and hoary sentinels, guarding the convent
gates.

CHAPTER IV.

SISTER CONSTANCE.

Breakfast was served as quietly as the
supper of the night before. It will, I hope,
not be deemed frivolous, at this period of my
narrative, if I pause to say that the coffee
was delicious. One got at it, I remember,
through a rich head of cream. There
were hot rolls and butter that Father Gabrielle
commended with an approving eye.
The little room, with its polished floor, its
plain sideboard, its shining stove, its perfume
of burning wood, its white table-cloth, and
smoking coffee was very home-like and
pleasant. The sun was shining upon the
frosted window-panes, where a transformation
scene was going on, developing a full view

VOL. III. F

of the roadway and the old chateau, which
had been converted into a holy house.

I was glad to be up and talking once
more. The night had been full of curious
adventures, and I had a feverish longing to
talk rather than to think.

 Do you believe in dreams, father ?''

' In respect of their manifestations of
coming events, or in what respect?"

Generally I mean."

' The faithful have always seen visions,"
said the priest,  and in the old days our
Heavenly Father conversed with the prophets
through dreams."

 T don't think I meant my question to
bear the complexion you are putting upon
it. Do you think, in these present days, we
unconsciously forecast events in dreams ?''

* When the mind is under the influence
of a particular desire it is a natural thing to
dream of its realisation. Have you been
dreaming that you were reconciled to your
uncle r

'' Well yes, that was a feature of my

dreaming ; but it was not a principal, if I
may speak of it in that way, of the occurrences
that have been coursing through my
brain all night."

* A churchman of your Protestant establishment
has very shrewdly said, dreams
follow the temper of the body and commonly
proceed from trouble or disease, business or
care; an active head or a mind that is
restless; they are the outcome of fear or
hope, of wine or passion, or the result of
fantastic remembrances ; as contingent as if
a man should study to make a prophecy, and
by saying ten thousand things hits once in a
way upon a true one ; and that dreams have
no certainty because they have no causality,
no proportion to those effects which many
times they are said to foresignify."

' Then you do not believe in dreams ?''
 When they are given to holy men or
women for holy purposes, as related in the
scriptures, yes, for then the mind is attuned
to the divine will and the accepted of Heaven
are so etherialised in spirit that they are
f2

capable of a spiritual intercourse with the
angels."

But history, sacred and profane, has
examples of visions appearing to unworthy-persons
for sacred ends ; and was it not an
ass to which heaven on a great occasion gave
the privilege of speech?"

' We are becoming theological," said the
priest ; 'let us talk of the dream that has
troubled you, or rather that promises you a
boon for which you have been longing
perhaps."

'' The last of my nocturnal fancies forecast
an incident which had not taken possession
of my mind. Thoughts of the possibility
of my reconciliation with Uncle Grantley
may have inspired it; but if you have
patience to resume the subject we will revive
it at some other time; for I see that your
thoughts are beginning to move in the direction
of our business here, the contemplation
of which makes me feel a trifle nervous, and
not a little sad, the more so as it seemed tome
last night, awaking and dreaming, that

your last words foreboded the end of Sister
Constance's earthly journey."

Breakfast was over now and we were
sitting by the stove, Father Gabriello toasting
his shins, I smoking a cigarette ; yet,
while we both as it were tried to comfort
the physical side of our natures, the moral
would busy itself with that which is solemn,
not to say depressing.

'* Death is not necessarily a matter for
melancholy ; it is only sleep after all, sleep
and dreams, only that the latter are real,"
said the priest ; ' the body rests, decays, disappears,
the spirit is released from its
dungeon, and being blessed of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, enters into its everlasting
joy."

' The heathens of the Eastern seas after
all are not much behind the churches in
their views of immortality ; many of the
tribes h ve a similar theory to your own."

'say faith, hope, not theory," interrupted
the priest.

''A similar faith, though others believe

in a sort of transubstantiation ; but, as you
say, death being the commonest of daily
events, the familiar shadow should not overcome
us with a sense of gloom and trouble."

'' The true Christian, my friend, is not
afflicted at the shadow; but to the most
truly religious, and to the most sensible of
men and women, life is not less solemn
than death. All the great phenomena of
nature are solemn, and the Son of God was
a man of sorrows ; the truest happiness is
found in the fulfilment of duty, in exorcising
ambition, in cultivating a healthy mind ina
healthy body, in accepting the present
existence as probationary, and in making
the best of it,"

I think we were both trying, more or less,
to ignore the pathos of the blighted life of
that lovely woman, who had sought relief, ina
living death, from the taint of a cruel world ;
for Father Gabriello with all his scriptural
texts and philosophic teaching, was a man of
robust tastes and worldly appetites. In spite
of the tone and character of our conversation,

he wrote a memorandum and laid it upon
the table as we left the little inn, naming
the hour for dejeuner a la fourchette and
noting down suggestions for two particular
dishes and a certain wine, of which his
experience approved.

Soon afterwards, sallying forth into the
cold air and crushing the crisp snow under
our feet, we passed the sentinel elms, and
entered the little House of Mary.

We were received, with other visitors, by
an aged lay sister. The other people were
ushered into a waiting-room. I and the
priest were conducted along a corridor, down,
one flight of stairs and up another, until we
stood in a simple room, one side of which
was a grating not unlike a large prison
window. A curtain within shut from our
gaze the interior beyond.

Presently the curtain was drawn, and an
elderly woman of a singularly benevolent
countenance appeared. The priest introduced
me as Sister Constance's only friend
of the outer world, the brother whom she

wished to see. The Lady Superior, addressing
me in French, said a few words of
welcome, and then spoke of Soeur Constance
in terms of great affection.

I heard a footstep coming along the
corridor that led to the spot where the Lady
Superior was standing. It was slow and
halting, and yet it was not the step of an
old woman. I felt my heart beating in a
strange manner. I was reminded of my
poor father's funeral. No thoughts of the
Villa Verona came into my mind. If they
had they would have been associated, rather
with the tomb of the Capulet, than with the
balcony scene in that tragic story, whose
hero and heroine I had had the audacity to
quote to Judith Travers in the days of my
youth.

It was a vision of saint-like beauty that
stood before me, with great soft eyes and a
pale face. It was a voice of infinite gentleness
that said, ' Brother Horace, I thank
you for coming to me. I desired that you
should see that I am happy, I wished you to

know that I had not forgotten you. I had an
inspiration to say good-bye to you''

* I am glad to fulfil any wish of yours,"
I said, and I think I spoke in solemn tones
as one at a death-bed,  and I hope I maybe
permitted to see you again."

'That may not be, my brother," she
said, 'but we will cherish the recollection
of this interview. It is permitted to me
to-day to speak of the outer world with
you. I have many months ago charged the
good father to acquaint you with certain
matters, the relation of which forms part
of what I have chosen myself to regard asa
penance and a duty, and in which the
good father has promised not to thwart me.
You are the only friend I ever had in that
world where once I lived. [A tear coursed
slowly down her cheek as she spoke].
Since we parted it has been a source of consolation
to me that Heaven had kept sacred
within my poor heart sufficient purity of
thought and hope to awaken the sympathy
of a noble and loving nature."

I turned aside to hide the emotion I felt
at a confession which indicated so much of
the keenness of an old sorrow. What trouble
this beautiful woman must have passed
through to still be thankful that she had
inspired in me a pure and manly sentiment
of esteem and love !

sand now Horace, my brother, goodbye,
and may the blessed Virgin have you
in her constant care ! " she said, raising her
eyes towards heaven and then letting them
rest affectionately on mine.

She put out her hand through the iron
bars. I bent my head reverently and kissed
it.

The next moment the curtain was drawn
and I was alone with Father Gabriello. I
sat upon a wooden seat, that filled the
eastern end of the room, and stared blankly
at the bars and curtains which separated two
worlds within a world, two worlds as different
from each other as if they were ten
thousand miles apart.

Presently we returned to the little house

over the way where luncheon had been prepared
for us. I could not eat, and even
Father Gabrielle seemed to regard the meal,
on this occasion, as rather more of a duty
than a pleasure People do eat and must
eat, even when sorrow and death are of the
party. I remember that there was much
quiet feasting at Oakfield House when my
poor father was buried, and that the liquor
flowed freely.

Light feathery snow was flying about as
the carriage drew up for our departure. The
sun was shining nevertheless, and our coachman
gave us a cheery greeting, in which he
commended the weather of the new year.

I had forgotten all about the new year,
had taken no note of the passing of the old
one, or the coming of the new, so thoroughly
had the events of the past few days absorbed
me.

As we drove along towards Antwerp
Father Gabriello spoke continually of Soeur
Constance.

 I am to tell you all her story one of
these days," said he.

' How ill she looked, yet how beautiful! "
I said.

A Magdalen," he replied, ' whose life
is a touching lesson, and whose death will
give to paradise a spirit that may be welcomed
among the Saints. If ever a soul was
cleansed of mortal taint it is the soul of
Soeur Constance ! "

 You knew her before she lived in Italy?"
I asked.

Yes; she attended a chapel where I
had a minor charge for a time in London."

'' Was it true, the story Mr. Miller told
me ? " I asked, lowering my voice, for I felt
ashamed at the mere suggestion of it.

' I do not know what he told you ; but
he had opportunities of reporting her correctly."


' I think he exaggerated."

'' In what respect ? "

 The impossibility of our marriage."

' He could not have exaggerated the
un desirability of it."

* His description of her attendant, Madame
Fridoline, was an infamy."

'' Then it was a lie."

 He said Miss Travers was more notorious
than famous."

'' That was true."

' Do you know that we lived in the same
town as girl and boy ?"

 Yes, she told me, and her great desire
is that you may remember her only as
Constance Gardner, girl and woman."

I can never think of her as anything
but a good, pure, high-minded, suffering
creature."

' One who with a righteous training
would have been an ornament and a blessing
to her sex and to the world," said the priest.

' It does me good to hear you say so."

' I need not say that whatever I may tell
you of Soeur Constance is outside the Confessional.
She has told me nothing under its
sacred seal, and has treated me always as a

friend. When first I met her I gave her
advice, not simply as a priest only but as a
friend of the friendless ; for, though at that
time she was a prominent figure in artistic
London, she could not, among all the crowd
of her admirers, reckon upon one true friend.
When they knew that her house in May fair
was stricken with small-pox not one of them
went near her. The doctors were true to
her as they are to suffering humanity at
large, and with God's blessing they brought
her through with an unblemished face and a
soul that was purified. I was her confessor,
and it was in my presence, on her recovery,
that she made gifts to lier people, the few
who had remained with her, and announced
her retirement from the stage and from the
world. The old woman, Mrs. Harmer,
known to you as Madame Fridoline, never
left her side."

< Why have I not seen her again?" I
asked.

 She preferred that you should not, but
she shall know what you have done for her

son, and shall yet have an opportunity of
thanking you."

Arrived at the hotel the priest said,
* And now Mr. Durand I must say good-bye
for the present; I am not staying at this
hotel, and I have some duties here that
require my attention."

*ewe shall meet again, of course," I
said.

* Oh yes, often I hope."

While we were shaking hands, the landlord
of the inn informed me that a gentleman,
who was accompanied by two ladies,
was waiting to see me.

CHAPTER V.

IN WHICH I MEET MY MOTHER AND HELEN
DUNSTAN AT ANTWERP.

I felt towards Constance Gardner as one
dead,  a beautiful creature I had known
in a dream. I think I associated her with
my father in heaven. The thought of love as
connected with her in a worldly sense would
now have been a sort of sacrilege. She filled
my thoughts as a sacred story might. I
could no longer realise the idea that she had
inspired my first passion. The lady of the
Villa Verona was a different being altogether.
Calypso had indeed become Dar-thula.
The Juliet, with pouting lips and
soft warm hand, was now the Juliet of the
tomb. She was a saint whose hand I kissed,
a saint on her way to Paradise.

'your mother is here," said Colonel
Ernstone, in his blunt soldierly fashion,
* your mother  and Miss Dunstan."

'' Give me a little rest " I said,  I am in
no condition to see any one at present."

' You look ill, that's a fact'' said Vanstone.


 I am quite well, but I have had a
shock," I said.

'Hang me, but we shall drive you mad
among us ! We are keeping you in a chronic
state of shock, it seems to me. May I ring
the bell?"

'' Certainly."

' Waiter, a bottle of Champagne, Ro-deer,
and anchovy toast."
Bien Monsieur J'

'' You must keep yourself up," said Vanstone.
 This is the time of day to drink
champagne, and you are just in the condition
when it is good for a man."

I accepted his prescription.

* You are in trouble ? "

No."

VOL. III. G

' Something serious has happened?"

* Yes, serious enough. I have said goodbye
to Constance Gardner for ever."

' But you had long since ceased to contemplate
the possibility of "

 You don't understand me; Constance
Gardner has not long to live; there was
death in her thin hand, when she laid it
in mine only two hours ago."

' Poor child! You have been to the
Little House of Mary with Father Gabriello.
A kind, benevolent, good-hearted priest as
ever I knew."

Yes."

' You must not dwell on your visit ; you
have other duties ; and the world has claims
upon you. I dare say that sister of the
Church is happy in her way. Once religion
has fairly taken hold of you, death means
pleasure. There is a sort of arrogance in it
as if we who live are to be pitied. I have
seen it on the battle-field and in hospitals,
among both friends and foes.

' She looked very beautiful," I said,

 but SO thin and fragile, so pale, and with
such great tearful eyes  it was a heartbreaking
sight to see, Ernstone.''

'No doubt, the poor child! And of
course you would feel it keenly ; but did
she not seem happy ? "

' Yes, I think so, very ; there was a kind
of supreme content in her words and manner."

Stone furtively filled my glass and
pushed it towards me.

No, no, I cannot drink ; it is of no use
your trying to drown my feelings ; it is much
better to let them have full play, or give
them rest in "

 A change of subject," he said, finishing
the sentence, ' and that is what I propose.
Let us talk of your mother and Helen
Dunstan."

I stirred the fire and looked into the burning
coals as he rattled on.

' Your mother is one of the most delightful
women I ever met," he said, ' and her
friendship for Helen Dunstan is that of a
sister. Most extraordinary thing they should

g2

happen to be in the neighbourhood, just as
Fate whisks you off from London and lands
you here. I begin to thinly I am a regular
confirmed believer in destiny now, just as
Napoleon was. I remarked it only an hour
ago to your mother, whereupon Miss Dunstan
said if Horace Durand is Destiny, then Mrs.
Welby believes in Destiny also. Clever,
eh ? And a well-turned compliment."

 It is odd that my mother should have
taken so many years for the development of
her faith in me," I could not help saying,
with a touch of bitterness in the recollection
of how little I owed to my mother's practical
interest in me.

* It was Fate, my dear boy. Fate and
Welby. She could not help it. Think how
young she was, and how overbearing that
master mind of the Welby nature could be.
My dear Horace, don't revive the disagreeable
of the past. Think of all the
pleasant things you can. God bless my life,
what it is to have a mother at all, and such
a mother ! I don't care whether she was all

the youthful mind could msh or not ; that
is not the question ; at this moment you
ought to be the happiest fellow alive."

I walked about the room as he went on
talking. I do not think he quite appreciated
the state of my feelings. I could not adapt
them all at once to the late sudden changes
of Fate's kaleidoscope. One set of startling
pictures and strange events had succeeded
another set so quickly, that I was bewildered
with the varied claims which they made upon
me.

My mother! I hardly remembered the
time when that sweet name had ever stirred
me much. It was my father whom I loved
most ; indeed it was only my father who had
cared as it seemed to win my young affections.
And yet I had dim memories of gentle
domestic scenes, in which my mother was a
charming picture of girlhood with a very
little boy at her knees. I recalled her sitting
at the square piano. This brought back
the image of my father pouring his great
soul into his violoncello ; but these reminiscences

culminated unhappily in that parting
when my step-father dragged me from my
mother's arms and threatened me.

As I had grown older I had bitterly
resented my mother's marriage with Welby,
whom I hated now with what I considered
to be a justifiable loathing ; yet he made
patriotic speeches in Parliament and was
beloved of the people, if one might judge by
their cheers and the eulogistic articles which
many leading newspapers wrote about him.
I had already secretly promised myself
the luxury of attacking him with all
the literary skill I could command, and my
thoughts, busy as they were, had found room
to recall my uncle's suggestion that I might
one day fight him for his seat in Parliament.

How could I meet my mother, with these
feelings active within me ? And how could
she meet a son whom she had neglected all
these years ?

1 know your sentiments towards
Welby," Ernstone said by-and-bye, * but
that need not embarrass you in regard to

your mother. It is true they live together
in the same house, but only out of respect
to society. They may be called friends
but nothing more. Mrs. Welby has her own
mission ; he has his ; don't let your dislike of
him steel your heart against your mother."

'' Has she sought this meeting ? ''

'' She has."

'' And Miss Dunstan ? "

 She knows nothing of the details of
the row you had with your uncle."

'' Did the poor old Squire know ?"

'' Yes."

' And nothing passed on the subject
between him and his daughter?"

' I conclude not."

*does she know anything about that
scandal with an actress at Baveno/ as they
called it in Worcestershire ? "

'' Yes."

 What does she know? "

 Only what I have told her."

 And what is that ? And when did
you speak of it ? "

*-'It is quite four years ago since I explained
some of the circumstances of your
infatuation. I saw that certain reports which
had reached her caused her pain ; and
therefore told her frankly what had taken
place."

Thank you, Ernstone ; you are a true
friend."

* I hope so'' said the colonel, '' my view
is that the truth never hurts an honest fellow,
and so I told your uncle. But he was too
much annoyed to listen. She was disappointed
too, but not so much so when she
knew that no disgrace attended the, circumstances
of your Italian adventure. I am
quite sure she would have been very indignant
if she had known exactly why you and
your uncle parted."

Does she know why I am here ? ''

' Partly."

She is very rich, is she not ? "

** Yes, no doubt ; though it is reported
she has had some heavy losses lately through
a great failure in a mining speculation

which the honourable Mr. Welby, M.P. had
induced her to put money in."

'' The scoundrel ! "

 Then she has given away enormous
sums; nobody knows how much except the
late Squire's solicitors, who are continually
struggling against what they call her
philanthropic extravagance. She has several
regular almoners, and she conducts her
business of charity upon a system that is
marvellous. There is as much discipline
and administration in the work as there is
in the command of a regiment. She has
reports, dispatches, inquiries, books of account,
emigration schemes, house-toulouse
visitations, loan-offices, and the deuce knows
what. Her idea of charity is no perfunctory
affair, I can tell you. She goes about herself
into all kinds of places, Mrs. Welby with her ;
and not long since she kept me for two hours
listening to an account of some of the cases
of imposture with which they have had to
contend, the charity mongering they meet,
the elaborate schemes for turning the stream

of public benevolence into private channels
which they have been fortunate enough to
frustrate; and I have often thought of an
old theory of yours, while talking with the
dear girl, that women go into the profession
of philanthropy and immerse themselves
in convents, because they are crossed in
love."

Didlsayso?"

'' Of course you did."

 I hope you don't remember all the
foolish things I used to say."

' I don't call that foolish anyhow, and
you have every reason to put it down among
your wisest reflections."

'* Do you think so ?"

* Yes. But are you thinking about what
I am saying to you ? Or are you still woolgathering
?"

' I am preparing myself for a very trying
meeting."

' Will you let me arrange it ? "

' I think so. What do you propose ?"

' To bring the two ladies here straight."

' No, I don't believe I could stand that ; I
would rather see my mother alone."

'' You are a sly dog, Horace," said Vanstone;
* that means you are to see Helen
alone also, of course."

' Is that being a sly dog?" I asked.

'' Yes."

'' Then I am one," I said, now earnestly
trying to respond to his efforts to make me
cheerful.  I remember my uncle telling
me that I was a lucky dog years ago when
his views for me in that direction were
favoured by her father'*

'' I shall go and fetch your mother," said
Ernstone.

'' No, it is my duty surely to go to her."

*ras you please, I will prepare her for
your visit."

The music of the familiar chimes rippled
through the frosty air as I waited for his
return. They touched new chords in my
heart and were less plaintive than of yore.
I looked out into the square. The snow
was glittering in the sunshine.

* She is ready to receive you'' said
Ernstone returning; *turn to the right as
you leave this room and knock at the second
door."

* Come in," said a soft voice.

I saw before me a slight, pretty woman,
in a purple velvet dress with a rich lace
collar ; the girl-mother I had known grown
into a woman. Her lips moved as if she
would speak ; and the next moment she lay
weeping in my arms.

* Horace!" she said, between her sobs,
' can you forgive mc ? "

 I am your son, mother, I have nothing
to forgive," I answered, smoothing her
brown hair, and kissing her upturned tearful
face.

With my arm around her waist, I led her
to a sofa. We sat down together.

' Why, great heavens, mother ! " I said,
*you are only a woman now; what a girl
you must have been at Oakfield House ! "

 And I had no mother to counsel me,"
she said, the tears filling her blue eyes ; ''I

was a weak, vain, poor creature, and I do
not deserve this present happiness.

 Mother ! " I said, ' I made you cry-when
we parted all those years ago ; but
these I trust are tears of joy."

I kissed her again, and she laid her head
upon my shoulder.

' How you must have suffered, my dear! "
she said.

'And you?"

' I have prayed day and night for this
reunion'' she answered.

' Why how small you are ! " I said rising
and standing apart from her.

' You are so tall ! " she replied.

 I remember when I was not up to your
shoulders," I said, *sand now you are not as
high as mine."

 If I am high enough to reach your
heart, Horace, I am content."

' God bless you, mother!" I exclaimed.

 He has blessed me in this longed-for
embrace," she answered, sand I hope I may
not commit the sin of being too proud and
vain of you."

After the first pressure of delight at our reconciliation
had passed my mother asked me
scores of questions and answered as many that
I did not ask her. She told me that I should
find her greatly changed, she hoped for the
better; that she had educated herself in
many directions. I am not the silly little
mother you knew at Scarsdale." Then she
spoke of Miss Dunstan, and their great
friendship for each other ; how they had
often and often talked of me ; and how they
had wept together with delight over the
newspaper accounts of my escape and return.

May I bring her to you?" she said
suddenly.

Yes, mother."

I was like a child with a new toy in the
use of that most lovely word ' mother." I
never addressed her without it. '' Mother !"
To look at her, she might rather have been
my sister, and a little sister at that. She
left me to go into an adjoining room, and to
return with a lady more than a head taller
than herself, a very Diana indeed, the graceful,

unsophisticated but high-spirited girl of
the Worcestershire valley, with the dignified
bearing of a splendid womanhood.

 Mr. Durand," she said, putting out her
hand, ' I am very glad to see you again."

* Thank you, Miss Dunstan ; it is worth
while to have gone away for the pleasure of
this welcome back."

There was a warm cordiality in the grip
of her hand, and a quick blush passed over
her face.

'' You have seen many strange adventures
and many wonderful countries'' she
said.

'' Yes," I said, ' and yet now that I have
shaken hands with you, and heard you speak
once more, I could almost imagine that it
has been all a dream."

 We have often talked of you, your
mother and I. Were you not surprised to
hear of our having become friends and companions
? "

' It gave me great satisfaction," I said.

When I knew her first, Helen Dunstan

was a tall girl with a slight figure. Five
years had finished and rounded off her
charms. The lady of the Villa Verona, in
those mad days of Baveno, was not more
graciously endowed, with swelling bust and
graceful lines of beauty, than this Helen
Dunstan grown into womanhood. Moreover
there was a dignity of bearing in her manner
that I had never seen in any other woman.
It seemed an unconscious condescension on
her part to be of the world and in it ; and,
when I say this, I am thinking more of
goddesses than angels. She wore an olive-green
velvet gown, the waist fastened with
an antique silver clasp, and round the throat
and at the wrists ruffles of old point lace.

 What interesting things you will have
to tell your mother," said Helen ; '' Colonel
Ernstone says your experiences are stranger
than any novel he has ever read."

'I fear he overrate my adventures or
underrate the novels ; though I have indeed
seen some remarkable things."

'' What a terrible shipwreck ! " she said,

lifting up her liquid eyes to mine with a
world of wondering expression in them,
and to think that we should none of us
have recognised you in the Mr. Horris of
the carpenter's story ! If we had had any
idea that you had gone to sea, I suppose
it might have occurred to us."

' I ought to have written to the dear
old squire, your father'' I said, '' he must
have thought me very ungrateful ; it was a
sore shock to me, believe me. Miss Dunstan,
when I learnt that I should see him no
more in this world. Forgive me for arousing
sad recollections, but I feel a great constraint
in speaking to you without mentioning
him. I do not myself think we should
cease to talk of dear friends when they have
only gone before us to that other country."

I saw a tear trickle slowly down her
cheek, and I went on talking of the squire,
for his memory was a bond of sympathy
between us.

It seems to me that some of the savage
people are wiser in this matter than we are ;

VOL. III. H

such for instance as those who regard their
dead as fortunate in having gone to a happier
country. Your father was always a good
friend to me, and 1 have often thought of
Warrington Manor when I never expected
to see it again.

 Do not apologise, Mr. Durand, for mentioning
my dear father. It is kind of you,
and it shows that travel has not changed your
generous nature. Mrs. Welby and I have
talked you over in this respect you maybe
sure."

 And with more kindly consideration
than I deserve, I make no doubt," I said.

No, Horace, we have only done justice
to you," said my mother.

*As if a mother," I answered,  would
be content with doing mere justice to her
son. Perhaps I can in return say to my
mother more than I might say at this happy
moment to Miss Dunstan. Next to the
natural happiness a son must feel at the
welcome home, which he receives from a
loving mother, is in my case the pleasure

which I experience in meeting again the
daughter of my dear old friend. Believe
me, Miss Dunstan, I am deeply touched at
this proof of the continuation of your friendly
interest in me  your runaway vagabond
neighbour."

 My dear Mr. Durand," said Helen
Dunstan, in a voice slightly tremulous,  I
do not forget old friends, and I take great
pleasure in congratulating you upon your
escape from many perils, and upon the
honest honourable fame you have won for
yourself, and which I never doubted you
would achieve."

I was deeply touched at this tribute of a
noble woman, all the more so that I felt it
was undeserved.

' Thank you. Miss Dunstan," I said,
vainly endeavouring to conceal my emotion,
'' it was very good of you to think so well of
me, especially when you must have heard
many things calculated to shake your good
opinion."

H 2

 True friends only remember the good
they know of each other, when scandal is
busy with their names," she said.

At this moment there was a tap at the
door. My mother got up and opened it.

' Colonel Ernstone ! '' she exclaimed.

 I hope I don't intrude," he said,  as
the old fellow says in the play, but the truth
is, I begin to feel jealous."

*' And well you may," said my mother,
' you must have begun to think we were
going to monopolise Horace altogether."

' My dear Mrs. Welby, I am not jealous
of you and Miss Dunstan. I am jealous of
Horace, jealous of his monopoly of two ladies
who thought something of me a few hours
ago, and who now find metal more attractive
in this lion from the East. Ah well, it is
just like your fickle sex; I ought to have
known it would be so."

' Ah, my dear old friend," I said, taking
his hand, ' I shall never be able to repay
your kindness."

 Nonsense ! do you think you owe this
meetings to me, for instance ? Nonsense !
your mother was dying to see you and "

 But for Colonel Ernstone would have
missed you," said Helen ;  we were starting
for London when we received Colonel Vanstone'
s telegram to await him at Brussels,
as you had just left for Antwerp."

* Always meddling in my affairs ; just
like him," I said, ' bless his kind heart ! "

* It is true," he said,  I have become a
regular Paul Pry, I feel it. What shall we
have for dinner ? It is a most momentous
question I assure you. Fits is waiting for
orders. He has suggestedof pmmentiere
turbot with sauce crevettes omelette cVAgneau
a la puree de marrons poularde en demi-detail,
filet de bam a la Renaissance, because
au cresson, and half-a-dozen startling extremes


The dear fellow saw that we were all
more or less under the influence of strong
emotions ; and this is how he relieved the
strain of the situation.

' If the ladies have nothing to suggest
and you, Horace, have no special dish to
mention, I think I can manage it," he said ;
* I mean to put the chef on his mettle."

My mother and Helen smiled. They
both estimated correctly, as I did, this interruption.


 Very well then, if you have nothing to
say I shall order the dinner," he said.

He left the room for a moment to speak
to Fritz and then returned.

 Dinner at six, continental time; and
that will give us leisure for a drive. The
carriage is at the door. Come along
Horace and leave the ladies to select their
cloaks and discuss their driving bonnets. It
is very cold, Miss Dunstan, put on your
warmest cloak! And, Mrs. Welby, don't
forget your shawls. You see (turning to me)
I am obliged to think for them ; they left
their maids at Brussels. We will attend
you (turning to them) in the hall. The
light will soon be gone ; so we must hurry.
Just have time for a nice little drive ; and

Fritz can lay the cloth for dinner while weare
off the premises.

As the ladies disappeared Ernstone took
me forcibly by the arm and dragged me away
to my own rooms.

CHAPTER VI.

STILL LINGERS UNDER THE CHIMES AT ANTWERP.

"I congratulate you, myself, everybody!"
Ernstone exclaimed, as he closed the door,
 I never doubted the result, nor did they,
although your mother thought it best to have
no servants about to tattle, as she said ; so,
with your leave, we will all go to Brussels
together in the morning,  a happy family,
and without a scene,' to quote your mother
again, for servants to talk about."

'' You seem to have had a general council
of war at Brussels," I said.

'' Yes, and you are our Waterloo," responded
Ernstone;  there was a sound of
revelry by night."

'' My dear Vanstone are you not making

too much of this business ? My vanity will
begin to be excited."

'' I shouldn't wonder," said Ernstone,
you ought to be the proudest fellow alive,
with such a mother and such a "

He hesitated.

''A what?" I asked

' A prospect of happiness," he said.

 My mother is an enigma," I answered ;
 she must have been a weak-minded unsophisticated,
I was almost going to say foolish,
little woman when I was a boy, and now "

 She is as clever as she is amiable, and
as amiable as she is pretty," said Ernstone ;
' you take after your father, I suppose,
you are not half as good looking as your
mother."

'My father, God rest him, was one of the
best men that ever lived, and I say that in
even your presence," I replied ; ' I count him
first, you second, and my dear hot-headed
old uncle third."

*' Thank you for self and uncle. Won't
he be pleased when he hears "

 Hears what?"

* That you and Miss Dunstan have met,
and that you have mutually resumed the
flirtation which was only postponed till after
your trip to Italy."

 Do you think there is anything more
than the renewal of an old friendship in all
this?"

 Ask me if I have eyes and ears ? Ask
me if I am a fool ? But don't put these
questions to me' just now. We must join the
ladies."

 You are kindly-thoughtfulness embodied,"
I said; *' I wonder if I ought to
feel very happy. I don't think I ought, but
I do."

Once or twice it seemed to me as if that
saint-like figure of the House of Mary threw
a shadow over my sudden and unexpected
happiness ; but the human heart has a trick
of turning to the sunny side of life, and I
confess that mine glowed with the warmth
of new sensations. To be a perfect hero, I
suppose, I ought to have buried my love and

happiness and all concurrent joys in a living
tomb with Constance Gardner, but I do not
profess to be at all a model hero or a representative
man. I am rather one of the
world's accidents, a person who has become
famous in spite of himself, a waif and stray,
yet a favourite of Fortune, an example of
the truth of the saying, that  a cloudy
morning ofttimes brings forth a pleasant day."
The morning of my life was cloudy enough,
Heaven knows, and storm and tempest struck
me in youth and in manhood ; but I am like
a barque that has been rent and torn at seato
be driven at last by stress of weather into
the port of Good Fortune, to refit and take
up a freight of precious stores.

It was very strange to me to be packed
into a carriage with ladies at all ; but to sit
with my arm round one of them and the
other leaning towards me, the better to hear
my answers to her questions, was a blissful
novelty. Ernstone pretended he was jealous
of me ; but he smiled and looked as happy
as any of us. Every spark of resentment in

regard to my mother had gone out of me.
I loved her as if she had been the gentlest
and most affectionate mother ever boy or
man had known.

 You cannot dream how happy I am,"
she whispered to me ;  I live for the first
time to-day, Horace."

I thought of the dream of yesterday, and
remembered that she was not in it.  How
poorly dreams 'forecast the future ! " I
thought, ' and then I saw my uncle welcoming
those two people at  The Cedars.' "

'' And you are glad to see Helen Dunstan
again ? " whispered my mother.

'' Yes, mother."

 as she not beautiful ? "

u Very."

'f I could call her daughter, as well as
friend, Horace, I should have nothing else
to live for."

' Then we will not talk of it," I said;
'' I want you to live for me only."

' To-day's i)e6a*," said Ernstone, has

a curious account of your projected expedition
copied from The Standard,''

' But you do not think of accompanying
an expedition, even if it does go out ? " my
mother asked with a quick expression of
alarm in her voice.

' I do not expect to leave England again
for some time, mother," I said, ' and, when
I do, we will go together''

* And Helen ? '' she whispered.

* Ah, she does not know why my uncle
sent me away ; I will tell you one of these
days."

'I believe I heard my name," said
Helen, for indeed she could not help it ; my
mother was so overjoyed with her new position,
and so bent on making me still happier
than I was, that she continually introduced
Helen into all her plans for the future.

'' I was saying that you must come too,"
said my mother.

' Why, of course," said Ernstone ; '' and
me too,' as the American politician said."

' I am not a good sailor," rejoined Helen

quietly, not willing evidently to have my
hand forced by my mother, who could not,
nor did she try to, disguise the nature of her
feelings in regard to Helen and myself.

A pleasant drive, a cosy dinner, and a
long delightful talk afterwards, made time
fly. It was nearly midnight before we
separated. We dined in my room ; after
dessert the ladies retired to their own, and
we joined them again for coffee. The
shutters were closely clasped against the cold
without, the curtains drawn to concentrate
the warmth within. There was an open
fire-place in the room. We sat around it
and talked. My mother laid her hand in
mine and listened to stories of my adventures,
and Colonel Ernstone annotated them
with lively sallies. But I was, I am bound
to say, most interested in the passing
remarks of Helen Dunstan. My heart was
full of a new kind of sympathy in respect of
my mother. To be reconciled with her was
a delicious sensation, akin to the calm rest
at an oasis in the desert, after a long.

weary, and dangerous march. In my feelings
towards Helen Dunstan I recognised a
certain dumb expression of anxiety. I found
my eyes wandering to her expressive face
for an approving glance. With all the dignity
of her appearance, the grace of her carriage,
the striking beauty of her regular features,
the stately pose of her well-shaped head,
there was a soft pensiveness in the expression
of her eyes that went straight to my heart.
She combined with the form and figure of
Diana the soul of a gentle, loving woman. It
is the privilege of the sex to outdo each other
in their conquests of the susceptible heart
of man. The barrier, which at one time
had existed between the possibility of a
union between myself and Helen Dunstan,
had in a worldly sense been removed when
Constance Gardner fled from Italy ; but the
reader will remember my scornful repudiation
of the suggestions of Mr. Justice Miller
and Colonel Ernstone that I should outlive
my hot love for the lady of the Villa Verona.
They were right, nevertheless, to this extent.

that my heart had come to recognise the utter
impossibility of realising the hopes that once
had wholly possessed it. A bride of the
Church, Constance Gardner was now as much
beyond my reach as if she had married in the
world. Apart from this, the slander, on the
evidence of Mr. Miller, against her reputation
had gradually thrust her further away from
me, and converted an ardent passion of love
into pity ; while my recent interview with
her had lifted her entirely oufc of the pale of
human hopes and fears, beyond all considerations
of this work-a-day world. I fearsome
of my lady readers will regard these
observations in the light of special pleading
a man's defence of man's fickleness ; for it
is impossible to deny that the passion of my
first love had been cooling down ever since
it may be said to have reached boiling point,
to gradually simmer into brotherly interest,
and finally to settle down into pity. There
was a time when I would have married Constance
Gardner, at the sacrifice of the respect
and friendship of every person I had ever

known, and at the risk of awakening one
morning to a feeling of contempt for myself,
with, of course, a misanthropic view of the
world in general. I ought to feel grateful
to Mr. Miller (but I do not) for checking mein
the full career of my infatuation. It was
the woman herself who saved me, in the
which she showed a far higher magnanimity,
I think, than a man is capable of, where his
heart, or perhaps one might more correctly
say his passions are concerned. Poor Constance!
There were possibilities in her
nature, and in her career, which only the
Infinite can understand or estimate aright,
and will be taken into account when she
stands forward for judgment.

Long after the ladies had retired we sat
together by the fire in my room, Ernstone
and I, and smoked. For a long time we
neither of us spoke. We looked into the
burning coals and encouraged our inner
reflections. There is no truer proof of a
sympathetic friendship than is shown in
the fact of two men enjoying each other's

VOL. III. I

society silently as in the full tide of conversational
intercourse. A pipe or a cigar helps
this quiet communion of two kindred souls.

It was a relief to sit and think. My
thoughts were in a strange tangle.

 When shall we go down to Breedon?"
Ernstone asked presently.

 Do you think my uncle will expect
me?"

' I dare lay odds he is all anxiety to see
you."

* And yet he makes no sign."
 What sign would you have ?"
' A letter, a message, anything."
' Supposing we all go down together ?
Miss Dunstan has not been into Worcestershire
since her father's death."

' It would be a sad journey then ; and I
confess that I look forward to going to
Breedon with more or less of a melancholy
feeling. It was a bitter thing for my uncle
to thrust me out upon the world. Great
heavens, when I think of it, even now, I can
hear the rustle of the chill October winds

in the reeds by the river; and I can sec
myself a shivering, penniless, wretch, tramping
through the night, and standing at last
on the quay at Gloucester, with a strong
sense of misery."

'Ah, if the truth were known, Dick
Grantley suffered as much as you did
yourself ; though his confounded obstinacy
would not let him own it."

'' He had no right to treat me so cruelly.
Because he was kind to me when I needed
it, he had not bought me body and soul.
I was not his chattel''

' It was in your interest that he was
angry with you."

*but, when he saw that something had
occurred which made it impossible for me
to do what he wished, his heart should have
been big enough to make allowances forme."


' The truth is, when one gets to be an
old fellow," said Ernstone, ' one expects a
young one to act just as if he had gone
through all our experience; and it is a

i2

peculiarity of youth that it insists upon
buying its own experience."

'I am not sure that I ought to make
any advance towards a reconciliation with
my uncle," I said, smarting at the moment
under the recollection of that night march
in the bleak autumn weather, and conscious
of having been left to fight my own way
through indescribable difficulties, and to
find my best friends among strangers.

' I rather think," said Ernstone, ' your
uncle will invite us all to  The Cedars.'
But you promised to tell me all about your
interview with the solicitors of that extraordinary
partner of yours, Mr. Jeffrey
Waller."

'' Another time," I said.

'' You are hipped! What is it ? "

' Reaction, I suppose, the touch of pain
that follows pleasure."

 There is no pretty Manilla girl or
Sooloo beauty out yonder," suggested Vanstone,
'' who is just now putting in a claim
for remembrance, eh ? "

' No, but there are moments when I
think the merchant is right in preferring to
live there rather than here."

' You are in the humour to think anything
just now; your condition of mind is
akin to the drop-down which an overdose of
champagne gives a fellow ; you go up to a
giddy height of bliss, and you come down
like an exploded balloon. I think we will
go to bed. Rest is what you want. Goodnight,
my boy, you will be all right in the
morning''

And so we parted for the night.

In my bed-room the fire had subsided
into a glow of ruddy embers. I drew my
chair before it and planted my feet upon
the fender. It was a great old-fashioned
room, with a four-post bedstead, a heavy
mahogany wardrobe, and on the walls
some half-faded tapestry, illustrating a boar-hunt.
The candles made deep shadows here
and there, and the red glare of the fire
fell on the hearth-rug. The shutters were
closed and over them the curtains were

drawn. The bells up in the tower outside
played their fantastic chimes. I hung upon
the weird music, and thought of the convent
and its pathetic story of disappointment.
Then my thoughts wandered to George
Harmer's honeymoon and its terrible eclipse.
I saw in imagination that Belgian scoundrel
of the Brussels Gardens following up the
cue the wretched woman gave him, and
gradually compassing the decorative painter s
ruin. I pictured the prison in which
he had suffered, and I seemed to see his
white face, in the burning coals, as he
stood forward to confront Fate in the dock
at the Old Bailey. Then the chimes ceased
and my thoughts wandered away to Sooloo,
to Brunei, to Boulonagan, to Kututu, to
come back again, with reminiscences of
Motley and the Spanish fury, to this unexpected
and sudden visit to Antwerp. At
last I lost myself among the counterpanes,
blankets, and curtains of the old four-post
bedstead ; and when I awoke it was noon.
'your mother was getting alarmed at

your long sleep," said Ernstone, who came
into my room with Fritz and the coffee,
' but I would not have you disturbed until
you rang your bell."

' Thank you very much ; I feel ' as
fresh as paint as an old shipmate of mine
used to say when he was particularly well.
I have slept as soundly as I used to do in
the forecastle of The Phoebe'

' With a better meal awaiting you than
ship's allowance," said Ernstone ;  and the
blues of last night ? "

 All gone," I said.

 Then we will let in the sunshine."

He drew the curtains as he spoke and
disclosed a bright blue sky.

' The ladies have been out and all over
the city ; it is a glorious morning, frosty
but kindly. We shall all meet at breakfast
in an hour ; will that suit you ? "

"Yes, capitally," I said; and away went
Ernstone to report me.

I almost felt ashamed at monopolising
so much of this stalwart fellow's time and

attention, especially when I thought of his
position and his deeds. I felt as a subaltern
might who had been unduly promoted to
a position in which he had the general
of a brigade for his aide-de-camp. Now and
then I found myself wondering whether all
I was doing would turn out to be a dream,
and whether I should awaken standing cold,
wet, and hungry on the quay at Gloucester.

Helen Dunstan was a picture of rosy
health as she came into my mother's room to
breakfast, escorted by Ernstone. They were
a striking couple, she a tall commanding
figure in a clinging morning gown, he still
taller, with iron-grey hair and moustache.
But that he was twenty years her senior and
looked it, an earnest lover of Helen Dunstan
might have felt a twinge of jealousy of the
gallant officer.

' Was I Helen Dunstan's lover ? " I asked
myself more than once during the day, in
connection with this thought, that emphasised
the physical beauty of these two representative
English figures.

CHAPTER VII.

REFLECTIONS AND REMINISCENCES.

It is somewhat of a satire on human life
and hopes that, while Helen Dunstan was
fanning the embers of an old friendship
into a flame that very closely resembled love,
Constance Gardner was passing away to
that land where there is no marrying nor
giving in marriage, with my name upon her
lips.

The reader already understands that the
relationship between Father Gabriello and
Soeur Constance was something more than
that implied by their respective positions.
He had been her worldly as well as her
spiritual adviser. He was her trustee in this

world, her sponsor for the world to come.
She had appealed to him on a bed of sickness,
and had acted upon his advice when,
rescued from a hateful disease, she had
become strong again, and in full possession
of her many personal charms. Her almoner,
her friend, her fatherly protector, he had
obtained that dispensation from the Pope,
which had opened to her the arms of the
Church, and given her a home in the little
House of Mary, which, if it belonged to one
of the lowest and least restricted orders of
the Church, was nevertheless known for the
abundance of its charities. I may not enter
into further explanations of my knowledge
of the details set forth in the next chapter
than is suggested in these remarks, except to
add by way of emphasis, what you already
know, that Soeur Constance had made it a
matter of personal penance not only to
refuse the seal of privacy on her confessions,
but had made it obligatory upon Father
Gabriello to acquaint me with all the particulars
of her history since the day whenas

related in an early chapter of this work)
she ran away from Scarsdale. In laying
the circumstances before the reader I have
chosen to adapt the priestly record to my
own narrator method, or want of method, for
which I crave the forgiveness of Father
Gabriello, and the tender consideration of
those critics who may detect in the arrangement
some breach of the artistic principles
that govern the construction of an autobiographic
record.

It is quite certain that Soeur Constance
did tell her own story, and it is equally
certain that the leading points of it are
known in the artistic circles of London.
Whether it came to my knowledge in the
exact form in which I convey it to the reader
is a matter which after all is of no moment.
It is not intended as a slur upon the stage,
but it may be taken as fairly illustrating
a phase of theatrical life which was more
common a few years ago than it is today,
and which, with a growing educational
taste and a higher appreciation of Dramatic

Art, may one day become impossible. The
reader will note that both Colonel Ernstone
and myself were right in our estimate of the
very colourable statement, which Mr. Miller
made to me in regard to what had transpired
on his visit to the Villa Verona, at a certain
critical period of my fortunes. I learnt
afterwards that his version of what had transpired
between himself and Crinoline (Mrs.
Harmer) was also greatly exaggerated, for the
purpose no doubt of intensifying the impression
he wished to make upon me.

' His motive was a good one'' said
Colonel Ernstone, ' and that must be taken
into account ; besides which, my dear Horace,
so far as the poor lady herself was concerned,
he said less against Judith Travers than
Judith Travers has said against herself."

' In my then frame of mind I think if he
had said more I should have strangled him."

I think you would," said Ernstone;
' and, with far more occasion for resentment,
I have often wondered, since then, why
Shakespeare did not make Claudio run his

sword through Don John when, without
rhyme or reason, as it seems to me, he steps
up to the two princes and deliberately utters
his pestilent libels against Hero''

 Poor Connie! she was caught in the net
just as completely as Marguerite," I said,
without paying much attention to my
friend; for it jarred on me to remember
that Hero lived to establish her innocence
and to marry the man of her choice. ' And
in her case the Mephistopheles was in petticoats
! Is it not a cruel blight upon a noble
art, that certain so-called patrons of the
drama should dare to introduce into theatres
the sort of creature who, as in the case of the
temptress of Judith Travers, was the agent
of evil, and who to-day, according to newspaper
gossips and censors of the stage, still
demoralises the stage?"

' My dear Horace, all conditions of life
are more or less tainted by the moral leprosy
to which you refer. In connection with the
stage, it is more apparent than in other
places. The truth is, some of the London

theatres are in the hands of men who neither
understand nor respect art. They are mere
vulgar money-makers, and they are not
particular how they grow rich."

' Is that so? But I have heard you
speak of So-and-so and So-and-so in high
terms of respect, and yet I see their names
advertised in the announcements of several
theatres."

'' And I hope you will understand that
I am sincere. The stage can give to the
world patterns of virtue and womanliness
that are not be excelled in any class of
society. It may also be quoted per contra
as the merchant would say ; and the per
contrast are well known. As a rule they are
not clever, and as a rule they are under the
protection of so-called distinguished patrons
of the drama. A fellow of Ours, a lieutenant,
married an actress, one of the best little
women that ever lived, and I know two leading
artistic families in town that are model
households. Poor Judith Travers, as you
have often said, if she had only been well

brought up, had in her the making of a
splendid woman."

When I was a boy, Ernstone, she was
literally a waif and stray of Scarsdale, a
child whom some people looked upon as
uncanny, her grandmother being reputed to
be a witch. If I had been older instead of
younger than Connie, I should probably
have gone off with her after those strolling
players. Think of it ! In that case I should
not have been likely ever to have been received
at  The Cedars ' ; I should not have
known you, nor Squire Dunstan, nor ever
perhaps have been reconciled to my mother

*nor have experienced the bliss of
knowing Helen Dunstan," interposed Vanstone.


* I should probably have become an
actor, a great actor,  who knows?  and in
that case Horace and Mrs. Durand might
have conducted a theatre together, and
rivalled in respectability the managerial
families you know in London."

If!  There is mach virtue in an if,'
one of the play-actors says somewhere," observed
Ernstone.

'' I don't know about the virtue of it,
Ernstone," I answered, 'without for a
moment going against my Shakespeare, but
it is a very powerful factor in the destinies
of a fellow, considered from my point of
view."

' And do you think you would have preferred
the career you have just sketched out
to the reality ? "

 I can. hardly imagine a world that
would have been tolerable without I had
known you in it, and without this meeting
with my mother ; and I would not barter my
recollections of Breedon and Warrington
Manor for anything ; though I think it would
all be very tame without my wanderings
in the Eastern Seas. To speak frankly, I
believe I am quite content to be what I
am and who I am ; and I would not blot
out either Constance Gardner or Judith
Travers. Parting with the first by the Scarsdale

river, and with the second, a saint-like
penitent, on her way to heaven  are pathetic

episodes in a stormy life which "

' ' Make all the world kin,' " said Vanstone,
'' and you and I in particular ; sorrows
bind men together more than pleasures. But
I will not have you pursue this theme to
make us both sad."

 There is something akin to pleasure in
pain itself'' I said, ' and I think I taste
sweetness even in the bitter of that poor
martyr's confession."

We have already seen that Ernstone,
who had the reputation of being a cynic and
a matter-of-fact man of the world, was really
a man of sentiment. If time permitted and
the occasion warranted it, I think I could
also discover him to you as a literary critic
of no mean order.

' I am not sure that you are justified,"
he says, ' in giving to the world any details
of that poor woman's life, however much

VOL. III. K

good it may do as a warning and an
example."

If I were writing this narrative for
Colonel Ernstone I should of course act
upon his advice. As I approach the end of
my task I begin to wonder what he will say
to my revelations concerning himself and the
Hallamss. In this matter I have it is true,
protected myself, and them, by using fictitious
names, and transplanting the locale of
events to districts not associated with either
family. One is bound to pay some deference
to social proprieties, even in an autobiographical
romance which is more or less
true, and more or less a contribution to
current history.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CONFESSION OF JUDITH TRAVERS,
OTHERWISE CONSTANCE GARDNER.

 If you think the exhibition of my heart
will help you to read your own ; if you think
the confession of my secret and blighted life
will be a warning to you ; if you feel that
my present holy rest will encourage your
own spiritual aspirations ; why, then, sweet
companion of the cloister, listen !

'* Orphaned in infancy, I was left to the
care of an old woman who made a slave of
me. She was superstitious, kept body and
soul together mostly by narcotics, was reputed
to be a witch, and was of a truth a cruel
woman. She ill-treated me, and I bore it
until I was almost verging on womanhood ;
k2

though at sixteen I was as innocent and
unsophisticated as a child of ten.

' Once when she had beaten me with more
than usual severity I resolved that I would
run away. A theatrical manager had induced
the old woman to let me appear as an angel
in the play of Faust at the local theatre. Soon
afterwards a company of strolling players
passed through the town. I followed them.
In the darkness of that cruel time I can still
see one sympathetic face looking at me with
tearful eyes. I can still hear one gentle
tender voice say  good bye ! '

* His name was Horace Durand. He
was a boy, many years younger than I, and
more highly placed in the little town where
I was born. He had a happy home, a father
and mother of great respectability, a future
full of peaceful promise. He was not a playmate,
but I had spoken to him, and for years
I carried him in my sweetest recollections.

' By tortuous paths and devious ways I
reached London. With some little experience
gained under the canvass of a travelling

company of players, and after an illness in a
strange lodging where they had left me to die,
I began my career as an actress in a famous
London theatre. My salary was fifteen
shillings a week. I lived at Hollo way, and,
when I had paid the rent of my room and an
occasional omnibus fare, I had nine shillings
left for food and clothing. Now and then I
had to suffer the pangs of hunger to save
myself from the equally bitter pains of cold.
I learned in those days how little we require.
Warmth and food represented to me happiness.
Would to heaven I had never desired
more than these mere necessaries of life ! If
I had been a great artist, the consciousness
of power, the belief in a future of ambitious
success might have saved me. But the
capacity to feel grand ideas and to sympathise
with noble sentiments  these gifts of
nature slumbered so long in my poor soul,
that, when the one grand passion of all
came to c.v/aken the rest, it was too late, too
late!

'* That night I am going to tell you of a

lady of the ballet ' was sent to dress in
my room. I had an apartment all to myself
because it was so small that it was deemed
impossible for two persons to use it at the
same time. But my friend of the ballet was,
for some reason connected with the re-building
of the theatre, put into my cell. When
I saw her fine underclothing, her silk hose,
the lace on her petticoat, her satin corset, I
was ashamed to make my toilet in her presence.
She noticed it, and was so frank
and generous that I liked her at once. ' You
are ashamed of your clothes,' she said ;
you need not be.' I remember her exact
words. ' You are a far prettier girl than I,
and it is your own fault if you do not dress
better than I do.' She took me by the
shoulders and looked into my face.  And
positively you look hungry ; you don't get
enough to eat ! ' The tears came into my
eyes. what do they pay you a week?'
I told her. *And you are trying to live
upon that?' she asked. I said I did live
upon it 'Why, my poor child,' she replied,

' you are committing suicide ! Have
you a mother V  No.'  Nor a father ? '
No.'  A sweetheart?' No.'  Then, why
do you consent to starve ? When I was
your age I struggled for a whole month
against poverty for the sake of my father
and mother and the honour of their name.
You are without an excuse.' Understanding
from what she said that she was rich, I
asked her what salary she received at the
theatre. ' Nothing ! ' she said ; ' nothing,
and find myself ! And yet I have the prettiest
bijou brougham in town, a lovely house,
half-a-dozen servants, and drink ' fizz ' everyday
at luncheon ! ' I listened to her with
wonder, with the kind of fascination we have
in contemplating the graceful movements of a
serpent or a tiger. She clasped a string of
diamonds round my neck, and bade me look
into the mirror on the wall. How they
flashed ! Between the acts a messenger brought
into the little room a hot dish of sweetbread
and a small bottle of wine. I had bought a pair
of second-hand boots at a pawnshop that day,

in consequence of which extravagance I had
been obliged to dine upon a penny roll. I
was very hungry. If the ballet woman had
not invited me to eat, I think I must have
begged for a mouthful.

 She insisted upon taking me home in
her brougham. There was a bitter east wind.
Poverty had never seemed so ugly to me as
on that night. My landlady took the opportunity
of abusing me the next day, for I
owed her a fortnight's rent.  Come gadding
home in a swell's brougham, a disgracing
my house ! ' she said, ' and then not pay
my rent ; if I am to have a fine madam of
your sort in my house, at least let me be
paid for the disgrace of it ! ' I went out
and pawned all I had in the world and paid
her. There is no stronger hand to drag a
woman down to hell than a pawn-ticket,
unless it is to be virtuous and to be discredited
even when you are starving for
honesty's sake. And oh, the cruel unfeeling
city that bows and makes way for Vice
in diamonds and tramples on Virtue in rags !

 The day came when a brougham waited
at the state-door for me; when I wore
diamonds, and no longer went shivering to
my rooms, cold and hungry. My pictures
were bought by gentle, unsophisticated persons
in country towns to adorn artistic
albums. I had a house in Mayfair. I drove
in the Park. My pair of ponies were famous.
Ah ! dear friend, turn away your head !
Yes, take away your hand ! I was toasted
of men and envied of women. They hung
my brazen face among pure and noble ladies
on the Academy walls. That theatre in
which I had dressed night after night to
appear six or seven times and only to speak
once ; that theatre in which the acting
manager used to swear at me if I was half
an hour late ; that theatre in which the manager
insulted me when he first engaged me ;
that house of infamy where I had tried to
earn an honest living became my own. It
lighted all its lamps for me ; it spread all its
softest carpets for my feet ; behind the scenes
artists high and low exercised their profoundest

courtesies to please me. In front
the audience flung its bouquets to me. Not
that I was a great artist. I was not. Quite
the contrary. But the leading artists of the
Academy designed my dresses. The most
famous French modistes made them. Fine
ladies came to study the fashions at my
theatre. Esthetic artists sat in the stalls to
gloat over the lissome graces of a woman's
figure ! Yes, sigh my poor friend, and
regret you ever desired to know my story.
Sit apart and cover your chaste eyes !

' Nay, pity the poor moth with its gold
and crimson wings fluttering in the flashing
lights of London ! Ah ! but you will pity
me soon, my sister, and take me back into
your arms again.

 An epidemic of fever fell upon the
wealthy quarter of the town. It struck me
through my barricades of gold. But all the
medical skill of Vanity Fair bent itself to
my rescue. I was nursed by Sisters of
Mercy, and found solace in the administrations
of a priest of our Holy Church.

When I was well enough I went abroad.
On the dreamy shores of Ago-Maggiore I
found myself apart from the world. Perfect
rest was the prescription I had to carry out.
Nobody must know of my retreat. I lived
incognito my name a new one ; aye and my
life a new one. I met him accidentally. I
have told you his name. When I am dead
it may be found engraved on my heart, for
all my prayers, my vigils, my fasts, my
penances will not obliterate it ! Young,
enthusiastic, a student, educated to love
the noble and the true, . to hate the false,
the vulgar, and the mean. A face open
as the day, an ambition of the loftiest,
I loved him. For the first time I felt
the passion I had toyed with ; for the first
time I could declaim the poet's lines that
had fallen, with a hollow ring from a hollow
heart, before audiences who had been content
with the mockery because the mocker was
tricked out in artistic robes, in a sensuous
atmosphere of art and music. For the first
time I understood Marguerite's woes and

Ophelia's tender words. For the first time
my heart seemed to go out to the noble and
the pure, the beautiful and the true, and I
had tears instead of laughter for hearts that
broke with love. Listen, sister, now, and
pity me! I learnt to pray then. It was
the inspiration of his deep, true eyes that
raised my thoughts to heaven, that lifted my
soul from the world's gutter, that showed me
the hideous moth, its wings ragged and
torn.

' Had I courage to let him see the creature
I was ? No. I had only just begun to live.
His presence thrilled me. I hung upon the
music of his voice. I wept for very joy.
He often questioned me about the sadness
he traced in my eyes. Now and then he
talked of Paris and once of London. I
mentioned to him the name of a French
artist whose reputation was not good in the
estimation of righteous people. He had
never seen that vile woman he said, and
he hoped he never might. He had not
been in London since he was a boy. When

he left me that day I tried to think I, too,
knew not that other woman, my other self ;
but conscience gripped my heart, and showed
me myself. I prayed that it might turn out
a dream ; I flung myself on my face and lay
prone for hours, praying that I might wake
and find life just beginning, there and then,
under the soft Italian skies, with Horace
Durand, in the path that true love strews
with flowers.

*' I bent Fate to my own strong will. It
seemed as if heaven itself had made a compromise
with me  my love was so absorbing
a passion, a blissfulness so all engrossing,
pure to me and him as the limpid streams
that trickled down the mountains in whose
grateful shadows we sat letting the days slip
by. And it came to pass that I did indeed
forget myself, and who I was, and what I
had been ; it came to pass that I remembered
nothing but that I loved and was beloved;
and it must have been that some latent
purity of thought and hope and faith that
belonged to my childhood looked up at him

out of my false eyes, or he could never have
poured out his very soul into my ears, and
pictured me his wife, the partner of his joys
and sorrows. After long days of sun and sweet
perfumes, when the earth has lain in the
arms of the hot and wooing sun, there come
storm and tempest.

It had been a bitterness in my cup of
joy to learn that he had forgotten the poor
little Constance of his boyish days, who now
hung upon the honey of his lips ; for I had
remembered him the first hour I saw him
as a man, and had experienced a new joy in
recalling his childish tears, and his regretful
good-bye in the hay-meadows by the green
lane of the English valley far away. The
shadow of the tempest fell upon my Italian
dream in the shape of a visitor from London,
who knew Horace and was his uncle's intimate
friend. A hard just man, who blotted
out my dream, laid waste my blissful hopes,
devastated the harvest of a sweet summer,
and left me once more a waif and stray of
the world. sister, touch me now ! Let me

feel your arm around me ! One moment
let me lay my head upon your shoulder !

**  Judith Travers,' said the just man,
this Horace Durand is the nephew of one
who saved my life and honour ; this Horace
Durand is the hope and joy of my friend's
declining years ; I am here to break off his
association with you. He does not know
you ; he thinks you a saint ; when he learns
who you are he will loathe you.' He was a
just man but cruel ; he addressed me as a judge
might from his high seat; and he spoke
this sentence against me. ' This he said,
is what will happen should you resist my
appeal to give him back to those who are
his friends, and to the old man who is entitled
to his respect and obedience. tomorrow,
fortified with full details of your career,
he shall stand before you and say, ' There is
a man at Baveno who declares that he has
an interest in the Regent Theatre ; that he
is here to take you back to London ; that
you are '

 I heard no more. As he spoke I seemed

to see my love standing before me with pale
face and flashing eyes. I fell before the
cruel sentence as one dead, and when I
awoke expected to find myself in purgatory.
But Fridoline was by my side and Father
Gabriello. They gave me restoratives ; the
dear father fortified me with wise advice;
and I knew that my days in the world
were over. * Let us begone,' I said, ' I am
content. It is enough that my soul has
passed through the sweet pastures of a pure
love; it is better to have loved and lost,
than never to have loved at all.' And it
entered into my heart to feel that I was
Constance Gardner once more, saying a goodbye
again, in the which I found a new
solace. Hush ! Do you not hear those
sweet sounds ? They are other harps than
Fridoline's, poor dear ! I did not think to go
before her, for she is old and I am young.
Kiss me, sweet sister ! Your chaste lips will
find no Judith here, but only the persecuted
maiden by the Scarsdale river, who has

found her everlasting rest in the loving arms
of Mary."

And so passed away one, who, under more
fortunate circumstances, might have been an
angel upon earth, as well as an angel in
heaven.

VOL. HI,

And is this Yarrow ?  this the stream

Of which my fancy cherished

So faithfully a waking dream ?

An image that hath perished !

that some minstrels harp were near.

To utter notes of gladness,

And chase this silence from the air,

That'll my heart with sadness ! " 

Wordsworth.



CHAPTER I.

THE HOUSE WHERE I WAS BORN.

I am standing by the house where I was
born. The river is rolling between me and
the well-known hills. The music of the miller
rises and falls upon the wind.

The first suggestions of spring are in the
air, but winter hovers among the clouds. I
have stolen away from London and from
everybody, to wander about this old town of
Scarsdale and to visit my father's tomb. I
have had a busy time in many ways. I
fancied this journey to Scarsdale as a combination
of rest and duty.

How different my home-coming to that
of the Ulysses whose adventures inspired my
earliest dreams! No enemies are arrayed

against me ; but the old home, where is it ?
As I stand here my heart seems to seek
another resting-place. This is not my home ;
my somewhat scattered affections cling
rather to '' The Cedars " than to " Oakfield
House." Sorrowful recollections overtop all
that is joyful in my memories of Scarsdale.
And nobody questions my right to be here.
There is no fighting to be done. The truth
is, I stand here and nobody knows me, and
if they did what have I to battle for ? Do
I desire to be avenged on anybody ? I did.
But somehow for the moment the sweet reconciliation
to my mother makes even the name
of Welby no longer quite a red rag to my
hate. For is not her name Welby ? This
thought sends my mind wandering away to
Helen Dunstan and the Worcestershire valley.
It goes, as it came, with a vague sense of
past pleasures not properly appreciated nor
understood.

I am standing, I repeat, by the house
where I was born, and I fear me, I am, like
an unkind critic at a new play, rather looking

for what is disagreeable than for that which
is good and pleasant. I remember how the
people of Scarsdale sneered at my French
father ; how the boys of Scarsdale persecuted
me. Suddenly I think of Tommy Barnes,
and he gives a prompt cue to my anger. I
seem to see in him the representative of the
entire crew of my boyish detractors. He
is the concentration of all that is hateful tome
in Scarsdale, and I remember that he
once flung a stone at Connie Gardner ; that
he clapped his hands when Laudanum Nanny
beat her ; and that he was the villain of the
true story with which I entertained my shipmates
on board The Fhoebe. Welby and
Barnes stand before me in imagination as my
bitterest foes, Barnes the worst of the two.
I offer up what must, I fear, be a profane
prayer that I may meet Tommy Barnes.

All this is weak, if not trivial ; it strikes
me so as I write it ; but it is worth studying
from a psychological point of view,
as showing how real and lasting are the
troubles, the hopes and fears, and the animosities

of youth. Moreover the events which
follow more or less justify this accentuation
of that boy-ruffian Tommy Barnes. One
would have thought that my great success
(had I not been received with consideration
even by Majesty itself ?) would have been
sufficient for me. Not at all. As I stand
here once more, in my native place, I think
of Tommy Barnes, and long to hold him by
the throat and shake him out of his boots.

I glance furtively in at the windows of
this house where I was born. It is all
changed. The old square piano is gone.
The flowers and the music-books, the quaint
furniture, the violoncello by the fire-place;
they are here no longer. I could not imagine
my father sitting there caressing that old
fiddle with such surroundings as those which
now vulgarised the once pretty room. In
the old days even a stranger, not called upon
for any sentimental feelings in regard to
home, contemplating the arrangement of
colour might have felt the happier for a
view of the parlour at Oakfield House.

While I stand recalling the past, with a
regretful anger at the vulgarising of the
dear old room, a troop of noisy children
come bounding from the house. They stop
however to stare at me. I ask them where
they are going. To school they say. ' To
Dame Skinner's ? " I ask. No ; they have
never heard of Dame Skinner. Do they
know Tommy Barnes I wonder ? No ; but
their father knows Lawyer Barnes. Oh, I
say, and who is their father ? The manager
of Welby's factory they say, and then they
scamper off.

I move away, going towards the river.
Presently I cross the bridge leading to the
factory, and I recall my first meeting with
Connie Gardner, the persecuted grandchild
of Laudanum Nanny. The mist rises as of
yore upon the meeting of the waters. Looking
down, I see what might be the self-same
school of minnows and sticklebacks which I
left disporting there when I was a boy. My
imagination follows the course of the brook
as it flows on to the sea. I associate the

career of Connie Gardner with it. I see her
starting on her journey to the great ocean of
oblivion, now struggling, now moving along
in smooth places and calm weather, now
contaminated by the great world in great
cities, to slip away again into peaceful channels,
and, finally, to disappear as an individuality
in the great ocean, whither all our
human barques are bound. I mix her up, I
say, with this river of my youth, which flows
through a wide country, at first a pure and
lovely stream, fresh from the hand of God ;
then a work-a-day brook, turning mills ;
next forced to carry the unsavoury burdens
of towns, the refuse of dye-works, the dregs
of coal-washings; but, finally, to be quit of
all its degradations in the broad and mighty
ocean.

As I ponder thus by the river, a figure
crosses the bridge. In imagination, I see
my father with a child upon his shoulders,
and presently the tolling of the passing bell
falls upon my ear.

Scarsdale, which seemed so picturesque

when I was a boy, is a shabby town. I goto
the inn where my uncle Grantley made
me write down his address, and I find that it
is as sycophantish as it is shabby. A party
of tradesmen and others are smoking their
pipes after their mid-day meal They do
not know me. I sit down among them.
The conversation is political. It nearly
always is in country taverns. They talk
more politics and know more about politics
in provincial cities than they do in London.
Indeed they talk little else, and their partisanship
is as strong as it was when their
forefathers fought the battles of the Roses.
Illustrative of the truth that there are
exceptions to every rule, I find that the
Right Hon. Jonas Welby, M.P., one of Her
Majesty's Ministers, has literally bought
Scarsdale body and soul. The chief
employer of labour, he had instituted an
organisation of charitable gifts of coals and
blankets in winter, of tea and beer in summer.
He headed all the local subscription
lists for everything that could be subscribed

for, and he was continually en evidence as
the chief patron and protector of the town.
He paid for his membership of the House of
Commons in this way. In London he was
not known to spend a penny more than was
necessary to maintain his town-house ; but
there his wife's name helped him, for she
was indeed a benevolent woman, and in
league with Miss Dunstan for good, patriotic,
and truly charitable work. But these
tradesmen at the Scarsdale inn are talking
of little else than the noble qualities of their
distinguished member, Mr. Welby. I can
only endure this for a very short time. Just
as I am about to leave a new-comer speaks
of myself. He says the mayor of the town
is calling a meeting to say something or do
something about ' this Horace Durand, who
has discovered the new islands, and made so
much noise in London." I hear this as if
they are talking of some one else, and I go
out into the streets, and set my face towards
the churchyard where my father is lying. A
plain slab gives the date of my first great

sorrow. ' And is it so many years ago ! " I
cannot help exclaiming. ' And am I that
small boy who stood by an open grave on
this spot and wept bitter tears into it ? ''
Then I think what companions we should
have been, he and I, if he had lived ; how
we should have read together and walked
together ; how he would have taught me the
philosophy of Ulysses as well as the mere
story ; how he would have opened to me the
world of French poesy and song ; how he
would indeed have been my master, guide,
and friend ; and how I should have dreamed
dreams sitting by his side, while he inspired
them with his eloquent 'cello.

As I stand ruminating in the churchyard,
I note the long white road over the hills up
which my fancy was wont to travel and lose
itself in the old days ; and on the other side
of which was the palace my father told me
of, that was more wonderful than anything
Ulysses ever saw. It occurs to me that I
will go and find that palace now, without
guide or compass. I know that the palace

is Chatsworth, but I will go over the hills toit
now my own way, and come upon it as if
I was its discoverer ; as if it might be the
palace of some powerful monarch in a foreign
land. The same inviting road still mounts
the same hills that shut out of the wide world
Oakfield House and its adjacent river in the
days of my youth. It is not as white as it
was; but this is not a summer-day, though
the sun is shining.

I find the beginning of the long road.
By-and-bye I pause near the spot where
Connie Gardner said good-bye to me when
she ran away.

CHAPTER II

A PRETENCE OF EXPLORATION THAT LEADS TO
A REAL DISCOVERY.

Coming down from London by train to
Scarsdale, I find at a bookstall a secondhand
copy of Mr. Marvel's  Reveries of a
Bachelor." It exactly suited my then frame
of mind. Pausing here in the lane, now
bare of leaves, which was so umbrageous and
flowery in those early days, I try to understand
my feelings in regard to Helen Dunstan,
and in doing so sympathetically recall
the chapter where the moralist lights his
cigar with a wisp of paper. It does not
burn so easily as at first  it wants warming
before it will catch ; but presently it is in a

broad full glow, that throws light into the
corners of his room.

 Just so," he thinks, "the love of youth,
which succeeds the crackling blaze of boyhood,
makes a broader flame, though it may
not be so easily kindled. A mere dainty
step, or a soft blue eye, are not enough ; butin
her who has quickened the new blaze there
is a blending of all these, with a certain
sweetness of soul that finds expression in
whatever feature or motion you look upon.
Her charms steal over you gently, and most
imperceptibly. You think that she is a
pleasant companion  nothing more ; and you
find the opinion strongly confirmed day by
day  so well confirmed, indeed, that you
begin to wonder why it is that she is such a
delightful companion. It cannot be her
eyes, for you have seen eyes almost as pretty
as Nelly's ; nor can it be her mouth, though
Nelly's mouth is certainly very sweet. And
you keep studying what on earth it can be
that makes you so earnest to be near her, or
to listen to her voice. The study is pleasant.

You do not know any study that is more so ;
or which you accomplish with less mental
fatigue. Upon a sudden some fine day,
when the air is balmy, and the recollection
of Nelly's voice and manner more balmy
still, you wonder if you are in love ! '*

Now, while I am looking up and down
this Scarsdale lane the air is not balmy. It
is brisk and bracing, however, and the sun
is shining, and I look back to the old days,
and again my heart seems to wander away
from the incident that used to touch me so
nearly when I thought of it. As when standing
opposite to Oakfield House I found my
mind every now and then wandering ofi* to
The Cedars," and the gentle Breedon country,
so now did my fancy find its way into
that same valley, with pleasant recollections of
a certain September day, when the journalistic
echoes of the guns at Sedan broke in
upon an interesting tete-a tete between two
young people.

Was I in love with Helen Dunstan?
Had the 'crackling blaze of boyhood"*

VOL. III. M

which lighted up the gardens of the Villa
Verona been succeeded by  the broader
flame " of manhood ? I had not seen Helen
for nearly a month, nor my mother either.
Business in connection with the proposed
expedition to Kututu ; an urgent summons,
from the owners of The FhoehCj to Bristol ;
a visit to the Hallamss in Yorkshire ; sundry
interviews with Jeffrey Waller's solicitors ;
some claims on my time in connection with
George Harmer's affairs ; and other matters,
had occupied my time. Meanwhile my
mother had gone home, and Helen Dunstan
with her. I had kept my mother informed
of my doings generally, but I had said
nothing of my intended visit to Scarsdale.
My uncle had made no sign to me, nor I to
him. We were both suffering from the
ravages of a false pride, which neither
Ernstone nor Hallam had been so far able to
overcome.

With this pause for reflection, and also to
acquaint you with a few necessary facts, I
walk on. The road rises gently. Now and

then I get fine views of the surrounding
country. I see the little town of Scarsdale
at my feet. The river winds about it as if
proud of the meadows, the factory, the
streets, and the grey old tower of the parish
church. It occurs to me that I almost wish
Helen Dunstan could see the place where I
was born. I pause to find in the distance
the exact spot where Dame Skinner's school
was. (Looking for it later in the street itself
there was no sign of it ; a grocery store and
a new inn occupied the ground.) I try to
find the site of it now from the high ground
of the ascending road. There is no longer
any revenge in my heart against the Dame.

So far as she is concerned my memory
deals chiefly with the laburnums and lilacs
that filled her garden, and nodded at the
school-room window. I see her gay cap, and
hear her prosing, and I sijiell her pork chops.
Then Tommy Barnes rises up in the picture,
and I hate him. He has unconsciously gathered
up unto himself all my boyish animosities.

m2

It is strange that it should be so ; but it is.
Then my memory goes off at a tangent to
the forecastle of The 'Phoebe and to the
simple-minded brave fellows, who found real
entertainment and delight in listening to the
story of my first childish adventure.

The weather is not warm. I am hot
nevertheless. I have been climbing this
white highway during more than two hours.
I arrive at a village. One would never have
expected that there was such a halting-place
as Stanhope when looking at the hills from
Scarsdale. I enter the wayside inn, The
Rose and Crown," and refresh myself with a
glass of ale.

 How far is it to the summit of these
Scarsdale hills ? " I ask.

 D'ye mean to the top ? "

Yes."

 Before you gotten well started down
into the valley t'other side ? "

Yes."

' Oh, a matter of two or three miles."

 Can you send a conveyance into Scarsdale

for my luggage, and give me a bed here
to-night ? ''

a We've gotten a spring cart as we can
send; are you walking then ? "

** Yes, a few miles."

This seems to excite doubt as to whether
the spring cart is at liberty or not.

I only arrived at the Angel last night;
my bill cannot be much; here are five
sovereigns ; pay it, and also the charge for
the cart, and give me the change later."

The landlady's opinion of me goes up at
once, and there is much bustle of getting
out the cart and horse, in the midst of which
I go on my way. The country changes
from meadows to moorland, from a pastoral
highway to a rocky road. I meet lumbering
carts and waggons. The drivers repass the
time of day " with me. They are earnest,
healthy looking men. The road is hard with
a February frost. I trudge along trying to
feel that I am once more that boy in the
velvet frock, but the effect is too great a tax
upon the imagination. Somehow my thoughts

will wander to people and things that have
no association whatever with Scarsdale or its
surrounding country. I find myself thinking
of Helen Dunstan, and the Worcestershire
Valley, of my Uncle Grantley and '' The
Cedars." Since the Emperor gave up his
sword at Sedan and thus broke in upon my
tete-astute with Squire Dunstan's daughter,
he has had to accept defeat at the hands of
the grim conqueror of all, and the dear old
capitalist on wheels has followed in his wake.
Yet my mind goes back to the Worcestershire
September, as if for the moment nothing
had changed except myself. And I feel
that I am greatly changed. Analysing the
condition of my mind I come to the conclusion
that I am drifting into love with
Helen Dunstan, and I confess it with a
sensation of quiet pleasure. It does not
make my pulse beat, nor my temples throb,
nor do I grow hot and cold at the thought of
it. My feelings are twilight compared with
noon ; the soft calm tenderness of an English
summer landscape with the reflection of the

sun left in the sky; and the peace of cooling
shadows compared with the hot drowsy heat
of noonday.

I plod on. Strange that the impulse topick
up one of the threads of my boyish life,
and follow the clue of early fancies over the
hills and far away, which set me exploring
this white Derbyshire road, should become
quite inoperative. I am on the highway which
filled my imagination when a boy ; but my
thoughts are miles away. Even the joy of
taking my dear little mother into my arms
and feeling her kisses on my forehead, with
tears in my own eyes, responsive to her sobs,
awoke in me no striking remembrances of
Scarsdale, except in the way of a pleasant
domestic picture which was eventually
smudged and blurred. I had come to associate
my mother with Helen Dunstan, and
Helen Dunstan carried me away to Worcestershire.


As I reach the summit of the range of
hills, the point of my destination, it begins
to snow. At the outset of my walk I mount

upwards, along the winding road, with a
glimmering of the first desire of my boyhood
to cross '' those littler Alps one day,
and see the grand palace," that was
more wonderful than any of the palaces
that existed in the days of Ulysses. We
cannot revive the past. The old sensations
are burnt out. We are apt to mistake
the embers for real fire. Compensations
come in new conditions of life, other emotions,
other pleasures, toned down and
softened by memories of the keener blissfulness
and the sharper miseries of our youth.

Protected by an excavation of the rocky
bank of the road, a wayside inn offers a
picture of comfort and ease which is accentuated
by the suggestion of snow in the air,
and the deepening shadows of the winter
afternoon. The landlord is at the door
superintending the baiting of a pair of
horses in a miller's waggon.

'what palace is that in the valley?" I
ask.

'palace!" says the landlord, " I know

of no palace in these parts except Chatsworth,
and the Duke calls that a house, and
it's a good five miles off."

He calls it a house because it is a palace,
as some people call their houses palaces
though they are only houses, eh ? "

' I am not good at conundrums, Mester,"
answered the landlord, but my missus is,
and, if you like to step into the bar, she'll
may be wrestle with it."

As he spoke the wind blew upon the sign
which swung over the doorway, and it
creaked a sort of satirical approval of the
landlord's not very original humour. I
looked up.  The Dunstan Arms '' in gold
letters confronted me. I had been thinking
of hardly anyone but Helen Dunstan for the
past several hours, and as I looked upon the
name of the inn it seemed as if the curious
noise just referred to was now a croak of
derision. ' The Dunstan Arms ! " As I
repeated the words to myself, another gust
of wind came along and made the sign fairly
scream.

*' You donna seem to like the sign," said
the landlord, eyeing me ; ' you're not the
first as has objected to it."

* On the contrary, I like the sign," I
said,  but it struck me as a little odd; it
does not like the wind evidently."

' Nor more dont we, Mester ; the wind
that bangs that there sign about brings snow
at this time of the year."

indeed!"

' Name hanna changed things in that
respect ; folk says as it is na lucky to change
name o' the place. But the Denverss was
never nowt to me, and Miss Dunstan has
been kindest friend to me and my missus
and the children we ever had ; and I've paid
her the only compliment as is in my power
and that's ' The Dunstan Arms ! ' "

He pointed to the sign, and entered the
house. I followed him, walking over a clean
stone-rubbed and sanded passage into a
bright, neat, shining bar-parlour. A blazing
wood fire in a cosy ingle-nook ; a counter
full of flashing pewter cups and glasses ; a

mahogany round-table polished so that you
could see your face in it ; a white-boarded
floor with a great woolly rug on the hearth ;
several old mahogany chairs; on the walls
half a dozen pictorial representations of
hunting in Derbyshire ; and on a window
seat a few newspapers and The Mayfair
Magazine. Such was the interior that
mirrored itself in my mind. A rosy buxom
woman of forty-five, in a white-spotted blue
gown and white apron, and on her head a
cap adorned with cherry-coloured ribbons;
such was the landlady who bade me ' Good
day, sir ! " as I entered.

'' Mrs. Hunt, mester here wants to ax
you some questions," said the landlord," and
I'm going down to the hall to see Miss
Dobbs, who wants me to look after some
things as she's expecting fro' Lundun by the
train at Bakewell ; so my service to you,
sir."

He nodded to me and went out.

 Miss Dobbs!" I exclaimed as he left
the room, 'sand who is Miss Dobbs ?"

' She's Miss Dunstan's companion and
housekeeper in one, and there is not a
kinder heart nor a keener tongue ever
went together in this world than Providence
has blessed Miss Dobbs with," said
the landlady."

' That's true," I replied, remembring
how she had called me a fool on that long-past
September years ago.

*' You know her?"

'' I think so."

Then you know a woman of a thousand."


'' But what is she doing here ?"

' Everything," said Mrs. Hunt, " everything,
if you ask me."

*' She lives in the neighbourhood, then ?"

' I should think the did when she is
here."

' Yes, that seems likely enough," I
replied, adding the question ' then she is not
always here ?"

' No, she's sometimes in London."

I suspect the fact that I did not at once

make inquiries about Miss Dunstan is another
illustration of my growing love for
her. There is a page in Mr. Marvel's book,
marked to this day and the leaf turned
down, as I marked it in the railway carriage,
on my way to Scarsdale. I think it
greatly influenced my feelings at this time
and encouraged me in coming to a conclusion
about them ; and I shall hope to refer to it
presently apropos of my conduct in this
present chapter.

' Sometimes in London," I said, taking
a seat near the window, and picking up The
May fair Magazine,

It was the copy which contained my
article on the Boulonagans and Kututu,
relating my adventures there, and entering
into proposals for the equipment of a relief
and search expedition.

 She gave me that book," said the landlady.


 Indeed," I said, not without a slight
sensation of the pride of authorship.

' It contains a report of the doings of a
friend of theirs, Mr. Durand, the exploring
gentleman," she replied.

' Report " was hardly the right word to
apply to my essay, I thought, but Mrs.
Hunt was a reader of newspapers, and the
district reporter of The Scarsdale Times
often called at the Dunstan Arms on his
journeys between the head office and Bakewell.
He spoke of everything as a report,
and Mrs. Hunt had a great respect for him.
I had a glimmering of the true situation of
affairs in regard to Miss Dobbs, for I suddenly
remembered that Em stone had told
me in a letter that Miss Dunstan had bought
an estate not far from Scarsdale ; but I felt
like a boy with a packet of sweetmeats, who
wishes to make it last as long as is compatible
with continual tasting. In order to
propitiate the landlady, therefore, I ordered
a pint of madeira (she said her master had
a special tap of madeira which she was sure
I should like), and lighted a cigar.

Had Ernstone been present he would
have regarded it as sinful to smoke with
such wine ; but I was alone, and I had a
fancy, in remembrance of Mr. Marvels delicious
reveries, to light my cigar " with a
wisp of paper."

'A friend of theirs? " I said, echoing her,
with an emphasis on the word theirs.

 I mean her and Miss Dunstan," said
the landlady placing the wine before me.

 Rather an odd person this Mr. Durand,
I should think," said I, not with my usual
ingenuousness.

* Odd ! he's one of the bravest men that
ever lived," she answered.

 Shouldn't have thought so by his own
report in this magazine."

' Oh, but that's his modesty. He's
made a deal more of that carpenter and
Dick Smith and the Irish king than there
was any need."

 Really!"

'' A sight more ! Why he'd seen no endo'
troubles and adventures, even before the

shipwreck as well as after, that he never
mentions; though there was a man here
yesterday, as says he knows a man as might
be better called Euylsis than him as a matter
of mere travelling, though not as regards
being cast on a highland of man-eaters."

 I quite agree with him," said I.

*' Do you?" said she, '' you'd better not
let Miss Dobbs hear you say so."

Why?"

'' I told her this morning what the man
said, and she called him a fool."

Did she though?" said I, she appears
to use pretty strong language."

eyes, she does," said the landlady ; *but
there are some folk who make a show of
being hard for sake of hiding a soft heart,
without which defence they would be imposed
on continually."

A sound observation, the philosophy of
which was original on Mrs. Hunt's lips ;
for she could never have read Goldsmith's
' Gentleman in Black."

The claims of some other part of the

house took the landlady away for a few
minutes. She left me lost in wonder and
perplexity. ' Can it be," I said to myself,
 that the palace I am in search of is the
Derbyshire home of Helen Dunstan ? "

VOL. m. N

CHAPTER III.

I CONDESCEND TO ENGAGE IN A VULGAR BRAWL.

So soon as Mrs. Hunt returned I ventured
to put my inquiring thought into a
question.

 And Miss Dunstan?" I said, 4s she
then the owner of the palace below the hill
yonder''

'' Derwent Hall ? Yes," she replied, " and
you may well call it a palace, for except
Chatsworth I know nowt as beautiful, not
being what folks call a show place. But eh,
how it's improved since Miss Dunstan bought
it!"

Isit?"

'that it is indeed. It's a palace compared

with a dog-lisle since the Den vers left
it and she took it."

' They were mean people, the Den vers,
eh?"

' Mean ! Lord, lord, I should think they
were. But they had no money, heaven
forgive them, and a spendthrift son."

' Then they were to be pitied."

' That's what folk said when my mester
changed our sign from Denverss Arms to
Dunstan Arms. They said it was worshipping
the rising sun. And John Thomas,
my mester, says the sun's nowt to do with
it ; anson is as anson does, he says, and no
more Denverss for me, he says''

' Which I don't call very polite'' said a
young man, who stepped into the bar accompanied
by an old shabby-looking bashful
kind of man, ' not to say ungrateful ; but
it's my delight on a shiny night, ain't it,
Sammy?"

' So you says," responded the shabby
man, shambling into a seat by the fire.

n2

 Mrs. Unt, mam'' said the younger of
the two new comers, '' two 'ot hales with
plenty o' ginger, and I shall want a bed
to-night."

'' Yes, Mr. Barnes, by all means," answered
the landlady; but let me advise
you, if my mester comes in, not to speak
about the Denverss and the Dunstan Arms,
'cos he doesn't like you, and he's inclined to
cut up rough about it lately."

'' Oh, is he? very well, he'd better not
cut up rough with me because there's such a
thing as law, Mrs. Unt, and it's my delight
on a shiny night, aunt it, Sammy ?"

'' You says so," replied Sammy, rubbing
his hands, not with satisfaction but with
cold.

I took an immediate and strong antipathy
to Mr. Barnes. He was a horsey-looking
young man of about my own age. He was
pale, with short brown whiskers closely
cropped, tall, with a dark cut-away coat and
tight-fitting light brown trousers. When he

entered the room he took off a heavy overcoat
and laid it upon a chair. He wore a
light neckerchief with a horse-shoe scarf-pin
stuck in it. His hat was a short beaver, very
prominently turned up at the sides. He
slapped his legs with a stumpy riding-whip.
His eyes were light and restless ; his eyebrows
were light and straggly ; his nose was
long and shapeless, his mouth hard and
cruel.

' Oh, you've got this piece of 'humbug
here, have you?" he exclaimed, taking up
The May fair Magazine  it's all over Scarsdale,
and the Corporation are going to call a
meeting about it."

 Indeed, are they, what for?"

'* To pass a resolution to invite the
beggar to a banquet = He was born at Scarsdale,
you know."

* Yes, I have understood so."

*'A regular ound ! " said the stranger;
I know'd him when I was a lad ; Frenchy
we used to call him ; I got him turned out of
old Mother Skinner's school, the mongrel ! "

 Did you now, and I suppose you think
that is something to be proud of ? "

'' Right you are, Mrs. Unt, for it's my
delight on a shiny night, and I wish it
wasn't after sundown, eh, Sammy ? "

' So you says," answered Sammy.

'' But we must wait till the morning, eh,
Sammy ? We are up to larks, we are, Mrs.
Unt ! You wait ; eh, Sammy ?"

Lor, how you goes on'' answered
Sammy.

'' Mrs. Unt, I'm regular enjoying myself
just now. It's as good as a play. That Miss
Dobbs she called at our office this week
about a little matter of business, and she
says, when it was over, 'Mr. Thomas Barnes,'
she says, ' you are a Idiot ' "

' Idiot, I think the lady would have said
if it is the Miss Dobbs I have the honour of
knowing," I said, turning towards the group,
with my fingers itching to take the fellow
by the throat, for all in a moment I spotted
the enemy of my boyhood, and my very soul

rose against him as if he embodied the cause
of all my boyish grief.

'' Well, I said Idiot ! " he replied, sand
I wasn't talking to you."

 You were speaking of friends of mine,"
I said, rising, ' and I am going to make you
apologise."

 Oh, indeed ! " he said, grasping his
whip.

 Don't be alarmed, Mrs. Hunt," I said,
 he will apologise, and on his knees."

' Will?" he exclaimed.

 Yes," I said,  go down upon your knees
and say, I humbly beg pardon of all here
for disrespectfully mentioning the name of
Mr. Horace Durand, and I confess myself a
coward for having done so."

 I'll see you hanged first. Mister'' he
said, squaring his shoulders and half-raising
his whip as I stepped towards him.

My desire was to induce him to strike
me, that I might wipe out some of those
old sufferings which I had endured when a
boy at the hands of himself and others.

suffering which I felt then as bitterly as if 1
were a boy again in a velvet frock, scoffed at
and hooted and tauntingly called Frenchy."
How deeply the animosities and the injustice
of boyhood sink into the heart !

I touched him on the collar.

 That's an assault ! " he said, stepping
back; I'm a lawyer's articled clerk, my
father is the junior partner in the firm of
Short and Barnes, and I call you, Samuel
Mercer, and you, Mrs. Unt, to witness that
he struck the first blow."

During all the time that he was speaking
he was preparing to hit me with his
whip.

Mrs. Hunt ran out of the room, evidently
to call assistance.

** Down on your knees ! " I said.

He raised his cudgel above his head. Ashe
did so, I struck him full in the face with
my right hand, landing him one with my
left, under his right jaw, as he fell. The old
man shambled towards me. ' Stand aside! "
I said, '' I have no quarrel with you' and I

thrust him back into his seat as my ancient
foe, his face all bloody, gathered himself
together, and came at me with a pewter pot.
I caught him by the wrist, twisted the weapon
out of his hand, and hit him again. I felt as
if I could kill him.  Murder! Mercy!" he
screamed. I took him by the throat and
forced him upon his knees. ' Beg Horace
Durand's pardon ! " I said, ' or I will shake
the life out of you."

 I do, I do ! " he gasped.

 Confess yourself a cowardly sneak ! " I
said.

* I do ! oh, mercy, I do."

Mrs. Hunt, her husband, and the ostler
appeared on the scene at the moment.

I told you he would apologise, Mrs.
Hunt." I said,  and I must now apologise
to you for making a scene."

 And a nice mess too, mister ! " said the
landlord surveying the disordered room, and
the red marks of the fight, for which I
don't thank you, I can tell you ! "

' It was not the gentleman's fault at all,"

said the landlady, Mr. Barnes brought it
all on himself."

I'm dying ! " gasped Barnes, " go fora
constable and a magistrate."

 Constable and magistrate ! " exclaimed
the landlord taking him by the collar and lifting
him up, ' come here and wash your face."

'What's his name, who is he?" he
asked, standing up and leaning against the
landlord;  I'll have a warrant out against
him."

' I am a friend of Mr. Durand and Miss
Dobbs," I said, ' and amstayingat ' The Rose
and Crown ' yonder. Mrs. Hunt, let me pay
you for polluting your clean and wholesome
parlour with unpleasant reminiscences of this
creature. I cannot pay you for the pleasure
it has afforded me to teach him a lesson incivility."


I slipped three sovereigns into her hand,
buttoned my coat tightly across my chest,
took up my stick, and walked away.

'' And this comes of eaves-dropping," I
said as I strode out down the road for the

' Crown, ' five good miles away, and after
sunset. ' Listeners hear no good of themselves''
I said, ' is not always true, but
I am glad he had nothing good to say of
me. I never felt so happy in my life!" I
could not help talking to myself aloud as I
walked. Mrs. Hunt's madeira was fine
liquor. It had done me a world of good.
' Horace, my boy," I said, as I bounded
along (it was much easier going down hill
than up), '' you are indeed a lucky fellow!
A kind providence directed your steps to
 The Dunstan Arms ! ' " Heaven forgive me,
I felt as if I was hitting my step-father too
when I was smiting Tommy Barnes ! The
wind came rollicking up the hill as I rattled
along. I felt my face bmng under its
pleasant friction. There were sharp bits of
snow in the air.

' And Helen Dunstan lives yonder in the
palace over the hills!" I said; what a
wonderful discovery ! Talk of Kututu, Derwent
Hall beats it altogether. To think that
I should have dreamed of that palace over

the hills as a boy  to find it, when I am a
man, with Helen Dunstan in it ! "

'' Hurrah ! " the wind seemed to cry,
coming along and shouting away up the hill
where the last glimmer of the lights at '' The
Dunstan Arms " had faded out. The moon
was there instead  white and shining, high
up in a luminous sky. A carriage and pair
of horses came steaming up hill, with lamps
and cracking whip. ' Good night!" said
the driver, as I stood aside to let him pass.
'* Good night," I answered, ' and God bless
you ! "

'' Same to you ! " shouted the driver.
*' Ah ! ah ! " the wind seemed to cry.

'And God bless everybody for that
matter," I said, and I thought I heard in
response, ' You're another, whatever it is ! "

I was very merry, and set off to run for
very joy. By-and-by the lights of The
Rose and Crown " greeted me in the valley.
I paused to rest awhile, and to make some
calmer reflections upon what had occurred.
The moon appeared to be racing along as if

to overtake me. A few fleecy clouds accompanied
it. One or two stars twinkled overhead.
The wind whistled as it does at sea.
Great stretches of rocky boulders, lying
among beds of heather, stretched away on
either hand. The road was hard and white 
that same dear highway upon which my
boyish fancy was wont to travel in years
gone by! This may seem trivial to you,
my friends ; but oh ! the delight of it all tome
!

CHAPTER IV.

A BUNDLE OF LETTERS.

'' The Rose and Crown " was full of light,
and busy with tokens of hospitality and
comfort. My luggage had arrived, and I
appeared to be in high repute. I was shown
to a bedroom with a blazing fire upon the
hearth. My portmanteau had been carried upstairs.
The one private parlour of the house
had been made ready for me. The shutters
were tightly closed, and the room made snug.
It is possible that a packet of letters which
had arrived for me at the Scarsdale Hotel,
and which " The Rose and Crown " man
had brought with my luggage, had inspired
these special attentions.

I ordered supper, and I ate it with
infinite relish. Afterwards I went into the
bar-parlour and sat by the fire. It was nine
o'clock. A few travellers by road to Scarsdale
came in to warm themselves and chat.
They warmed themselves inside and out.
Hot rum and water was their favourite
drink. Some of them had a teaspoonful of
honey added. They talked chiefly of the
weather. One of them said there had been
a row and a fight at ' The Dunstan Arms."
The landlord of The Rose and Crown"
was deeply interested in this piece of news.
It entertained me somewhat, especially when
I learned that ' a stuck-up nowt" from
Scarsdale,  horsey Barnes, the lawyer chap,"
had got the worst of it. At the same time
the consciousness that I had been engaged
in a vulgar brawl, and almost on the very
threshold of Helen Dunstan's house, brought
a flush to my cheeks that was not pride.
When the narrator said  chap as had
leathered horsey Barnes said as he was
stopping at ' Rose and Crown,' " the landlord

promptly denied it, and, as it seemed
to me, for the purpose of propitiating me
with the idea of the great respectability of
his house. I made a remark now and then
and went on smoking my cigar, until the
last traveller appeared to have gone on his
way; and then I said good-night and was
shown to my bedroom.

Here I found, upon a chest of drawers
with my dressing-bag, that same packet of
letters to which I have referred. They had
been dispatched from my hotel in London,
according to my instructions, to Scarsdale.
I had left orders that this address should be
given to no one, but that any person calling
should be informed that I would be back
in town very shortly, and that in the meantime
any cards or letters would be sent on tome.
I found in the packet which had been
forwarded to me at Scarsdale several epistles
of great interest. The first to attract my
attention was, from whom do you think?
My uncle. I could not believe it until I had

twice turned to the signature and the once
familiar address. It ran as follows : 

 You Ungrateful Vagabond, 

'' I conclude by your silence that it
is not your intention to ask my forgiveness
 for having turned you out of my house
(though not out of my heart, as you
 thought, on that cold autumn night, a
 hundred years ago as it seems to me) ; and
 therefore, taking a leaf out of the Book
of Job, I commit myself to this piece of
 humiliation and patience.

''I request that you will come home.
Yes, sir, home; and, seeing that you are
now independent of me and are a great
man, so Ernstone, and even my lord judge
Miller (only think of Miller sitting on the
Bench and hanging folk) say, I make this
a request and not an invitation. I request
you, mark me, to come home ; in the same
way that if you were poor I should invite
you, and pray you not any longer to
punish your doating old fool of an uncle
 by keeping away from  The Cedars.'

' Five years ago I would not have confessed
that anything you or anybody
might do could induce me to sacrifice one

VOL. III. O

'' jot of the Grantley pride; but I grow old
'' and somewhat feeble, and I have no ties
' of blood nor affection about me, and I think
'' I did you a wrong; yes, I think I did;
though damme where you got the Grantley
 pride from to resent it and stand by your
' resentment I do not know  not from your
' mother, that's certain, for a more gentle
 bending creature does not live.

'but you are a hard-hearted specimen
' of the Grrantley pride, Horace, to keep it
 up so long, when, confound you, you''
ought to know that I am not at heart the
'* tyrannical old dog I appeared to be that
'' one night. I thought you would have
' been back again the next day, and I and
'' Sandy almost came to blows because he,
'' with his infernal Scotch impudence (and
'' wisdom, the blackguard), said you'd never
'' come back till I begged your pardon.
' Dick Grantley beg his nephew's pardon
' for having failed to make a gentleman of
'' him, I said, was a good joke, and I ordered
 Sandy to beg mine for proposing such an
 insult; and  would you believe it?  the
'' pig-headed porridge-eating varlet defied me,
 and offered to leave my service that minute,
 saying that my temper was unbearable,

' and that if a stripling like Master Horace
' could bang my bit of money down, and
 quit without a sixpence, he had come to
the conclusion that he could do the same.
 A mutiny all round you see, a wicked
 mutiny with you as the chief, and you
* will understand what a time this blathers'
headed Scot has led me. He was always
 a saucy upstart from the first day I took
 him into my service, five-and-thirty years
' ago, and age has not improved him, though
 I am not the master to turn a God-forsaken
creature like Sandy out upon the world,
 as you will well believe I feel assured.

' Colonel Ernstone has done my heart
* good by his account of your meeting with
'' your mother and Miss Dunstan at Antwerp,
" and I have had the honour of a visit from
' Mr. Justice Miller, who says you are a fine
' fellow, but that he thinks you will never
 forgive him for some slight exaggeration
which he says he put into a statement he
' made to you in Italy. Miller is a vvonder-
 ful man, and his wife, a lady in her own
 right, doats upon him. Old Burton had a
' good knowledge of the sex, Horace, eh?
'' you argumentative scoundrel ! Be good
'' enough to consider that I am shaking my
o2

 fist at you; and that Sandy is chuckling
 over your having the best of the controversy
' while he is pretending to be decanting a
 bottle of that old Madeira which is more
 than five years better than it was when
'' you last tasted it.

'' I don't think I ever wrote a letter in
my life a tenth as long as this, and yet
"' confound the whole business if I know
' when to leave off, and I have so much to
' say that I feel as if I had only just begun.
 It is entirely of my own free will that I
'' send you this; for even Ernstone has
' given over prodding me on to doing somers
thing, and I have long since forbidden
' Sandy to mention your name, though the
' mutinous scoundrel fills my table with cori-
' founded newspapers that are full of it.
 Come home, my boy, and forgive your
' domineering old uncle, who never yet
'' offered such a plea to man or woman in
' this wide world, and hopes never again to
"entitle anybody to expect it; though
Sandy, in the row I told you of, had the
audacity to say that I was worthy to be
' one of the two Babes-in-the-wood uncles
for what I had done to you. I believe I
rather liked him for calling me names,

' because he was standing up for you you
 aggravating, stubborn, good-for-nothing,
 dear old chap after my own heart.

 In conclusion let me say that if you
 expect me to confess any more than this
' that I was in the wrong, you can stay
 where you are wherever that may be, for
' nobody seems to know, and Sandy says
*' you have maybe gone to sea again.
' It will not be necessary for you to
' tell Ernstone, or Miller, or anybody else,
' that I have written you this letter; but
' just come right away and we will forget
 what we cannot remedy. I believe I am
' more like an old woman than the ' starchy
' Dick Grantley ' you have heard of. I am
' looking for your coming as if (had I ever
' been worthy of such a blessing) you were
' my own son instead of a mere fascinating
 nephew who does not care a brass farthing
' (and serves me right) for his tyrannical
 but repentant old uncle,

richard Grantly''

I need not say how sincere was my
delight and satisfaction at the receipt of this
characteristic epistle. The next letter in the
bundle was from the victim of Circe.

 My generous Friend and Benefactor,"
it began ; and after some over wrought compliments
it went on as follows : 

' I had the honour to call upon you, my
mother accompanying me, with the hope
that we should have the opportunity to
' thank you in person for all your kindness,
' and at the same time that we might wish
 you good-bye, as we are going together to
' America, where I have a prospect of good
'' employment, and in which country I shall
'' endeavour in some measure to retrieve the
 past, solaced and encouraged by my
'' mother, who has made many sacrifices in
 my interest and for my welfare. She has,
* by dint of much self-denial, saved several
 thousand pounds, and I am urged by an
' artistic friend to believe that I shall find a
' good field in the cities of New York,
'* Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington for
decorative art, as he is convinced that
* America, being rich, is now seeking the
'' lasting pleasure and satisfaction that is to
 be enjoyed in an appreciative contemplate'
tion of that which is beautiful in form and
' colour, and the worship of which is now all
'* that is left to me, and I thank Heaven for

' leaving in my heart a germ of that old
 love of Art which is now to give me rest,
 employment, profit, all in one, and to
' prove a purifier of the baser Nature that
'' has hitherto pinned me to the earth and to
 the mire thereof.

 Forgive me for writing in this strain;
 it is done out of my desire to explain to
 you my hopes, and to show to you my
 plans, that you may feel you have not
' helped me in vain. My mother wishes me
 to add her thanks to my own, and asks me
 to entreat you to think well of her and not
* according to report, but to believe that she
 was devoted to Soeur Constance and in all
 things served her faithfully.  Tell him,'
 she says, ' with the wreath I have laid
 upon her grave I leave one-half my heart
 to live out the remainder with my son,
' whose salvation under God I owe to him
* (Mr. Horace Durand), to whom I can never
' be sufficiently grateful.'

sand now, Sir, good-bye: we say it
' together, me and my mother ; and we pray
 that you will be rewarded here and heres
after for your goodness to both of us, and,
 if ever you should desire to communicate
* with us, a letter addressed to the care of

' the Guion Line Company, New York, will
* find me, as I shall arrange with that
' Steamship Company to keep my address
* and forward any letter, in the hope that
' one day I may hear from you, my dear
 Sir and only friend in England.
' Your obedient, faithful Servant,

' George Harmer''

A third letter ran as follows : 

* My dear Horace,

 Striking tents and moving off  the
 deuce knows whither, and without noti-
' fiction to your principal ally, is, in the
' language of the streets,  a rum go.' Is
 it a Sulu beauty, or ' a little French milliner'?
Or is it Je&ey Waller? A
* secret amour, or a mysterious commission?
* I hope the cabby's order was not  ' To
'' Manilla.'

*  Back in a few days, and cards or
' letters will be forwarded,' the hotel porter
' says, and, if I were not the mildest
mannered fellow that ever cut a throat or
'' picked a pocket, I should tell you to go to
'' the deuce as an ill-mannered son of a gun,
' and leave you to your fate. But I conclude

you are obeying some behest of
Love or Pluto, or both, and so, for auld
lang syne, I forego the right to be angry.

 Wherever you are you see the papers
of course, and the question about Kututu
and the Boulonagans in the Commons last
night will not have escaped you. The
Secretary for the Colonies appears to be ina
fog as to the possible latitude of the new
countries. This is not to be wondered at
when he stumbled in his geography over
a question as to Sarah and Sulu. The
Right Hon. Jonas Welby, I am told, is
anything but pleased at the frequent
mention of your name in the public
journals, and your uncle (with whom I
have been spending two days) tells me
that the probability of your marrying
Miss Dunstan is gall and wormwood to
him. Dick Grantly is more worldly wise
than some people think, and I have this
day received a hint which leads me to
believe he is right when he thinks that
there is more in this than belongs to
dislike of his step-son.

* Miss Dunstan's lawyers in London are
also Mr. Welby's solicitors. During the
last two years there have been several

** suits in respect of a Joint Stock Mining
' Company in which Mr. Welby had induced
* Miss Dunstan to invest a very large sum
' of money. The Breedon lawyers, who at
' one time conducted all the Dunstan
 business, are sore at the treatment they
have received. They attribute the change
' to Welby. I met one of the firm in
' London to-day. He told me in confidence
 that Welby has contrived to unload most
 of his responsibility in the mining suits
' upon Miss Dunstan, and that a warrant of
' execution has gone down to Scarsdale in
' respect of Miss Dunstan's Derbyshire
 estate.

' This is strange news and ill news, and
' I have determined to make a rapid march
** of investigation upon Derwent Hall, where
' I may fix my head-quarters for some days,
' or return to town at once, according to
' the march of events.

' Know therefore, my mysterious friend,
 that, if you do not find me at my chambers
'' in London, I am to be heard of at Der
went Hall, near Scarsdale, Derbyshire.

** Yours indignantly to command,

Tom Ernstone."

I pondered over these letters far into the
night ; and when I had, as it were, relighted
my cigar ' with a wisp of paper," after the
manner of my literary friend of ' The
Reveries," it seemed as if there was sweetness
instead of bitter in the possibility of
Miss Dunstan losing her property. I cannot
help thinking that her wealth was a stumbling
block to me, in those days when my
uncle Grantley expected it to act as a loadstone
to my affections. Latterly her possessions
of gold and lands had not occurred tome
in connection with the possibilities that
were growing out of the renewal of our
friendship. Now, I could not help feeling
that if she were penniless tomorrow I would
go straightway to her and offer her my
hand and heart. '' But," asks my friend
the moralist, ' can a heart once lit be lighted
again ? " Mr. Marvel argues that it can ; but
there is something like special pleading in
his summing-up ; so much so, that, had the
question been adjudicated upon in favour of
his theory, a new trial might have been

granted on the plea of '  mis direction " of
the jury in the judge's address. There is
another philosopher who does not beat about
the bush, nor give undue colour to the
evidence upon which he charges the menin
the box. Mr. Thackeray, discoursing of
' Love and Marriage," contends that it is
desirable for a man to be in love several
times. He declares that if a man loses the
object of his first passion the loss in no
instance has been known to kill. * If you
win her," he says, '' it is possible that you
will be disappointed. But, hit or miss, good
luck or bad," he would be sorry that any
young fellow should not undergo the malady
which first struck me down under the blue
skies of Italy. ' Every man ought to be in
love a few times in his life, and to have a
smart attack of the fever. You are the
better for it when it is over ; the better for
your misfortune if you endure it with a
manly heart ; how much the better for
success if you win it and a good wife into
the bargain ! " And you will remember that

the contented citizen into whose mouth
Thackeray put these words had been
married twice, and  who knows ?  may
have had almost a polygamous hope of
lighting his cigar with a new match.

My thoughts rambled on over this broad
field of sentiment and common sense. If I
had been a poet I fear I should have degraded
my muse with a prosaic record of
an earthy world. Money, common sense,
love, expediency, philosophy,  it seemed as
if I had re-lighted my cigar with a wisp of
paper that had done duty as the leaf of a
ledger in a huckster's shop. It must have
been the vulgar taint of Ernstone's reference
to a warrant of distress being issued against
Miss Dunstan's property. Fancy a dirty
' man in possession " of the palace which I
had discovered lying at the foot of those
romantic hills that had been the wonderland
of my youthful imagination, and had cast a
glamour of poetry over the fancies of my
manhood ! Is it surprising that my thoughts
for the moment groveled in the mire of a

conventional existence with debts and duns
in it ?

The firelight that has been playing upon
the old-fashioned bed-chamber has gone out.
There is only a glow of embers in the grate.
I turn from reminiscences of Thackeray to
Ik Marvel, and remember that he of the
' Reveries " died a bachelor after all. He
lingered too long in the sunny glances of
Nelly's soft blue eyes. One morning she disappeared,
and years afterwards she met him
a comely matronly dame, and presented him
to her gallant husband and their two little
boys. They all dined together. "It is
very jovial at table ; for good wine, I find, is
a great strengthener of the bachelor heart.
But afterwards, when night has fairly set in,
and the blaze of the fire goes flickering over
your lonely quarters, you heave a deep
sigh ! " And Nelly was his second experience
! There was a Louise before her. I
think to myself, " Helen is, in truth, my
first and second experience, and I will make
Ernstone, my uncle, and my mother happy

by rendering such chances as those suggested
by the bachelor-moralist impossible''

I am endeavouring'to record my thoughts
faithfully, even at the risk of presenting
myself in an unfavourable light to my lady
friends, who may think that in these last
reflections my heart does not respond with a
sufficient warmth of gratitude to the love of
Helen Dunstan, and which, it may also be
said, I count upon too confidently. Nevertheless,
I feel certain as I sit pondering over
the embers of this winter fire, away among
the Derbyshire hills, that should Miss Dunstan
become Mrs. Horace Durand she will
have a faithful, true, and devoted husband.

CHAPTER V.

'the palace that was more beautiful
than anything ulysses ever saw."

There had been a thaw during the night.
The next morning, when I started to drive
from '' The Rose and Crown " to " The Dunstan
Arms," it was spring. It is true the
snow lingered here and there in white
patches, but the sun was shining high up in
the heavens, and the birds were singing in
the hedgerows round about the roadside inn.
The air was mild, and there was a smell
of newly-turned earth in it. It was as if
the dear old world had just awakened from
a long sleep. The horse in ' The Rose and
Crown" gig neighed triumphantly as the

landlord cracked his whip. A lark was
carolling in the clear sky above us.

As we sped along the road, the doors of
wayside cottages were open to let in the
first breezes of spring. One or two windowsills
were yellow with crocuses in pots.
Men were at work in their little gardens ;
labourers were pruning the hedges ; rooks
were busy in the tall elms ; and when we
came to the moorland it seemed to stretch
far away like a dark carpet that had been
spread for the clouds to make flitting shadows
upon it.

I left my charioteer at The Dunstan
Arms," and walked down the hill towards
that palace in the valley. Do you know
Derbyshire? It is full of  dales." This
was one of them into which I was penetrating.
As I went down hill, a velvety slope,
with jutting rocks and trees, gradually arose
in front of me. I don't know how many
'* dales " there are in Derbyshire, but they
are very numerous. Monsall Dale, Miller's
Dale, Harley Dale, Dove Dale, and a score

VOL. III. p

of others occur to me. I have studied the
rural mysteries of most of them; but this
was my first excursion into the valley, where
Derwent Hall nestles among the oaks and
elms, the birch and firs, of one of the most
sweet and peaceful bits of landscape it is
possible to imagine.

The road was fringed with alternating
wood and meadow, with now and then a deep
lane that finished in a nutty-looking copse
suggestive of summer rambles and autumn
harvests. A dry-stone wall marked the
boundary on either side of me, the interstices
filled with lichens and mosses, and in
the bank below I felt that there were violets
and primroses ready to shoot up through the
fallen leaves so soon as the sun should give
them sufficient encouragement. I thought
of them as typical of the bright hopes of men
which had been long buried under desolating
winters of disappointment. Presently I came
to a toll-gate, where the ruddy-faced 'pikeman
was leaning over the half door, smoking,
and unconsciously taking in the gentle influences

of the spring morning. A numerous
company of barn-yard fowls and pigeons
were briskly investigating a quantity of
wheat which the 'pikeman's wife was distributing
among them in the road. The chief
chanticleer of the party paused as I passed
by to utter a general challenge of mortal
combat to all creation ; and the sun blazed
out as if it endorsed the loud defiance. ' A
fine morning," said the smoker, taking his
pipe out of his mouth.

 It is indeed," I said, and the entire
country now opening up at my feet seemed
to smile. It was as if Nature had just flung
wide open all the shutters of her house, and
said Hhe night is over, and the summertime
is at hand." A trout-stream came
laughing round a bend of the valley, as if it
had burst out of the rocky sides of the dale ;
and as I traced its course my eyes fell upon
the towers of Derwent Hall, reflected, with
their surrounding trees, in the river which
here spread itself almost into a lake, as if
for-the purpose of acting as a mirror to the

scene.

p2

As I walked on, I came to the lodge-gates
; and, being admitted, found myself
traversing a long level roadway with park-like
grounds on either hand, until at length
the landscape opened right and left, with
wide, sweeping lawns in front of me, and
Derwent Hall looking down upon me out
of many diamond-paned windows. The
doors of the porch-like entrance were wide
open, and, as I approached, a carriage with a
pair of ponies came out from a roadway
through a clump of trees on the right, and
pulled up, to the evident delight of a fine
Newfoundland dog that welcomed them with
joyous barks and bounds. Before I had
time to speak to the servant, who now came
to the door, I found myself in presence of
the lady of the hall. A blush, betokening
either surprise or pleasure, suffused her
lovely face. I think it was something more
than astonishment that sparkled in her eyes ;
for I saw her before she saw me, and noted
the calm that was in her face, the absence at
the moment of active thought or feeling.

The light that passed into it  the sunshine,
I am vain enough to say, went straight to
my heart, eliciting responsive emotions.

' My dear Mr. Durand ! " exclaimed Miss
Dunstan, ' I cannot tell you how glad I am
to see you ! "

I pressed her gloved hand, but said
nothing for a moment.

Thank you very much," I stammered.

She looked almost oppressively handsome
 this Diana of my boyhood, a picture
of English health and beauty set in a framework
of manorial hall, and oaks, and velvet
lawns. A Newmarket coat of myrtle-green
plush, trimmed with sable ; a short skirt of
plaited satin ; a small toke or hat of the same
material as the jacket ; a pair of gauntlets
or driving-gloves ; the rich yet simple fashion
and colour of her attire set off her singularly
neat clean-cut style of beauty.

'' Surely, something wonderful is in the
wind!" she said; ' Colonel Ernstone arrived
only half an hour ago, quite unexpectedly,
and on business he said, and I am just now

going to the Bakewell Station to meet jour
mother."

' It never rains but it pours," I replied.

' Will you accompany me to the station, or
go inside and find the Colonel ? " she asked.

'' I will go with you certainly, if I may."

"John," she said to the servant, who
stood by the horses' heads, "put Normandy
into the dog-cart, drive to the station, and
bring Mrs. Welby's luggage. I will drive
Mr. Durand."

Yes, Miss," said the servant, as the lady
of the manor signified that I should take
my seat; "and Nep will go along with you."

Nep was the dog. He expressed his disappointment
in various ways.

You shall come back with us, Nep; now
be a good dog and do as I wish."

Nep barked his submission and stood still
as the pair of ponies answered to their
mistress's touch of the rein and trotted
away.

"Poor Nep!'' said Miss Dunstan, "do
you see that he turns his head away ? He

could not restrain himself if he watched us
go. When discipline requires that he should
not do something he likes, he shuts his eyes
or hides himself from temptation."

'' A true philosopher," I said.

 Indeed he is," she answered, 'miss
Dobbs says he is far wiser than any man she
has ever met, but you know she has peculiar
views."

' Yes, I remember, though I have often
thought she estimated me correctly when
she more than suggested that I was a fool."

* She was not rude enough to say anything
like that to your face; if she did it
was only bravado, she did not mean it ; and
she is very eccentric, as you know."

' She looked at me pointedly, and said
she hated fools."

 Did she really?"

' Yes, do you not remember ? "

No reply. Only a harmless flourish of
her long white whip, at which the ponies
scampered along at increased speed.

'rit was at the partridge-shooting, on

that second of September when they brought
us the news that Napoleon had given up his
sword at Sedan."

* What a memory you have !" she said.

It seems but yesterday," I replied,
 and I wish we could put the clock back and
drive straight into that green Breedon lane
and continue that old feast of St. Partridge."

Now she caressed the ponies gently
with her whip, and pulled them into a walk ;
for we were ascending a hill.

'' I think we will drive through Chatsworth
Park," she said ; ' it is a long way
round, but we have plenty of time, and I had
intended to make a detour of a few miles to
give Nep a run. This is the first morning
in spring."

' And I have robbed Nep of his treat," I
said.

' He is so noisy, and I could not take
care of both of you and the ponies as
well."

 Then you think I am sufficient of a
philosopher to be classed with Nep ? " and I

felt at the moment that I would not mind
being a dog for her sake.

* I think very highly of Nep," she said ;
 but he is not so great a traveller as you ;
he has not even visited his native land,
where Cabot or some other Ulysses of
several hundred years ago discovered his
ancestors."

'' He is wise enough to know when he is
well off," I said.

By this time we had entered Chatsworth
Park. The sun was flashing on the gilded
windows of that very palace which my
father had told me of when I nestled by
his knee, and devoured his stories of the
great Ulysses. The spreading oaks made
shadows on the green turf. The Derwent
meandered along its pebbly bed. A hare
went bounding along the level mead. Rooks
were calling to each other among the trees
beyond the ducal mansion. The national
flag was flying over the wooded heights by
the observatory.

Have we plenty of time ? "

eyes, the train is not due until two
o'clock."

'' Time enough for the ponies to walk all
through the park ? "

'' Yes."

* It is so pleasant to talk. Do you not
wonder why I came to Derwent Hall ? "

' I think it is part of some studied plan
to give me pleasure."

* No," I said, ' I found your house quite
by accident."

'' Indeed."

'' When I was a boy at Scarsdale a great
ridge of hills shut in the little town from the
rest of the world. My father took pleasure
in telling me of a palace that lay in the
valley beyond them. It was Chatsworth. I
knew nothing of it in those days, except
that it was grander than anything Ulysses
ever saw. The other day I thought I
would like once more to see my native place.
Wordsworth's poem on his revisiting Yarrow
had always greatly impressed me. Scarsdale
ought to have been my Yarrow. I

went there to revive my childhood ; but my
thoughts would run off to  The Cedars,'
and the pastoral country round about Warrington
Manor. It came into my mind,
nevertheless, that I would pick up that
childish thread of romance, and follow the
clue of it over the hills, and discover the
palace in the valley, as I might have done
when a boy. It was an odd notion, frivolous
perhaps ; so I kept it to myself ; it was
like putting a boyish fancy into practice. I
climbed the white road, and halted finally at
The Dunstan Arms ' to discover  Derwent
Hal.' "

show very strange!" she said, checking
the ponies until they stood still, '' and did
you not know I lived there ? "

'' Not until the Hunts told me."

 I thought you knew I had bought
Derwent Hall; did we not speak of it at
Antwerp ? "

'' Yes, but I had no knowledge of the
precise situation of it ; and going forth infancy
to discover the palace of my youth, I

found Derwent Hall. Surely the genius of
good fortune put it into my head to explore
these hills, and guided me to the threshold
of your Derbyshire home ! ''

The ponies moved on.

*' Do you think so ? Then I am very
glad."

 If one read it in a book one would not
believe it."

I took good care to say nothing of my
encounter with Mr. Thomas Barnes, Hhe
lawyer chap."

 It is quite a romance in its way," she
said, '' and you did not know of Colonel
Ernstone's arrival ? "

'' No."

' Nor of your mother coming down, when
she only left here last week with the intention
of staying in town for a month, at the
end of which time I had promised to join
her?"

No."

' It is strange," she said,  but I quite
agree with you as to the interposition of
good fortune in all this."

Then I suddenly remembered that Vanstone's
visit was connected with something
unpleasant, even bearing the possible suggestion
that this house of my lady of the
manor might vanish from her possession
like the flying palace in The Arabian
Nights." The thought brought me straight
down from the skies of sentiment and romance
to the level earth of reality ; but the
sun shone, the birds carolled, the river
flashed along between its green banks, the
harness-bells played a merry tune in response
to the drowsy tinkle of distant sheep-folds ;
and an emotion, too deep and fervent for any
other feeling to intervene, lifted my thoughts
and fancies once more to the height of the
joyous inspiration of the spring  the very
season which the poets associate with the
dawn of the tender passion. All of a
sudden it seemed as if the past had become
an entire blank to me. I lived only
in that present moment. I realised all the
possibilities of a flame re-lighted which had
occupied the philosopher's thoughts. Then

a chill of fear struck me, lest the tender endowment
of my soul in respect of this dear
creature, who sat by my side, had come too
late. She had never seemed so beautiful, so
desirable, as at this moment, the fresh breezes
of spring in her face, her red lips half-parted,
a lock of her rich brown hair, that had
escaped from her hat, fluttering upon her
shoulder, her eyes catching the blue-grey
hues of the sky. How sharp is the poet's
etching of the influence and effect of the
gracious state of love !

I tell thee, Love is Nature's second sun,
Causing a spring of virtues where he shines ;
And as without the sun, the world's great eye,
All colours, beauties both of Art and Nature,
Are given in vain to men ; so, without Love, ;

All beauties bred in women are in vain.
All virtues bred in men lie buried ;
For Love informs them as the sun doth colours. "

 Do you remember that day we spoke
of just now  that second of September six
years ago ? " I asked suddenly, my heart in
my words, and my voice trembling.

'' Yes, quite well," she said.

The gilded gates of the park now came

well in sight, and somehow they seemed to
stimulate my purpose ; for in a few minutes
we should be once more upon the highway.
The ponies were still walking, the reins
lying loosely upon their white backs, the
whip in its socket, the driver's hands reclining
upon the soft apron-rug.

'' I wonder if you remember the point at
which our conversation was invaded by that
blustering messenger ?"

 It is so long ago," she said; but her
voice was modulated almost into a whisper.

 May I say what I was going to say
then, and should have said, but for that
business of Sedan ?"

Yes, if you really think you know
what you were going to say," she answered.

'Icoknow," I said, placing my hand
upon hers. '' I was going to say, ' I love you,
will you some day be my wife ? ' "

Her hand trembled beneath my own.
She did not speak. The ponies stopped.
A blackbird upon an adjacent oak burst out
into a rich loud song.

'I have taken you by surprise," I said;
' forgive me, I should have waited for a more
fitting opportunity. You are not angry ?"

No."

It was a whisper. The song of the
blackbird almost drowned it.

'* If I had made that confession in the
Breedon Valley on that September day what
would you have said?"

' Yes," she answered.

'' And now, what would you say ? "

I could not keep the question back.

' Ask me when we return," she said.

I looked up into her face. It was pale
and agitated.

'i Forgive me !" I said, '' it was a selfish
thing to speak to you as I have done so
suddenly."

'' No, no," she said.

'' Let me take the reins ; may I ?"

 Yes," she said.

I stepped out of the carriage. She moved
into my seat. A feeling of triumph coursed
through my veins; and with it a sense of

exercising a protective influence over my
companion. There was a flattering significance
in her handing over the reins to me.
It was emblematic of submission. I could
have fallen at her feet in recognition of
this true woman's token that she too was
conquered.

You forgive me ! " I said, as the ponies
broke into a trot, '' for I love you with all
my heart and soul ! "

I took her unresisting right hand in my
left and pressed it to my lips.

* Say one word  sweetheart  Helen ! "
I urged in the selfish madness of my success.

 My dear Horace !" was her reply.

The Park-gates flew open. I gave the
ponies their heads as freely as I had given
rein to my own thoughts and desires. They
scampered along the road, pausing no more
until they halted at the little road-side
station, where Nep greeted them, and his
mistress, with noisy demonstrations.

We had not long to wait. The station
was full of excitement. Six passengers were

VOL. III. Q

 going on." They were all wildly busy
with their luggage. The station-master was
full of anxious importance. He had time,
however, to touch his hat to Miss Dunstan.
Nep bounded hither and thither. There
was much flashing of signals. It was a
relief, all this, to the strain upon Helen's
thoughts and my own  a useful prosaic diversion.
We had hardly paced the platform
twice before the train came steaming into
the station.

A few minutes later my mother was sitting
by the side of Miss Dunstan, and the
ponies were scampering back to Derwent
Hall. I drove in with Tom and the luggage.


I was to tell you, sir," said the servant,
from Colonel Ernstone, that he wants to
see you as soon as you can, private ; that is,
you was to go to his room the minute you
could."

Very well," I said.

sand I was to drive the shortest way
back and get ahead of the ponies''

' All right, Tom," I answered, ' I am
quite at the Colonels disposal''

Yes, sir, then I'll just put the 'loss
along."

* By all means," I said.

The chestnut responded gaily to a touch
of the whip, and, taking a narrow lane outside
the Park, we headed the ponies, by
twenty minutes, at Derwent Hall.

q2

CHAPTER VI.

TREAD YOU NEVER SO LIGHTLY SOME OF THE
MUD OF THIS Work-a-day WORLD SHALL STICK."

*what is it, Ernstone?" I asked, the
moment I was shown to his room.

' The devil to pay," he said.

' Then pay him and have done with it,"
I answered.

'' You are in good spirits''

'' I am."

' Uncommonly good spirits ! " said Vanstone.


 Uncommonly," I replied ; ' never was
happier than at this moment ! "

I am glad of it," he said, for I was
never more perplexed."

indeed!"

'' Tell me all about it."

'' I will ; sit down."

He pointed to a sofa, a broad comfortable
seat in front of the fire. We were in his
bedroom. I sat down.

 Last night you thrashed a man at * The
Dunstan Arms ' ? "

' Yes, I had that great satisfaction."

' There was an old shabby fellow with
him ?"

'' Yes."

' They are now in this house. Do you
know what their business is ? "

* One of them is either a lawyer or a
lawyer's clerk, I believe."

Yes, Mr. Thomas Barnes," said Ernst
one, * and the other is his man ! "

 Oh," I said. swell?"

' They are in the next room."

Indeed ! " I said, becoming curious.

'' The next room is my dressing-room,"
he said, '' and I have induced them to stay
there until I could see you."

' You are very mysterious, Ernstone,"

I said, rising,  it is to save me pain or
trouble, T know. Am I to be arrested for an
assault, or what? "

*No, it is worse than that," he said;
what I am striving to do, is to save
Miss Dunstan from annoyance and humiliation."


tell me then, what is the matter ?'' I
sid, anxiously.

' That fellow Barnes holds a writ of distraint
upon this property, and the shabby
person is a bailiff, whom he is about to leave
here in possession," Ernstone replied.

' A fitting conclusion to my brawling! "
I said, bitterly,  and probably the result of
it."

'* No, they were in the neighbourhood
last night, but a writ cannot be executed
after sundown, and it is quite likely that
your intervention delayed the business. I
knew what was going to happen in time to
get down here and call on Barnes. The two
beasts indeed came with me from Scarsdale,
so that I could the better break the shock of

it, somehow. It was at Scarsdale this morning
that I learnt you were here, and then I
had at once a bright idea."

'' Yes ? "

* I will tell you what it is presently. In
the meantime let me inform you that you
are at the bottom of this trouble."

I? "

' Your step-father is more malicious than
I thought. In a joint action against him
and Miss Dunstan in connection with a colliery
investment, his solicitors, who were
supposed to be protecting Miss Dunstan's
interests, have allowed judgment to be signed
and a writ to issue on Derwent Hall. Your
mother had told Mr. Welby about our meeting
at Antwerp, and of the probability of
that match, which your uncle desired so much,
being arranged. He thinks you mercenary,
and he also now hates Miss Dunstan for your
sake. The document and its bearers in the
next room are his emissaries of revenge.
He wishes to annoy Miss Dunstan and to
disappoint you."

miserable wretch!" I exclaimed,
 what then is to be done ? " '

' The amount claimed is fifteen thousand
pounds. I have telegraphed from Scarsdale
in your name, requesting Messrs. Blandford
and Blandford to hold themselves in readiness
to remit to the bankers there, by wire,
to your order, and to be paid to you in
person that sum."

 Yes, well?"

' You have not drawn the sum Mr.
Waller placed with Blandfords to your
credit ? "

'No, not a penny."

* My brilliant idea is that we now drive,
as fast as horses will carry us, to Scarsdale,
and that you ask for the money. If even we
do not get there until after banking hours, I
have arranged with the manager that he will
still honour the order of Rothschild; and
the principal of the firm in which Barnes is a
junior partner will come back with us, and,
giving a proper receipt for the money, will
order a surrender and retreat."

 My dear Ernstone, you are a genius as
well as a friend in need. Come along, let
us go at once''

' First a word to the enemy ! " said Em-stone,
and he disappeared into the next
room.

If my love affair in Italy had in it strong
elements of romance, my present one threatened
to annex prosaic, if not vulgar, aspects.
This thought passed through my mind in a
vague way, but it did not disturb the settled
happiness that had taken possession of it. I
think the idea that I would not be sorry if
Helen were no longer rich, invaded my
common sense and conquered it. Such an
event would place my love beyond question
of those mercenary motives which Mr. Welby
was ready to ascribe to it.

 That's all right! " said Ernstone, coming
back, ' I have tipped Barnes, and undertaken
to make it up between you. A mutual
apology is what he suggests. Until we return
they consent to be locked up with two
bottles of port wine and a tin of biscuits.

Must not starve the garrison you know.
I have a note ready written to explain to
Miss Dunstan our sudden disappearance, and
mentioning the hour of our return."

A carriage and pair of horses were awaiting
us at the south entrance of the house.
The driver had already received his instructions,
and we were quickly on the road to
Scarsdale. On the way our conversation
never flagged. So far as I can remember
it ran along as follows : 

' Is not this a strange business altogether?"
I asked.

'' Yes."

' You think it is spite and not necessity?
I mean do you think Mr. Welby is a rich
man?"

*' He has the reputation of being wealthy."

You think he is merely trying to injure
Miss Dunstan on my account ?"

' That is my impression."

' Are not the solicitors, then, very lax in
their management of her affairs ?"

'she is not wholly in the hands of

one firm. Her Worcestershire property is
managed by the local lawyers at Breedon ;
her public works are in the hands of the
London solicitors, who had charge of much
of her father's business ; and Welby's solicitors
are jointly concerned for her in the
mining investments which she has made
under the advice of Mr. Welby."

' Has my mother a special settlement ?"

'' I think so."

' Miss Dunstan's property is very large ? "

Yes."

' Do you think she will be angry at this
interference of ours?"

' I propose to acquaint her with it when
the matter is settled, sparing her the humiliation,
at present anyhow, of the details, and to
urge upon her the concentration of all her
business matters in the hands of one firm."

' Wise and considerate," I said, 'but only
what might be expected from you, Ernstone.
You know I hate flattery as much as you do,
and I know that good fellows dislike being
told they are good fellows ; but I must, dear

old friend, tell you that I think you the best
fellow in the world."

'' Nonsense, nonsense !'' said Ernstone,
what is the good of friends unless they
make themselves useful ? "

Some man is a friend for his own
occasion, and will not abide in the day of
trouble,' is, I think, a reading from Scripture,"
I replied.

' That sort of person should be drummed
out of the regiment of friendship," said Vanstone;
but you always over-estimate my
little services. I must have something todo.
There is no woman in the world for
whom I have so much respectful admiration
as for Mrs. Welby ; next to my own daughter
I love Helen; your uncle is the dearest
friend, anywhere approaching my own age,
I have on earth ; and I add to these follies
an affection for you ! It is mere selfishness
after all if I am fortunate enough to be of
service to any of these good people who trust
me and believe in me. I am not much of a
sentimentalist, Horace, but I believe the

greatest real happiness to be obtained on
earth is in the healthy and sincere intercourse
of true friends ; and, mind you, it is
not necessary that the exercise of the offices
of friendship should only exist between man
and man. I believe in the friendship of a
man and a woman, and when we deny to
two people this relationship because they are
man and woman we shut out of life one of
the greatest pleasures of friendship."

'eyes, no doubt."

I did not quite see the full drift of
Stone's unexpected dissertation upon men
and women's friendships. I understood it
at a later day, and am blessed now with a
full appreciation of it. The carriage rattled
along as we talked, past " The Dunstan
Arms," past ' The Rose and Crown," over
moor and fell, along deep lanes, over white
roads, and pulled up in due course at the
Scarsdale telegraph office. Ernstone dispatched
to Blandfords his second telegram.
Then we hastened to the lawyers. Short and
Barnes. They handed us a message addressed

to me. I opened it. Messrs. Blandford
informed me that they awaited my
instructions. These were now on the way
to London. Short and Barnes drew up the
necessary papers for closing the transaction.
Then we went to the bankers. The manager
invited us into his private room. He was
good enough to be complimentary to me, and
entertained us both with an account of the
public banquet that was to be offered to mein
my native town.

In less than an hour we were on our way
back, with Short and Barnes's receipt for the
fifteen thousand pounds, and accompanied
by Mr. Short himself. It was quite dark
when Ernstone led the way to his dressing-room,
and unlocked the garrison. Mr. Short
thereupon informed his partner and '' the
man" that the warrant had been satisfied,
and they could quit Derwent Hall ; whereupon
the enemy of my youth, with whom
I had picked that Quixotic quarrel on the
previous day, asked me for my apology and
my hand.

 Certainly' I said; 'I regret that I
beat you, Mr. Barnes, if you also regret that
you gave me cause for doing so'*

eyes, I regret and apologise, and hope
we shall be friends in the future."

'' Thank you, Mr. Barnes," I said, and I
really felt sorry for the poor creature.

We shook hands, and presently Ernstone
and I had the satisfaction of seeing the trio
driven off the Derwent domain in the dog-cart.

'' And now to reconnoitre our own
position," said the Colonel, ringing the bell.

'What about dinner?" he inquired of
the servant.

 Mistress, Mrs. Welby, and Miss Dobbs
have dined ; the cook is waiting your orders,
and a table is laid for you and Mr. Durand
in the great hall; the ladies dined in the
small dining-rooms''

'* Oh, very well," said Ernstone.

* What orders for the cook ?"

' To do his best, Jones, for two hungry
men, and we will be ready for dinner when
he is ready for us."

And now, by the way, you had better
show Mr. Durand to his room. It takes me
twelve minutes to dress, Horace."

 All right'' I said.

sand if you please," said the servant,
 mistress and the ladies will be glad to see
you in the gallery parlour after dinner."

 Our compliments, Jones, and we shall
pay our respects to them as soon as possible''

*' Yes, Colonel," said Jones, and thereupon
Ernstone commenced his toilette and I
proceeded to my own room, feeling that
many interesting, not to say startling,
events, had taken place since I had reappeared
some fifty-six hours previously on
the threshold of the house where I was
born.

It jarred slightly upon my somewhat
romantic sensibilities the taint of vulgarity
that seemed to hang about these recent events ;
and in writing this narrative I have doubted
greatly whether the principles of true art are
not outraged by this association of poetry,
romance, and love, with a public-house

brawl and ' a man in possession." If any of
my friends should insist upon considering this
autobiography from an artistic stand-point,
let me hope that they may regard the
common-place details referred to as a recognition
of the modern mania for so-called
realism. I may thus escape from what
otherwise might be looked upon as an unpardonable
ignorance of the true canons
of art. The introduction of money affairs
into love passages may be considered to
degrade the poetry of passion. I know
a rigid esthete who cannot endure any
mention of Oliver Goldsmith because he
swam in debt'' and actually allowed himself
to be  dunned for his milk-score and
arrested for rent ;'' but I am not an esthete ,
and I remember the great heart that beat
above the empty pocket and the legacy of
sweet poetry it has left to us. So above
the suggestions of the world's common place,
and the earth that is earthy, do I place high
in my thoughts the noble woman who has
given me her love.

VOL. III. K

' Dinner, sir ! " said a voice at the door ;
*' the Colonel said I was to show you the
way, sir."

He led me along a tapestried corridor,
and down a broad staircase, upon the walls
of which hung relics of the chase ; down into
a hall where the firelight played upon a
polished oak floor, and into the old diningroom,
which was a picture of magnificent
comfort. The north side of the great gothic
hall was lighted in the day-time with four
oriel windows. They were now draped with
marine velvet curtains; the space between
was panelled oak, with the work of a great
master let into each of the central panels,
and above and below were plaques in china
or bronze. The south side of the room was
occupied by the fire-place, set deep into an
ancient ingle-nook with carved oak seats on
either side. Outside the ingle-nook stood
several high-backed chairs, and on the walls
were hung a battle-piece by a Dutch master,
and some finely-finished figure-studies by
Velasquez and Rembrandt. The east end of

the room was filled up with a music-gallery,
underneath which was an old oak sideboard
ornamented with several pieces of antique
plate. At the west end there were a couple of
cabinets guarded by two full suits of armour.
In the centre of the room and opposite to
the fire-place a table was laid for dinner.
Chairs were placed for two guests. Ernstone
came into the room from the opposite side
as I entered it.

With the dessert we received a message
from the lady of the house. The Bakewell
Madrigal Society were in the habit of meeting
at the hall for practice once a week. Would
we like to hear them sing ? Of course we
would. The lamps in the music-gallery at
the east end of the hall were thereupon
turned up. A company of choral singers
entered and sang,  Who will o'er the Downs
with Me" and Sir Patrick Spent." It was
not difficult to have imagined oneself away
back in the middle ages, only that I suspect
neither the fruit, the wines, nor the singing
were equal to those of the Derwent Hall of
R 2

to-day ; and my fancy travelled through the
vocal music to the little gallery parlour
beyond, where Helen and my mother were
listening to the madrigals. I wondered if
she had already told my mother of what
had passed between us in Chatsworth
Park.

' And to think' said Colonel Ernstone,
' that it should be possible for Welby's
malice to overshadow this dear old place ! "

' Don't let us talk of it," I said, Hhe
shadow has passed, though the memory of
it is to me something akin to the trail of a
slug upon a ripe peach."

And I think, if this autobiography were
an imaginary one, I should have left out, in
these latter chapters, Mr. Barnes and his man.
It seems to me that they encumber the
sweetness and light of the place with a touch
of the gutter ; yet how continually one
brushes shoulders with the leprosy of the
world every where ! In London, morally and
physically, it is continually at your side.
Poverty and wealth, crime and virtue.

misery and happiness, what a motley crowd
it is ! And how close together in the London
streets ! One soon grows accustomed to the
strange incongruities there ; too soon. But
here in the Derbyshire dales, in that valley
beyond the Scarsdale hills, I looked for all
the gentle dignity of peace, and something
of the romance of a poetic past. I found that
I was still in the great world. In the grounds
of the Ulysses palace itself I heard the
whistle of the London express and knew that
it burrowed its way right under Haddon
on its flight to and from the metropolis.
What matters that fate flings a freckled
little lawyer and a dingy bailiff into the
realistic picture? One can still follow the
amatory expedition of the gallant riding
over the downs to gain a winsome bride ;
one can still enter into the vocal spirit of
the fatal voyage of Sir Patrick Spent. The
sanguinary rites and the unholy scenes of
domestic life in the Boulonagan islands did
not destroy my memories of the pastoral
lands of Warrington Manor.

*' Coffee here or in the gallery parlour?"
asked the servant.

' In the gallery parlour," was my quick
response.

The man led the way up the grand staircase,
along a narrow corridor and into a
small panelled room, which gave upon the
music-gallery.

My mother. Miss Dunstan, and Miss
Dobbs were awaiting us, Helen presiding
over a dainty tea-table. Miss Dobbs rose
and bowed.

* Am I still so objectionable a person in
your eyes?" I said; ' may we not shake
hands after all these years ? "

 Oh, yes, by all means," said Miss
Dobbs, ' if you wish it."

My mother and Helen exchanged
glances, as if they had already discussed the
manner in which Miss Dobbs would receive
me.

We shook hands.

' I congratulate you Mr. Durand on your
great achievements," said Miss Dobbs.

' Thank you very much ; I hope to
surpass anything I have done yet," I said.

'* Indeed!" she replied.  There is, I
suppose, no end to a man's triumphs. It
would be rude if I said you have already
accomplished a great deal more than I expected
you would."

* Not rude, honest, and characteristic of
Miss Dobbs," I replied.

' Thank you," said Donna Sancho, taking
her seat in a prim stiff fashion.

My mother and Helen smiled.

' You need not wait," said the lady of
the house to the servants who were in attendance,
' draw the curtains of the gallery, and
see that the ladies and gentlemen have supper
when they have finished their programme."

A portiere had been raised over an archway
leading to the gallery. The servants
lowered it. The charm of distance was thus
given to the choral music.  would that
my Love," arranged as a quartet, now fell
upon the ear as if it might have been a
serenade under my lady's window. Adjacent

to the gallery parlour there was a tropical
conservatory protected by a high bank, on
the slope of which part of the east end of
the hall was built ; so that the palm-house
could be entered through a corridor in which
there were alcoves of flowers. They were
prettily lighted with lamps. After coffee
and a general chat I found an opportunity to
talk apart with Helen. Every married
woman is a match-maker; and my mother
lent her assistance to the creation of my
opportunity.

Miss Dunstan was regarded, I believe,
by many persons as what is called a strong-minded
woman, inasmuch as she had instituted
a business-like system of charity, done
battle with a number of persons who make a
trade of so-called philanthropy, written a
pamphlet in favour of extending out-door
parochial relief, and made more than one
public speech on the education and protection
of the poor. '' Strong-minded" is used
towards woman as a term of reproach ;
but I have known more than one or two

instances in which the desire to help to drag
this poor old world out of the gutter has
been associated with the most tender and
gentle natures. Only the strongest natural
impulse to be useful to suffering humanity
could bring such women into the public eye.
Miss Dunstan was one of these '' angels upon
earth' with a brain of almost masculine
power, the motor of its action a heart full of
tender sympathies, and a nature susceptible
of the warmest affection.

I hope I shall be forgiven if, sitting by
her side, talking over our plans for the
future, I felt vain of my conquest. To hear
this beautiful woman confess that she returned
my love ; to win from her the naming
of a date for our marriage ; to feel a cold
chill at the thought that I might have lost
the happiness in store for me ; all this, you
may be sure, held me in a condition of
pleasant excitement.

When it was settled between us that, from
a day already named, we should part no
more, we talked of the dear old days in

Worcestershire. Warrington Manor, I learnt,
would come back into Helen's possession
very shortly, and whatever happened she
had already determined always to reside
there during the hunting seasons. She
had bought Derwent Hall chiefly because my
mother liked it. Mrs. Welby was a native of
the county, and had been brought up among
its hills and valleys.

But my own heart, as yours does, goes
out to the valley of the Avon," said Helen.
' I do not think any country is so pastoral
and sweet as that which surrounds Warrington
Manor."

 And none can ever have such dear
associations for us," I said, and she returned
the pressure of my hand.

nevertheless, Colonel Ernstone declares
you will always be a traveller ; he quoted tous
at Antwerp Tennyson's lines on Ulysses,
making the great explorer, even in his later
days, resign his sceptre to Telemachus, and
sail the seas in search of new adventures."

'My ship is sailing into a sweet and

peaceful harbour which I never looked to
reach," I said, " and, wherever it may sail
in future, you and I, Helen, will never part
company. What do you say to our visiting
together those sunny lands which yonder
palms faintly suggest ? Think of our visiting
dear old Jeffrey Waller at Manilla !
Fancy lying at anchor off Kututu, awaiting
a visit from the Irish king ! "

*' I fear my thoughts are too much occupied
with the Boulonagans when I think of
Kututu," she answered.

* When we visit those distant seas together,
Helen," I said,  we will make
assurance doubly sure  a steam-yacht after
the pattern of Waller's, manned by picked
men, commanded by an officer of the Royal
Navy, and fitted with more luxurious comforts
than were ever dreamt of by Cleopatra,
or the furnishers of her gilded barge."

As we wandered back to the gallery
parlour, where Colonel Ernstone and Miss
Dobbs were finishing a game of chess, having
my mother as an interested looker-on.

the choristers were singing the last bars of
a dreamy madrigal, the refrain of which
was * Good-night ! good-night!" As if by
general consent, we accepted the suggestion
of the music, and took our leave of each other
for the night, my mother kissing me on the
forehead, and whispering,  Horace, you
have won the sweetest, purest woman in the
world ! "

' I do believe it, indeed !" I said, ' which
proves that good fortune is no respecter of
persons."

CHAPTER VII.

ON THE WAY TO THE CEDARS.

The next day my match-making mother
was gratified with the intelligence I gave
her; and Ernstone said, '' You are at last the
lucky dog your uncle spoke of." Miss Dobbs
was unusually civil to me ; and I was indeed
very happy.

'' I think it would be only common kindness
now," said Helen,  if you were to go
and see your uncle, poor dear man ! "

"" I will go," I said, ' you are right''

 Of course she is'' said Ernstone, when
I spoke of it; semen are naturally selfish;
you would have liked to go on staying here
until the wedding."

Nothing would be more delightful," I
replied.

< Why, certainly, as our friend in the
play says, but the truth is we both ought
to be off ; I came on business ; my business
concluded, I have no right to stay any
longer; you came by accident  Fortune is
always leading you by the hand. After
what has occurred, propriety, I believe,
demands that you should now be almost a
stranger at Derwent Hall until you are
master of it."

sthatso?"

'' Yes, I am sure it is."

It was hard work to part with Helen
even for a few days. Ernstone said, it
would be quite correct for my mother and
Helen to pay a visit to '' The Cedars "
during my stay there. As for himself, he
must return to London. Before he left,
with my permission, he should speak to
Miss Dunstan about business. My route to
Breedon partly covered Ernstone's road to
London. My mother and Helen drove with
us to the station. No white ponies this
time, and we made no detour through Chatsworth

Park. A handsome, roomy barouche
and pair carried us to the railway, and we
both watched it return as far as we could see
it, after we were deposited at the station.
We noticed that it took the road leading to
Chatsworth Park. Thinking over the incident
of the first time I had ever been driven
through these lovely grounds, I could not
help feeling as if there might have been some
kindly forecast of happiness, in that early
longing of my boyhood to travel over the
white road to the palace that was more
beautiful than any Ulysses ever saw.

At Derby we got the London papers,
and among them a weekly journal of gossip,
from which Ernstone read:   Strange rumours
are afloat, affecting the financial credit
of a prominent politician, not to say a statesman,
whose recent losses in certain mining
transactions have already been made public.
The gentleman in question is also the proprietor
of several factories, which, owing to
the prohibitive tariffs of France, Germany,
and America, have not been worked at a profit

for nearly ten years. Wages have been paid
out of capital to the tune of, it is said,
fully a thousand a week during the past
three years. But for this the operatives of
the district in question would have been
paupers. It is said that notice has been
given for the stoppage of the works next
week."

Ernstone had taken a seat next to me, in
order that he might read the paragraph
aloud without disturbing a gentleman who,
with his travelling-cap pulled over his eyes,
was fast asleep in a corner of the carriage.

'Welby!" he said.

'' Do you think so ?"

'' I am sure of it," he answered.

 Then the Short and Barnes business
was not malice but necessity."

 Both," said Ernstone.

 What will happen?"

' A crash that will be a nine days'
wonder," said Ernstone, Hhe ending of an
ambitious life in the Bankruptcy Court."

'' And my mother ? "

* Alien your mother found that all sympathy
between herself and Mr. Welby had
ceased to exist, a private agreement of separation
was drawn up, and fresh settlements
were made. For the sake of appearances
they occasionally lived in the same house
and received there during the London
season," said Ernstone.

'' Ah, my poor mother ! *' I could not
help saying, ' how could she ever have seen
the smallest prospect of happiness with such
a man ! "

 She was very young and inexperienced,
I have always understood," said Colonel
Ernstone.

' And he was rich," I found myself
saying, sand she was ambitious. Ah, well !
she has suffered. Thank heaven she lives,
and is still comparatively young and pretty.
Bless her dear heart, she will be one and
the other when her hair is white for that
matter ! "

' I should not wonder!" said Ernstone,
and by this it was time he changed carriages

VOL. III. s

for London, leaving me to go on to Birmingham,
Worcester, and Breedon.

The old gentleman in the corner woke
up at the call of the guard.

'Why, how do you do? " he said, looking
at me.

' Mr. Blandford ! '' I exclaimed.

*eyes, the same  odd we should meet
here  have been to Scarsdale to see that all
was right in that little matter  on my way
back to town. Good day ! "

'' Stay, Mr. Blandford," I said, " would
it be possible for you to accompany me to
Breedon ? I greatly need your advice."

 If I could get to town tomorrow night,
yes," he said.

'' I will engage that you do so."

 Very well then, I go with you. Guard,
get me a ticket, can you ? for Breedon  I do
not go on to London."

'' All right, sir," said the guard.

But I am for St. Pancreas," said Vanstone,
handing his bag to a porter.

'' Before you go, Ernstone, let me introduce

you  Mr. Blandford, Colonel Vanstone."


'' Glad to know you, sir," said Ernstone;
'if Durand is wise lie has much to consult
you about ; I shall see Miss Dunstan's lawyers
tomorrow. It is another piece of
Durand's good luck to meet you here so
opportunely''

The next moment Ernstone was gone,
and Blandford and I were on our way to
Breedon. We had the compartment to ourselves.
Blandford looked as trim and bright
as when I first encountered him in Essex
Street. A clean shaven face, with the exception
of short side whiskers, hair closely
cropped and grey almost to whiteness, strong
regular teeth, dark hazel eyes, broad in the
shoulder, courtly of manner, he was a perfect
type of the higher grade of family lawyers.

'' I am glad you have resolved to act upto
Mr. Waller's wishes  a great good man
Waller, and rich as Croesus," said the lawyer.


' Have you heard from him ? "
s2

Yes, twice by telegraph from Singapore
 instructions in regard to the erection
of a memorial to his father and mother in
Marylebone churchyard  and information
that he sailed last week for Ceylon ; also a
special message giving his best remembrances
to you, which I sent to your hotel."

' A kind old gentleman ! " I said, * I
don't know what I should have done without
him in the East."

' Nor he without you, so he said  loves
you as a son nothing left to live for but to
see you happy and prosperous. So he assured
me  eccentric no doubt  he saw a
great deal of you out yonder ?"

' Well yes ; and he was deeply interested
in my adventures," I said.

Not a relation in the wide world that
he knows of," went on Mr. Blandford; odd
that he should have stayed away from the
old people in Oxford Street so long; but
intended to return, so he said, every year,
and the time passed on and on. Travellers
and explorers are odd people  Livingstone

for example, neither glory, home, nor family
brought him back. Suppose you want to be
oiF again, eh?"

 No, not yet, Mr. Blandford; but what
do you think of a honeymoon trip round the
world, and a call on the way at Manilla, and
perhaps at Kututu?" I said.

 Well, if the bride is a good sailor, and
the bridegroom has a fancy for the sea and
for strange countries, I should say they know
what is likely to please them best. When
I married I took my wife straight home
into Essex Street, forty years ago, and we
have lived there ever since. You must give
us the pleasure of your company some day
and bring your good lady before you goon
that long trip you speak of, eh ? "

' I should like it very much," I said.

'' Since it may transpire in our business
relations, may I ask who the lady is V

 Miss Dunstan," I said.

*' Ah, so I thought  permit me to congratulate
you. She is involved in the financial

troubles of your step-father  but not
seriously  that is, not seriously for her."

 Then it is true that Mr. Welby is in
difficulties ?"

' Oh yes  concluded you knew all about
it  that was my reading of your call for
fifteen thousand pounds."

I thought it best then to explain the
whole of the circumstances connected with
the matter.

You can trust Colonel Ernstone ? " was
his interrogative comment.

With my life," I said.

'I would trust some men with my life
whom I would not trust with my money,"
he replied.

''He is my uncle's oldest friend, mine
too, and he was the intimate friend of Miss
Dunstan's father," I said.

'' Colonel Ernstone?" said the lawyer reflectively,
'' of Redan and Cawnpore fame ?"

'the same."

"Then I know all about him you are

right, you may trust him with your honour,
your money, your life  quite right, I beg his
pardons

At Birmingham I sent my uncle a telegram
announcing the approach of my companion
and myself, mentioning that I had
met Mr. Blandford accidentally on the road,
and had important business with him. By
the time we arrived at our destination I had
enlightened Mr. Blandford upon many points
which I thought it well that he should know
concerning myself, my hopes, and my
ambition. At the Breedon station a simple
brougham awaited us, with Sandy on the
box by the side of the coachman. I saw him
jump down as the train ran in alongside
of the platform. The next moment he
was saying, Ah, Master Horace, you've
come at last, and the Squire's mad to see

ye."

' Sandy, old fellow," I said, taking his
rough honest hand, * it is music to hear
your voice again."

Ah, God bless you. Master Horace, and

I thank the Lord I've lived to see this day!"
exclaimed Sandy.

 Jeffrey Waller was right' said Blandford,
as we were driven towards the Cedars,
** he is a judge of character, and there is
luck in his very touch ; you will do honour to
his name as you have done to your own ; the
expression of that old Scotchman's face is
the best testimony to character you could
ever receive."

* The merit is in his own good heart,
the dear old chap ! " I said, ' and you must
not forget that his master, my uncle, turned
me out of his house as an ungrateful blackguard,
and on reflection I am not sure but
that he was right."

'' Wait until I see him," said the lawyer.

He had not long to wait. The dear old
fellow was standing in the porch. He
gripped both my hands, but was too much
overcome to speak.

Having handed over Mr. Blandford to
the care of Sandy, he insisted upon himself
showing me to my old room. When we were

inside and the door was shut, he said, taking
my hand again, '' Horace, this is the happiest
moment of my life''

 And mine, uncle! " I responded.

The old man turned his head aside to
hide his emotion, and I was glad he did so ;
for his touching welcome had brought the
tears into my eyes.

It moved me also very much to see the
familiar things of my boyhood, carefully
preserved, almost as I had left them ; my
fishing-rods, cricket-bats, my gun, and a
little cupboard of favourite books, occupying
one side of the spacious chamber where I
had slept happily and in peace, all those
years between the time when I left Scarsdale
and that unhappy night when I went
away, with the sighing of the wind among
the reeds in my sad yet stubborn heart.
* * 

At night, after we had dined, and just as
my uncle and Mr. Blandford had discovered
several links of association in their early
lives at college and in London, a telegram

was delivered to me from Ernstone : * Welby
seized with sudden illness on his way to the
House of Commons  taken home, and died
at six o'clock."

CHAPTER VIII.

IS SOMETHING LIKE A SHIP THAT PUTS INTO
MANY PORTS AND SAILS SAFELY HOME AT LAST.

If I had to write this work over again, I
should act upon what I understand to be the
general rule, that, although the Preface to a
book stands first, it should be written last.
It is quite possible that, had not Mr. Wilkie
Collins said to a friend of mine  in writing
a novel, you should always begin at the
beginning," I should now have been engaged
upon the Preface instead of taking up my
pen to write this last chapter ; for I have a
high opinion of the constructive ability of
the author of " The Moonstone." I ought,
of course, to have remembered that, while

partaking of the characteristics of a novel,
' A Modern Ulysses " is after all an autobiography,
and therefore not altogether subject
to those rigid rules of a fixed plan and
design which were insisted upon by Lord
Lytton even more severely than by Mr.
Wilkie Collins. Sir Walter Scott, it is
true, was not guided by  the '' cut and
dried " principle. Mr. Anthony Trollope's
' clockwork " method would have excited
his loftiest scorn, for he had no belief in
*' literary men of method." Authors,  who
can lay aside or take up the pen just at the
hours appointed," could. Sir Walter thought,
be never '' any better than poor creatures."
I do not know whether he was right or
wrong ; but I think if ever I wrote a real
novel, that is, a story of imagination, plot,
and character, I should begin by making a
complete sketch of the incidents and plan
and purpose of the story. When I commenced
this present narrative I had it in
my mind to finish it with certain events that
are foreshadowed in the previous chapter,

the most important of them being my
marriage with Miss Helen Dunstan. From
the first I determined to dedicate the volumes
to the generous King of Kututu, to whom I
owed my escape from the cannibals of the
Boulonagan islands. And so, with that workmanlike
maxim in my mind  begin at the
beginning," I wrote my  Dedicatory Preface"
first, and it went to press with the
early pages, the printer following me up
for more manuscript" as fast as I could
write. As a consequence, some of these
chapters have been written in London, some
at Antwerp, several in Worcestershire, and
this last one upon the balcony of Jeffrey
Waller's house, shaded by tall palms,
through which I catch glimpses of the distant
sea. At my elbow sits the best and

loveliest woman in the world, and .

But that is not the point. It was the
Dedicatory Preface about which we were
speaking. I ought not to have written it
until the book was finished. My original
idea was to bring the narrative to an end in

England and to carry the completed book, in
my trunk, on a journey of search and pleasure
to the Eastern seas. But," said Mr. Wilkie
Collins to the American interviewer, ' I
doubt if Buller kept rigidly to his absolute
rule of fashioning to the minutest detail
the whole structure before beginning to work.
It may have been his theory, but I doubt if
it was his practice. It is well to have the
scenario sketched out, but it is impossible
for an author of any imagination to proceed
far in the composition of a story without
seeing various ways in which to turn the
current ; naturally he will choose the best."
So it came to pass, in my case, that having
settled to finish with the usual wedding peal,
I found there was a point further on, which
claimed to be the proper goal. This prevented
my carrying the three volumes out to
the East, which is not the only reason why
I regret that I did not write my prefatory
letter last, instead of first. Not that I have
any desire to withdraw the sentiments or
opinions therein expressed, but because circumstances

have arisen which call for a
modification of its form, and of the language
in which it is expressed. On reflection, persons
less hypocritically inclined than myself, may
think that certain unlooked-for events, which
would have induced me to write in a somewhat
different strain, are after all not unpleasantly
accentuated by the preface remaining
unaltered ; though I deem this explanation
necessary, and at the same time
trust it may prove not altogether uninteresting.


w& *  #

A feature of modern travel is its combination
of luxury and adventure. Ladies
go round the world in their husbands' yachts,
and make excursions to the scene of Captain
Cook's death. Holiday parties penetrate
the mysteries of the Eastern seas, reading
their last season's novels in the shade
of palm-decked creeks ten thousand miles
from home. They follow the tracks of
the ancient explorers in floating palaces,
and I know a noble lord who succeeded

in keeping his champagne iced right across
the equator. I wonder how often these
nineteenth-century navigators think of those
adventurers who laid down the first courses
upon the world's charts. We talked of them
on board The Pioneers as we steamed into
waters of which we might almost have
exclaimed with '' the Ancient Mariner" :

We were the first that ever burst
Into that silent sea.

We pictured Vasco Nunez climbing the
other side of one of those distant hills, which
bounded our horizon, to fall on his knees at
sight of the great ocean he had come in
search of ; we tried to realize the figure of
the Spanish hero, knee-deep in the Indian
sea, holding aloft the banner of Castillo
and taking possession in the names of Don
Ferdinand and Donna Joanna; and it set
us marvelling at the possibility of such menas
Vasco Nunez, in Spain, and Walter
Raleigh, in England, falling victims at last
to jealous intrigues and royal ingratitude.
Success in those past days was hardly less

fatal than failure. The planter of the
colony of Virginia was murdered at Westminster
by order of James the First. Vasco
Nunez was executed at Ada. They had
both conferred exceptional glories and blessings
upon the flags they served and upon
the people whom they loved.

It is not surprising that the Spaniards
of to-day continue to lay hands upon the
islands of the Sulu and Celebes Seas. Their
easy, though cruel conquests, in these waters
are the ragged fringes of a once splendid
inheritance. We steamed quite recently
between the Borne coast and Tavitavi
(or Tawe-Tawe as Jeffrey Waller called it),
and wondered why the English government
or Rajah Brooke had not taken possession of
it ;  for," said Waller, ' its occupation would
just break the chain of Spanish stations that
stretch across the channel between the
Celebes Sea and the China Sea, and which
they will one day complete"* Indeed Mr.

Spanish troops have occupied the island since these
lines were written.

VOL. III. T

Waller greatly blamed the British government
for permitting Spain and Holland to
plant their flags indiscriminately upon the
various islands of these Pacific and Indian
oceans. ' In many cases," he said, Hhey
do not occupy the lands, but they add them
on their charts to their existing settlements,
and one day between Spain, Holland, France,
and Russia, England will find a new Eastern
question upon her hands quite as important
as that which includes the water-way of
the Suez Canal."

Colonel Ernstone and Mr. Waller were
never tired of discussing these things, and
Mrs. Ernstone, Mrs. Horace Durand, and
the present writer, were an excellent audience
as The Fioneer steamed on her speculative
course for Kututu. According to The
Straits Times and other journals, published
at certain stations of civilisation in what
may be generally called the Indian Ocean,
travellers studying the prospects of North
Borneo and the adjacent islands are in the
habit of consulting a book entitled  The

New Ceylon." One of them considers its
forecasts overdone. A letter which we read
at Sarawak, in the journal just quoted, treated
the author as somewhat of a dreamer ; though
the critic himself finished with suggestions of
possibilities that eclipse the sanguine predictions
of the author's most problematical chapters.
Many of the details of exploration in
'' The New Ceylon '' were founded upon private
reports written by Mr. Witty, an Anglo-austrian
explorer, whose death at the hands
of a party of savages, worthy of the Bulon-
again islands, was chronicled last year. The
newness of this island of the Sun is sufficiently
demonstrated in the fact that ' The New
Ceylon " (too fanciful a title perhaps) is
evidently the accepted authority upon the
new territory ; though the author is far from
being the first to speak of the possibilities of
tropical farming in North Borneo. Among
other books which Jeffrey Waller had collected
for our edification and instruction was
Captain Sunday's '' Narrative of Events in
Borneo and Celebes," founded upon the
t2

 Journals of James Brooke, Esq.,'' whose
description of the river and town of Pan-hassan,
ten miles to the north-east of Tam-passu,
is far more glowing than anything
attempted in '' The New Ceylon." Since
this last-mentioned work was compiled, other
more important explorations have been conducted
and on scientific principles, the sober
details of which will, it is to be hoped, be
given to the world undisguised by a  taking
title," and with evidences of " roughing it,"
which the correspondent of The Straits
Times insists upon as a leading feature of
the growth of the island, as if any new
settlement had ever been established on those
'' lines of luxury " which, as I have previously
hinted, belong to the adventures of
the wealthy, and not to the efforts of men,
be they Mongolians or Europeans, clearing
the forests to build new homes.

But in the latest treatise upon the newest
English colony in the East a question is
touched (chiefly second-hand, by the way)
concerning which Jeffrey Waller had much

to say on our excursions in The Longer.
I refer to the subject of the influence of
England and other naval powers in the
Eastern seas, and more particularly in the
Pacific. It was The Edinburgh Revision ina
critical article on Wallenstein's *' Russians
in the Moor," Bax's '' Eastern Seas,"
Colombo's  Russian Development and our
Naval and Military Positions in the North
Pacific," and Paul Gaffarel's '' Les Colonies
Franchises," which captivated the author of''
The New Ceylon." When one considers
that the Pacific Ocean occupies nearly one-half
of the surface of the globe, and that its
extent is greater than that of all the dry
land, it will be conceded that here is  a
world of waters" that offers space for imperial,
colonial, and individual adventures. With
Spain, Holland, and France, abnormally
active in their respective spheres of Eastern
aggrandisement, Russia yearly extending
her already powerful footing upon the coast
of the North Pacific, and the Panama Canal
becoming a possible factor in the question of

naval strategy in time of war, British interests
in the Pacific are undergoing serious
changes.  Fancy," said Mr. Waller, impossibility
of Russia being now not only in an
easy position to harass Hong Kong and
the China and Japan trade, but to send
a squadron across the ocean in thirty days to
attack the western seaport of the Dominion of
Canada. General Selby Smyth commanding
the British forces of Canada, speaking of
the small force at Victoria, directs attention
to the fact that Vancouver is only four
thousand five hundred miles away from
Petrapaulovsk, and that the Moor is
barely five hundred miles further off."
*****

The Pioneer had met us at Singapore,
whither we had travelled by a P. and O.
steamer. And you have not guessed who weare?
Not after the revelations of my last
chapter? This pleasant journeying is not
my honeymoon tour. Mr. Blandford and
my uncle, strange to say, changed those first
thoughts of mine.

 I took my wife home to Essex," said the
old-fashioned lawyer,  and if I might offer
an opinion," said my uncle, I think Warrington
Manor would be a good place to
come to if you are married in London."
Talking the matter over with Helen, we both
found so many pleasant points of agreement
in this view that Warrington Manor coming
back into her possession just in time to be
prepared for us, we went home from London,
and commenced our partnership for life in
the Worcestershire valley, to the great satisfaction
of my uncle Grrantley, who, as her
father's friend, gave the bride away. It is
not necessary that I should describe the
wedding. Let it be sufficient to say that all
our friends were present, the Hallamss, the
Blandfords, in addition to several titled ladies
and gentlemen, a few literary and scientific
notabilities ; and that at the breakfast Mr.
Justice Miller proposed the health of the
bride. My uncle had advised our bringing
his lordship  into the family circle, because
you know after all he was Dunstan's friend,

and is one of my oldest acquaintances, and
he is really a great person." My uncle,
indeed, had his own way generally, and it
was no small addition to my own happiness
to give him pleasure. He assumed quite a
paternal authority towards both Helen and
myself, but with such an utter absence of
anything like dictation, all his actions being
so thoroughly under the control of his affection
for both of us, that we found ourselves
unconsciously leaning upon his judgment
and advice. We drifted, as it were, upon
our course, without any other thoughts for
the time being than belonged to our new
life. We had so much to say to each other,
that for many days the time slipped by in
that pastoral valley as sweetly as if we
had revived Arcadia. It was summer. The
fields were yellow with buttercups, the air
soft with balmy winds, and the atmosphere
fragrant with the perfumes of woodland
blossoms. Apart also from our own mutual
joys, we had a pleasant consciousness that
we had both fulfilled the kindly hopes of

those two dear old men who had thought
so wisely for us ; though the reflection that
Squire Dunstan had not lived to bless his
child at the altar gave me many a secret
pang. And, while I never ceased to regret
this break in the link of our perfect happiness,
I never thought of the past without
congratulating myself on the fact that som
bold wooer had not carried off Helen Dunstan
while I was far away. Ah, my friend of
The Reveries," a heart may be re-lighted
and kept a-blaze, even when one sanctifies
a corner of it to the memory of a dead and
regretted love !

But it was, after all, more or less of a honeymoon
trip that cruise of The Fioneer which
belongs to this closing chapter of the present
narrative. En route for Singapore, we
picked up Mr. and Mrs. Colonel Ernstone at
Naples. It was in the winter of the year in
which I discovered Derwent Hall that the
widow of Mr. Welby married Colonel Vanstone,
thus giving me, in my old friend, a
father-in-law whom I both loved and respected,

and in whom my mother found, for the first
time in her life, a congenial companion. The
dear little woman, she grew to be more like
a sister than a mother to me. It seemed
almost ridiculous for a great bronzed and
bearded fellow such as I was (and am) to
call her mother, she was so petite j and looked
so many years younger than her age. Erne
stone might well have passed for my father,
not alone in respect of his grey hair, but in
the general appearance of responsibility and
dignified bearing that characterised him.
Sturdy of build, and with an elasticity of
carriage that youth might have envied, time
had left impressions of care upon his face,
though it had not dimmed his eye nor
clouded his spirits. They were a handsome
couple, our fellow voyagers, who had been
travelling in Italy (in a gentle sympathetic
talk with my mother I found that they had
visited the Villa Verona), and, from the
moment they joined us on board the P. and
0. steamer, became persons of great interest
to our fellow-passengers. Jeffrey Waller met

"US at Singapore, and took us to Ceylon, whereat
a spot near Pillory, he had two handsome
bungalows, one of them quite a recent
erection. I think the latter had been specially
built for me. The other was a house
which he had used for some years during his
trading expeditions to Colombo. It was a
lovely and exceptional site, on the Mortal
river, the situation being on the slope of a
partially-wooded hill. We rested here for
several weeks, making excursions in pleasure-boats
on the river, visiting several Dutch and
other European families in the neighbourhood,
(friends of our host) and superintending
some finishing touches for our cruise in those
mysterious waters through which we were
steaming at the beginning of this chapter,
and back to which point I beg to invite your
attention, lest I should be tempted to loiter
longer at our pleasant quarters in ' the

island of spices."

* m *

Understand then that we are four days
out from Sulu, steaming, as our captain

believes (according to my data, and the
information obtained in the interval of my
Bulonogan experiences by Mr. Jeffrey Waller)
for the Bay of Kututu. We are feeling our
way, at four or five knots an hour, in sight of
land, moving over the clear waters as silently
as if the active age of electric accumulators
and their accompanying marine and other
motors had come. That ghost-like boat on
the Thames which is the pioneer of the new
power, did not glide along more noiselessly
than does Mr. Waller's superb vessel on this
equatorial sea. We are all sitting together,
in varying attitudes of ease, in that saloon of
The FioneeTj where the owner first entertained
me, near the quay at Meimbong. A
picture of luxury then, the saloon is now a
heaven of delight. Added to the familiar
decorations of former days are ornamental
trifles indicating the presence of ladies ; and,
above all, here are the ladies themselves.
Mrs. Ernstone, with a half-open book upon
her lap, is looking out to sea. Helen
is reclining on that broad couch I told

you of. Jeffrey Waller, his white hair
pushed away from his massive forehead,
is sitting by the table, studying a chart ;
and Ernstone is reading aloud an editorial
article from an American newspaper, apropos
of Kututu, on the burlesque of royalty which
is going on in the Hawaiian kingdom. You
must know that I had narrated, in a famous
Transatlantic journal, some of my Bulonagan
adventures, and that the question of continuing
the King of Kututu in the sovereignty
of that island and his suzerainship
of the Bulonagans had been a matter of
comment in New York. ' But'' said the
humorous Republican writer of The Times
in that city, 'for Heaven's sake, if Mr.
Durand should succeed in his endeavour to
confirm the kingship of the Irish adventurer
under the protection of Queen Victoria's
Government, let us have no repetition of the
fantastic parade of Royalty which is made
by the present monarch of the insignificant
Hawaiian kingdom. It is very remarkable
that at a time when the mummers and formalities

of Imperialism are being laid aside
in countries in which ancient custom and
centuries of usage have sanctioned them,
there should be a revival of these obsolete
frivolities in the little seven-by-nine kingdom
lost in the wide wastes of the Pacific Ocean.
During his late tour around the globe the
King saw much that his predecessors could
 not have dreamed of. They were semi-barbaric,
and he is an educated and well-read
monarch. In foreign countries he saw
what may be considered the true strength of
nations, and he must have seen how small
and mean are the shows by which royalty
in ancient times maintained its hold upon
the common people of monarchies. If travel
enlightens a man, a travelled king surely
ought to be as susceptible to illuminating
influences as the humbler citizens of his
domain. But the King of the Sandwich
Islands comes home determined to outdo
all of his predecessors, if not all of his royal
brethren, in the pomp and circumstance of
Imperialism. He will be crowned, forsooth.

as if he were not already a good enough
king for his poor and over-taxed people.
He will have thrones in plenty, two of these
antiquated pieces of furniture having been
ordered from the friendly and ultra-republican
city of Boston. He will have a crown,
too, and his Royal Majesty is reported to
have selected an assortment of these gewgaws
from the vast and varied assortment kept on
view in the museums of Europe. There is
to be a sceptre, a cap of maintenance, an
orb, such as Charlemagne and Pepin were
wont to hold, and other glittering and musty
historical rubbish. For want of a royal hall,
rich in the associations of a nation's history,
and in order that the show shall be free for
all, it has been determined to have the performances
in the open air in front of what
is called the Royal Palace. To accommodate
the sight-seers, platforms have been erected,
as at a circus, and from these will be viewed
the pomp and pageantry of the first real
coronation that the Sandwich Islanders have
ever beheld. The mere description of this

bit of royal theatricals is enough to provoke
a smile on the face of any sensible person.
To a sober Republican these ceremonies seem
like an elaborate travesty of Royalty." And
so they are ; and we all agree that, should
we eventually cast anchor in the bay of
Kututu, we will use our influence, with a
view to win, from the Republican critic of
kings, a favourable notice of our newly-discovered
monarch. Mr. Jeffrey Waller, asa
practical commentary upon our remarks,
produces from his mysterious cabinet a crown
and sceptre; 4or," said he,  it seems to me
that these things are the proper symbols
of kingly Majesty ; but, if you think they
are likely to offend the gentleman in New
York, we will not produce them at the
Kututuan court." We all agree, however,
that they are so simple, and in such good
taste, that they should not be excluded from
the gifts the merchant had provided for my
Irish king, and which included a handsome
Winchester rifle and other valuable examples
of modern invention.

As we chat over the future, we are under
the dreamy influences of the present, the
calm, blue sea and sky, and the soft breeze
that seems to come in at the open ports,
though it is chiefly the result of the punkah,
with its origin of motion at the engine
that propels the vessel. And now the land
which looked at first like clouds, and then
like undulating hills with palm-leaves marked
out against the sky, appears to approach us.
We are at the entrance of a lovely harbour, and
it seems as if the vast palm-clad mountains
are coming out to meet us  so quietly is The
Fioneer approaching them. All at once weare
motionless. Then we are at anchor. We
all go on deck. The number of our crew is
a surprise to us as they muster ; and to see
our two raking guns in position, fore and aft,
we might be a gunboat of Her Majesty's
Fleet, or a pirate in disguise.

' Captain thinks there is a pirate village
up the creek yonder'' says Waller in an
aside tome.  But I have seen more of the
corsairs of these seas than he has ; and I
believe we are off Kututu."
VOL. ui. u

'Do you, indeed'' I exclaim, my
heart beating wildly at the possible realisation
of the success of our holiday expedition.


I sweep the coast with my glass. Nota
soul is in sight. All is still as it is
beautiful. The blue sea seems to whisper
to the shore. Along the rising ground,
and up among the hills, tower the silent
palms, terrace upon terrace. Not a leaf
moves.

' It is like the Boulonagan coast," I say,
sand there are no breakers."

My wife glances at me a little anxiously
from beneath her broad white hat. Mrs.
Ernstone is leaning upon her husband's arm,
looking towards the point where a rivulet
comes streaming out of the hills and down
to the shore, a thread of silver upon the
golden beach. A little further away in that
direction we can see a break in the vast
amphitheatre of hills.

sand there lies the village, no doubt,"
says the Captain to Mr. Waller, directing his
glass upon the point, ' they must have seen

US long ago, and that is why I think they
are what I told you."

 What do you say to giving them a
salute ? " says Waller.

''By all means," answers the captain,
and almost the next moment The Pioneers
thunder awakens the echoes of the unknown
land.

It is an impressive moment, and there is
not wanting a touch of peril in it ; for the
pirates of all these seas have made gallant
fights even with English gunboats. Helen
lays her hand in mine, and I note that it
trembles.

'' You are not alarmed ? " I ask.

No, but awed; there is something so
marvellous to me in that iron voice of conscious
power summoning the Unknown as it
were'' she says.

As she speaks, the deck vibrates under
the shock of a second salute. The sound
travels far away ; but not a leaf nor tree
stirs along the shore. A white cloud sails up
above the rigging, and hangs there like a
u2

flag. There is no response, except the repetition
of the boom from hill to hill.

'' Launch the pinnace ! " says the captain,
with an expression of impatience in his
voice, and at that moment there shoots out
from the creek a solitary canoe. The pinnace
is launched and manned, all the same,
with a well-armed crew. Por a moment the
canoe pauses as The Pioneers boat pushes
off ; but it comes on again fearlessly. Covering
it with our glasses, we see that it is
a single canoe. The rower comes pounding
along, digging his paddle into the water at
a tremendous rate, and shooting through the
sea at remarkable speed. Presently it and
the pinnace both cease rowing, as if by
mutual consent. A palaver ensues. The
pinnace is signalled to return with the canoe.
The long-boat swings round and heads for the
ship. The canoe follows humbly in its wake.
As the native grows under my glass, I think
I recognise him. When last I saw him, I
believe he wore a turban decorated with a
pearl set in dull silver. A sash was wound

round his loins, and he beat a drum in the
King's procession. Now he only wears a
strong; but I notice his armlet of stones
and shells, and the grotesque bird tattooed
upon his chest.

' Yes ! " I exclaim, turning round triumphantly
to my friends ;  I recognise the
native  this indeed is Kututu ! "

The native leaps from his frail boat,
catches hold of the rope we fling to him, and
swings himself on deck. He has recognised
me on the instant. Posing himself in a
picturesque attitude of submission one
moment, he stands before me erect the
next.

' Welkumo, say Make belinda white
Durance come, come ! " it seemed to me
were the words he uttered.

I gather that he means the King welcomes
me, and bids me come to him. The
language was neither Malay nor any patois
akin to Malay that I had ever heard, though
I detect the Mayalese now and then in a
curious jumble with a few English words,

such as  welcome," ' good," mucli,"
 peace," and a general invitation to partake
of betel. With all this there is a feverish
anxiety to induce me to leave the ship at
once.

A council of war is held, and it is decided
that I shall go on board the pinnace,
reconnoitre the situation, and report
thereon. Helen is loath to let me go, and
my mother is greatly concerned, but I am
so well assured of my safety, have so formidable
an escort, and so excellent an example
of confidence in the King's messenger,
that presently I am sitting in the stern of
the pinnace, making for the shore.

We have hardly landed when I can see
that something serious has happened. A
party of. the King's chiefs meet us. First
laying down their arms, in token of submission,
they take them up, carrying them
reversed, and, chanting a dirge-like song,
they fall into procession, leaving us to follow
them. They lead us to a lonely grove, and
halt at a barbaric kind of temple, partly built

of bamboo and palm-leaves open on all sides
and unroofed. In the centre, resting upon
a rough bench, is a coffin formed out of the
trunk of a tree. Moving slowly round and
round the catafalque were a troop of men and
women who utter plaintive sounds; while
at its head sat motionless a native of much
dignity of pose and figure.

' Make belinda, the King is dead," said
a comely-looking youth of eighteen summers,
stepping from out the shadow of the adjacent
jungle, '' he say you come, make us
know his will."

The speaker was a lithe, supple-limbed
youth, far lighter in colour than any of
the other natives. He wore a chain of
gold and unpolished stones, and a loose
robe fell gracefully from his shoulders, over
an embroidered strong. In a light sash
round his waist he carried a revolver and a
knife, and his black hair was held from his
forehead by a fillet or band of a curious
yarn.

I bowed to the young native, and stepped

reverently towards the coffin. Surely there
lay my friend, dressed as last I saw him,
with his whistle, his pipes, and his rifle lying
by his side, and upon his breast a cumbersome-looking
packet, addressed in Roman letters,
that had been formed with difficulty, to M5r

GOOD FRIEND H. Durant.

The chiefs and people gathered around
me as I opened it, and read the King's
message.

** The white god good, true ; the King
say you come over the great seas ; you are
here," said the young chief, slowly, as a man
speaking in a foreign tongue, who chooses his
words.

I read as follows, every word written in
Roman capitals: 

'' The wound they gave me never healed.
' I did not tell you of this my son, for he
' was one of the surprises I had for you.
*' But never intended him for my place.
 Meant send him to England. But now it
'' is best he shall be King. His wish is so,
'' He is brave, has man's heart. I believe
'' you will come. You know what I wish.

** Farewell. Pray for the poor misguided
' soul of Famous O'Brien.

' KuTUTU Rex."

When I had mastered the contents of
this last will and testament of the first King
of Kututu, I conversed, in Malay, with an
elderly chief, and found that the people were
willing, and indeed anxious, that the youth
who had addressed me in English should
reign over them,  for," said the chief , it
was his father's wish, and also that he can
speak to the white god in His own tongue,
and can address the gods of Kututu and
Bulonagan likewise in theirs ; beyond which,
he possesses the secret of the fiery thunder."

Thereupon I read to him the will of my
poor dead friend, and begged him to proclaim
in Kututuan, that I would attend, with
a company of the great white queen's people,
to do honour to their new monarch, at such
times as they should appoint. At this the
natives gave a loud shout of joy, and the
young chief bowed his head before me ; but
no sooner had they done so than they returned

to their offices of mourning. I learnt
that at sundown the body of the king would
be conveyed to a mausoleum, which he
himself had had constructed in a rocky
cavern near the coast ; and that on the
morrow they would formally seat the new
King upon the throne where his father had
sat, and pledge him their allegiance.

And so, signalling my attendants, who
had halted at a short distance, I retraced my
steps to the coast, and the pinnace pushed
off for The Fioneer, I felt much saddened
at my friend's death, all the more so that his
fatal wound had been received during that
Bulonagan revolt of which I had been the
innocent cause. The old chief told me that
the Bulonagans had, ever since, paid an increased
tribute, and that the instigators of
the rebellion had been executed. I confess
that, with the memory of the dead Irishman's
calm genial face in my thoughts, I felt
blood-thirsty enough, at the moment, to be
glad that the ungrateful rebels had been
severely punished.

When in our illuminated saloon at
night I had related what had transpired,
Mr. Waller seemed to think the King had
really had some spiritual forecast of my
coming. He argued that without such encouragement
he could never have so prepared
himself for my visit.

 And this, you see," he remarked, was
the opinion of the natives themselves, and
depend upon it there is truth in the very
simplicity of the savages' untaught faith in
spiritual manifestations."

It appeared to comfort the good old man
to think that he had come upon, what he
conceived to be, another natural proof of the
active influence of unseen agents upon the
general affairs of men.

My wife and mother could not sufficiently
wonder, not only at the confirmation of my
discovery of a new world in the tropical sea,
but at my timely arrival in the interest of
the Irish succession.

Early the next morning quite a fleet of
canoes surrounded The Fioneer, several of

them loaded with fruits, flowers, fish, and
birds. Durian, oranges, mangosteen, figs,
fowls, and the strangest looking fish, were
heaped upon the deck, as the contents of
boat after boat were hauled up. Some of
the fish were perfectly blue, others a brilliant
red, as if they had caught the glow of a
cluster of orchids which were lying among
the fruits. It was a gorgeous picture of
colour. A few of the chiefs came on board.
We gave them knives, necklaces, pipes,
and tobacco. Beckoning several of the
women who hung back, Mr. Waller brought
out some of those imitation gems which he
had shown me years before at Sulu.

'' There," he said to me with a quiet
smile, ' now you know what they are for."

He gave the women handful of reckless,
armlets, and rings, that set their black eyes
dancing with delight and reflecting the
flashes of the dazzling gewgaws themselves.

Then, at a signal from the shore, the old
chief who spoke Malay informed us that the
Kututuan people were now awaiting our presence,

since he understood it was our desire
to do honour to their king. He explained
to me that the ceremony of installation had
commenced with the rising of the sun, and
that the young monarch awaited our visit,
after which he desired to visit his father's
friends on board the great fire-canoe.

Two boats carried us to the shore. The
same clear blue sky as that of yesterday
canopied the entire vault of heaven. Just
as motionless stood the giant palms. The
late king had made a roadway through the
half-cleared jungle to the principal village.
We found awaiting us a couple of roughly -
built carriages drawn by buffaloes. Attended
on foot by our armed guard, we
stepped into these primitive conveyances,
the first that had ever been seen in the
island, and were escorted to a wide space in
front of the royal palace. Here the young
king himself came forth to meet us. Then,
pointing to seats by his side, which we at once
occupied, he sat upon his father's chair. Betel
nut fruits, and a native liquor were handed

round. After we had all partaken of the
refreshment the King spoke to us in English,
expressing his deep gratitude at the honour
we had done him, and hoping, when the time
should be considered ripe, that there would
be trade and alliance between the great
white queen and Kututu. Thereupon Mr.
Jeffrey Waller handing the plain gold crown
and sceptre to my wife, Helen, with the
grace and majesty of a queen, herself stepped
forward, and, placing the tiara upon the
young monarch's head, handed to him
the sceptre, which she told him was nota
weapon, but only the symbol of power
and authority, such as the great white
queen carried on State occasions. A vast
crowd stood round about, calm spectators of
the scene, and when the young king stood
up in his crown, and with the glittering
sceptre in his hand, they gave three wild
shouts, flinging their arms aloft and brandishing
their spears to such an extent, as to
greatly alarm Mrs. Ernstone, She clung to
her husband in a manner that did not escape

His Majesty, who smiled at me and said,
' This great chief's wife braver, more beautiful,
but not more good than that," indicating
a comparison between Helen and my mother,
as well he might ; for my wife was standing
erect yet pliant, graceful as a willow wand,
her dress a white clinging robe, a huge fan
in her hand, her head protected from the
sun by a white straw hat, shaped something
like what I believe ladies call '' the granny
bonnet." She was a picture of feminine
strength and beauty.  And I only wonder,"
said Mr. Jeffrey Waller when we were once
more fairly on board The Fioneer, ' that
the young king did not ask you to give her
to him for his queen."

'' Which of course Horace would have
done at once," said Ernstone.

'' And one day, when you did not mix
his liquor properly, he would have beaten
you with his new sceptre," said my mother,
at which comical view of the situation everybody
laughed heartily.

The king invited us to a feast and

games for the next day; but the captain,
whom we took into our confidence, said,
All's well that ends well ! There were
two thousand savages around that wooden
palace to day, and we shall have the northern
monsoon against us if we are not lucky
enough to steer successfully into our course
for Manilla within forty-eight hours."

Therefore, when the night had come, we
gazed our last upon the watch-fires of Kututu.
The boatswain's whistle gave the cheerful cue
for weighing anchor. The stars came out
like great diamonds, which looked still
brighter mirrored in the quiet sea. Presently
the radiant world above us began, as
it were, to move. The  milder suns " that
'' love a shade to cast, and in the bright
wave fling the trembling mast," marched
along in a gorgeous procession. The poor
little lights on the coast gradually faded out,
and we were once more at sea. Long into
the night we sat upon the white deck, Helen
and I, too much impressed, with the wondrous
calm, to speak. I think we offered up silent

prayers of humble submission to the Divine
ruler of the great world and its multitudinous
seas. Steaming between the star-lit heaven
above us and the star-lit sea below, it seemed
as if we were floating in space, so calm, so
gentle was the night. Then the knowledge
that we were far away from familiar waters
stimulated the imagination, and sent it on
strange mysterious journeys. Presently my
wife, in a whisper, as if fearing to disturb
the universal stillness, said, ' Do you believe
those stars are peopled with beings having
holier aims and sublimer missions than are
allotted to the inhabitants of this lower world
of ours ? "

"' I only know," I said, taking her gently
into my arms, Hhat this present world,
with you, is enough for my dearest hopes,
let yonder radiant spheres be what they
may."

And so the ship sailed on, freighted with
loving hearts.

