CHAPTER I.

A.REW was heir to estates in the
West of England, a part of which
at least had been in his family
since the Conquest. There had been hardly
a rei<m in which one of his name or more
had not figured prominently in the stirring
history of the county  from the days of
fighting to the days of borough-mongering :
and Otterton Hall, which would one day be
his home, had no country house to rival it
within a radius of twenty miles.

In addition to these prospects he was in
present possession of an income which, for a

B 2

bachelor, was, to say the least of it, ample.
He was able without extravagance to entertain
as he had done at the chateau.

Still, his position was not one of independence.
His father, who had been dead for
many years, was the second of three brothers ;
and on his mother, who was still living, had
been settled for life nearly all that his father
left  a moderate competence. His two uncles,
who were still living also, were both of them
very old men ; and to the estates of the eldest
Carew's succession was assured. These estates,
however, were much encumbered. The fact
was so notorious that many would-be country
gentlemen were counting on the day when they
would have the chance of bidding for them ;
and it was at all events hardly open to doubt
that unless Carew had considerable means
besides, he would never be able to hold his
own at the Hall. But his younger uncle,
Mr. Horace Carew  a successful dandy of

the palmiest days of dandyism, had married
a great heiress, who had died leaving no children
; and all her fortune, which was quite at
his own disposal, he let it be understood was
designed for Carew, his nephew. But this was
not all. He had not been content with
promises. He had practically charged himself
with Carew's entire education. He had first
sent him to Eton, and then to Oxford ; and
had since made him an allowance of fifteen
hundred a year.

Carew's whole prospects thus hung on this
uncle's favour  not merely his prospects of
wealth and luxury, but the prospect, far nearer
his heart, of restoring the fortunes of his
family, and indeed of retaining his old family
home.

As for luxury, he was as careless of that
as most men ; and in his present position he
could have made himself quite happy on half
or even a third of the income he actually

enjoyed. But considering himself in the
light of the prospective head of his family,
he regarded wealth in a very different spirit.
It became in his eye a something which naturally
ought to belong to him. It was as
much in the fitness of things that he should be
possessed of it comedy, that he should be surrounded
by servants, and eat his dinner off
plate, as it was that every man should be possessed
of a suit of clothes. Such pomp and
circumstance was for him a sign merely ; and
beyond securing him this, the possession of
wealth meant to him the saving an institution
with which his whole life was connected as
closely as any Hamadryad was ever connected
with her oak tree. That institution was his
own family ; and the preservation and restoration
of it was as much an act of piety, to
him, as the embellishment and care of an altar
might be to a congregation of the faithful.
Nor was this feeling on his part mere personal

vanity or selfishness. Indeed, when
comparing his own family with others, he
was extremely modest and sober in his estimate
of its comparative importance. He
respected it mainly for the sake of the great
social principle, of which it was but cue
amongst many more prominent representatives
; and his own prejudices and principles
had become more and more stringent, in proportion
as those of such other representatives
seemed to him to be growing more lax and
lukewarm.

This being the case, it is easy to conjecture
the feelings with which he received at
the chateau the following information from
his lawyer  an old man who was not his
lawyer only, but a family friend as well. The
letter, indeed, which conveyed it, though enclosed
in a blue envelope, was friendly and not
official. It began by reminding Carew how
the younger of his two uncles had expressed

strong wishes as to his making a suitable
marriage ; and how twice, on conceiving that
these wishes might be thwarted, he had shown
symptoms of no doubtful anger.

1 quite feel the letter went on, ' how
difficult and delicate a subject this is to touch
upon, but, since I must touch upon it, it is
best to speak quite plainly. Your uncle, Mr.
Horace, as, of course, you are aware, has the
whole of his fortune entirely under his own control,
and you can hardly be in doubt as to the
result threatened, in case you should contract
an alliance which would seriously offend him.

Well, Mr. Carew, you will forgive my
recalling to you how alarmed he was some
eighteen months ago by some gossip  some
foolish gossip  which reached his ears, connecting
your name with that of the Countess
de Saint Yalery. One can easily understand
and excuse an old man's anxieties, looking
at the world from the distance of infirmity

and seclusion ; and he was, as you know,
much disturbed by the idea that just at the
time when you should be thinking of marriage,
you were making your marriage impossible
by an entanglement with a married woman 
or a woman who, if divorced, would be even
more distasteful to him.

1 Madame de Saint Yalery's subsequent
adventures set his mind at rest. He became
quite persuaded that your relations with her
were not what he had supposed they were.
Sometimes, however, it happens that an idea
which seems to be dead is really only sleeping,
and, I am sorry to say, such has been the
case here. Madame de Saint Yalery has been
at Xice lately, so your uncle hears. He
hears, also, that your old intimacy with her

has been resumed, and that you have It

is needless, however, to repeat details. It
will be enough to tell you the result. He is
persuaded  he has got it into his head, and

nothing will get it out  that, since this lady
is certainly divorced now, there is a danger 
a probability  of your wishing to marry her.
On what grounds he bases this fear, who have
been his informants, and what they have informed
him of, I cannot pretend to say ; nor
does it concern us now, especially as, you
will allow me to add, I disbelieve the entire
story. All I have to tell you is this. Your
uncle talked over the whole matter with me.
No one, as you know, is more obstinate than
he is ; but no one, though he may do a
disagreeable thing, more dislikes saying a
disagreeable word. He is therefore determined,
come what may, to have no personal
dispute with yourself ; and he lias accordingly
requested me, as a friend, not as a lawyer, to
convey to you a determination he has arrived
at. He hopes that the knowledge of it may
influence your future conduct.

He is going to make an important alteration

in his will. I need not now trouble you
with the legal details of it ; but its practical
effect, so far as regards yourself, will be
as follows : his fortune, to which he still
wishes you to succeed, is, with the exception
of one thousand a year, to cease to be yours
in the event of your marrying an alien.

I have now discharged my mission.

I need only add that, so far as the Countess
de Saint Valery is concerned, I do not
for a moment believe that this arrangement
can have any concern for you ; but there are
circumstances which may very probably arise,
under which you might find yourself seriously
hampered by its consequences. For every
reason, therefore, it is quite right that you
should know of it ; and if you should be
able to set Mr. Horace's mind at rest, by
writing yourself to him and contradicting
the reports about you, you would be doing
not only a kind, but also a prudent action.

He is in very feeble health ; and his
extreme anxiety to have this alteration in his
will effected without delay, makes me suspect
that, though his doctors speak smooth things
to him, he thinks his condition far less certain
than they do.'

Carew's first emotion on reading this letter
was simply one of bewilderment. As to his
uncle's displeasure with him on account of
Madame de Saint Valery  of that, it is true,
he retained the liveliest recollection. It was
the only occasion, during the whole of his
life, on which that uncle had addressed him
otherwise than with complacency. He recollected
the old man's looks, and the very
words employed by him. They were these :

There has been a folly of this kind in the
family once before. One of your grandfather's
brothers, as you know, ran off with one of

these d d women  monstrous pretty she

was, too, so I am told  shot the husband ina

duel, and by-and-by married her. He was
the eldest son, but, fortunately, it was possible
to disinherit him. Now mind this  don't
let me hear that you are up to any tricks of
that kind. I'm not giving you a sermon on
morals  I leave morals to the parson. I
speak to you as a man of the world, and as a
relation who has some right to speak to you.
And in these two capacities I say two things
to you  two things, mind : Don't be a fool,
and don't disgrace your family. I may add,
as a friend, don't ruin your prospects and
make yourself miserable for life. Remember
what I have said ; and now we'll change the
subject.'

Carew did remember. The event was too
odd for him to have forgotten it; but not only
had the elopement of Madame de Saint Valery
opened  at least he imagined so  his uncle's
eyes to the truth, and cured him for ever of
his suspicions, but Lord Stonehouse, who knew

the whole facts of the case, had shown him
in the clearest way that there had never been
good cause for them. Thus Carew's present astonishment,
though the whole communication
astonished him, was not due to the nature of
his uncle's suspicion, but to the sudden and
inexplicable revival of it.

Presently, however, a light began to dawn
on him. Mrs. Harley's letter came back to
his mind; and he recollected that, in connection
with Miss Consuelo Burton's departure, she
had mentioned Mr. Inigo as being somehow
concerned in the mischief. He now began to
put two and two together. Mr. Inigo had
caught him on the Promenade des Anglais
by moonlight, engaged in a manner that
was, without doubt, equivocal ; and Carew,
with impatient and indignant anger, jumped
at the conclusion that the Miss Burtonss and
his uncle alike had been prejudiced against
him by the gossip of this blundering tattler.

In his uncle's case this seemed specially
probable, as Mr. Inigo was one of his most
industrious parasites. The only question was,
what could have been the man's motive ? For
crediting Mr. Inigo with all the ambitious
stupidity which the largest Christian charity
could possibly claim as a shield for him, it
was difficult not to believe, in the present case,
that his sedulous misrepresentations must
have had in them an element of malice.

Anger and speculation, however, of this
kind, soon gave way to thoughts that were
far more practical. It flashed on him suddenly
that, so far as he understood her
parentage, Miss Capel was an alien quite as
much as her cousin ; and the threatened
alteration in his uncle's will, if it ruined his
prospects in the event of his marrying the
one, would be equally fatal in the event of his
marrying the other. Miss Capel, it is true,
had spoken of herself as an heiress ; but with

regard to money matters she knew little more
than a child; and he had learnt accidentally,
from something said by her mother, that the
utmost she would inherit from the General
would be some six hundred a year.

He rapidly realised the situation. Either
he must persuade his uncle that his fears were
groundless, and that the proposed alteration
in his will was a needless and unfair precaution
; or else, for his own part, the matter
resolved itself into this : he must choose
between Miss Capel (if he could win her) on
the one hand, and his hopes of restoring his
family, indeed of saving it from ruin, on the
other.

In his then mood of mind he could bring
himself to renounce neither ; and without tormenting
himself prematurely by placing these
two in the balance, it at once occurred to
him that, if he saw his uncle immediately,
he might secure an arrangement by which

neither would be shut out from him. His
action was prompt. It is true that his
lawyer's letter had been unopened for two
days ; but from the moment of his reading it
not a single hour had elapsed before he was
making preparations for an immediate return
to England.

Such, them were the circumstances of his
journey ; and it will now be sufficiently
apparent what were the thoughts by which
his mind was distracted  the problems that
lay before him, and the memories that lay
behind him, as the clanking train on its long
journey northwards was hurrying him away
from the land of flowers and sunshine. He
crossed from Calais at night ; a raw coldness
was hi the air, and all his future was somehow
expressed to his imagination in the bleared
lights of Dover revealing themselves through
the drizzling mist.

VOL. III.

C

FEW hours later he woke up from a
sleep born rather of dejection than
of fatigue, in which he had wandered
back to the green pine forests of the
Esteems, and had almost arrested the retreating
figure of Miss Capel. He brushed away
the moisture that was darkening the windows
of the railway carriage ; with heavy eyes he
peered out into the dimness ; and there,
sweeping past him, were the squalid bricks of
London, mildewed with morning frost.

A few minutes more, and he was in the

echoing gloom of the terminus. A familiar

vision of milk-cans, of four-wheeled cabs,
groups of shivering porters, and the placards
of last night's papers, slowly moved before
him, and at last came to a standstill. Then
he recognised his servant waiting for him ; and
he was presently on his way to his own
chambers in Curzon Street.

The unchanged aspect of London, as it
stared at him through the win f ry morning,
struck sadly and strangely on him. His life
during his absence abroad had seemed full of
hope and suggestion ; and now lie felt as if
that had all gone for nothing, and he had
drifted back to the point from which he had
started. He could almost believe that the
puddles at the gates of the station were the
same that his cab had splashed in, on the
day of his leaving England. Only one thin a*
struck him as new in any way ; and even this
made nothing but a very faint impression on
him. It was the recurrence on the news

2

paper placards of words in large type.,
such as 'Riots 'Outrages,' and 'Renewed
Alarms,' which he concluded must have
reference to affairs in Ireland, or perhaps in
Paris. But he gave the matter very little
attention ; and presently, in a mood of
tired disconsolate apathy, he was ascending
the stairs that led to his own rooms.

The cloth was laid for breakfast, a bright
fire was burning, and a smell arose from somewhere
suggestive of chops and coffee ; but in
spite of these signs of welcome everything
looked dismal. There was none of that little
daily litter which links us with our surroundings,
and makes them seem to sympathise
with us. There was nothing to connect the
scene with his present self, except two
objects  one a copy of that morning's Times :
the other, a solitary letter lying between his
knife and fork. It was a letter from his
lawyer, whom he had informed of his movements

by telegraph ; and the moment he read
it, his plans were again changed.

His uncle's house was in Berkeley Square ;
and it had been his intention, as soon as the
hour would permit of it, to report himself at
once to the relation on whose action so much
depended. Carew was a man who, if people
thought him wrong, was generally too proud
or too indolent to care to put himself in the
right ; and when first his relations with
Madame de Saint Yalery had been misunderstood,
he had let the world, and his uncle too,
make what they could or what they would
out of the matter. But now he had resolved
that in his uncle's mind, at least, no shadow of
suspicion should be left resting on him. In
approaching the subject at all he would have
to use much diplomacy ; and still more hi
proceeding to the restrictions that it was
threatened would be placed upon his marriage.
He knew all this. It would be an affair not

of delicacy only, but of time. He had resolved
accordingly to lose no moment in
beginning.

His lawyer's letter, however, which was
but a few lines, informed him that the new
will, containing the obnoxious provision, had
been actually made already, though it was
probably not yet signed ; and then followed
the news that his uncle, who had been suffering
much from the fogs, had left London
yesterday, and was now with the Squire at
Otterton.

Carew and both his uncles had always been
on excellent terms ; nor, so far as his personal
reception was concerned, was the present unpleasantness
at all likely to interrupt them.
As for the Squire, he had been an invalid for
years, and had never gone farther than the
study next his bedroom, or worn any more
ceremonious garment than a red velvet
dressing-gown. His near relations were

his continual guests, and one at a time lie
would occasionally give them an audience.
Often, however, they might be in the house
for weeks, and though he would send them a
succession of civil messages, they would never
receive a single summons to the presence
chamber. It thus happened, that Carew saw
him but seldom; and when he did see him, the
interviews were but brief. But at Otterton he
was always welcome ; rooms were always kept
for him there, and he was free to come and goas
if it were his own home.

His plans now were accordingly made with
promptness. He arranged to go to Otterton
himself, that night. He would reach it by
midnight, if he left London at five.

By-and-by, after he had had a bath and
had breakfasted, and tried in vain to sleep a
headache off in a chair, he walked round to
Berkeley Square, to hear more detailed news
about Mr. Horace. As he stood waiting for the

bell to be answered, other thoughts rose in him
than those connected with the invalid ; and
almost for the first time since the beginning
of his journey, he began to realize why
that journey had been undertaken. His
actions, hitherto, had resembled those of a
somnambulist, except that the waking with
him was a gradual process.

The house, which was designed in a
sedate, quasi-classical style, and dated from
the middle of the last century, had never
been altered since, and looked as if it had
never been cleaned. The corroded iron of its
railings and its torch-extinguishers, the darkness
that lay like a bloom on its chiselled stonework,
made its facade seem to Carew like a
magic mirror, which showed the square alive
with chariots and running footmen, followed
presently by the dandies and the statesmen of
the Regency  all the signs of that old aristocratic
life, when May fair was the stately centre

of England. It was a house that had been
built by his great-great-grandfather ; but forty
years ago the Squire had been obliged to sell
it, and it was only saved from passing out of
the family by its present possessor buying it,
when he providentially married his heiress.

Carew, as he looked at it, felt his old sense
re-awakening in him, that he was connected, as
if by fibres which were part of his own being,
not only with the people and tidings which
affected himself personally, but with an entire
social and an entire political order. He
experienced what may be described as a
certain expansion of his consciousness, and
a half-formed comparison flickered across his
mind between the claims of his own position,
and the value of a girl's blue eyes.

Presently the door was opened by an old
housekeeper, whose face lit up with delight
the moment she saw Carew. But directly after,
it settled itself into a querulous gravity :

she informed him that her master was really
in a very critical condition ; and that bad as
London no doubt was for him, the journey
on which he had ventured was, in. her opinion,
worse.

Carew turned away with a gathering
anxiety in his mind, and, completely absorbed
in his own thoughts, walked slowly down to
one of his clubs, which was in St. James's
Street. He had not yet looked at a newspaper.
The Times in his own room he had
impatiently pushed aside ; and he meant now
to make up for his negligence. But when,
sitting down, he seized on a Mo king Post, he
found he could get no farther than the Births
and Marriages. The effects of his journey,
combining with his mental depression, rapidly
began to tell on him. His eyelids felt heavy ;
the paper dropped from his hand ; the bars of
the windows seemed to flicker before him; and
leaning back he fell into an untimely doze.

He slept lightly, however, and a sound
before lonir roused him, though he was far too
listless to open his aching eyes. He gradually
realized what the sound was. It was
the sound of a man's voice, who, to judge by
his utterances, was evidently talking for the
benefit of the room at large.

Of course,' he was saying, ' this sort of
tiling is intolerable. Did you hear what
happened?  they pulled Lady Harriet out of
her carriage ; and by their insults they caused
such a shock to her nerves, that she actually
had to get her sister to receive for her at
her fancy ball. I wonder you weren't there.
You oughtn't to have missed it.'

Xo,' said a second voice, 'I was out of
town  I was at Lord Bayswater's.'

'Lord who?' said the first voice. 'Why
don't you call him Robertson ? I,' it continued,
with a magnificent haughty weariness, ' can't
really keep pace with all of these new peers.'

Carew felt a smile spreading itself over his
lazy lips. Without looking, he had recognised
Mr. Inigo. But his smile, though one of
amusement, was by no means one of complacency
; and, could he have done so unnoticed,
he would have walked out of the room. Unable
to do that, he lay back still in his chair. He
hoped, being in a shady corner, that he might
escape Mr. Inigo's observation, and he was
doing his best to fall asleep again, when there
fell on his ears what he thought was the name
of Madame de Saint Valery. Mr. Inigo was
by this time speaking in an important undertone
; and Carew, unwilling to play the part
of an eavesdropper, opened his eyes, and was
about to make himself visible. At this
moment, however, one of Mr. Inigo's friends
exclaimed with a loud laugh, ' Get away with
you, Inigo : you've been after her yourself,
you old sinner ! ' Carew would not for worlds
have missed what he then saw. Mr. Inigo

made several playful gestures, indicative of
a juvenile desire to decapitate his friend
with a cane ; and then with a delighted
knowhwness he leered at him through his
glasses. A second later he started so
that his glasses fell from his nose. He
had suddenly seen Carew. Had Carew been
a ghost, the effect could not have been
greater. Mr. Inigo looked for a moment as
if he would like to make his escape ; but.
recovering his self-possession with a superhuman
effort, he slowly turned on the apparition
the tails of his frock-coat ; and
thrusting his hands into his trousers pockets,
he stared at the street from the middle of
a bay-window. Carew' s eyelids gradually
dropped again : and he fell into a sleep this
time so sound, that when he awoke from it,
it was his first and most natural impulse to
stare about, and discover what had disturbed
him.

There was a movement and an excitement
in the room which there certainly had not
been half an hour ago. The number of members
had increased, and they were all of them
clustering round the two windows, peering
into the street, and talking together in tones
of expectation. What had happened or was
about to happen Carew could not possibly
conjecture ; but towards one of the windows
he presently made his way  and as he did so,
he saw that in the middle of the other was
standing erect the figure of Mr. Inigo, so
perfectly motionless that it might have passed
for a portion of the building. A variety of
indignant feelings were just beginning to
assert themselves, when his ears caught something
of what his neighbours were saying, and
Mr. Inigo was in a single moment forgotten.
1 They're coming this way.' ' They are a
worse lot than those of yesterday.' ' The
police say they are powerless.' Such were

the remarks that his neighbours were interchanging;.


What is it ? ' he asked, turning to an acquaintance.
' Who's corning ? What will
be worse than yesterday ?' The man addressed
stared at him. '1/ said Carew,
know nothing. I have but this morning
returned to England.'

1 Haven't you heard ? ' said the other.
It's the mob. They are coining this way.'

Here they are ! here they are ! ' cried a
dozen voices at once ; and the group at the
window pressed as near to the panes as
possible.

Tell me,' said Carew, still persevering in
his inquiries, ' who is it ? What is it ? For
goodness sake tell me.'

It is the mob  the unemployed was the
answer. ' They are led by the professional
agitators. You'll see for yourself in a minute
or two. Listen to that ! There they are ! '

Carew did listen, and now his ears comprehended
a confused and approaching noise
of shouts, shrieks, groans, and the trampling
of innumerable feet ; and in another moment,
added to this, came the crashing of broken
glass, and outbursts of yelling laughter. At
last he got so far into the bay-window as to
be able to see down the street ; and what met
his eyes was a black advancing mass, moving
like some great volume of semi-liquid sewage,
on the surface of which certain raised objects
seemed floating, whilst the edges of it, in one
place or another, were perpetually frothing
against the sides of the shops and houses.
A moment more, and this hoarse and horrible
inundation was flowing past the windows
at which he himself was standing ; and
he then began to understand its character
better. Considering the stones that were
flying in all directions, the position he
occupied was no doubt one of danger ; but

neither he, nor any of the other members,
showed any inclination to quit it. The
spectacle below seemed somehow to fascinate
all of them.

A long procession of discoloured and pitiable
faces was slowly defiling by ; some
looking down with a sullen and dull stolidity,
others fixing their eyes with a stare
of ferocious wonder at the impassive group
watching them : but beyond the shaking of
an occasional fist, that blank stare at first was
the only sign of animosity. The attention of
the mob was concentrated on the opposite side
of the street, where a certain University club
displayed a frontage composed almost entirely
of plate-grass and of window-frames. At the
sight of this structure, as if it acted like a
signal, a chorus of yells and groans burst suddenly
from the multitude, and a storm of
missiles began to assail the windows. About
this special attack there was a determination

vol. in. D

and a violence which, so far as Carew could
see, had been wanting elsewhere. To smash
the glass was not nearly enough ; but showers
of stones were poured into the rooms through
the apertures, and presently, with a noise that
thundered across the street, a heavy chandelier
fell crashing from the ceiling of the
reading-room.

That's his club,' exclaimed several of
Carew' s fellow spectators. ' It's the club he
was kicked out of for advocating the assassination
of Ministers.'

See,' cried another, ' there he is himself
the man in the waggon, with a red flag in
his hand.'

Carew could make nothing out of these
mysterious observations, but craning his head
forward he looked in the direction indicated ;
and there was a sight which at once made the
matter clear to him. One of those raised
objects, which he had already seen from a

distance, was now approaching ; and it
proved to be what his neighbours had just
hinted. It was a huge open waggon drawn
by four horses. On the shafts, and on the
sides, were seated perhaps a dozen men, wildly
gesticulating to the crowd. Whatever they
were, they were plainly not English workmen.
Their long, lank hair, and their wild
moustaches, which waved and bristled, with
an affectation of ruffianly dandyism, said at
least as much as that.

Carew glanced for a moment at this
cluster of scarecrows, and then his eyes fixed
themselves on a figure which rose above them.
This was a man seated in a rude arm-chair,
which had been propped up on a packing-case.
If his satellites looked wild, he looked
a great deal wilder ; not, indeed, in respect
of his dress or hair, for in that way his appearance
was quiet and common enough : but

he was shouting to those around him like a

d 2

maniac loose from Bedlam, and waving the
red flag which he held, with corresponding
gestures. Sometimes he seemed to use it
as a sign of encouragement, sometimes to
indicate some particular building. Meanwhile
his eyes were starting out of his head ;
and his whole face was flickering with the
livid gleam of insanity. Carew started at the
spectacle. This figure was Foreman.

When the waggon reached the club, which
was the special object of attack, it halted ;
the crowd moved round it like water about
a rock ; and Foreman began to shout with a
voice of redoubled emphasis. Most of what
he said Carew failed to catch ; but several
times he distinguished such broken phrases
as ' Blood for blood, I tell you,' and ' A
life for a life.' Finally this was audible : ' Is
there no food in there, think you ? Those
men know how to get it, and so might you,
who deserve it more than they do. What

keeps your bellies empty ? Not want of food
in the country, but want of courage in yourselves.
You're afraid  that's what you are !
But what is it you fear ? Better to die
fighting, I tell you, than die starving ! '

The words did not fall idly. The
harangue was not ended before a rush was
made for the doors of the shattered club. At
the threshold there was a fierce but short
struggle ; then, whatever opposition there
was was overborne, and a crowd of squalid
forms swarmed into the interior. Presently,
from the broken windows a number of incongruous
objects began to be hurled into the
street  books, the cushions of sofas, and, ina
moment more, cabbages, joints of meat, and
various other eatables. All of these the mob
pitched wildly about, with shouts of derision,
and finally trampled them under foot  all
except one leg of mutton, which, having
found its way to the opposite side of the

street, finished by being pitched against the
window next that in which Carew was
stationed. This incident, to him only partly
visible, elicited a shout of laughter, which,
though certainly sufficiently sinister, had
more in it of derisive amusement than of
mere brute ferocity. It was so loud and
sudden that it attracted the attention of
Foreman, who, turning round, and having
stared for a few moments, began to swell
the clamour with hysterical merriment of
his own. ' Eggs ! ' he shouted to the men
around him ; ' eggs ! eggs ! ' And in another
instant, following the course of the mutton,
a shower of eggs came hurtling towards the
fated window. Oddly enough, something of
the laughter of the street seemed to find an
echo amongst the members of the club themselves.
Carew moved back into the room to
see what possibly could have happened ; and
the first thing that met his eyes was a rapidly

retreating object, which looked not unlike a
gigantic running daffodil. A second glance
revealed to him what this rarity was. It was
nothing else than Mr. Inigo, yellow from
head to foot with the yolks of a hundred eggs
  eggs which, plainly, were exceedingly far
from fresh.

It was done in an instant,' said one of
the men who had been near him. ' Foreman
or whatever the devil's name is in the cart
there  pointed him out to his myrmidons,

who, to say the truth, are d d good shots

with their beastliness. Before Inigo knew
where he was he was completely covered in
front, and the moment he turned his back,
his back was in the same condition. What's
become of him now ? Gone off, is he, to
clean himself ? Hang him ! I declare that
first he ought to have himself photographed.
What do you say, Carew ? It is a duty he
owes to history.'

Another shout from outside recalled both
the speakers to the window. The crowd in
St. James's Street had by this time almost
passed ; indeed, little was left of it but a more
or less straggling rear. But the dense mass
was pouring itself into Piccadilly, and there a
scene was beginning of far more savage excitement.
Stones were flying with greater
force and frequency ; the noise of broken glass
was more sustained and ominous ; and, presently,
a member came rushing into the club
from Bennet Street, with his hat crushed, and
his coat and waistcoat torn, bringing the news
that all the shops were being looted. At the
same moment another member, who had quitted
the room a couple of minutes previously,
was heard bringing other news, which received
a far louder welcome. ' What do you think,
now ! ' he exclaimed, ' Inigo will die happy.

One of the mob has called him a " bl y

aristocrat." '

When some alarming event actually
happens before our eyes we often accept it
with a dull apathetic coolness, which, when
imagining it beforehand, we should hardly
conceive possible. This was the case with
Carew now. Xo sooner had the mob quitted
St. James's Street than he quietly subsided
into the chair in which he had before been
dozing, and, picking up the paper which was
lately so void of interest to him, he became at
once absorbed in it.

There he learnt that during the last two
days there had been demonstrations of working
men in various parts of London, their
object being to call public attention to the
extent and depth of the distress then prevalent,
and to the number of those who were
absolutely without any employment. These
demonstrations in the first instance had been
orderly, both in their programme and in their
conduct. Following close as they did on the

Parliamentary elections, the chief idea in the
minds of their original promoters was to impress
the new members  the majority of whom
were Conservatives  with the gravity of the
crisis under which so many of their constituents
were suffering. But in each case, or nearly
so, these meetings had been broken up, and
turned, as far as possible, into a savage and
menacing riot by organized gangs under the
direction of the League of Social Democrats 
a body made desperate by their late defeat
at the polls, and anxious to turn to their purpose
every form of popular suffering. Carew
gathered further that an immense mass meeting
had been convened that very day in
Trafalgar Square ; and at it resolutions of a
more or less Conservative character were to
have been put to the unemployed by certain
of their most competent leaders. He gathered
also that in this case, as in the others, the

Social Democrats were known to contemplate
interference, and that some disturbance was
accordingly thought probable.

This was all he could learn from the
morning's paper ; but he had hardly done
reading it before a succession of telegrams
began to arrive, and took up the broken
narrative. Everything had happened exactly
as had been anticipated, with only two exceptions.
The body of men which the Socialist
leaders had brought with them was far larger
and far more promiscuous ; their own disciples
were mixed in it with the vilest dregs
of the population, and thieves and theorists
were shouting side by side; their own speeches,
too, had been unprecedented in violence and
ferocity, and were evidently designed to promote
some actual outbreak. In addition to
this, from some unexplained reason, the police,
like the witches in Macbeth, seemed to have

1 made themselves air,' and there was not a
sign to be seen anywhere that law and order
had a single official guardian.

Here, indeed, there was matter for grave
reflection ; and, quite unconscious how time
was going, Carew seized on another of the
papers, whose columns were full of discussions
on the present condition of the labour-market
and the sufferings of the labouring
classes. At Glasgow, Leicester, Birmingham,
Northampton, in nearly every town, the same
distress was prevalent. There was the same
cry  now fierce, now lamentable  from thousands
upon thousands of men, all presumably
honest, who asked for no gift of food, but
merely for the means of earning it ; and how
to supply these means, except, perhaps, for
the moment, was a question which seemed to
astound and baffle everybody. There was a
long succession of letters addressed to the
Editor about it, but Carew's eyes strayed

through a good half-dozen of them without
being caught by anything that seemed worth
his attention. At least four out of those he
looked at were by clergymen, and though not
defending any resort to violence, certainly
tended to palliate it by the pity they expressed
for the sufferers, and the sensational pictures
drawn of the popular misery.

On reading these a sense of irritation seized
him, and all his own opinions on economic and
social subjects, which he had been forming so
anxiously and carefully with the help of Mr.
Stanley, woke in his mind from the sleep
into which Miss Capel had thrown them, as
suddenly as the inmates woke in the Palace of
the Sleeping Beauty. Jumping up from his
chair, he went to one of the writing-tables,
and, taking the largest sheet of paper he could
find, addressed the following letter himself to
the journal he had just been reading.

Sir,  I am probably quite as humane as

most people, and am quite as much touched by
the sorrow and wants of others. But in cases
like the present it seems to me wholly wrong
to approach the public or the Government
through the sense of pity. The ills of the
body politic are like those of the individual
body. They require in the doctor who is to
cure them, not pity, but knowledge and self-possession.
Indeed pity, if not kept strictly
in order, tends to make the use of knowledge
impossible. If a surgeon who is to operate
on me begins to cry over his instruments, I
shall distrust his skill rather than thank him
for his sympathy ; and the best security I
can have for his doing his best for me
will be simply the importance of my cure to
himself.

It is just the same with the statesman
when dealing with any popular misery. In
his capacity of a statesman, such misery ought
to concern him, not on account of what the

miserable suffer themselves, but because their
misery is a danger to the entire community.
An Irish agitator not long since described
education as a kind of moral dynamite ; and
of education as he conceived it  that is to say,
as a tissue of ignorant and rancorous lies 
the description is no doubt true : but, applied
to misery, it is even truer. Its exactness is
absolutely perfect. Masses of men who,
under existing social conditions, suddenly
fall from comparative prosperity into privation,
and see before them no hope for the
future, become dangerous by the laws of
social chemistry, as surely as, under chemical
treatment, do the harmless materials of dynamite.
Like dynamite, too, they are not self-exploding.
They remain dumb and impassive
till the fuse is applied by the agitator.
Then an explosion follows. It is useless to
blame the people. The agitator alone is
guilty, and there is no guilt in the world

of so deep a dye as his. Could he ensure a
new order of things by blowing up the old,
we might, perhaps, call him a hero ; but the
only result of his explosion is, that the people
themselves are crushed under whatever ruin
they have caused. The structure of society
still remains unchanged, or changed only in
being for a short time disjointed.

1 There remains, however, also this question
for society to consider. Is it, in the present
and prospective condition of trade, secreting
a constant or a growing mass of explosive
misery ? If so, there is serious trouble ahead
for us. It may not be the fault of society, it
may be its misfortune only, that this misery
is secreted by it ; it will not be the fault
of the miserable if they cause misery as
well as suffer it. Blame is equally useless
and equally inapplicable in either case ; but
unless this diseased secretion can be checked,
it is impossible for a sane man to imagine

that, in such a country as England, society
can ever again experience its old security.
Neither poppy nor niandr agora will ever
medicine it to that sound state which, up till
lately, we have been accustomed to consider
natural to it.'

Carew, when he had written this, which he
did with care, and had re-read it, was conscious,
as he said to himself, of feeling somehow
a man again. ' Blame the people ! ' he
repeated as he put his letter into the box.
Poor devils ! Why, as I watched the crowd
just now, I was far more inclined to cry over
the sight than to be angry at it. As for
Foreman and his crew, I would willingly
string the lot of them up to a lamp-post.
But the others  even the roughs and thieves
sunt lacrymal rerum. They are the tears of
things, and they are the riddle of things.'

In the middle of these reflections the
striking of a clock roused him. He looked at

vol. in. E

his watch, and found, to his great surprise,
that it was high time for him to he hastening
back to his chambers. When he emerged from
his club the street was perfectly quiet ; but,
for the first time, he realized the violence of
the tempest that had passed. As he crossed
Piccadilly there was hardly a house westward
which, so far as a glance could inform him,
had not suffered damage of some kind.
Several jewellers' shops, the windows of
which were generally glittering, were nothing
now but so many black openings, which
scared-looking men were hastily protecting
with shutters ; and the whole pavement in
front of a well-known fruit-dealer's was a
singular pulp of trodden flowers and pineapples.
In Mayfair, however, everything
was just as usual. Cabs and carriages were
passing and repassing, just as if no disturbance
had happened within a hundred miles ;
footmen were knocking at doors ; ladies were

leaving cards ; and Carew found, when lie
reached his rooms, that his servant had not
heard of there being any riot at all. He
began to feel as if the whole affair had
been a dream ; and thoughts of Miss Capel,
the Entered mountains, howling mobs, broken
windows, and, lastly, the kneeling figure of
Miss Consuelo Burton at Mass, came floating
through his brain in dizzy and quick succession.
But on his way to the station he was
recalled sharply to the sense that he was
moving in a world of realities. He came
again across the track of the rioters, who
had apparently made their way up South
Alley Street and Park Lane also, as in
both of these thoroughfares there was hardly
a shop or house which had not a window
broken or else a door defaced. ' And to
think,' he said to himself, when he was at
length seated in the train, and was slowly
gliding out from under the arches of Pace

2

Of UJ U&

THE OLD ORDER CHANGES

dungeon, ' to think that it was only two short
days ago that a girl's eyes, looking at mein
a forest of fairyland, seemed to me to
mean either the failure or the success of a
lifetime ! '

WmmmmMmMMmmMMMMM M

n - ,m - ii - ai-i n - ai i mm -+. uti ii i - m , 11 a *g  *r i r s ag u an r u  ~ i r  ir , i \t

CHAPTER III.

HEN he reached his own station it
was very nearly eleven. The moon
was shining brightly, and he received
a curious shock as he recognized the
outlines of the tall familiar hedgerows, the
unmended thatch of a barn on the far side of
the road, the line of white palings which
fenced in the platform, and the old-fashioned
brougham that was awaiting him just beyond
them. Stranger still seemed to him the
turnings in the narrow lanes that he had
known from boyhood, the gates he had swung
on under his nurse's tutelage, and the very

ditches where once he had stooped for water-cress.
All was the same, and yet, in a way,
how changed ! In one miniature creek he
recollected he had lost a knife, his treasure
when he was seven years old, and he felt half
inclined now to jump out of the carriage and
look for it. Presently shining like a linen
sheet in the dimness, there came in sight the
first outlying cottage of Otterton. Carew,
in his childhood, had paid many a happy
visit there. He could see at this moment
the row of mugs on the dresser, and feel
again on his tongue the taste of the delicious
cider. The face of the old man who lived
there seemed again to beam on him, and the
wife, half deference and half affection, to drop
a delighted curtsey. In his mind's eye he
saw them both ; but, like the brothers of
Helen, ' them the life-giving earth hid now '
in the village churchyard. Presently he was
entering the village street itself  a long irregular

line of silent sleeping dwellings ; and
now the carriage had sharply turned a corner,
and beyond him lay what looked like a world
of shadow and of woodland.

Against this background something was
gleaming dimly. It was a lofty arch between
two decaying lodges. Carew leaned his head
out to take in every detail of this structure.
In one window a faint light was glimmering ;
over the archway was a huge stone scutcheon,
intricate with illegible quarterings ; there was
a heavy gate in the very act of being opened ;
there was an old woman in a white cap who
curtsied ; and in another moment the carriage
had passed by her, gravel was crunching
under it, and the moonlight was dimmed
with trees.

Carew, as he breathed the air, felt it was
charged with memories. The very soul of
the earth in which his family had been rooted
seemed to be floating in the smell of the

damp dead leaves. Presently he had quitted
the wood and was speeding through the open
park, where the moonlight undulated white
over far-reaching knolls and glades, and slid ina
sluggish film on the waters of a noiseless
river. Now there came into view immemorial
clumps of elm-trees, and a long avenue meeting
the distant sky-line; and a gathering consciousness
of what his family was, of what it was to
be the heir of so many centuries, came from the
shadows and the branches and invaded his
imagination. Now he was passing the gabled
house of the gardener, now the long walls of
the old-fashioned kitchen-garden. Now the
carriage had rumbled under the arch of a lofty
gate-house ; a row of out-buildings capped with
a line of turrets was seen for a moment dimly
stretching away from him ; and at last a
plunge through a grove of enormous ilexes
brought him out before a vision of old towers
and oriels, part of which plainly belonged to

an inhabited house, but the more striking of
which were just as plainly ruinous.

The butler who opened the door, a
tremulous grey-haired man, greeted Carew
with so solemn a smile of welcome as to fill
him at once with some vague presentiment of
evil.

1 I'm glad you've come, sir,' he said.
We've been in a bad way here.' Carew
asked him to what it was he alluded. ' It's
not the Squire, bit ; he's much the same as
usual, It's Mr. Horace. Hush, sir, go softly.
He's in the west bedroom, and a noise in the
hall may wake him. The doctor's been here
twice to-day ; and he has to-night a nurse
who is sitting up with him. There's supper,
sir, in the small library, and Mrs. Samuel has
got the Countess's room ready for you, because
your own, she thought, was too near Mr.
Horace's. The doctor says he must have no
sound to disturb him.'

Carew, the following morning, was roused
from a heavy sleep by his servant undoing
the tall creaking shutters ; and his eyes were
hardly well free from drowsiness before in
the man's aspect he detected a certain gravity,
which, when he announced the hour, was still
more unmistakable.

1 It's eight o'clock, sir,' he said. There
was a pause. He then continued: ' Have you
heard, sir ? There's bad news. Mr. Horace,
sir, died about four o'clock this morning.'

From the moment Carew had entered the
house he had felt in the air a cold presentiment
of death ; but this had not made him
the better able to bear it. It merely increased
the solemnity of the event, with the added
solemnity of a dim prophecy verified. He
asked a few of the ordinary questions as to the
manner in which the end had come, and he
learned that his uncle had died in a kind of
a stupor, itself so like death that the nurse

could hardly tell at what moment actual
death had happened.

As he descended the broad stairs, with
their worn Brussels carpet, he saw that the
blinds had already been drawn down. Crossing
a long gallery, towards the room in which
he was to breakfast, he dropped a book he was
carrying on the bare oak floor, and a flock of
echoes instantly filled the air, like so many
startled pigeons. Picking the book up, he
saw the butler standing a little way off, and
holding a door open ; and he looked at him
with an air of apology for the noise that had
just been made. The old man understood the
look perfectly.

1 Ah, sir,' he said, ' you needn't go softly
now. Mr. Horace sleeps too sound for any
of us to wake him. I was to say, sir,' he
added presently, as he was uncovering the
dishes on the breakfast-table, ' that the Squire
would be glad to see you at half-past twelve.'

Carew had thus the whole morning to
himself, and he welcomed that prospect as
much as he could welcome anything. Directly
his breakfast was over he had an interview
with the nurse. He learnt from her every
detail she had to tell him, and then, for a few
moments, visited the bed of death, and watched
the upturned face that lay on the white pillow,
as clear and quiet as if moulded in yellow
wax. ' Ah,' thought Carew, amongst many
other reflections, ' Mr. Inigo will play no more
whist with you, or haunt your dinner-table
to scrape acquaintance with peers.'

This brief visit over, he wandered out of
doors, and avoiding as far as possible every
gardener or domestic, he roamed about, contemplating
the house and its precincts, and
struggling as he did so to collect his disordered
thoughts. The house had in former
days been the largest in the West of England,
and had once consisted of au irregular pile of

buildings, towers and cloisters, and long barn-like
outhouses, ranged together round an
enormous oblong court. But of this one side
had little left but the foundations ; and two of
the others, though still stately, were ruinous.
Specially stately in its ruin was a magnificent
baronial hall, which Carew's uncle, being too
poor to repair it, had been forced to unroof
some forty years ago ; and now the tracery
of its beautiful Gothic windows showed like
skeletons with the sky shining through them.
One side of the quadrangle only was now inhabited,
and even this formed a house of no
small dimensions, though one end of it had
been cut off from the rest, and had been let
to the tenant who rented the home-farm. The
slope that rose in the background was shadowy
with magnificent timber. Old-fashioned
laurel hedges gleamed below ; above was
the clang of the rooks in the boughs of the
leafless elm ; and, peering over the sloping

slates and the chimneys, the tower of the
parish church showed its belfry windows and
its battlements.

Carew moved from point to point, absorbing
the spectacle, with its many meanings,
into himself. Everything he saw was, he felt,
a part of him ; he, he felt, was himself a part
of everything. Not a single object on which
he could rest his eyes, even to the pollard on
the farthest hill blotted against the sky, was
unconnected with his own name and family.
They, for eight hundred years, had been the
rulers and the centre of all the life around
them. They were part of the landscape ;
they were part of the trees and earth. Sofar
as traditions extended, they had always
been kind landlords, and, so long as they
could be, generous ones. There was not a
house within miles in which their name had
not been reverenced as if it were almost
royal. Every pinnacle on the house was

part of their fossil history. The church
walls were hidden with their hatchments and
mural tablets. His grandmother's monument
almost dwarfed the altar, the chronicle of
her virtues being upheld by two cherubs, the
one hugging' h er coa t f arms, and the other

on o *

in triumph, brandishing her crown of glory.
1 Nothing,' thought Carew, ' nothing can alter
this. We may be swept away, but we can
never be replaced. We may have a new race
of manufacturing plutocrats, rising and falling
like so many golden sandhill. They may
eclipse us in splendour, but they never will be
what we are. They never will have their
roots in the historic life of the country. They
will never be, like us, the aristocracy of traditional
England.'

The surrounding objects which had suggested
these thoughts seemed also to repeat
and to draw them out like a fugue. The air
was keen with the smell of yet unmelted frost;

and a silvery steam rose slowly from the
grass and floated across the gloom of the
gnarled and solemn tree-trunks. To Carew
these sights and smells were as part of his
own mental condition, the mind and the senses
interpenetrating and explaining each other.

Presently from the church tower boomed
the deep note of a bell. A long pause ensued,
and then another followed it. They were tolling
for his uncle's death. The sound roused
him to a consciousness of his own personal
situation. Had the second will of the dead man
been signed? With sudden distinctness this
question came to him ; and yet, though he
knew that something important hung upon
it it was some moments before he could recollect
what. "With an effort he did recollect;
and then, like a reflection in some transparent
water, which, the moment the eye catches it,
obscures the pebbles at the bottom, a vision
of blue skies and of palm-trees, and Miss

Capel's face recalling him to the land of
roses, floated between his heart and the visible
scene before him. All his perplexities
were now mapped out distinctly. The possibility
of his retaining the family estates, or
at all events doing his duty by them, and
restoring the family prosperity, depended on
his possession of his dead uncle's fortune.
Would he find that the dead hand had so
ordered his future that the choice lay for him
between his family and Miss Capel, and that
he must be false to his interest in either one
or the other ? And if so which choice should
he make ?

In answering this latter question his imagination
wavered ; but he found as he examined
himself that his will was already
fixed. Much as it might cost him to renounce
all thoughts of Miss Capel, it hardly seemed
to him now within the range of conceivable
possibilities that he should with his eyes

VOL. III. F

open renounce his family for her. He looked
again at his old ancestral surroundings, at
the moss-grown slated roofs, and the ivied
walls that were roofless, and he thought,
1 You are more to me than any woman's
heart in the world.'

Whether or no he would continue to
maintain this decision, he had not long to
wait before he learnt decisively that he had
at any rate not been at superfluous trouble
in forming it. At the hour named he was
ushered into the Squire's study. It was a
room which had been furnished and decorated,
during the stately Georgian period, by
the same ancestor who had built the house
in London ; and it was well in keeping with
the aspect of its present possessor. The Squire
was a perfect type of a race that is now fast
dying. The cut of his pale whiskers and the
locks of his grey wig connected him visibly
with the pra>popular epoch ; and the placid

smile that dwelt on his lips and eyelids were
the smile of a man so accustomed to obedient
deference that he could very rarely have had
occasion for frowning. Holding out to Carew
a delicate wrinkled hand, he expressed quietly
his pleasure at seeing him, and then, with
an equal quiet, spoke of his brother's death.
His manner conveyed no impression of heart -
lessens  he was not a heartless man ; but
extreme old age learns to accept everything,
and the breaking of no link can much affect
those for whom, in a few years at farthest,
all links will be broken  broken or reunited.
The Squire then proceeded to say that he had
telegraphed for the family lawyer, whose presence
for several reasons would be desirable ;
and he handed Carew a paper with a long list
of names on it.

I should be glad,' he said, ' if you will
write letters to these, and let them know what
has happened  together with the date of the

F 2

funeral, on which I have already decided.
I thought at first of making my servant do
so. A business letter he can manage well
enough ; but the confounded fellow said the
Squire, still quiet as ever, 'the confounded
fellow would bungle over a matter like this.
And now,' he went on, when Carew had
undertaken the commission, ' there's another
little affair about which I wished to speak to
you. Your poor Uncle Horace had got some
ridiculous notion into his head that you were
likely to make a fool of yourself with some
French adventuress. He had arranged in his
mind the whole course of the drama, though,
as he had never seen her, it was clever in him
to be able to do so. You were first to disgrace
her by making her your mistress, and then to
disgrace yourself by making her your wife.
Of course the whole thing is a mare's-nest ;
but, anyhow, he has been at the trouble of
making a new will in consequence. Perhaps

he has already taken steps to let you know
this ? ' Carew admitted that such was the
case. ' I told him the Squire continued,
1 that it was a monstrous waste of trouble ;
but last week he had been hearing some
nonsense about you in London, and nothing
would persuade him that he was not perfectly
right. Practically to you it can make
no possible difference ; and, at all events,
now there is no use regretting it. It was
only yesterday morning that this new will
was signed, and I was one of the witnesses.
By the way,' he added as his nephew was
leaving the room, ' I had a letter from your
sister this morning, with a poor account of
your mother. After things here are finished,
you'll no doubt go over and see them.'

CHAPTER IV.

"AREW's days between his uncle's
death and the funeral were passed
in a noiseless and almost monastic
seclusion. The lawyer arrived with as little
delay as possible  a spectacled freckled old
man, who but for his confidential intonation
was like a country gentleman far more thana
solicitor. Carew was glad of his friendly
and sustaining presence, and passed with
him nearly the whole of the subsequent
mornings, visiting farms and cottages, examining
their dilapidated condition, and

learning afresh and in all possible detail the
hopeless extent to which the property was
encumbered.

I am as good a Tory,' said the lawyer,
wiping his spectacles, ' I am as good a Tory
as any man in England, and should as much
regret any legislation that tended to break up
the estates of the old families. But I am
bound to say, Mr. Carew, and I think you
will agree with me, that when an estate is in
the condition of this one, it becomes an abuse
which the law should not perpetuate. Unless
its old possessors acquire the means of doing
their duty by it the old possessors ought to
go. This I believe as firmly as any Radical.
I differ from the Eadical only in one point.
He would cackle over any excuse for their
dispossession. I should break my heart over
its necessity. However,' he acted, * that case
is not yours. It sometimes sounds indecent,
when a relation is hardly dead, to begin

reckoning up the advantages his death will
bring one ; but we are speaking now not sa
much of yourself as of your family ; and I
am, Mr, Carew, in a position to tell you
positively that you are at this moment the
possessor of three hundred thousand pounds.
Two-thirds of that sum will enable you to pay
off every mortgage on this property, which
else, sooner or later, I am certain would have
to go. Several men have had their eyes on it
already ; indeed the bailiff tells me that
there's a man here now  he's been living in
the largest of those two stucco villas  who
would buy you out tomorrow had he only
the chance of doing so. At least that's the
gossip about here. Unless, however,' he
added, smiling, ' you forfeit your new inheritance,
I trust the Cares may reign here for
many a generation yet. Yes  I trust the day
by-and-by will corns when you may not
only be able to restore your own home, but

be blessed as a benefactor in every home about
you.'

I agree,' said Carew, sadly, ' I agree thoroughly
with the view you take of families in
such a position as ours. If we exist only as
an abuse we had better not exist at all.'

You,' replied the other,  may exist
otherwise ; though I fear that, as matters
have turned out, there will be more difficulty
than you perhaps anticipate in applying
your fortune to the purposes we have just
spoken of.'

Carew inquired to what kind of difficulty
he alluded.

1 By-and-by,' said the lawyer, t you will be
able to understand it more completely ; but
I can, in a general way, put the matter intelligibly
before you now. Mr. Horace Carew's
wish, as you know, was so to leave his money
as to deter you from making a certain
marriage ; and he has compassed that end by

placing a deterring penalty on your marriage
with anyone not a British subject. Now you
will of course see that if, in the event of such
a marriage, it was his intention that all his
money  for this is your uncle's arrangement
 that all his money, except a small
portion, should pass from you to a distant
relation of his wife's, he could not leave it in
your power to employ the principal, at your
discretion, in paying off the mortgages on
the acres that you are bound to inherit. He
wished, indeed, that you should have that
power, but he was determined you should not
have it until the contingency he dreaded was
an impossibility. Accordingly, though, unless
you marry an alien, the interest of the money
left you will be paid to you during your life,
you will not be able to dispose of a single
penny of the principal unless and until you
marry some born British subject. I can
only trust that, vexatious as the condition

is, and I am sure quite uncalled for, it will
not be found one difficult or distasteful to
fulfil;

This conversation took place the day after
the lawyer's arrival ; and now the situation,
under its most homely and practical aspect, was
beginning to stare Carew very full in the face.
There were two points in it which he had not
before realized, in addition to those relating to
his marriage or abstention from marriage. In
the first place, he learnt that, as the heir to
his elder uncle, he would be a far poorer man
than he had had any idea of. In the second
place, as the heir to his younger uncle, he
would be, in fact he was, a far richer one.
The alternatives before him surprised him by
the sharpness of then' contrast. On the one
side was the complete ruin of his family 
more complete and more inevitable than
despondency had ever foreshadowed to him.
On the other was its restoration to power,

splendour, and beneficence, greater and more
certain than he had ever ventured to hope.

During the whole afternoon of that day
and the next he roamed about like a restless
ghost, through the glades of the park, through
the unweeded walks of the garden, with their
furlongs of straggling laurel, through the
roofless hall, through ivied vestiges of the
cloisters, and again through the corridors of
the inhabited house itself, his whole mind ina
ferment. Generations of dingy ancestors
peered at him from shadowy walls ; here and
there, distinct amongst the pale tribe, were
one or two fine Vandyke ; and in a low
hall, with a faint smell of wood smoke in
it, there were eight tall Sir Joshua. One of
these, which was hung close to the door, was
so placed that whenever the door opened, the
key struck the canvas, and had knocked a
ragged hole in it : and in this stately and
magnificent picture, which, if uncared for,

would in a few years be ruined, Carew seemed
to recognize an image of his own family.
i Could lie lie asked himself, ' allow all this
to go ? Did he not owe to it, as it were, a
filial duty ? Was he not bound to save,
and, if possible, to transmit it to a descendant
? Could he, for the sake of any private
affection, be a traitor to this trust, which, if
gone, would be gone for ever ? ' Everything,
from the crumbling towers outside to the
rudest oak bench and frayed matting within,
from the faintest daub in feminine watercolour
fading on the wall in its tarnished
frame for a century, to the sixty-four quarter -
kings of his great-great-grandfather, which
stained the daylight on the great staircase
window  everything he felt to be indescribably
a part of himself, bone of his bone, flesh
of his flesh. He could not suffer it to be torn
away from him.

'Had I a brother,' he said to himself,

1 who might take my place  to whom all this
money would go, in case I was to forfeit it, I
would say to him " Take it." He might take
the estates too. But of all our name, there
is nobody left but me. I am not myself only;
I am a family, I am an institution : and as
such, I represent that principle which alone
makes, or can make, civilization worth preserving.
Anyhow I think so ; and if the
thought is a folly, I can at least give my
folly some dignity by suffering for it.'

The tone of his resolution remained pretty
much like this till after his uncle's funeral,
when he left Otterton for his mother's. Her
home was an old manor house some twenty
miles distant  small, but in its own way
perfect. A tall rookery rose directly behind
it, whose branches overshadowed the white
clustering chimneys. A lime-avenue and a
garden of stocks and wall-flowers made a
world of quiet in front. Inside, there was

china and an odour of pot-pourra, straight-backed
chairs standing on faded Turkey carpets,
and rows of calf-bound volumes such as
Tom Jones and i The Spectator.'

Closely as Otterton was connected with
Carew's life, the Manor was connected with it
in a yet more intimate way; and just as in his
present frame of mind the associations of the
one pained and stimulated him, so did those of
the other lull, caress, and fawn on him. The
waves of thought and feeling were still with
him in the state of hush, that they are in so
often with those who have come from a house
of death ; and all the homely and kindly days
of his childhood rose up in his memory as he
arrived, filling him with a longing for rest, and
a wish that he could again subside on them.
The old grey-haired man-servant, who welcomed
him smiling at the door, with his
striped waistcoat, his white silk stockings, and
pink cheeks like an apple, seemed to him like

one of his own relations ; and as he dined with
his sister in what was known as the little
parlour, the rest he longed for he almost
thought he had found.

His mother that evening he was not able
to see. She had been for some years failing,
and, as Mrs. Harley had told the Miss Barons,
Carew had always shown himself a most good
and attentive son to her. But her condition was
such that, though always a ground of anxiety,
and though one from which she could never
recover, it might still be protracted for an indefinite
time longer ; and except for an occasional
sinking, to which her family now were
accustomed, she gave no graver cause for solicitude
at one time than another. It happened
that the present was one of her times of weakness,
and instead of dozing as usual, though
a calm afternoon, in the drawing-room, for
the past few days she had not quitted her bed.
She had often, however, been much weaker

before, and there was nothing to interfere
with the flow of reciprocal information that
pleasantly took place between the brother
and sister. What had happened to the family
in this or in that cottage, whether Mary Ann
had married the young man that she used
to walk with, and whether the auctioneer's
daughter still wore blue gloves on Sundays 
on all these little points Carew asked for enlightenment
; and especially as to who was
the stranger who was living in the larger of
the two villas near Otterton. But the last
question was one which his sister could not
answer.

Late the following morning his mother
was in a condition to receive him. She was
still in bed, and had just finished her breakfast.
Her weakness had long been such that
her pleasure at the sight of him had found
better expression in her face than in her slow
and feeble articulation. It was so this morn-vol.

III. G

ing as she just turned her head on his
entrance. No words could have said to
him more than that slight and difficult movement
; and he saw looking at him out of those
dimmed and well-known eyes all the years
of his life, and seventy eight years of the
century. The interview did not last long,
nor was there much said at it ; but the
scene throughout the morning was strongly
stamped on his memory. On a table beside
the bed were the remains of her small breakfast
a piece of broken toast and an egg-cup with
its hollow shell. Beneath her chin, too, there
still remained a napkin ; and on this a little
of the yolk of the egg had fallen. Under
ordinary circumstances nothing so offended
Carew as the slightest untidiness in anyone's
ways at table ; but now when he thought of
the hands and lips grown helpless that had
once for him been the signs of such strength
and help, this small and unsightly detail

subdued his mind with a feeling which had
been quite strange to it hitherto, and he
bowed his head in reverence for the sacred
weakness of age.

During the rest of the day he poked
about with his sister, amongst old chests and
cabinets filled with various relics ; and they
had been half touched and half amused at
discovering an entire fossil childhood, in a
collection of toys and lesson-books. These
had lately been disturbed to make room for
some other lumber ; and they thought of
inquiring of the servants as to the fate of
some objects that were missing. This question
was, however, in part answered by an
accident ; for, passing through the diminutive
stable-yard, their eyes chanced to be
attracted by something red on a rubbish-heap
; and going nearer, and using his stick
to assist him, Carew recognized amongst dead
leaves and cinders, the morocco covers of

G 2

his diary when he was ten years old, which
had then seemed to him a marvel of sumptuous
splendour, and which still, no doubt, contained,
in the damp and dirt, the tremulous
records of his hopeful unclouded life. He
looked again, and a worm was crawling over
it. i What fools the servants are ! ' he exclaimed
in a moment's petulance.  I feel
almost as if they had pushed me in there
myself.'

These occupations, and the thoughts suggested
by them, at first filled his mind completely
: but by-and-by, through them and intermixed
with them other thoughts came also,
gently pushing and asserting themselves. Here
was a house, here were surroundings, where
a man might live in comfort on no immoderate
fortune. If he valued respectable antiquity
and family associations, if he valued mellow
refinement contrasting with mushroom finery,
surely he had that here. Might he not brave

the chance of having to let Otterton go, and
beg Yiolet Capel to make a home here with
him ? Over and over ao-ain he asked himself
this question, the girl's eyes and lips pleading
with him to say ' Yes 'to it ; and more than
once he repeated those lines of Thackeray's
which Foreman had quoted in a very different
temper  ' Love omnia vinci, is immeasurably
above all ambition, more precious than
wealth, more noble than name. He knows
not life who knows not that ; he hath
not felt the highest faculty of the soul who
hath not enjoyed it. In the name of my
wife I write the completion of hope and the
summit of happiness. To have such love is
the one blessing in comparison of which all
earthly joy is of no value ; and to think of
her is to praise God.'

HE following morning Carew was
sitting in the library toasting his
feet on the brass fender. He was
looking at a pile of newspapers that lay on
an old spinet ; he was reproaching himself
for having scarcely so much as opened them,
and he was still mainly occupied with
thoughts about Miss Capel, when his sister
entered, and said in a hurried tone that she
thought their mother's state was worse than it

had been yesterday. 'In fact ' she added.

But perhaps you will come upstairs with
me.'

They went. His sister entered the room
before him. There was perfect silence in it.
He at first saw nothing but the bed curtains.
Then he moved softly round to the
foot of the bed ; and there all revealed itself.
Black with her back to the light was the
bending figure of the nurse ; and carefully
propped up on the pillows a still face rested,
with that yellow wax-like bloom on it, the
meaning of which he already knew so well.

The end had been sudden. His mother
evidently had begun her breakfast as usual.
It was there on the little table. Slight and
trivial things become sometimes full of meaning,
and Carew's eye fell on the half drunk
cup of tea and the egg half eaten. He knew
at the moment that he should never forget the
look of them. The breakfast and those dead
lips  ten minutes ago how closely and commonly
they were related ; and now between
them was all the width of eternity  between

that smeared egg with the spoon in it, and
the life that mysteriously was not.

This event, as was not unnatural, completely
changed, for the time, the whole
tenour of his thoughts. Miss Capel's image,
though he did not intentionally dismiss it,
now receded at once out of the ken of his consciousness.
The inevitable business matters
for the next few days occupied the practical
faculties both of himself and his sister ; and
as for his thoughts, though he affected no
conventional gloom, they kept a silent vigil
over the strange something that had happened.
He recalled what someone had said
on the ramparts at Courbon-Loubet  that
there are things in life which, however much
we may talk of them, are to each, till he
feels them himself, as new and as strange
as death; and amongst these, he learnt, was
the death of one near to him. It was sometime,
indeed, before his imagination could

grasp it ; and after having asked his sister
some questions she was unable to answer 
questions mostly connected with the past and
with the neighbourhood, he heard himself
saying, ' "Well, we will ask my mother.' And
then again his mind would imperfectly correct
him  ' I mean,' he would add, ' when
she comes back.'

His feelings, as was natural, were deep
rather than poignant. They sank down into
his heart rather than wounded or crushed it,
and affected his views of life more than his
views of his own life. But at the funeral 
at this second funeral, so closely following
on the other, he felt at least for a moment
how sharp a sting death can have for the
living.

On his way to the ceremony, which took
place at Otterton, reflections such as these
kept on recurring to him :  ' What is half of
life but the memories we share with others ?

And before we are thirty a half of this half
is gone. Before we are half through life weare
knee-deep in the waters of death.' Then
by-and-by came the short pilgrimage to the
church, and there sounded in his ears the
opening words of that office which, whether a
man believe or whether he disbelieve, is more
moving and terrible than any tragedy ever
written, bringing him face to face with all
that is worth hoping for, or else with the
thought that all hopes are vain. The extreme
simplicity, too, of the whole proceedings
touched him  the church with its square
pews, its huge pulpit and reading-desk, the
arms of Carew on every panel of the gallery,
the lion and the unicorn keeping guard over
the altar, and the absence of anyone except a
few neighbours and the villagers.

All those impressions, solemnly as he received
them, he could take in and assimilate
more or less as a philosopher ; but it was different

when, leaving the church, they stood
by the grave's brink  for it was always his
mother's wish to lie. not in the vault, but in
the churchyard. He had not realized fully
the personal import of it all to him till he saw
descending actually into that horrible gash
in the earth  that cold insulting mud, that
damp and streaming clay  the thing which
but yesterday he would have sheltered from
the least wind or from a raindrop. He
thought of h's diary, and how he had seen
it on the rubbish-heap ; and now, the mother
who had given him that diary  they were
casting her into a rubbish heap yet more
hideous ; they were doing to her what he
had lately shuddered to see done even to a
little morsel of morocco.

He bit his lip. Every nerve was strained
to prevent his feelings finding some natural
outlet. At last, just before those assembled
separated, he raised his eyes, venturing to look

about him, and there, standing by the grave
on the side opposite to him, was an object that
proved a new trial to his fortitude. It was an
old woman ten years older than his mother,
who had begun life as his mother's maid, and
who had never, till her strength failed her,
left the service of the family. For many years
now she had been settled in a cottage, and
Carew was not aware that she was any longer
living. She seemed to have risen from the
dead to take her last look at the dead.

Presently he went up to her, and taking
her by both the hands, ' Nancy,' he said, ' and
don't you remember me ? ' She looked at him
doubtfully ; he then explained who he was,
and a light of recognition like the last ray
of a sunset suddenly lit up the old woman's
face. She seized his hand again, and began to
speak to him of her memories  both of his
childhood and his mother's ; and then ended,
with a glance towards the grave, ' I shall be

going to join her there soon. I ought to have
gone already.'

And I too said Carew, as he turned
away from her. ' We both of us belong to a
world that is dead or dying.'

His sister and he were to remain at the
Hall for the present ; they had neither of
them yet decided on their immediate movements
in the future  and the rest of the day
was passed in the vacant quiet which so often
succeeds an event like that of the morning.
On Carew's mind there was vaguely an
impression as if it was Sunday; his very
thoughts seemed afraid to stir themselves into
their common secular activity. Next morning,
however, an unforeseen incident roused
them.

He had wandered away after breakfast
into a remoter part of the park, trying to
review calmly his situation as regarded Miss
Capel. His feelings about her were pretty

much what they had been when the shock of
his mother's death had rendered them, as it
were, insensible ; and now slowly and faintly
they were coming to life again, untouched as
yet by the hostile associations of Otterton.
His tenderness for the girl was once more
asserting itself ; his imagination once more in
its mirror was showing him the magic of
her eyes. Wholly occupied with these inward
events, he passed mechanically through a
door in the park wall, and continued his walk
in the public road outside. In a few minutes
this brought him to one of the gates  a
grandiose entrance between two Georgian
lodges, with the coats-farms crumbling from
the friable stone. Within, there stretched
away a long avenue of elms, some of whose
boughs lay broken and untouched on the
ground, whilst grass and weeds were invading
the stony roadway.

By this gate Carew was intending to reenter

; but he paused at a little distance,
struck by its mournful aspect, whilst the
claims of the family honour gave a timid prick
to his conscience. He paused and he looked
thoughtfully at it. Suddenly his eye was
caught by an unusual object  an exceedingly
smart-looking brougham, standing some way
off in the road. Moved by his curiosity, he
slowly strolled by it. There was no one
inside, so he was able to examine it carefully.
All over it was a gloss of virgin
varnish. There was a gloss that was almost
equal on the coats of the horses ; and though
outside there was no device of any kind, inside
there was a profusion of ivory fittings, each
one of which was, apparently, florid with some
large monogram. In contrast to this  ' Or
could it Carew asked, ' be in keeping with
it ? '  the coachman and footman held themselves
rather slouching, and seemed to be
indulging themselves in less reserved conversation

than is perhaps usual amongst
gentlemen's servants when on duty.

Having seen what he could, Carew was
turning back, when he descried emerging
from the one lodge that was inhabited, a man
who seemed, from a distance, to be dressed
for Piccadilly or Bond Street. The stranger
moved a little way into the road, thrust his
hands into his pockets, and began staring at
the lodges. Carew by this time was within
some thirty feet of him ; and was so struck
by his unexplained presence and his behaviour,
that, leaning against a gate, he began to watch
him curiously. Who was he ? What was he ?
Was he the undertaker's man ? Was he a
doctor ? Was he the head of some mourning
establishment, come at his sister's order ?
He might be a doctor, perhaps ; and yet,
Carew argued, few doctors but those of
the lowest class could invest the quiet of
their dress with such a loud ostentation

of quiet. A second glance showed that he
could hardly be the undertaker or the mourn-inhuman,
for his trousers had a purple stripe
on them, and in his little finger there was
embedded a diamond ring*. At last he
turned, and with his head well in the air, and
treating Carew to a blank stare in passing,
he entered the brougham, which had already
advanced to meet him.

Carew fancied he had seen this man's face
before ; but, think as he would, he could not
remember where. He entered the lodo;e, and
inquired of the woman who lived there if she
knew the stranger's name, and what it was he
wanted. The woman said she had seen him
several times lately, walking in the road, and
pausing to inspect the lodges ; and she
gathered though from what source she did
not specify  that he lived somewhere outside
the neighbouring town. Then, following
what is a common rustic practice, she brought

VOL. III. H

out the only definite part of her answer
last.

The stranger, she said, had seen the bailiff
talking to her, whom he recognized and at
once accosted. He seemed to have something
of special importance to say to him, and as it
was cold standing in the open air, they had
both gone inside and sat by the back-kitchen
fire. The bailiff was there now if Mr. Carew
wanted to see him, and would no doubt tell
him more than she could.

Carew found this to be no more than the
truth. The bailiff was full of the interview
that had just ended. ' I was wishing, sir
he said, ' the moment that you came in, to be
able to tell you about it before you went
away. I did mention, you may remember, at
the time of Mr. Horace's funeral, that there
was a party residing in the neighbourhood
who had his eye upon this property. He's
been trying to find out all he can about

it ; he's been busier than ever since then.
"Well, sir, that's the gentleman  the gentleman
 though to my mind he looks much
more like a hair-dresser. He talks to you,' the
bailiff continued, in apology for this freedom
of speech, c as if you were no better than the
dirt under his feet, and he puts questions to
you as if he were hearing you your catechism.'

1 Do you know his name? ' said Carew.

I've heard it,' said the bailiff, scratching
head, ' but I don't rightly remember it.
I never knew such a gentleman to ask questions.
He asks about rents, and leases, and
hares and rabbits ; and at last he got, sir, to
asking about the Squire, and if it wasn't true
that the Squire was very hard on the poor.
I said, if every rich man had as kind a heart as

the Squire Snapper, sir  that's his name,

sir  it's just come back to me. I thought
'twas a name like one one sees now in the
newspapers. Maybe he's some relation.'

H 2

Relation ! ' exclaimed Carew. ' It's the
man himself. The devil's grown a moustache
that was why I did not recognize him.'

He left the lodge in a mood very different
from that in which he entered it. Once again
his mind was in full activity. It turned from
his private emotions to what he conceived to
be his duties. ' Let the property pass to
a man like that ! ' he muttered. ' I would
sooner never speak to Miss Capel or to any
other woman ao*ain.'

AREWS mind was now fully awake.
He suddenly realized in a way which
he had not done hitherto the full
practical meaning of the large fortune that had
been left to him, and the future which that
fortune, especially if it became his own absolutely,
opened out to him so certainly and so
immediately. All his theories as to the duties
and the capacities of an aristocracy, all his
knowledge and study of the economic problems
of the period, he now felt he might
begin to translate into definite practice. A
sense overcame him of sudden impatient

restlessness. He could no longer live on emotion,
or even on tli ought. His whole moral
being craved to be fed with action. His emotion
had turned into a hunger for something
beyond itself. It no longer sufficed him to
reason about the poor and about the people ;
about the conditions of their employment, the
rates of their wages and the cost and quality
of their lodging. He longed to feel that
there were a certain number of families whose
daily lives he could help to order happily ;
that there was actual distress he might do
something to cure ; and that he was doing
his best to set a real example of that devotion
to all whom his power could benefit, which
alone, in his estimation, gave power either
permanence or dignity.

Under the stirring influences of prospects
and thoughts like these, his whole conscience
became like a kind of litany  a cry, a supplication
to some unnamed Providence, that

his life might be granted the development
which, and which alone, could complete it.

In most men's lives there have been
analogous moments. Their importance is often
misunderstood. No doubt, in any such excitement
and exaltation of the moral being,
in any such passing clairvoyance into the
conceivable possibilities of life, coupled as it
usually is with the desire to make these
possibilities facts, judgment, imagination, self-esteem,
and hope say a thousand things
which are soon seen to be exaggerated, and
perhaps may excite a smile. But for all
that, they need not be unreal. They are not
unreal if, in spite of their apparent exaggeration,
they express and for a moment illuminate
a tendency which is permanent, but
which usually operates in obscurity, and
clogged with difficulty and obstruction. Most
men would be able to bear witness to this.
There are occasional moments, indeed, when

the mind is full of oracles, when it hardly
knows itself for all the voices filling it.
Such moments are the seeds of moral changes,
of new departures, though too often they are
seeds that never grow.

Of this last fact Carew was perfectly well
aware; and several times when, in the course
of his meditations, his moral excitement was
gaining its completest possession of him, he
would sober himself by the prosaic reflection
that all the fine things he was saying to
himself were addressed to himself as he
might be rather than as he was. And then
again, as a correction to such moral despondency,
he would recall to himself the following
pregnant couplet :

Deeds in hours of insight willed

May be through hours of gloom fulfilled. 1

But even now, without waiting for the
future, he was aware that these hours of

1 Mr. Matthew Arnold.

insight had had already one practical effect on
him. For the first time since he had yielded
to the witchery of Miss Capel's presence, he
felt that even though he lost her life might
be still complete. She was no longer necessary
to make his future satisfying. He
still knew her charms; he still knew the magic
of her wide childlike eyes. She was like
sunshine, she was like a perfume, she was
like a strain of plaintive music breathing
through a garden of roses, or fresh from the
breast of a blue southern sea. He knew the
power that her nature had over him ; but
he knew it as he might know the power of
a dose of opium, which each time he repeated
it would have the same effects, but effects
from which, for the time being, he was free.
Once more he was master of himself. He
felt capable of choosing the life which the
thought and experience of years had affirmed
and re affirmed to be the life of rational

duty  the only life which could appease his
unsatisfied consciousness, and, by affording
work to every one of his faculties, would
perhaps yield him at last some resting-place
for his spirit.

How should he make use of this free
interval, in which once more his intellectual
conscience was supreme, and passion stood at
his feet ready to do its bidding ? This was
the question he asked himself, and he asked
it with a business-like deliberation. ' Any new
state of the thoughts, feelings, and desires,' he
wrote in his diary as a sort of mental record,
1 may be arrested and realized if we can but
translate them into action, and this may make
a new turning-point for the whole life and
character. The danger which I run is that
of never translating them into action at all ;
and if I yield to this danger I know quite
well what becomes of me. My life, instead of
a structure, is simply a shapeless mound of

subsiding aspirations, out of which it is as easy
to make any useful career as it would be to
mould a statue or a brick out of treacle.'

In this state of critical self distrust, one
image, and only one, came back to him, which
brought with it suggestions of action, vigour,
and life. This was the image of Miss Consuelo
Burton ; and even that, for external reasons,
was shrouded in a veil of despondency. All
the details of their last parting returned to
him, and the contemptuous coldness of her
last words and her letter. Much, he reflected,
might no doubt be explained by some false reports
 he did not quite know what  which she
had heard of him ; and her coldness  this was
certainly just possible  might have betrayed
interest in him far more than indifference.

But still he asked himself, ' what must
be her opinion of me if she is so ready to
believe me, at a moment's notice, guilty of anything
that could make me deserve such treatment?

Probably by this time what interest
she may have taken in me has died out, not
to be reawakened. Perhaps, after all, there
was not much interest ever.' Anyhow, he
continued to reflect, it would be very difficult
to approach her again, at all events
immediately. How to explain matters, or
indeed what matters to explain, he did not
know. There were no ostensible grounds for
any explanation at all. Added to this, he
was not certain where she was. Thus, in
spite of both the definite conduct and the
help and the encouragement to pursue it,
which the very thought of her suggested
to him, she seemed to his imagination to
resemble a light, bright indeed, and sending
through the gloom its kindly message of rays
to him, but shining in vain over the sheets
of a broad intervening water.

His feelings, therefore, will be easily
understood  the sudden throb of his heart

and the tingling of all his pulses  when he
saw one mamma*, on coining down to breakfast,
a re-directed letter for him, bearing a
foreign postage stamp. Was it from Miss
Capel ? Was it from Miss Consuelo Burton ?
On taking it up he saw that it was from
neither ; but it did not prove on that account
to be any the less interesting.

r J*S

AREW's correspondent was none
other than Mrs. Harley. Her letter
was dated ' Rome,' and ran as follows :

Dear Mr. Carew,  You must not be
surprised at getting a long letter from me ; for
I have many things to ask you, and many
things also to tell you. I am going to begin
with my asking.

What have you been doing with yourself
all this long time ? We had hoped we
might have seen you again at Nice, before
we left it ; and we were much disappointed
that you gave no sign of yourself. We are

here till after Easter, with some mutual
friends of ours ; and after Easter, as I think
I told you before, we go, for perhaps a week
or so, to the Italian lakes. You were good
enough to say that you would get us an order
to see the beautiful villa and gardens on
the Lago Maggiore which belong to your
Milanese relations  the " cousin Alfonso"
you have sometimes told us about. If this
reaches you in time, will you write to me
here, or else to the Poste Estate at Baveno.
I wish there was a chance of your being at the
villa yourself and doing the honours of the
place for us. I know you do go there often,
and that it is a sort of second Courbon-Loubet
for you. I think that that is all I have to ask
you  what have you been doing ? will you
send me the order ? will you be there yourself
? I will now go on to tell you things.

1 Of course you have heard how our friend
Foreman has been distinguishing himself.

He now pretends, as you will have seen in the
papers  he has also had the face to write tome
to the same effect  that he had nothing todo
with these riots, and that they were simply
the result of accident. He is frightened out
of his life at the prospect of being prosecuted
by the Government ; and a friend tells me,
who saw him a few days ago, that his state
of nervousness is something really pitiable.
George says he is like some man in Rabelais 
would it be Panurge ?  who swore, " By the
pavilion of Mars, I fear nothing but danger ! "
I must, however, do our Socialist this justice :
if he does fear danger he certainly does not
fear exertion ; for, ill as he is, he went suddenly
back to London  I wrote to you at the
time about it  not very long after he left
Courbon-Loubet. We now see the reason
why. I've not the remotest doubt in my own
mind that the whole thing was hatching for
many weeks beforehand. He was brooding

over it whilst he was under your roof. In
fact, now one comes to think of it, he told us
as much there.

1 But, my dear Mr. Carew, my real aim in
writing to you is not simply to gossip about
Foreman and his vagaries. My real aim is to
tell you that I think I can clear up a mystery ,
the results of which you had every right to
feel annoyed at. I mean the recall of Miss
Consuelo Burton from your delightful and
hospitable house. The subject perhaps is one
which is a little delicate to touch upon. However,
I think we may contrive to get over the
difficulty. After all, what is there to be shy
about ? I am a woman of the world, writing
to a man of the world, and our being what weare
gives us this advantage at least, that,
whilst I hope our feelings have not become
blunted, we are able to speak about them with
a convenient and comfortable directness.

Let me begin, then, by reminding you
vol. in. I

that I am perfectly well aware of the way in
which rumour once connected your name with
that of a certain beautiful though not very respectable
lady  the Countess de Saint Valery.
I think I know the rights and wrongs of the
story pretty accurately. You have spoken
about it yourself to me, I am aware too 
and so must you be, though you can hardly
have been told it directly  that the elder Miss
Burtonss, at one period of their acquaintance
with you, fully believed you to have a serious
attachment for their sister  and I must remark
in a parenthesis that I don't think you could
do better  but this belief was quickly and
rudely disturbed by the reports which reached
them, and to them seemed reliable, that all the
while they were wasting their most Catholic
encouragement upon you, and preparing to
welcome you into the bosom both of the
Church and their family, you were carrying on
an intrigue with the person I just mentioned,

and that you would have gone off with her
yourself if a rival had not forestalled yon.

Well, of course I think myself they were
a couple of fools to believe this ; but, given
the belief, you can hardly wonder at the consequences
of it  that they acted as they did,
and gave you the cold shoulder. Afterwards,
however, they heard another side of the question,
and began to suspect that their thoughts
about you  which, to do them justice, they
never made public  might possibly have been
far too severe. Of course that you should
know such a person as Madame de Saint
Yalery at all was an offence in their eyes, and
took some of the bloom off your sanctity. Still,
you were not hopelessly lost to their favour,
and you had a chance of salvation left you in
their uncovenanted mercies. When they met
you at Xice I was able to be your advocate,
and I told them what geese they had been to
swallow all that gossip against you ; but

i 2

your best advocate was yourself. The best
proof of the good impressions you made is the
fact of their allowing me to bring Consuelo
with me to stay with you. Of course the presence
of Lady Chislehurst and Mr. Stanley
had a good deal to do with that ; but the impression
made on them by you yourself personally
had, I am sure, even more ; and, as
you see, they were becoming quite willing
to receive you back again on the old footing.

Now comes a mystery on which I can
throw no light. Perhaps you can. In someway
or other you must have offended Mr.
Inigo. How, I cannot imagine ; but he evidently
must have some grudge against you ;
for what do you think he has been doing ? I
will tell you.

Whilst we were staying with you in the
chateau, Elfrida and Mildred were away on
some little expedition of their own  I think
it was to a convent ; and they only returned

on the morning before I and Consuelo left.
They had hardly been in Nice for a couple of
hours when Mr. Inigo found them out and
pounced on them, filling their ears with a
long tale of your iniquities. That Foreman
was staying with you he learnt from Lady
Mangotsfield, for whom, I am told, he had
been constantly on the look-out ever since
Lord Stonehouse introduced him to her. So
this piece of news at once went to Elfrida,
and along with it another, which no doubt
will astonish you. Mr. Inigo asserted that
the reason for your being in the neighbourhood
was nothing else but the presence thereof
Madame de Saint Yalery ; and he added, to
clench matters, that he had himself seen you
leaving her house at twelve o'clock that very
night on which you dined with me. Nor
was this all, but he raked up again all the
old gossip about you, assuring Elfrida that it
was true. How he got her  her and Mildred

too  to listen to him, is more than I am able
to say. But it turns out that they did so.
Poor things ! In intentions, no doubt, they areas
harmless as doves ; but that kind of harmlessness,
when lacking the serpent's wisdom,
is very often as bad as the serpent's malice.

1 Fancy ! this is what they wrote to Consuelo
about you  at last I have seen the
letter. " We are surprised to hear that Mr.
Foreman is staying at the chateau. We consider
it very undesirable "  and so on, and soon
; you can imagine the sort of thing. " We
also hear that Mr. Carew is engaged to a lady
of such a character as to show us that we were
mistaken in thinking his house would be a
proper place for you to visit at, and we are
sure that Lady Chislehurst must be mistaken
equally. Anyhow, we must request that you
come away at once, and we are writing to Mrs.
Harley  though we have told her nothing
more than is necessary  to ask her to make

your departure as easy and as comfortable as
she can for you."

1 There ! what do you think of that ?
Perhaps your eyes are opened a little now.

Luckily, however, there is more to add.
There has at last appeared on the scene  I
don't know if I remember rightly the little
Latin I once on a time learnt  a deus ex
machine, in the person of your old friend
and defender Lord Stonehouse. He is not
here now, but he has been at Rome for a few
days with us ; and it was only the day before
yesterday that, quite by accident, he found
out there had been any trouble about you.
I must describe the scene to you. I can't help
laughing when I think of it.

1 I and the three Burtonss were sitting
together in the morning, trying to settle
what should be our plans for the day, when
Lord Stonehouse came in and began talking
of some palace he had been visiting.

Amongst other things lie said : " There
were enough of coats-farms there to satisfy
even our friend Carew. By the way, Elfrida,
where is he ? He's such a devoted admirer
of yours, you ought to know. You should
have brought him to Rome and made him
kiss the toe of his Holiness."

1 You should have seen the look Elfrida
gave him. One could almost have fancied
that her face was turned into ice, she seemed
so completely to refrigerate the whole room ;
and as for Consuelo, I only gave one glance
at her, and her cheeks were scarlet. Lord
Stonehouse, with his curious and almost old-womanish
shrewdness, at once saw something
was wrong, and looked at Elfrida, smiling out
of his screwed-up eyes with a patient patronizing
curiosity. Consuelo the next moment
went out of the room, and then in an instant,
before Elfrida could speak, "My dear Elfrida,"
he began, "how have I put my foot into it?
I am immensely anxious to know ! " Nothing

would put him off. Elfrida was no match for
him ; and though she was very unwilling to
discuss the subject at all, he soon managed to
worm out of her all the stories she had heard
about you, and from whom she had heard them.
All this she told him with a painful and embarrassed
solemnity, as though she were touching
pitch and were almost afraid of being
defiled by it. And then when all was out,
Lord Stonehouse leant forward in his chair,
gave a slap to one of his fat knees, and burst
into a chuckle of laughter. "That is too
rich!" he exclaimed. " Upon my word, that
is too rich ! "

Elfrida, at this, was perfectly dumb with
astonishment and anger, and put on what
Lord Stonehouse calls her "excommunicating
face."

" My dear Elfrida," he said, " do tell me
why you are looking so glum. You don't
mean to say that you believe this cock-and-bull
story, do you? "

Elfrida told hin stiffly that she had only
too good grounds for believing it.

" What grounds?" said Lord Stonehouse.
The chattering of this fellow Inigo? If I
hadn't thought you could have taken his
measure better I declare I would never have
introduced him to you. He's nothing more
than a pedlar of second-hand scandal and
gossip, which he picks up and alters, and
hopes will pass for new ; and then when he
gets anyone to stop and examine his wares 
though no one does so except for the purpose
of laughing at them  he imagines that he is
mixing in society. Pooh! All this about
Carew  I can tell you exactly what the real
facts are. Madame de Saint Valery has never
seen him but once since he has been here, and
that happened quite by accident. He was
smoking his cigarette on the Promenade des
Anglais, and she happened to be leaning over
the balustrade of her garden. I have not the

honour of knowing the good lady herself ; buta
Russian acquaintance of mine. Prince Olgo-
rouki, whose shoes our friend Inigo was under
a kind of contract to lick, knows her exceedingly
well ; and I heard of it all from him.
He himself had heard it from Madame de Saint
Valery ; and she, I believe, had spoken of it
to him because she wanted to know where
Carew was living, and was very much aggrieved
at his not having been to call on her."
1 At this moment Lady Chislehurst entered
the room, and hearing your name mentioned,
insisted on learning what was being said about
you. She knew that something had gone
wrong, but was not quite sure what ; except
that there had been an unpleasantness in connection
with Foreman's visit, and now for
the first time she was told the whole truth of
the matter. At once a discussion began about
your intimacy with the lady in London, and
your whole former acquaintance with her ;

and Lady Chislehurst at once took up the
cudgels for you  with excellent effect. She,
as you know, has a wonderful knowledge of
gossip ; in fact, with regard to anyone who
is suspected of Catholic leanings, she is a
kind of epitomized Inquisition  I am bound
to say, a most kind and charitable one.
Though she is determined to know the worst,
she always hopes for the best ; and she was
able to tell Elfrida, with every air of authority,
that the worst about you in this connection
was certainly not very bad.

c As for Consuelo, I don't know that I
have anything special to add. I think it will
be enough for you to be simply told that
she too knows what her sisters know. She
knows you have been judged wrongly.

1 Out of that intelligence I must leave you
to make what you can or what you choose ;
and I will only add that when next you meet
the Burton family, if they are at first a little

shy of you  I don't know that they will be :
I only say if they are  the only reason will
be, not that they think you deserve ill of
them, but that they feel they have acted
unfairly and perhaps foolishly by you.

4 And now I am going to return to the
subject of our own plans. In about ten days'
time we leave Rome, as I have already told
you, for the Italian lakes ; and I will at last
reveal to you that the mutual friends who
are going with us are none other than the
three Burtonss, together with Lady Chislehurst
and Mr. Stanley. It is just possible,
too, that Lord Aiden may join us there, after
he has paid a solitary visit to the Lake of
Gar da, and enjoyed on the peninsula of
Catullus the tunes that his own mind will
play to him. "We shall probably ourselves
make a number of expeditions, but our headquarters
will be Baveno, just opposite your
cousin's island villa. Don't let me put you

to any trouble ; but if without trouble you
can do so, you will, I am sure, send us an
order for seeing it. I only wish there was
any chance of your coming that way yourself.
Happy man, with all these foreign relations !
Even Foreman will not be able to deprive
you of every place of refuge at once.'

Carew felt, on laying down this letter, as
if a sudden break had come in a sky of grey
clouds, and a sun, whose existence had almost
become incredible, were beginning to brighten
through them. At once a change came over
his whole mind. His power of resolution
again began to assert itself ; and his plans for
the future, up till now so undecided, with a
strange rapidity assumed a practical shape.

His altered condition might have been
detected in his step when he rose from breakfast.
He moved towards the library like a
man with a definite purpose, and wrote
letter after letter with an air of business-like

rapidity. He then inquired for his sister,
who had not been yet downstairs, and had
presently a conversation with her as to her
movements in the immediate future. What
she told him he found perfectly satisfactory ;
and his next step was to request an interview
with the Squire. This was graciously
granted ; and before the hour of luncheon
it was known to the whole household that
owing to some sudden news Carew would be
leaving Otterton by dawn the following
morning.

VOL. III. K

echo

a large pillared room, with an e

if lille ing painted ceiling, and a tessela-
jJT

ted floor that shone with reflected

statuary, a man was seated alone at a small
table in the centre, having just finished his
solitary evening meal. A pile of fruit which
glowed and gleamed in the candle-light was
lying untasted before him ; and sometimes
his gaze would rest listlessly upon this, sometimes
it would wander round the florid un-homely
walls, whose friezes and medallions
were now almost lost in shadow.

Presently rousing himself, he tinkled a

K 2

silver hand-bell, and, whilst awaiting the
coffee for which this was the signal, produced
from his pocket a letter in a clear
female hand, and, spreading it open before
him, began to read, or rather to contemplate
it. An expression of pained perplexity
gathered on his face as he did so ; and
at last, with a deep sigh, he abruptly
rose from his seat and opened one of the
windows.

Outside, a night palpitating with starlight
and dewy with scents of flowers,
revealed a balustrade terrace and tall
classical vases. Beyond these, from a garden
that lay below, masses of dark foliage just
raised themselves into sight ; and again
beyond these, between the tops of cypresses
and oleander-blossoms, was the moonlight faint
upon a lake that floated under a boundary of
mountains.

The man, bare-headed, stepped out upon

the terrace, and inhaled the air as if it gave
him a kind of comfort. Then he moved
to a spot at a short distance from the
window, and fixed his eyes on the lights of
some small town, that was visible from
thence on the far side of the water, glimmering
at the foot of the mountains like the
sparks of a fallen rocket.

By this time,' he exclaimed to himself,
they must be there, all of them  there
amongst those lights, And I  how shall I
meet them ? To-morrow I shall be coming
to the turning-point of my life  to the day,
or the few days that will give their character
to years. How much, at times, hangs on the
choice of a moment ! How much, at times,
on our making no choice at all ! We say to
ourselves with regard to some course of
action, " We will think about it and call
again," as if we were speaking to a showman ;
and when we do call again, the thing we

might have chosen is gone. Never, never,
never can we recall the wasted opportunity.
We forget that life is a journey which can only
be travelled once. There are no circular
tours in it.'

The letter which he had been looking at
indoors he still held in his hand, and he
now crushed it with a sudden and painful
contraction of his fingers ; then for a moment
he raised it and sorrowfully pressed it to his
lips. A minute or two later, he started as
if he had come to a resolution. Returning
to the dining-room, he again rang
the bell, and, scribbling hastily a short note
in pencil, confided it to a servant, with some
brief directions and inquiries. Once more
he sought his former station on the terrace ;
and folding his arms, he remained there
staring motionless at the lake.

This man was Carew.

Five minutes elapsed, and not a sound

broke the stillness ; then there rose from
below the whisper of dipping oars, and
presently a boat, or rather a dim blot on the
waters, was seen moving straight towards the
cluster of lights opposite. An hour or so
later it again became visible returning, and
Carew was still on the terrace, at once watchful
and preoccupied. He waited there till he
heard footsteps approaching, and directly after
a letter was brought out to him  a letter
which at once he hastened indoors to read.

1 My dear Carew,' it ran, ' you tell me
that you are in some great perplexity. You
want my advice, and you want it, you say,
instantly  before the beginning of the probable
meetings of tomorrow. As to those
meetings you are certainly quite right, forby
tomorrow afternoon the whole party will
have assembled here  Lady Chislehurst, the
three Miss Burtonss, the Harleyss, and Lord
Aiden. The Harleyss, indeed, are here

already, and Mrs. Harley has duly informed
the others that you hope to see and welcome
them as soon as possible after their arrival.
If, therefore, you wish to consult me about
anything, I will be with you at breakfast
let us say at about nine o'clock. I think,
a little later, you may expect Mrs. Harley,
who has just had some singular news which
she wishes herself to communicate to you.

So many of your perplexities have, I know,
been cleared up, that I am a little at a loss
to conjecture why you write so dejectedly.
However, I can imagine that there may bea
point or two as to which you may think
me able to make you feel more at ease ; and
any hint or information which I may be able
to give you, I shall give with the greatest
pleasure, and hope it may prove useful to
you. No doubt at present I am writing a
little in the dark. Until the very day before
I started from Rome, I had not a notion that

you were not still at Courbon-Loubet, and now
I find that you have been for weeks in England,
and that you have suffered a loss for
which, my dear Carew, you will know I feel
deeper sympathy than can be expressed ina
note like this.

Ever yours,

'Frederic Stanley.'
The following morning, by the time
named in the letter,[Carew was standing at
the landing-place watching for his friend's
arrival. Before him a flight of crescent-shaped
granite stairs dipped into the rippling
water. Over him was a canopy of budding
bankshia roses, and a marble satyr behind
him glimmered through the leaves upon its
pedestal. High in the background rose a
series of artificial terraces, supported on walls
and arches which were half-hidden by foliage
  laurels, camellias, myrtles, oleanders, and
cypresses. Here and there through valleys of

flowers and verdure there were glimpses of
urns and statues, and small fantastic temples,
or the spray of a fountain floating like a
tissue of white crape ; and crowning all
were the parapets and topmost windows of a
palazzo.

Such was the place to w T which, acting on Mrs.
Harley's suggestion, Carew had betaken himself
directly after receiving her letter. Everything
thus far had fallen out as he had hoped
it would  everything at least which, at that
juncture, he had reckoned upon. And yet
his brow was clouded; it betrayed neither
hope nor resolution ; his air was as listless
and anxious as it had been a week back
at Otterton. The morning was bright everywhere
except upon his face. Something or
other he plainly had on his mind, and it was
this which he was now waiting to unburden
to Mr. Stanley.

Confession, whatever relief it may bring

eventually, is rarely at the time a very delightful
process, and Carew, when he saw Mr.
Stanley's boat approaching, had an uneasy
feeling as if he were about to submit himself
to his dentist. Mr. Stanley's very first words,
however, at once made him feel more comfortable.
There was about them, as about
his manner usually, a certain pleasant, half-humorous
matter-of-factness which, when he
was discussing any grave or delicate subject,
put any awkwardness or false shame out ol
the question. Xo one, in fact, could approach
a case of sentimental casuistry with more
sympathy and with less sentimentality than
he.

It was an inexpressible relief to Carew to
see on the priest's brow no annoying reflection
of the cloud that obscured his own. It was
an inexpressible relief to hear him, the moment
he was landed, instead of attuning his
voice to a note of anxious solicitude, declare

that he was dying of hunger and could talk
about nothing till he had breakfasted ; and
then, as they went up to the house, falsify
this statement by launching into exclamations
of delight at the fairyland of gardens that
burst upon him. They were presently seated
at breakfast in a small careless room, that
was gaily frescoed with shepherds, temples,
and goddesses ; and a voluble parrot in a
glittering gilded cage was making them smile
with unexpected scraps of Italian. All these
surroundings formed natural subject for conversation,
and rapidly paved the way, without
any effort or awkwardness, for that other subject
which Carew was anxious to touch upon.

'No,' said Mr. Stanley, C I was never here
before ; nor, till a very few days ago, had I
any notion that you were here. I thought, as
I told you in my note, that you still were at
Courbon-Loubet.'

And I,' said Carew, ' till I got Mrs.

Harley's letter, was equally ignorant as to the
movements of all of my guests at the chateau
all except Foreman : I learnt quite enough
about hin.'

I think said Mr. Stanley, smiling, 'you
will learn something more to-day.'

1 About Foreman ? ' exclaimed Carew.
4 What on earth have I to learn about Foreman?
And why do you laugh when you
speak about him? One would think there
was some mystery.'

i Well,' said Mr. Stanley, 'if there is one,
Mrs. Harley will reveal it to you. She has
made me promise to leave that pleasure to
her.'

You know, I suppose,' said Carew, ' that
she has revealed one mystery to me already?
You know that she wrote to me, don't you?
and what the things were that she explained
to mec

Perfectly,' said Mr. Stanley, ' perfectly ;

and I was delighted to hear she had done
so. Of course you refer to the mischief that
was made by that good gentleman Inigo ; and
I can well understand  or at least, my dear
Carew, I think I can  all the annoyances
which must have been suffered both by yourself
and Miss Consuelo Burton.'

It was about that said Carew, ' that I
wished to speak to you. When one meets
one's friends again after a certain rupture it
is sometimes a little difficult to know exactly
how one stands w T with them ; and a good deal
depends on one's understanding one's position
accurately.'

c Well,' said Mr. Stanley, 4 with regard to
the elder sisters, your position is just what it
was when you last met them at Nice  or
rather, you are higher in their favour. You
must surely realize that, by their eagerness to
come and visit you here. Your perplexity,
surely, cannot refer to them.'

4 Not altogether,' said Carew, ' and yet
partly. I am thinking how best to explain
it.'

4 Let me,' said Mr. Stanley, c hazard the
beginning of the explanation, and my guess,
if wrong, will at any rate have been complimentary
to yourself. You have had, if I am
not mistaken, the fortunate penetration to
discover the depth of character  one might
almost call it the moral genius  of their
younger sister ; and you wish to know, after
what has lately happened, in what frame of
mind she is likely to meet you tomorrow. Is
not that your meaning?'

1 More or less it is,' said Carew, doubtfully.

1 Then, in that case,' said Mr. Stanley, 1 1
need only say about her the same thing that
I said about her two elder sisters. She too
will meet you as she met you last before there
had arisen any of this foolish misunderstanding.
I'm afraid, however, that I am talking

wide of the mark. Judging by your face, weare
not on the right subject yet.'

We are not,' said Carew, with some
slight hesitation. ' I am glad to hear what
you tell me ; but it was not what I was most
perplexed about. I didn't so much want to
ask you anything about her feelings towards
me, but as to her impression, and the impression
formed by her sisters, as to my feelings
towards her. I merely speak to you, my dear
Stanley, as if you were a common observer : I
do not want you to betray any confidences, incase
her sisters should have spoken about the
matter to you. Do you think that she  that
Miss Consuelo Burton entertains the idea that
I am  well  in any way seriously attracted
by her ? '

Mr. Stanley stared at Carew in astonishment.
' Do you mean to say,' he exclaimed,
i that you can possibly doubt that ? '

i Once,' said Carew, ' I certainly did not

doubt it. T mean in London. I felt sure
then that she realized how I appreciated her.
I thought, too, that she was growing to
appreciate me. But,' he continued wearily,
times change, people drift apart ; and it often
seems to me almost as visionary to hope that
such feelings in another would still remain
and wait for one, as to hope to find tomorrow
some cloud of yesterday's sunset.'

1 My good friend said Mr. Stanley, ' weare
not talking at present about what the
young lady feels for you, but about her
natural conclusion as to your feelings for her.
Let us leave London alone ; let us merely
go back to Courbon-Loubet. I don't know 
so far as words go  how much or how little
you may have said to her. I am referring
merely to your whole manner and conduct
there. If you did not yourself know what
such conduct would seem to mean, one might
almost imagine that you did not mean much

VOL. III. L

by it. That, however, I don't believe for a

moment ; for were that true, one could hardly

imagine a case of more bare-faced and moreen


deliberate trifling.'

You are right,' said Carew, c in believing
me not to have been trifling. The long and
the short, then, of the matter is this : I
produced the impression both on her and on
others that I wished to marry her, and this
wish they will still attribute to me. Is not
that what you mean ? '

4 Certainly,' said Mr. Stanley, 'and it had
never occurred to me that you could be in
doubt about it.'

About what, then,' said Carew, c did you
think I wished to speak to you ? '

To tell you the truth,' said Mr. Stanley,
I was a little puzzled to conjecture. I concluded,
however, that, considering the complications
which have occurred, you wished to
know in what temper she would meet you.

Her manner towards you was much less unequivocal
than yours was towards her. I can
easily conceive your being in some sort of perplexity,
and what I gathered from your note
was this  that you thought I might tell you
something of how the land lay, and so spare
you a little unnecessary embarrassment. Indeed
if that was your meaning you were
right. I certainly could, without violating
any confidence, tell you certain things, which
I think it would be well for you to know.'

As Mr. Stanley spoke Carew's eyes
brightened. 'Tell me,' he said.' 'Tell me
whatever you can tell. Yes, it is this  what
you speak of  it is this that I wished to consult
you about. But what I had wished also,
and what I had wished in the first place, to
have explained to you, was very much what
you have already taken for granted.'

1 Explain it to me again,' said Mr.
Stanley, ' and explain it in your own way.

i 2

If one is to give advice, one can never learn
the circumstances too exactly.'

4 Well said Carew, with an effort assuming
a certain dryness of manner, ' there is no
need to indulge in the language of sentiment.
It will be enough to state my case as if I
were writing a Parliamentary Blue-book.
I have come, then, to this conclusion with
regard to my own life : I shall be more
likely to make a good use of it  indeed, I
shall be likely to do so only  if I can find
a wife who understands my views and aspirations,
who would help and encourage me in
putting them into practice, and would redeem
them from becoming what I fear they are
now  so many useless sighs and so much
waste of brain-tissue. So far as my acquaintance
extends  and amongst women this is
pretty extensive  there is only one person
who possesses, or even suggests, the necessary
qualifications, and that person is Miss Consuelo

Burton ; and so important to myself do
I consider the settlement of the matter, that
I have come to this place for the express purpose
of meeting her under favourable circumstances,
and arriving at an understanding
with her, either one way or the other. Sofar
as she knows, my being here at the same
time as herself and her party is nothing
more than an accident. Mrs. Harley alone
knows otherwise. I don't suppose, though
you and she have discussed my affairs together,
that she has told even you the real
reason of my coming here  that I am here
simply in consequence of the information she
sent me.'

No,' said Mr. Stanley. t She has kept
your secret perfectly. All these people conclude
that you are here in the natural course
of things, taking the lakes as a resting-place
on your journey home. They have none of
them, to my knowledge, even heard that

you have been in England, though the dee])
mourning in which I grieve to see you will
soon oblige them to know the fact. Of
course he added, 4 you got a letter from
Miss Elfrida Burton ? She wrote to you
before leaving Rome.'

I did said Carew, * and a very kind,
frank letter it was. So far as mere ease and
pleasantness goes, this evening's meeting will
be easy and pleasant enough. What I wanted
to ask you as plainly as I decently could I
have already asked you : I mean, whether
I were distinctly looked upon as anxious
to marry Miss Consuelo. That question
you have answered. You have also told
me that you could tell me something as
to what my prospects in that direction
were. You said as much as that, didn't
you ? '

We have finished breakfast said Mr.
Stanley. ' Would you mind our coming into

the garden ? What I have to tell you I can
tell you as we are strolling about.'

They did as Mr. Stanley suggested, and
for some minutes they both found a relief in
suspending their personal conversation and
indulging themselves in the enjoyment of
the morning.

By-and-by Mr. Stanley began again. 4 I
cannot he said, ' give ycu a very definite
answer with regard to the point you spoke
of ; not because I am bound to keep secret
any special fact that I know, but simply
because I have no certain knowledge. If
you want a definite answer, you must get
that from herself. Still, as I said just now,
I have one or two things to tell you which
may possibly help to guide you. In the first
place, I am glad you have given me this
opportunity of expressing the admiration I
feel for this girl's singular character, which
is still more singular when considered in

its relation to your own. What your interests
are, my dear Carew  at least, your
higher interests  nobody knows better than
I. I think, too, that you are perfectly right
in your distrust of your own practical resolution.
But your instinctive sympathies, and
the instinctive bent of your intellect, constantly
connect you. as if by a kind of fate,
with the special social problems of the present
and the near future. In this way she is
almost your exact counterpart.'

< You think that? ' said Carew. ' That is
your real opinion? '

4 It is,' said Mr. Stanley. ' I don't want
to indulge in any exaggeration, though this
beautiful garden is suggestive of poetry ; I
would much rather imitate you and talk like
a Blue-book ; but I must say that Miss Consuelo
Burton in many respects reminds me of
Saint Theresa. It is the same kind of nature;
but, so far as I am able to tell, it is quite without

the true monastic vocation. However, I
can't speak for certain, and there will lie
your difficulty.'

What ! ' said Carew. ' Does she think of
entering a convent ? '

I believe,' said Mr. Stanley, ' that her
thoughts are tending in that direction, though
they would certainly not lead her to take the
veil at once.' He paused, and a moment later
resumed. ' What is special about her, to my
mind, is this. Other women, in numbers,
have devoted themselves to the service of the
poor ; but she not only shares the impulse
which produces this immemorial devotion
: she has realized, in the keenest and
most practical way imaginable, the special
conditions which distinguish our own epoch,
and which present an old duty under a new
form. It is not often that the keenness and
coolness of masculine logic are united to the
passionate sympathy of feminine intuition ;

but they are in her. To you a marriage with
her would be of incalculable benefit. I am
speaking quite calmly, not as the confidant of
a lover, but as a kind of moral politician.'

What,' said Carew, laughing, ' is the good
of telling me that, when in the same breath
you tell me that, at present, her dearest hope
is to renounce marriage with anyone?'

She is not decided,' said Mr. Stanley.
4 Perhaps you might help to decide her. I
must tell you, too, that the ideas she connects
with a cloister are very different from those of
an ordinary would-be nun. Quite apart from
any personal interest in her, you will find much
in them that is suggestive, and well worthy
of thought  especially as they are largely
due to her visit to you at Courbon-Loubet.'

f You speak in riddles,' said Carew.

They are riddles,' said Mr. Stanley,
1 which she will be able to answer ; and Lady
Chislehurst, you may be sure, will insist on

her doing so. She is longing that the matter
should be fully explained to you.'

What ! ' said Carew. ' This is a very
odd state of affairs. A girl's private reasons
for wishing to enter a cloister are not usually
the subject of her general conversation with
her friends.'

!fou don't understand,' said Mr. Stanley,
but a couple of days will make you, and
perhaps this evening will. Anyhow, Lady
Chislehurst won't let the subject sleep. You
recollect Miss Consuelo's eagerness  don't
you?  when she was staying at the chateau,
about Foreman's Socialistic theories. She at
once realized that, alone of all reformers, the
Socialists had gone straight to the root of the
social difficulty. She also realized that, having
once got at the root, there their wisdom ended,
and they utterly failed to see what this root
was made of.'

i Or rather said Carew, \ it was you who

pointed that out to her. The root, you said 
with a most happy illustration  was simply
human nature. You said that the same causes
would prevent our turning a country into a
Socialistic commonwealth that would prevent
our turning it into a Trappist monastery.'

1 Yes said Mr. Stanley, ' but I used the
illustration without realizing at the moment
how accurate and apposite it was. Miss
Consuelo Burton understood it instantly, and
read a meaning into it beyond what I had
put there. She saw '

1 Saw what ? ' said Carew. l What is it
you are looking at ? '

1 Look, 5 said Mr. Stanley, i who's that in
the boat below us? It surely is Mrs. Harley.'

It is,' said Carew, ' and she is waving her
parasol at us. We must go down and meet her.'

1 And now,' said Mr. Stanley, ' be prepared
for a piece of news. What I began to
tell you will keep.'

CHAPTER II.

AREWS face during the whole of the
late conversation, though sometimes
it had lit up with interest, had
never lost its fixed air of anxiety, nor, if he
had meant to unburden himself of some secret
trouble, did he exhibit thus far the least sign
that he had done so. The moment, however,
he met Mrs. Harley and gave her a hand to
help her from the boat to the landing-steps,
his eyes brightened and his lips wore a
happier smile. Nor, indeed, was this unnatural.
Mrs. Harley's face, always brilliant
with quick thought and expression, was now

prophetic of something so eminently delightful
that a sense of expectant humour must
have been awakened in all who looked at her.

When the first greetings were over and
they were proceeding up to the house, c I
have come she said, ' with a piece of special
news for you, and I only hope it has not
reached you before me.'

Carew said it had not.

Because,' Mrs. Harley continued, c it is
here  in these newspapers,' and she tapped
with a rough brown glove a copy of the
Morning Post that was blushing under her
red umbrella. c Let us sit clown somewhere,
and then you shall hear the secret.'

Carew led the way to a huge shady portico
that just eluded the dazzling glare of the sunlight,
and as soon as they had seated themselves
Mrs. Harley unfolded her papers.
Whilst she was looking for the passages she
wanted the others kept perfect silence.

4 Listen,' at last she said, ' listen to this
letter. It is addressed to the Editor of the
Morning Post, and is dated from a club
which you, Mr. Carew, belong to, in St.
James's Street.

1 " Sir ;  As an eye-witness of the recent
disgraceful riots, I must beg your permission
to say a few words. Letters have appeared
in all the most influential journals urging that
the Government should at once prosecute
the ringleaders, in especial the notorious
Foreman. At the same time, it has been
represented in other quarters that such a prosecution
would be futile and unadvisable,
either because Foreman and his associates
were not really to blame, or else because it
would be impossible to bring their guilt
home to them. Whether these latter suggestions
emanate from those who fear or from
those who sympathize with the miscreants, I
do not pretend to decide ; but I ask you to

give publicity to the following facts. I and
five or six other gentlemen of the most
distinguished social position are prepared to
offer evidence so explicit and circumstantial
that, were none else forthcoming, it alone
would be sufficient to convict Foreman
of everything he has popularly been charged
with. The riot was practically his creation.
It is said to have been planned by him. As
to that I naturally know nothing, not being
in the habit of associating with agitators and
revolutionists. But I do know that it was
deliberately led and deliberately directed by
him. One event  in itself sufficiently uninteresting
 has become known to the public :
that he was turned out of a certain University
Club which he belonged to owing to his
having publicly advocated the murder of a
Cabinet Minister ; and this club is opposite
that from which I am writing. As the rioters
were advancing up St. James's Street Foreman

ordered a halt directly in front of these
windows. I watched the event myself, and
heard every word he uttered. I saw him
point to the club from which he had himself
been ejected, and with violent gesticulations,
and expressions of the wildest hatred, urged
the attack on it which almost immediately
followed. "We, who are connected with no
political party, and whose only sin is the
name of being dandies and fashionable exclusives,
were meanwhile allowed the benefit of
our obscurity. By accident, however, Foreman
caught sight of a group of us, whom it
is not impossible he knew well by appearance,
as three of us were personages of the very
highest rank and distinction ; and at once,
with an almost maniacal fury, he began to
direct the attention of his followers to us,
signalling out my unworthy self in particular,
and calling for eggs and other disgusting
missiles. We had done nothing to irritate
vol. in. M

the mob  nothing even to attract their attention.
If we had not been signalled out by
the knowledge and malice of this one man as
representatives of the aristocratic classes, we
should not have been so much as noticed. I
may also add that the attention and ferocity
of the mob could not possibly have been
directed towards us so rapidly had Foreman
not had about him a large and trained contingent
from his League of Social Democrats,
which embraces, in all probability, some of
the most notorious thieves in London. Only
let the Government have courage to bring
this miscreant to his trial, and I can promise
for myself and for my friends that the case
for the Crown shall not fail for lack of conclusive
and circumstantial evidence. I have
the honour to remain, sir, your obedient

servant, ." Then,' said Mrs. Harley,

i follows his name, and after that comes a
postscript :

ta Pes.  It only remains for me to add

that I shall be much astonished if this infamous
League be not pronounced to be an illegal
society ; and also, that the man Foreman, if
he be not found to merit penal servitude, will
only escape that, from being found more fit
for an asylum. Little as one is in the way of
hearing anything about the private lives of
such people, reports are afloat that he is well
known by his friends to be subject in private
matters to the most extraordinary hallucinations."


c Xow who should you think,' said Mrs.
Harley, ' is the author of that letter ? It is
none other than our good friend Mr. Inigo
" Your obedient servant, Geoffry Inigo." '

I knew it ! ' said Carew with a laugh of
real amusement ; and then as the laugh died
his look of sadness returned to him.

Wait a bit,' said Mrs. Harley. c That is
not all. We have not yet come to the part
that concerns yourself.'

Concerns me ! ' said Carew. ' What has
all this to do with rne ? '

1 Listen,' said Mrs. Harley, ' and you will
very soon see. I have read you one letter ;
I will now read you another.'

Carew looked, and saw that she now had
in her hand a second newspaper, of a different
appearance from the first, which he recognized
in another moment as the organ of sensational
Radicalism.

c This,' said Mrs. Harley, ' is addressed
to the Pall Mall Gazette. Listen to it.'

1  Sir,  A letter has appeared lately in
the columns of the Morning Post, from a
certain Mr. Geoffry Inigo, containing a series
of false and libellous statements respecting
my conduct during the recent regrettable
disturbances. I wrote a letter in reply to it
to the same journal, which the Editor  with
what fairness I leave you to judge  has flatly
declined to publish. I must beg you, sir,

therefore, as a matter of common justice, to
give publicity to the following plain statements,
for the truth of which I am not only
prepared to vouch, but absolute proofs o
which I am enclosing herewith to you.

" The value of Mr. Inigo's testimony in
general may be estimated by what I have to
say about it with regard to the two following
points.

" In the first place, he gives us to understand
that he is a representative of the aristocracy
and the world of fashion. As to
the world of fashion I will not presume to
speak. It is impossible to say what may not
fitly represent it. But as to his claims to
aristocracy, beyond the fact that he was
standing with some Lords and Honourables
in a window, his only claims are these. His
father was a grocer, in a small way of business
in Shrewsbury, and his mother had been
cook-housekeeper to a rich attorney in the

neighbourhood. Her maiden name was Jane
Jennings, and she died in the August of 1868.

4 " In the second place, he calls the League
of Social Democrats an infamous society, and
declares that the law could not hesitate to pronounce
it illegal. It may surprise the public
to learn  but it is nevertheless quite true 
that this same Mr. Inigo has been for the past
ten years the largest and most constant of
our contributors to the funds of that very
society. If he is inclined to deny this, copies
of his cheques can be produced in evidence.

" I can easily imagine that as to this
point at least your readers may incline to be
sceptical. But the following facts will make
what I have said intelligible.

" This so-called Mr. Inigo is not Mr.
Inigo at all. Inigo is, indeed, one of his
Christian names, but his real surname is
Foreman. He is, in fact, my own half-brother
the child of my father by his first wife.

4 " The one thins; he dreaded most in the
world was any exposure of his parentage ;
and having quarrelled with me for my
indifference to fashionable ambition, he subsequently
began to expect that I should claim
him as a relative, and so bring disgrace upon
him. This idea was entirely his own. It
had never entered into my head. But some
ten years ago he came to me of his own
accord, and told me that, my opinions being
so and so, and my conduct being so and so, it
would be a serious disadvantage to him were
his relationship to me known ; and be asked
me on what terms I would consent to keep it
secret. I at once saw my way to a good
thing, and told him that I would hold my
peace on condition of his subscribing two
hundred pounds annually to the League of
Social Democrats. His subscription, which
till now has been paid punctually, was due
this day a week ago  the day after the riots

riots which I regret as much as any inn r
and in which he .himself was a slight and
accidental sufferer. But no subscription was
forthcoming. I wrote to him, and reminded
him of the matter, at the same time assuring
him that the ill-usage he had received was
not designed for a moment to do him serious
injury, and expressed neither hatred nor
anger on the part of the mob, but simply a
supreme and almost good-humoured contempt.
Still I received no answer ; but instead of
an answer to myself, I saw in the Morning
Post the libellous letter which has prompted
me now to address you, hoping that the
public will gather from our only circumstantial
accuser what is really the trustworthiness
of the accusation.

4 "I am, sir, yours faithfully,

1 " Josiah Foreman.

1 " Office of the League of Social Democrats,
Palace Chambers, Westminster."

1 There ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Harley, ' and what
do you think of that ? Do you see now how
the correspondence affects you ? Mr. Inigo
imagined that you had somehow divined his
secret, and was terribly afraid that you would
whisper it to some of your friends. Do you
recollect the niolit at Xice when he came in
after dinner, and you by accident mentioned
Foreman's name to him? Did you see the
look he gave you, and the odd change that
came over his manner ? At the time we
none of us could make out what it meant.'

Yes,' said Carew, ' I recollect it well.
God bless my soul ! this is really too ridiculous.
Don't speak to me for a moment.
Let me lean back quietly and be amused at
it. My dear Mrs. Harley,' he went on
presently, l it's worth while to have suffered
a little annoyance merely to have arrived at
so delightful an explanation of it. Of course
of course, everything fits in like the parts

of a child's puzzle. If Inigo suspected what
you say he suspected at Nice, Foreman's
presence at Courbon-Loubet must, of course,
have confirmed his suspicions.'

1 Of course,' said Mrs. Harley ; c I know it
all for a fact. I've just had a letter from
Foreman's wife, who tells me about it. Poor
woman  for her I am really sorry. She fully
believes that her husband will really be imprisoned,
and she knows  for it is quite true
about his having a touch of madness  that if
he only is sentenced to solitary confinement,
he will, as Mr. Inigo insinuates, have to
march out of his cell into a madhouse.
Foreman himself, too, is in a state of most
abject terror, as you can see by that letter,
which he would never have written if in his
senses  terror for his own safety, and rage
against Mr. Inigo. Mr. Inigo is the one
person for whom I have no manner of pity.
Of course it's all very well for us to laugh

now ; but a man with that spiteful tongue
might easily do permanent mischief  and it's
no thanks to him that in this case that he
hasn't,'

These last words produced a curious
change on Carew. The laughter and animation
which he had till now exhibited suddenly
left his face, and his former look of
dejection came over it like nightfall,

At length rousing himself, he said in a
mechanical way, ' And where are Lady
Chislehurst and the others ? Have they
arrived yet at Baveno ? '

Lady Chislehurst,' said Mrs. Harley,
4 arrived just before I was starting  and with
her a Catholic bishop and two atheistic professors
 one of them no less a person than
the great Mr. Hubert Spender. The Bur-tons
are due at two in the afternoon, and
Lord Aiden an hour or two later. I hope
you fully realize that you have asked us all

to dinner to-night, and Lady Cliislehurst begs
me to tell you to remember that this will
constitute a second meeting of your Society,'

4 My dear Carew,' Mr. Stanley here interposed,
{ do you know how time has been
passing ? I must be going back to Baveno.'

Carew turned to him with a look of blank
disappointment, and begged him to stay
longer. Mr. Stanley, however, said this was
impossible ; and Mrs. Harley, who declared
herself to be equally pressed for time, said
she would return in the same boat with Mr.
Stanley.

Well,' said Carew, ' come as early as you
can this evening, that we may walk about
and look at the place before dinner. Stanley,'
he added in a low tone to the priest, l you
have not finished what you began to tell me.'

Never mind,' said Mr. Stanley, ' you will
hear all about it to-night, or some time tomorrow
at the farthest.'

CHAPTER III.

AREW passed the rest of the day
miserably, in dull dejection varied
by feverish excitement, till late in
the afternoon, when his guests duly made their
appearance  the three Burtonss, the Harleyss,
Mr. Stanley, Lord Aiden, and Lady Chislehurst.
The meeting was to Carew a surprise
from its unmixed pleasantness. Lady Chislehurst
was more benignant than ever ; and
as to the elder Miss Burtonss, their frank and
half-childish laughter as he came forward
to meet them put him at his ease in a way
which he had never ventured to hope for.

Not only did they make him feel no new
embarrassment, but he found that the little
thunderstorm which had now so happily
spent itself, had cleared the air of anything
that had formerly marred their intercourse.

Nor did Miss Consuelo make matters
much more difficult for him. There was
a little tremor in her manner and a little
blush when he first met her at the landing-place
and helped her out of the boat ; but
whether or no she was really fit for a convent,
she had at any rate so much of the knowledge
and graceful dignity of the world, that if she
felt any awkwardness she was perfectly able
to hide it, and to do what so often only
women of the world can do  give her eyes
and manner the easy frankness of her feelings.

The evening was clear and balmy ; the
spirit of spring breathed everywhere, and
so long as the daylight lasted, melting by
luminous stages into transparent dimness,

they wandered about the garden, and through
the great rooms of the palazzo, examining
and discussing whatever happened to strike
them, out-of-doors or within, from the landscape
to pictures and furniture, and promising
themselves a clearer view of all the
beauties and curiosities tomorrow.

Just before dinner Mr. Stanley said to
Carew, f Don't try this evening to turn the
conversation to that particular topic which
we left unfinished this morning. Miss
Consuelo Burton would be only annoyed by
your doing so. If she has a fault, it is too
keen a sense of the ridiculous ; and she said
to me, only the last time I talked to her,
that she dreaded nothing more than appearing
like a woman with a hobby  a female
bagman who travelled with one idea  an
intellectual monkey who performed one particular
trick. To-morrow night, no doubt,
we shall hear something of her  well, of

her scheme, her plan, her notion  whatever
we like to call it; indeed, you may trust
Lady Chislehurst for having it well ventilated.
But to-night let us be less ambitious.
Let the conversation take its coarse.'

Carew yielded to this advice with the
relief often experienced in putting off what
is serious ; and he did this with all the more
readiness on hearing Lady Chislehurst, true
to the character given of her, declare that
next day must be a regular reunion of their
Society, and that, fresh from Rome as they
were, there would be no lack of things to talk
about. ' I wish,' she added, ' the Bishop
would be one of us : and Professor Spender,
who is, I believe, the most famous of living
scientific philosophers  if we made him an
honorary member for an evening, who knows
that it might not prove to be a means of grace
to him ? '

This latter suggestion was not taken up

by anybody, and the conversation presently
lapsed into a pleasant and careless babble,
consisting mainly of an interchange of news
and impressions from Rome, from London,
and Lake Garda, with occasional allusions to
the late riots at home, and the ominous destitution
that was spreading amongst the industrial
classes. To-night, however, these last were
allusions only, and were little more than the
shadow of the skeleton at a feast, which was
animated mainly by a spirit of expectation
and rest.

When the diners had sat down there
had still been colour in the west  a luminous
liquid saffron ; but when they rose the face
of nature was changed. The stars were out,
and the moon was about to rise. Something
was said by one of the company about returning,
and Carew was addressed on the
subject of boats and boatmen. He, however,
refused to listen to this.

VOL. III. N

c It is quite early yet lie said. 'You
can be in no hurry to get back; and if you
won't feel cold  and you won't, for the night
is as warm as summer  I propose to take you
for a little row on the lake. I've arranged
everything, and I'm quite sure you will be
enchanted.'

The proposal was so pleasant that he had
no need to press it ; and all the party being
well provided with wraps, and the boat being
commodious and comfortable, and well-manned
with rowers, they felt, as they glided out into
the soft gloom, in no hurry to bring the expedition
to an end. Presently something occurred
which made this opinion grow on
them. They had not gone more than a few
hundred yards from the island when they
saw another boat coming slowly towards
them, like an object moving in a dream.
Suddenly there arose from it a tinkling sound
of music  of a guitar or mandolin struck by

a practised hand ; then there joined in some
other stringed instruments, performing a kind
of prelude ; and at last came the melody of
a rich Italian voice, singing a song half reckless
and half tender, the burden of which, at
the end of every verse, was taken up by other
voices in chorus. All the party exclaimed
with delight at this gliding and mysterious
orchestra, which now suffered them to
approach near to it, and would then elude
them and float away into the distance, leaving
its music like a vanishing wake behind it.
Carew was beset with inquiries as to who the
performers could be ; and at first replied,
laughing, that the lake was ' full of noises
like Prospero's Island. But he at last admitted
that he had planned the entertainment
himself, and that the performers were
a small troupe  two of them Neapolitans 
who happened then to be in the neighbourhood.
The music passed from one

w 2

tune to another with a fairy-like succession
of changes, seeming, as if by some magic, tone
luring on the boat that followed it ; and
it kept ahead of them all the way, till the
clocks on shore were heard striking eleven,
and the party found themselves making for
the lights of Baveno.

All were loud in their thanks to Carew,
and were regretting that the expedition was
so very nearly over, when a cry of ' Listen ! '
from one or two of them, again called attention
to the music. Carew, in particular,
became suddenly silent, as if the sound had
mesmerized him.

'That song!' exclaimed Lady Chislehurst.
How well I know it ! It is a hymn the Neapolitan
fishermen sing to Our Lady in the
evening.'

Carew had recognized this fact already.
It was the first song he had heard Miss Capel
sin 2 .

The whole evening, till this last moment,
had been of unexpected, of almost bewildering,
pleasure to him. He had neither had, nor
tried to have, any intimate conversation with
Miss Consuelo Burton. He had been content
to give these hours to the natural healing of
their friendship, leaving what was more than
friendship to assert itself during the days that
would follow. But he had been meanwhile
observing, with admiring and minute observation,
her graces of manner and movement,
and even the little niceties of her dress, and
the arrangement of her hair. He had been
observing this, and connecting it mentally
with his knowledge of what solemn and
serious things those eyes could look upon
which flashed so brightly under that dainty
fringe of hair, and how all the gravest
hopes and sorrows of life had agitated the
breast which was hidden by that pretty
Parisian jacket.

But now this song, floating mysteriously
across the water, suddenly stirred thoughts
alike in his heart and conscience which for
some time had been lying soundless and tranquil,
and made them move and murmur as a
wind makes fallen leaves. He said goodnight
to his friends sadly and absently ; he
arranged for their return to the island next
day as if he hardly knew what words he was
uttering, and when he was rowed back alone
in the now silent boat he had the air of a man
who had lost rather than found a treasure.

Coward that I was ! ' he exclaimed.
1 Stanley might have helped and advised me ;
but I could not find courage to tell him the
only thing which in any serious way made
any advice necessary ! '

HE following morning lie awoke with
a dull sense of apprehension ; and
as soon as he had time to recollect
the cause of it he discovered it to be this.
He wished to have the whole of the day till
the evening absolutely alone ; he feared to be
broken in upon by an early arrival of his
friends, and he could not remember in the
least at what hour he had said he would
expect them.

Springing out of bed, he wrote a letter
to Mrs. Harley, and despatched it at once
by boat, to say that important business had

unexpectedly called him away, and that he
would not be hack to receive them till close
upon five o'clock.

Yes,' he murmured to himself as he
sealed the envelope, ' it is important, and it
was utterly unexpected ! '

The day was not far advanced before,
acting under an impulse very similar to that
which at Courbon-Loubet had driven him on
his pilgrimage to St. Paul du Var, he was
gliding slowly towards a distant quarter of
the lake, under the congenial conduct of a
dumb Italian boatman.

A jutting ridge of mountains shut him
presently out of sight of Baveno, and as soon
as the glitter of the last white house was invisible,
with the air of a man who at length
finds himself in private, he drew from his
pocket a crumpled sheet of paper. It was the
letter which two nights ago he had been
pondering over during his solitary dinner.

Again he re-read it, lingering over every
word. It ran thus :

1 1 wonder if you will think it wrong of
me to write to you as I am going to write.
I wonder if you will think it immodest, unwomanly.
Some people like women better
for being like that ; I don't know if you do.
I don't know what you will think of me. I
might almost say that I do not care ; for when
a person is in a position like mine, after all,
what does anything matter? Do you see
what I have come to? Do you see what you
have brought me to?

'But it is not you only; and oh! I do not
mean to reproach you. It is nothing new
that you have done that fills me with this mad
longing to write to you. No ; it is something
else. It is this  how shall I put it ?

It is coming upon me  you know what I
mean  sooner than I expected. This suddenness
is terrible ; and till it came so near I

don't think I could have realized  indeed I
am sure I did not  what it would be like.

I lie comes tomorrow ; and in ten days
we are to be married. To-morrow !  and
after that all my life will be behind me.

I I cannot, I will not  no, at least I will
stop at that  I will not write to you one word
when he is here. It is treachery, of course,
to do so now, but it would be doubly
treacherous to do so then, when, the moment
after I had sent away all my thoughts to you,
I should be obliged to pretend that they were
still in my eyes for him. A woman may
become bad ; but that kind of constant deceit
and falsehood  never !  oh, not that !

c Perhaps it will bore you, hearing me tell
you what I feel for you. Men do get bored
if a woman once admits she is fond of them.
But never mind ; I am a long way off, and
you can tear my letter up as soon as you
have had enough of it. But you ought to

forgive me, for it is yourself whom you have
to thank for this  for all this I am inflicting
on you. You taught me to do what I am
doing now. Do you remember those verses
you sent me, in which you said you

Would never wholly leave me, till betwixt
My life and yours there is the great gulf fixt ?

And till then I don't mean to do so. But,
do not be frightened when I say I will not
leave you till then; for that 'then 11 is tomorrow.


c Oh, once more  since it will be once
more only  let me feel that my arms are
about your neck  that I am holding you 
that I know that you are there, and that I
am telling you in your own ear, hiding my
eyes against you as I do so, how everything
in me fit to be called love has been yours,
and is yours still, and how, when it may not
belong to you any longer, it will never belong
to anyone.

i I don't believe that you understand this
at all  no, no, not one small bit. How should
you ? This is the sort of thing that a man
never understands. It is simply the old
story. You will go away, and forget, and
find someone else. Your having known me
will not alter your life in any way ; but mine
will never  no, never  be the same again.
You have shown me what happiness might
be ; you have taught me to know the taste of
it ; and, as I cannot ever have that happiness
for my own, I shall never now be content
with what once perhaps might have contented
me. That is all. As I tell you, it is a very
simple story; and I don't complain.

c Complain ! I should think not. Oh,
my  I don't care to call you w T hat I should
like to call you  do not be angry with me for
writing to you like this, for it was you who
made me love you ; and do not pity me too
much. I do not mean to give way and be

dismal. I suppose even, though. I say that I
shall never be happy again, that in the years
to come I shall try to clutch at happiness, or
what at the moment seems like it ; and perhaps
one day I may succeed in forgetting
you by making myself no longer fit to remember
you. But if I do that, I would sooner
you never heard of my having done so, and
that you never thought about me again.

I Good-bye ! good-bye !  how much that

word means now !  and believe that though I

shall never be yours at all, the one wish of

my heart is that it had been possible for me

to be

Yours always,

Violet.'

To this was added a postscript on another
piece of paper, dated the following day :

I I had meant to have told you not to send
me any answer. But you may now. I have
heard from him again this morning. It is

put off for another three whole weeks. He
is kept in Paris by business. A line from
you, if you will write to me, will be the
one good thing this reprieve can bring me.
Except for that, it will be merely a prolongation
of intense suspense and suffering.'

Carew had arrived at the island, now a
few days back, full of hope and confidence.
His future at last seemed to be shaping itself
in a way that promised to satisfy every need
and aspiration that had ever made him respect
himself. But he had not been there for
four-and-twenty hours before this letter had
reached him, having dogged his path from
England. The moment he read it it filled
him with a disquiet and perplexity for which
when at Otterton he had never bargained.
Its chief effect was to stimulate not so much
his affection as his conscience. His relations
with Miss Capel were placed in a new light
by it. He had always believed she was in

some measure attracted by him ; but his
belief in this attraction, or rather the extent
to which he realized it, obeyed a law which is
very far from being singular. He understood
her heart entirely by the light of his own.
It was only the glow of his own feeling
that rendered the signs of her feeling visible
to him ; and in proportion as his feelings grew
sober about her, hers about him  her feelings
and her whole position  gradually passed
away out of the grasp of his imagination.
The result with him was a mental state much
more common than many people would like
to acknowledge, in which the only moral problem
the disposal of his affections presented
to him was what would harmonize best with
the needs of his own best nature, not what
he owed to the needs which he possibly might
have awakened in hers.

Accordingly, when he found, as he had
found, that another and not Miss Capel was

the woman fittest to complete and redeem
his life, the one difficulty which he realized
as obstructing his path was simply what
lingering tenderness Miss Capel might still
excite in himself. She was not a claimant to
be met, but a temptress to be set aside.

Thus the above letter came like a moral
shock to him, and his conscience suddenly
roused itself into a state of abnormal activity,
which might perhaps seem even greater than
such a stimulus could explain, unless account
is taken of his state of mind at the time.
The letter reached him just at the very crisis
when, full of serious, high, and determined
thoughts, he was preparing to offer himself to
Miss Consuelo Burton. To him, in such an
offering, there was something almost sacramental
 over and above what constitutes the
ordinary sentimentality of marriage. He
would, if he married her, be not only offering
his faithful companionship to a sympathetic

woman : he would be offering her life and his
to some great Cause as well. Here was a
sacrament and a sacrifice the very desire for
which sprang direct out of the highest needs
of his nature ; and the mere act of contemplating
it made his conscience sensitive  sensitive
to an almost morbid degree. For this
reason Miss Capel's letter touched him with
a keenness that might have been wanting
otherwise : and he sorrowfully seemed to himself
like a double traitor  a traitor to her,
and Miss Consuelo Burton also. If he offered
himself to the latter, he would have to confess
to her that his heart since their parting
had been possessed by another image. That
indeed might be forgiven him, and the offer
of his heart be accepted, could his confession
end there. But he would have to confess also
for he felt now that candour was the one
virtue open to him  he would have to confess
also that in seeking Miss Consuelo Burton
vol. in.

he was seeking his own salvation at the price
of another's ruin. He would have to confess
to her that, if he knelt with her at the altar,
hoping that, with her to guide him, he might
find heaven and happiness, the thought of
another bride would necessarily come across
him, to whom, partly through his conduct,
the altar would mean nothing but despair.

Such were the thoughts, such were the
feelings, which he had made up his mind to
confide to Mr. Stanley, and which, when the
time came, he had found himself unable even to
touch upon. Mrs. Harley's news about Mr.
Inigo, and the subsequent arrival of his other
friends, had for the time distracted him, and
allowed him to forget his troubles ; but the song
so unexpectedly sung by his own musicians
on the lake, had not only reawakened the
voice of his importunate conscience ; it had
once ao;ain vivified his own lomnno; for Miss
Capel. This longing, it is true, was more

under control than formerly, and it did
not efface for a moment the image of Miss
Consuelo Burton. But it filled his being
with painful and humiliating discord. It
came back to him like a distant smell of fir-woods
; it came back to him like a voice from
a lost Paradise ; and though he felt he should
be able to master it if necessary, he fully
realized that it would cost him some effort
to do so.

Such had been his condition last night ;
such was his condition now as he lay under
the awnings at the stern of his lazily-moving
boat, which his dumb boatman was directing
on a course he had already indicated.

All of a sudden he raised himself from
a reclining position, and, sitting up, looked
round him. He was not more than a
hundred yards from shore, and was slowly
rounding a headland covered with luxuriant
gardens. The gardens feathered down close

to the water's edge, their dense foliage
sprinkled with white laurel-blossom and
buoyant flower-tufts of the lilac trees. Here
and there peeped out an angle of some glimmering:
villa, and the waves below were
gleaming along a succession of granite .
Presently one villa of more
pretension than the others became visible,
showing; to the lake the whole of its unveiled
facade. A trim parterre was in front of it,
ornamented with statues and cool with a
splashing fountain. Gay blinds sheltered the
open windows ; and at some of these could
be seen the flicker of a transparent curtain.
The whole place had somehow an air about
it of wealth and refinement, and struck the
imagination as a bower of luxurious a x quiet.

Carew fixed his eyes on it, lost in a
reverie. He then wrote in Italian, on the
back of an envelope, the following question,
which he handed to his mute attendant :

1 Who lives now in the villa which was
occupied two years ago by the Comtesse de
Saint Yalery ? '

The man, who was well accustomed to this
means of communication, replied that he did
not know, as the present occupant had arrived
but a few days ago ; and he added a sentence,
whose meaning he emphasized by a gesture,
to the effect that they now were at the precise
place where the Comtesse had once saved the
life of a drowning child.

To Carew this was no news. His mind
had gone back to the well-remembered scene
already  to his first meeting with that
beautiful and unfortunate woman, half shallow
in her nature and half noble, made
now reckless and now selfish by passion.
He seemed to see her again as clearly as
though she were really present, dripping with
water as he drew her into his own boat, and
turning to him a face which now had a new

meaning for him : for in that remembered face
he now saw an image of Miss Capel, with all
the charm in it of which Miss Capel could
never divest herself, and all the daring frailty
which Miss Capel might ever develop. Little
had he thought then how the acquaintance
he was making would prove one day the
source of the worst of his life's troubles.
Silently, moodily, yet with a touch of embittered
pleasure, he brooded over the past,
which the place and the scene recalled to him ;
and when he roused himself and signed that
he wished to be returning to the Island, the
hard facts of the present seemed harder and
more miserable than ever. His friends whom
he was about to welcome he would be
welcoming under false pretences. Taken asa
group, they represented to his imagination
a paradise which he was about to enter, but
to enter as an alien only, and in which he
never could have either part or lot.

-H-mjai-K-m-t-g

7'i' 'i- ' r -r ; i- ; ;" 'i" J-i-'i- ; ;'- : :' -'r'i r ; ; : 'r-'i- ';' V ; i- ';-;-' i'-i-i ii'V

CHAPTER V.

AREWS friends were at the Island
before him, so he had no time on
arriving fcr making a moral toilette,
but was obliged as best he could to pull himself
together at the moment. Lady Chislehurst
did much to make this operation easy,
for the simple reason that she instantly made
it necessary. She was full of news of the
most various and interesting kinds, She had
been sitting half the afternoon with her
bishop and her two atheistic philosophers ;
and she had herself been tendering much
practical instruction to the former, and hearing

him in turn make argumentative mincemeat
of the latter. In addition to this, the
newspapers of the day were fall of alarming
accounts from the United States and from
Belgium. The late riots in London had acted
as a signal to the revolutionary labour party
all over the world. On the great American
railways the traffic had been totally suspended
; in Belgian towns and villages factories
had been burnt to ashes. Strikes,
with a threatening of armed rebellion in the
background, seemed to be everywhere spreading
themselves with the rapidity of some
terrible conflagration.

His thoughts being hurried away by these
practical matters, Carew was able for the time
to forget his private perplexities, and he
entered into the conversation with as much
interest as usual, till at last these impersonal
subjects took gradually a personal colouring.

c I can't say,' murmured Lord widen

at dinner, ' that I myself am at all a prey to
panic.'

4 But at any rate Mrs. Harley retorted,
4 you must be a prey to pity. These strikers and
rioters may very likely be mad, but it is a kind
of madness that is mainly produced by misery

1 No doubt,' said Lord Aiden, ' the present
is a period of distress. These economic
diseases of the modern world are very much
what the plague was to the Middle Ages, and
are as little to be cured by revolution or
agitation.'

Xo,' said Mrs. Harley, ' but their recurrence
may perhaps be prevented  just, Lord
Aiden, as that of the plague has been  by
some gradual change in the social condition
of the people.'

I doubt,' said Mr. Stanley, sadly, ' if it
is good to be too sanguine. It is true, as you
Bay, that the plague has ceased to visit us ;
we have also protected ourselves more or less

against the ravages of smallpox. But are we
protected against disease in general? Do we
see our way to dispensing with either doctors
or hospitals? To me, I must say, it seems
utterly visionary to expect a time when economic
distress shall be impossible ; and the
true point to which we should direct our
endeavours is the care and relief of sufferers
rather than the extinction of suffering. The
highest thing for the practical man to aim at
is the best that is practicable, not the best
that is imaginable. For the politician, as the
politician, there are no counsels of perfection
'Precisely,' exclaimed Lady Chislehurst.
Now there's a bit of wisdom  I wish, Mrs.
Harley, you would realize this fact  which
is Catholic all over. The Catholic Church
indulges in no illusions. It produces saints,
but it knows that its chief work is with
sinners, and will be so till the end of the
world comes.'

And we think,' said Mrs. Harley, ' I think,
and Consuelo thinks  that the way to get at
the sinners is to get at the outer circumstances
that make half of the world's sins
inevitable. Consuelo, may I tell Lady
Chislehurst what you said to me this morning
? I am sure you have the courage of
your opinions.'

The two elder Miss Burtonss looked towards
their sister with an odd mixture of
affectionate wonder and anxiety as she
quietly said, ' You may.'

Well,' said Lady Chislehurst, gracious
but inquisitorial, ' what was it V

1 It was this said Mrs. Harley  ' I don't
know whether it will shock you. She said
that a home which a decent man can respect
has as much to do with holiness as have all
the Seven Sacraments.'

The elder Miss Burtonss certainly did look
shocked, but as for Lady Chislehurst, to Mrs.

Harley's surprise, she showed no sign of displeasure
except a momentary twitch of her
eyebrows, and replied, in a voice that had all
her usual sweetness,  Had Consuelo said that
some three or four weeks ago, and before I
knew, as I do now, what it is she is thinking
of, I should be sorry to hear that she had let
herself use such language. Even now I think
that the language itself is wrong, but as to her
meaning it will do all of us good to think
of it. Come, Mr. Carew, I have something
particular to say to you. Have you forgotten
that we here are not merely a dinner-party,
but that we are members of a certain Society ?
There are some things which perhaps we
can talk of better when we are out of the
noise of knives and forks and wine-glasses ;
but if, by-and-by, we may sit in the western
portico and watch the remains of the sunset,
which I am quite sure must be lovely, I shall
insist on our taking up the discussion which

we left unfinished on the terrace at Bourbons


By all means said Carew ; ' I could wish
for nothing better.'

1 Do you remember,' said Lady Chislehurst,
' how you showed us your room, your
books, and your labours on Political Economy
? You contributed some ideas to us
there. We have brought some from Some
which we are going to offer to you ; yes, and
to you too, Mr. and Mrs. Harley, for I think
you have heard but little of these ytt.'

With regard to the sunset Lady Chislehurst
was perfectly right ; and though the
stars were sparkling when the party settled
themselves in the portico, the heart of the
west was still alive with rose-colour.

1 Well,' exclaimed Harley, whilst the servants
were going round with coffee and Lord
Aiden was lighting* a cigarette, his constant
comforter, ' no doubt for us it is a very

delightful thing to look across lakes and gardens
at purple mountains and sunsets, and
talk about the sorrows of men who live
in back-yards and alleys. It is delightful to
dream of the new duty which we owe them,
and new ways of discharging it. It's a delightful
intellectual exercise, just as Plato's
Republic " was. But after all, do we, any of
us, really think that we shall ever be led to
any new discovery ? As Mr. Stanley says,
distress must always exist. Have we anything
better to oppose to it than our good
old-fashioned charity, or some improvement
in the poor-laws ? '

1 My dear Harley,' said Lord Aiden, softly
through his smoke-wreaths, ' the monastic
orders of the Middle Ages were a new discovery
practically. The monasteries,' he went
on, turning to Mr. Stanley, c offered a certain
relief to the sufferings of those who were
oppressed by society ; and you perhaps would

say that men in the modern world should
aim at finding some substitute for the monasteries.'


1 I,' Mr. Stanley began, 4 should go even

farther than that ' Bat the musical voice

of Lady Chislehurst interrupted him.

1 Mr. Carew,' she exclaimed, 'you must
please listen to this. If you will allow me todo
the intellectual honours of your house for
you, I must tell everybody that the meeting
of our Society is begun. We are in the
middle of it even before we knew that it had
opened. Listen, listen. This is our contribution
from Rome. Mr. Stanley she continued
as she settled her voluminous skirts,
1 go on. We are attending.'

Mr. Stanley emitted a little dry laugh.
4 1 was,' he said, ' merely about to observe to
Lord Aiden that though the monasteries in
the Middle Ages did much, we should aim at
doing relatively even more. My own belief

is  and here is an answer to Mr. Harley 
that there is being developed in us the consciousness
of a new duty  I mean our spiritual
duty to the material conditions of the poor,
of which in past ages we have been in invincible
ignorance.'

It's all very well,' said Harley, ' for us
to talk about this new duty ; and I quite
agree that the world is growing to feel it.
But have we any of us any ideas more
practical than those of Foreman as to the
means, the machinery, by which to put it in
practice ? '

'I have one friend,' said Mr. Stanley,
with a momentary glance towards Miss Consuelo
Burton, c who has a very definite idea
indeed.'

c Hush,' said Lady Chislehurst. i Attend.
Consuelo, tell Mrs. Harley  for you have not
told her yet  what your thoughts are on the
subject. You need not be shy, for they have

been spoken of to the Holy Father ; and they
will help to show Mrs. Harley what Catholics
really are.'

Carew watched the girl as closely as the
dusk permitted him. He saw her impatiently
turn her head aside ; he saw her fora
moment bite her lip with annoyance ; and
then, in a voice half constrained and half
mischievous, ' My thoughts,' she said, l as a
Catholic, Lady Chislehurst, are these. Men
who are housed like pigs can hardly pray like
Christians ; and where life is a hon flight
from starvation, it is not a flight that takes
the fugitives towards heaven.'

1 Perhaps,' said Mr. Stanley, at once coming
to her assistance, c Miss Consuelo Burton
will let me speak instead of her, and explain
the idea  it is a very suggestive one  that
came into her mind after her visit at Bourbons
Suppose, then  Mrs. Harley, here is
the point that appeals to you  suppose we

vol. in. P

take these men who are housed like pigs.
The increasing masses of them, clustering in
huge cities, are the special phenomenon and
problem of the modern world, and the Church
is interested in them just as much as the
State. Of course, for these people spiritually
there is hope in the uncovenanted mercy ; but
our business as Catholics and as practical men
is not to trust to the uncovenanted mercy,
but to extend the kingdom of the covenanted.'


Hear, hear ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Harley,
softly.

1 This is the idea,' Mr. Stanley went on,
which, not to mention myself, has impressed
itself most strongly on the mind of Miss
Consuelo Burton. She feels that sanitary and
social work, carried out on some wide and
organized plan, is a necessary part of modern
religious propagandism ; and in case anyone
should think such sentiments un-Catholic, I

may mention that I have expressed them
myself in language quite as emphatic in a
short discourse which I submitted lately to
the Pope, and which will very shortly, I hope,
be published with his sanction.'

1 Indeed!' said Lord Aiden. 'I shall
read that with interest. But let us by all
means hear what the ideas of our young friend
here are.' And he laid his hand on the back
of Miss Consuelo's chair, as if entrusting
the wood to transmit the action to her
shoulder.

"Well said Mr. Stanley, c the idea is
simply this  and at first sight it will not
strike you, perhaps, as so novel as it really is.
You have spoken, Lord Aiden, of the monastic
system already. The idea I am about
to explain is a modification of that system.
You all recollect, no doubt, a little economic
argument which I had at Courbon-Loubet
with that worthy man Mr. Foreman ? '

Yes,' said Mrs. Harley, 'perfectly  every
word of it.*

4 You recollect, then,' said Mr. Stanley,
c what I told him his error was ? I told him
that the minority, who, he said, were thieves
and marauders  I mean the men who direct
and organize industry  I told him that these
men seized on the growing wealth which they
possess for the plain reason that virtually
they created it ; and further, that they only
created it for the sake of themselves possessing
it. The desire to possess it, I urged on him,
was a natural appetite, having the same relation
to production that hunger has to cooking;
and to expect that the talent and astonishing
mental activity which on the part of the
minority has produced our modern wealth 
to expect that this activity will still continue
to be developed when its normal stimulus is
wholly taken away from it, is to expect of the
minority an act of supernatural virtue as

unfit for the world at large as the rule of the
Trappist cloister. Perhaps you recollect my
having said that to Foreman ? '

Several voices murmured ' Yes,' and
Mr. Stanley continued.

I put my criticism in that way without
premeditation ; but it at once struck Miss
Consuelo Burton. It was merely a seed
dropped by the wayside ; but in her mind it has
flowered into this suggestion. The monastic
rule, she argues, is not fit for everyone, but
it is fit for some, and these the most devoted
of mankind. Why, then, should not the old
monastic renunciation of riches be revived in
the modern world, under the form of a renunciation
of profits? If all the directors of
industry, the inventors, the sharp men, the
men of energy and enterprize, through whose
means industry grows in productiveness, would
still exert themselves to maintain and increase
production, and at the same time forego their

claim to the increased products, then, she
says  and she is perfectly, she is obviously
right  the Socialistic problem would be
solved. But, as we said just now, to forego
these natural claims would be nothing less
than a special monastic virtue of precisely the
same character as poverty and celibacy. It is
not to be thought of for all ; but, she asks,
may it not well be thought of for some ? '

1 Yes said Lady Chisleburst, in a reverie
of approbation, casting her eyes down on a
small silver crucifix. ' Yes, the point is there

1 Do you mean,' interposed Harley,
that some  what shall we say  some
railway company should every quarter pay
its dividends into the poor-box? I'm not
laughing  I'm merely trying to get at the
idea.'

4 No,' said Mr. Stanley, ' the idea is
not that, What has presented itself to the
mind of Miss Consuelo Burton is a vision of

some new industrial order, or orders, under
which the monastic vow of poverty might
be applied to our modern factory system.
Her notion, in fact, of a monastery or a
convent is a modern factory where the hands
should be monks or nuns ; where the spire
should rise side by side with the chimney ;
and the quiet cloister should refresh the
mind after the rattle of wheels, and looms,
and belts.'

That,' said Lord Lichen, in a tone of
poetic appreciation, ' makes a really beautiful
picture. And when are we to look
forward to seeing Miss Consuelo Burton an
abbess? But, tell me,' he added, relapsing
to the levels of prose, 4 how would such
an establishment differ from any other cooperative
enterprize based on the principle
of profit-sharing? '

4 Ah,' said Mr. Stanley, ' that is what I

> 4 7

am coming to. The profits, of course, instead

of going to the capitalists, the manager, and
the specially-gifted few, would be the property
of the whole body. They would not,
however, be divided amongst the workers,
and thus take the form of increased wages.
That result would stultify the whole scheme.
The whole monastic body would live involuntary
poverty  on lower wages, rather
on higher wages, than the average worker
outside ; and all their profits would be set
by as a fund to relieve distress, especially such
as is caused by commercial crises. In that way
the Catholic religion and system would be
brought into practical contact with the modern
industrial world, and would become a visible
part of it. The idea is one  at least I find
it so  which becomes more suggestive the

CO

more one thinks of it.'

Silence reigned for some moments when
Mr. Stanley ceased speaking. At last Mrs.
Harley whispered, ' Yes, the idea is beautiful.'

And then, with an abruptness which
made them all start, Carew, as if continuing
some train of unspoken thought, saidi
Charity is far from being their only work.
It is not even the chief. Their chief work
will be their living example. By the stern
simplicity and yet perfect content of their
lives, by the decency of their habits despite
their utter poverty, they will form a moral
leaven amongst the labouring classes at large,
and do more than anything I ever had
thought imaginable, to give an ideal dignity
to our modern factory-labour. Fancy,' he
went on, l over the gate into the factory-yard,
if we saw a crucifix placed there with real
meaning! And this too  think of this.
Here and there some man of high position has
renounced his place in the world and adopted
the life of a labourer. In the present condition
of things such conduct is useless and
fantastic ; it is very much like madness. But

there would be nothing fantastic in it if
labour became conventual.'

He ceased as abruptly as he began, and
his eyes were turned in the gloom towards
the glimmer of Miss Consuelo's dress.

Well,' said Mr. Stanley, in his most
practical and incisive accents, c you have
heard the idea that Lady Chislehurst promised
you. I don't know that to-night we
can do much towards making it clearer.'

4 Anyhow,' said Mrs. Harley, 'you have
given us much to think of.'

1 And I,' said Carew to himself when his
friends had once more left him, c I might join
my life to the life of a woman with thoughts
like these, if I had not bound myself by an
idle debt to another, from which she  my
better angel  would despise me if I released
myself.'

CHAPTER YI.

Ijgjj ]E passed the night in restless and
almost irritated perplexity. The
*"* irritation, however, was a hopeful
and healthy sign, for he was next morning in a
more vigorous mood, even if not in a happier
one. He resolved in a practical way, like a
man beset by creditors, to cast up his moral
accounts, and examine instead of contemplating
his situation.

How did he stand with regard to Miss
Capel? That was the great question which
he must carefully reconsider. He tried todo
this, and indeed he did do it, impartially ;

and here is the story which for his own
benefit he told himself.

The moment he was free from the spell
of the girl's presence, the void left by her
absence was suddenly filled to overflowing
by a throng of practical interests and entirely
alien feelings. On this, his old desire for
her, if it did not actually die, became as
faint as the moon's disc in daylight, and the
evanescence of his attachment for her had
paralyzed his power of imagining her attachment
to him.

Then he went on to reflect as follows.
His forgetfulness of her was not wholly his
own fault. She had in many ways laid
the foundations of it herself. Never for a
moment had she seemed to consider the bare
possibility of her freeing herself from her
existing engagement. If at times she had
yielded tenderly to her inclination for him
she recovered herself with ease, and very often

with flippancy ; and if he had occasionally
wondered since he had left her whether she
might not be really unhappy at the loss of
him, he had checked the thought as the child
of his own vanity.

At last, late in the day, utterly unexpected,
her letter had fallen on him like a
thunderbolt out of a clear sky, or rather it
had been like a dagger stuck suddenly in
his heart. After all, he discovered that this
girl had felt for him, not only as much as she
had seemed to feel, but more ; and when she
had seemed to forget those feelings, it turned
out that she was only fighting against them.
She had been ficditino; to save herself  fighting
helplessly and piteously. And he, he
alone, had to answer for all this. He
appeared to himself like a man who had been
torturing a child for his amusement. In his
own eyes he was utterly degraded and humiliated.


Yielding to an impulse that was at first
but a selfish longing for distraction, he had
sought her society as a kind of mental dram-drinking,
and had gradually done his utmost
to evoke in her a passion for himself. He
dwelt on the phrases he now remembered he
had used to her  ' life of my life,' { soul of
my soul,' and so forth. And in the light of
the self-knowledge that now too late had
come to him, he wondered blankly and
bitterly at what could have then possessed
him. He saw that, all the while he had been
allowing this licence to his emotions, he had
been doing so comfortably, with the thought
at the back of his mind that they would
vanish, if necessary, almost as easily as they
arose ; and he had idly said to himself that
the same would hold good with her. And
now his position was like that of the Witch
of Ensor. A spirit of love had indeed arisen
in her, but it w r as a spirit of a different

order from the one he had meant to summon.
It was a spirit that refused to vanish. It
would not even retreat. It stood before him,
and overawed him with the sound of its voice.
But what was the voice saying ?

Here came the hard, the practical, the
immediate point which he had to face and
decide upon. Was the voice simply upbraiding
him, with a resigned and hopeless despondency
? Or was it urging him, was it imploring
him at once to do something ? Something !
Why not call it by its right name ? Was it
urging him, before it was too late, to fly to
her rescue, and offer his hand and life to her,
and save the soul whose whole future he had
endangered ? Could this really be so ?
Could that pleasant past, that dream of flowers
and poetry, thus rise against him and demand
from him this sacrifice ?

Again and again he put the question to
his conscience, and his conscience seemed to

him not like a single councillor, but rather
like a cabinet of opposing scruples and excuses
which were not able to come to any decision.
On one hand it was urged that he was too
late already, and that even if he offered himself
Miss Capel would not accept him ; on
the other, that he ought at least to allow
her to have the chance ; and again, that he
also should think of the utter and hopeless
shipwreck which he would if he married
her be making of his practical life. He was
determined, however, to force himself to some
resolution ; and going to a drawer where
Miss Capel's last letter was deposited, he
again referred to the date on which it was
written, and compared this with the interval
which then, she said, separated her from her
marriage.

The letter now was at least ten days old.
Her marriage when she wrote would take
place in three weeks' time. There were accordingly

eleven clays before him, in which he
might give her the opportunity of saving herself
from certain misery. She was still at
Cannes ; and in four-and-twenty hours a
letter could reach her, or even he himself.
There at any rate was something settled and
certain. Should he decide on making, or
rather, on risking the sacrifice, he had ample
time to do so. He had no excuse on that score.
But what then of his conduct to Miss Consuelo
Burton ? His conversation with Mr. Stanley
about her came back to his mind, and he
asked his conscience if she also had no claim
on him, and if of the two claims hers were
not the older.

At last he came to a fixed resolve on one
point. He would do something, which though
it might prove painful he would do at once,
and do bravely and thoroughly. He would
seek counsel of Miss Consuelo Burton herself.
He would confess everything the whole of

VOL. III. Q

his heart  to her ; he would place his life, his
whole future in her hands ; and she should
at least choose his road for him, even if she
could not travel it by his side.

He had settled this with himself not a
moment too soon, for his friends were to
come to him for the midday breakfast, and, as
it happened, they arrived a little before their
time.

Carew's heart began to sink within him ;
but during the meal he received a little unintended
encouragement. The conversation at
first had been but semi-serious ; several allusions,
however, had been made to the topic
of the previous evening ; and at last Mrs.
Harley, in a spirit of friendly banter, said to
him,  Well, and on what do your hopes rest
now ? Who is going to save us from ruin
and revolution  the new monastic orders, or
the old landed families ? '

Both,' said Carew, laughing, though his

manner was somewhat absent. ' Yes,' lie
went on, suddenly becoming animated, 'let
the new monastic orders do all that we
could dream of their doing  and I for one
can dream of their doing much  I still hold
that if the world is to recover its health again,
if there is to be any increase of happiness
amongst the bulk of the labouring classes 
the classes whose content is the corner-stone
of civilization, another thing must revive
besides the monastic orders : there must bea
revival of class feeling.'

Surely,' said Harley, laughing, l we've
plenty of that already.'

4 Yes,' said Carew, ' of class envy and of
class fear, we have. Everyone is either in
terror of losing his position, or else angry and
sullen at not being able to escape from it.
The class feeling I mean is a feeling possible
only when classes are acquiesced in as stable
and natural institutions, and movement from

one to the other is looked upon as only exceptional.
For instance, I say this : the healthy
ambition of the average country labourer
should consist in a desire not to escape from
his cottage, but to adorn his cottage with
security, content, and affection. His eye
should seek the faces of those around him, not
the coat-tails of those who are just above him.
And as to the aristocracy, their whole life
should be guided by a sense of duty to the
great multitude that is connected with them
by the difference of its lot, not by the sameness
of it. It is very possible that I am only a
dreamer, but still I cannot help indulging the
dream, that the obligation of acknowledged
position, that high-breeding, and even family
pride, have a mission still in the world, if we
only can find it out.'

t ' My dear Carew,' said Mr. Stanley, putting
his hand on Carew's arm, ' feeling as you
feel about these gifts and qualities, I should

venture to say that in your case they had a
mission already.'

Carew rose from the table thinking, ' If
this be so, can it really be that I am bound to
renounce my talents? '

It was now not long before the moment
came for which he had been longing, though
at the same time he was dreading it. The
party soon, in a somewhat desultory way,
proceeded to spread themselves over the villa
and the gardens, and without having designed
the situation, almost before he had even
realized it, he found himself on a terrace
alone with Miss Consuelo Burton.

He felt that now or never the bold plunge
must be made ; so, beating about the bush as
little as possible, he paused in his walk, and
leaning against the marble balustrade, gravely
raised his eyes to her, and began in this way.

4 Do you remember, ' he said, ' our conversations
at Gourbon-Loubet? '

She too paused. She looked him in the
face for a moment, and then said simply,
Yes, I have not forgotten them. Do you
think that either of us is any nearer the
truth since then ? '

You are,' he said. ' Tell me, do you
remember this ? You said that in your search
for truth you would let me be your helper 
that is, if you needed help from anyone.'

Did I ? } she said. l How long ago was
that? Some weeks  I don't think more; but
during that time I have become years older,'
Then changing her tone, and with a resolute
frankness looking at him, ' Yes,' she went on,
4 I remember quite well, and I was told
directly afterwards that you wanted to help
nobody  I mean not in that way.'

1 Do you believe that now? '

She merely shook her head.

And yet,' said Carew, ' it is true ; but
not in the way you thought it was. I should

no longer dare to say that I wanted to help
you, for with far more fitness I should ask
you to help me. May I,' he went on, seeing
that she said nothing, and his voice as he
spoke sank and became tremulous, c may I ask
you a few questions? '

Go on,' she said,  ask them.'

c Tell me this, then,' said Carew, ' for I
trust your judgment. You heard what Mr.
Stanley said to me about my mission in life.
Do you think it true ? Do you think that it
must be really a man's highest duty to consecrate
any powers, any external advantages he
may be born with, to the service of those who
are working and suffering round him ? Do
you think that our first debt is due to those
rather than to any private creditors on one's
conduct, whose claims, perhaps, one may be
unable to satisfy without becoming a bankrupt
as to all the others ? '

I think,' she said,  you must be making

some special allusion, but I do not know to
what. I can only answer you generally, and
tell you my own feelings. Duties like those
you speak of, so it seems to me, differ in proportion
to our own powers of seeing them.
Some of them, or some forms of them, are
more or less like ghosts : they appear to some
eyes only ; and those that don't see them of
course have no call to follow them. But
when once one of these ghosts has appeared to
anyone, that person is never the same afterwards.
One must try to follow it even
though it " lead one to the cliff" like Hamlet's
father, or else one's whole life long one will
feel one has made " the great refusal." I
never asked or prayed to see my ghost ; I never
went out of my way to think about the poor
or about the people ; but I seem to have
absorbed like a sponge all I have heard about
their lives, or read about them in the newspapers,
or seen by chance in the streets or

other places. 1 remember our housekeeper
once telling me that cocoa would take the
taste of any groceries it was standing near.
My thoughts, in the same way, are full of the
taste of poverty. I don't try to keep it there,
but I can't get rid of it.'

I,' said Carew, ' like you, have seen the
duty you speak of. The same ghost has
appeared to both of us. Do you think, then,
using your conscience as mine, that no consideration
for the mere personal feelings
either of myself or of those near me should
induce me to surrender my powers of doing \
this duty effectually ? '

She looked at him with an air of perplexity.
' I can only tell,' she said, 4 what I
feel in the matter myself. Perhaps the time
may come when I shall be called on to say
good-bye, not merely to luxury, but to the
pleasure of books, of poetry, of music  all
those refinements with which it is generally

thought a duty to pamper oneself ; and
I suppose in that case I should be calledon
to starve one whole side of my nature.
Perhaps, should the time ever come, I shall be
unequal to the sacrifice ; but if it is a question
of what I ought to do, I feel that for the duty
we speak of I ought to renounce everything
the pleasure of self-culture, the pleasure of
pleasing those nearest to mec

Is it true,' said Carew after a pause,
that you think of a conventual life for yourself,
or at least of keeping yourself for such
a life at some future time ? '

She smiled faintly and pensively, and
turned her head away from him.

I don't know,' she said, ' if I am fitted
for such a life. I am very worldly in someways.
I hate an ugly hat, or ugly gloves or
boots. Though I didn't acknowledge it at
Courbon-Loubet, I have almost as much prejudice
about birth and family as you have.

I am fastidious about people's manners, and I
easily think them common. Oh, and there
are other things  perhaps I have no vocation.'


She stopped short suddenly. Carew
started and looked at her. Her head was
averted, but he could see that her cheek was
crimson, and her breast was lifted with a
slow and suppressed breathing.

For a moment his voice failed him. He
had his heart in his mouth, and a throng
of words, like the forlorn hope of an army,
seemed to pause, arrested and tremulous,
before they broke forth in passion. This
instinctive hesitation gave him time to collect
himself, and when he spoke it was with
a constrained calmness.

1 Will you listen,' he said, ' to something
I want to tell you ? You must see from
what I have said already that I am thinking
of serious things, and you must see from

my speaking about them to you that I look
on you as a person who can share, and is now
consenting to share, the deepest thoughts of
which I am conscious : the thoughts, the feelings
 I don't know what to call them  which
my soul will live or die by. You will listen
to me, won't you ? '

She bent her head as a sign for him to
proceed.

I am going,' he went on, 'to say two
things to you ; and do you say nothing  no
word  in answer to the first till you have
heard the second. We have talked of duty 
we have talked of a special duty, which both
to you and to me too seems in these days
the first duty of all, and alone to give religion
a body instead of leaving it merely a sigh.
But I know myself so well that I dread this.
I am almost certain of this  if left to myself,
I shall not cease to think, but I shall never
begin to act. If, however, I could find someone

who could understand me and would help
me  who, by sharing my thoughts and impulses,
would strengthen them a thousandfold,
and who would make me by her
presence incapable of any shameful thought
then, indeed, I might dare to hope that on
my death-bed I should be able to say to myself,
" I have not lived in vain." Can you
imagine, to a soul like mine, any healing, any
consolation like this ? Consuelo, your name
is Consolation  you must know that I speak
of you.'

She had not moved. Her eyes had been
still averted, but he saw that the colour was
still deep in her cheek, and that she was biting
her lip hard. At last, when he paused,
she turned to him for a single moment, and
tears, helpless and uninvited, were filling her
dark eyes.

4 1 have not finished,' he went on, 'and
when you hear what remains perhaps you

will think that I should not have said what
I have said. And yet no ; I retract that. I
trust you so entirely that I am sure you will
not misjudge me. Perhaps when I tell you
all I shall lose your respect in one way ; but
at least you will respect me for having
honestly told you. When you went away
from Courbon-Loubet  when you said goodbye
to me as if I were hardly fit to be spoken
to  but I won't talk of that. You know how
it all happened.'

1 know,' she whispered.

When you had gone,' he went on, ' I felt
like some criminal. I didn't know what I
had done, but I felt as if I must have forged,
or committed some murder in my sleep. I
seemed to myself to be such an utter outcast
that I was grateful to the very dogs when
they looked at me and put their paws upon
my knee. As to you, I was not angry with
you ; but it seemed to me as if, of your own

free will, you had taken yourself away to
some hopeless distance from me, and that I
should never be able to see you or come near
you again. Well, it so happened that, in
those days of my desolation I met with some
people of whom I had known something before,
though only a little.' And Carew gave
a brief account of how he had met the
Capels, and of the way in which they had
come to stay with him at the chateau.

The girl,' he continued, l was very beautiful,
and  will you remember, please, that I
am trying to tell the exact truth to you, exactly
as I should were this the Day of Judgment
? As to my own conduct I am going
to palliate nothing. This girl, without any
effort at first on my part, seemed to
sympathize and be pleased with me. If the
very dogs at that time touched me by their
friendliness, you may judge the effect on me
of this beautiful girl's attention. By-and-by

I realized that I did more than please her,
and that I exercised over her a certain sort
of attraction, which she made at times a strong
effort to resist. Her behaviour in this way
puzzled and piqued me ; the sense of her
beauty grew on me. Let me make no words
about it  I began to fall in love with her ;
and more than that, I determined that she
should fall in love with me. As often as I
was aware of any resistance on her part
I was impelled to do recklessly ail I could to
overcome it. Little by little she made me
the helpless victim of as strong an attraction
as any I exercised over her. As for you,
you seemed somehow far away from me. I
didn't forget you, but I saw you, as it were,
in another world through some semi-opaque
barrier. It is not very pleasant for me to
have to tell you this, but you must see me
just as I am. I will have no secrets from you.
What do you think of a man with constancy

such as mine ? What could be the value ot
anything I could offer you ? Are you not
shocked  disgusted ? '

Did I not tell you,' she said in a low
steady voice, ' that during the past few weeks
I have grown older by years ? I always
understood some things more clearly than
some girls. The best constancy in man is
a virtue ; the best constancy in woman is an
instinct. I do not judge you as if I had lived
only on romances. Go on  you were in
love with her.'

I must said Car ew, ' tell you in what way
Her influence on me was that of some drowsy
spell. I might have roused myself from it ;
I ought to have done so : I can only say that
I did not. And yet all the while I knew in my
heart of hearts that I should wake up one
day and find that I had been loving in a
dream. That an end of some kind was bound
very soon to come I knew for one excellent

VOL. III. R

reason. I found that the person I speak of
was actually engaged already, and so far as
I could see, she never contemplated breaking
off the engagement. From this I drew a conclusion,
which does not for a moment excuse
me, but with which I soothed my conscience.
I concluded that she had the same sense as I
had of being in an emotional dreamland, and
that she would wake up presently in just
the same way as I should. In this, however,
I find I have been mistaken. My sin has
found me out with a vengeance. I have reason
to believe that the feelings which I indulged
myself by developing in her, are of a more
serious nature than I ever dreamed they could
be. Into this I don't think I need go particularly.
I need only say that if I leave her
to the fate that awaits her I may have to
answer for having made wretchedly worse
than wretched, a life that but for me and for
my conduct might have been happy. There

are the facts. My confession is over now.
If you had not been what you are I should
never have dared tell you. I am not pleading
my cause, I am not defending myself. I
know too well all that can be said against
me. If anything can be said for me, your
generosity will say it better than I can.'

There was a long pause, and it seemed
to both that they could hear their two hearts
beating.

When, however, the painful silence was
broken, and it was broken first by Miss
Consuelo Burton, her voice was still as quiet
and hushed as ever.

If you married her,' she said, c if she
left the other man, whom I conclude she does
not like, for you, should you yourself be
happy? Are you fond of her enough for
that, or in that way ? '

Whilst Carew had been speaking she had
remained perfectly motionless, with no sign

B

o

of feeling except that her cheek had grown
pale again, and her eyes, cast down, had
been fixed on one particular jasmine flower.
4 Go on she resumed. ' Answer me. I maybe
able by-and-by to advise you.'

The phrase, chilly but kind, cut Carew
to the heart. She seemed already to bespeaking
to him from the hopeless distance
of a convent.

4 Listen,' he replied, ' and you shall have
my whole confession. You have asked mea
question which refers to myself simply 
to my own lot, not that of another. I
seemed at the time, under the influence of
the person we speak of, to be entering, as
it were, some terrestrial paradise where all
life moved to some dreamy imploring music,
where the holiest flower of the soul was love
for the sake of love. I do not mean love as
opposed to duty, but love considered as the
sum and measure of duty. Well, let me

tell you what in my sober Waking moments
I believe about myself. I believe that life,
unless I sank into an idle dream again, could
never for me, for my own soul, be tolerable,
if devoted merely to an affection for its own
sake, no matter how beautiful. Indeed, such
an affection, unless it mixed itself with my
principles of action and sent its pulses
through all the veins of my being, of my
thoughts, of my intellect, of my most
strenuous moral promptings, would soon
cease to be an affection at all, and would
become merely a burden. In the case of the
person I speak of I am certain that this
would happen. The ideas of duty and usefulness
which, if I am really to live at all,
must be my life, are to her mind wholly
incomprehensible. As Mr. Stanley would
say, she is in invincible ignorance of them.'

Carew paused, and then suddenly went
on again. ' This,' he said, c is owing to no

fault of hers. She has none of the ideas which
animate you and me. She has been born
and brought up in a different world from
ours; and these ideas are as strange to her
as the Chinese language. By birth and by
education she is a foreigner. Miss Burton,
I must tell you one thing more. I had forgotten
it till this moment, but I must tell
it you, for perhaps you will think that it
helps to warp my judgment. If I marry a
foreigner the bulk of my fortune goes from
me. Were I not in the position I am I
could easily bear that ; but this loss of
fortune would mean for me the entire surrender
of our old family property ; it would
mean the handing over to others the care and
interest of those whom I else might benefit,
the desertion of an order I would willingly
die defending, and the throwing away of that
power and responsibility which my best ambition
is to use, and to use for good. My

own feelings, then, are these : whatever value
I might set on the affection in question, however
urgent might be my duty to adhere to it,
adhesion to that duty would and must mean
for me a practical renunciation of nearly all
others. Whether, as a fact, this affection
still continues to influence me. I think you
need not ask. To deny a feeling to which
one has once owned, when the person who
excited it has done nothing to deserve ill of
one, goes to one's heart as an act of treachery.
If the thing has happened it has happened,
but one may be spared speaking about it.'

Miss Consuelo Burton here turned towards
him with a slow melancholy movement, and
looked him in the face with eyes that were
now quite tearless. She seemed by her helpless
silence to be expecting him to say more.

Do you understand,' he went on, l what
it is that I wish to know ? She, unless something
intervenes to prevent it, will be married

in a fortnight's time to a husband she does not
care for. I do not know if, under any circumstances,
she would break this marriage
off ; but I do know that, owing to me, it has
become hopelessly distasteful to her. Is it
my duty to offer myself to her unreservedly,
so that if she choose to accept me she may ?
I ask you this because I feel that I should be
nearer you if I left you for the sake of duty,
than if, concealing the truth, I won you and
possessed you in spite of it.'

You must let me think,' she said. c I
will tell you tomorrow evening. Listen,' she
exclaimed, ' the others are coining this way ! '
And with a violent effort changing her whole
manner, and forcing her lips to wear a conventional
smile, 'Come,' she said, 'let us go
and meet them. We have talked of this long
enough ; and you promised that this afternoon
you would take them all to some place 
where was it? I can remember nothing.'

SB

&

CHAPTER VII.

'ARE AY, having made his confession,
felt in one way more at his ease ;
though it was the ease combined with
the prostration that succeeds some operation
of surgery. He was able, however, during
the rest of the day to speak to Miss Consuelo
Burton without any signs of embarrassment.
Indeed, his manner to her was such, and
such also was hers to him, as to give Mr,
Stanley the impression that a happy understanding
was being arrived at by them. He
little knew the perplexity and the apprehension
that were really lying on each of them like

a heavy dead weight, or how each felt that
before another day was over they might be
face to face, not with union, but separation.


The afternoon was occupied with a distant
excursion by boat, in which all the party
joined with the exception of Lady Chislehurst.
She went back by herself for a few
hours to Baveno, in order to meet her bishop 
the Bishop of Wigan and Lancaster  a prelate
who had been but lately appointed to his see,
and to whom she conceived she could give
many hints of importance. When she returned
to the Island for dinner the others had
not yet arrived ; so, following an instinct
which very rarely deserted her, and which
she had exhibited with such zeal during her
visit at Courbon-Loubet, she summoned a
servant and asked to be shown the chapel.
Of its own style, that of the late Renaissance,
it was really a fine specimen, florid with

marble and with gilding, and glowing with
gorgeous frescoes. It was seated for several

o o

hundred worshippers ; there was an apparently
beautiful organ ; and Lady Chislehurst
learned that when there was any service the
steward of the property  an accomplished
musician  was the organist. The twilight
prevented her inspection being very minute,
but she seemed to have seen enough to be
satisfied in a high decree : and when the
others at last arrived, they found her in a
state of unusual pleasure and excitement.

During dinner the cause of it was explained
 the cause, or rather the causes. In
the first place, she had had a long conversation
with the Bishop, and had told him a
variety of things with regard to the poor of
the north-west of England, which, so she said,
he was exceedingly glad to learn. Then,
whilst this interview was going on, who
should be announced but one of her atheistic

professors, who supplemented his lectures
at the Royal Institution by an occasional
service at the Positivist Church in Bloomsbury
! ' It was charming she said, c to seethe
Bishop tackle him. The whole thing
was done with such dignity and such perfect
charity. I only wish Mr. Stanley could have
been there too ; for what do you think, Mr.
Stanley, the Professor was good enough to
tell us ? So far as the Church's practical
teaching went, he quarrelled with it, he said,
upon one point only, and that point, if you
please, was this. The Church regards sin as
an offence against God and against our own
souls ; whereas the cardinal doctrine in what
he called scientific morals is " that sin is
simply an offence against society, and regarded
as anything else is a mischievous and complete
illusion." '

Everyone was astonished that Lady
Chislehurst had such patience with error as

about this very Discourse, Mr. Stanley, of
which you were speaking to us this morning.
Well, do you know what I did ? I told the
Professor that, if I could possibly arrange it,
there should be Benediction in this chapel
tomorrow, and that Mr. Stanley should give
us a short sermon upon the very point that
was at issue.'

Carew looked across the table at Miss
Consuelo Burton, in remembrance of a look
which, on a similar occasion, had passed
between them at dinner at Courbon-Loubet ;
but the slight smile that was again exchanged
between them had little mirth in it, and
no mockery. Even the others, though
experiencing the peculiar pleasure which
titillates the mind when anyone does anything
specially characteristic, were inclined
to hear Lady Chislehurst's scheme with
interest.

c You must remember, Mr. Stanley,' she

went on, seeing that he did not speak, c that
you are a member of our Society for the discussion
and discovery of truth ; and I think
you owe it to all of us, merely on that ground,
to let us have the benefit of your wisdom
at this unexpected meeting. If you will do
what I suggest I can answer for it that the
Professor will be present, and he will bring
with him no less a person than Mr. Hubert
Spender, who, as the Bishop said to me afterwards,
has, of all unbelieving philosophers,
done most harm to the cause of Truth.'

Mr. Stanley was quite silent for a moment
or two, and his face seemed to have less expression
than usual. The reason was that,
much as he respected Lady Chislehurst, he
could not help, as has been said before, being
amused at her, and he was now suppressing
a smile at her ultra-episcopal activity. No
sooner, however, had he quieted his rebellious
muscles, than he said, with perfect gravity :

1 It is hardly fair on a preacher to ask,
at a minute's notice, for a philosophical sermon.
Pious advice, no doubt, we can always
give ; but arguments are things whose power
of touching others depends much on their
careful and prepared arrangement ; and the
best reasoner, if he has to act in a hurry,
may hardly be able to be more cogent than
the worst. My notes, however, I think are
in such order that I might put together, into
the form of a suitable sermon, a few of the
main points to which I conclude the Bishop
alludes, and about which I certainly did have
some conversation with His Holiness.'

4 I'm sure you could do so, Mr. Stanley,'
Lady Chislehurst exclaimed with enthusiasm.
' Think what a blessing such a
sermon might be, if only heard by men
when in a mood that laid them open to conviction.'


4 A modern philosopher,' said Mr. Stanley,

4 is, I am afraid, not so easily converted.
But it can do him no harm to hear the
opposite side of the question.'

Well,' said Lady Chislehurst to Carew
as, at the close of the evening, they were all
preparing to re-embark for Baveno, ' I will
let these gentlemen know about tomorrow's
service, and I've not the least doubt that
they will be part of our congregation.'

VOL. III.

HE following morning the Harleyss,
Lord Aiden, and Mr. Stanley
appeared at the Island, during the
morning, as they had done before ; but there
were no Miss Burtonss and there was no Lady
Chislehurst. Lady Chislehurst would not come
till the afternoon, being busy at Baveno with
beating up a congregation ; whilst the eldest
Miss Burton, who had been nursing a slight
cold, thought it best to wait and come over
with her ; and both her sisters decided to do
the same.

To Carew this was half a relief and half

a disappointment. As the hour drew near
when he was to receive an answer the sense
of suspense became more and more pressing,
and produced, as is common in such cases, a
miserable mixture of exhaustion and utter
restlessness.

The day wore slowly on, and the afternoon
was maturing, when at last the chapel
bell began a monotonous tinkle, and two
boats could be seen making their way towards
the Island. Carew, glad of anything that
demanded exertion, went down to meet them.
His own friends had just landed when he
arrived, and Lady Chislehurst, like an angel
at the gate of Paradise, was watching the
demarcation from a second boat of a party of
men, with a lady or two, who, she felt persuaded,
were all of them on the eve of conversion.
She at once introduced to Carew
the Professor and the Philosopher  both of
them men with a certain grim refinement in

8 2

their faces, and a mixed air in their dress of

deference for convention and contempt of it.

The others she merely included in a gracious

and comprehensive smile, naming Carew to

them, who replied by raising his hat, and at

once proceeded to lead the way to the Villa.

He had no opportunity, even had he desired

one, of exchanging more than a moment's

greeting with Miss Consuelo Burton till they

were all of them passing into the chapel down

a long corridor, and even then there was time

for only a single sentence. It so happened

that she was walking behind the others, and

when, on arriving at the chapel-door, Carew

stood holding aside a curtain, she turned

to him as she passed, with eyes as frank

as a sister's, and yet with a something in

them which a sister's could never have, and

said :

I will tell you this evening what yesterday
I promised I would tell you.'

A few minutes later the service had
begun, and the representatives of modern
thought were wondering when it would end.
To their clear and masculine intelligences it
was indeed a melancholy thing to see men
and women in this grand and scientific
century bowing to a Power who was nothing
but a nursery dream, gravely lighting ridiculous
rows of candles, and asking the heroine
of a nursery fable to pray for them ; whilst
the whole ceremony was led by a man who,
though they had reason to believe him a sane
and even accurate thinker, was now posing
before them dressed up like a harlequin.
They sniffed the incense as though it were an
effluvium from some moral sewer ; and the note
of reverence and contrite humility which, in
the music and the immemorial Latin, sounded
through the whole liturgy, was to their ears
as irrational as a chorus of cats at midnight.
They bore their trial, however, with

a very creditable patience ; and at last it
came to an end, and Mr. Stanley mounted
the pulpit.

A perfect silence at once reigned through
the chapel. There was not a whisper, not a
foot nor a book was shuffled.

4 1 will take he began, with an absence of
conventionality, which at once fixed and increased
the curious expectation of his hearers,
 I will take for my text these verses from the
General Epistle of St. James.

4 " Go to now, ye rich men, weep and
howl for the miseries that shall come upon
you. Your riches are corrupted, and your
garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and
silver is cankered, and the rust of them
shall be a witness against you, and ye shall
eat your flesh as it were fire. . . . Behold
the hire of the labourers who have reaped
down your fields, which is of you kept back
by fraud, and crieth ; and the cries of them

which have reaped are entered into the ears
of the Lord of Sabaoth.

" If a brother or sister be naked, and
destitute of daily food, and one of you say
unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and
filled ; notwithstanding ye give them not those
things needful to the body, what doth it profit?

u To him that knoweth to do good, and
doeth it not, to him it is sin."

'I take,' proceeded Mr. Stanley, 'these
verses for my text because I can think of
no others that deal so directly with the
heart of that special subject which I have
been asked to speak about this afternoon.
That subject is familiar, I believe, to all
who are now listening to me. It is the
chief subject which divides modern thought,
and you all entertain about it certain special
doubts and opinions. To make clearness
doubly clear, I will define it in few words,
so that you all may see at starting that

you and I have the same things in our
minds.

4 The subject, then, is the nature of virtue,
or duty, or goodness, or whatever we like
to call the conduct and the moral condition
which is held to be most desirable and most
admirable in a man and in a citizen. Arid
this virtue  pray remember this, for the
whole discussion hinges on it  we have to
look at in two lights ; first, as conduct, which
we desire that citizens should practise ; and,
secondly, as conduct which citizens can be
induced to practise. Why do we wish them
to be virtuous ? How are they to be persuaded
to be virtuous ? For, as we all know,
it is not easy to be so.

These two questions are at the bottom
of ail human problems, not for the Christian
world only, but equally for those who cast
all religion aside and only busy themselves
with political and social improvement. And

they require discussion mainly for this reason,
that at the present day two answers are
offered to them which are thought to be, and
which certainly seem to be, contradictory.

4 The first answer is an answer we have
inherited from our fathers. It is the traditional
answer of the Church and of the Age
of Faith, and is associated with prayers, sacraments,
dogmas, and so forth. The second is
supposed to be the great discovery of the age
of Science and of Reason.

4 1 will sum them up both briefly. The
first is, that virtue and duty have for their
object God, and that our inducement to
practise them is the desire to please God
and the fear of offending Him. The second
answer is that their object is our fellow-man
and the health of the social organism ; whilst
our inducement to practise them is in part
the constant prompting or teasing of the
tribal instinct, or conscience, and in part our

own sympathies, and dread of the disapproval
of others, aided by a glow of emotion consequent
on the contemplation of idealized
Humanity. I presume that you desire me to
contrast these two answers, and show you how,
as a Catholic, I would either vindicate the former
against the latter, or else reconcile the two.

Let me begin, then, with the second
answer  the answer universally given by
that modern science which all over the world
is said to be supplanting with its simple
and demonstrated truths the misleading
fables and superstitions of what is commonly
called religion. For I have something very
decided to say to those who consider this
answer satisfactory. I have to say to them,
denier s of Christianity as they are, that I
not only think their answer has strong claims
on our attention, but, within limits, I think
it entirely true.

1 To show you that I speak of it with

my eyes open, I will state it a little more at
length. The scientific moralist of to-day,
then, tells us that an act is virtuous because
in proportion as such acts are practised the
sum of human happiness is maintained or
increased ; and that an act is evil or sinful,
not because our own souls are sullied by it,
but because in proportion as such acts are
practised sorrow and suffering eventually develop
themselves amongst others. One of the
most popular and gifted exponents of this
theory  I am referring to George Eliot  has
explicitly contrasted, as objects and ends of
virtue, personal perfection and holiness, which
is pointed out as a false object, with " those
material processes by which the world is kept
habitable "  these latter being held up as the
true object ; or, to quote a more comprehensive
phrase from the same authority, virtue
refers and only can refer to, is tested and
only can be tested by, its reference to " that

great cause by which suffering is to be made
to cease out of the world'' Thus, the only
sin which we can commit against ourselves
consists in making ourselves less efficient
members of society; and the whole body of
acts which we call sins generally would cease
to be sins, would be virtuous or else indifferent,
if other human beings would thrive
no worse in consequence of them. This
theory, it is claimed by those who support it,
sets virtue on a solid and scientific basis ;
and by freeing it from its supposed connection
with a fantastic and unreal object,
makes it incalculably more efficacious in promoting
its object in reality.

I think that, so far as such a matter can
be explained in a few words, I have described
this theory fairly, and shown that I appreciate
what are its salient points. And I
repeat, what has possibly been a surprise to
some of you, that within limits I think

it entirely true, and I think it not only
true, but a truth newly discovered. I will
only in passing make one criticism, which
I shall return to by-and-by, but which at
present I will simply indicate. I wish to say
that there is a certain class of acts, of forbearance,
and conditions of the soul, which
the Church and religious people generally
regard as virtues, but which this theory can
neither explain, enjoin, or make room for.
The state called holiness is an example of
the virtues I refer to, or rather, it may be
said to be a name that comprises all of them.
But I merely mention this point as one I
shall recur to by-and-by. For the present I
waive it. I will put these virtues aside, as
though they were not virtues at all, and speak
merely of those that are left, as if they were the
only virtues existing for us : and they do indeed
comprise by far the larger part of them.
1 With regard, then, to this great body of

practical virtues, such as honesty, uprightness,
temperance, justice, self-control, unselfishness
 with regard, I say, to this great
body of virtues, and the moral code that
enjoins them, I fully and frankly admit, as a
Catholic and a Catholic priest, that the modern
explanation of them is not only ingenious but
true. I am prepared to admit that the test
and the justification of virtue is its tendency
to maintain and promote the general
well-being of the social organism  the improvement
and perpetuation of this human
race of ours on the surface of this planet.
I say I admit this explanation. I do more
than admit it : I welcome it, and I do so in
spite of a consideration which some of you
might perhaps think would stagger me. I
told you that I recognized it as not only
true but new  a new discovery. I recognize
further that the discovery has been made outside
the Church, and mainly by men hostile

to the Church, and I do not welcome it one
whit the less for that.

6 Let me ask yon to bear this last statement
of mine in your minds  a startling statement
to non-Catholics, coming from a Catholic
priest  whilst I make what at first may strike
you as a fantastic and meaningless digression.

c The . doctrine of Transubstantiation, as
taught by the Catholic Church, is regarded
generally by the non-Catholic world as nothing
more than an arbitrary and superstitious
paradox. Most of those, however, who are
now listening to me are, probably, aware that
this doctrine, whether true or false, involves
a train of reasoning of the most close and
elaborate kind ; in fact, that it implies and
depends upon certain of the philosophic conclusions
of the most commanding and most
comprehensive thinker that ever lived. It
implies and it depends upon certain philosophic
conclusions of Aristotle. The same maybe

said of other ideas and doctrines, which have
been either formally enunciated or are generally
held by the Church ; but this, of Transubstantiation,
is enough to illustrate the fact
I am going to dwell upon. It illustrates the
fact which to the Protestant world may seem
curious, that the philosophic system of a
heathen philosopher forms an integral part of
Catholic Christianity. Yes, let me say it again ;
the laborious conclusions of one whom none
of the Apostles had even heard of ; whose
name is never mentioned in Gospel, in Epistle,
or in Creed  one who himself knew nothing
of God the Son, or of God the Father  the
views, the conclusions of this heathen amongst
the heathens, are now living parts of the body
of the Catholic Church  bone of its bone,
flesh of its sacred flesh.

4 1 must further add this. Aristotle's influence
over Christian thought dates not from
the Apostolic, not even from patristic times,

but from the Middle Ages. The Church
remained for centuries altogether unconscious
of a body of intellectual beliefs which, in the
fulness of time, it recognized as involved in,
and as essential to, its teaching.

1 Perhaps now you realize why I have
thus digressed. The relation of the Catholic
Church to the philosophy of Aristotle is the
type of her relation to all thought and all discovery
that is outside herself. "Whether truth
is discovered within her fold or without it
matters nothing to her. Just as in Nature
she sees one revelation of God, so does she
see another in the heart and in the intellect
of man ; and just as she interprets the truths
which the Heavens declare, so does she take
into herself and assimilate the truths which
human society discovers. She may not do
this at the first moment of their discovery,
for the process of assimilation is gradual ; but
the Holy Spirit, the soul of the Mystical

vol. in. T

Body, the " forma corporis, 11 as St. Thomas
calls the soul  the Holy Spirit knows its
own times and seasons, and the assimilation
takes place at last. The truth which at this
moment the Church is beginning to assimilate
is, in my judgment, that modern theory of
virtue by which its own authors conceive that
the theory of the Church will be superseded.

Now we come to the point where I and
these modern thinkers part company. I believe
that so far is their theory from superseding
that of the Church, that it is the Church
alone which can make their theory practicable.
In the temple of the Church there is a
vacant place waiting for it, and in that place
it will help to build up the fabric ; but, taken
by itself, as it now stands, it is like a carved
stone lying useless in an Egyptian quarry.

{ Such is my belief; and I shall now
explain it. Virtue, as we all know, is not
only not coincident with our natural impulses,

but one of its great characteristics is that it
constantly runs counter to them. Conscience,
therefore, which we may call the spokesman,
the steward, the factor, for virtue, must justify
virtue in a way which shall satisfy the
demands of the intellect  the demands of the
intellect in its most serious and most searching
mood. Xow conscience, according to the
theory we are discussing, justifies virtue, as
we have seen, by pointing to its connection 
a connection which I assume to be demonstrated
 with the general well-being of the
race, or, if we like to use a sonorous and popular
phrase, the collective well-being of humanity.
So far so good. So far conscience
would be right ; but if this were its last
word, if it had nothing farther to add, I
maintain that it would have been right in
vain. Here I part company with the discoverers
of the modern theory. I maintain
that the well-being of this perishing human

T 2

race, regarded by itself, and apart from any-further
beliefs about it, is not an object which
can so present itself to the heart or mind as
to force any constant, any general self-sacrifice
for the sake of it. It is not an idea on which
the heart or mind can permanently or generally
rest satisfied.

The ordinary duties and the ordinary forbearance
of the day no doubt become easy
to us by habit and education ; but for anything
beyond these, when there is anything
hard to be done, anything delightful or anything
alluring to be resisted, above all, when
any continuous meaning and hope is sought
for in life, habit is not enough. We want to
know clearly on what this meaning depends,
and to see that the object which our struggles
are to subserve is satisfactory. The intellect,
as it were, goes into retreat : fixes itself on
this question, broods over it, tears it to
pieces, does all it can to see it as it really is,

free from all illusions. And I say again,
that, when submitted to this criticism, the welfare
of the race, of humanity, of the Social Organism,
of the human inhabitants of this planet,
is an idea which can permanently satisfy
neither the heart nor the intellect of man.

1 Perhaps for a generation, to those who
have first seized on it, it may seem satisfactory,
because it has the glow and the
bloom of novelty. But the bloom will not
stand the friction of persistent thought,
which the mind instinctively will be always
longing to bear on it ; and by-and-by a
more sober and far keener judgment will
supervene. To the eye of reason, unaided
by faith, but aided on the other hand more
and more by science, this planet we inhabit
will seem more and more insignificant, the
human beings who swarm on it more and
more microscopic, their duration as a race
more ephemeral, their collective destiny more

indifferent. The little circle of personal
pleasures and appetites, embraced by the
glance of selfishness, and measured by the
standards of selfishness, may indeed retain
its hold on men. But this is the sphere not
of virtue but of the exact reverse of virtue.
Virtue can only be ours, according to the
scientific theory, through our rising out of
this sphere, taking a wider view, and contemplating
the race as a whole ; and that object
of contemplation, unless we have faith to aid
us, the more familiar we grow with it will
grow less and less  I don't say only less
impressive, but less  interesting. Contemplation
for the scientific moralist will have an
effect the exact reverse to what from time
immemorial it has had upon all believers.
To the believer the withdrawal of the soul
from the vain interests of the world opened
a vision of the deeper realities behind the
world. To the unbeliever this same earnest

withdrawal may indeed show him that the
world is vain ; but it will show him that
anything beyond the world is colder and
gainer still. Xo idea more depressing, more
hopeless, more ludicrously miscalculated to
evoke heroism, or to curb passion, can
possibly be imagined than the human race
as a whole, as it shows itself to the eye of
reason unaided by faith.

But to change listlessness into life, to
change contempt into reverence, to fire the
lukewarm soul with the spirit that makes
martyrs, one thing only is needful  one thing
suffices. That is a belief in God, and the
human soul as related to God. I am not
referring at present to the personal desire for
heaven or the personal fear of hell. I am
not referring to that at all. I am referring
simply to the effect of these beliefs on that
Idea which the thinkers of the day present us
with  the Idea of the human race as a single

organic Whole, to which we owe all our
duties. It is to that that I am calling your
attention. I am thinking at present of no
other point but that. That is the point to
which all I have said already has been leading
up. Let me ask you to listen to me earnestly.
f Duty to the race, as a substitute for
duty to God, is, I say, worth nothing; it
means nothing. But duty to the race regarded
in a very different way, regarded as a
new and more definite interpretation of our
duty to God, is a conception which to us as
Catholics is of the very highest importance.
It does not supersede that duty ; no : it helps
us to understand its meaning and its depth
more fully. I tell you I sit at the feet of
our modern teachers ; I accept the good of
the social organism as the formal test of
virtue ; I admit that virtue is relative to that
good altogether ; I mean by this good of
the social organism, the amelioration of the

material condition of each individual life ;
but I declare that such amelioration can present
itself to us as a duty, so as to satisfy the
intellect and take hold of the heart, only in
virtue of a living belief on our part, that it
somehow represents the will and purpose of
God, and points to issues which reason cannot
even guess at. The perpetuation of the
race, so long as the planet is habitable 
which it will be for only a moment longer  a
moment only as compared with the life of the
universe  this object, in itself so unsatisfactory,
becomes transfigured when we believe
that God wills it ; when we know that
some purpose, behind the veil, is subserved
by it ; and when we realize that virtue,
though its formal test may be its social
results merely, is in itself, is in its essence, a
co-operation with God's will  the will of Him
who holds the stars in the hollow of His hand,
and whom the heaven of heavens cannot contain

 to whom the earth is no larger than an
ant-hill, but to whom an ant-hill is large as
all infinity.

Once let the scientific moralist see his
creed thus affiliated to Christianity, and
whether or no he can believe the Christian region
true, he will see that, if true, his theory
clings to it, and coheres with it, and coalesces
with it, and acquires a something which it
never had before. On the other hand, let the
Catholic and the Christian once see his own
religion assimilating this scientific theory, and
he will see a practical relationship, which he
may have been tempted to doubt of, suddenly
reveal itself between that religion and the
special problems of the day  between the religion
of the ages of faith and the problems of
the age of railways. He will hear the voice
of the Catholic Church telling him as clearly
as any scientific theorist or lecturer, as clearly
as philanthropist or republican reformer, that

it is not enough to conceive of virtue as referring
to our own souls' salvation or that
of the souls of others. He will see that
because it does refer to the spiritual condition
of others it refers equally to their material
condition also. He will see this, and seeing
it, he will find that the echoes of the Mass
and the confessional follow him, and mix
naturally with the clatter of omnibuses.

4 Let me dwell a little longer on this. I
can hardly leave it. A man's home, his
family, his means of livelihood  these are the
chalice which holds the sacramental wine of
his life, and if we allow the chalice to be
soiled or leaky the wine will be defiled or
wasted. God wills that it should not be
wasted; and though even in this case, there is
hope that in His uncovenanted mercy He will
gather up the scattered drops, yet, so far as
we are concerned wasted it most certainly is :
and if so, for that waste we  we  are responsible.

If we are responsible when we make
one brother offend by tempting him, we are
equally responsible if we make him offend by-leaving
him in those wretched conditions
where nothing but offence is possible. This
truth in its fulness is only now dawning upon
the world. It is the special revelation vouchsafed
to us in this epoch of scepticism. Informer
ages the world was blind to it, and so,
let us hope, it did not know sin. Now the
Church is receiving the revelation. She that
assimilates all things that are of God, no
matter by what channels they are sent to her,
she is assimilating this new truth  her spiritual
duty to the material condition of men ;
and just at the time when the nations are
declaring her to be dying, she against whom
the gates of Hell shall never prevail is giving
to the nations a new sign of life.

4 1 have no wish to enter into the vague
land of prophecy ; but I feel myself not to be

talking as a prophet, but as an ordinary man
making an ordinary forecast, when I say
that new saints such as St. Bernard, St. Dominic,
and St. Francis will find in the near
future a new field opened to them ; and for us
who are not saints the same field will be open
also  the field of sanitary and of social improvement,
the field of trade, of factory labour,
and the capitalistic system. Through all the
sights and sounds of the present day, through
the noise of the terminus, through the hoardings
covered with advertisements, we shall,
with no sense of incongruity, discern the
vision of God ; and when, tired at night, we are
closing our eyes in sleep, we may feel that we
have laid our most material labours on His
altar. Christ, when on earth, learnt literally a
material handicraft. The mystical Body of
Christ, which is on earth still, will not disdain
the path that has been trodden by the Son of
the Carpenter.

And now I am going to make an abrupt
transition. Having said thus much of that
great body of virtues which modern science
has analyzed, and with results so important,
I return to those other virtues which, for
argument's sake, I left out of count at starting
: those virtues which I said the scientific
moralist could never explain, and which, perhaps,
he does not consider to be virtues at all 
I return to these ; and having spoken of these
I shall conclude. In speaking of them, what
I trust to show you is this: not that their
object is God, and our own souls as related to
God  for that, though true, hardly requires
proof  but that, so far are they from not
being virtues from the utilitarian standpoint,
so far are they from being a superfluous addition
to those virtues whose object is the
welfare of society, that it is through them and
through our possession of them only that the
utilitarian virtues become in any way binding

on us, that we acquire grace to practise them
consistently, or find in practising them any
sure comfort.

I say, then, once more that the service of
the human race is a satisfactory service  satisfying
the entire emotional and intellectual
needs of man  only because the social welfare
of that race is the will of God. Thus duty
consists in co-operating at all costs with that
will ; and very often the cost is heavy indeed.
Here, then, comes the crucial practical question.
What consideration or motive is to nerve us
to bear that cost ? One thing, and one thing
alone ; that is the love of God. And now
consider this. There are many states of the
heart, as you all know, in which the love of
anything remote from the world of sensual
pleasure is impossible ; in which any ideal
aim, in which any spiritual conceptions, seems
to us like a dream. The heart, then, is like a
mirror which has been painted on, and which

cannot reflect the sun ; or like one of the
contacts in an electrical apparatus which has
become dirty and will not allow the current
to pass through it. In contradistinction to a
state of the heart like this, is that state, or
those states, which we call by the name of
holiness. Holiness consists in the cleansing
of this mirror, or this electrical contact, so
that our hearts may receive the vision of God,
may be conscious of the current of His love,
and may themselves be moved towards Him.
It is only in virtue of their being in this state,
or of their approaching it, that we can feel
the love which enables us  which alone enables
us  to do and to suffer all things ; which
alone will give a value in our eyes to all our
social activities, in face of the apparent failure
surely in store for so many of them ; for it will
teach us to lay them in faith as an oblation at
His feet.

1 speak of practical failure, and I do so

with deliberation ; because if there is one
lesson taught us by all human experience,
all human experience teaches us this  that
partial failure is sure to crown every effort ;
and however we struggle to alleviate misery,
though we may do much, we shall never make
earth a paradise. There is no Utopia, there
is no new Atlantis, there is no Icaria for us
here. The knowledge that this is so  and no
enthusiasm, however strong, can in the long
run shield us from the knowledge  would be
enough to daunt us, and would be sure to
daunt us, if we did not know one thing : that
behind this apparent failure there is a Power
that judges our acts, not by what to our eyes
they seem to have accomplished, but by what
He sees they aimed at. It is in this we have
the indescribable and unfathomable comfort
of knowing in faith that a life which
in its visible results is only a saddening
failure, a forlorn repulse, is not for that reason
vol. in. TJ

reckoned of less value when cast into God's
treasury.

Oh, my brethren ! ' exclaimed the
speaker, breaking for the first time into
the impassioned tone of a preacher, 'when
we consider the millions of human beings
around us now, and the countless millions
that will come after us, when we consider
this mass in its overwhelming aggregate, how
little can be done for it by the greatest of
men singly ! How shall we encourage and
comfort ourselves in the face of this paralyzing,
this insidious thought, when we are
asked to sacrifice things that are much to us
for the sake of what to this huge mass is so
little ? We can only do so by the divine
paradox, the holy and saving teaching which
the Church alone can give, which to the Positivists
is a stumbling-block, and to men of
science foolishness, that it is more important
to every man that he should do his utmost for

humanity, than it can be for humanity that
any one man should do his utmost for it.

And that importance to the individual
lies in this. Bear with me, such of you as
think the soul and its immortality a fiction 
bear with me whilst I address you all as
though it were the central fact of life ! That
importance to the individual lies in this : that
he owes his soul to God as an everlasting
debt ; he owes to God this soul's submission
to God's will, and its co-operation with God's
will ; and he is bound to keep this soul pure
and holy because without such virtues he is
unable to see God, or do the work God wills
in this stony social vineyard. Remember this
I beseech you remember this : in exact proportion
as these virtues are cultivated does
the Divine Vision become clearer and the
motive power of social virtue grow in
strength. Hence,' Mr. Stanley proceeded,
and his voice ; which still retained its earnestly



ness, seemed suddenly to soften into a note
of pleading personal solicitude, 'hence we
see how the reception of the Lord's Body,
together with the preparation needful for
receiving it worthily, fits us, not only for
the repose of heaven, but for work in the
modern world. The same, too, may be said
of another Sacrament  the Sacrament of
Marriage. Marriage, as every priest knows,
as every man of the world knows, cannot
in every case  not only is not, but cannot 
be a perfect union. The circumstances do
not admit of it. But there can be, and there
are, good marriages, just as there are good
communions. There are marriages in which
the intellect and the sympathy of the husband
and wife so unite as to direct their two
lives with a doubled intelligence and ardour
to their work in the world, and with a devotion
doubled in clearness and in steadfastness
to offer that work to God.

1 Sacramental, too, in their nature, are
those external advantages which raise the
minority of the world above the majority.
And this observation brings me to the last
thing I have to say to you. You will see
that throughout my address to you, I have
been addressing myself to those who by position,
by intellect, by education, are placed
more or less above the ordinary level of
mankind. To the labouring classes themselves
there is a similar message to be given;
but I am referring now to the others, because
to their class you belong who are listening
to me. You are those to whom much has
been given. You are those of whom much
will be required. And to you I would
say  specially to such of you as have not
only the gifts of knowledge and intellect,
but also the advantages of material riches
and the prestige of inherited positions  to
you I would say, Think how, in the light of

what I have just been urging, your own responsibility
becomes more pressing and definite.
What the chisel and the trowel are to the
labourer, your wealth and your social example
are to you. Should it be God's will that in
the hidden course of the future these tools
should be taken from you, you will use
whatever tools may be put into your hands
instead ; but so long as they remain yours
do not be ashamed of them, do not think,
like cowards, of casting them away from you.
Do not hide your talents in a napkin through
any fear of other men's envy or your own
heavy responsibility. Use these splendid
tools : your duty is to use them. And if you
do, in all human probability you will be
confirmed in their possession here, as well as
meriting the reward of God hereafter.

But suppose that, as I hinted, they
should be taken away from you, through God's
permission in the course of social change, and

should your practical power for good thus
seem to be crippled  suppose you should lose
wealth and consideration, or that any one of
you should lose the comfort and the spiritual
help of human love, you must not for that
reason petulantly cease to struggle. In that
case turn to Christ, and think of His social
condition. He had neither wealth, nor temporal
power, nor a wife's companionship.
But He showed Himself to us divested of all
such helps and advantages, not that He might
teach us to think lightly of them if they are
given to us, but that He might teach us that
our want of them is no excuse for our refusing
to do our duty; that we should none of us
say, " Because I am poor, because I am
solitary, for these reasons, Lord, I am unable
to follow Thee'"

; 

Iii .@i;:@.  r ui>i' K w t w v wfw:' 1

CHAPTER IX.

HE strangers from Baveno, as soon
as the service was over, lingered at
the door to address a few words to

Carew ; and, when they had done this, they
also expressed a wish to thank Mr. Stanley
for the sermon he had just given them, at
the same time saying that they would not
undertake to criticize it except by praising
the courtesy and moderation of its tone.
They were not, however, allowed to go
without the offer of some slight refreshment,
and Carew also took them through part
of the Villa and the garden. By the time he

had seen them into their boat the daylight
had almost faded, and the first bell rang as a
warning of approaching dinner. The decisive
moment now could not be long postponed.
Dinner was the only event that stood between
him and it, and it may be easily imagined that,
as he did his duties as host, he did not distinguish
himself by any great vigour of appetite.
One remark during dinner, and one remark
only, roused him. This was a question
put to him by Lady Ghislehurst  the same
question he had himself put to the boatman
as to who lived in the villa that had once
been Madame de Saint Valery's. It appeared
that prior to their coming over to chapel she
and the rest of her party had been for a
row on the lake, and this villa had excited
the admiration of all of them. Carew
said with constraint, that he knew as little
about it as they did ; and the next moment,
with an almost painful start, he found Lady

Chislehurst telling him that they had heard
some beautiful voice singing in it. Often
himself had he heard, with indolent pleasure,
there, the voice of Madame de Saint Valery
of Miss Capel's cousin.

At last the meal was over, and the whole
party, having risen, prepared, as on former
occasions, to take a stroll along the terraces.
Hitherto Carew, when seeking to speak to
Miss Consuelo Burton in private, had been
content to wait till a tete-astute should arrange
itself naturally ; but now, almost without any
attempt at concealment, he went up to her, as
she stood not far from her sisters, and said ina
low voice to her :

Will you now tell me your decision ? '
Quietly, but without hesitation, she detached
herself from those near her, and slowly
walked away at Carew's side into the dimness.
As soon as they were well out of ear shot and
observation of the others :

Well,' he said, ' I am waiting. Consuelo,
are you going to tell me ? '

c I am she said. * I have thought it all over.
I ought not to have taken so long in deciding.
I ought not to have felt the trouble I have
felt in doing so. But my mind was made up
last night, after I left you  late last night ;
and what we have heard this afternoon in
chapel has confirmed me in my decision. As
to what you do, I can of course advise you
only ; but as to what I myself must do, I can
only follow my conscience.'

Tell me said Carew, ' tell me what you
advise me.'

4 First,' she said gently, * let me tell you
one thing. You have conveyed to me as
clearly as if you had used many more words
what you feel for me ; and I believe you  I
trust you. I  ' and here her voice grew low
and tremulous, * I, if I followed my impulse,
should try to make some reply to you. But

why should I now ? It is better not to
express a feeling which most probably one
will have to renounce for ever.'

Never ! ' exclaimed Carew, with a sudden
passionate energy. i Consuelo, I can never
renounce you. My life will be blind without
you.'

You are wrong she said. c If you renounce
me in the same spirit as that in
which I renounce you, your blindness  if you
are blinded  will be a blindness more clear
than sight. Listen. I am going to speak
very plainly. My advice is going to be of
the most plain and practical kind. If your
conduct towards the person you spoke of
yesterday has been such as I understand it
to have been  and I am perfectly sure I did
not understand you wrongly, for women in
such matters have a very quick instinct  you
owe that person a debt which you are bound
to pay, or at all events to offer to pay. In

spite of any sacrifice it may entail on you, in
spite of any loss of the power and influence
that you yourself are so anxious to use for
good, you are bound by honour and duty to
go to her and offer yourself in marriage to
her. If she accepts you, and if you act to
her after your marriage as truly as you did
in going back to her and marrying her, you
will have chosen a higher life, even should
your external influence be lessened, than you
would have if, by doing a wrong to her, you
had retained the power of making that influence
larger.'

1 And suppose said Carew, ' that ray
offer is rejected?'

In that case,' said Miss Consuelo Burton,
1 you at any rate will have done your duty.
So far as she is concerned you will be free ;
and then, perhaps, you may find one who,
though not better herself, is able to help you
better. Else, else  what shall I say?  you

will have made your sacrifice ; and believe
me, believe me in this : I too shall have made
mine. Write to her, go to her. Lose no
time about it ; and when you know her
answer, either send me your farewell, or come
back to me.' Then looking at him, with a
faint smile on her face, ' Do it,' she said, ' at
once. Write this very night  the moment
that I am gone. If you put the duty off you
will persuade yourself that it is fantastic and
unreal. That is the way that lives are lost
and wasted. Do this duty, and you will
soon see that it is real enough. It will have
made a different man of you. Remember
that. Now come ; let us go back to the
others.'

That evening, however, Carew wrote
nothing. When his guests were gone he
tried to compose a letter, but after a
moment's attempt he pushed the paper away
from him 5 and a little later, alone in a light

boat, he was floating out on the lake, over
the wavering reflections of the mountains.

The lights of Baveno were glittering at
him out of the distance, and he knew that
by this time Miss Consuelo Burton must be
nearing them. He could not bear them.
They seemed like eyes watching him. He
longed to escape into the darkness and there
settle his future. All of a sudden there
came back into his mind Lady Chislehurst's
mention at dinner of the villa of Madame de
Saint Valery, and the singer's voice that issued
from it. He hardly knew what impulse
prompted him, but he turned the head of his
boat at once in that direction, and with
vigorous strokes of the oar was soon moving
towards it.

Before long the Baveno lights were lost ;
a dark promontory had eclipsed them, then
another came into sight, and another ; and
then a third, with the night caught in its

gardens, and sprinkled through all their
foliage with wavering flakes of moonlight.
There were the villas, visible only by peeps,
seeming to sleep softly. Their windows were
dark ; they meant to Carew nothing. But at
last the one upon which his thoughts were
centred was before him  a sudden vision ;
and there was something about it, something
strange and startling, that at once made him
stop his rowing.

There were lights in the lower windows 
windows he once knew well ; and, to his great
surprise, these lights, which evidently came
from shaded lamps, were  or at least he
thought they were  of a delicate and peculiar
carnation colour. It was the favourite colour
of Madame de Saint Yalery ; and her taste
seemed to have been inherited by the present
occupant of the villa. The sight, as if by
magic, made the past present to him.
Memories rose and came hovering; round

him from the bosom of the lake, from the
statues, from the flower-beds, from the bright
interior ; and he thought of the woman who,
without having made him love her, had
often made him wonder why she had failed
to do so.

At length, rousing himself, he softly
moved his oars again, and with noiseless progress
advanced somewhat nearer to the shore.
Presently his ears were startled, just as a
moment ago his eyes had been. He heard, or
thought he heard, the sound of guitar-strings
stealing across the water with a faint elfin
tinkle. Again he rested on his oars. He
listened and watched breathlessly. He
hardly knew why he did so. He hardly
knew what he expected to see or hear, or for
what reason it could interest him. He was
rather acting in obedience to an instinctive
sense that any curiosity, no matter how aimless
or irrelevant, was a momentary escape

vol. in. X

from the thoughts that ought to occupy
him.

Watching thus, he soon became aware
that a figure of some sort had begun to move
indoors, passing and repassing before the
lamps. At once his pulses began to beat a
little quicker, and when presently this sign
of life ceased he was conscious of a strange
annoying disappointment. It was as if his
head were aching, and someone had ceased to
press something cool against it. A moment
or two later, however, his suspended excitement
was renewed. Suddenly in the garden,
close to the water's edge, just at the place
where the shade of the trees was darkest, a
small light with its arrowy rays revealed
itself, and then began to move by jerks and
fitfully. He recollected that at that place
was the boat-house. In another moment a
muffled sound reached him, like that of
an oar struck accidentally against planking ;

and faintly along with this came the sound
of a human voice. He strained his ears with
an unnecessary and blank intensity, waiting
to hear more ; but meanwhile in the silence
that supervened, his thoughts, like carrier
pigeons, unbidden and unrestrained, had
winged their way back to Miss Consuelo
Burton. The miserable realities of his situation
were again finding him out. Relief,
however, was at hand : again there came
distraction. Perfectly clear  there could be
no doubt about it  he now heard oars
splashing.

His curiosity soon was supplied with even
more stimulating nutriment. In another
thirty seconds the darkness of trees and water
gave forth a black boat into the moonlight,
and in this boat there were two figures sitting.
One of them seemed to be resting more
or less listlessly in the stern. The other was
sculling, regularly but without much vigour.

x 2

A second glance  for his first left him doubtful
 revealed to Carew that they were
women.

Any man who has ever felt much interest
about women in general rarely loses that
interest even when one of them has fixed his
affections ; and Carew was conscious, preoccupied
as he was, of an idly sentimental
curiosity in the spectacle now before him.
It was not, however, of a very keen nature till
he became aware as the strange boat moved
in the moonlight that the hair of the woman
in the stern was of the colour of pale gold.

Good gracious ! ' he exclaimed to himself.
l Am I dreaming ? Has this whole day
been a dream ? Have I slipped back eighteen
months into the past ? '

He was still dizzy with this helpless sort
of half-doubt, when again there struck on his
ears, and this time quite clearly, the twanging
notes of a guitar. He recognized the shape

of the instrument in the hands of the fair-haired
woman ; and almost before he had
leisure for any further reflection a sudden
thrill ran shivery down his spine ; he found
himself listening to that same Neapolitan
hymn which Miss Capel had sung to him at
Courbon-Loubet, and by which his own musicians
had called her memory back to him.

Without pausing to reflect, obedient
merely to an instinct, he impelled his boat
rapidly towards the singer ; and not thinking
how singular this conduct would appear to a
stranger, he very soon was gliding within a
few yards of her, in the mad expectation of
finding that it was Miss Capel herself. A
glance told him his error. It was not Miss
Capel. It was not a stranger, however : it
was Madame de Saint Yalery.

She at once recognised and addressed him.
There was some surprise in her voice, but
not much. It was the voice of one who finds,

not an unexpected thing, but a thing unexpectedly
soon. Carew, on the other hand,
seemed completely thunderstruck.

1 You ! ' he exclaimed at last. ' And what
on earth brings you here ? And back to that
villa too ! Who lives there ? Why have you
come ? ' Then as if this struck him as somewhat
cold and uncourteous, ' Or perhaps he
added with a smile, ' you live in the waters
of the lake, and have risen up to sing in the
clear moonlight. This is the second time that
your voice has brought me to you.'

1 My dear friend,' she said, c why should
you be so startled at seeing me ? That villa
is my own. I bought it not many months
since ; and though it is quite true that you
may not have known that, still, after all, is it
so very unnatural that I should be here ? Do
you think any special reason is necessary to
account for it ? ' There was a faint twinkle
in her eyes, as though she were gently laughing

at him ; but the next moment, growing
quite serious, ' I will tell you plainly she
added, ' that there is a special reason ; and
that reason, Mr. Carew, is this : it is my
desire to see yourself. 1 was going to have
written to you at your address in England,
for when you met me at Nice, like a nice
proper friend as you are, you quite forgot to
tell me where you were living ; but being at
Milan, I saw in one of the papers that you
were on the Island, or were expected there
immediately, so I came here myself, and I
meant tomorrow to have written to you.'

Why,' said Carew coldly, as if he dreaded
her answer, c why do you wish to speak tome
? ' And as he spoke he glanced towards
her companion.

1 Oh,' said Madame de Saint Valery, i don't
trouble yourself about her. It's only my
maid, and she speaks not a word of English.
What did you think of my song  the one I was

just beginning ? I taught it once to a certain
friend of yours, who has very likely sung it to
you. But come  what I have to say will
take a little time in saying. Come indoors,
and I will have it out with you there.'

Carew was silent. He was regretting the
whole incident. He had no inclination fora
scene with Madame de Saint Valery.

Come,' she repeated after a moment or
two, with the expectant tone of a woman
accustomed to be obeyed in such things.

It is late to-night,' said Carew at last.
No  let me come tomorrow.'

Madame de Saint Valery laid her hand on
the guitar strings, and struck them all together
into a clang of musical petulance.

1 Stuff ! ' she exclaimed. f Isn't that like
a man ! Since when have you kept such
virtuously early hours ? You are shy of me.
Why are you shy ? I assure you you
needn't be. What I want to tell you has

nothing to do with me  with nie, Mr. Carew,
or my wretched uninteresting life. I am not
going to weary you with asking any more
kindness of you. What I want to do is to do
you a kindness myself. Come  please, do as
I ask you. You know the boat-house. Go
first ; and you shall help us in landing.'

mmmwmmmmmmmmmMm

CHAPTER X,

FEW moments more and Carew was
in the carnation-coloured lamp-light,
his blinking eyes straying over a
wilderness of flowers and china. The air was
heavy also with that odd excess of perfume
with which women who are not on the best
terms with the world seek to make up in
their drawing-rooms for the lost ozone of
respectability.

Sit there said Madame de Saint Yalery.
1 You know the chair well. That's right ;
and now let me have a look at you. You are

not yourself. What is it that is the matter
with you ? '

' Matter ? ' said Carew. ' Nothing. AYhat
should be the matter ? I am only surprised
at this unexpected meeting ; and your pink
lamps dazzle me after the moonlight.'

1 If you will not tell me she said, ignoring
his explanation, and rising lightly from a low
seat as she spoke ; c if you will not tell me,
would you like me to tell you ? I know perfectly
well.'

1 Tell me then said Carew resignedly.

4 You are unhappy, my friend : that is
what is the matter with you ; and here is
something that will show you I know why.'

She moved to a small table covered with
ornamental trifles, from amongst which she
extracted a velvet case ; and then, seating
herself opposite to Carew, and close to him,
tapped it gently with her slim fingers. Carew,
for his part, thought she must be going mad,

and he remained watching her without saying
a word. After a moment's pause she opened
the case, and exhibited to him, on its bed of
satin, a luminous pearl necklace.

Tell me she said. 'Do you know what
that is ? It is my wedding-present for
Violet Capel.'

Carew started, caught his breath, and
stared at her.

c Ah she went on, with a slight pitying
smile, c you see I was right. Why need you
try to hide it ? You are unhappy because of
her.'

Perhaps Carew murmured, ' not in the
way you think.'

4 Mr. Carew she retorted, ' this is not
friendly of you. Why are you so reserved 
I might almost say so shy ? Violet Capel,
though her parents won't let her see me,
writes to me every week. I am familiar with
every thought of hers. You may trust me

that I know what I am talking about. Ah 
now you sit up and begin to show some
interest. You might, I think, have done me
that favour at first. Well, listen, and take
what I say as I mean it. I have made little
enough of my own life, God knows. I believe
I have lost, or am losing, even my sorrow at
having made so little of it. Perhaps, however,
I ought to observe in passing that I am
at last on the eve of reformation and respectability.
You'll hear about that some day,
and I expect when you do you'll smile. But
we won't talk about it now. "What I want to
tell you is this. Whatever I may have lost,
I have not lost my sense of one thing ; and
that is, my sense of the kindness you once
showed me  your real interest in my welfare.
You advised me well ; you tried to make me
make the best of myself. I decided on making
the worst ; but to you I am still grateful.
And now the time has come when I am able to

show my gratitude. I want to give a little
saving advice to you. I am the only person,
perhaps, in the whole world who could do so ;
and if you will listen to me it may really befor
your happiness. Well, just be patient
whilst I talk to you, and you will see that a
bad woman may be on occasion a guide fora
good man.'

I'm not a good man,' said Carew, still
moody.

4 Well, no,' said his companion, ' I don't
think you are.'

She laughed as she spoke, pleasantly.
Carew laughed also, and he seemed in doing
so to be turning into a more promising
listener.

No she repeated, i you're not a goodman.
Still you are so-so. You are better
than most of them ; and you've been very
good to me : that's all I care for. And now
I begin again. You've admitted that your

unhappiness is connected with Violet Capel.
I don't think you have, by the way. But no
matter, for I know that it is.'

4 You are right,' said Carew. ' It is connected
with her.'

1 You are aware, I suppose,' Madame de
Saint Yalery went on, ' that Yiolet's marriage
with the Prince de Yaucluse is arranged to
take place very soon indeed ? '

1 Yes said Carew. ' I am aware, too, that
she hates the man.'

Madame de Saint Yalery smiled oddly and
pensively. ' Yiolet,' she said presently, ' is
a most fascinating and attractive girl ; and I
love her because she has always stuck tome,
and still writes to me unknown to her
parents, who have now forbidden her to have
any communication with me. I don't wonder
at any man's losing his heart to her, and a
good many men have done so. But, Mr.
Carew, you know very little about her. I

know her through and through, and I want
to explain to you just what she really is.'

Do you know,' said Carew, with the
faintest trace of pique in his voice, c do you
know the history of her acquaintance and
friendship with me ? '

4 Hush, 7 said Madame de Saint Valery, ' do
not interrupt me. Let me tell my story my
own way ; and when I have done I think
you'll have cause to thank me. Well, Yiolet,
you say, hates the Prince de Vaucluse, and
will be unhappy with him. No doubt that's
true ; and no doubt, with her beautiful
eyes looking sadly at you, she has told you
so, or let you see it. Yes  she's perfectly
right. He is not a man who could ever
satisfy her nature. I want to tell you what
her nature is. In one way she is the most
innocent and ingenuous creature that ever
breathed. She has done nothing that the
world in its conventional language calls

wrong ; and she looks about her, unsung by
any self-reproach, craving for some sympathy
which she has never yet found. Yes, in one
way you may call her virtue itself; you may
call her girlish innocence itself. She doesn't,
I think, know even the look of evil ; and yet,
for that very reason, it is in her nature to doit,
and to do it as ingenuously and simply as
she would do good.'

Do you think she would,' said Carew,
6 if she were once happily married, and if her
desire for sympathy were satisfied ? '

c What is the good,' said Madame de
Saint Valery, ' of talking about " if 's " ? She
will not be happily married. That matter is
settled, and I want you thoroughly to understand
that it is. I will come back to it presently
; but let me go on first with what I
am saying now. A year or two ago, when
she and her parents were at Naples, she fell
violently in love with a certain English

VOL. III. Y

officer who bad left home for a time on account
of a difference with his wife. He was
a very handsome man, not far short of fifty ;
and many women, young girls especially, still
continued to find him dangerously fascinating.
Yiolet Capel at once took his fancy. She, for
her part, in a couple of days  no, in a single
evening  became infatuated about him. Mr.
Carew, I am watching your face as I tell you
this. I know the ways of a man's face so
well ; and I can see that it annoys you. I
don't want to annoy you ; but your annoyance
is a healthy symptom.'

'I'm not annoyed,' said Carew, lying.
Go on. This is interesting.'

Her devotion to this man,' Madame de
Saint Yalery went on, ' she made no attempt
to conceal. She seemed not to see anything
in it that called for concealment. She was as
open about it as she would have been had the
object of her devotion been a bon-bon ; and

this very openness was the means of saving
her, for her parents most judiciously at once
took her away. They had another object in
doing so besides saving her from one admirer ;
for they were very anxious that she should
marry another  a sort of relation of theirs,
and quite a fitting match for her. He was a
man of a wholly different kind. He loved her
with a tiresome religious sort of devotion,
and was anxious to think her, or at any rate
to make her, a saint. But though she tolerated
him, and was good-natured to him, she
never cared two straws for him  not even
though he wrote her verses about prayer and
piety: and she is devoted to poetry, and
always saying scraps to herself.'

c I have seen,' murmured Carew, ' some of
the very verses you speak of.'

4 Poor child,' went on Madame de Saint
Yalery, ' it was no thanks to herself that that
other man did not ruin her. She would have

Y 2

gone to her ruin with the same look in her
eyes that most girls would have in going to
their Confirmation. Listen, Mr. Carew : this
describes her exactly. She has all the heart
of Eve after the fall, and all the conscience
of Eve untouched in Paradise.'

Then there is the more reason,' said
Carew sadly, ' why someone who can guide
her wisely should be with her to guide her
always.'

L Again you interrupt me said Madame 7
de Saint Valery. i What I have to tell you
is only half finished. I have described to you
only one side of her character. I have described
to you the way in which passion or
love appeals to her, and the way in which
she responds to it. I must now describe her
to you in relation to the world and worldliness.'


c Worldliness ! ' exclaimed Carew. ' She
hardly knows what the word means.'

4 That shows,' said Madame de Saint
Valery, 'how easily you men are deceived.
Violet is affected by the world very much as
she is affected by love  with the same mixture
of ingenuousness and what good people
call evil. She appreciates worldly distinction,
I must tell you, with a wonderful quickness,
though not always, I dare say, with correctness.
The brilliancy of a great position,
however vaguely she conceives it, attracts her
exactly as some pretty thing attracts a child, or
as some man she might be in love with would
attract her. The only difference would be
this : just as she would cling to the man with
the ingenuous passion I spoke of, so would she
cling to worldly position with an equally ingenuous
obstinacy ; and this obstinacy, if it
came into conflict with that passion, would
have a noiseless and almost unacknowledged,
but still a complete, victory over it. She
herself would not realize what the process

was, and for the simple reason that she would
not look at it. She would think she was the
victim of circumstances ; she would softly and
sadly pity herself. And yet if anyone suggested
to her she could make the circumstances
different he would find she stuck to
them as a snail sticks to its shell.'

4 But, surely,' interposed Carew, c the
man she was in love with at Naples  there
was no worldliness in the case of her fondness
for him? '

1 You see,' said Madame de Saint Valery,
1 she was only beginning then. And besides, I
don't think I told you what that man did. The
morning before the Capels left Naples, he, seeing
that Yiolet was going to escape his clutches,
went off to Venice with an opera dancer. Violet
Capel is still tender over his memory, and his
infidelity still fills her heart with a feeling that
has every resemblance to a profound sorrow,
except that somehow it does not seem to pain

her. Well, by-and-by, at Paris, the Prince
de Vaucluse met her. You know what he
is  one of the most dissolute men in Europe,
and, apart from a certain superficial knowledge
of the world, one of the silliest. But
then, of course, he is immensely rich : his
horses win races, and he gives dinners to
royalty. The Prince de Yaucluse at once
fell in love with Violet, and his love had all
that folly of which only a middle-aged man
of the world is capable. I don't know which
to say she was  his passion or his whim.
Anyhow, a week after he had first seen her,
he made her an offer of marriage. Violet was
flattered by the offer, and dazzled by it, and,
imagining that her heart was for ever buried
at Naples, she at once accepted him. Her
mother did all she could in opposition to the
engagement, and the General, for various reasons,
insisted on a considerable delay before
the marriage. As to this last point Violet

was quite submissive. She was rather pleased,
indeed, at having her doom deferred ; but she
was fully decided that it neither could nor
should be altered. Her future, to her own
mind, was finally settled, and the prospect from
that moment became the foundation of her
thoughts  not of her happy thoughts only,
but of her soft melancholy also. Well, Mr.
Carew, by-and-by she fell in love with you.
The details of that process you know better
than I do. Still, I know something, and I
can at any rate tell you this  for you mustn't
think Violet worse or more heartless than she
is. No, in her way she is all heart. Whatever
she seemed to feel for you she did feel.
Your presence, your personality, as it were
mesmerized her ; and all that tender music 
tender, imploring, unsatisfied, full of far-away
longings which her whole being seemed
to make under your influence  that, Mr.
Carew, is the real music of her nature. It

is as real as the sound the wind makes on
an aeolian harp. But for all that it hasn't
altered her conduct. It has not made her
seriously even dream of doing so. Look at
this,' Madame de Saint Yalery continued.
1 Here is a letter which I had from her only
three days ago.' And she put a letter into
Carew's hands.

My darling,' it ran 
i Yes, the time will now soon come when I
shall belong wholly to him. I mean, as wholly
as I can ever belong to anybody. Ah me ! no
doubt it is all for the best ; and yet once or
twice it was a very hard struggle, when Mr*

Carew, if I would only have let him

But why talk of that? Bygones had best be
bygones. His way and mine lie down different
channels, though surely they are channels
which one day will re-unite us as friends.

1 And now, darling, tell me  have you
been to see the woman about my pocket-handkerchiefs

? I want, if you remember,
five dozen of them, with the monogram
V. de V., and the coronet above it. They are
to be done in five different colours  one dozen
of each. The two V.'s ought to be very
pretty. As to my pale-green silk, I have
acted on your suggestion, and the train is to
be rather shorter. Nearly all my trousseau
is being made at Nice ; and you were quite
right  it could hardly have been done better
in Paris. I have done, too, what you advised
about my dress-improver. I agree with you,
it is much better. By the way, your hands
are the same size as mine, and exactly the
same shape. If you want any gloves, you
should write at once to Lang  I mean Lang
at Nice. He has some that would fit you
even better than any you could have made for
you  gants de Suede, with from eight to fourteen
buttons.

'Apropos of the shops at Nice, there is
some lovely tapestry at a place in the Avenue

de la Gare, winch I shall make the Prince
buy for my boudoir in Paris. I told you I had
decided in November on having it quite done
up. You too, when you are married, will
settle again in Paris. God bless you, darling.
You must get a house near ours.

1 1 am very busy  I have so much to do
and think about. The dressmaker is here
nearly every hour of the day ; and mamma
fusses so, and I have so little time to write.
But I must say one thing more. Have you
secured Eugene for us ? I trust you have.
The Prince says he is a far better courier
than Curio ; and after our marriage we are to
travel for two whole months, and then be in
England in time for a London ball or two, and
for Goodwood. The travelling  think how
delicious ! You know how I love travelling
I don't mean with mamma and the General,
who are always at me about something ; but
now, when I shall be my own mistress, able
to come and go as I like, and ask people I like

to dinner. But I must stop. " Violet, Violet."

That's mamma calling. " You must come up,"

she is saying, "to try on this new body

again. Come instantly." And I must come.

Good-bye !

1 Your own

'Violet.'

Madame de Saint Valery waited till Carew
had finished his reading, and she allowed him
to ruminate over it for a little while in silence.

At last she said, ' Are you quite convinced
now? And do you see why I have
been so anxious  as a true friend  to speak
to you? I know you love Violet. I know
she is just the girl to make a man unhappy ;
and you have probably still hopes of persuading
her to alter her purpose. Should
you attempt to do this you would merely
distress her uselessly. I think you might
make as much impression as that  distress
her and mortify yourself ; and I wished,

since an opportunity offered, to convince you
of two things : one, that you have no hope
of making her your wife ; and the other, that
she would not be a wife really worthy of
you. I love her myself; but you deserve
someone better, or someone, shall I say,
different. 7

Carew, during the reading of Miss Capel's
pages, had experienced a mixture of the most
oddly-conflicting emotions. He compared
this letter with the one she had so lately
written to him, and he felt himself stung by
the distinct poison of jealousy, w r whilst a mad
longing, unreal as he knew it to be, once
more thrilled through him to make the writer
his own. Conscience, too, with added animation,
was pricking the sides of his intent ; and
yet at the same time a glow of unexpected
happiness was flooding his mind  indeed,
was almost overwhelming it  as he came to
understand what was really the situation.

His feelings found expression, or rather a
natural mask for themselves, in the blank
stare which he fixed on Madame de Saint
Yalery. She could not understand it. When
at last he spoke he dared hardly to trust his
voice. He put the utmost restraint on its
inflexion, and this only seemed to perplex
Madame de Saint Yalery more. To her ears
it came like the voice of sheer desperation.

1 If he said, c I were to ask her to marry
me now, do you mean solemnly to tell me
that there is no chance of her accepting me 
that there is none if I went to her, if I told
her I had a home ready for her, and would
take her off to it immediately ? '

4 There is no chance,' said Madame de
Saint Yalery, { absolutely none.'

How can you know this ? ' said Carew.
c It is impossible that you can be certain of
it. Nothing but certainty will prevent my
going to her tomorrow. That is my resolution,

and God knows I have not made it
lightly

k Then, in that case said Madame de Saint
Valery, c I can give you certainty. Violet
Capel is married to the Prince already. Don't
start. I should have preferred to conceal the
fact ; but what you have said has forced me
to let you know it. They were together in
London early this year, and I was there. I
knew what the Prince was. I knew how
strong his whims  we will call them whims,
it is a prettier word than the right one  I
knew how strong his whims were, and how
capricious. My fear was that he might satisfy
his whim for Violet, and then get tired of his
whim for marrying her. Mrs. Capel would
not hear of the marrying being done then ;
and this delay has so increased the Prince's
keenness that he urged the girl to marry him
privately before the Registrar. She made me
her confidante, and I approved of the plan.

The marriage took place one morning, and
I was present. But now, Mr. Carew, mark
this  I pledge you my word it's true : as
soon as the ceremony  I mean, the formality
was over, I did just what I had arranged todo.
I took Violet back with me to her people,
keeping the transaction a profound secret ;
and I made the Prince understand that, for
various good reasons, he will not be able to
call his bride his own till he claims her
openly and marries her in his own country.
As for Violet, she hardly realizes what has
been done. She knows she is married, but
her imagination has never grasped the fact. 7
Carew, in a tone that filled Madame de
Saint Valery with astonishment, exclaimed
several times, ' Can this really be true ! '
Then, rising from his seat, he paced up and
down the room, avoiding the furniture with
slightly impatient gestures, once or twice
muttering something to himself, but uttering

nothing intelligible to his companion. At last,
pausing hi front of her, a smile broke over
his face, and holding out his hand to her, he
exclaimed with suppressed enthusiasm, ' God
bless you ! A thousand times God bless you !
I thank you more than you can even imagine
or dream of.'

Madame de Saint Yalery stared at him
in bewilderment. He seemed to understand
her expression.

c You think me odd,' he said. ' No doubt
you do. Indeed, of course, you do. I will
explain it all tomorrow. I can explain
nothing to-night. You have so completely
astonished me that I really can hardly tell
which I am doing  standing on my head or
my heels. Let me go. Again, a thousand
times thank you.' And offering his hand
to her, he prepared to move towards the
window.

1 Don't forget,' she said, and she looked

VOL. III. Z

up at him as if appealing for kindness 
don't forget to come back to me and to tell
me all about yourself. I too have something
to tell you about my own future.'

1 Yes, yes,' said Carew, with a sort of
absent eagerness. ' Your own future  tell
me about that. Tell me all. You are going
to be happy, I hope.'

c I will see you down to your boat,' said
Madame de Saint Yalery, and you shall hear
this unimportant piece of news by the way.
I,' she went on presently, as they emerged
from the window, ' am going shortly to
become a respectable woman  that is to
say, as respectable as circumstances will permit
of. I don't know '  and she gave a little
hard laugh, ' that this respectability includes
much respect from myself. I am going to
be married  married to an Englishman. I
don't pretend to love him, but I like him,
though other people laugh at him ; and I

shall, I think, be pretty well able to manage
him. Anyhow, considering what for two
months  for two months only  my life was
at Nice this winter, my life with him will be
comparative peace and happiness.'

1 And who is the man ? ' Carew asked.

1 Let me see. Shall I tell you? ' she said.
4 Xo, I think not to-night. I am somewhat
shy of doing so. Wait  let me go back
to the drawing-room, and I will bring you
something which will explain the whole affair
to you.'

In a minute or so she returned with a
newspaper, which she put into Carew's hand ;
and when he had taken it she then gave him
a letter.

4 When you get home she said, ' look at
both. You will then know the history. The
letter is written from a friend of yours to a
friend of mine. You will agree that my friend
has given me the best test of his friendship in

z2

sending me the most disagreeable things that
other people can say about me. I am glad,
too, that you should know the worst. It's
not bad. You will only think it contemptible
; and when you know it, try still to
keep a kind thought for me. Good-night,
and give me your congratulations.'

:N hour or so later Carew was in
his own room again. The blank
sheet of note-paper which he had
so lately tried to fill, and tried in vain, still
lay on the blotting-book. Now he seized his
pen, which had then refused obstinately to so
much as make a beginning with the name of
Violet Capel. He seized his pen, and began
writing rapidly. The first word of his letter
was not c Violet,' but ' Consuelo.'

When he had finished he looked at his
watch. It was half-past three in the morning.
He remembered, with a pang of conscience,

that his servant must be sitting up
for him. He tinkled a hand-bell ; the man
appeared, blinking ; and Carew told him to
go to bed, leaving a door to the garden open.
Before long, unable to sleep or rest, he had
glided out again into the chilly and fresh
night air ; and again seeking his boat, he
rowed across to Baveno.

The hotel where his friends were staying
was dark in all its windows, and the doors
were closed. But he was not in a mood to
think too much about trifles, and after a great
knocking and ringing he managed to wake the
concierge. The man, when he appeared, not
unnaturally was not in complete possession
of his clothes, his wits, or his temper ; but an
immediate apology and the tender of a seductive
coin restored him to his customary senses,
and to something of his customary civility, and
he received from Carew's hands an envelope
addressed to Miss Consuelo Burton, which he

engaged should be sent up to her the very
first thing in the morning. It was superscribed
Immediate ; and Carew had but few
doubts that no needless time would elapse
before he received an answer.

And now re-embarking, a feeling of sudden
vigour seemed to infuse itself into his
muscles, and for the first time since his new
prospects had dawned on him did the full
sense of his happiness really come to him,
filling all his spirit, and disturbing it with a
limitless exhilaration. The condition of his
mind seemed to communicate itself to his
oars, and tingle through them to the blades
as they met the water. Not to the Island did
Carew turn the prow, but hither and thither
in aimless and wandering courses did he restlessly
row himself over the sheets of the starlit
lake. Great happiness, like great sorrow,
will not at first suffer us to look it in the
face ; and his spirit confided its secret to his

muscles and his nerves before it] was calm
enough to confide it entirely to itself.

At last, having followed an eastward
course for some time, he put his boat about,
with thoughts of returning home ; and there,
as he turned, far off behind the spikes of the
mountains, he saw that the sky was pale with
the first colours of dawn. There, too, was the
star of the morning shining, bright with a
trembling steadfastness ; and Carew felt that
for him a star had arisen also.

He did not cease rowing, but his stroke

became slower and less excited. On his

spirit there descended the solemn hush of the

daybreak, which makes all the earth seem

like some holy sanctuary : and there came

back to him two lines of Goethe's :

The woman-soul leadeth us
Upward and on.

The lines came back to him, and remained
fixed in his consciousness.

Meanwhile, on the sliding and glassy
waves, that moved to left and right at the
touch of his dipping oars, there began to
flicker a gleam of faint saffron and rose-colour
; and the breeze of the morning laid its
first breath on his cheek, and gently touched
a straying lock of his hair.

c Now for me,' he said to himself, as he
gradually neared the Island, l now begins
the day, and not the moonlight  the day of
labour and action, of weariness, of disappointment
 the day that follows the hush of the
hopeful morning ; but hope, with her to guide
me, will live through every failure, and she
will always make a perpetual morning in my
heart.'

The granite steps of the landing-stage were
thick with dew when he reached them. The
few lights of Baveno, though still bright,
looked belated, and the mounting saffron was
faint in the dome over him. Having moored

his boat, lie still stood by the water, looking
across to the spot where the heart that was
his was beating ; and thoughts thronged on
his mind of many careers and labours to
which his life, with hers, might be dedicated.
Visions also, though he knew them too bright
for truth, floated before him and made his
being tingle  visions of great works done
amongst the toiling masses, of comfort and
health invading the fastnesses of degradation,
and the fire of faith once more shining on
eyeballs long blind to it. The feud of classes
he seemed to see dying, and trust and duty
replacing them like a new religion. Meanwhile,
in the actual world around him the
morning breeze had by this time subsided ;

And east and west, without a breath,
Mixed their twin lights, like life and death,
To broaden into boundless day.

At length a weariness, settling like dew
upon his eyelids, warned him to think of

rest ; but just as he was turning, his hand
touched one of his pockets, and he recollected
that in it were Madame de Saint Valery's
documents  the letter and the newspaper.

It was light enough now to read, and
with a whimsical access of curiosity he drew
them out and inspected them. He opened
the letter first. He at once knew the handwriting.
To his surprise, it was that of
Lord Stonehouse. The letter was to Prince
Olgorouki.

1 My dear Olgorouki,' it ran. c If you
are as great an admirer as you used to be
of that beautiful Comtesse de Saint Yalery,
whom I unfortunately have not the honour of
knowing  if you are as great an admirer of
her now as you were in those days at Nice
when she was so much taken up with an
illustrious compatriot of yours, you will perhaps
be amused to hear something about this
magnijico she is engaged to marry. For certain

reasons, which when he meets you next
he will doubtless be delighted to inform you
of, he has lost, so he thinks, in the eyes of
the London world something of that fashionable
splendour with which his own imagination
had invested him ; so now, like a man
of infinite resource as he is, his hopes and
attentions are turned on le high-life of the
Continent. Well, there is really a sort of
genius in the stroke, not because it aims so
high, but because it does not aim too
high. Having learnt that Madame de
Saint Yalery's cousin is going to marry
that odious Prince de Yaucluse, he has hit
on the idea of marrying himself to the cousin
of a live princess. Indeed, the Prince and
he are such a pair of snobs and impostors
that, upon my word, they will not pull badly
together ; and in Paris, no doubt, he will
from time to time still find some impecunious
peer to dine with him. I think, my

dear fellow, all this will amuse you, because
you know at Nice how jealous you used to be
of him, and how angry he was when he found
our friend Carew talking to the lady under
the garden wall. I shrewdly imagine that the
bridegroom that is to be was hardly aware
then of the fineness of his own character, and
how little it would take to make his intentions
strictly honourable. There is only one blow
in store for him, and that is too" tragical.
His wife will be unable in France to retain
her title, and, though the cousin of a live
princess, she will only be Mrs. Inigo.'

Carew was conscious of an almost incredulous
smile, and then turned to the paper.
Having shaken the leaves open, he at length
saw the following passage :

1 A marriage is arranged, and will shortly
take place, between Geoffry Inigo, Esq., of
50 Malkin Street, and of the Turf, White's,
Marlborough, and Carlton Clubs, and Elise,

Comtesse de Saint Valery, widow of the late
Comte de Saint Valery, so long renowned in
the diplomatic circles of Europe. An unusual
interest attaches itself to this alliance
from the distinguished position of both the
parties concerned, the bride-elect being about
shortly to become by marriage the cousin
of the Prince de Vaucluse. The wedding,
which will take place at the English Embassy
at Paris, will, it is expected, be of
the most brilliant description, most of the representatives
of foreign Courts having had
invitations sent to them. The Prince de
Vaucluse will probably give the bride away.'

One thing had struck Carew faintly the
moment he discovered this paragraph. It
was not in that part of the paper . usually
devoted to such announcements, and when he
came to the end of it an audible laugh broke
from him. Owing to some carelessness, some
mistake, or a sense of humour in some quarter

of the editorial bureau, at tLe end of the
paragraph, in brackets, came the fatal word
c [Advertisement]. ,

A smile was still on his lips as he slowly
reverted to the house, but the solemn hopes
and happiness which he trusted might last a
life-time were not disturbed, and did not
even seem incongruous as the twinkling
light gleamed on it, of one of life's least
absurdities.

THE END,

G. & C.
Printed BY
SPOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street SQUARE
London

t

</<

VOL. II.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., XEW-SXaEET Square

LONDON'

BY

W. H. Matlock

AUTHOR OF 'IS LIFE WORTH LIVING?' 'SOCIAL EQL'AUTY' ETC.

'Cette importune economie politique se glisse partout et se mere
k tout, et je crois vi*aimeut que c'est elle qui a dit, nihil humani a
me alienum put ' Baptist

IN Three VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY iV: SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

'ublislws in rMnarn to Dcr Majesty Ifjc wmx


All rights reserved

BOOK Tl,~contimied.

VOL. II. 

CHAPTER YIIL

RS. HARLEY proved eventually to
have been not far wrong in her
anticipations ; though there was one
dreadful moment which made her fear she had
been so. This was the moment of Foreman's
introduction to Lady Mangotsfield. The
great lady, as soon as he was brought up to
her, raised her wrinkled eyelids with a mild
benignity, and was inclining her head very
slightly but encouragingly, in recognition of

Lord B 's political foundling, when the

foundling, to her astonishment, had actually
the presumption to say that ' he was very much

b2

pleased to meet her and make her acquaintance.'
He said it, too, in a voice that had
actually the presumption to be genial ; and
he filled up the measure of his audacity by
unhesitatingly holding out his hand to her.

Lady Mangotsfield gave as good a start as
she had done on the previous evening at the
mention of Mr. Snapper ; and raising her
eyeglass as her greeting died on her lips, she
scrutinized Foreman from head to foot, wondering,
so it seemed, if he could really be the
person she had heard about. At last she
said, very much in the same tone she might
have used when engaging a servant bringing
a doubtful character : ' You used, I think, to
know Lord B , didn't you ? '

Oh, yes,' said Foreman, perfectly unabashed.
' I used at one time to have many
conversations with him.'

And is it true,' she went on, ' that he
wanted to put you into Parliament ? '

It was now Foreman's turn to start, and
Mrs. Harley, who was watching him, said
afterwards that at this question his very beard
was beginning to bristle. Luckily, however,
before he had time to answer, dinner was announced,
and his arm was claimed by Mrs.
Harley, Lady Mangotsfield being carried off
by Carew.

At dinner things were on a securer footing.
Foreman was placed in very excellent
custody. Mr. Stanley was on one side of him,
and Mrs. Harley on the other ; whilst Carew
divided Mrs. Harley from Lady Mangotsfield.
Foreman in this position was almost powerless
for mischief, and his conversation became
little more than a tap which those near him
could turn on and off as they chose. Mrs.
Harley felt now quite in her element, and
everything went exactly as she designed it.
I forget. Lady Mangotsfield,' she began,  if
you are an admirer of Thackeray ? We were

talking of him just before dinner, and we were
having a grand dispute about him

 There's nobody like him now, my dear
said Lady Mangotsfield ;  not so clever, I
mean. "When his books came out I read
them  so we all of us did. But I didn't
like them. There was always a vulgar tone
in them. What does Lord Aiden say ? '

1/ Lord Aiden replied,  say exactly the
same thing ; except that I think I should put
it in stronger language. You, Mr. Foreman,
hold also the same opinion ? '

Lady Mangotsfield again put up her eyeglass
and looked at Foreman, as if in bewilderment
as to what a man like that should know
about such a subject. Mrs. Harley meanwhile
was joining issue with all of them.

I confess,' she was saying, ' I can't see
what you mean. You call Thackeray vulgar.
Why, he was always lashing vulgarity.'

 If he was,' exclaimed Foreman, breaking

out into a chuckling laugh, ' if he was, he
was like Job, scraping his own sores.'

Lady Mangotsfield dropped her eyeglass.
She looked more surprised than ever ; but the
surprise changed its character. Her withered
lips worked themselves into a smile, and leaning
a little forwards, with a voice of tremulous
approbation, ' That's very coarse, Mr.
Foreman,' she said, ' but it's very true  very
true indeed.'

 Mr. Foreman, however,' said Lord Aiden,
thinks one tiling which I confess I don't
understand. He thinks that Thackeray was
our chief political novels.'

Oh, no,' said Lady Mangotsfield, shaking
her head as if that answered the question,

oh, no ; poor dear Lord B was that.

No political novels were ever written like his.'

Excuse me,' said Foreman, ' but Thackeray
exhibited what Lord B hardly tried

to describe, and that is the origin of the

modern Radical party  the party wliicli calls
itself the party of the working-men and of the
people.'

In Thackeray's days,' said Lady ,
 there was no such a party existing.
We were all very good to the poor, but
nobody cared anything about the people.
Politicians in those days were gentlemen.'

Do you think the Radical party,' said
Foreman,  cares anything about the people
now  or about the poor either? Not they.
I've watched them for twenty years, and the

one idea in their minds ' He paused and

looked round the table to see if he was being
listened to. He was. There was silence, and
then he resumed his sentence.  The one idea
in their minds is precisely the same idea that
occupies Thackeray's mind through every one
of his novels.'

 And pray,' said Lady Chislehurst, ' what
idea is that ? '

The uneasy and envious inferiority of a
bourgeoisie in contact with an aristocracy
said Foreman, in a voice so emphatic that it
seemed to defy dissent. ' Every virtue and
every vice is measured in his mind by its
relation to that : and this essentially limited
and middle-class source of temptation is for
him the supreme evil that man has to struggle
with.'

Perfectly true,' said Lord Aiden. ' Xo
criticism could be truer.'

I,' said Mrs. Harley, ' can't admit that fora
moment. Of Thackeray's own character weare
of course none of us talking : we are talking
of the class which Mr. Foreman says is
analyzed by him, and I quite deny that either
in Thackeray's books or in reality their lives
as a rule are filled by this one idea he speaks
of. I have known  I know  many number of
the unmistakable middle-class myself '

My dear,' interposed Lady Mangotsfield,

 I'm sure you know a number of shocking
people

And I can only say,' Mrs. Harley continued,
That simpler people, people more
unworldly, and less pushing I never met within
my life.'

You misunderstand me,' said Foreman.
Two-thirds of the middle-class are Conservative.
You may take their content. I
willingly make you a present of it. I am
talking only of the one-third, which is Radical,
and that one-third represents human nature
for Thackeray. According to Thackeray man
has only two temptations  to fawn on his
superiors, or else to spit in their faces. Had he
not shown us with all the force of his genius
that there are men of whom this is really true,
it would for many of us be very difficult to
believe it. But there are such men  there is
a whole class of them ; and the Radicalism of
to-day is the expression of their corporate

character. In Thackeray's days, Lady ]\Ian-
gotsfield, they had not learnt how to express
it. Will you allow me to tell yon out of my
own humble life a little anecdote which will
help to explain my meaning ? In the
country town where I used to live when a boy,
the great lady was the doctor's wife, Mrs. Hopkins,
and Dr. Hopkins had no more admiring
patient than Mrs. Skinner, the wife of the
wealthiest draper. Well, one Christmas Mrs.
Hopkins gave two memorable parties : the
first for her best friends, the second for her
second best. Mrs. Skinner  I remember the
event now  poor soul, she was asked to the
second ; and she met the wife of the butcher,
and was given a stale mince-pie. From that
day forth the doctor, once so infallible, became,
according to her, an ignorant brazen quack,
and she threatened to go to law with him for
having sent her the wrong prescription. Now,
in place of the Hopkins put the gentlemen

of the country. Take the condition of good
Mrs. Skinner's mind, give it political instead
of private libel to work with ; and there you
have a complete and accurate image of our
Radical leaders when they pretend to a popular
policy. Snapper, for instance, after a public
meeting  a public meeting at which he has
been denouncing the landlords, were there
only some talisman that could force his real
thoughts from him, no fun since the world
began could equal it! Bless my soul, with
him and with all his followers, the real
grievance is that they cannot dine with dukes,
not that millions of wao-e-slaves can o-et no
dinners at all.'

Perfectly true,' said Lady Mangotsfield
to Carew, ' I never heard anything truer ; if
only the dear man would make a little less
noise about it.'

You don't think, then, Mr. Foreman,'
said Lady Chislehurst, who was at heart something

of a reformer,  that these Radicals really
care about doing any good to the people 
about removing any of their grievances ? '

I hope said Foreman, 'you won't think
that the Devil is quoting Scripture when I
answer " By their works you shall know them."
Find me any measure characteristically Radical,
or supported by the Radicals with anything
like enthusiasm, which is not remarkable for
these two things : its imbecile puerility as directed
to the assistance of the people, and its
malevolent ingenuity as directed to the humbling
of the landed aristocracy. In that last
point alone is the Radical party consistent.
As for their leaders  bless my soul !  I run
them over in my own mind, and they are allas
like as one pea to another  every man jack
of them. Each one of them, with his little
hoard of personal bitterness, carries the scowl
of the baffled or hopeless toady under the
pasteboard mask of the vapid smukmg

philanthropist. The desire of a Mr. Japhet
Snapper to rob the gentlemen of their position
is simply a fermentation of his desire to
lick their shoes.'

 Mr. Foreman said Mrs. Harley, * since
when have you become so exclusive ? '

Foreman stared at her. ' I can't imagine
what you mean,' he said.

I am thinking said Mrs. Harley, ' of the
magnificent way in which you contrast Mr.
Snapper with the gentlemen of the country,
who seem according to you to be synonymous
with the country gentleman.'

 They are so,' said Foreman, squaring his
elbows and leaning on them,  the country
gentlemen and their families. I am quite
aware that to many this use of the word is
offensive, for to many people there is nothing
so offensive as truth. But a gentleman is a
man who is born in a certain way ; he is the
same thing as a gentilhomme, and any other

definition, as Dr. Johnson says, is fantastic.
I am myself not a gentleman any more than
I am a negro. By birth I belong to the
middle-classes, and, thanks to my opinions, I
belong to no class at all.'

Really, Mr. Foreman,' began Lady Chislehurst,
' a man of your intellect and education
' But Foreman politely interrupted

her.

Excuse me,' he said, ' I know what you
would tell me exactly. You would tell me
that I was a gentleman because I was a man
of education, and in one sense you would
speak sincerely. But would you say the
same, I should like to know, if I wished to
marry your daughter? '

Had such a question been asked with any
trace of personal feeling, it would naturally
have produced the most awkward situation
imaginable. But Foreman smiled as he spoke
with the most perfect and most phlegmatic

apathy, and though Lady Chislehurst coloured
at the first moment, a glance at his face at
once made her calm again. As for Lady
Mangotsfield, she needed no calming whatever.


A nice unassuming person, this friend of
yours,' she said to Carew, and then turning
her glasses on Foreman with a twinkle of condescending
encouragement, ' If everyone else,'
she said,  were like you, Mr. Foreman, England
would not long be in the state it is at
present.'

By God ! ' roared Foreman, ' you are
perfectly right there.'

Lady Mangotsfield's last sentence had
been too much for him. Everybody stared
at him thunderstruck  everybody but Lady
Mangotsfield herself. As for her, she merely
turned to Carew, and wrinkling her forehead,
as if the sound had pained her, ' It's a pity,'
she said, ' that in his manners he's not a

little more what one could wish him. But
on the whole I like him. He speaks the
truth, and he don't pretend to be a gentleman.'


Yes said Lord Aiden to Foreman, as
they were strolling into the drawing-room,
laying his hand as he spoke on the other's
shoulder, ' I always thought myself this
social envy of the landlords was really at
the bottom of the popular philanthropy of
the Radicals.'

 Well,' said Foreman, with a grim though
good-natured smile, ' we Socialists shall cure
them of that at least, for we shall by-and-by
leave the landlords very little to envy.'

VOL. n.

F Lady Mangotsfield liked Foreman
during dinner, her liking did not
prove to be a very durable feeling,
though, to do her justice, it only departed
gradually. They had hardly been in the
drawing-room five minutes before he had
returned of his own accord to the subject
which the others, for his sake, would have
studiously avoided.

We were talking at dinners Lady Chislehurst,'
he began,  about gentlemen and not
gentlemen. I am told that the other night
you had Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme acted here.

Do you remember what Cleanse says to
Monsieur Jordan : Je vous dirai franchement
que je ne suis point gentilhomme. If only
our bourgeoisie had the same common sense in
England ! As for me, my own parentage
was this : my father was a small grocer, my
mother was the daughter of a parson. She
married against the will of her family ; in
your class you would say she made a mesalliance.
The parson's father was an auctioneer,
and from him, at his son's death,
there descended to my mother some fifteen
thousand pounds  enough to maintain, and
it did maintain, a family, in that swinish comfort
which the middle classes adore, and which
tends to foster a viler type of life than anything
does, except the lowest stage of privation.'


Well,' said Lady Mangotsfield to Lord
Aiden, as if making the best of things,  he's
quite right not to be ashamed of his parents,

c2

though he needn't think we're so anxious to
hear all about his private affairs.'

 I don't want,' Foreman was meanwhile
proceeding, unconsciously anticipating this
criticism,  I don't want to trouble you with
my own biography ; I only want to show
you this  from what position I look out upon
the world, and how perfectly free I am from
aristocratic bias when I criticise, as I have
done, the middle-class Radical party. I have
left my own class, but I have not tried to
enter yours, except as a curious observer.
That I have done, and in so impartial a spirit
that I could, if I liked, give my own impressions
of you with as little prejudice as if you
were South Sea Islanders.'

A slight cloud was gathering on Lady
Mangotsfield's face. Lady Chislehurst's, on
the contrary, was brightening with the sunlight
of inquiry. 'Well,' she said, 'give us some
of your impressions  do ! We are all listening.

Nothing could interest us more. I feel she
added, as she smoothed down her rustling
silk, 'just as if one was going to hear one's
character told from one's hand.'

 You want to know,' said Foreman, look '
ing round him, ' what I, an outsider, think of
you. I'm very blunt; I go to the point at
once. 1 think, then, that you, the ladies and the
gentlemen of England, are the only people
who behave like ladies and gentlemen ; for all
such behaviour is based upon one thing  a
sense of inherited and un worked for superiority.
Other classes, no doubt, may try to
copy it, but they have not the sense I speak
of, so the copy is merely a sham. It is as meaningless
as a portcullis would be at the gate of
a Clapham villa.'

Come,' interposed Mrs. Harley, ' I shall
make a stand now in earnest. If you are
going to talk again about what classes are
vulgar and not vulgar, I must at any rate tell

you this. I've met with more vulgarity and
more snobbishness in the very highest sections
of society than I ever have done in any other.
And as for refinement, cultivation, and real
consideration for others, I could show you
these in every grade of the middle classes  yes,
and amongst the workmen too

 My dear Mrs. Harley,' said Lord Aiden,
 that I can well believe. A snob is simply a
person, no matter what his station, who judges
aristocratic society by the standards and with
the feelings of the middle class : and many
fine people, now classes are so jostled together,
have learnt to do this, as we all of us here
must know. Snobbishness is a thing quite
distinct from worldliness. It is simply an
ignorant and distorted social judgment, which
only becomes offensive, indeed it only becomes
apparent, when snobs who are worldly act
upon it.'

There's more truth,' exclaimed Foreman,

in what you have just said, than perhaps
your Lordship appreciates. Those qualities,
Mrs. Harley, which you just now named tous
 they make a man better than a gentleman,
but they don't make him a gentleman, and I
can't think why you should try to prove they
do.'

Dear Lady Mangotsfield,' said Lady
Chislehurst, ' and what is your view of the
matter? '

'What, my dear? What?' said Lady
Mangotsfield sharply. ' I've not been listening
to what has been said lately. I don't at all
understand what it all is you have been
talking about.' This reply was accompanied
by a slight rustling sound; and the party
then perceived that Lady Mangotsfield had
a newspaper in front of her, and either was, or
was at least pretending to be, quite unconscious
of the conversation. It was all very
well, she thought, that Foreman should admit

he was not a gentleman, and should expose
the malcontents of his own rank m life with
the authority that comes of near acquaintanceship.
It might even be borne  though this
was perhaps a liberty  that he should compliment
gentlemen on the superiority of their
breeding. But that he should presume to go
into such niceties as what good breeding was,
and that her friends should be discussing with
him  the son of a small grocer  the most
delicate social problems that occupy high
society  this was more than Lady Mangoes
could endure. A copy of the ' Figaro '
had happened to be beside her, which afforded
her the means of making a silent protest; and
though it is true she was holding it upside
down, she managed to fix her eyes on it with
an air of severe abstraction.

 We've been talking,' said Lady Chislehurst,
' about the difference between snobs
and gentlemen. We thought it was a subject

in which you took a good deal of interest.'


Not I, my dear,' said Lady Mangotsfield.
I don't know anything about snobs. In my
day we used to have nothing to do with them.
Mr. Carew, may I ask you to light me a
candle and ring for my servant. I think I
will go upstairs now. I shall have a great
deal,' she added as she was going out of the
door, ' I shall have a great deal to tell that fine
gentleman Mr. Inigo, if I see him. He, I've
no doubt, will be charmed to hear all about it.*

It was well for Lady Mangotsfield's
feelings that she left the scene when she did,
for Foreman, despite her inattention, was fast
warming with his subject, and all the others
were anxious to keep him going. Hardly had
Lady Mangotsfield had the door closed upon
her, when he had again fastened on Mrs.
Harley and caught up the thread of his argument.


Wliy, Mrs. Harley he said, ' should you
be so anxious to prove all your virtuous
friends gentlemen ? And why, Lady Chislehurst,
should you be shy of denying the
title to me ? The distinction really is
hardly worth fighting for. You and your
friends will possess it a little longer, but
nobody will possess it for long. When it goes
it will be a pretty thing lost ; but it is merely
a pretty thing now, though once it was much
more.'

And why ? said Lady Chislehurst, ' do
you think it need go at all ? '

And why, pray,' said Mrs. Harley,
 should it not be shared by everybody ? '

 Why?' echoed Foreman. ' For a precious
simple reason. Because you can never turn
everybody into a small and exceptional class.
That is why you can't confer it on others.
Before very long you will have ceased to be
exceptional ; and this is why you will soon

lose it yourselves. How do you differ from
the wealthy middle classes ? In this  that
along with your wealth you have traditions of
hereditary power and usefulness. Well, your
part is played ; you are useful and powerful
no longer. Don't think I speak from any ill-feeling
against an aristocracy as such. As a
Socialist  I suppose, Mrs. Harley, I may use
that terrible word now  as a Socialist, I regard
you as the survival of a class that was once
both noble and necessary : whereas the modern
middle class, the slave-driving bourgeoisie has
been bad from the very beginning, and everyday
it is growing worse.'

 Do you think,' said Carew, ' that, supposing
we made an effort, there would be a
chance for us still of retrieving a lost position? '

 No,' said Foreman bluffly; ' I don't thmk,
Mr. Carew, that there would ; and if you like
it, I'll tell you why, though Lord Aiden  he
may not know it  has really told you already.

You, the gentlemen of the country, the old
landed families  I include, too, the newer
ones which have acquired the good will of
their predecessors  you no longer stand on
your own proper foundations. You are
reduced financially to mere hangers-on of the
bourgeoisie. Your material splendour, which
once had a real meaning, is still, no doubt,
maintained. But how ? Here is an instance.
Some while since I went from curiosity to seethe
castle of a certain duke. During the last
ten years it has been what he calls restored.
The yellow stucco of ninety years ago has
given place to the towers of a Gothic castle.
Well, what does this imposing transformation
mean ? That his Grace has become more
powerful as a territorial noble ? Not a bit of
it. What it means is this : that he has five
million dollars' worth of railway stock in
America. Such is the case with the whole
body of the aristocracy.'

I wish murmured Lord Aiden to
Carew, ' I could say it was the case with
me.'

It is a type,' went on Foreman, ' of the
present position of you all. You could no
longer live like seigneurs if you were not half
tradesmen.'

But surely,' said Mrs. Harley, ' these are
the very people  these rich landlords with
capital to fall back upon  who as landlords
can be most generous to their tenantry.*

 Yes,' said Foreman, ' and some of them
are generous. Some of them, have returned
50 per cent, of their rents, where 10 per cent,
would have been more than ample. Such
generosity does more harm than good ; and,
apart from that, you seem quite to forget the
operatives  the hands, as you call them, the
poor jaded underfed wage slaves, drudging
somewhere in the foul air of some factory,
who really supply the cost of it. You quite

forget, or you else have not yet learnt the one
grand truth that we Socialists mean to teach
yon. The profits of capital are the spoliation
of labour ; and it is as impossible for a
capitalist to be a real friend of the people as
for the owner of a gin palace to be a real
apostle of temperance.'

Foreman's savage accent was in this last
utterance ; and Mrs. Harley, who knew it
well, detected its presence not without anxiety.
Mr. Stanley, however, seemed perfectly unruffled
; and with an air of authority which
seemed to surprise Foreman said, ' There you
raise two quite distinct points. Allow me
for the present to put the last one aside  the
illegitimacy of the profits derived from capital
; and accepting them as a fact, I will put
one question to you. You admit that our
aristocracy still has a tradition of leadership.
Don't you think that an aristocrat who receives
the profits of capital may possibly

administer them in the old aristocratic spirit.
For, after all, what are they ? merely a new
form of power

 Ah,' said Foreman, with a slightly
malicious laugh, ' I am coming to that now.
For the moment, if you like, I will grant that
your profits are right enough. I will keep
that crow to pick with you by-and-by : and
since you wish it, I will answer you this first.
Only I tell you again, Lord Aiden has anticipated
me in what just now he said about
snobs and snobbishness.'

 What did I say ? I forget,' murmured
Lord Aiden languidly.

 You said, my lord,' said Foreman, ' that
a number of fine people had learnt to judge of
one another by the standards of the class
below them. And that is what I have to say
in answer to Mr. Stanley, t only has our
aristocracy cast in its lot with the bourgeoisie
financially, but it has become corrupted by

32 THE OLD ORDER CHANGES

the ideas of the bourgeoisie socially. You
have often told me, Mrs. Harley, and I have
gathered it myself from the papers, that if
some Manchester slave-driver wants to succeed
in London, thousands of pounds are
spent on a single ball, and to this, with the
aid of some fashionable lady as an accomplice,
the fashionable world comes flocking like so
many moths about a candle.'

Yes,' said Harley, ' that is perfectly true ;
and next week they will have forgotten the
host and hostess.'

I think, dear,' said his wife,  that you
are wrong there. They will be quite civil
to them ; and will ask them, in return, to
their own balls. But the civility will be so
distant that virtually it amounts to an insult ;
and my only wonder is that these people will
stand it.'

Oh ! ' said Foreman, gruffly ; * they
know it won't last for long. The people who

are rude to them this year, five years hence
will be courting them.'

You are quite right,' said Lord Aiden ina
melancholy murmur. ' This rudeness is
only the sacrifice which our fine people offer
to their own self-respect. Think of the self-respect
which such a sacrifice can propitiate ! '

At any rate,' said Carew, with a slight
cynical laugh, ' they won't let their territory
be invaded without a struggle.'

The territory,' said Foreman, ' is only
sticking out for the highest price it can get.
But this,' he went on, ' is merely a side matter.
The point is not that you truckle to
their wealth  not even that you share it.
The point is that you adopt their standards,
which are the very inverse of your own, and
that you are fast coming to measure all life
by them. A man once had a stately dinner
because he was a great man. Xow he is a
great man because he has a stately dinner.

VOL. II. D

That is the principle on which you countenance
them ; and, having once accepted it,
you have to apply it to yourselves. Here you
have the reason why half the land of England
is mortgaged. Think of this bourgeoisie which
was once fawning at your feet ; and now you
are ruining yourselves in order to feed it with
truffles, or to avoid the shame of not eating
so many truffles as it does.'

Come,' said Mrs. Harley, ' I want you to
tell me this. How does a man who draws an
income, say from a brewery, differ from a
man who has had just the same education,
but happens to draw his income from an old
landed property ? Would you really wish
that from a mere sense of pride the one
should refuse to associate on equal terms with
the other ? '

 They don't differ,' said Foreman,  except
superficially. That is the very pont I am
arguing.'

'Well,' said Mrs. Harley, 'and low should
they, or could they ? '

They can't,' said Foreman. ' That is,
again, my point. Revolutions, as I told you,
are not made by individuals ; and the social
change which we are now speaking of is only
a fragment of a change that is far wider. Xo ;
our aristocracy and our bourgeoisie don't differ,
except superficially ; and it is absurd for the
one to affect to despise the other, because it
is absurd to believe that an aristocracy any
longer really exists. There are but two
classes in the world  labourers, and those
who traffic in labour.'

What, then, Mr. Foreman,' said Lady
Chislehurst, a little severely, ' can 3'ou possibly
mean by what you just now told us
about Radicalism ? You told us that the
motive of the rich Radical classes was nothing
but envy of this same non-existent aristocracy.'


D 2

 When I spoke replied Foreman, ' of our
aristocracy as having ceased to exist, remember,
please, that I added this saving clause.
I said  I even urged  that it still retained its
appearance, which, though not a sham, and
when gone quite irreplaceable, is all the same
a mere dying survival. Still, it is this  this
shadow, this phantom  which our rich bourgeoisie
envy ; but envy is a passion which
shows itself in two opposite ways. The retired
huckster who spends five thousand
pounds on hanging a ball-room with roses, in
the hope that countesses will dance m it  his
is an ambition which is petty and ignoble
enough. But make his ambition still more
intense and sensitive, make it ten times
more abject, ten times more grovelling, and
then it inverts itself, and turns into rancorous
hatred. The orators who are so anxious to
rob the lords of their coronets are the very
men who, had the opportunity only come to

them, would have given their eyes to boast
about " My intimate friend Lord So-and-so."
'

 That,' said Lord Aiden, ' I am sure, is
perfectly true.'

And I can give you, my lord,' said Foreman,
 one piece of comfort at least. Before
Mr. Snapper relieves you of your lordship's
coronet, we shall have relieved Mr. Snapper
of many things far more substantial.'

 Now, Mr. Foreman,' said Mrs. Harley,
 although you are a Revolutionist, you must
not forget you are an invalid ; and society
itself, though it is only as old as civilization,
is hardly more easy to upset than your
health at the present moment. So you must
let me remind you that it is already past your
bedtime.'

You're very kind to me,' said Foreman,
with real gratitude in his voice.

I'll tell you what I am,' said Mrs.

Harley. ' I'm very much provoked at you.
It's all very fine to denounce the bourgeoisie,
as you call them. But why should not Mr.
Snapper, if he uses his wealth well, be as
useful to England under Queen Victoria as
ever was any baron before the Wars of the
Roses ? Mr. Stanley asked you that very
question just now '

Yes said Foreman, looking about him
eagerly,  and would you really listen to me if
I gave sou the full answer ? If so, you shall
hear a few more truths tomorrow.'

 Do you know,' said Harley, as soon as
Foreman was out of the room,  there's a good
bit of shrewdness in some of the things he
says.'

You mean,' said Lord Aiden, ' about
Radicalism, and fine ladies, and ball-rooms ? '

'All that,' said Mrs. Harley, ' about ballrooms
hung with roses  poor Foreman, I
don't suppose he was ever in a ball-room in

his life  it's all true in a way, but of course
it's out of proportion.'

The simple fact of the matter said Lord
Aiden, ' is this. He makes the mistake of
every theorist who approaches a life with
which he is not familiar, and thinks he can
understand it by the aid of his general principles.
One can do that with no high society
least of all with English. The relation
that prevails, and indeed has always prevailed
in England, between birth and riches,
between rank, power, and talent, may not,
perhaps, be the most important problem in
the world ; but, excepting Chinese grammar,
I doubt if anything is more complicated ; and
a judgment on it that even approaches truth
is as nice a thing as the most delicate chemical
compound. It is a mental secretion rather
than a mental achievement. It is easy to
learn principles ; the problem is how to apply
them. They themselves may possibly never

change ; but the circumstances they apply to
are rarely in two cases the same ; and our
social judgments, and much of what we mean
by good-breeding, are a constant process of
instinctive casuistry.'

 Precisely,' said Mr. Stanley. ' A man is
no nearer being well-bred from having learnt
the rules of an etiquette book, than he is
nearer being a saint from knowing the ten
commandments. And,' he added, smiling, ' as
for our friend Mr. Foreman, what he says
may be shrewd enough here and there ; but
taking as a whole his views of the wealthier
classes, his own manners, I expect, are more
like those of a dandy than his judgment of
the dandy's position could be like the actual
truth.'

Well,' said Carew,  we shall see what he
will tell us tomorrow.'

sand you too, Mr. Carew,' exclaimed
Lady Chislehurst, ' you mustn't forget that

you still owe us a debt. Do you remember
your promise to tell us something about yourself,
and some little mystery that employs
you here at the chateau ? My dear,' she
whispered to Miss Consuelo Burton,  my own
belief is, he's preparing himself for becoming
a Catholic'

 Foreman,' said Carew,  leaves us tomorrow
afternoon. When he is gone I shall
be pleased to show you my mystery.'

EITHER Foreman nor Lady 
had so absorbed the attention
of everybody as to prevent the
arrangements being made that came so near
Lady Chislehurst's heart for the celebration
next morning of early Mass in the chapel ; and
the servants for the occasion deserting the
village church, there was present a very
respectable congregation. To Lady Chislehurst's
extreme delight, Carew was amongst
the number ; though could she have read the
inner thoughts of his heart, she would have
seen in what brought him there some cause

for disappointment. He came less in the
hopes of being touched by the sacred rite himself,
than for the sake of observing the demeanour
of Miss Consuelo Burton.

On a similar occasion, unknown to her,
he had once before watched her at the
Crompton Oratory ; and the sight of her
there had left behind it an image which,
whenever he thought of it, a'ave a secret elevation
to his life. And could it be, he had
now lately asked himself, could it be that this
vision, this faith was leaving her, which had
once almost awed him, as though she were
a superior being, and yet, at the same time,
had somehow suggested help to him ? Much
of what she had said during the last few
days seemed to hint this ; and as, from a
shadowy corner, he now fixed his eyes on her,
he watched with a feeling of apprehensive
sadness to detect some signs in her of a difference
from her former self. And such signs,

without doubt, he did detect ; but they were
not of the kind he had anticipated. What
was his surprise when, instead of seeing, as he
was prepared to see, that the devotion once so
fervent had become lukewarm and perfunctory,
he grew gradually to realize more and more
that, if signs meant anything, it had grown
and not lost in intensity! This was the girl
who, only the day before, had seemed to be
complaining that the chief of her Church's
sacraments had ceased for her to have any
saving virtue. Carew, as he watched her,
felt more strongly than ever as if, through
her, he were somehow placed in the presence
of a power, a life, and a help which, to
his own eye, was hidden ; and when she rose
finally, and was about to leave the chapel,
her dark eyes, as she raised them towards
the dingy window, seemed to have another
light in them beyond what came through
the cobwebs, and there was a glimmer in

them as of tears that had just been shed
secretly.

Well said Lady Chislehurst as she met
him in the passage afterwards, ' I am glad, Mr.
Carew, to have seen you here this morning.'

Next said Carew, ' to saying a prayer
oneself, the best thing is to watch a good
Catholic praying.'

Lady Chislehurst answered this with a
glance of benediction and encouragement ;
and then for an instant laying her hand on
his arm, ' Did you see,' she said, ' someone
else, who was present in the gallery ? I
could hardly believe my eyes : it was actually
Mr. Foreman.'

At this very moment Foreman himself appeared,
having emerged from a narrow staircase.

Mr. Foreman ! ' exclaimed Lady Chislehurst,
' allow me to congratulate you on the
way in which you have begun your Sunday.'

Oh said Foreman, with a bland and

careless laugh,  I watch beliefs just as I watch
classes. Besides, to-day I was doing what is
merely an act of justice. I have been listening
to you because you have promised to listen
to me.'

At breakfast. Lady Mangotsfield being safe
with an egg in bed, Mr. Stanley recurred to
this same subject. 'Mr. Foreman,' he said,
must remember what lies before him. He
promised to tell us why what he calls the
bourgeoisie can never succeed to the part that
was once played by the aristocracy. I have a
special curiosity to hear what he says on this
point ; so I, for one, shall be no party to
excusing him.'

Foreman was flattered to find he had
roused such interest; but he experienced a
sensation of somewhat uneasy surprise at the
critical tone which his ear seemed to catch in
Mr. Stanley's manner of speaking about his
special curiosity.' ' What,' thought Foreman,

'can this man, who only an hom ago
was muttering hocus pocus, in the dress of a
mediaeval conjurer  what can he know of the
rights and the claims of Labour? What can
he know of that coming social earthquake
which will send his churches toppling like a
house of cards ? '

I trust,' he said civilly, but with a slight
accent of sarcasm, 'that you will not thmk,
if I really try to explain myself, that I am
engaging you on subjects not befitting the
day.'

On the contrary,' said Mr. Stanley, with
the same note in his voice, which seemed to
indicate that he was treading on familiar
ground, ' if your theory, or if your religion  I
suppose, Mr. Foreman, I may venture to call
it a religion '

Certainly,' said Foreman ; ' and of a kind
that will make martyrs.'

Well,' said Mr. Stanley, ' if your religion

were true, I should regard it at once as an
integral part of mine

Do you think, sir,' said Foreman,  that
the two would agree together? '

They would,' said Mr. Stanley, ' if the
world were perfect ; and when the world is
perfect they will.'

Perhaps,' returned Foreman,  you are
hardly quite aware of what the principles of
us Socialists are.'

And for that reason,' said Mr. Stanley,
 we are so anxious that you should tell us.'

After breakfast Foreman's first proceeding
was to beg Mrs. Harley to have a word in
private with him.

I have with me,' he said in a low confidential
tone, ' a copy of the new Address which
the League is printing by thousands, and distributing
in all the poorer quarters in London.
It has also been translated into French, and
our executive committee has sent two thousand

copies to Decazeville, and ten thousand
to the men on strike in Belgium. It goes
straight, and without any humbug, to the
bottom of the matter ; and as these people
seem anxious to hear something more from
me, I could give them a glimpse of the ground
they are really standing on. Do you think
they would listen to me? I don't want to
convert them ; it's of no possible moment
whether they are converted or not, and I
should be sorry to bore them when no good
could come of it.'

No, no,' said Mrs. Harley ; ' let us have
your address by all means. I will put it to
them now, and I'm sure they will say the
same. Mr. Carew, Lady Chislehurst, everybody:
Mr. Foreman says, if you wish to hear
more about Socialism he will read you a
paper he has just written himself, and which
will tell us aU just what we want to hear
from him.'

VOL. II. E

Everyone assented to this proposal with
pleasure, and a servant was sent to Foreman's
bedroom for a bag, which seemed when
it appeared to be bulging with revolutionary-literature.


Holloa ! ' exclaimed Harley,  hooray for
the dynamite! Evelyn, why in the world
have I been given this red pocket handkerchief
? I'll give it to Foreman, and he shall
use it as a flag.'

Ah,' said Foreman with a grunt,  you
may laugh if you like now. But even now
you'd perhaps not laugh so much could you
only see a letter which I got this morning
from Chicago.' And he pulled out and tapped
an exceedingly dirty-looking envelope.

Meanwhile, however, he had been grubbing
about in his bag, and at last he extracted from
it, with a quiet triumphant smile, a limp
printed document like an electioneering leaflet.
By this time his congregation had gathered

round him, the members varying in the depth
and quality of their interest, but all possessed
with the not unpleasant feeling that they
were going to be given a peep into the mind
of a real conspirator.

 What I am going to read began Foreman,
'as I have just told Mrs. Harley, is designed
for the poorest workmen.' But here
he stopped ; his eyes seemed to be straying
from the paper he was reading to another
that was lying upon his knee. ' Perhaps,' he
said, as he took up this latter, 'you will let
me first add a word or two to something I
said last night.'

All his audience looked at him, and they
were surprised both in his voice and his
expression to detect a softness that had
hitherto been present in neither. ' We were
talking,' he went on, ' about Thackeray, and the
social facts which he represented. I have here
an extract from the best of his books, though

B 2

the least instructive  "Esmond"; and just
as in most places he exhibits the meanest of
all social emotions, so here he spreads out for
us, as a soft bed to repose upon, the falsest
and yet the most plausible of all the moral
emotions. " Love," he writes  and the
writing is pretty enough  " Love, omnia viiicit,
is immeasurably above all ambitions, more
precious than wealth, more noble than name.
He knows not life who knows not that ; he
hath not felt the highest faculty of the soul
who hath not enjoyed it. In the name of my
wife I write the completion of hope and the
summit of happiness. To have such love is
the one blessing in comparison of which all
earthly joy is of no value ; and to think of
her is to praise God ! " '

Beautiful ! ' said Lady Chislehurst.

Why, that,' said Mrs. Harley, ' is my
favourite bit in Thackeray. What have you
to say against that ? '

 Pooh ! ' said Foreman. * There is the
fault of all religions. They keep you fiddling
away with your own private emotions, dusting
your own souls, and filling yourselves
with ecstasy if none of the little Dresden-china
virtues in them are broken. What risht have
you to think that the summit of happiness,
when your neighbours are turned into brutes
by despair or hunger next door to you ?
Give me the man whose only notion of love is
derived from a sixpenny kiss and a pair of
painted cheeks ; and if such a man remembers
the crying misery of the poor, he's a better
man, I say, than any others who forget it,
even if they forget it in praising God for their
wives.'

Lady Chislehurst's face became frigid with
disapproval, and she cast an anxious glance
towards Miss Consuelo Burton. Mr. Stanley
then, who was sitting near Foreman, said
something in a low tone to him, in which

Miss Consuelo's name occurred ; but it was
evident that then he must have added something
conciliating, for Foreman, dropping the
paper he had just been glancing at, again took
up the original one, and proposed to resume his
reading. As for Miss Consuelo herself, Carew
looked at her, and her eyes were fixed on
Foreman, as if her very soul were in the words
he had just uttered.

He was now beginning again.

What I am going to read,' he repeated,
is designed for the poorest workmen. It is
therefore put as simply as possible, and every
point is ignored except those which are absolutely
necessary. Mr. Stanley looks at me as
if he would ask, Necessary for what ? I mean,
necessary for this  for showing the wage-slave
what is the real relation between the
results of his labour, the wages by which his
labour is bought, and the profits of the employer
who buys it  the profits, or what is

just the same thing, the interest on the
capital, the shares, the investments which
that employer manipulated. Think of that,'
exclaimed Foreman, his face growing gradually
darker. ' Let every owner of personalty think
of that ! Let every owner of land, which is
now merely the least objectionable form of
personalty, think of that ! And it will thus
be seen that this little leaflet, these few little
pages I am now going to read to you, goes
straight to the root of the existing social
misery, and also,' he added, giving his voice a
sarcastic calmness,  of the existing social order.
Well, I begin my Address thus :

Fellow-citizens working-man  no matter
what you work at, icorJcing icith your hands for
daily images : Have you ever known chat it is
to want for anything  for a better meal, for a
more wholesome lodging, for a bit of pleasure
and leisure for yourself, your wife, and children
1 Are you ever discontented with the

squalid court into which the window of your one
room opens? Do you ever think that tough
'meat twice a week, and on most days a herring
and a dry crust of bread, is not quite all that a
hard day's work should earn, in this land of
fabulous plenty 1 If so, consider this question.
It concerns you very nearly,

By what means do you live, if that can be
called life which is only not starvation ? The
single dog's hole that you live in, the wretched
food you eat, the very rags you stuff into the
broken window-panes  to get even these you must
give or sell something, They are not given to
you out of good nature. Now, what is it that
you do give or sell? Have you a balance at
your banker's f Have you an estate in the
country ? Beyond the clothes on your back and
a few chairs and blankets, do you possess anything
at all? And were all these sold, would
they feed and lodge you for a week ? Not they.
Suppose that for a week you were thrown out of

employment luhat would your case he at the end
of it ? Would you have anything ? Could any
creature in the icicle wide ivorld he so wholly
destitute, so wholly helpless as you ?

Do you see your nakedness ? You possess
absolutely nothing  nothing, and yet one thing.
That thing is your labour  the power of your
muscles, guided hy the intelligence of your
brain. It is your labour that you give and sell
from day to day for your subsistence. Cease to
labour, and if it were not for the workhouse you
would die,

 And now turn from your own case  from
your own one room  to that magnificent palace
yonder. Look at the owner coming out of it,
with a gorgeous flower in his button-hole, and
about to enter his carriage. Consider him ; take
a good look at him. That man sleeps on the
softest down. Every hour of the day, if he
wishes it, he eats some costly dainty. Be has
thirty servants, who each eat more at a sitting

than you do in two ivliole days. The cornice
round one of that maris rooms has cost as much
as ivill be the total of all your lifers earnings.
Here then is a second question for you : How
does this oman live? To get all these countless
these incredible luxuries he too must give or sell
something. Nobody gives them to him out of
good nature. We will tell you what he gives or
sells. It is the same thing  the very same thing
that you do  it is LABOUR.

" Labour! " you exclaim; " he never did a
strove of work in his life. Do his puffy ichite
hands  covered ivith rings  look like it?  My
friend you are quite right  he never did a
stroke as you say. Catch him I And yet what
he gives in exchange for all these luxuries is
Labour. It is all he has got to give  Labour.
And it is Labour just such as yours  the joiner
of muscle, gilded by the intelligence of a brain.
But he differs from you in this point, and in
this point only : the Labour he gives is not his

OKUj hut it is yours. Yes yours, and that of
hundreds of others of your fellow-labourers.
And homo does he get this Labour, this use of
your muscles and your intelligence ? There is
only one way in ichich he can ]possibly get it,
and in that way he does get it. He STEALS
it. How could he get it otherwise ? Are you
his property ? What right has he to your
labour ?

Perhaps a new idea like this frightens you.
Perhaps you icill say that this man lives on the
profits of his capital. Well, if you like, you may
say that ; it is only a question of words. But
ice u'oidd advise you to use cords ichich explain
their meaning a little more clearly. We will
give you some that do; and as to what our
words mean, you will be in no doubt whatever.
Capital  this Capital we hear so much about 
is simply the thief s ' name for Accumulated
Labour ; and profits, or interest, is simply the
thief s name for Stolen Labour.

 Listen friend. No doubt you have studied
politics and have heard a good deal about Party
cries. Well, how does that which we have just
said strike you as the material for a cry ?
Perhaps you have heard things like it in the
speeches of various Radicals. If you have, it is
only for this reason  that these Radicals, who
profess to be such friends of yours, never mean
what they say, and, in this case, have not understood
what they say. How can we know this ?
you ask. We know it for a very good reason.
The leaders of these same Radicals are the
greatest Labour Thieves in England themselves,
and, therefore, they cannot really be proclaiming
to you the truth, which, if you once understood
it, would put a stop to the entire look of their
lives. The particular slave-driver ivho, you are
no doubt told, will be in a few years the Radical
Prime Minister, and whose own endeavours loll
be then to protect your interests, steals from you
at the rate of three thousand pounds a month,

and is always looking about for means ivhich
will enable him to go on stealing with greater
and still greater security. He calls this looking
for sound investments,

 If then, yon think that a cry against the
Labour Thieves icill be a good cry for the
labouring classes to rally to, ice agree with you.
But do not confound it icith the cries the Radicals
offer you. Their cries, even if they sound like
ours, have noticing in common with it hut the
sound. Their cries are clap-trap. Ours, which
ice offer you, is truth. Yes, my friend, trtith.
We do not commend it to you merely because it
suggests hope to you, but because it is based on a
truth which can be as clearly proved, and is as
scientifically true, as any of those discoveries
which have resulted in railways or the electric
telegraph. The political economists will not like
it. We do not expect they will ; but in the course
of a few years we shall have taught them to
swallow it. At first it will startle them. It will

startle them still more later on, chien they see
what is the result of your acting on it  lichen they
see how very different their own lives are then,
and how different yours are, too. We think
that that will startle them,

 This, then, is the great truth which we want
you, as a working-man, as a man ivho icorhs
for an employer, to grasp. The profits of that
employer, which make him a rich man, are simply
thieving from your Labour, and he thieves
from you in this way : He only pays you a
quarter of what your Labour is worth. Every
time he gives you five-and-tiventy shillings you
virtually have given him five pounds. You give
him a five-pound note, and he professes to give
you change for it. What he does give you is a
sovereign and five shillings. He quietly pockets
the rest, saying nothing to you about it. There
you have his profits.

Think of this, and see if it is not true. Do
not say it is true before you have examined it.

We wait you, before you get the idea fixed
in your head, to thoroughly examine it, so as to
he able to explain it and show your friends
that it is no mere idle talc. When once you
have seen it, it is the clearest thing in the
world'

Now,' said Foreman, ' looking up from
his paper, ' we are coming to the great theorem
of Revolutionary Economics  a discovery
hardly known to our bourgeois politicians,
but one beside which, for its practical import
to society, those of Newton, of Darwin, of
"Watt himself, are insignificant. We come
to Karl Marx's theorem as to the nature of
profits or interest, or  to put the matter
plainly  of the entire subsistence of the leisured
and the propertied classes. This is the
real dynamite that will shatter our existing
civilization  this single economic discovery.
Recollect I am putting it here in the simplest
way possible ; and the land question  quite a

secondary one  for the moment I omit altogether.'


Come he went on, beginning again to
read, ' take any case ivliich as a workman you
knoio hy your own experience  one such case is
just as good as another  in lohich you or your
fellows make some given thing for a wage-payer.
One example will he as good as a thousand,

Let us take, say, a number of boots, u'hich
you are making for the owner of a large boot-shop.
On what does that shopkeeper live, as he
does live, in affluence For he is affluent,
compared with you, at any rate.

Part of the answer is easy, and anybody
can at oiice give it. He lives on the difference
between ivhat he gives you for making the boots
and what his customers give him for them.

Yes, but icait a bit. All that difference
is not theft, and he does not live on the icicle
of it. Let us he quite just, and not jump
too quickly at conclusions. The shopkeeper  let

US put this point first  does some icorJc on the
hoots, just as you do, before they are sold finally.
He introduces your hoots to the customer ; he
makes them marketable. This work is necessary,
and he must he paid for it; though, as the cork
is easier than yours, he should, perhaps, he paid
less. Of the difference, then, between the price he
gets for the hoots and the sum he pays you for
making them ice must credit him, to he generous,
with a wage equal to yours. Be careful, however,
to see what that meaivs. It is faster work
to sell hoots than to make them, and he sells, ice
may suppose, in one day what it takes you six
days to make. Thus, if the shopkeeper is to he
fully occupied, he must employ six workmen, each
of whom supplies him with hoots for one day in
the week. Since, then, he is entitled to the same
weekly wage as you and your fellows, he is
entitled, for selling your six days' Labour, to
exactly one-sixth of what he pays you for it. If
he gives you, say, five shillings a day, he is

VOL. II. F

entitled to Jive shillings a day Itself. Thus, he
is entitled to Jive shillings For selling what he jays
you thirty shillings for making. You see, therefore,
that what he pays you thirty shillings for
making cannot possibly he sold to the customer
for less than thirty-five shillings,

 It coidd not be sold for less. We must say
more than that : it could not be sold for so little.
Consider, the shopkeeper has to pay for the
leather, and he has also to pay for his shop.
The leather costs, we ivill say, as much as your
own wages, namely, thirty shillings for the iceek ;
the rent of the shop for the day on which he sells
your work is seven shillings. Here, then, is a
total of thirty-seven shillings, which the shopkeeper,
if he is to sell hoots at all, must get hack
from the customer.

 Now, then, here is a little sum for you,
which will explain your employer'' s position, sofar
as it has to do with you. Thirty shillings
you receive for the making of so many hoots ; your

employer must receive five shillings for selling
them ; he must receive also, thirty shillings for
the material, ichich he has bought, and seven
shillings for the days use of the shop  making
in all seventy-two shillings. That is the minimum
for which the hoots could he sold ; and, were they
sold for that, the shopkeeper woidd he earning
exactly what you earn. He could he living as
you live, in one squalid room, tasting meat only
twice a week. But does he live like that ? Not
he, as you know well enough. You know: inhere
his snug villa is, icith its greenhouse, and its
garden in front of it ; and you have seen the
chops and steaks which he has every day in the
hack parlour of his shop.

Here at last ice come to the practical question \
for you  for you, the man who has stitched the \
hoots  you through chose sweat and weariness
the leather has become hoots at all. How is it
your employer lives as he does live  live so much
letter than you ? How does he get the money

F 2

which enables him to do so ? Let us see. Let us
take a ieep at his account-hoods, and they ice
rather fancy  will throw a little light on the subject.

His account-books tell us that he gets his
money in this ivy -from selling the boots not for
seventy-two shillings but for a hundred and
sixty shillings. Remember this too  he is able
to sell the boots for that sum because they are
worth it. If they were not icorth it he could
not get it. The competition of other shoemakers
would pretty soon force his price down. Taking
the shopkeepers of this country as a body, the
average price charged by them, and got by them
for their goods from, the public, represents the
value of those goods. Of those goods our boots
aise only a specimen,

 How, then, do the boots come to have the value
above stated? What item is there in the cost of
producing and selling them that we have not yet
considered? The rent of the shop is seven
shillings, the leather costs thirty shillings  that is

thirty-seven shillings. You merely have to add
the shopkeeper s own wage five shillings and
your image, thirty shillings making in all, seventy-two
shillings ; and yet the total reside is a hundred
and sixty shillings. There are eighty-eight
shillings unaccounted for. Perhaps he bought
the leather too cheap, or got his shop too cheap.
Do you think that? Do landlords let their shops
below the market price ? Do leather-sellers let
their customers have for thirty shillings what is
really worth a hundred and eighteen 1 You
know better than to believe that. Depend upon it
your employer has paid for the house and the
leather every penny that either of them is worth.
Think ! Do you smell a rat now 1 Does it
strike you that there may still be something
for which he has not paid so honestly ? There
is only one thing left and that thing is your
Labour.

There you have it. There is the thing ichich
the eighty-eight shillings comes from. Your

Labour with your employer's added to it -for let
us give the Devil his due, and let us remember
his Labour also  this Labour is in reality worth,
not thirty or thirty-jive shillings, but it is worth
a hundred and twenty-three shillings. Of this
one-sixth belongs to him. What is one-sixth
of that? Twenty shillings and sixpence. Give
him that, and have done with him; and then
ivhat remains for you f Five pounds two shillings
and sixpence. That is your just share;
not thirty shillings. Thus your employer, every
time he pays your weekly vmge, underpart you
by the difference between these two sums. That
is to say, he robs you of three pounds twelve
shillings and sixpence. He robs you of it, he
pockets it, and then calls it his profits.

 Turn this thought over in your mind.
Think of it at leisure ; think of it in the workshop.
Think of it when you have not a penny
in your pocket, when you are hungry when
your wife and little children are hungry. Think

of it above all, when your wages are being paid
you. Every time your employer gives you
thirty shillings, remember that you have in reality
given him something like a Jive-pound note ; and
that he is pocketing, that he is robbing you of,
some three pounds ten of your change,

In speaking to you, we have supposed you
were a shoemaker. It is no matter what you are
or whom you work for. If you are a bricklayer
a journeyman tailor, a hand in a factory, it is
all the same thing. You, and all your fellow
wage-slaves, numbering in this country some'
twenty-seven millions, are all in the same case.
Ie propertied classes  your employers  one
and all rob you.

This is a great subject. We cannot put the
whole of it to you in one pamphlet, but this one
thought  the thought that you are robbed, that the
properties classes live on robbing you, and that
all the other wrongs ivhich politicians say they
will remedy are nothing if this wrong is not

remedied  keep that in your own mind and try
to put it into the mind of your fellow wage-slaves
; and remember , if you want any more
information you can have it at the office of the
League of Social Democrats,

 If you would further your own cause you
are invited to join that League. The subscription
is half a crown

There ! ' exclaimed Foreman, dropping
his paper, and looking round him. ' Does
that satisfy you? Does that sound clear
enough for you? I should like to know.
Does it, or does it not? '

Do you really mean to say,* exclaimed
Lady Chislehurst,  that you are trying to
disseminate ideas like these amongst the 
 to fill them with such horrible
feelings of envy, hatred, and discontent ? '

 I do,' said Foreman, bringing his hand
down on the arm of his chair with a thump ;
discontent with the lives they lead now, and

hatred of those who force such a life upon
them.'

Then said Lady Chislehurst, * I must
tell you I consider it very wicked of you.
You like plain speaking, Mr. Foreman, so you
must not object to it in me.'

 Lady Chislehurst,' said Mrs. Harley ina
whisper,  don't make him angry, for pity's
sake, or we shall have a scene in a moment.
Haven't you watched his eyes? They have
the regular tint of madness in them, and
can't you see the excitement into which he's
read himself ? Listen  listen now. Your
friend Mr. Stanley is at him.'

Mr. Stanley was speaking with a gentle,
an almost timid courtesy. ' There was one
point,' he said,  in your paper, Mr. Foreman,
on which I should like to question you. The
wages paid to the supposed shoemaker, and
the price of the leather used by him  were
these real, or merely imaginary? '

The figures quoted said Foreman,  were
as a fact imaginary ones. What the real
figures would be I neither know nor care.
These were chosen because they were easy to
work with. Their actual accuracy he added
brusquely, * matters nothing at all to the
argument.'

Certainly not,' said Mr. Stanley, 'nothing
at all. And now may I ask you this ? Given
the wages which you imagine the workmen
to receive, was the proportion between those
wages and the profits of the employer 
between the thirty shillings and the three
pounds twelve and sixpence  was that imaginary
also? Or do you suppose it to represent
a fact ? '

Foreman stared at Mr. Stanley, not with
anger exactly, but with excitement. ' I
don't,' he said, ' suppose anything at all in
the matter. That does represent a fact.
There is no reason for supposing there.'

 But how,' said Mr. Stanley, ' since you
are not aware of the exact wages that prevail
in the shoe-trade, are you able to arrive at
such exactness in this most important point? '

 In this way,' said Foreman, fumbling for
something in his bag. ' In this way,' he went
on, producing another leaflet.  I will only
read you a line or two. That will answer
your question 

Workmen of England : Consider the following
figures. The annual income of this
country is thirteen hundred millions. All those
thirteen hundred millions are made by your
labour. Who gets them? What becomes of
them? This becomes of them. Ten hundred
millions are appropriated are nabbed by your
employers, the drones, the propertied classes.
Three hundred millions only are left for you 
for you  you, clio have, made the icicle of
it. Think of these figures. Think of them!
Think of them ! ! Think of them ! ! ! '

There,' said Foreman, ' is the basis of
my calculation as to the shoe trade. These
figures show you the broad facts of the case.
Take the workers of this country as a whole,
and their employers  the drone classes  as a
whole ; and the latter fleece the former to the
tune of ten pounds out of every thirteen. In
my case of the shoe trade, if I err at all, I err
in putting the shopkeeper's legitimate gains
too high.'

May I,' said Miss Consuelo Burton, 'look
at that last leaflet, Mr. Foreman ? '

Surprise and gratification came into Foreman's
eyes. He handed her the leaflet, and
was about to begin addressing her, when an
ill-timed remark from Lord Aiden completely
diverted him from his intention.

It seems,' said Lord Aiden, in an accent
of lazy though fulness, ' that you take no
account of the interest yielded by capital.'

For a few moments Foreman was absolutely

silent. He stared at Lord Aiden much
in the same way as lie had stared at Mr.
Stanley ; only this time his excitement was
greater, and there seemed something in it
almost ferocious. At last the storm broke.

Interest ! ' he exclaimed, hissing with
nervous vehemence.  Capital bear interest !
That is the very lie I am unmasking. It is
the thief's lie  the swindler's lie. It is the
lie on which the propertied classes repose, and
under which the working-classes are crushed.
Interest, the swindlers tell you, is a plant that
grows out of capital. Fools! It no more
grows out of capital than corn grows from a
spade. It grows out of labour, as all wealth
grows ; and it is merely the name for the part
of the growth you steal. Of course,' Foreman
went on, his tone growing contemptuous
rather than angry,  to understand the matter
scientifically, one must understand the nature
of Values. But first let the workman diocese

the notion that he is plundered, and then if he
is inclined to doubt it, we will take care to
prove to him that his notion is correct.'

 My dear Lady Chislehurst,' Mrs. Harley
was saying meanwhile, ' I believe all this no
more than you do. Can't you see that the
poor creature's a madman ? Dangerous ?
Yes ; no doubt this teaching is dangerous ;
but it's just as well to realize what it is.'

I am sorry,' said Lady Chislehurst, 'that
Consuelo thinks so, at any rate. That man
seems quite to have bewitched her.'

Mrs. Harley looked to see if this observation
was justified ; and the tableau that met
her view made her think that perhaps it was.
Miss Consuelo Burton had risen from her
seat, and, looking very pretty in the neatest of
neat dresses, was standing by Foreman's chair,
with one slim hand on the back of it, and her
eyes and voice at once were making some
request of him. 'Mr. Foreman,' she was

saying,  may I see that other paper of yours
also  the one you first read out to us ? There
are one or two things in it which I did not
quite follow, I think.'

Foreman did not need to be asked twice.
The look of ferocity died away from his face,
and a gleam succeeded it of odd innocent
vanity. He seemed quite subdued by the
graceful form that bent over hun, and the
voice that, with all its timidity, had a subtle
note of command in it. ' Keep the papers,'
he said ; ' you can have as many copies as you
like. Here, too, is another, about '' Value and
Capital." You had better take that as
well.'

She took the two papers, and retiring
into a distant window, to Lady Chislehurst's
horror, was at once completely absorbed in
them.

 I think, Mr. Foreman,' said Mr. Stanley,
that if I wished to teach your lesson to the

working-classes, I should have administered
the paper on Value as the first dose, not the
second.'

You do ! ' exclaimed Foreman, with a
start of suspicious astonishment, which seemed
partly caused by the priest's having any
opinion on the matter, partly by his decided
and calm way of expressing it. ' And may I
venture to ask, sir, why ? '

But, Mr. Stanley,' said Lord Aiden, ' you
would surely not personally be for teaching
these theories to the working classes at all ? '

I think,' said Mr. Stanley, ' that if you
take these theories as a whole, in sober earnest,
there are only two defects in them.'

My dear sir,' said Foreman, 'you are very
good, I am sure. But permit me to remark,
you have not yet heard the whole of them 
not even in outline ; and even if you had, you
could hardly pronounce on them, or even fully
understand them, off-hand.'

 In that,' said Mr. Stanley,  I am sure
you are perfectly right, and I fear I must seem
to you presumptuous, or perhaps even impertinent.
But I assure you, Mr. Foreman, that
I should not have ventured on my criticism
if the subject had not been one with which 
if I may have your permission to say so  I
am as familiar as you yourself are.'

Foreman sat up in his chair, bending his
head forward.  Excuse me,' he said, almost
stuttering in his eagerness, ' excuse me, Mr.
Stanley, but no one can be familiar with this
subject we are speaking about who has studied
social problems under Catholic  under clerical
authorities. No one who has not mastered a
work almost unknown in England  the epoch-making
work of Karl Marx on " Capital "  no

one, I say ' he repeated, pausing with an

air of triumph.

 Again,' said Mr. Stanley,  I agree with
you perfectly ; for there is no work in the

VOL. II. G

English language with which I am so familiar
as that special work you refer to.'

*The work I refer to,' retorted Foreman,
 happens to be in German, and no English
translation has ever yet been published.
I much fear we are talking at cross purposes.'


I think not,' replied Mr. Stanley, smiling.
What I said just now was perhaps a slip of
the tongue ; and yet it was more accurate than
you could know it to be. No English translation
of Marx has been published  that is
quite true. One has been made, however,
and will be published shortly, with notes on
the author's fallacies.'

Indeed ! ' said Foreman.  And may I ask
you by what translator ? '

 Myself,' said Mr. Stanley dryly.

Over Foreman's face there came a dull
cloud of mortification. He leant back again,
and said with a forced air of indifference,

Perhaps, then, you will kindly tell me what
are the two defects in the system of Karl
Marx, which you spoke of.'

I charge Marx,' said Mr. Stanley, ' Avlth
only one of them. I will talk about that presently.
The other  forgive me for saying sois
an error which must be mainly your own.
The figures you quote with regard to the distribution
of wealth in this kingdom, and which
you rely on to arouse in the workman a sense
of social injustice  they refer, I conclude, to
the present time, do they not ? '

 They do,' said Foreman, ' and you are
right  the figures are mine.'

'Well,' said Mr. Stanley, with almost
apologetic civility, ' if you will go into the
matter a little more carefully, with a little
method, and access to the best authorities, you
will find that your present calculations are 
and we should be thankful for it  so far in

G 2

error, that they do not represent even an
approximation to the truth

The cloud upon Foreman's face grew
duller and more lowering. * Are you at all
aware,' he exclaimed, speaking with difficulty,
 are you at all aware who I am ?  who it is
who is sitting in this chair here ? Perhaps
you do not know that for the past ten years
I have done nothing but study the misery of
the working classes  aye, Mr. Stanley, and in
the very scenes and times of their misery ;
and not there only. I have ransacked your
Blue-books and your Parliamentary returns,
and with the aid of the first statistician
in England I have ranged my facts and
ranged my figures in order. There is only
one other man m existence who knows
as much of the subject as I do, and that is
the man from whom my figures are taken.
He, Mr. Stanley, is Mr. Charles Griffin, the
statistical secretary to the Inland Revenue

Office. Do you admit Mr. Griffen to be an
authority ? Or, possibly, you have never
heard of him.'

 No, no,' said Mr. Stanley ; ' Mr. Griffen
is a most undoubted authority ! '

Well,' said Foreman, ' as I tell you, it
is from him my figures are taken. They are
taken from his various Abstracts and Essays,
and are put together by myself. Mr. Griffen,
you may not be aware, has from his official
position sources of information almost unique
in their completeness, and accessible to him
alone. The results he is deducing from these
are not yet made public. When they are, of
course, they will be more detailed than mine ;
but nothing can make them differ from mine
substantially, though what his details will be
we shall none of us know till he publishes
them.'

Do you know Mr. Griffen personally ? '
said Mr. Stanley.

No,' replied Foreman.

 It happens said Mr. Stanley, ' that I do.
I have been over the proofs of this very work
of his you are alluding to ; in fact, he was
good enough to entrust me with the correction
of them.'

Figures,' exclaimed Foreman savagely,
 can be made to prove anything, that is to
say on paper. Let me see Mr. GriiFen's
figures, and I will engage to make good my
own case from them  let the figures be what
they may. You come with me into the
workman's quarters, and then doubt me if
you can. Have I worked for ten years
amongst the wage slaves of England, and yet
cannot be sure of the simple fact which I tell
you  that out of every thirteen pounds the
wage-slaves produce, the capitalistic classes
rob them of ten pounds? That is, I repeat,
the proportion, and no juggling with arithmetic
can alter it.'

Well said Mr. Stanley, ' since we cannot
agree about England, let us turn to some
other country. Do you consider that the
same thing holds good everywhere? Does
it hold good, for instance, in America ? I am
told that if the workmen in England get
little, in America they get still less.'

Less than ours in England?' said Foreman.
' If they did they would starve. In
England the workmen live on starvation
wages. Who will venture to tell you that
anywhere they can live on less than that ? '

'Let us reduce the affair to dollars,' said
Mr. Stanley. ' In a dollar there are a hundred
cents. Out of every dollar the English workman
makes, the capitalist, according to you,
takes about seventy seven cents, and leaves
him about twenty-three. Such is your computation.
Well, in America, I am told that
out of every dollar the workman produces, the
capitalist takes ninety-four and leaves him six.'

What fool exclaimed Foreman , * can
have possibly told such stuff to yon ? And
do you mean to say you believed it ? '

 No said Mr. Stanley. ' I have not
admitted that. But the person who made
the statement holds a position, and claims a
species of knowledge not unlike your own.
You spoke, Mr. Foreman, just now of
Chicago. The person I quote from is a
certain Heinrich Jungbluth, the leader and
organizer of the Chicago band of Socialists.
He has stated in a leaflet not unlike one of
your own that the American workman, for
every dollar he makes, gets himself exactly
six cents.'

The fashion of Foreman's countenance
underwent a sudden change. His jaw fell.
He appeared to be almost terrified.

Heinrich Jungbluth ! ' he exclaimed.
And what do you know about Heinrich
Jungbluth ? '

Several things said Mr. Stanley, ' if
you care to hear them. He was a clerk
originally in a commercial house in Paris, but
was dismissed in consequence of some disgraceful
scandal. Subsequently he came to
America, and took a prominent part in the
Pittsburgh riots. At one time he was suspected
of having forged a cheque. At
another time he was sent to prison for a
violent assault upon a woman. He is now
the corresponding member of the League of
Social Democrats, and is urging them at
this moment to attempt some outbreak in
London.'

 Who are you ? ' shouted Foreman.
Are you a Socialist yourself in disguise ?
Let me look at you. Have I ever seen you
before ?'

Xo,' said Mr. Stanley. ' I am a priest
of the Catholic Church  a league, if you like
to call it so, even more far-reaching than

yours ; and we too have our correspondents
in all parts of the world. Let us say no
more, however, about Herr Jungbluth's
character. I merely mentioned his statistics,
which you say are impossible, to show you
that Socialism does not always insure
accuracy.'

God bless my soul, sir!' said Foreman,
if you understand the matter so much better
than I do, I can only say you had better
become a Socialist, since you tell me you
are not one already.'

 Let us forget,' said Mr. Stanley,  the
point on which we differ personally. In
spite of that even I would willingly be a
Socialist, if it were not for the other fatal
defect I spoke of  the defect in the theory,
as apart from the statistics of Socialism.'

Well,' said Foreman, sulkily,  you seem
so singularly conversant with the entire
question that I cannot but be curious  very

curious indeed  to learn from you what this
fatal defect may be

Put briefly,' said Mr. Stanley, who was
now the centre of attention, ' it is this : not
that your theory is in any place inconsistent
with itself, but that it is quite inapplicable
to ordinary human nature. Were we all
of us angels, your economic system would
be perfect ; and if we lapsed afterwards into
capitalists you might properly call us devils.
As it is, we are men, with men's powers and
motives, which must be indeed controlled,
but can never be fundamentally altered. If
your economic system does not apply to
these it applies to nothing, and has no
practical meaning. What I say is, that your
system does not apply to them. Allow me
to ask you this : you are not a believer, I
think, in what are called natural rights, are
you ? '

 Certainly not,' said Foreman.  Natural

rights imply some supernatural sanction ;
and whatever Socialists individually may
think as to religious matters, their economic
system has nothing to do with religion. Our
basis is social rights, not any such nonsense
as natural rights

Precisely,* said Mr. Stanley.  Your
position, I think, is this. Men have no right
to anything which they have no means of
keeping ; and no right to anything which
there is no possibility of their getting. Thus
they have no right to any property in the
wind, and they have no right to any property
in the moon.*

 Of course,* said Foreman, impatiently,
we all of us know that.*

Well, Mr. Foreman, let us now go to
practical matters. Let me ask you if you
agree to this : capital is essential to production
 we may call it, in fact, the means
of production 5 and, were capital destroyed

altogether, the workings-classes would suffer
even more than they do from its beg kept as
it is, in the hands of a few capitalists.'

Naturally,' said Foreman ;  that is the
key to the whole position. Capital is not
merely the means of production. It is the
means of life ; and it is because the means of
life have been monopolized by that small ring
which we call the capitalists that these
capitalists are able to dictate terms to the
workers.'

That is to say,' said Mr. Stanley, ' the
workers must either starve, or work for the
capitalists ; and the capitalists pay them, not
what their work is worth, but only just
enough of its worth to keep them in working
order, and to make life seem a better think;
than death to them. The remainder is appropriated
 as you would say, stolen  by the
capitalists ; and they are only able to steal
it because they have monopolized the capital.

Now, Mr. Foreman, if you put the case like that,
up to this point I altogether agree with you

 You do ! ' exclaimed Foreman. ' Well,
sir, and what next? '

 I agree with you, further,' Mr. Stanley
continued, ' in this. Could it be brought
about that there were no such monopoly,
and if the community possessed the capital
in common, the workers would themselves
receive the whole of what they have had a
hand in producing. The capitalists, to
borrow your language, would not be able to
steal any profits from them. Here, then, we
come, I think, to the sum of the Socialistic
gospel. The workers have a right to the capital
of the community

Certainly,' said Foreman. ' That is substantially
what we say.'

Now here, at last,' replied Mr. Stanley,
is the point where we part company. I say
just the reverse. I say the capitalists have a

right to what you call their thieving. I don't
expect to convince you ; but I can, if you will
listen to me, explain to you what I mean, and
at all events you will find in it something to
think of. We agree  don't we ?  upon two
points as to capital. It is necessary to the
workers ; there is one point. It is accumulated
labour; there is the other point. Well, I say
that the capitalists have a right to their thieving,
because if it were not for the sake of these
thieving the capital would never have been
accumulated ; and that the workers at laro:e
have no right to the capital, because, if they
seized on it they would be unable to keep it.
It has only  Mr. Foreman, pray let me
finish what I am saying  capital has only
been accumulated under the direction of a
minority. It would begin to disappear the
very moment it ceased to be properly administered
; and no one is able to administer it
properly except those who are certain to

profit by its administration. There, Mr.
Foreman, you have my meaning in outline.
If we were all equally clever and all equally
industrious, your theory would be perfect.
The State would be Socialistic tomorrow.
There is only one other supposition on which
the same result would be possible.'

 And what is that ? ' said the voice of
Miss Consuelo Burton, who had again joined
the group, and for some time past had been
listening.

It would be possible,' said Mr. Stanley,
if the average race of men were all of them
to rise to heights of zeal and self-sacrifice to
which saints and heroes at present find it
very hard to attain. Will Mr. Foreman allow
me to ask him one question more ? The kind
of life you contemplate in your Socialistic
state is one of enjoyment, comfort, cheerfulness,
and s6 forth, is it not ? It does not, at
all events, approach the gloom and the hard

discipline of the severe monastic orders ?
Exactly. I thought so. I have known other
men. of views similar to yours, and they have
all declared that the asceticism of the Christian
Church is little less than a blasphemy
against our healthy human nature.'

How can Mr. Stanley allude to such
opinions in such company ? ' Lady Chislehurst
said to herself in a troubled half audible
murmur.

Fasting, for instance, and celibacy,' Mr.
Stanley was meanwhile proceeding, ' the
violent mortification, and, above all, the suppression
of any natural appetite, men of ]mr.
Foreman's school think terrible  tending, in
fact, to produce every form of evil.'

 There,' said Foreman dryly,  you do me
complete justice.'

You are doubtless aware, Mr. Foreman,
that this discipline in its severest form is
regarded by the Catholic Church as fitted

VOL. II. H

only for a very small fraction of mankind.
What I want to say to you is, that the
severest discipline ever devised for any handful
of monks does far less violence to our
average human nature than the change in it
which your system would require to be universal.
It would be easier, far easier, to make
men Trappings than Socialists.'

Foreman had come to the chateau expecting
some discussion, and he was fully prepared
to startle and horrify everybody. Some
cross-questionings, some panic-stricken contradictions,
he anticipated ; and he pictured himself
like a war-horse riding them down and
dispersing them. But that he should meet
with anyone to whom his arguments were
familiar beforehand, and who, instead of being
frightened and shocked at them, was able to
dispute them in detail, and make him exchange
his thundering rhetorical charge for a slow
argumentative walk, in which he was answered

at every step  for such a contingency he was
utterly unprepared ; and he now sat feeling
almost as dizzy as if his chair had suddenly
broken and he had fallen bans; on the floor.

In this state of mind, though he hated
footmen on principle, he had never been so
near to thinking he had seen an angel as he was
now, at the entrance of Lady Mangotsfi eld's
superb attendant, who threw the whole question
of the rights of the masses into the background,
by the announcement that her ladyship
was at breakfast in the east salon, and
before her departure, in half an hour's time,
would be very much pleased to say goodbye
to her friends. ' I was to say,' the man
added, ' that her ladyship particularly hopes
that Mr. Foreman will see her ladyship.'

At this last announcement a smile went
the round of the company, in which Foreman
himself joined, though with anything but
good humour. He had by this time recovered

H 2

his self-possession ; air though he had not
by any means collected and got into fighting
order his arguments, which had been scattered
by Mr. Stanley's attack to the farthest confines
of his mind, he found himself fortified
by a fit of gathering anger, and this showed
itself at the very first opportunity. The
party were now preparing to break up ; but
the subject just discussed still held their
attention ; and Lord Aiden, turning to Foreman,
said in a conciliatory way :

Of course the practical point for us who
do not agree with you, is not so much whether
your opinions are true as whether they are
in reality spreading much amongst the
people.'

You are right there, my lord,' said
Foreman ; * and the rate at which these
opinions spread amongst the people varies
with the acuteness of industrial distress or
depression. I'm not a man who is squeamish

about a simile, and I don't mind saying that
Socialism is for all the Trorld like yellow fever
or the cholera. It is propagated by germs ;
only in this case the germs are knowledge,
often disseminated in the form of mere leaflets.
What I have just read you is one of them. I
think, Mr. Stanley, you will by-and-by have
a practical lesson as to whether Socialism is
really inapplicable to ordinary human nature
or not. Listen : can you deny this? Take
any audience of working-men you like  let
them call themselves Radicals, let them call
themselves Conservatives ; what they are
really brooding; over is a sense of the same
social injustice. They feel it, but they can't
define it. Socialism defines it for them.
"When they realize the definition then the
disease is taken.'

Your similes,' said Harley, ' don't flatter
your arguments.'

They don't,' said Foreman.  They are

not meant to do so. You don't flatter the
Devil if you want to describe him, do you ?
And from your point of view  I am quite
aware of this  my opinions are far uglier than
any devil you believe in. Yes,' exclaimed
Foreman, ' and they'll be playing the devil
soon, inapplicable as they are to average
human nature, with most of the things that
propertied human nature lives by.'

My dear Foreman,' exclaimed Harley,
with a genial burst of laughter, 'upon my
word you are quite delightful.'

Foreman was in no mood to be joked with
by even his oldest friends. He sat up in his
chair like an adder about to spring.

 Come,' said Lady Chislehurst, carefully
looking away from him, ' Mr. Carew is gone
to Lady Mangots field ; let us all of us go too.'

Listen ! ' exclaimed Foreman, in a voice
that suddenly arrested them ; ' before you go,
let me tell you all this : and before a fortnight's

over you Trill see whether I am a liar or no.
By that time Socialism will either speak with
fifteen mouths at St. Stephen's, or it will bespeaking
with a great many more, and with
louder mouths, in the streets ! '

At this moment the door of the room
opened, and a tremulous but distinct voice
was heard outside in the passage.  Mr.
Carew,' it was saying, ' and where is that odd

creature  poor Lord B 's Conservative?

He goes back to Xice himself, don't he, today?
Tell him to come in my carriage, and
I'll give a little advice to him.'

Lady Chislehurst rustled towards the door
with the instinctive intention of arresting
Lady Mangotsfield's remarks about a person
who could hear every word of them. It may
safely be said, however, that she did not break
her heart when, before she could accomplish
her purpose. Lady Mangotsfield went on
again, and said m a voice that must have

been still more distinct to Foreman, ' Of
course if people of that sort must meddle in
politics it's all the better that they should be
on the right side ; but I often think of what
I once said to my gardener, who was always
teasing me with the ardour of his Tory principles.
" Macdonald," I said, " I'm very glad
you hold sound opinions ; but I'd far rather
that you had no opinions at all." '

00005>0500000C5>000:00<JOOOOOOOOOO<S>000

CHAPTER XL

jADY MANGOTSFIELD was gone.
Foreman was going. With Lady
]\Iangotsfield lie was not in the least
angry. He was even pleased with the view
which she took of his own position  a view
which to him was as picturesque as a ruined
castle, and as harmless. He had no inclination,
however, for the high honour of travelling
with her ; and as soon as ever her post-chaise
had departed, his own humble vehicle
drew up at the archway. It was close upon
one o'clock. He was begged to stay to luncheon
; but the prophetic rage, which was not

quite devoid of sullenness, was upon him ;
and, putting a constraint on this appetite,
although it happened to be voracious, he declined
all refreshments except a few solitary
biscuits ; and even the dust of these, as he
went, shook off as a testimony.

Well,' said Mrs. Harley, who walked outwith
him to the carriage, ' I think, Mr. Foreman,
you have met your match to-day.'

I suppose,' he said, ' you are alluding to
that priest. I was certainly surprised to find
that he knows as much of the question as he
does ; though I could show him, if I had the
time, that he knows rather less than he thinks.
As for the others  I don't suppose there is
one of them who has thought enough to have
any real opinion about it at all.'

And so,' said Carew at luncheon, ' the
prophet has come and gone ! '

There was an inexpressible relief amongst
all present at the thought ; and Carew and

Mrs. Harley began to congratulate each other
that things had not gone off as badly as
they easily might have done.

 Don't you think interposed Lady
Chislehurst, ' that he's a very horrible man ?
If he's as bad as he makes himself out to be,
he is little better than a criminal. He's trying
to bring about those very horrors which he
pretends to think are inevitable.'

He's a product,' said Mr. Stanley, ' of
many social conditions, and represents  depend
upon it  certain very important forces. I
have long watched the ways of the Socialists
carefully, but had not come across Mr.
Foreman's track before.'

My dear Mr. Stanley,' said Lady Chislehurst,
' you don't really think that these men
can do anything ? '

I,' said Carew, ' am not at all so certain
of that. Li London alone they have every
material for a rising ; and they may make a

massacre, though they will never make a millennium.
Mrs. Harley, what wine are you
drinking ? '

I must confess said Lady Chislehurst,

you take things very coolly, Mr. Carew.'

After all,' he said, ' what does it matter ?
Life as it is  apart from religion, I mean  is a
bad thing at the best ; and human beings are
contemptible little animals.'

 And yet,' said Miss Consuelo Burton,

you think so much of our aristocracy  you
think them, Mr. Carew, such a very superior
order of beings.'

Everything,' said Carew, ' is comparative.
They are clean when compared to dirt. An
aristocracy  this at least is what I feel  is
the best of all possible orders in the worst of
all possible worlds.'

And so,' said Mrs. Harley, ' the people
are dirt, are they ? I thought, Mr. Carew, you
were so devoted to improving their condition.'

They are only dirt,' said Carew, ' when
they seize on power. We are dirt when we
relinquish it. Soup is dirt on your pocket-handkerchief
; your pocket-handkerchief is
dirt in the soup tureen.'

Well,' said Mrs. Harley, ' if those are
your political opinions, there won't be very
much power, in these popular days, for you.'

They are not my opinions,' said Carew ;
they are my feelings  which is a very different
thing. ]\Iy political opinions are my
political feelings criticised.'

During the rest of luncheon, Miss Consuelo
Burton was silent. Whether Foreman
was right or no with regard to most of the
others, when he said that as to his views they
had no real opinion, with regard to Miss
Consuelo he was certainly quite wrong. She
had an opinion that was very real indeed, and
with that tact which rarely deserts a woman
until she is so much in love that her happiness

hangs upon its exercise, she contrived, during
the course of a walk in the afternoon, to secure
Mr. Stanley for a time as her sole companion,
on purpose to communicate this opinion to
him.

In all the landscape commanded by the
ramparts of the chateau, the most singular
object, perhaps, was a certain solitary tower
which rose out of the foliage of a semi-precipitous
forest, and seemed to be guarding the
entrance to a winding valley. It was the one
remnant of a stronghold that had formerly
belonged to the Templar ; and it had been
partly repaired by the Comte de Bourbons
and converted by him into a memorial
to his lost children. Its distance from the
chateau was not more than two miles, and as 
soon as the party had recovered from the
lulling effects of luncheon, it was to this tower
they all set out on foot.

Mr. Stanley and his companion were the

first to arrive at it ; and whilst the others were
still far below them, waging a dilatory battle
with the thick and refractory underwood, they
themselves were already quietly seated at the
top of a flight of steps by which the base of
the tower was reached. They exchanged a
few remarks about the building and the scene
around them. Then Miss Consuelo abruptly
changed the subject, and said, somewhat to
Mr. Stanley's surprise :

I saw the other day an odd thing in a
newspaper. I saw that of all the kinds of
books published in England annually, those on
religion were by far the most numerous. The
reason is, I suppose, that although the subject
is dry, yet, to those who care at all for it, it is
the most important subject in life.'

One is,' said Mr. Stanley, ' sometimes apt
to forget what an enormous body the reading
public is, and that only a small section of it
reads mainly for amusement. The bulk of

the middle and lower middle classes, when
they do read, read with the serious aim of instructing
themselves.'

I'm not surprised,' said Miss Consuelo,
'that so dry a subject should be popular ; but
that the general public don't take to a dryer
one. If I were the general public, I know I
would. I would think about nothing else 
nothing, nothing, nothing! I would,' she
exclaimed, as if carried away by her feelings,
I would shut up all my books on religion ;
and  and this other subject  till I knew and
felt at rest about it, I could never open anyone
of them again.'

Her cheeks were flushed, and her eyes
were fixed on the priest. She seemed to behalf
afraid of the words she had just spoken.
Tell me,' he said, ' and what subject is this,
which is so much more important to your own
life than religion is ? '

She paused for a moment as if not quite

sure of lier voice. At last she spoke, and
there cause into her eyes as she did so a spark
of vanishing; laughter. ' Of course,' she besran,

when I tell it to you, it sounds not only
wicked but ridiculous. The subject I mean
is  don't lauirh at me  it is Political
Economy.'

Mr. Stanley looked at her, with a smile
that was certainly not one of ridicule.

What was the man's name,' she went on,

that you and Mr. Foreman talked about?
Karl Marx  yes, that's it. Why don't people
in general study books like his, and see if
they're true or not, or how far they are true ?
I know that Political Economy is called the
dismal science. I know that it sounds wicked
to put it before religion. But I don't mean
wickedness, if you only knew my meaning.
To me it would not be dismal, let it be never
so dry and hard ; for it would tell me one
thing, which I must be set at rest about before

VOL. II. I

religion can ever tell me anything. And yet
it seems to me that language must all be
wrong. It is religion  the very thing I am
thinking about. It is part of it  it must be.'

Go on said Mr. Stanley, ' tell me your
meaning. Whatever it is, I am sure you
don't mean wickedness. What is this that
you wish to be set at rest about ? '

 Religion,' she said, ' you will, of course,
tell me is the first thing. If I felt it was not
I should be a bad Catholic. Well, what does
Religion, what does the Church teach me ?
Mr. Stanley, doesn't it teach me this  how to
act under the circumstances in which I have
been placed ? Of course it does : but the
thing I want to know is, have I any right to
remain under those circumstances ? '

Go on,' said the priest. ' Don't be afraid
of what you are thinking. Explain yourself
a little more fitly.'

She looked at him with a wistful inquiry,

something as a dog might. ' Are von understanding
me ? ' she said. ' Tell me. Or have
I merely muddled myself with a dream ? I
am richer than other people. Have I any
right to be so ? Am I a robber  are we all of
us robbers ? Have we any business to be in
the position we occupy ? Oh, if you knew how,
in some shape or other, some thought like this
has been haunting me  I can't tell for how
long ! Often at balls last season I foimd
myself thinking during supper of the hungry
faces I had seen in the street outside. I once
went over Mr. Snapper's manufactory, and
watched the faces of the poor men working
there. They no doubt had Cjuite enough to
eat ; but in their looks, in their attitudes  I
can see them at this moment  there seemed a
reproach to me or a claim on me, I could not
tell which. I have always felt when I heard
of popular politics  and at home, as you know,
we don't hear much, still we hear something*  

1 2

I have always felt that there was something
the background which no one had the
courage to recognize ; and now to-day I have
heard it put into words. When Mr. Foreman
was talking, I couldn't understand it all ;
but offensive as he was in many ways, and
strange as his wording was to me, it somehow
seemed to be what I had unconsciously been
waiting for. AVe are the cause, he said, we
and the world we live in, of all the blight we
see in the lives below us. Is that so ? Are
we ? We must know that  surely we must
before our minds can be satisfied. Where
does our duty lie  in which of these two
opposite things  in renouncing our position
or in using it ? There, Mr. Stanley  I have
spoken straight out now. There is the
question which seems to me, every day when I
am saying my prayers, to come far before those
questions which are commonly called religious.
Am I wrong ? Tell me if I am wrong.'

My child,' he said, ' yoii are not. You
are profoundly right. Political economy, and
the social conditions of labour, have become
in our day indeed a-pviYt of theology  its
youngest branch ; and as such, I, a priest, have
studied it. Yes, this question that troubles
you is the one great question for those whose
hearts God has moved to ask it. Every age
has its riddle, and this riddle is ours. I,
perhaps, may be able to give some help to
you.'

Oh,' she said quietly, ' but you have
helped me already. I listened to every word
you said this morning ; and I mainly understood
Mr. Foreman from the way in which
you argued with him. Oh, indeed you have
helped me. Listen : the others are coming.
I hear them in the wood under us. But
before they come let me ask you one thing
more. Let me say what I think you mean,
and you tell me if I am correct.'

Tell me,' he said. ' There is still time.'

You don't believe, then, do you,' she
said hurriedly, ' that all riches are robbery 
that you and I, for instance, are living on
stolen goods because we are staying at a castle
or because I give five shillings, say, fora
pair of gloves ? You mean that the talents
which produce money and so on  all those
things that Mr. Foreman wishes to take from
us  depend on the workings of our average
human appetites ; that is to say, these talents
would never be developed at all if it were not
in the nature of things that those fortunate
few who possess them, should possess also the
riches which result from their exercise. Is
not that what you mean ? '

 Exactly,' said ]mr. Stanley. ' In considering
human actions we must always remember
this. The natural reward causes the
effort, just as much as the effort wins the
Froward : and the Church, in its message to

the world in general, never assumes for a
moment that these natural rewards can be
dispensed with. She enjoins not the extinction
of the desire for them, but simply the
regulation of it. The desire itself is presupposed
as permanent. I am, of course, not
speaking of the counsels of perfection.'

Xo/ she said, ' but it was about those I
was thinking.'

  You must remember,' he answered,  that
they, in their very nature, are addressed to a
few only. They are plainly not addressed to
a society as a society ; for a society that followed
them could not continue to exist.'

Yes she said, ' but let us keep to the
one matter we are talking about. Suppose
all the men on whom the progress of industry
depends had grace given them to forego the
natural reward of their exertions  suppose
they were still to make the same enormous
profits, but instead of taking them, as they

now do, for themselves, were to willingly
hand them over for the general good  then
there might be a state like that Mr. Foreman
dreams about. Is not that so ? '

True,' said Mr. Stanley. ' But thmk of
this. Such a change must in its very nature
be voluntary  more than voluntary : it must
be enthusiastic. It would have to come from
the inner movements of men's spirits. AYe
are little likely to see such a change as that.'

Not in the world at lar2:e  no. But it
might  surely this is possible  take place in
some. Some might still make the exertion,
develop all their faculties, and yet forego the
natural reward. They might extend commerce,
they might develop manufactures, as if
they were doing so under some monastic vow
some vow of poverty with a modern meaning
in it. It is at least conceivable that they
might do so ; and if they did  well, I want
to know, wouldn't they be doing good ?

 Xo doubt,' he said, ' if they acted thus
they would.'

Thank you,' she said; ' what I wished to
ask you is answered.'

She rose from where she was sitting, and
moved a few paces away from him ; and,
looking down into the depths of the wood
below, began to trifle with the grass that grew
on a ruined parapet. She was standing thus
when the rest of the party arrived ; and as she
turned unwillingly round to confront them
there was a curious something in her whole
air and expression which caught, in an instant,
Carew's experienced eye. ' If,' he exclaimed
to himself,  she had had any other companion,
I should think she had just been listening to
a declaration of love.' She, too, on her side,
had seen the way in which he looked at her ;
and though she had no time to inquire nicely
into causes, she felt that for a second her
heart beat quicker than usual. She felt, too,

that she blushed ; and the blush was still on
her cheeks when, a few moments later, history
began to repeat itself, and Carew was again
her companion on the way home.

You seemed,' he said to her presently,
to be having an interesting conversation just
now, when we interrupted you.'

 When you came,' she said, * I was not
talking  I was thinking.'

Will you tell me,' he asked, ' what your
thoughts were? Were you thinking about
what we heard this morning ? '

I was thinking,' she said,  of something
that will alter my whole life perhaps.' She
stopped short abruptly, and walked on in
silence, Carew meanwhile from time to time
watching her. Presently she began again,
taking up her former sentence, as if unconscious
there had been any pause in her speaking.
'And yet,' she said, 'who can tell?
Perhaps by next season I shall have forgotten

all about it, and be tliinkmo; of notbino- but
balls and new ball-dresses. Do you think
that's likely ? ' she went en, with a little
nervous laugh. ' Or perhaps you don't
know me well enough to be able to form
an opinion.'

I don't know,' said Carew, ' what it is
you are speaking about ; but about you 1
know, or at least believe, one thing. You
will never be satisfied until you have seen the
Eight ; and when you have seen it you will
never be untrue to it. That is my belief
about you ; it is more than that  it is my
faith.'

She looked up at him with a soft startled
stare. ' Your faith about me ! ' she exclaimed.
What grounds can you possibly hate for a
faith about me of that kind? '

You yourself are the grounds,' he said.
 I know of none other. Do you remember
yesterday, when you said something about

the Mass, and I told you it shocked me?
That was because of my faith in you. But
this morning  you didn't see me  I was in
chapel, though, watching you  this morning,
the faith which you had shocked was
much more than made whole again. I saw
that the Mass was not to you what you said
it was. It was not outside your inner life,
but a part of if. Let me say to you just
what I think. Let me think aloud to you,
without either of us feeling embarrassed.
Religion and faith are not things about which
one pays silly compliments, and I am merely
telling you what I mean and feel. It can do
you no harm to hear it ; perhaps it may do
you good. Look at me,' he said, stopping in
his walk suddenly ; 'is the sun shining on
my face, or do the trees hide it ? '

The sun shining on your face ? Yes 
not in your eyes, but on your cheeks.'

I couldn't have known that if you
hadn't told me.'

Naturally,' she said. ' You can't see
your own face without a looking-glass.'

Carew suddenly turned to her with a
look of earnestness. ' Then I could see,'

he began, ' although you could not see '

But then his voice faltered. He lowered his
eyes and he looked away from her.

 Tell me,' she said gently, ' what could
you see ? '

I could see on your face and in your
eyes this morning " The light that never
was on sea or land." Come, let us move
on.'

They resumed their walk in silence, which
was for some time broken by nothing but an
occasional sound of Carew's stick on a
bramble. Presently, however, they emerged
from a dense thicket, and the chateau all

of a sudden came full into view before them,
with its tower, its gardens, and its ramparts,
crowning the hill opposite. There were some
exclamations from both of them at the
singular picturesqueness of the sight ; and
then Miss Consuelo turned to Carew and
said, a trifle brusquely, ' You like to live ina
castle, don't you ? '

How do you mean ? ' he said.

I mean, you like to lead a life that
separates you not only from the vulgar
rich  of course you like that  but from the
common lot of men and women in general ? '

For riches merely as riches,' replied
Carew evasively, ' I care little or nothing.
I would sooner eat a dinner of herbs with
gentlemen than a stalled ox with people 
well, with people of no family.'

Yes, but if gentlemen are to hold their
heads up in the Avorld, there are certain
surroundings which you think are due to

them, to which morally they have a birthright
; and yoii yourself like to be surrounded
by these. Yoti would not like to
renounce them ? '

To me,' he said, ' they are symbols 
they are not luxuries.'

What ! ' she exclaimed, suddenly brightening
into a wayward laugh, * do you longe
in a soft arm-chair to show the length of
your pedigree ? '

Carew laughed too ; and tnitil they
reached the chateau the conversation lapsed
into a less serious tone. Both, however,
still were aware of serious thoughts beneath
it ; and when they were standing in the
archway waiting for the others, Miss Consuelo
again said in something of her former manner,
Yes, this is the sort of things you like  this
stately seclusion, these battlements, these
great coats-farms '

 Well,' he said, ' and what are all these

but signs ? Would you like yourself to
renounce the thing they signify ? '

No,' she said ; ' on that point I feel just
as you do. It is partly for what they signify
that I would renounce the present signs. I
should find new ones. What we have now I
would sacrifice.'

Tell me said Carew, ' what are the
exact things you are thinking of.'

She looked at him as if she but half
heard his question  as if her thoughts were
wandering ; and her words, when she spoke,
seemed little more than a ripple on the surface
of a silent meditation. ' Many thugs,'
she said ; ' not only houses and lands and
servants  other things, too  poetry, books,
drawing, self-development  perhaps other
things  all the unwritten poems of which
one's own soul is the heroine. I think all
this is involved in the thought I have
received to-day. But I can't tell,' she said,

rousing herself, ' I can't tell yet. That
thought is like one of my own travelling-trunks.
It will take a long time to unpack.'

Will you not,' said Carew, ' let me help
you in unpacking it ? '

Perhaps some day,' she replied, ' perhaps
never.' Then, with a little brusque movement
of the head, she looked him in the eyes for a
moment, and said, ' If anyone helps me, you
shall.' The words were hardly uttered when
a deep blush covered her cheeks, and changing
her manner with a strong effort, she went on
almost flippantly, ' But you wouldn't like the
task. No, no ; these are the surroundings
for you. You will live and die with liveried
servants waiting on you. You are quite right
about yourself. The people, for you, are dirt.'

 See said Carew, * here come Lady
Chislehurst and the others. I have something
to say to them. Will you all of you,' he went
on, ' come now with me, and I will show you

VOL. II. K

what I said I would  low I occupy my
solitude here. Perhaps,' and he turned again
to Miss Consuelo Burton, ' you will find in
this a reply to what you have just said.'

Carew led his guests, who were delighted
at his proposal, into a side of the chateau
which they had none of them yet visited ; and
they presently entered a suite of small sitting-rooms,
opening one into the other after the
fashion of old houses.

When,' he said, ' I was unpacking my
books and papers, and wondering how on
earth I should ever sort and arrange them,
this little row of rooms struck me all at once
as a godsend. I have consecrated one of
them exclusively to each of my several tastes,
or perhaps I should say more properly, of the
several interests of my life. In this room 
you see I have not used it much  in this
room are all my poets, dramatists, novelists,
and so on ; everything, in fact, that you call

literature proper. Xow coral into the next.
Here are all my books on philosophy and
religion.'

This rooro,' said Lady Chislehurst with
approbation, "looks more lived-m than the
other. And  ah, I see yon have all the great
Catholic writers  nearly all are Catholic ; and
here is Mr. Stanley's book on the life of the
Angelical Doctor. But that table, Mr. Carew,
has not been sat at lately ; or else your
French housemaids are very bad hands at
dusting.'

Well,' said Carew, * now come into the
third room.'

An exclamation burst from several voices,
and Harley said, expressing the meaning of
all of them.  Well now, Carew, we have got
to your den at last.'

And a den indeed it was. Along the walls,
on rudely constructed shelves, were rows
upon rows of books, many of them boimd in

K 2

paper, whilst the floor was piled with reports
and pamphlets, and official-looking folio-sheets
covered with tabulated statistics. At each
of the two windows there was, moreover, a
writing-desk, and each of these desks was
plainly in present use. The visitors slowly
inspected the contents of the curiously unornamental
library ; and volume after volume
as they went the round of the room was seen
directly or indirectly to deal with the same
subject. Political Economy, and the social
conditions of labour  the subject was that ;
the subject was that only. English, German,
French and American manuals all were here;
and still more numerous were rows of Reports
and Blue-books.

Here,' said Carew at last, ' is the scene of
my daily life. My solitude is a nut, and here
you get to the kernel of it. There is hardly
a book, Mrs. Harley, of any present influence
either in Europe or America, dealing with the

labour question, or the land question, which I
have not got here ; and I have also done my
best to get all the most reliable accounts,
official or otherwise, of the way the workers
live in various countries, and their comparative
comfort or misery at various periods.
I am trying to reduce a number of my results
to writing.'

And who,' said Lady Chislehurst, ' sits
at that other desk ? Do you keep an amanuensis
? '

There he is,' said Carew, pointing to Mr.
Stanley, ' or rather I am his. He this week
is correcting, and I am helping him to correct,
the proof-sheets of Mr. GriiFen's work, which
our poor friend Foreman was looking forward
to as a new revelation. Now, Lady Chislehurst,
I have made my confessions to our
Society, as my contribution to its inaugural
meeting.'

I hope,' she said as they returned to the

room adjoining, ' that you've not abandoned
this room  the room of your theologians.'

 At any rate,' said Carew,  T have passed
to the other through this ; and to this, you
see, I return, whenever I leave the other.'

Late in the evening, shortly before the
party separated, he said in alow voice to Miss
Consuelo Burton, ' And do you think that I
care nothing about the people now ? '

No,' she replied,  what I said I unsay.'
 And will you do this ? ' said Carew.  One
thing which you said  will you now say it over
again ? Will you say again, " If any one ever
helps me, you shall "  will you say that ? '
Yes,' she murmured, ' I say it.'
That night, in her room, before she retired
to bed, she opened a large despatch-box, and
took out a number of papers from it. She
put these before her on the writing-table, and
she sat for a long time pensively looking over
them. Her head rested on her hand as if

wearily ; a half contemptuous smile flickered
about her mouth ; once or twice she gave a
little cold soft laugh ; once or twice, too, a
sigh escaped her. The papers were all in
manuscript ; part was prose, part was verse.
It was all of it her own composition. She had
never shown it to any one, or ventured to hope
that it could be of any value to others ; but it
had been for her like a hidden store of honey,
which she had secreted from time to time,
obeying a natural impulse. To another reader
she knew that the words might convey little ;
but to her, when she wrote them, they were
like so many constellations of stars, marking
and fixing the figures created by her own
imagination. In the case of the verse, it was
the same, too, with regard to their melody.
They were like notes in a copy of music, which
only she could read, and which could be played
only on the instrument of her own mind.
To-night they still charmed her, but not

as formerly. There was a difference. The
thoughts, the sentiments, which it once so
pleased her to chronicle, were now dear to her
only as the toys of a lost childhood. With
the mere melody it was otherwise. That, as
she read, seemed sonorous and satisfying as
ever. It was as though she were herself singing
to herself, and she turned the pages regretfully
as if the sound fascinated her. But
no sooner had she come to the last page than,
rising from her seat, she gathered them all
together, and then, moving towards the
chimney, carefully placed them across the iron
dogs and set fire to them. She stood looking
at them, as a mother might look at a dead child,
whilst they burned slowly. Then, when the
last blue flames were flickering faint amongst
the folded embers, she pressed her hands
tightly across her eyes ; her lips quivered a
little, and she murmured half aloud, ' What is
poetry or the poetry of life to me ! '

Lord Aiden and Carew, on the terrace just
below her, were meanwhile pacing up and
down together, smoking their cigarettes, whilst
the stars glittered above them. Lord Aiden,
who, in spite of his dilettante languor, was
really touched by poetry more deeply than by
anything, and had always escaped to it as a
refuge from imperial politics and diplomacy,
repeated in Greek that loveliest of all Greek
epigrams, of which the following is a widely-known
translation 

My love, thou gazes on the skies :

Ah, would that I might be
Those skies, with all their thousand eyes,

That I might gaze at thee !

 We were talking the other night,' he
went on, ' about the inversion of similes. I
have often thought that we might invert the
whole thought of that poem. Some men are
constant not to a woman but womanhood,
and instead of seeing in the skies an imao:e

of themselves as they would wish to be, they
see in them the image of womanhood as it
actually is. They do not wish for a thousand
eyes to look at any one woman ; but they seethe
same mysterious inexhaustible charm of
womanhood everywhere looking out of a
thousand eyes at them. They are pantheists
in love, and they are not inconstant though
they seem to be.'

1/ said Carew,  hitherto have been a
pantheist somewhat of that kind  but no
woman could ever move me now, unless we
both clung together to a something beyond
ourselves.'

FEW days later, the chateau was
dull and silent ; and Carew once
more was alone in it. Indoors,
on his desk, his books and papers invited
him ; outside, the sun was shining brightly
as ever : but nothing pleased or satisfied him
as it had done formerly. It is not surprising*,
when a house has been full of guests, if the
host who remains behind should feel depressed
by the solitude ; but Carew's depression did
not arise from this. The mere absence of his
friends he could have borne with perfect composure
; and the thing that weighed upon

him was not that these friends were gone,
but the peculiar circumstances which had
attended the going of one of them.

On Sunday night he had persuaded the
whole party to stay on with him at least till
Tuesday ; and Monday was to be occupied in
some picturesque excursion, a prospect which
filled Miss Consuelo Burton with pleasure.

But on Monday morning, soon after the
post arrived, Mrs. Harley had come to him
with an odd look in her face, and informed
him, in a manner not far from embarrassment,
that she had just had a letter from the eldest
Miss Burton.

'who has been telling her things?' said
Mrs. Harley. ' I am sure I don't know ; but
she has heard already  she must have heard
it yesterday  that Consuelo has been meeting
Foreman here. She is very much annoyed
about it, and wishes her to come back immediately.
Consuelo, poor child, has had a

letter from her, too. She won't show it tome
; but I can see it is disagreeable. Has
Elfrida not written to you ? '

Carew drew from his pocket a number of
unopened envelopes. ' I will look,' he said.
 Yes, this must be hers.'

It was a note couched in the coldest terms
of civility. ' When I allowed my sister,' it
said, ' to come to your house, I did so believing;
that she would be safe from meeting;
a person whose opinions and character are
notoriously offensive to her family, and with
whom they could never allow her to associate
for an instant. Since this, however, proves
not to have been the case, it will hardly surprise
you that I have asked Mrs. Harley to
arrange for my sister's return at the earliest
moment possible ; and we are sending a carriage
to fetch her, which, so far as we can
ascertain, will arrive at your house very nearly
as soon a this letter.'

 I can never said Mrs. Harley, ' let her
go back alone. I am more sorry than I can
say to leave you in this way. George, of
course, can remain ; but I, you will see yourself,
must really go back with her ; and I
have no doubt that the moment I see Elfrida
I shall be able to show her that you have been
not to blame.'

To this Carew could offer no opposition ;
indeed, annoyed as he was at the whole incident,
what he felt most was the position of
Miss Consuelo herself. ' Where is she ? ' he
asked Mrs. Harley. ' I should like to speak to
her;

She is in her room,' said Mrs. Harley,
getting ready to start ; and I must go too.
Poor child, she is painfully troubled ; and the
instant the carriage comes she begged we
might be oiF. For aught I know, it may be
here already.'

He saw neither of the two ladies again

till a minute or two before their departure.
He had no opportunity of saying one word to
Miss Consuelo privately ; and indeed, till he
was actually seeing them into the carriage he
was unable to do as much as catch her eye fora
moment. At last he did this in the act of
saying ' Good-bye ' to her ; and what was his
sensation then ? What emotions were they
that he read in the look she turned on him ?
Was sympathy there ? Was there any feeling
of friendliness ? To his surprise, there was
nothing but a frigid stare of indifference ; and
when he proceeded, before his surprise had
overpowered him, to murmur some hope of
their very soon meeting again, she merely
replied with a civil conventional little laugh,
I'm rather afraid we are going to leave Xice
presently.'

As to the question of Foreman, he talked
that over with Mr. Stanley, and he had
little doubt that that would be soon ex-vol.

II. L

plaited. He wrote Miss Burton a letter
about it ; and felt fully able to clear himself.
On that score he was soon at ease. But his
mind was full of some dim foreboding consciousness
that there was something behind,
which he had not yet arrived at ; and all
through the time that the rest of his friends
remained with him, he was haunted and
stung by the thought of this unexplained
parting. The day after it, he had sent Miss
Consuelo a line or two, to say simply how he
hoped he had not offended her ; and now that
his guests were gone, and there was nothing
whatever to distract him, he was pacing after
breakfast up and down the ramparts, wondering
if the post would bring him any, or what,
answer.

Absorbing, however, as this thought was,
it left room in his mind for others of a more
important nature ; indeed the excitement
caused by it seemed to compel their presence.

His old desponding impression that the existing
social world, with its soil of centuries, m
which all his life was rooted, and with which
alone he could conceive himself as having
any relations  his impression that this world
was on the eve of its destruction, and that
the very ground he trod on was slipping
away under his feet, returned to him
more vivid than ever. The stately hush of
the old halls and parks, which represented
to him the climate in which his own thoughts
had grown, and out of which he could hardly
think at all, he seemed to see invaded by two
discordant armies  a savage mad proletariat
armed with axes and firebrands, and an
impertinent middle class entrenching itself in
villas, and devastating the aristocratic solitudes
with sandwich-papers and the claws of lobsters.
This impression was again traversed by
another, that matters were not yet hopeless ;
and that though it was a riddle how to

L 2

save what lie clung to, the riddle had an
answer, if he only knew where to find it.
But both his hope and his despondency, and
all the care included in them, were, for the
time being, inseparable from the thought of
Miss Consuelo Burton. They seemed like
emanations from it ; it seemed perpetually to
be shaping itself out of them.

Such was his mood of mind when the
stable-clock struck ten  the hour when the
post was due : and before long a tray of
letters was brought to him. He had only
expected one which could bear on his anxiety.
Instead of one there were three. There was
the one he expected ; he knew it must be her
handwriting ; he looked at the back, and
there he saw her monogram. Besides that
there was one from her eldest sister, and
there was another from Mrs. Harley.

He read the one from the eldest sister first.
She accepted Carew's explanation with regard

to the presence of Foreman, but lie did so in
phrases of such studied coldness as to show
that her displeasure remained, although the
alleged pretext for it had been abandoned.
This was apparent in even the first few sentences
; and then followed something that
was even more unequivocal.  My sister has
received the note which you thought fit to
address to her on this subject, and with my
sanction is herself writing to inform you that
she is perfectly satisfied with your explanations.
We must beg, therefore, that you
will not put yourself to the trouble of
either thinking or writing any more about

it;

He crushed the letter in his hand with a
sense of anger and perplexity ; and it was
some time before he looked at the others. He
resumed his walk at a more rapid pace, the
very stamp of his feet betraying the mood
that possessed him : and it was not till he

had several times been the whole length of
the ramparts that he found himself prepared
to open Miss Consuelo's envelope. Within
its folds there was still some faint hope for
him, but so faint that, like a flickering candle,
it produced not light so much as an instant
fear of darkness. At last, however, he tore it
open and faced the contents. In a second his
hope had vanished. Her few lines were as
follows :

Dear Mr. Carew,  Your letter told me
nothing that I had not already known. I
was much interested in meeting Mr. Foreman ;
but the incident, which you may have surmised
would be very displeasing to my relations,
was, so far as you are concerned, not only
accidental but unavoidable : and I can assure
you they are now quite aware of the fact. I
am glad to have an opportunity of thanking
you for my interesting visit ; and also of
telling you that, everything being perfectly

clear, no further explanations of any kind are
necessary.

I am, yours truly,

C. Breton.'

This letter he crushed even more violently
than the other. He seemed for the moment
to be on the point of tearing it up ; but
changed his mind, and thrust it angrily into
his pocket. Mrs. Harley's still remained for
him ; he felt, however, that that might
keep ; he had read quite enough for the
present. He went indoors, put on a stout
pair of walking shoes, and, letting it be known
that he would not be in till the evening,
resolved to seek consolation in a lons excursion
on foot.

However heavily trouble may weigh upon
one, there is a comfortless exhilaration in
the effort to shake it off; and Carew, when
he emerged again, felt that his spirits rose a
little. The charms of the day and country had

also something to do with this. Colour and
sunlight had naturally upon him much the
same effect that music has upon some people ;
and sore with a sense of undeserved injury,
he yielded himself now to their blandishments
with a kind of defiant recklessness. The
blinding blue of the sky, the liquid luxurious
atmosphere which made the whole panorama
glitter as if it were seen through water, the
tints of the hills and hollows, the golden flash of
the oranges, and the misty bloom of azure which
slept on the distant mountains, and seemed as
one looked to palpitate with its own intensity
all this struck on Carew's nerves like the
crash of some inspiriting orchestra. In a half-hearted
way it made him feel a man again.
Where he would go he had not yet decided ;
but his eyes fell suddenly on a little mediaeval
town, shining over its olive-yards far off in the
upland country. He had often heard reports
of it  of its towers, its fortifications, and its

singular antique houses. This was Sant
Paul du Yar. He resolved that he would go
there now.

The walk was lovely. The country as he
went revealed to him, by road or mule-path,
its quaintest scenes and the choicest of its
secret prospects ; and at last, after three
hours' travel, on emerging from a grove of
cork-trees, he saw on the opposite side of a
deep but narrow gully, a glimmering girdle
of grey walls and bastions ; above these, a
huddling cluster of windows, roofs, and balconies,
and crowning all, a church and a
square watch-tower.

Continuing to follow the pathway which
had brought him thus far, he arrived in the
course of five or ten minutes more at a
wooded slope, which shelved down to a ,
or rather a space in which the
carriage-road ended ; and on the farther side
of this was the embattled gate of the town.

Here he paused ; and seeing that the ground
was inviting, he sat down on the dry brown
pine-needles, and drew from his pocket some
slight luncheon he had brought with lira.
Despite his unhappiness exercise had made him
hungry ; and as he ate a reflective calm stole
over him, such as often accompanies the satisfaction
of any natural craving. He looked at
the scene before him with a quiet dejected
interest. It was full of sympathetic suggestions.
The narrow gateway that confronted
him, flanked by two mouldering towers ; the
walls, pierced with loopholes, that ran to left
and right of it, were still nearly as perfect as
when their builders had left them. Little had
changed them but the noiseless action of time,
which had laid on them the tints of centuries.
Close by these walls were several rude carts,
plainly too wide to pass through the narrow
arch. In and out amongst them were some
little children playing ; an old crone with a

distaff sat in the sunshine watching them ;
and some twenty yards away a bevy. of laughing
girls were grouped together round a bubbling
marble conduit, and with cjuick brown
arms were washing their store of linen. Then
presently there was a slight noise behind him.
He turned to look, and straying downwards
from the forest a boy goat-herd, actually
playing on a pipe, passed by with his goats,
like a figure out of a story-book.

Carew, as he sat contemplating this idyllic
picture, instead of forgetting his own personal
trouble, felt it by contrast assuming a clearer
shape. For a second time m his life. Miss
Consuelo Burton was lost to him ; but the
circumstances now made the loss more crushing
than formerly. Then she had left him
against her will, and regretfully. Now she
took part with those who told her to turn her
back upon him. And why ? for what reason ?
All the sins of his life rose up before him, as

they are said to do before the eyes of a drowning
man. At first he accused himself, and
said with a bitter humility, ' I am an unclean
man. She is quite right in departing from
me.' Then he compared  he could not help
doing so  his own life with the lives of certain
other men whom he knew the Miss Burtonss
treated with marked favour ; and in what
way, he wondered, could he be worse than
these ? And why was he worse to-day than
he had been a week before ? Miss Consuelo
was lost to him : that was one pain. But
this, for the time being, was almost lost in
another. He felt not as if he had been
wounded, but as if he had been beaten allover
; and he was conscious of a sense of
blank and wondering desolation, out of which
affection had disappeared like a trampled
plant. All the present seemed somehow pitted
against him. It was as hard and unjust to
him, in the person of his private acquaintances,

as it was alien to him in its general
social tendencies ; and the past, embodied in
the objects now surrounding him, seemed to
be receiving and soothing him like a tender
personal friend.

He rose presently and entered the little
town. He wandered eagerly through its narrow
winding streets, noting with keen glance every
detail of interest  the decayed scutcheon over
a door that had once been noble ; the rich
ironwork of some mediaeval balcony ; or a
well glimmering in the middle of some courtyard,
its marble rim gashed with deep notches
by the rope that had raised for centuries its
still luminous water. At last a crooked alley
brought him out upon the ramparts, and,
having looked about him for a few minutes,
he sat down on an old rusty cannon, which
had probably lain where it was unmoved
since the days of Vauban. Everything his
eye fell on harmonized with his own spirit.

The old masonry, the fortifications, the immemorial
houses, in their forlorn survival, and
in their utter absence of hope, seemed, as it
were, to be a part of his own being.

In this mood of mind he bethought himself
of Mrs. Harley's letter. He could learn
nothing from it that would add to his unhappiness
; it might contain something that
would at least ease his anxiety. It began, as
might have been expected, with a number of
civil things about the charms of Bourbons
and the unpleasantness of Miss Consuelo's
departure. It then went on to repeat
the assurances which Carew had received
already from two other quarters, and which
added to his uneasiness rather than took away
from it  that the Burtonss, so far as Foreman's
presence was concerned, now realized fully
that they had no complaint against him.
The letter went on as follows :

You know, however, what Elfrida is ;

and somehow or other, there has been some
mischief made about you. What it exactly
means I really can't make out ; but I think I
have gathered one thing  that that insufferable
Mr. Inigo is at the bottom of it. Perhaps
that may tell you something. It doesn't
tell me much ; and Elfrida is as close asher
own father confessor, and when she is
opinionated there is no one so perverse as she
is. I should like to shake her. However,
these little matters, though they are very
annoying at the time, soon blow over and
clear themselves up, if one only lets them alone.
Indeed, my dear Mr. Carew, if I had nothing
to tell you but this it would hardly have been
worth while for me to inflict a letter on you.
But I have more to tell you than this.

Here, then, is some news which you may
not yet have seen in the papers : indeed parts
of it have only just reached me by a private
telegram. Here is some news which will at

once amuse and please you. Eighteen out of
twenty of our friend Foreman's elections have
come off already. Eighteen of his Socialist
candidates, who were to rally round them, in
all its terrible strength, the voting force of
educated and of organized labour  Foreman
thought that the result would make all England
tremble, probably all Europe  well, of
these eighteen gentlemen, the one who polled
most votes polled  how many should you
think ? Out of eight thousand votes, and ina
constituency supposed to be the most revolutionary
in the kingdom, this terrible candidate
polled a hundred and ninety-five ; and
none of the other eighteen polled as many as
thirty. Poor Foreman ! It's impossible not
to pity him ; and yet, though I like him, it's
impossible not to be amused at him. You
never saw a man so completely knocked down
in your life. I dare say in a week or two he'll
be full of explanations, but he hasn't had time

to think of one yet. He's positively as white
as a sheet, except when I make fun of him,
and then he o-ets red with anger  or rather he
did ; for, I believe to avoid me, he has gone
off to spend a week in retreat at Mentone ;
and from thence, he told me, he is o-oino:
back straight to London. There was something
almost ghastly in the eyes of the poor
creative when he warned me at parting that
we should soon hear again of him, and that
his members without constituencies  I don't
know how they'll manage  will soon hold a
Parliament that will make us all tremble, in
the streets. Meanwhile, I think you and I
may congratulate ourselves that the old order
of things has still got legs to stand upon
even, perhaps, the old families with theu-
quarterings. Only, you and your friends must
show them how to be useful ; and  a thing
which is even more important  you must get
them to be so after you have shown them.

VOL. II. M

 The Burtonss leave Nice tomorrow for
Rome, where they ream till Easter, and
where we expect to join them, and then we
talk of gong home together by the Italian
lakes. I wish there was any chance of your
being at your cousin's beautiful island villa
at that time, and that we might all meet
again. I have not the least doubt that between
this and then Elfrida will have unbosomed
her secret to me ; and I shall be
able to show her what a ridiculous mare's-nest
it has been. Yes  depend upon it : like a
good soul as she is, in another three weeks she
will be humbly begging your pardon, and you
will be generously dissembling your sense
that she looks foolish.'

The first part of the letter told Carew little.
The mention, indeed, of Mr. Inigo's name produced
a passing emotion of contemptuous and
irritated wonder ; but what Mrs. Harley said
with regard to the Burtonss merely deepened

his blank and almost dreamlike sense of
estrangement from them. The elder sisters,
he felt, might believe or disbelieve what they
pleased; but nothing could soften his memory
of the way in which the younger one had
parted from him. Very different was the
effect of the political news that had reached
him. The vast forces of change which were
supposed to be undermining society, and
which seemed to menace with their widespread
and subterranean rumblings the imminent
ruin of all the existing fabric  these
forces had put their strength to the test : and
with what result ? The terrible Titan, so it
seemed to Carew, had shrunk to the proportions
of a squalid malignant dwarf He felt like a
man relieved suddenly from a nightmare. He
was not in a mood to criticise this impression.
It came to him by surprise ; he received it
glowing with gratitude ; and a sense of exhilaration
spread itself through all his body,

3 2

as if after a long fast he had drunk some
strong stimulant.

He rose from his seat. The Chateau de
Courbon-Loubet, seem to rear itself on its hill
with a bolder and statelier dignity. The old
buildings round him partook of the same spirit.
They ceased to look forlorn ; they defied change
and progress. He resumed his walk with a
light and excited step, resolving to see, if
possible, the interiors of some of the houses.
Full of these thoughts, he was descending a
flight of steps which led down from the ramparts
to the level of the ground below, when
his foot slipped and he found that he had
sprained his ankle. The immediate pain was
not great, but he feared that it would soon
increase, and he was at once confronted with
a doubt as to low he should get home.

The scene of the accident was close to the
gateway of the town, and, recollecting the
carts he had noticed outside, he made his way

to them limping, in order to see if lie could
not engage one as a vehicle. He had hardly,
however, emerged from the shadow of the
arch, when the first sight that presented itself
was a carriage, which must have arrived
lately. The horses had been taken out, but
the coachman was in his place on the box, and
was placidly regaling himself with the contents
of some paper packages. Carew's ankle
at the moment beginning to be more painful,
his ordinary scruples at once went to the wads;
and he inquired with interest of the coachman
from what place he had come, and of what
his party consisted. The carriage had come
from Cannes ; its occupants were three people,
and they were now inspecting the town.
Carew, on hearing this, explained his condition
to the coachman ; told him he was
anxious to get to the Chateau de Bourbons
which lay hardly more than a mile
off the direct Cannes road ; and then, with

the present of a five-franc piece, begged him
to look for his employers, and ask them
if, of their goodness, they would give a
lift to a gentleman who had just lamed
himself.

But he had hardly finished speaking when
the coachman, with a jerk of his thumb,
exclaimed, ' Voila, monsieur ! ' and Carew,
turning his head, saw coming towards him
the very people in question. There was a tall
bronzed man, with a somewhat military bearing,
walking slowly by the side of a middle-aged
lady  a lady whose face was singularly
gentle in expression, and Who was a little
singular too, for the richness of her Parisian
dress. There was something in her look and
movements so attractive and soothing, that
Carew had hardly time to do more than notice
that a second lady of some sort was walking
a short way behind them, under the shade of
a fanciful brown parasol : and he was just

preparing, thongs not without seme shyness,
to advance and meet the two foremost of the
strangers, when their companion, moving her
parasol, caught sight of him and started.
He started also. They both had a second
look at each other ; and Carew recognized in
the strangers Miss Capel and her parents.

The girl's smile had still the same charm
for him, the same frankness, the same tantalizing
mystery, that it had had on the
mountain road and in the moonlit garden
at Xice. AVith a quick elastic step she came
forward to meet him ; and a welcome in
her eyes flashed like sunshine on trembling
water. He too moved forward a step or
two. There was something intoxicating in
the pleasure she showed at seeing him ; and
he hardly knew whether his ankle pained
him or no.

Mamma,' she said, ' this is Mr. Carew,
who saved my precious fan for me  the

beautiful one you gave me. Mr. Carew, this
is General Capel.'

You seem,' said Mrs. Capel, ' to have
much the same tastes as we have. We are
devoted to wanderings amongst these old
places.'

 But, God bless my soul ! ' exclaimed
the General, ' have you hurt yourself ? You
seem as if you could hardly walk.'

Carew explained that such was indeed
the case, and that when they appeared he
was just nerving inn self to ask if they would
take him home in their carriage.

 I discovered,' he said, ' from your coachman
that you had come from Cannes  I see
you have left Nice  and my house lies almost
directly upon the way.'

And how have you come ? ' inquired
Mrs. Capel kindly. ' Place you walked ? '

Carew explained that he had, and also
where he was living.

'I remember,' the girl exclaimed, 'you
told me you had a castle somewhere. Fancy
a castle in these days I You are like a
prince out of a fairy-tale.'

Mr. Carew,' interposed Mrs. Capel, ' I
am forgetting myself. AYe are letting you
stand when you ought to be sitting down.
Come, get into the carriage, and make
yourself comfortable. The back seat  I
insist. I'm accustomed to be obeyed in
these thugs. That's right, and like a
sensible person. And now, if you'll take
my advice, rest your foot on the seat opposite.'


Mrs. Capel's voice was unusually soft
and musical, and there was a trace in her
of that simple and yet most dangerous charm
which, Carew was already aware, was one
of her daughter's attributes. The childlike,
the unconscious, the fearless frankness
of manner, though never more familiar than

that of a well-bred friend, was wholly without
the ceremonious distance found and
expected in an ordinary well-bred acquaintance
: and the impression produced
on Carew, both by mother and daughter,
was peculiar. It was not as if they had
pushed themselves with any effort into his
confidence ; but as if without effort, like
two witches or fairies, they had traversed
the space by which mundane strangers are
separated, and put themselves noiselessly
close to him by a mere act of sympathy.

Mrs. Capel's commands as a nurse he
found there was no resisting. He arranged
himself exactly in the attitude she suggested
; and then the daughter, with a smile
of mimic authority, got into the carriage and
propped his back up with a cushion.

::: @:  iM " '" "y '<'W '%::i' .''

CHAPTER 11.

Bring the earlier part of the drive, sofar
as Miss Capel was concerned, it
was enough for Carew to be pleasantly
conscious that she was there. Her
pretty jacket, her black hat trimmed with
honeysuckle, her light brown gloves, and her
pocket-handkerchief edged with forget-me-nots,
all combined to make up a piquant
picture, which took a meaning from the sense
that her eyes were watching him. But his
whole conversation he gave to the two elders,
anxious to arrive at some sort of conclusion

as to who and whence they were and what
was their position and history.

He gradually learnt quite enough to transform
them from social phantoms into 
social realities. The General, who
spoke with a slightly un-english accent, was
descended not remotely from a well-known
English family ; his parents, however, had
settled in the Southern States of America, and
his military rank was that of an officer in the
Confederate army. As to Mrs. Capel he could
not glean quite so much ; but he gathered
from something said that she too was a
Southerner by birth, though the greater part
of her life had been passed in Paris and
London. In addition to this, though there
was no trace in her manner of any desire to
boast of any great acquaintances, she betrayed
quite accidentally that she had one or two
intimate friends, amongst not only men but
women, of the highest position and character.

It is true that there breathed about her a certain
perfume of Bohemia, but it was a Bohemian
perfume of the highest and most delicate
kind.

By-and-by, having talked vdih the parents
enough to establish for them and himself some
mutual social footing, he began to address
himself more particularly to the daughter ;
nor was he long in discovering at least one
new charm in her. This was her keen sense
of the beauty of the scenes around her. She
not only saw but felt it ; and in the little remarks
which she made from time to time on
the changing effects of shadow and light and
colour, still more in the pensive silence in
which she would sometimes watch them, he
felt, as it were, that he was listening to a
musical instrument, from which the outer
world was eliciting some tender delightful
melody. In the radiant morning, as he started
for his walk, nature had appealed to him

directly ; now it appealed to him through
the appeal it made to a woman, and came
fraught with the music and mystery of a
woman's heart. The imaginative impression
that he was listening to some actual tune
grew on him with a dreamy enchantment ;
but its meaning, as he listened to it, became
more and more ambiguous. Now it was a
woman's longing for a love that had not yet
come to her ; now it was a woman's regret
for some dead love or lover ; now it was the
sound of a child singing one of Blake's
 Songs of Innocence.'

Meanwhile the afternoon was waning : the
sunlight first grew rich with a warm gold
colour ; then into this came a stealthy flush
of rosiness ; and by-and-by the west was
barred with crimson ; and the purple dusk of
the twilight descended from the stainless sky.

Miss Capel looked round her as the silent
darkness deepened ; and, after a long pause,

murmured almost in a whisper, ' The shadows
seem to fall on everything, just as the dew
does.' There was a spell as she spoke, not in
the words so much as in the tone. The tone
seemed to say, as distinctly as any language
could, that it came from a heart which would
not be so touched now if it were not tender
for very different causes, or at least if it
would not be.

Look,' said Carew, as a turn of the road
brought into view a new reach of country,
there is the chateau at the top of the further
hi.'

Indeed ! ' said the General. ' It must bea
very interesting place. I was wondering
what it was as we came along this morning.'


 And I hope,' said Mrs. Capel, ' as soon
as you get there, Mr. Carew, you will be
careful of that ankle of yours. \Yill you let
us send over a doctor from Cannes to you?

We are quite early : you needn't look at
your watch

 I was looking at my watch,' said Carew,
not with any thought of the doctor, but
because I wanted to ask you if you would
remain and dine with me.'

I am afraid,' said Mrs. Capel, ' that it's
too late for that.'

No,' retorted Carew, laughing ; ' I'm
not going to let you off. It's too late for
one thing  for you to make that excuse.
Let us ask the General.' The General
politely hesitated. ' And you, Miss CajDcl,'
Carew went on, ' what do you say ? Would
you like the arrangement ? ' Miss Capel
said nothing, but with a soft, almost solemn
smile, raised her eyes to his and nodded her
head slowly. They at once moved in a
world of secret mutual understanding.

Come,' Carew resumed, ' let us consider
that that is settled. Your horses will be

all the better for resting ; and you, Mrs.
Capel, who have been so kind to me as an
invalid, must know that for a sufferer there
is nothing like pleasant company.'

These persuasions were, before long,
successful ; and it was quite evident that
the Capels were pleased to have been persuaded.
Little had Carew expected when
he set forth in the morning, desolate and
depressed about everything  about life and
love and politics  little had he expected
that he should return a few hours later
with an excitement that disguised if it did
not cure his unhappiness. And yet such
was, indeed, the case. Only for one moment,
as they crossed, in nearing the chateau,
the track of his Sunday walk with Miss
Consuelo Burton, did a sickening pain, a
despairing regret come back to him. But
it passed presently ; the remarks of his
new friends drowned it ; and in the pleasure

VOL. II. N

and expectation they betrayed as the fireside
tower drew nearer, he felt a renewal of
his own fresh sensations on perceiving it first
himself. Indeed, when they arrived at the
great arched entrance, and he conducted his
guests across the court into the interior, he
was conscious of an excitement, in receiving
these chance strangers, which last week
had been altogether wanting when he was
performing the same office to his friends.
To his friends the chateau had appealed asa
fragment of history  as part of a past to
which they had some close relation. To his
present guests it was a fragment, not of history,
but of fairyland. It was a delightful
adventure to them to find themselves in the
midst of it ; and to him by sympathy it
became an adventure also. Everything
suddenly acquired the charm of strangeness.
The table covered with its familiar glass and
silver, and the faded liveries of the lackeys

dimly moving in the background  "he could
hardly believe that he had ever seen any
of it before.

I wish,' he said as dinner drew to an
end,  that I could take you for a walk on
the terrace and through the gardens in the
moonlight.'

Xo, no,' said Mrs. Capel, ' you keep
yourself quiet. There was an arm-chair in
the room where we were just now, which
I at once took note of as the very thing
for an invalid. Perhaps the General and
Violet mio'ht oho out and look about them
for a moment ; and meanwhile, I will give
you a little medical advice.'

Carew was not pleased exactly at the
notion of being parted from Miss Capel ;
but Mrs. Capel, by some mysterious
exercise of authority, contrived, when they
rose from the table and passed into the
adjoining salon, that her husband and

N 2

daughter should do as she had suggested ;
and she herself and Carew were presently
left together. He soon comprehended the
reason of this gentle and adroit manoeuvre.

With a kind imperiousness she saw him
arranged in comfort ; and then, with a grave
expression, taking a seat close to him, ' I
had heard from my daughter,' she said, ' how
you had met her at Madame de Saint Valery's
Madame de Saint Valery is, as you know,
my niece. What a sad story hers is ! '

 It is,' said Carew. ' No one knows that
better than I do. There was never a woman

who had more good in her '

Yes, yes," said Mrs. Capel, interrupting
him,  and never a woman who has come to
greater evil. Mr. Carew,' she continued, ' you
have never before heard of me ; but though I
never expected to see you, I have heard a
good deal of you. I know how on the night
before she finally threw over everything, you

took lier for a walk by the side of the river
at Hurlingham, and made her tell you the
trouble that you saw was on her mind. I
know how she told you plainly the desperate
resolve she had taken, and how you did all
sou could to dissuade her. Her husband was
in St. Petersburg:. He had never behaved
well to her. In all London she had no real
friend but you ; and you, though people said
you were yourself in love with her, did all
you could, like a real friend, to save her. Mr.
Carew, I know it was from no selfish motive.
You were no rival of the man who did the
mischief. You wonder how I know. My
unhappy niece has told me.'

If ever I,' said Carew, 'had any influence
for good on her, it was only because in herself
there was so much goodness naturally.'

There was,' said Mrs. Capel ; ' and it
was for this reason that I allowed Violet the
other night to go to her. But  I hoped for

an opportunity of speaking to you on this
subject  'Dicit can never occur again. I suppose
you are hardly aware what has happened
to that poor creature by this time. She is
now with some Russian prince  a real prince,
but a ruined man and a thorough-paced
scoundrel. Lie is with this man said Mrs.
Capel, drawing closer to Carew, and lowering
her voice, though there was no one at hand
to overhear her,  and she helps him in keeping
a private gambling-hell at Nice. The whole
thing is done with the utmost secrecy. Their
great effort is to elude the vigilance of the
police. It seems there is a club of them, and
they meet in different houses  never at the
same house two nights running. Can you
fancy anything more dreadful ? Any morning
we may see in the papers that she has been
arrested. This is the reason why we have
left Nice. It is a sad story, but I wished to
tell it you ; partly because you had taken an

interest in her, and partly because I Trifled
to explain to you how my child came to be
with her. That was a circumstance which
otherwise you might have easily misunderstood.'


No said Carew, ' I think not. At all
events, I understand it perfectly now. Poor
Madame de Saint Yalery ; fancy her having
come to that ! '

 Isn't it extraordinary ! ' said Mrs. Capel.
 And it's not for the sake of money that she
has formed her present connection. She has
money of her own  plenty of it. She has
just bought a villa in Italy. No  it's simply
an impulse, a caprice for this man ; but a
caprice, while it lasts, as generous as the best
kind of affection. Yes, Mr. Carew, hers is
a fine nature ruined.'

Whilst she was speaking servants appeared
with coffee.

And now,' she went on, ' let us send for

them to come in from the terrace. Perhaps
also you will allow me to order the carriage.'

 Not yet said Carew ; ' you can wait half
an hour longer. Think when you are gone
how lonely and desolate I shall feel.'

Mr. Carew said Miss Capel, appearing
at the window, ' this is the most beautiful
place, I think, I ever saw in my life. Can weever
thank you enough for having let us see
it?'

Yes, you can,' said Carew ; and then
turning to Mrs. Capel, 'you can thank me
easily,' he added, ' in one way ; and in one
way only. Come here again, and pay me a
visit for a day or two. I am quite alone here ;
and, as you know, I am partly crippled. But
I could at least show you some of the neighbourhood,
which is beautiful ; and if you
were not afraid of finding the place dull, you
would certainly prevent its being exceedingly
dull to me.'

There was a little pause, and Mrs. Capel
looked at lier husband. ' I am afraid,' said
CarcTV, ' that the General would not find
much to amuse him.'

Oh, it's not that,' said Mrs. Capel. ' The
General at the present moment likes quiet
better than anything. He's writing an account
of the Battle of Bull Run for one of the
New York magazines. To us, I am sure,
nothing could be more delightful.'

Then in that case,' said Carew, ' we will
consider the matter settled. It only remains
for us to fix the day.'

 I'm afraid,' said the General, ' it can't be
till the week after next. Next week we are
obliged to go to Genoa.'

Then why not this week ? ' said Carew.
Have you any engagements this week ? ' It
appeared that they had not. Carew's heart
beat with pleasure. ' Well, then,' he said,
suppose that you come tomorrow. Tomorrow

is Thursday. That would give you
a few days here, at any rate.'

Again there was some hesitation, and a
little family council ; but the result was
quickly arrived at, and after one or two rapid
arguments, the invitation was accepted with
the prettiest grace in the world.

CHAPTER III.

llHE Capels, when they went  when
their carriage disappeared into the
darkness, seemed to Carew to have
come and gone like a vision, and all his cares
crowded back again on him. The vacant rooms
were again filled with his friends ; he heard
the voices that echoed his own feelings ; the
chairs, the walls, all the objects around him,
told him that the eyes of Miss Consuelo
Burton had rested on them : and he asked
himself in a fit of weary and useless repentance
why he had invited these strangers to profane
and trouble his solitude. He remained in this

mood during most of the next day, and had
hardly tried to get free of it before his visitors
came. When he thought of the girl who had
so readily charmed him yesterday, another
image like a ghost revealed itself by the side of
hers, and hers became almost an annoyance,
which disturbed without distracting him.

Luckily, however, for the credit of his
own civility, the Capels' actual arrival roused
a little of his yesterday's interest in
them, and, helped by a crutch, he limped out
to welcome them. There they were with a
cortege of two carriages, one containing themselves,
the other their boxes and servants.
The moment he saw them aoain he felt his
pulse quicken, and a number of minute impressions
were stamped upon his memory ina
moment  the spiked moustache and brown
hands of the General, the dove-like glance and
the delicately faded face of the mother, and the
dainty audacity, almost too much like that of

a fashion-book, which caught his eye in Miss
Capel's dress as she descended.

Then followed presently the same Httle
round of incidents which had marked the
arrival of the Harleyss and !Miss Consuelo
Burton. There was the same gathering in
another ten minutes round the tea-table ; there
was the very same tea-service. But the room,
and everything in it, though nothing whatever
had been changed, was like the same instrument
having a new tune played on it, and it seemed
to be filled with a wholly different atmosphere.

Mrs. Capel's eye at once lit on the cups ;
and drawing off a long grey glove, which she
extracted with difficulty from under a heavy
bracelet, she took one of them up and examined
it with the air of a connoisseur. ' Do
you know,' she exclaimed, ' that these are
perfectly priceless ! ' And she informed Carew
of their exact date and history. Soon after
she was attracted by the old silver tea-pot, and

she seemed equally able to give an opinion
aboufc that.

This old place she said, looking round
her with a smile of soft surprise, ' must
be a regular museum if all of it is like
this room. Do you see, Yiolet, those fiddles
and flutes over the door there ? They are
exactly like what the Count has at Saint
Cloud in his billiard-room. You must
know, Mr. Carew, that I am devoted to
china and bric-a-brac . We have a house at
Saint Cloud ourselves ; and our neighbour,
whom I was just speaking of, is one
of the greatest collectors in Paris. Are
you, ' she added, again looking at the teacups,
' are you very fond of these beautiful
things yourself ? '

 I like them here,' said Carew, ' because
they are in keeping with the place.'

Mrs. Capel, however, hardly heard this,
for, looking up, she exclaimed with enthusiasm,

' What a pity it is that they should
be all thrown away here ! For your cousin,
I think you told me, never comes here
himself ; and your presence is nothing
more than an accident. However, as it's
not your house, I am going to indulge my
feelings, and admire, and admire, and admire
everything to my heart's content.
Rudolph,' she went on to her husband,
look at these lovely curtains. They're
exactly like that brocade on the walls of
Violet's sitting-room.'

Carew felt suddenly that he began to
understand something as to where the difference
lay between his new friends and himself.
The contents of the chateau pleased and
satisfied him because to him they were the
right things in the right place ; they delighted,
but they surprised, Mrs. Capel because they
were the right things in a strange place. At
once his mind constructed from her manner,

from her tone, from her temperament, the
external surroundings of herself, her husband,
and her daughter. He had a vision of a
villa, dainty as a jewel-casket, with gaily-painted
ceilings and cabinets of Sevres china ;
where everything had about it a bloom of
newness, delicate as the youth in the bloom
of a girl's complexion, and where the antiquity
of the choicest artistic objects only gave
them the charm of the rarest and the newest
acquisitions. The difference was just this.
To Carew, such objects in a drawing-room
would suggest a dilapidated chateau ; to Mrs.
Capel, such objects in a chateau suggested a
possible drawing-room.

The General, as he talked to him, bore out
this impression. It was quite evident that
he was a man of taste and cultivation ; and
he instantly named the painters of two small
Dutch pictures which Carew, till that moment,
had never looked at twice. He seemed well

acquainted, too, T'ith the history of the revolution
m France, and the position of the
noblesse both before and after it. But the
subject, though it commanded his interest,
made no appeal to his sympathy He treated
it as calmly as if it were some geologic catastrophe
: whilst as to the old towns, which
he seemed so fond of visiting, it is true that
he admired them for their picturesqueness and
their curiosity ; but in their associations he
found nothing more personally touching to
him than he would have probably found in
some curious 2:eoloofic formation.

Nor did Miss Capel in this way differ
much from her parents, except that to her
the strangeness and antiquity of the chateau
seemed a source of imaginative and half-smiling
alarm, which Carew, as he watched
her, presently found himself admitting, became
her almost as well as a feeling for its real
meaning and history. And this impression

VOL. II.

grew on him. All the signs about him of
a stately order of things which was well-nigh
dead in France, and might soon be dying in
England, possessed for himself so close and
sad a significance, that there was, to his
ears, a kind of fairy-like music in hearing
them spoken of by a pair of lips so dainty
merely as 'so odd' and ' so curious,' as if no
sadness attached to them. He even smiled
with pleasure as he caught in her soft e3es
a floating flash of what seemed like unwilling
amusement.

I must,' she said, rising as soon as she had
finished her tea, ' move about and examine
everything for myself Mr. Carew, you don't
mind it  do you ? I'll promise to be careful,
and break absolutely nothing. Ah,' she exclaimed
presently, 'what flowers! what roses!
Mr. Carew, I like them best of all ! '

Carew watched her as she stood close to
the window, with her nostrils buried in a forest

of crimson petals. She seemed like a creature
fed on the breath of gardens. Then, turning
round, with deliberate gliding waywardness,
she moved here and there, inspecting one
thing after another, till, at last, in the corner
she caught sight of an old harpsichord.
 Will it play? ' she asked, with a little cry of
delight.

Try,' said Carew. ' Let me open it for
you.'

The instrument was certainly not in very
good condition ; but still Miss Capel contrived
to elicit an air from it, that was not only
distinctly an air, but an air full of plaintive
pathos. Carew was much struck by this quick
transition of sentiment, for her face as she
looked at him seemed to take its expression
from the music ; and with some interest he
asked what the air was. She did not stop
playing, but, fixing her eyes on him with a



half regretful mockery, ' Don't you know it?*
she said. ' It is quite old, I believe.

Si le Roi m'avoit donne
Paris, sa grande ville 

The words come from Moliere. Didn't he
live under the Monarchy  under the old regime
I thought you were a Legitimist  isn't
that what you call it ?  and that you cared for
all that sort of thing. I wanted to prove to
you that I was not quite ignorant not quite
unworthy of being a visitor at your chateau

Carew murmured that she had proved
that long ago. She had stopped playing now,
though her hands were still on the keys, and,
bending a little forward and looking at him
very gravely,  Would you like me,' she said,
to prove it to you still more conclusively ? '

You have proved it enough,' said Carew;
but you can never prove it too often. Yes,
please, prove it me in the way you say you
will.'

I don't know,' lie said, ' I don't know if
I have the courage. I can't do it just at
this moment at all events. I shall have to
consult mamma.'

What she could mean he was utterly at a
loss to conjecture ; and she seemed to please
herself in watching his baffled curiosity, which
was only interrupted by the distant clang of
the dressing-bell.

He had by this time recovered completely
his yesterday's sense of her fascination. He
now was convinced that she would distract
without disturbing him, and he looked forward
with interest to seeing her dressed for dinner.
Her parents, however, both came down without
her ] and Mrs. Capel with many apologies
said she would be ready directly. But the
minutes went by : no Miss Capel appeared ;
and her mother at last insisted that dinner be
kept waiting no longer for her. They had
not, however, finished their soup when the

defaulter entered ; and Carew could hardly
repress an exclamation of delight and of
astonishment. Anything so radiant, so bewildering,
he had never seen in his life. She
was powdered and patched, and her cheeks
had a natural flush on them that was not
rouge, and that made rouge unnecessary. Her
dress was perfect, from the ribbon round her
neck to the tips of her high-heeled shoes.
She was a beauty of the Court of Louis Quinze
come to life again ; and the way in which she
bore herself made the spell complete. There
was a little shyness in her entrance, but no
awkwardness. There was an expression in
her eyes, in her movements even, half mischievous
and half deprecating ; and she advanced
to the table with all the grace of a
child conscious of some misdemeanour and
yet certain not to be punished for it.

It's a dress,' said her mother, 'which she
wore at a fancy ball at Paris. It is just

like a picture in the gallery outside ; Violet
noticed it the moment we came into the
house, and nothing would satisfy her but
to surprise you in it to-night.'

I hope,' said Miss Capel, looking at
Carew as she sat down, ' I hope you aie
not angry with me. I wanted to show you,
as I told you at the piano, that I could
make myself, at least superficially  is that
the right word, I wonder ?  I dare say it
isn't  that I could make myself superficially
in keeping with an historic chateau.'

Why,' said Carew by-and-by, * can't we
all go back to powder, and dress as they
did a hundred years ago ? '

 We should have to change plenty of
other things,' laughed the General, ' before
we could manage that.'

We should,' said Carew, ' and I should
like plenty of other things changed.'

How funny that would be ! ' said Miss

Capel, smiling at the idea.  No  I don't
want, myself, to go back to powder for
always. It takes so long to do : you've no
notion of what a time it takes. I don't
think, indeed, that I want to go back at all,
except  except '

Except what ? ' said Carew, in a low
tone of inquiry.

The General and his wife were at that
moment speaking to each other, and Miss
Capel, having cast a glance towards them, let
her eyes rest on Carew's, and finished her
broken sentence.

We should all of us like, I suppose, to
go back in our own lives for some things 
to do them again, or not to do them at all.'

These words, and the manner in which
she uttered them, remained in Carew's mind
all through the course of dinner ; and no
sooner did the party find themselves in the
drawing-room, than, pointing out to her a

magnificent grand piano, ' I hope,' tie said,
you will go back far enough now, to play
us that old song again. Perhaps, too, you
would sing it to us.'

I'm afraid,' she said, ' I have quite forgotten
the words ; but if you like, I will
certainly sing you something  that is to say,
if you don't make me feel too shy. What
shall I sing ? ' she went on as Carew was
opening the piano for her. ' Mamma, tell me
what I shall sing.' And whilst she was
speaking her fingers began touching the
keys. Mrs. Capel was about to suggest a
song, but before she could name it the
musician had already begun one. It was
quite different from anything Carew had expected,
but in a second or two his senses
confessed its witchery. It was in some
Italian dialect, and moved to a tinkling air,
as light and tender as the murmur of waves
in moonlight. 'It is a little love-song,' she

said, ' that is sung by Neapolitan fishermen.
Do you like it ? Here is another The
other was of a different character, though
apparently in the same dialect. To Carew
the words meant nothing ; but he could not
mistake the sentiment, its plaintive melancholy,
its mixture of rest and wistfulness ;
and the eyes of the singer, with a look of
devotional abstraction in them, seemed to
form unconsciously a part of the song themselves.
But the object of the sentiment  as
to that he was in doubt.

 What,' she said softly, when she had
ended, ' do you think of that ? Do you like it
as well? It is an evening hymn the boatmen
sing to the Virgin. It's the favourite song of
my cousin, Madame de Saint Yalery.'

Tell me this,' he said by-and-by to her,
as they were all preparing to retire. ' That
hymn I like best of all your songs. Are you
Catholics?'

No, no she said, ' I don't know what
we are. I don't suppose the General and
mamma are anything. Can't one sing songs
like that, and yet not be a Catholic? '

 But you,' he said, ' sang it with feeling 
at least I thought so.'

 Do you ever,' she replied, ' read any of
Shelley's poetry ? If you do perhaps you have
read these lines 

The desire of the moth for the star,

Of the night for the morrow ;
A devotion to something afar

From the sphere of our sorrow 

That is what, somehow, that song seems to
mean to me.'

CHAPTER lY.

Y the following morning Carew was
pretty clear in his mind as to
where the charm lay that his new
friends possessed for him ; and he thought
it over with a distinct if not a deep satisfaction,
though the eyes of Miss Consuelo Burton
were still watching him in the background.
Their charm lay in the fact that whilst they
sympathized with him on some points there
were others, a whole set of them, in which
they not only did not sympathize with him,
but which it seemed they could not even
comprehend. There was a total want in them

of those social prejudices and attachments,
and  it appeared  of those religious perplexities
also, which were making all life in
these latter days seem dark to him. They
had no capital entrusted to those two disastrous
vessels  a foundering aristocracy, and a \
religion that was already a derelict. The past
to them was nothing more than a curiosity ;
the changes of the present perplexed them
with no personal problems : and Carew felt that
in their company he caught their insensibility
to his own sources of sorrow. He became
conscious as he was dressing of a singular
sense of emancipation. The sky of his mind
grew suddenly blue and cloudless, and a world
was breathing round him languid or bright
with flowers. So vivid, indeed, was this last
impression, that, with a fanciful wish to act
literally m accordance with it, he had the
actual flowers of the garden picked in increased
profusion, in order to fill the rooms with scent

and brilliant colour ; and the Capels had not
been with him for four and-twenty hours
before a new spirit seemed to animate all the
chateau.

His present disabled condition, though it
proved to be nothing serious, prevented his
making as yet any active efforts to entertain
them; but, strange to say, no such efforts were
needed. With the aid of his crutch he could
move from room to room, and he was thus able
to exhibit the contents of the house to them.
Then the General had his own literary work to
engage him ; and whenever his attention was
not claimed elsewhere, he was perfectly happy
in a little study that had been allotted to him.
Both the ladies, too, with a tact that was
half-thoughtfulness and half-instinct, did as
their host begged them, and made themselves
equally at home. Mrs. Capel brought down
a gorgeous piece of embroidery, which she
was copying from a Sicilian pattern; and.

seated near a window in an old gilt arm-chair,
she was a perfect picture of contented and
luxurious industry. As for Miss Capel, her
ways, from Carew's point of view, though a
little more restless, were not less satisfactory.
She brought down a portfolio of music, which
she turned over and discussed with him.
Then again returning to her little hoard in
her bedroom, she produced a pile of her
favourite books of poetry ; and at last, having
admitted that she drew, she was prevailed
on to exhibit her sketches. Carew
was surprised at the talent displayed in these
especially in some coloured portraits. ' If,'
he said, ' you like to paint whilst you are
here, there is an easel in one of the rooms,
and a canvas stretched in readiness. The
room itself would make a capital studio.
You have just shown me your poets : it is
there that I keep mine. Come and see it
will you? '

They went, and he found himself for the
first time really alone with her. He was
surprised at the pleasure the situation gave
him. The room in question  the first of
that suite of three which he had shown to
his former guests as the scenes of his private
labours, was hung with English chintz, and
had old-fashioned English furniture. A
century back it had been occupied by one
of his great-great aunts. Miss Capel was
delighted with it ; but a farther door being
open, she glided forwards and peeped into
the room adjoining. ' More books ! ' she
exclaimed, and she began to read the titles
of them. These were Carew's treatises on
philosophy and theology. She did not
proceed far. With an odd incredulous smile
she turned towards him and said, ' Do you
really ever look into these ? How funny of
you ! I can't imagine it.' Then with a little
grimace of mock determination and wilfulness,

' Xow,' she said, ' I am going to open
this other door. This is your Bluebeard's
room, perhaps, where you keep your beheaded
wives.' She opened the door, but closed it
almost instantly. ' Oh,' she said,  that's
nothing. That's just like a lawyer's office.
I suppose it's the place where you add all
your accounts up. Xo, no  here is the room
I like,' and she went back again to the one
they had first entered. ' Do you know,  she
exclaimed, ' this looks exactly like a home
not, I mean, a home that I have ever had
myself; but like what I imagine an English
home must be. Oh ! and, Mr. Carew, you
have got my dear Shelley here ! '

 You shall make this your home,' said
Carew, ' as long as you stay with me. It
shall be your own room.'

Do you think,' she replied, ' one can
make a home m three days ? '

 Three days ! ' he said. ' You must stay

VOL. II. P

longer than that. Now I have you here I am
not going to let you go. See, there is the
easel, in case you should care to use it.'

She gave a slight start, as if a new
thought had occurred to her. Then she
looked at him for a few moments in silence,
with all the while an ambushed laugh in her
eyes. At last she said :

If you will sit to me, I will try and
make a picture of you. Not now  I don't
mean that  but tomorrow. You mustn't
mind, though, if it's a very bad one  all out
of drawing  one shoulder higher than the
other. I'm not able to flatter.'

You mean not with your pencil ? '

I don't think,' she said gravely, still
keeping her eyes on him,  that I could
flatter yoic in any way. How could I ? "What
could you care for anything I said to you ? '

She stopped short abruptly, and her gaze
wandered away from him, something as that

of a kitten does when its eye is caught by a
butterfly. ' Oh ! ' she said, ' how delicious !
Is not that a guitar in the corner ? I used
to play the guitar. Let me take it to
mamma and show it to her.'

 Presently,' said Carew.

Xo/ she said, smiling, ' not presently,
but no  instantly, Mr. Carew  instantly.'

He could hardly believe his senses. She
moved quietly up to him and gently touched his
arm to emphasize her wish that he should be
moving. But what struck him far more
than the familiarity of the action was the
total want in it of any suggestion of boldness.
It suggested nothing but an almost
unconscious trust, and the moment the first
shock of surprise was over he felt as he would
have felt had he been touched by some soft
wild animal. He was sorry that the tte--tte
should be ended \ but there was a sort of pleasure
even in obeying her command to end it.

Chemists tell us that at a touch a liquid
will sometimes crystallize. A touch will produce
sometimes as great a change in feelings.
Everything the girl did, however slight and
trivial  her words, her smiles, her gestures,
the smallest occupation she shared with him,
even her playing Bcggar-my-neighbour, as
she did with hin that evening  all became
full of some magical and indefinable charm.
She was not only freeing his spirit from its
natural load of cares, but she was gradually
lulling and refreshing it with some 
melody. What the melody meant he was
in no hurry to ask himself. In its uncertainty
lay some part of its spell. He only
knew, when, on this second night of her visit,
he looked back on the day which had just
been ended, that although on the surface there
were none but the most trivial incidents, yet
its memory was to him a mosaic of coloured
moments.

CHAPTER Y.

HE day which followed was superficially
just as tranquil ; but under

*  the surface he found it even more

bewildering. It was descent with new
sensations. The General talked pleasantly
at meals, and talked pleasantly over his
cigarette afterwards. In the intervals of
sociability he retired to his notes and papers ;
his wife sat in the gilt arm-chair at her embroidery,
diffusing around her an atmosphere
of suave and refined contentment ; once or
twice there was a little music ; coffee was
drunk on the ramparts in the bright afternoon

sunshine ; in the evenlnf>: the guitar
was strung and played upon ; and finally
there was a rubber of whist. Meanwhile,
during: the course of the morning;, Carew's
portrait had been begun, in the chintz-hung
studio.

So far as events went, this was the whole
day's chronicle ; and if the conversation which
went with them had come to be written down,
it would, for the most part, have seemed
equally insignificant. This was the case with
what passed in private between the sitter and
the artist, just as much as with what passed
when they were all together. Indeed, to
Carew one of Miss Capel's chief attractions
was that with her, conversation came so
naturally that it left behind it no lasting
trace in his memory  nothing but a wake of
laughing and disappearing ripples. It was
less an intentional interchange of thoughts
than a natural result of the contact of two

lives. It 'as little more conscious than the
sound of meeting Waters, or than the blush
that comes on the cheek of health or pleasure.
But though its details, for the most part,
made but little impression upon him. yet,
taken as a whole, a very strong impression
indeed was produced by, or at least produced
along with, it. Carew felt that her character
was becoming gradually clear to him, like a
summer landscape appearing through a gauzy
mist. He was conscious of an odd mixture
in her of gaiety and of wondering tenderness.
She seemed constantly to be struck with the
humorous side of a world of which personally
she had had no rude experience ; and her
fancy moved with a kind of mischievous
buoyancy, like a star of sunlight dipping
and floating upon the sea. Indeed, she
somehow conveyed the idea that all life had
been a playground to her, into which she had
been turned loose ; and that what she divined

or knew of its sadness and its deeper realities
she had found out for herself in the course
of a lonely holiday.

It was not by her words only that this
impression was conveyed. It was conveyed
by her looks, and the naive grace of her movements
 sometimes by tlicir infantine petulance,
and by the childish mishaps which, as
she bent over her drawing, would bring her
light cloud of hair straying downwards across
her eyes.

There was something' more also. Here

o

and there in the middle of her ordinary conversation
 her musical succession of unremembered
sentences  a sentence would escape
her of quite a different kind, which shone out
from among the others like a coloured lamp
amongst leaves, and made them flush with the
hue of its own suggestions. These sentences
stamped themselves on Carew's mind ; and
tended to make the girl's character a puzzle

to him. What, for instance, he asked, could
she have been thinking of when, at dinner, she
said that most people would be glad to go
back in their lives for some things  to do
them again, or not to do them at all ? And
now, when she was drawing him, she once
looked solemnly up at him, and said without
a smile or any symptom of flinching :

Mr. Carew, I want you to tell me something.
Do you think I am very forward? '

Forward ! ' he said, laughing. ' No.
Why should I think you so ? '

I think it was very forward of me to
say I would do your picture. I should have
waited, if I had wished to do it  and I did
wish that ; I wished it very much  and I
should have fished for you to ask me.'

why,' he asked, 'do you think you
should have done that ? '

 Other people would have done so,' she
said, ' wouldn't they ? You must know.

Other people wouldn't tell a man that they
wanted to do his picture. Mamma would say-that
it wasn't modest to do so  or proper
I think that's her word. Mamma thinks
at times that I'm not at all a proper person.
Proper ! ' she repeated, as if thinking the
matter over  ' I can't tell what's proper. I
always say out just what I think.'

And so,' Carew persisted, ' you did wish
to draw me, then ? '

I did,' she said, quite simply. ' I wished
to draw you the moment you mentioned
drawing. Yes,' she added, ' from quite the
very first moment. Mr. Carew, sit still. I
am trying to get your mouth.'

What, thought Carew, did this little
episode betoken ? Had she been a coquette
of the most accomplished kind, she could
hardly have introduced in a more decided
way that element into their acquaintance
which a coquette would desire to find in it.

A similar incident happened late in the
afternoon. Carew had retired to his room
to write a number of business letters ; the
General and his wife had been occupied in
the same way ; and Miss Capel had gone off
for a short walk by herself, to do a little
exploration on her own account. She returned
at about five o'clock, and found the
others round the tea-table. She had on her
hat and gloves, and she paused in the doorway,
leaning on a slim gold-headed walking-stick.


May I come in? ' she said, ' or must I go
up and change my things ? '

Come in said Carew, ' come in.*

But she still stood there for a moment,
as if she were bent on tantalising; him.

 I'm lono'inof,' she said, 'to tell Mr.
Carew all the places I've been to. I'm
positively longing.'

Well,' said Carew, ' don't keep us all

in the draught. Suppose that you shut
the door and give us a description of your
wanderings.'

She began to do this as well as she could,
and up to a certain point he saw clearly the
path she had taken ; but when she had
brought herself to the cdo-e of a neighbouring
wood, when she followed the windings of
a certain shadowy footpath, and at last
arrived at an old ruinous fountain, he could
only conceive that her description was faulty,
or admit that she had hit on a spot which
was as yet unknown to himself.

Mamma,' she exclaimed at last, * what do
you think ? I know the grounds of Mr.
Carew's castle better than he knows them
himself If,' she continued, speaking to him
only, ' you are able to walk before I go away,
I will take you to my fountain, and show you
I have not invented it. AYill you come ? '

Carew said ' Yes.'

I don't believe you will,' she replied.
Men never mean what they say. But I
should like to take yoa. Yes, I am determined
to take you. Fancy,' she added, as if
the reflection pleased her, ' fancy my taking
Mr. Carew for a walk ! '

She had asked him already if he considered
her forward, and her present proposal
recalled the question to his mind. He smiled
as, looking into her clear eyes, he thought
of it. He would as soon have attributed
forwardness to a blue-eyed child in its
cradle.

The walk at once assumed a prominent
place in his prospects. He thought how
delightful it would be to be lost in some
lonely wood with her. His ankle, however,
still kept him a cripple, so though he would
willingly have gone off at once with her, he
had to postpone the pleasure at any rate till
tomorrow. The rest of the day passed much

like the earlier part of it, except tliat in a way-lie
was hardly conscious of, his intimacy with
his companion was growing silently closer,
and every idle and unrewarded hour added a
thread to the chain that was fast binding
them. He would have accepted the situation
for the present, enjoying without examining
it ; but, during the evening, once again she
startled him.

She had been singing a little, and he was
standing by her at the piano. A song had
been just ended ; he was engaged in looking
out another for her, and she was striking a
few careless chords in the interval. Presently
some instinct made him turn and look at her.
She was watching him intently, and he felt
that she had been doing so for some moments.
When their eyes met she showed no sign of
confusion. She only smiled a little, but she
did not withdraw her gaze. It remained as
steadfast as if Greuze had painted it. At

last she began softly humming to the stray
notes as she struck them, and then, abruptly,
but in a tone equally soft :

I am not,' she said, ' going to do anymore
to your picture.'

Why not ? ' he asked.

After a pause she answered him.

Because,' she said, making a louder noise
with the chords, 'because  do you know this,
Mr. Carew ?  it's very bad for me to look at
you. I am not going to do so  ever  ever
ever any more.'

Never any more ! ' said Carew.

Of course,' she said, laughing, ' I shall
look at you enough to avoid running against
you in the passage, or spilling any slops over
you when I come for more tea. I shall look
at you just enough, perhaps, to prevent your
thinking me rude. But that's all. Do you
understand? '

 Xo,' said Carew, ' I don't, and I don't

believe it. Wliy do you say that it is bad
for you to look at me ? '

 For many reasons she said, ' for many,
many reasons.' She stopped playing suddenly,
and he heard a faint sigh come from
her. ' You couldn't understand them. Men
can understand nothing. No, Mr. Carew,
no picture tomorrow.'

Come,' said the voice of Mrs. Capel from
the farther end of the room, ' we are waiting
for another song, Violet. Are you not going
to give us one ? '

No,' said Miss Capel, rising, ' I have no
more voice, mamma, I have sung enough
for this evening. Have you the key of my
album ? I am going to show Mr. Carew
my photographs.'

It is upstairs,' said her mother, ' on my
chain, where you asked me to put it. If you
want to show your photographs, you must
do so tomorrow.'

Yery well, then she said, ' I will show
him my poetry books over again. I don't
believe he has half looked at them.'

 No,' said Carew, ' I am sure I have not
seen this one.'

She tried to take it from him, but he
was too quick for her.  Why,' he asked,
don't you want me to look at it ? '

 Oh,' she said, ' it is not what you would
care for.' He read the title. It was  Songs
of the Soul's Life.'

 Look at it if you like,' she went on.
 Oh, there are no secrets in it.' He found
it was a selection from various well-known
writers, of poems bearing on moral and
spiritual struggles ; and he noted, with some
wonder, as he turned the pages over, that
they were marked in many places. ' Are
they your marks ? ' he asked.

 Some,' she said, gently but indifferently.

VOL. II. Q

Most, I think, were made by the person
who gave the book to me.'

 I like this said Carew  ' this poem on
Prayer ; ' and he paused, reading a sonnet
which had first arrested his eye by the
deep lines underscoring its last couplet. The
couplet itself, when he read it, he found even
more striking. It was this :

Is there a wish for which you dare not pray ?
Then pray to God to take that wish away.

He raised his eyes to Miss Capel, in half-incredulous
wonder as to what such a passage
could possibly have to do with her. She
seemed to understand the look, and said with
a trace of flippancy, ' I don't know what it
was I was supposed to] wish for, so dreadful
that I might not pray for it.'

Mr. Carew,' Mrs. Capel here interposed,
do you know what the time is ? It is actually
past eleven. You must allow me to say
good-night to you. I must take off Violet too ;

and you must finish your discussions, and she
must show you her photographs, tomorrow.'

I had thought said Carew, ' that tomorrow
we might manage a little picnic to
a place on the sea just beyond Xice, called
Beaulieu. There will be time, however, to
settle about that in the morning. Look, Miss
Capel : since I am not to inspect your album,
I shall take upstairs with me a ceram volume
of poetry.'

Before he went to sleep he turned to the
same sonnet, again wondering what could be
its application to her. Then he glanced at
some of the other poems ; but his whole
attention was suddenly drawn away from
them by an inscription on the fly-leaf, and a
copy of verses under it, plainly m a man's
handwriting. The verses were dated Calais,
the Christmas Day of two years ago, and
the inscription was simply, ' To Y. C. at
Naples.' The verses were not remarkable

q2

for much literary excellence, but they kept
Carew wakeful for many hours that night.
They were as follows :

Yesterday a cloudless shtj was glowing ,

All the flowers were flowering yesterday ;
And to-day a Utter east is blowing

Flowerless all the flowers, the skies are grey.
Yesterday there breathed a life beside me 

Now the lips and eyes are far away.
Deep in memories of the past I hide me,
And I pray for her, luhate'er betide me,

Every wish for which I dare to pray.

mMMWlS

CHAPTER YL

F Carew was inclined, and indeed he
was inclined, to allow the verses to
haunt him the following morning,
the arrival of the post at once put them out
of his mind, and for the time being gave
him something more pressing to think about.
The General, it appeared, had received a
letter from Genoa, which begged him to come
there some days sooner than he had intended.
Having; followed him from Nice to Cannes,
and from Cannes on to the chateau, it had
been considerably delayed upon the road ;
and if he were to act on the urgent request

contained in it, he and his party would have
to start immediately.

Here was, indeed, a blow to Carew's whole
prospects. The enchanting cup that was being
just raised to his lips was to be dashed at
once to the ground, before he had more than
tasted the foam of it. He anxiously asked
the General if the matter was very pressing.
It was, the General said ; it was a matter not
of pleasure, but of business. He was largely
interested in the Genoese Tramways, and
there was to be a meeting of the shareholders,
at which he must be present if possible, The
meeting had been at first fixed for Friday;
the date had now been altered to Tuesday ;
to-day was Sunday ; and, accordingly, at the
latest, it would be absolutely necessary foe
them to leave by tomorrow evening.

As soon as Carew learnt that it was a
matter of business, a ray of hope again
brightened the situation. Why, he asked,

should the General not go alone, leave his
wife and daughter at the chateau behind him,
and return to them, and finish his visit, on
his way back to Cannes ? Why not ? There
was only one valid answer, and that was their
fear of trespassing on their host's hospitality.
This was expressed in the most courteous and
delicate way, and Carew could see that it was
perfectly unaffected. The same was apparent,
however, with regard to this own wishes ; and
as soon as the General and his wife were convinced
that such was the case, they agreed to
his plan with almost as much pleasure as he
himself evinced when he saw that they were
going to do so.

And now,' he went on, ' that being
settled satisfactorily, what do you say to
this as a little scheme for tomorrow ? I
was talking last night about a picnic at
Beaulieu. Now the General's train, which
leaves Nice about fi.\e, passes Beaulieu about

twenty minutes later. What I propose is
that we go there for our picnic tomorrow,
and leave the General, on our way home, at
the station.'

This, again, seemed perfectly satisfactory,
and nothing was wanting but to communicate
the arrangements to Miss Capel. She, however,
was not to be seen. She had left the
room, without saying a word, the moment she
had heard the contents of her father's letter,
and it was presently found, on inquiring, that
she had gone out of doors.

You are beginning, Mr. Carew,' said
Mrs. Capel, ' to walk so much better again.
Why don't you go out and look for her?
She's sure to be on the terrace. Poor child,
she will be in raptures with all your kindness !
The General and I shall have some letter-writing
to get over. Do, Mr. Carew, go out
and look for Violet.'

I suppose,' smiled the General as he was

preparing to go off with his wife, ' this being
Sunday, we ought to be all at church. But
my motto has always been that of the monks,
Qui lahore orate. It is about the only piece
of monkery that applies to the modem world.'

Carew was no sooner left alone than he
went out eagerly, and began a search for
Miss Capel. He walked several times round
the chateau ; he asked the men at the stables
if she had gone down the front drive, and he
then descended into the mazy walks of the
gardens ; but he could neither see nor hear
of her. Meanwhile his thoughts went straying
back to that day a week ago, and to the
scene at morning Mass ; and all life, with
its chant-es, began to seem to him like a
dream, so quickly did one phantom supplant
another in it, so readily did the phantom he
was even now seeking elude him.

At last, out of spirits, he again mounted
to the ramparts, hoping, but hoping in vain,

for Miss Capel's figure somewhere. There
was not a soul stating. He was standing on
the spot from which, such a short while since,
his grand party had watched the display of
fireworks. Just under the walls were the
tiled roofs of the village, and a bare patch of
ground, where the children were accustomed
to play. It chanced that here he looked over
the parapet, and down below, seated on a
broken mill-stone, he saw Miss Capel talking
to a little sun-browned child. He was
about to call her, but his voice checked
itself. For a moment he remained watching
her. Her bright spotted dress and her
parasol lying beside her gave a charm to
the sight merely as a piece of colour ; but
what specially struck him was a sad tenderness
in her attitude, and still more in the
smile that he saw was playing upon her face,
like the upward flickering light reflected from
running water. At last he uttered her name.

She looked up and rose ; and patting the child
on the cheek, pointed to a neighbouring turret,
through which, by a narrow stair, there was a
way up to the ramparts. Carew went forward
to meet her. Her movements were more quick
than his, and when he reached the top of the
stair she was just emerging. Her face was
sadder than he had ever seen it before. Her
eyes shone with a light that suggested recent
tears, and her cheeks were like flowers that had
just been rained upon.

I have been looking for you,' he said,

everywhere. Where on earth have you
been ? '

She turned her head towards the village.

I have been to church,' she said.

'Alone? And why did you not let us
know that you were going? '

What would have been the good ? ' she
said. ' They never go, and I don't suppose
you do. I do everything alone.'

Carew looked at her with a new sensation
of wonder. ' You have not been alone he
said gently, ' since you have been here, have
you?'

 That she murmured,  will be all over
tomorrow.'

 No, it won't he exclaimed with a sudden
glow of delight as he discerned the extent of
the regret he was about to dispel. ' I have
been trying to find you everywhere on purpose
to tell you this. You and your mother
are to stay here with me. Your father is to
go to Genoa by himself ; after that he is going
to come back here ; and as for tomorrow, weare
all of us going for a picnic, and shall set
him down at Beaulieu station in the evening.'

She looked at first as if she could hardly
believe the news. But presently the sun once
more shone out in her eyes ; her whole face
made an artless confession of pleasure 5 and
gently coming close to him, she so extended

her hand that he for a short moment took it
m both of his.

Tell me,' he said to her by-and-by when
luncheon was ended, ' are yon going to do
any more to my picture, or are you not ? '

You can walk now,' she said, ' so I am
going to take you out walking  that is to say,
if you will come. I am going to show you the
fountain I discovered, and which you believe
I have invented. Xo,' she went on, in answer
to his glance towards her parents, ' they are
not coming. They have papers  business 
all sorts of things to settle this afternoon.
You must come with me quite by yourself ;
unless you think you will be too much bored
with my company. Mamma, do you hear
this ? I am going to show Mr. Carew his
own fountain.'

When she first began to speak, there had
seemed something half clandestine in her proposal
'j but, though she was evidently pleased

at the prospect of being alone with him, the
idea of concealment had apparently not entered
her mind.

Go, then,' said Mrs. Capel, ' and put your
things on quickly : or else you will be losing
the best part of the day. You always take so
long in getting yourself ready for anything.
Come, Mr. Carew, whilst Violet is upstairs
you shall see that book of her photographs
which she wanted to exhibit to you last
night.'

Carew with considerable interest watched
the unlocking of the volume. His quick eye,
amongst the opening pages, at once caught
a vision of landscapes, yachts, and faces, and
of these last, he hardly knew how or why, he
received an impression that the greater number
were men. ' That,' said Mrs. Capel, beginning
at the very beginning, ' that is the General's
yacht. The picture was done at Naples.
You see Yiolet there, in a sailor's hat, under

the ailing. That group  I dare say you can
see where that was done  it was in the Crib
garden at Cowes. Violet is there too  a little
in the background. There are some other faces
there which I dare say you will recognize.'
Mrs. Capel was right ; he did recognize some
of them ; and they were not faces that it gave
him much pleasure to see. Then followed
views of various continental towns, such as
Trouville, Homburg, and Florence ; and the
views of each torn were accompanied by some
groups, as a souvenir ; several of which had
been taken, it seemed, at races, and in all of
which Miss Capel's figure was visible. To
these succeeded some pages of single portraits.
They were mostly men, as Carew had imagined
they would be. They were also mostly
foreigners ; and he fancied that he could catch
a trace of pique in his voice as, passing from
one languishing young exquisite to another,
he asked, ' Who is this ? ' or ' Pray, and who

may that be ? ' Mrs. Capel spoke of none of
them with much enthusiasm ; and was passing
them rapidly over, in search for a chateau
in Hungary, in which, she said, they had
passed the previous autumn, when Carew
exclaimed, ' Wait just for one moment. Who
was that man  the one you turned over this
instant ? '

 Which?' said Mrs. Capel.

Not a young man  an old man  a man
with a black moustache, and exceedingly
well-curled hair. This one  yes, this is the
one I mean.'

What,' said Mrs. Capel, with a tone of
slight embarrassment,  do you find to interest
you there ? Do you think it's a wise face ? '

 Surely,' said Carew, ' that must be the
Prince de Yaucluse, the grandson of
Napoleon's old army contractor. I thought
I saw him in that group in the club garden
at Cowes.'

You are right,' Mrs. Capel began, but she
was interrupted by a voice over her shoulder.
Mamma,' it said, ' what are you showing
my book to Mr. Carew for ?  and that page
too ? Please shut it up. Why need you
be always turning to it ? And the key 
I must have my key. Remember, mamma,'
she said, with a smile as she took it, ' I am
never going to let that out of my own
possession again. And now  now, if Mr.
Carew 's quite ready, I'm going to take him
off for this walk I told him of.'

Carew had rarely enjoyed a moment
more than that when they found themselves
together in the open air, his companion's eyes
glancing close beside him, and the scented
pine-wood, for whose shade they were bound,
fronting them. Miss Capel, he found, had
been quite correct in her description. She
had made what to him was quite a new discovery,
and at the end of a path which had

VOL. II. R

possibly once been gravelled, but which now
was nothing more than a neglected clearing in
the underwood, an abrupt turn brought them
to a little hollow or dingle, its entrance
guarded by two mutilated statues. There,
embedded in a bank of rocks and ferns, was
the fountain of which Miss Capel had spoken .
It was an old basin, gleaming with dark
water, and arched over by a shell shaped
canopy of brickwork.

Look, Mr. Carew,' she exclaimed, ' don't
you call this delicious? Don't you thank me
very much for having discovered it? '

I thank you,' he said, looking at her
with a gravity he was hardly conscious of, ' I
thank you far more for having come yourself
to show it me.'

The words seemed to sink into her like a
stone into deep water, and she returned his
look with a sort of wondering gratitude.
 Mr. Carew' she murmured at last,  how

can you say such things ? It is you who
ought to be thanked for coming to walk
with me.'

She had seated herself on the rim of the
basin, and now, looking down into the dark
and gloomy reflections, she began to splash
the water with the tip of her parasol. At
last Miss Capel, not raising her eyes, but still
watching the water and continuing to play
with it, said with a forced flippancy, ' Well,
Mr. Carew, will you have the kindness to
make a remark ? '

 I was,' he said, 'just going to do so. I
was looking last night at that collection of
poems you have. You know the book I
mean, don't you? ' She assented. ' I was reading,'
he went on, ' the verses at the beginning
those in manuscript. I see you have an
accomplished poet amongst your friends.'

The person who wrote that,' she said

gently, ' was no friend of mine : and I should

E 2

have torn those verses out if they hadn't
been rather pretty. It's horribly ungrateful
of me to say so ; for he wished to do me good.
He wished to improve me. He thought me,
I believe, very wicked. But one can't be
grateful merely because one ought to be.
Can one, Mr. Carew? '

May I ask,' he said, ' who the person
was? '

Certainly,' she replied carelessly, ' there's
not the least secret about it.'

 Then was it the Prince de Yaucluse ? '

The Prince ! ' she exclaimed, with a light
ironical laugh. ' What a notion ! I don't suppose
he knows what poetry is  except that
it's something which has nothing to do with
races. Besides, the Prince thinks me so perfect
that there is no need to improve me. No 
the person who wrote those verses was a
sort of cousin of the General's  an English
cousin,'

'Oh! ' said Carew, relieved, 'a relation of
yours.'

 Didn't yon know ? ' she said, ' and yet I
suppose you didn't  how should you?  that
the General is not my father? He is only my
step-father. I took his name, and he is going
to leave some money to me. There's another
interesting fact which, perhaps, you did not
know either. I'm an heiress. Mr. Carew,
I'm afraid you're not attending. Why are
you knocking those leaves about with your
stick? Don't you find all this that I tell you
very exciting? '

 No,' said Carew, with a certain dryness
in his tone, ' I can't say I do.'

Mr. Carew,' she said. He looked up
at her, and he saw in her eyes a soft provoking
mockery. ' Are you,' she went on,
'not a fortune-hunter?'

Should you wish,' he said, 'to be married
for the sake of your fortune ? '

 I think she murmured, her voice getting
tender again for an instant, ' I think it would
be too horrible. However, don't pity me.
There is no chance of that ever happening.'

 How do you know that? ' he said.

How do I know that ! ' she repeated
deliberately, and in a manner that was half
absent and half teasing. ' Perhaps I don't
know it ; perhaps I only conjecture. Or,
Mr. Carew, this is just possible  perhaps I
know it because I am already bespoken. Bespoke
 bespoken  which is the right thing to
say?'

Carew was seated on the trunk of a fallen
tree, his eyes fixed on the ground. He
neither looked up nor spoke. He merely
continued the application of his stick to the
leaves with an air of deeper preoccupation.

Mr. Carew,' said Miss Capel, after some
moments' silence, ' why don't you answer my
question? '

 What question ? I was not aware that
you had asked me any.'

Yes, I did. I asked you a question of
grammar. Which is it right to say  bespoke
or bespoken '

Carew muttered something that was like
the shadow of an oath, and struck his stick
on the ground with such violence as to break
it. When next Miss Capel spoke the tone
of her voice was changed. It was soft, regretful,
tender.

 Are you angry? ' she said. ' Why should
you be? '

I am not angry,' said Carew, in a constrained
voice, rising and turning away from
her.

Yes, you are,' she said ; and she slipped
down from her seat, and, gong up to him,
looked him full in the face. ' You are angry.
Will you please not be ? ' She put out her
hand, and held him by one of the buttons of

his coat.  Mr. Carew, will you please not
to be angry any longer ? I want you, if you
will, to let me do one thing.'

swell,' lie said, taking her hand and
smiling.

I want you to allow me to go on doing
your picture. Come in, will you? Do you
mind? If only the light lasts, I might do a
little now.'



HEY were to start for the picnic by
eleven o'clock next day, and the
carriage, freighted with hampers,
was waiting at the door punctually.

The General and Violet will be down
directly,' said Mrs. Capel to Carew as she
entered the drawing-room. ' Will you kindly
fasten this last hook of my cloak for me ?
Thank you.'

Then, as if the performance of the slight
office had put him for the moment on a footing
of greater intimacy with her, she laid her
hand on her daughter's locked book of photographs,
and said rather sadly ;

 You know the Prince de Yaucluse, do
you?'

 Hardly said Carew. 'But lie was once
to be seen about a good deal in London society.'

Of course said Mrs. Capel, ' of course I
know all that, and he is now one of the very
smartest men in Paris.'

My acquaintance with him said Carew,
was confined to seeing him at 'the Travellers'
where every afternoon he filled up a
large arm-chair  I see him now with the
light on his turquoise rings  and drank
sweet curator out of a claret-glass.'

I hope said Mrs. Capel, ' that he's better
in that way now. He's a great admirer of
Violet's. In fact, he is engaged to be married
to her.'

Indeed ! ' said Carew, trying to speak with
indifference. ' When ? '

Mrs. Capel raised her eyebrows with an odd
expression of gentle but unwilling resignation.

Xot yet,' she said, 'not yet. The General
insisted that she should wait for some months
longer. If the Prince likes, he will be allowed
to claim her in May ; but I hope myself 
well, we shall see what happens. I can't
imagine, for my own part, what my child can
see in him.'

She had hardly finished speaking when
the General and Miss Capel appeared, and ina
few moments they had all set off on their
expedition. The day was so bright and exhilarating,
and the country looked so beautiful,
that expressions of admiration and pleasure
supplied at first the equivalent to an animated
conversation ; but after this came the usual
succession of silences, and then Carew began
to turn his thoughts inwards, and ask himself
what effect Mrs. Capel's news had had on him.
He had not been quite unprepared for it ; but,
all the same, when he heard it it affected him
something like a slight electric shock. He

was, however, further aware of this : the
shock, being slight, had not been wholly disagreeable.
It contained, no doubt, elements
of pain, of pique, of disappointment, and of
jealousy ; but through all these there came
tingling a sensation of triumph and of possession.
That lovely form that was breathing
and blushing close to him, those eyes with the
colour and light in them of a tremulous morning
sea  he was sure, or he was almost sure,
that, whoever might claim them some day, for
the present moment they belonged to him
more completely than to anybody else in the
world ; and every smile, movement, or rippling
laugh of hers seemed like a music that was
part of his own life.

This feeling, through the whole course of
the drive  this feeling of his possession of
her  was constantly receiving food from the
countless minute ways in which she seemed
to assume possession of him. Most of them

There wholly imperceptible to anyone but their
two selves. Sometimes, however, they were
more open and undisguised, and Carew was
surprised, on more than one occasion, at her
almost parading  so it seemed  the footing
on which she was with him.

Mr. Carew, talk,' she said, after he had
been silent for longer than usual. ' Say something
to amuse us ; or, if you can't do that,
to instruct us. You won't ? Well, repeat
us a piece of poetry.'

 Yiolet,' exclaimed Mrs. Capel,  Mr.
Carew will think you a lunatic'

'Mamma,' Miss Capel continued, apparently
not hearing the interruption, 'if Mr.
Carew won't repeat any poetry, I will repeat
some. Listen ! '

And with a grave face and a demure
mechanical sing-song, she began :

Yesterday a cloudless sky was glowing,
All the flowers were flowering yesterday ;
And to-day a bitter east is blowing 

Blowing  blowing  blowing. Mamma  Mr.
Carew  don't you think that's beautiful ? I
call it most touching. I don't know what
you do.'

A slight shade of annoyance passed over
Carew's face, and Mrs. Capel again interposed
with a remonstrance. But the girl's eyes
were full of a mischievous determination, and,
with a graceful doggedness, she repeated the
aimless question. 'Don't you think those
verses are very touching ? See, I try to make
conversation, and no one will keep it up.
Mr. Carew, if you don't like poetry, suppose
we try grammar. Tell us something, will
you, about the auxiliary verbs ? '

Violet ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Capel, actually
frowning, for a wonder, ' we shall think you
are gone crazy.'

Mr. Carew, mamma, is a great authority
on English grammar, and he gave me a
lecture yesterday  or, rather, he would not

give me a lecture  on the formation of the
past participle.'

When this conversation was taking place
they were fast nearing their destination, and
Carew was here obliged to stand up, in order
to give the coachman some directions about
the road. The scene of the picnic was to
be a certain secluded spot, almost hidden by-woods,
at the end of a long promontory. It
was hard to find, to anyone who did not know
the locality, and his guidance was now required
almost constantly till they arrived at it.
The subject of English grammar was, therefore,
allowed to drop ; but just as the
carriage drew up, and the door was beg
forced open. Miss Capel said, with the same
look in her eyes,  Mr. Carew, I want you to
tell us this. Which is right  bespoke or
bespoken ? '

The look, the tone, the question, all
jarred upon Carew. He could not tell why,

but, each and all, they irritated him, and half
the charm of the drive seemed tarnished by
this incident at its ending. To hide such a
feeling he set himself with double diligence
to help the servants in unpacking the
hampers ; but when Miss Capel came to join
in the operation, he could not, try as he
would, keep a slight frost from his manner.

She, for her part, seemed not to notice this,
and all her former appealing ways had returned
to her, though he might have detected in
them a certain trace of timidity. He did
detect it at last, but not till after many
minutes of blindness. He detected it in her
gentle, almost humble tone, when she asked
him if he would help her in carrying some
bottles of wine, Which it was thought advisable
to cool in a brook close by. He did as
she asked him, and they walked off together,
and arranged their bottles in a satisfactory
position ; then, just as they were about to

go back again, she laid her hand on his arm,
and, looking into his eyes sadly, ' Are you
angry,' she said, ' because I teased you in the
carriage? Nobody but you knew what I was
laughing at. It's not that I want to laugh ;
I can tell you that truly. Mr. Carew, please
not to be angry with me any more.'

The effect of the prayer was instant, and
when they returned to the table-cloth, which
was by this time well covered with dishes, the
cloud that had gathered between them had
quite melted away. The General and Mrs.
Capel were both charmed with the spot, and
were full of Carew's praises for his happy
judgment in choosing it. It was a little
grassy common jutting into the sea, like a
mulberry-leaf. It was tufted with gorse and
rosemary, and backed by a belt of fir-woods ;
and the woods, with their faint smell of turpentine
and their murmur, mixed in the morning
air with the smell and murmur of the sea.

VOL. II. S

The luncheon passed off in the most
agreeable manner possible, and the General,
when it was over, brought out his cigar-case.
His eye had been caught by a distant mountain
fort which was being constructed on one
of the heights above Nice ; and the taste of
tobacco having unloosed his tongue, he was
soon giving Carew an elaborate lecture on the
various errors the engineers had committed.
Carew' s civility was put to a severe test. He
had promised himself a walk all alone with
Miss Capel, and now what had happened ?
He could hardly even steal a look at her.
At last matters came to a crisis. She rose,
opened her parasol, and strolled away by
herself. But the General still went on; he
was on a favourite subject ; and, to crown all,
he presently made Carew walk off with him,
and away from Miss Capel, to a distance, in
order to get a glimpse of the harbour works
at Yillefranche. Carew felt as he went that
his feet were made of lead. He could hardly

force them to go on this most unwilling
pilgrimage, and never before had ten minutes
seemed so much like two long hours to him.
At last, however, he was back again at the
scene of the luncheon. Mrs. Capel was still
sitting there, attentively reading a copy of the
'Baltimore Weekly Sun' ; but as for Miss
Capel, what had become of her ? This was
the question which Carew asked at once.
Mrs. Capel looked slowly round.

I don't know,' she said ; ' she has gone off
somewhere by herself.'

'Ah! ' said Carew, ' there she is, just going
round that point.'

I believe,' said Mrs. Capel, ' there's an
old tower she wants to look at. Go to her,
Mr. Carew ; go and help her. The General
and I will follow you. I walk rather slowly ;
and besides, I want to show him an article in
this paper.*

Carew did not wait to be told twice. He

was off at a rapid pace in the direction of
the disappearing figure, which, clearly defined
with its outlines against the sea, had all the
distinctness of an object quite near, and yet
impressed the imagination as if it were very
far off. It was some moments before she
caught sight of him, but when she did so
she at once stood still. When he came up to
her, her face was bright with a smile, and her
very soul seemed in her eyes, greeting him :
but at the same time she was panting, and
pressing her hand to her heart.

'I thought,' she said, ' you were not going
to come at all.'

It was the General kept me,' said Carew.
Are you out of breath ? '

 No,' she said, ' it is only that I was so
glad when I saw you coming at last. Do
I look glad ? I'm afraid I do  a great deal
too glad. I can never hide my feelings 
never ; that's the worst of me.'

I wish,' said Carew,  I could but believe
that.'

What ?  that that is the worst of me ? '

Xo,' he said, 'but that you really show
your feelings  perhaps I should say, that you
really feel what you show.'

I have not,' she said, ' hidden them from
you, certainly. I have shown them a great
deal too plainly.'

To-day, for instance,' said Carew, 4n the
carriage.'

What, Mr. Carew : are you angry about
that still  because I teased you about those
verses ? Why should you be ? I could tease
you again now. It was not that I wanted to
laugh, as I said before to you. I was much
more inclined to cry. But men are so dense
they never understand anything.'

They were making their way up a rugged
and rocky slope, on the brow of which stood
the tower which Miss Capel desired to reach ;

and the difficulties of the scramble made a
pause here in the conversation. The first to
speak again was Carew, and he did so just as
they were at the dark door of the building.

I understand one thing,' he said, ' I do
understand one thing.'

What thing ? ' she asked.

I understand,' he said  ' we have not
decided how to put it grammatically  I understand
that you aise bespoken.'

Her cheeks flushed, and her sensitive lips
parted, not to speak, but merely in helpless
trouble. At the same moment she was spared
from attempting any answer to him by a quavering
voice which was heard addressing them
from the interior ; and directly afterwards an
old woman appeared, who lived in the tower,
and was accustomed to show it to visitors.
They followed her in, and she began her usual
explanations  liow the tower was built in the
reign of Louis the Fourteenth ; how there was

once a fort round it, and so on ; and how the
Great Napoleon had passed two nights in it.
There was a prison to be seen, and several
small rooms ; and by-and-by they mounted
to the roof. The old woman did not follow
them there. They were alone. But each, for
some reason, seemed to have grown shy of the
other, and neither offered to resume the interrupted
conversation. Instead of that they
leaned over the battlements in silence ; or if
they spoke, it was only to comment on some
trivial object.

At last Miss Capel said, ' See, in the distance
there are mamma and the General
coming. We had better go down and meet
them. What is the use of our remaining here
like this ? '

She spoke very softly ; her voice was
almost a whisper ; and she moved towards
the opening of the stair by which they had
mounted.

Let me go first said Carew, in a voice
almost as low as her own. ' The stejs are
worn and slippery.'

He placed himself in the narrow doorway ;
his foot was on the first step : but there he
paused and again looked at his companion, as
if expecting some answer that had not yet
been given him. She seemed to divine his
thoughts, and to know that he still was dwelling
on that one fact which he said he did
understand about her ; to know also that he
was waiting for some answer. He saw, as he
looked at her, that she was struggling to command
her voice ; but her eyes were like
messengers, hurrying on before it. At last
the voice came.

Oh, why she said, ' do you talk about
such thinkers ? It will not be for a Ions: time.
Why need we think about it now ? '

The words and the look were full of a
pleading sadness, and expressed a trust in him

SO complete and intimate, that it might have
been called passionate had it not been so
cloudless also. They were standing close
together. Carew said nothing. He merely,
as she spoke, drew her towards himself. She
came unresisting into the fold of his arms,
and, bending down, he kissed her. Then
they descended the stairs. In touching her
lips he felt as if he had touched a flower.

During the drive home, sunk deep in a
reverie, he kept asking himself,  Was the
flower a lotus or a forget-me-not ? '

I mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm S

CHAPTER Viii.

|N their return that night, the General
having duly left them, the little
dinner of three had for all of them
a peculiar charm :  not that the General was
not missed ; he was missed : and the charm
consisted precisely in the sense of intimacy,
produced by the fact that they all had a loss
in common. The homely evening that followed
made the charm complete. Carew was
surprised to find how all sorts of kindly
thoughts, all sorts of small tastes and sympathies,
which, so far as expression went, were
usually frozen by his reserve, now began

to declare themselves almost unintentionally,
like drops of water from snows when they
begin to thaw ; and when the two ladies had
gone to bed, he subsided again into his chair,
and thought his situation over.

All that day, as if in a half trance, he felt
he had been drifting into a kind of fairyland.
He remembered that in the morning there
had been a few little far-off troubles ; but
they had been over long ago. The touch of
those lips that met his on the tower had been
for him literally a kiss of peace ; and there
had fallen on his mid the same sort of
expectant calm that breathes and sleeps over
a murmuring moonlit sea. He knew enough,
however, of the ways of the heart's weather
to know that such calms were often extremely
treacherous. At present, he said to himself,
he was m love delightfully. Was there any
danger, he asked, of his becoming in love
dangerously? And then he wavered, and asked

was he really in love at all ? These questions,
he found, were strangely pleasant to dwell
upon ; and to clear his judgment about them,
he went out into the moonlight.

The moonlight made the answers no more
certain ; but there was an element of pleasure
in their very uncertainty. He was certain of
one thing only, and this was that whatever
might be his relations to Miss Capel, her
presence and influence made a magic circle
round him, which kept, for the time at least,
a world of troubles away from him. He felt
that within that circle he had somehow
grown years younger again. The desolating
anxieties with which thought had made him
familiar could not disappear, indeed, but they
became semi-transparent phantoms. The
voices of men asking in vain for spiritual
guidance, the growth of democracy uneasily
chafing for change, dwindled in his ears to a
faint noise in a dream ; and the things close

to him resumed their old reality. The crisp
rustle of the palm fronds, the softer whispering
of the orange-trees, the moonlight sleeping
on the antique walls of the chateau, and the
light from within that glowed at a certain
window  these were the sights, these were the
sounds which once more seemed to him to
touch what is deeper in man's nature. Miss
Capel was there above him, behind that
lighted window ; but her spirit, he felt, was
everywhere. It glided in and out amongst the
orange-trees ; it was wandering below in the
gardens ; it floated up to him from the beds of
violets. Was there danger in this  danger to
him, to her ? Was sorrow somehow lying in
wait for either of them? The voice of the
garden seemed to answer ' No ! ' and, breathing
about his pillow as he softly sank to sleep,
whispered that m love like this there was
delight but no danger.

This comfortable but somewhat visionary

conclusion was hardly borne out by the next
two days' experience. He did not, indeed,
himself call it in question ; but that was only
because he was too much preoccupied to criticise
it, and the hours flowed by in a stream of
enchanted feeling, whose surface no obstacle
fretted or troubled into thought. He discovered,
it is true, during the course of the
very next morning, when she resumed her
work at his picture, that she not only distracted
his mind from the subjects which
used to absorb him, but that she could hardly
herself understand what those subjects were.
She knew as little of politics as if they were
brewing or paper-making ; and when, in
allusion to the neighbouring room which he
had shown her, he happened to say that he
was interested in political economy, she repeated
the two words with a soft contemptuous
wonder, as if they meant to her as
little as Mumbo Jumbo. This discovery he

did reflect upon for a moment ; for a moment
it disappointed him ; then he looked
into her eyes and acquiesced in it. Xor was
she, indeed, wanting in qualities by which
this defect was atoned for. In poetry of the
lyrical and more emotional kind she was exceedingly
well read, and had a singularly
sensitive appreciation of it ; and in her own
remarks on the emotional side of life not only
was the same appreciation observable, but a
certain shrewdness mixed with a dreamy
pathos, which seemed to indicate that she had
been at school under experience.

As to her engagement, as if by some tacit
understanding, that was not again referred to ;
and as to their own affection, instinct taught
both of them that they could indulge in
it with the greatest ease by frankly and
cheerfully ignoring it. By the morning
the picnic, the image of the Prince
De Yaucluse, at least in Carew's mind,

had receded into the background. It was
lost amongst a multitude of other banished
anxieties. Standing by the easel to watch
how his portrait was progressing, he once
more stooped down, and touched the lips
of his flower. She raised her face to his,
and to-day was joined to yesterday. The
present closed about them like a cloud, hiding
from them with a luminous mirage the hard
world of consequences. They began to live
and breathe together in a coloured cocoon
of dreams.

Mrs. Capel, who was far from strong, and
had been reminded of her weakness by the
fatigue she felt after the picnic, was not inclined
for any more active exercise than an occasional
walk along the ramparts. Thus the two
others, through all the sunshiny afternoons,
roofed by the cloudless sky, and breathing the
siren air, wandered about together, with no
company but their own. The garden was a

world for them, just as if they had been
children. The banks, with their shrubs,
seemed to rise to visionary altitudes. The
blossoms of the camellia trees seemed to
touch the clouds. Sometimes, too, they
carried their explorations farther. They
strayed along the neighbouring hill sides,
amongst terraced vineyards and olive-groves.
They threaded the peasants' footpaths ; they
listened to the headlong brooks ; they plucked
maidenhair from the crevices of wet rocks.

A day or two later, however, Miss Capel
informed her mother that she had had a letter
from some girl who had been at school with
her. The contents of the letter, which
she discussed in Carew's hearing, seemed
to him trivial and indifferent enough ; but
he noticed at the tune a slight change in
her manner  a slight sadness, a slight increase
of thoughtfulness ; and by-and-by,
when they were by themselves in the garden,

VOL. II. T

this change, which in the interval he had
thought might be only his fancy, again struck
him, and struck him as unmistakable. She
was sitting on a seat, under an arch of
myrtle ; and he was standing a pace or two
off, in front of her. Content and happy in
the mere sense of her neighbourhood, he was
not looking at her, but, with a lazy smile of
amusement, was watching the movements of
a long procession of caterpillars. Meanwhile
her eyes had been fixed on him with
a gentle persistence, as if nothing else were
worth looking at. At last she pronounced
his name ; and at once he turned towards
her. Never before had her face been so full
of meaning ; and never in her eyes, despite the
smile that played in them, had there floated
an expression of such sad alluring tenderness.

Mr. Carew,' she said with a grave simplicity,
' I don't think I can ever let you go
away from me.'

Carew had never in words made her a

direct declaration of any kind. She, indeed,
had been far franker than he ; and though
she, like him, had said nothing about love,
she had over and over again told him how
much she liked him : but her perfect straightforwardness,
like perfect truth in a diplomat,
had made him think she meant less than she
said rather than more ; and whilst adding to
the piquancy of the situation had increased
his sense of security in it. Now the case
was different. Her words had something
in them  he could not quite tell what
-7-that thrilled him with a sense of their
being really true. He paused for a moment,
thinking what reply he should make to
her. Words trembled on his lips almost
as simple and straightforward as her own ;
but with an impulse whose source he had
no time to analyze, he sharply repressed
them, and only said regretfully, ' It is you
who are going away from me, not I from

T 2

you. But why do you talk of going away ?
You are not going yet ; and when you do 
well, perhaps I shall come with you.'

She looked round her at the garden and
all its flowers, as if she had not heard him.
Don't you think,' she said absently, ' that all
this is very beautiful ? ' Carew replied that
he did. ' I wonder,' she went on, ' whether
it would be equally beautiful if we were not
happy in it ? I think its beauty to me is, that
it means my happiness.'

And mine too,' said Carew. ' It means it,
it interprets it. The light in those roses is
not only the sunshine. It is the light of our
two lives, which they reflect back on us, with
some added light of their own.'

She suddenly began to murmur this verse

of Shelley's :

Like a glow-worm golden
In a dell of dew,
Scattering unbeliolden
Its aerial hue.

Do you think our lives in your garden have
been like that ? Perhaps they have. Your
garden will always have the same sunshine
coming back to it, but never the same glowworm.
No, Mr. Carew,' she went on, trying
to assume a tone of lightness,  never, never,
never the same glow-worm. Come,' she exclaimed,
and she struggled still harder to command
some tone of her ordinary conversational
buoyancy, ' come  we've had enough
poetry. It's tea-time, and I'm dying for my
tea  tea, and some of that beautiful cake of
yours. Cake !  Mr. Carew, doesn't it make
your mouth water ? '

That evening the two ladies were somewhat
late in coming down to dinner, and
Carew was wondering what had possibly kept
them, when Miss Capel entered the room, with
a quicker step than usual, holding out and
waving a small piece of blue paper. There
was an odd brightness in her eyes, and she was

humming an air of OfFenbacli's.  Mr. Carew
she exclaimed, stopping in the middle of a
bar, 'didn't I say so  never the same glow-ivory
? ' And she laughed with an air that
tried to seem one of gaiety.

Carew could do nothing but stare at her.
She put the paper into his hand. It was a
telegram from the General, and the purport of
it was this : his wife's presence was needed
at once at Genoa. ' To-morrow morning,'
said Miss Capel, ' we must go tomorrow
morning.' She raised her eyes, and the brightness
had quite left them.

She had hardly done speaking when her
mother entered, slightly agitated, and full of
regrets and apologies. There was no cause
whatever for any anxiety. Her presence at
Genoa was simply needed to complete some
legal formalities incident to the General's
business, property of hers, as well as his being
concerned in it ; but the necessity of leaving

the chateau in this unexpected way discomposed
her. Still it appeared that there was
no help for it ; she and her daughter must
be off as early as might be, next morning,
hoping in a very few days to come back with
the General ; and Miss Capel, having submitted
to the inevitable, seemed only anxious
to know if the post would come before they
started.

Carew was able to satisfy her with an
assurance that it would, wondering, as he did
so, what this anxiety meant. Then, when the
practical details of the departure had been
settled, they fell to consoling themselves by
making various plans for the happy time
when they should all be reassembled.

In this way they passed a somewhat
dejected evening. All their efforts were
directed to dispelling a sense of sadness ;
but in spite of everything it still hung
in the air. Then came the two 'good-nights

' ; the two ladies retired, and Carew
was left alone in the drawing-room. A
minute or two later the door opened softly,
and Miss Capel came back again. At the
sight of her an impulse seized him  an impulse
which surprised himself  to rush forward
and fold her in his arms, and say
something  his impulse was rather vague as
to what. But he mastered himself, and remained
perfectly still ; whilst a small voice,
as of a prudential conscience, continued to
whisper, ' One rash word, and you will commit
yourself.'

She had come back for her work-basket.
Carew rose to find it for her ; but she saw it
before he did, and, seizing it by a rapid movement,
she was again at the door, as if she
were afraid to linger. She paused there fora
second, she cast one last glance at him, and,
having lightly pressed her finger-tips to her
lips, she was gone.

Carew once more sank back in his chair
abstractedly. At last, with a distinctness
which startled his own ears, he heard the
following few words escape him : ' Marry
her ! I could as soon imagine myself marrying
a fairy or a mermaid ! '

By that time the following night she and
her mother were at Genoa.

mmmmm<mS

CHAPTER IX.

Being that Carew, up to the last moment,
could thus let prudence control
and criticise impulse, it might bethought
that he had been right in his estimate
of his own situation, and that his devotion,
whatever effect it might have produced upon
Miss Capel, was certainly not strong enough
to cause any great trouble to himself. And,
indeed, until he was actually left alone, this
continued to be his own view of the matter ;
but from that moment he began to see he was
mistaken. He was like a man who has been
drinking in a hot room for hours, and thinks he

is quite sober till he finds himself in the fresh
air. Xo sooner was his companion of the past
week gone from him  no sooner had her
carriage disappeared through the outer archway,
than a solitude that might be felt took
possession of his consciousness, and he began
to understand gradually the real results
of her company. Instead of passing away
from him like a beautiful dream  a dream
which was sure soon to return and continue
itself, and which during its absence it was a
pensive luxury to regret  she had taken half
of his waking life away with her.

It was different some ten days back when
Miss Consuelo Burton had left him, though
he himself, for reasons far down in his mind,
felt it a profanity to compare the two occasions.
It was different then. Miss Consuelo
Burton had some connection with his life, regarded
as the life of a man with some high
and rational purpose. When she had turned

away from him, he felt as if he had been
excommunicated. Now he felt merely as if
he had been abandoned. He could connect
Miss Capel with no purpose of any kind. He
could reason about his longing for her as
little as he could reason about thirst or
hunger. He only felt she was gone and had
left a blank behind her. He knew quite
well that she had not gone willingly, and that
there was also a prospect of her speedy
return. But the mere fact of her absence
quickly developed in his mind the same feeling
of desertion he would have had if she
had fled from him with a rival, and the same
feeling of hopelessness he would have had if
no return had been in question.

Whilst she was with him, enchanting ashe
felt her presence, he had never regarded
her as any part of his own life. He had
escaped, as it were, out of his own life into
hers. He never imagined that he could take

hers into his. He could form no picture of
any practical career with her. Xow the case
was altogether reversed. He could form no
picture of any practical career without her.

Her presence, he felt, would be more
to him than gratified ambition, more than
any sympathy on political or social matters,
more than any successful struggle with the
hated tendencies of the day ; and to live for
her, to guide her, to cherish her, to tend and
defend this one single flower, would not indeed
be more than duty  it would be duty
itself.

During the day of her departure these
thoughts and feelings developed rapidly like a
fever, and his imagination by the evening was
in a state of abnormal activity. Continually
in the bright sunshine, and then again in the
moonlight, he had looked down at the garden,
with all its dells of flowers, thinking of her, in
accordance with her own simile, as the glowworm

that had lit up everything with 4ts
aerial hue ' ; and before he could bring himself
to attempt sleeping he was obliged to seek
relief in beginning a passionate letter to her.
This as he wrote it was a surprise, a revelation
to himself. He was like a man whom a
fever has literally taken possession of, and
who starts on suddenly seeing his changed
face in a glass.

Everything,' he wrote, ' is blank to me
now you are gone. Everything will be blank
till you come back again. Shall I ever send
these lines to you? I hardly know. I try
to think I shall not, because then I shall feel
bolder in speaking each thought as it shapes
itself. Thoughts !  I am wrong ; it is not
thoughts that I desire to convey to you : it is
simply a longing. And that longing  how
shall I describe it? I cannot. It can be
described no more than a perfume. It can be
expressed only in a multitude of images, from

which it seems to breathe, as the perfume
breathes from the petal. As I am writing
this the moonlight falls upon my paper, for
the curtains are drawn back and my window
is wide open. You, and my longing for you,
are for my mind associated with that moonlight,
and with the garden below me amongst
whose odours it falls. Do you think I am
talking nonsense ? It is nonsense unless you
have the key to it. But you, on whom no
shade of feeling is ever lost, you, my 'glowworm
golden in a dell of dew," perhaps you
will understand me. Heart of my heart, life of
my life, flesh of my fleshy spirit of my split,
if I wake to-nioht I shall think all nidit of
you. If I sleep, I shall dream of you.'

This was all he wrote ; and the following;
morning he shrank from re-reading it, much
as he might have shrunk from touching some
sensitive spot in his body. He did not fear
that he had said more than he felt : he

feared seeing what he did feel too completely
exposed. But a letter arrived for him by the
post which sent all such scruples to the winds,
and changed his fear that he had said too
much into a contemptuous sense that he had
said too little. The letter was dated .
He knew the handwriting. She
had written to him so soon !

We have nearly two hours Miss Capel
began abruptly, ' to wait at this station ; so
I seize the first opportunity of saying to you
what must be said sooner or later. If one
jumps out of bed in the morning the very
moment one wakes, the act of getting up
is easy. If one closes one's eyes again, one
may struggle to rouse oneself for hours. The
same is the case with the waking dreams
of life. Years of trouble may be saved if one
breaks away from them the first painful
moment one realizes they have been only
dreams.

I have been dreaming. I don't know
whether you have. Yery possibly you have
been only pretending to dream : indeed, now
that my eyes are open, I can hardly venture to
think it was otherwise. But what does that
matter? I was not pretending; and I am
writing to you now very seriously to say that
I must dream no more. I hope you do not
think me rude. I hope I do not pain you.
No  I don't think you will mind much ;
but still this is abrupt and sudden, and you
will wonder what is the meaning of it.

Well, do you remember my last day,
and a letter I got from an old school-friend
of mine, in the morning ? Mamma and I were
talking about it. My Mend, who is married,
is a relation of the Prince de Yaucluse, and
she wrote to say that she was going to send
me a wedding present  a pair of earrings.
That brought the reality of things back tome,
though I tried not to think of it; and

VOL. II. U

I might have put it away from me, if my
friend had not said also that the Prince
had come back to Paris. He has been at
Southampton lately, where he keeps his
yacht ; and, now he was back in Paris, I
knew I should at once hear from him. That
was why I was so anxious about our letters
yesterday when we were going away. I
expected one from him ; and I felt a kind of
shyness in thinking that you might see it.
It came. I had hoped  how wrong of me ! 
I had hoped it might be to say that his yacht
was being got ready, and that he was going
round the world in her. He meant to have
done so : and that made what is going to
happen seem so far off to me. And the letter
really was to say he is coming to Nice  I
think in three weeks ; and in May we are to
be married.

It will be difficult for me to forget the
days that I have passed with you ; perhaps
it will be impossible. But I must do my

best to forget them, or never to think of
them with any kind of tenderness. Xo, Mr.
Carew ; there must be no half measures forme.
If I had my own way, I would not even
come back to Courbon-Loubet, as mamma
and the General propose doing. But it would
be very difficult for me to remain away ; and
I have not the courage, the determination,
to face the difficulty. Else I couldn't ever
look at you again  not till I could do so without
remembering. AVill that time ever come ?

We shall be at the Hotel de Genes. Will
you write me a line there ? When we meet
adam everything will be so very different ;
and a few kind words from you would make
things a little easier.'

Then followed the signature. It was
simply ' Yiolet.'

This letter had a singular effect upon
Carew. His fever in reading it passed rapidly
into an acuter phase ; and the thought that

r 2

Miss Capel seemed on the point of escaping
him did much to ripen a definite wish to seize
her. Life if he lost her, he felt, would have
no taste in it. He turned to the letter he had
himself begun last night. All shyness of his
own protestations had left him ; and in their
strained excited lano-uao-e he now found a
futile comfort. He tore the paper up, however,
for two reasons. Its language was not
strained and not excited enough ; and there
was also no answer in it to the news he had
received this morning. He began writing
afresh to her, and in a more vehement way.
What he had said before he repeated with
added emphasis, and there ran through his
phrases what in his first letter was wanting 
a note of pain and decision, that gave them a
certain hrusquerie.

You speak,' he wrote in conclusion,
 you speak of your dream ending. Why
must you end it ? What constraint is put

upon you ? Consider how young you are,
how your whole life is before you. It has
seemed to me that that life of yours has just
begun to unfold itself, petal by petal, trembling
to the light. And now, if you do what
you talk of doing, there will be nothing in
store for you but blight and darkness. The
rose tree of your life mil live, but the rose
will be gone. There will be no second blossoming.
Have the courage to continue dreaming,
and the dream will become the reality.
Do you doubt that ? Let me tell you one
thing. To me what were once realities have
become dreams ; and the dream which you and
I have dreamt together has become the one,
the only reality. I will ask this of you.
Decide on nothing till you return here. Let
us meet, for a few days at least, as we have
met before. Those days may be the earnest
of a happy future ; or they will be something
a small something  saved from a dark one.'

It occurred to him after lie had sent this
letter off that even now he had made no
direct and practical proposal to her. There
had been much mention of dreams ; and he
thought he must have seemed like a lover
literally pleading in dreamland  a land where
there was no marrying and no marriage
settlements. Mere emotion, however, possessed
him far too completely to allow much
foothold in his mid for critical reflections
such as this ; and until an answer came
from her he hardly knew what to do with
himself One thing he did know  he could
not remain quiet ; and when he entered the
study where he had once been so absorbed
and industrious, and looked at his shelves of
Ricardo, Marx, and Baptist, they affected his
mind with the same sort of repulsion that a
man about to be sea sick feels for a leg of
mutton.

At last the letter he had been so longing

for came. The beginning of it piqued him
by its coldness : but he saw in a moment or
two that the coldness was artificial ; and the
ending touched him in a quite unexpected
way.

 I had hoped she said, ' that in waking
up from my dream I should, indeed, have
found one part of it a reality. I dared to
hope so ; and the part I speak of was your
friendship. I had hoped you would help me.
I am quite alone in the world. It is very
liard to do right. Am I preferring a very
presumptuous request when I ask you not to
make it harder  as you so easily, so very
easily can ? '

He had been utterly unprepared for any
appeal of this kind. He had pictured her
suffering from many an emotional struggle,
but never from a moral one. Just as she had
seemed a stranger to his political and his social
anxieties, so had he conceived of her as a

stranger to the conflict between virtue and
wrong-doing. The idea of vice he had never
for a moment associated with her ; but he
had as little associated with her the idea of
virtue. In the singular quality of her ingenuousness
she had seemed like Eve before the
fruit of the tree of knowledge had been eaten ;
and the only standard she had suggested to
him hitherto had been that of her refined
and easily wounded feelings, and her seeming
need of some deep and unfound affection.
He recalled her volume of poems that dealt
with spiritual subjects, and the lines at the
beginning of it that had been addressed to
herself; but all that had seemed to perplex
rather than appeal to her. He recalled, too,
the incident of her having stolen off to church
alone ; but even then she seemed to have
acted not so much like a devotee as like a
child, or a stray dog looking for some friend.
Now he saw his error, though he could

not fully realize it ; and too late his conscience
began to smite him, not only for the
hasty and false judgment he had formed of
her, but for the way in which by her undefended
affections he had led her into sorrow
and danger.

It's dangerous work to play with souls,
And matter enough to save one's own 

these lines of Robert Browning's kept on
constantly recurring to him ; and the thought
expressed in them, with the personal reproach
implied in it, mixed in his mind with a feeling
for her of contrite pity. He wrote, in
answer to her, a subdued and gentle letter,
promising to give her whatever help he could.
 It seems hard,' he said,  that in this
case my truest sympathy for you must be
shown by suppressing nearly every sign of
itself; and that the help you speak of must
consist in holding out no hand to you. But
if it must be so it must. The bitterest

reproach you could ever bring against me
would be, that I had caused you to reproach
yourself.'

He thought that in thus writing he was
saying farewell to all his former relations
with her ; but in this very act of renouncing
his affection, that affection deepened. It
took a new glow and colour, as suddenly as
some cloud does in the sunrise ; and having
seized his pen again, he added this postscript :
When you come, I shall ask you a definite
question, and you must be prepared to answer
it one way or another. Is not some change
in your plans possible ? '

He looked at the words for some moments
reflectively ; and at last, acting under a
vague combination of motives, he tore up
the separate sheet they were written on.

pCH5 co5poc->c<<oc>o<>oc<<->o<H>

CHAPTER X.

HEX two friends quarrel through the
medium of correspondence, and without
seeing each other, the estrangement
is aDt to seem far greater than it really is,
or than, if they had met, it would have seemed
to be. The same is true of every difference of
feeling which takes place under the same circumstances
: and when a meeting does take
place at last, there is a surprise on either side
at the sight of the familiar features, stead of
the far-off phantasmal face that had seemed to
stare coldly through the letter-paper.

Carew was keenly conscious of tins when

the Capels came back to the chateau. Looking
at Miss Capel as she sat opposite him at
dinner, noting in her eyes exactly the same
softness and the same sparkle that seemed to
leap with pleasure at the sight of him, he
could hardly believe that this was really the
person who had been begging, almost ordering,
him to keep a chilly distance from her.
One thing only reminded him that such was
the case ; and this was the way in which she
treated a piece of intelligence that was for
him exceedingly disappointing. His visitors
could not possibly remain more than two
nights with him. The day after tomorrow
they were obliged to go back to Cannes ; and
Miss Capel in a number of ways, imperceptible
to anyone but himself, gave him to understand
that this plan had her entire approbation.
She declared that Cannes was the
loveliest place in the world ; that nothing
was pleasant than to drink chocolate, with

delicious whipped cream at a certain confectioner's
on the Promenade ; and she asked
Carew what he would advise her to wear at a
ball which next week would be given at the
Cercle Antique.

After dinner he tried to speak to her alone,
as she used to be giving him occasions to do
constantly. But she avoided any incident
of this kind with a tact so extraordinary
that he could hardly tell whether the avoidance
were not unintentional. The only sign
which convinced him it was not so was a sort
of mischievous triumph which he detected
once or twice in her eyes. For the rest, her
behaviour was superficially quite the same to
him ; she talked, laughed, sang, just as she
had done. But in spite of this he felt that
everything was changed ; and he went to bed
with a sense of provocation and bitterness
which he could not appease, though he knew
it was wholly unjustified.

The following morning he fancied himself
more lucky. He had thought she was sitting
with her mother in the large saloon, and
having gone for a book into a small sitting-room
next to it, he was surprised and delighted
at finding her there alone. But the
moment he approached her she seemed to
shrink away from him, something like a bird
which, although perfectly tame, betrays a
horror of having a hand laid on its feathers.
He sat down on a chair close to her, and said,
in a forced voice, ' My picture is not finished
yet.'

A book lay in her lap. She looked down
at it, and began turning over the pages.

 No,' she said,  that must wait till some
other time.'

 It is not finished,' exclaimed Carew, ' but
something else is.'

What else ? '

Carew paused for a moment, and then

said, almost fiercely, ' What you call a dream,
and what I call a reality.'

She appeared to take no notice of this, but
merely turned over the pages rather quicker
than before ; then, springing from her
seat, she said, ' This is the Throng volume ;
I must go and fetch the other,' and she
moved lightly towards the door of the large
saloon.

But Carew was there before her, and, with
his hand on the handle, confronted her with a
gaze of inquiry.

Mr. Carew, will you let me go by ? '
she said. 'Please  please  I am in a
hurry.'

And she tried to give to her voice an air
of petulant playfulness.

In one moment,' he said, ' in one moment.
But first  I may never be alone with
you again  first say good-bye to me.'

Do you want to get rid of us yet ? ' she

said. * I thought you were going to have
kept us as your guests till tomorrow.'

 It is you,' he retorted, ' who are anxious
to get rid of me. You have already driven
me to the door of your heart. Well, won't
you say good-bye to me before the door is
slammed ? '

He took her hand, which she surrendered
to him passively.

 Will you,' he murmured, * not kiss me
once more ? '

He leaned towards her, but as he did so
she drew back.

'No, Mr. Carew,' she answered, 'never,
never again.'

And she looked at hun, not with anger
exactly, but with a little pout of refusal.
She seemed almost as childlike in her resistance
to temptation as she had been in her
forgetfulness that such a thing as temptation
existed.

 Why she exclaimed, half teasingly,
half sadly, ' why do yon look so cross ? Mr.
Carew, will you pick that letter up forme?'


He stooped to do so. In a moment she
was half through the door, and, receiving the
letter with a parting smile, she disappeared.

Mamma,' she said, an hour or two later,
when, having fetched her work, she was
seated beside her mother, ' where is Mr.
Carew ? We have not seen him for sometime.'


Didn't you hear what he told me? ' said
Mrs. Capel. ' You must have been out of
the room, then. He has had some business
in the neighbourhood which has called him
away, and it is very possible that he will not
be back till the evening.'

Miss Capel changed colour suddenly.
She became first white, then she flushed
scarlet.

VOL. II. X

 And we she said presently, * go early
tomorrow ! '

Nothing more was seen of Carew for
hours. He re-entered the saloon a little after
five, and found Mrs. Capel, who had finished
her tea, just quitting it.

 Well,' he exclaimed, with an air as careless
as he could command, ' I've done my
business. I've had a hard day's work of it.
I have been as far as Beaulieu.'

Mrs. Capel turned back for a moment.
She asked if he was not thirsty, and said the
tea was still quite warm.

*I shall be down again in a moment,'
she added. * Violet will pour you out a cup.
See how I am doing the honours in your own
house ! '

He had not at first noticed Miss Capel ;
but there she was, in a low chair by the tea-table.
She looked up at him, and the flush
came again into her cheeks.

'You have been at Beaulieu? ' she said.

 On business  yes he replied coldly, still
standing at a distance from her, and making
no offer to advance.

 Come,' she said, ' will you not have your
tea?'

Will you allow me,' he said m a strained
changed voice, ' to come near you ? I hardly
know on what I may venture.'

 Come,' she repeated, and this time so
gently that he moved forward and took a seat
close to her. ' Mr. Carew, how can you talk
in that way? Why do you? And so you have
been to Beaulieu  and on business? What
business ? '

'ShaH I tell you?' said Carew. 'To
avoid any chance of giving pain to you as
you are now, and to live over once more an
hour with you as you were then. I rode
there. I rode as hard as I could. I put my
horse up at the hotel, and I walked on to the

X 2

promontory  our promontory. Perhaps you
have forgotten it.'

 It would be well for me,' she said, in a
choked tone, ' if I had.'

And I sat there, on a rock,' he continued,
booking at our tower, shining m
to-day's sunlight just as it did in yesterday's.
I couldn't go near it  I hadn't the heart for
that. I found  do you know what I found?
It was the fragments of one of our wine-bottles,
which you had broken against a stone.
My life was lying at the foot of that tower,
broken into pieces by you, just as you broke
that bottle. Whilst I was sitting there I
wrote something I want to show you. Will
you look at it ? '

He held out to her a piece of paper
with something in pencil scribbled on it.
Whilst she was reading he watched her,
his chin resting on his hand. What she
deciphered was this. It was headed  The

Tower at Beaulieu ; ' and then came what
follows :

One true hour of love lies there,

Dead in the clear unvarying air.

Hear distracted Memory call,

Who shall give it burial ? '

Memory 1 thou of little wit,

There he three shall hurt it.

Let the World, false, vain, and loud.

Be the grave-clothes and the shroud ;

Let the Devils Scorn of Good

Be the heavy coffin-wood ;

And let false love he the clay

That hides all from the light of day.

She was a long time bending over the
paper. She must have read the lines several
times and once or twice he saw that she bit
her lip. At last she raised her eyes, and two
large tears fell from them. She held her
hand out to him ; he took it ; she pressed his
convulsively, and then abruptly dropped it.

You mustn't she murmured, ' be angry
with me. You must be always my friend.
By-and-by I shall want friends more than

ever. Listen ! ' she exclaimed, starting slightly,
and making a strong effort to recover her
natural manner,  I hear mamma coming.
She is gone into the next room  yes, I know
why. She has gone to see if I have left any
of my goods about. Let us go to her. Do
be civil to her. Don't let her imagine that
you are thinking of other things. Did you
hear what I just said ? What will your
opinion of the Capel family be ? Mamma
does the honours of your own house to you,
and I give you lessons in how to do the
honours yourself.'

Whilst she was speaking she had risen,
and a smile had at length come back to her.
She was looking down at him, motioning him
to rise also ; and in that downward smile
there seemed to him to be something compassionate,
as if, despite all that was childlike in
her, she knew more of life than he did. He
rose. As he did so her smile grew tenderer.

and, putting her hand on his shoulder, she
quickly and softly kissed him. But how different
was the touch of her lips now to what
it had been on the tower ! It was nothing
now but a sign of pity and concession. It
was he who was like a child now  a poor refractory
child  and her kiss was like a sugarplum
given to him at last furtively and under
protest. This was his last private interview
with her before she left the chateau.

yyyyvyyyy y yyyy.y y ynp yfyy T ryyyy ' j.yyyyy yyy y 'it. yyi.yvy y i-frF fj 

i\-,\-i\:-\ii\i

CHAPTER XL

HEN the Capels departed, the following
morning, both the General and
his wife said many civil things about
their hopes that Carew would come often to
Cannes and see them. Miss Capel also murmured
something to the same effect, but she
did so mechanically, putting little or no mean -
ing into it. She was leaving him thus ! He
could hardly bear the thought. He determined
that he would not wait long before he
came to some better understanding with her,
and, just as the carriage was beginning to
move off, he called after It to her,  I shall beat

Cannes the day after tomorrow.' Lie
looked round, waved her hand to him, and
he could just catch the words, 'Certainly; we
shall expect you.'

During the last few days his mind had
been so much occupied that he had allowed
an accumulation of business letters to remain
unanswered, some of them even unopened.
He resolved now to kill the day in attending
to them. When, however, lie was sitting
down at his writing-table, the first thing that
caught his eye was a little three-cornered note
placed conspicuously upon his blot ting-book.
It was from Miss Capel. It ran thus :

I am writing good-bye to you, for I do
not know how to say it. I am afraid you
must think me a very odd person. This is
partly due to circumstances which I cannot
explain, and partly to another cause, which I
could explain if it would not make you angry.
Tou do not now think enough of the position

in which I stand. If you did, you would see
that I am not different, but that I am obliged
to seem different  and not only now, but for
always. "Would you wish it to be otherwise ?
I thought you were going to help me, and
not make things harder for me. I have heard
again from him. He is coming to Cannes
a fortnight hence, perhaps, and then everything
may happen much sooner than was at
first intended. It all seems so strange, I can
hardly realize it. We shall see you again
soon. I shall like that. Like it ! You seethe
language I am obliged to use to you. It
is like withered roses.

 When you meet me I must leave it to you
to settle with your own conscience how you
will behave to me. Good-bye. God bless you.
I hardly know what I am writing. There
are some feelings, Mr. Carew, which we must
bury, even though they may not be dead.'

Carew's business letters at once went out

of his head. Having read Miss Capel's note
several times over, he slowly took from
a drawer some crumpled sheets of paper,
scribbled with pencil sittings ; and, spreading
these before him, pressed his head on his
hands and began poring over them. By-and-by
he began writing, not contmnoiisly, but
at irregular intervals. After his luncheon
he took a short walk, and then returned
again to this same occupation. What its
nature was will be seen from the following
letter, which he enclosed that night in an
envelope directed to Miss Capel.

You tell me to consult my conscience as
to how I ought to meet you adam. I have
consulted my conscience, and I hardly know
what it says. You think your position must
be clear to me. I answer you it is not so.
You are engaged to marry a man you do
not care for, and with whom you do not
sympathize. You do sympathize with me.

Why must this marriage take place ? Surely
you are a free agent. There is no constraint
put upon you.

 Put me for one moment out of your
head entirely, and think of me as pleading
not for my sake but for your own. It is
better, far better, not to marry at all than to
marry as you propose to do. Be wise intime.
It will be too late soon. I can think
of no fate more terrible, more ruinous, for
you than to be tied to a man who is wholly
unable to sympathize with you ; and you
know as well as I do that such is the man in
question.

But, Violet, my own Violet, let me suppose
the worst. Let me suppose that a
promise binds you, which, for some reason
unknown to me, you must fulfil at all
costs. I will suppose it does. Well  what
then ? I have still one prayer to make to
you. When the time comes you will marry

him  you will redeem your promise  you
wil] be true to it on the reckoning day. But
what meanwhile ? Listen.

Just as a promise will claim you then,
meanwhile an affection claims you. Need
you be in such haste to show yourself false
to it  to it which claims, and can claim you
for such a little while longer ? If for that
little while you continue to be to me all you
have been, we shall be but seeing our last of
what we both realize we must part with. It
would be very different if we renewed our
friendship afterwards. We should then be
plunging into danger, not saying good-bye to
happiness. Yiolet, for your sake I would
never allow that.

I fear myself to speak of that time ; I
hardly dare look forward to it. How could
I ever endure to see you pass me in the
street, under those altered circumstances ?
Could I endure to see that face that has been

SO often near mine, far  far away from me ?
those lips that have so often kissed me, open
to me only in some chilly commonplace, or
with a cordiality far colder than coldness ?
Violet, everything here recalls you to me 
the gardens, the ramparts, the little chair
you oftener sat in, and every distant mountain
whose shadows we have watched changing
: but most of all Beaulieu, and the old
tower there. All that afternoon which I
spent there by myself, when you drove me
away, words, expressions, thoughts, came
thronging into my brain and clustering
into  I won't call it poetry  but metrical
expression. I had not to hunt for rhymes
and phrases, but merely to choose from the
crowd that swarmed round me, soliciting me
like beggars : and they had all to do with
you. To-day I have been trying to make
them intelligible, thinking I would send
them to you. Then I thought they would

strike you as unreal and artificial ; and I
began this common letter to you instead.
But they are not artificial. They may be
bad poetry ; but, Yiolet  what name shall I
call you that will express my longing for
you ?  they show what I mean, what I am,
far better than this prose does. I didn't
call them, they came to me. Remember this
as you read them. You will see that all you
urge in that little note of yours filled my
mind yesterday as I wandered alone at
Beaulieu.

Which is the better, which the kinder part 
To leave you quite, to cast you quite aside,

And in one cold farewell to hide with art
The pain and passion nature will not hide ;

Or, still to hold and fold you to my heart,

And, in a vain dream, dream you still my bride,

Nor ever call one loving word the last.

Until the past become indeed the past ?

This is the question which, the whole blank day,

I ask my heart as I sit here alone,
Watching the dull waves break in Beaulieu bay ;

And answer from my heart receive I none.

What makes it mute ? you ask. I will not play

With hackneyed phrases. Oh, my own, my own.
There is no need to say my heart is breaking ;
Pain makes it mute, although 'tis only aching.

Pain in my heart, and silence in my ears,

Gloom in my eyes  my eyes and ears that miss

Your eyes and voice, and vague regrets and fears
Clouding my thoughts  my life is come to this :

With one keen sense through all, that all my years
Have closed their meaning in your hopeless kiss.

Ah ! once again, before the moment slips,

Love, let me leave my life upon your lips.

What ! do you chide me for that desperate cry.
And say I tempt you ? Yes, I feel you do.

Listen to me, then ; I have this reply :

Let Love, my loved one, judge 'twixt me and you.

Inquire of Love, who still stands lingering by.
And gives us still his licence to be true,

And will not wholly leave us, till betwixt

My life and yours there is the great gulf fixed.

Ask Him, for He has made you one with me;

You are with me, and around me everywhere.
I feel you in the mountains and the sea.

And when I breathe you feed me in the air.
And oh, my soul's true soul, the thought of thee

Moves me to pray, and mixes with my prayer.
Ask Him, for still  He still can point to-day
Towards Heaven, and say, ' In me behold the way.'

Aak Him to-day. He will have said ' Farewell
Farewell to you, farewell to me  tomorrow :

And where He dwelt another Love will dwell,
With haggard, pitying eyes, and lips that borrow

Their hopeless sentence from the gates of Hell,
Through me the way is to the eternal sorrow ' ;

And lure and warn us in the same low breath 

Take life from me, but know my life is death.'

 Remember what I have said. When your
fate is settled, I will never allow myself
to see you again. I will not run the risk
of guiding you to the eternal sorrow. Now,
and now only, is the accepted time. You
may be to me as you have been for a few days
longer : you may, if you will, be everything
to me, for all your life. But you know the
condition. It is that you free yourself from
your present engagement.'

Carew's business letters received no attention
that day. The following morning he
had a note from Mrs. Capel, saying,  Come
to us tomorrow as early as you can. "We
propose to give you a little picnic in return

VOL. II. Y

for the one you gave us ; and we think of
gong to a place amongst the Entered mountains,
not far from Theoule. Be with us, if
you can, by twelve.'

This arrangement delighted him, and heat
once wrote to acquiesce in it. Then, in
somewhat better heart, he addressed himself
to the pile of documents which he had too
long neglected, and he soon found one of
them to be of quite unexpected interest.

Its perusal produced one instant effect.
He hastily tore up the letter which he had
written to Mrs. Capel, and substituted
another for it in which, while accepting the
invitation, he said he should be unable to
meet them at Cannes. He would, instead,
go to Theoule by train, and wait for them
there at the railway station, which they
would naturally pass in driving.

8Sq/si::Ti" ? 

fipm

CHAPTER XII.

HERE he is ! I can see him tliroiiorli
the railings ! ' This was Miss Capel's
exclamation. Her eyes were quicker
than her parents.  He is on the platform,
standing by an enormous pile of luggage.
Who with so much luggage can have possibly
got out at Theoule, I wonder ? '

The Capels' carriage drew up at the little
wayside station ; and Carew, after a few
moments' conversation with one of the
officials, came out through the wicket, and
they were presently proceeding on their
journey.

Y 2

He now had time to look at the girls
face. He at once noticed that the tint in her
cheeks had faded. The light still gleamed in
her eyes, but it was not so buoyant as usual 
and, for the first time during his whole
acquaintance with her, her childlike and fearless
frankness had given place to a certain
timidity. As, however, she watched Carew's
behaviour, her old manner, little by little
returned to her. She had anticipated that
his attention or his reproachful silence might
embarrass her, but she was surprised and
relieved at finding that nothing of this kind
happened ; and that, instead, he appeared to
be distracted by some quite alien subject.
She was relieved, but she was slightly piqued ;
and, under the influence of the latter feeling,
she began to attack him with a little volley
of questions. Why had he not joined them
at Cannes and driven with them ? What had

he done with himself since they left ? What
was he talking about so confidentially to the
man at the station ? Who had got out of
the train with that imposing pile of luggage ?
To the last question alone did she get any
definite answer.

The luggage Carew said, ' is mine.'

Her cheeks flushed with pleasure ; and
yet from her eyes there came a moment's
glance of reproach.

 What I ' she exclaimed, ' and are you
really coming to stay at Caries for a little ? *

At Cannes ? ' he reseated. ' Xo. I am on
my way back to England.'

Mrs. Caj)el and the General were loud in
their expressions of regret ; but Miss Capel
did not utter a word.

Family matters,' said Carew, ' have recalled
me suddenly. Before long I hoje to
be back in the South again ; though circumstances,'

and here lie looked towards Miss
Capel, ' may be such as to make me exchange
Courbon-Loubet for Italy. Our picnic the
other day ended with our seeing off the
General to Genoa. To-day you must return
the compliment, and see me off from Theoule
station to London.'

The picnic was pleasant and uneventful
enough, having nothing special to mark it,
excepting the beauty of the scene  an open
spot in the folds of a pine clad valley. Carew
and Miss Capel both did their best to exhibit
the signs of an ordinary cheerful friendship,
and hopes were expressed both by him and
all the others that, in the course of a fortnight
or so, he would be once more among them.
As soon, however, as the last biscuit had
been eaten, and the inevitable cigar-case was
emerging from the General's pocket. Miss
Capel said, with a soft, imperious laugh, ' I'm

THE OLD Order Changes 6Z (

not going to let Mr. Carew stop smoking
here Tvitli papa. I'm going to take him
with me for one last walk along the valley.
Yon know the path, mamma. It is the way
we went last year.' Miss Capel was evidently
accustomed to have her way in everything
at all events in matters of this description
; and she and Carew were soon o'omo-
together through a narrow forest path, with
brushwood on each side of them. For sometime
they said very little, and what they did
say was mere constrained trivialities. At
last, after a pause of unusual length, Miss
Capel began thus :

And so, Mr. Carew, you are really going
away, are you? '

I am,' said Carew drily.

And this time tomorrow,' she went on,
'you will be  how far away?  a thousand
miles, at least.'

 You said Carew, ' are going farther
away from me than I voluntarily should ever
go from you. You can come to England  the
place to which I am going ; but you are going
to a place to which I can never follow you.'

Why not? ' she said. ' You may be my
friend still. So far as our friendship goes
there need be no difference.'

You are talking nonsense ! ' he retorted
angrily. ' So far as our friendship goes, there
must be every difference. If you wish,' he
went on presently, ' that I should put the
matter in plain words to you, I will do so.
I love you far too well to see you only as a
friend ; and under the circumstances, which
you are deliberately choosing for yourself, I
love you far too well to dream of your being
more than a friend. So there is nothing left
us, you see, but to say a long good-bye ; and
if possible to think no more about it.'

 Exactly,' she said, ' that is just what you

will do, Mr. Carew. I know you better than
you know yourself. I do not say you will
think no more about it, but you will certainly
think very little. You will think a little ;
yes, I believe you will do that.' Carew
was about to open his lips in protest. ' Xo,'
she said, ' don't look hurt or angry. You
think you are fond of me. You think I am
necessary to your happiness. But what charms
you is not me. It is the echoes in your
heart which I have chanced to awaken  the
echoes which go on Wandering from dell to
dell, and the birds there I ha e awaked also.
It is all in yourself. There is very little
music in me. I don't complain. I am simply
telling you what is. Yery soon you will have
no regret for me. I shall be a pleasant
memory you will not shrink from looking back
upon. As for me, I shall wish that I had
never met you.'

You are wrong,' he said, ' why should

yoiT think that ? ' But he spoke m a voice
which hardly asked for an answer.

At the same moment the path took a turn
which brought them, on a sudden, in full
view of the sea. She seemed glad of an excuse
to change the subject.

 There she said, ' is the view I wished to
show you.'

He too seemed equally glad to escape to
any triviality, even to the fact of his being, as
she spoke, caught in a dangling bramble.

Look,' he said, ' you have landed me in
the thorns of life already. I am caught completely,
and all owing to the path by which
you have taken me.'

It is hitched in your coat,' she said,
'just behind your collar. Let me pull it off
for you.'

She stepped up on the bank at one side
of the path, and she thus stood looking down
on him from a vantage-ground of a few

inches. She seized both ends of the bramble
and began to free it from him ; but suddenly
her purpose changed : she gently drew it
round him, more closely than before, and

watched him as*she held him there bound in



this mimic fetter. At last she said :

I have possession of you now. I don't
think that I shall ever let you go again.'

Don't,' he said gravely. ' Keep me 
keep me always. It is what I ask you todo.'


Tell me,' she said, ' shall I come with
you this afternoon to England ? I won't let
you go till you tell me that.'

But Carew made no immediate answer.
They both spoke as if they were tantalizing
themselves with ideas rather than proposing
possibilities. At last Carew said, in a constrained
and painful voice :

I have no home in England to which I
could take you  at all events I do not know

if I have. Many things have happened since
last I saw you ; or, rather, I should say, I
have learnt many things. My future is in
my own hands no more than yours is 
perhaps not so much.'

Mme,' she said absently, ' is not in my
own hands at all.' And then, as if her
thoughts were straying still farther, she
began to murmur something to herself in an
indistinct monotone.

What are you saying ? ' he asked her.

She stopped, and looked at him with a
faint momentary smile. ' Something,' she
said, ' that I was reading over yesterday
verses, Mr. Carew, verses. I found them
in a collection of Dramatic Lyrics, arranged
and selected by the author, Mr. Robert
Browning.'

Tell me them,' said Carew.  What
were they ? '

She seemed to hesitate between seriousness

and a forced air of mockery. In a
moment or two she was serious ; and in a
tone something Hke that of a child learning to
recite a prayer  except that in this case there
was deep emotion veiled by it  she began
to recite, gravely fixing her eyes on him :

It all comes to the same thing in the end,

Since mine thou art, mine wast, and mine shalt be,
Faithful or faithless, sealing up the sum,
Or lavish of thy treasure, thou must come

Back to the heart's place which I keep for thee.'

As she finished, by an impulse that
seemed instinctive, she began to extend her
arms, as if inviting him to come to her ; and
at last she murmured almost below her
breath :

 Say good-bye to me ! '

But the moment he moved a step nearer
to her, her purpose abruptly changed ; and
lightly descending from the bank on which
she was still standing, she began to walk at

a rapid pace back towards the scene of the
picnic. Carew followed her with a sense
of complete bewilderment, which was not
lessened by the fact that when she looked
behind her for an instant she seemed to be
once more smiling. He called to her to stop ;
he asked her where she was going ; then
he quickened his pace. No sooner, however,
did she find him coming up to her than she
suddenly took to running, saying, in a voice
that suggested laughter and tears equally :

 Run, Mr. Carew, run ! Can't you see 
I am racing you.'

To this invitation he made no response.
On the contrary, he began to walk more
slowly again ; and watched her glancing
figure as it sped away from him. Ashen,
however, she was about a hundred yards
ahead of him, she stopped short, and turned
round, waiting for him.

Come, Mr. Carew lie exclaimed, as
soon as he was within speaking distance ;
here are Mamma and the GeneraL They
have been making tea for you, and yon
are to have some before 3'ou begin your
journey.'

And a moment afterwards the two elders
appeared.

 It's a cruel kindness,' said the General,
 not to speed the parting guest, if he must
part, however sorry we may be to lose him.
But from what you say about your train, you
have not too much time, if we intend to do
things comfortably.'

They returned together to the spot where
they had had theh luncheon. They drank
their tea ; and in spite of efforts at gaiety,
there were signs of sadness apparent in all
the party. Still more was this the case
when they again entered the carriage, and

the horses' heads were directed towards
the station.

When do you get to Paris ? ' ' When do
you get to Calais ? ' 'So far as we can judge,
you will have an excellent passage '  such
were the remarks and questions which, with
the inevitable answers, did duty for conversation
during Carew's last twenty minutes with
his friends ; and even this was kept up with
difficulty, for, towards the end, Miss Capel
became wholly silent ; nor did she even raise
her eyes till Carew had actually descended,
and then he saw that they were tremulous
with tears, which, as all her face showed, she
was struggling not to shed.

Ten minutes later he was leaning back in
the railway carriage, partly occupied with the
perplexities of his immediate future, partly
with the scenes that were drifting away behind
him.

And it was thus they had said good-bye,
so he bitterly told himself, with no explanation
either on the one side or the other.
Then he thought of the cause that was taking;
him back to England, and exclaimed wearily,
I was right. It was best that I did not
speak.'

END or THE SECOND VOLUME.

G, & C.
Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

VOL. II.

By Mrs. HENRY WOOD.

East Lynn. (UOtli Thousand.)

Anne Hereford.

Bess Ran.

The Channing.

Court Netherleigh.

Dene Hollow.

Medina.

Easter's Folly.

George Canterbury's Will.

Johnny Ludlow (1st Series).

Johnny Ludlow (2nd Series).

Lady Adelaide.

Life's Secret, A.

Lord Auburn's Daughters.

Master of Greyhounds.

Mildred Arkell.

]Mrs. Halliburton's Troubles.

Orville College.

Oswald Cray.

Parkwater.

Poverty Abbey.

Need Court Farm,

Poland Yorke.

(A Sequel to ' The Channing')

Shadow of Ashlydyat.

St. Martin's Eve.

(A Sequel to ' Mildred Arkell.')

Trevelyan Hold.

Corners Pride.

Within the Maze.

By FRANCES M. Heard.

Near Neighbours.

By RHODA Boughton.

Belinda.

Cometh up as a Flower,
Good-bye, Sweetheart !
Joan. I Nancy.

Not Wisely but too Well.
Red as a Rose is She.
Second Thoughts.

By Mrs. ALEXANDER.

Look before you Leap.
Her Dearest Foe,
The Admirals "Ward,
The Executor,
The Frees.
The Wooing o't.
Which shall it be ?

By Mrs. ANNIE Edwards.

A Ball Room Repentance.
Leah : a Woman of Fashion,
Ought We to Visit Her ?
Steven Lawrence : Yeoman,
A Girton Girl, r/ the press.

By Mrs. Liddell.
Berne Boyle.

George Geitli of Fen Court,
Susan Drummond.

By Mrs. PARR.
Adam and Eve.
Dorothy Fox.

By HAWLEY SMART.

Breeze Langton,

ANONYMOUS.

The Last of the Cavaliers.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the Queen.

By CHARLES READE.

A Perilous Secret.

By the Hon. L. WINGFIELD.

Lady Grizzly
ROSA N. CAREY.

Barbara Heathcote's Trial.
Nellie's Memories.
Not Like other Girls.
Robert Orel's Atonement.
Wooed and Married.

By JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

The 'First Violin.'

Healey. \ Kith and Kin.

Probation.

The Wellfields.

By J. SHERIDAN LE Fan.

In a Glass Darkly.

The House by the Churchyard.

Uncle Silas.

By MARCUS CLARKE.

For the Term of his Natural
Life.
By Baroness TAUTPHCEUS.

The Initials. | Quits !

By Mrs. CAMPBELL Prayed.

Policy and Passion.

By HELEN Matters.

Coming' thro' the Rye.
Sam's Sweetheart.

By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Three Clerks.

By F. MONTGOMERY.

Misunderstood.
Seaport.
Thrown Together.

By JANE AUSTEN.

the onhj Complete Edition, besides
the Stevenson Edition, at 63s.)
Emma.

Lady Susan, and The Watson.
Mansfield Park.
Northanger Abbey, and Persuasion.

Pride and Prejudice.
Sense and Sensibility.

By Mrs. Motley.

Olive Varcoc.

By Lady G. FULLERTON.

Ellen Middleton.

Ladybird.

Too Strange not to be True.

By W. CLARK RUSSELL.

An Ocean Free Lance.

BENTLEY'S FOREIGN FAVOURITE NOVELS,

By HECTOR Malt.

No Relations. (With Illustrations.)

By Mrs. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN.

A Sister's Story.

I By E. WERNER.

No Surrender.

Success: and How he Won it,

Under a Charm.

London : RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, New Burlington Street,
Publishers in Ordinaries to Her Majesty the Queen.

3 0112 049779231

rw

mmm-
