Prologue by the Poet
Laureate " will look well in the bill. We must
have an epilogue ready, even though '  here
he smiled grimly  ' we never get so far as
that.'

The suggestion of such a contingency 
which, of course, meant total failure  in cold

blood, filled up the cup of the antiquary's
indignation. He almost resolved, whatever
this man offered, to decline his proposition to
bring out the play.

'Mr. Merry will write the epilogue,' he
replied icily.

A very good man  for an epilogue,' replied
the manager drily. ' Well, we must
strike while the iron's hot, or not at all. We
must not give the public time to flag in its
enthusiasm, or, what will be worse, perhaps, to
alter its opinion. There is risk of this even
now, but I am ready to run it, and I'll take the
play.'

The devil you will ! ' said Mr. Erin.

Yes, I will,' continued the manager calmly,
taking, or pretending to take, this explosion of
his companion as an expression of admiration
of his own courage ; ' it will cost a good bit of
money, but I'll take it and never charge you a
farthing for placing it on the boards. It's an
offer you are not likely to get again, I promise
you.'

rU take your word for that,' said the antiquary

quietly ; he had passed the glowing
stage of indignation, into that white heat which
looks almost like coolness. ' I don't think any
other human being would venture to make so
audacious a proposal. Have you really the
impudence to ask me to give you a play of
Shakespeare's for nothing ? '

'For nothing? What, do you call the
advertisement nothing ? How is an author's
name established ? How does he acquire fame
and fortune but through the opportunity of
becoming known? And how could he get a
better one than having his play acted at Co vent
Garden?'

I was not aware that Shakespeare stood in
need of an advertisement, Mr. Harris,' retiu-ned
the antiquary grimly. ' And even supposing
that, thanks to you, he becomes popular, he is
not a rising young author ; should " Yortigern
and Eowena " be ever so successful, that would
not enable us to find another of his plays.'

It would be a great encouragement to doit,'
answered the manager impudently. ' However,
there's mv offer ! '

'And there's my door, iIr. Harris.' And
Mr. Erin pointed to it with unmistakable
significance.

Stuff and nonsense ! ' said the manager.
'What do you want? How do you suppose
plays are brought out, man ? Come, what do
you say to half profits ? '

No ! '

Then, look here  now, this is your last
chance, as I'm a Christian man.'

Then I shall have another,' said Mr. Erin.
It was the first approach to an epigram he
had ever made in his life. Anger is a short
madness, genius is a kind of madness, and so,
perhaps, it came about that fury suggested to
him that lively sally.

A hundred pounds down, and half profits :
that is my last word,' cried the manager.

No ! ' thundered the antiquary. He was
still upon his legs, with his outstretched arm
pointing to the door like a finger-post.

The manager walked into the passage,
opened the front door, and held it in his hand.

A hundred and fifty, and half profits.'

No.'

Very good ; more than a hundred and
fifty pounds for the play of a Shakespeare who
spells and with a final e I will not give.'

The door closed behind him with a great
bang, which sounded, however, less like a
thunder-clap to Mr. Erin than that concluding
sarcasm. He was not aware that a pamphlet
had been published that very morning, which
pointed out that the spelling of mid with an e,
a practice pursued throughout the ' Yortigern,'
had been utterly unknown, not only to
Elizabethan times, but to any other.

When IMr. Erin rejoined his two young
people, who were waiting for him with no little
anxiety in the next room, there was no need to
ask his news. His face told it.

Nevertheless, Margaret said, ' Well, uncle ? '
before she could stop herself.

It is not well,' he answered passionately ;
it is devilish bad.'

But surely Mr. Harris was not uncivil ? '

Uncivil ? Who wants his civility ? Who
but a fool would expect it in a theatrical

manager ? Bring me the play  the " Northern."

'

What is the matter now ? ' inquired
William Henry.

His manner, as usual, was imperturbable.
Mr. Erin  so great was the revolution wrought
in him by recent circumstances  seemed at
once to derive comfort from it. 'Well, it's
very unfortunate, but it seems that an objection
has been discovered  insignificant in itself 
but which seriously affects its genuineness.'

Indeed ? There have been a good many
not insignificant objections  and yet it has
been generally accepted,' said the young man
smiling.

It's nothing to smile at, I do assise you, if
what that fellow said is correct.'

He had the manuscript before him, and was
examining it with nervous eagerness through his
glasses. ' Yes, here's one, and here's another
and with an e. Why should Shakespeare spell
and with an  ? '

He looked up sharply at his son, as if
asking a riddle of one who has the answer to it.

I am sure I don't know, sir,' replied
William Henry quietly. 'He spelt things
pretty much as he pleased.'

That's true, that's true. But just now it's
certainly most disappointing that there should
be any hitch. The very stars in their courses
seem to fight against us.'

It is an unfortunate conjunction, that is
all,' said the young man, smiling again. ' The
objection of which ]vir. Harris speaks may be
new, but not the spelling : and was so spelt in
the Profession of Faith, for example.'

Indeed ! That had escaped my recollection.
Come, that is satisfactory. All those,
then, who signed the certificate will be with
us. It was foolish of me to be so discouraged.'

And did Mr. Harris decline the play on
the ground of and being written with the
finals?'

Well, no, he didn't decline it.'

He only used that argument, perhaps, in
order to get it at a cheap rate ? ' suggested
William Henry.

This, as we know, had not been the case ;

he had pretty broadly hinted that he did not
believe it to be Shakespeare's play at all, and
even that there might be plenty more where
the 'Vortigern' came from, but so bound up
in these wondrous discoveries had Mr. Erin's
mind become, that it was distressing and humiliating
to have to confess as much, even to his
son and niece.

Why, yes ; he wanted it cheap, and therefore
of course depreciated it. He only offered
one hundred and fifty pounds for it and half
profits.'

William Henry looked up amazed. For
the first time his self-control deserted him. In
his heart he thought the antiquary a fool for
leavings refused such terms ; but it was not the
rejection of the terms that annoyed him so
much as the rejection of the chance of having
the play produced at a theatre like Covent
Garden. His feelings, in fact, were precisely
the same as those on which Mr. Harris had
counted  without his host.

The money in hand may be small, sir, but
the half profits  in case the play were successful

 as I feel it must have been, might have
been well worth having.'

Mr. Erin began to think so too by this time.
After all, what did it matter whether the manager
were a believer in the play or not, had his
theatre been only made the channel of its introduction
to the public ? He sat in moody
silence, thinking whether it would be possible,
after what had passed, ' to win that tassel
gentle,' Mr. Harris, ' back again.' It was certain
that he (Mi. Erin) would have to swallow
a very large leek first.

The servant-girl entered, bringing a slip of
paper upon a salver, the name, no doubt, of
one of those thousand and one persons who
were now always coming to ask permission to
see the MS.

Two gentlemen to see you, sir,' said the
maid.

The antiquary glanced at the name, and
then, as high as a gentleman of sixty can leap,
he leapt from his chair.

Margaret, thinking her uncle had been

VOL. II. H

seized with some malady  presumably ' the
jumps '  uttered a little scream of terror.

Good heavens ! what is it ? '

Sheridan ! ' he cried triumphantly. ' There
are more fish in the sea, Samuel, than have
come out of it, and better ones ; see, lad, it's in
his own handwriting ; he is here in person 
Richard Brindled Sheridan, favoured by Dr.
Parr " '

CHAPTER XXV.

TWO Distinguished VISITORS.

ElCHAED BmXSLEY ShERID.IX 

The pride of the palace, the bower, and the hall,

The orator, dramatist, minstrel who ran
Through each mode of the lyi-e and was master of all 

was a very great man in those days in many
ways ; but what made him just now of especial
importance to Mr. Samuel Erin was that he was
the manager of Drury Lane Theatre.

That Mr. Harris, of Covent Garden, should
have snapped at the  Vortigern ' bait had been
a satisfactory circumstance enough (though
indeed he had only ' sucked it ' and got off the
hook), but the coming of Sheridan was quite
another matter. Compared with him, all other
managers were small fry.

It was with a less assured demeanour,

H 2

therefore, than usual, and with an expectancy-somewhat
tempered with awx, that Mr.
Samuel Erin repaired to the parlour. Even
the MS. in his hand had lost some of its virtue
in view of the authority who was about to pronounce
upon it ; it was almost as if he had
been a young author with his own play ; a
work of immense original genius, but which
he was about to submit for the first time to a
leading publisher. It was some relief to him
to feel that Dr. Parr would be present, who
was well known to him, and a believer in the
Shakespearean manuscripts.

As he entered the room the great man
came forward to shake him frankly by the
hand. His manner was more than gracious, it
was genial, and seemed to put him at his ease
in a moment. His appearance was not imposing
a man of forty-five inclined to corpulency, with
a loose-fitting coat secured by one button over
the chest, and a carelessly knotted white neckcloth
 he wore his own hair, already very grey,
tied behind with a black riband. His face was
puffy, and evinced signs of what was even then

called ' free living.' What redeemed it, however,
and invested the whole man with marvellous
attraction were his bright and sparkling
eyes, which glittered with merriment and good
humour. The antiquary was so fascinated with
them that for the moment he took no notice
of the other person in the room, till Sheridan
called his attention to him.

You have doubtless seen our friend here
pretty often before, Mr. Erin ? ' he said smiling.

The antiquary turned round and held out
his hand mechanically. The other, however,
instead of taking it, drew himself up to his full
height (which was a good way), put his hands
behind him, and bowed stiffly ; it was not Dr.
Parr but John Kemble.

Mr. Erin, as a player, had of course seen
him ' pretty often before,' but generally in
royal robes or in armour, attired as a king
or a warrior ; as it happened he had never
before seen him in plain clothes. He had a
noble figure and a handsome face  though,
strange to say, not a very mobile one  and, sofar,
was in strong contrast to his companion ;

the difference in expression was even greater.
Mr. Kemble had a sternness of demeanour that
was almost forbidding, and which reminded
Mr. Erin on the instant that he was an intimate
friend of Malone's.

'I did not expect the honour of a visit
from Mr. Kemble,' said the antiquary drily.

I did not come, sir, of my own free will,'
was the uncompromising reply, delivered in
deep tragic tones. ' I am here at the request
of my friend Mr. Sheridan.'

Quite true,' observed that gentleman, his
eyes dancing with laughter at the antagonistic
attitude of his two companions ; the tragedian
like a stately St. Bernard with stiff tail, who
resents the attention of some half-breed of no
insignificant stature, and that ventures to entertain
a very tolerable opinion of itself.

I dragged him here, Mr. Erin, like iniquity,
with cart ropes. The quarrels of commentators,
I know, are like the bars of a castle ;
they'll be shot rather than open their arms to
one another. For my sake, however, I hope
you will, both of you, make a truce while this

little matter of business is under discussion ;
then to it again hammer and tongs with all my
heart.  Now, where's this play?'

Mr. Erin produced it from his breast-pocket,
into which he had hurriedly thrust it.

Oh, that's it, is it ? Gad ! he carries it
about with him as a mother carries a newborn
babe, whose paternity has never been
questioned.'

Kemble smiled, as Coriolanus might have
done at the mention of gratitude.

I think, Mr. Sheridan,' said the antiquary
in an offended tone, 'if you will be so good
as to glance at yonder certificate, including
among other authorities your friend Dr. Parr,
you must admit that the legitimacy of " Vortigern
and Eowena" is tolerably well established.
Herbert Croft, Dr. Walton, the Poet Laureate,
Sir James Bland Burgess, are vouchers '

Weighty enough, indeed,' interposed the
manager impatiently ; ' anything ought to go
down with such names attached to it. But the
play, the play's the thing. Let's look at it.'

It was a detail, if report spoke true, that

Sheridan did not always insist upon. He had
offered to accept a comedy from the authoress
of 'Evening' unread, and to put it on the
boards of Drury Lane. Even now, when the
manuscript was spread out before him, he
seemed to shrink from the task he had imposed
upon himself.

Gad ! ' he exclaimed, ' there seems a good
lot of it!'

There are two thousand eight hundred
lines in all,' explained Mr. Erin gravely.

'Fourteen hundred lines are deemed sufficient
for an acting drama,' observed Mr.
Kemble acidly.

The dramas of William Shakespeare, sir,
with which I happen to have some acquaintance,'
returned the antiquary with bitter significance,
' extend in more than one case to
a greater length than the " Vortices." '

Come, come, Kemble,' said the manager
good-naturedly. 'Surplusage is no error, and
one can hardly complain because one gets two
plays for the price of one. Now, Mr. Erin,
would you prefer to be present at our investigation

or not ? Mothers generally shrink from
an mqiiest upon even a foster-child, but there
have been Woman matrons '

I make it an invariable rule, Mr. Sheridan,'
put in the antiquary hastily, ' though on the
present occasion there is no ground, of course,
for its being put in practice, never to permit
the literary offspring of which you speak to
leave my hands.'

'Afraid of body-snatching, eh? Think of
you and me wanting to steal a play, Kemble !
Why, Drury Lane is a perfect foundling
Hospital for them. However, just as you
please, sir.'

Then, while ]mr. Erin sat apart affecting to
be immersed in a folio (but vvlth his ears wide
open), the two sat down to the manuscript,
iron which Kemble now and then read aloud
in deep sonorous tones, which were not always
so sarcastic as he intended them to be.

There was a certain rhythmical roll in
many lines like the thunder of the surf, and
also (as in its case) a head of foam which gave
the impression of strength. For example : 

Full fifty breathless bodies struck my sight ;
And some with gaping mouths did seem to mock me ;
Whilst others, smiling in cold death itself,
Scoffingly bade me look on that which soon
Would wrench from off my brow this sacred crown.
And make me too a subject like themselves.

From Kemble's mouth at least such hues

were not wanting in majestic vigour, though he

lent it to them involuntarily. It was evident

enough, indeed, that he was adverse to the

acceptance of the play, while Sheridan was in

favour of it. What doubtless furthered Mr.

Erin's hopes was that Sheridan had notoriously

no very high opinion of Shakespeare himself ;

he thought his genius exaggerated. Presently

Kemble came to the three best lines in the

tragedy 

Give me a sword,
I have so clogged and badged this with blood
And slippery gore, that it doth mock my grasp ;
A sword I say !

A speech he delivered with fine emphasis.

Come, that is better than " Titus Antoninus,"
anyway,' said Sheridan slily.

An echo, sir, a mere echo of " Richard
the Third," ' growled the tragedian.

Let us hope it will answer with " Richard
the Fourth'" was the laughing rejoinder.

Their disagreement was like the conflict
between the whale and a sword-fish, and could
have but the same end.

I don't mean to say that some things here
are not better than others,' said Kemble doggedly,
* though perhaps I may be permitted
to add that you hear them to the best advantage
; but to me the whole thing has a false
ring.'

Perhaps it's my want of ear,' returned the
manager ; ' but do you think, ]mr. Kemble,' here
he sank his voice to a whisper, ' that many
people have good ears ? '

The drollery and even roguishness of his
face as he hazarded this inquiry was indescribable.
The tragedian ' put the question by '
and pursued his argument.

Whatever you think of Shakespeare, Mr.
Sheridan, you must allow that he at least
always vrote poetry. Now, much of what I
have had the honour to read to you is not
poetry.'

But let us suppose Shakespeare was
drunk.'

Sir ! ' exclaimed the tragedian in an
offended tone.

Sir ! ' echoed the antiquary, dropping the
folio with a crash.

Good Heavens ! gentlemen, may not one
even put a postulate ? Even Euclid, a Writer
of little imagination, permits that much. It is
not such a very impossible supposition. Have
you never heard of a man of genius with a
turn for the bottle ? '

As he looked very hard at the tragedian,
that gentleman felt called upon to reply. ' I
have no personal experience of anything of
that kind,' he said loftily.

Well, of course not ; how should you ? '
returned Sheridan blandly, but with a curve of
the lip that seemed to say, ' We are talking of
men of genius.' Perhaps his reference to his
own weakness made him bitter. If it was so,
the feeling was very transitory ; it was with
his most winning smile that he presently
addressed his friend, ' Come, Prester John, we

can do nothing without you in this affair ;
surely you vnW not fail us.'

I will have no responsibility in the matter,'
was the haughty reply. ' I will not append
my name to yonder hist ; I will not have it go
forth to the world that I admit the genuineness
of this production ; I will not stamp it with

my warranty ; I will not '

Tut, tut, man,' broke in the manager impatiently
; ' but you'll act, you'll act.'
Well, yes, I will play Yortigern.'
And ]airs. Siddons will play Edmundaa ? '
Xay, sir, that is a question for herself I
cannot answer for Sarah ; she always takes her
own way.'

To hear you talk one would think she was
yom wife instead of yom sister,' said the
manager laughing. ' Then the Country Girl '
(so Mrs. Jordan was called from her first
success, which had been made in that piece)
shall be Flavia, who has to appear in man's
clothes ; she loves to wear the breeches, as the
poor Duke has long discovered. Well, we'll
take your friend Shakespeare's play. Mr. Erin.'

And the manasseh rose from his chair with a
yawn, Hke one who has conceited a distasteful
business.

But, ahem ! nothing has been said about
terms,' suggested the antiquary.

Terms ? Does he mean money ? ' said the
manager, looking towards the tragedian with
an air of extreme astonishment, as though he
would say, ' Can I believe my ears ? '

I am almost inclined to believe he does,'
replied the other, smiling for the first time.

But surely not money down ; not ready
money, he can't mean that.'

The antiquary's face unmistakably implied
that he did.

Good heavens, Mr. Erin, who has any
ready money ? I was just talking of the Duke
of Clarence, has he any ready money ? Not a
guinea  though you should threaten to drown
him., like his namesake, in a butt of malmsey 
to save his life.'

The money might be paid out of the
profits of the first night, and then half profits,'
suo'trested Mr. Erin.

Mere details  business,' cried the manager
disdainfully. ' You must see Albany Wallis
about all that. That's a pretty face,' he
added, stopping abruptly beneath a picture on
the wall and pointing to it  ' a charming
face.'

It is the portrait of my niece, Margaret.'

Aye, aye ; love, faith, a pure soul in a
fair body ; a true heart, I am sure of it.'

His voice, freighted with genuine feeling,
seemed to melt away in music.

She is in truth a good girl, Mr. Sheridan :
the light of my poor house.'

Take care of her, sir ; be kind to her, lest,
when it is too late, you rue it.'

He was gone in a flash, and the door
closed behind him.

Mr. Erin looked at the tragedian in amazement.


Some likeness to his late wife, I fancy,'
observed that gentleman in grave explanation.
'Her death was a matter of much regret to
him.' He seemed to be about to hold out his
hand, but something restrained him ; his eye

had lit by chance on the certificate. ' Good
morning, Mr. Erin he said with a stiff
bow.

Good morning, Mr. Kemble.'

CHAPTEE XXVI.

TWO ACTRESSES.

The arrangements made between Mr. Samuel
Erin, on belial of his son William Henry, ' an
infant,' with Mr. Albany Wallis, for the
production of the play were eminently satisfactory.
mr. Erin was to receive three hundred
pounds on the morning after the first night of
representation, and half profits for the next
sixty nights. Shakespeare himself had probably
never made so good a bargain.

The news of the acceptance of the ' Vortigern
' by the management of Drury Lane
Theatre immensely increased the public excitement
concerning it. In those days ' Old
Drury' (though indeed it was then far from
old) was the national theatre ; and the fact of
a play being played upon its boards (inde-vol.

II. I

penitently of Sheridan having chosen it) gave
it a certain imprimatur. It was not unreasonable,
therefore, in William Henry that he
already saw himself half way to fortune, while
his success in love might be said to be assured ;
there are but few of us in truth who, at his
age, are in a position so enviable. For, as
when we grow old, prosperity, if it does come,
comes but too often too late for its enjoyment,
so the sunshine of youth is marred by the
uncertainty of its duration, and by the clouds
that overhang its future. Of the reception
of the ' Yor tiger n ' the young fellow had but
little doubt ; he believed it would run a long
and successful course, as most people do
believe in the case of the hare of their own
finding. And yet the manifestation of his joy
was by no means extravagant. The gravity
and coolness of his demeanour, which had
characterised him throughout the discoveries,
did not now desert him. At times, indeed,
even when Margaret's arms were about his
neck, he looked anxious and distrait; but
when she rallied him about it he had always

an explanation, natural enough and not unwelcome
to her.

I feel,' he said, ' as you once told me you
felt in looking at that fair scene near Stratford,
that it seemed almost too beautiful to be real,
and that you had a vague fear that it would all
melt. When I look on you, dear, I feel the
same : such happiness is far too high for me ;
I have not deserved it, and I fear lest it should
never be mine.'

But you have deserved it, Willie,' she
would lovingly reply. ' Xot even my uncle
questions that. He spoke of you in the
highest terms, he told me, to the Regent
himself.'

For Mr. Erin had been sent for to Carlton
House, and had shown the precious Shakespearean
manuscripts to the future ruler of the
realm, who had expressed himself as 'greatly
interested.' He had been unable, he said, to
resist the weight of evidence which had been
adduced in favour of their authenticity, and
had especially admired the ' Vortigern.' The
old man's head was almost turned with the

1 2

royal praises ; and it was not to be wondered
at that he had expressed his satisfaction with
the youth by whose means he had been introduced
into so serene an atmosphere.

I do not think I am without desert, Made,
though there was a time when you used to think
so [an allusion, of course, to her old scepticism
as to his genius] ; but I do not deserve you'
was William Henry's grave reply.

A modest rejoinder, which, we may be sure,
secured its reward.

Margaret thought that there never had
been, and never would be, so deserving a youth
as her Willie, or one who, having received his
deserts, bore his honours so unassumingly.

Nevertheless  for, in spite of the proverb,
It never rains but it pours,' good fortune
seldom befalls us mortals without alloy  there
were drops of bitterness in his full cup. The
Poet Laureate Pye had been reminded of his
promise to write a prologue for the ' Yortigern,'
and had performed it, but by no means in a
satisfactory manner.

It had come to them one morning at breakfast,

and had been received with rapture by mr.
Erin  till he came to read it. It commenced
as follows : 

If in our scenes your eyes, delighted, find,

Marks that denote the mighty master's mind ;

If at his words the tears of pity flow,

Your hearts with horror fill, with rapture glow,

Demand no other proof ;

But if these proofs should fail, if in the strain

Ye seek the drama's awful sire in vain.

Should critics, heralds, antiquaries, join

To give their fiat to each doubtful line.

Believe them not.

Curse the fellow ! ' cried the antiquary,
throwing down the manuscript in disgust ; ' why,
this is worse than useless. What the devil does
he mean by his '' ifs " and " not " ? '

I fancy ]mr. Malone could tell us,' observed
William Henry quietly.

No doubt, lad, no doubt,' said Mr. Erin,
eagerly catching at this solution of the
Laureate's change of front. ' That man would
drop his poison into the ear of an archangel.
Xot that Pye is an archangel, nor anything like
It.'

Archangels must write very indifferent

poetry if he is,' remarked William Henry
smiling.

Just so  a deuced bad poet ! ' rejoined Mr.
Erin. ' His prologue, even without an " if " in
it, would damn any play ; I'll write to Burgess
Sir James will do it, I'll warrant.'

And Sir James did it accordingly, and in a
fashion much more agreeable to ' Yortigern's '
sponsors.

No common cause your verdict now demands,
Before the coui-t immortal Shakespeare stands ;

Stamp it your own, assert your poet's fame,

And add fresh wreaths to Shakespeare's honoured name.

There was no doubt in Mr. Erin's mind as to
Sir James Bland Burgess being a better poet
than Mr. Pye.

There were other hitches  nay, absolute
breaks-down  which could not be so easily
mended. Mrs. Siddons, who it was hoped
would play the chief female character,
Edmundaa, had a severe cold, which was suspected
by many people, and known by her
friends, to be a stage cold  a malady which

actors and actresses assume at pleasure as a
pretext for declining any objectionable part.
When a barrister refuses a brief, it is naturally
concluded that his client's cause is precarious 
a lawyer, it is argued, would never send money
away from his doors except for the gravest
reasons ; and similarly the ' Vortigern ' suffered
in public estimation when the news of Mrs.
Siddons's indisposition got abroad. Her reason,
as Malone and Company averred, was that ' the
whole play was an audacious imposition.' In
this case that flattering unction of ' There are as
good fish in the sea,' &c., could hardly be laid
to ]mr. Erin's soul ; it was unquestionably a
bitter disappointment ; the part had to be given
to ]airs. Powell, a much prettier and younger
woman, but not the queen of the stage. His
sister's conduct, too, seemed to have an unfavourable
effect on Kemble, whose interest in
the play was already at the best but lukewarm,
and it was felt absolutely necessary to conciliate
him.

Mr. Erin wrote to him to say that, notwithstanding'
the circumstance of ' Yortiizern and

Eowena ' being the production of the immortal
bard, the great tragedian was at liberty to use
his own excellent judgment in preparing it for
the state.

A cold reply was received, to the effect
that it should be acted faithfully from the copy
sent to the theatre.

These were bitter drops ; but where is the
cup of human prosperity without them ? In
reading the record of even the most fortunate
man's career, we may be sure that, though it
appears to run with such unbroken smoothness,
there is many a hitch. We hear the
triumphant paeans, but not the deep low notes
of chagrin and disappointment that to the
hero's own ear accompany them and turn his
blood to gall. The shining shield, bossed with
victories, appears to be of solid gold, but there
is but a thin coating of it, and underneath lies
rusted and corroding iron. It is something,
however, to show gold at all ; and Margaret
was prompt with her comfort.

When, my dear Willie, was good fortune
without its drawbacks ? These are but spots

in the sun of our prosperity, and we should
have only room in our hearts for gratitude.
Think how much sunshine we have had of
late, and how far beyond our expectations.
When you first chanced upon these wonderful
discoveries, how great a thing it would have
seemed to you to light on such a treasure
trove as the " Yortigern," and then to have it
accepted by Sheridan for Drury Lane ! Think
of that ! '

Quite true, my darling ; and yet you have
not mentioned the highest gift that Fortune
has vouchsafed me, compared with which all
her other favours are mere gilt and tinsel 
your dear self.'

Tut, tut ; you are a born actor, sir, and
should offer your services to Mr. Kemble.'

He looked at her with troubled eyes,
gravely, almost sorrowfully, then folded her
to his breast without a word.

It was clear, she thought, that Mrs.
Siddons's refusal to play her part had disappointed
him cruelly.

One day two ladies called to see Mr. Erin.

The antiquary, as it happened, was out : upon
hearing which, they expressed a wish to see his
son. William Henry, who no more went to
the office in the New Inn, but transacted his
father's business for him at home (not so much
that he was necessary to it as because the old
gentleman preferred to keep the lad about
him), was neither mounting drawings nor
cataloguing prints, but exchanging pretty
nothings with Margaret, when the servant
came with her message.

Ladies to see you, Willie,' said she, laughing.
* I am almost inclined to be jealous ; I
wonder what can be their business ? '

They want to see the MSS., I suppose,' he
said indifferently. ' Well, at all events I can't
get at them ; your uncle has taken the key of
the chest with him.'

Margaret shook her head.

They have come about the play,' she said ;
they are actresses'*

This was a conclusion to which William
Henry had already arrived, though he had not

thought it worth while to mention it. His
heart, indeed, had leapt up within him at the
news in question, not that he was the least
inclined to play the gay Lothario, but that
everything connected with the representation
of the 'Vortigern' immensely interested him.
Hitherto he had been kept out of it ; the
whole affair had been carried on up to this
point without his interference, as indeed was
natural enough ; it was not as if the ' Northern
' had been his play.

'It is very unlikely,' said William Henry
diplomatically ; ' but it is possible they want
Mr. Erin's opinion about some reading, and
since I know his views I had perhaps better
see them.'

His tone was interrogative, but he did
not wait to hear her opinion on the subject,
but at once repaired to the parlour. That
apartment, hallowed by so many antiquarian
associations, was now tenanted by two persons
of a very different stamp from those who generally
visited it. ' If critics and commentators

indeed were beings like these,' was the young
rogue's reflection, ' " cherished foHos " would be
things to be envied.'

Both ladies were young, though an expert
in such matters, which William Henry was
not, might have come to the conclusion that
they were not quite so young as they looked.
It is true they were neither painted nor
powdered ; but besides being very fashionably
and becomingly dressed, there was that brightness
of expression in their lively faces which
makes more head against time than all the
cosmetics in the world. It is always a matter
of surprise among dull people that actresses,
even of a high type, should be so popular, and
often make such good matches with men of
culture and good breeding. The reason is, I
think, that if they are not natural, they at least
do their best to appear so ; they do not stifle
nature, as is the habit of some of their sex who
are much more highly placed. Languor and
studied indifference are not of themselves
attractive, and they are suspected, and with

reason, of being very convenient cloaks for
stupidity.

The intelligence of these ladies shone in
their eyes, which also twinkled with amusement.
They had both had a very hard time
of it during one portion of their lives, but it
had extinguished neither their good-native
nor their sense of humour. The appearance
of William Henry, who looked all youth and
simplicity, instead of the snuffy old antiquary
whom they had expected to see, tickled them
excessively. The fact that he was very good-looking
also aroused their interest. If they
had come 'Upon business, in short, they remained
for pleasure ; and the sense of this (for
it was unmistakable) embarrassed not a little
their involuntary host.

By sight he knew both the ladies ; the
younger was ]airs. Powell, a handsome woman,
very tall and elegant, who had of late stepped
into a much higher rank of her profession, as,
indeed, was clear enough from her having been
made the substitute of Mrs. Siddons in the

forthcoming tragedy. Just now, however, she
was undertaking comedy, and her melodious
tones and speaking face made a harmony like
the voice and the instrument

The other lady was Mrs. Jordan, who, without
enjoying so high a dramatic reputation, was
a still greater favourite with the public. She,
too, was tall and comely, but her beauty was of
a simpler type  it would be better described as
loveliness. The charms which had carried all
before them when she made her fame as ' The
Country Girl ' were more mature, but not less
attractive. The world of play-goers was at her
feet, the knowledge that an eminent personage
had gained her affections, and even, it was said,
contracted a private marriage with her, aroused
the envy of many a gilded flutterer, and had
driven at least one of them to despair. Her
tenderness of disposition and generosity to the
distressed were notorious, and could be read in
her smile.

We have ventured to call upon you, Mr.
Erin, as you may perhaps guess, with reference
to " Vortigern and Eowena," ' said Mrs. Powell.

I am so sorry, but my father is not at
home,' stammered William Hey.

Well, really ! ' returned the lady reproaches.


At all events, we are not sorry,' said Mrs.
Jordan slily.

I did not mean  you know what I mean,'
pleaded William Henry with a blush that they
probably envied. ' I am so sorry to be so
awkward, but I am very young.'

Does he mean to say that we are not ? '
ejaculated Mrs. Powell with a majestic air.
Great heavens ! '

I think, sister, since he has thrown himself
upon the mercy of the court,' interposed Mrs.
Jordan good-naturedly, ' that we should not be
hard upon him.'

Youth and inexperience,' exclaimed Mrs.
Powell judicially, ' are no excuses for crime ;

but since my learned sister You have seen

her as Portia, no doubt, young man, and a very
pretty lawyer she makes  don't you think
so?

It was like two people speaking from the

same mouth  the one all gaiety, the other all
merriment.

Of course I have seen her, who has not ? '
said William Henry, plucking up his courage,
though with such desperation that it almost
came away by the roots.

That's much better,' smiled Mrs. Jordan
approvingly.

I am not sure,' returned her companion.
Do you not also remember me, sir ? '

'Who could forget you who remembers
' Juliet," madam ? ' returned the young gentleman,
with his hand (as he thought) upon his
heart.

Left side, sir, the next time,' observed his
tormentor encouragingly ; ' anatomy has not
been a special study with you, but you improve
in manners. We are here to test your gallantry,
to sue for favours.'

Whatever lies within my humble power todo
for you, madam, may be considered as
done.'

Did I say " improves " ? Why, he's
perfect,' said Mrs. Powell, with a laughing

ArpnOTINGI.T.

glance at her companion. ' But it's all for
love of Portia,' she added with a sigh.

Xo, of Juliet,' returned Mrs. Jordan, with
another shake of her pretty head.

There was a gentle tap at the door ; a face,
a very charming one, looked in, and with a
murmured apology withdrew as suddenly as it
had come.

Curiosity,' said Mrs. Jordan softly, her
eyes twinkling like two stars.

Jealousy,' answered Mrs. Powell derisively.
' I do not ask which was it, but who
was it, sir ? '

I don't know,' said William Henry boldly;
I had my back to the door.'

At this both ladies burst out laughing, if
an expression so coarse can be applied to as
musical mirth as ever rippled from the hips of
woman.

He doesn't know,' cried Mrs. Powell ; ' and
this is the young gentleman we took for
all simplicity. How dare you, sir ? As if her
fairy footfall was not evidence enough to your
throbbing ears, as if her coming here at all

VOL. II. K

to see how you were getting on with two
wicked young women from Drury Lane, was
not sufficient proof of her identity ? ' Then
turning to her companion, ' How dreadful to
contemplate is his depravity ! So young in
years, and yet so versed in duplicity.'

You are engaged to be married to her, of
course,' said Mrs. Jordan softly.

'Well, yes, madam,' admitted William
Henry ; he could not help thinking how
charming she would look as the page, Flavia.

Don't be ashamed of it, yoimg gentleman,'
said IMis. Jordan gravely.

It is to your credit, remember, if not to
hers,' interpolated Mrs. Powell ambiguously.

And does this pretty creature live in the
house ? ' continued sirs. Jordan with tender
interest.

Yes, madam ; she is my cousin, Margaret
Slade.'

How nice ! I never had a cousin when
I was so young as that. How I envy
her!'

" This shall to the Duke," ' quoted Mrs.

Powell menacingly. Then they both laughed
again.

William Henry was dazzled, delighted, and
a little uncomfortable.

We must not take up his time,' said Mrs.
Jordan rising and consulting her watch.

Now that we know that he is so very
much engaged,' assented Mrs. Powell slily.

But you have not told me your business
ladies,' observed William Henry naively.

Then they both laughed again, as they well
might, for the truth was that, having something
so very much more pleasant in hand,
they had forgotten all about it ; they were not
bees, but butterflies.

The fact is  only your company is so
delightful it put our business out of our heads
we want to go over the play with you.'

There is but one copy in the house, ladies,
in yonder safe, and I am sorry to say my father
has the key.'

Then you must bring it to the theatre
tomorrow morning, sir,' said Mrs. Powell
imperiously.

K 2

William Henry shook his head. ' That is
the original Shakespeare MS., madam ; I could
not venture on such a step.'

What ridiculous scruples ! ' cried Mrs.
Powell impatiently, beating her pretty foot
upon the floor.

But we can use the acting copy,' suggested
Mrs. Jordan, ' and  if this young gentleman
will be so good as to come himself.'
Anything sweeter or more seductive than her
tone it was impossible to imagine ; even the
very pause and break in the sentence had
literally an unspeakable charm.

'I will come with the greatest pleasure,'
said William Hey.

There was indeed no reason why he should
not do so, but if there had been it would have
been all the same. He was fascinated.

To-morrow, then, at eleven o'clock,' she
said, and held out her hand ; he pressed it, and
she returned the pressure, but with mirthful eyes.

Mrs. Powell shook hands with him too, and
shook her head as she did so. ' Poor young
man ! ' she said ; ' poor Margaret ! '

Then they both laughed again : they
laughed in the parlour, they laughed in the
passage, they laughed on the very doorstep.
As Margaret said of them after their departure,
somewhat severely, ' They seemed to be a pair
of very frivolous young women.'

THE TALK OF THE TOWN.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

A ROYAL PATRON.

William HEXEY
performed his promise
punctually,
and presented himself
next morning
atDruryLane. He
had never been inside
a theatre by
daylight before,
and the contrast
of the scene to
that to which he
had been accustomed
struck him
very forcibly. If
any young gentleman
belonging to me were stage-struck, I
should ask the permission of the lessee of

one of our National Theatres to allow me
to introduce him into its auditorium some
dulhsh morning. If his enthusiasm survived,
I will believe that the passion for the sea will
still remain in a boy's breast after a visit to a
ship's cockpit. The spectacle of those draped
galleries, those empty seats and ill-lit space,
where all was wont to be light and laughter, is
little short of ghastly. William Henry indeed
only caught glimpses of it here and therethrough
the eye-holes over the doors, as he was
led through the echoing passages to the back
of the stage ; but they were sufficient. He in
vain attempted to picture to himself the very
different appearance the place would bear when
probably he should see it next, at the representation
of ' Vortigern and Rowena.'

His imagination was chilled. The object
of his visit, even though it might well have
done so, since it was to be interviewed by two
of the most charming women on the English
stage, did not fill him with the pleasurable
anticipation which he had experienced when he
had received the invitation. There was no

harm in it, of course, but he had come without
Margaret's knowledge, and his conscience reproached
him for so doing. It was, no doubt,
her own fault ; she had shown such unmistakable
feelings of jealousy on the previous
day, and had expressed such uncharitable views
on the character of actresses in general, that he
had shrunk from telling her of the appointment
he had made for tomorrow. It was a pity
that the dear girl was so unreasonable ; for,
though she had entirely agreed with him that
Mrs. Powell's conduct, of which he had given
her an amusing version, had been pert, sha had
failed to understand what a contrast that of
Mrs. Jordan afforded, or how distinctly it bespoke
a simple and ingenuous nature. He had
never dreamt, of course, of repeating Mrs.
Powell's parting remark about ' poor Margaret ; '
but if such a notion had entered his mind, the
manner in which the dear girl had received
other details of the little interview would have
forbidden it. He felt quite certain that she
was capable of believing that Mrs. Jordan was
ready to fall in love with him, or even had

already done it. The very idea of such a
thing, when she knew he was engaged to somebody
else, was, of course, ridiculous. He
thought that it would have set Margaret's mind
at ease to tell her that he had given that piece
of information to the ladies, whereas it had
aroused her indignation, not indeed against
him but against them. ' What right had they
to ask such questions? It was impertinent,
forward, and indelicate ; and she did hope
that those young women would never commit
the impropriety of calling in Xorfolk Street
and asking to see a young gentleman, with
whom they could have no earthly business,
again.'

And now, unknown to Margaret, he was
coins to see them. The conscience at seventeen
is tender, and it was no wonder William Hey's
smote him. At that age, however, the memory
(for some things) is unfortunately short, and
when a door suddenly opened from a labyrinthine
passage, into a prettily furnished room,
where Mrs. Jordan, reining in an arm-chair,
was reading with rapt attention a certain manuscript

he recognised, he thought he had never
seen anyone so beautiful before.

She arose with a pleasant smile, and a
natural coquettish air wliich became her charmingly,
and bade him welcome.

Pray come in,' said she, for he stood at the
door entranced ; ' it is not everyone that is
admitted into my dressing-room, but I shan't
bite you.'

It was not the least like a dressing-room
except that it had a multiplicity of mirrors,
but her calling it so discomposed him (he
could not help thinking to himself how very
much more, if she had but known it, it would
have discomposed Margaret) ; his knees had a
tendency to knock together, and he felt that he
looked like a fool.

You need not be afraid,' continued the
lady smiling, not displeased perhaps to see the
effect she had produced in him, the symptoms
of which where not unfamiliar to her ; ' Mrs.
Powell will be here directly  she is not so
punctual as you are.'

She has not so much reason to be, madam,'

said William Henry. The words had occiuTed
to him as if by inspiration, but directly they
were uttered he repented of them. He had intended
them to be very gallant, but they now
struck him as exceedingly foolish.

He is certainly a very amusing young
man,' said the lady, as if addressing a third
person. ' Pray sit down, sir. I saw your father
after I had the pleasure of seeing you yesterday.
You are not in the least alike. You should
have seen Kemble and him together ; it was as
good as any play. They don't hit it off together
so well as you and I do. Perhaps you will say
again they have not so much reason.'

It was a very unfortunate remark of mine,'
said William Henry penitently.

I don't know that ; you needn't be so hard
upon yourself. I think you had an idea that
you were somehow paying me a compliment.
For my part, however, I have enough of compliments,
and prefer a little honesty for a
change.'

William Henry bethought him of saying
something about the genuineness of some compliments,

but by the expression of her face,
which had suddenly become grave, he judged
that she had had enough of the subject, and
remained silent.

And how is Margaret ? '

The young man blushed to the roots of his
hair, and blushed the more because he felt himself
blushing.

I have heard of the young lady from your
father, and nothing but good of her. I hope '
this with great severity  ' that you are not
ashamed of her, sir.'

No, madam.'

And I hope, sir '  this with an angry
flash of her bright eyes  ' that you are not
ashamed of me''

Madam ! '

'Then why did you not tell her that you
were coming here ? '

William Henry bit his lip, and was about
to stammer something he knew not what,
when fortunately there was a knock at the door.

Come in,' said Mrs. Jordan.

The knocking was continued very loudly,

but the permission was not repeated. Mrs.
Jordan began to laugh, and at every recurrence
of the summons laughed more and more.
Then the door was opened a very little way.
Are you sure that I may come in, Dorothy ?
Are you sure I don't intrude ? ' inquired a
musical voice in accents of pretended anxiety.

And then Lors. Powell entered.

You are late,' observed ]\lrs. Jordan
reprovingly; 'that is not like your usual
habits.'

I thought you might like to have a Httle
time to yourselves, my dear,' replied the other
with great simplicity. 'I am quite sorry to
trouble you with business matters, Mr. Erin,
but the fact is it's pressing. I must have
Edmundaa altered ; she is heavy in hand.'

But, my dear madam, what has that to do
with me?'

With you ? "Hiy, everything ; to whom
else can I come ? Kemble won't listen to me ;
your father, a most respectable man no doubt,
is quite impracticable, and only raves about
the Immortal Bard.'

But 1 cannot alter Shakespeare's play,
madam.'

Why not ? He's dead, isn't he ? Besides,
nis plays have been often enough altered
before. Garrick did it for one.'

'Perhaps, madam; but then I am not
Garrick. I can no more alter a play than
write one.'

Upon my word, my dear,' interposed Mrs.
Jordan, ' there is a good deal in what Mr. Erin
says. I want to have things altered in my own
part, but if, as he tells us '

Pooh ! nonsense,' broke in the other ;
you have nothing to complain of in Flavia.
She is in man's clothes, which fit you to a
nicety, and that is all you need care about.'

If he takes my advice he won't touch the
play,' said Mrs. Jordan, fairly trembling with
rage.

There you see the Country Girl,' said Mrs.
Powell, pointing to her friend with a little
hand that trembled too. ' Her temper is only
so long ' (she indicated the twentieth part of an
inch). 'Nobody can say that she has not a

natural manner, or does not know how to
blush.'

Nobody can say of Mrs. Powell,' retorted
the other, ' when she tries to blush, that her
beauty is only skin deep.'

It was certainly a most terrible scene, and
most heartily did William Henry wish himself
back in Norfolk Street. At that very moment,
however, when he expected to see them dig
their nails into one another, both ladies burst
out laughing. He began to think that either
their rage or their laughter must needs be
artificial, whereas, in fact, while they lasted
they were both real enough. Mirth with them
was the natural safety valve of all their
passions, and a very excellent mechanical contrivance
too.

But won't you just lighten my Edmundaa
a little, Mr. Erin,' persisted Mrs. Powell ; * a
touch here and a touch there ? '

 My dear madam, supposing even I were
capable of doing such a thing (which I am
not), just consider what people would say if
I touched the play. Even now our enemies

attack its authenticity, and what a handle must
such a proceeding needs afford them.'

That is surely reasonable,' observed Mrs.
Jordan for the second time.

I don't know about reasonable,' returned
Mrs. Powell with a most bewitching pout ;
but I know if you were not here I could
persuade him.'

Shall I leave you ? ' said Mrs. Jordan,
making a feint of retiring from the room.

Oh no,' pleaded William Henry involuntarily.


'Well, upon my life,' cried Mrs. Powell,
you are a most complimentary young man !
However, I'll leave you, which considering the
company you are in, will be quite revenge
enough.' She stood at the door, drawn up to
her full height like a tragedy queen ; then
suddenly altering her tone, her air, her voice,
and becoming as if by magic the very picture
of pity, she added ' Poor Margaret ! ' and was
gone.

She is a queer mad creature, but means
no harm,' said Mrs. Jordan consolingly. ' She

was angry at your refusal to alter her part for
her, and when she is angry she will say
anything. You must not mind her. Xow,

I've taken a fancy to you, Master . By

the bye, what is your name ? '

Erin.'

Chut ! I mean your Christian name ? '

William Henry.'

And what does Margaret call you ? '

Willie.'

Very good ; then since I have no wish to
poach on Margaret's preserves, I shall call
you " Henry." I have taken a fancy to you,
Master Henry, and mean to do you a service ;
a gentleman of influence, with whom I have
some interest, wants to look at these Shakespeare
manuscripts, and has directed them to
be at his house this morning.'

I am afraid they will not be there,' said
WilUam Henry. ' My father has never permitted
them to leave Norfolk Street except
once, at the personal request of the Prince
Regent.'

Nevertheless, I think the gentleman I

VOL. II. L

speak of will have his way,' said the actress,
smiling. 'Now I wish him, in case he sees
the manuscripts, to see their discoverer also.
Perhaps he may give him a helping hand.'

You are very kind,' said William Henry
gently : it was not gratitude for the favour to
come that moved him, for he had no suspicion
how it was to be realised, but her evident warmth
of feeling towards him. Her manner had not
only an exquisite grace, but an unmistakable
tenderness; and then she was so exceedingly
handsome. A young man's heart is like the
tinder, which in those days, with flint and steel,
was the substitute for our lucifer matches ;
away from its box it is liable to danger from
every spark. ' You are very good and kind,'
repeated William Henry mechanically ; he felt
an impulse, hard to be withstood, to add ' and
very beautiful.'

I am not good,' said his companion,
gravely, ' but I suppose I am kind enough. It
is much easier, my young friend, to be kind
than good. Well, now I am going to take you
to this gentleman.'

She put on her cloak and bonnet, and led
the way to the stage door of the theatre. A
closed carriage, well appointed, was at the
door, in waiting for her, and they took their
seats. In a few minutes they were whirled to
their destination  a huge red house set in a
courtyard, with which William Henry was
unacquainted, or which in the perturbation of
his mind he failed to recognise. They passed
through certain corridors into a large room
looking on a garden. It was handsomely
furnished ; a harp stood in one corner, a piano
in the other ; the walls were hung with beautiful
pictures. But what aroused William
Henry's amazement, and prevented him from
giving his attention elsewhere, was the circumstance
that on a table by the window were
arranged the whole collection of the Shakespeare
papers.

You are looking for your father's blood
upon them,' said Mrs. Jordan, smiling ; ' you
are thinking to yourself that he must surely
have been cut to pieces ere he would have

L 2

permitted them to leave his hands. But the

fact is Hush, here comes your future

patron.'

William Henry was used to a patron, and
for that matter to a sufficiently mysterious
one ; but for the moment he was devoured by
curiosity, mingled with a certain awe. The
appearance of the new-comer, if he had expected
to see anyone very magnificent, must
have been a disappointment to him, for it
certainly was not of an imposing kind. There
entered the room, so rapidly that he almost
seemed to run, a young man of thirty, somewhat
inclined to corpulence, with a cheery
good-natured face, but decidedly commonplace
in its expression.

Well, well, Dorothy, you see I'm here,' he
said, without taking the least notice of the
stranger's presence. ' Now let us see these
manuscripts  wonderful manuscripts  and get
it over.' He spoke with great volubility, and
plumped down on a chair by the table as if ina
great hurry. ' What funny writing, and what
queer ink and paper ! and what great seals !

Shakespeare was never Lord Chancellor, was
he?'

I don't think he was, sir,' said Mrs, Jordan,
laughing. ' It was the fashion in those days
for deeds to wear fob and watch and
chain.'

Fobs, fobs ? I see no fobs. So this is
Lear ; " I've seen " Lear." The play where
everybody has their eyes put out. So he wrote
it like this, did he ? I wonder how anybody
could read it. Hambllett, Hambllett ; I never
heard of him. Notes of hand. Gad ! I know
them pretty well.'

This is the young gentleman, sir, to whom
we owe the discovery of all these manuscripts,'
said Mrs. Jordan, drawing his attention to
William Henry.

Aye, aye,' said the new comer, wheeling
his chair round to get a good view of William
Henry's face. ' You found them, did you ;
those that hide can find ; that's what people
tell me, you know.'

The speech was such a rude one, that it
might have been uttered by the first Gentleman

ill Europe, nor indeed was William Henry by
any means certain that he was not standing in
his august presence; but there was a good-natured
twinkle in the stranger's eye which
mitigated the harshness of his words. Never,
indeed, before had the doubts concerning the
genuineness of the manuscripts been expressed
in a manner so personally offensive to the
young fellow, and notwithstanding his conviction
that the speaker was a man of very
high rank, he might not have hesitated to
resent it, but for a certain appealing look which
Mrs Jordan cast at him. He remembered that
it was for his own sake that she had asked
him to meet this man, and that if he offended
him she herself might be the sufferer. He
therefore only answered with a forced smile,  I
should think no one but Mr. Malone could
have told you that.'

And who the deuce is Mr. Malone ? ' was
the contemptuous rejoinder ; a question that
put the coping-stone on the young fellow's
embarrassment and, indeed, utterly discomfited
him. He felt transported into strange regions j

with a new atmosphere ; a world that had
never heard of Mr. Malone the commentator
was unintelligible to him. It is one of the
lessons that can only be taught by years, and of
which the ' Months ' and ' Algys ' of high life
are as ignorant as the ' Jacks ' and ' Harry ' of
low, that our respective horizons are limited.

As William Henry stood tongue-tied, a
sudden burst of melody filled the room. Mrs.
Jordan had sat down to the piano, and was
singing with exquisite pathos a song that was
very familiar to him.

Detraction strove to turn her heart

And sour her gentle mind ;
But Charity still kept her part,

And meekness to her soul did bind.

Very nice, and very true,' murmured the
strange gentleman approvingly, keeping time
with head and hand to the tune. His irritation
had departed like an evil spirit exorcised ; into
his coarse countenance had stolen an expression
of pure enjoyment ; his eyes were full of
gentleness and even affection. Such power have
the voice and the instrument (when accompanied

by a pretty face) even on the most
commonplace natures.

Now what is that, what is that ? ' he exclaimed
excitedly, when the song was done.
And why have I never heard it before, my
dear ? '

'Because it is brand-new, sir,' said Mrs.
Jordan, with a bewitching curtsey. ' I sing it
as Flavia in this new play of " Vortigern and
Eowena," which is to be performed next month
at Drury Lane, and which I hope you will come
to see.'

Certainly, certainly. Why shouldn't I ?

Detraction strove to turn her heart
And sour her gentle mind.

But it didn't succeed, did it, Dorothy ? '

I hope not, sir,' returned the lady modestly.
'Then I may take it as a promise, sir, that you
will honour this performance with your presence
; it will be on the second of April.'

Yes, yes ; tell Sherry to keep a box  a
box. And now I'm off to the Privy Council.
Sorry I can't take you with me, Dorothy, but
you're not sworn in yet  not sworn in.'

And off he shambled ; his walk aud talk
were very like one another  rapid, irregular,
and fitful.

There,' cried Mrs. Jordan triumphantly,
I have got what I wanted for you, Master
Harry; the play will now have the Eoyal
patronage.'

Then that gentleman is '

His Eoyal Highness the Duke of Clarence,
my husband J

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE Green-EYED MONSTER.

A DROLL rogue of my acquaintance, whom
(one tried to think) the force of circumstance,
rather than any natural disposition, had driven
from the pavement of integrity into the gutter,
used to maintain that it was better to confess
one's peccadilloes, with such colourable excuses
as might suggest themselves, than to conceal
them. In the former case you might, with a
struggle, get out of the scrape and have done
with it ; in the latter case you .were never safe
from discovery, and when it came there was
sure to be a catastrophe.

There was, it is true, no peccadillo in
William Henry's keeping that appointment we
wot of with those two charming ornaments of
Drury Lane Theatre, but since he had an
impression that Margaret might not like it, he

ought, according to my friend's philosophy, to
have told her all about it. After his interview
with his Eoyal Highness (which could not be
concealed) he felt that this straightforward
course was the right one, and as he returned
home in the hackney carriage with the precious
manuscripts, amused himself with the thoughts
of the pleasure Margaret would exhibit on
hearing of the greatness that had been thrust
upon him. When her mind had been dazzled
by visions of Loyalty, he had intended it to sip
out in a casual way that he had been indebted
for his introduction to his Eoyal Highness to
one of those professional persons who had
called in Norfolk Street the previous day on
business, and whom he had been compelled to
receive in place of his father  a Mrs. Jordan.
The whole thing ran as smoothly and naturally
in his own mind as could be. It was like
some well-oiled mechanical machine, which
the inventor (though of course it was no
invention, only an adaptation) feels confident
will do all he expects of it, only somehow
in practice it doesn't act. He found Margaret

not in the least interested about his Eoyal
Highness, and very much excited about the
lady who had been the mere medium of his
introduction, and whose part in the matter he
had taken, it must be confessed, some pains to
minimise.

'You have not been frank with me, William
Henry,' she said with some severity.

He had it upon his lips to say that since he
was William Henry he coukl hardly be Frank,
but he felt she was in no mood for banter ;
and, moreover, with that name there naturally
occurred to him the thought of Frank Dennis,
which made his heart stand still. It was not
her anger that he feared, nor even the diminution
of her love, which had been indicated very
significantly by the mention of his double name
(which she had not used for months) instead of
Willie,' but the possible diversion of her love
to another object. Perhaps she was already
making a comparison in her mind between
himself and a certain other person who, whatever
his faults, would, she knew, never have
deceived her.

It was not impossible that love could stray,
for had it not done so but a few hours ago,
within his own experience, and with no such
provocation ? It was very different, of course, in
his case ; there is a certain latitude given to
men, and the handsomest man on the stage, or
off it, would, he was well aware, not have
caused Margaret to forget her Willie even for
an instant. But then women, when they are
jealous, are capable of anything, and from
pique will not only 'be off ' with those they
love, but sometimes ' be on ' with another.

I am very sorry, Margaret,' he stammered,
but I really don't know what you mean.'

'Then your face belies your words,' was
the cold reply. ' Why did you not tell me
yesterday that you were going to meet that
woman at Drury Lane this morning ? '

'There were two of them,' said William
Henry eagerly, urged, as he felt, by some
fortunate inspiration to tell the whole truth.

Oh, there were two, were there ? ' Though
she strove to keep her tone the same, there
was a relaxation in her severity that did not

escape him ; the reflection that there was safety
in numbers had no doubt occurred to her.
You omitted that circumstance, sir, in your
previous narrative, with, no doubt, many
others.'

Indeed, Margaret, I have told you all ;
that is, all that I thought could have any
interest for you. I ought to have said, of
course, that the invitation to the theatre came
from both the ladies ; they wanted to have
some alteration made in the play for them
(which of course was out of the question).
Mrs. Powell was very angry about it ; I
should think that she had a temper of her
own.'

I don't want to hear about Mrs. Powell.'
There was once a young gentleman who
was endeavouring to make himself agreeable asa
raconteur in the presence of Loyalty. When
he had done his story the Eoyal lips let fall
these terrible words : ' We are not amused.'
Poor William Henry found himself in much
the same position. His reminiscences of Mrs.
Powell were, as it were, cut off at the main.

Margaret's instinct had eliminated that factor
from the sum of the matter as insignificant ;
there was another person to talk about, it was
true, but he was averse to enter upon that
subject. Unhappily it was suggested to him asa
topic.

Who, may I ask, is this Mrs. Jordan ? '

Well, she was the other lady, of course,
who called here,' said William Henry (he felt
that he was turning a lively red, and it was so
important to him that he should keep his
colour). ' She is to perform Flavia in the
play.'

The person in man's clothes ? ' observed
Margaret icily.

Well, she plays the Page ; you can hardly
expect her to play him in petticoats. It was
not a dress rehearsal,' stammered the young
man, ' if you mean that. They simply asked
me  both of them  to step round to the theatre
this morning and render them some professional
assistance, which, as it happened, I am unable
to do. I cannot for the life of me see what
harm there was in that.'

Then why did you not tell me you were
going?'

It was the same dreadful question over
again. Of course he ought to have told her,
and if he had had any idea that she would
have come to know of it he certainly would
have done so. He looked so sorry (not to
say silly) that Margaret's heart melted a
little.

You know how I hate anything clandestine
and underhand, William Henry.'

I know it,' he answered, with a deep sigh.
His face was one of such abject misery, that
one would have said, whatever he had done,
he was sufficiently punished for it. Her heart
melted more and more ; he went on penitently
:

Of course I ought to have told you,
Margaret, but I did not conceal it because there
was anything to be ashamed of. Only I knew
you would not like it, that you would think
there was harm in it  as you do, it seems 
where there is no harm. It was surely a great
piece of good nature on their part, after I had

disappointed them about the play, to offer todo
their best for it, and to get the Duke '

Did they both go with you to St. James's
Palace ? ' she put in drily.

He was on the point of saying that there
had been only room for two in the coach, but
fortunately he was a young gentleman who
thought before he spoke. It would certainly
not have been a satisfactory explanation, and
the very idea that he had been about to make
it throned him scarlet,

No wonder you are ashamed of yourself,
sir,' said she, perceiving his confusion. ' Why
do you talk to me about " they " and " them,"
when you know that only one of these women
had anything to do with the matter ? '

Well, naturally, my dear, Mrs. Jordan
was the person to introduce me to his Eoyal
Highness, since she has been privately married
to him.'

I don't believe one word of it.'

I can only say she told me so,' said William
Henry simply.

Margaret did not give much credit to the

VOL. II. M

assertion of this lady, but she believed what
William Henry said. After all, the poor young
fellow had probably meant no harm, nor even
dreamt of the meshes into which this designing
female would have drawn him. He had only
been indiscreet and a little surreptitious, and
had been rated enough.

You don't know what these actresses are,
Willie,' she said gravely, ' nor what pleasure
they take in making misery and estrangements
between honest people. Nothing this woman
would like better, I'm sure of it, than to come
between you and me.'

My dear Margaret, how can you say such
things ? If you had only seen her ! '

I don't want to see her,' interpolated Margaret
quickly.

'A person entirely devoted to her profession,
in which she is justly held in the highest
esteem.'

'I don't deny that she is a good actress,'
returned Margaret significantly ; ' indeed I
have no doubt of it.'

And she spoke of you so kindly.'

'Of me ? How dared she speak of me ? '
cried Margaret with flashing eye. ' What does
she know of me ? '

Well, she saw you just for a moment when
you looked in by accident yesterday, and she
said how beautiful and kind you looked, and
congratulated me '

It was shameful of you to tell those women
of our engagement,' she put in.

Why not ? What was there to be ashamed
of? Am I not proud of it? Why should I
not have told them ? '

His simplicity was very touching. If there
had been such a thing as a male ingenue upon
the stage, the speaker would have been the very
man to play it.

'How they must have laughed at you m
their sleeves, my poor Willie ! ' she answered
pityingly.

He did not think it necessary to state that
they had laughed at him, and by no means in
their sleeves.

I will never see them again if you don't
wish it,' said William Henry, still sticking to

M 2

the plural number. ' Only I suppose when the
Vortigern " comes to be acted it will be necessary
to do so just for a night or two.'

Oh, I don't mind your seeing them at
the play, Willie. We shall, of course, be there
together.'

He had meant that his assistance would
probably be required behind the scenes. Indeed
Mrs. Jordan had taken it for granted that
he Avould be a constant visitor at the theatre
while the play was in preparation, and he had
very willingly acquiesced in that arrangement,
but he had not the courage to say so. He
was only too thankful that Margaret's suspicions
were at last set at rest. He knew that she was
of a jealous disposition, and also that she
abhorred deceit, and he loved her none the lesson
either account, but there were reasons why
her manifestation of such excessive displeasure
on so small a matter alarmed him, and made
his heart heavy within him. However, in a
month or two they would be married. He
would then be her very own, and she would
have no misgivings about him ; and as to

deceit, there would be no further cause for it,
and what was past and gone would surely be
forgiven. But still his heart was heavy.

Considering Margaret's youth and her middle-class
position in life, the irritation and annoyance
she had exhibited may seem unnatural as well
as uncalled for. Young women of her age and
rank are not nowadays supposed to know so
much about the temptations of the stage, butin
her time matters were different. The
charms of this and that popular actress, and
even their mode of life, were topics of common
talk, and there was none of them more talked
about than Mrs. Jordan. It is not, therefore,
to be wondered at that Margaret regarded her
as a syren attracted by the notoriety (not to
mention the innocence and beauty) of her
Willie, who designed to wile him from the
quiet harbour of domestic love into the stormy
seas of passion. Moreover, it must be said for
Margaret that her jealousy was not like that of
some people who, while resenting the interference
of others with their private property, do
not lavish on it any especial kindness of their

own. She had always been the friend and
defender of William Henry, even before he
became her lover, and had long established
claims on his fidelity, and it galled her that one
glimpse of a pretty face should have so worked
with him as to induce him to renew acquaintance
with it, under what seemed to her such
suspicious circumstances, and especially in so
secret and clandestine a fashion. It had always
been a complaint of hers in the old days that
William Henry was inclined to deception. It
was in relation, however, to Mr. Erin only that
she had observed it, and in that case there had
been, certainly, excuses for the young man ;
but that he should have deceived her  if, at
least, concealment could be called deception 
she justly considered to be less pardonable.
However, she had now said her say, and with a
vigour that the circumstances scarcely called
for ; indeed, she felt that she had been somewhat
hard upon him. However wrong he had
been to try to hoodwink her, that had been the
extent of his offending. He could hardly have
declined to go to the theatre ; and, indeed, she

confessed to herself that while the play was in
progress it was not reasonable to expect him to
hold no communication with those who were
to perform in it. The matter interested him
very much, nor did she forget that it was
mainly on her own account, for did not her
uncle's consent to their union depend upon the
play's success?

When ]mr. Erin presently announced the
first rehearsal at the theatre, and suggested that
William Henry should be present to witness it.
Margaret made no opposition ; her objections,
in short, to the young man's renewing his
acquaintance with the fair Flavia where tacitly
withdrawn. She acknowledged to herself that
things could scarcely be otherwise, and that,
after all, there could be no possible harm in the
matter ; and fiom that moment, whenever her
Willie was out of her sight, she was more
tormented with the fires of jealousy than ever.

She knew that he saw sirs. Jordan constantly,
and was yet compelled to ignore it ;
she burned to know what passed between them,
yet scorned to inquire. The news William

Henry brought back with him of the prospects
of the play seemed hardly of any consequence
to her compared with matters on which he
never spoke at all. What was it to her that
Kemble was unsympathetic, dogged, and studiously
apathetic in his rendering of Vortigern ;
that Fillmore as Horses was more like a
buffoon than a hero ? What was it to her. on
the other hand, that Mrs. Powell as Edmundaa
surpassed Mrs. Siddons herself? What she
wished to know, and could not ask, was how
that hussy Mrs. Jordan was behaving herself,
not as Flavia in tights (though that idea was
far from consolatory), but in her own proper
person. Of one thing she felt convinced, that
not content with seeing her Willie every day,
this woman corresponded with him ; that lie
received letters from her under that very roof.
Else how was it that when the post now
brought him missives in a hand that was
strange to her, he would slip them into his
pocket without a word of comment, and with
an air of indifference that did not impose upon
her for an instant ? William Henry lead now

a little sitting-room of his own, and she noticed
that when these letters arrived he remained in
it longer alone than usual ; reading them, no
doubt, over and over, perhaps replying to them
in the same fervid style in which (she felt sure)
they were written, and possibly (for Margaret,
though no poet like her Willie, had a lively
imagination of her own) even kissing them.

One morning the Epilogue to ' Yortigern
and Eowena' arrived from Vir. Merry, and was
discussed at breakfast-time word by word, as
befitted so important a document. An hour
afterwards, when William Henry had gone out,
as Margaret was only too well convinced, to
Drury Lane, mr. Erin returned to the subject.

I don't much like those concluding lines

in the first part,' he said 

The scattered flowers he left, benignly save,
Posthumous flowers ; the garland of the grave.

It ran '"- benignly save," did it not,
Made ? '

I am not sure, uncle.*

Then just go and get the thing out of
Samuel's room.'

Margaret went and looked about her for
the manuscript in question. It was nowhere
to be found. But in her researches she came
upon another document spread out in the half-opened
drawer of the writing-table ; it was
written in a delicate hand on large letter-paper,
and it was almost impossible that she could
avoid reading the commencement of it.

My dear W. H.,' it began, and then followed
a mass of heterogeneous words without
sense or meaning, as if they had been taken at
random out of some dictionary. It is probable
that Margaret had never heard of a cryptogram,
but she had heard of communications
written in cypher, and it flashed upon her
mind at once that she was looking at some
letter of that nature. It was bad enough that
this abandoned hussy of Drury Lane, who
dwelt but a mile away from them, and saw her
Willie five days out of six, should nevertheless
have the audacity to correspond with him ; but
that she should write such things as could not
bear the light and had to be concealed in
cypher was indeed intolerable. Granting her

premises, there was certainly ample cause for
the indignation that mantled to her very forehead,
and the bitterness that took possession of
her very soul.

As she stood with one hand on the table,
for her limbs trembled with the agitation that
shook her mind, she heard the front door softly
closed, and a hurried footstep in the passage.
It was William Henry, who had remembered
no doubt  too late  that he had left the letter
exposed to view, and had returned to place it
in some safer receptacle. The next moment he
was face to face with her.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CYPHER.

I KNOW what you are come for,' said
Margaret in a broken voice, which lead yet no
touch of tenderness in it. ' You are come for
this letter.' She snatched it from the drawer
and held it before him. ' It is no use to lie tome
; your face tells me the truth.'

William Henry's face was indeed white to
the lips ; his eyes returned her gaze with a
confused and frightened stare. He stammered
out something, he knew not what, and sank
into a chair.

What,' continued the girl, in harsh, pitiless
tones, ' have you nothings to say for
yourself ? Has your ready tongue no excuse
to offer for this new duplicity ? '

Have you read the letter ? ' he inquired
hoarsely.

No ; how could I ? '

The colour rushed back to his cheeks, and
into his eyes there came a gleam of hope.

No,' she went on, 'it is you who shall read
it to me. If you decline to do so, I shall conclude
that this vile creature has written you
what is not fit for anyone, save women like
herself, to hear, and your refusal will be the
last words that you will ever address to me
with my consent, so help me Heaven.'

Mrs. Powell herself, when personating some
heroine of the stage, never looked or spoke
vrith greater earnestness of purpose than on
this occasion did simple Margaret Slade out of
the simplicity of her nature.

I will read you the letter, Margaret,' was
William Henry's quiet reply.

His words, and still more his tone, staggered
Margaret not a little. The change in his face
and manner within the last few minutes had
indeed been most remarkable. At first he had
seemed so struck with the consciousness of
guilt, and so hopeless of forgiveness, that he
had not dared to throw himself upon her

mercy. Then he had appeared to recover himself
a little ; and now he Alas quite calm and
composed as though all apprehension had
passed away from him.

His voice as he said ' I will read you the
letter, Margaret,' had even a tender reproach in
it, as though he, and not she, were the injured
party.

Eead it,' she said ; but her tone was no
longer stubborn and imperious. It was plain
that this woman's letter was not a love-letter,
or he would not have consented to read it ; and
if it was not a love-letter, what cause had she for
anger ? And yet, if it was not so, why had he
exhibited such confusion  nay despair ?

I will read it, since you wish it,' he went
on, ' though it is a breach of confidence. It is
better to break one's word than to break one's
heart.'

The morality of this aphorism was somewhat
questionable, but Margaret nodded assent. She
took it, no doubt, in a particular sense. It was
certainly better that she should know the worst
than that any proviso of a designing woman,

made for her own wicked convenience, should
be respected.

It is well to begin at the beginning,' continued
William Henry. ' Be so good as to look
at the address of that letter.'

She did so with an indifferent air. She could
almost have said that she had seen it before, for
she recognised it at once as one of those missives
of which he had received so many of
late.

'Let me draw your attention to the postmark.'


It was ' Mallow : Ireland.'

The letter feU from her hand. Self-humiliation
mastered for the moment the
happiness of discovering that he had not been
false to her after all. It was certainly not
with Mrs. Jordan that he was secretly corresponding,
and probably with no one of her
sex. If Margaret had been an older woman,
with a larger experience of the ways of men,
she might have regretted her misplaced indignation
as ' waste ; ' it might have even struck
her that the present mistake might weaken her

position if on some future occasion she should
have better reason for her reproaches, but she
had no thought except for the injustice she had
done her lover. She stood before him with
downcast head, stupefied and penitent.

Oh, Willie, I am so sorry.'

So am I, dear ; sorry that you should have
so little confidence in me ; sorry that you should
have thought me capable of carrying on, under the
roof that shelters you, an intrigue with another
woman. This letter  and I have received others
like it  is from Eeginald Talbot.'

But, Willie, what could I think ? ' she
pleaded humbly, ' and why should you write
to Mr. Talbot in cypher ? And why when I
charged you falsely  with  what  you have
mentioned  did you look so  so guilty ? '

Say rather so hurt and shocked, Margaret,'
he answered gravely. 'It was surely only
natural that I should be shocked at finding
the girl I loved so distrustful of me.'

I was wrong, oh, very, very wrong ; and
yet,' she pleaded, ' I erred through love of you,
Willie. If I had not cared for you so much 

SO very much  I should not have been so unreasonable,'


You mean so wild with jealousy he
replied smiling. ' However, it's all over now,'
and he held out his hand for the letter which
she still retained.

Please to read it to me,' she said ; ' a few
words will do.'

His face grew pale again, as she thought
with anger.

Why so ? ' he replied. ' Are you not
satisfied even now ? '

Yes, yes ; it was foolish of me, I know,
but I said " So help me Heaven." '

Oh, I see. For your oath's sake. That
is what Herod said to the daughter of Herodias.
It is not a good example to follow.*

He spoke stiffly, but she shook her head.

I only ask for a few words, Willie.'

'But Talbot writes to me in confidence;
about matters that only affect him and me.
There is not a word that concerns you in it.'

Still she shook her head. The girl was truth
itself, not only in the spirit but in the letter.

VOL. II. N

She had sworn not to speak with him unless he
did a certain thing, and though the reason for
his doing so no longer existed, her oath remained.
Her stubbornness evidently annoyed
him. Their parts in the little drama had as it
were become reversed. The wrongdoer had
become the injured person, and vice versa.

The facts are these,' he said slowly.
Talbot and I, as you know, have a secret in
common. He is the only person save myself,
who has seen my patron. What he writes of
him and his concerns  that is of the manuscripts
 we do not wish others to see. We
have therefore hit upon a device to keep our
communications secret.'

He took out of the drawer a piece of cardboard
exactly the shape and size of ordinary
letter-paper, full of large holes neatly cut at
unequal distances. He placed it on blank
paper, and through the interstices wrote these
words :

Margaret has done you the honour to take
your finnikin hand-writing for that of Mrs.
Jordan.'

Then he took off the cardboard and filled
in the spaces with a number of inconsequent
words, so that the whole communication became
meaningless.

Talbot has another piece of cardboard
exactly similar to this,' he continued, ' and has
only to place it over this rubbish for my
meaning to become apparent.'

'It is very ingenious,' said Margaret. It
was the highest praise she could afford. Such
arts were distasteful to her. They seemed to
suggest a natural turn for deception, and she
secretly hoped that the invention lay at
Talbot's door.

Yes, I think the plan does me some
credit,' said William Henry complacently.
Well, I have only to lay the cardboard over
this letter that so excited your indignation, to
get at the writer's meaning.'

Her eyes were turned towards him, but with
no fixity of expression, she was bound to listen
and to look, but her interest was gone.

" Why do you not send me a copy of the
play ? " ' he rapidly read. '' One would think

N 2

it was you only who had any stake in it ; " and
so on, and so on. I suppose you have no wish
to pry further into our little secret ? ' he added,
folding up the letter at the same tune.

I did not wish to pry into it at all, Willie,'
she answered sorrowfully ; ' I again repeat I am
sorry to have mistrusted you.'

Well, well, let us say no more about it.
Let us forgive and forget.'

It is you who have to forgive, Willie,
not I.'

I don't say that,' he answered gravely ;
*but if you think so, keep your forgiveness,
Maggie, for next time. Be sure I shall have
need of it.'

Here the voice of Mr. Erin was heard
calling for Margaret.

Why do you not bring me the play ? '

William Henry held up his finger in sign
that she should not reveal his presence in the
house to Mr. Erin, and taking the manuscript
from a cupboard placed it in her hand.

Take it him,' he whispered, with a tender
kiss.

She kissed him again without a word ; the
tears stood in her eyes, as, the very image of
penitence and self-reproach, she made her mute
adieu.

It was certainly an occasion on which some
men, not unconscious of errors, might have
congratulated themselves.

The expression on William Hem:'y's face,
however, was very far from one of triumph ;
it was white and worn and weary.

'Another such a victory,' he murmured
with a haggard smile, ' and I shall be undone.'

He locked the door and threw himself into
a chair with an exhausted air, like an actor
who, having played his part successfully, is conscious
of having done so with great effort, and
also that he owed more to good luck than to
good guidance. ' Great heaven ! ' he muttered,
what an escape ! Suppose she had found the
key for herself and read the letter, or even if
she had compelled me to do so. She must have
heard it all. I could not have invented a
syllable to save my life . What a millstone
is this fellow about my neck,' he presently

continued, as he tore the letter along and
across, and threw the fragments under his feet.
A copy of the play ! No, that he shall never
see till the time is past for harm to come of it.
A few days more, and all will be safe. I will
be pestered no longer nth his cursed importunities.'


Then he took the perforated cardboard and
tore that likewise into small pieces. ' Now I
have burnt my boats with a vengeance,' he
added grimly.

Then he rose and paced up and down the
room, first rapidly, then slower and slower.

I am afraid I have been hasty, after all,'
he murmured ; ' this Talbot is ill to deal with,
and suspicious as the devil. If I tell him in
what peril his communications have placed me,
and that therefore I have destroyed his cypher,
he will not believe me, though it is the truth.
I must tell him that it has been destroyed by
accident, and that therefore I dare not write
him what he wishes, and that he will not believe
either. If incredulity were genius, then indeed
he would be a very clever fellow, but not

Otherwise. Great heavens ! what rubbish he
writes and calls it poetry. Xo, no, no,' he
muttered with knitted brows, ' not that Master
Eeginald, at any price. And yet how mad it
will make him to find it is not so. He will dome
a mischief if he can, no doubt. However,
he will know nothing till it is too late. Next
Saturday will put me out of the reach of harm.
Would it were Saturday, and all were well.
That's Shakespeare, by the bye, save that he
says supper time. A bad augury  a bad
augury. The Ides of March are come, but
they have not yet gone.' Here he took another
turn up and down the room. ' I wonder
whether, v/ith all his knowledge of humanity,
Shakespeare ever knew a man who suffered
like me. I wonder whether he sees me now,
and knows about it. A strange thought indeed,
and yet it may be so. Perhaps his great soul,
which understands it all, has pity on me.
Will she pity me?" A still more momentous
question. Pity is akin to love, he says, when
love comes last. If love comes first, will pity
follow it ? What thoughts could I set down

this moment were I in the mood for it ; and yet
they say I am no more a poet than this Talbot.
He a poet ! The vain drivelling fool ; curse his
false heart and prying eyes ! I hate him.'

CHAPTER XXX.

THE PLAY.

The first night of one new play is much the
same as that of another, I suppose, all the world
over. The opening and shutting of doors, the
rustling of silks and satins, the murmur of expectancy,
cannot hush the beating of the young
author's breast, as he sits at the back of the
box and longs, like the sick man, for the morning.
Everybody who is anybody (a charming
phrase indicating about one billionth of the
human race) is there. Men of fashion and
women of wit : gossips and critics ; playwrights
who have been damned tmd hope for company
in their Inferno ; playwrights who have succeeded,
with no love for a new rival ; the fast
and the loose. Lights everywhere, but as
much difficulty in finding places as though it

were dark ; mute recognitions, whispered information
(' A dead failure, they tell me.'
The best thing since the " School for
Scandal " ' ) ; fashionable titters ; consumption
with her ill-bred cough. These are things
peculiar to all first nights, but the first night of
a newly discovered play by William Shakespeare
' was, as one may imagine, something
exceptional.

Malone, of course, had been at work. The
public had been warned against ' an impudent
imposture ' in ' a Letter to Lord Claremont '
(surely the longest ever written) of which
Edmund Burke had been so good as to say
that he had got to the seventy-third page
before he went to sleep.' It had been necessary
to issue a counter-handbill and to distribute it
at the doors.

VORTIGERN.

A malevolent and impudent attack on the
Shakespeare Manuscript having appeared on
the eve of representation of this play, evidently
intended to injure the proprietor of the Manuscript,
Mr. Erin feels it impossible, within the

short space of time between the publishing and
the representation, to produce an answer to
Mr. Malone's most ill-founded assertions in his
Inquiry." He is therefore induced to request
that " Vortigern and Eowena " may be heard
with that candour which has ever distinguished
a British audience.'

Opposition handbills were also in circulation,
headed ' A Forgery.' The public interest
in the play was unprecedented. The doors of
Drury Lane were besieged. Within, the excitement
was even more tremendous. The
house was crammed to the very roof. Many
paid box prices though they knew no seats were
to be obtained there, for the purpose of getting
down into the pit. ' The air was charged with
the murmurs of the contending factions.'
Nothing was ever heard or seen like it within
the walls of a playhouse. In a centre box sat
Samuel Erin and Margaret. The antiquary had
thought it right that they should occupy a conspicuous
position and show a bold front to the
world, and she had consented to this arrangement
without a murmur, for was it not for her

Willie's sake ? She looked very pale, however,
and when addressed had hardly voice to answer.
The vast assemblage in such commotion, the
shouts and cries from the gallery, the satirical
cries of ' Author ! Author ! '  though the overture
had not commenced  appalled her.

In a small box on the opposite side of the
house, sat alone a tall handsome man, as pale
as she. He had drawn the little curtain forward,
so as to conceal himself from the
occupants of the house, and kept his face,
which wore a look of great distress, turned
towards the stage. Through the folds of the
curtain he had stolen one glance at her as she
took her seat ; but afterwards he had looked no
more at her. In the next compartment was
another and younger man, dio also seemed to
have a personal interest in Margaret Slade.
His box was full of spectators, but he sat at
the back of them, and unseen by her, fixed his
eyes upon her from time to time with a searching
expression. When the play began, however,
he listened to it with the most rapt
attention  not a word escaped him  and with

every word his face grew darker and more
malevolent.

Behind the curtain opinion was almost as
much divided as before it. Kemble was in his
grimmest humour ; disinclined, as many said,
both then and afterwards, to give his Vortigern
fair play. Some of the inferior actors, taking
their tune from him, certainly abstained from
exerting themselves, and even made no secret
beforehand of their design to abstain. It was
a play cumbrous in construction, and even in
the very names of the dramatis personage, such
as Mortimer and Catagiinus; but it had
been accepted by the management, and the
company, as it was afterwards urged, and with
justice, should have done their best for it.
Mrs. Powell and Mrs. Jordan vied with one
another in encouraging William Henry, who
remained all the evening behind the scenes.
The former made a magnificent Edmundaa ; the
latter, of whom the greatest of our dramatic
critics writes, ' Delightful Mrs. Jordan, whose
voice did away with the cares of the whole
house before they saw her come in,' surpassed

herself. If beauty and vivacity could have
saved the piece she would have saved it, single-handed.
There was a great deal of opposition,
but at first the play went fairly well. The swell
and roll of its sonorous lines hid their lack of
ideas, and in a fashion supported themselves
unaided.

We are safe now, the " Yortigern " will
succeed, Henry,' said Mrs. Jordan cheerfully,
as she left the stage at the close of the second
act.

William Henry did not answer ; his face,
pale and haggard as it had been throughout
the evening, had suddenly assumed a look of
horror.

What is the matter with you, lad ? ' exclaimed
Mrs. Powell. ' You would make a
good actor, but a very bad author ; you could
not look more desponding if the play was your
own. It is going all right ; you must not mind
a hiss or two.'

I fear him,' whispered WilUam Henry,
hoarsely. ' That is his hateful voice ; it is allover.'


The two ladies looked at one another
significantly ; they had seen young fathers of
promising plays on first nights before, but here
was a mere godfather worse than any of them.
They thought that the young fellow had taken
leave of his wits.

I tell you it is all over,' continued the
wretched youth; 'he has come here to damn
me.'

'If you mean the Devil, that is nothing
new,' said Mrs. Powell ; ' he is always, so weare
told, in the play-house.'

She spoke very sharply; she thought it
the right remedy to apply under the circumstances,
just as she might have recommended
bending back the fingers in an extreme case
of hysterics.

Come here,' said Mrs. Jordan, leading the
young man to a spot where, through a chink
in the curtain, they could get a view of the
box where his father and cousin sat. ' Look at
your Margaret yonder ; she is not a coward
like you.' Indeed, the more the people hissed,
the calmer and the more indifferent Margaret

seemed to be, though under that unmoved exterior
she suffered agonies. She was thinking
of her Willie, though she could not see him,
and love enhanced her beauty.

It was a frightful scene of turmoil, though
up till now a good-natured one. The actor
who had last left the stage (or rather who was
left upon it, for he had been killed in combat)
had had, by some mismanagement, the curtain
dropped upon his legs, and had jumped up
and rubbed them before the audience in a manner
very unbecoming a corpse. At this they
screamed with laughter, to which his Highness
the Duke of Clarence, in the royal box, contributed
his full share. Their good humour
was, therefore, for the present, assured, though
such mirth was hardly conducive to the success
of a tragedy. But at the commencement
of the next act there were signs of ill-nature.
There were cries set going from a box on the
upper tier, of ' Forgery ! forgery ! ' and even of
Thief Erin ! Thief Erin ! look at Thief Erin ! '

Kemble's magnificent voice alone could
make itself heard above these sounds of displeasure.

He was apostrophising the King of

Terrors : 

Oh sovereign Death,

Who hast for thy domain this world immense.
Churchyards and charterhouse are thy haunts,
And hospitals thy sumptuous palaces ;

And when thou wouldst be merry thou dost choose

The gaudy chamber of a dying king.
And then thou dost ope wide thy monstrous jaws,

And with rude laughter and fantastic tricks

Thou clapp'st thy rattling fingers to thy side ;
And when this solemn mockery is o'er

Here he was suffered to proceed no further ;
that unfortunate hne, uttered in the most
sepulchral tone, was the signal for the most discordant
howl that was ever heard within the
walls of a theatre. He repeated the line with
his own peculiar emphasis, and even, as a
spectator tells us, ' with a solemn grimace.' It
was the death-blow of the piece. A scene of
confusion ensued which beggars description.
Suddenly, and as the newspapers of the day
said, ' without any premonition,' a rush was
made for the box occupied by the Erin.
Fortunately, however, one man at least had
premonition of it. He was the one who has

VOL. II.

been mentioned as occupying a box by himself.
He had been silent all the evening, taking no
part either with the partisans or the opponents
of the play, but with eyes ever attentive to
what was going on. The voice of the young
fellow in the next compartment had attracted
him above all others ; it had malevolence in it
which was wanting in the other cases, and,
though he did not recognise it, sounded not
unfamiliar to him. It had been the first to
raise the cry of ' Forever ! ' and the only one
which had mentioned the name of Erin. Ashe
repeated the words for the third or fourth
time, some drunken fellow hiccuped ' Where
are they ? ' To which the malevolent voice
replied, ' I'll show you. The young scoundrel
is hiding behind the curtain, but we'll have
him out.'

The next moment the corridor was full of an
excited rabble, led by Eeginald Talbot. They
ran in their stupid fury at full speed, but not so
fast as Frank Dennis would have run could he
have got free of them. He had dashed from
his box the instant he had heard Talbot's

vengeful cry, but it had already raised the
wilder spirits of the house, and they had rushed
out from this door and that, and interposed
themselves between him and their leader. He
beheld already Margaret surrounded by this
wild and wanton crew, the old man maltreated,
and William Henry, evidently the object of
this fellow's hatred, torn to pieces. He ran
with the impetuous crowd, parting them like
water left and right with his broad shoulders,
till he gained a place among the foremost.
Talbot, leading by a few paces, had reached a
spot where two staircases met ; the one a narrow
one, leading straight down to a few boxes, in
one of which Margaret was seated, the other a
broader fight, which led to one of the exits of
the house. Talbot, wild with haste and rage,
cast a glance behind him to point out to his
followers the right direction to take, when he
met Dennis' eye, and strove to turn and speak.
But ere he could do so, Frank's strong fingers
were on his neck, and impelled him forward,
like the wind, to the top of the broader stair.
The others, who knew not what had happened,



thought that they were still following their
leader to their destination, and ran on full pelt
behind them. Ere the third step was reached,
half a dozen had fallen headlong, and half a
score came toppling over these. Oaths and
groans mingled with the cries of those who
still pushed on behind, but Eeginald Talbot
neither spoke nor fell. The fingers that had
closed about his neck clutched his throat also,
while at the same time they kept him up,
though his legs used a speed which they had
never before attained to ; they took their four
and even five steps at a time. Fortunately for
him, and perhaps for his custodian also, the
great door at the foot of the staircase was open
to the street, and when they reached it Frank
simply let his companion go, who, bereft of
sense, though by no means of motion, fell face
foremost, with the most frightful violence, into
a mud heap. A friendly pillar brought Dennis
himself to anchorage, who then quietly turned
and entered the theatre by another way.

Thanks to his presence of mind and strength
of bociv, the house was now freed of its more

dangerous elements, and an attempt was
being made to finish the play, though almost
in dumb show. Mrs. Jordan, though greatly
agitated, had even the courage to speak the
epilogue, and for the first time found her
graces and witcheries of no avail. Margaret
would have stayed to say a few words of love
and confidence to William Henry, but Mr
Erin hiuTied her away.

It was a planned thing,' he kept murmuring
on the way home in the hackney-coach.
There was a plot to damn the play ; that devil
Malone was at the bottom of it.'

But Margaret was not thinking of Malone,
nor even of the play, concerning which, though
she heard them not, there were reports, besides
its failure, of misadventure and even death.
She was thinking of Willie, and why he did not
come home to be comforted. The two sat
down alone to supper, of which neither could
touch a mouthful ; the antiquary full of woeful
thoughts, the girl with only one question in her
mind, ' Why does he not come ? '

The maid thought she had seen him at the

door when her mistress got out of the carriage ;
there was certainly some young man with his
hat pulled over his eyes, who had watched her
into the house, and having, as it seemed,
assured himself of her safety, had walked
away. It was possible of course that this might
have been Willie, but whither had he gone ?

'It is no use your waiting for William
Henry,' said the antiquary roughly ; ' why
don't you eat ? '

She noticed that her uncle no longer spoke
of ' Samuel,' and the change jarred upon her
feelings, already strained and tried. It was no
fault of Willie's that the play had not succeeded,
and it was cruel to visit such a misfortune
upon his innocent head.

It is only natural that I should be anxious
about him,' she returned with some touch of
resentment.

Pooh, pooh ! why should you be anxious ?
He is no doubt supping with one of the players.'

His indifferent words struck her like a blow
at random. Was it conceivable, after what
had happened that evening, that Willie should

prefer the society of another to lier own ?
Above all, was it possible that that one should
be Mrs. Jordan . She could not but notice
how Flavia had fought for the play, and had
hardly known whether to admire or detest her
for it. If she had been in her place, and
could have done it, she would have fought for
it too, but then she would have an adequate
motive. Why should that woman have dared
so much for it when the others had performed
their parts in so sluggish and perfunctory a
manner ? It must have been because she had
her heart in it. And who could have their
heart in a mere stage-play, a thing at the best
full of fictitious woes and imaginary heroes ?
There must have been human love  or what
such creatures took for love  to have enlisted
her in its cause. Oh, why did not Willie come ?
As the night wore on apprehensions for her
lover's personal safety took the place of these
jealous fears. What might not despair and
disappointment have induced him to do ? In
her wretchedness and need of sympathy and consolation,
she ventured to hint at this to Mr. Erin.

It is surely very odd, uncle. Willie ought
to be home by this time at all events. Should
we not send somewhere ? *

What nonsense ! Whither should we send,
and why ? The lad is old enough to take care
of himself.'

'But perhaps in his dejection and  and 
misery, uncle, he might not have any care of
himself.'

Tush ! lie is not of that sort. He has
much too high an opinion of his own value
to throw himself away  into the river, for
instance. That such an idea should have
entered your mind, however, shows what an
unstable fellow you think him ; and in someways
 though not in that way  he is unstable.
He is but a boy, after all, and a spoilt boy. I
take blame to myself that I suffered him to
entertain the delusion that he was fit to take to
himself a wife. It was conditional indeed upon
certain contingencies which have not taken
place, so that the whole" affair is null and
void.'

Uncle ! ' Margaret rose from her chair,

and with white face and flashing eyes confronted
the old man.

Of course it's null and void,' he went on,
flattening the tobacco in his pipe with its
stopper, and affecting an indifferent air. ' A
bargain's a bargain, though indeed, as I have
said, it is one that I should never have entered
into in any case, but the mere vulgar question
of ways and means now puts an end to the
matter. Of course he looked for material
results from the " Vortigern." It will now not
keep the stage another night, while the publication
of the play is rendered worthless. It is
not his fault, of course ; I don't blame him.
It is not in mortals to command success. There
is nothing for him now but to return to the
conveyancing business ; and in ten years or so
there is no knowing but that he may step into
old Bingley's shoes.'

And I ? ' cried Margaret bitterly. ' What
am I to do ? To wait for him ? '

Certainly not ; that would be hopeless indeed.
The best thing you can possibly do just
at present is to  I shall make arrangements for

his lodging elsewhere out of harm's way  is to
begin to forget all about him.'

Forget him  dorset Willie ? How can I ? '

By thinking of somebody else,' returned
the antiquary coolly : ' that I have heard is
the best way. At all events it will have to be
done.'

Do you think then a woman's heart is
like a seal, uncle, on which an image is impressed,
and which, held to some fierce flame
as mine seems to be, Heaven help me, this
moment  it straightway becomes a blank ready
for the reception of another image? Oh, no,
no, I will wait ten years for Willie, if it be
necessary, but I will never forget him.'

He'll forget you in half the time,' was the
dry rejoinder.

You speak falsely as well as cruelly,
uncle,' said Margaret passionately.

There had been a time when even passion
could not have nerved her to speak so boldly
to the antiquary ; and there had been a time
when if she had dared to do so the old man
would have put down his foot upon such

passion and crunched the sparks out. But just
now Margaret was too full of her misery and
the sense of wrong to care what she said, while
her uncle on his part, though he was fully
resolved to put an end to his niece's engagement
with William Henry, could not at once
resume the relative position to her he had
occupied before it was mooted.

'As to my speaking falsely concerning
William Henry's fidelity,' he answered quietly,
time alone can prove that : and there will be
certainly plenty of time ; while as to cruelty I
really cannot accuse myself of having been
cruel.'

What ! when you have allowed the
mutual love between your son and me for
months to ripen without censure ? When you
have heard him call me his own ten times a
day, and never reproved him for it. When
you have thrown us together and left us
together ? And now because something has
not succeeded, of the success of which you
made sure, do you wish to tear us asunder and
bid us dorset one another. And then, oh

shame, do you dare to say you are not
cruel ? '

The old man made her no reply, perhaps
his conscience pricked him in the matter, or
perhaps he perceived that it was useless to
argue with her in her present excited state.

Have you any fault to find with Willie ? '
she continued reproachfully. ' Has he not
done all he could do in this unfortunate affair ?
What has happened to the "Vortigern" that
he could help or hinder ? Do you suppose he
has deceived you because it has not succeeded
?

Of course not,' put in the antiquary
testily ; ' the boy is honest enough, no doubt ;
but one must look at things from a reasonable
point of view. Come, come, we can talk of
these things tomorrow. It is getting late.
Let us to bed.'

She answered not a word, but sat with her
face bowed down on the table and hidden in
her hands, while he took up his candle and
left her. She remained in the same position
for many minutes, when suddenly there came

a gentle knock, a mere tap, at the front door.
She was on her feet in a moment, with her
long hair loose behind her ears, listening. It
was not Willie's knock, she knew, but it might
be ncAvs of Willie. The clock on the mantelpiece
had just struck two. Then came the tap
again ; this time a little more distinct. It was
evident that her uncle had not heard it, and
the servant had long gone to bed. There
were many bad characters abroad in the street
in those times, restrained by a very inefficient
constabulary, but Margaret did not hesitate to
obey this second summons. She went to the
door and undid the fastenings without making
the least noise.

A woman stood on the step, to judge by
her figure a young one, but her face was hidden
in her hood.

You are Margaret ? ' she said, in clear
sweet tones mingled with an ineffable pity.

I am,' she answered, vrith a dreadful fear
at her heart. She felt that some messenger of
evil tidings stood before her.

I thought so ; I felt sine that you would

be sitting up for him,' murmured the other
softly.

Where is he ? Is he ill ? Why does he
not come home ? ' gasped Margaret.

He is not ill, but he cannot come home.
Let me in, and I will tell you all.'

With a gentle pressure, for Margaret's
instinct was to oppose her, the visitor made
her way into the house. ' Let me see you
quite alone,' she said : ' somewhere where we
cannot be interrupted. I have news for your
private ear  I am sorry to say, bad news.'

And who are you ? ' Margaret's voice
was antagonistic, almost defiant. She resented
this woman's coming beyond all measure, but
the fear within her compelled her to listen to
what she might have to say.

I am Mrs. Jordan,' was the quiet reply.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE MESSENGER OF DISGRACE.

M- HOSE words, 'I

am Mrs. Jordan,'
were not unexpected
by Margaret.
There was
no need for her
visitor to speak
them or to throw
back her hood ;
she had known her
from the first. Whatever
evil news there
was to tell, it was
made ten times worse
by the messenger that
brought it. She felt
like Antony's wife in the presence of Cleopatra.
' Yon have been his ruin,' were the

words that trembled on her lips. But there
was something in the other's tone that prevented
their utterance. That it was a beautiful face
was nothing ; she detested and abhorred its
beauty. That it was full of sympathy and
compassion was nothing ; she resented its compassion
as an insult. But there was also sorrow
in it, genuine and unmistakable sorrow. Whatever
wrong this woman had done her  so
Margaret reasoned  she had repented of; perhaps
had come to confess, when it was too late,
but still to confess. There were tears in her
eyes ; she was an actress it is true, but they were
real tears.

Well, what is it you want, madam ? '

Nothing. I am here on your account,
not on my own.'

And Willie sent you ? '

She uttered this with great bitterness, experiencing
the same sort of satisfaction in the
humiliation it cost her, as some persons in
physical pain derive from the self-infliction of
another pain.

He did not send me : he does not even
know that I am here.'

But you come from him. You have been
with him after he left the theatre ? '

Yes, for hours ; two long miserable hours.'
And you dare to tell me that ? '
Yes. Oh, Margaret  for that is the only
name I know you by  put away from you, I
beseech you, all thoughts that wrong him.
He has sins enough  Heaven help him  to
answer for, but not such as you would impute
to hkn. He is faithful to you and despairing.'
What do you mean ? Why should he
despair ? ' The other's words had somewhat
disarmed her, the gentleness and pity in her
companion's looks had. won upon her in spite of
herself. The woman was certainly not thereto
exult over her. It was a bitter reflection
that her lover had not come straight to her ;
that he had sought a go-between (and such
a go-between !) to speak for him. But that
sad word ' despairing ' altered matters in other
respects. What Willie in his modesty and
self-denunciation doubtless feared, was not only
that ]mr. Erin would stick to the letter of his
agreement respecting his consent to his son's

VOL. II. p

marriage (wliicli, indeed, lie lead just announced
his intention to do), but that she herself would
assent to his change of vieAvs ; that the idea of
waiting, probably for years, until Willard
Henry should have made sufficient means upon
which to marry, would be abhorrent to her ;
that, in a word, her love for him did not
comprehend hope and patience. It was possible
indeed that his omission to come in person
arose from delicacy of mind, and the disinclination
to embarrass her by a personal
appeal ; and as for his choice of an intermediary
he had perhaps but poured out his woes into
the ears of the first person who had professed
to sympathise with them, and who, it must be
confessed, had shown him kindness. And yet
how mistaken the dear lad had been in supposing
for a moment that mere misfortune 
the ill success of the play  could cut the bonds
that bound her heart to his! It had had an
effect indeed, but it was only to strengthen
them, for when the object of a woman's love is
in adversity, he becomes the more dear to her
in proportion to the difficulties by which he is

surrounded. Since his love was as genuine asher
own, he ought indeed to have known as
much. And that he should despair of her !
Well, indeed, might she ask with much amazement,
' Yliat do you mean ? Vliy should he
despair ? '

But Mrs. Jordan's pretty face only grew
more grave and sad.

I wish to heaven, my dear girl,' she said,
that I could use another word. If you knew
the pain it costs me to come here and see you
face to face, and tell you what I have to tell,
you would pity me  if you shall presently
have any pity to spare, save for your unhappy
self and your still more wretched Willie.' The
earnestness and fervour of her tone, and its
solemnity, which seemed to prepare the way
for the revelation of some overwhelming misfortune,
made Margaret's blood run cold.

You said that he was not ill,' she murmured
hoarsely, ' and yet he has not come
home. He is not dead ? Oh, tell me that my
Willie is not dead ? '

'He is not dead, Margaret, but there are

p 2

worse things that happen to those we love
than death. Worse things than even when you
thought the worst of your Willie and of me.'

Great heaven, how you terrify me ! Tell
me what has happened in one word.'

That is impossible, or, if it were possible,
you would never, without proof, believe it. I
must begin at the beginning. You know what
happened to-night -the failure of the play ;
the peril only just averted, that threatened
your uncle and yourself

Margaret shook her head, not so much in
denial as in indifference. ' What mattered anything
that had threatened herself, even though
the menace had been carried out ? '

Is it possible that you are unaware of your
escape to-night? How the rioters, led by an
enemy of you and yours, where rushing to your
box, when some young fellow threw himself
between it and them ; how he seized their leader
by the throat, at risk of his own life, and threw
him down the stairs, and how all the rest of
them came tumbling after him ? '

If the actress hoped to lead her companion's

mind into other channels, to niter est her for
one instant in any subject save that supreme
one in which her whole soul was wrapped, her
endeavour failed.

But Willie ? ' murmured Margaret impatiently.
' Why do you speak of anything
save Willie ? '

That will come soon enough. Too soon,
dear girl. I must needs tell you it as it all
happened. He was behind the scenes, you
know, throughout the evening. At first, things
seemed to be going pretty well in spite of the
opposition ; but he was never very hopeful,
even then, as he afterwards told me. The
greatness of the reward which would be his incase
of the success of the play  that is, his
claiming you for his own  oppressed him ; it
seemed too high a fortune even though he had
felt himself to be deserving of it.'

'He is deserving of it, and of better fortune,'
put in Margaret quietly.

Mrs. Jordan took no notice of the interruption.
' He seemed depressed and coldhearted
from the first,' she continued, ' though Mrs.

Powell and myself said all we could to encourage
him. Presently, amid the tempest of
disapprobation, he recognised a particular voice
the voice of an enemy ; of the same person,
I have no doubt, who urged on the mob to
your box. From that moment he seemed to
give up all hope. " That man is come to ruin
me ! " he said ; and he spoke the truth.'

It was Eeginald Talbot,' exclaimed Margaret
suddenly. ' Frank always warned Willie
against him. The vile, treacherous wretch ! '

Yes, it was Eeginald Talbot  a base
creature enough, no doubt ; but honest people,
Margaret, are not ruined by anything the base
can say or shout. We must be base ourselves
to enable them to ruin us.'

Margaret rose from her chair. ' I do not
understand you, Mrs. Jordan. I thought that
you were speaking of my Willie.'

Listen, Margaret. Keep calm and listen ;
I would give half of what I have in the world
to spare you, but it must be told.'

I will hear no evil of Willie.'

You shall hear, at least, nothing that has

not fallen from his own lips. When he showed
such fear of his enemy, I reproached him for
his lack of courage, and through a gap in the
stage curtain pointed you out to him as you
sat in your box, exposed to all those shouts and
jeers, and apparently unmoved by them. But
the sight of you only seemed to depress him
still more.'

" That is the last I shall see of my Margaret,"
he said ; " I have lost her for ever."
And again he spoke the truth.'

 He did not,' cried Margaret vehemently ;
he only thought he spoke it. He imagined
because the play had failed that I should give
him back his troth. But what is the play tome
? My heart is his ; I can wait for him.
We are still very young ; what need is therefor
despair ? '

That is what I thought, that is what I said,'
returned Mrs. Jordan pitifully, ' because I was
in the dark, as you are. I said, '' It will
matter nothing to Margaret, if she really loves
you ; you will still be the same to her."
' " No, I shall not," he answered ; " I can

never be the same to her. If not to-night, tomorrow,
if not tomorrow, the next day, that
villain yonder will unmask me ; she will know
me for what I am, and loathe me."

I had to leave him then, to speak the
epilogue, and when I returned, he looked like
one who had utterly lost heart and hope. No
one troubled himself about him. Mrs. Powell
had gone away, and the others departed, cursing
the play and all who had had any hand in
its production. I dared not leave him to himself,
and besought him to go home at once.
I have no home," he said ; then I took him to
my own house.'

That was good of you,' murmured Margaret,
pale as death.

Then Mrs. Jordan knew that the worst was
over ; that what she had to tell, however sad
and terrible, would fall upon ears prepared to
hear it. And yet even now she could not tell
her right out, 'Your Willie is a cheat and a
bar.'

In the carriage the poor fellow sat like a
dead man, huddled in one corner, without

speech and motion ; but once within doors, I
insisted on his taking some Vine, which revived
him a little. " You cannot stop here," I said,
speaking to him as severely as I could, for
kindness only seemed to unnerve him ; " I
will send out and get you a bed at some inn.
But if it will be any comfort to you to relieve
your mind, I am ready to hear whatever }'ou
have to say." He made a movement towards
his breast-pocket which filled me with apprehensions.
" If you have a pistol there," I said,
give it to me at once. Whatever 3'ou may
have clone, however you may have wronged
Margaret, you will surely not add self slaughter
to your other sins ? You will not break her
heart by killing yourself ? "

'"No, no," he murmured; " it is not that."

I found it was impossible to get any
connected narrative out of him, so I put a
question or two.

'who is this enemy of yours, and why
should it be in his powder to harm you ? "

" Because he knows my secret  my
shameful secret. His name is Reginald Talbot,

and he was at one time my friend. We
quarrelled about some poems of this, and from
that moment he has done his best to ruin me.
He tried to prove that I had forged one of the
Shakespeare papers, and failed in it ; he pretended
to be satisfied at the time with the
evidence in the matter, as the others were, but
from that moment he dogged my footsteps.
He is a sneaking, prying hound.

" One day, when I was at work in my
chambers, forging manuscripts, I saw his face at
my window ; he had climbed up to it by a ladder,
and perceived what I was about. There was no
hope of concealment any longer, so I unlocked
the door and let him in. I told him all  it is
a long story, but it is written here (again he
touched his breast-pocket), and besought him
to have mercy upon me. His heart was like
the nether millstone, as I knew it would be.
He asked me with a sneer what I should do
now, and whether I had any new treasure of
Shakespeare's with which to enrich the world.
I told him of the 'Vortigern,' which I was then
projecting, but which, of course, it was now in

his power to put a stop to. Then he proposed
a compromise. He was very van of his
verses, and he undertook, upon condition that
he was allowed to write some portion of the
play himself, to keep silence upon the matter.
He had the same mad desire that I had, that
the world should take his poetry to be from
Shakespeare's pen. I consented of course, for
I had no choice. All his wrath against me
seemed to have evaporated at once. He was
intensely pleased ; and from that time we
worked together. Moreover, when the committee
appointed to decide upon the genuineness
of the Shakespeare manuscripts hesitated
to accept them because there was no other
witness to their discovery save myself, Talbot
came forward, as we had agreed that he should
do, and deposed that he had seen my patron
from the Temple, and the collection from
which the paper had been taken. His evidence
carried the day and assured me of my
position. On the other hand, Talbot wrote so
feebly that I felt convinced not a line of his
would survive criticism, and, unknown to him,

I composed the whole play independently of
his assistance.

" He had to leave London for Ireland, so
I had no difficulty in deceiving him in this
matter. We corresponded in cipher about it,
and I led him to imagine that the ' Yortigern,'
as accepted in Drury Lane, was the play that
we had composed together. I thought if it
were successful that I should be in a position
to defy him, and that only those who were
already my enemies would believe his story.
He had told me that it was impossible for him
to be in London the first night of its performance,
and I flattered myself that I was quite
safe The instant I recognised his voice in the
theatre, I felt that all was over with me. He
would find out the absence of his own
rhapsodies from the drama ; and that I had
deceived him, as indeed I had  whom have I
not deceived? From that moment my fate
was sealed."

" Unhappy boy ! " cried I ; " is it possible,
then, that you acknowledge yourself to be a
forger and a cheat ? "

" I do," he answered ; " here is the record
of ray transgression."

'' He took from his breast-pocket this paper,
his confession, which, it appears, he always
carried about with him ; an imprudence which
would have been unintelligible in any one else,
but to him who had trodden, as it were, everyday
on the crust of a volcano, it mattered
little. I felt sure at once that this was
written for your eye, Margaret, in case of
discovery ; thus, to the very last, some will
say, the straightforward course was the one
he was disinclined to take. But let us rather
believe that to tell you of his own un worthiness
to your face was an ordeal beyond his strength.
In vain I represented to him the anxiety and
apprehensions which his absence must be exciting
at home.

" I have no home," was his reply. " But
think of your father ! " "I have no father," was
his miserable rejoinder. " But Margaret ; have
you no pity for Margaret ? " "I cannot see
her. I dare not see her," was his pitiful cry.
So I have come to you instead of him.'

Margaret answered nothing. Lie sat with
the confession in her hand, without sign or
word, looking straight before lier.

I must go now,' continued her companion
tenderly. ' If I can be of any use, if I can say
anything for you ; a word of forgiveness with
your farewell  he is but seventeen, remember
well, another time, perhaps.' She had
reached the door when Margaret called her
back with a pitiful cry.

Kiss me ! kiss me ! '

As their hips met, the touch of sympathy,
like Moses' wand, drew the tears from that face
of marble, whereby, even though she left no
hope and the bitter conviction of a wasted love
behind her, the messenger of pity knew that
she had not come altogether in vain.

CHAPTEE Xxxi

THE FEET OF CLAY.

It is a terrible thing to be left alone with one's
dead, and this might in some sort be said to
have been margaret's case when Mrs. Jordan
had departed. Her Willie had become as dead
to her ; all that was left of him was the shameful
record that lay upon the table before her.
Never more  save once  was she to see his
face again in this life, nor did she desire to do
so. She would have shrunk fiom his hand
had he offered it to her, and the touch of his
lips would have been contamination. He had
obtained her kisses as it were under false pretences,
and she flushed with shame when she
thought of them. She did not conceal from
herself that his behaviour up to the very last
had been in keeping with his vfhole career.

He should have come in person, whatever it
had cost him, and confessed his guilt, and not
have left her a prey to unfounded terrors. It
was cowardly and base and selfish. Miserable
as she had been on his account an hour ago,
she was now infinitely more wretched. It was
better to have thought him dead  and honest,
than to know he was alive and a cheat. ' He
is only seventeen, remember,' had been Mrs.
Jordan's words in appeal to her charity and
pity, but they found no response in Margaret's
bosom. ' One can forgive anything at seventeen,'
was her reflection, ' save hypocrisy and
deceit.' She forgave him as a very charitable
person might forgive a cards harper ; there was
no malice nor hatred in her heart against him,
but she could never take him to her heart
again.

Was it possible, she wondered, that he
could have been always base ? When he had
made that passionate protestation in Anne
Hathaway's garden, for example, and besought
her only to keep her heart free for him for a
little time, to give him a chance of proving

himself worthy of her ; had he had this hateful
plan of fraud and falsehood in his mind even
then ? If he was not to be believed ihen if
what he said then was not the utterance of
genuine love and honesty, what word of man
was to be credited ? And if he was honest
then, when did he begin to lie ?

It had been her intention not to read this
hateful paper ; to commit it to the flames ; buta
sort of terrible curiosity now urged her to
peruse it. She had no expectation of finding
in it any mitigation of her lost lover's conduct ;
any plea for pardon or even for pity. She
had no wish to hear what he had to say for
himself ; only a certain morbid interest in it.

Yet as she opened the manuscript and her
eyes feU. on the well-known handwriting, they
filled with unbidden tears. Great heavens !
how she had believed in him, how she had
loved him ! Nay, how she had sympathised
unwittingly with his very frauds, and longed
and prayed for their success. Prayed for it 
the thought of this especially appalled her.
She found herself, for the first time, face to

VOL. II. Q

face with the mystery of life ; with the difficulties
of spiritual things. It is strange enough
(what happens often enough), that we should
fall on our knees and implore the divine
assistance to avert misfortunes from our dear
ones that (if Ave did but know) have already
happened ; but that we should implore it (if
we did but know) on behalf of falsehood,
fraud  with the intent to prosper wickedness !
This man, among his other villanies, almost
made her doubt of the goodness of God !

The manuscript was voluminous. It was
written in the form of a diary, but interspersed
with reflections and protestations.

I protest,' it began, ' that I had no premeditated
design or the idea of any continued
course of duplicity when my first error  the
production of the Hemynge note of hand  was
committed.'

He calls it " an error," ' thought Margaret
with a moan, and indeed the opening remark
was the keynote of the whole composition, significant
of all that was to come. He had been
weak, it avowed, but never wicked ; the victim

not SO much of temptation, but of overwhelming
circumstances, ' You know, Margaret '

This unexpected personal appeal came upon
her like a thunderclap ; it was as though in
that solitary room and in that solemn hour
when night and morning were about to meet,
his very voice had addressed her. ' You know,
Margaret, what sort of relations existed at that
time between Mr. Erin and myself: how,
though he permitted me to pass as his son, he
was far from having any paternal feelings
towards me ; that he had no sympathy with
my tastes, no interest in my doings, and that
he grudged me the cost of my very maintenance.
Was it so very reprehensible that,
having attempted in vain to gain his affection
by the usual road to a father's heart, by
diligence and duty, that I looked about me for
some other way? Knowing his passion for
any reliques of Shakespeare, it struck me that
I might conciliate him by affecting to discover
that of which he was always in search. I do
not seek to justify what I did, but there was
surely some extenuation for it.

Q 2

"- To show you how little of settled purpose
there was in the matter, I took that note of
hand, before presentation to your uncle, to Mr.
La vine, the bookseller, in New Inn Passage, and
showed him the document for his opinion. He
said it seemed to him to have been written a
good many years ago (taking for granted that
it was an imitation), but that the ink was not
what it should be. He told me that he could
give me a mixture much more like old ink if it
Alas my humour to produce the semblance of
antiquity, and immediately mixed together in a
bottle three different liquids used by bookbinders
in marbling covers, and this I always
henceforth used. I have applied to him again
and again for more ink : a circumstance I
mention not only to show the simplicity of the
means employed in these so-called forgeries of
mine, but also the everyday risks I ran of discovery.
Do you think I could have endured
such a position, had I been merely actuated by
the motive I have mentioned ? Could human
nature have borne it ? No, Margaret, I was
sustained bv a far higher ambition, for a man

may strive for a reward unworthily, and even
though he is aware that he does not deserve it.'

The calmness of this reasoning appalled
Margaret even more by its speciousness than by
its falseness. Her instinct, though she knew
nothing of these abstract matters, told her that
such philosophy was rotten at the core,

The imitation of that note of hand was a
false step I admit,' continued the writer, ' but it
succeeded beyond my most sanguine expectations.
It altered my relations with Mr. Erin
entirely, which of itself encouraged me to new
deceptions ; but above all it became a basis on
which to build my hopes of your becoming my
wife. Hitherto I had loved you, Margaret,
passionately, devotedly indeed, but with little
hopes of ever winning you. When I obtained
that promise from your dear lips in the garden
at Shottery, it was not merely with the selfish
intention of excluding for a few months from
your heart the rival whom I feared ; I believed,
as I still believe, that my talents were of a high
order, and I thought that at no distant date
they would meet with public recognition ; that

some of that praise, in short, which I have
gained under false pretences would have been
accorded to my own legitimate efforts. The
time during which you promised to keep yourself
free for me, however, was now drawing to
a close, and I felt that I had not advanced a
single step on the road to either fame or fortune.
I was madly in love with you. I felt
that you were slipping out of the reach of my
arms, and the terrible temptation suggested
itself to secure you by the means that had
already gained me so much in so unlooked-for
a manner. If I could only make myself
necessary to your uncle by ministering to his
ruling passion, perhaps he would give his consent
(which otherwise I well knew could never
be obtained) to our immediate union. Not greed,
I swear it, no. nor even the desire of recognition
(though only as it were by proxy) for my
genius, were my inducements to persevere in
my course 

Love only was my call,

And if I lost thy love, I lost my all.'

It was terrible to Margaret to read such

words ; they almost made her feel as though
she had been a confederate in the delinquencies
of this unhappy boy. Terrible, too, was the
appearance, under dates, of his particular acts
of forgery, each set down in a matter-of-fact
and methodical manner, and concerning which
the total absence of penitence and self-reprobation
was less painful to her than the fallacious
self-justification in which he had indulged
elsewhere.

Nov. 2nd.  Love-letter and verses to Anne
Hathaway. Five stanzas and a braid of hair.
Hair a gage d' amour from a young playmate ;
the silk that bound it had attached the seals
to some old deed. It was thickly woven and
twisted in some peculiar manner, which I
judged would suggest antiquity.

Nov. 7th.  Playhouse receipts. String for
them, some worsted thread taken out of some
old tapestry in the waiting-room of the House
of Lords, where I went to hear his Majesty's
speech with Mr. Erin.

Dec. 2nd.  The Profession of Faith. My
most ambitious performance (except the play).

I solemnly affirm that but for the praises bestowed
upon my good fortune (as it was held)
on the previous occasions, I should have
hesitated to compose this document. On the
other hand, you know, Margaret, how earnestly
desirous Mr. Erin always was that Shakespeare
should be proved to have been a Protestant ;
if I could please him in this I thought that my
way to his heart would be made easy indeed.
Moreover, I had myself the most rooted objection
to anything like bigotry or superstition.
In penning the Profession I formed the twelve
letters contained in the Christian and surname
of Shakespeare as much as possible to resemble
those in his original autographs, but as for the
rest I was only careful to produce as many
doublets and esse as possible. It was a
most simple performance, and executed with so
little prudence that (as you remember) the
word "lessee" was introduced instead of "leafless."
Nor did I take much more trouble with
the composition itself. When, therefore, I
heard Dr. Wanton pronounce such an eulogium

upon it  " Sir, we have many fine things in
our Church Service, and our Litany abounds
with beauties ; but here, sir, is a man who has
distanced us all "  it is hardly to be wondered
at that I was intoxicated with so unexpected a
success. It corroborated very strongly the
high estimation in which I had always held my
talents, and I resolved, since the world would
not recognise them in my proper person, to
compel it to acknowledge them under another
name. If I was not so great as Shakespeare
and indeed I have sometimes believed myself
to be so  I had at all events a soul akin to
him.'

The inordinate and monstrous vanity of
this remark did not escape Margaret's notice,
but it did not give her the pain that his other
reflections had done ; it even afforded some
palliation of his deplorable conduct. The
approbation of so many learned men, deceived
by a great name, had been evidently taken by
him as an involuntary recognition of his own
genius, and in a manner turned his head. She

tried to persuade herself that he henceforth at
least became in some degree irresponsible for
his own actions.

It was about this time,' the confession
continued, ' that I was almost ruined by the
treachery and malignity of Eeginald Talbot,
for it was he, you remember, who induced Mr.
Albany Wallis to confront me with a genuine
signature of John Hemynge. I look upon that
as the most dangerous peril I had yet encountered,
and, at the same time, the cause of
my greatest triumph. It seemed incredible,
and no wonder, that I should have produced
within the space of one hour and a quarter (including
the time spent in going and coming, as
was supposed, to the Temple, but in reality to
my own rooms at the New Inn), a facsimile of
the other John Hemynge's handwriting, unless
it had been a genuine document. By that time
I had become an adept in imitation, and could
also retain in my recollection the form of
letters in any autograph which I had once
beheld. I brought back a deed sufficiently
similar to the original to set all Mr. Wallis's

doubts at rest. It did not, however, satisfy my
own mind, and that very evening I executed
another deed more carefully, which I substituted
for the former one, and which stood
the test of all future examinations. From that
moment indeed, save those who had been my
enemies from the first, and who probably never
would have believed in the Shakespeare manuscripts,
even though they had been really
genuine, I had no serious opponent, with one
exception, and for some reason or another of
his own, he has never shown himself antagonistic
to me.'

There was much more of it ; the whole
composition of the ' Vortigern ' was described,
with Talbot's connection with it, just as it had
been narrated by Mrs. Jordan. But what
chiefly engaged Margaret's thoughts, and caused
her to refer to it again and again, was that
allusion of William Henry's to that one person
who, not belonging to the Malone faction, had
all along discredited his statements, though,
for some reason or another of his own, he
had not shown himself antagonistic* This was

certainly not Talbot, who had shown himself
antagonistic enough, nor was it evidently any
confidant of the unhappy boy's. It could,
therefore, only have been Frank Dennis ; he
lead, she well remembered, always kept silence
when the question of the manuscripts was
mentioned, and had even incurred Mr. Erin's
indignation by doing so. But his nature was
so frank and open that she could not understand
how he could have tacitly countenanced
such a fraud had he been really convinced
that it was being enacted. It was curious,
considering the great distress and perturbation
of her mind, that a matter so comparatively
small should have thus intruded itself; but it
did so.

Otherwise, as may well be imagined, her
thoughts had bitter food enough provided for
them. That whole night long Margaret never
sought her couch. The revelation of the
worthlessness of her lover, made by his own
hand, and, what was worse, made in no spirit
of penitence or remorse, put sleep far from her
eyes, and filled her soul with wretchedness.

If the thought that tidings might have been
worse can afford consolation, that indeed she
had, for William Henry might have married
her. If the play had been successful, and if
Eeginald Talbot had held his tongue, and
indeed if he had not held it  for she would
never have disbelieved in her Willie had he not
torn the mask from his face with his own hand
she might have become William Henry's
wife ! The very idea of it chilled her blood.
Bound to a liar, a cheat, a forger, by an indissoluble
bond for life ! Vowed to love, revere,
and honoiu" a man the baseness of whose
nature she would have been certain to have
discovered sooner or later, but in any case
too late ! She had been saved from that at
least ; and yet how terrible was the blow that
had been inflicted upon her!

Sad it is to be left alone with our dead,
how much sadder to be left alone, after they
have died, with the revelation of their baseness,
to find our love has been wasted on an unworthy
object, our reverence paid to a false
god. In Margaret's case matters were still

worse, for she could not even keep the revelation
to herself; she had not the miserable
satisfaction that some bereaved ones have when
they chance upon the proof of a once loved
one's shame, of concealing it. It was necessary
that she should tell Mr. Erin, and in revealing
the fraud of which he had been the victim,
what misery was she about to inflict upon him !
How the whole fabric of the old man's pride
would be shattered to the dust, and how
triumphantly would his enemies trample upon
it.

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

BREAKING IT.

As Margaret and her uncle sat at breakfast the
next morning  later than usual, as was their
wont on Sundays  scarce a word was interchanged
between them. Her pale face and
haggard eyes evoked no remark from him,
who, indeed, himself looked pale and worn
enough. If he had spoken upon the subject of
the play it might have been made easier to her
to tell him her dreadful tidings. But as it was,
she felt herself unequal to the task ; she could
not break in upon his gloomy thoughts with
such black news. She almost hoped, from his
set lips and knitted brow, that he suspected
something of the truth ; otherwise surely,
surely, she thought, he would express some
anxiety concerning the continued absence of
William Henry.

She was, however, mistaken. Where affection
is not concerned, even the catastrophes
that happen to others (and much less the apprehensions
of them) do not concern us so much
as our own material interests.

After a mere pretence of a meal, the antiquary
produced pen and ink, and proceeded
to make some calculations.

In the middle of them arrived Mr. Albany
Wallis. His face was even graver than usual,
which his host, however, thought natural
enough. He took it for granted that he had
come upon business connected with the play,
the failure of which was sufficient to account
for his depression ; or his melancholy, perhaps,
might have been put on with a view of
cheapening the terms that had been agreed
upon with his employers. But Margaret felt,
the first instant she caught sight of the visitor's
face, that he knew all, and did not need that
dumb assurance of human sympathy, the
close, lingering pressure of his hand, to convince
her of it.

This is a bad job,' said Mr. Erin, with a

pretence of briskness. ' I suppose Sheridan
will not give the play another chance ? '

Certainly not,' said Mr. Wallis decisively.
Almeida is on the bill for tomorrow.'

Then there is nothing for it but to settle,
and have done with it. It is quite as great a
disappointment to me as to the management, I
do assure you, and eventually will be as great
a loss. I have ordered the paper for the
publication of the play, and must needs go on
with it. I cannot break faith with the public'

You are a man of honour, I know,' said
Mr. Wallis gently ; ' but for that very reason
you must not print this play.'

And why not, sir ? '

Because it is spurious.'

That was not your opinion yesterday, Mr.
Wallis, nor is it mine to-day. What, because
few scoundrels have bespattered it, and done
their best to make it a failure, and succeeded,
you call it spurious ! '

Mr. Erin, I entreat you to be calm. I amas
sorry for what has happened as you can
be, though not, perhaps ' (here he stole a

VOL I. R

tender look at Margaret), ' for the same
reason.'

It needs no ghost from the grave to assure
me of that much,' replied the antiquary derisively.
'You have your own interests, and
those of your employers, to look to, and I have
mine. You are here, as I conclude, to pay me
the three hundred pounds agreed upon for the
play and half the profits of the first night.
The house was full enough, at all events.'

Yes, it was a good house. Your share of
the adventure is a hundred and eve pounds
exactly. I have therefore to pay you four
hundred and five pounds.'

Very good ; I cannot permit any deductions.
If it was worth while to discuss the
matter, I might on my part reasonably make
complaint of the manner in which the play was
acted. Kemble never gave it a fair chance.
At Covent Garden it would have had more
justice done to it, and might have met with a
better fate.'

Then it would have met with a fate that it
did not deserve, Mr. Erin.'

I do not wish to discuss the subject,' said
the antiquary curtly. His reply would probably
have been much less courteous but for
the production of the bills  Mr. Sheridan paid
everything in bills  for the amount in question.
Bills and banknotes are the best ' soft answers '
for the turning away of wrath.

'You misunderstand me altogether, Mr.
Erin,' continued the other with dignity. ' I
had no intention, as you seem to have apprehended,
of disturbing your business arrangements
with Mr. Sheridan, which may be taken
as concluded. I am sorry to say I am come
here upon a much more unpleasant errand. I
am here at the request of your son, William
Henry.'

Ah ! I see,' broke in the antiquary with
bitterness ; ' his professional adviser. He shall
not have one penny more than the share  one-third
of the profits  that has been agreed
upon.'

Then he turned to Margaret.

*So you have told him my determination
of last night, have you, and he meets it by a

B 2

declaration of war ? Let him do as he pleases ;
but I warn you, hussy, that if once you throw
in your lot with his, I have done with you.
The money that is his by rights is not much, as
you will find, to keep house upon.'

Margaret strove to speak, but her tongue
clove to the roof of her mouth. It was shocking
to see the old man's rage, and none the
less so because it was so misdirected. If his
passion was so aroused by the mere opposition
(as he supposed it to be) to his will, how would
he take the destruction of his hopes, and the
knowledge that he had been made a public
laughing-stock? Whatever he had been to
others, he had been kind to her ; and,
abhorrent to her as was the crime of ingratitude,
she would have been willing to rest
under its imputation if by so doing she could
have spared him the revelation of the truth.

Dear uncle,' she presently murmured, with
faltering voice, and laying her little hand upon
the old man's arm, 'you wrong me in your
thoughts ; but that is nothing as compared
with the wrong which has been done to you.

All between William Henry and me is over ;
for the rest of my life I will endeavour to
supply his place with you, and to remedy, as
far as in me lies, the evil that he has committed
against you.'

What is it? What is she saying? I do
not understand,' inquired the antiquary in
trembling tones.

She is telling you the truth, sir,' said
Mr. Wallis impressively. 'Heaven send you
the strength to bear it I '

Dear uncle, you have been deceived,' said
Margaret with tender gravity. ' From first to
last you have been deceived, as we all have
been. The Shakespeare manuscripts, of which
you thought so much, are forgeries  everyone
of them. William Henry has confessed
it.'

You he, you baggage, you lie ! ' he cried
with fury.

I wish I did,' sighed Margaret bitterly.

He did not hear her ; there was a singing
in his ears that shut out all other sounds.

So this is the last card you have to play,

you two, is it ? I am to be frightened into
compliance with your wishes ; frightened into
annihilating common sense, and making two
beggars happy ! And you, you, sir ! ' he
added, turning to Mr. Walls ; ' you are not
ashamed to be a confederate in such a scheme
as this ? These two young fools think it is for
their sake, but I know better. You are one of
Malone's create-es. Having already failed by
fair means to disprove the genuineness of these
manuscripts, you have bought over this ungrateful
lad to your side. " If you will
perjure yourself," you have said to him, " and
admit yourself to be a forger, we will see that
you do not lose by it ; we will give you money
since the old man will not  upon which you
and yours can subsist together." Oh, liars and
villains ! '

It was pitiful to see and hear him. King
Lear himself, deserted by his own flesh and
blood and invoking heaven's vengeance on
them, could hardly have been a more dreadful
spectacle.

Mr. Erin,' said Mr. Wallis gravely, ' if you

see me in no way moved by the infamous
accusation you have made against me, and even
restraining a still more natural indignation at
the dishonour your swords have cast upon that
innocent girl, it is not because I do not feel it ;
it is because I pity you from the bottom of
my heart. That you have been duped and
fooled by the falsehood of this unhappy young
man is only what has happened to others, myself
amongst them ; but in your own case the
reflection must be infinitely more bitter, since he
who wrought the wrong was your own flesh and
blood  one who has taken your bread, and
bitten the hand that fed him. If you do not
believe us, Miss Margaret has his own words
for it in black and white.'

Here Margaret drew the confession from
her bosom, and laid it on the table beside her
uncle ; his fingers were grasping the arms of
his chair, and his face was fixed full upon his
visitor in hate and rage.

If you will read it at your leisure,' continued
the lawyer gently, 'you will at least have
the satisfaction of knowing that, vith one exception,

no one has had any hand in this shameful
fraud save the miserable lad himself; that
your niece was as innocent of any knowledge
in it, from first to last, as you were ; so much
even those who have been inclined to suspect
you of any connivance in it must needs acknowledge
when they read that paper '

Mr. Erin leaped from his chair, with an
inarticulate cry of fury, and seizing the confession
before him, tore it from left to right, and
from right to left, into a hundred pieces.

Begone,' he cried, ' begone, both of you !
Take her with you, I say, lest I do her a mischief
; take her to the Perjurer, send her to the
devil for all I care ; but never let me see her
false face again ! '

With that he threw himself out of the room
like one demented, and after the door had
clanged behind him they heard his heavy step
at first at a speed beyond his years, but presently
with the tread of exhaustion and old
age, creep up to his own room.

Is it safe to leave him, thhik you ? '
inquired Mr. Wallis in a hushed voice. ' Once

convinced of the truth, his reflections must be
terrible. To be deceived by one's own flesh
and blood ! '

William Henry is not his son,' said
Margaret quietly ; in a time of anguish and
distress it is easy to speak of matters which
under ordinary circumstances we should shrink
from mentioning.

Thank heaven for that ! ' ejaculated the
lawyer ; ' there is no fear, then, that he will
not get over it. What I took for paternal resentment
is partly, no doubt, exasperation at
the exposure of his own credulity. The only
reason for your remaining here after his express
commandment to the contrary no longer therefore
exists. Your doing so for the present at
least will only remind him of his misfortune and
aggravate its bitterness. I have a sister who
keeps my house for me, and who will welcome
you as a mother ; I entreat you to accept of
her hospitality, not only for your own sake,
but for that of your uncle. Indeed, after the
threat he has made use of, I must insist upon
your accompanying me.'

I am not afraid for myself ; I am sure he
will never harm me. Indeed, Mr. Wallis, I
cannot leave him in his solitude and wretchedness.'


He will not be solitary, Miss Margaret.
I will drop a hint to Mr. Dennis, whose intention
I know it is to call upon him this afternoon,
to take up his quarters with him for a while.'

At the mention of Frank Dennis's name
Margaret changed colour ; the idea of meeting
him had suddenly become intolerable.

If your sister will give me an asylum fora
few days,' she hurriedly replied, 'I think I
will take advantage of your most kind offer.'

In a few minutes she had made her preparations
for departure ; she trembled lest
there should come a knock at the front door
while she was yet in the house. She glanced
apprehensively up the little street, as she sallied
forth on Mr. Wallis's arm, lest some one with
eyes that spoke reproof, without intending it,
should come across her before she had gained
the shelter of another roof. Some one whom
she had never estimated at his true worth, or

treated as he deserved ; some one she had
blamed for his coldness and incredulity, but
who had suspected all along  she was as
convinced of it as of the fraud itself  the deception
which had been practised upon her,
but whom the nobleness of a nature that
shrank from the exposure of a rival had kept
silent.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

A Comforted.

There is nothing more astonishing in the
history of mankind than the high estimation in
which credulity  under the form of belief 
has been held by all nations who have had
the least claim to be civilised. Yet the vast
majority of the human race, mere slaves as
they are to custom and convention, imbibing
their faith with their mother's milk, and as
disinclined to change as a wheel that has found
its rut, are absolutely unable to be sceptical.
This is probably why persecution has been
so lightly permitted  even among Christians,
whose connivance at it is otherwise unintelligible
; those who suffered for their scepticism
were comparatively so few that their martyrdom
was disregarded. It is an immense
recommendation to a creed, that the mere

fact of accepting it is accounted the liveliest
virtue, since ninety-nine persons out of a
hundred who have been brought up in it, find
no sort of difficulty in fulfilling its chief obligation.
With the same ease with which the
doctrines of Mahomet or of Buddha are embraced
by their disciples, had the story of the
discovery of the Shakespeare manuscripts been
accepted by Mr. Samuel Erin. Nay, he had
not been only a disciple but a devotee. He had
been looking forward all his life to some revelation
of a similar kind, and it had been
manifested under circumstances that not only
corroborated his views, but flattered his amour
propre. A member of his own house had
been the discoverer of the MSS., and he himself
their apostle and exponent. To confess,
even to himself, that he had been preaching
a false faith, and been the dupe of a lying boy,
seemed impossible. The very idea of it was
wormwood to him. Even the discovery that
Margaret had taken him at his word and left
his roof did not at first shake him. It even
strengthened his suspicion that the whole affair

was a trick to catch his consent to her marriage
with WilUam Henry. It was only done
to frighten him into submission.

But as the solitary hours went by, this
obstinate conviction began to slacken ; as his
indignation grew and grew against the author
of his calamity, he began to admit that such a
scoundrel might be capable of anything, even
sacrilege. It was the affront to the Immortal
Bard that he put first, and the offence to
himself afterwards. Perhaps William Henry
was aware that he was not his son, but he was
also aware of the greatness of Shakespeare.
And yet, what rankled more, was the consciousness
that his own intelligence had been
trifled with  that he had been made a fool of.
It was a subject terrible to think about, and
worse to talk about, and yet he longed for
sympathy ; the solitude of his own thoughts
was intolerable to him.

In the afternoon, at the same time he had
been wont to appear in the days that seemed to
be long past, Frank Dennis arrived. The antiquary
seized his hand with a warmth that he

had never before exhibited, though he had
loved him well, and bade him be seated. The
only thing that had ever come between them
was this man's disinclination to accept the very
facts which he himself was beginning to doubt,
and at first this rendered the meeting embarrassing
; on the other hand, when once the ice
was broken, it smoothed matters.

'Have you heard the new story about
William Henry ? ' he asked in hesitating tones.

Yes ; I wish I could think of it as I
did of the old story. It is true, sir, every
word of it.'

You think so ? ' returned the antiquary
with a forced smile of incredulity.

I am sure of it,' was the quiet reply.

There was a long silence.

What proof have you to substantiate
your assertion ? '

The irony of fate had caused this question
to be asked in the very room where proof used
to be so constantly in view, and on the wall of
which the ' certificate ' of the believers in the
Shakespeare documents still hung suspended.

It was met by another question. ' Have
you not seen this confession ? '

Mr. Erin pointed to the carpet on which
the fragments of the document still remained.
'It was placed in my hands,' said he in a
hoarse dry voice, ' but I never read it.'

No matter ; it would only have given you
pain. I have seen the unhappy lad and heard
the truth from his own lips.'

The truth ! ' echoed the old man bitterly.

Yes, the truth at last. Here is a copy of
an affidavit it is his intention to make tomorrow
morning before a magistrate. There are things
in it which one regrets ; the tone of it is unsatisfactory.
He does not seem so penetrated
with the sense of his misconduct as would be
becoming, but at all events he is careful to
absolve everyone from complicity in his crime,
and particularly yourself. " I solemnly declare,"
he says, " that my father was totally unacquainted
with the whole affair, believing most
firmly the papers to be productions of Shakespeare."
'

The antiquary's brow grew very dark ' I

will never see that young man's face if I can
help it,' he said solemnly, ' or speak one word
to him again, so help me Heaven ! '

He does not expect it,' answered the
other quietly. ' Henceforward he will take
his own way in the world. After " expressing
regret for any offence he may have given the
world or any individual, trusting at the same
time they will deem the whole the act of a
boy without any evil intention, but hurried on
by vanity and the praise of others," he goes
on to say, '' Should I attempt any other play,
or work of imagination, I shall hope the public
will lay aside all prejudice my conduct may
have deserved, and grant me their indulgence."
I suppose, therefore, he intends to live by his
pen.'

You mean to starve by it,' answered the
old man bitterly. The style of the composition
he had just heard struck him as fustian : he
had heard it before and expressed another
opinion of it, but then the circumstances were
different. In Art and Literature the views of
most people are less affected by the work itself

VOL. II. s

than by the name under which it is presented
to their notice.

There was a long pause. x\s in a reservoir,
when once its contents have begun to percolate
drop by drop through the dam, the drops soon
become a stream, and the stream a torrent, and
the dam is swept away, so it was with Mr.
Erin's obstinacy. The dam was gone by this
time, and the bitter waters of conviction rolled
in upon his mind like a flood. There was no
longer a dry place on it to afford a perch for the
mocking-bird of incredulity.

When was it, Frank,' he inquired in an
altered voice,' when you yourself began to suspect
this  this infamous deception ? '

From the very first. You remember giving
me the document with the seals attached,
that had the quintain upon them ? It accidentally
fell from my hands, when a portion of the
back of one of the seals broke off, and disclosed
the inside, which was made of new wax !
The  the forger  though he had contrived to
cut the old seal without breaking, found it had
lost its moisture, so that the slip of parchment

which he had introduced into it could only beheld
by new wax. The next day I perceived
that the two parts had been bound together by
black silk, which, if anyone had given himself
the trouble to untwist, would have made him as
wise as I.'

'And yet you held your peace, Dennis,'
groaned the old man reproachfully.

In the first place you would have disbelieved
had the proofs of imposture been
twice as strong ; and secondly  well, there
were other reasons into which it is not necessary
now to enter. You are quite aware that I
never lent my countenance to the deception,
and believe me, Mr. Erin, if I could have saved
you from your present humiliation  with
honour  I would have done so. It was not
possible. I am come here to-day to make what
amends are in my power for the wrong my
silence may have done you. William Henry's
affidavit will acquit you of all blame in this
matter in the eyes of unprejudiced persons,
but you have your enemies, and many persons
who were your friends,' he pointed to the

certificate, ' will now join their ranks. For
some time, at least, residence in London must
needs be painful to you. I had taken a cottage
near Bath, intending for the present to dwell
there ; but circumstances ' (here the colour
came into the young man's cheeks) ' have
altered my intention. I shall now reside in
town, and my little country home is at your
service ; there, out of the reach of malicious
tongues, you may reside in peace and quiet as
long as you think proper.'

For the first time throughout the interview
something like satisfaction came into the old
man's face. The notion of escaping from the
flouts and jeers of his acquaintances, and from
their equally galling silence, was very welcome
to him.

I thank you,' he said, ' with all my heart,
Dennis.'

There is only one condition, sir,' hesitated
the other. ' I think the proposition would be
more acceptable to  to Miss Margaret  if she
did not know that she was accepting any hospitality

of mine. You will be so good as to
conceal from her that fact.'

Yes, yes,' assented the old man. He did
not like to confess that Margaret was elsewhere
; that she had been driven from his roof
by his own insensate anger. His companion's
offer had touched him and turned the current
of his thoughts from their accustomed groove
himself and his own affairs  into other
channels. He recognised the patience and
forbearance of this young fellow, and the
temptation to unmask a rival which he had resisted
and left to other hands to do. He was
curious to know the full extent to which this
self-sacrifice would have extended.

But suppose matters had gone still further,
Dennis ? If the play had been successful,
and its genuineness acknowledged, and Margaret
? '

It was not possible,' broke in the other,
with a flush. ' No one could have read the
Vortigern "  I mean could have seen it acted,'
he added, hurriedly, ' and believed it to be a

play of William Shakespeare's. I felt confident
of that.'

Still, some of us were deceived,' insisted
the antiquary, with a melancholy smile, 'and
why not more? Suppose the play had succeeded,
the contingency on which, as you know,
my niece's marriage with this scoundrel depended,
what would you have done then ? '

I should have still kept silence. I only
suspected, remember . I was not quite sure.
Moreover, Margaret herself midst have been
spared the knowledge of the truth, and it was
not for me to undeceive her.'

You would have permitted her, then, fora
delicate scruple, to entrust her happiness to a
scoundrel ? '

You press me hard, sir, though I do not
say you have not a right to do so,' replied
Dennis, greatly agitated.  I have thought of
this a thousand times ; it has cost me days and
nights of misery, Heaven knows. But on the
whole I have satisfied my conscience. When
one has lost all iKjpe in a matter that has once
concerned one to the uttermost, one takes a

clear view of it. The young man of whom you
speak has, doubtless, many faults ; he is weak
and vain, and greedy of applause, however
gained ; he is to some extent unprincipled, he
has even committed a serious crime ; but he
is not altogether what you have called him,
a scoundrel. He is not unkind; under less
adverse circumstances than those in which,
from the very first, he has been placed, he
would have shown himself a better man. An
exceptional temptation assailed him, and he
succumbed to it. He would not necessarily 
or I have tried to think so  have made a bad
husband.'

This speech was uttered with grave deliberation,
and the manner of it was most impressive
; the speaker might have stood for
some personification of Justice, weighing his
words with equal hand. Indeed this man was
more than just, he was magnanimous.

The antiquary could not withhold his admiration
from his companion, though with his sentiments
he was wholly unable to sympathise.

You are throwing good feeling away

Frank Dennis,' lie said, ' upon a thankless cur.
If you think to move me to compassion for
him, you are pleading to deaf ears. He is
henceforth as a dead man to me and mine.'

You will act as you think right, no doubt,
said the young man quietly, ' and I am only
doing the same.'

He felt that whatever his own wrongs had
been, the wrongs of his companion were far
greater. Cajoled, deceived, and stricken in
years, his reputation smirched, if not destroyed ;
humiliated in his own eyes, degraded in those
of others ; if he did not do well to be angry,
it could hardly be said, being human, that he
did ill.

Dennis gave the antiquary the address of
his cottage, and the necessary information for
reaching the spot, and bade him adieu with
much emotion.

But you will not desert us ? ' said Mr.
Erin imploringly. ' If you stand apart from

us ' His voice trembled and he left the

sentence unfinished. He not only, as the other
guessed, meant to imply that in such a case

they would be friendless indeed, but that
Dennis's withdrawal from his society would be
construed as condemnation.

If you write to me to come,' he answered,
if you are quite sure that my presence will be

acceptable to you and yours ' and in his

turn he hesitated.

I understand,' said the antiquary gently.
I shall think of others for the future, as well
as of myself, if only ' (here he gave a mournful
smile) ' to distract my thoughts from what is
painful.'

There is sunshine still behind the clouds,'
said Dennis, as he shook hands.

True, true,' replied the other ; then added
to himself with a deep sigh as he closed the
door after his visitor, ' for you. but not forme.'


CHAPTEE XXXV.

FAREWELL.

Not a single night did Margaret sleep away
from her uncle's roof. He went in person to
Mr. WaUis's house and claimed her. The
apology he had schooled himself to make to
that gentleman was stayed upon the threshold
of his Hps.

Your ftice,' Mr. Erin, tells me all that I
need and more than I wish to hear,' said the
kindly lawyer. ' Pray spare yourself and me.'

One unfortunate remark, however, Mr.
Wallis made, for which he bitterly blamed
himself, though as it turned out, unnecessarily.

The antiquary paid him over that portion
of money received from the Theatre which was
due to William Henry, and requested him to
place it in his hands.

I will do SO,' said the lawyer, ' though,
where I in his place, I had rather starve than
take it.'

Directly the words were uttered, he perceived
their application to the antiquary himself,
who was quietly pocketing his own share of the
wages of iniquity.

But though we have the same skin, it is of
various degrees of thickness.

He will take it,' said the other drily, ' and
starve afterwards.'

Notwithstanding this deviation of Mr.
Erin's from the straight path, it is well to state
here that Mr. Albany Wallis never consented 
although they were his friends and allies  with
those who laid the sins of William Henry upon
his father's shoulders. When Bishop Percy, on
the authority of the commentator Steevens,
observed that the whole house in Norfolk
Street was ' an elaborate workshop,' Mr. Wallis
contradicted the statement point-blank ; and
when another traducer went the length of including
Margaret in the indictment by the
assertion that a female relative of Mr. Erin's

performed the more delicate work of the
(forged) autographs, he gave inn the he
direct.

The storm, indeed, that burst upon the
heads of the antiquary and his belongings was
terrible, and fortunate it was for them that
they had found an asylum afar off. Most
of the ' hailstones and coals of fire ' fell short of
it ; and those that reached them, through the
malice of enemies or the officiousness of good-natured
friends, were fended off from the old
man by Margaret's watchful care. Upon the
whole, indeed, it is doubtful whether those
seemingly evil days were not good for her.
Her solicitude upon her uncle's account prevented
her from dwelling over much upon her
private grief, just as the heartbreak of the
widower is sometimes stayed by the cry of the
children.

It was many a day, however, before she
could look her own misfortune in the face, and
scrutinise its lineaments, for when we come to
gauge our sorrows it is a sign that the deep
waters that have gone over our soul have

begun to shallow. Notwithstanding her horror
of her Willie's crime, she could not forget
what he had once been to her, even though
she was well aware, from a sure source, that
matters where not so with him. Mrs. Jordan
had written to her, out of the fulness of one
of the kindest hearts that ever beat in woman's
breast, to allay her apprehensions about him
on material grounds. Though poor enough,
he was not in want, nor likely to be so.
Without a word of ill-nature, she had also
contrived to make her understand that the
boy was not inconsolable ; he was busy with
his pen, and if his genius did not soar, his
conceit was osborne on lusty pinions. ' All is
Vanity,' said the preacher in disparagement of
that attribute ; yet he was an author himself,
and ought to have known the consolation of
such a gift.

One of Mrs. Jordan's letters enclosed a
little note from William Henry, which for
months Margaret could not bring herself to
read. She knew that it required no reply, and
must needs bruise the wound that had not yet

healed within her ; so it lay in her desk like
some mystic jewel which its possessor keeps in
her case because it brings ill-luck to the wearer.
But when, after long waiting, and without
importunity, Frank Dennis obtained permission
to visit his own house, she felt it to be her
duty to read or burn that note. It was nota
case of being off with the old love before she
was on with the new, so far as William Henry
was concerned, for she had long done with
him ; but she was conscious of a certain tender
curiosity, which, as circumstances were now
turning out, might become disloyalty to another,
and therefore she resolved to allay it.

She took the folded paper in her trembling
hand, like one who takes up earth to scatter on
the coffin lid; it was the very last sight she
would ever have of aught belonging to him.
There was a certain solemnity about those farewell
words of his, even though they could not
matter much. Perhaps they where not words of
farewell ; perhaps, in his wild, boyish fashion,
they were about to tell her that in spite of his
ruin and disgrace, he still loved her, and how,

knowing that her heart had once been his, he
defied her to cast liii out of it. That would
be cruel indeed, though it would not alter the
course she had marked out for herself. Would
it not be better after all to burn the letter ?

The next moment she had torn it open and
read it. It was dated months ago, within a
week, indeed, of the discovery of his shame. ' I
have done you a grievous wrong, Margaret ;
let me now do you one good service. It is buta
little word of advice, yet if you knew what it
cost me to give it, you would hold it of some
value. Frank Dennis is worth a thousand of
me and loves you  I cannot bring myself to
write with a truer love than mine, for that
is impossible  but with a love more worthy
of you. Marry him, Margaret, and forget
me!'

It could not have mattered much, as has
been said. The man was a bankrupt ; but still
he had given her all he had to give, a quittance.


With Aunt Margaret's fortunes, as apart
from the misguided youth who in so strange a

manner had almost linked her lot with his,
our story has little to do. My own impressionis
that she was a happy wife ; and it is quite
certain that Frank Dennis was the best of
husbands. Mr. Erin did not long survive his
day of humiliation, though it was not, I think,
distress of mind that hastened his end so much
(as often happens) as the relinquishment of his
old pursuits and favourite studies. When we
have ridden a hobby-horse all our lives, it is no
wonder that when it is suddenly taken from
us we find that we have lost the use of our
legs.

Some embers of his old taste for antiquities
must still, indeed, have glowed within him, for
in those last days he wrote a ' History of the
Inns of Court,' with New Inn among them ;
but it is plain his heart was not in it. Henceforth
his favourite volume was a sealed book to
him ; there were two names  once so frequent
on his tongue  to which he never alluded,
William Henry Erin and William Shakespeare.

With respect to the former, Frank Dennis
maintained a similar reticence for no less than

five-and-twenty years. At the expiration of
that time, Aunt Margaret received a certain
letter, which she placed in her husband's hands
without a word.

Poor fellow ! ' was his remark when he
had read it. ' Well ! we must, of comes, go upto
town.'

William Hey had written from his sickbed
to ask to see Margaret once more before
he died.

They had lived in the country ever since
their marriage, but they set out for London at
once.

It was summer-time, the very month in
which they had journeyed to Stratford on-avon
more than a quarter of a century ago,
and they talked of that time together without
any reserve.

I think if it had not been for that visit to
Bristol,' said Frank thoughtfully, 'that none
of this sad business would have happened ; it
was Chatterton's story that put it into his
head.' Margaret nodded sorrowful assent. She

VOL. II. T

remembered well how the unhappy lad had
defended his prototype's conduct.

It was a miserable crime,' she said, * and
miserably has he suffered for it.'

'That is all we need think of now, Margaret
; of that, and of his temptation,' he
added tenderly, ' which, as I can witness, was
excessive.'

Here was, indeed, a husband to thank
heaven for, and she knew it. And yet  and
yet  the tears were in her eyes upon another's
account. How bright and handsome had her
Willie looked as he took his seat by her side
at the inn table, on that other journey. How
eager had been his face when he had first
pressed his suit in Anne Hathaway's garden.
In the mist of memory the will-of-the-wisp
looms large and twinkles like a very star.

When they reached London, Margaret went
alone to the lodging he had indicated ; a poor
place enough, but with no signs of want about
it as she had feared, nor did the sick man lack
due tendance. He was very near his end ; but

'So GOOD OF To', SO LIKE YOU, MARGARET," HE MURMURED.

his eyes  all that was left of him that she
recognised  flashed grateful recognition.

So good of you, so like you, Margaret,'
he murmured.

She sat by him a long time, overwhelmed
with pity, but not seldom distressed by his
worldly talk. The ruling passion was strong
in death. He spoke of his works  of which
he had written many in his own name, and of
the recognition which he felt assured they
would one day meet with ; he even told her,
with a smile of triumph, that Malone himself
had bidden one hundred and thirty guineas for
the forged Shakespeare documents. He seemed
unable to take a just view of his own behaviour
in that transaction, though as to others, he was
not only just but generous.

Dear Margaret,' were his last failing words
to her : ' I once gave you a piece of advice,
the only thing I had to give  which you did
well to follow. I have nothing but the thanks
of a dying man to offer you for your having
some to bid me farewell, save what I have

now to say  which I well know will be news
to you. I have been an unfortunate, as well
as a misguided, man ; my talents have never
been acknowledged, and if I had had to live
by my wits alone, I should have starved  yes,
starved ! ' His sharp face darkened, and he
raised his feeble hands as if in protest against
the judgment of the world. ' There was one
man, Margaret, one among all these millions,
and he the very last to whom I should have
looked for aid, who caused me to be sought
out and gave me help. I have lived more or
less upon his bounty ever since. He has never
told you of it, Margaret ; and now there is no
need to tell you ; you who knoAv him can
guess who it is.'

Margaret's tears fell fast ; it was touching
indeed to hear of her husband's goodness from
the lips of his dying rival.

'Frank is very good to me, dear Willie,'
she sobbed.

Yes, yes, I knew it would be so,' he
murmured ; * honest and true. What is the
breath of the world to him who will not even

let it know of his good deeds. Yes, yes  kiss
me, kiss me for the last time  worth a thousand
of me, Margaret, though he was never the
Talk of the Town'

THE End.

LONDON : Printed BY

8P0TTI8W00DE AND CO., New-street Socage

Abed PAELIAilKNT STJIEEX

Vanity Fair.

The Magazine Reader will find no better investment for his sixpence.

Fall Mall Gazette.

PRICE SIXPENCE MONTHLY.

ILLUSTRATED.

THE NEW SERIES OF THE

Cornwall MAGAZINE.

Edited by JAMES Pain.

Each Number contains, in addition to an instalment of a
Serial Story by a Popular Author,

SHORT STORIES AND ARTICLES,

BIT THE BEST 'VE.lTEIS.

Among the Artists-who are engaged in Illustrating the Net Series of

THE Cornwall MAGAZINE

ARE

G. DU Married, WM. SMALL, W. RALSTON, H. Furnish,
E. J. WHEELER, R. C. WOODVILLE, J. P. ATKINSON,

A. C. Corolla, A. T. Ewes, G. G. KILBURNE,

WM. H. Covered, ROBERT BARNES, R. CALDECOTT,

M. FITZGERALD, WALTER S. Stage, &c.

Volumes L to III. of the New Series (Truly 1883 to December 1884),
Price 4J'. 6d. each, bound in cloth,

PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED,

ARE NOW READY, AND FORM

VERY HANDSOME VOLUMES

FOR

PRESENTATION OR  PURPOSES.

Cases for binding the Volumes may be had, price One Shilling each.
London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF

POPULAR storks

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3J-. 6d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.
TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman. '

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee,

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

NO NEW THING.

By W\ E. Norris.

LOVE THE DEBT.

By Basil.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
