Chapter XLIII. page

What are they 1 1

Chapter XLIV.
The Abbot, 14

Chapter XLV.
The Free Lances, 23

Chapter XLVI.
St. Augustine of the Caves, 36

Chapter XLVII.
Over the Cliff, 46

Chapter XLVIII.
On down the Mountain, 62

Chapter XLIX.
A Tale of Starvation, 75

Chapter L.
An Encounter with Old Acquaintances, 87

Chapter LI.
A Grumbling Guard, 99

Chapter LII. page

A Dance's Shower, 109

Chapter LIII.
A Series of Surprises, 121

Chapter LIV.
Monks no more, 130

Chapter LY.
 Only Empty Bottles," 144

Chapter LVI.
A Day of Suspense, 157

Chapter LVII.
Under Arrest, 169

Chapter LVIII.
The Cicero Dogged, 177

Chapter LIX.
Ready to Start, 187

Chapter LX.
Surrender r' 198

Chapter LXI.
Conclusion, 209

Chapter XLIII.

WHAT AEE THEY?

HE repast finished, the Holy Brethren,
rising; from the table together, forsook
the Refectory. Some disappeared
into cloisters on the sides of the great
hallway, others strolled out in front, and

seating themselves on benches that were
31

about, commenced rolling and smoking
cigarettes.

The Abbot excusing himself to his stranger
guests, on plea of pressing business, was
invisible for a time. So they were permitted
to betake themselves apart. Good manners
secured them this. The others naturally supposed
they might want a word in private, sono
one offered to intrude upon them.

Just what they did want, and had been
anxiously longing for. They had mutually
to communicate ; questions to be asked, and
counsel taken together. Each was burning to
know what the other thought of the company
they had fallen into ; the character of which
was alike perplexing to both.

After getting hold of their hats they sauntered
out by the great door, through which
they had entered on the night before. The
sun was now at meridian height, and his beams

fell clown upon the patch of open ground in
front of the monastery ; for a monastery they
supposed it must be. A glance backward as
they walked out from its walls showed its
architecture purely of the conventual style ;
windows with pointed arches, the larger ones
heavy mullions, and a campanile upon the
roof. This however, without bells, and partially
broken down ; as was much of the outer
mason work everywhere. Here and there
were walls crumbling to decay, others half
hidden under masses of creeping plants and
cryptogamia, in short the whole structure
seemed more or less dilapidated.

Soon they entered under the shadow of the
trees ; long-leaved evergreen pines loaded
with parasites and epiphytes, among these
several species of orchids  rare phenomenon
in the vegetable world, that would have
delighted the eye of a botanist. As they

wished to get beyond earshot of those left
lounging by the porch, they continued on along
a walk which had once been gravelled, but was
now overgrown with weeds and grass. It
formed a cool arcade, the thick foliage meeting
over-head, and screening it from the rays of
the sun. Following it for about a hundred
yards or so, they again had the clear sky
before them, and saw they were on the brow
of a steep slope  almost a precipice  which,
after trending a short distance right and left,
took a turn back toward the mass of the
mountain. It was the boundary of the platform
on which the building stood with a still
higher cliff behind.

The point they had arrived sat was a prominent
one, affording view of the whole
valley of Mexico, that lay spread out like
a picture at their feet. And such a picture !
Nothing in all the panoramic world to excel
if equal it.

But as scenery was not in their thoughts they
gave it but a glance, sitting down with faces
turned towards one another. For there were
seats here also  several rustic chairs under
shady trees  it being evidently a favourite
loitering place of the friars.

'' Well, Oris, old comrade," said Kearney
first to speak, " we've gone through a good
deal this day or two in the way of change.
What do you think of these new acquaintances
of ours ? "

Thar, Cap., ye put a puzzler."

Are they monks ? "

Wal ; them is a sort o' animals I saint
had much dealing's wi' ; never seed any till we
kim inter Mexico, 'ceptin' one or two as still
hangs round San Atone in Texas. But this
chile knows little u' thar ways, only from
what he's leering ; an' judging be that he'd
say thar ain't merry monk among 'em."

What then ? Robbers ? '"

"Thar, again, Cap., I'm clean confiscated.
From what we war told o' Mr. Eeeviis in the
gaol, they brighter be that. They saved he
war a captain o' salvador, which means
highwayman. An' yet it do 'pear serous
should be such."

*' From what I know of him," rejoined
Kearney, " what I learned yesterday, it would
be curious indeed  remarkably so. I've reason
to believe him a gentleman born, and that
his title of captain comes from his having
been an officer in the army."

*' That mount be an' still wouldn't contrary
his having' turned to t'other. Down by the
the Eio Grande, thar are scores o' Mexican
officers, who've did the same, from lieutenants,
up to kernels  aye girls. Thar's Canales,
who commanded the whole cavalry brigade 
the " Chapel fox " as we Texans call him 

an' thar ain't a fuss thief or cut-throat from
Matamoras up to the mountains. An what
air ole Santy himself but a robber o' the
meanest an' most dastardly sort ? So, taint
any sign o' honesty their bearing military
titles. When they've a war on in thai
revolutionary way, they turn rogers, atween
times takin' to the road."

Well, Oris, supposing these to be on the
road now, what ought we to do, think
you ? "

Needy use thinking', Cap. ; since thar's
no choice left us. Taint die dog, or feet
the hatchet ; and this chile goes for chain
the steel. Whatever they be, we're bound
to stick to 'em, an' daughter be glad o' the
chance, seen' we saint the shudder o' another.
If tuk again' we'd be strung up or shot sure.
Highwaymen or lo'aymen, they're the only
ones about these digging that kin gie us

purtekshun, an' I reckon, we may rely on them
for that  so far's they're able."

For a time Kearney was silent, though not
thinking over what the Texan had said ;
much of which had passed through his mind
before. The train of his reflections were
carried further back ; to the point where he
was first brought into contact with Eivas,
by their legs getting linked together. Then
forward throughout the hours and incidents
that came after ; recalling everything that
had occurred, in act as in conversation 
mentally reviewing all, in an endeavour to
solve the problem that was puzzling them.

Seeing him so occupied, and with a suspicion
of how his thoughts were working, the
Texan forbore further speech, and awaited
the result.

If we've fallen among banditti," Kearney
at length said, "it mil be awkward to get away

from them. They'll want us to take a hand
at their trade, and that wouldn't be nice."

Sartine not, Cap. ; anything but agreeable
to either o' us. It goes again the grit o' a
honest man to think o' belonging to a band o'
robbers. But forced to pine 'em that 'ud be
different. Besides, the thins; ain't the same in
Mexico, as 'thud in Texas and the States.
Hear 'isn't looked on as been' so much o' a
disgrace, belong's they don't practise cruelty.
An' I've hern Mexicans say, 'taint fuss, nor
yet so bad, as the way some our noun poltishun
an' lawyers plunder the people. I guess it be
'bout the same, when one gits used to it."

To this quaint rigmarole of reasoning  not
without reason in it, however  Kearney only
replied nth a smile, allowing the Texan toto
continue ; which he did saying :

After all, I don't think they're robbers
any more than monks ; if they be, they're

wonderfully well-believed. A pariter set o'
fellers or better kumj'ny this chile never war
in turin the hull course of his experience in
Texas, or otherwhars. They ain't like to lead
us into anything' very bad, in the way o'
cruelty or killing'. So I say, let's freeze to em,
till we find they ain't worthy of being froze
to ; then VvX must gie 'em the slip, somehow."

Ah ! if we can," said his fellow filibuster
doubtingly. " But that is the thing for the
far hereafter. The question is what are we todo
now ?"

No guessed at all, Cap., as thar's no
choosing atween. We're born' to be robbers
for a time, or whatsoever else these new
'acquaintances 'o ours be themselves. The's
sure as shooting."

True," returned the other, musingly.
There seems no help for it. It's our fate,
old comrade ; thouoi one, I trust, we shall be

able to control without turning highwaymen.
I don't think they are that. I can't believe
it."

Nor me neither. One thing, howsomever,
the I lev observed air a beetle queer, an'
sort o' in thar favour."

What thing V

Thar not levin' any weemen among 'em.
I war in the kitchen this morning' 'fore ye war
up, and kedn't see sign o' a petticoat about ;
the cooking' been' all done by men servants.
The, I've hern say, air the way wi' monks ;
but not wi' the other sort. What do you
make o't. Cap?"

I hardly know, Cris. Possibly the Mexican
brigands, unlike those of Italy, don't care
to encumber themselves with a following of
the fair sex."

On t'other hand," pursued the Texan, " it
seems to contrary their been' o' the religious

sort, putting' out sentries as they do. Thar
wor that one we passed last night and this
morning' I seed two go out wi' guns, one takin
each side, and soon after two others coming' in
as if they'd been jest relieved from thar posts.
Thar's a path as leads down from both sides o'
the building."

All very strange, indeed," said Kearney.
But no doubt ws shall soon get explanation
of it. By the way," he added, changing tone
with the subject, " where is the dwarf? What
have they done with him V

"That I can't tell either, Cap. I haven't
seen time o' the critter since he war tuk away
from us by that head man o' the servants, and
I don't wish ever to set eyes on the skunk
again. Oris Rock never was so tired o' a
connexion as wi' the same. Wash !"

I suppose they've got him shut up somewhere,
and intend so keeping him  no doubt

for good reasons. All ! now we're likely to
hear something about the disposal of ourselves.
Yonder comes the man who can tell us !"

This, as the soi-disant Abbot was seen approaching
along the path.

THE ABBOT.

Mig,' said their host, as he rejoined
them, speaking to Kearney
who could alone understand him,
' Permit me to offer you a cigar  your comrade
also  with my apologies for having
forgotten that you smoked. Here are both
Savannas and Manilla, several brands of each.
So choose for yourself."

The major-domo, who attended him, carrying

a liiige mahogany case had already placed
it upon one of the rustic benches, and laid
open the lid.

Thanks, holy father," responded Kearney
with a peculiar smile. " If you have no
objection, I'll stick to the Imperator. After
smoking one of them a man need have no
difficulty as to choice."

At which he took an " Emperor " out of the
case.

I'm glad you like them," observed the
generous donor helping him to a light.
*' They ought to be of good quality considering
what they cost and where they come from.
But, Don Florencio, don't let the question of
expense hinder you smoking as many as you
please. My outlay on them was nil; they
were a contribution to the monastery ; though
not exactly a charitable one."

He said this with a sort of inward laugh, as

though some strange history attached to the
Imperator.

A forced contribution, then," thought the
Irishman, the remark having made a strange,
and by no means pleasant impression upon
him.

The Texan had not yet touched the cigars,
and when with a gesture the invitation was
extended to him, he hung back, muttering to
Kearney :

Tell him. Cap., I'd purser a pipe ef he ked
accommodate me wi' the ere article."

What says the Senor Cristoforo V asked
the Abbot.

'' He'd prefer smoking a pipe, if you don't
object, and there be such a thing convenient."

'' Oh ! ten pipa. I shall see. Gregorio !"

He called after the mayor-domo, who was
returning toward the house.

Never mind, reverend Father," protested

Kearney, " Content yourself with a cigar, Cris,
and don't give trouble."

I'm sorry I spoke o' it," said the Texan.
I daughter be only too gled to git a seegar,
an' it may be he wudn't mind my chain',
stead o' smoking' it ! My stammuck feels
starved for a bit o' dacca. What wouldn't I
gie jest now for a plug o' Jeunes's Ever ! "

There, take one of the cigars and eat it if
you like, I'm sure he'll have no objection."

Availing himself of the leave thus vicariously
accorded, the Texan picked out one of
the largest in the collection and, biting off
about a third, commenced crunching it between
his teeth, as though it was a piece of
sugar-stick. This to the no small amusement
of the Mexican, who, however, delicately refrained
from making remark.

Nor was Oris hindered from having a smoke

as well as a " chew,"  The mayor-domo soon
32

after appearing with a pipe, a somewhat
eccentric affair he had fished out from the
back regions of the establishment.

Meanwhile their host had himself lit one of
the " Emperors," and was smoking away like a
chimney. A somewhat comical sight at anytime,
or in any place, is a monk with a cigar in
his mouth. But that the Abbot of the Serra
Ajusco was no anchorite they were already
aware, and saw nothing in it to surprise
them.

Seating himself beside Kearney, with face
turned towards the valley, he put the question
: 

What do you think of that landscape,
Don Florencio ?"

Magnificent ! I can't recall having
looked upon lovelier, or one nth greater
variety of scenic detail. It has all the elements
of the subHme and beautiful."

The young Irishman was back in his college
classics with his countryman Burke.

Make use of this," said the Abbot, offering
a small telescope which he drew out. *' 'Twill
give you a better view of things."

Taking the glass and adjusting it to his
sight, Kearney commenced making survey of
the valley, now bringing one portion of it
within the field of telescopic vision, then,
another.

Can you see the Pedregal ?" asked the
Abbot. " It's close in to the mountain's
foot. You'll recognise it by its sombre grey
colour."

Certainly I see it," answered the other,
after depressing the telescope. '' And the
thicket we came through on its further side 
quite distinctly."

Look to the right of that, then you'll
observe a large house, standing in the middle

of the maggie fields. Have you caught

itr

Yes ; why do you ask ?"

Because that house has an interest for mea
very special one. Whom do you suppose
it belongs to ; or I should rather say, did and
ought to belong to V

How should I know, holy Father ?" asked
Kearney thinking it somewhat strange his
being so interrogated.

True," responded the Abbot, " how could
you, my son. But I'll tell you. That
magueyal is mine by right ; though by wrong
'tis now the property of our late host, the
Governor of the Acordada. His reward at the
last confiscation for basely betraying his
country and our cause."

What cause ?" inquired the young Irishman,
laying aside the glass, and showing more
interest in what he heard than that he had

been looking at. Country and cause ! These
were not the words likely to be on the lips of
either monk or hio'hwaTnan.

And that the man who had spoken to him
was neither one nor other he had fuller proof
in what was now further said : 

A cause, Senor Irlandes, for which I,
Euperto Pdvas, am ready to lay down life, if
the sacrifice be called for, and so most  I may
say all  of those you've just met at ahnuerzo.
You heard it proclaimed in the toast " Patria y
Libertad !"

Yes. And a grand noble sentiment it is.
One I was gratified to hear."

And surprised as well. Is not that so,
amigo f"

Well, to be frank with you, holy Father,
I confess to something of the sort."

Not strange you should, my son. No
doubt you're greatly perplexed at what you've

THE Free LANCES.

seen and heard since you came up here, with
much before. But the time has come to relieve
you. So light another cigar and listen*'

THE Free LANCES.

KY a Manilla this time," said the
Mexican, as Kearney was reaching
out to take a cigar from the case.
Most people believe that the best can only
come from Cuba. A mistake that. There
are some made in the Philippine Islands equal
in my opinion, superior  to any Savannahs.
I speak of a very choice article, which don't
ever get into the hands of the dealers, and's

only known to the initiated. Some of our
O'lcos import them by way of Acapulco.
Those are a fair sample."

The young Irishman made trial of the weed
thus warmly recommended ; to discover what
contradicted all his preconceived ideas in the
smoking line. He had always heard it said
that the choicest cigars are Savannahs ; but,
after a few whiffs from that Manilla, which
had never seen a cigar shop, he was willing to
give up the " Imperator ".

His host lighting one of the same, thus
proceeded :

Foes, cahallero ; to give you the promised
explanation. That the monks of my community
are of an order neither very devout or
austere, you've already observed no doubt,
and may have a suspicion they're not monks
at all. Soldiers every man ; most having seen
service, and many who have done gallant

deeds. When I speak of them as soldiers,
you will understand it in its true sense, Senor.
With one or two exceptions all have held
commissions in our army, and with a like
limitation, I may say are all gentlemen. The
last revolution, which has again cursed our
country by restoring its chronic tyrant, Santa
Anna, of course threw them out ; the majority,
as myself, being proscribed, with a price stupor
their heads."

'' Then you're not robbers ?"

This was said without thought, the words
involuntarily escaping Kearney lips. But
the counterfeit abbot, so far from feeling
offence at them, broke out into a laugh, good-humouredly
rejoining 

Robbers, amigo mio ! Who told you we
were that T

The Irishman felt abashed, seeing he had
committed himself.

Don Euperto," he exclaimed, hastening to
make the best of his blunder, " I owe you
every apology. It arose from some talk I
heard passing around in the prison. Be
assured, I neither did nor could believe it."

Thank you, Senor !" returned the Mexican.
" Your apologies are appreciated. And,"
he added, putting on a peculiar smile, " in a
way superfluous. I believe we do enjoy that
repute among our enemies ; and to confess the
truth, not without some reason."

Kearney pricked up his ears, perplexity,
with just a shade of trouble, again appearing
upon his face. He said nothing, however,
allowing the other to proceed.

Carrara, yes !" continued the proscribe.
' 'Tis quite true we do a little in the plundering
line  now and then. We need doing it,
Don Florencio. But for that I oughtn't have
been able to set so good a breakfast before

you ; nor wines of such quality, nor yet these
delectable cigars. If you look to the right
down there, you'll see the pueblo of San
Augustin, and just outside its suburbs a large
yellow house. From that came our last
supply of drinkable and movable materials,
including those here, mahogany and everything.
A forced contribution, as I've hinted
at. But, senor, I should be sorry to have you
think we levy black-mail indiscriminately.
He from whom they were taken is one of our
bitterest enemies ; equally an enemy of our
country. 'Twas aU in the way of reprisal ;
fair, as you'll admit, when you come to comprehend
the circumstances."

I comprehend them now," returned the
listener, relieved, " quite ; and I trust you will
accept my apology."

Sails arrive pensee,' responded the Mexican,
who could speak French if not English,

"I do frankly, freely. No reproach to you
for supposing us robbers. I believe many
others do, among whom we make appearance.
Southward, however, in the State of Oaxaca,
we are better known as * the Free Lances '. A
title not so appropriate either, since our
weapons are only at the disposal of the
Eepublic  our lives as well."

But," questioned Kearney, " may I ask
why you are habited as I novv see you '?"

For a good reason, amigo. It adds to our
security, giving all sorts of opportunities.
Throughout Mexico, the cowl of the monk is
the best passport a man could be provided
with. Wearing it we go about among the
mountain villages without suspicion, the
people believing that this old monastery, so
long abandoned as to have been forgotten, has
again become the dwelling place of a religious
order. Of course, we don't allow any of the

rustics to approach it. Luckily they are not
curious enouo;]i to care for that, against the
toil of climbing up here. If they attempt it
we have sentinels to stay them. For ourselves
we have learned to play the part of the holy
friar, so that there would be difficulty in
detecting the counterfeit. As it chances we
have with us one or two who once wore the
cowl. These perverts have taught us all the
tricks and passwords current among the
fraternity. Hitherto they have availed us,
and I trust will, till the time arrives for our
casting off our cassock and putting on the
soldier's coat. That day is not distant, Don
Florencio ; nearer than I expected, from what
my comrades have told me since we came up.
The State of Oaxa ca is disaffected ; as indeed the
whole southern side of Acapulco, and a grit is
anticipated ere long  possibly within a month.
Alvarez, who controls in that quarter, will bethe

man to raise it ; and the old Pinto chief
will expect to be joined by the ' Free Lances \
Nor will he be disappointed. We are all
burning to be at it. So, caballero, you see
how it is with us. And now," he added,
changing tone and looking his listener earnestly
in the face, " I have a question to put
to yourself"

What 1" asked the Irishman, seeing that
he hesitated putting it.

Will you be one of us ?"

It was now Kearney's turn to hesitate about
the answer he ought to make. A proposition
fraught with such consequences required consideration.
To what would he be committing
himself if he consented ? And what if he
should refuse ? Besides under the circumstances
was he free to refuse ? That of itself
was a question, a delicate one. He and his
comrade Oris Rock owed their escape to this

strange man, whatever lie might be : and to
separate from him now, even under full permission,
would savour of ingratitude. Still
more after listening to what was further said.
For noting his embarrassment, and deeming it
natural enough the Mexican hastened to relieve
him.

If my proposal be not to your King,
Senor Irlandes, say so ; and without fear of
offence. All the same, you may rest assured
of our protection while you remain with us ;
and I shall do what I can to get you safe out
of the country. At all events, I won't send
you back to the Accorded goal and the
tender care of its governor. So you can
speak frankly without reserve. Are you
willing to be one of us ? "

I am ! " was the answer given without
further hesitation.

Why should he have either hesitated or

I 

said nay ? In the heart of a hostile country,
an escaped prisoner ; his life, as he felt sure,
forfeited should he be retaken. Joining; Eivas
and his Free Lances might be his sole chance
of saving it. Even had they been banditti
he could not have done better then.

Yes, Don Rupert," he added, " if you
deem me worthy of belonging to your
brotherhood, be it so. I accept your invitation."


"And your comrade, Don Christoforo.
Will he be of the same mind, think you ? "

Sure to be. I take it, I can answer for
him. But you shall hear for yourself.
Rock ! "

He called to the Texan, who, not understanding
their dialogue, had sauntered apart,
chewing away at the Imperator.

Wal, Cap. ; what's up now V he asked
on rejoining them.

They're no robbers. Oris' said Kearney,
speaking freely in their oti tongue.

Gled to hear it, I did'nt think they war 
noways. Nor monks neither, I guess 1 "

Nor monks."

"What then, Cap?"

"The same as yourself. Patriots who
have been fighting for their country, and
got defeated. That's why they are here 
in hiding."

"Is, Cap. ; I see it all, char as coon's
track on a mud bar. Enemies o' ole Santy,
who've got beat it thar last rising."

Just so. But they expect another rising
soon, and wish us to join them. I've
agreed and said so. What say you ? "

Lordy, Cap. : what a question to be axed,
an by yourself! Sure this chile air born to
stick to ye, whatsoever ye do. Ef they'd
been brigands I shed a put my conscience

33

in my pocket, an goe'd in wi'em all the same ;
belong you're agreed. Nor I wud'nt a
minded turning monk for a spell. But men
who intend fought for freedom ? Hallelujah !
Oris Rock air all thar I Ye may tell him
so."

"He consents," said Kearney, reporting
to the Mexican ; " and willingly as myself
Indeed, Don Euperto, we ought both to
regard it as a grace  an honour  to be so
associated, and we shall do the best we canto
show ourselves worthy of it."

' Mil gracious, Senor ! The grace and
honour are all given to us. Two such
valientes, as I know you to be, mil be no
slight acquisition to our strength. And
now, may I ask you to assume the garb
which as you see is our present uniform ?
That by way of precaution for the time.
You'll find suitable raiment inside. I've

given Gregorio orders to get it ready. So
you see, Cataracts, I've been counting
upon you."

Gehosofat ! " exclaimed the Texan, when
told of the dress he was expected to put on.
What wi New-Orleen's store close, an prison
duds, an' the like, this chile lev hed a
goodish wheen o' changes since he stripped
off his ole hunting' shirt. An' now a going
in for a monk ! Wal ; tho' I mayn't bethe
most sanctified, I reckon I'll be the tallest
in thar monastery."

ST. AUGUSTINE OF THE CAVES.

designation

NE of the pleasantness villages in the
valley of Mexico is San Augustin
de las Cuevas  Tlalpam by Aztec
both names due to some remarkable
caverns in the immediate neighbourhood.
It is some ten or twelve miles
from the capital, on the southern or Acapulco
road, just where this, forsaking the valley
level begins to ascend the Sierra, passing

over wliicli by Cruz del Marques, it continues
on through the sierras talents of Cuernavaca
and Guerrero to the famed port of the
Pacific.

San Augustin is a 23!ie6?o, endowed with
certain municipal privileges. It boasts of an
alcalde-may 07 sith other corporate officers,
and a staff of alguezils, or policemen.

The heads of departments are mostly men
of pure Spanish race  " gente de razor," as
they proudly proclaim themselves  though
many are in reality of mixed blood, Mestizos.
Of this are the better class of shopkeepers,
few in number, the gente de razor at best
forming a scarce discernible element in the
population, which is mainly made up of the
brown aborigines.

At a certain season of the year, however,
paler complexions show in the ascendant.
This during; carnival time  'alas Pascuas'\

Then the streets of San Augustin are
crowded with gay promenaders ; while carriages
and men on horseback may be seen
in continuous stream passing to and fro between
it and the capital. In Las Pascal
week, one day with another, half Mexico is
there engaged in a gambling orgie, as Londoners
at Epsom during the Derby. More
like Homburg and Monaco, though ; since
the betting at Tlalpam is not upon the swiftness
of horses, but done \\dth dice and cards.
The national game, " monte," there finds
fullest illustration, grand marquees being
erected for its play  real temples erected to
the goddess Fortuna. Inside these may be
seen crowds of the strangest composition, in
every sense heterogeneous ; military officers,
generals and colonels, down to the lowest
grade, even sergeants and corporals, sitting
at the same table and staking on the same

cards ; members of Congress, Senators, Cabinet
Ministers, and, upon occasions, the
Chief of the State, jostling the ragged lepers,
and not unfrequently standing elbow to
elbow with the footpad and salvador ! 
Something stranger still, ladies compose part
of this miscellaneous assemblage ; dames of
high birth and proud bearing, but in this
carnival of cupidity not disdaining to " punt"
on the sofa or cavalry, while brushing skirts
with bare-armed, bare-footed rustic damsels,
and pohlanas, more elaborately robed, but
with scantier reputation.

After all, it is only Baden on the other
side of the Atlantic ; and it may be said
in favour of San Augustin, the fury lasts
for only a few days, instead of a whole
season. Then the monte banks disappear,
nth their dealers and croupiers ; the great
tents are taken down ; the gamesters gentle

and simple scatter off, most going back to the
city ; and the little pueblo Tlalpam, resuming
its wonted tranquillity, is scarce thought of
till Carnival comes again.

In its normal condition, though some might
deem it rather dull, it is nevertheless one
of the pleasantness residential villages in the
Valley. Picturesquely situated at the foot
of the southern Sierras, which form a bold
mountain background, it has on the other
side water scenery in the curious Laguna de
Xochimilco, while the grim Pedregal also
approaches it, giving variety to its surroundings.


Besides its fixed population there is one
that may be termed floating or intermittent ;
people who come and go. These are certain
rico " who chiefly affect its suburbs, where
they have handsome houses  casas de campo.
Not in hundreds, as at San Angel and Tacu-

baya, Tlalpam being at a greater and more
inconvenient distance from the capital. Still
there are several around it of first-class,
belonging to families principally though
occupied by them only at intervals, and fora
few days or weeks at a time.

One of these, owned by Don Ignacio Yale
was a favourite place of residence
with him ; a tranquil retreat of which he
was accustomed to avail himself whenever
he could get away from his ministerial duties.
Just such an interregnum had arisen sometime
after the stirring incidents we have
recorded, and he went to stay at his San
Augustin house with his daughter, the Con-des
Almonte going with them as their guest.
Since their last appearance before the reader,
all three had passed through scenes of trial.
An investigation had been gone into regarding
the Calle de Plateros affair  private,

however, before Santa Anna himself, the
world not being made the wiser for it. Its
results were all in their favour, thanks to the
stern, stubborn fidelity of Jose who lied
like a very varlet. Such a circumstantial
story told he, no one could suspect him of
complicity in the escape of the forzados ; far
less that his mistress, or the Condesa Almonte
had to do with it.

\ Don Ignacio, too, had done his share to
hinder discovery of the truth. For, in the
end it was found necessary to take him into
the secret, the missing cloak and pistols,
with several mysterious incidents, calling for
explanation. But in making a clean breast
of it, his daughter had felt no fear of being
betrayed by him. He was not the father
to deal harshly with his child ; besides, it
was something more  a real danger. In
addition, she knew how he was affected

towards the man she had aided to escape 
that he held Don Florencio in highest esteem ;
looked upon him as a dear friend, and in a
certain tacit way had long ago signified
approval of him for a son-in-law. All these
thoughts passed through Luisa Valverde's
mind while approaching her father, and steeling
herself to make confession of that secret
she might otherwise have kept from him.

The result was not disappointing. Don
Ignacio consented to the deception, and they
were saved. Whatever the suspicions of
Santa Anna and his adjutant, both were
baffled about that affair, at least for the
time.

Alike had they been frustrated in their
pursuit of the escapade. Despite the most
zealous search through the Pedregal and
elsewhere, these could not be found, nor
even a trace of them. Still they were not

given up. Every town and village in the
valley, in the mountains around, and the
country outside were visited by soldiers or
spies  every spot like to harbour the fugitives.
Pickets were placed everywhere and
patrols despatched, riding the roads by night
as by day, all proving abortive.

After a time, however, this vigorous action
became relaxed Not that they who
had dictated were less desirous of continuing
it ; but because a matter of more importance
than mere personal spite or vengeance
was soon likely to declare itself, and
threaten their own safety. Talk was beginning
to be heard, though only in whispers,
and at a far distance from the capital, of a
new pionunciamento in preparation. And in
making counter - preparations, the Dictator
had now enough to occupy all his energies ;
not knowing the day or the hour he might

again hear the cry he so dreaded, *' Patria y
Liberty ad ".

Meanwhile the people had ceased to speak
of the stirring episode which had occurred in
the Calle de Plateros ; thought strange only
from the odd circumstances attendant, and
the fact of two of the fugitives being Tenants.
The city of Mexico has its daily newspapers,
and on the morning after a full account of
it appeared in El Diario and Fel Monitor.
For all it was but the topic of a week ; in
ten days no more heard of it ; in a month
quite forgotten, save by those whom it specially
concerned. So varied are the events,
so frequent the changes, so strange the
'' Costs de Mexico ! "

Over THE CLIFF.

OR some time after their arrival at
the old monastery, neither Kearney
nor Oris Rock saw aught of their
late '' fourth fellow " prisoner  the hunchback.
They cared not to inquire after him ;
the Texan repeating himself by saying ; 
*this chile don't want ever to sit eyes on
his ugly picture again ". They supposed that
he was still there, however, somewhere about
the buildings.

And so was lie, with a chain attached to
his leg, the same he had shared with Rock,
its severed end now padlocked to a ring bolt ;
and the apartment he occupied had as much
of the prison aspect as any cell in the Acorn
No doubt, in days gone by, many a
refractory brother had pined and done
penance therein for breach of monastic
discipline.

Why the misshapen creature was so kept
needs little explanation ; for the same reason
as prompted to bringing him thither. Helpless
as he might appear, he was not harmless ;
and Don Euperto knew that to restore him to
liberty would be to risk losing his own, with
something more. Though safely bestowed,
however, no severity was shown him. He had
his meals regularly, and a bed to sleep on ; if
but a pallet ; quite as good as he had been
accustomed to. Moreover, after some time

liacl elapsed he was relieved from this close
confinement during the hours of the day. A
clever actor, and having a tongue that could
*' wheedle with the devil," he had wheedled
with the mayor-domo to granting him certain
indulgences ; among them being allowed to
spend part of his time in the kitchen and
scullery. Not in idleness, however, but occupied
with work for which he had proved
himself well qualified. It was found that he
had once been " boots " in a 2osado, which
fitted him for usefulness in many ways.

In the cocina of the old convent his temper
was sorely tried, the other " mozos " making
cruel sport of him. But he bore it nth a
meekness very different to what he had shown
while in the Acordada.

Thus acquitting himself, Gregorio, who had
him in special charge, began to regard him asa
useful if not ornamental addition to his

domestic staff of the establishment. Notwithstanding,
the precaution was still continued
of locking him at night and re-attaching the
chain to his ankle. This last was more
disagreeable than aught else he had to endure.
He could bear the jibes of his fellow-scullions,
but that fetter sorely vexed him ; as night
after night he was accustomed to say to the
mayor domo as he was turning the key in its
clasp,

"It's so uncomfortable, Senor Don Gregory,"
was his constantly recurring formula.
Keeps me from sleeping, and's very troublesome
when I want to turn over, as I often do
on account of the pains in my poor humped
shoulders. Now, why need you put it on?
Surely you're not afraid of me trying to get
away ? Ha, ha ! that would be turning one's
back upon best friends, Cascades / I fare too
well here to think of changing quarters.
34

Above all going into the Acordada ; where I'd
have to go sure, if I were to show my face in
the city again. Oh, no, Senor ! you don't
catch me leaving this snug crib, so long's you
allow me to board and bed in it. Only I'd
like you to let me off from that nasty thing.
It's cold too ; interferes with my comfort
generally. Do, good Don Gregorio ! For this
one night try me without it. And if you're
not satisfied with the result then put it on ever
after, and I won't complain, I promise you."

In somewhat similar terms he had made
appeals for many nights in succession, but
without melting the heart of the " Good
Don Gregorio ".

At length, however, it proved effectual.
Among various other avocations he had
been a Zapartero, of the class cobbler, and
on a certain day did service to the mayor-domo
by mending his shoes. For which

he received payment in the permission to
pass that night without being discomposed
by the chain.

It's so very kind of you, Don Gregorio ! "
he said, when made aware of the grace to be
given to him. " I ought to sleep sound this
night anyhow. But whether I do or not, I
shall pray for you before going to bed all
the same, Buenos niches / "

It was twilight outside, but almost total
darkness thin the ceU, as the mayor-domo
turned to go out of it. Otherwise he might
have seen on the dwarfs features an expression
calculated to make him repent his act
of kindness, and instantly undo it. Could
he have divined the thoughts at that moment
passing through Zorillo's mind, the clasp
would have quickly closed around the latter's
leg, despite all gratitude due to him for
the patching of the shoes.

If I can get out' lie commenced in mental
soliloquy, as the foot-fall of the mayor-domo
died away in the distant corridor, " out,
and away from them, my fortune's made ;
all sorts of good things in store for me.
From this time forth I needing fear to
present myself at the door of the Acordada ;
walk right into it. No danger of Don Pedro
keeping me there now. Instead, I should be
sent out again with a free pardon and a full
purse. Chingara; talk of a cat in the
cupboard : here are a score of them  half a
hundred ! And when I let them out 
aha ! "

He paused ; then rising to his feet, moved
across to the door, and laid his ear against
it to listen. He heard sounds, but they were
sounds of merriment  the counterfeit monks
at their evening meal  and did not concern

him.

'* What a bit of luck it may turn out after
all, my getting coupled to that great brute
and brought here ! That is if all goes welland
I can give them the slip. First, to make
sure about the possibility of getting out of
this hole. Carrai ! I may be counting my
chickens in the eo-o;s."

Leaving the door, he glided across to the
window, and set himself square against it,
as if to measure its breadth by that of his
own body. It was but a slit, unglazed, a
single iron bar, placed vertically, dividing
the aperture into two. Without removing
this he could not possibly pass through. But
he had the means to remove it ; that file,
already known to the reader, which he had
contrived to get possession of, and for days
kept secret in his cell. First, however, he
must see whether it was worth while using
it ; for during all the time of his being there

he had never been allowed an opportunity to
approach the window and look out.

Leaning forward into the recess, he thrust
his head between the bar and jamb, so far
out as to give him a view of the ground
below. This was solid rock, the crest of a
steep slope, from which the wall rose as
above a buttress. But there was a ledge,
some ten or twelve feet under the sill, narrow,
but wide enough to afford footing, which led
off to more level ground. How was he to
reach it ?

He knew or he would not have acted ashe
now did. For without spending another
second in the survey, he drew back from the
window, plunged his hand under his bed mat,
drew forth the file, and commenced rasping
away at the bar. Not noisily or in any
excited haste. Even if the obstacle were
removed, the time had not come for his attempt

to pass out. He would wait for an
hour after midnight, when all had gone to
their beds.

Eaten with rust, the iron was easily sawed
through, a clean cut being made near its lower
end. Then, laying aside the file, and grasping
the bar, he wrenched it out of the soldering.
If diminutive in body, his arms were
sinewy and strong as those of a coalheaver.

This task accomplished, he turned to his
pallet and taking up the old blanket allowed
him for a covering, began to tear it into strips.
He meant to make a rope of it to lower
himself down outside. But finding it quite
rotten, and doubting whether it would bear
his weight, he desisted and sat for a time
considering. Not long till he bethought himself
of something more suitable for his purpose
the chain.

Bah !" he exclaimed, tossing aside the rags

he had commenced splicing together, " why
didn't I think of that ? Well, it's not too late
yet. Good three yards  long enough. And
the stupid has left the key behind which fits
both ends. So, Mr. Chain, considering the
world of worry and trouble you've been to me
it's time, and only fair, you should do me a
good turn by way of recompense. After
you've done it, I'll forgive you."

While muttering this quaint apostrophe, he
commenced groping about over the floor  not
for the chain, but the key, which he knew
Gregorio had left after releasing his leg from
the clasp. The mayor-domo had either forgotten,
or did not think it was worth while
taking it away.

Having found it, he felt his way to the ringbolt
and unlocking the clasp at that end
returned to the window, taking the chain with
him. Having made one end fast around the

stump of the bar, lie lowered the other doii
outside, cautiously, without a tinkle of its
links. And now again looking out and below,
he was delighted to see that it reached Within
a foot or two of the ledge. All this done he
once more sat down on the side of the bed, to
await the hour of midnight.

But he was not long quiescent, when a
thought occurring; caused him to resume action.

Why not try it now T he mentally interrogated.
" They're all in the Refectory,
having a fine time of it, drinking their famous
wines. Some grand occasion, I heard one of
the mozos say. There oughtn't be a better
chance for me than this very minute  maybe
not so good. Carrara ! I'll risk it now."

Quickly at the words he gilded back to the
window, climbed up into it, and squeezing out
through the aperture, let himself down on the
chain, link by link, as a monkey making

descent of a lliana in the forests of the tierra
cadence.

Soon as he found himself safe landed he let
go the chain, and after a minute or so spent in
silent reconnaissance of the ledge, commenced
moving off along it.

Eight he was in closing that early hour,
for the way he must needs take led out into
the open ground, in front of the building,
where at a later one a watch would have been
stationed. There was none there now, and
without stop or challenge he passed on and
down.

Though they had never allowed him to
go outside the building, he perfectly remembered
the path by which he and the
others had reached it, on that memorable night
after their escape from the chain-gang. He
recalled the two steep slopes, one above the
other, with a narrow shelf between, on which

they encountered the sentinel, who had
hailed, " Queen viva ? "

Sure to be one there now, and to such
hail what answer could he make ?

On this he reflected while descending the
upper slope. The darkness due to the overshadowing
trees made it necessary for him
to go slowly, so giving him time. But it
did not hinder his keeping to the path.
With his long arms like the tentacles of
an octopus he was able to direct his course,
now and then using them to grasp overhanging
branches, or the parasites dependant
therefrom. Withal he went cautiously, and
so silently, that the sentinel  for sure enough
one was there  heard no noise to warn him
of an enemy behind. In his monkish garb,
he was standing on the outer edge of the
shelf rock, his face turned to the valley, which
was just beginning to show silvery white

under the rays of a rising moon. Perhaps,
like Don Euperto, lie was gazing on some
spot, a house, endeared to him as the home
of his childhood ; but from which, as the
leader of the Free Lances, he had been bereft
by the last confiscation. Possibly he was
indulging in the hope of its being soon restored
to him, but least of all dreaming of
danger behind.

It was there, notwithstanding  in fiendish
shape and close proximity. A creature
squatted like a toad, human withal, saying
to himself,

*what wouldn't I give for a knife Tvith
a blade six inches long ! "

Then with a sudden change of thought,
seeing: the chance to do without the knife,
making a dash forward, with the ape-like
arms extended, and pushing the sentinel over !

The cry that came from the latter on



feeling the impulse from behind, was stifled
as he went swirling down to the bottom
of the cliff.

ON DOWN THE MOUNTAIN.

E A D ! " muttered the inhuman
wretch, as he stood upon the
spot late occupied by his victim,
looking down over the cliff. " Dead he
must be ; unless a man can fall two hundred
feet and still live ; which isn't likely.
That clears the way, I take it ; and unless
I have the ill-luck to meet some one coming
up  a straggler  it'll be all right. As sound

ascends, I ought to hear them before they
could see me. I shall keep my ears open'*

Saying which he commenced the descent
of the second slope, proceeding in the same
cautious way as before.

The path was but a ledge, which, after
running fifty yards in a direct line, made
an abrupt double back in the opposite direction,
all the while obliging downwards.
Another similar zig-zag, with a like length
of declivity traversed, and he found himself
at the clifi''s base, among shadowy, thick
standing trees. He remembered the place ;
and that before reaching it on their way
up they had followed the trend of the cliff"
for more than a quarter of a mile. So taking
this for his guide, he kept on along
the back track.

Not far, before seeing that which brought
him to a stop. If he had entertained any

doubt about the sentinel being dead, it would
have been resolved now. There lay the man's
body among the loose rocks, not only lifeless,
but shapeless. A break in the continuity
of the timber let the moonlight through,
giving the murderer a full view of him he
had murdered.

The sentinel had fallen upon his back, and
lay with his face upward, his crushed body
doubled over a boulder ; the blood was welling
from his mouth and nostrils, and the
open eyes glared ghastly in the white, weird
light. It was a sight to inspire fear in the
mind of an ordinary individual, even in that
of a murderer. But it had no effect on this
strange lusus of humanity, whose courage
was equal to his cruelty. Instead of giving
the body a wide berth, and scared-Hke stealing
past, he walked boldly up to it, saying in
apostrophe 

So you're there ! Well, you need not
y blame me, but your luck. If I hadn't pushed
you over, you'd have shot me like a dog,
or brained me with the butt of your gun.
Aha ! I was too much for you, Mr. Monk
or soldier, which ever you were, for you're
neither now."

Just possible," he continued, changing
the form of his monologue, " He may have
a purse ; the which I'm sure to stand in need
of before this time tomorrow. If without
money his weapons may be of use to me."

With a nimbleness which bespoke him no
novice at trpng pockets, he soon touched the
bottom of all those on the body, to find them
emjDty.

Bah," he ejaculated, drawing back with
a disappointed air, " I might have known
there Vas nothing in them. Whatever cash
they've had up there has been spent long ago,

and their wine will soon be out too. His gun
I don't care for ; besides, I see it's broken ; 
yes, the stock snapped clean off. But this
stiletto it's worth, taking with me. Even if I
shouldn't need it in the way of a weapon, it
looks like a thing Mr. Pawnbroker would
appreciate."

Snatching the dagger  a silver-hilted one 
from the corpse of its ill-starred owner, he
secreted it inside his tattered rag of a coat, and
without delay proceeded on.

Soon after he came to a point where the
path forsaking the cliff turned to the left,
down the slope of the mountain. He knew
that would take him into the Pedregal, where
he did not desire to go. Besides his doubts
of being able to find the way through the
lava field, there was no particular need for
his attempting so difficult a track. All he
wanted was to get back to the city by the

most direct route, and as soon as possible
into the presence of a man of whom during
late days he had been thinking much. For
from this man he much expected, in return
for a tale he could tell him. It must be told
direct, and for this reason all caution was
required. He might fall into hands that
would not only hinder him from relating it
in the right quarter, but prevent his telling
it at all.

Just where the path diverged to the left
going down to the Pedregal, a mass of rocks
rose bare above the tops of the trees. Clambering
to its summit he obtained a view of
what lay below ; the whole valley bathed in
bright moonlight, green meadows, fields of
maize, and maguey, great sheets of water
with haze hanging over them, white and
gauzy as a bridal veil. The city itself was
distinguishable at a long distance, and in places

nearer sucklings of white telling of some
puehlita, or single spots where stood a rancho
or hacienda. Closer still, almost under his
feet, a clump of those nothings was more
conspicuous ; which he recognised as the
pueblo of San Augustin. A narrow ribbon-like
strip of greyish white passing through it,
and on to the city, he knew to be the Great
Southern or Acapulco road, which enters the
capital by the garita of San Antonio de Bad.
This route he decided on taking.

Having made note of the necessary bearings,
he slipped back down the side of the
rock, and looked about for a path leading to
the right.

Not long till he discovered one, a mere
trace made by wild animals through the
underwood  sufficiently practicable for him,
as he could work his way through any
tangle of thicket. Sprawling along it, and

rapidly, despite all obstructions, he at length
came out on the Acapulco road, a wide
cause way, nth the moon full upon it.

The track was easy and clear even now,
too clear to satisfy him. He would have
preferred a darker night. San Augustin
had to be passed through, and he knew
that in it were both serene and alguazils.
Besides, he had heard the moxos at thu
monastery speak of troops stationed there,
and patrols at all hours along the roads
around. If taken up by these he might
still hope to reach his intended destination ;
but neither in the time he desired, nor the
way he wished. He must approach the
man, with whom he meant seeking an
interview, not as a prisoner but voluntarily.
And he must see this man soon, to make
things effectual, as the reward he was
dreaming of sure.

Urged by these reflections, he made no
further delay; but taking to the dusty
road moved in all haste along it. In one
way the moon was in his favour. The
causeway was not straight, for it was still
a deep descent towards the valley, and
carried by zig-zags ; so that at each angle
he was enabled to scan the stretch ahead,
and see that it was clear before exposing
himself upon it. Then he would advance
rapidly on the next turning point, stop
again and reconnoitre.

Thus alternately making traverses and
pauses, he at length reached the outskirts
of the puehio, unchallenged and unobserved.
But the problem was how to pass through
it ; all the more difficult at that early hour.
He had heard the church clock tolling the
hours as he came down the mountain, and
he knew it had not struck ten. A beautiful

nio:]at, the villa oers would be all abroad ;
and how was he to appear in the street
without attracting notice  he above all men ?
His deformity of itself would betray him.
An expression of blackest bitterness came
over his features as he thus reflected. But
it was not a time to indulge in sentimentalities.
San Augustin must be got through
somehow, if he could not find a way around it.
For this last he had been looking sometime
both to the right and left. To his
joy, just as he caught sight of the first houses 
villa residences they were, far straggling along
the road  a lane running in behind them
seemed to promise what he was in search of.
From its direction it should enable him to
turn the village, without the necessity of
passing through the plaza, or at all entering
upon the streets. Without more ado he
doomed into the lane.

It proved the very sort of way lie was
wishing for ; dark from being overshadowed
with trees. A high park-like wall extended
along one side of it, within which were the
trees, their great boughs drooping down over.

Keeping close in to the wall he glided on,
and had got some distance from the main
road, when he saw that which brought him
to a sudden stop  a man approaching from
the opposite direction. In the dim light,
the figure was as yet barely discernible, but
there was a certain something in its gait 
the confidential swagger of the policeman 
which caught the practised eye of Zorillo,
involuntarily drawing from him the muttered
speech 

Malta sea ! An alguazil ! "

Whether the man was this or not, he must
be avoided ; and, luckily for the dwarf, the
means of shunning him were at hand, easy

as convenient. It was but to raise this long
arms above bis bead, lay bold of one of the
overhanging branches, and draw himself np
to the top of the wall ; wbicb be did upon
the instant. It was a structure of adobes,
with a coping quite a yard in width, and laid
flat along this, be was altogether invisible,
to one passing below.

Tbe man, alguazil or not, neither saw bim
nor suspected bis being there, but walked
tranquilly on.

"VYben be was well beyond ear-shot, the
dwarf deeming himself safe, was about to
drop back into the lane, wben a murmur of
voices prompted bim to keep bis perch. They
W'Cre feminine, sw-feet as the sound of rippling
brooks, and gradually becoming more distinct ;
wbicb told bim that from wbom they proceeded
were approaching the spot. He bad
already observed that the enclosure was a

grand ornamental garden with walks, fountains
and flowers ; a large house on its further side.

Presently the speakers appeared  two young
ladies sauntering side by side along one of
the walks, the soft moonlight streaming down
upon them. As it fell full upon their faces,
now turned toward the wall, the dwarf started
at a recognition, inwardly exclaiming : 

Santissima !  The senoritas of the carriage
! "

A TALE OF Starvation

T was the garden of Don Ignacio's
casa de campo ; the ladies, his
daughter and the Condesa. The
lovely night, with balm in the air and a bright
moon shining through the sky, had drawn
them out, and they strolled through the
grounds, keeping step, as it were, to that
matchless melody, the song of the czenzontle.
But note of no nightingale was in their

thoughts, which were engrossed by graver
themes.

'Tis so strange our never hearing from
them, and not a word of them. What do you
make of it. Ysabel ? Is it a bad sign ?"

The question was asked by the Dona Luisa.

That wee haven't heard from them is  ina
way," responded the Countess. " Yet that
may be explained, too. The probability is
from the roads being all watched and guarded,
as we know they are, they'd be cautious about
communicating with us. If they've sent a
messenger  which I hope they haven't  he
must have been intercepted and made
prisoner. And, then, the message ; that
might compromise us. But I know Euperto
will be careful Not to have heard of themis
all for the best  the very best. It should
almost assure us that they're still free, and safe
somewhere. Had they been recaptured we'd

have known before this. All Mexico would
be talking about it."

True' assented Don Ignacio's daughter,
with a feeling of relief. " They cannot have
been retaken. But I wonder where they are
now."

"So I myself, Lusita. I hope, however,
not at that old monastery of which Euperto
gave me a description in one of his letters.
It's somewhere up in the mountains. But
with the country all around so occupied by
troops it would seem an unsafe place. I trust
they've got over the Sierra, and down to
Acapulco. If they have, we needn't feel so
very anxious about them."

Why not, Ysabel ? "

Why not. Ah ! that's a question you
haven't yet come to understand. But never
mind the reason now. You'll know it in good
time ; and when you do, I've no fear but
you'll be satisfied ; your father too."

Don Ignacio's daughter was both puzzled
and surprised at the strange words. But she
knew the Countess had strange ways ; and,
though a bosom friend, was not without some
secrets she kept to herself. This was one of
them, no doubt, and she forbore pressing for
an explanation.

What the Condesa hinted at was that
disaffection in the south, the expected piv-
nunciamento, which, if successful, would not
only depose the Dictator, but of course also
his Cabinet Ministers, her friend's father
among them. With some knowledge of coming
events, she declined imparting this to
the Dona Luisa through delicacy. Eight
was she, also, in her surmise as to the
messenger ; none had been intercepted, none
having been sent out, just for the reason
surmised by her.

They had made a turn or two of the

grounds, thus conversing, when both came
to a sudden stop. Simultaneously uttering
exclamations of alarm, '' Santissima !  and
Madre che Dios''

'* What can it be ? " gasped Dona Luisa.
Is it a man ? "

No wonder she should so doubtingly interrogate,
since her question referred to that
strange creature on the top of the wall,
seeming more ape than human being.

That he was human, however, was to be
proved by his being gifted with the power
of speech, put forth on the instant after.
Before the Countess could make answer to
the question (of course overheard by him),
he interposed, saying 

Pray, don't be alarmed, your ladyships,
at a poor, miserable creature like me. I
know that my body is anything but
shapely ; but my soul  that I trust is different.

But, Senoritas, surely you remember
me?"

While speaking, lie had raised himself into
an upright attitude, and the moonlight falling
upon him showed his shape in all its grotesqueness
of outline. This, with his words,
at once recalled their having seen him before.
Yes ; it was the enano, whom the big Texan
had swung up to the box of their carriage.

Astonishment hindering reply to his interrogatory,
he continued :

Well, your ladyships, I'm sorry you
don't recognise me ; the more from my being
one of your best friends, or, at all events,
the friend of your friends."

Of whom do you speak, sir ? " asked the
Countess, first to recover composure, the
Dona Luisa echoing the interrogatory. Both
were alike anxious for the answer, better
than half divining.

Two worthy gentlemen, who, like my
poor self, had the misfortune to get shut
up in the Acordada ; more than that, set
to work in the filthy sewers. Thanks to
the luck of your ladyship's carriage coming
past at a convenient time, we all escaped ;
and so far have been successful in eluding
the search that's been made for us."

'you have succeeded  all?" both asked in a
breath, their eagerness throwing aside reserve.

"Oh! yes; as I've said, so far. But it's
been hard times with us in our hiding place ;
so hard, indeed, we might well have wished
ourselves back in the prison."

How so, sir ? Tell us all ! You needn't
fear to speak out : we'll not betray you."

'' For Dios ! I'm not afraid of your ladyships
doing that. Why should I, since I'm
here on account of your own friends, and on
an errand of mercy ? "

An errand of mercy ? "
36

Yes. And one of necessity as well. Ah !
that far more."

Go on, sir ! Please tell us what it is ! "
Well, Senoritas, I've been deputed on
a foraging expedition. For we're in a terrible
strait  all four of us. You may remember
there were four."

We do. But, how in a terrible strait ? "
How ! Why, for want of food ; starving.
Up in the mountains, where we've been
hiding for now nearly a month, all we've
had to live upon was wild fruits and roots ;
often eating them raw, too. We aren't any
of us venture down, as the roads all round
have been beset by spies and soldiers. It's
only in sheer desperation I've stolen through
them ; the Senor Don Rupert sending me
to San Augustin in the hope I might be able
to pick up some provisions. I was just
slipping the village the back way, when an

alguazil coming along made it necessary forme
to climb np here and Mde myself. The
unlucky part of it all is, that even if I get
safe in, I haven't the wherewith to buy the
eatables, and must beg them. That I fear
won't be easy ; people are so hard-hearted."

For a time his surprised listeners stood
silent, giving way to sad reflections. Florence
and Euperto starving !

May I hope," continued the lying wretch,
"your ladyships will let me look upon this
accidental encounter as a God-send, and that
you will give me something to buy "

0, sir ! " interrupted the Countess, " we
will give you that. Luisa, have you any
money in your purse ? I haven't in mine 
nothing to signify."

Nor I either  how unfortunate ! We
must "

*' Never mind money, your ladyships ;

money's worth will do quite as well. A reloja,
rings, anything in the way of jewellery. I
chance to know a place in the village where I
can convert them into cash."

Here, take this ! " cried the Countess,
handing him her watch, the same which
had been hypothecated to Jose, but redeemed
by a money payment.

And this ! " said the Dona Luisa, also
holding out a watch, both of which he speedily
took possession of.

"tis very generous of your ladyships,"
he said, stowing them away among his rags,
the proceeds of these ought to support us fora
long time, even allowing for the reduced rate
I'll have to accept from the pawnbroker.
Afterwards we must do the best we can."

As he spoke his little sparkling eyes were
avariciously bent upon certain other objects
he saw scintillating in the moonlight  bracelets,

rings upon their fingers and in their
ears. The hint was hardly needed. Enough
for them the thought that more help might
be required by those dear to them, and at a
time when they could not extend it.

In less than five minutes after both had
divested themselves of every article in the
way of gold, or gems, adorning them. They
even plucked the pendants from their ears,
thrusting all indiscriminately into the outstretched
hands of the hunchback.

'' Gracias !  mil gracias!' he ejaculated,
crowding everything into his pocket. " But
your ladyships dll scarce care to accept thanks
from me. 'Twill be more to your satisfaction
to know that your generosity vri]! be the
saving of valuable lives, two of them, if I
mistake not, very dear to you. Oh ! won't
the Senores Don Euperto and Don Florencio
be delighted at the tale I shall take back  the

Virgin seeing me safe ! Not for the provisions
I may carry, but how I obtained the means
of purchasing them. But as time's pressing,
Senorita, I won't say a word more, only
Adios ! "

Without waiting for permission to depart
or rejoinder of any kind, he slipped down
from the wall, and disappeared on its other
side.

It was an abrupt leave-taking, which alike
surprised and disappointed them. For they
had many questions to ask, and intended
asking him  many anxieties they wished set
at rest.

AN ENCOUNTER WITH OLD
ACQUAINTANCES.

Passing out of the San Augustin
towards the city, the great
National Eoad, as abbacy said,
touches upon the Pedregal, the lava rocks
here and there rising cliff-like over it. On
the other side are level meadows stretching
to the shore of the Laguna de Xochimilco ;
this last overgrown with a lush aquatic

vegetation called the cinna, at a distance
appearing more pastureland than lake.
Excellent pasturage is afforded on the strip
between ; that end of it adjacent to the
pueblo being apportioned among several
of the rich proprietors of villas, who turn
their household stock upon it, as milch kine,
and horses kept for the saddle or carriage.

Just about the time when the hunchback
was abruptly bidding " Adios " to the ladies,
a man might have been seen moving along
this part of the road at some half mile
distance from the skirts of the village, with
face turned cityward. But that he had no
intention of journeying so far was evident
both by his gait and the character of his
dress. He was going at a slow walk, now
and then loitering, as if time was of little
consequence. Moreover, he was in his shirt
sleeves, and without the universal serape,

which often serves for both cloak and coat.
Otherwise his garb was the ordinary stable
wear of a Mexican gentleman's servant ;
wide velveteen trousers open along the
outer seams, and fended with leather at
breech and bottoms. " Bates " and a black
glaze hat completed his habiliments, with
a scarf of China crape, the cliammora, around
his waist. Scanning the face shadowed by
the broad rim of his sombrero, it was seen
to be that of Jose, Don Ignacio's groom ;
while his errand along that road could be
guessed, by seeing what he carried over his
arm  a couple of slip halters. The horses,
for whom they were intended, were to be
seen standing at a gate, a little further,
having browsed their fill ; a pair of greys,
recognisable as the famous prisoner; all the
easier now from one of them showing a split
ear. They had been turned out to cool

their loves on the soft meadow sward, and
he was on his way to take them back to
their stable.

Along the other side of the road, for a
stretch of some distance, extended the Petrel
forming a low ridge with a precipitous
face towards the causeway. As the cicero
got up to where his pets were expecting him,
he saw a coyote standing upon the crest cliff,
just opposite the horses, in an attitude and
with an air as if it had been holding conversation
with them. Solely for frolic's sake, he
made a rush towards it, giving a swoop and
swinging the halters around his head. Of
course, the frighted animal turned tail, and
retreated ; instantly disappearing from his
sight.

The little spurt had carried him in under
the shadow of the rocks ; and as he faced
round to recross the moonlit causeway, he saw

coming along it that which, by some mysterious
instinct, prompted him to keep his place.
After all, no mystery about it ; for in the
diminutive, crab-like form seen approaching,
he recognised the dwarf-hunchback who had
shared the box seat with him on that day
never to be forgotten.

Nothing had been heard of the creature,
since, so far as Jose knew ; and, therefore, it
might be supposed his appearance would have
been welcome, promising some news of those
with whom he had been last seen. But so far
from the cocker o stepping out into the road to
receive him, he but drew closer to the cliff,
where an embayment in black shadow promised
him perfect concealment.

Com aft or Zorillo came shuffling alonsr
thro:i/a the dust, keeping close to the shaded
si le ol the road. Having; cleared the skirts of
the village, however, he was less careful now.

Not likely there would be anyone abroad at
that hour  for it had gone ten  but if so,
there was the Pedregal alongside, to which he
could retreat. Evidently he had not seen
Jose, as when first seen himself he was turning
a corner, and the other had been for sometime
in shadow.

When nearly opposite the meadow gate he
also made a stop, with a start, at perceiving
the two horses' heads stretched over it, one
vdth. a cleft ear ! His start came through
recognition of them.

Oho !" he exclaimed, " you there, too, my
noble prisoner ? Caspita ? this is meeting
one's old acquaintances all in a heap ! It now
only needs to encounter cicero, and the party
will be complete ! Well, I may live in hope
to see him too, sometime ; and won't there bea
reckoning when we're altogether again T

He was about to pass on, when a clattering

of hoofs were heard behind, in the direction
of the pueblo, as if horsemen were issuing
out of it. Shortly after, a dark clump) was
seen rounding the corner, and coming on
aloof the white ribband of road. The sabres
clanking against stirrup-irons proclaimed ita
cavalry troop.

Like a tarantula retreating to its tree-cave,
the dwarf darted in under the cliff, there
crouching down  so close to Jose that the
latter could have almost touched him with
the tips of his fingers. He had no desire
to do so, no thought of it ; but the very
opposite. His wish was to avoid an encounter
; and good reason for it, as he was
soon after made aware. Fortunately for him,
the hunchback neither saw nor had a suspicion
of his proximity. With face turned to the
road, he was altogether occupied with the
party approaching.

The Hussars turned out  an escort of some
eight or ten files, with two officers at its head,
these riding side by side and a little in
advance. They were chatting gaily and
rather vociferously ; the voice of him who
spoke loudest being well known to Jose.
For Colonel Santander, whether welcome or
not, was a frequent visitor at the casa de
campo of Don Ignacio Yalverde. And the
dwarf now remembered it too, as he did so
abandoning all attempt at concealment and
gliding out into the middle of the road.

'' Carajo!'' simultaneously shouted the two
officers, as their horses reared up, snorting at
the strange shape so suddenly presented before
them. " What the Demon is it, if not Satan
himself ? " added Santander.

No, Senor Cornell returned Zorillo.
Not the devil ; only a poor creature whom
God has cursed by making him in a shape

that isn't altogether fashionable. But just
for that reason I trust being recalled to your
Excellency's remembrance  am I not '? "

Ah ! You were in the Acordada ? "

' Si, Senor Coronet

*rand 'twas you I saw coupled to the
Tejano ? "

'* The same, Seiior. In that prosecuted by
a like ill no doubt, the devil all the time
directing it."

But where have you been, since, sirrah ? "

Ah 1 Excellence ! that's just it ; the very
thing I want to tell you. I was on my way
to the city in hopes of obtaining an interview
with you. What a bit of fortune you passing
here ; 'twill save me a journey I was ill able
to make ; for I'm quite worn out, and weak,
from being starved up there in the mountains."

Oh ! you've been up there ? "

Yes, Seiior Coronel, in hiding with the

others. But not like them voluntarily.
They took me along with them, whether I
would or no, and have kept me ever since 
till this night, when an opportunity offered
for giving them the slip. It isn't all of
four hours since I parted company with them.
But if your Excellency wishes to hear the
whole story, perhaps you'd like it better in
private. If I mistake not, some of it should
only reach your own ears."

Santander had been already thinking of
this, and turning to the officer by his side,
he said :

Take the men on, Eamirez. Halt at a
hundred yards or so, and wait for me."

In obedience to the order the escort moved
on, stopping as directed, the dialogue between
Santander and the dwarf meanwhile continuing.
It was more of a monologue, the
latter giving a detailed relation of all that

had occurred to him since the time of their
escape from the chain-gang, with comments
and suggestions added.

After hearing all, Santander rose in his
stirrups, his features showing triumph, such
as Satan might feel at a world of souls just
delivered to him.

The game is mine at last ! " he muttered
to himself, " every trick of it. They're ina
trap now ; and when they go out of it,
'twill be to the garrotaJ'

For a moment he sat silent, apparently
considering what was his best course to
pursue. Then, seemingly having decided, he
call out 

Eamirez ! Send a couple of men to me 
the corporal and another."

These, detached from the escort, came
trotting back along the road.

Here, cato ! Take charge of this curious
37

specimen. Keep him here, and see that you
hold him safe till you have my orders for
releasing him. Don't stray from this spot
as you value your own neck  not an inch."

Saying which he put spurs to his horse,
and rejoined his escort. Then commanding,
Forward ! at the double quick ! " they
started off at full gallop towards the city.

A Grumbling Guard.

ART of the dialogue between Santander
and the hunchback was
overheard by Jose ; enough of it
to give him the trembles. Among its revelations
was nought relating to himself, or his
connivance at the escape of the prisoners.
For all, he could see that he was now in as
much danger as they who were in hiding.
The Colonel of Hussars had gone on to the

city, perhaps to complete some duty already
engaging tim, but as likely to obtain a
stronger force. And as his words told, he
would return again ; and no doubt make
direct for the old monastery, the dwarf guiding
him.

The first thought of the faithful cicero
was not about himself, nor his horses. These
might stay in the meadow all night as they
were now likely to do. The lives of men
were at stake  his own among the number 
and his sole purpose now was to get home,
report what he had heard to his young mistress
and the Condesa ; then hasten up the
mountain to warn the imperilled ones. As
good luck would have it, he knew the place
they were in. Son of a carhonero, when a
boy he had helped his father in the charcoal
burning business ; was familiar with the
mountain forests, and their paths, and had

more than once been at the abandoned
monastery. He could easily find the way
to it. But the difficulty was to get back to
his master's house  even stir from the spot
on which he stood. Soon as receiving their
orders the two hussars had dismounted, and
tied up their horses, one on each side of the
rocky embayment ; they themselves, with
their curious charge, occupying the space between.
It was not possible to pass without
being seen by them, and as surely seized.

So long as he kept his place he might feel
comparatively safe. The cove was of a three-cornered
shape, with luckily a deep dark cleft
at its inner angle, into which he had already
squeezed himself. While the moon remained
low, and the cliff made shadow, there was
little likelihood of their seeing him unless
they came close up. Still the situation was
aught but pleasant, and ere long became

irksome in the extreme ; the conversation
to which he was compelled to listen making
it so.

The two lustres did not seem to be in the
best of temper ; the corporal more especially
showing signs of dissatisfaction. Groping
about for a stone to seat himself on, he
grumbled out : 

'' Madeira! What a bore, having to stay-here
till they get back. Heaven knows
when that will be. Like enough not before
morning. I thought we were going to pass
the night in San Augustin, and had hopes
of a chat with that muchachita at the house
where the colonel visits."

Pepita, you mean  lady's maid to the
Dona Luisa Yalverde ? "

Of course, I mean her, the pretty dear :
and have reason to think she is a bit sweet
upon me."

Jose's heart was on fire  Ms blood boiling.
It was with difficulty he restrained himself
from springing out upon the soldier and
clutching him by the throat. He succeeded,
however, in keeping his place, if not his
temper ; for it would have been sheer madness
to show himself there and then. What came
after quite tranquillised him.

Well, ahoy' returned he of the rank and
file, seemingly without fear of speaking plain
to the non-commissioned officer. " I should
be sorry to dash your hopes ; but as a friend
I can't help saying, I don't think you have
much chance in that quarter. She's a step
higher, that same Pepita ; holds her head far
above any of us common soldiers "

Common soldiers ! I'm a corporal ; you
forget that, honore. But why do you think
my chances are so poor ? "

"Because I've heard say there's a man

about the establishment to whom she's already
given what heart she may have had to give 
that they're engaged. The fellow's groom or
cicero, or something of the sort."

Jose breathed easier now, noways provoked
at having been spoken of as a " fellow ".

Bah ! " contemptuously exclaimed the
corporal. " AYhat care I for that horse-cleaner
and carriage-washer for a rival ! I've
cut out scores of such before now, and will
do the same with him. Lie down there, you
devil's imp ! " he added, turning savagely
upon the dwarf, and venting his spleen by
giving the creature a kick. "Down, or I'll
break every bone in your body."

Mercy, master ! " expostulated the hunchback.
" Don't be so cruel to a fellow creature."

"Fellow-creature. That's good, ha  ha 
ha ! " and the brute broke into a hoarse laugh,
till the rocks echoed his fiendish machinations.

"Well, your worship," rejoined he thus
inhumanly mocked, with an air of assumed
meekness; "whatever I am, it pains me to
think I should be the cause of keeping you
here. But why should you stay, may 1 ask ?
You don't suppose I'm going to run away ?
If I were with you as a prisoner ; but I am
not. I sought an interview with your Colonel
of my OT\Ti free will. Surely you saw that ! ''

"True enough, he did," interposed the
soldier.

And what if he did," growled the corporal.

Only, Senor, to show that I have no
intention to part company with you, nor
wish neither. Por Dios ! don't let me
hinder you from having that chat sith
the muchacldta. It's but a step back to
the inieclo, and like as not she'll be on the
look out for you, spite of what your comrade
says. Maybe he has an eye to the pretty

dear himself, and that's why he wishes to
discourage you."

As this rigmarole was delivered in the
most comical manner, it put the soldiers ina
better humour, both breaking out into
laughter.

Of course the corporal had no thought of
availing himself of the permission so
accorded. Their orders were strict to stay
in that spot, and stay they must. The
question was how were they to spend the time.

A smoke to begin with ; and they drew
out their cigarettes, with flint, steel, and
tinder.

Soon as the red coal appeared beneath
their noses, said the cato to his comrade :

By the way, Perico, have you your cards
with you ? "

"Did you ever know me to be without
them?"

How lucky ! I quite forgot mine."

That's because your mind was bent upon
Pepita. I saw you giving your moustache
an extra twist this evening."

Ob ! bother Pepita. Let's have an alhur
of monte."

How about light ? "

"The moon's clear enough, if it was'nt
we could manage nth our cigars. Many's
the game I've played that way."

"All right! But the stakes? I haven't
a cuartilla  nay not so much as a claro."

Carrara ! Nor I either. I spent the
last on a drink just before we got into the
saddle. It's bad ; but we can bet upon the
credit system, and use cartridges for counters,
Ah, stay ! "

At which he turned his eyes upon the dwarf,
Tvith a look of peculiar significance, cupidity
the prevailing expression.

The latter saw it with a heaviness of heart,
and a shuddering throughout his frame. All
the time apprehensive about the plunder with
which his pockets were crammed, he instinctively
anticipated what was coming.

A Dance's Showed.

OW, I shouldn't wonder," continued
the corporal, shifting upon his
seat, and facing fully round to
the dwarf ; " I shouldn't at all wonder but
that this diminutive gentleman has some
spare cash upon him ; and maybe he'll oblige
us by a little loan, considering the occasion.
What say you, Senor Enano ? "

I haven't any," was the ready answer.
And sorry to say it too  that I am."

** It don't look much like lie has," observed
Perico, with a glance at the hunchback's tattered
habiliments.

Looks are not always to be relied on,"
persisted the corporal. " Who'd ever suspecta
pearl inside an ugly oyster-shell ? "

I haven't, indeed, Senor Caho,'' once
more protested the dwarf with earnest emphasis.
*' If I had, you'd be welcome to the
loan you speak of. No man likes a game of
monte better than myself Alas ! so far from
being in funds, I'm too like your worships 
without a claro. I've been stripped of everything
; and, if you knew my story, you'd pity
me, I'm sure."

What story ? " demanded the cato becoming
curious.

"Why, that I've been robbed of aU the
money I had. It wasn't much to be sure,
only two pesetas and a real, but still that

was better than empty pockets. It happened
about half-an-hour ago. I was on my way
to San Augustin, thinking I'd there get some
supper, with a night's lodging ; when not far
from this, two men  footpads I suppose they
were  rushed out from the roadside, and
made straight at me. One took the right,
the other left. But I've good long arms, as
you see, pretty strong too ; and so I was able
to keep them off for a while. Several times
they caught hold of my wrists ; but I succeeded
in jerking them free again. I believe
I could have wrestled them both, but that
one getting angry, pulled out a long-bladed
knife, and threatened to cut my throat with it.
Pot dios ! I had to surrender then, seeing
he was in earnest."

smile giving this somewhat proHx account
of an altogether imaginary adventure, he had
started to his feet, and accompanied his

speech, with a series of pantomimic gestures ;
dancing and flinging his arms about, as he
professed to have done while defending himself
against the footpads. The grotesqueness
of the performance, though seen only in the
dim light  for he kept under the shadow 
set his listeners to laughing. Little dreamt
they why he was treating them to the spectacle,
or how cleverly he was outwitting them.
But there was a third spectator of the scene,
unknown to all of them, who was aware of it.
The cicero could not at first tell what were
the things striking him in the pit of the
stomach, as if he was being pelted with
pebbles ! But he could see they came from
the hands of the hunchback, flung behind in
his repeated contortions and gesticulations.
Moreover, that they glistened while passing
through the air, and looked whitish where
they lay, after falling at his own feet.

AVell ; what did they do to you then T
asked the corporal when he and his comrade
had finished their gufi'aw. " Stripped you
clean, as you've said T

Ay, Dios ! Just that, Senor. Took
everything I had except the rags I wear ; and
to them I might well have made them welcome."


Now, are you sure they took everything T
questioned the other, still suspicious. The
earnestness of the dwarfs affirmation made
him so.

Of course, Senor. Quite sure. I'll swear
to it, if you like."

Oh, there's no need for the formality of an
oath. Simpler to search you ! and more satisfactory.
Draw up here in front of me !"

The hunchback obeyed with an air of confident
alacrity. He had no reluctance to being
searched now, knowing his pockets were
38

empty. Of which the searcher satisfied himself
by groping about among the rags, and
sounding every receptacle where coin might
be kept.

But if he found no money, an article turned
up, which no little surprised himself and his
comrade  a stiletto !

Caspita r he exclaimed, as his hand
touched something hard in the waistband of
the dwarf's breeches, stuck behind his back.
What have we here ? As I live a dagger !"
drawing it out and holding it to the light.
Silver hilted, too ! Yes ; its silver, sure ; and
blade beautifully chased  worth a dohlone at
the very least !"

Half mine," interrupted Perico, putting in
his claim.

All right, camardo. We'll settle that by-and-bye.
Now, you limb of Satan !" he
continued to the hunchback, " you told us the

footpads had stripped you clean. How do you
explain this ?"

Easily enough, your worship. They only
thought of trying in my pockets, and the
stiletto being there behind where you've found
it, luckily they overlooked it."

"Oh ! indeed ;" doubtingly rejoined the
corporal ; " and pray how did you become
possessed of it, Senor Enano ! A dagger
worth a dohlone isn't a likely thing for such as
you to be owner of  that is, in an honest way.

I admit, your worship, it isn't likely.
For all, I came honestly by the article. It's
an heirloom in our family ; belonged to
my great-great-grandfather, and's descended
through several generations. For know,
Senor, my ancestors were not deformed like
poor me. Some of them were gallant soldiers,
as yourself. Indeed, one of them rose
to the rank of sergeant  that was my mother's

grandfather ; but this dagger didn't comedown
from him, being left in the main
line."

Well," laughingly returned the corporal,
after listening to the quaint chapter of explanations,
" the future herald of our family
won't have to trace it beyond yourself.
Youre now under our protection, and have
no need to warlike weapons. So we, your
protectors, will take the liberty of appropriating
the historical toy. Get out the
cards, Perico ! Let us see whether it is to
be yours or mine."

'may hiieno!'' responded Perico. "How
will you have the game ? A single alhiir
or two out of three ? "

Well, as we've only the one stake, and
no end of time for winning and loosing it,
we'd better make it the long game."

All rifht  come on ! I have the cards

spread  sofa y hallo. How sweet the
Queen's face looks in the moonlight ! Ah !
she's smiling at me, I know, as good as to
say  ' Worthy Perico, that silver-handled
weapon, your corporal tells you is worth all
of an onza, will ere long be thine '."

Well, lay on the Queen if you like. I'll
go the Jack, with all his grinning. Now
shuffle, and deal off."

By this the two had seated themselves,
vis-a-vis, just outside the verge where met
moonlight and shadow, a suite of cards
turned face up between them, the dealing
pack in the hands of Perico. The hunchback,
on his knees, with neck craned out,
was a spectator ; but one whose thoughts
were not with his eyes. Instead, dwelling
upon the valuables he had so cunningly
chucked back, making the mental calculation
as to how much they might be damaged by

breakage, but caring less for that than the
danger of their also becoming stakes in that
game of monte. Could he have known what
was going on behind, he would possibly have
preferred it so.

The unseen spectator, though silent, was not
inactive ; but the reverse. From the moment
of seeing himself shut up,  as it were, in a
penn  he had given all his thoughts to how
he might escape out of it. It needed none to
tell him there was no chance forwards by
the road. A rush he might make past the two
soldiers, risking seizure, and surely having the
bullets of their carbines sent after him. But
even though he got off in that way, what
would be the upshot ? The hunchback would
be certain to recognise him, remembering all.
Knowing, too, that his dialogue with the
Hussar colonel must have been overheard, he
would hasten the very event which he, Jose,

was now all anxious to provide against. The
word of warning meant for those now so much
needing it might reach them too late.

All these thoughts had passed through the
cocheros mind before the card-playing commenced.
More, too, for he had carefully
inspected the cliff overhead, so far as the light
would allow, aided by groping. To his joy he
had discovered that there was a possibility of
scaling it. A sharp pinnacle of rock was
within reach of the swing of his halters ; and
skilled in the use of the last, over this he had
succeeded in flinging the headstall of one,
hooking it fast. It but remained to swarm up
the rope : and he was watching for an opportunity,
when glittering golden things, like a
Dance's shower, came raining against his ribs,
to fall at his feet.

He saw no reason for these being left to lie
there, but a good one against it ; so, stooping

cautiously forward, he gathered up all, stowing
them away in his pockets. Then turning and
taking hold of the halter, with as little noise
as possible, he hoisted himself up to the crest
of the cliff.

The soldiers engrossed with their game, and
the dwarf, though but a spectator, having also
become interested in it  none of the three
either saw or heard him. And the last he
heard of them as he stole silently away, was
the corporal delightedly calling out,

Sola en la ijuerta, modo ! The dagger's
mine, darling Perico 1"

'oh.j>

A SERIES OF Surprises.

HE cicero had but a confused idea of
what he was carrying away with
him. By the feel, watches, with
chains and bracelets ; besides some smaller
articles wrapped in bits of papers. The uncertainty
of his getting safe up the cliff hindered
him from giving them even the most cursory
examination, nor did he think of doing; this
till at sufficient distance from the card-playing

party to feel sure lie was beyond danger of
pursuit. Then the temptation to have a look
at the things, which had so strangely and unexpectedly
come into his possession, became
irresistible ; and sitting down upon a ledge of
rock, he drew them out into the light of the
moon. Two watches there were, both gold,
and one with a jewelled case.

Car red / " he exclaimed, as his eyes fell
upon the latter, and became fixed in a stare of
blank amazement ; " Can it be ! It is  the
Condesa's watch  the very one she would
have given me ! But how came the hunchback
to have it 1 Surely he must have stolen
it. The other, too, with all these things !"

He looked at the second watch, but as it
had never been in his hands before, he was
unable to identify it. Still it resembled one
he had seen his mistress wearing, and most
likely was the same.

The bracelets, chains, reckless, and brooches
would be theirs, too ; as also the rings and
other bijouterie, which the dwarf had found
time to do up in paper.

Stolen them ? " continued the cocker o,
interrogatively, as he ran his eyes over the
varied assortment.

How could he ? The watches he might,
but the other things. Why bless me, here
are two pairs of earrings  and these grand
pendants  I'm sure I saw them in the ears
of the Condesa this very day. He couldn't
have taken them without her knowing it.
Santo Bios! How ever has he come by
them ? "

As he thus questioned and reflected, a
feeling of apprehension began to creep over
him. A little before leaving the house to
go after his horses he had observed his young
mistress and the Condesa going into the

ornamental grounds. And they went alone ;
Don Ignacio having repaired to a private
apartment, where he was accustomed to shut
himself up for the examination of State papers,
what if the ladies were still in the grounds,
in some secluded spot, lying dead, where all
these adornments had been stripped from
their persons !

This horrible tableau did the faithful servant
in imagination conjure up. He could not
help it. Nor was the thing so very
improbable. He had some earlier acquaintance
with the desperate character of the
dwarf, which later experience confirmed.
Besides, there was the state of the country 
thieves and robbers all round  men who
made lioiit of murder !

"With a heaviness of heart  a painful fear
that there had been murder  he stayed not
to further examine the trinkets ; but gathering

all up again, and thrusting them back into
his pocket, hurried on home.

And when home he went not to his own
quarters in the coachyard, but straight into
the jaffo  the private court of the house.
There he encountered Pepita ; soon as he
set eyes on her, asking 

Where are the Senoritas ? "

'' What's that to you ? " saucily retorted
the maid.

Nothing, if I only knew they were safe."

Safe ! Why what's the man thinking 
talking about ? Have you lost your senses,
honore f "

o, Pepita. But the ladies have lost
something. Look here ! "

He had plunged both hands into his
pockets, and drawn them out again full of
things that scintillated in the moonlight 
watches and jewellery of different kinds, as

she saw. With a woman's curiosity, gliding
swiftly forward to examine them, she recognised
every article at a glance, amazement
overspreading her countenance, as it lately
had his.

y4 de mi ./ " she exclaimed, no longer in
jesting tone. " What does it all mean,
Jose ? "

Just what I want to know myself, and
why I am asking after the Senoritas. But
where are they ? "

In the garden, or the grounds somewhere.
They strolled out about an hour
ao[o, and haven't been in since."

Pray God, they're still alive ! Come
with me, Pepita. Let us look for them. I
have terrible fears."

So appealed to, the girl gave ready assent
; and side by side they hastened towards
the rear of the house, behind which were the

ornamental grounds extending backwards.
But they had not far to go before hearing
sounds that set their minds at rest, removing;
all anxiety  the voices of the ladies themselves.
They were not only alive, but
laughing !

To Jose and Pepita this seemed strange as
anything else  a perfect mystery. Merry
after parting with all those pretty things ;
costly, too  worth hundreds of Dolores I
Withal, they were so ; their lightness of
heart due to the knowledge thus gained,
that their own lovers were still living and
safe ; and something of merriment, added
by that odd encounter with the enano, of
which they were yet conversing.

If their behaviour mystified their servants,
not less were they themselves puzzled, when
Jose presented himself before them with
hands held out, saying :

I ask your pardon for intruding, but
don't these belong to your ladyships ? "

They saw their watches and other effects
obtained from them by "false pretences,"
as they were now to learn.

The revelation that succeeded put an end
to their joyous humour ; their hearts that
had been light for a moment were now
becoming heavier than ever. The treachery
of the hunchback and his intentions were
manifest. He meant to guide Santander and
his soldiers to the old monastery where they
would take the patriots by surprise.

What is to be done, Ysabel ? " despairingly
asked the Donna Luisa. 'how can
we give them warning ? "

To which the cicero, not the Countess
made answer, saying :

I can do that, SenoritaJ'

His confident tone reassured them ; more

still his making known the design lie had
already conceived, and his ability to execute
it. He was acquainted with the old convent
and the paths leading to it  every inch of
them.

It needed not their united appeal to urge
him to immediate departure. He was off the
instant after, and long before the clock of
Talpam had struck the midnight hour well
up the mountain road with eyes looking to
the right, in the direction of the Cerro Ajusgo.

39

MONKS NO More.

IHE surmise which had influenced
Zorillo to leaving the convent cell
earlier than he intended was a
correct one. The goings on in the Refectory
were, at the time, of an unusual kind  a
grand occasion, as he had worded it. There
were some fifty men in it ; but not one of
them now affecting either the garb or the
behaviour of the monk. Soldiers all ; or

at least in warlike guise ; a few wearing
regular though undress uniforms, but the
majority habited as " guerilleros," in the
picturesque costumes of their country. They
were booted, and belted, swords by their
sides, with pistols in holsters hanging against
the walls, and spurs ready for buckling on.
Standing in corners were stacks of carbines,
and lances freshly pennoned, with their blades
bright from being recently sharpened  a
panoply which spoke of fighting ere long
expected to take place.

It may be asked, where were their horses,
since all the arms and accoutrements seen
around were those of cavalry ? But horses
they had, though not there. Each knew
where to lay hands on his own, far or near,
stalled in the stable of some sequestered
rancho, or it might be mountain cavern.
They were not yet assembled to hearken to

the call of '' Boot and Saddle ". That they
would hear at a later hour, and in a different
place.

The occasion of their being in such guise
and together, was because it was to be the
last night of their sojourn in the monastery.
And they were making it a merry one ; the
Refectory table was being loaded with the
best that was left to them in meats and
drinks. Upon it were what bottles remained
of those famous wines from the bins of the
rich hacienda  his forced contribution 
and they were fast getting emptied. From
the way the convives were quaffing, it was
not likely that any of the Burgundy, Madeira,
or Pedro Ximenes would be left behind  not
even a " heel-tap ".

It had got to be midnight, and they were
still in the midst of the revelry, when Eivas,
who headed the table, rose to his feet, in

that formal manner which tells of speech to
be made or toast proclaimed.

Cataracts ! " he said, as soon as the buzz
of conversation had ended, " As you're aware,
we part from this place to-night ; and some
of you know whither we are going, and for
what purpose. But not all ; therefore I deem
it my duty to tell you. You saw a courier
who came up early this morning  bringing
good news, I'm glad to say. This despatch
I hold in my hand is from an old friend.
General Alvarez; who, though he may not
boast sangre-acid in his veins, is as brave
a soldier, and pure a patriot, as any in the
land. You know that. He tells me his
Pints are ready for a rising, and only wait
for us  the '' Free Lances "  with some others
he has summoned to join him in giving the
grit. By his messenger I have sent answer
that we, too, are ready, and will respond to

his summons. ' You all approve of that, I
take it 1 "

All ! " was the exclaim in chorus, without
a dissenting voice.

Moreover," proceeded the speaker, " I've
told the General we'll be on the march tomorrow
morning, and can meet him at a
place he has mentioned the day after. His
plan is to attack the town of Oaxaca ; and, if
we succeed in taking it, then we move direct
on the capital.

Now, cataracts ; I've nothing more to
say ; only that you're to scatter after your
horses, and lose no time in mustering
again  the old rendezvous, this side La
Guard."

So ended the speech of the Free Lances'
leader, but despite the suggestions of immediate
departure, the circle around the table
did not instantly break up.

The bottles were not all empty as yet,
nor the revellers satisfied to leave them till
they should be so. Besides, there was no
particular need of haste for another hour
or two. So they stuck to the table, smoking,
drinking, and toasting many things, as persons,
among the latter their lately joined allies
the Iiiandes and Tejano, about whose
proved valour on other fields, of which they
had heard, the Free Lances were enthusiastically
eloquent.

Kearney, speaking in their own tongue,
made appropriate response ; while Rock,
when told he had been toasted, delivered
himself in characteristic strain, saying : 

'' Feller-citizens,  For since I tuk up yur
cause, I reckon you'll give me leave to call ye
so  it air a glad thing to this chile to think
he'll soon lev a bit o' fighting'. An 'specially
as its to be again ole Santy, the turned

skunk. By the jumping' Geehosofat ! if Oris
Rock ever gits alongside him again, as he war
on't San Dainty, there want be no more
mercy for the cussed tyrant, same as, like
a set of fools, we Texans showed him thar
an' then. Tell them what I saved. Cap."

With which abrupt wind-up he dropped
back upon his seat, gulping down a tumblerful
of best Madeira, as though it were
table-beer.

Kearney did tell them, translating his
comrade's speech faithfully as the patois
would permit ; which heightened their enthusiasm,
many of them starting to their
feet, rushing round the table, and, Mexican
fashion, enfolding the Tejano in friendly
embrace.

The hugging at an end, there was yet
another toast to follow, the same which always
wound up the festivals of the " Free

Lances," whatever the occasion. Their leader,
as often before, now again pronounced it 

Patria y Libertas ! "

And never before did it have more enthusiastic
reception, the cheer that rang through
the old convent, louder than any laughter
of monks who may have ever made it their
home.

Ere it had ceased reverberating, the door
of the refectory was suddenly pushed open,
and a man rushed into the room, as he
entered, crying out 

Traicioii ! "

Treason ! " echoed fifty voices as one,
all again starting to their feet, and turning
faces toward the alarmist. The mayor-domo
it was, who, as the other mozos, was half
equipped for a journey.

What mean you, Gregorio ? " demanded
his master.

There's one can tell you better than I,
Don Euperto."

Who ? Where is he 1 "

Outside, Senor. A messenger who has
just come u  he's from San Augustin."

But how has he passed our sentry."

*' Ah ! capitan ; I'd rather he told you
himself."

Mysterious speech on the part of the
mayor-domo, which heightened the apprehension
of those hearing it.

Call him hither ! " commanded Eivas.

No calling was needed ; the person spoken
of being in the environ close by ; and
Gregorio, again opening the door, drew him
inside.

The cicero ! mentally exclaimed Eivas,
Kearney, and the Texan, soon as setting eyes
on him.

The cicero it was, Jose, though they

knew not his name nor anything more of
him than what they had learned in that note
of the Condesa s saying that he could be
trusted, and their brief association with
him afterwards  which gave them proof that
he could.

As he presented himself inside the room he
seemed panting for breath, and really was
He had only just arrived up the steep climb,
and exchanged hardly half a dozen words
with the mayor-domo, who had met him
at the outside entrance.

Announced as a messenger, neither the
Captain of the Free Lances nor Florence
Kearney needed telling who sent him.
A sweet intuition told them that. Eivas
but asked,

How have you found the way up here ? "

Por Dios ! Senor, I've been here before 
many's the time. I was born among these

mountains  am well acquainted with all the
paths everywhere around."

But the sentry below. How did you get
past him ? You haven't the countersign ! "

He wouldn't have heard it if I had, Senor.
Pore ! he'll never hear countersign again 
nor anything else."

Why ? Explain yourself ! "

Esta puerto ! He's lies at the bottom
of the cliff his body crushed  "

Who has done it ? Who's betrayed us ? "
interrupted a volley of voices.

"The hunchback, Zorillo," answered Jos,
to the astonishment of all. For in the
dialogue between the dwarf and Santander,
he had heard enough to anticipate the ghastly
spectacle awaiting him on his way up the
mountain.

Cries of anger and vengeance were simultaneously
sent up ; all showing eager to rush

from the room. They but waited for a word
more.

Eivas, however, suspecting that the messenger
meant that word for himself, claimed
their indulgence, and led him outside, inviting
Kearney to accompany them.

Though covering much ground, and relating to
many incidents, the cocheros story was quickly
told. Not in the exact order of occurrence,
but as questioned by his impatient listeners.
He ran rapidly over all that happened, since
their parting at the corner of the Coyoacan
road, the latter events most interesting them.
Surprised were they to hear that Don Ignacio
and his daughter for some time had been
staying at San Augustin  the Condesa with
them. Had they but known that before,
in all probability things would not have been
as now. Possibly they might have been
worse ; though, even as they stood, there was

enough danger impending over all. As for
themselves, both Mexican and Irishman, less
recked of it, as they thought of how they were
being warned, and by whom. That of itself
was recompense for all their perils.

Meanwhile, those left inside the room were
chafing to learn the particulars of the treason,
though they were not all there now. Some
had sallied out, and gone down the cliff to
bring up the body of their murdered comrade ;
others, the mayor-domo conducting, back to
the place where the hunchback should be, but
was not. There to find confirmation of what
had been said. The cell untenanted ; the window
bar filed through and broken ; the file
lying by it, and the chain hanging down
outside.

Intelligible to them now was the tale of
treason, without their hearing it told.

When once more they assembled in the

Refectory, it was with chastened, saddened
hearts. For they had come from digging a
grave, and lowering into it a corpse. Again
gathered around the table they drank the
stirrup-cup, as was their wont, but never so
joylessly, or with such stinted acclaim.

ONLY EMPTY Bottles'

BOUT the time the Free Lances
were burying their comrade in the
cemetery of the convent, the gate
of San Antonio de Bad was opened to
permit the passage of a squadron of Hussars
going outward from the city. There were
nigh 200 of them, in formation *' by fours "
the wide causeway allowing ample room
for even ten abreast.

At their head rode Colonel Santander,
with Major Eamirez by his side, other officers
in their places distributed along the line.

Soon as they had cleared the garita, a
word to the bugler, with a note or two
from his trumpet quick succeeding, set them
into a gallop ; the white dusty road and clear
moonlight making the fastest pace easily
attainable. And he who commanded was in
haste, his destination being that old monastery,
of which he had only lately heard,
but enough to make him most eager to reach
it before morning. His hopes were high ; at
last was he likely to make a coujj  that
capture so much desired, so long delayed !

For nearly an hour bridles were let loose,
and spurs repeatedly plied. On along the
canada swept the squadron, over the bridge
Churubusco, and past the hacienda of San
Antonio de Bad, which gives its name to
310

the city gate on that side. Thenceforward
the Pedregal impinges on the road, and the
Hussars still going at a gallop along its
edge, another bugle-call brought them to a
halt.

That, however, had naught to do with their
halting, which came from their commander,
having reached the spot where he had left
the hunchback in charge of the two
soldiers.

He need not hailing them to assure himself
they were still there. The trampling of
horses on the hard causeway, heard afar off,
had long ago forewarned the corporal of
what was coming ; and he was out on the
road to receive them, standing in an attitude
of attention.

The parley was brief, and quick the action
which accompanied it.

Into your saddle, cato ! " commanded the

colonel. " Take that curiosity up behind you
and bring it along."

In an instant the corporal was mounted,
the " curiosity " hoisted up to his croup
by Perico, who then sprang to the back of
his own horse. Once more the bugle gave
tongue, and away they went again.

The cavalcade made no stop in San Augustin.
There was no object for halting it there,
and delay was the thing its commander most
desired to avoid. As they went clattering
through the pueblo its people were a-bed,
seemingly asleep. But not all. Two at least
were awake, and heard that unusual noise 
listened to it with a trembling in their frames
and fear in their hearts. Two ladies they
were, inside a house beyond the village, on
the road running south. Too well knew they
what it meant, and whither the galloping
cohort was bound. And themselves unseen,

they saw who was at the head ; though they
needed not seeing him to know. But peering
through the jalousies, the moonlight
revealed to them the face of Don Carlos
Santander, in the glimpse they got of it,
showing spitefully triumphant.

He could not see them, though his eyes
interrogated the windows while he was riding
past. They had taken care to extinguish the
light in their room.

Virgin Santissima / Mother of God ! "
exclaimed one of the ladies, Luisa Yalverde,
as she dropped on her knees in prayer, " Send
that they've got safe off ere this ! "

Make your mind easy, ainiga f " counselled
the Condesa Almonte in less precatory tone.
I'm good as sure they have. Jose cannot
fail to have reached and given them warning.
That will be enough."

A mile or so beyond San Augustin the

southern road becomes too steep for horses to
go at a gallop, without risk of breaking their
wind. So there the Hussars had to change
to a slower pace  a walk in fact. There were
other reasons for coming to this. The sound
of their hoof-strokes ascending; would be
heard far up the mountain, might reach the
ears of those in the monastery, and so thwart
the surprise intended for them.

While toiling more leisurely up the steep,
any one chancing to look in the hunchback's
face would there have observed an expression
indescribable. Sadness pervaded it, with an
air of perplexity, as though he had met
with some misfortune he could not quite
comprehend.

And so had he. Before leaving the spot
where the stiletto was taken from him, he
had sought an opportunity to step back
into that shady niche in the cliff where he

had lost his treasures. The monte players,
unsuspicious of his object, made no objection.
But instead of there finding what he expected,
he saw only a pair of horse-halters : one lying
coiled upon the ground, the head-stall of
the other caught over the rock above, the
rope end dangling down !

An inexplicable phenomenon which, however,
he had kept to himself, and ever since
been cudgelling his brains to account for.

But soon after he had something else to
think of ; the time having arrived when he was
called upon to give proof of his capability
as a guide. Heretofore it had been all plain
road riding ; but now they had reached a
point spoken of by himself, where the canada
must be forsaken. The horses, too, left
behind ; everything but their weapons ; the
path beyond being barely practicable for men
afoot.

Dismounting all, at a command  this time
not given by the bugle  and leaving a
sufficient detail to look after the animals,
they commenced the ascent, their guide,
seemingly more quadruped than biped, in
the lead. Strung out in single file  no other
formation being possible  as they wound
their way up the zig-zag with the moonlight
here and there, giving back the glint
of their armour, it was as some great serpent
a monster of the antediluvian ages  crawling
towards its prey. Silently as serpent too ;
not a word spoken, nor exclamation uttered
along their line. For, although it might
be another hour before they could reach
their destination, less than a second would
suffice for their voices to get there, even
though but muttered.

One spot their guide passed with something
like a shudder. It was where he had appropriated

the dagger taken from a dead body.
His shuddering was not due to that, but to
fear from a far different cause. The body was
no longer there. Those who dwelt above
must have been down and borne it away.
They would now be on the alert, and at any
moment he might hear the cracking of carbines
 a volley ; perhaps feel the avenging
bullet ! What if they should roll rocks down
and crush him and the party behind ? In
any case there could be no surprisal now ;
and he would gladly have seen those he was
guiding give up the thought of it and turn
back. Santander was himself irresolute, and
would willingly have done so. But Eamirez,
a man of more mettle, at the ]Point of his
sword commanded the hunchback to keep
on, and the cowardly colonel dare not revoke
the order without eternally disgracing himself.


They had no danger to encounter, though
they knew not that. Neither vidette nor
sentinel was stationed there now ; and, without
challenge or obstruction, they reached
the platform on which the building stood,
the soldiers taking to right and left till they
swarmed around it as bees. But they found
no honey inside that hive.

There was a summons to surrender, which
received no response. Repeated louder, and
a carbine fired, the result was the same.
Silence inside, there could be no one T\T.thin.

Nor was there. When the Hussar colonel,
with a dozen of his men, at length screwed
up courage to make a burst into the doorway,
and on to the refectory, they saw but the
evidence of late occupancy in the fragments
of a supper, with some dozens of wine bottles
down among the dead men," empty as the
buildings itself.

Disappointed as were the soldiers at finding
them so, but still more their commanding
officer at his hated enemies having again
got away from him. His soul was brimful
of chagrin, nor did it allay the feeling to
learn how, when a path was pointed out to
him leading down the other side, they must
have made off. And along such a path
pursuit was idle. No one could say where
it led  like enough to a trap.

He was not the only one of the party who
felt disappointed at the failure of the expedition.
Its guide had reason to be chagrined,
too, in his own way of thinking, much more
than the leader himself. For not only had he
lost the goods obtained under false pretences,
but the hope of reward for his volunteered
services.

Still the dwarf was not so down in the
mouth. He had another arrow in his quiver

kept in reserve for reasons of his oti 
a shaft from which he expected more profit
than all yet sjDcnt. And as the Hussar colonel
was swearing and raising around, he saw his
opportunity to discharge it. With half a
dozen whispered words he tranquillised the
latter ; after which there was a brief conference
between the two, its effect upon Santander
showing itself in his countenance, that
became all agieam, lit up with a satisfied but
malignant joy.

When, in an hour after, they were again
in their saddles riding in return for the City,
a snatch of dialogue between Santander and
Eamirez gave indication of what so gratified
the colonel of Hussars.

Well, Major," he said " we've done road
enough for this day. You'll be wanting rest
by the time you get to quarters."

That's true enough. Colonel. Twice to

San Augustin and back, with the additional
mileage up the mountains  twenty leagues, I
take it  to say nothing of the climbing."

"All of twenty leagues it will be, when
we've done with it. But our ride won't be
over then. If I'm not mistaken, we'll be
back this way before we lay side on a bed.
There's another nest not far off will claim a
visit from us, one we're not likely to find so
empty. I'd rob it now if I had my way ;
but, for certain reasons, mus'nt without
permit from Head Quarters ; the which I'm
sure of getting ! Carajo ! if the cock birds
have escaped, I'll take care the hens don't."

And as if to make sure of it he dug the
spurs deep into the flanks of his now jaded
charger, again commanding the " quick
gallop".

A DAY OF SUSPENSE.

AWN was just beginning to show
over the eastern Cordilleras, its
aurora giving a rose tint to the
snowy cone of Popocatepec, as the Hussars
passed back through San Augustin. The bells
of the paroqida had commenced tolling matins
and many people abroad in the streets, hurrying
toward the church, saw them  interrogating
one another, as to where they had been,
and on what errand bound.

But before entering the pueblo, they had to
pass under the same eyes that observed them
going outward on the other side ; these more
keenly and anxiously scrutinising them now,
noting every file as it came in sight, every
individual horseman, till the last was revealed;
then lighting up with joyous sparkle, while
they thus observing, breathed freely.

For the soldiers had come as they went ; nota
man added to their number, if none missing;
but certainly no prisoners brought back !

They've got safe off," triumphantly exclaimed
the Countess, when the rearmost files
had forged past, " as I told you they would ;
I knew there was no fear after they had been
warned."

That they had been warned both were by
this aware ; their messenger having meanwhile
returned and reported to that effect. He had
met the Hussars on their way up ; but crouching

among some bushes, he had been unobserved
by them ; and, soon as they were well
out of the way, slipped out again and made all
haste home.

He had brought back something more thana
mere verbal message  a hilletita for each of
the two who had commissioned him.

The notes were alike, in that both had been
hastily scribbled, and in brief but warm expression
of thanks for the service done to the
writers. Beyond this, however, they were
quite different. It was the first epistle
Florence Kearney had ever indited to Louisa
Valverde, and ran in fervid strain. He felt he
could so address her. With love long in doubt
that it was even reciprocated, but sure of its
being so now, he spoke frankly, as passionately.
Whatever his future, she had his heart,
and wholly. If he lived he would seek her
again at the peril of a thousand lives ; if it

should be his fate to die, her name would bethe
last word on his lips.

Virgin Santissima ! Keep him safe ! "
was her prayer, as she finished devouring
the sweet words ; then, refolding the sheet
on which they were written, secreted it away
in the bosom of her dress  a treasure more
esteemed than aught that had ever lain
there.

The communication received by the Con-des
was less effusive, and more to the point
of what, under present circumstances, concerned
the writer  as, indeed, all of them.
Don Rupert wrote with the confidence of
a lover who had never known doubt. A man
of rare qualities, he was true to friendship
as to his country's cause, and would not be
false to love. And he had no fear of her.
His liens with Ysabel Almonte were such as
to preclude all thought of her affections ever

cliaiio;mo. He knew that she was hie 
heart, soul, everything. For had she not
given him every earnest of it  befriended
him thronoh weal and throng-h woe ? Nor

o o

had he need to assure her that her love was
reciprocated, or his fealty still unfaltering ;
for their faith, as their reliance, was mutual.
His letter, therefore, was less that of a lover
to his mistress, than one between man and
man, written to a fellow-conspirator ; most
of it in figurative phrase, even some of it
in cypher I

No surprise to her all that ; she understood
the reason. Nor was there any enigma
in the signs and words of double signification
; without difficulty she interpreted
them all.

They told her of the anticipated rising,
with the attempt to be made on Oaxaca ;
the hopes of its having a success ; and, if so,
311

what would come after. But also of something
before this where he, the writer, and
his Free Lances would be on the following
night, so that if need arose she could communicate
with him. If she had apprehension
of danger to him, he was not without
thought of the same threatening herself, and
her friend too.

Neither where they now ; instead, filled
with such apprehension. In view of what
had occurred on the preceding evening, and
throughout the night, how could they be
other 1 The dwarf must know more than
he had revealed in that dialogue overheard
by Jose. In short, he seemed aware of
everything  the cicero's complicity, as their
own. The free surrender of their watches
and jewellery for the support of the escaped
prisoners were of itself enough to incriminate
them. Surely would there be another investigation,

more rigorous than before, and
likely to have a different ending.

With this in contemplation, their souls
full of fear, neither went that morning to
matins. Nor did they essay to take sleep
or rest. Instead, wandered about the house
from room to room, and out into the grounds
seemingly distraught.

They had the place all to themselves ; no
one to take counsel nth, none to comfort
them ; Don Ignacio, at an early hour, having
been called off to his duties in the city.
But they were not destined to spend the
whole of that day without seeing a visitor.
As the clocks of San Augustin were striking
8 p.m. one presented himself at the gate,
in the guise of an officer of Hussars  Don
Carlos Santander. Nor was he alone, but
with an escort accompanying. They were
seated in the verandah of the inner court,

but saw him through the saguan, the door
of which was open ; saw him enter at the
outer gate, and without dismounting come
on towards them, several files of his men
following. He had been accustomed to visit
them there, and they to receive his visits,
however reluctantly ; reasons of many kinds
compelling them. But never had he presented
himself as now. It was an act of ill-manners
his entering unannounced ; another riding
into the enclosure with soldiers behind him ;
but the rudeness was complete when he came
on into the patio still in the saddle  his
men, too  and pulled up directly in front of
them, without waiting for word of invitation.
The stiff formal bow ; the expression upon
his swarthy features, severe, but with ill-concealed
exultation in it, proclaimed his visit
of no complimentary kind.

By this both where on their feet, looking

offended  even angry  at the same time
alarmed. And yet little surprised ; for it
was only confirmation of the fear that had
been all day oppressing them  its very
fulfilment. But that they believed it this,
they would have shown their resentment by
retiring and leaving; him there. As it was,
they knew that would be idle, and so stayed
to hear what he had to say. It was 

*' Senoritas, I see you're wondering at my
thus presenting myself. Not strange you
should. Nor could anyone more regret the
disagreeable errand I've come upon than I.
It grieves me sorely, I assure you."

"What is it. Colonel Santander ? " demanded
the Countess, with sang-froid partially
restored.

"I hate to declare it, Condesa," he rejoined;
still more to execute it. But compelled
by the rigorous necessities of a soldier's duty,
I must.

Well, sir ; must what ? "

Make you a prisoner ; and, I am sorry to
add, also the Dona Luisa."

Oh, that's it ! " exclaimed the Countess,
with a scornful inclination of the head.
Well, sir, I don't wonder at your disliking
the duty, as you say you do. It seems more
that of a policeman than a soldier."

The retort struck home, still further
humiliating him in the eyes of the woman
he loved, Luisa Yalverde. But he now
knew she loved not him ; and had made
up his mind to humble her, in a way hitherto
untried. Stung by the innuendo, and
dropping his clumsy pretence at politeness,
he spitefully rejoined : 

"Thank you, Condesa Almonte, for your
amiable observation. It does something to
compensate me for having to do policeman's
duty. And now let it be done. Please to

consider yourself under arrest ; and you
also, Senorita Valverde."

Up to this time the last-named lady had
not said a word ; the distress she was in restraining
her. But as mistress there, she
saw it was her turn to speak, which she
did, saying : 

If we are your prisoners, Colonel Santander,
I hope you will not take us away
from here till my father comes home. As
you may be aware, he's in the city."

I am aware of that. Dona Luisa ; and
glad to say my orders enable me to comply
nth your wishes, and that you remain here
till Don Ignacio returns. I'm enjoined to
see to your safe keeping. A very absurd requirement,
but one which often falls to the
lot of the soldier as well as the policeman''

Neither the significant words nor the forced
laugh that accompanied them had any effect

on her for whom they were intended. "With
disdain in her eyes, such as a captive queen
might show for the common soldier who
stood guard over her, the Condesa had already
turned her back upon the speaker and was
walking away. With like proud air, but
less confident and scornful, Luisa Valverde
followed. Both were allowed to pass inside,
leaving the Hussar colonel to take such
measures for their keeping as he might
think fit.

His first step was to order in the remainder
of his escort and distribute them around the
house ; so that in ten minutes after the casa
de campo of Don Ignacio Valverde bore
resemblance to a barrack, with sentinels at
every entrance and corner 1

Under AEEEST.

jCAECE necessary to say that Luisa
Yalverde and Ysabel Almonte were
at length really alarmed  fully
alive to a sense of their danger.

It was no more a question of the safety
of their lovers, but their own. And the
prospect was dark, indeed. Santander had
said nothing of the reason for arresting them ;
nor had they cared to inquire. They divined

it ; no longer doubting that it was owing to
revelations made by the hunchback.

Sure now that this diminutive wretch not
only himself knew their secret, but had made
it known in higher quarters, there seemed
no hope for them ; instead, ruin staring them
in the face. The indignity to their persons
they were already experiencing, would be followed
by social disgrace, and confiscation of
property.

0, Ysabelita ! what will they do to us ? "
was the Dona Luisa's anxious interrogatory,
soon as they had got well inside their room.
Do you think they'll put us in a prison 1 "

'' Possibly they will. I wish there was
nothing worse awaiting us."

Worse ! Do you mean they'd inflict
punishment on us  that is, corporal punishment
? Surely they aren't ? "

Aren't ! Santa Anna dare anything 

at least, neither slime nor mercy will restrain
him. No more this other man, his minion,
whom you know better than I. But it isn't
punishment of that kind I'm thinking of."

"What then, Ysabel? The loss of our
property ? It'll be all taken from us, I
suppose."

"In aU likelihood it will," rejoined the
Condesa, with as much unconcern as though
her estates, value for more than a million,
were not worth a thought.

Oh ! my poor father ! This new misfortune,
and all owing to me. 'Twill kill him ! "

No, no, Lusita ! Don't fear that. He
will survive it, if aught survives of our
country's liberty. And it will, all of it,
be restored again. 'Tis something else I
was thinking; of."

Again the other asked " What ? " her
countenance showing increased anxiety.

What we as women have more to fear
than aught else. From the loss of lands,
houses, riches of any sort, one may recover 
from the loss of that, never ? "

Enigmatic as were the words, Luisa
Valverde needed no explanation of them ;
nor pressed for it. She comprehended all
now, and signified her apprehension by exclaiming,
with a shudder. " Virgin 
! "

The prison they will take us to," pursued
the Countess, "is a place  that in the Plaza
Grande. We shall be immured there, and at
the mercy of that man, that monster !
God ! Mother of God, protect me ! "

At which she dropped down upon a couch,
despairingly, with face buried in her hands.

It was a rare thing for the Condesa Almonte
to be so moved  rather to show despondence
and her friend was affected accordingly.

For there was another man at whose mercy
she herself would be  one like a monster,
and as she well knew equally unmerciful 
he who at that moment was under the same
roof with them  in her father's house, for
the time its master.

"But, Ysabel," she said, hoping against
hope, " surely they will not dare to "

She left the word unspoken, knowing it
was not needed to make her meaning understood.


Not dare ! " echoed the Countess,
recovering nerve and again rising to her feet.
"As I've said he'll dare anything  will Don
Antonio Lopes de Santa Anna. Besides,
what has he to fear ? Nothing. He can
show good cause for our imprisonment else
he would never have had us arrested. Enough
to satisfy any clamour of the people. And how
would any one ever know of what might be

done to us inside the Palacio ? Ah, Lusita
queries ; if its walls could speak they might
tell tales sad enough to make angels weep.
We wouldst be the first who have been subjected
to insult  ay, infamy  by Ul excellent
Vega me Dios'' she cried out
in conclusion, stamping her foot on the floor,
while the flash of her eyes told of some fixed
determination, "If it be so, that Palace
prison will have another secret to keejD, or a
tale to tell, sad and tragic as any that has
preceded. I, Ysabel Almonte, shall die in it
rather than come out dishonoured."

I, too 1 " echoed Luisa Valverde, if in
less excited manner, inspired by a like heroic
resolve.

While his fair prisoners were thus exchanging
thought and speech, Santander, in
the sola grande outside, was doing his best

to pass the time pleasantly. An effort it
was costing him, however, and one far from
successful. His last lingering hope of being
beloved by Luisa Yalverde was gone  completely
destroyed by what had late come to
his knowledge  and henceforth his love for
her could only be as that of Tarquin for
Lucretia. Nor would he have any CoUatinus
to fear  no rival, martial or otherwise  since
his master, Santa Anna, had long since given
up his designs on Don Ignacio's daughter ;
exclusively bending himself to his scheme
of conquest  now revenge  over the Condesa.
But though relieved in this regard, and likely
to have his own way, Carlos Santander was
anything but a happy man after making
that arrest ; instead, almost as miserable as
either of those he had arrested.

Still keeping up a pretence of gallantry,
he could not command their company in the

drawing-room where lie had installed himself ;
nor, under the circumstances, would it have
been desirable. He was not alone, however ;
Major Eamirez and the other officers of his
escort being there with him ; and, as in like
cases, they where enjoying themselves. However
considerate for the feelings of the ladies,
they made free enough with the house itself,
its domestics, larder, and cocina, and, above
all, the cellar. Its inns were inquired into,
the best wine ordered to be brought from
them, as though they who gave the order
were the guests of an hotel, and Don Ignacio's
drawing-room a drinking saloon.

Outside in the court-yard, and further off
by the coach-house, similar scenes were transpiring.
Never had that quiet casa de
campo known so much noise. For the
soldiers had got among them  it was the house
of a rebel and therefore devoted to ruin.

THE Cochlea DOGGED.

Must after the ladies had been proclaimed
under arrest, but before the
the sentinels were posted around
the house, a man might have been seen outside
their line, making all haste away from it.
He had need, his capture being also contemplated.
Jose it was, who, from a place of
concealment, had not only seen what passed,
but heard the conversation between Santander
312

and the Senoritas. The words spoken by his
young mistress, and the rejoinder received,
were all he waited for. Giving him his cue
for departure, they also gave him hopes of
something more than the saving of his own
life. That the last was endangered he knew
now  forfeited indeed, should he fall into the
hands of those who had invaded the place.
So instead of returning to the stable yard,
from which he had issued on hearing the
fracas in front, he retreated rewards, first
through the ornamental grounds, then over
the wall upon which the hunchback had
perched himself on the preceding night. Jose,
however, did not stay on it for more than a
second's time. Soon as mounting to its
summit, he slid down on the other side, and
ran along the lane in the direction of the
main road.

Before reaching this, however, a reflection

caused him to slacken pace, and then come to
a stop. It was still daylight, and there would
be a guard stationed by the front gate, sure to
see him along; the road. The oTOUDd on the
opposite side of the lane was a patch of rocky
scrub  in short a chapparal  into which in an
instant after he plunged, and when well under
cover again made stop ; this time dropping
down on his hands and knees. The attitude
gave him a better opportunity of listening ;
and listen he did  all ears.

To hear voices all around the house, loudest
in the direction of the stable yard. In tones
not of triumph, but telling of disappointment.
For in truth it was so ; the shouts of the
soldiers searching for his very self, and swearing
because he could not be found. He had
reason to congratulate himself in having got
outside the enclosure. It was now being
quartered everywhere, gardens, grounds and all.

For the time he felt comparatively safe ; but
he dared not return to the lane. And less
show himself on the open road ; as scouting
parties were sure of being sent out after him.
There was no alternative, therefore, but stay
where he was till the darkness came down.
Luckily, he would not have long to wait for it.
The sun had set, and twilight in the Mexican
valley is but a brief interval between day and
night. In a few minutes after commencement,
it is over.

Short as it was it gave him time to consider
his future course of action, though that required
little consideration. It had been
already traced out for him, partly by the
Condesa, in an interview he held with her
but an hour before, and partly by instructions
he had received when up at the old convent
direct from the lips of Don Rupert. Therefore,
hurried as was his retreat, he was not

making it as one who went blindly, and
without definite aim. He had this, with a
point to be reached ; which, could he only
arrive at, not only might his own safety be
secured, but that of those he was equally
anxious about, now more imperilled than
himself.

With a full comprehension of their danger,
and the hope of being able to avert it, soon
as the twilight deepened to darkness, he
forsook his temporary place of concealment ;
and, returning to the lane, glided noiselessly
along it towards the main road. Coming
out upon this, he turned to the left, and
without looking behind, hurried up the hill
as fast as his Hmbs could carry him.

Perhaps better for him had he looked behind
; and yet in the end it might have
been worse. Whether or no, he was followed
by a man  if it were a man  and, if a thing,

not his own shadow. A grotesque creature,
seemingly all arms and legs, moved after,
keeping pace with him, no matter how rapidly
he progressed. Not overtaking him ; though
it looked as if able to do so, but did not wish.
Just so it was  the stalker being Zorilla.

The stalk had risen rather accidentally.
The hunchback  now in a manner attached
to the party of Hussars  had been himself
loitering near the end of the lane, and saw
the cicero as he came out on the road.
He knew the latter was being sought for,
and by no one more zealously than himself.
Besides cupidity, he was prompted by burning
revenge. The disappearance of his ill-gotten
treasure was no longer a mystery to
him. The abandoned halters, with the horses
for which they had been intended, told him
all. Only the cicero could have carried
the things off.

And now, seeing the latter as he stole
away in retreat, his first impulse was to
raise the hue and cry, and set the soldiers
after. But other reflections, quick succeeding,
restrained him. They might not be in time
to secure a capture. In the darkness there
was every chance of the merito eluding
them. X tract of forest was not far ofi", and
he would be into it before they could come
up. Besides, the hunchback had also conjectured
that the failure of their overnight
expedition was due to Jose. He must have
overheard that conversation with the colonel
of Hussars, and carried it direct to those
whom it so seriously concerned, thus saving
them from the surprise intended. In all
likelihood he was now on his way to another
interview with them.

If so, and if he, Zorilla, could but spot
the place, and bring back report of it to

Santander, it would give him a new claim
for services, and some compensation for the
loss he had sustained through the now hated
cicero.

Soon as resolved, he lost not a moment
in making after, keeping just such distance
between as to hinder Jose from observing
him. He had the advantage in being behind ;
as it was all uphill, and from below he could
see the other by the better light above, while
himself in obscurity. But he also availed
himself of the turnings of the road, and the
scrub that grew alongside it, through which
he now and then made way. His long legs
gave a wonderful power of speed, and he
could have come up with the merito at any
moment. He knew that, but knew also
it would likely cost him his life. For the
cicero must be aware of what he had done 
enough to deserve death at his hands. He

might well dread an encounter, and was
careful to avoid it. Indeed, but for his
belief that he was an overmatch for the other
in speed he would not have ventured after
him.

For nearly five miles up the mountain
road the stalk was continued. Then he,
whose footsteps were so persistently dogged,
was seen to turn into a side path, which led
along a ravine still upward. But the change,
of course, did not throw off the sleuth-hound
skulking on his track, the latter also entering
the gorge, and gliding on after.

There it was darker, from the shadow of
the overhanging cliffs ; and for a time the
hunchback lost sight of him he was following.
Still he kept on, groping his way, and at
length was rewarded by seeing a light  a
great blaze. It came from a bivouac fire,
which threw its red glare on the rocks around,

embracing within its circle the forms of men
and horses. Armed men they were, and
horses caparisoned for war ; as could be told
by the glint of weapons and accoutrements
given back to the fire's blaze.

There appeared  to be over a hundred of
them ; but the hunchback did not approach
near enough to make estimate of their number.
Enough for him to know who they
were ; and this knowledge he obtained by
seeing a man of gigantic size standing by
the side of the fire  the 'big Tejano!''
He saw, too, that the cicero had got upon
the ground, his arrival creating an excitement.
But he stayed to see no more : his
purpose was fulfilled ; and turning back
down the ravine, he again got out to the
road, where he put on his best speed in return
for Tlalpam.

Ready TO START.

S in all Mexican country houses of
the class mansion, that of Don
Ignacio Valverde was a quadrangular
structure enclosing an inner courtyard
 the patio. The latter a wide open
area, flagged, in its centre a playing fountain,
with orange trees and other ornamental evergreens
growing in great boxes around it.
Along three sides ran a verandah gallery,

raised a step or two above the pavement,
with a baluster and railing between. Upon
this opened the doors of the different chambers,
as they would into the hall way of an
English house. Being one-storeyed, even the
sleeping apartments were entered direct from
it.

That into which the ladies had retired was
the quarto che camera of Don Luisa herself.
No sentry had been stationed at its door ;
this being unnecessary, in view of one posted
at the entrance to the patio. But through
a casement window, which opened into the
garden at the back, they could see such precaution
had been taken. A soldier out therewith
carbine thrown lightly over his left
arm, was doings his beat backwards and forwards.


As they had no thought of attempting
escape, they might have laughed at this, had

they been in a mood for merriment. But
they were sad, even to utter prostration.

Only for a time, however ; then something
of hope seemed to reanimate the Condesa,
and communicate itself to her companion.
It was after a report brought in by Pepita ;
for the lady's maid was allowed to attend
upon them, coming and going freely.

He's got away  safe ! " were her words,
spoken in a cautious but cheering tone, as
for the second time she came into the room.

Are you sure, Pepita ? "

It was the Countess who put the question.

Quite sure, your ladyship. I've been all
around the place, to the stable, grounds,
everywhere, and couldn't hear or see anything
of him. Oh ! he's gone, and so glad
I am. They'd have made him prisoner too.
Thanks to the Blessed Virgin, they haven't."

The thanksgiving was for Jose, and however

fervent on Pepita's part, it was as fervently
responded to by the others, the
Condesa seeming more especially pleased at
the intelligence.

She better understood its importance, for,
but the hour before, she had given him conditional
instructions, and hoped he might be
now in the act of carrying them out.

Upheld by this hope, which the Dona
Luisa, when told of it shared with her, they
less irksomely passed the hours.

But at length, alas ! it, too, was near being
given up, as the night grew later, nearing
midnight. Then the little mercia came in
charged with new intelligence ; not so
startling, since they anticipated it. The
Dunno had got home, and, as themselves, was
under arrest. Astounded by what he had
learned on return, and angrily protesting,
the soldiers had rudely seized hold of him.

even refusing him permission to speak with
his daughter.

She had harboured a belief that all might
be well on the coming home of her father.
The last plank was shattered now. From
the chair of the cabinet minister Don Ignacio
Valverde would step direct into the cell of
a prison ! Nothing uncommon in the political
history of Mexico  only one of its " costs ".

On their feet they were now, and had come
close to the door, which was held slightly
open by Pepita. There they stood listening
to what was going on outside. The sounds
of revelry lately proceeding from the sala
grande were no more heard. Instead, calls
and words of command in the courtyard, with
a bustle of preparation. Through the trellis-work
they could see a carriage with horses
attached, distinguishable as their own. It
Twas the same which had just brought Don

Ignacio from the city. But the heads of
the frlsones were turned outward, as if it
was intended to take them back. Men on
horseback were moving around it ; soldiers,
as could be seen by their armour gleaming in
the moonlight.

Those reoardino their movements were
not left long in suspense as to their meaning.
One of the soldiers on foot, whose sleeve
chevrons proclaimed him a corporal, stepped
ujD into the corridor, and advancing along it,
halted in front of their door. Seeing it open,
with faces inside, he made a sort of military
salute, in a gruff voice saying :

Senoritas ! Carriage ready. I've orders
to conduct you to it without delay."

There was something offensive in the man's
manner. He spoke with a thick tongue, and
was evidently half intoxicated. But his air
showed him in earnest.

You'll allow US a little time  to put on
our cloaks ? "

The request came from the Condesa, who
for a certain reason was wishful to retard
their departure as long as might be possible.

'' Car red  {/" drawled out the cato, the
same who had won the dagger from darling
Perico. '' I'd allow such beautiful conceals
as you any time  all night  if 'twere only
left to me. For myself, I'd far rather stick
to these snug quarters, and the company of
of this pretty muchacha.''

At which, leaning forward, with a brutish
leer, he attempted to snatch a kiss from
Pepita.

The girl shrunk back, but not till she had
rebuked him vdth an angry retort and a slap
across the cheek. It stung him to losing
temper, and without further ceremony he
said spitefully 

313

Come, come, Til have no more dilly-dallying
; 710S vcunos ! "

There was no alternative but to obey ; his
attitude told them he would insist upon it,
and instantly. Time for cloaking had been
a pretence on their part. They were expecting
the summons, and the wraps were
close at hand. Flinging them around their
shoulders, and drawing the hoods over their
heads, they issued out upon the corridor,
and turned along it  the soldier preceding,
with the air of one who conducted criminals
to execution.

A short flight of steps led down to the
pavement of the court. On reaching these,
they paused and looked below. There was
still a bustling; about the carriage, as if someone
had just been handed into it. Several
of the soldiers were on foot around it, but
the majority were in their saddles ; and of

these three or four could be distinguished as
officers by the greater profusion of gold lace
on their jackets and dolmans  for they were
all Hussars. One who glittered more than
any, seeing them at the head of the stair,
gave his horse a prick with the spur, and
rode up. Colonel Santander it was, like all
the rest somewhat excited by drink ; but still
not so far gone as to forget gallantry, or
rather the pretence of it.

Ladies," he said, T\T.th a bow and air of
maudlin humility, ''I have to apologise for
requiring you to start out on a journey at
such a late hour. Duty is often an ungracious
master. Luckily, your drive is not to be a
very extended one  only to the city ; and
you'll have company in the carriage. The
Dona Luisa t.11 find her father at home."

Neither vouchsafed rejoinder  not a word
scarce giving him the grace of a look.

Which a little nettling him, his smooth tone
changed to asperity, as addressing himself to
the soldier, he gave the abrupt order :

Cato ! take them on to the carriage."

On they were taken ; as they approached it,
perceiving a face inside, pale as the moonbeams
that played upon it. It was a very
picture of dejection ; for never had Don
Ignacio Valverde experienced misery such ashe
felt now.

"tis you, father!" said his daughter, springing
up, throwing her arms around him, and
showering kisses, where tears already trickled.
You a prisoner too !"

Aye, nina mia. But sit down. Don't be
alarmed ! It will all come right. Heaven
will have mercy on us, if men do not. Sit
down, Luisa !"

She sat down mechanically, the Countess
by her side ; and the door was banged to

behind them. Meanwhile, Pepita, who insisted
on accompanying her mistress, had
been handed np to the box by a cicero
strange to her ; one of the soldiers, pressed
into the service for the occasion, a quondam
"jarvey," who understood the handling of
horses as every Mexican does.

All were now ready for the road ; the dismounted
Hussars had vaulted into their
saddles, the " march " was commanded, and
the driver had drawn his whip to lay it on
his horses, when the animals jibbed, rearing
up, and snorting in affright !

No wonder; with such an object suddenly
coming under their eyes. An oddly-shaped
creature that came scrambling; in through
the saguan and made stop beneath their
very noses. A human being withal ; dio,
soon as entering, called out, in a clear voice 

"Where is the Colonel ?"

SUEEENDEE!"

F the carriage horses were startled
by the apparition, no less so were
the Hussars formed round. Equally
frightened these, though not from the same
cause. The hunchback  for it was he  had
become a familiar sight to them ; but not
agitated as he appeared to be now. He was
panting for breath, barely able to gasjD out
the interrogation, " Atone 'steel Coronel ? "

His distraught air and the tone told of
some threatening danger.

Here ! " called out Santander, springing
his horse a length or two forward, " What
is it, sirrah ? "

"The enemy, Senor Coronel," responded
the dwarf, sliding close in to the strip

Enemy ! What enemy 1 "

"Them we missed catching  Don Rupert o,
the Irlandes, the big Tejano."

 Ha ! They ! Where ! "

Close by. S nor. I saw them round
a great camp fire up in the mountains.
They're not there now. I came on to tell
you. I ran as fast as ever I was able,
but they've been following. I could hear
the tramp of their horses behind all the way.
They must be near at hand now. Hark ! "

Patriae y Libertad ! "

The cry came from without, in the tone

of a charging shibboleth, other voices adding,
Mueran los tyrannous ! " Instantaneously succeeded
by the cracking of carbines, with
shouts, and the clash of steel against steel 
the sounds of a hand-to-hand fight, which
the stamping and snorting of horses proclaimed
between cavalry.

Never was conflict of shorter duration ; over
almost before they in the courtyard could
realise its having commenced. The confused
sounds of the melee lasted barely a minute
when a loud huzza, drowning the hoof-strokes
of the retreating horses, told that victory had
declared itself for one side or the other. They
who listened were not long in doubt as to
which sent up that triumphant cheer. Through
the front gate, standing open, burst a mass of
mounted men, some carrying lances couched
for the thrust, others with drawn sabres, many
of their blades dripping blood. On came they

into the courtyard, still vociferating : " Mueran
los tyrannous !" while he at their head soon as
shoeing[ himself, called out in a commanding;
voice, '' Erudite ?"

By this a change had taken place in the
tableau of figures beside the carriage. The
Hussars having reined back, had gathered in a
ruck around their colonel, irresolute how to
act. Equally unresolved he to order them.
That cry, " Country and Liberty," had struck
terror to his heart ; and now seeing those it
came from, recognising; the three who rode
foremost  as in the clear moonlight he could
the blood of the craven ran cold. They
were the men he had subjected to insult, direct
degradation ; and he need look for no mercy
at their hands. With a spark of manhood,
even such as despair sometimes inspires, he
would have shown fight. Major Eamirez
would, and did ; for at the first alarm he had

galloped out to the gate and there met
death.

Not so Santander, who, although he had
taken his sword out of its scabbard, made no
attempt to use it, but sat shivering in his
saddle as if the weapon was about to drop
from his hand.

On the instant after a blade more firmly
held, and better wielded, flashed before his
eyes ; he who held it, as he sprung his horse
up, crying out :

'' Carlos Santander ! your hour has come !
Scoundrel ! This time I intend killing you."

Even the insulting: threat stung; him not to
resistance. Never shone moonlight on more
of a poltroon, the glitter and grandeur of his
warlike dress in striking contrast with his
cowardly mien.

Miserable wretch," cried Kearney  for it
was he who confronted him  " I don't want to

kill you in cold blood. Heaven forbid my
doing murder. Defend yourself."

He defend himself !" scornfully exclaimed a
voice  that of Oris Rock. " He assent as
much as do that. He hasn't the steel shirt on
now."

Yet another voice at this moment made
itself heard, as a figure feminine became
added to the group. Luisa Yalverde it was,
who, rushing out of the carriage and across
the courtyard, cried out 

Spare his life, Don Florencio. He's not
worthy of your sword."

You're right thar, young lady," endorsed
the Texan, answering for Kearney. " That
he ain't  an' bare worth the bit o' lead that's
inside o' this ole pistol. For all, FU make
him a present o' 't  thar, dang ye."

The last words were accompanied by a flash
and a crack, causing Santander's horse to shy

and rear u|). When the fore hoofs of the
animal returned to the flags, they but missed
coming down upon the body of its rider, now
lying lifeless along them.

That's gin him his quietus, I reeking,"
observed Rock, as he glanced down at the
dead man, whose face upturned had the full
moonlight upon it, showing handsome features,
that withal were forbidding in life, but now
more so in the ghastly pallor of death.

No one stayed to gaze upon them, least of
all the Texan ; who had yet another life to
take, as he deemed in the strict execution
duty and satisfaction of justice. For it too
was forfeit by the basest betrayal. The
soldiers were out of their saddles now,
prisoners all ; having surrendered without
striking a blow. But crouching away in a
shadowy corner was that thing of deformity,
who, from his diminutive size might well

have escaped observation. He did not, however.
The Texan had his eyes on him all
the while, having caught a glimpse of him
as they were riding in at the gate. And in
those eyes now gleamed the light of a
vengeance not to be allayed save by a life
sacrificed. If Santander on seeing Kearney
believed his hour was come, so did the dwarf
as he saw Oris Rock striding towards him.
Caught by the collar, and dragged out into
the light he knew death was near now.

In vain his protestations and piteous
appeals. Spite of all, he had to die. And
a death so unlike that usually meted out to
criminals, as he himself to the commonality
of men. No weapon was employed in putting
an end to him ; neither gun nor pistol, sword
nor knife. Letting; o;o hold of his collar,
the Texan grasped him around the ankles,
and nth a brandish raising him aloft, brought

his head down upon the pavement. There
was a crash as the breaking of a cocoa-nut
shell by a hammer ; and when Rock let go,
the mass of mis-shapen humanity dropped
in a dollop upon the flags, arms and legs
limp and motionless, in the last not even the
power left for a spasmodic kick.

Ye know, Cap," said the Texan, justifying
himself to Kearney, "I'd be the last man
to do a cruel thing. But to rid the world o'
sech varmint as them, 'cording to my way o'
thinking, air the purest humanity."

A doctrine which the young Irishman was
not disposed to dispute just at that time,
being otherwise and better occupied, holding
soft hands in his, words exchanging with
sweet lips, not unaccompanied by kisses.
Near at hand Don Rupert was doing the
same, his vis-a-vis being the Condesa.

But these moments of bliss were brief  had

need be. The raid of the Free Lances down to
San Augustin was a tiling of risk, only to have
been attempted by lovers who believed their
loved ones were in deadly danger. In another
hour or less, the Hussars who had escaped
would report themselves at San Angel and
Chapultepec  then there would be a rush of
thousands in the direction of Tlalpam.

So there was in reality  soldiers of all arms,
"horse, foot, and dragoons". But on arrival
there they found the house of Don Ignacio
Yalverde untenanted ; even the domestics
had gone out of it ; the carriage, too, which
has played such an important part in our tale,
along with the noble prisoner. The horses
had not been taken out of it, nor any change
made in the company it carried off. Only
in the driver, the direction, and cortege.
Jose again held the reins, heading his horses
up the mountain road, instead of towards

Mexico ; while in place of Colonel Santander's
Hussars, the Free Lances of Captain Euperto
Eivas now formed a more friendly escort.

CONCLUSION.

BOUT a month after in San Augustin,
[Pi a small two-masted vessel  a goleta
might have been observed standing
on tacks off the coast of Oaxaca, as if
working against the land wind to make to
the mouth of Eio Tecoyama  a stream which
runs into the Pacific near the south-western
corner of that State. Only sharp eyes
could have seen the schooner; for it was
314

night, and the night was a very dark one.
There were eyes sharply on the look-out for
her, however, anxiously scanning the horizon
to leeward, some of them through glasses.
On an elevated spot among the mangroves,
by the river's mouth, a party was assembled,
in all, about a score individuals. They were
mostly men, though not exclusively ; three
female figures being distinguishable, as forming
part of the group. Two of them had the
air, and wore the dress, of ladies, somewhat
torn and travel stained ; the third was in
the guise of a maid-servant attending them.
They were the Condesa Almonte, the Don
Luisa Yalverde, and her ever faithful Pepita.

Among the men were six, with whom the
reader has acquaintance. Don Ignacio,
Kearney, Rock, Eivas, Jose, aud he who
had been major-domo in the old monastery,
baptismal named Gregorio. Most of the

others, described, had also spent some time
in the establishment with the monks while
playing the part of Free Lances. They
were, in fact, a remnant of the band  now
broken up and dispersed.

But why I When last seen it looked as
though their day of triumph had come, or
was at all events near. So would it have
been but for a betrayal, through which the
pronunciamento had miscarried, or rather did
not come off. The Dictator, well informed
about it  further warned by what occurred
at San Augustin  had poured troops over
the Sierras into Oaxaca in force sufficient to
awe the leaders of the intended insurrection.
It was but by the breadth of a hair that
his late Cabinet Minister, and those who
accompanied him, were able to escape to
the sequestered spot where we find them,
on the shore of the South Sea. To Alvarez,

chief of the Pints, or " spotted Indians,"
were they indebted for safe conduct thither ;
he himself having adroitly kept clear of all
compromise consequent on that grit unraised.
Furthermore, he had promised to provide
them with a vessel in which they might escape
out of the country ; and it was for this they
were now on the look-out.

When Euperto Eivas, gazing through that
same telescope he had given Florence Kearney
to make survey of the valley of Mexico, cried
out, " La goleta ! " every eye around him
brightened, every heart beat joyously.

Still more rejoiced were they when, after
an hour's tacking against the land breeze, the
goleta got inside the estuary of the stream,
and working up, brought to by the edge of
the mangroves.

Unencumbered with heavy baggage, they
were all soon aboard, and in three days after

debarked at the port of Panama. Thence
crossing the Isthmus to Chagres, another seagoing
craft carried them on to the city, where
they need no longer live in fear of Mexico's
despot.

Back to his old quarters in New Orleans
had Don Ignacio repaired ; again under the
ban of proscription, his estates sequestrated
as before. So, too, those of the Condesa
Almonte.

But not for all time, believed they. They
lived in hope of a restoration.

Nor were they disappointed ; for it came.
The pronunciamento delayed was at length
proclaimed, and carried to a successful issue.
Once again throughout the land of Anahuac
had arisen a " grit," its battle cry " Patria
y Libertad ! " so earnestly and loudly shouted
as to drive the Dictator from his mock throne ;
sending him, as several times before, to seek
safety in a foreign land.

Nor were the " Free Lances " unrepresented
in this revolutionary struggle ; instead,
they played an important part in it. Ere it
broke out, they who had fled the country
re-entered it over the Texan border, and
rejoining their brethren became once more
ranged under the leadership of Captain
Euperto Eivas, with Florence Kearney as his
lieutenant, and Oris Rock a sort of attache
to the band, but a valuable adjunct to its
fighting force.

 jfc  -   - 

Swords returned to their scabbards, bugles
no longer sounding; war signals, it remains
but to speak of an episode of more peaceful
and pleasant nature, which occurred at a
later period, and not so very long after. The
place was inside the Grand Cathedral of
Mexico, at whose altar, surrounded by a
throng of the land's elite, bells ringing, and

organ music vibrating on the air, stood three
couples, waiting to be wedded.

And wedded they where ; Don Euperto
Eivas to the Condesa Almonte, Florence
Kearney to the Dona Luisa Valverde, and 
Jose to Pepita.

Happy they, and happy also one who was
but a witness of the ceremony, having a
better view of it than most of the spectators,
from being the head and shoulders taller than
any. Need we say this towering personage
was the big Tejano ? Oris looked on delightedly,
proud of his comrade and protege,
with the beautiful bride he had won and was
wedding. For all it failed to shake his own
faith in single blessedness. In his eyes there
was no bride so beautiful as the '' Land of
the Lone Star," no wife so dear as its wild
purairas ". And to them after a time he
returned ; oft around the camp-fire entertaining

his companions of the chase with an
account of his adventures in the Mexican
valley  how he had there figured in the
various roles of jail-bird, scavenger, friar,
and last of all as one of the Free Lances.

