CHAPTER I.

Maggie Thatcher didn't see much of lier
lover for some days after this occurrence,
as might be expected, and Kitty Barber
met him, as usual, more than was at all
desirable. Maggie tried to carry off her
own unhappiness with a high hand, but
with all her wisdom and strength and self-sufficiency,
she was a true woman ; and it
was intensely painful to her to see how she
had repelled this strange, impulsive, noble-hearted
young fellow, who, whatever his
faults were, had certainly made her, now
and then, happier than anybody else had
ever done, or, as she believed, ever could ;
but at length one day, poor thing, she
A 3

heard from a kind, officious neighbour a
great deal about Davie and Kitty being
seen together, which made her at first very
angry and then very sad ; so when he came
next evening she taxed him with " going
with that deceitful young minx," whereupon
he fired up and swore he didn't care
an old rag about Kitty, but loved lier
(Maggie) as much as ever ; and then went
on to swear he couldn't stand her temper,
for all that, and wouldn't, if they gave him
cool to do it. Hereupon, of course, they
broke off again, and he started up the lane,
while she went dashing about in a blind
fury to keep herself from dissolving in
tears. Of course, as Davie went up the
lane he met Miss Kitty, who generally
watched for him only too successfully.

Come now," said she, " let's sit down,
and just tell me why you are so vexed, for I
see you are  and I don't like my poor boy
should be put upon in this fashion by anybody.
I know who has been writing you."

Well, before very long, poor Maggie had
repented of quarrelling, and had come up

the lane to find her provoking lover, and
try to make it up with him once and for
all. Now it so happened, just before
Maggie appeared on the scene, that 
had been troubled, she said, by a
fly getting into one of her languishing eyes.
The pain appeared to be considerable,
and Davie had, of course, to do his
best to extract the offending substance.
This done, their hips were inevitably so
near together that Maggie came up justin
time to see a very hearty kissing
match going on between them. She had
tried more than once to turn a deaf ear to
all the gossip which she had heard, and
within the last ten minutes even had persuaded
herself that she was foolishly
jealous, and must come and ask Davie to
forgive her ; but now all the reports that
had reached her came flashing in upon her
like scorching flame. She turned right
round, and went back to the cottage without
saying a word. The poor girl must
have had a bad time of it that night ; and
when Davie came the next day, she looked

up at him, without leaving her work, full
in the face, and just said, 

'' Thank you, sir, for calling ; but I saw
you yesterday kissing in the lane  I did !
and now you had better go back to your
new love."

'' By Heaven ! then I will," exclaimed
her angry lover, 'you're a mean spy ! "

I hate you ! " she burst out in ungovernable
fury.

"Vixen ! " he cried, "you have driven
me from you, and this time for ever ! " and
away he went like a shot.

Not, however, this time to Kitty Barber's
dwelling ; he seems to have rushed about
the country half the night, then back to
his lodgings in town, just in time to receive
a letter from a lad, with the word " immediate
" written on it, from Mr. Lovett, as
Secretary to the Convention. He was in a
mad enough mood  angry with himself,
with Maggie, and even with Kitty for
being so pleasant and captivating ; and, in
short, there was very fierce strife in Davie
Roberts' heart that long, terrible night

and morning, between good and evil.
Weary and wretched, he tore open the
letter while the lad waited, found it was a
request from the Convention that if he was
not yet in work he would go down, with
two or three more of the London Chartists,
to attend a meeting in Devizes. The letter
said that the deputation would be headed by
Henry Vincent (this was in April, just before
he was locked up at Newport), who had
already risen greatly in the estimation of
the Chartist body generally, by his remarkable
eloquence and impetuous zeal in the
cause of the Charter. Roberts caught at
this proposal, and at once despatched the
lad with his ready acceptance.

The deputation was to start by coach atone
o'clock that day, so, hasting put his
head under the pump by way of refreshment,
and swallowed a hasty breakfast,
he came on to catch me in the breakfast
hour. I soon saw something was much
amiss, for he seemed to be in a regular
taking. When I spoke to him rather
soothingly, I little guessed what he had

been doing or what was coming, or I doubt
if I could have kept mj hands off him ;
however, the delay gave me time to feel
very sorry for him, whatever it was that
had gone wrong. So when he burst out
complaining of " that Maggie Thatcher's
temper, and that he couldn't put up with it
any longer, and had broken with her forever,"
I managed to say pretty quietly,
though bitterly enough, " Davie Roberts,
have you ever thought how much you may
have caused all this that you complain of, by
your own behaviour ? " For I must say I
had heard something of his goings on with
Kitty from the father and mother when I
had last been down at Broadfield. I treated
it at the time, for the most part, as idle
gossip, and thought perhaps it was no
business of mine ; but when he came talking
like that, I guessed how it was, and
that poor Maggie had been irritated at his
behaviour beyond all endurance. I had it
on my lips to say to him, " I am afraid,
after all, you are only a selfish humbug,
and have been treating that girl shamefully

; '* but I didn't say it out loud, only
turned away and made the observation to
the chimney-pots ; but I did say, when
he went on a little more about her temper,
"Would to God, Roberts, that you had left
the girl to me; I would have taken her
and loved her every day of my life, temper
and all." For I was half mad with pain,
and sore-hearted enough for two. Roberts
opened his eyes pretty wide at this, and
didn't quite know what to make of it. I
believe if that moment he could have seen
Maggie Thatcher standing before him,
and they two by themselves, he would have
gone down on his knees, taken her hand,
and begged her to forgive him for ever and
a day; but as that could not come about,
he only uttered some rough words about
her, said I might do as I liked, for she was
nothing more to him, told me of the invitation
to go down to Devizes, and left me
with scarce a shake of the hands, for we
neither of us felt, I guess, as if we were to
be friends any more.

After Davie was gone I had enough to

think of all the rest of the clay, and was
very thankful he came to me on a Saturday,
when work was soon over, for, try as
I would, I couldn't give my mind to it
properly. Davie's last words kept ringing
in my ears. I couldn't keep them out of
my head. In the afternoon, instead of
going to Lovett's headquarters, I walked
down to Broadfield. As I got out of town,
the trees and grass looked beautiful, the
birds were singing, and all sorts of strange,
wild, blessed fancies would come up in my
mind, queerly mingled with sorrow for
Davie and his sweetheart, for I knew what
trouble they must both be in. Father and
mother gave me the old dear welcome, and
by and by I heard all that mother knew
about the quarrel, and which indeed was
already gossip for half the village. I went
with them to church on the next morning,
but none of the Thatchers used to go ; and
in the afternoon, while father and mother
were dozing in their arm-chairs, and I was
thinking whether I should go and try to
see Maggie (being drawn in different ways

bj feelings that seemed like hungry dogs
fighting over a bone), who should I see at
the door but Maggie Thatcher timidly-looking
in, and with her finger on her lips.
I was up in an instant ; and, with my
heart all a-flame at the sight of her dear
face looking so sad and, as handsome as ever,
I went by her side down the lane without
either of us saying a word. When we got
to an old bench in a field, long called " The
Lover's Seat," and had sat down, she looked
so piteously in my face that my eyes grew
moist, and then, bursting into tears, she
said, as well as they would let her, 

Oh, Jem  you're an old friend  the
only one left  I must tell you all  I've
gone and angered Davie at last, past mending
this time  and he's gone off, and will
never come back  and  I hate him  he's
taken up with that viper whom I've been
kind to since she was a motherless chit 
and now he's gone, and I shall never see
him again. But I don't avant to, Jem. I
hate him." (She said this with frightful force
and bitterness.) " I don't want ever to see

him again  but I am so miserable, and I
can't live without some comfort in life 
and you've known me all my life, Jem, and
have always been kind to me  and you will
be kind to me still, won't you, and tell me
what to do?"

Then she began sobbing again, poor
thing. I couldn't stand that, and with all
my old love for her flaming up in my heart,
where it had been so long kept down, I
took her in my arms before I knew what I
was about, and kissed her again and again,
and wiped away the hot tears from her
eyes, and whispered to her, 

"Yes, my darling, I'll do anything to
make you happy ; I always loved you, my
own dear Maggie, and I will be a comfort
to you now in your trouble, and as long as
I live, please God "  for the only thought
in my heart then (there wasn't room for
another) was, that if Davie had been
neglecting her for another girl, and couldn't
put up with her temper, and had made her
hate him, I had now a right to take all
this great blessing she offered me, and it

seemed to me as if I could make lier very
happy, happier than any other living
soul.

Aye, that all seemed as clear as sunlight
for a few minutes ; but, bless you, I
didn't understand a woman's feelings in
such matters more than a monkey understands
milking a cow. For, though it
seemed a real comfort to her at first, the
way I answered her,  she soon disengaged
herself; and, taking my hand, and putting
me back a bit, as it were, and then wiping
her eyes, she said, "Tbank'ee, thanked,
dear old Jem  I knew you were a true
friend  but, now, don't'ee be making love
to me, that's a good fellow  you see, I've
been  Davie's darling, and if I never
see him again  you know, I seem to
belong to him still  but oh, donee go
away from me  I'm so unhappy, and I do
want a bit of kindness and comfort more
than I ever did in all my life."

I'm sure she didn't mean to be cruel;
she hadn't an idea what she was making
me suffer. It was all her humbleness as

VOL. II. B

wouldn't let her think, even, what she must
be making a fellow feel.

Still, one thing was plain amid all that
horrible confusion, and that was that I
might be of some use and comfort to her,
if I could give up all thoughts of being her
lover, and care for her only as mj sister.
So, whatever it might cost me, I said to
myself I would try, with God's help, to belike
a brother to the poor child. So after
a time I took her home to her mother, and
the smile with which she thanked me, as I
said good-bye, and the look of peace in
her face, were a better reward than any
I ever expected to have, and a great deal
better than I deserved.

After that I used to go and cheer her up
whenever I could. And somehow, after a
time, she was dearer to me than ever,
though I never, as I believe, for a moment,
passed the line she drew.

Once or twice I had a note from Davie,
by which I could see he was in a miserable
way, and I saw, too, that he had no idea
of coming back to be Kitty Barber's lover.

So mj heart softened towards him, and
though I was sure it was better for both
not to try and bring them together again
at present, I seemed to feel as if I were
guarding and comforting my darling for
that poor fellow, who was wandering about,
hundreds of miles away. My old love for
him seemed to come back as I crushed
down all thought of trying to oust him.
And though it was sometimes very hard
and bitter work, I don't know but what I
had more real peace and comfort during
that time than ever before, or, maybe,
since.

But I won't deny I couldn't help, now
and again, seeing that if Davie never did
come back to her, nor marry her, she
might like, years hence, to take me " for
better for worse," and that the more comfort
I could be to her now, the more
chance for me by-and-by. But, thank
God, I didn't huilcl on that thought  never
let it stay with me more than a minute or
so, just once and away, perhaps when T
needed a drop of water to cool my own
B 2

thirst; and bj His help, Who, I Iliad
come to learn by this time, never does
fail us (for I soon found I wasn't upto
it by myself), I was able to be a
true friend and Helper, though a very
poor one, to Maggie Thatcher, without
once making her wish she hadn't trusted
me.

Whatever mv chances, however, mioht
be either of helping Maggie and Davie to a
reconciliation at last, or of taking his place
in her affections, they were all upset by a
strange misfortune after Roberts had been
gone about four or five months. For
master sends for me one day to his ofl&ce,
and says that his friend the builder at
Eastleigh badly wanted me to go back
again  that all the old alarm about
Chartism had died away down there, and
if I hadn't a grudge against him for
sending me away when the 'squire ordered
him, he'd give me a friendly welcome back
again and good wages. As one might
expect, I was almost knocked over at the
thought; and Mr. Grapnell, seeing I didn't

look much like willing to go, began saying,
"J don't want you to leave, Woodford, of
course, but it will be a deal easier for me
to get a good staircase band in London,
tbougb not a steadier than you, than it
will be for my friend down in Somerset.
He's tried several, but the good workmen
are such fellows to drink, and the common
run can no more strike a curve and
find a centre, or put up a skylight, than
a pig. Come, let bygones be bygones,
my man, and pack up your tools and



told bim I didn't bear a bit of malice.

I always liked the gentleman, and I knew

bow the screw bad been put on bim. It

wasn't that  " Well, what was it then ?

Weren't the wages good enough ? " No,

no, not that. All the time the master was

speaking I was driven about in my mind

like a ship in a gale. Truth is, the strain

on me was sometimes getting almost too

much for me. The peace of mind I felt

for a time was fast slipping away. I loved

that girl as much, or more, than ever, now

that I saw, so often, how very lovable she
was, in spite of all her tantrums. Besides
she was softened and sweetened by her
great sorrow, and by knowing she had, in
some degree, brought it on herself by her
temper. So that I couldn't help thinking
of her day and night, whenever, indeed, I
wasn't at work. I used to count the days
and hours till I was to see her again;
while all the time I was with her I had to be
almost as cool as if I had been her grandfather.
But for all that, I knew I couldn't
bear not to be often near to help and
comfort her, and I felt sure my only
chance of ever calling her my wife, if she
and Davie didn't come together, was, as I
said, to keep near her now. Then again,
I couldn't bear leaving her without some
friend, so to say, at hand. So there I
stood twirling my cap, and looking as
stupid, I daresay, as an ass in the pound.
But what settled me at last to go was that
I knew things couldn't well go on much
longer, so far as I was concerned as they
were doing then. So I told the master I

wouldn't mind going down to Eastleigli
just to do the 'squire's grand staircase,
which, he said, needn't to be above four or
five weeks at the outside, and then I must
be back again in town. He promised that
I might come back when the job was done,
and I wished lira good-morning, lighter in
heart a bit than I went to him, for I was
sore spent with the strange fix I had got
into, and could hardly get about my work.
My shipmates sometimes chaffed me with
*' either being in love or half starved, they
weren't sure which;" and my mother was
getting downright unhappy about me. It
was the uncertainty about the whole affair
that came over me. If Davie had been
out-and-out married to Margaret Thatcher,
it would have been all plain sailing enough.
But I knew Davie Eoberts, and knew that
with all his goodness of heart, there was a
deal of the devil in him, and a sort of vindictiveness
that made it very hard for him
either to forgive or forget. So I guessed
it was most likely (unless something
wonderful turned up) that he would stay

in Wales and marry one of the pretty girls
that are so plentiful clown there (he was
half a Welshman himself), and never come
back to Broadfield. An impulsive, hot-tempered
fellow he was, and that would
have been just like him. But then there
was another thought that weighed a great
deal with me. If I went down to East-leigh
I might meet Mr. Fletcher again,
and hear him preach and pray. He had
done me good in a way that I felt was for
life, and not for this life only. I couldn't
exactly explain what he had done for me,
if I tried  and I don't want to try. But
I know in my own case, and I've seen it
with many others, that there's nothing in
the world a man feels so grateful for, if lie
gets it, as what is called spiritual good. I
know many would say, "That's allnonsense.
Most men value money, or drink, or success,
or their wife or sweetheart, a precious
deal more than any spiritual good the
parson may do them." No doubt, but
that is because he cloesnH really do the good
which I mean. It is rather uncommon, I

believe, to feel it has been clone for 'em.
All I say is, that chien we do feel it, tre
are more thankful for it than for any other
blessing.

CHAPTER II.

So I went down once again to Eastleigli,
after a sorrowful parting with Maggie (who
seemed to feel my going a deal more than
I thought she would), and was kindly
welcomed by Mr. Barnett, the builder, and
by some of my old mates who were still
there, but others seemed rather cool and
jealous, particularly the one who I thought
had done me an ill turn when the row about
Chartism took place. I remember his saying
the very first morning, as we went to
work, 

I say, Master Woodford, I hope you

aunt a-going to get us all into another

mess over this precious Charter of yours."

Don't fear," says I, pretty short.

"The Charter's not for the likes of you.

It's only for true-born Britons, who

Never, never, never, will be slaves ; '

You can be a slave as long as your patience
lasts, mj man, without help or hinder from
me."

Then my mates laughed ; and he pretended
to laugh, too, but he had a black
look for me in his heart, I know.

That didn't much matter to me, I thought;
but an enemy can always do mischief. However,
I soon forgot all about the man and
his black looks, for I had a tough job before
me which it took all my wits to tackle, and
a good many eyes looking at me. Glad
indeed I was to find Mr. Fletcher was still
at Eastleigh, and when work was done for
the day a very warm kindly welcome I had
from him. I missed Bembridge greatly,
and couldn't see my way clear to do anything
for the Charter, though I thought
more than ever now that Mr. Lovett was
suffering in Warwick goal. But, as I was
only down for a short time, and couldn't
keep the ball rolling there, I didn't think I

ought to stir them up, and perhaps get
them all sacked. So I was obliged to be
quiet, and only thought how soon I could
get back to the London Chartists, and to
Broadfield, and in the meantime how often
I could have a talk with Mr. Fletcher and
hear him preach.

One night, after I had been about three
weeks at Eastleigh, one of my mates and
I, instead of going straight home at night,
went with a couple of labourers in the
village to have a look at the allotment gardens
which the Squire had parcelled out
for all the men on his estate. And very
capital things they were, I could see that.
Then we all had a pint at the village inn,
and my companion and I had our bread
and cheese, for the labourers wanted to hear
all we could tell them about the Chartist
movement. So it was past nine before we
moved home. The moon was shining
brightly, but there was a dark bit of road
under the park palings where the trees
were thick. Just as we were in the darkest
part we came upon four more of the

labouring men who lived in that village,
and I knew one by his voice, having chatted
with him sometimes in coming backwards
and forwards.

It was so dark that I could only just
see that they appeared to have some
bags with them : and as we came up and
passed a word or two of " Well, Bill," and
Well, Jack," and so on, they said they
had been out late gardening on their allotment
ground, and were going home nov'
with some roots and vegetables for the
housewife's pot-boiling.

As we walked briskly along, however,
we suddenly heard a rustling in the
wood under the shadow of which we were
passing.

One of the men stopped, and says to me,

Here, Master Woodford, just hold my
scraping-iron and bag of roots for a minute,
will you, while I see what's up there ? "
and put what seemed a thick iron rod into
one of my hands and a bag into the other.

What's this ? " says I ; but just at the
moment, as he was moving off, not towards

the place where we had heard the noise,
but in another direction, four men jumped
out of the hedge over the pangs and
rushed at us.

Footpads, by Goes ! " said the man
who had given me the things to hold, and
then away he and his friends went like a
shot.

My companion, seeing them run, and
hearing what they said, and having nothing
in his hands to defend himself with, had cut
and run at the first alarm, and so there
was I left face to face with the highwaymen;
and as they sprang at me pretty
fiercely, I thought the best thing Alas to
lay about me with the iron tool in mj
hand, which I did so sharply that one of
the fellows was dashed to the ground, and
another had his arm broken, before the
other two had pinioned me and laid me on
my back. When, however, I expected to
have my watch taken, and pockets turned
inside-out (precious little would they have
found there, though !) fancy my surprise on
finding that they were the Squire's gamekeepers,

that my iron rod was a gnnbarrel,
unscrewed from the stock, that the bag of
roots was a bag of pheasants lying at my
feet, and that I had disabled one keeper
and half killed another. Then it flashed
on me how that the beggars had been out
poaching, and had played the scurvy trick
upon me, by which they got off, leaving
me to bear the brunt of the business. Of
course, I was taken to jail, kept there a
fortnight, till the doctor said the keeper's
life was out of cano-er, then was brought
before the bench. It wasn't the first time
I had been before the magistrates, but till
that day only as a spectator. To stand in
the dock with irons on my wrists was a
new feeling, and the more unpleasant
because I knew I had been doing " grievous
bodily harm," as the indictment (or whatever
they called it) ran, to two fellow-men engaged
in doing their duty, I suppose, (queer
duty !) according to law, game law, i. e.,
and accursed law, too, I think. But, then
the knowledge that I had been innocent of
anything but defending myself, as I thought,

against robbers, kept me up, and I spoke
out and told the bench all about it. Of
course, the Squire wasn't sitting there, but
he was in Court, and had been in the
magistrates' room. At first I thought
they were going to believe me, and the
testimony to character given by my employer
and Mr. Fletcher, and especially the
evidence of my shipmate who had runaway,
evidently made a great impression
on them.

But the Squire's counsel (for he had
sent for one in a hurry all the way from
Bristol) pressed the case against me very
hard. He said the Squire had suffered
very much. " from these scoundrel
poachers," and an example must be made
of them. Then he was just arguing that
my shipmate had no doubt been poaching
with me, for the gamekeepers said they
saw a man with me resembling my mate
whom they couldn't catch, when a note
was put in his hand, the reading of which
made him put on a horrified look and
exclaim, " Good gracious ! where are we !"

Then he requested that Mr. Fletcher might
be again put in the witness-box.

Sir," said he, '' I think you know-something
about a certain set of dangerous
characters in Eastleigh known as Chartists
? "

Mr. Fletcher winced.

I was sorry for him, but he spoke straight
out like a man.

I do, and thoroughly respect several
of them ; I do not consider them as dangerous."
(Sensation in court and on the
bench.)

'' Humph ! " and the barrister looked at
the bench, and knew that all the value of
Mr. Fletcher's testimony to my character
was gone; and that Mr. Fletcher's character
was gone too.

I think you have attended their meetings
? "

Sometimes."

'' Is not the prisoner a leading member
of their Society ?"

I don't know that they have any society
in Eastleigh now."

VOL. II.

Counsel : *' Sir, I beg you will not prevaricate.
Is the prisoner Woodford an
out-and-out Chartist, or is lie not ? "

I am not here, sir, to be insulted by

you."

One of the Magistrates, sternly : " You
had better answer the question."

I am quite ready, your worship, to
answer questions, but not to be bullied.
James Woodford I believe to be a thoroughgoing,
moral-force Chartist." sensation
again.)

My employer was next re-called.

Squire's Counsel (triumphantly) : " I
believe the prisoner was discharged from
your employment about a year ago for
taking an active part in the Chartist agitation
down here ? "

If I was sorry for Mr. Fletcher, I was
ten times more so for my master. His
state was pitiable ; but he had to answer
and gasped out,

'eyes, sir  but  "

Oh, never mind the buts, my goodman
we only want to know the fact.

You may step down now. Gentlemen, I
think I need not trouble sou any more."

Not the least occasion, Mr. ,"

replied the Chairman.

The magistrates' two heads nodded to
each other.

Committed for trial. Bail refused,
because of the still dangerous condition of
one of the gamekeepers."

And I was forthwith locked up. In the
silence and darkness of my cell I had time
enough to bless the sneaking fellow who
told the butler, who told the Squire, who
told the barrister that I had been discharged
a year ago for Chartism.

Of course, I had written off to my father
when I was first taken to prison, and Mr.
Fletcher took a world of pains, and I fear
spent a deal of money to help me. My
dear old dad pinched himself and mother
sadly to send off all they could spare, and
a barrister from Bristol was also engaged
for as well as against me. He was a clever
young chap, and made out a pretty strong
case, but he didn't like or understand the
c 2

Chartist side of the matter. However, it
was not much any of them could do, and
very little use their doing anything at all.
The evidence in the depositions read
at the Assizes was too strongly against
me, though what my master and Mr.
Fletcher (who explained nobly the difference
between the physical and moral-force
Chartists) and my shop-companion said at
the trial, and the way they said it, evidently
made a good deal of impression both on
the Judge, and I think on some of the
jury. My employer had plucked up courage
and came forward like a man to give me a
good character, for he wanted to have me
back at my work, and wished to clear his
own character, besides having a kindly
feeling towards me, and, I think, fully believing
the story I told. However, the end.
of it was that I got sentenced to two years'
imprisonment with hard labour ; and was
marched off to prison with that sort of
feelings which only a man who has been
unjustly condemned to prison Hfe can
understand.

It was about the very dreariest day I
lead ever spent in my life, when, after a
long trial in a hot, stifling room, where
scores of people were staring at me as if I
were a wild beast, while my witnesses were
being badgered and brow-beaten by the
Squire's Counsel, I was sent off in the
prison van with a lot more poor wretches,
some of whose faces were enough to turn
you sick. I knew I was going to be
deprived unjustly of my liberty and be
condemned to silence and the torturing
treadmill or oakum-picking for two dismal
years, scarcely ever seeing any of my
friends, and then only in the presence of a
turnkey, father and mother fretting their
hearts out, and, worst of all, seeing nothing
more of poor Maggie, and I knew how she
would fret at losing brother as well as
lover. My heart seemed to sink in me like
lead, as I sat down on my pallet in
the dark, when the key of my cell was
turned.

Next, day, however, and for many a day
after, I found there were worse things to

be borne in that infernal hole than my own
thoughts and privations and sentimental
regrets. The companionship of regular
ingrained ruffians, their malicious delight
in teazino and hurting me and others when
they got a sly chance, merely to revenge
themselves, I suppose, for what society was
inflicting on them, their intolerably disgusting
talk when we were by ourselves at
night (a frightful abuse that of herding
prisoners together, now mostly remedied),
and then the scarcely less terrible loneliness
during twelve hours of the evening
and night when I was under "the
separate system," with the dreadful torture
of the treadmill till I was too ill to go on
it. All these miseries laid a weight on me,
body and soul, which for years I could not
bear even to remember. The visits of the
Chaplain were the only comfort I had during
all these dreary months, and though he
seemed rather case-hardened by his work,
and was often stupidly stuck-up and conventional,
yet I saw he was a good and
sincere man, and he seemed to believe a

good deal of my story, and was really kind
and lielpftil to me.

I can't say low many months exactly
lead gone over in this way. when one morning
the governor came along the corridor
and stopped the turnkey as I was being
taken out after breakfast to the oakum-picking.


Here. Woodwards' said he, "'' the Secretary
of State has sent you a pardon fiom
her most gracious Majesty, and I daresay
you don't want to give tis your company
any longer*'

Good heavens ! what a moment it was.
My knees trembled, and I could hardly
speak. But I pretty soon found myself
outside, and my dear old father and Mr.
Fletcher waiting; for me in the loose.
Then I found that, fortunately for me at
last, the fellow who had got me into this
misery and shame had been apprehended
some time after for another aggravated case
of poaching and attempt to murder, and
sent to the county earl where I was confined;
but, though a wild and desperate

fellow, there was good in the man at bottom,
and, as often happens, a sense of justice
and fair play. So when tie found lie was
in for either hanging or transportation, he
made a clean breast of it, and told the
chaplain what were the facts of the case
with regard to unfortunate me. The
chaplain, who was already inclined to
believe me innocent, laid his representation
before the governor, and they sent it to the
judge who had tried my case, and, as it
squared with his own convictions in the
trial, he soon got a pardon for me from the
Home OflBce.

One of the first things I heard about, on
comines out of o'aol, was the rising; in Wales
under Frost, Williams, and Jones ; and the
next was that Davie Roberts had been in
it. When I heard the whole story, it
answered the question I was burning to
ask father, whether Davie had come back
to Broadfield, and made it up again with
Maggie Thatcher.

Down to Devizes it seems the Chartist
Deputation had gone in April, 1839; got

there late at nio-ht, and next morning' were
welcomed by a tolerably large gathering of
their Wiltshire fellow-Chartists, that is to
say, as many of them as entered to show
their colours. For the Londoners found it
was true, as they had been told at the
Convention, that a reaction had set in in
that part of the country, and they went
down to trv and turn the tide again in
favour of the good cause. When, however,
the time for the open-air public meeting
was drawing on, it became pretty evident
that the tide was not going to turn just
then, for the upper-class folks set a queer
sort of example to the Wiltshire workingmen
as well as to Chartists in all parts of
the kingdom bv setting on a mob of am-culture
labourers to charge the Chartists,
upset their platform, and disperse the
meeting. Vincent and the rest of them,
however, were not disposed to give in
altogether on the non-resistant principle,
so they stood up to fight like trueborn
Britons. Davie's blood was up, and he was
desperate with heartache into the bargain ;

SO he charged the peace-breakers with a
will, and many of them were sent flying.
But numbers were against the defenders
of the Charter. Davie got his head cut
open with a brick-bat, and was carried off
insensible ; several of the other Chartists
were very roughly handled, and there was
an end of the mission to Devizes. No
doubt the well-to-do classes of the neighbourhood
 magistrates included  were
highly pleased at this result, and doubtless
thought the precept, '' thou shalt not do
evil that good may come of it," might very
properly be relaxed for once in their favour.
Instructions came down to Vincent to go
into Monmouthshire, where a very formidable
movement was being organized under
Mr. Frost, who, as I said before, had been
a magistrate for the county, but had been
most unfairly dismissed by Lord John
Russell for attending the Chartist Convention
and two Chartist meetings in London.
The gallant miners and ironworks among
the Welsh hills had been thoroughly roused
by the eloquence of Henry Vincent and

other of our emissaries ; but they had
somewhat gone ahead of their leaders sofar
as those belonged to the moral-force
party. They were all of them, in fact, in
that part of the country taking a leaf out
of Feargus O'Connor's book, and had quite
made up their minds that soft words  or
hard either for that matter  would butter
no Chartist parsnips, and that pikes and
fire-arms alone could carry the day. There
had consequently been a great deal of arming
among them ; and when Vincent's
fiery words fell on their ears, on the occasion
of this visit which I am now describing,
it was a spark in a powder barrel. Davie
Roberts followed his eloquent leader to
Newport as soon as he was well enough to
travel, and got to that borough just in time
to witness the committal of his friend to
prison for giving vent to seditious language
at a meeting in the neighbourhood. This
was more than Roberts and the rest of the
Welshmen could stand. To increase their
indignation, came news of that sad business
at Birmingham, when one of the darkest

clays that ever dawned for English workmen,
and the Chartist movement witnessed
the imprisonment of that great and goodman,
my noble leader, William Lovett,
along with John Collins, a fine fellow also,
to Warwick gaol, for the heinous offence
of printing and posting a proclamation
in Birmingham denouncing the shameful
conduct of the Birmingham magistracy
and the London police for their brutal
attacks on an unarmed Birmingham
populace in the Bull-ring. At the same
time, three of those who had really
been engaged in the Birmingham riots
were sentenced to death. The Rev. Robert
Stephens, " Methodist minister and firebrand,"
whose attacks, however, had chiefly
been upon the new Poor Law, was sentenced
to eighteen months' imprisonment.
Another of our ablest leaders  a man of
considerable education  Dr. Macdonald,
had got twelve months ; while from thirty
to forty other Chartists were sentenced to
various terms of imprisonment. Smarting
under all these cruel blows, the Convention,

wliicli had been moved from London by-o'connor's
influence, dissolved itself on a
resolution which, however, was only carried
by the chairman's casting vote. Feargus
himself was at length arrested and held to
bail on a charge of sedition. He afterwards
got a year in York Castle; but the Government
seem to have spared him as long as
they could, feeling perhaps that he was the
best friend to the '*' powers that be " inconsequence
of the manner in which he
sowed division in the Chartist ranks, and
stirred them to sedition. For thus the
Government got satisfactory excuses for
having their leaders committed to prison.
Some of those who were thus shut up were
certainly no great loss either to the movement
or the nation ; but it was very different
in the case of others, especially the
removal of Lovett at such a time from the
head of affairs was a real national calamity,
for thus the way was left open for violent
and unscrupulous counsels to prevail,
leone of us, however, lacked motives in
abundance to take any desperate steps that

might present themselves ; and, for my
own part, I felt so mad at the idea of
Lovett's imprisonment, and the hardships
which we heard he suffered in gaol, and
which brought him nearly to death's door,
that I would have shouldered pike or pulled
trigger against the tyrannical murderers,
could it have afforded him any possible
help or satisfaction. This was just how it
was in Monmouthshire, also, where the
Chartists were enraged beyond all bounds
by the cruel way in which Vincent and
his fellow sufferers were treated.

CHAPTER III.

Arrangements had been made for a simultaneous
rising in the North as soon as
tidings should be transmitted to the
Chartists in that quarter of the insurrection
in Monmouthshire. Davie had been quite
in his element. Everything round him
suited well with the troubled state of his
own mind, and his vehement hatred of
oppression. He had been kept on by the
Convention lecturing and spouting (sometimes
earning a little at his trade), during
all those stormy months.

Happily, I suppose, for the general welfare,
and ultimate good, even of the
working classes at large, violent steps at
that time were resorted to in one locality
only  the one where Vincent and Davie

Roberts had been exerting their abilities as
agitators for the last six months among
the Welsh mal-contents. The storm was
gathering round the gaol, where Vincent
was confined, as a nucleus of agitation.
On Saturday evening, November 3rd,
1839, the Monmouthshire miners were
mustering from far and near, armed and
desperate. Mr. Frost, with his two
principal coadjutors  Messrs. Williams
and Jones  were in the midst of the
gathering, and never were leaders looked
up to with more devoted loyalty than were
those three men by their exasperated
fellow-countrymen.

The following night, as soon as darkness
began to fall, they marched their
followers  four or five thousand strong 
down from the hills on the town of Newport,
the only body of troops for the
defence of which consisted of thirty redcoats,
ensconced behind the shutters of a
room in the principal inn of the town,
under the command of a non-commissioned
officer and the Mayor of the Borough,

Mr. Thomas Phillips. Proud, indeed, felt
the insurgents, as the marched along in
serried columns, confident of a glorious
victory, and expecting that the Charter
would thus be carried at the point of their
pikes. Prouder, and more hopeful than
all, no doubt, was poor Davie himself; he
felt himself every inch a soldier, and when
the inn came in sight, he rushed on at the
head of his column, like a hero of the first
water. The thirty soldiers and the mayor
behind their shutters heard the tramp of
many feet, and knew that a very large
force must be approaching for the attack.
Had they allowed themselves to be assaulted
behind their defences, the consequences to
themselves would in all probability have
been most disastrous; but a victory for
the rioters would undoubtedly have been a
far greater calamity. Mr. Phillips (who
for his gallant conduct on this occasion
was afterwards knighted by the Queen
with special marks of honour at Windsor)
took the bold step of having the shutters
torn down in the face of the enraged

VOL. II. D

multitude outside. This was the signal
for a discharge from the fire-arras of the
Welsh rioters. The mayor was wounded
with several others, but in the next instant,
the soldiers fired volley after volley right
into the dense ranks opposed to them.
Two or three rounds, however, were sufficient.
The miners took to flight, in spite of
the strenuous exertions of Frost, Roberts,
poor Shell, and the braver spirits among
them. Thereupon, the red-coats, leaping
through the windows, charged with fixed
bayonets, and Frost was captured on the
spot. Williams and Jones were coming
up with their columns, and meeting the
flying masses, gave the signal for disbanding,
and such as were not captured
took to their heels in general riot and confusion.
Roberts escaped for a time. The
three leaders were very speedily intercepted,
and with the rest of the prisoners
committed to gaol for trial on a charge of
high treason. Seldom has there been
such a marked illustration of the inability
of armed mobs to contend against disciplined

troops. Here were 5000 armed
men put to headlong flight by thirty
soldiers.

The next morning, a haggard, bloodstained
man was knocking at the door, in
the dim twilight, of a poor cottage among
the hills, about five miles from Newport.
The inmates were still asleep, and he could
gain no hearing or entrance. He knocked
more vehemently  frantically indeed, forby
this time, he said, all his courage had
evaporated under the pain of his wounds,
and a sense of utter defeat. He might
well knock, for he heard, dashing up the
mountain path, a horse's hoofs, and he
knew only too well who was on his track.
Just as the alarmed cottagers within had
scrambled down to the door, and had taken
out the wooden bar to see what was the
matter, a mounted trooper, armed to the
teeth, swung himself from his horse, seized
Davie Roberts by the hands, had the handcuffs
over his wrists, set him on the horse
behind him, and was off again down the
mountain side before the Welsh cottage
D 2

mountaineers well knew wHat had happened.
They understood it, however, only too well,
soon after, as troops of wrathful miners,
furious with their enemies and themselves,
came slinking past in parties of thirty or
forty, on their way back to the homes from
which they were hourly expecting, for many
a day afterwards, to be ignominiously
dragged.

The day on which the news of the Newport
rising reached Broadfield (and it spread
all over the country like wildfire), my
father happened to meet Margaret Thatcher.
She was trying not to look anxious, but
she was all of a tremble, and father felt
uncommonly sorry for the young thing with
nobody to rest on.

Says she, "Mr. "Woodford, can ye tell
me if all this be true about the fighting
down there in Wales ? "

"I'm afeared it's a great deal too true,
my dear ; more's the pity ! "

And can ye tell me,"  then she stopped,
and blushed as red as a peony, and she
could hardly speak  " You've always been

a friend to me, Mr. TToodford  most of all
since poor Jem was locked up  and I
haven't a friend in the world I can trust
but him and sou, and I don't mind asking
YOU, but can ye tell me, or can ye find
out for me, whether Davie Eoberts was
in it ? "

Father said she looked so sorrowful, he
quite longed to bring her home to his wife
for a little comfort. He could not tell her
then, but he found out by next day what
had happened to young Eoberts. So he
told her carefully, but she turned very
white, and then thanked him so sadly and
lovingly. He asked her to come and see
his wife, but she only shook her head and
pressed his hand very hard, and went back
home.

It seems she had an aunt who was pretty
well to do, having married a sort of under-bailiff,
and who was living, I think, near
Galleywood Common, in Essex. That good
woman was bustling about early in the
morning of the day after father had told
Maggie all about Eoberts, getting ready

for lier husband's breakfast (I believe she
had no children), when, hearing the latch
lifted, who should she see coming in, all
draggled and wet, but her niece from
Broadfield.

'' Ashy, Maggie ! " she exclaimed, " what
on earth brings you here at this time o'
day?"

Oh, aunt," said the girl, sinking on a
seat, ' I've walked thro' the night all the
way from Broadfield, and I am ready to
drop. Give me a bit to eat."

'' Walked ! all night ! from Broadfield,
through the rain  twenty miles ! Why,
my poor lass, what in the name of  but
here, take this, and this, and let's have the
wet shoes off you ; and here's your gown
and shawl wringing wet, too ; dear, dear.
Come, child, and let's put you to bed a
bit."

But though the motherly kindness of the
good woman was very sweet to the aching-heart
of the wanderer, nothing could give
her troubled spirit or body much rest till
she had unburdened her mind, and told her

aunt, 'mid many tears, all the story of lier
quarrel with Davie, and how he was now
wounded and in prison, and how she wanted
her aunt to lend her a few pounds, that she
might go to him and nurse him if they'd
let her, and help get some wise lawyer to
defend him.

The good aunt had been head over ears
in love herself, and she persuaded her burly
kind-hearted husband that the poor thing
must have the money. So after dinner
Maggie went back by coach to Stratford
(whence it was only three miles' walk to
Broadfield) much quicker than she came,
and with a good bit of the heavy burden
Yit\l which she had walked to Galleywood
Common in darkness and rain, lifted off
her weary heart. But enough trouble remained,
and swiftly as the half-completed
rail and galloping horses bore her down
next day to Monmouthshire, pictures of
Davie, blood-stained, wan, parched with
fever, and perhaps dying of his wounds,
would force themselves on her mind, and
made the hours seem to creep by with 

Of

tolerable slowness. A few shillings had
secured for her mother and the young ones
needful attentions from a neighbour, so
that she felt free to leave them. But as she
neared Newport, a cold chilling fear crept
into her heart, as she thought, '' What if
Davie has not forgiven me as I have forgiven
him ? '' or, " What if it be unbecoming
of me to be forcing myself on him in
this way?"

But when once they got sight of each
other, there was no doubt about forgiveness,
or propriety, or anything else ; and as
she was clasped in the wounded man's arms
on his dingy truckle-bed, and their tears
mingled, there were other eyes moist, too,
and rough hands drawn across those eyes
to hide the weakness.

A special Commission came down to try
the rioters for high treason. To be found
guilty of that charge, of course, meant
sentence of death. When, after a long and
patient trial, Frost, Williams, and Jones
were committed, and left for execution,
Maggie was waiting near the gaol door, to

get a chance of speaking with Davie ; and
when the kind-hearted turnkey (himself a
"Welshman, and a bit moved to sympathy
by Maggie's handsome, sad, and pleading
face) got leave for her to be admitted, she
went with the feelings that it would be
almost their last meeting in this world.
Several of the Newport Chartists, hearing
that she was Davie Eoberts' sweetheart,
had shown her great kindness, but she
seemed insensible to everything except the
one absorbing question, " Will he live or
die ? " When alone, her remorse was sometimes
terrible, for she kept saying to herself
and the friend who gave her a lodging, '' If
I hadn't worried him with that temper of
mine, he wouldn't have taken up with that
Kitty Barber, and we shouldn't have
quarrelled, and he wouldn't have been down
here, fighting against the red-coats, and
getting shot, and like to be hung."

Oh, missis," she moaned, " my misery
is greater than I can bear."

Davie tried hard to comfort her. All the
rare generosity of his nature rose up at

the sight of lier grief, for lie knew well lie
had been much in fault, and lie vehemently
took all the blame of their estrangement
on himself. But it was too late for either
penitence or generosity to help the poor
souls now. Davie Roberts, supported by
a turnkey, had to answer to his name in
the dock, as his leaders had had to do before
him, and many others too, before and after
him who had been caught with arms in
their hands on that fatal Sunday in November,
1839. His youthful appearance, and
bright feverish eyes, with the deadly pallor
of his face and forehead on which his thick
brown curls lay tangled, excited considerable
sympathy among the spectators, and I
think even among the jury. But it was
proved by several witnesses that he had
been lecturing and addressing public meetings
all through South Wales and in other
places for several months past. This would
have told heavily against him, had any
really seditious language been also proved
to have been used by him. But no one
seemed able to quote treasonable or even

physical force exhortations frolics speeches,
and some witnesses deposed to hearing him
tell the people to be very careful not to
break the peace. Fortunately for him no
traitor was found to tell of the very violent
language he really had used in several
places shortly before the outbreak, when
he was maddened by accounts of the treatment
of Lovett, Vincent, and others in gaol,
and by the proceedings of the Convention
in London. Hence the balance of all this
evidence was rather in his favour. Maggie's
fee, swelled by a contribution from many
members of the Convention, paid to a
remarkably clever young spark from Bristol,
who saw it was an opportunity to make
himself known, was a much more efficient
ally, while the best chance of all was
actually the courage Davie himself had
shown in the fray. For being one of the
foremost in the onslaught he was one of
the first to fall by the soldiers' bullets, and
then had dragged himself aside and lay
trying to staunch his wound in the darkness
while the soldiers rushed down the

street after the flying mob. The prisoners
who were taken were almost all from among
those fugitives and two or three of the
wounded ; but when the street was clear
Davie was secretly carried into the cottage
near which he lay, and his wound bound upon
condition that he would be ofiP before daylight.
This promise the poor fellow faithfully
kept, and dragged himself to an old friend
among the hills, as we have already seen.
Hence his counsel urged with great energy
that no witness had even attempted to.
prove that Davie had been seen in the fight,
or with arms in his hands ; there was
nothing whatever against him except that
he had been found a long way from the
scene of action, wounded and exhausted,
at the door of, probably, some near relative.
Doubtless he was attracted like many
others by the unusual disturbances going
on to see what could be the cause it, and
unhappily, but surely with most innocent
indiscretion, had gone too near the fatal
spot and been hit by a stray shot, fired it
might be by the rioters themselves. Then,

conscious how much appearances would be
against him, had fled with the flying
crowd. Was this evidence on which to
convict a man of high treason, and take
away an innocent citizen's life ! Surely
the halter and the axe would have victims
enough to olut their fury without sacrificing
more of Eno-hsh lives on such
miserably insufficient evidence as had just
been laid before the jury. Let the gentlemen
of the jury think of the mothers, and
wives, and innocent children, whose whole
future welfare in this world, perhaps in tle
next, was dependent on the verdict which,
as free-born Britons and as men, they were
this day solemnly called on to deliver."

A buzz of sympathy and applause ran
round the court when he finished; and
many an eye was turned in loving pity not
on Roberts only, but also on the young
girl who, scarcely able to breathe in the
agony of suspense, stood near the dock,
gazing alternately on the prisoner and the
jury, sometimes with an imperious mien as
if commanding that her lover should be

instantly released, sometimes with a look
of passionate supplication like a captive
princess in disguise. A momentary silence
followed. Then the prisoner's counsel
stated that he should call no witnesses because
there was no evidence to rebut  not
enough to convict a man of stealing a
pocket-handkerchief, much less to send him
to the gallows. Then came the summing
up by the judge. Even poor Maggie, who
could not keep her attention to anything
that was said for more than a minute at a
time, could see that it leaned to mercy.
The government would only be too glad,
as the judge well knew, of any reasonable
excuse for avoiding further bloodshed,
and he did not conceal the fact that there
was a great lack of sufficient evidence
against the prisoner. Then the jury
retired. A time of dread and almost
intolerable suspense followed, during which
there was a strange and unwonted quiet in
the court. Every soul seemed longing to
set the quasi-felon free.

At length the jury re-entered their box.

Guilty or not guilty ? "

Not guilty, my lord."

Maggie Thatcher clasped her hands together,
and bursting into tears, sobbed
out, " Thank God ! Thank God ! " while
Davie made an instinctive rush towards her
against the bars of his cage. Then the
judge rose, the usual formalities were
passed through, the excited crowd rapidly
left the court, and many gathered round
outside the door to congratulate the liberated
prisoner, and to press small tokens
of their sympathy and gladness on him
and his interesting " young woman," 'just
to help them home again, you know, and
to get ready for the wedding."

Poor Maggie, like Davie, was sore
puzzled between her pride and her necessities
how to receive all this kindness, but
she remembered her aunt, and knowing
that most of her borrowed money was
gone, she, amid many smiles and tears,
accepted the generosity showered on her,
and tried in vain to speak her thanks ;
while the people round felt that the sight

of lier beautiful blushing face, and the
trustful gladness with which she took her
lover's arm and walked away, were quite
enough reward for their donations.

But there was bitter sorrow among the
Chartists for many a day. And not
among them only. For years most true
Chartists, whether they approved or condemned
the Newport rising, mourned for
the fate of men whom they looked on as
genuine martyrs for English liberty; and
resolutions or petitions for the pardon of
Frost, Williams, and Jones," began or
concluded nearly every Chartist meeting
for years after their transportation.

Soon after Davie and Maggie came back
to Broadfield, I came out of gaol, and also
arrived in the village. Then, of course, I
heard the whole story, both of the part
Davie had taken in the Newport riots, and
of his recent return with Maggie. So I
quickly hunted him up, and under the
liofht of the stars we talked it all out, and
I finished up by saying, " Now my dear
old fellow, as soon as you can get work

again, you and she must be spliced at
once." I would take no refusal, for I had
had time enough to think it over and over
while I was in gaol, and I knew by this
time that their hearts were indeed one, so
that they ought to run no more risks of
those miserable and ridiculous misunderstandings.
I won't say that my heart
wasn't a little heavy and sore, but I suppose
I shan't forget to my dying day the
happiness I felt when poor Davie took my
hand, squeezing it with all his might, and
saying, " God bless you, Jem ! for all you
have done for my Maggie and myself, and
above all for that you didn't make love to
her, and try to oust me, but just took care
of her as a brother should ; oh ! she's told
me all about it. God bless you, old friend,
and may your turn for such a blessed
union as this come at last ! "

I went to my old employers' next day and
told them all my story, and was precious
glad to see how thoroughly they believed
me, and how glad they seemed to be at the
mystery being cleared up, and at the

VOL. II. E

Government pardon (pardon indeed) !
opening my prison-doors. They said they
should have work for me on the following
Monday, and I was well pleased, I can tell
you, to find Kelso once more back in his
old post ; he and I had some famous walks
together before my work began again. The
first expedition was to our " house of call'*
to inquire if anything could be got for
Davie. At first all seemed blank, but after
a little time a job was found for him that
promised to be permanent, if he would
take the trouble to learn a few things that
he wasn't properly up to then. He was
glad enough to set to work with a will. I
lent him my books, and gave him as much
time as I could. The banns were put up
in Broadfield Church the following Sunday,
and in a month's time they were married.
Happy indeed they were in their little
lodgings in Camden Town, during not
only those early days, but for a long time
after, he sticking to his work like a brick
by day, and working with me at his drawings
and his geometry at night. Then

there was a delightful walk for them upto
Hampstead Heath, Primrose Hill, or
the Regent's Park, every Sunday, which
did them a world of good  Maggie especially,
for lie did miss the country lanes
and field footpaths of Broadfield. But the
Millennium hadn't come set.

On looking back on what I have written,
it seems to me I have said a good deal
about other folks' faults and not much of
my own. But though I have not read a
great deal of such histories, I fancy that
must be common enough. I remember
hearing once that we all carry two wallets,
one hanging before, and the other behind
us. We put our neighbour's faults in the
foremost, and our own in the other  which
means I suppose we can see their faults a
deal more plainly than our own. But it's
not altogether that, for, if we do see our
own ever so plainly, we think " It is an ill
bird that fouls its own nest ;" and why
should we tell tales of ourselves ? Why ?
Because our pride wants humbling, and if
we confess, perhaps there s more chance of
E 2

mending. Not always. We've Heard, I
think, of very candid folk who

Confess their faults and  never mend."

And then again, we can see better than
anybody else how much there is to be said
in excuse for our faults, what great allowance
should be made for us, &c., &c.,
though, if we could only do that for our
neighbours 

But what is the good of palavering in
this way ? I suppose it is because I don't
like saying that about this time I can see,
on looking back, I was getting very surly
and morose, as they call it. I seldom had
a kind word for anybody, unless may befor
Maofme : and I don't know as I ever
did anybody a good turn then if I could
help it. I felt regular soured with the
world altogether ; and in a way, I knew I
hated half the men I came across, especially
the Government, the physical force Chartists,
the Northern Star  and " Feargus "
above all and everybody. So there is a
bit of my confession ; and I don't see the

good of telling any more mischief about
myself, particularly as I think, though I
won't be sure, that that's the worst.

All these private troubles and joys, however,
of which I have been speaking, had
not lessened my interest in the great
movement for which noble-hearted Lovett
was now a martyr in "Warwick Gaol. And
when he was released (on the 25th July,
1840), I needn't say I was one of those
who had intended to go down with the
other London delegates to greet his entrance
intoBirminoham, as arrangements had been
made for a public procession, and a grand
festival to do him honour. "Unhappily, however,
his health had been so broken by the
cruel treatment he had received in prison,
that, declining this triumphal reception,
as well as a number of other invitations,
he went off to Cornwall, as he says in his
memoirs, to " try as a restorative the air
of his native place." We did, however,
manage to persuade him to come to a
public dinner given to himself and his
fellow-prisoner, Mr. Collins, at the White

Conduit House, in a large tent, on August
3rd, when there were a thousand of us
sitting down with them to dinner. Mr.
Oakley, M.P., was in the chair, and Tom
Buncombe, M.P., the other member for
Finsburj, and Dr. Bo wring, were present,
with many others. Richard Moore, a man
of sterling worth, and a great friend of
Lovett's, acted as secretary. This dinner
was a great suc-cess, and raised the spirits
of all the friends of the Charter, except
those who were intolerably jealous of any
honour shown to Lovett, which they always
fancied was so much disrespect to their
idol, O'Connor. Lovett and Collins had
printed and published a very valuable little
work called " Chartism," which was partly
written in gaol, and was very favourably
received ; so much so that a second edition
was brought out ; but this, in consequence
of the opposition made by the O'Connorites,
Lovett says, was only a loss. Lovett also
was shamefully treated by a certain publisher
and printer, as well as dunned by
other people, for claims which ought never

to have been made ; but, on the other hand,
* various working men's associations, the
Cabinet-makers' societies," and other
friends had all been exerting themselves indifferent
ways to support Lovett's wife
and daughter while he was in prison, to
enable him to go down to Cornwall, and to
start him in a small business when he
returned ; for it seemed clear his health
would not allow of his returning to work
at the cabinet-making trade; and he thought
that a small bookseller's shop, in Totten-ham
Court Road, might earn the family
bread. His wife, who was always a brave
and true helpmate to him, could manage
the shop for the most part, leaving him
free to devote himself to the great object
of his life  the enfranchisement of his
poorer fellow-countrymen and their elevation
in the social, mental, and moral scale.
He was soon therefore again endeavouring
form a Society on the plan set forth in
the pamphlet on Chartism ; and in compliance
with a requisition, he drew up an
admirable address, which was signed by

Collins, Hetlierington, Cleave, Rogers,
Moore, &c., among other leading men,
proposing the establishment of a Society
to be called the '' National Association of
the United Kingdom," for promoting the
political and social improvement of the
people. The whole of this address ought
to be read in Lovett's Memoirs (page 248),
by all persons interested not only in the
history of the political agitations of that
day, but also as a help and guide for the
improvement of the condition of the people
at the present time. The broad and high-toned
principles on which he desired to
work out his aims will be seen when it is
mentioned that a principal object was to
erect *' public halls or schools for the
people  such halls to be used in the middle
of the day as infant, preparatory, and high
schools, in which the children shall be
educated on the most improved plans the
Association can desire, embracing physical,
mental, and political instruction ; and used
of an evening by adults for public lectures,
on physical, moral, and political science.

for readings, discussions, musical entertainments,
dancing, and such other healthful
and rational recreations as may serve to
instruct and cheer the industrial classes
after toil, and prevent the formation of
vicious and intoxicating habits. Such halls
to have two play-grounds, and (where
practicable), a pleasure-garden attached to
each ; apartments for the teachers ; rooms
for hot and cold baths ; for a small museum ;
laboratory ; and general workshop, where
the members may be taught experiments
in science, as well as the first principles of
the most useful trades."

Here were the germs of many improvements
more recently carried into effect,
such aslrTorkmen's Clubs, Penny Readings,
and even Technical Education. Other
useful plans and suggestions followed, and
the address closed with the words :  '' We
remain your devoted servants, in the cause
of liberty and social happiness,"  followed
by the names of those who signed it. All the
members of our Association welcomed the
reading of this noble scheme with immense

satisfaction, when Loyett read it to us
in draft one night ; and I was specially
glad to see how heartily Davie Roberts
applauded it.

The address, however, of course was
viewed by O'Connor and his friends as a
shameful conspiracy (or at all events they
thought proper to regard it as such) for
subverting his power and plans, and it was
denounced most bitterly in the Northern
Star, as a scheme for supplanting the
National Charter Association. All who
put their names to it were denounced as
'' traitors, humbugs, and miscreants," and
Lovett himself singled out for special abuse.
The consequence was, says Lovett, that
votes of censure and denunciations now
assailed us from all quarters of the kingdom
where O'Connor's tools and dupes
were found," and, as he (Lovett) says
again  "if their power had been in proportion
to their own vindictiveness," the
lives of our leaders would very likely have
been sacrificed. Indeed, a Mr. J. Watkins
preached and published what he called a

Sermon to show the justice of assassinating"
our friends. Hereupon we issued
another address, drawn up like the former
by Lovett, vindicating our conduct and
defending the plans proposed with regard
to the public halls for the people. The
second address said that " by means of
them our working class brethren might betaken
out of the contaminating; influences
of public-houses and beer shops  places
where many of their meetings are still
held, their passions are inflamed, their
reason drowned, their families pauperism,
and themselves socially degraded and politically
enslaved." Speaking of our objects,
the address went on to urge '' all who
would place freedom on an enduring basis
to adopt such a course of agitation in favour
of our Charter, as should unite in one bond
of brotherhood the wise and benevolent of
all classes, intent on cherishing and ]propagating
the noblest principles of freedom
among young and old, so that the most
substantial fruits might be gathered from
the political power we are now seeking to

obtain." The address further insisted on
the need of " seeing our brethren prepare
themselves to use that power (the franchise)
wisely when they shall have obtained it'*

It then declares that we are " opposed
to everything in the shape of a physical
and violent revolution,"  and that '' sanguinary
warfare, calling up the passions in
the worst forms, must necessarily throw
back for centuries our intellectual and
moral progress "  that the " mere possession
of the franchise is only a means to a
just end," and that the great question is,
how shall all the resources of our country
be made to advance the intellectual and
social happiness of every individual ?  and
what benefit would be the franchise to those
who if they had power would sacrifice all
who differed from them ? " The address
concludes with describing the vast extent of
the social misery Which class legislation
has occasioned, and then calls for united
action " in order to investigate and remedy
our social evils, and to place the liberties of
our country on a sound and lasting foundation.

We sat listening to Lovett as lie
read this address by a bates wing gas-light,
with almost breathless interest, and as he
concluded, we burst into cheers repeated
over and over again, as our answer to the
shameful attacks made on him and his
scheme.

As I said before, however, my object is
not to give a history of the Chartist agitation,
or of the labours and sufferings of my
great-hearted friend; only to draw attention
to them, and to rouse the working men of
the present day to cherish the same ardent
public spirit and desire for the political
and social improvement of the people,
while they learn from the experience of
former days how to work out the same
objects by wise and judicious measures ;
above all, I most earnestly desire to help
my brother working men to avoid the
terrible evils which arise from jealousy
of the truly wise and good on the one
hand, and blind slavish idolatry of selfish,
needy, or grasping demagogues on the
other.

And so between working with head and
hand, the best part of another year passed
away.

Few things I regretted more during all this
time than mj complete severance from Mr.
Fletcher, who continued toiling on quietly,
modestly, but I am afraid rather sorrowfully
in the little town of East Leigh.
There he had found his work, and there he
believed it was his mission to labour. I
should gladly have gone back as soon as
the wedding was over, but I fancy Mr.
Barnett did not altogether wash me to return
to East Leigh so soon after I came out of
prison. He was evidently rather nervous
about what the squire (who was never
fully persuaded of my innocence,) might
say ; besides which, he had naturally been
obliged to supply my place with another
man. And though I must say I didn't
altogether wish to be so near that happy
little family party in the Camden Town
lodgings, I was very desirous of helping
Davie in his new zeal for '' technical education."
I wanted, also, quits as much, to

Stork with Lovett, and the rest of them,
in the new start which he was now making,
and of course all the more because of the
shameful attacks that were being made
against him. So I fagged away in London
at the bench in the daytime, and for the
National Association or Davie in the evening;
until one day 'Mv. Grapnell, june.,
called me once more into the office, and
said, " Well, AVoodford, it is the old story;
Mr. Barnett wants you to go down again
to East Leigh for a few months, and if you
are willing to go, and let bygones be bygones,
I suppose I must spare you ; but
take care you don't get mixed up with the
poachers again ! "

Well, sir," said I, " I don't much like
their company, and I don't like going
where there is a large crop of them ; but
still I suppose it will be all safe now, and
I think I have learnt a lesson."

I was the more willing to go because
Bembridge told me that the Chartist cause
had been reviving at East Leigh, and that
I mio'ht be of a good deal of use he thought

in helping to guide it on the lines of the
moral and intellectual improvement of the
people, and to get a branch of the National
Association established there. So taking
leave of father and mother, and mj very
dear friends in Camden Town, who seemed
as happy as ever, and as if their happiness
never could be less, I once more returned
to the little Somersetshire hot-bed of
Chartism, as it had now become.

CHAPTER lY.

Of course I went and looked up the
minister as soon as I lead half an hour to
spare. He was sitting over his books and
writing-desk, and it looked all the same as
it used to do, just as if I had only left
him the night before ; but when he got upto
shake hands with me, though there was
the old friendly smile on his face, I was
shocked to see what a change had come
over him. I should hardly have known
him if I had met him in the street  he
looked so pale and worn  with his cheeks
all sunk, and his eyes glowing like lamps.
When he spoke, too, it was in such a hollow,
weary tone, it made me quite unhappy.

'why, sir," says I, "you don't look the
same man; I am afraid you have been

VOL. II. F

fretting down in this dull little hole. How
is the chapel work going on ? "

'' Oh, pretty well, Jem," said he ; "Bern-bridge's
parson left here some months ago
for a better ' sphere ' (which is Latin, yon
know, for better 'salarj'). Then they
asked me to take his place, which I gladly
did ; but I can't say it is very encouraging,
and it is quite true I do feel uncommonly
dull and solitary here sometimes."

And then I could not help saying, '' Well,
sir, but is not that young lady coming down
yet to take care of you ? "

But he only shook his head, and turning
round to the window, said, " ]o, no, my
man, that is all over; but I am much
obliged for your kind sympathy. I know
you would make it all straight if you could,
but I have just gone and done for myself
as far as this world is concerned."

'' But that is a big shame," said I, firing
np ; " for with your leave, I make bold to
say that there never was a man that better
deserved the support and encouragement
both of rich and poor, fair lady, or fine

gentleman, aye, or working man, than
sou."

Much obliged to you, Woodford," he
answered, '' for your good opinion ; but you
ree it is not shared by the folks who could do
the most to help me to be a useful member
of society. And if I have to put up with a
little hard usaoe for the sake of the workingmen,
it is no more than the best of your
class have had to do, and have borne their
troubles bravely without any whining."

That's true," I said, thinking of the
many men who had been or were still in
prison for speaking the truth about the
tyrannical government, and class legislation
under which we were all living then. '' So
I wouldn't mind if it didn't seem to betaking
your health away from you, for I am
sure you must be doing a good deal of
good here, sir."

'' Oh, never mind my health ; I shall
pull through. And now I want to askyoLi
what they say in London about this conference
that Sturge and Miall have summoned
to meet in Birmingham next month."
P 2

Well," I replied, " the man whom, as
you know, I trust above all others, and who
deserves that everybody should trust him 
William Lovett  he says it is a fine thing,
and has good hopes of it ; though whether
it really turns out of any use or not depends
upon the way the O'Connor party choose
to look at it. If they come down in force,
I don't think we or anybody else shall be
much the better for it."

Do you think they will try to upset it,
Woodford ? " he asked.

No, not exactly that, sir ; but it is
very likely that, as Feargus did not start it,
and can't play first fiddle, he will tell his
men to keep it at arm's length, ' pooh-pooh
' the whole affair, and try to make it
rather ridiculous in the eyes of the working
classes."

*' But at all events don't you think it
is a fine attempt to make reconciliation
between the middle and working classes,
and to get justice for all ? "

"Indeed, I do, Mr. Fletcher; I shall
never forget when you first showed me

that new paper called the ' Nonconformist,'
in which the editor, Edward Miall, was
cracking up the cause of what he called
Complete Suffrage,' but which in reahty,as
you know, was very like what we meant by
Universal Suffrage. Ever since that I
have watched him and his work with a
great deal of respect and hope too, and
now that he has got Joseph Sturge and
Sharman Crawford to join with him,
I think real good may be done. It is
a grand thing to have middle-class men,
and an M.P., once more standing up
for us ; it does so much to smooth away
class prejudice, and get rid of that bitter
fear and hatred of Chartists and Chartism
that has done such a deal of harm."

' I suppose," put in Mr. Fletcher, " it is
on that account Miall and Sturge proposed
this new name."

I should think so," said I. " But most
of those men who first came out for the
Charter, when "William Lovett brought it
out, seem to have crept back into their
holes again. We don't hear much of Roebuck,

or Daniel O'Connell, or even Joseph
Hume, being willing to face the storm in
favour of us poor worries, since that confounded
ISTewport riot. Shall you go to
the conference, sir ? "

I haven't been asked," said he, smiling ;
'' but I'd go there or anywhere else to say
a word for justice being done to fellows
like you."

'' Oh, if that is all," said I, '' I think we
shall all gladly send you as our delegate, if
you can get a friend to lodge you in Birmingham,
for we can't afford much for
travelling expenses. They have got the
Branch Society still formed here, though it
hasn't been doing much lately ; but I will
get them together, and have you appointed
in a trice."

Oh," says he, '' I can pay all travelling
expenses. Don't trouble about that."

Aye, but " travelling expenses " were
often a great difficulty in working many a
scheme among us working men.

This proposal was received Levy heartily
by our little knot of Chartists, who still

stood bj one another (tliougli they did not
dare to make themselves miicli known in
the neighbourhood) ; and Mr. Fletclier was
duly elected as our representative to the
Complete Suffrage Conference held in
Birmingham in April, 1842.

There was not a man absent of us when
he came back and told us what had been
done, and I shall never forget the eager
faces of our poor fellows, as we all sat
round the table, and filled up the back
forms and corners of our club-room at the
*' Red Dragon," or how they cheered him
when he first came in, and as he went on
with his discourse. It appeared that
William Lovett, having cordially promoted
the meeting, and Feargus, as I expected,
having attempted to pooh-pooh it, there
was a great majority of the right sort of
men, all of them earnest, downright Chartists,
who were pledged to the lips not to
give up one of the six points, but to make
every other concession possible to meet
the views of our middle-class friends.
Messrs. Miall, St urge, Sharman Crawford,

J. Humphrey Any (since made Serjeant
Parry, a true friend of the people), the
Eev. T. Spencer, of Linton Charter House
(near Bath), a Church of England clergyman,
but a first-rate man, and Mr. Fletcher,
were all equally conciliatory, and for three
days a discussion went on, taking each of
the six points in order. One after another
they were urged by Lovett and the other
Chartists, and one after another were being
conceded by the middle-class folk; but
among the latter was an eloquent, high-courage,
sturdy young Quaker from the
North, a large manufacturer, and a very
influential man already in his own district.
The news of his coming made a great
sensation among us," said Mr. Fletcher,
and considerably encouraged us till we
found that though giving us very valuable
sympathy and support on many points, he
was making a very dogged opposition to
two or three articles of the Charter, which
exasperated its supporters and made us all
tremble a little for the fate of the conference.
At last his objections to this and

that were all removed, except to the last
point, wliicli was Annual Parliaments. But
the Chartists made a touching appeal tous
and pressed this ' point ' also, on the
ground that they were already regarded in
their respective localities with no little suspicion
for having come to a middle-class
conference on the subject ; and it was
stated that if they fulfilled the gloomy
expectations of their friends at home, and
gave up any one of the six points, they
should be regarded as traitors to the cause,
and on their return home would find they
had lost all influence, and would be ' sent
to Coventry ' into the bargain."

They [i. e. the Chartist Delegates] had
come to the conference in a spirit of faith
and trust, in spite of no end of opposition,
and even obloquy, among their constituents
and the rest of the Chartists. They had
come in fact, not exactly with their lives,
but with their reputation  their whole
social and political influence  at stake in
the localities where they lived ; all of them,
of course, to some extent leading men, and

all of them therefore with a position that
they would have been very loth to lose.

Greatly to my surprise, I need not
say," continued our brave parson, " I was
asked if I would move the adoption of this
Annual Parliament Clause on these grounds,
and though I didn't particularly like the
job, I felt the force of the men's arguments,
and pleaded for them to the best of
my power. The result was all the middle-class
opposition was withdrawn, the whole
of the six points were carried, and even the
eloquent young Quaker from Rochdale remained
our friend''

That young man's name was John
Bright, and it is pretty well known what
he has done since to earn the gratitude of
his countrymen.

Then," said Mr. Fletcher, continuing
his narrative, " we wound it up with a
magnificent meeting .in the Town Hall,
when Joseph Sturge, whose wisdom and
courtesy, and broad popular sympathy, had
so helped to secure the unanimity and success
of the conference, presided over an

audience wliicli filled every nook and
corner of that spacious building. He spoke
well as chairman, and was cheered to the
echo. William Lovett, Henry Vincent,
Bronterre O'Brien, Lower, and others, all
made admirable and stirring appeals, and I
should think the Town Hall hadn't often
rung with such enthusiastic cheers as
answered them. Fancy my alarm when I
found myself urged to second one of the
resolutions, Mr. Thomas Spencer having
gone home, and we being the only two
clergymen who had attended the conference;
but I can tell you, gentlemen," said
Mr. Fletcher, '' it was just the hardest task
I had ever tried in my life, to stand up
before such a meeting as that, and when I
began I didn't know whether I was in the
body or out of it. However, the audience
were very kind and demonstrative, and
clapped most generously, so that I soon
recovered my senses, and only remember
the infinite sense of relief with which I
found my last words were being heartily
cheered as I dropped into my seat."

Then, sir," said one of our men as the
parson concluded amid our cheers, 'you
think the conference will help us to get the
People's Charter?"

'eyes, I do," replied Mr. Fletclier,
more than anything else which, has happened
since you started it ; because it will
ha 70 lifted it up on to an entirely new
platform, christened the movement with a
new name," (that, by the bye, was the only
thing we did not like, and we told him so
afterwards. We did not want a new name,)
got it out of the old rut, and will have
made Members of Parliament look on it as
something more than another name for
violence and anarchy."

He then told us that it was decided to
call another conference towards the end of
the year, of a more largely representative
character if possible, when final steps
should be taken for putting the whole subject
before Parliament in their ensuing
session. " To the second conference," he
continued, " the hopes of most Chartists
will now be directed with very longing

eyes, and, as you know, great expectations
are entertained with, regard to the results.
So that, gentlemen, is the upshot of what
passed at our first conference. But I must
not omit one curious and interesting; thing
which happened to me. I was introduced
at the conference to a very fine fellow,
named Arthur O'Neill, a working man and
a delegate, and he told me all about his
Christian Chartist Society, which they had
formed after hearing of one in Scotland.
It must have seemed a very queer title that,
to all respectable middle-class Christians in
Birmingham I have no doubt, when he first
announced it, for I suppose their notion of
Chartist and Chartism would be the very
antipodes of Christianity. But I must say
it took my fancy amazingly. For you see,
friends, I had taken to Chartism just because
I thought Christianity told me I ought
(cheers) ; and when a very intelligent,
modest, good-looking young fellow came
up to me after one of the sittings of the
conference, told me his name was O'Neill,
and asked me if I would come and say a

few words some evening before I left to his
little society, I got interested pretty quickly,
and went on the Sunday afternoon (I was
engaged every night, and was preaching
for an old friend morning and evening on
the Sunday, so that was my only opportunity).
I prayed with them, and preached
to them, and did a lot of ' talkee-talkee '
with O'Neill and his committee besides.
It seems he was an out-and-out Chartist,
but he was also a firm believer in Christ
and Christianity, and so he thought the two
things might be united ; and finding some
Baptist or Methodist workmen of the same
mind with himself, they formed this Christian
Chartist Society. When it was first
launched, respectable folks looked at them
much as you would look at a mad dog.
But they worked quietly on, 'instant in
season and out of season,' always abounding
in good works, and careful to give no
offence. If a neighbour or a neighbour's
child were ill, a ' Christian Chartist ' was
sure to be ready to run for the doctor or sit
up to nurse all the night long. If help

were wanted for a burial, half-a-dozen
Christian Chartists would volunteer to
carry the coffin. If a fight had to be
stopped or a quarrel prevented, there were
Christian Chartists ready to do it. Teniers
' Good Samaritan ' work in short was
needed, some of these good fellows were
always ready day or night to do it without
fee or reward. ' And so you see,' said
Arthur O'Xeill to me, ' all the prejudice
against us has been lived down, and we
stand so well now in tins town that we
have only to go to any of the wealthy,
benevolent men of Birmingham and tell
them we want a little money for this or
that, and we get it immediately.' Yes,
yes, my Chartist brothers," concluded Mr.
Fletcher, " Chartism is a fine thing, and
O'Neill is a fine fellow. And Christ and
Christianity are better still, in my opinion,
whatever that's worth. Without them, I
think, all our schemes and societies won't
do us much good ; but with them we may
go ahead and be sure of victory." Didn't we
give him a rousing cheer when he sat down !

I often wished to hear more of that
young man and his good work ; but unhappily
about a year later, and before he
could put it on a permanent basis, he was
laid hold of by some of the magistrates
who were off their heads with fright,  and,
for something in a speech he had made,
which they called sedition, was most unjustly
sentenced at the Stafford Assizes,
in the summer of 1842, to twelve months'
imprisonment in Stafford gaol. Mr.
Fletcher, I remember, read us a very interesting
but very short letter which he
had received from O'Neill while in gaol ;
but the young man never took much part
in the Chartist movement again . He found
a fine field for congenial work, however, in
becoming minister of a Baptist chapel in
Birmingham; and I've no doubt many of
his Christian Chartists joined his congregation,
and continued to carry on their useful
works, and to be good Christians and
staunch Chartists as well.

For myself I must say I liked this name,
Christian Chartist," immensely. I told

Mr. Fletcher lie "was as good a Christian
Chartist as any of them, and that he had
better start a Christian Chartist church at
once, not for East Leigh only, but all
England.

Thank you, Jem," said he, *' but the
Church of Christ is good enough for me.
It can do all we want  if only it would do
its duty  its political duty, among the
rest."

True enough, but then it don't, thought
I. Perhaps it will some day, yet.

' Another curious thing happened," said
Mr. Fletcher, when talking afterwards with
Bembridgo and myself in London about the
conference, "as I was returning from Birmingham.
While waiting on the platform
for the train to Gloucester, I saw a young
Chartist delegate doing the same, who had
made oue or two speeches at the conference
that pleased me very much. So we began
talking, and I suppose we should have
travelled in the same carriage, but he intimated
that he had a companion, and I saw
nothing more of him till we got to Gloucester.

II. G

ter and was preparing to mount the coach
to Bristol [there was no line then between
that town and Bristol]. Then he and his
friend got up with me at the back, and he
informed me that he had been arrested that
morning by the gentleman sitting opposite
us, under a warrant from the Bristol magistrates
for taking part in a so-called seditious
meeting some months before. He had kept
out of the way hitherto, but they guessed
he would be at the Birmingham conference,
and despatched an officer."

Poor beggar, he'll get twelve months,"
said one of my mates.

'' I only hope they will let him have books
then," replied Mr. Fletcher, "for he could
make stand use of them. I don't know
when I had been more pleased with a man's
conversation than I was with his. And
when I asked him where he got such capital
notions from, he said, ' Well, chiefly from
an American writer, a Dr. Channing's
works.' This made me wonder what the
writings were which had wrought so wholesomely
on that young Chartist workman."

'' I have all his works," said the chairman
of our Chartist Association. '' Bern-bridge
got them for me ; and I shall be
happy to lend them to you. But I should
think that what your companion had got
most good from, were one on ' Self-culture,'
and another on ' The Elevation
of the Labouring Classes." However, I
admire nearly everything the man wrote,
at least, that I have read. I've many a
time blessed the day when Bembridge was
cracking 'em up to us. The Doctor has a
good deal to answer for, also, for any twist
I may have got, as well as your Bristol
Chartist friend, towards good or evil. I
see too, that Henry Vincent, in a great
speech he made the other day at Bath,
referred to the-same writer."

On my word, it grows interesting,"
replied Mr. Fletcher, his eyes kindling up.
I must certainly read the man's notions.
I take your offer, with thanks. But what
a terrible Radical the Yankee Doctor must
be if his views breed up such thoroughpaced
Chartists ! "

'' And land them in Newport and Bristol
gaols," I added.

No, no ; Channing is no more of a
Radical or Chartist than the founder of
Christianity," said our chairman, "but no
less. He is no politician, i.e., not a party-politician
at all. But he seems to me to
be trying all he can to do what you are
doing every Sunday, Mr. Fletcher,  to
apply Christianity to our mental and moral
improvement as citizens and men, to raise
us and our political communities nearer to
God,  and if that's Radicalism or Chartism,
then the New Testament is pretty full of it.
But that's not what would land any fellow
now-a-days in a gaol, though it would have
done it a hundred years ago. Your Bristol
friend must have gone in for club law a tidy
little bit, I am afraid, before the magistrates
could be down upon him."

What, man ! " said I, rather crossly,
"have you forgotten Warwick gaol? I
should like to know what landed William
Lovett there, if it wasn't applying Christianity
to politics. But there are a good

many fine fellows now-a-dajs," I grumbled
out, thinking of Davie Roberts, and others
as good as he, " who laye lost all hope of
getting the improvement you speak of
except by club law. Worse luck for them,
and the nation."

After all this chatter, however, about the
Yankee parson's writings, I thought I would
read them as soon as the chance offered.
When I did read them, I didn't wonder at
any working man (or gentleman either for
that matter,) being the better all his life
for having read them ; and I'm going to be
grateful, too, all my life that I heard of
them, though I don't say I understood or
cared for everything I found in them.

But there was another gloomy shadow
had come over us at East Leigh before the
dark and terrible days of August, 1842.

Ingot long after Mr. Fletcher had returned
from that first Birmingham Conference, I
met him one day in the street, carrying a
carpet bag, as I was going home to my
dinner. There was something up, I could
see, that was very bad, but he hardly spoke

just shook lances, squeezing mine pretty
hard ; said lie was glad he had met me 
it was like ' a whifF of the briny ' to a
sick man," and he'd write as soon as he
could. Then he swung himself up outside
the coach that ran between East Leigh and
Taunton, and I looked after him, wondering.
He did write, after a few days, from the
fine old place where the young ladj lived
who he had once hoped would come and
keep his home at East Leigh. He had been
sent for, he said, to see her, but he feared
it was only to see her pass out of this
world to the fairer, happier world to
which, not to earth, she seemed properly
to belong."

What could a poor ignorant fellow like
myself say to him in presence of such a
sorrow ? I could only quote his own
words, which I had often treasured up as
they came from his pulpit right to the
hearts of myself and others ; and he told
me afterwards they were a help and strength
to him, when thus echoed back to him, 
as they had often been to me.

I was thinking very sorrowfully about him
not long after, when the postman slipped a
letter into my hand, in his handwriting, but
it hadn't got the black seal I was expecting.
When I saw the first words inside I
jumped up, clapped my hands, and then
gave God thanks  for it told me that the
young lady was going to live, and not die,
as her parents, rather than lose her, had
given their consent to her marrying Mr.
Fletcher, in spite of his Chartism and
'conventicle shop;" and all was happiness
and peace.

In due time the brave, good man brought
home his bonny bride to a pretty little
house he had taken for her on the outskirts
of East Leigh, and a new beautiful life from
that time dawned on him, after all his
sacrifices and sufferings. I rather think
we did give them both a warm reception
when they came home, and I don't know
which of the two looked the most pleased.

I hadn't very long, however, to enjoy
the sight of my dear parson's happiness,
or to profit by his teachings. My work

for Mr. Barnett was finished soon after,
and lie told me Mr. Grapnell wanted me
back in town. He was very pleasant, and
so were all the slip, and a lot of them and
my Chartist pals actually invited me to a
grand supper the night before I left, when
Mr. Fletcher took the chair, and we were
all as jolly as you please, though I was uncommonly
sorry to be leaving them.

CHAPTER V.

On my return to town, my first visit, after
seeing the dear old folks at Broadfield,
and spending a day or two with them, was
to hunt up Davie and his wife, but this
proved a longer business than I expected.
Things were not so pleasant, I found, as
they had been ; work had sometimes been
rather short, Davie didn't keep quite so
steady to his home, I am afraid, as in the
early married days, and they had had to
move into much less comfortable lodgings.
This was the more unfortunate, as two
little souls had been added to their circle,
and poor Maggie's tell-tale face, as well
as Davie's, looked rather pinched and
careworn. Of course we had a deal of
eager talk together, and I think I was of

some use to both liiisband and wife, so
that I was able to harness ito mj old
work in conjunction with Lovett with a
tolerably easy conscience. Lovett, Bern-bridge,
and other friends, by means of
the National Association, had got into a
much larger building than I left them in,
having taken what was known as Gate-street
Chapel, Lowborn, which was rechristened
as the '' National Hall."
Considerable sums of money were raised
by the help of various liberal and public-spirited
gentlemen ; but unfortunately a
debt of about 400/. remained after all
expenses were paid, and that hung like a
millstone round the neck of the association
till the day of its death, tripping our
efforts, and greatly contracting the sphere
of our usefulness. The National Hall,
which would hold about 2000 people, was
opened in July, 1842, with a public
festival. A Sunday-school had been
opened, and Bembridge was one of the
most regular teachers. The education
given consisted of reading, writing, arithmetic,

grammar, and geography, with such
other information as they were able to
give. Lectures by various eminent men
were frequently given, and altogether a
considerable amount of good was done by
this organization. Feargus O'Connor was
now developing his Land Scheme, and
getting money out of the pockets of many
unfortunate dupes, while the attention of
the working classes was of comes diverted
by the trail of this reel herring from the
pursuit of the great object for which so
many sacrifices had been made and so
much suffering endured. The state of the
country at large continued to be very
lamentable, and although there did not
seem to be so much danger of political
outbreaks or seditious and revolutionary
proceedings as there had been, there was
no little danger from the profound discontent
and intense sufferings amono- the o-reat
body of the industrial classes. I see that
Thomas Cooper, in his autobiography, has
powerfully depicted the state of things as he
witnessed it, and as many thousands felt it.

Hence, during the summer of 1842,
there was sterner business going on than
peace-making, Sturge-and-Miall Suffrage
conferences, or beneficent National Loveth
work. What was known far
and wide as the terrible " Plug Plot " was
spreading like wild-fire. The delegate
meeting held in Manchester, on August
12, had resolved, by an immense majority,
on encouraging the movement and promoting
what was called the *' Sacred
Month," in which no work of any kind
should be done "so as to see if that would
bring Parliament (as they said) to its
senses, and make them pass the Charter."
Large bodies of men went from mill to
mill in the factory districts, turning out
all the hands, and taking the plugs
from the boilers. It was whispered that
the Anti-Corn League approved of these
proceedings, believing they would help on
a repeal of the infamous Corn Laws. At
Bacup, August 12, there were 2000 men
going about with sticks, turning out the
mill-hands, and demanding provisions

from the shops. At Stourbridge, Dukin-
field, Ashton, Hyde, and. Denton, similar
work went on. Every morning fresh
news came to London ; and in many
workshops, ours included, one man was
paid by the rest to read the newspaper
during our breakfast and dinner-hour.

One of the worst rows took place at
Preston, where the military were called
out, the Riot Act read amid showers of
stones, and four men were shot dead in
the streets, besides many being wounded.
A large mill-owner at Stockport, a Mr.
Bradshaw, who had locked his factory
gates in the face of the mob, was beaten
by them so badly that he had to take to
his bed.

Military out again ! " was the frequent
exclamation in our shops of a morning,
during those dismal days. Sometimes it
was at Chatsworth, sometimes at Blackburn,
and then back again at Ashton.
For fifty miles round Manchester," Mr.
Damage says in his " History of Chartism
" (p. 242), when summing up the sad

cloino-s of the time, " the same excitement
prevailed." Even ordinary workmen,
bricklayers and others, were forced to
stop work. And the worst feature,
perhaps, of the whole affair was the
extent to which these tumultuous bodies
of men be'yQ;ed or demanded and got
money and food from large numbers of
the middle and trading classes. Night
after night excited groups of men throughout
the rest of the country and in London
gathered at their respective Chartist
meeting-places, and, rubbing their hands
exultingly, would exclaim, '' Now's the
time. It's come at last. Go it, my Lancashire
lads ! If we don't get the Charter
now, we never shall ! "

My old friend, Jem Burt, had turned
out a capital fellow  smart and handy
with his tools, and with a head on his
shoulders. He attended classes at the
Mechanics' Institute, Chancery Lane, and
often came to lectures and discussions at
the National Hall ; but, like so many more
good fellows, he had no patience with

wrong  couldn't bear to wait for Lovett's
slow moves for the Charter, and was a
great admirer  not, indeed, of O'Connor,
but of Thomas Cooper ; and was fairly
swept ose his legs by that able and earnest,
but at that time hot-headed Chartist
leader's remarkable eloquence the first
time he heard him. McDoual, also Leech,
Campbell, and other determined and
honest Chartist chiefs, had immense attractions
for him, and a fatal influence
over him. There was one magnet, however,
that I thought would keep him from
any very wild extravagance. He was
desperately in love with Maggie's younger
sister, a pretty, quiet, but very delicate
girl; and she was uncommonly fond of
him. If he could have gone on steadily
they might have been married in a year or
two.

Burt, however, was wild to hear Cooper
again, and to go to all his meetings; he
vas, in fact, quite unsettled by the state
of the times, and by what Mr. Fletcher
called his hero-worship. Thomas Cooper

seemed more to him a great deal when
this Plug Plot broke out than poor little
Nelly Thatcher. One night he came flying
up my stairs, just as I was thinking of
going to bed, after teaching at the National
Hall all the evening, and, shaking
my hand frantically, he exclaimed, '' Give
me joy, old fellow ! The Executive have
agreed to send me down to the Potteries
for a week; they want to connect us,
don't you see, with the ' Sacred Month.'
Cooper is pounding away there like a
dozen, and wants a representative of the
London Chartists ; so, praise the pigs, I'm
off tomorrow morning ! "

And to the Potteries he went, joyful
enough. Coming back was a very different
matter.

All through Staffordshire the men were
up, and it was no joke when those colliers
and ironworks lost patience, and began
to take the law into their own hands. It
was on August 7 that the great meeting
on Mottram Moor had been held, when
the resolution was passed that all labour

should cease until the People's Charter
became the law of the land, and within a
week, in nearly all the great towns of Lancashire,
thousands upon thousands of the
working classes had carried the same resolutions
amid deafening cheers. It was justa
week afterwards  that is, on Monday,
August 15  when Burt found himself set
down by the coach at the door of an inn
in Hanley, in the Potteries, after riding
for miles every now and then through
crowds of excited colliers, who were brandishing
sticks, and swearing it was time rich
men gave poor men their rights, and Jem
said, in the few lines I had from him, " How
I longed to jump down and join them ! "

As soon as he got something to eat,
away he went to a place called the Craven
Bank, where he was told Cooper was to
hold a meeting that night. Immense
numbers of men with grimy faces and
sturdy limbs, thick sticks, and queer
speech, were pressing and jostling to get
as near the speaker as they could. Jem
was soon in the thick of the crowd and

VOL. II. H

listening with throbbing heart to all the
vehement and stirring words poured outby
the fiery orator. All the day long
Hanley, Burley, Stoke, and Langton,
had been wild with excitement, and the
tradesmen had begun putting up their
shutters long before evening. All sorts
of reports of what the mob were doing indifferent
places were flying about. Small
bodies of troops, accompanied by the
magistrates, were marching about ; but
just as they were sent for to one spot
where things looked dangerous, mounted
messengers came, urgently demanding
their presence somewhere else. Both
men and; officers were harassed to death.

Cooper's lecture was announced for
eight o'clock in the large room of the
Crown Inn at Hanley, but by six p.m. the
crowd "Vias so great that the committee
asked him to go over to the bank and
address them there. By this time it was
pretty certain that there had been serious
rioting and destruction of property in
several placeS;.

Knowing all this, Cooper dwelt strongly
in his address on the need of keeping within
the law, and declared that they who broke
it were not the friends, but the enemies of
freedom. But when he came to denounce
the crimes of the rich, and the oppression
and tyranny of the governing classes, withall
his burning eloquence, Burt said that
he, like thousands around him, felt ready
to go anywhere, and do anything that
might help to overthrow the gigantic
wickedness under which they suffered.
Men who had gone through what the
workmen of the potteries and the manufacturing
districts generally had been
suffering for many a day, were, of course,
as ready as gunpowder to explode when
such a torch was set to it.

Cooper closed the meeting at dusk, but
the crowd did not disperse. Every one
was asking, " What next ? " All seemed
to feel that after such an appeal, and now
that they were all there in their strength,
something must be done to follow it up.

We must make a beginning mates,
H 2

somewhere ! " cried a man on the bank,
close to Burt, in a voice that rang through
the air like a trumpet, and thousands of
voices shouted " bravo ! " cheering with a
great roar. Then another man cried, "We
must show our tyrants that we coi reach
them, aye, in spite of all their red-coats
and police ! " And again the cheers
boomed out. " Down with the accursed
magistrates ! They are the first of our
tyrants to be struck ! " and, while this was
being cheered more lustily than ever, two
pistol-shots were fired, and hundreds of
Hanley men shouted, " Down with Parker !
To hell with old Parker ! " and there, in
the gathering gloom, in another instant,
that vast, angry, maddened multitude were
hurrying away to the house of Mr. Parker,
a Hanley magistrate.

Happily he and his family got warning
just in time, and escaped to Burley.
Burt said he never could have believed he
should have lived to be one of a huge mob
engaged in setting fire to the house of a
peaceable man, who had certainly never

injured him. But lie said he felt at the
time as if he were being swept along in a
Holy War " against all tyrants ; that it
was, indeed, time the reign of tyranny and
the years of down-trodden misery should
come to an end ; that, as the man on the
bank had said, they must make a beginning
somewhere, and that if they struck a blow
to the best of their ability, who could tell
how mighty their example might prove,
until the revolution swept over the whole
land, and England once more was free !
As he said on his trial, when, in a few
simple, and very touching words, he tried
to make out the best case for himself
he could, '' Xo one who has not been in
the midst of an immense and excited crowd
can have any idea how catching their madness
is, and how you seem to lose hold on
yourself, and to become merely part of a
huge body, rushing here and there without
any will of your own, but full of the feeling
that makes every one shout and roar, and
perhaps fight, burn, or destroy." I know
that is true. I have felt something the

same more than once, as if I were part of
a huge monster, like a wild elephant, but
with the teeth of a lion, and the rage of a
mad bull. And, as I told poor Jem, I did
not so much blame him for being carried
away with the mob, as for going among
them at all at the first. Yet who would
not have wanted to hear Cooper speak that
night ? Certainly he was most to blame.
But then he hardly knew the extent, I
suppose, of his own power. So Jem went
at the work of destruction with a will,
joined as lustily as the maddest among
them in the yells of triumph with which
the thick darkness was soon lighted by the
lurid flames shooting up from the magistrate's
doomed mansion, and then rushed
off with the infuriated riot ors, when that
work was finished, to surround Dr. Yale's
house at Langton. There also, happily,
the family had got away in time, but the
obnoxious magistrate had a narrow escape.
And now began a scene which has so often
been both the saddest in itself, and the
cause of infinitely worse evils and crimes

than ever would have been committed, but
for the devilish spirit inspired by drink.
Some of the foremost of the mob, before
the house was fired, broke into the doctor's
cellar, knocked off the necks of the bottles
by hundreds, and soon, to Burt's infinite
horror and disgust, he saw numbers of his
fellow-patriots in a state of beastly drunkenness.
Those who had drunk, but not
enough to be stupefied, rushed at the work
of destruction with wilder devilry than ever.
Not only Dr. Yale's mansion, but other
dwellings in the neighbourhood were
quickly in flames from top to bottom.
Soon terrified women and children, half
naked, ran shrieking past, flying for their
lives through the flames and the crowd,
into the darkness ; and then, as the oaths,
curses, and shouts rang louder and louder,
mingled at last with cries of " The soldiers 1
the soldiers ! " Burt stopped in his course,
drew out of the mob, and began to ask
himself if all this frightful business was
indeed the commencement of a reign of
Freedom, Justice, and Peace.

The soldiers did come ; too late to prevent
incalculable mischief and misery, but intime
to prevent that mischief spreading
far and wide. Jem Burt heard them
coming, when, long after midnight,
dispirited, and ready to drop with fatigue,
with a vague, terrible feeling of guilt and
remorse on his mind, and his thoughts
flying through the darkness at last to the
quiet village of Broadfield sleeping peacefully,
he was trying to creep back to his
inn unobserved either by rioters or the
military. In vain.

So long as the captain of the little
company of soldiers was uncertain in the
darkness whether he might not have to
charge a fighting mob, he kept his men well
together; but when it became clear, as they
came near the light of the burning houses,
that the rioters, having had notice of the
approach of the military, were taking to
their heels, he gave orders to capture as
many prisoners as his men could secure
and keep. Unhappily for Burt, he was
one of the first observed by an active

young corporal. Then he found himself
caught as he stumbled along, bound, and
handed over to the guard, almost before he
knew what had happened.

Thomas Cooper had wisely yielded to the
urgent advice of his friends when they saw
how matters were going, and started about
midnight for Macclesfield on foot (as no
one would lend him a gig), accompanied by
two young men, who were sure they knew
the way. His object was to catch the train
for Manchester the next morning, and so
be present at the Chartist delegate meeting
in that town.

Of his adventures that dismal night he
has given a graphic account in his autobiography
also of the proceedings at the
delegate meeting. But to follow up the
further events of that sad and memorable
time would lead me too far afield. He
was arrested not long after for his share
in the scenes which had been taking place
in the Potteries, and narrowly escaped

" The Life of Thomas Cooper." Written by
himself. London : Fodder and Houghton.

transportation for setting fire to "Dr. Yale's
and Mr. Parker's houses, when lie was
many miles away. But lie got two years'
imprisonment in Stafford gaol for *' sedition
and conspiracy."

It was during that imprisonment, of
which he also gives a striking narrative (as,
indeed, he does of his whole career), that
he wrote his remarkable poem, " The
Purgatory of Suicides;" but, like William
Lovett and many other political prisoners,
he was at first so hardly used, that his
health gave way, and had he not secretly
obtained the means of writing to Thomas
Buncombe, M.P. (that staunch friend of
the people's rights), he would probably
never have come out of the gaol alive, and
would certainly have written no poetry,
for he was not allowed pens, ink, paper, or
books till his case, with all its attendant
hardships, was brought forward in the
House of Commons.

Still he had done a world of mischief,
though his intentions were worthy of any
true patriot. And long after he had left
gaol in triumph, and was living and working

happily at home and in the great world,
some of those who had been goaded by his
resistless eloquence into deeds of violence,
not at Hanlej alone, were wearing out
their lives in chain-gangs in the colonies.
For the act recently passed by Sir George
G-rey, was brought to bear heavily on
these rioters. Jem was tried with the
rest, and sent across the seas, after one
heart-breaking interview with poor Nelly
Thatcher and the rest of us. Nelly
couldn't get over it, for, as I said, she was
of a very delicate constitution, and before
Jem had been gone three years, she was
sleeping in Broadfield churchyard. It was
sorrowful news to send to Sydney, and it
was a sad trouble to Maggie and her
mother. Maggie had loved the weakly
little sister with great love, as, indeed,
she seemed to love all whom she cared
about, more or less, even her reprobate
old father, as far as he'd let her. And
even he came to be kind to her a bit at
last, after they had stood together by Nelly's
dying-bed. But all these troubles were a
black shadow on her heart for many a day.

Davie Roberts, happily for him, was out
of that hole. He had learnt his lesson,
but, among other of my friends, he felt
the pinch of those dark days. Wages were
lower, and sometimes there was no work
for him at all. Many a talk had I listened
to in which men were expressing very
audibly their dissatisfaction with the existing
state of things. At the meetings which
were held by different trades there were
some very rash and violent notions uttered,
with threats of vengeance for what the men
knew to be the wrongs under which they
were labouring; but sometimes uncommonly
good sense was talked. I remember
Kelso making a fine speech one night at
a lodge meeting about the necessity for
workmen to get better educated in their
trades. After talking about the bad
state of trade, and the Stafford Assizes,
and the Charter, and how far the masters
and governing classes ought to find work
for us, he went on,  *' Why, you know,
mates, in old times the journeyman seemed
to belong to his master, and really did in

the old feudal castles, where tailors, shoemakers,
carpenters, &c., were all serfs of
the baron ; and then in the towns, in
the trade guilds, you would find the master
sitting side by side with his journeymen,
teaching them all he knew. But masters,
now-a-days, don't know much (A laugh),
and, therefore, can't teach the men ; but,
for all that, they can't get it out of their
heads that those under them belong to
them all the same, and that not one in
their employment has any right to say a
word to them, and that nobody outside has
any right to say a word for them, anymore
than if they were out-and-out their
slaves (Great applause). Now, I don't
like the word ' master,' it smacks a little
too much of serfdom and despotism to
please me. But, mind you, when it means
a ' teacher,' as it used to once, among
handicraftsmen, and as it does still for
schoolboys, then I don't object. Nothing
I have liked better all my life than to find
a man who could be my master in that
sense. If a man can and will teach me

anything, I don't care who lie be  employer
or journeyman, lord or chimney-sweep 
then I'm his obedient pupil, and much
obliged to him (Modified applause). I heard
a gentleman tell a good story the other day
of how he was travelling outside a stagecoach,
with a man on the box talking with
the coachman in a very flashy, conceited
sort of way about the nonsense of
orders of nobility, and saying that he had
travelled with Earl Ducis in a railway
carriage the other day, and looked at him
from head to foot, and didn't think he looked
a much better sort of man than himself,
after all ; ' but then, you know, coachman,'
said my fellow-traveller, ' I never did see
a better man than myself, did you ? ' 'I
thought,' said the gentleman, ' that he must
be a good one, to be sure of that, but I
could see he was only a seedy sort of chap ;
and then I made bold to remark that I
thought the speaker was about the most
unlucky man I ever met with. He seemed
quite taken aback ; didn't utter a word all
the rest of the way ; perhaps he was sulky,

perhaps it gave him and coach such a deal
to think of, that the could do nothing else
till they got to the journey's end.' (A
laugh.) Now, don't you see, mates," continued
Kelso, '' the thing we most want in
this world is to find men who are better
than ourselves, who can teach us, and give
us a wrinkle or two, not only in our trades,
but in a good many other matters also ?
It's only nasty conceited folks, fellows
always wanting to be cocks o' the walk,
that can't bear any to be better than themselves.
Why not use your play-time to
get a better knowledge of your trades, and
of the real principles on which you have to
work ? A man who doesn't understand
what he's doing, and only just does what
he's told, and in the way that it's shown to
him, after all is but a poor stick, tho' he
mayn't be a knob stick, but a downright
honest fellow." (Some laughter, hissing,
and applause.)

When the men were talking together
after Kelso sat down, I heard one of my
shipmates saying, 

Aye, but there's a bit of truth in some
of that jabber. Don't you see it's all very
well with us when in the shop, or jobbing
about, as long as were only got to keep on
the square, and the mitre will serve ; but
when it comes to bevels and curves, and
getting your centres right, and so on, then
your rule of thumb is just the devil to pay,
and no mistake."

The men near him laughed, and some
said, 

Right you are, Tom ; we'll go bail for
that."

Others growled, and said, 

It was all nonsense. They had got
eyes in their heads, and supposed they
could see where to cut."

'' Ah ! " said Kelso, turning on them,
but I suppose you can't, unless the foreman
stands by you half the day ! "

'' Gammon ! " cries one of the grumblers.
'what d'ye mean?"

Mean ! Why, you know as well as I
do, that I had to nurse you all the time you
were putting up that hip-roof last week in

the Old-street-road. I couldn't trust you
to cut one of those rafters by yourself."

The man turned away very sulky, but
the rest of us knew it was all true, and only
laughed. Kelso said to me afterwards, as
we were walking home, 

You see, Woodford, in many trades
what men want is to learn how to make
models. They ought to be brought up to
make working-drawings for, and also from,
models in wood, tin, zinc, &c., because,
don't you see, they would then learn how
to grasp the shapes and sizes of the various
objects which they are required to make,"

Yes," said I, " and all that, 1 suppose,
would help us in working to scale."

Of course. You found that working
to scale is one of a man's greatest difficulties."


Yell, it's easy enough, Mr. Kelso, as
you know, to work on a quarter-scale drawing,
for most of us, I suppose, soon learn
that then a quarter-inch stands for a foot.
But when you come to talk of a three-eighths
scale, for instance  " and I

VOL. II. I

stopped, looking very dismal, for I remembered
one or two plaguy rows over that
figure.

Kelso could not help laughing at my wry
face, and said, as we parted at the corner
of the street, 

Why, I don't believe one man in a dozen
would be able to make out his three-eighths
of an inch to the foot, or, for that matter,
be able to take the dimensions required for
his own job from any drawing."

'' More shame, Mr. Kelso, for those who
had the teaching of us."

Well, you've hit the nail there, Wood-ford,"
said he, over his shoulder; then added,
with a bitter sort of chuckle, " And how
many of 'em would have cared to learn anything
if they had had the chance ? "

Ah, said I to myself, there's the rub.
But we must catch 'em when young. However,
that hint about making models I found
one of the best wrinkles he 4iad ever given
me.

Now I know there is a good deal of truth,
also, in what Kelso said about masters

when lie was talking to us that night, and
I know there is plenty of fault may be
found in the way they treat the men. But
when workmen become masters, I am sorry
to say I have seen them turn against the
men, and drive them harder and treat them
worse than born gentlemen. I know it's
only natural we should do so, but still I
think it is a bad nature ; and I have tried
always pretty hard myself to keep a lump
of love for the men somewhere in my own
heart, and to respect them and show I
respected them unless they did what was
disrespectable. But then, again, I've seen
what I didn't see so clearly then, that the
men themselves are often a great deal to
blame for the way they get used, and as
I've more than once said to them since,
If we didn't spend so much of our wages
in drink, and got a little more education,
and kept ourselves generally more like the
middle-class folks both in manners and conversation,
we should certainly be treated
more respectfully by the employers."

I 2

CHAPTER VI.

I AM quite sure that many a time disputes,
and even strikes, would be avoided if employers
were in the habit of treating the
men more respectfully, and if the men
deserved it. So many of those fights
between Labour and Capital (as they are
called) would never take place but for misunderstandings,
and these often grow out
of want of mutual respect. I never can
understand why the capitalists and the
workmen should not settle their differences
with regard to wages, just as friendly like
as merchants and brokers settle the terms
on which they are to buy and sell when
they meet on 'Change. As a master
builder, now, I have to go and buy my
wood of the timber merchants, and of

course I want to get it as cheap as I can,
and tliej want to get as good price for it
as they can, and if we can't agree there
is no bargain made ; but then we don't
quarrel about it, and very likely next time
we meet there is business done between us.
The only reason why it should not be so
between the employers and their work-people
seems to me the ignorance of one
another's real position, and the want, as I
said, of mutual respect. But at the time
I'm speaking of, I often felt as mad against
the masters and well-to-do folk generally,
as most of my mates. I thought nearly
all the fault was on their side, and didn't
think how hard they or their fathers must
have been working and saving, and how
many comforts they must have denied
themselves before they could have come
into their property and got the whip hand
of us working men. Since I became an
employer myself I've noticed that at least
two-thirds or more of all employers, or
their fathers, all over the kingdom, were
only journeymen once, and that they were

saving while others were spending, working
with their hands and brains while the rest
were idling or worse. And if it had not
been for their savings workmen couldn't
be set to work and get wages. So that, I
see, working men owe a deal of thanks to
the capitalist, and, instead of grudging him
fair profits, should look on him as their
best friend for getting capital together. It
opens one's eves to many things to change
places with other people. Still, 1 don't
mean to say but what there's been a deal
of injustice and selfishness that has helped
to keep down the workmen and labourers,
especially in the way the laws have been
made and worked, and the way in which
the upper-class folk have got hold of all
the land. And then, again, I see it isn't
merely by working and saving that the
masters have got their capital. They get
a deal of it together on credit. Only
others must have saved, or nobody would
have any money to lend them.

But, though I'm as sure as I live that
there's been a deal of wrong done in these

matters, I don't feel so sure as I used to do
about all the remedies. Those who come
after me, I hope will have had a better
education than I had, and be able to put
things rather more on the square.

However, good advice, come from where
it may, don't fill the belly, and many were
the supperless nights when men, women,
and children had to go to bed with little
enough for that day, and not knowing whereto
get a bit for the next. Yet, somehow
or another, throughout all these bad times,
there was generally a few coppers for the
beer. It was in times like these, however,
that men found the value of having formed
their Trades Unions ; and perhaps this is
the place to mention some very good remarks
1 heard Eufford make one night at
a meeting of his trade, when he was trying
to draw in a lot of journeymen engineers
to join their society. Eufford, I should
say, had been very quiet since his imprisonment,
and I was afraid at one time that
from sheer want of excitement he would be
going to the bad, for he'd sit and soak for

hours together at the '' public," and never
seemed to care much about anything.
However, he was a right good fellow at
bottom, as I always thought, and he got
out of this state after a time, when his
master had given him a difficult job down
at their works at Greenwich, and let him
contract, himself, for a part of it. It all
turned out very well ; the master was both
satisfied and pleased, advanced his wages,
and on the strength of this, and from a
real wish, I believe, to lead a steady life,
he took a fancy to a good girl at the house
where he lodged at Greenwich, and straightaway
married her. All this, however, didn't
make him appear less interested in the
advancement of his fellow-workmen, but
more so, I think ; and what he was saying
the night I spoke of was something like
this : " Trades Unions protect the masters
from bad workmen, and the public from bad
work. If the men were ground down one
after another to starvation wages they
would of course degenerate in skill,
strength, and general ability for turning

out a good day-work. Besides this, they
would at length, in many cases, be driven
by discontent, and perhaps desperation, to
acts of violence ; and we should have
plenty of Whiteboyism or Recites in this
country as well as in the Green Island. In
fact, we need not be surprised if Captain
Swing, with his matches and blazing stacks,
appeared amongst the industrial classes if
ever they were brought as low as the agricultural
labourers were in 1830 ; and they
hould be, without Trades Unions. Those
wretched labourers, with their eight or nine
shillings a week, could never have been
brought to - that pass if they could have
refused to work for less than twelve or
thirteen, and had had a Trades Union to
back them up. (Applause.) And then only
see what a corporate, and so to say,
brotherly spirit is created among workmen
by these Unions ; how much the knowledge
that they belong to a Society for mutual
help raises and dignifies a man. Why, even
a militia man, when he has got his uniform
on, is on his mettle not to disgrace the

regiment he belongs to. WTiat a benefit it
would have been to agricultural labourers,
morally as well as in regard to wages, if
they belonged to an organization for mutual
protection and support ; and what a fine
thing it is for a fellow to say : ' There, I
have been paying my money into the
Society for many a day, and if I don't
want help from it, that will be because I
am doing well myself, and then my money
will go to help some poor devil who wants
it more nor I do.' Don't you see, gentlemen,"
said Rufford, " the capital of the
employers enables them to hold out so
much longer in any dispute with the workmen
than they (the men) can singly ; and
unless they have raised capital by their
weekly subscriptions they have nothing ta
fall back upon. Trades Unions, in fact,
cmrfpel employers to put such a price on
their goods as will allow of a decent livelihood
in the shape of fair wages to the
workman. If customers can't or won't
afford that price, it would be better the
trade should be given up and that capital

should go into other channels. This
applies not only to one trade, but to the
building and all other trades ; if houses
cannot be built for less than fair wages
will allow of, the landlords must lower
rents or the population must go somewhere
else ; anything better than that the workman,
whose labour is essential to everything,
should be ground down to starvation
wages. (Applause.) So with regard to long
hours ; working men, without Trades
Unions, would be compelled to slave away
for a much larger portion of the day, and
all the while a lot of other men would be
out of work because their mates are doing
too much. 10, no ! what I say is, a fair
dayes wage for a fair day's work, and
brotherly union among the workmen to put
them on a footing for Q:ettino: their dues.
(Applause.) But then, mind you, it must
be a fair day's work, and a day of good
work. If we keep up wages, my mates,
we must keep up a good standard of workmanship
too. And I'll tell you one thing
more before I've done; it's true that only

by getting capital, as I said just now,
can we meet the employers on equal terms ;
but I am not sure but what if we could
employ our capital by going into business
on our own account, and have workshops
of our own, instead of going on strike and
spending the money for supporting one
another while at play, it might be better
for us all. However, that is a big subject,
and I won'fc go into it now, for the good
reason that I don't quite understand it
myself (Laughter). But this I do understand,
that, if we are to do any good for
ourselves and for one another and wives
and children, we must keep ourselves sober
and steady, and lay by money for the rainy
day." (Considerable applause, amidst
which Rufford resumed his seat.)

Turning round to come away, wasn't I
surprised at seeing Mr. Fletcher just
behind me, with that pleasant smile on his
fine face which was sunshine to all who
met it.

'' Just run up, Master Jem, for a week,
to see how I like a set of good fellows in

Camden Town, who've asked me to come
and be their shepherd in my poor way, and
for them to see if they like me. ' Fair
play,' you know ' is a jewel,' and what's
sauce for the goose, &c. So we are taking
stock of each other, you see." Didn't I
hope he'd make a match of it with them !
and two of his best sermons he gave them
the next Sunday, which I took good care
to hear.

And how's the missus, sir ? " said I,
as we walked away together. The brightness
on his face when he answered, showed
me that all was right there, and that he
was as happy as ever I could wish him to be.

But, Woodford," he continues, " 1
tracked you out to have a talk with you
to-night, and I'm exceedingly glad I heard
your friend's little speech, and I've long
felt sure Trades Unions are absolutely
necessary in the present state of things.
But then 1 hear them denounced by the
upper class because they interfere so tyrannically
with a man's right to make the best
bargain with his employer that he can.

You know, Woodford, it does seem a slime
that a clever workman shouldn't be allowed
to earn as much as he can "

Ah, but Mr. Fletcher," I cried, interrupting
him, " that's all a hum ! Trades
Unions only fix what you call a minimum
wage, a sum which they say every man is
worth whom they admit into the Union.
They don't say a man shan't earn more if
he can get it ! "

'' Don't they ? Do you mean to tell me
there' d be no jealousy in a shop if it were
known that one or two of the men were
receiving 20 per cent, more than the rest ?
unless in some very exceptional cases ? "

I was rather taken aback at this, for I
knew it was so. But I answered, " Well,
sir, I can't say but what there would be
jealousy. But there's no Trades Union rule
to forbid the thing."

Perhaps not, my friend, but public
opinion, backed up, it may be with a little
mild persecution or even fattening, is
stronger than rules, eh, Woodford ? And
you know men have refused to work, struck

out-right, because of what tliej called the
injustice of paying one man more than
another." I couldn't deny it. '' But," he
continued, " there's another matter.
There's no use, mv dear fellow, blinking
facts. One does hear such complaints of
the idleness, negligence, and worse, of
working men, and I've seen so much of it
myself during my ife-time, that I'm almost
afraid to say a word for them lest I get my
head snapped off."

WTiat kind of bad conduct, sir, is it ?"
"Well, here's a man comes to do a job;
he comes late, finds he has not got all the
tools, or stuff, he wants, goes back to get
them, spends an hour or two looking at
his work, half-an-hour more in chatting
with the servant-girls  goes away early,
saying the job can't be finished to-day 
and worst of all, he's charged with malting
work for some other operative or himself,
at a later time, by leaving a leak here or a
chink there. Why, Woodford, only since
I've been in town this time a physician,
whom I met the other dav at dinner, when

I was cracking up my workmen-friends,
told us that as tie sat by a patient's bedside
lie noticed a man at work on the roof
of the opposite house. Presently the man
crept along to the roof of the next house,
and with his own eyes he saw him loosen
and remove one of the slates on it, and
then creep back again. Of course, when
the next rain comes, there'll be an outcry,
and our friend the slater will be sent
for."

That's very bad, Mr. Fletcher, if it's
true. But perhaps the man saw that the
slate was loose, and would be blown down
on somebody's head ; and he may have told
the people when he got down. And before
I thought much of that story, or of any
of those conundrums one hears of against
our class, don't you think it would be only
fair to cross-examine the witnesses, and
hear the defence of the accused, eh? "

*' All right, Jem," said he ; " if we could
get at them, and bring them face to face.
But we can't ; and all that we can do is to
sift every story we hear, and let each party

and folks of both classes know what is
thought and said of them."

And give each the chance, as far as we
can, of defending themselves, sir."

Yes, and speak up for those who can't
speak for themselves."

'' That's it, Mr. Fletcher ! and I know
the worries will have a good word from
you. But there it is  bother, we don't all
deserve a good word. Of course, there
are bad as well as good among us, and
plenty of the bad, I'm afraid. But so
there are in all ranks ; and I can tell you
a secret. The masters themselves are sometimes
to blame for the idleness of the men.
Did you never hear of their sending a man
to do a job, and telling him perhaps he'll
have to ' go in the hospital ' ? "

Xo ! "

Yell, they do ; and when a man gets a
hint of that kind he knows he mustn't get
through his work too quickly, or there'll
be nothing more for him to do at present.
But, mind, I do say there's a deal that's
unfair and dishonest among us journey.

VOL. II. K

men, even towards one another. Much
more one may expect it towards well-to-do
folk, who are always supposed by Jack
Plane & Co. to have no end of cash, and
to be all the better for being bled a little."
Mr. Fletcher laughed, and I added, " Yes,
there's a droll side to the devil's Avork,
but it seems to me, sir, the gentlefolks
who blame us all so bitterly, and sometimes
so deservedly, ought to ask themselves
what they are doing, or what their fathers
did, to teach us to keep the Eighth commandment,
or any commandments at all."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Fletcher, rather
sternly. " What have a few hundred
thousand Sunday-schools been about,
then, I should like to know ? Did you
never hear of them, Woodford ? "

"Yes, sir," said I; "but who teaches
the teachers ? " Mr. Fletcher looked very
grave over it, but we had a rare good walk
in the Regent's Park together, and he even
came and took a cup of tea at my lodgings,
when I got Davie to come too, and they
liked one another immensely; and Mrs.

Taylor brought up some sausages and
mashed potatoes, and we were so jolly.
We talked, among other things, about the
slater and " going in the hospital," and I
remember Davie saying, " Ah, but the
plumbers are the fellows to make work for
their mates ; and one of 'em told me a few
days back that they and their masters
between 'em, crib bits of lead and old taps,
and call it * plunder.' " I guess we all
laughed, though it was a dirty business to
laugh over; and afterwards Davie said,
when Mr. Fletcher asked him more about
the whole system, 

Why, you see, sir, I hold that the
masters are more to blame than the men,
because they're naturally looked up to by
their workmen, and if they encourage the
men to ' plunder,' and allow so much for
all that's brought in, the men feel their
consciences quieted, and think it's all
right because the master takes all those
odds-ancients into account when he's
giving his estimate for the work. But
I'm bound to think it's thieving for all

K 2

that." In which view we all agreed, and
then I got Davie to give us a bit of singsong,
for lie had a fine voice, and it was a
rare treat to hear him.

Since then, tho' I've become a master or
employer myself, I do think the masters
are most to blame, not only because they
are looked to as an example, but because
they ought to know better than the men,
except indeed that they were generally
only workmen once, themselves. But
when they tell a man, as Davie allowed,
and as I know they sometimes do, that he
must not hurry over a job he's sent to,
because work is slack, we can't wonder if,
when they want to put on the steam, they
find the man has learnt his lesson of
dawdling only too well, and refuses to be
pushed. As a very sensible customer of
mine, who was buying a house of me outby
Hackney Downs, said to me, when we
were talking of this matter (and he was a
thorough gentleman, fair to all parties, all
round): ** If a master sells himself to his
men, he mustn't wonder if, some day, they

turn on him. If he makes them cheat his
customers, he must expect that they'll
cheat on their own account (himself among
others), when they've learnt their lesson."
Of course. And I think the root of the
evil is (as this gentleman afterwards said),
the employers' over-anxiety to be rich. If
they would be content with moderate
profits, they wouldn't be tempted or driven
to all this dirty work. I can see that
more clearly since I went into business
for myself. But then, I see, also, that
the great capitalists often can and do
afford to take less profit than the smaller
ones, and so they beat the little masters
out of the field. It isn't always that
employers cheat or put the screw on the
men, "in haste to be rich," but just to
keep themselves from being drowned. Soit's
a muddle which ever way you look at
it, and I can't see my way out of it at
present.

Afford says Co-operation would cure it
all. Mr. Fletcher says : " Yes, Co-operation
plus Christianity, not minus Christ."

If you don't understand that, I do,
because I've learnt Algebra, as you had
better do, and because I go to hear Mr.
Fletcher preach, as you had better do also.

When Mr. Fletcher and Davie were
going away that night, and we were
finishing up our talk on the doorstep, Mr.
Fletcher said, as he shook hands with
me, 

I think you and Mr. Roberts urge a
good deal more for your fellow-workmen
behind their backs than you'd like to say
to their faces. What do you say now to
scamped work ? You never heard of such
a thing, I daresay."

Davie pulled such a long face that I
burst out a-laughing, but I clenched my
fists, and cried, " Drat the beggars, Mr.
Fletcher ! I wish all scamps in every trade
were tarred and feathered ; only, perhaps,
there wouldn't be honest men enough to
master the rogues ; but I never could
abide scamped work, either as journeyman
or employer, and I do know there's a rare
lot of it."

Davie lit this pipe, and looked at the
stars. (I always liked better looking at
them, by-the-bye, without the pipe.)

But, dear Mr. Fletcher," I whispered,
*' did you never hear of stamping parsons,
who bought their sermons and sold their
prayers ?"

He broke into a merry laugh; and so
ended that happy evening, and, soon after
came the darkest days of all.

Since those times I've known and heard
of many noble-hearted clergymen, both
among Church and dissenting folks, who
seem to me to be doing a deal of good.
But there will never be any of them that
could be to me what Edward Fletcher was.
He was Bunyan's Christian, Faithful, and
Great Heart all in one, I think. But I
mustn't, for my life, let him know that I
thought such a deal of him ; or he would
most likely have cut me for ever after, asa
toady and a fool.

CHAPTER Iii.

It will be remembered that when Mi
Fletcher came back to East Leigh from the
Joseph Sturge '' Complete Suffrage Conference,"
held in the spring of 1842 at Birmingham,
he told us that another and more
thoroughly representative conference was
to be held in the following December, and
which was ultimately attended by between
400 and 500 delegates. Accordingly great
preparations were made for it in all quarters
among the Chartists and their generous
sympathizers in the middle-class. Joseph
Sturge, Sharman Crawford, M.P., Edward
Meal], Arthur Albright, the Rev. Thomas
Spencer, rector of Linton-Charterhouse (a
truly large-hearted man according to my
notion), and a few other brave good men

among the gentry who had originated or
welcomed the '' Complete Suffrage " movement,
came again to the front. William
Lovett and his party were heartily supporting
it. But Feargus O'Connor, Julian
Harney, the '' Rev." William Hill, and the
whole brood of physical force partisans
were up and doing, and working with all
their might and main to get a majority of
their friends at the approaching meeting.
This, however, they would not have had,
nor would much harm, perhaps, have been
done, but for a fatal mistake, when the
conference opened, on the part of Sturge
and his supporters ; for, unhappily, they
were ill advised enough to insist on the
bill embodying the six points of the Charter
which they had drafted, but which they
called the "Bill of Rights" (in order to
avoid the hindrance to the movement
caused by the name of the People's Charter),
being made the first and principal
subject of discussion in the conference.
Even Lovett objected to this ; for, as the
father of the Charter, and a profound believer

both, in the wisdom of the name and
the righteousness of the movement which
he had started, he of course could not seethe
justice or expediency of throwing it all
aside for the sake of a bran new document
now first brought forward; while the
O'Connorites of course were not only justly
indignant at the proposal, but mightily
pleased at the chance it gave them of upsetting
the Sturgites, whom they certainly
regarded with anything but charitable feelings,
while O'Connor himself was boiling
over with ill-concealed resentment at anyone
presuming to take thereabout of his own
hands. Lovett, however, with Mr. Fletcher
(who was again delegated to represent us),
and all their party, in the interests of peace,
consented to a conciliatory motion proposed
by a very able young man of the name of
Somers, from the west of Scotland, to the
effect that the Bill of Rights, &c., should
be discussed pari passu (as I believe the
lawyers say) with the Charter, that is,
clause by clause, until the whole was settled,
neither taking precedence of the other. To

this reasonable proposal, however, unfortunately,
Mr. Sturge and his friends could
not agree, and Somers' amendment was
lost. Then came a vote on the resolution
proposed by Sturge and Co. for the Bill
of Eights to be discussed as the basis of
the conference, when it was lost by a large
majority, even Mr. Fletcher, to his immense
mortification, as he told us afterwards,
being obliged to vote against men for
whom he had such profound respect and
regard as the noble-hearted Quaker, and
many others of that denomination who had
rallied round him, such as Arthur Albright,
with Arthur O'Neill, Henry Vincent, Parry,
and especially Edward Miall, for whom he
always felt the highest esteem.

Thereupon the Sturge party withdrew
from the conference, and carried on their
deliberation in a separate building, leaving
William Lovett and Feargus O'Connor withall
their respective adherents, and poor
Mr. Fletcher, who was neither " fish, fowl,
nor good red herring," to carry on their
work by themselves. Feargus, of course.

was jubilant in a high degree. He and his
friends rubbed their hands with no attempt
at concealing their glee at having discomfited
the arrogant enemy, " who had presumed
to intrude themselves in their broadcloth
and starch among the honest workingmen
of England ;" while Mr. Lovett and
his reasonable friends were proportionately
dejected at what they saw was the utter
failure of this noble scheme for uniting the
upper and working classes in an attempt to
gain equal rights and liberties for all. Mr.
Fletcher told us when he came back that
he feared the movement "had suffered irreparable
mischief;" and so it proved from
that time ; though Feargus kept on his way,
exulting, for several years, drawing large
profits from the Northern Star, and blazing,
away through that brazen trumpet of his
with all his old insolence, beating down
rivals and glorifying himself. The movement,
as a matter of fact, after this never
had any real strength, though it made a
deal of noise at times ; even Lovett could
do nothing to reinstate it; and April 10,

1848, practically sealed its final and most inglorious
extinction in the celebrated " Kennington
Common " humbug of that date.
O'Connor's character by that time was
seen through by large numbers, though he
was still cracked up by a few bigoted and
blindfold partisans ; and his Land Scheme
finished ofi" the tale of his own incessant
attempts to cajole his followers and fleece
his dupes. Not that I think he had, by any
means, a desire or purpose to make money
out of their idolatry and folly. It was rather
a craving to satisfy his morbid vanity and
ambition which drove him forward in his
most mischievous career. But O'Connor's
idea of getting the people more on to the
land, I believe, was very good in itself. It
was his way of carrying it out that was so
unbusiness-like and discreditable. As diverting
attention, and funds also, from the
political reform he had been declaring so
vehemently essential to the welfare of the
country, it was specially ill-timed. I've
nothing to say about O'Connor's private
character. That was no business of mine.

It is in regard to the mischief lie did as a
public man that I want my fellow workmen
to learn what they can from his career.
And, even as a public character, I've no
wish to charge him with deliberate wickedness,
in spite of all the evil he did to our
class and the country generally. He was
only an instance (at least in my judgment)
of how much ill (when he can find fools to
believe in him) a man may do who gives
himself up to vanity and ambition, not
troubling himself about the mischief he's
doing, if only he" can glorify himself and
compass his own ends. I once heard Mr.
Fletcher preach from the words, '' Thou
shalt not do evil that good may come'*
and every word seemed to me a verdict
against O'Connor, as well as a good many
other pretentious politicians and brilliant
statesmen. But I'm only an ignorant
fellow, perhaps, in these matters.

It's a pity when one has to say so much
evil of any man as I've had to say of that
red-pated Irishman ; but it's no use blinking
facts, and one must call a spade a spade.

if better people are not to be humbugged
and half ruined. In this case, the big
spade " altogether ruined, not only many
better men than himself, but one of the
best movements for working men and the
nation at large ever started. And, as
there are always great political impostors
like him in different ranks coming up in
every period, and carrying away a lot of
silly folk, who are always ready and waiting
to be gulled by showy clap-trap, it seems
as well to remind working men of the
present day how a number of their fathers
were gulled by a mountebank forty years
ago, and choose O'Connor to swear by instead
of William Lovett. We had a bad
time of it at our first meeting after Lovett
returned to town from the conference, and
it seemed as if we were being driven back
into the desert and were never to go into
the '' promised land " at all.

Another year or two passed. I was saying
just now that Davie Eoberts was sometimes
out of work. He had two children,
nice little dears as ever you could wish to

see; but my heart sometimes ached for
them, as well as for the father and mother,
and many a time on Thursday or Friday
nights I know they were often hard up for a
crust of bread, even when he was in work ;
for the usual waoes given then were not
enough to keep them all comfortably in food
and clothing. Xow, Davie had never been
what you call a drinking-man, and brought
home most of his wages on Saturday night;
but of course he wanted a talk now and
then with his companions, and he also had
to go to " the public' " to pay his contributions
loth to his benefit club and to his
trades union lodge. But whenever he was
there something must be spent. And
especially on Saturday nights, when all the
'* tubbing" for the little folks was going
on, and he had given his missis a handful
of silver, it didn't seem much to take a
shilling and get out of the way. And yet,
as I said, there was not enough to keep
them all in decent comfort, even if he hadn't
spent a penny on himself. But it does
seem hard if a fellow can't have a pint now

and then with a friend. I recollect one
night, when I had gone home with him, he
began complaining to his wife, rather
crossly, of the ragged state of the children,
and. of course, she flared up, and asked him
how he thought she could clothe and keep
them decently on the wages he brought
home, ''or even," she cried, '' keep the poor
little dears alive. You know they're always
ailing, Davie, and it's high time that we
got out of this place ; the drains are filthy,
and the roof lets in the water."

'well, but," said I, "the landlord
ought to do something for you, Mrs.
Eoberts."

The landlord ? and my curse go with
him ! " said the excited woman. " The
landlord won't spend a shilling on us, and
only says, ' if we don't like the place we
may go.' "

But after a time matters got worse ; and
then one night a woman on the first-floor
back told me, when I had come round to
learn how they were getting on, " That it
was sad to see those poor little children

VOL. II. L

and their mother crying together, and poor
Davie looking as if he were going to be
hung." I couldn't eat my own meals in
peace, knowing all this, and, of course, I
did what I could to help them ; but I began
to see that the wages in our trade, at all
events, ought to be raised, and I was not
sorry when word was passed through the
shops that a formal application must be
made to the masters for an increase of three
shillings a week. I was talking this over
with Davie as we walked to his home, but
when we got up to his rooms poor Maggie
met us at the top of the stairs with such a
miserable look on her face, that it haunted
me for a long time after. It seems one of
the children was very ill, and the doctor
said it was along of bad smells and want of
food and fresh air ; and then she cried to
her husband, 

Look here what your master's giving
you, and yet he rides in his carriage himself,
and has plenty of food, and gardens,
and ponies, and dogs for his children, and
then off to the sea when they want it ; and

how is he treating us, 1 should like to
know?"

Davie growled out, 

'' Aye, wife ; but there are a great many
folks worse off than we are ; and all the
time there are my Lords This and Mr.
That having their great balls and parties,
and going a-hunting and shooting all over
the country. Many a man keeps his fifty
horses and dogs, all better housed and fed
than we are !"

This didn't help to soothe the poor
mother's mind, and certainly she scolded
away in a manner that made me very sorry
to find myself there. However, we tried
to pacify her by telling her what the men
were resolving to do, which gave her a
little comfort for a time, and she nursed
the poor little sufferer that night with a
more hopeful heart. In a few days, however,
the child was worse, and Davie had
to bring word home to his wife that some
of the men had * caved in," and that there
was no real *' fight " in them, so that the
employers had refused the application
L 2

point-black, and told the men that they
might go about their business if they liked.

At the time when all this was going
on, I felt as mad against masters and
well-to-do folk generally as most of my
mates. But I've seen more clearly in later
times, as I've said here before, that working
men ought, at all events, to be grateful
to the folk who have saved money and
grown rich, for it's that which sets us all
to work. If there were no capital, which
common sense as well as the learned men
tell us is what comes from saving, there
would be nobody to pay us our wages, and
we should all soon go to the dogs. But
I didn't understand much of that in those
days and it is hard  much as I hate and
despise an envious, grudging spirit  it is
hard to see others as jolly as they please on
your earnings, when you and those dear to
you are close to starvation or the workhouse
door.

Well, the little daring died before the
week was out, and almost before ]maggie
had got over sorrowing for her pretty little

sister's death. It was trouble upon trouble.
But what could doctors do against bad
drainage, and poor food, and bad air ? The
light went out in that house, and it was
very dark indeed. The child had taken tome
more than their first-born, a boy ; and
she and I did love one another a bit.
Many's the time IVe spent the evening at
Davie's lodgings, walking up and down his
little room with that child in my arms when
she was teething and fretting, and her
father and mother were dead beat with
trouble and fatigue. I could hush her off
then better than either of 'em, and she
would put her dear little wasted arms
round my neck, and lay her face against
my cheek, and sometimes pat my head
and say, " Grow' boy, Jem," just as Davie
had taught her. So, when they told me
she was dead, I felt as I had never done
before. I could love her mother in that
child, too, without any sin. Bless her !
may God bless her ! But I know He has,
and I hope to see her some day as an angel
in heaven.

I thought at first their cliilcl's death
would bring Davie and his wife more
together again. Many a husband and
wife, I fancy, have forgiven one another
over the dead body of their child, and have
put away all those wretched little misunderstandings,
and jealousies, and resentments
whicli married folks seem to me often
to take special pains to nurse. When I
was once saying to Mr. Fletcher what a
pity it was man and wife should fall out so,
as some of 'em do, he answered, 

Yes, Woodford, but I believe it's just
because, while they have human infirmities,
they nevertheless love one another so much.
They wouldn't feel hurt at a stranger or
mere acquaintance saying and doing things
which make them very angry coming from
one so dear to them ;" and then he quoted
some beautiful poetry which I can't exactly
remember, but he said it was from Coleridge,
and it was about being angry with
those we love, and how it works in one's
mind. He added, too, that he thought it
was the same depth of feeling and interest

in religion that made religious differences
so fierce and bitters

To my great sorrow, however, the death
of their little pet, somehow, didn't make
Davie and Maggie understand each other
better. She, poor thing, was in great
trouble about it, and seemed hardly able to
keep her reason. I never knew what a
mother's love was before. Her trouble was
awful to see, and what it must have been
to bear, Heaven only knows. Certainly
Davie didn't, or he would have shown her
more true sympathy. But he didn't seem
able to help her or himself to look in the
right quarter for comfort and peace. And
then, you see, she couldn't help thinking
(and I don't wonder) that if she could have
got the poor child better food and change

 The lines referred to are from Coleridge's
'' Christened," Part II. :

Alas ! they had been friends in youth,
But-whispering tongues can poison truth j
And Constancy lives in realms above ;

And life is thorny, and youth is vain ;
And to be wroth with one we love

Doth work like madness in the brain."

of air when it first took ill, or if tliej could
have lived in more wholesome lodgings
from the first, it's life would have been
saved. And she told Davie outright, that
if he hadn't spent so much of his wages on
himself, they wouldn't have lost baby. Of
course he fired up at that, and said, 

Nonsense, wife. Why, I haven't spent
one shilling a week on beer and 'baccy all
the time I've been out of work, and not
eve shillings a week, I'm certain, when I
had plenty to do. Hang it, a fellow can't
spend less than that if he's to have any
company at all. Why, you wouldn't keep
him moping at home, would you, every
night all the week round ? Nor be shabby
to the landlord, nor sneak away when
others have treated him, and his turn to
stand treat comes round ? I tell you what,
Maggie, it's deuced hard to put all the
blame on me  "

But she only shook her head, and said,
between her sobs, 

'' Those shillings would have saved my
darling's life ! " Which, wherever the blame

lay, I think was too true ; but I could say
nothing to help matters. I thought Davie
was sometimes selfish in going to 'the
public," and in filling his pipe ; but I knew
how hard it was for a man to give up all
company, and the 'baccy at least deadens
the appetite ; and I thought, too, his wife
might sometimes have made him happier
when he was at home. But I did say to
him once, I remember, 

Davie, I can't help thinking you were
all the better, years ago, for being teetotal."


Well," said he, " if it's such a good
thing, why don't you join ? "

I don't mind," said I, " if you will."

But he shook his head. He was a very
sociable man, was Davie, and many a time
it cost him nothing to get his skin full,
bea-use he could sing a sons: and tell a
story better than most men I've met. But
then he was one of the readiest men I ever
knew to treat others. As long as he had
a sixpence in his pocket he'd never land
standing a pot for companions. I mind

hearing Mr. Fletcher once say that many a
good man, as times go, many a very useful,
public-spirited, aye, and generous fellow,
was rather selfish at heart. I couldn't
understand it at the time ; but something
about Davie's way of going on after he was
married made it clearer to me. But he did
join teetotal, poor fellow, a few weeks after
the meeting on the 10th April, 1848, and
told his wife he'd do so the night before.
However, that's neither here nor there,
just now. The loss of her child seemed to
make Maggie more hard and cold towards
her husband, and to look at him as the
cause of all her trouble. There was nothing
I could say or do to help make things
smooth, but I could say, without offending
either of them, and did say, that I thought
employers, and house-landlords, and the
governing classes too, as well as parish
vestries, had all much to answer for, as to
the death of our little darling, and of many
another just as well loved as she was. But
I ought to add that whatever Maggie's
manner to Davie might be (and it altered

strangely at times), lie was really kind to
lier, in general, in this way, during those
dark days. But I think  tho' I don't
quite like saying it  if, throughout their
married life, he had sometimes been more of
a man, she would always have been more
of a woman.

CHAPTER VIII.

It was in this year, 1S4S, with all its
storms and troubles, that a number of us
had one great happiness. We saw our beloved
leader receive a bit of the honour and
gratitude he had so well deserved. I think
it was one of the happiest days in my life
when I stood among: a arose number of
William Lovett's friends in the National
Hall to present him wili a public testimonial
of respect for his public services.,
It was, indeed, a grand sight, not to be
forgotten, though the great world and the
'' upper ten " knew and cared nothing
about it. An admirable address (which I
shall put in, if I can get room  if not,
it will be found, full length, in Lovett's
'memoirs' p. 333) was drawn up by

W. Johnson Fox, Esq., M.P., and signed on
belial of the subscribers by the barrister
I spoke of before, Mr. J. Humffrejs Parry
(who was chairman of the committee and
the meeting), and Mr. J. T. Mallet, who
had acted as secretary. We first had a
tea-meeting, and then came the presentation.
There was a handsome silver tea-service,
and a purse of 140/., all spread out
on a table on the platform before the chairman.
After they were handed to him by
Mr. Parry, with some earnest words, which
we all echoed, Lovett replied so gratefully
and modestly, and spoke in such a way
about what he wanted to do and see done
for his fellow-countrymen, that Bembridge
and others, who had been his best fellow-workers
for many a day, seemed more
overcome than they liked to show; and
when, as I looked at him standing up there,
and thought of the first time I had heard
him speaking out for us at the '' Crown and
Anchor," ten years before, and of all the opposition
he had met with, and all the quiet
perseverance with which he had worked on

through good and ill report, I felt a great
lump in my own throat, and I couldn't cry
'' Hear, hear," at the right places. But it
was a very happy evening, and I don't expect
ever to know another like it. I am
sure Mr. and Mrs. Lovett were well pleased.
Time wore on. Years passed. The
potatoes-rot came, and Sir Robert Peel
showed himself a great man. The repeal
of the Corn Laws took place at last. Sir
Robert received the usual reward of true
patriots, and Disraeli took the opportunity
to crucify him. But very soon things
began to mend. The workmen in the
building trades had been organizing their
forces, and such men as Kelso, Roberts,
and others, had been using their arguments
and eloquence to some effect. A general
application was at length agreed upon, and
when the employers again refused, the
strike actually did take place, and the men
took out their tools, much to the surprise
of the masters. They expected to have
had an easy victory again, and were disappointed.
I suppose the state of trade

would then really bear advance, for before
long it was agreed to, though not quite to
the extent the men had demanded. I was
always myself in favour of arbitration, and
if one party offered it and the other party
refused I used to think they must be in the
wrong; but I have since seen there are
cases in which both masters and men
might be justified in declining it, but I
cannot go any further into that question
here. In the present case the men got
most of what they wanted, and what I
think they were fairly entitled to ; so those
of them who, like Kelso and Roberts, were
comparatively steady men, felt the benefit
in their homes, as did their poor little
children; a good many, no doubt, merely
drank the harder, and their wives and kids
were no better ofi*, sometimes rather worse.
Just as it was in later days, when by combination
the] men in various trades got
shorter hours of work, it was a great blessing
to those who could use their leisure
well ; but as for the rest it only gave them
longer time for drinking, and many a wife

complained bitterly of the Saturday half-holiday,
and short-time movement, '' for'*
said they, " it only gives the fools more
time to drink." Things are a little better
now than they were then.

During these last few years Chartism
sometimes seemed only half alive, but ifc
made a few more grand spurts after the
French Revolution, in February, 1 848. All
the best life of it, however, had been crushed
out of the movement by the way in which
Lovett, and all Lovett's friends, were denounced
by the O'Connor party and its
organ, the Norther n Star. O'Connor himself
had been turning the attention of the
people very much away from agitation for
the Charter, as I said before, to his Land
scheme ; while Lovett, finding himself slandered
and suspected by great numbers of
the Chartists, had been directing his energies
to enabling the working classes to rise
in the moral, mental, and social scale, and
thus to gain their political rights by showing
that they both deserved them and were
prepared to make good use of them when

obtained. Why O'Connor and his friends
should have attempted to galvanize the
movement by the stupid piece of folly
enacted on Kennington Common, I hardly
know, unless it can be explained as far ashe
was concerned, like many of his other
actions, by his inordinate vanity and greed
of power and notoriety. But, of course,
there were others responsible for it as well
as O'Connor, and I don't know that one
was more to blame than another.

After Davie was married, and Kitty
Barber saw that her hopes in that quarter
were certainly quashed  at least for the
present  I heard she gave herself up to idle,
loose ways, and at length left her home and
the village in search of the handsome young
scoundrel, Mr. Haughton, who had first
attracted her attention when he came to
persecute Maggie Thatcher, and who had
paid her at different times for being his
model. She didn't care about him before
that for a very good reason, as has been
told ; but after Maggie's marriage she was
seen throwing herself about one evening

VOL. II. M

in a regular rage, and declaring that there
was a much finer young fellow would be
glad to have her company " than any of
those poor Broadfield louts;" and when,
soon after, she left the village, it was
shrewdly guessed that she had gone in
search of the aristocratic young artist, and
nobody heard anything more of her for a
long time. I could not, however, help thinking
of the poor, motherless creature sometimes,
and with a good deal of pity, for I
knew myself what it was to love in the wrong
place ; but then I was not going to throw
myself into profligate ways because I
couldn't get just the particular girl I
wanted ; and Kitty might have kept herself
respectable, and there was more than one
decent lad in Broadfield would have married
her if she would have had him.

Well, about the time that I am speaking
of  i. e., three or four months before the
Kennington Common row  who should
turn up in our neighbourhood but poor
Kitty herself, with tawdry finery and a
jaunty sort of air about her, that made

one's heart ache. Xotv, at this time, tlioiigh
wages were better and there was enough to
eat, I could not help seeing that things
were not going on as well between Maggie
and Davie as I could have wished, and I
was, therefore, particularly sorry to see that
wretched girl coming among us once more.
Davie was often a good deal vexed with his
wife, and yet could not explain what was
the matter; while she didn't understand
his complaining ; in fact, he kept them to
himself, I know, a good deal, perhaps as
much as he could ; and when he did speak
about what vexed him, she replied that he
was always finding fault. Sometimes I
thought that he had just worried her beyond
all patience by his fidgety and irritable
ways, so that she had become really unjust
to him ; while all their troubles had, of
course, not helped to sweeten and smooth
a temper that had never been one of the
best. Once, when there had been sharp
words passing between them, he said, " Ah,
Maggie, there's many a girl I could have
made a deal happier than I have you."
M 2

Well," she answered, " may be it's a
pity you didn't try, Davie." Lie was
just on the point of adding, *' There's
many a man might have made me a deal
happier than you;" but somehow she
didn't. She knew there were few men
who would have borne with her, and let her
have her own way as he had done; and
then all Davie's noble thoughts, and what
are called aspirations, had been very precious
to her, and, in fact, had been her life
for many a day; and once, I remember,
when the wife of one of his mates was complaining
to Maggie of her husband, and
saying, '' There now, you see, the men
don't try to make us companions, or tellus
anything that interests them, and then
they complain that they get no company
at home, and must always be looking for
it at the public-house," Maggie brightened
up, and said, with a beautiful bit of
pride and pleasure, *' Ah ! it's not so
with my man ; for he does talk to me
about what interests him, and it's a fine
thing to hear what he and Jem Woodford,

and Lovett and Bembridge, and others,
are trying to do."

But then one evening when Davie was
talking to me about his home, and saying
how desperately unhappy he often was
there, he went on to say, 

Well, you see, my Maggie's a fine creature,
and very fond I am of her; but still
she's a bit too tart and sharp for me after
all, and will always have it that she's in the
right, and that she never does wrong, oh,
no I never at all. Ah, if she would but
allow just for once in a way that she was
in the wrong by way of variety, I can't tell
you, old fellow, what a fool I should be about
her, for I do love her as it is, and then I
should love her too much, it may be ! "

"Ah, Davie," said I, trying to smile,
perhaps it's seeing how often you confess
your faults, and then go and do the
same again, that has set her agen sajdng
she's in the wrong." Still I knew she was
a bit too proud, may be.

But they u:ere fond of one another, and
no mistake, for all their falling out now and

then. And how very happy she used to
make him when it was all risfht, and he did
as he ought. But I think they began to
see what Mr. Fletcher once told them outright,
that loving one another, even as
truly as they did, by itself, won't carry
married folks safely through all their troubles
and tempers. There mast be the love
of God, he said, in their hearts, and better
help coming than they can give each other.

I believe, however, things would have all
worked round well with them at last if it
hadn't been for that unhappy girl, Kitty
Barber, finding us out, and coming down
into our neighbourhood like an ill-bird of
prey. There is no doubt Davie had been
once very much and foolishly smitten with
her, and when he saw her again I fancy b
bit of his old folly returned. But it was
something worse than folly now he was
married.

Now, when Maggie saw the girl in that
miserable state in which she first turned
up in our neighbourhood, I know her heart
yearned towards her ; and she forgave and

forgot all the wrong she herself had suffered
from her. She gave her bits of clothes, and
took her nice food, and pinches of tea, and
tried to get her work. But after a bit she
saw a deal further into Kitty's past life
and her present notions than she liked;
and before very long she began to give up
all hope of the girl's leading a steady life.
Then she noticed, too, something that made
her more unhappy still.

Some folks would say that when Davie
first saw Kitty Barber had come into his
neighbourhood again, and knew that he
would like to go and chat with her sometimes,
just as he used to do when he was
vexed with Maggie, he ought, as an honest
man, to have said to himself he'd never go
near her, and not pass a word with her,
or even know her if they met. But, in
the first place, I think he was so good and
innocent himself, he couldn't believe Kitty
was as bad as she really was by this time,
just as he couldn't believe Feargus O'connor
was either altogether fool or knave ;
and, in the next place, he couldn't help

feeling a deal of pity for her ; and remembering
the old school-days at Broad-field,
when she was the pretty little innocent
Puss-in-Boots," whom most of the boys
were in love with. Of course the poor jade
saw quickly enough what he thought about
her, and made the most of it.

I am sure Davie was true to his wife in
heart as well as in act, even though they
too often fell out about trifles ; but one
never can tell what will happen if a fellow
goes on, as the poets say, like a moth
playing round a candle, which was what
Davie did. Of course it could not but
make Maggie sorry to see her husband
chatting and laughing Avitli the girl after
she had read the changes that had gone on,
and read them much more truly than her
husband. She would have done anything
on earth, in reason, herself, to try and bring
back the lost sheep to better ways, but she
knew too well it smacked of no good to
any one that Davie and Kitty should be
going on as if nothing had happened. So,
as I said, it made her very jealous and unhappy

to see them together, and with good
reason. Then, before long, she told Davie
her mind, perhaps in rather too domineering
a way, and he didn't like that, naturally;
and though he didn't say much, he was
vexed, and didn't alter his conduct a bit.
So Kitty cherished wicked hopes, and grew
bolder. Then I spoke a word or two. But
it was no good. Things were getting worse
and worse in more ways than one, when
one night Davie came to my room full of
trouble, and quite excited.

''By the Lord," he said, 'you're right
about that girl. She's a bad 'un, and no
mistake."

I said nothing:, for it wouldn't do to tell
a friend at a time like that, that he might
and ouoht to have seen the truth of what
his wife told him long ago. Presently he
broke out again : 

And oh, Jem ! Jem ! she says she owes
her fall to me. Tell me that's a lie, for
heaven's sake ! "

Davie," said I, rather sternly I suppose,
for I began to feel it was no time for saying

soft things, '' I believe it was a much finer
sort of chap than you who has most to
answer for in that girl's ruin. But I believe
that you have a deal to answer for,
too, and you ought to know it."

He started, and looked in my face, half
wildly, half fiercely, as if he'd been stung.

"AYhat do you mean by that, then?"
said he, at length.

'' Can't you remember, Davie, how I
warned you in old days that all that flirting
and fooling and romping were as bad for
her as for you ? "

The man hid his face in his hands, and
his whole frame shook.

Break with her, Davie, altogether.
Promise me  or, what's better, promise
Goal  you'll never speak to that girl again
for twelve months. There's no middle
course, and you may be sure it's not you
that can now do her any good. Help Maggie
to get her into a Penitentiary or Refuge,
and I'll give you every penny I can spare
towards it ; but leave her to the women.
Will you promise ? "

'' God helping me, I will, Woodford. . . .
and may He bless you for speaking out
plain. Isn't it strange how one's early
follies or sins find one out years after? "

Maggie's prayers that night, I believe,
had a deal of thankfulness in them ; and
next day she set to work to see about the
Refuge. Kitty was more willing to go toit
now, and we hoped she'd take a right
turn. She seemed to do so for a time, and
then the ladies got her a situation in service.
I felt pretty sure that, in a year's
time, she would either be reformed or have
gone altogether to the bad ; and, in either
case, would be out of Davie's way.

CHAPTER IX.

My friends went along happily now, for
trade had mended, and Davie had plenty
to do at fair wages, and there was not so
much danger of the money running out as
fast as it came in. What Maoo:ie had said
about his going to " the public," after their
little darling's death, didn't seem to do
much good at the time ; and at first, even
out of mere bravado, and just to show he
wasn't tied to her apron-strings, I suppose,
he went nearly as often to the " Jolh
Sawyers " as before, yet that didn't last
long. I told him he was a big fool, for I
lost all patience with him, and he took it
from me, tho' he wouldn't from his wife ;
and I think he only wanted an excuse forgiving
up altogether. The landlord and

his wife at the " pub " were sorry, I daresay,
to miss us both, for I said I'd give it
up if he would. But it was a rare good
job for Maggie and their boy. Of course
I helped as well as I could to make the
evenings go off pleasantly, and so did two
or three of our shipmates, who'd come
and spend an hour or two with us, when
we'd talk, and laugh, and sing, and were
uncommonly cheerful together. But the
room was very small and we kept the boy
awake sometimes, till he'd begin to cry.
So, now and then, we went out to a music-hall
(which, however, rather disgusted
Davie, and me, too, for that matter), or to
the theatre, or to a temperance lecture and
entertainment, or cheap concert. The
Mechanics' Institution in Southampton-buildings
helped us on famously, and Davie
and I would take it in turns to take care of
the little lad, to let Maggie go now and
then to a lecture or concert there. It had
been a great help to me in former days by
its classes, and now there was a good deal
of sensible recreation in it.

So it came about that Maggie softened
towards her husband, and all the best part
of her nature bloomed out, and a bit of the
old fun and sparkling sauciness of early
days showed itself, when she got away
from thinking of the little one who would
never laugh with her again. It was quite
pretty and touching to see Maggie trying to
make Davie talk and laugh as he used to door,
perhaps, putting a shilling in his hand
and telling him to go and see a play, and
come back and tell her all about it. But
he and I spent some hours every week over
our Euclid and " The Builder's Practical
Directory," or " Nicholson's Carpentry."

Davie had taken Maggie first of all
alone, soon after they were married, and
then, with their two children, more than
once to the tea-gardens where they had
spent such a delightful day when courting.
But after her little girl's death Davie
noticed she never liked going there again.
So he took her now and again during those
happy years I'm speaking of, for a run
down to Margate or Brighton, and they

used to come back looking so brielit and
jolly, it was a sight to see them. Then
there Twas another dear little Qirl came to
bless their home, and take the place of the
one ozone away.

So we were all getting along very comfortable,
so to sap, for some time. Davie
got money fast now, for he was always
very quick, and had learnt all I could
teach him, and more, too. He had mastered
thoroughly what was long a sore
puzzle to me, study as I would. I mean
hand-railing. But the men who can do
this and other difficult branches of their
trade, are rather shy, as one might expect,
of letting theu mates see what they are
about when doing it ; and so I never got
any help from any of them except Kelso,
nor a chance of learning that trick in the
shop. I had to pay a brother chip half-a-crown
a lesson to teach it to me.

Another think' I was uncommon olad of
was, that about this time Mr. Fletcher
came to London with his amiable wife,

and settled with that congregation in
Kentish Town, which, as I said before, he
came up to visit. So we used all to attend
his chapel regularly, and a deal of good I
think he did us, and many more. Maggie
was never what you may call enthusiastic
about religion or clergymen, but she often
seemed to like going to a place of worship,
and she told me once some of her happiest
hours were at Mr. Fletcher's chapel of a
Sunday evening. We hadn't been able to
feel altogether at home, like, in any church or
chapel before became; and yet I had become
more and more sure one can't get along
rightly, either for this world or the next,
without the parsons. We seem to want
the help of some one who isn't always
being worked and worried with the cares
of a business or trade. But then, as B em-bridge
made Mr. Fletcher see years ago,
working men can only believe heartily in
those parsons who try to make this world
better for them to live in, and not merely
prepare them, as they call it, for another.
I remember hearing a friend of mine telling

some of us one evening what showed
pretty correctly working men's notion of
the kind of men the clergy should be.
He said he had proposed, as a subject of
discussion to a number of hard-headed
Lancashire men, the question whether lawyers,
doctors, or parsons were of most use
to society. " And how do you think,"
said my friend, 'the men settled it?"
One of us answered, he supposed they said
the lawyers, but most of us guessed it was
the doctors won the day.

isis, they agreed at last that the parsons
were the most useful, because if they
did their duty the others wouldn't be
wanted." We all laughed and agreed with
the Lancashire lads.

Mr. Fletcher, when he got back into the
kind of company and social intercourse he
had always been used to as a young man,
never forgot his resolution to help workingmen
to get the same rational and refining
enjoyments which the middle-class folk
have so largely, but of which the working
class used hardly to get a taste. The

VOL. II. N

purposes lie formed in his dark days at
East Leigh for the social enjoyment and
political elevation of that class I could see
were seldom absent from his thoughts, and
he worked hard in various ways to carry
them out, which certainly made those
workmen, who saw what he was doing,
take to his preaching in a way that is not
as common as it might be.

He took warmly to Davie, and Davie to
him. Poor Roberts had a deal on his mind,
and not a little on his conscience, and he
sadly wanted a man like Mr. Fletcher to
guide and comfort him. Maggie, too,
found Mr. Fletcher a great help, and grew
to be very fond of him. Her temper
mended with more sunshine, and we, or
at least they, might have gone on very
happily I think for many years if only
Davie hadn't been naturally of such a restless,
roving disposition. If I wasn't altogether
at rest in mind and heart, and had
to work desperately hard sometimes to
blow off the extra steam, it was hardly to
be wondered at : and sometimes I used to

think very seriously of leaving London for
good and settling down in Birmingham or
Sheffield, and looking out for a wife, as in
both places I had warm friends  (I was
glad enough afterwards I didn't go). But
Davie had no excuse for being fidgety.
He honoured and admired Lovett, and
Bembridge, and Moore, and others, and
worked with them at the National Hall
both weekdays and Sundays as heartily
as I did. He had the bonniest, bravest,
longest wife, and a beautiful little boy
and baby to brighten his home when he
was in it. But he never did know' when
he was well off, nor could he be content
with anything, nor stick to anything for
long at a time. Like many a man I've
noticed, after having once tasted the
sweets of popular applause and all the
excitement of public meetings, he never
lost a hankering for it again. It was
partly this, I believe, and partly a longing
to have the freedom of a country life and to
be his own master that made him listen to
Feargus O'Connor's rubbishy Land Scheme,
N 2

and take shares in it, though his wife declared
she never could go and " live in a
dismal, sticks allotment ground, miles
away from all the world." But that restless
devil in poor Davie's mind kept goading
him on ; and so it happened that at the
beginning of 1848 he was once more hand
and glove with some of O'Connor's tools
and dupes, and was a marked man among
them. I've reason to say " a marked
man," for the Government were watching
these men even before the French Revolution
of February, '48, but ten times more
closely after it. Not that I mean all the
men still working, then, with O'Connor
were his tools. Several honest, able men,
among others Samuel Kidd, delegate from
Oldham to the second convention, John
Lowry, and Bronterre O'Brien, ought to
be honourably mentioned. Ernest Jones,
also, a young gentleman of good family, a
barrister by profession, had thrown himself
into the movement, sacrificing all his prospects
and position in life, with a genuine
zeal and in a martyr spirit, deserving of

grateful remembrance by working men,
however mistaken his conduct may bethought.
There was a very able, honest
young fellow, too, whose acquaintance I
was glad to make about this time  a
thorough-going Chartist, but with a mind
capable of valuing a great many good
things beside the Charter, and who was
working quietly then, as he has been doing
all his life since, more or less, for the real
elevation of his class. He wasn't much
known then, but has been widely known
and honoured since  I mean George Lodger;
a working shoemaker, and a good and true
man, according to my judgment and that
of many others. His death, a year ago,
at a comparatively early age, and before he
could help his class by getting into the
House of Commons, was a real misfortune,
as I have heard several M.p's honestly
say.

But there, if I'm to speak of all the fine
fellows I've known in this Chartist movement
I shall never have done ; so, to
return.

This second Convention, which consisted
of forty-seven delegates from London, and
large towns in England, and from Edinburgh,
Glasgow, Aberdeen, Paisley, and
Dundee, in Scotland, assembled in London
on April 4, 1848, at the John-street Institution,
near Tottenham Court-road, and
brought heart-rending, and in some cases
alarming, accounts of the state of their districts.
They were thoroughly in earnest,
for the most part, but the plans of the more
sensible men among them were constantly
thrown out of gear by O'Connor's bombast
and extravagance, which stimulated the
younger and more reckless spirits to foolish
or dangerous words and acts.

The Convention pushed forward its preparations
for the great meeting to be held
on Kennington Common on the 10th, from
which a procession was to go across 
to the House of Commons
to present the National Petition. 0' Condor
declared he would be in the front rank of
it, '' and then let the military shoot if they
dare." Much alarm was evidently caused

among the bigwigs at the prospect of this
procession, and there was a rare stir in
our shop and in a great many others, when
one man after another came in breathless
with the news that the Government had
forbidden the procession as illegaL The
meeting itself was not to be interfered with
if peaceably conducted. Many of the
leaders of the movement believed  and
O'Connor encouraged the belief at one
time, while assailing it at another  that
the Ministers would give way as to the
procession. However, the preparations for
resisting it by force went rapidly on.
Special constables were sworn in to the
number of fifty or sixty thousand. Troops
were collected, and it was quite evident to
all, but those who were besotted with their
own headstrong fancies, that a fearful loss
of life would ensue if the procession attempted
to force its way. O'Connor had
to play a double game.

'bravo, bravo, old Feargus!" shouted
Davie Roberts, bursting into the tap-room
of our " house of call," where a number of

US were gathered on the Saturday evening
hear and discuss the exciting questions
of the day. For though I stood aloof,
with my chief, from all that business 
Convention, Kennington meeting, ]procession,
and all  I was desperately anxious
to see how things would go, knowing too
well that the cause we loved so dearly was
in more deadly danger from its friends,
both sham and genuine, than even from its
worst enemies.

'bravo!" shouted Davie, as he
flourished the Star. '' Here's that blessed
old boy telling us he can no longer dare to
bid us trait /" He almost shrieked out this
last word. " No, no, no more waiting.
He says, ' I tell you in my soul I believe
the propitious hour has arrived when our.
long suffering and martyrdom may be
crowned with victory.' That is our noble
O'Connor's appeal to all true Chartists."
And here he unbuttoned his coat, and
threw a heavy horse-pistol on the table
with a clang that made the room ring
again, *' And these," here he flung a rusty

pike-leach beside the pistol, " are my
answers to this appeal. Brothers, are you
ready !" and he looked round as if he were
a general at the head of an army. " The
hour has come ! " A dead silence followed.

The men were taken by surprise, but nota
single cheer was raised. It was what
they call the thin edge between the sublime
and the ridiculous. But in another
moment there might laye been a storm of
applause, and then half of 'em in gaol next
day. I was thinking of Jem Burt out in
the penal settlements, and of the poor girl
who should have been his wife ; and then I
thought of Maggie, and my head seemed

all in a flame But I got up a smile,

and said quietly, " General Eoberts  you're
a d d ninny ! 

Then there was a burst of laughter. In
an instant he rushed at me like a tiger;
but two or three caught and held him, and
danger from the Bobbies was over. The men
laughed all the more at his rage, because I
don't think they had ever heard me swear
before in their company. Sometimes they

used to call me '' Quaker Jem." Oaths,
after all, are a coarse kind of lingo, and I
don't hear gentlemen use them now-a-days.

Don't be fierce, old fellow ? " I cried ;
'' but just read that other letter in the
Star from your valiant chief, and then
knock me down, if you please."

Davie snatched the paper from my
hands, as I pointed to the memorable
letter, which, with such extraordinary
effrontery, appeared in the very same
issue as the one from which Davie had
just been quoting.

"Read! Read it out!" cried several
voices. But Davie, when he had hastily
glanced at it, stood dumb-foundered. So
then I read about O'Connor's abuse of
the mouthing patriots " who talked of
going armed to the meeting; read how
he sneered at the folly of '' raw recruits ; "
and then how he bid the people beware
of countenancing them. I never saw a
poor fellow so chap-fallen as our enthusiastic
friend, and when he got up,
pocketed his artillery, and flung himself

with a savage oath out of the room, I felt
very sorry for him, but hoped he and
others were saved from transportation.

This, indeed, was a very real danger;
for the night before in the House of
Commons, the Home Secretary, Sir
George Grey, had moved for leave to
bring in a Bill for the better security
of the Crown and Government, which
converted " open and advised speaking
of seditious language " from a misdemeanour
into felony, punishable with
transportation. That was hot work.
But the French Revolution of February,
and the ease with which it was done,
threw both '' the rung classes," as they
were often called, and the poor suffering
worries, off their balance. The Bill
passed the House of Commons the following
Wednesday (April 12), by a majority
of 295 to 40, and the House of
Lords, unanimously, the following day.

In spite of the Government proclamation
that the procession would be illegal,
the chief members of the Convention declared

their intention to join in it, with
the exception of Bronterre O'Brien, w4io
thought the course the Convention was
adopting most mischievous. I was at the
meeting in the Chartist Hall, Lambeth,
on the Sunday, when he gave in his resignation
as a member of the Convention.
He was badly received, his explanations
interrupted by groans and hisses, and at
last he had to sit down. As I watched
his fine features working with bitter
emotion, I couldn't help thinking how
little able the people generally seem to
distinguish their best and wisest friends
from sham and shoddy. O'Brien was a
man who, under happier political arrangements,
and, I suppose, with better training,
might have played a noble part in
the great political drama of the day. He
longed as much as any of the Convention
to see justice done to our class, but he
thought, and I believe rightly, that the distress
among those who sent the members
of it up to London was goading them onto
ruinous courses, while three or four

who cared little for the people compared
with their own power and vanity, were
swaggering and strutting away at the
poor fools' expense.

Coming away from that Lambeth meeting,
who should I meet but Rufford, who
showed up very friendly. A leading member
of the Convention joined us, and said
that O'Brien had " got Ms gruel, which
he well deserved." Eufford said '' Bosh ! "
and the discussion got warm, especially
when Eu:fford spoke his mind about
O'Connor.

''Do you really suppose," said he,
that either Feargus or Hill" (the editor
of the Star), " or half-a-dozen more of
their friends, really want the Charter
carried, and the agitation ended ? "

The other man stopping, faced us, and
said, with a good deal of warmth, " Now,
hang it, man, why what interest can
Feargus have in keeping up the game, I
should like to know ? "

What interest ! What do you suppose
they are making every week by the

Northern Star ? And what do you guess
its circulation would be if the Charter
were carried ? "

The man seemed planted for a second,
then said, "Why, they declare they are
losing by every issue of that paper ! ''

'rand do you believe them? You
know the circulation is about 40,000 a
week. You're talking nonsense."

The man seemed to have got something
to think about, and went off presently,
only saying, '' Well, you're a
darned grumbler; and if O'Connor does
make money out of us, he gives it back
freely."

Yes," said I, as the other man went
off with his friends, "he is generous,
often, in giving, I do believe."

'' He only gives a little," growled Effort,
" that he may get back twice as
much  bait for the hook  nothing more."

May be. But see how, over and over
again, he has paid lots of tin for the defence
of our Chartist prisoners."

Seems a lot to you, perhaps. What

are a few hundreds to the thousands he
must have been netting, not merely by the
sale of the stain but by advertisements ?
Ah, my boy, advertisements are the food
that makes the mare to go. And what a
heap of gold-dust serial papers must make
by 'em." I respectfully assented.

*' That's the worst of all newspapers,"
continued Eufford, as we walked on.
"They are great trading firms or companies,
and can't afford to do much more
than look to their dividends. People pin
their faith on a favourite newspaper, and
fancy that editors are only actuated by a
patriotic desire for the public welfare. I
suppose some of them are in earnest, and
do their best to hold out true lights. But
when a paper has got a large circulation,
depend upon it, dividends carry the day."

And the more rowing and desperate
moves, and striking and dangerous incidents,
and quarrels, and horrid crimes,
and general devilry of all sorts, the better
for the dividends." '' That's about the
size of it, Jem ! But when will you come

and see me and my old woman ? "
'' After the procession. Good-night." It
was a comfort to meet one man who had
eyes in his head, and wasn't trying to
stand topsy-turvy.

Monday, April 10, 1848, came at last.
. . O'Connor and the Convention had
made all their preparations, and the Duke
had also made his  the one for irretrievable
disgrace and failure, the other for
calm, peaceful, and triumphant success.
Mr. Fletcher told me that when he was
hurrying in the early morning to his place
of gathering, appointed for the special
constables of his district, he met an old
friend, an officer of the Blues, then quartered
at Hounslow, leading his troops into
a timber-yard near 'Westminster-bridge.
He noticed the friend hadn't got his usual
troop-horse, and his heart misgave him,
for he knew by that token bloody work was
expected, and the favourite old charger
was kept safe in quarters. Neither officers
nor privates much liked the prospect before
them on the morning of the 10th.

'' Better fight a thousand foreign foes,"
was the thought in many a brave heart, I
believe, *' than a score of one's own countrymen'*


VOL. II.

CHAPTER X.

The sun dawned that day on a strange
spectacle  one of which all men should
have felt bitterly ashamed, it seems to me,
and yet one of which they might also feel
amazingly proud. It was a bitter shame
that nearly twenty years after all classes,
except a few peers and Tories, had stood
shoulder to shoulder to wring the nation's
liberties from corrupt and certainly despotic
hands, the middle and upper classes
should have allowed so great a breach to
take place between them and the toiling
millions, that it could be possible for the
country to have been more than once
during that period on the brink of a bloody
revolution. Buff if there was that danger,
it was something to be proud of that fifty

or sixty thousand London citizens should
have stood quietly that day in the streets,
armed only with wooden truncheons, ready
to fight, bleed, and perhaps die, to uphold
the majesty of law and civil order, and to
say by that conduct, political reform was
to be won in this country only by peaceful
means, not bloodshed.

The 10th of April scene, as I read it,
was practically the final protest of Chartists
against political and social wrongs, delivered
in the stupidest, clumsiest manner
that can be conceived ; and the protest of
middle-class comfortable citizens against
being disturbed in their comfort, or hurried
into reforms faster than their judgment
desired, by the threat of physical force.

So the pavements of the great London
thoroughfares swarmed that livelong day
with noblemen, gentlemen, clerks (in great
force), tradesmen, lawyers, doctors, architects,
and artists, with Louis Napoleon
among the rest, and a few working men,
all sworn in as special constables to preserve
the Queen's peace. The new police


were here, there, and everywhere. Troops
lead been ordered up from Chatham and
Windsor, as well as from Hounslow, and
even from Chichester, Winchester, and
Dover. Horse and foot, with batteries of
artillery from Woolwich, were quietly
drawn out before noon from the yards and
hiding-places where they had been concealed
until the Chartist multitude had
crossed the bridges, and they then occupied
every pass by which that multitude could
return in organized array. All the public
buildings were garrisoned. The mounted
police had broadswords and pistols. The
ostensible object of the gathering on
Kennington Common was to pass resolutions
in favour of the Charter, and
denouncing the Government, and then to
return in force to present their huge
petition to Parliament. Whether this was
all that the Chartist leaders, or O'Connor
himself, intended to do, will never be
known. My own belief is that Feargus's
vanity and ambition had been stung into
restless activity by the recent French

Revolution, and that, fired with a great
longing to play some conspicuous part, he
simply collected the largest assembly in
his power. What was to come after he
left to the chapter of accidents, quite ready
to ride into a dictatorship atop of a great
wave of bloodshed, if that should be the
fortune of the day, but certainly not
having any deep-laid plans for such wickedness.
Else why lead an unarmed multitude
over the bridges, and thereby give the
Government power to wring the neck of
an insurrection as easily as a housewife
kills a fowl ?

All that was left for him, at any rate, todo
when he came back from an interview
with Mr. Mayne, Chief Commissioner of
Ponce, to which he was summoned at the
Horns Tavern, and had mounted his
waggon on the common, and looked over
the vast sea of upturned faces, was to
inform his bewildered followers that the
Government had refused to allow the
petition to be presented by the multitude,
or to permit them to re-cross the bridges,

except in twos and threes, or to cross
Westminster and Waterloo Bridges at all.
He lead been welcomed, Davie told us,
with ringing cheers by the enthusiastic
thousands as he rose, but many were ready
to hoot at him with yells of disappointed
rage when they found that, after all his
vapouring and preparations, O'Connor had
pledged himself to Mr. Mayne that the
procession should be abandoned. But his
remarkable eloquence and power of deluding
his followers were never more plainly
shown. Even Davie was again carried
away by it. He wrapped up the painful
and humiliating facts so neatly that you
might have thought, as the majority did,
that he had gained a great victory. He
began by saying, " My children, you were
industriously told that 1 would not be
amongst you to-day. Well, I am here.
(Loud applause.) I have received more
than a hundred letters entreating me not
to attend this meeting, for that, if I did,
my life would be sacrificed. But I would
rather be stabbed to the heart than resign

my proper place among mj children."
(Tremendous cheering.) He implored
them not to ruin their great cause by any
imprudence, told them of the blessings lie
was preparing for them by his land scheme,
asked all who would act with prudence,
and carry the charter, to hold up hands,
when, of course, a huge forest of horny
hands went up, and he concluded, amidst
deafening cheers, with declaring that,
though he might be stretched on the rack,
he would smile terror out of countenance,
go on conquering, and to conquer,
&c. And Davie cheered with the
loudest !

For in spite of all that Maggie, Mr.
Fletcher, and I could say  in spite even
of his immense disgust on Saturday night
at O'Connor's second letter in the Star 
Davie Roberts vowed he would march with
his brother Chartists to Kennington Common
and Westminster Hall that day. And
march with them to the Common he did,
though he had consented rather sulkily,
and only when he saw Maggie in tears, to

leave his pocket artillery at home. Lucky
for him that he did.

But though he was actually fool enough,
by his own confession, to join in cheering
that wonderfully silly rot of O'Connor's,
yet, when the excitement was over, and he,
with others, was feeling all the bitterness
and humiliation of his position, as they
tramped wearily and dismally home again,
the whole matter began to appear in a
different light, and they asked each other
what O'Connor's conduct and speech

really meant Men cursed him that

day for a fool, and a coward into the bargain,
who had been ready to die for him
the day before.

The sittings of the Convention, however,
continued for a time with considerable
spirit, as did the agitation generally, in
spite of the '' fiasco " (which, I believe,
means '' muddle ") of April 10. For the
terrible distress under which the working
classes were suffering, combined with the
revolutions going forward on the Continent,
was quite enough to keep the fires

going. Men in the manufacturing districts
felt, and constantly said, that it would be
better to die by shot and steel, fighting for
the Charter, which they thought alone
could remedy the evil, than by the lingering
death of starvation and disease. Large
open-air meetings were held in many
places ; one in Manchester, on Sunday,
April 17, was attended by 100,000 persons;
another at Halifax by 80,000  surrounded
by the military. At Aberdeen, amidst the
cheers of 10,000 people, a resolution was
passed for forming a National Guard,
which was also resolved on at a Chartist
delegate meeting for Lancashire and Yorkshire.
Ireland was on the edge of rebellion.
Physical-force demonstrations took place
in Yorkshire, at Bradford, Willesden, and
Single. A desperate fight took place at
Bradford between the people, the special
constables, and the police. At last the
military had to be called out, and not till
after that did the fight end. Collisions
took place also at Oldham, Manchester,
Blackstone Edge, Ashton (where a policeman,

named Bright, was eliot dead, and the
military where called out), and other places.
Dreary work ! But in the midst of all
this misery and hullabaloo the Rochdale
pioneers were quietly talking about '' Cooperation,"
in a little room, I'm told, eight
feet square ; and a few other long heads
were discussing the nationalization of the
land reform, the currency lawes, establishment
of national loan systems through
State banks, exchange marts, reform of
the Poor Lawes, &c. Dissensions, meanwhile,
of course broke out among the leading
Chartists, while O'Connor's influence
had begun to wane from April 10. Most
of the physical-force men were still
thoroughly in earnest, and they saw that
he was not. Resolutions of confidence in
him were got up in all quarters, and where
trumpeted, exaggerated, or fabricated in
the columns of the Star. But, as Lovett
said to me one night, they couldn't stop
the ebb tide. O'Connor was right, of
course, in abandoning the procession and
in not telling the people to come armed.

but then lie should never have blustered
about forcing it through. To crown their
discomfiture the enormous National Petition
was found to contain so large a
number of fictitious and coarse ridiculous
signatures that no end of ridicule was
poured on the whole movement.

Amidst all the confusion and uproar the
Convention, in spite of the opposition of
O'Connor and his supporters, had resolved
on holding a " National Assembly," into
which it should merge, and which met
accordingly in London, on May 1, with
twenty-eight delegates, a much smaller
number, let it be observed, than formed
the Convention, exactly the same number,
curiously enough, as that of the first
Rochdale Co-operators. But the resemblance
doesn't go much further. What a
huge difference, I've often thought, there
was in the value of the work those two
sets of twenty-eight were doing about that
time. Look at the consequences, after

a bit.

Yet I'm not one who says no good was

done bj all that physical-force foolery.
Anyhow the Chartist agitation, physical
force and all, made the Parliament people
and governing folks generally open their
eyes and think vrhat had to be done to
better the state of the working classes.
The members were, many of them, able,
earnest men ; but the schism caused by
O'Connor's opposition weakened its influence,
and the divisions in the Chartist
ranks became more and more apparent.
The old quarrel about moral and physical
force consumed much time; so did that
about O'Connor and the Star. Ernest
Jones and Julian Harney were informed
by Feargus that if they sat in the Assembly
they must give up their appointments on
the Star. Hard lines that, but no help for
it. Ernest Jones threw up the Star and
stuck to the Assembly, only to see it
crumble away and perish. Harney renounced
the Assembly and kept his berth
on the newspaper.

On July 3, O'Connor brought forward,
at last, his motion for the Charter in the

House of Commons, and got just fifteen
il.P.'s to vote for it. After this lie
appears to have " coquetted," and something
more, with the movement which
Joseph Hume had started for household
suffrage, triennial Parliaments, &c., after
having for years denounced and driven
from the agitation every man who on the
slightest pretence cotild be accused of
aiming at anything (even education) except
the " Six Points."

"Here's something else to make you
stare, Mr. Lovett," said I, one evening,
vhen I found him shaking his head
gloomily over the Chartist dissensions,
and when I had just got the proof of
O'Connor's conduct in that household
suffrage business. " What do you say to
tHs?" and I shall never forget to my
dying day the look of scorn that came
over" his fine face as he read the facts.
But the scorn soon passed, and then there
followed such a look of sadness, and a sigh
from the very depths of his heart. Poor
William Lovett ! Noble Lovett ! you bore

the shame and sorrow of your class, if ever
man did; but as all great leaders I fear
have had to do, and will yet for many a
day. But you didn't live in vain.

O'Connor's retribution, however, was
fast coming, and as I want to have done
with him, I'll just forestall one or two
events, and mention here that soon after
this time he publicly informed the Chartist
body that he intended retiring into private
life. Whether he really meant this, or
wanted to get a general vote of renewed
confidence, I can't say. But the result
was crushing. Not a single locality sent
a resolution to the star on the subject.
And though a third Convention was held
in March, 1849, containing a number of
first-rate men, and he was elected to it
with Gr. J. Mantle by the Manchester
Chartists, every one noticed how little influence
he had in it, how seldom he came
to its sittings, and low his whole appearance
began to foretell that melancholy
break-up of his mind which afterwards
came upon him. Then followed the discreditable

exposures and bitter attacks on
him connected with the gigantic delusion
and even frauds of the land scheme, so
that at last even his worst enemies misbehave
felt pity for such a downfall and
disgrace. And this reminds me I heard
Mr. Fletcher or some one say once in the
pulpit, that persons who think too much
of themselves, and about themselves, from
Nebuchadnezzar downwards, were always
more liable than other folks to go off their
heads. Queer, if it be so. But I've
noticed it myself, more than once, and it
certainly was so in regard to poor Feargus.
He died in confinement not long after, and
I've no doubt he was dealt with more
mercifully afterwards than some of us
would then have treated him, for ice could
not make fair allowances for him. But
the evil that he did lived after him, as, I
believe, Shakespeare says, and we felt it
for many a day. And now I've done with
him. High time. But before going back to
the summer and autumn of 1848, I may as
well mention that this third Convention

was distinguished by its taking up a
number of important reforms required
for the social improvement of the condition
of the people.

What do you think of this new convention,
Mr. Rufford ? " I remember asking
him when I went one night to take
tea with him at Greenwich, about three
weeks after it had assembled.

'think!" cried he. " AYliy, that it's
the most sensible creature that's turned up
for many a day. Look here, Jem ! These
lads are beginning to see the root of the
evils the country suffers from, and that
they must go for social improvements as
well as for political rights. What a
splendid programme they are getting out !
Those ' nine clauses ' of theirs embrace all
the great fundamental changes required.
But any good that comes in that direction
we shall owe to noble E-obert Owen."

The clauses are a move in the right
direction. And though I don't go with
them all, myself, by a long shot, you
know, it's a great thing to have them fairly

trotted out, and held up for consideration.
But don't you think there's a deeper bit of
wisdom in this move than even what you
mentioned? "

'' May be. What is it ? " said he, stopping
a hunch of bread and butter on its way
to his mouth.

'' Why, I begin to see that political reform
(which, as Lovett taught us long ago,
is only a means to an end) is far more
likely to be won when the people see
certain definite advantages which are to
come from it. Englishmen don't care for
abstract propositions, I fancy, or changes
of any sort, till they see the need of
'em."''

'upright you are, my boy. (But, don't
you see, my missus thinks you should take
a bit more of her turn-over.) And I'll
tell you another thing. The swells who
hold the ribbons and tool us along with
plenty of whip-cord sometimes, mil be far
more likely to give us good social reforms
through having had the fright of these
agitations and outbreaks."

VOL. II.

They'll begin to see they must do
something, sou. mean; and if we ask for
what is reasonable, they'll be glad enough
to give it."

"Right again. Two to you, old fellow."


[I may as well give here the clauses just spoken of,
to show how much more the leaders of the working
classes were then thinking of particular social reforms
than merely the points of the Charter. They seem tome
now a curious mixture of folly and sense, and were
as follows :  The nationalization of the land ; the
restoration of Common, Church, and Crown lauds to
the people, and the empowering the state to purchase
other lands; the separation of Church and State ;
national, secular, gratuitous, and compulsory education
; the right of co-operative societies to registration
and enrolment; the State to open credit banks for
associated bodies of working men ; the right of the
poor when out of work to employment ; all taxes to
be levied on land and accumulated property; the
interest paid on the National Debt to be regarded as
repayment of the capital ; every citizen to be allowed
military training; abolition of capital punishments.]

CHAPTER XI.

I MUST now go back to the miserable work
that was going on during the previous
autumn of 1848, and which led to consequences
more melancholy for those I loved,
and so for me, than anything I had ever
known before, or am likely, I hope, to
know again. I keep putting off coming toit,
for it was a dismal time.

My evenings during that autumn, I remember,
were generally pretty well occupied
in working with Lovett, Bembridge,
Xeesom, and the rest, at the National Hall,
or, now and then, with teaching a young-apprentice
in our shop how to set out his
work, &c. Sometimes I had a pleasant
chat with Mr. and Mrs. Roberts (though
not very often  they were so busy), and
p 2

also, as I have just said, with an old friend
like Rumford. But on Saturday evenings I
generally went to the '' Sawyers' Arms " for
an hour or two, to talk over the week's
news.

One night, Davie, who was often with
us, came in immensely excited, with several
of his shipmates, called for his pint, but
wouldn't sit down to drink it, and walked
up and down fuming, till we made him tellus
all about it.

"Well, it was this way. You know
there was a meeting this afternoon on
Clerkenwell Green ? The bobbies were
there, of course, and plenty of 'em  quite
quiet and well-behaved, all except one, and
he got hold of a couple of lads near me,
who were only larking a little bit with each
other, and handled them shamefully. Of
course, I wouldn't stand that, and took
their part. With that, he collars me, and
crying out, ' I'll run you in, my boy, at all
events,' he began shoving me along as if I
were a football. A lot of my mates were
going to upset him, but I cried to them not

to do that, but to come to the station-house,
and get a sergeant, who had been looking
on, to come with them. For I saw that
the fellow had been drinking, and I thought
the inspector, as well as the sergeant, would
see it too ; while if my pals had rescued
me, the whole force would have been down
on the lot of us." And he stopped to take
breath, and a pull at the pewter.

Aye, aye, go it, mate ! " was the cry
now, for we were all agog.

"So off we all went to the station, and
there my fine gentleman was cross-questioned
by the inspector, who looked at
him pretty sternly from top to toe, when
he smelt his breath, and then he questioned
the sergeant (who gave his evidence rather
reluctantly, but quite fairly), and finally
ordered my enemy into the back yard with
a flea in his ear, and sent us off to the
bosom of our families and domestic joy at
the ' Sawyers' Arms.' "

Hip, hip, hip, hurrah ! "

We were all as jolly as he at first, but
after a bit I began to think  and I thought

this  " That fellow will watch Davie for a
twelvemoiith,and if ever he gets the chance,
won't he be down upon him 1 "

The man had received a severe reprimand,
it seems, for however occasional
ill-behaviour may and must occur in so
large a body of poorly-educated men as
the force, I've long thought it admirably
governed ; and I must say the men are
generally very useful and well-behaved,
though, it seems to me, not half so civil
in the City as in the Metropolitan force.
The man in question, however, was an
exception, and he certainly vowed vengeance.
But there were worse men than
he in Government pay, as time showed.

I've said there were stormy meetings
going on thro' the summer of 1848 allover
the country; and in June, Chartist
and '* Repeal " (Ireland) meetings were
announced by huge placards very near
home. In the London Fields, Clerkenwell
Green, Horton (where Victoria Park is
now), Retinal Green, and Bonner's Fields,
large gatherings took place. I did not

go near them, but Davie was in a feverish
way about them all.

One night lie came rushing' up the stairs
where I lodged, and with an oath exclaiming,
" Confound all blasted ' Peelers ;' keep
it dark, Jem ! " he threw himself under mj
bed and lay as still as a mouse.

I locked the door in a liffey, off with my
clothes, out with my light, on with my
night-shirt, and into bed before I heard
the heavy tread on the stairs I was expecting.
It stopped on the first floor,
then a knock at front and back lodgers'
doors, then a parley, then it came up to
my door.

Xo answer, unless the gentleman could
hear me snoring, and took that for one.

Knock, knock, knock again.

""Wlio's there?" from under the bedclothes.


Policeman X. Open the door."

Then I stumble to the door in the dark,
upsetting a chair in the way, and rubbing
very sleepy eyes. I open it and confront
my Bobby.

What's the row ? Rather late, mj
friend, to wake up a man who has to beat
work bj six tomorrow morning."

Sorry to disturb you, my man," said
the constable, evidently getting doubtful
about the legality or wisdom of his proceedings
; " but just let me throw a light
into yer room," and the bull's-eye was
unclosed.

'' Nonsense," said I, opening the door
wide enough for him to put his head and
lantern in, " what do you expect to see
there? Come, be oiBT; and don't wake
me up again in a hurry. Have you got a
search-warrant ? "

The man knew he hadn't, and was
satisfied by the look of the room that he
had made a mistake ; so with clumsy
apologies he stumped downstairs again ;
but we heard him walking about for a longtime.


I believe it was Davie's friend ; but of
course we could not be certain. When I
had made sure the coast was clear, Davie
scuttled home as fast as he could, where

this wife was sitting up for him, and very
unhappy.

Next day I heard that he had been at the
great meeting on Clerkenwell Green ; that
the police had charged the people ; that a
scrimmage had taken place, and a good
many heads been broken. Davie, of
course, was in the thick of that work ;
"for," said he, "though I took nothing
but a bit of crab-tree with me, and was
determined not to join in any attack upon
either troops or constables (in fact, I had
promised Maggie I wouldn't), I couldn't
keep my hands quiet when I saw those

b peelers knocking the poor fellows

about and cracking skulls like egg-shells."

You mustn't go again, Davie," said I,
"or you're safe for two years' imprisonment,
perhaps transportation ; and what are your
poor wife and children to do then ? Can't
you see as plain as a pikestaff the people
haven't the ghost of a chance against the
government forces? "

Davie ground his teeth in silent rage.

It is not like Paris."

No," he said, at length, ' not a chance,
until they are armed. But I can tell you,
Jem, arms are to be had ; and Englishmen
are as brave as Frenchmen."

True ; but not as well used to street-fighting.
And if ever there comes a Frenchman,
as hard, and cruel, and despotic as
old Boney was, you'll see French workmen
once again made hay of in Paris streets,
and the gutters choke full of their blood,
and then their butcher ruling over 'em
all."

I don't believe it, Jem  not a bit of it.
All we've got to do is to arm."

Then, seeing the look on my face, he
added fiercely, 

What's life worth, or home, or wife, or
children, or any mortal thing, I should like
to know, to slaves ? Am I to be working
and eating and drinking in peace and comfort
while thousands are starving, and the
people are being crushed by this infernal
despotism ? "

What use was there in saying more to a
benevolent hot-headed madman ?

As I turned array, very miserable, lie said,
But I promise you one thing, Jem. I'll
be tarnation close over it all, from this day
forti. I'll be as crafty as a spy, and bilk
the bloodthirsty hounds, depend on it."

That night we heard that Joseph
'williams, Sharpe, Vernon, Russell, and
Ernest Jones were all in quod for seditious
speeches at the meetings on Clerkenwell
Green. They were all committed for trial.

In spite of this, another great meeting
was called soon after, to be held in Bonner's
Fields, but large forces were brought up to
prevent it. Dr. McDouall was to preside.
Immense multitudes were tramping towards
the spot from all quarters. The women
and children were kept away. Most of the
men had got bludgeons, some had pikes.
A cab rattled past. The Doctor was
recognized by Davie and others who were
waiting to receive hint; and roaring cheers
went up from many thousand throats.
Way was made for the cab to the meeting
ground; the Doctor was politely handed
out of the cab by two constables, and

requested to confer with a military-looking
man in dark blue uniform.

You, sir, I presume, are " said

Dr. McDouall, inquiringly.

'* Captain    , Assistant Commissioner
of Police. I regret to inform you my
orders are to disperse this meeting by
force, and to arrest you, if you persist in
holding it."

Dr. McDouall and Captain exchanged
bows. The Doctor mounted the
top of his cab, and persuaded the angry
and excited multitude to turn tail and
march home again.

But the meetings went forward elsewhere.
The Doctor (McDouall) was, of
course, closely watched, and soon gave the
authorities ground for arresting him, which
was done at Ashton-undermine not long
after.

But Davie brought me with immense
exultation an account of how, on Sunday,
July 18, a great delegate meeting had been
held at Blackstone Edge, when a resolution
was passed, " That all movements for the

Charter lead failed, in consequence of the
Chartists opposing moral force to the
physical force of their oppressors." I knev
pretty well what would come next.

But it was the away at Ashton, on August
14, when the policeman was shot, that
chiefly sent a thrill of rage and terror
through the governing classes, and, I
suppose, made them think any measure
justifiable to put down the rising spirit of
insurrection ; while the leaders of the
physical-force Chartists, and many of their
followers, were getting equally unscrupulous
and desperate. So the demand for pike-heads,
daggers, pistols, ball-cartridges, &c.,
went briskly forward. And the Government,
or at least the heads of the police,
began to listen to the infamous proposals
of the notorious Powell. Ah, well, poor
Davie talked of being as crafty as a spy.
More than one meant to be the same.

On the day when the meeting was dispersed
in Bonner's Fields, a disreputable-looking
beggar in a faded shooting-coat and
leggings, was standing alongside a policeman

watching intently every man who seemed to
be taking an active part in the day's proceedings.
As Davie Roberts came up he
noticed the policeman nudge his companion,
and thought he heard him say, " That's
the fellow." Looking carelessly round he
recognized the man who had 'run him in "
a few weeks before, and saw too, the
malicious smile on his face. But as
McDouall came up soon after he thought
no more of the matter, except a passing
wish to have a fair set-to with the constable
and knock him into next week. But if
their chief showed the white feather what
could a poor sub. do ?

From a few words I overheard one night
between Davie and some of his set, I feared
they were now beginning preparations for
arming in earnest, and so it proved.

The night after we had heard of the
fatal business at Ashton I happened to
have been kept very late at a lodge-meeting
of our trade society over a row about a
defaulting member. It was a dark, rainy
night, and as I was passing through St.

James's Churchyard, Gierke well, I was
startled by seeing three or four men crouching
behind the gravestones. It was too
dark to see what they were about, but as
I thought they were grubbing in the earth
the idea flashed on me that they must be
body-snatches, for I had heard plenty
about those gentlemen when I was a lad.
Looking round for a policeman, I put my
hand to my mouth, and was just about to
give him a whistle, when one of the men
sprang over the railings and grasped my
arm.

Hush ! we're only putting away some
ball-cartridges. The police ran us close.
Keep it quiet, Jem."

Davie ! Davie ! " said I, all in a fluster,
I pray God you mayn't be sorry for this
miserable folly to the last hour of your
life."

Pray God, Jem," said he sternly, " to
smite down our tyrants, so that honest,
peaceable working men mayn't have to risk
their necks in getting justice done."

The other men had joined us by this

time, and as they all walked hastily away,
Eoberts added, 

And pray God to give you a better
heart, Jem. I guess you are but a selfish,
sneaking humbug after all  afraid to risk
anything for freedom."

Xow, I don't say it wasn't a bitter dose
to have dirt like that thrown at me, though
I knew he'd be sorry enough next morning
he had said it. But we all used strong
lanmiaoe now and then without meanings
much by it. And I did sometimes think I
was both cowardly and selfish in doing
nothing but talk and teach lads grammar
and geography, or what that noble-hearted
man, William Ellis, called social economy,
by way of delivering my fellow-countrymen
from the grinding misery and injustice that
was crushing the very life out of thousands
of them. And, vexed as I was with Davie,
I should have been base indeed, and unworthy
of the friendship of a fellow like
him, if I hadn't amused and honoured from
the bottom of my heart his unselfish and
most self-sacrificing efforts. But I couldn't

look at all the plans of him and this party
except as a miserable mistake. I felt
certain it was then, and I'm just as certain
now. So, what could I do ?

Three hundred ball-cartridges were found
buried in the churchyard next day by a
grave digger  as might have been expected,
his experienced eye telling him there was a
disturbance of earth in which he had had
no hand. The cartridges were taken with
great trepidation by churchwardens, grave-digger,
and police, to Scotland Yard, and
the newspaper boys got hoarse with proclaiming
the fearful discovery.

It was very soon, if I remember rightly,
after McDouaU's "upset" in Bonner's
Fields, and before this ' find " in St.
James's churchyard, that I saw Davie as I
passed the door of the Hall of Science one
evening, talking to a rather spruce-looking
journeyman carpenter, who was shaking
Davie's hand with a deal of warmth, as if,
said Davie, he had just picked him out of
the Present's Canal. I didn't like the man's
face.

VOL. II. Q

38 JAMES Woodward,

"Alio's that fellow, Davie?" said I,
as lie came along with me a little way.

Oil, lie's a regular brick; kiiows Cuffey,
Fay, Ritchie, and all our best men. He
was at our meetiiiQ; there to-nioflit, and
heard me speak; declared it was prime
stuff, and the very tiling lied been wanting
to hear for many a day. Told me where
he worked in Leeds, but had just come to
town. Said he must throw in his lot with
us. Wanted to knows wdiat he could do to
help, and gave me ten shillings towards
the ' Liberty Fund.' I never saw a chad
so pleased."

Oh, I know" you can talk as well as
you fight."

By George, he did butter me, I can tell
you. I should rather have liked you and
Maggie to have heard wdiat he said."

Precious glad I didn't. Do you believe
all he says ? "

Why not ? You say I can talk. Jem,
you're jealous ! It's very hard a man can't
have a little encouragement, once in a way,
without one's best friends damping down."

And lie moved away.

Davie, that's bad fellow; depend upon
it. Did you look at this hand ? "

'' I'm not a fortune-teller."

Aye, but did you notice if it felt liard
and horny like an honest man's hand ! "

Can't say I did ; and, now you mention
it, it did feel rather soft'

Something like you, Davie, I'm
afraid."

But he was in no mood for chaff, and
didn't like it.

I was getting rather anxious, too, about
his position at the shop. His employers
had threatened once or twice to discharge
him for being so often away from his work
and late in the mornings. They certainly
would have done it, had he not been a very
clever hand, and they had heavy jobs to
complete. So I made one last appeal to
him that night.

It was no use.

He declared, with much excitement,
things would soon mend now, for they
would go the right way to work presently.
Q 2

I asked him what lie was going to do with
his new friend ?

'' Introduce him to-night at one of our
meetings."

'where?"

Davie was reluctant to tell me ; but at
last whispered, 

At the Orange Tree, Orange Street."

Then we parted.

Chapter XII.

I WENT round by the Orange Tree before
going home and had a glass. The place
was full of all sorts  good, bad, and indifferent,
 some very desperate-looking
roughs, and some very respectable men
of our Society. Cuffey and Fay, with
other leading Chartists, were just going
into an inner room. They welcomed me
warmly, crying, '' That's right, my boy.
We wanted you," and two or three whispered,
'' Are you in for it too ? It looks
like business at last, don't it?" I told
them I knew nothing about what they
were doing and didn't want to. I only
came to see if Roberts was there. They
said rather surlily he would soon be there,
and hoped he'd give me '' a lift, right
side uppermost." So I waited a bit, for

I was getting more and more anxious for
liii. Presently lie came in along with
the man 1 had seen speaking to him. I
noticed the fellow stood treat both for
Davie and several others. Presently he
edged towards the door, I gave Davie a
sign and whispered him to keep close so
that his friend shouldn't see him, but to
keep his eye on him. The man sidled out
of the door, and round the corner in a
liffey. I after him, Davie watching at the
door. Just outside I met a brother chip
of the name of Locke, and taking him by
the button I beo'an talking about some
affair in our Trades' Union Lodge, ]put
asked him to keep his ears open when we
got round the corner. I soon spied the
new convert with another man, as I expected,
and we lounged past them talking*
of the lodge-meeting. Then I left my
friend, he dawdled back again, and I went
round by another way back to the Orange
Tree. Locke was waiting for me on the
door-step.

'' Did you hear anything ? " I whispered.

'' Yes. Call Davie Roberts out. Look
sharp ! "

When Davie came, he seemed rather bewildered,
and said, 

I've just seen the blackguard."

Who do you mean ? "

Why that d policeman, that run

me in ; he's inside, in plain clothes."

I thought so. And did you see your
new friend vritli him r "

'No, by George, or I'd have wrung his
neck. They haven't leen near each other,
I'll swear."

Oh, dear no, not at all. Davie, those
two men were round the corner just now
talking together as hard as they could.
Locke and I saw them." Roberts started.
'' Just tell Davie what you heard."

Well, I heard this, Daue Roberts.
The policeman said, ' I saw him go in not
ten minutes ago ;' and then the other chap
said, ' Come inside, and put your finger on
the fellow's shoulder. I think he's the
same cove as brought me here '  at least
it sounded very like that ; but they talked

low. Then I walked on ; and soon after
they came up to that door, and I followed
them in. Then your Bobby works his
way through the men round the bar, and
I sees him put his finger on yer shoulder
as plain as I see you now."

Eoberts clapped his hand to his forehead,
as if he'd been shot. I knew he'd
think more of the warning, if another man
than myself told him he was being sold.
He looked in my face one minute with a
sort of despairing wretchedness, like as I
fancy men look when they are going to
drown themselves. Then he whispered ina
hoarse voice, " I must warn CufEey and
Fay;" and was dashing off, when I caught
his arm. " You will come back to me
directly?"

Yes, yes ! Wait for me here a
minute."

When he came back his forehead was
covered with sweat. 'rit's no use," he
said. " I've seen Cuffey, and they don't
believe there's much iu it, and they won't
give up the meeting to-night, and I'll not

desert them. But they'll take care those
two scoundrels are watched and kept out
of it. Good reason too. Why that place
and two more ' publics ' are choke full of
pikes, swords, loaded pistols, gunpowder,
tow balls, and heaven knows what. We're
all ready to begin, and everything will be
settled to-night. But I don't like  '' and
he paused.

I got him to walk a little way with me
up the street towards his home.

Now look here, Davie," said I. '' Can't
you see your whole plot is known to the
police. I'm as certain that villain who
spoke to you is an informer as that we're
standing here."

I believe it, and I've told Cuffey and
the rest all about it. But they won't believe
it, as I told you just now. They only think
I'm a coward, and if they're to be hung, I
must swing with them."

*' Very well, and I'll crack up your
heroism over your grave. I'll be bound
Mr. Fletcher will preach a splendid funeral
sermon. . . . Davie Roberts, look here. I

do honour sou more than I care to tell you,
for the pluck and the unselfish public spirit
with which sou are going into this business.
I believe I would do and risk as
much, or more, myself, to get the Charter,
if I thought it the right way  not half as
much credit to me as to you, for I've
neither wife nor child." (" Poor Maggie,
and the kids," said Roberts, sadly, half to
himself.) " And I would face aiij/ risk, or
suffer any pain, I think, to help workings
men get the Charter by moral force, for
then I know they would be prepared to use
their power well when they got it. But,
would to heaven that you could see that
now you are leagued with all sorts of blackguards,
and are stirring up all the filth and
scoundrelism of London. . . . Think of
the ruffians and thieves who'll be in the
thick of the row, ready to burn and plunder
on the first chance. Remember the
Potteries, and poor Burt. What good do
you expect can come out of all that ? . . .
Davie, I know you've liked and trusted in
Mr. Fletcher, haven't you ? " (He nodded

energetically.) '' And tliougii yon haven't
been to hear him often lately, I have ; and
I see, as I never used to, that it's no
good getting men the franchise, or giving
them power of any kind, unless so far as
you help them to become unselfish or self-restrained,
wise, and thoughtful. But, on
my word, I believe thoroughly, now, that
Mr. Fletcher is right in saying that nobody
can make us unselfish but Christ. You
don't think he's canting, I know, in saying
that, or me for saying it after him, do
you?"  ["No, indeed"]  "because you
know we are sincere. And you know, too "
(I hurried on, for I felt fidgety, as I always
did if ever I got on these subjects, which
wasn't often; but I. had promised Mr.
Fletcher I would take the first opportunity
of saying it all, and I saw Davie listened
with all his mind), " you know that I don't
mean we must all believe this or that particular
creed, but we must get Christ's spirit
and His help, and act on His precepts, if weare
not to be cutting one another's throats
all round, or else giving ourselves up to

beastly living and greed for money, and so
coming under a mncli worse tyranny, both
without and within ns, than your friends,
or anybody else, ever fought to throw off.
Look at the French workmen  are they
any the better for their last revolution and
all the bloodshed ? Depend upon it, too,
they haven't seen the worst of it yet. . . .
But what's the good of talking ? It's just
this wretched selfishness and these bad
passions, which we all have, that must begot
under if we are to have any real freedom
or peace, no matter what the Government
be. And how are you to get unselfishness
and self-restraint out of pikes
and pistols?" I was '' coming the
parson " in this style, you see, partly
because I knew the further I got him from
the '' Orange Tree," and the nearer home,
the more chance there was of his not going-back.
At last he said, 

'' Cromwell got freedom and peace out of
pikes and gunpowder, at all events."

No, he didn't. Mr. Fletcher was talking
on that very point in his last lecture,

and lie showed low eliot and steel were of
no use at all, even to Cromwell, for winning
freedom, as long as he'd only got a lot of
godless troopers and fellows with no
principle in them. Don't you know it
wasn't till he got his ' Bible arms ' together
that he smote the Philistines ? Didn't he
say he must laye ' God-fearing men who
would make a conscience of it ? How
many of those men at the ' Orange Tree '
to-night are either Grot-fearing or making
a conscience of it ? Remember this is not
my chatter. It's Mr. Fletcher's."

I could see that Davie's generous heart
was answering to these words, coming as
they did a- top of his terrible discovery.
about the spy who had been flattering and
journeying hin. So, still slowly heading
for Davie's lodgings, I went on talking.

You see, Davie, that looking through
history as well as I've been able to do while
attending these lectures of Mr. Fletcher's
on the history of Christianity, I can see
that nations, and movements of all sorts in
Christendom, have prospered for the last

eighteen centuries just so far as tliej really
put their necks in Christ's harness, and
lived under His yoke. . . . Christianity, in
spite of the evil done by bad men in its
name, seems to me to have been the chief
liberator ' of all who were oppressed,
whether by their own vices and selfishness,
or by the crime and selfishness of others.
And it stands to reason it must be so, first
because it is only from Christ we learn
perfect self-denial, self-sacrifice, purity, and
love. And secondly, because when we do
know what we ought to do and to be, we
want the strength and the will for doing
and being; it ; and this also the best and
noblest men and women, in all those ages,
said they found by looking to Christ for it
  said this was not to be found effectually
and lastingly anywhere else. I believe they
are right. I can't see in history, nor find
in my own experience, anybody else who
can deliver us from our selfishness and
other sins. It is not so much, I fancy,
that we don't know what's right. What
we want is help to do it ; and that we get

from Christ, and from no one else, as sure
as Grod's in heaven and lias given His Son
to help US. It all seemed too good to be
true, Davie, dien I first heard Mr. Fletcher
say it. But I know now, bv trying it on,
it is true, and you'll find it so, my boy.
You don't think I'm canting ? "
No, no ; not a bit ! Cut on."
'' I've just done. Only if, as Mr. Fletcher
says and. I believe, Christ's appearance in
the world, and the power given to Him
since His crucifixion, is Grod's way of mending
the world, and raising us to goodness
and happiness, we may be as certain that
no other way will answer as that the sun
will rise tomorrow morning, and that half-armed,
undisciplined godless patriots are
no match for artillery, trained troops, and
Government spies."

Curse them ! a thousand times ! " .
And he clenched his fist, striking out
fiercely. But soon the savage look on his
face passed away  the brawny inst dropped
at his side, and it was almost in a moaning
way he said, as he stopped and faced me : 

Jem, why did you never say all this
before? It's too late now  too late."

Never too late to mend while ere live,
Davie. If you feel what I say is true (and
I know you do), you can get strength to
act on it at once. But I know I outfit to
have spoken sooner. I wish to heaven I
had. I've often wanted to, but you know
how a fellow hates canting and setting
himself up to preach, and what a deal is
expected of him if he does. However, I
promised Mr. Fletcher last Sunday night I
would say something like this to you when
I got a chance, and so I was looking out
for it. But I hadn't a notion you were so
near the edge, or I'd have spoken at all
costs, for I believe there's nothing else
would keep a man like you out of this mad
devil's business."

We stood silent a minute, and then I
remember I took his hand, and just said,
for I couldn't help it, 

Dear old friend, you know we have
been friends in rough weather and shine
for many a day, in spite of our little tiffs

now and then. . . . Don't think I'm a
coward, or that it's so much more brave and
good of yon to go on with this 
business than to come out of it ;
for I swear it's nothing but folly and
treachery to your master, Christ, and to all
working men. They need all you can do
to lift them up and bring them to their true
Deliverer, not to push them further into
the old mischief-maker's hell-cauldron, and
plunge in yourself. . . . Davie, for the
sake of true Chartism, and our downtrodden
brother worries  for your poor
wife's sake  for the sake of Christ and Godin
heaven  let me ask you to leave all that
miserable folly and wickedness behind, and
go home."

Davie passed his hand over his eyes,
turned away, stopped, came back, shook
hands, just murmured, 

'* Too late. . But God bless you, old
friend. Go and see Maggie and cheer her
up a bit. Good-night, and God bless
sou."

Then he went back as hard as he could

VOL. II. E

to Orange Street. I went home with a
heart-ache.

When he Quot to the ' Orange Tree ' the
first man, he told me, whom he saw was
Locke, standing on the door step, and
who, it seems, was on the look-out in case
my friend should return. He came to meet
him, saying, under his breath, 

Be off, Roberts. Don't come here tonight.
For heaven's sake don't go in, man,
they'll murder you if you do."

But Davie only thanked him, put him
aside, and pushed past the crowded bar
trying to go straight to the club-room
where the committee were sitting. The
moment he was recognized all the loud,
eager talking ceased, and a murmur began
to run through the place.

Hullo, Roberts ! " shouted one, "there's
been a spy here ! "

Caught a spy here ! " cried another.
"What do you think of that, my boy ?"

"No, by ," cried a tlnrd, coming

out of the committee-room, with more
behind him, " they have not caught the

spy, but here's the sneak ttIio rounded onus,
and by the powers we'll pay him
out ! "

Then the whole lot closed in on Davie,
who backed up against the wall and kept
the foremost at arm's length by sheer
strength and coolness. There he stood
like a rock, not taller than many of them,
but wonderfully strong and well-knit, as
pale as a sheet, but perfectly cool, and even
contemptuous. One big fellow grasped
him by the collar, but he held the man's
wrist as in a vice. There were a few
there who not only believed like the rest
that he had been betraying them, but who
hated him because he was a good speaker,
and sometimes a bit cocky, while others
had long had a grudge against him because
he was so popular with his songs
and stories in any set he went amongst.
Others again were bitter against him
because he worked with Lovett at the
National Hall. Their time for revenging
themselves was come.

But I don't suppose the crowd of work

2

men swaying backwards and forwards there
was a bit worse than an average lot of such
men as I have since known on 'Change, in
Mincing Lane, in the Leeds' Cloth Hall,
or on the Liverpool " Flags," had they
found a man detected as they thought in a
sneaking plot to blow some joint-stock
company into the air in which they had
largely invested, or if a spy had been
caught secreted somewhere in the Stock
Exchange. These men were a trifle more
rough, perhaps, and more accustomed to
use their hands, as well as to go direct at
once to their purpose, without a thought
for the consequences. But as far as Vindictive
fury and hatred might go, I believe
it would be six of one and half-a-dozen
of the other. Things were getting serious,
however, inside that Orange Street 'public"
just then.

Davie had so far indeed kept them from
rushing in upon him and dragging him
down. But things could not remain in
that state for more than a few minutes.
Daae, at first, tried in vain to get a hearing,

for the committee-men and some of the
most violent were mad to get at him, while
Locke and a few others managed to help
keep them back. But at last he raised
his voice so loud that they beo-an to
listen.

*' I'm no sneak, nor a traitor, and it's you
that should be ashamed of treating an old
pal, who's always been true to you, in this
way. I tell you I believed that man who
you say is a spy was as honest a man as any
here " (" More fool you ! ") '' until an hour
ago, when I heard what looked black ; and
I went straight to Mr. Cuffey and told him
all I knew."

That's true," said Cuffey, emerging out
of the club-room.

' VTiy didn't you say so before, Cuffey r ''
cried several.

'' Why, you fools," shouted Cuffey, " how
should I know what you were all jabbering
about?"

Whereon Davie continued : ''I went
away then for a few minutes with Jem
Woodford, one of Lovett's men, because

lie wanted me to go with him, and cnt the
whole concern here."

Terrific groans, amid which a man named
Ritchie called out, 

'' And I suppose you told him all about
our arsenal?"

'' Joseph Ritchie ! " said Davie (and
Locke told us his voice was almost terrible
to hear) " are you not an honest man
yourself ? How dare you say such a thing ?
You know I never breathed a word about
the arms to the man  though if that blasted
Government put me on the rack they'd
never get anything out of me agen you 
mind that mates ! Now let me go."

Why did you bring the fellow here,
then, at all?"

'' Why did you ever bring any mortal
Chartist here, yourself ? I suppose it was
because you thought they were honest men.
When a fellow talks as he did, told me where
he had worked in Leeds, said he wanted to
cotton with us, and upset the Government,
and gave me Io. on the nail for the cause
(which I handed over to Mr. Cuffey), how



was I to know lie was an infernal scoundrel
? But now, look you here, mates ! I
left Woodford and came back here to take
my share of any danger or any fighting
that might turn up to-night. Did that
look like rounding on you ? But if this is
all the faith you have in me, I see I'm in
the wrong place, and, if you'll allow me to
pass, I wish you all good-night ! "

Some called out, " All right, Davie's a
good fellow; it's a shame to suspect him."
Others cried, '' Let the varmint go. We
don't want any mealy-mouthed friends of
Lovett's here, or of Lovett's friends."

But more than one fiercely shouted, 

*' What, let him go and bring the redcoats
down on us ! Knock out the beggar's
brains ; curse him ! "

'' Nonsense," said both Cuffey and Fay.
'' He's all right. He's in a pet now, and
no wonder. He'll be all right in the morning
and stand by us like a man."

Then the crowd sullenly made way, and
Davie elbowed his way out. But three or
four men, among whom was Locke, who

knew where lie lived, followed him secretly,
till they saw he was going home, and not
to the police-station.

Davie told me afterwards he never had
so much trouble in all his life as to keep
his fist from dashing into the face of the
man who collared him ; and that what I
had been saying to him, a few minutes
before, somehow helped him to keep quiet.
But, if he had struck the man, he'd have
been lynched to a dead certainty ; and,
before Locke, who was watching and ready
to run, could have got a policeman, the
poor fellow would have had the breath
choked out of him, and Maggie would have
been a widow

I, little dreaming of the terrible danger
he was in, had gone home and got my tea.
It had just gone eight (I remembered the
time, because I heard the chimes just as I
was on the street-doorstep) when I went to
his lodgings, hoping, though faintly, to find
hmi there ; and, if not, to cheer up his
wife, as he asked me to do. I found her
very nervous and irritable, keeping her boy

out of his bed for company, and the poor
little man rubbing this eyes to keep awake
and stop the tears. So I stayed and chatted
a bit, and left her more comfortable.

What went on after Davie and I left the
place was this. It seems that Powell (for
it was that infamous spy himself who had
deceived Davie) had been suspected, even
through his disguise, while in the bar of the
*' Orange Tree " by some sharp-eyed chap.
The policeman in plain clothes heard angry
whispers, and made Powell move off. But
suspicion once roused, another man who
had seen him at Bow Street more than
once, swore it was Powell, and then it was
only by the policeman's humbugging a
number of the Chartists, and swearing that
the supposed spy was a refugee French
workman from Paris, and by exerting all
his strength, that he succeeded in getting
the rascal safe outside. But as soon as
they were clear off, Locke, who was a kindhearted
fellow, and didn't want to see the
spy strangled under his nose, told the committee
he had heard the man talking

English plainly enough an hour before, and
that the other man had pointed out Davie
Roberts to him in the croAvd. That was
quite enough, and while they congratulated
themselves on having found him out (as
they hoped, in time), every one began
asking who had brought the villain among
them. That also, as wee have seen, became
only too well known very soon.

CHAPTER Xii.

"Within half an hour after Davie had left the
Orange Tree," Powell and his friend the
policeman had disguised themselves in new
dresses, and, got up now like bricklayers,
had strolled back to Orange Street, whereby
the corrupting poster of five " bob "
irresistible bribe to needy pot-boy, (who
believed them to be merely inquisitive
Chartists), they got admittance to the backyard
of the '' Orange Tree," the boy meanwhile
hiding in the dark in an old hogshead,
within earshot. Once in the back-yard, it
was not difficult for the policeman to stand
on a dog-kennel, nor for Powell to stand on
the policeman's shoulders, and thereby to
peep between the curtain and the window-frame
into the club-room, where the committee
were sitting.

Can you see 'em, Bill ? " said the constable,
according to the pot-boy's subsequent
statement, when hard pressed.

'' I should just think I can."

Of course Roberts is among 'em."

Can't see him  nowheres."

"Curse you, Bill; you must see him.
It's catching him is all as I care about."

'' Well, if I must, I must. Yes, of course.
There the fellow is, smoking his jDipe just
agen the fireplace. Lor', yes. I should
know him out of a thousand. It's him that
speaks so pretty."

All right. Can you hear anything ? "

Dead silence for ten minutes. Policeman
got uneasy. They changed places. Then both
got down, and crept away as they had crept in.

Think of that, " said one. " Why, the
house must be full of crackers and bomb-shells
! Here's a pretty go."

And a jolly good find," said the other.

Pot-boy began to be frightened, but
durst blab to any one at first. But the
two men, jumping into a cab, soon found
themselves in Scotland Yard, quickly told

their tale, and in the course of an hour a
dull, measured sound struck on the ears
of the earnest and noisy talkers at the bar
of the " Orange Tree," producing such a
sudden silence that one of the committee-men
came out from the club-room to see
what was the matter.

All the men there that night  latest
comers, of course, included  knew they
ran some little risk by staying after the
informer had been detected. But they
were all growing desperate. They rather
liked the excitement of a little danger, and
moreover believed that as he had been discovered
before any real business had begun,
and of course knew nothing about the pikes
and ball-cartridges, he couldn't do them
any immediate harm. But his visit was a
reason for hastening on the insurrection;
and I believe it was resolved to pass round
the word through London to get to work
at sunset, the next night but one. Of that,
however, I am not sure.

Just as the committee-man opened the
door, he was startled by the sight of a

general helter skelter rush to the half-open
swing doors which let into the street, and
the next minute he saw the hats and greatcoats
of a column of policemen with drawn
truncheons and cutlasses at their side,
forcing their way through the crowd of
fugitives. It was evident they didn't want
any of that party, and they knew exactly
where to go for the men they did want.
Two or three of the committee escaped by
the window at which Powell had listened,
but the inspector was too quick for them,
and had got a few men iDOsted at the back
to cut off their retreat. The one man of
all others, however, whom one of the force
did particularly want, he couldn't find;
though, as he assured the inspector, '' he
saw him there with his own eyes not an
hour before " (so he did), and "he was
one of the dangerously of 'em all." So a
good deal of time was spent in searching
both for Davie and the war-material. The
latter was safely secured, but poor Davie
was out of their clutches. Not, however,
for long. A warrant was issued next day

for his apprehension, on the ground that
he had been seen there shortly before, and
must have escaped. At last the inspector
said they must be off. It struck nine as
the men, with the prisoners in their midst,
waited in close column before the tavern
for the word to " march." And the inspector
noted the hour.

Davie and his wife had moved from
Kentish Town lately, up to lodgings somewhere
between Park Street, Camden Town,
and Primrose Hill, that Maggie might more
easily take the children on to the hill for
fresh air now and then. As I was going
up the street to their lodgings, I remembered
afterwards seeing a girl waiting about
in the shadow within sight of those lodgings,
but took no particular notice of her.
She had got her veil down, and was soon
joined by a well-dressed man, who accosted
her with a good deal of familiarity. It was
pretty plain, however, his company wasn't
welcome.

At last she exclaimed, seemingly in great
distress, '' Oh, do go away, Mr. ." (I

didn't hear the name.) *' I can't bear
you."

'why, so, my pretty?" replied the
man, trying to take her hand. '' You're
quite respectable now, and fit company for
any gentleman."

For slime ; I say I won't have nothing
to do with you. You left me to my misery
and shame, you did, you hell-fire sneak !
and when I came and asked you for help
to live an honest life, you sneered at my
dress, and sent me away with a tizzy, 
curse you ! You're a bad, shabby lot, and
I've done with you. There's another will
be kinder than you, you d d sneak."

It was only too clear what kind of company
the poor wretch belonged to.

Then the man spoke rather low, but I
was just passing, and heard him say,
You're a pretty sort of wench to preach
to me."

I m not good for much, sir," cried the
unfortunate creature in a passion; 'but
you're a deal worse ! "

Then he put his hand on her shoulder.

She screamed, " Leave me alone, I say,
or I'll call the police ! "

Then I stopped and turned round. She
flung off in one direction, and he in another,
while I walked on. I had hardly been
gone ten minutes when, it seems, the step
that the girl had been expecting for the
last half-hour sounded on the pavement,
and Davie Roberts hove in sioht. The crirl
came back, and crept towards him, taking
away her veil. He stopped, and recognized
her at once. If a few minutes before, anyone
had asked him whether, if he met
Kitty Barber and she asked him to speak a
word to her, he would break his word and
talk and walk away with her, he would have
indignantly denied that it was possible,
lay, if at that moment there had been anyone
at his elbow to remind him of his
promise, I'm sure he would have turned
away silently, and entered his home and
sent his wife to see the girl and relieve her.
But Davie's fatal weakness was his readiness
to yield to the impulse of the moment.
He never seemed to have enough  I don't

VOL. II. s

know exactly what it is, but I mean enough
resistance in him  except when it was a
question oi" outside tyranny and injustice
in bodily shape. Then he was just  well,
a hero.

"Oh, Davie," said Kitty plaintively and
timidly, '' I've been waiting so long to see
you. Let me just tell you  "

What, Kitty Barber ! "

Yes. I couldn't go away altogether
without just one word from you. I've done
all you told me, Davie, and kept my place;
and I've saved a little money."

She was dressed neatly, and had on a
becoming little hat, and had got bask some
of her old good looks, and she seemed, too,
so sweet and sad. Davie looked at her,
first pitpngly, then kindly and tenderly.

Well, my poor girl, that's right, and
I'm glad of it."

By this time she was leading him on out
of the street towards Primrose Hill, but
talking all the way in a low, earnest voice.

' Yes, I stayed quietly at the refuge,
where you told me to go, till they let me

go to service, and there I had a hard, cruel
mistress, and I was kept so close, and never
a breath of fresh air or change of any sort.
But I thought of what you had said to me,
and I bore it as long as I could, till I
couldn't stand it no longer"  (here she
began to cry a little)  " and I came away,
and I'm going tomorrow down to Manchester,
where I'm to be well paid forgoing
on the stage as a ballet-girl. But I
couldn't go away without just a word from
you. You ain't angry with me, Davie  are
you ? " and she looked up at him so sorrowfully,
and the tears were in her eyes.

By this time they were a little way inside
the palings of Primrose Hill. It was cloudy
and dark. Just then, before he could
answer, and when his whole heart was
stirred within him, and old memories came
thronging up, the angry face of his wife
and her stinging words came up before
him also. He seemed to be in a dream.
Even then, though he had broken his word,
and let himself be led away by the temptress
 even then, if he had torn himself
s 2

from her, lie would have been safe. His
worst enemy could have made little handle
of his walking and talking with the girl,
wrong as it was, had he ended then and
there by wishing her good-night, and promising
that Maoforie should write to her.
But in the next moment he was awakened
from his fancies by her whispering, eagerly,
*' Oh, Davie, Davie, give me one kiss before
I go, and say you'll love me a little bit.
I've loved you all my life ;" and she flung
her arms passionately round his neck.

'' Love you ! " said Davie, startled, and
thrown off his balance, as he returned her
kiss with warmth, holding her for an instant,
as she whispered, " and you'll seeme
home now, dear, dear Davie ? "

Once she really loved him. Now she
acted it with as much heart as years of vice
had left her. But she over-acted it, and
the spell was broken. Without knowing
all that Kitty Barber afterwards confessed
how this was the wicked end for which
she had been long watching and working 
how she thought if she could only get

Davie to her lodgings lie might Vile him
away altogether from his wife, and get
him to go down with her to Manchester 
without clearly seeing all that gulf before
him, and all the girl's purposes, Davie
started back in horror at what he did see,
and wrenching himself from her arms, he
exclaimed, 

''Xo ! no ! Kitty, by this won't do !

I've a wife at home. There, be off with you ! '*
Then mentally ejaculating, *' I'm an infernal
blackguard ! " he was springing himself
round to hurry away, when he found
himself face to face with a man who made
way for him with much politeness. To his
intense dismay he heard the man's sneering
laugh, and then words which made his
blood chill. . . .

Oh, ho ! So you and Miss Kitty 
have made a match of it at last,
have you ? Come, come, don't be ashamed
of it. I've seen it all, and, of course, you
are going to take her under your protection
now?"

I don't know who you are, sir," cried

Davie, for it was too dark to see each
other's faces; *' but you are making a big
mistake, and, let me tell you, a most foolish
one. You've only seen a kiss in the dark  "

'No, no, my boy," replied Mr. Haugh-ton,
for it was he who had stealthily followed
Kitty and her friend, though he had
lost sight of them for a time. He, indeed,
had his own reasons for making out matters
as bad as he could and a deal worse, but I
think he really believed they were as bad
as he said. " No, no, young gentleman,
you don't get over me like that. But this
is the way with all you young profligates 1
You get a girl's affections, as you call it,
and then wash your hands of it, and leave
her to the workhouse."

'' It's all a foul lie, you fool, whoever
you be  though I begin to guess all about
you. Come, stand out of my way, or  "

The gentleman prudently removed himself
a bit, but called after Davie, as he strode
down the hill, 

You don't humbug me, young fellow.
I know what you've been up to." And

then he gave chase as well as lie could in
the darkness to the unhappy girl, who he
found had fled from the scene while these
words were being exchanged.

Davie gained his home panting and exhausted.
His wife had been anxiously
counting the hours for his return, and
keeping a little supper (with which she
had taken extra pains) hot for him.
When nine o'clock struck, after I had left,
and he didn't come, she became more and
more unhappy, thinking some accident
must have happened to him, or that there
had been a row of some sort at the " Orange
Tree;" and she kept fretting that she
hadn't asked me to go down there with her.
Then she began reproaching herself bitterly
that she had spoken to him so angrily, as
she told me she had done, when they last
parted. I couldn't have gone with her,
however, nor, indeed, have stayed nth her
any longer, as she begged me to do, and
much as I wished, because one of the men of
our lodge was very ill, and I had promised
to sit up with him that night. So, when she

heard her husband's step on the stair, and
he appeared at the door, she was trembling
with excitement, and threw herself into his
open arms with a little cry of joy. During
the ten minutes it took Davie to reach his
lodgings, the image of his wife in all her
purity, and love, and beauty, had rushed in
upon him with a force he had not felt for
some time lately, sweeping away all traces
of resentment ; while the contrast between
her wife-like trust and love and Kitty
Barber's baseness, and what he felt to have
been his own guilty weakness and momentary
infidelity of heart, if not of actual
conduct, quite unmanned him in his exhausted
condition, and the tears came.
Then the full fountains of her own penitent
and passionate love for her husband were
unlocked, and she tried to comfort him
with the tenderest self-forgetfulness. It
was a happy hour for them both, by the
side of the cradle of their sleeping boy,
after all their trouble. But Davie never
uttered a word of having met Kitty. He
would rather have died first.

Two days passed over, and Davie breathed
freely. He thought all danger from the
police for the 'orange Tree" business
was over, as far as he was concerned,
though at first both he and Maggie, as
swell as Mr. Fletcher and myself, were in
mortal fear when we heard of the numerous
arrests being made.

But on the morning of the third day,
just as Davie was going to his shop, a
strange-looking man in a billy-cock hat met
him at the door, and handed him a letter
directed to himself. Davie opened it at
once, and then wondered much to find
there was no writing inside ; whereupon
the strange man put his hand on his
shoulder, and said, " You are my prisoner.
Will you go quietly ? "

It seems this was the device for making
sure of the identity of the accused when
arrested under a warrant. I knew more
than one of my Chartist friends who were
hooked in that way. The constable who
had the grudge against Davie knew better
than to put himself forward, so he got the

detective, who had gone with him to the
'orange Tree," to collar my unhappy friend.
At the examinations before the police
magistrates, it was evident that things
would be pressed very hard against nearly
all the prisoners taken for their share in
the proceedings in Orange Street, because,
as it afterwards came out, evidence had
been given of the existence of plots and
conspiracies with wide-spread ramifications
for upsetting the Government and establishing
a Republic. In some cases, no doubt,
these plots were fostered by spies and informers,
eager for blood-money, but there
certainly was a large amount of dangerous
discontent and desire for a revolution
among the poorer and working classes. Soit
was soon generally known that most of
the accused stood a good chance of transportation
if they could not prove they were
somewhere else that day and night. The
discovery of the ball-cartridges, &c., at the
Orange Tree " was a clenched. The Kennington
Common donkeys were nowhere
now in the race of revolution and folly.

Davie Roberts absolutely and persistently
refused the help we all pressed upon him in
the shape of a fee to an able barrister to
defend him at the trial. He had resolved,
he said, to defend himself. His vise implored
him, with the tears streaming from
her eyes, to take this last chance of rescue,
but all to no purpose. AYe could not
understand it. He knew what we didn't.

As I was taking leave of him in newgate,
he just whispered to me, '' Yes, it's likely
to be a bad job, Jem. What time did you
call at my lodgings that night ? "

"About eight o'clock," said I. AYe
shook hands and parted. And Davie kept
saying to himself, half the night, "Ah,
then, if I had only kept my promise to
Jem, I shouldn't be here now." It had
struck eight o'clock, he well remembered,
just before he met Kitty Barber ; so if he
had gone up to his rooms instead of talking
vrith her he would have found me there,
and both his wife and I could have proved
his alii at Bow Street that da v. The
evidence of the policeman and the spy

would haye been discredited, and lie would
probably have been discharged. But both
Kitty Barber and Mr. Haughton could
have proved he was not in Orange Street.
"Wouldn't that have done ?

CHAPTER Xii.

The day after the examination at Bow
Street, a female asked and got leave to
speak with Davie Eoberts in Newgate, bail
having been refused. When she removed
a hood and shawl from her face, he saw,
almost with loathing, it was Kitty Barber.

I'm a deal more sorry to see yon here,
Davie, than may be you would think."

It was a wicked thing you wanted todo
by me and my wife, the other night,
Kitty Barber," replied Davie sternly.

Was it, then ? Well, the men are tarnation
wicked towards us women," retorted
the girl, with a bitter little laugh. ''So
sou needn't wonder if the women are rather
bad, now and then, towards the men. One
good turn deserves another. But look

here. I'm come now to do you a good turn
in real earnest. So make your mind easy ;
you'll get off. I'm a-going to get Mr.
Haughton (though I don't want to touch
him with a pair of tongs), and I'm coming
myself up to Bow Street next week, to
prove what they call your alii. No judge
or jury can go agen that. I didn't know
sou were before the beaks yesterday, but
I'll come next week."

No, you will not," replied Davie
quietly.

*' What do you mean ? " said she, almost
fiercely.

What I say. I defend myself, and I
don't mean to put either you or Mr. Haugh-ton
in the witness-box."

Then Kitty broke out, sobbing hysterically,
" You shan't prevent me, you shan't !
I've broken my engagement in Manchester,
and risked losing it altogether when I heard
you was in quod, that I might stay in town
and get you out of this blasted row."

'' That was very good of you, Kitty
Barber," replied Davie gently, 'sand I

shan't forget it. I hope God won't either.
. . But, don't YOU see? I'd rather be
transported twice over than that mj wife
should know I went with you that night to
Primrose Hill."

Kitty's eyes glittered.

''Ah, then I could cut you two fools
clean apart any day if I liked."

Davie winced, for he saw what an ass he
had been to speak as he had done ; and he
felt store now, as he had guessed before,
why the girl wanted to give her Evidence 
to give it so that a final estrangement
should take place between him and his
wife. But by a great effort he controlled
his agitation, and merely answered, '' Not
a bit of it. You can't play the devil's part
there if you wished it eYcr so much, my
girl. My wife would believe me sooner
than you any day, I'm thinking. So you'd
better go, Kitty." [His words werebraYe,
but, in his heart, he knew his wife would
ncYcr be the same to him again if she heard
of that meeting, though she might try exev
sohard.] '' But if she or I could ever do

you any good we would, for all you've done
us a deal of harm. So send Jem Woodford
your address when you get to Manchester.
He or Maggie will be glad to help you
when I'm across the seas, if you really
meant well by us. There, good-night."

Then the wretched girl slunk away. She
knew she had told a lie about not going to
Manchester, but she really had an offer of
employment at some theatre there, and
risked losing it by staying on iu London
now.

One brief, bright gleam of sunshine shone
out upon us during those dismal days, and
I thought our troubles were ended. As I
came out of the prison one day a boy was
waiting to ask me if he could see " Muster
Roberts," as he had '' summit to tell him."
Locke had brought him to the door, but
couldn't wait any longer. But without an
order that couldn't be managed ; so then
he told me he was pot-boy at the " Orange
Tree," and wanted badly to tell my poor
friend all he had heard when hid in his beer-barrel
that fatal night. Of course I saw

Mr. Fletcher about it at once, and we both
felt sure that now, at all events, Davie was
safe. So I went home with a light heart,
but wouldn't say anything to Maggie till we
were certain, lest she should have sorrow
on sorrow. lyell for her I didn't. It was
about as great a surprise and disappointment
as I ever had in all my life, when I
found Davie stubbornly refusing to let the
boy be brought forward on the trial. We
could none of us understand it, neither then
nor afterwards ; for there wasn't the same
reason for not taking the boy's evidence as
there was against letting Kitty and Mr.
Haughton tell their tale. But I'm pretty
certain, tho' Davie never would tell me,
that he didn't feel safe, so to say, as long
as that girl could get to see him, or could
poison Maggie's mind against him, both of
which things he felt sure she would try todo
as long as they were all above ground
and in the same land together. Better let
the seas roll between them. There was a
chance that, then, Kitty's lying tongue and
bad, sore heart would be at rest  at least

VOL. II. T

as far as doing Mm or his poor wife mischief
was concerned.

The trials came on at the Old Bailey, indue
course, the following September. The
villain Powell was the principal witness
and confessed to having stimulated the
prisoners to buy arms, &c., in order to inform
against them, and had '' cast bullets
for them ! " When Davie's turn came,
Powell swore to seeing the prisoner in the
committee-room with the rest. The policeman
proved Davie's j)i'sence at the
Bonner's Fields meetings, and swore to
having chased him after the fight there,
but had lost the scent. He also swore to
having tracked him to the "Orange Tree,"
and to seeing him with Cuffey, Fay, and the
rest. Another witness put in the box by
the counsel for the Crown, deposed to
Roberts being an old offender, and gave
the history of his connexion with the Newport
rising, and his narrow escape then.

By the time Davie was called on for his
witnesses and defence, he knew nothing
could save him, but proving that between

eight and ten p.m. on the night when the
committee were sitting at the " Orange
Tree," and he was charged with being
among them in the inner room, he had
been on Primrose Hill in company with
Kitty Barber and Mr. Haughton. However,
he began by putting the policeman
again in the witness-box, and making him
confess he had taken him (Davie) unjustly
to the station for the Clerkenwell Green
business ; and when the man denied that
lie had been severely reprimanded by the
inspector, the sergeant, whom we had got
to come to the court, confirmed the fact.
This evidently cleared Davie in the minds
of the judge and probably most of the jury
(as was plain from the judge's summing),
of the charge arising out of the
Bonner's Fields meeting. But, of course,
by far the most serious accusation against
him was the " Orange Tree" business. On
this point Davie said he had no witnesses
to call, and no defence to make, but that
which Hampden and Vane, Russell and
Sidney, had made when they were charged
T 2

with high treason. He urged that his
offence was not one whit greater than that
for which they and many other noble patriots,
whose shoes he wasn't worthy to
unloose, were honoured and loved through
all time by Englishmen of every class. He
had long believed, he said, that it was both
right and wise to resist a wicked and tyrannical
Government by force, and quoted
some grand lines beginning, " What were
we if Brutus had not lived ? He died in
giving Rome liberty ! " Then he went on
saying,

True, he thought he had once learnt a
lesson as to the folly and wickedness of
using physical force even against a Government
like ours (bad as it was) nine years
before in Monmouthshire ; but he had forgotten
it since, under the accumulated tyranny
of the existing Government. And,
though it was false what the informer
Powell had sworn to, about his being in
the ' Orange Tree ' committee-room, he
should like to know what the Government
and governing classes, who were trying to

crush down every attempt of working men
to right their wrongs, were doing or going
to do in a better way, or for better ends,
themselves. If they didn't give the working
men a fair chance of speaking by their
representatives in Parliament, how could
they wonder if those men who had a spark
of patriotism in their breasts , and who had
never been taught how to speak smoothly
about great wrongs, occasionally forgot the
proprieties, and talked or acted in a way
he for one could not condemn, and which
he thought deserved very merciful treatment
in a time like the present, when even
steady men's heads were turned wild with
indignation." Davie wound up with an
eloquent appeal to the judge and jury, in
which there was just one faltering allusion
to his innocent wife and child, which
brought tears to some eyes, and his voice
broke down for a moment. So, then, he
rushed on for a moment with a force and
eloquence that seemed to sweep us off our
legs, and concluded amid vehement but
quickly-suppressed applause.

The judge and jury, of course, heard him
very patiently, but the summing-up would
have been fatal to him, even if the jury
hadn't made up their minds long before.
Verdict, "guilty;" sentence, "seven years'
transportation." Its announcement was
followed by a woman's shriek, and a bustle
in the court to get her into the fresh air.
Maggie Roberts had fainted. But the
Orange Tree " lot, who had been in court
or waiting outside, gave him round upon
round of cheering as he came out to the
prison van, for they saw now how unjustly
they had suspected him, and what a true,
noble heart he had. He told me those
cheers sang him to sleep many a night
after that sad day. But they couldn't
drown the sound of his wife's despairing
shriek, which seemed to ring in his ears, he
said, like a death-knell.

Yet the sentence was mild indeed compared
with what Cuffey, Fay, Ritchie,
Dowling, and Lacey got  viz., transportation
for life ; and we attributed this difference
partly to the appearance of a conspiracy

haYing been got up against Davie
by the policeman and Powell, and partly to
the impression produced by this speech.
Had lie let Kitty and Mr. Houghton prove
his alii, and the pot-boy give his evidence,
I suppose his acquittal must have been
certain.

A day or two before Davie had to go onboard
the convict-ship at Woolwich, I saw
he was labouriiio- with something he bitterly
wanted to say to me, and yet didn't like
telling. Soiled him on a little, and then,
making me solemnly swear not to tell a
soul without his leave, he let out all about
meeting Kitty, and going with her to Primerose
Hill.

I was startled, and at first fell into a
furious rage ; but I saw he had been saved
from a terrible sin, and I calmed down.
At last I got his leave to tell it all to Mr.
Fletcher, under the same promise. Mr.
Fletcher agreed with me that Davie was the
strangest, most romantic fellow that ever
was born ; but he got a very influential
legal friend of his (the man, in fact, who

had conducted the prosecution for the
Government) to go with him to the Home
Secretary, and, with Davie's reluctant
leave, they laid the whole case before him.
The great man listened patiently, and then
said, " I daresay it may be all true, but I
fear it's too late to do anything now. Do
you wish me to communicate with the
judge who tried your friend ? "

''Oh, no, Sir George, thank you, very
much," said Mr. Fletcher. 'roberts
wouldn't have let us speak to you on the
matter, if anything were to be said publicly
about it. But we thought, perhaps, you
could have a word said to the doctor who
has charge of the convicts going out, and
to the governor at Sydney, to the effect
there was strong reason to believe Roberts
was innocent of the charges against him,
and so get him better treatment, and an
early ticket-of- leave  "

The Secretary of State slightly smiled,
and said, " Xo, I can't say anything about
his probable innocence ;" then added graciously,
" but in consideration of the great

experience and legal acumen of my friend
here, and the high character you give the
man, I will do something to soften the
prisoner's lot ; and if his wife could join
him out there, I'll take care matters are
made as easy for him as the case admits."

In the meantime, I was taking Maggie
and the children to Newgate for a farewell
meeting with her husband, as he was to
go to Woolwich that night. When I left
them together, she, poor thing, was crying
in his arms as if her heart was breaking,
and he wasn't much better, and the poor
little dears sat on the floor wondering. I
came back before their time for parting
was quite up (they were only allowed a
quarter of an hour) because I thought,
perhaps, if I got talking with the turnkey
he oughtn't notice how the time was going,
and they'd have five minutes more. So I
heard Maggie say, thro' her tears, as she
was trying to bid her husband good-bye, 

I know, Davie, I haven't always been
a good wife to you  not as kind and loving
as I wish  I mean I know I haven't sways

kept my temper  but oh, my darling, it's
drear work when the heart's aching, and
the children crying, and but little money
coming in. . . . But, Davie, I think sometimes
of a bygone and better day. . . .
Don't you remember, dear, that day you
first took me to those tea-gardens . . .
and the music, and how we came home bv
moonlight. . I think  I'm sure there'll
be a happy time for us somewhere or other
by-and-by  a long while to wait, maybe,
but it 'will come  and then I shall be
so good-tempered, and all your old love
will come back to me."

Maggie, Maggie, darling, don't 'ee
break my heart. I love you now better
than I've done in all my life before."

Then I could see her smile so beautifully,
as she tried to put a brave face on
it, while the turnkey moved away from me
towards them, and I heard her say, in
answer to something Davie had whispered,
Ah, but you see, I shan't trouble you
much with my sharp tongue now for many
a day. . . ."

And he answered, holding her hand to
the last moment, and looking into her face,
Aye, aye, wife, if I could only be sure of
hearing your dear voice scolding me every
morning ! Good-bye, good-bye ! I've never
been fit to hold a candle to you, Maggie ;
but God is good, and may be He'll bring
us together again somewhere, when I've
learnt all He's got to teach me."

I'm as sure of that, Davie, as of our
love for these little darlings."

And she pressed the youngest child to
her heart, and the door closed on us, but
not before he gave me a look and a farewell
shake of the hand of that sort men
don't forget.

I have never seen him again. . God
bless thee, dear old friend !

Just before Davie left for Woolwich,
Mr. Fletcher came with a bit of paper
from the Secretary of State, and he told
him the good news, such as it was, which
he brought from that gentleman, though
he and I both agreed it was better to say
nothing about it to his wife till he was gone.

But it was worth a miglitv deal to the unhappy
man during all the sufferings, bodily
and mental, of his sea voyage, for it kept
hope alive, and was always something
pleasant to think of in the darker hours,
which were many. Aye I the hope of his
wife and children joining him  that meant
a wonderful deal of comfort and peace.

Mr. Fletcher told me that as he parted
with Davie, the poor fellow was very full
of self-reproach when he was thanking him
for all he said he had done for him ; and
though he knew it was right for Davie to
feel so, yet at last he couldn't help saving,
Nay, nay, my poor friend, don't think it's
quite so bad. VTe all have our sins, and
our punishment for them, too, thank God,
and I believe, after all, you're a much
better fellow than I am. I believe you did
very wrong to go in for that conspiracy,
but yon did it from a pure and noble
motive. You did what was far worse when
you broke your promise, and went and
talked with that poor outcast on Primrose
Hill. But you are eine across the sea to

save your wife the shame and agony of
letting her and all the world believe you
had been unfaithful to your marriage vows,
and for that I honour you more than I can
tell. Your soul, it may be, Davie, is whiter
than mine. Your temptations and trials
have been far greater than mine, and,
according to your light, remember, you
have worked and suffered nobly, and far
more than T, to get justice and right for
your fellow-countrymen. You'll be much
nearer the throne, Davie, by-and-by than I
shall, or many a man who scorns you
now. Cheer up, and trust in God, my
boy." "Wasn't it like that man to talk so
to poor Davie ? And he meant every word
he said.

CHAPTER XY.

When Mr. Fletcher told me all the Home
Secretary had said, I told him I had already
settled to take a passage for Maggie
and her boy in a ship that was to sail soon
after the convict ship, if she were willing
to go ; but I thought it best for them both
I should say nothing about it till he was
gone. I added, I meant to take all her
expenses on myself.

*' You shan't do that," said he; "at
least, I shall add about 40?., which I am
making up for them among my friends."

The Defence Committee added 101.,
which they would have given to a barrister
for Davie's defence, and then I went to
tell Maggie what we were doing for her,
and that she might follow her husband as
soon as she was ready. I shall never forget

that evening. She was a good deal
altered and broken down since the trial,
and the boy had been very poorly. Her
eyes were red and heavy, and her whole
appearance sadly different from what it
often used to be. She looked up as I
entered the little room, and seemed pleased
as I think she always did  to see me.

Have you seen him again, Jem ? " said
she ; then added, " Tell, I suppose I've
had the last word and the last kiss for
seven long years." Then she sat down
and covered her face with her apron. It
seems she had never thought it was possible
for her also to go out to Australia, and she
only thought of convicts as working in
gangs and chains, and never being allowed
to see or speak to a friend.

Then I told her what the Home Secretary
had said and done, and what Mr. Fletcher
and I had arranged for her, and that she,
too, might go to Sydney very soon.

Oh, Jem, Jem  true-hearted brother! "
was all she could say, and then she cried
like a child, and threw her arms round my

neck, and gave me a kiss that repaid mo
for all, and it was many a day before I
could bear the thought of having a kiss
from any other woman.

Ah, she did look beautiful and good that
nighfc as she stood there  true wife as she
was ; a blessing be with her wherever she
may be ! As we stood for a second looking
straight in each other's faces, I remember
even now how the sun was shining in at
their little window, and the brightness fell
on some flowers in pots which Davie and I
had given her. She was always fond of
flowers and pretty colours; and now the
old days at Broadfield came back to me,
when we all used to go gathering primroses
and cowslips together.

One word in conclusion about poor
Kitty Barber before I finish off what I
have to say about my friends.

Davie had whispered to me, as I was
bidding him good-bye for the last time,
I say, Jem, perhaps you'll see if you can
do anything for that poor hussy  you
know who. I told her to send you her

address at Manchester.' So I'll just mention
here that I spoke to Mr. Fletcher, and he
wrote to a brother clergyman in Salford,
who found her out, and gave as good an account
of the girl, on the whole, as one would
expect. I wrote now and again to her
myself, and at first got fair answers. But
I thought I had better run down myself
and see her ; so I got leave for a week, and
went. She met me at the inn, as I asked
her, with a queer mixture of satisfaction
and shame ; but there was something about
her looks that gave me a deal of pain, and
her breath stank of spirits. We walked
up and down near the railway station, ina
bye street.

Yes, I've kep' myself steady, Jem, you
may depend on that," said she. " A girl
that has once been loved by Davie Roberts
has no business with other men, though
he was lagged like a felon. And I kno
he did love me once. Perhaps it's a mercy
for him he wouldn't have me, but it would
have been a blessed thine for me. And
I tell you I hate that vile, stuck-up thing

VOL. II. . u

that got him away from me. Hasn't Old
Nick got her safe down there yet ? "

Hush, hush, Kitty ; don't talk like
this. It'll do no good."

But he did love me once  I know he
did ; and I mean to keep myself straight
for his sake, and for that last kiss he gave
me " (her voice broke down, and she sobbed
a bit, poor thing). " But it is a dreary
sort of life for me now, you know, Jem . . .
devilish hard to bear I can tell sou . . .
and to keep straight. . . . For I've plenty
of admirers, I can tell you. . . . But
it won't be for honos I've sot an
awful pain in my side now and then " (and
she gasped for breath). . . '' But it's just
like you to come all this way to see after
me, and if I could give a blessing, Jem,
I'd give it to you  only I'm more used
to the other things

said the best I could to her, which
wasn't worth much, and shook hands and
promised to see her once again before I
left Manchester, and begged her to see
Mr. Fletcher's friend as often as she could,

and to go to his church. She only shook
her head very sorrowfully, and went away.
But the very next night I met her quite
drunk, and saw her carried off to the lock-up.
The inspector told me they had had
her a dozen times already, and she used to
pray them to keep her there altogether,
but of course they couldn't do that. She
kept off the streets, but she had taken to
drinking instead.

The next day I went to the Borough
gaol \dth a kind lady the clergyman told
me of. "We found the prisoners were all just
gone into the chapel, as the lady had been
detained ; but when I found that Thomas
Wright, the celebrated '' prisoner's friend,"
was going to address them, I asked leave
to go in and hear him. A true friend to
prisoners " that man was, and we had a
specimen of his power over them that day.
He had gone up into the pulpit after the
chaplain had read the service, and rose upto
speak. The matron was just then
speaking to the lady and me, so that we
didn't catch his first words, but, looking
u 2

lip, we saw almost all the women in tears.
What can he have said, we wondered, to
have such an effect on them so sudden ?
When we asked, we found that when he
rose up and faced those galleries crowded
with unhappy women of all ages, he was
looking at them with that look of wonderful
compassion on his countenance which
I've never seen on any other human face ;
and then he just said, very quietly, " Oh, if
your mothers could see you now ! " There
was scarcely a dry eye among them. Some
of them were sobbing bitterly. Among
them I noticed poor Kitty Barber. And
that was the last I ever saw of her. She
was taken from the chapel to the prison
hospital, and the lady said I had better
not go to see her again. She would look
after her, which I know she did, like an
angel of mercy. But the girl died in a
few days. Poor little Puss-in-boots ! If
she had but had a good home and a mother
to look after her. .

To return to those whose home she had
helped to break up and make desolate.

Mr. and Mrs. Fletclier came down with
Maggie and the two children to Graves -
end when I went to see the dear souls off
to the colony, about three or four weeks
after the convict-ship had sailed. It was
a great comfort to us that the parson and
his kind lady came along with us, and it
helped me to bear up and not make a fool
of myself. But, do what I would, my
thoughts were sad, and I couldn't cheer
her up, nor the little darlings as I ought
to have done, for I knew I should never
look on her face again.

So they went sailing away over the seas 
husband and wife  not together  yet the
one not very far behind the other ; so that
before Davie had been working on the
roads in the colony a month, one evening
he found himself in the governor's office
face to face with his wife, the wife whom,
when he last parted from her, he hadn't
expected to see again for seven years. I
was told it was a strangely sad yet joyful
meeting, for when he clasped her to his

breast she felt the irons on his wrists,
while the cropped hair and rough smock
also told their tale.

But the governor, in a stately way, gave
them comfort. Davie was to be taken off
the roads and put to carpentering, and in a
few months, if he continued to behave ashe
had been doing, and if his wife could
keep a couple of rooms and do some of the
prison washing, Davie might be allowed to
live with her outside the prison, and in a
couple of years he might get his ticket of-leave.


So there was a deal more joy for the two
aching hearts than sorrow in that meeting.
And then, when they met again and could
sit down together by themselves, Davie
told his wife all about his meeting Kitty
Barber that night, adding, '' I knew how
she would put it, and what she wanted you
to believe, and I knew how Mr. Haughton
would have made it all seem true, and I
thought it would half, perhaps quite, kill
you, and that perhaps you wouldn't believe
me, Maggie, when I told you how it really

was ; and so you see I thought it better to
come out here, than that you should believe
I had been false to you, darling."

Then she looked at him, but couldn't
speak at first. When she could, he told
me she just whispered, '' But it was all
false what she and Mr. Haughton would
have said, Davie ? "

'' False as the father of lies, my own
wife, or I never, never could have spoken
to you again."

'' And you mean you let them send you
out here rather than give me the shame
and pain of thinking you had played me
false ? "

"That's about the size of it, my Maggie."

Well, I think it would have killed me
if I had believed them, for I shouldn't have
rightly known whether I was on earth orin
hell. Davie, we both have our faults,
and One above knows they have cost us
dear, but you have done what seems to mea
grand thing. I can't give you a crown
in heaven for it, dear ; but perhaps some
One else may. And I can do this."

Then lie knelt on one knee, and took
his hand and laid her cheek against it, and
said, " I'll try my best to be a good and
loving wife to you, Davie, with Grod's help,
all our days."

Dear, dear wife, pray for me that I
may be a good and true husband to you,
and worthy of all you've done for me, and
of what you think about me. But I'm
not worthy now, Maggie. If I ever am,
it will be your and Jem's doing."

I had many capital letters from them in
after days, when he was free to go where
he liked. In one of them Maggie writes : 

And oh, you would like to see us, dear
old Jem, as we are having our supper
under the trees at sunset, with the children
tumbling about on the grass-plat. . . .
We've nothing to wish for, if only our lost
lamb and dear, dear Nelly were here, instead
of their being saints in heaven. But Estella
has found out our own little darling up thereby
this time, and I know they are good
company. But I would like poor Jem
Burt to have her company here on earth.

All ! well, there must be a skeleton in
every house. . . ' No,' says Davie, when
I read him that, * it's a schoolmaster, nota
skeleton.' So I'll try and learn all my
schoolmaster's lessons as fast as I can, and
then, Mr. Woodford (I ought to mister you
now, I suppose, that you've become such
a big man, but I won't), we have such
beautiful flowers . . . and then the music 
ah ! it is lovely. Well, then, too, we've
got a first-rate parson, almost as good as
Mr. Fletcher. . . . And do you know,
Jem, I'm never out of temper now (except
when the butter won't come), and Davie
says I make a splendid dairy-woman and a
tip-top wife, and am as saucy as ever I can
be. So, no wonder if I'm the admiration
of all the colony. There ! that naughty
boy came and looked over my shoulder,
and would write those last words himself.
But, of course, what he says is aU quite
true ; and I may add, that if ever I get ina
passion with him, and he calls me ' Peggy,'
it tames me at once. So, having it all his
own way, with nothing to vex him, he is

such a good boy. and he's becoming quite
a leading politician,' and. will be in the
House some time, as sure as Christmas-day
comes here at Midsummer ; for I can tell
you he takes large building jobs, and talks
at meetings, and the folks here do think a
lot of him, and there's none can talk him
down ; and he bids me tell you he preaches
Lovett ' to them, so that good man didn't
live for naught, but will help the New
World on as well as the Old. Oh, we are
so good and happy out here, now, you
can't think. Of course we have our troubles,
but nothings to fret about. God has been
very good to us, and you may believe we
thank Him for it. And you'll believe, too,
dear old friend, how we thank you, too,
and love you, and think of you every day
of our lives, and we do hope to hear some
day that you've got a very happy home
and dear little wife of your own. God
bless you, Jem. Good-bye.  Your loving
sister, Maggie."

There, I thought that letter was worth

keeping. And so it was  all yellow and
faded as it is now.

In a letter from Davie himself, he writes
in just as good spirits, and said he'd been
to see " brave Jem Burt," who had got his
ticket, and was working pretty cheerfully
up in the bush ; but Jem wanted to come
and live near Maggie and himself. He had
also seen Frost and Jones, and hoped by-and-by
to see Williams. They were all
pretty well.

The old original Chartist movement had
at length collapsed, and with the exception
of Lovett's admirable education work at
the national Hall (though that, too, was
stopped for want of funds, unhappily, not
very long after), it seemed to have left
little fruit. But its lessons had sunk deep
into the hearts of a few generous, Christian-minded
men, foremost among whom were
the Rev. F. D. Maurice, Rev. Fred. Robertson,
Rev. Charles Kingsley, Thomas Hughes,
J. M. Ludlow, and others. Mr. Kingsley's
noble volumes, "Alton Locke," Mr.
Maurice's (as I think) still finer " Learning

and Working," and the " Christian Socialist"
movement, with the Working Men's
College in Great Ormond Street, were all
valuable and most beneficent results of the
work in which so many of us hard-handed,
and often thick-headed, worries had been
doing our best, often blindly, foolishly,
even savagely, but still earnestly and faithfully,
according to our light, and moved
thereto  at least, I think so  by the best
of motives, viz., sympathy with the sufferings
of others, hatred of oppression, and a
thirst for the rights of freemen. It certainly
was not all in vain ; for, besides the
benevolent labours of the men I have just
mentioned, there can, I think, be no doubt
that, as Rufford said it would be, the
governing classes took a deal more pains
to amend the laws affecting our social condition
and rights as working men, and to
legislate in favour of the extension of social
improvements, in consequence of this ten
years' Chartist agitation, which cost many
of its promoters so dear. I believe one
effect of those three clergymen's work, also,

has .been to do for a good many workingmen
what Mr. Fletcher did for me and
others long before, i. e., showed them there
might be a deal of good in a parson, and
be done his him. But, since they began
working, there have been many of the cloth
following in their wake, and brave, goodmen
they seem to me to be.

Richard Moore, who had been one of the
original twelve that first launched the
People's Charter, continued a staunch
worker in the moral force and educational
movement to the last. He was one of the
foremost leaders in the Free Press agitation,
and was chairman of the Society for
the Repeal of the Taxes on Knowledge.

True-hearted Bembridge, too, worked
on in the same way till his last illness, and
among his other good works was a great
struggle (hi which, at last, the publicans
beat him) to get a Free Public Library for
Marylebone. He was also one of the chief
organizers of the workmen's demonstration
on Primrose Hill in celebration of the tercentenary
of Shakespeare's birth, when

none of the upper class folks would take
any notice of the day  in London, at least.
Honour to the memory of these men, and
many like them !

After the Roberts' were off to the new
world, I got my father and mother to leave
Broadfield, for he was growing too old for
the work at Broadfield Hall, besides much
of it being rough work out of doors ; and
I didn't at all like going to the old scenes.
So I coaxed him and mother to come to a
nice little place I took for them in Kentish
Town, where mother could still look on
green trees, and where I fitted up a small
workshop for father, as I knew he'd be a
deal happier for working a bit, as long ashe
had the strength for it. I opened a
sort of technical class there on winter
nights for youngsters, which amused him
very much. Maggie's mother had been out
of all her troubles in this world (and I hope
in a much better one) some months before
the trial, and the good aunt at Galley-wood,
who had no children of her own,
had persuaded her husband, moved thereto

by Maggie's sorrowing appeal, to let her
take the two youngest children and bring
them up at the farm. The other two were
earning their own living ; and the father
went muddling on till he could scrape the
roads no longer, and died in the workhouse.


And now years have passed away, and I
have a happy home of my own, and a dear
good wife, and some little darlings, and weare
all as merry together as kittens at play.

]\lr. Fletcher married us, and christened
our pets, and I hoped he would have
prayed at my dying bed and oyer my grave.
But that was not to be. He worked too
hard and loved too much to last. But he's
better and happier where he is.

I have now become an employer in a
pretty large business, but I haven't forgot
the days when I was a journeyman, and I
believe I've tried to do what little I could
as an employer to help journeymen and
apprentices according to what I should
have liked masters and foremen to have
done for me. You may sometimes see

journeymen, when they become employers,
as I think I said somewhere before, act the
tyrant worse than any who have always
been what's called gentlemen. But then,
again, I've seen workmen turn against an
employer who has done all he possibly
could for them (sometimes doing it at
his own cost), and treat him shamefully.
There are faults to be mended on both
sides, and sometimes, I think, we want a
whipping all round.

But, then, there's a deal to be done, also,
it strikes me, as to mending the political
machine. Looking back, and after thinking
of our Chartist days, I can see, or
fancy I see, how politics have got to do
with most of our troubles, apart from
moral or religious matters; and that's
why, among other lesser reasons, I've
written what my friend has made into this
tale. Noble-hearted Lovett has been taken
to his rest since I began writing about
him. His faithful and worthy ally, Cambridge,
sleeps in Kendal Green Cemetery,
after having helped more than one clergyman

to see that they must try to establish
the kingdom of God on earth, and not
merely prepare men for it, as they say, in
heaven. Many other of Lovett's best supporters
have also passed away; and I
wanted English workmen to let me help
them to remember some of the lessons
which the labours and sufferings, failures
and successes of all these true patriots
should teach us.

Brother working men, let me ask you,
as the last word I shall write, to beware
of selfish, unscrupulous leaders, and their
thick-and-thin supporters. Many years'
experience have told me (though, as I have
not much book learning, I may be wrong)
that nothing keeps the world back so much
as jealousy and back-biting among leading
men and their partisans. I don't think
the devil does half so much harm by his
straight going sinners, as by his sneaking,
backbiting jealous saints There are always
plenty of good folks trying to remedy
wrongs ; and they would soon do it if they
didn't quarrel, and envy and hate one

VOL. 11. X

another as they seem to do. It is all these
dirty tricks which strike down the goodmen
and true, who ought to be leading the
Away, and give unworthy men power to do
mischief or hinder good. I saw it said
somewhere, once, that " half the time of the
wise is spent in correcting the errors of
the good," which may be very true, and
shows how careful politicians, philanthropists,
clergymen, and everybody else ought
to be, not only to desire to be of use, but
to learn the best way of being so. But
I'm quite sure half the strength of both
wise and good is lost in resisting the egotism,
ambition, and envy of those who get
the credit of being honest and able, wlien
they're neither.

80 that's the moral I learnt from the
Chartist movement as it went on forty
years ago in this old England of ours. And
I hope and pray my hard-handed, and
warm-hearted, and often long - headed
brothers of the journeymen class won't let
the labours, and sufferings, and failures
of the great true-hearted chiefs of that

movement, nor the errors and sins of those
who ruined it, be altogether forgotten.
Heaven help us all, say I, to know and to
follow those only who are worthy to be our
leaders, and Him most of all who, by self-sacrifice,
showed us what a leader should
be.

Tale END

X 2

AN ORIGINAL LETTER BY THE LATE
WILLIAM Loveth.

18 3, Totteubam Court Road,
Oct. 10th, 1841.
Dear Sir,  Having been very busy preparing our
rules for publication, and with other matters connected
with the formation of our Society, I have been
obliged to delay the answering of your kind letter
till now. I am glad to perceive that you are now,
with us, convinced of the necessity of " Universal
Suffrage," though from a portion of your letter you
do not seem inclined to assist us in the agitation for
the People's Charter as a whole, and this arising in
my opinion from an erroneous notion which you, in
common with others, entertain respecting the last live
points, as they have been called. I will now, however,
as briefly as possible, lay before you my own
views on the subject, so that, on comparing them with
yours, your judgment will decide on the respective
weight of the arguments on both sides. In the
People's Charter I recognize an efficient means for
securing a great end, just and equal legislation. This

end you admit cannot be secured under the present
suffrage, as the selfish interests which class representation
engenders, joined to the overbearing power
which our aristocracy are enabled to possess on account
of its limitation, will ever cause the House of Commons
to be the mere mouth-piece of wealth and rank, rather
than that of the whole people. Then, to remedy this,
you will say with me, extend the suffrage as is proposed
by the Charter. But, I reply, something more is
necessary to secure the good end, namely, just and
equal legislation. Of what use is the giving me the
vote and the freedom of choice if I can only choose
rich men ?  if I cannot be allowed to choose those
legislators who will honestly represent my views and
interests ? The mere power of voting would therefore be
useless, and a mere mockery, unless the present jio perte
qualifications are abolished  one of the points which
you consider non-essential, or, to use your own
language, " not involving the great principles of right
and justice." It seems to me to involve both; it has
been likened to the mockery of giving universal
suffrage to the sparrows with the object of choosing
birds to watch over their interests, but restricting
them so that they could only choose hawks. Need I
say much to a man of your judgment to show you
that equally strong reasons could be urged in favour
of the ballot, another of those points ? Is it not equally
a mockery, a cruelty, to give a workman, a shopkeeper,
or a householder a vote, and not protect him so that
he can give his vote conscientiously ? Regarding
equal representation, another point of the Charter, is
it not equally opposed, and does it not essentially mar
?i\\just and equal legislation when a little rotten place
like Thetford, containing about 160 voters, sends two

members to Parliament to nullify the votes of the two
members sent bj such a place as Westminster, in
which there are upwards of 13,000 voters ? Let us
suppose we had universal suffrage without equal
representation, and see how it would operate by taking
ten small boroughs and ten large ones.

Harwich has . 1,032 males above 21 . Westminster has 48,600

Thetford 831  Liverpool 46,320

Cheltenham . 1,253  Finsbm-y 53,962

Andover 1,191  Bristol 24,041

Marlborough . 1,006 ,, Tower Hamlets 72,604

Witness 800  Manchester 44,880

Knaresborough 1,501  Marylebone . 56,231

Richmond 1,133  Southwark 32,188

Tavistock 1,345 ,, Leeds 29,615

Huntingdon . 1,299  Hull 11,9.35

11,391 420,376

Return 20 Members. Return 20 Members.

This has been calculated from the census before last, not having the
last to refer to ; but similar results would be seen by the last-now

you see that the votes of 420,376 would be
neutralized or nullified by those of 11,391 persons;
and if the whole of the united kingdom was dissected
in the same manner similar results would be seen.
In all those, as well as in other small places, the
influence of wealth and power is great, and corruption
is notorious among them  hence I conclude that,
without equal representation, the political good
derived by the majority would be prevented by the
corruptions of the minority, so that just and equal
legislation the great object of our Charter, could not
be obtained. The next point, moment of members,
I consider equally essential, for without this we could
not have freedom of choice  we should still be obliged
to choose rich men, or persons who could afford to
spend three or four hundred a year, as members of
Parliament, which poor men could not do. And we
should remember that rich men are not always rich
in thought, and in those qualities fitting for legislation.

Many persons who are now fagging in the
counting-house, toiling for the Press, or in some way
to obtain a livelihood, would be soon the lights of the
Senate House, if members of Parliament were paid
for their services, as servants of the people ought to
be. Annual Parliaments, though not equally essential,
are necessary in order to enable the people to correct
their mistakes as speedily as possible ; for I think
they would make many mistakes at first, in choosing
persons of great promises and blustering pretensions,
whose inefficiency would speedily be seen when they
came to be tested by the common-sense of honest men
met for a glorious object. It is because I wish to seethe
House of Commons speedily purged and purified
of such persons that I am an advocate of annual
Parliaments. The argument of learning their duties
amounts to nothing  common-sense, and, above all,
common honesty, are the great essentials for a legislator,
and a great deal of the forms and ceremonies,
now thought important, would be swept away, if we
had an honest House of Commons.

In this hasty and imperfectly-written letter I have
endeavoured to show you that all the points of the
Charter are essential to the great end, and, being so,
cannot in any way be considered pa7'ti/ politics ; for
surely those cannot be considered party questions
which have reference to the equal rights of all. But
then it may be urged Chartism is very unpopular
among a large class of persons, and we shall have
greater difficulty in getting those along with us if we
adopt the Charter as a whole than if we contended
for a part only, that of the suffrage. I think there is
great error in this, for taking the middle-class of
the United Kingdom (and not those of one locality

only), we shall find that universal suffrage is the most
obnoxious point with them; let us get them over this,
and be assured we shall have little difficulty in getting
them with us for the whole. But shall we give up
what we believe to be necessary for the accomplishment
of our great object, because violent and foolish
men have rendered it unpopular ? As well might
Christians desire to give up their name or drop their
creed, because violent, intolerant, and persecuting
persons have assumed the name, as we Chartists to
give up our name, or any portion of our principles,
because fools and madmen have declared themselves
to be the high priests of Chartism. No, let us rather,
by our actions, prove that our principles are just and
our object worthy of support, so that good men cannot
much longer fail to appreciate them, and bad men, if
not now convicted of their folly, will sink into the
insignificance they deserve. I would urge you therefore
to investigate still further the Charter as awJwle,
and if eventually you think with me that all its points
are essential to good government, you will with me
be resolved to support it through good report and
evil, and through every kind of persecution that the
enemies above us and below us think proper to inflict.
You will then use your talents and your influence to
propagate its principles throughout society, and to
show to your fellow-men the necessity of uniting in
every just and peaceful manner to make it the law of
the land, through the instrumentality of which peace,
happiness, and harmony may be made to supersede
war, oppression, misery, and crime. An address from
you embracing these views, and at the same time
condemnatory of the violence and folly we all lament,
would do incalculable good, and both Mr. Lettering
II. Y

ton and myself would feel honoured in seeking to-obtain
for it any publicity in our power. In a short
time I hope to be able to send you copies of our laws,
by which you will see that we contemplate something
of your idea of an annual conference. Hoping we
shall have your able assistance in forwarding the
objects of the National Association in your town,
I remain, yours faithfully,

Wm. Lovett.
Rev. Henry Solly,
Yeovil.

APPENDIX B.

Since the foregoing "recollections" were written,
a friend has reminded me of the very interesting
scene which took place, during the height of the
Chartist agitation, in the market-place at Nottingham,
when the late Sir Charles Napier, the hero of Scinde,
was sent down with a strong body of troops to that
town to preserve order. Large and excited crowds
were constantly parading the streets, and a collision
between the troops and the people seemed inevitable,
when Sir Charles, having mounted a waggon in full
uniform, addressed them in a speech so telling, and
yet so kindly and sympathetic, that from that time
the danger of a fight was over. He told them how
earnestly he desired to see their real grievances redressed,
but he also told them what he had witnessed
of the horrors of war, entreating them to look to

other means than bloodshed for ob taming what they
desired, and not to place him and his men in the
terrible position of having to cut down their own
countrymen in the midst of their homes and their
families. An eye-witness described the whole scene
as one of the most affecting he had ever witnessed.
The people cheered the old warrior enthusiastically,
and quietly dispersed.

ST. John's square.
