Chapter I.

J

The young ladies of the Misses Boaden's stabs
liniment, Elmwood House, Forest Hill, had dispersed
for the hour of recreation permitted on
summer evenings.

A couple strolled to and fro with linked arms
in deepest conversation ; one of somewhat heavy
aspect sat under a lilac bush laboriously conning
a lesson. The rest were playing croquet (lawn-tennis
was in its infancy as yet) on a tolerably
large space of grass in which the garden terminated,
and which was mentioned in the Misses
'" Boaden's prospectus as " The Grounds."
" The players, however, were evidently knocking

the balls about ina purposeless manner, and had not
settled to a regular game, while a running fire of
 conjecture and question ran from mouth to mouth.
VOL. I. 1

"Where is Stasie?"

Isn't Stasie Werner coming ?"

"Oh, she will not be long!"

She is writing letters, I think."

What a shame, when she promised to be my
partner I"

Eun, Dolly, and ask if she is coming."

No, I won't ! There she is looking out of
the window : call to her."

Chorus  " Now you know Miss Amelia will
not let us shout."

Vigorous dumb show, waving of hands and
beckoning, answered by a serious shake of the
head, conveying decided refusal.

Stasie Werner  now kneeling before the window
of her bedroom, her elbows resting on the low
sill, while she gazed dreamily out over the garden
a discontented, even sad look darkening her
young face  was the leading spirit of the school :
first, she was the eldest, except the pupil-teacher,
Ella Mathews ; secondly, she was of a bold and
daring disposition, disposed to take full advantage
of any superiority nature might have allotted
her ; thirdly, she had a remarkably sharp tongue ;
and finally, though her means were limited, she

had a certain munificence of nature, that recommended
her more to her companions than to her
teachers.

A tap on the door roused her from her thoughts
or dreams some minutes after she had shaken her
head in token of refusing her schoolfellows' invitation;
she rose slowly and stood still for a
moment before uttering, not too amiably, " Come
in." A tall and already developed figure, upright
and well rounded, a careless stateliness (if such a
contradiction can be combined) in her carriage and
the pose of her head, a confusion of very fair
disordered hair, and a face too pale perhaps,
though the skin was soft and creamy, broad
browed, and narrowing to a delicate chin, lit up
by a pair of eyes, uncertain as to colour, but dark
compared to her hair and complexion, as were
also the brows and lashes. Her expression was
for the moment unmistakably impatient, not to
say angry.

The door opened to admit a small slight girl,
plain but pleasant looking, and exceedingly neat
of aspect.

Well ! what is it, Ella ? Am I never to have
a minute's peace to think my own thoughts ? I

tell you I will not go out to play croquet or anything
else ! it is too hot and too tiresome ! " cried
Stasie Werner.

I have not come to ask you," returned the
other calmly, as she closed the door and advanced
into the room. 'The postman has brought you
this letter, and one to me. Will you permit me
to stay and read it % " this with a tone of mock
entreaty.

"A letter ! Oh, thank you, dear! Even a letter
is a blessed break, though I have no correspondents
I care for ; " and she opened it with some
eagerness, while her friend, drawing a chair to
the window, proceeded to peruse hers, deliberately
and attentively.

Come'' said Stasie, her brow clearing, her
eyes lighting up, " this is not so bad. It is an
invitation from Mrs. Harding to go to them on
Friday, and stay for a few days ; they hope
to have a box to see Jefferson (in Rip Van
Winkle). Isn't that perfectly delicious 1 I know
every word of the story, and I have so longed to
see it acted."

Yes, I am glad ; I wish I could go too ! " with
a little sigh.

So do I," cried Stasie heartily. " What can I
wear, Ella? I have nothing fit to be seen, and I am
sick of rusty black ; I really must insist on buying
some new clothes while I am at the Hardiness'. "

Miss Mathews did not answer, and seemed
absorbed in her letter. " AVhat have you got ? "
asked Stasie, squeezing herself on to the same
chair with her friend. " Nothing very good," she
returned slowly, folding up her letter ; " I am afraid
Bob has been getting into some scrape again,
though mother does not exactly say so, and she
has not been very well herself, poor dear ! The
vicar has been asking about me ; it seems he
knows an old lady who wants an accomplished
young one as companion, etc. etc. Alas ! my
accomplishments are few and far between."

"But, Ella, you must not leave while I am
here. Why, what would become of me ? I should
either mope to death, or quarrel with every
creature, and be expelled as a nuisance ! "

* There is many a slip,' " quoted Ella, " and I
fear there is no such good luck as an engagement
in store for me, though I am fitter for some such
nondescript employment than to teach."

"You can teach very well, if you only knew

the things to teach," said Stasie reflectively.
How I wish they would let me go back and live
with your mother, Ella I Yours is the only home
I ever knew ! and then I might be a help, for I
know I have some money  perhaps not much,
but something I can call my own."

' Not till you are one-and-twenty. You maybe
sure Mr. Harding and the other executor will
keep you tight enough while they can."

I am not sure of anything," returned Stasie
impatiently ; " Mr. Harding is always so pleasant
and good-natured when I am with him that I
think he will do everything I want ; and yet I never
advance a step towards emancipation. Why, next
month I shall be eighteen ! and I have seen nothing
 I know nothing. I can't help being a big
baby ! It would be almost better to have been
shut up in a convent ; there is some sort of
romance, something distingue about such seclusion
; but a second-rate school in Forest Hill, with
Saturday afternoons at the Crystal Palace, is the
very essence of commonplace."

But, Stasie, you are really not so badly informed,
as girls go."

'' Bah I I am utterly ignorant ; and I should

be ignorant if I had taken honours in every
University Exam. Can books teach me how to
talk ? how to eat, sit, stand, and comport myself
like people in society \ I shall never forget the
only day I spent at my guardian's house. Everything
was so strange, I felt afraid to speak ; I could
not shape my sentences in the light, droll, pleasant
way the rest spoke. I was afraid to choose any
of the dishes that were offered at luncheon, lest
I should make a mistake in the manner of eating
them. I felt stiff and awkward when I moved
compared to the quiet easy manners of the other
ladies ; and though Lady Elizabeth was very
kind, she altered her tone in some indefinable way
whenever she addressed me, as if I were a half-reclaimed
savage, to be dealt with carefully and
indulgently. Oh, I cannot tell you the curious
dread and longing I have to try another plunge
into a life so different from all I have known, and

yet " she stopped abruptly.

"I think, Stasie, you are too ambitious and
discontented," said her friend gravely. *' Just
think what it is to be certain of one's future  to
have enough ; I don't mean for the pleasure of
being idle, but to be sure of food and raiment and

lodging, and be free to work at what you like
best, without anxiety about any one."

That's just it ! " cried Stasie, jumping up to
walk to and fro. " I have no one in the world
to care about, which is as bad as having no one
to care for me."

No one, Stasie ? " a little reproachfully.

I do love you, Ella, and I am fond of your dear
mother ; but then I do not belong to you nor you
to me ; yet I would rather go and live with you
your people, I mean  at Islington, dull and
slow as it is, than stay here or anywhere. Still I
like some of the lessons very much, though I am
not what you call intellectual. At any rate, I am
sick of being shut up, and I intend to make a
strong effort to escape when the other executor
comes to England, and he must be here soon. He
will help me, I am sure."

I hope so. Now, had you not better sit down
and answer Mrs. Harding's invitation, while I
write a line to my mother ? "

I will, but there is plenty of time before
prayers."

Nevertheless Miss Werner began to clear away
the looking-glass from her small dressing-table,

setting forth upon it a shabby little writing-case
and much besprinkled ink-bottle, and applied herself
to the composition of a somewhat gushing
acceptance.

Stasie, or according to her high-flown baptismal
name, Anastasia Yerner, was the daughter of a
well-born but exceedingly unsuccessful younger
son, who, after many follies and failures, had made
a love match, and dying, left his widow an empty
exchequer, a formidable amount of small debts,
and a pretty fair-haired baby girl. The poor
young mother was brave, self-helpful, and utterly
devoted to her child, but her strength was undermined
by grief and anxiety, and so overweighted
in the struggle for existence.

Accident threw her into an evangelical circle,
through the kind notice of the clergyman whose
church she attended, and whose assistance she
asked in her search for pupils. At the parsonage
she met an elderly Syrian gentleman, who was for
the time being a prime favourite with the Exeter
Hall faction, and had brought a parcel and an
introductory letter from a gifted missionary, then
working amid the Jews scattered throughout
Turkish Arabia, to the busy incumbent of an obscure

north-west district. But neither time, nor
scorching heat, nor money making, nor consular
cares (Christian Kharapet, Esq., as he loved to
call himself, was British Consul at Mardin, a town
that had lately come into notice because of the
mighty ruins discovered in its vicinity)  none of
these had so exhausted his system or dulled his
sight as to render him regardless or indifferent to
the pensive delicate grace of the young widow.
His fancy was pleased, and although she had
neither money nor position, she stood well with
many influential members of the party that petted
and pushed him on the road to fortune. He felt
he should do himself no harm by a disinterested
marriage ; so he offered a safe home, and promised
kindly companionship to the widow, and further
baited his hook by undertaking to settle on her
precious little daughter a sum sufficient to ensure
the child against poverty.

Conscious of her own physical inability to protect
or provide for her child, and vaguely hoping
that rest and a genial climate might prolong her
days until Stasie was old enough to take care of
herself, Mrs. Yerner accepted the old man's offer,
and went away with him to his Eastern home,

taking Stasie, then about a year old, with her.
Whether the poor young widow found the repose
and security she hoped for, or withered under the
influence of a life so unsuited to European habits
and training, God only knows, but she did not
survive her ill-assorted marriage two years. Her
elderly husband bitterly mourned her loss, and
transferred all his affections to his wife's little
girl, who developed into the spoilt pet, the
diminutive tyrant of the Consulate. When
about six years old, however, she began to
droop, her stepfather was terrified. He would
even have paid large sums out of his painfully-gathered
and rigidly-guarded hoard to restore his
darling to her natural strength and vivacity, but
where was he to find help ? In his extremity
he summoned what native skill was within reach,
but in vain ! At this juncture the missionary
whose introduction had led to the establishment
of little Stasie as queen of the Consulate, made
his appearance at Mardin, on his homeward
journey, having been successful in his labours,
and being recalled to report them by the society
he represented.

Kharapet received him with embraces and

tears of joy. Here was a counsellor, a comforter,
a saviour! His advice was clear and short. "You
must send the child to England at once," he said ;
she simply wants a European climate : she will
die here."

"And what is to become of me without her ? "
groaned Kharapet.

Better part with her for a few years than lose
her altogether," returned Mr. Mathews, the missionary.
" After a few years you must pay another
visit to London, and then she can return
here with you, and be your companion for the
rest of your days."

Oh, the dreary years  the dreary years ! "

"They will soon pass," said the missionary
consolingly. "Let her come home with me. Mrs.
Mathews will take charge of her, and bring her
up with our own dear ones in the nurture and
admonition of the Lord, so that hereafter she maybe
a help to you in your favourite scheme of
drawing nearer together the Nestorian and the
English churches."

This project found favour in the eyes of the
afflicted Consul, and after a keen encounter as to
the terms to be given and received for the little

invalid's education and maintenance, Stasie Werner,
attended by a Chaldean nurse, started for
Alexandretta, on her westward journey.

Arrived at the residence of the missionary's
family, Stasie soon became one of them, and one
of the noisiest. Here she was happy enough.
Mrs. Mathews was no strong-minded disciplinarian,
but she was kindly, honest, well-meaning,
and not unjust. She kissed and cuffed the little
stranger as she did her own children ; scolded or
cried over them all according to the temper of the
moment ; and the household scrambled on, not
unhappily or uncomfortably  the girls getting
what instruction they could at a neighbouring
day-school, and occasional treats, wildly enjoyed,
to the Crystal Palace or to Richmond, as the
finances permitted. Mrs. Mathews managed
as best she could for her little 'protegee; the
payments made on her account seemed far from
munificent, but what cash passed through her
reverend husband's clutches she neither asked
nor knew.

When Stasie was about eleven, her stepfather
was obliged, by public and private business, to

visit London  an ecstatic period for his adopted
daughter, who enjoyed unlimited indulgence, and
received unbounded promises of Arab steeds,
jewels, attendants, and Heaven knows what, when
she should resume her sway at Mardin. The old
gentleman was delighted by her progress, mental
and physical, and agreed readily enough to her
remaining three or four years longer.

These years brought many changes. First, the
missionary succumbed to fever ; this brought a
serious diminution of means to the family, though
the good man had not been improvident, and had
managed to store up some small provision for
wife and children. Stasie continued to reside
with them, the money paid on her account forming
an important item in the family budget.

Then one of the boys got an appointment
abroad, and so much was lifted from the widow's
burden. The eldest girl, Ella  Stasie's special
friend  had begun to pine for greater educational
advantages, that she might fit herself for self-support.
Even Stasie, the idlest of the young
group, most given to dreaming, and finding nearly
pleasure enough in the harmony of mere healthy
existence, nearly excitement enough in games of

cricket and battledore and shuttlecock, played ina
large back-garden with which the old-fashioned
Islington house was blessed, began to think she
ought to do something, she knew not what.

She was always at the bottom of her class,
always under punishment for neglected lessons,
always the despair of her teachers, yet a bit of a
favourite, for if she was saucy one hour she was
kindly and helpful the next. Nor could she be
considered quite ignorant. At times she was
seized with a passion for reading story-books and
a battered cheap edition of Shakespeare, that she
had unearthed from behind a row of religious
books in a nondescript apartment dignified by the
name of " the Study," as also some stray volumes
of Bulwer Ly eton's, which latter did much to rouse
her desire for knowledge. After reading Zanoni,
she made up her mind to master the doctrines
and tenets of the Eosicrucians when she returned
to Syria, never doubting that she should there
find some venerable mysterious priest who pursued
profound scientific and astronomical researches
under the deep blue of Eastern skies ; but in the
meantime she could not bend her mind to the
low and narrow limits of spelling, grammar, geography,

and the multiplication table ! In which
latter little Polly, the baby of the family, could
beat her hollow.

While the months and years rippled by, scarce
marked by any incident, Stasie began slowly to
think of her return to Mardin, and even of progress
in her Kosicrucian studies, with less of unmixed
pleasure. She had grown warmly attached to
Ella, and even felt a sort of half - contemptuous
liking for Bob, the second boy, destined for the
medical profession; besides, the aforesaid Bob
had, to his mother's horror, made some delightful
theatrical acquaintances, and occasionally received
from them orders, which enabled him to treat his
sister and Stasie to ecstatic glimpses of dramatic
delight. This was a joy she (Stasie) could not
expect to find at Mardin, and for which the Arab
steeds, the jewels, cloth of gold, salaaming attendants,
and Eosicrucian priests would be but a poor
exchange.

The period of trial and of separation was near
at hand, and Stasie's courage had sunk lower and
lower, when one day towards the close of February
the startling news reached Mr. Kharapet's London
agent and personal friend, Mr. Harding (of J. Harding

and Co), that H.B.M.'s Consul at Mardin had
died suddenly, after a bath injudiciously taken
immediately on his return from a long and
fatiguing ride.

These tidings changed the aspect of Stasie
Werner's life. She had now no home, and belonged
to no one. Her father s people had simply disregarded
her completely, and of her mother's, only
an elderly lady. Miss Stretton, a grand-aunt, had
ever taken the slightest notice of her.

Stasie was deeply and sincerely affected when
Mr. Harding himself announced the loss of her
only friend and protector.

This gentleman was not quite a stranger to her.
From him Mrs. Mathews received the quarterly
payments on account of her young 'protegee. He
even visited the Islington residence at rare intervals,
and held private interviews with the young
lady, on whom he made a very favourable impression
by the frank kindly honhomie of his questions
and friendly interest he seemed to take in her.
She had spent a day occasionally at his handsome
house near Regent's Park, where she had enjoyed
herself in a spacious nursery with some pretty
children, and been taken to drive in the Park by

VOL. I. 2

Mrs. Harding, a soft-mannered, dark-eyed little
woman.

Your stepfather has not left you unprovided
for," said Mr. Harding, after a pause, to allow the
freshly-orphaned girl's tears unchecked course;
and I suppose that is all you care to know of
such matters. I am one of the executors, and I
am sure I need not say that I shall take particular
care of your interests in every way. My
co-executor is Hormuz Kharapet, your stepfather's
half-brother. I daresay you have never
seen him. He lived chiefly at Bombay, where I
knew him; but he is. now at Mardin. Poor
Kharapet, rather unnecessarily, I think, has
appointed, in addition to executors, a guardian,
Mr. Percy Wyatt, who travelled in the East
some years ago. Can you remember him % I
think he must have been at Mardin before you
came to England."

My memory of everything at Mardin is very
shadowy," returned Stasie, drying her tears, and
trying to steady her voice. I vaguely remember
some strange gentleman who used to take me on
his knee and tell me stories, but it is like a
dream."

I dare say it was Wyatt, just the sort of
thing he would do ! Well, he is away in Rome
at present, and we can make no sort of change
till he returns. I will not keep you any longer,
my dear, for I have not much time, and I must
have a talk with Mrs. Mathews. My wife shall
come and see you in a day or two. You will
always find us true friends."

Stasie could only give him her hand in silence,
and then escaped, to pour out her thoughts, her
mingled grief and sense of isolation, to Ella,
her most sympathetic confidante. Meantime
Mr. Harding, with much civility, laid the state
of Stasie's affairs before Mrs. Mathews, who
gathered from his exposition that Kharapet had
on his last visit to London made a will, bequeathing
all he possessed to his stepdaughter,  that
was now nearly three years ago,  and it remained
to be proved whether he had since made another;
also, to ascertain what amount of property he had
left, respecting which Mr. Harding had no certain
knowledge. In any case, he felt sure that Stasie
would not be left penniless, and that for the present
Mrs. Mathews might venture to keep Miss
Werner as an inmate, without risk of loss. When

Mr. Percy Wyatt returned it was impossible to
say what changes might take place, for which
he (Mr. Harding) would be in no way responsible.
Indeed, he believed a politician like
Wyatt, and a woman of fashion like his wife,
Lady Elizabeth, would take very little trouble
about an obscure ward. Mr. Harding even
doubted that Mr. Wyatt would accept the responsibility.
To this Mrs. Mathews answered,
with moist eyes, that with all her faults Stasie
was like one of her own children to her, that
she would miss her as much as any one of them,
and that she was welcome to a home with her
(Mrs. Mathews) until she was able to help
herself, if indeed it were possible that a true
Christian, as Mr. Kharapet seemed to be, could
have the cruelty to leave Stasie penniless by
any subsequent will.

So the matter remained for many months,
during which the young orphan heard little or
nothing of her own affairs, and continued to lead
the same life as heretofore, broken by rare visits
to Mrs. Harding, who was always kind and pleasant.


The only distinct information which reached

her good-natured protectress was conveyed by
a message given as Mr. Harding was bidding
Stasie good-bye one Sunday evening, when she
was starting on her return home after passing
the day at his house.

'tell Mrs. Mathews, Stasie, that the will is
all right, and you are properly provided for," on
receiving which Mrs. Mathews observed, " Thank
the Lord ! for though one ought to have faith, it
is hard to sit loose to this world with an empty
pocket."

The arrival of ''Mr. 0. Percy and Lady
Elizabeth Wyatt, from a prolonged visit to the
Continent,"  as announced in the Morning Post,
soon after Christmas, made a great change in
Stasie Werner's existence.

She was formally introduced to her guardian
at his own residence, whither she was taken by
Mrs. Harding. He asked her a few questions
politely but vaguely, apologised for the absence
of Lady Elizabeth, who was not able to come upto
town just yet, expressed his readiness to be of
service to her in any way, and then bowed them
out.

Soon after this interview poor Stasie was

informed of the terrible decision arrived at by
executors and guardian  to remove her to a
high-class boarding-school," the choice of which
Mr. Wyatt was graciously pleased to say could
not be in better hands than those of Mrs.
Harding.

In due course and with many tears Stasie's
rather limited outfit was prepared, and she was
deposited with those excellent ladies *' the Misses
Boaden.' But compensations sometimes come
when least expected. Mrs. Mathews, with all
her good nature, was generally on the look-out
for chances, and finding there was room in Miss
Boaden's establishment for a pupil-teacher, succeeded
in placing her eldest daughter Ella thereto
the infinite comfort of her friend and confidant.


Time rolled on swiftly and silently in the
monotony of school life ; Ella had already passed
her nineteenth, while Stasie was approaching her
eighteenth year, at the time this story opens,
when the period of stillness and inactivity for
the latter was in its last moments, and a total
change was close at hand.

Stasie had finished her note long before her
friend ceased to write rapidly, and she still sat
on, gazing at Ella without seeing her, while her
thoughts strayed away to the dim distant past
of her childhood in her stepfather's Syrian home,
the half-forgotten realities of which were largely
supplemented by a lively imagination, influenced
no doubt by as extensive reading as her means
permitted, on Eastern subjects. She was impatient
for the arrival of the other executor,
from whose interference on her behalf she expected
so much, albeit she did not very clearly
know what she wanted. Her leading idea was
to leave school, to travel in Italy or Germany,
or to return to the only home she ever knew.
Latterly she had troubled herself more than she
used as to her own future, as to whether the
property bequeathed her was mere competence

or wealth ; on this point she had, on one or two
of the rare occasions when she saw him, essayed
to extract some distinct information from Mr.
Harding, but in vain.

A friendly pat on the shoulder, a laughing
assurance "that she need not disturb herself,"
"that she would always have cheese to her
bread, ' was all her acting guardian deigned to
say, so she was obliged to fall back on conjecture.


She had grown weary and indignant at the
prolonged imprisonment to which she was subjected,
now that she felt herself a woman, and
fancied she was equal to guide her own steps.
To be shut up with children and half-formed
ignorant girls, by no means of the class that
might be expected at an establishment of the
pretensions affected by the Misses Boaden, was
too bad ! for Stasie Werner, in spite of her
middle-class training, was by nature an aristocrat,
so far as hatred of vulgarity and meanness
went.

While she sat musing with contracted brows,
and a mouth half-sad, half-pouting, she became
vaguely aware that the front-door bell sounded,

and that some one was being ushered into the
drawing-room beneath, Elmwood House, in spite
of its large name, being only one of a row of
semi-detached villas slight as to construction and
of small dimensions.

' It is late for a visitor," said Ella Mathews,
without looking up from her writing. '' I want
this posted by eight o'clock, and it must be
seven now''

Not quite, I think," returned Stasie dreamily.
I wish I had a watch ! I wonder if "

She did not finish her sentence, but lapsed
into her own thoughts.

A moment or two after the door opened to
admit the junior member of the firm, Miss
Amelia Boaden, who held a card in her hand.
Stasie, there is a visitor below for you, your
uncle, I believe," offering her the card; "you had
better come down and speak to him, my dear."

Stasie started up, all quivering at this sudden
fulfilment of her hopes, and taking the card, read
the inscription thereon 

Hormuz Kharapet, 23 Str. Mayfair.

It is my stepfather's brother, the executor !"
exclaimed Stasie. '' Oh ! I am so glad I I did

not think lie would be here so soon ;" and she
made for the door.

Stay, Stasie ! stay, my dear," said Miss
Amelia eagerly. *' Had you not better smooth
your hair and put on your best dress ? You are
really "

"My best dress," interrupted Stasie scornfully.
"Bad is the best! I will go as I am,
and then, if he has any feeling, he will make
Mr. Harding give me some money to buy a new
one. I am the worst-dressed girl in the school.
Miss Amelia, and you know it."

Without waiting for a reply, Stasie flung out
of the room, and descended the stairs rapidly.

In truth her toilette needed renewal. The
black cashmere had grown nearly brown ; marks
of unpicked stitching showed visibly where alterations
and ramifications had taken place ; the
edges of the cutis were frayed; the white frill
round her throat, though not soiled, was crumpled;
and her fair hair was rough and untidy.
Nevertheless, with the light of suddenly-awakened
life and hope sparkling in her eyes, glowing on
her cheek, and dimpling round a mouth which
could be sweet, scornful, or sad, as the spirit

moved lier, she was as pleasant an object as the
eye could rest upon. Without fear or hesitation
she opened the door, and entered the room
swiftly, joyously, ready to welcome as a second
father the man who awaited her, and whom she
expected to find less aged, less decrepit indeed,
than his brother, but gray, perhaps bent, and
almost venerable, ready to pet and indulge her.

A figure was standing on the hearth rug which
made a step forward to meet her, so different
from her fancy's sketch that she stopped short
and forgot to accept the hand he held out. A
man of middle stature, slight, and not ungraceful,
though rather high shouldered, well and
carefully dressed in the newest possible clothes,
with small fine brown hands peeping out of large
snowy shirt cutis ; a pair of soft lustrous eyes,
that seemed to Stasie of unfathomable depth and
darkness; a lofty but rather narrow forehead;
thick glossy black hair, beard, and moustaches ;
and a smooth, sallow, dusky complexion, were the
items which she chiefly remarked.

And is it possible you are little Stasie whom
I remember playing in the court of the Consulate
with her gazelle," he exclaimed in perfectly good

English, although his accent was slightly foreign,
and his voice, though carefully subdued, had in
it something harsh and strident. Stasie recovered
herself and gave him her hand with a
frank smile.

'' I suppose I am the same Stasie ; but I cannot
remember you at Mardin."

Can you remember anything of Mardin % "

*' Oh yes, much, only it seems all like a dream ;
but you I do not remember," and she looked
straight into his eyes as she spoke, then, with a
slight blush, she withdrew her hand, and sat down
on the sofa.

Kharapet drew a chair near, and there was a
slightly awkward pause, during which, though
Stasie did not look up, she felt that his deep eyes
were fixed upon her.

'' I did not expect you quite so soon," she said,
still feeling ill at ease.

' You expected me, then ? I have been five
six days in London, and it seemed long, very
long, until I could come and see my poor brother's
beloved Stasie. I little thought what I should
find." These last words were murmured in a
caressing voice, conveying such subtle delightful

flattery that Stasie's heart beat quick with gratified
vanity. *' Are we not somehow related ? " he
continued ; '' ought I not to hold the place of
your uncle and protector as well as executor to
my brother's last testament \ "

I am sure," replied Stasie cordially, '' I should
be very thankful to have any relative that would
be kind and take an interest in me, for I seem to
have lost every one when dear Papa Kharapet
was taken away,"  her voice broke a little,  "but
I can hardly fancy you are his brother, you are so
much younger."

I am his half-brother, and considerably his
junior, yet old compared to you, Stasie. I suppose
I may call you Stasie ? though you are such
a grand young lady  so tall, so fair ! "

Of course you may," she said with a pleased
laugh, amused by his tone of deference ; " I do
hope you will be my friend, I want so many
things. Mr. Harding is very kind, but I see him
so seldom, and he is always in such a hurry that
I can never even ask him."

You must tell me all you want and wish,"
replied Kharapet, drawing his chair a little nearer.
I had just joined my poor brother, whom / also

regarded as a father, when his death occurred ;
and I know how tender was his affection for you,
how he looked to your return, and longed for your
presence even as a dry tree for the gracious rain.
I shall best fulfil his wishes (which are most sacred
to me) by watching over you, and, so far as I can,
furthering your happiness."

*' You are very good," murmured Stasie, a little
embarrassed ; " and did he  did he die quietly ?
without pain ? "

Quite without pain  quite quietly," returned
Kharapet, his deep eyes still fixed upon her with
an eager half-surprised look, and there was a
pause  Stasie thinking how sad it was to be thus
deprived of the only creature to whom she was
necessary, but her attention was quickly fascinated
by her companion's next words.

'" I have only seen my colleague, Mr. Harding,
two or three times since I arrived. He is your
very good friend, and we hope to arrange your
affairs to your satisfaction "

*' Then I do hope you will let me leave school,"
cried Stasie, interrupting him. "It is quite too
shameful to be kept here so long. Do you know
I shall be eighteen next month ? "

Indeed," lie exclaimed, with the air of one
suddenly roused to the perception of a great truth.
It is a just cause of complaint that you should
still be here, but the person to blame is your
guardian. Now that I have come for the sole
object of attending to your interests, I shall see
Mr. Wyatt frequently, and see also that your
wishes are carried out. Mr. Harding is so greatly
occupied with the concerns of his business that
he does not think how swiftly time rolls on, while
your bright youth and beauty are left to the
mournful seclusion of a prison like this;' and the
Syrian glanced indignantly round the neat apart
ment, its walls decked with washy water-colour
drawings, its tables crowded with crotchet mats,
wax-flowers, and specimens from Tunbridge, Buxton,
and even humbler Margate.

It is tiresome," said Stasie, with a swift blush
and pleased smile, " but that is all. The Misses
Boaden are kind enough, and I do very much
what I like, but I am quite too old to be here."

Have you formed any plan  any idea of
where you would wish to live ? In such arrangements
I need help, for though I have lived much
with Europeans, especially Englishmen, and have

even resided a while in London, I am scarcely fit
to advise a young English lady in such a matter.
Your own views no doubt will be our best guide.
What would you say to residing with Mr. and
Mrs. Harding?"

He looked at her keenly as he spoke, averting
his eyes as they met hers.

I do not think I should like it," returned
Stasie frankly. '' They are kind and nice, and

she is delightful ; yet " She paused, resuming

with more vivacity, " I should like to go back to
Mrs. Mathews, and you know, as she is a widow
and far from rich, it might be a help to her."

No, no ! " cried Kharapet energetically, "that
would not do. Orphaned and alone as you are,
you require the patronage of the rich  the powerful
; if, indeed. Lady Elizabeth would recommend
some companion  some protectress. Her Ladyship
is most friendly and condescending. I had
the honour of dining "

"I don't want to be patronised and condescended
to," interrupted Stasie petulantly; "I
want to go where they are fond of me, and where
I am at home ; or, better still, I want to go abroad.
I want to see Eome and Nuremberg and the Tyrol,

and oh ! heaps of places. Could you manage
this for me, Mr. what ought I to call you ? "

Hormuz ! " said he, in a low hesitating tone
if you will give my name a charm by speaking
it!"

Stasie laughed uneasily, half pleased, half-startled.
" Well, then, help me to travel and see
new countries, and I will call you what you
like."

I think I might manage even this for you,"
he said thoughtfully, " but not all at once. We
shall see. I am not altogether free to act as I
should wish, but "

"Will you promise me that I shall leave this
place within a month from the present time?"
cried Stasie impetuously, and clasping her hands
together, she bent forward resting them on her
knee.

I will," he returned promptly, ' only I must
try and persuade the head of this establishment
to forgive the usual three months' notice, which
is, I am told, necessary."

But you, or I can pay all the same," persisted
Stasie.

"It is never right to disregard money or
VOL. I. 3

money's worth," began the Syrian, when Stasie
broke in upon him

' Do tell me, have I much money 1 Am I
well off? or have I only enough to live on by
pinching? No one has ever told me anything
clearly, and I never have enough money."

*' I scarcely know if you will be rich," returned
Hormuz; "the task of collecting and realising
my poor brother's property is tedious and difficult.
However, you will at least have enough !"

'then do tell Mr. Harding to let me have
some money! I am going to stay with Mrs.
Harding on Friday, and I do so want some new
clothes and things."

Your word is law," said the Syrian. And
then the conversation turned on the late Consul
his fond preparations for his beloved stepdaughter,
and on her misty memories of her
Eastern life  her experiences under Mrs. Mathews'
care  of the position and prospects of the
excellent widow  the number and occupations of
her children, etc. etc.  all which particulars the
Syrian soon ascertained from Stasie's ready talk.
At length Kharapet rose, and making a deep, not
ungraceful bow, " I must," he said, " tear myself

from a conversation that will long dwell in my
memory ; and you, my fair niece, as I shall consider
you  you will be before my eyes until we
meet again, which will be, I trust, soon. Meantime
you must not suffer any inconvenience I
can remove. Allow me to give you, on account
of the increased allowance which I shall take
care you receive, this small sum for present
emergencies," and taking out his '' portemonaie,"
he very carefully counted six sovereigns upon
the polished walnut table.

Stasie's eyes sparkled. " Oh ! thank you 
thank you ever so much ! You will pay yourself,
will you not % I don't want presents, you
know."

Rest content," he replied, a smile softening
his grave eyes, though it could scarce be seen
through the thick beard which concealed the
lower part of his face. " I have brought you a
few mementoes from the sunny land where your
childhood was passed, besides some jewels I have
kept for you, because I knew such was the destination
my brother intended for them. So for
the present, farewell, fair lily ; we shall meet at
Mrs. Harding's."

The instant Stasie heard the front door shut,
she darted upstairs, and found Ella Mathews
had finished her letter, and was busily employed
renewing the torn hem of a dress.

Stasie, after executing three or four wild
pirouettes, sprang into the middle of her bed at
a bound and stood upright there.

What in the world is the matter V exclaimed
Miss Mathews.

Everything that is delightful," cried Stasie.
The new executor is a dear, darling duck ! He
is going to take me out of this horrid den, and
let me travel on the Continent ; and he has
brought me a box full of jewels, and above all, he
has given me six gold sovereigns ! I don't think
I ever even sav) so much money all together.
What do you think of that, Ella?" descending
from her elevation with another bound. " He is
very handsome, and quite young  that, is rather
young; he has such lovely eyes, and what is
more," swiftly reinstating her looking-glass on
its table, and looking at her own image earnestly,
' I fancy he thinks me very nice indeed"  a
little triumphant nod  "not that he said so
absolutely, but I could understand that he was

astonished to find me  well, such a tolerable-looking
girl; and yet I was horribly untidy,
and my hair all loose. If he takes a fancy
to me I shall just make him do what I like.
Oh! it is delightful to find some one to think
you nice."

"What a wild thing you are," said Ella
Mathews, laughing; then more seriously, 'you
must play no heartless tricks, Stasie." Ella had
a very quiet but earnest love affair of her own
hidden away till better times would give her and
her lover a right to speak of it.

Nonsense," cried Stasie. " You are too great
an owl sometimes ; and do, dearest Ella, put away
that horrid old frock ! You shall buy a new one,
for you and I always go shares, don't we, dear ?
Let us ask Miss Amelia to come up to Spencer's
tomorrow and buy the stuff."

Ella shook her head, and a very sweet smile
played round her lips. " I can t take your money,
dear Stasie. Mr. Harding would say very sharp
things if he heard of such proceedings ; and you
forget what heaps of ' wants ' you have yourself
Do not be so generous  I was going to say foolish
 only you don't deserve that from me ! "

You are really an ill-natured cat," said Stationery
gravely; "you will only put me to the
trouble of choosing for you, and I have not such
good taste as yours, don't you see ? This money
is just for my ' immediate requirements,' as that
nice, dear executor said. When I go to Mrs.
Harding I shall make all my big purchases. I
am quite sure there is plenty of money for all I
want, and I shall just tease their lives out till
they let me go back to your mother. Oh ! Ella,
suppose you and I could travel together in
Switzerland and Italy, even to Eome !  Eome,"
with a little shriek of delight. " Wouldn't it be
too delicious ? but we could not manage it alone.
Why not take Hormuz Kharapet as a sort of
male chaperon  you don't know how nice he is
I am just longing for you to see him. Only I
wish he were not in European clothes. He would
be ever so much nicer in a turban and baggy
trousers, with a scimitar in his girdle ; indeed, I
almost wish he were a Mahometan. Of course it
is better for himself that he is not, but he would
decidedly be nicer and more interesting if he
were. Do you know he is exactly what you
might imagine Selim to be, or Hated in the fire-worshippers

; only it is rather funny to imagine
either Selim or Hated an executor mixed up with
lawyers and parchments, and English law courts.
Still, even as a Christian he is charming  so uncommon
 and so polite. Probably he is not
accustomed to fair girls, but he is evidently quite
taken with me, and I shall do my best to be agreeable
to him. I wish I had a nice new dress for
Friday ; that is out of the question, but I will
buy a large tulle cravats and frills, and new
gloves, and shoes, and a sash. I wonder if Hormuz
Kharapet will come to the theatre ? He
speaks English quite like an Englishman. I do
wish you had seen him, Ella 1"

Here the conversation was interrupted by the
entrance of Miss Amelia Boaden, the younger and
more energetic of the sisters who ruled Elmwood
House. " Well, my dear Stasie, I should like to

hear something of your interview with Mr.

I did not quite catch his name ; but he told me
he is executor to your late excellent stepfather,
and I presume lie is the gentleman whose absence
and whose objections so often offered obstacles to
a more enlarged system of education for you, my
dear?"

Yes, Miss Amelia, lie is the other executor ;
but I am sure he would never object to anything
right or reasonable."

"That is a good deal to be sure of on the
strength of one short interview, my dear," returned
Miss Amelia drily. " Come, my sister is
in her own room, and would like to hear what you
have to say, as I presume your stay with us will
now soon be brought to a close."

I am not at all sure of that, Miss Amelia ;
but you must acknowledge that I am old enough
and big enough to leave school," said Stasie, as she
rose and followed her preceptress out of the room.

 V   

Mr. Harding's residence at York Gate, Regent's
Park, was the typical middle-class house of a well-to-do
citizen. Everything in it was solid, handsome,
and in the most perfect order. The door
and bell handles, the name plate, the steps, were
in the highest condition of polish and whiteness.
Within, the same care and attention were everywhere
visible, suggestive of a tight hand. In the
rather heavily-furnished drawing-room, however,
something of a different and more graceful taste
was discernible. Flowers were always judiciously

placed about it ; velvet rugs and silken hangings
of Persian manufacture, Oriental china and quaint
bronzes, redeemed it from being a stereotyped
edition of other rooms.

Here Mrs. Harding's happiest hours were spent
in the morning, when she administered simple
and very small doses of rudimentary education to
her children, and better still in the evening hour,
before papa's return from the city, when she
answered their many questions and told them
stories to their hearts' content.

Could any of Mrs. Harding's acquaintance
have looked in at such times, they would scarce
have recognised her  bright, animated, playful ;
a glimpse might be caught of a nature very different
from her ordinary seeming, but she had not
many visitors.

Ashen first Stasie knew Mr. and Mrs. Harding,
she was charmed with the frank cordiality of his
manner and a little chilled by the indifference of
hers. This soon wore off, however, and was replaced
by sincere liking for the wife, notwithstanding
the strong contrast between the eagerness and animation
of the one and the stillness of the other.

Here Stasie Yerner found her hostess with her

three children when she reached York Gate on
the ardently expected Friday.

You are later than I expected," said Mrs.
Harding, shaking hands with her cordially (they
did not kiss on every occasion).

I came with Ella Mathews, who is going
home for a day or two. Her mother sent for
her, and I waited to put her into an omnibus
before coming on here."

Were you in charge of her or she of you ? "
asked Mrs. Harding with a smile.

Oh, we take charge of each other. I think
she is more of a coward than I am. How do you
do, Johnnie? Come Ethel  Willie, don't you
know me ? give me a kiss, you darlings ! Willie
is looking much better, Mrs. Harding."

Yes, he is better," returned the mother, pressing
the little dark curly head to her side, while
Stasie took the fair shy little girl on her
knee.

"Did you come in a bus or a cab?" asked
Johnnie, a large, bony, red-haired, fiery-tempered
boy, some years older than the others, and an
ugly likeness of his father.

You will like to take off your bonnet before

luncheon, Stasie, said Mrs. Harding, and led the
way to the rarely-used " spare room."

How delightful it is to come and stay here,"
cried Stasie, unable to repress her abounding joyousness.
*' It is so dull and tiresome at school ;
your house is charming, and it is so good of you
to have me," she continued, throwing her hat and
mantle on the bed.

Mrs. Harding smiled. "Most young people
would consider this a very dull house," she said,
"but nevertheless I think you will enjoy your
visit, for I have permission to supply your needs
and renovate your wardrobe."

How delicious ! " cried Stasie ; "I am sure
that is Hormuz Kharapet's doing. How nice and
kind he is ! Don't you think he is ? ''

He is exceedingly ready to oblige you. He
has had deep discussions with Mr. Harding as to
what you might or might not have. Executors,
you know, have but limited powers."

"Well," returned Stasie, "as long as I get
what I want, I do not care what their powers maybe."


Mr. Kharapet dines with us to-day," resumed
Mrs. Harding ; " and after luncheon we must

arrange about our shopping. It is considered
right that you should call on Lady Elizabeth
Wyatt, and I suppose you would first like to have
a new dress."

I should indeed. Am I not awfully shabby % "

You might be smarter," said Mrs. Harding,
with a smile ; " but luncheon is ready and the
children ravenous."

Before the mid-day meal was over Kharapet
made his appearance, somewhat to Mrs. Harding's
surprise.

'' Ah ! Miss Werner  Stasie," he said, after
saluting Mrs. Harding, his large eyes lighting upas
they met hers, ''I am rejoiced to meet you
again. It seems long since my visit to your
school, but you will find I have not been idle."

Thank you," returned Stasie, with a delightful
quick blush  she changed colour readily. '' I
have been thinking of all sorts of things that you
can help me in since I saw you."

Do not make too large demands," said Mrs.
Harding, as Kharapet drew a chair to the table and
proceeded to attack the good things before him.

He presently asked how Stasie managed to
travel from Forest Hill. " I reproach myself for

not going to fetch you. Although I love and
honour most things English, yet I would not adopt
all its ways  the freedom of your young ladies,
for instance."

"Yet you must be quite familiar with our
habits as regards them, you have lived so much
with English peoples' said Stasie.

"It is true ; nevertheless I observe differences.
There are the daughters of my noble friend, Lord
Saintsbury ; they never leave the house alone."

"That is different," said Mrs. Harding. What
do you want, Johnnie ?  wine ? Oh no, toast and
water is much better for little boys. That is
quite different ; the Ladies Lumley are wealthy
aristocrats, and can always command caretakers.
We are but respectable bourgeoises."

I wish I were an aristocrat," sighed Stasie,
who was busy mashing up some strawberries with
cream for Willie.

Why ? " asked Mrs. Harding ; " are you not
happy and well off as you are ? "

"Oh, I can scarce say why; but I imagine
there is something; refined about their life  a
something chivalrous about the men, even when
they run wild and do not pay their debts."

*' A school-girls idea, dear ! "

Perhaps so. Still I am happy enough  or
I intend to be, with your good help." A sweet,
frank smile, and a little confidential nod to the
Syrian, which he received with a flash of delight
beaming over his face, but immediately suppressed.


" We cannot get a box before next Thursday,
to see Jefferson in Rip van Winkle' resumed
Mrs. Harding. " Will you come with us, Mr.
Kharapet?"

"I regret I cannot. I am engaged to my
good patron to arrange a meeting in support of
the 'Church Assimilation Society for drawing
nearer the Nestorian and English Churches.' "

Can there be much in common between
Protestantism and Eastern Christianity ? " asked
Mrs. Harding, as she adjusted a napkin round
Willie's neck. '' Confess, Mr. Kharapet, you
have the Oriental indifference to dramatic displays,
unless, indeed, for ballets, and would
rather be excused coming with us''

You are wrong, indeed you are wrong," he
exclaimed. "It is always a pleasure to be with
you and my fair niece ; but on the present occasion

the matter in hand is so important that I
must exercise self-denial."

Mrs. Harding smiled ; and Stasie, whose interest
had been aroused by his words, exclaimed,
How do you mean, about drawing the Nestorian
Church nearer to ours, Mr.  Mr. Kharapet." She
hesitated a little how to call him.

"Why address me so formally ? " he said insinuatingly
; ' surely you and I  so nearly related,
I may say  can call each other by our
Christian names ? Shall we not, Mrs. Harding ? "

You are not related," replied Mrs. Harding
with the gentle indifference which generally characterised
her manner, " but I see no objection
to your using your Christian names."

And mine will acquire beauty and music if
you use it," said Kharapet to Stasie, with a
courteous bow.

I am glad to bestow such favours so cheaply,"
said Stasie laughing, yet blushing too. " Now,
Hormuz, pray tell me how you are to assimilate
our respective Churches ? "

Whereupon the Syrian entered into a long
explanation of the original simplicity and purity
of the Nestorian creed, and of its points of resemblance

to Protestantism, with an exposition
of the advantage to Christianity in general if it
could be affiliated to the Church of England.
His words flowed with wonderful ease, and surprisingly
few grammatical errors. His manner,
too, was gentle and graceful, and though his
voice was naturally harsh, its tones were most
carefully subdued to persuasiveness. Nevertheless,
he did not succeed in making his subject
very clear to his hearers, which Stasie accounted
for by her own ignorance and dulness. At any
rate the exposition carried them to the end of
luncheon, when the children, feeling the renewed
strength which comes from eating, grew restless
and audacious.

May I get down, mamma ? " asked Ethel.

Stay, dear, you must say grace, and then
look at that picture-book on the chair till nurse
comes."

Thank God for a good dinner may I get down
now % " said Ethel, all in a breath. Johnnie,
without asking any permission, slipped from his
seat, and was quickly at Kharapet's side. " Now,"
he said, " will you give me some of those sweeties
you said you would bring ? "

My dear Johnnie ! " remonstrated his mother.

He told me he would ! " insisted Johnnie.

"And here they are," said Kharapet good-humouredly,
as the little ones crowded round
him. " This is better than Eahat Lakaum. This
is Mardin sweetie, with a flavour of pomegranate.
I had it straight from Baghdad. You ought to
ask papa to get some home for you by one of his
ships. It is perfectly pure and wholesome, Mrs.
Harding  no bad London mixtures I Ah ! Stasie,
you have eaten plenty of this at Mardin, I daresay?"


Give me a little," said Stasie, laughing, and
stretching out her hand. "I fancy I remember
it."

No sooner had she closed her white teeth upon
it than she gave a little nod, and as soon as she
had disposed of the morsel she exclaimed, " Oh,
yes ! I remember this well !  the sweet, delicious
scented taste ! It seems to bring back a
courtyard, with such a glare on one side of it,
and a surly old camel kneeling in a corner in the
shadow. And wasn't there a camel-driver  very,
very brown and very gaunt ? "

Yes, yes ; that was the Mardin Consulate,"

VOL. I. 4

said Kliarapet, rubbing bis hands softly over each
other, and looking keenly, hungrily at her. " I
did not think you would remember even so much
of your early home ; I feared you had quite forgotten."


I often think of it," returned Stasie dreamily,
and fancy I remember it ; but how much is
memory and how much imagination I cannot
tell. Do give me a little more of that  what
do you call it ?  Hormuz  " a little coquettish
pause before the name.

Helwa," he returned. " It is a great favourite
in the Turkish harems."

"Don't give it all to Stasie Werner," cried
Johnnie. " She is big  she can have what she
likes ; but I never get no sweeties ! "

Have mine, Stasie dear," said Willie, trying
to climb on her knee, and taking a piece half
sucked from his rosy mouth.

Oh, Willie ! " cried his mother, laughing,
that is very ill-bred."

"He is a dear, kind little fellow," said Stasie
stroking his head. " Eat it up yourself, Willie."

"Now, Stasie, if you have quite finished, we
had better go out," said Mrs. Harding. "As I

have nearly carte blanche from the powers that
be in the matter of dress for you, we shall have
plenty to do."

How delightful I " cried Stasie. " I have to
thank you for this," holding out her hand to
Kharapet, who took it almost timidly. '' I shall
never be able to remember all I want," she continued.
" May I come into your room and write
a list while you dress, Mrs. Harding ? You can
help me."

'eyes, certainly."

May I be permitted to accompany you '? "
asked Hormuz.

Mrs. Harding smiled. " I think," she said,
we can do our shopping best alone ; but I shall
be happy to set you down anywhere."

Without waiting for a reply she walked away
upstairs. Stasie followed her, thinking, she did
not know why, that Mrs. Harding was not quite
friendly to Hormuz Kharapet.

This visit to Mrs. Harding produced an intoxicating
effect upon Stasie. She suddenly found
herself the pet of the house. Mr. Harding chose
tit-bits for her at dinner, and told her his choicest
stories, besides paying her very broad compliments,
and encouraging his favourite, the eldest
boy, to climb on her back and pull down her
hair.

Kharapet was constantly at the house. He
said little, but brought her offerings of sweetmeats,
and gazed at her with an air of wondering
adoration, calculated to create in her a high
estimate of her own powers of fascination, while
Mrs. Harding, though never demonstrative,
managed to impress upon Stasie the pleasant
feeling that with her also she was a favoured
guest.

The days which intervened before the vividly

anticipated evening at the theatre were delightfully
occupied with shopping and dressmakers,
and so passed quickly.

Mr. Harding had agreed to dine out, to avoid
an early repast and a lonely evening at home ;
and as soon as the lady of the house and her
guest had departed, the neat parlour-maid cleared
away the dinner things, observing to the housemaid,
who was trimming a cap in the housekeeper's
room, " I am sure I wish I knew when
master will be in. I do so want to run to
Tottenham Court Eoad before the shops are
shut ; and it is so seldom one has a chance in
this house."

rd go if I were you," returned her fellow-servant.
' Cook is off abbacy. If master does
come home before you are back, why, I can
answer the bell ; he won't heed."

It's easy to see you are new to the place,"
said the parlour-maid, with a shake of the head,
as she screwed down the tablecloth press. " I
believe master would know from outside the
door if the wrong servant came half way up the
kitchen stair to open it ! I never see his like 
never ! Sometimes I think I'd give a good deal

if I might slap his face, he is that aggravating,
and other times I think he isn't half bad ; anyways
I'm glad I am not his wife. Law, Sarah !
what missus has to put up with !"

I begin to think so," returned Sarah. 'rit
must be hard for her. Thank the Lord, Jane,
you and I can give warning, and leave at the
end of the month."

So we can. Still if I were missus I think I
could manage him. She answers soft and reasonable
and respectful, always treating him as if he
was a gentleman when he is in his tantrums ; if
she'd just shy a soup-plate full of hot soup at
his head, that's the sort of explanation lie would
understand. He knows no man would put up
with his nonsense, and that's the reason he keeps
only women servants. I am sure he is rich
enough : still he is not so bad to us, but I can't
abide him when he is on the rampage."

"It's not a bad place, after all," said the
housemaid ; " five servants and a man to clean
the boots and windows. There are many worse."

A fair table and meals regular'' chimed in
the parlour-maid. " I think I'll venture to go,
Sarah. He won't come home when there's no

one here to cosset him. At any rate he will not
want dinner, and you'll not mind opening the
door to him ? "

Not I," returned Sarah, who was of a less
imaginative sensitive nature than Jane, the par-housemaid.
" He can't eat me, and if he does,
111 make it uncomfortable for him. "Will you
buy me two yards of blue baronet ribbon while
you are out, like a good girl, and a reel of black
cotton ? "

Jane accepted the commission, and ascended
to her room to adorn; hardly had she accomplished
half her toilette when an angry peal of
the front-door bell made the stout-hearted Sarah
jump. Throwing down her work she went
quickly to answer it.

Mr. Harding was standing outside regarding
the door with an angry suspicious stare  a man
above middle height, broadly and powerfully
built, with a strong handsome face, sandy hair,
light eyes, thick red whiskers and moustaches.
He was remarkably well dressed, and though not
looking quite the conventional gentleman, had
not the slightest tinge of vulgarity in his aspect.

Where's Jane \ and why the devil do you

open the door?" were his first words, as he
crossed the threshold and handed his hat to
Sarah.

"Please, sir, she has just gone to her room,
and I thought it was better to open the door at
once than to keep you waiting till she came
down," she returned with perfect civility and
composure.

Send her to me at once," said Mr. Harding
sternly, as he turned into the dining-room and
threw himself into a vast luxurious chair, looking
round him with an impatient dissatisfied expression,
as if seeking whereon to wreak his ill-temper.
While he thus sat glowering, Jane,
neat, collected, but really nervous, presented
herself.

Oh ! you are there, are you \ " said Mr.
Harding, a little disappointed at not finding her
absent without leave."

"Yes, sir."

Ah  hum ! how long is it since your mistress
left?"

Nearly an hour, sir."

Ha ! they are half melted by this time, and
serve them right, for spending their time and

money on such balderdash. Tell cook to send
me some dinner  I am famished."

' Dinner, sir ! " echoed Jane, dismayed. " Have
you not dined ? "

"No. Oh, you thought you had got rid of
me, did you ? You are just mistaken. Go and
get me some dinner, but first I will take some
brandy and seltzer."

Jane went quickly in search of the desired
beverage, and seized the opportunity of exclaiming,
'law! Sarah, he wants his dinner, and
cook out. Can you cook a bit ? / never even
peeled a potato. Isn't it aggravating."

I can do a chop," returned Sarah in some
trepidation, "but he is that particular. I'd
rather not."

Bless us and save us ! there's the bell again,
and I haven't an inch of ice left ; the boy promised
to bring a pound more, and he hasn't come 1"
She snatched up the tray, and went off quickly.

"Well," cried her irate master, "what has
cook for me?"

There's some lamb as was left from dinner,
sir, and a piece of salmon that was put by for
supper in case missus wanted any "

Half-cold leavings !" ejaculated Mr. Harding
with contempt. " This is a nice home for a man
to come to. By heaven, it's too bad ! Go  get
me a steak, and tell cook to make me a savoury
omelette. Look sharp now ; what are you staring
at?"

I'm afraid, sir, there are no eggs in the
house," said Jane, appalled by the imminence of
the danger.

No eggs ! Are there no eggs at the butter-man's
or the milk shop, or, where the deuce do
you get them ? Look here  something has gone
wrong, I know it by your hang-dog look. What

the ! By gad  the cook's out  that's the

secret, is it ? Now, don't tell me lies ! By
heaven, I'll go search the house for her !"

Yes, sir, cook is out," replied Jane, with the
courage of despair. *' Missus said you were not
dining at home, and cook thought she might run
out for half an hour to buy some things she
wanted, so "

"Did your mistress give her leave?" in a
tone of suppressed fury.

"No, sir, missus didn't. Cook never asked," said
the girl hastily, as if eager to screen her mistress.

A pretty state of discipline, by George I

Look here  what's to be done about my dinner ?"

Please, sir, Sarah can cook a steak, but I

think there is some cold roast beef, quite cold,

and "

Better not venture on Sarah's cooking, eh !"
said Mr. Harding gloomily. " There, bring me
something to eat  dinner is out of the question.
It is too bad after working hard all day to come
back to the discomfort and neglect of a house like
this. Go, make haste." Jane gladly escaped to
seek eagerly in the larder for what dainties she
could find, and proceeded to set forth the cold
viands to the best advantage, striving to soothe
the family juggernaut with cunningly - mixed
salad dressing, and to propitiate him with
pickles.

Mr. Harding was really hungry, and so relishing
the simple fare provided, grew more genial
and disposed to talk.

' I suppose the children are all in bed ?"

Yes, sir."

Hum ! not a soul to speak to. What time
did Mrs. Harding set out?"

About half past seven, I think, sir."

Ha ! I'd bet a fiver she gave that cook leave
to go out."

I am sure not, sir."

How the deuce do you know ? and why are
you trying to bamboozle me? It's not to be
done, Jane, I can tell you. Did Mr. Kharapet go
with Mrs. Harding?"

"No, sir; he went out with them after
luncheon, but did not return."

*' Ah ! catch him stifling himself at a theatre !
There, you may take away, Jane, and feel in the
left pocket of my dust coat for a newspaper.
Then draw up that blind, put the brandy and
seltzer on the little table near my chair." So
saying, Mr. Harding established himself in much
comfort, and proceeded to peruse the city article
carefully.

He had begun to nod over his studies, however,
and was fast dropping into a sound sleep
when Jane reappeared with a countenance considerably
lightened, and announced " Mr. Parapet."


'' He has something to divert him now," she
said to her companion, " and we may have half
an hour's peace."

Mr. Harding started up to receive his guest
with alacrity. " Come along, Kharapet," he
said. '' I thought you might look in as you did
not turn up at the office to-day. What will you
take % Sit down, sit down."

'* I thank you," returned Kharapet blandly, ashe
advanced to the seat pointed out. " No, I
was unable to go into the city to-day, and had
an appointment with my Lord Saintsbury this
evening."

"Have you dined 1"

I have ; but I shall feel obliged for a little
lemonade or cold water."

Ah ! you Eastern fellows have the pull over
us in the matter of drink," said Harding, as he
rang the bell and ordered the desired refreshment.
*' Why, you must save pounds a year ! Now I
can't do without my glass of wine, or spirits and
water."

"It is habit, and the difference of climate,"
returned Kharapet mechanically ; and there was
a pause  each waited for the other to begin.
Mr. Harding lit a cigar, and offered one to his
companion, who declined.

"Those Morea shares are still rising," observed

Harding at length. " I told you they
would."

So I see ; yet you must have a care. They will
come down with a run before many days are over."

111 venture to hold on a bit longer," rejoined
Harding. " I am sure I can rely on you for
friendly action."

So far as I can with safety to myself assist
you, I will," said the Syrian cautiously; 'but
you must be prudent."

And without discussing the matter, whatever
it might be, in which both were interested, they
glided into talk of their past experiences and
mutual transactions in Bombay  none of which
concern the present story. They had evidently
known each other well in the lifetime of the
older Kharapet.

Sometimes their reminiscences were of a kind
that would not look well on these pages, and
occasionally they lapsed into Arabic, with which
Mr. Harding was tolerably familiar. He laughed
more than once, long and loud, but his companion
found sufficient vent for his mirth in pressing his
slender hands together, and chuckling in a low
inward manner.

Jane came, lit the gas, and drew down the
blinds without interrupting their conversation,
and its drift had again changed to the present.

I suppose those women will soon come back
from that tomfoolery. I suspect that's what's
keeping you, Kharapet, eh ? "

I should like to see Mrs. Harding and her
young charge," said Kharapet demurely. " And
speaking of her reminds me to warn you afresh
against staying too long on those Morea shares.
I have no objection to your making a fair profit
on the transaction, but Stasie's interest must be
cared for before everything."

Who is going to injure it ? " asked Mr. Harding
gruffly.

I do not suppose you will intentionally, but
you are running a risk ; and if you hold on too
long, and lose her money, I must see that you
refund it."

"You have turned suddenly conscientious,"
replied Harding, with a sneer. " You needn't to
be so strait-laced."

The Syrian smiled a triumphant smile that
showed all his white teeth and glittered in his
black eyes. " Good and faithful friend," he said,

** Stasie Yerner's interests and mine are or will bethe
same. Know, excellent Harding, that I
love that beauteous creature, and I will wed her.
Am I not the luckiest, happiest man on earth ?
I came, after many difficulties, as you know, all
this weary way determined to marry her, even
were her hair red, her eyes green, her form humpbacked
! and lo ! I find a golden-haired angel, with
soft speaking eyes, the grace of a gazelle, lips like
a pomegranate, hands white as snow ! It is a foretaste
of heaven to feel her velvet touch, and all
this will be mine." Kharapet spoke with a suppressed
rapture of anticipation, a sort of tremulous
passion, that evidently surprised his hearer, who
did not seem too well pleased.

Why ! how the devil do you know she will
have you ? "

She must'' replied the Syrian, in a low concentrated
tone, '' I will lay hold upon her and
keep her  none shall take her out of my hand 
but she will be mine willingly. I see I please
her ; she gives me kind glances, friendly words ;
her accent as she says my name is tender, and
she has seen none other save me. Nor am I ill-favoured,
Mr. Harding." He glanced round fora

looking-glass, but finding none, continued  " I
am still young, and I love her ; I hunger and
thirst for her presence, yet when she comes it
overpowers me  I feel a strange restraint  she
has a nameless power which I must conquer."


Well, you have been going ahead ! " exclaimed
Harding. "Why, how often have you seen this
girl?"

Times and seasons do not count in such a
passion as mine. She has never left my sight."

And what do you think, my good sir, will
the guardian say to your proposal ? ' interrupted
Harding.

* He will not object. I stand well with him.
I have obliged him."

"Ah!" cried Harding  a prolonged "Ah!"
If I were to tell him of those little transactions
at Bushire,  of that affair with Shinar's
people,  I am afraid he might not think you a
very desirable husband for his ward."

"My friend," said the Syrian quietly but significantly,
" you will do no such thing ; we should
indeed be foolish to injure each other by any
unnecessary revelations of past mistakes and
VOL. I. 5

errors." He looked with unusual steadiness
straight into Mr. Harding's eyes as he spoke.

What do you mean ? " returned that gentleman,
with some degree of bluster in his tone ; but
his glance sank even as he spoke, and he resumed,
with a little embarrassment, *' You never understand
a joke, Kharapet. It does not look well
when a man is so ready to fancy you are going to
split on him."

'split," repeated Kharapet, as if puzzled.
*' Oh no. I quite understand what  what you calla
joke, when a joke is meant, and I am quite sure,
joking apart, that you feel convinced I am a very
suitable husband for my brother's heiress."

'* Ay, there's the rub ! isn't it, Kharapet ? To
think that your brother's hard-earned money
should go to a stranger. Never mind, man ; you
have a better chance of grabbing it by marriage
than by any other way. You used not to be so
great a favourite with your late lamented brother,"

The Syrian smiled, not a pleasant smile. " Fortune
has compensations for the deserving," he
said. " Do I understand that you will offer no
obstacle to my hopes ? "

No ; that is, I reserve my decision. We will

see how matters go on. There is a good deal to
be seen to first  much to be considered," replied
Harding very deliberately.

We will discuss the question farther," remarked
Kharapet. " I think you will find that
our interests are identical, only I would strongly
advise you to sell out those shares at once, and
reinvest the sum originally expended in Government
or guaranteed stock without loss of time."

There was something significant in his tone,
and he caressed his silky beard with a gesture
usual with him when speaking earnestly. Mr.
Harding did not reply, and Kharapet went
on 

It rests with yourself how to dispose of the
fruits of your speculation. I should be sorry todo
anything unfriendly, but I have duties imposed
upon me by the executorship which I must not
neglect, and " he paused.

Of course, of course," returned Mr. Harding,
rousing himself from a fit of thought ; "we are
both equally anxious to do the best we can for
the girl ; an uncommon fine creature she is ; if I
hadn't a wife already I would see if I could not
cut you out."

The Syrian's dark eyes lit up for an instant
with a fierce glare, like an irritated wild animal.
He smiled, however, a rather forced smile, as Harding
went on  " But I made a fool of myself long
ago, ran my head into the noose for the sake of
a pretty face that was all the owner's fortune. In
short, I never thought enough of my own interest.
Well, Kharapet, come up to the office  let me seethe
day after tomorrow ; we will go thoroughly
into the accounts, and I'll undertake to satisfy
you on all points."

As he uttered these words the two men looked
steadily at each other, and there was a short
silence.

I wil be with you about two," replied Parapet,
rising to take leave ; but his movement was
checked by the sound of a carriage stopping, followed
by a peal of the front-door bell.

Here are the ladies," said Kharapet, making
a step towards the door, which was soon thrown
open to admit Stasie, who entered slowly, and
walked to a chair, where she sat down, without
noticing either Mr. Harding or Kharapet.

Well, Stasie, how are you ? " said Mr. Harding.


Oh ! I beg your pardon," cried Stasie, starting
up and rushing over to shake hands with
him. " Do you know I was so absorbed in the
play that I still seem to see it and nothing else.
Oh, Hormuz, why did you not come ? You
would have been enchanted ! It was not acting
it was nature !  the queer, idle, genial, kindly
Eip Van Winkle lived and moved and dawdled
before you ; and when he came back after his
twenty years' sleep and found himself forgotten
when he waited the hesitating recognition of
his daughter  it was too touching !  all the more
because of the funny quaintness of the poor old
man. I could not help crying. You cried too,
didn't you, dear Mrs. Harding?"

'' I am afraid I did. Tears are with me a
simple physical weakness," said Mrs. Harding, a
faint colour rising to her cheek.

A man slept twenty years 1 " exclaimed Mr.
Harding, with great contempt ; " and you two
go crying over such rubbish as that !  by George,
you are only fit for a lunatic asylum !"

Stasie laughed. ' Certainly it sounds absurd ;
but if you only saw it ! I am sure you would
have felt as we did."

I doubt that."

"Well, you would, I am sure," turning to
Hormuz, who had drawn a chair near, and was
gazing at her through his half-closed eyes.

"I would, I would," he exclaimed hastily.
I should have felt as you did."

Come, it is getting late. Will you take
some supper or something, Stasie ? though I
warn you the cook is out, so I don't know how
you are to get anything."

Is cook out 1" said Mrs. Harding nervously.

Oh, I do not want anything," cried Stasie.
I will go away to bed and dream of Eip Van
Winkle. What a wonderful gift to be able to
act like that I Good-night, Mr. Harding  goodnight,
Hormuz."

One moment," said that individual. " Shall
you be disengaged tomorrow ? I should like to
bring you the jewels I took charge of, and a little
gift I ventured to add myself."

Jewels !" said Stasie, pausing on her way to
the door. " Oh yes. He may come ; may he
not, Mrs. Harding ?"

I am not sure we ought to give you the
jewels till you are of age, Stasie," said Mr.

Harding, with a good-humoured laugh. "But I
am afraid Kharapet is going to give you too
much of your own way."

Ah, he perceives that I am to be trusted,"
said Stasie, laughing, as she kissed her hand and
left them.

It was not, however, till two or three days
later that the promised jewels reached Stasie.

To-morrow," said Kharapet, as he sipped
some black coffee after dinner, ** tomorrow I
shall indeed bring you the long-promised trinkets,
dear Stasie ! Our good friend Harding has been
somewhat over scrupulous. He may be erring
on the safe side, but I think he might trust you ;
you would not insist on his replacing what he
gave to yourself because the law entitled you todo
so when you come of age."

Of course I should not be so dishonest,"
cried Stasie ; " so be sure you bring me the
pitty sings,' as Ethel calls them. You know I
am coming out in colours on Sunday. I am having
four new dresses all at once. You will have
to pay some terrible bills for me, Mr. Harding."

Ah, my dear, I will take care you do not go

too far. Mrs. Harding knows the length of your
tether."

'* We have not even approached its length,"
she returned. "Pray, Mr. Kharapet, how did
your meeting go off to-day V

"Very successfully. My Lord Saintsbury
made a most excellent speech. My own poor
efforts, too, were listened to with courtesy, and
even considerably applauded."

"It is wonderful how beautifully you speak
English," exclaimed Stasie. "Where did you
learn it so well 1 "

I was early placed in the office of an English
merchant in Bombay, and then I had the honour
of being secretary and interpreter to Mr. Percy
Wyatt during his travels in Persia and Turkish
Arabia ; besides which I love study."

Ay, Kharapet is a dab at languages. How
many canyou manage ? "

Oh, not many languages  a few dialects of
Syriac and Hindustani."

It must be delightful to know a great many
languages," said Stasie. " Tell me, what was the
meeting about to-day?"

"For promoting the establishment of an

English and Syrian College at Antioch where
priests may be trained for the evangelisation of
the Nestorian and Chaldean churches."

And do you get in any money for this
scheme ?" asked Mr. Harding, with an indescribable
accent of contempt and incredulity.

'* There are several thousand pounds on our
subscription list abbacy, but of course we want a
considerable sum."

I tell you what you'll do," said Mr. Harding,
with an odd twinkle in his hard, light eyes.
You start a ' Collegiate Company,' with so many
shares, to pay six per cent ; offer educational
advantages in Hindustani and Eastern dialects
cheap to students for the civil or military service.
I don't mind promoting it for a consideration.
Your religious friends won't object a trifle of
filthy lucre in addition to their spiritual gains."

My good friend Harding, you scoff too much
you do not believe in the disinterested wish
to spread the gospel of peace which so many of
your noble countrymen cherish." Mr. Harding
made a slight gesture expressive of incredulity,
and Kharapet continued. " I have forgotten to
mention a circumstance which concerns you,

Stasie. At the close of the meeting I was in the
committee room, and receiving the kind congratulations
of the noble chairman, when one of the
attendants approached me with a slip of paper,
whereon was written, ' Miss C. Stretton would
feel much obliged for a minute's conversation
respecting her niece, the late Mrs. Christian
Kharapet.' I went as soon as I could to the
ante-room, and found a lady, not young but
elegant, and well looking, as you English ladies
are at almost any age. She asked me many
questions, which showed acquaintance with your
history, Stasie, and explained that she was the
sister of your mother s mother. Do I make it
clear?"

Oh yes ! I know her," cried Stasie. " She is
my aunt or grand-aunt. She used sometimes to
come and see me at Mrs. Mathews', and bring
me toffy and things. Once she took me to
Madame Tussaud's, but would not go into the
chamber of horrors ! I should like to see her.
She used to cry about my poor mother, and I
think she is the only relation I have in the world."

Just so," returned Kharapet. " It seems
she has not long returned from the Continent,

and was not aware of the death of my poor
brother. She is very anxious to see you, Stasie ;
so I ventured, Mrs. Harding, to say she might
call here, as I saw no reason to doubt her
identity."

Certainly," said Mrs. Harding indifferently.

"We had better be cautious," growled Mr.
Harding, who had been nodding in his chair, but
roused up at the mention of a visit. " She
will be some old maid that has t a sixpence,
and wants to sponge on Stasie. We must be
cautious."

I am sure if she is should not grudge her a
little help ; and I suppose I have a right to see
my own relations though I am not of age," said
Stasie aggressively. Mrs. Harding looked up
surprised.

No one wants to interfere with your rights,
my young lady ! but you must be guided by
those who are older and wiser than yourself,"
retorted Harding testily.

Stasie will always be reasonable ; few young
ladies have her sense and high spirit. I am
sure, Mr. Harding, you can have no objection to
receiving any friend of hers."

Mr. Harding muttered something about
'' making a fool ; " and then started up, exclaiming,
" Come along, Kharapet, let us have a smoke
in the study. I see, Miss Stasie, you are just as
self-willed as the rest of your sex, only you are
more likely to get your own way than others."

' I hope so," said Stasie, laughing, as they
went out.

Come up to the drawing-room, dear," said
Mrs. Harding, " and play me something. I scarce
ever hear a note of music."

Mine is not worth listening to, I fear," replied
Stasie. " I do hope I may get some good
lessons now."

Yes, you ought," rejoined Mrs. Harding, as
they mounted the stairs.

Stasie went gladly to the piano, and began
her very simple repertoire. Soon Kharapet
stole in, and, creeping over to the piano, leant
upon it in closer neighbourhood to the player
than she quite liked. There was something,
she knew not what, in his dark eyes and fixed
gaze, that made her uncomfortable ; and in
proportion as he grew more familiar and bolder,
she grew shyer and more ill at ease, a transformation

that might well mislead liii as well as
the onlookers.

It was late before Kharapet took leave, and
Mr. Harding had been sound asleep in his chair
for nearly an hour.

Till tomorrow," sighed the Syrian, as he
pressed Stasie's hand at parting ; adding, with
an expressive glance, " I hate the night."

Oh ! I love it ; it is so delightful to feel oneself
dropping to sleep, and so nice to wake up
fresh in the morning, especially here, where there
is no horrible bell to rouse one at half-past six.
I do not know how I shall bear to go back to
school after the delightful time I have had with
you, dear Mrs. Harding."

Trust me. We will arrange matters as you
wish," were Kharapet's last words.

When Stasie reached her own room she sat
down before the glass, looked long and steadily
at herself, and fell into a reverie, or rather a fit
of graver thought than was usual with her. First
she recognised, with a very exquisite sense of
pleasure, that she was more than a good-looking
girl, and that Hormuz Kharapet shared that
opinion. How good-natured and kind he was to

her ! His extravagant compliments reminded
her of the lavish praises of her stepfather during
his last visit to London, which was her only clear
recollection of him. " It is their Eastern way,
I suppose," she thought, " and I daresay Hormuz
likes me too for his brother's sake. He treats me
rather as a child ! I daresay I seem so to him !
I wonder shall I ever have any romance in my
life ! I hope so ; but I hope too I am not a
coquette by nature," she mused, for she warmly
admired earnestness, constancy, loyalty, although
a keener sense of fun than generally falls to the
share of romantic young ladies often induced her
to act flightily. So the Kharapet episode was
dismissed from her mind for the present, with a
brief resolution to make him talk rationally on
some other subject than her own charms and perfections,
and to ascertain if he knew anything
about her old favourites the Eosicrucians. " It
is all very nice to be admired," was her concluding
reflection on this head, " but one wants
variety ! I daresay Hormuz Kharapet was in
India during the Mutiny. I wonder if he had
any ' hairbreadth escapes.' I will ask him tomorrow.
I wonder what the jewels will be like.

It is a shame not to give me the whole of them !
Mr. Harding is very tiresome sometimes. I
don't think he has quite so good a temper as
I thought he had. Oh, gracious ! it is half-past
eleven. I shall not get half sleep enough." And
Stasie prepared rapidly for bed.

The following day was clear and bright, and
promised fair for the flower-show to which Mrs.
Harding and Stasie were going. The morning
passed delightfully for Stasie. First, two of her
new dresses arrived, and stood the test of " trying
on " triumphantly. Then Mr. Kharapet was announced,
and entered, bearing an inlaid sandalwood
box. Mrs. Harding was writing, and Stasie
busy dressing a doll for Ethel. The former
smiled and held out her hand without rising, but
Stasie came forward.

AhjHormuz ! you have kept your word, I see."
I always try to do so. Here are a few of
the more trifling articles bequeathed you by my
late brother, and here,"  placing the box on the
sofa, beside Stasie, and taking a small silken case
from his breast pocket,  "this is a trifle from
myself. Will you wear it for my sake, Stasie ? "

While lie spoke lie drew out a massive gold
bangle and slipped it on her arm.

Oh, thank you ! a thousand thanks ! Is it
not lovely, Mrs. Harding ! Oh, I will always
wear it, Hormuz ! "

* It is very massive," said Mrs. Harding, rising
and coming over to look at the contents of the
box, which Kharapet knelt down to open with a
curious rude key. He exhibited a variety of
brooches and clasps, four or five bracelets, a
turquoise necklace, a few solid clumsy rings, all
of rich yellow gold, studded with small rubies,
emeralds, carbuncles, cat's-eyes, and pearls. Many
of the stones were uncut, and all looked dull
from their opaque setting, but to Stasie's unaccustomed
eyes they seemed magnificent, and
Kharapet assured her they were all valuable
stones, carefully chosen. Lifting up the tray
which contained these treasures, he then displayed
another layer, consisting chiefly of gold
ornaments, a beautifully chased classic-looking
necklace, armlet, brooch, earrings, and clasp for
the waist.

These are far the best," said Mrs. Harding.

They are quite lovely ! " cried Stasie.

VOL. I, 6

And have additional value for you," said the
Syrian ; '' for I find from my poor brother's memoranda
that they were made for your mother,
from the pattern of some antique ornaments
found at Ctesiphon. I believe she wore them
up to the time of her death. My brother loved
to see her richly attired."

Stasie's eyes filled up at the ideas suggested
by his words. She lifted the necklace tenderly,
and sat gazing at it, trying to recall her faintly-remembered
mother, imagining the golden circlet
round her fair throat  for she had been
fair, that young mother ! How Stasie longed
to have her there with her, to protect and be
protected !

"And that is all," said Kharapet, breaking
the silence in which Stasie contemplated her new
possessions. " There is an emerald necklace with
a diamond pendant, some valuable rings, and
other articles, which Mr. Harding thinks you
had better not have at present."

'' Pray, at what time " Stasie was beginning,
when the door was opened by the smart
parlour-maid, who presented a card, saying, "A
lady for Miss Werner."

Stasie glanced at the card. ** Miss C.
Stretton!" she exclaimed.

'' Show her up," said Mrs. Harding.

A tall lady entered  tall, not ungraceful, and
much younger looking, Mrs. Harding thought,
than she expected. She had good features, and
a rather fixed expression of amiability ; her hair
was parted smoothly, and fell in a couple of
curls behind each ear. She wore an abundantly-trimmed
pale lavender dress, and a black silk
mantle much befriended, neither looking very
fresh. Her bonnet was a little top-heavy, with
black lace and poppies ; a veil and long lace
lappets adding to her incumbrances.

She made an elegant curtsey on entering, and
then approaching Stasie with a little run, exclaimed,
" Ah ! my dear niece, I should have
known you anywhere from your likeness to your
dear mother 1 We were like sisters ; for, though
her aunt, there was a very little difference in
our years ! " Here Miss Stretton kissed Stasie,
pushed her gently away, looked at her, shook
her head, and wiped her eyes. *' How the past
comes back in gazing on you, dear child ! "

I am very glad to see you," said Stasie,

blushing, and feeling a little awkward. Kliara-
pet had quietly thrown a large silk pocket-handkerchief
over the trinkets that lay spread out on
the sofa, not, however, before Miss Stretton's
quick but unsteady eyes glanced curiously in
their direction.

Mrs. Harding, I presume ? " continued Miss
Stretton, with a graceful inclination, " and Mr.
Kharapet. I presume, my dear niece, you have
heard of my curious interview with this gentleman's'
She accepted the seat he offered as she
spoke. " It was quite extraordinary,"  addressing
Mrs. Harding,  ' I have only just returned
after an absence of two years on the Continent,
and my attention was attracted by the advertisement
of a meeting under the patronage of Lord
Saintsbury and some of the leading clergy, where
Mr. Kharapet, of Mardin, Syria, was to deliver
an address. Thinking it was your excellent stepfather,
Stasie, I determined to attend. You may
imagine my surprise when this Mr. Kharapet
came forward. I at once made up my mind to
ask him for a few words of explanation, which he
most courteously accorded, when I learned the
sad bereavement you have sustained, my dear

child, in the death of your kind protector. I
have lost no time in coming to see if I can be of
any use to my dear Anastasia's only girl, though
I am sure she is happily placed with you, my
dear madam ? " she concluded suavely, but interrogatively,
for she was not a little desirous of
understanding her niece's position.

You are very good," murmured Mrs. Harding.

*' Oh ! I am only on a visit here," exclaimed
Stasie, who was pleased to see " any one belonging
to her," as she phrased it, and beamed accordingly
on her visitor. '' I am still at school. Is
it not a shame, at my age ? I am trying to coax
Mr. Harding and Mr. Kharapet to take me away,
and let me live with Mrs. Mathews."

Mrs. Mathews, ah ! " returned Miss Stretton,
compressing her lips and shaking her head, as if
she " could a tale unfold ; " catching Kharapet's
eye he bent his head as if in solemn acquiescence.

'' AVhat is the matter with Mrs. Mathews ? "
asked Stasie, looking from one to the other.
'' Is she ill ? "

*' No, no. There is really nothing the matter,
my dear. ]airs. Mathews is an excellent woman."

I hope you will stay to luncheon," said Mrs.

Harding politely. This gave an agreeable turn
to the conversation.

Miss Stretton accepted the invitation readily,
but declined Stasie's offer to " come up and take
off her bonnet."

In fact, T think it unwise for a lady of my
time of life to dispense with the extraneous aid
of cap or bonnet," she exclaimed with an amiable
simper. " I shall therefore not remove my
present head covering."

Luncheon was announced, and the children
entering at the same time, a fresh strain of conversation
was started, and Miss Stretton went
into raptures over the beauty and grace of those
"sweet little angels' She was lively and
sympathetic in a remarkable degree all luncheon
time : she detailed her own later adventures at
great length.

You know, dear Mrs. Harding, I am one of
those unhappy creatures, an unprotected female,
and unfortunately an unprovided female also, at
least to the lady of a merchant-prince like yourself
I should seem penniless. Well, through the
kind interest of my late father's good friend, the
Bishop of Alloa, I was appointed companion and

chaperon to two charming girls of fortune and
distinction, with whom I have been travelling
through France and Italy for the last two years,
the Misses Catchpole. They are the orphan
daughters of an eminent shipowner, who left
them very well off  in short, wealthy. The
appointment was a very good one. We saw
something of society, and I flatter myself I was
of great use to the dear girls ; but young people
are apt to be influenced by evil example, and
though they have not behaved to me exactly as
well as I should to them were our positions
reversed, I shall always take an interest in them.
Of course one cannot expect the refinement and
high-mindedness of real gentry from these sort
of people, ahem I "  clearing her throat as she
remembered the bourgeois character of her entertainers
 " at the same time I am well aware
that the middle class, I mean the upper middle
class, is quite the bulwark of the nation."

Real gratitude is rare in all grades," said
Mrs. Harding, as Miss Stretton paused at the
end of this long harangue. " Try another cutlet
and a little more hock. The ice to Miss Stretton,
Jane."

' You are very kind. I i'll take another
cutlet ; they are exceedingly nice. After all, one
finds nothing abroad to make up for the comfort
and elegancies of an English house."

You look thoughtful  you do not eat," said
the Syrian in a low tone to Stasie. " Has anything
distressed you ? "

Who, me ? oh, I have eaten very well, and
I was only thinking."

A penny for your thoughts," said Johnnie,
who sat at the other side of Stasie.

Dear little fellow, how clever and original,"
exclaimed Miss Stretton, who was evidently benton
making herself agreeable. " What do you
think she was thinking of ? "

*' Oh, I am not sure ; perhaps of those pretty
things I saw Mr. Kharapet putting into a box
just as we came down to dinner."

Or of my dolly ; isn't it finished yet ? " said
little Ethel.

Were you trying to remember your lesson,
Stasie?" suggested Willie. *' Johnnie always
forgets his."

A house never can be dull with these treasures
in it," cried Miss Stretton. '' It is indeed

a treat to a wanderer like myself to get a peep
at such an interior. I do not wonder that my
dear niece dislikes the idea of quitting it for the
monotony of existence at school."

Oh, I am not going to stay there long, am
I, Hormuz? Mr. Kharapet and Mr. Harding
are to arrange some other residence for me."

Ah, indeed, and soon ? "

As soon as circumstances permit," returned
Mrs. Harding. " It is not easy to find a suitable
home for a young lady, even though the world's
before her where to choose?"

Ah ! very true, dear Mrs. Harding, very
true," said Miss Stretton, with an air of profound
conviction. Then turning to Kharapet, who
was nearly opposite her, she addressed him with
a fascinating smile and slight inclination of the
head to one side, "I am sure you must feel exhausted
; reaction must have set in after the
excitement of yesterday. I assure you, Mrs.
Harding, Mr. Kharapet's speech excited the
greatest enthusiasm. The picture he drew of
Eastern life and  and society, expanding under
the influence of England, of intercourse with
Englishmen, the spread of Evangelical truth

under the glorious sky of Syria, the  the spiritual
and temporal benefits which would flow from a
union such as he described, was thrilling  touching.
I observed several of the gentlemen on the
platform were much affected."

Kharapet accepted the compliment gravely.
It was hard, he said, to find language sufficiently
forcible and expressive for the magnitude and
importance of his subject.

*' You managed to find it, nevertheless, my
dear sir. And Stasie, he quoted some beautiful
little bits of Arabic poetry that sounded quite
charming."

How thrilling it must be to address a large
crowd, and feel that you hold the people spellbound
! " cried Stasie, with an admiring glance at
Kharapet. " Were I a man I would rather be an
orator than anything ; being a woman, I should
like to be a great actress ! "

' Stasie ! " exclaimed Kharapet, with a gesture
of horror, quite real.

Ah, there spoke the innocent enthusiasm of
youth," said Miss Stretton.

Does it frighten you to hear me talk of going
on the stage ? " cried Stasie mischievously to

Kharapet. " As soon as I am one and twenty I
shall make my debate

Kharapet smiled, and was about to speak, but
checked himself ; and Mrs. Harding filled up the
pause by advising Miss Stretton to try some cream
with her gooseberry tart.

Are you coming with us to the flower-show ?"
she then asked Kharapet.

If you will permit me  yes. When I was
in London before I once saw one of those lovely
shows, and I know not which were loveliest  the
garden or the human flowers."

"Ah, Mr. Kharapet is, I see, an admirer of
beauty," said Miss Stretton ; " but I suppose our
ladies must pale beside the greater loveliness of
your Eastern Houris."

Kharapet laughed softly. " We Christians of
S3n:ia do not believe in Houris, as you must be
aware," he said ; " and in beauty, as in most things,
England is pre-eminent. Women in the East are,
alas ! degraded by ignorance  kept like children."

But do you not consider learning  I should
say instruction  waste of time for girls ? " said
Mrs. Harding quietly. *' I think I heard Mr.
Harding and yourself come to some such conclusion

the other day h propos of Stasie and
school."

"Nay, Mrs. Harding, you unintentionally misrepresent
me. I do not think that charming
young ladies should be turned into learned professors,
and their bright eyes dimmed by over-study.
I should like them to be neither more nor
less instructed than my dear niece there," a caressing
prolonged glance from under his long
lashes at Stasie as he spoke.

"Poor things," returned that young lady,
laughing and colouring ; " theirs would be but a
short measure of learning."

I don't think there is much good in lessons.
I hate going to school," remarked Master Johnnie,
who was painfully idle.

I can read all Andersen's fairy tales," said
Willie with some pride.

Oh, you are a baby ! " cried his brother contemptuously.


I am sorry to disturb you, Stasie, but you
had better go and dress ; I should like to see the
flowers while we can get near them," observed
Mrs. Harding.

Stasie rose, looked at Miss Stretton, and hesitated.

" May I come with you and assist at your
toilette, my dear," she said, in reply to the look.
'*I delight in seeing nice young creatures well
dressed ; and for the daughter of your dear mother
my interest is tenfold. Moreover, I am not without
taste, I flatter myself. May I come ? "

Oh, certainly. Miss "

Pray call me auntie ; there is something
touching in the appellation," interrupted Miss
Stretton ; "and I imagine we two are the sole
surviving members of a once numerous family ; "
she put her handkerchief to her eyes, and Stasie
heartily responding to the appeal, exclaimed 
Come then, auntie, and thank you. I am sure
some fairy godmother has been in a good humour
with me of late to send me a nice auntie and a
kind delightful uncle "  a smile and wave of the
hand to Kharapet, as she left the room preceded
by her new-found relative.

Kharapet, who had risen with the rest, stood an
instant silent, his hands pressed over his heart, a
look of rapture lighting up his sallow face and
deep eyes.

Mrs. Harding smiled as she assisted little Ethel,
from her chair, and let her run away after her

brothers. Kharapet caught the slightly cynical
expression, and exclaimed, " Ah, madam, I fear I
have never succeeded in winning your friendship,
highly though I would value it ; you do not, I
fear, look favourably on the deep, intense affection
which woke in my heart almost at the first sight
of that sweet but friendless girl. Providence has,
I believe, guided my steps to be the fond protector
of her and of her property, which will be precious
to me because it is hers. Why, my dear Mrs.
Harding, does not your husband's trusted friend
find favour in your eyes ? "

My favour is of small importance, Mr. Parapet
; and as to Stasie, young ladies with good
fortunes seldom lack either friends or lovers.
She, however, is fair enough, and I think good

enough, to deserve both for herself alone, yet "

she paused.

Yet," repeated Kharapet, I pray you, continue
; you have stopped some word that would
enlighten me as to your real views. I do beseech
you, speak ! "

Mrs. Harding's pale cheek flushed faintly ; she
hesitated, and then said, " I am very foolish to
give an opinion on what does not concern me, and

if Mr. Harding knew it he would scold me ; nevertheless,
I will say that I think Stasie would be
happier as the wife of an Englishman, and you as
the husband of one of your own countrywomen,
notwithstanding your admiration for the learning
and accomplishments of ours."

You are wrong, dear lady, you are wrong ;
my life's devotion will secure your young friend's
happiness, and  you do not for a moment think
I would betray a confidential word ? "

My opinions are of little moment," she replied
; '' only I warn you not to be too confident
too secure of success."

She bowed and left the room. Kharapet looked
after her, the words " an enemy  an obstacle,"
forming themselves in his brain.

While Mrs. Harding, slowly mounting the
stairs to her dressing-room, murmured to herself,
'' Betray ! Yes ; in the very first tete-tete
with a full exposition of how I tried to make
him understand he was not to tell my husband.
Shall I always be an outspoken fool ! After all
these years of bitter training !"

Meanwhile no misgivings or distrust darkened
the joyousness with which Stasie attired herself.

She was greatly attracted by the sympathy her
aunt evinced, and the pleasantly-implied admiration
of herself and her belongings which that lady
contrived not too openly to convey. I will not
say much about her toilette, because some, if not
all, my young readers might shriek if I described
too accurately a blue-and-white French muslin
dress, flounced, but not draped, worn over a
crinoline, with a handsome sash tied behind ; a
very small bonnet of lace and forget-me-nots
resting on her wavy, abundant hair, which was
not cut in a fringe, but simply parted and
smoothed back as well as its rebellious richness
would permit ; and a black lace mantlet, shrouding,
but not hiding, her pliant figure. Stasie,
however, was highly pleased with herself and
her toilette. Never had she possessed anything
half so smart before.

<< Very nice, indeed ; most becoming," said
Miss Stretton. " I shall really be quite proud of
my niece ! You will come and see me, dear,
will you not ? After all, it is pleasant for near
relatives like ourselves to meet uninterrupted by
comparative strangers. I have a very humble
little lodging, though not ungenteel, in Stafford

Place, Melbourne Grove, where I shall be happy
to receive you ; and it may be a comfort to you
to discuss your plans with one who would fain
be a second mother to you, my poor lonely
child."

Thank you. How good you are ! I will
come the day after tomorrow."

Very well, dear ; the day after tomorrow,
then. Come early and share my simple fare.
A hearty welcome must atone for the absence of
luxuries such as you are accustomed to here."

Oh, I don't care a straw about them. I
only care to have just one or two people to love

me.

Ah, my dear Stasie, you will find plenty
whose fair seeming may deceive and flatter.
Youth, good looks, a fine fortune  these things
command success ; but I trust the instinct of a
noble heart will teach you whom to trust."

 I don't think people are so bad after all,
auntie. And have I a fine fortune % How much ? "

*' My dear, don't you know ? / haven't an

idea ! It is a shame to keep you in the dark.

You really ought to be informed. You are quite

old enough to understand your own position.

VOL. I. 7

Now those beautiful things on the sofa which
Mr. Kharapet covered over so carefully as I
came in, were they his gifts or your own property?"


'' They are mine  some of what were left me
by poor Papa Kharapet."

Why don't you wear some of them to-day ?
I see you have no jewellery ?"

No, I do not care for it in the morning ;
and as Mr. Kharapet did not absolutely give
me the box, I do not like to send a servant
for it."

"I see you are ready. Shall we come downstairs
% I must say adieu to Mrs. Harding
before I go. You find her a pleasant friend,
eh?"

*' Oh, she is delightful, and so kind !"

That's well ; and this Mr. Kharapet  ivhat
a handsome man ! He seems quite devoted
to you, dear ! I could not believe he was brother
to your good stepfather. Why, he is young
enough to have been his son ! Ah, my dear
Stasie, what a sacrifice your precious mother
made for you in marrying that poor old Turk !
I mean, not a Turk exactly  that would have

been too improper. I am sure you ought to love
any one belonging to ber after all sbe went
through for your sake ; but she has had her
reward. Let us go down, dear. Trust me. I
shall never rest until I find out all about everything,
and let you know."

The flower-show was very brilliant, both as
regarded flowers and company. Stasie was
exhilarated and excited ; the delicious perfume of
the trodden grass, the soft rustle and continuous
murmur of the well-dressed crowd, the stirring
sounds of the Guards* band, made her feel as
if suddenly lifted into a region of beauty
and elegance worthy the romance in which she
always vaguely anticipated one day to play a
part.

The fact that a hundred lovely toilettes
eclipsed her own caused her no discomfort 
she felt so happy, so hopeful, that she could
afford to be disinterested.

Who is that beautiful woman in fawn satin,
with poppies in her bonnet, Mrs. Harding ?" she
asked presently.

"I don't know, Stasie. I know very few

people. Mr. Kharapet can tell us more  lie is
quite in the gay world."

Mr. Kharapet has stopped to talk to a lady.
Why, it is Lady Elizabeth Wyatt!"

Is it ?" said Mrs. Harding, turning to look.
I have never met her ; she seems most gracious."

While they looked, Kharapet, who was speaking
with an air of the profoundest deference,
made a slight wave of his hand in their direction,
and Lady Elizabeth walked over to where
they stood.

*' Allow me to present my good friend, Mrs.
Harding, to your ladyship," said Kharapet with
a deep bow. *' You are abbacy acquainted with
Liss Werner, I believe."

Very happy to make your acquaintance,
Mrs. Harding," said Lady Elizabeth politely, but
with a slight tinge of patronage. " I have heard
Mr. Wyatt speak of your husband as having
been most useful to him during his Oriental
wanderings. Mr. Wyatt, you know, has made
the cause of India and our Eastern fellow-christians
his own. Miss Werner ! It is some time
since I had the pleasure of seeing you ; and
really you have grown  grown considerably.

You are quite a young lady. Pray, how old are
you % I presume I may ask ?"

Oh yes, Lady Elizabeth. I shall be eighteen
next month."

*' Eighteen ! Why, it is time you should be
introduced into society. I am sure your kind
friend Mrs. Harding will undertake that task.
By the by, I have a conversazione on the 20th.
I will send you cards. Mr. Kharapet is coming,
of course. Mr. Kharapet is quite Enfant gate
of our set just at present ; and I shall have the
pleasure of calling on you, Mrs. Harding. Is
Miss Werner going to reside with you ?"

There is nothing decided as to Miss Werner's
future abode," replied Mrs. Harding. ''Mr.
Wyatt's approval is requisite before any final
arrangement be made."

Of course, of course ! I assure you, Mr.
Wyatt takes a warm interest in his young ward ;
but as you can imagine, with such numerous and
important claims upon his time he has not much
to spare even for those with whom he is personally
Lie. Shall we move on ? there are some
lovely azaleas and pelargoniums in the larger
tent. Tell me, my dear Mr. Kharapet, is it true

that you are to be presented to the Prince of
Wales on Tuesday ? It would be most desirable
both as a means of increasing your importance
in the estimation of the various meetings which
I hear you are to address, and also it will be to
the credit of the Prince to interest himself in
your project."

With another reverence Kharapet explained
that the rumour was quite unfounded,  adding
with much humility that he did not look for
such distinction.

' But why not, my dear sir ? Why not ?" returned
Lady Elizabeth, who hardly stopped to
hear his answer. " Highly esteemed as you are
by Mr. Wyatt, and that dear, good Lord Saintsbury
! though I regret that my husband and
myself do not quite agree with him on the question
of this rapprochement of the churches. My
views are  though I say it myself  wider ; and
I do not see how any form of Protestantism can
suit the climate, soil, and  and  natural productions
of the East I You want something gorgeous,
glowing, and all that sort of thing. / am for
Protestantism 'pure et simple' The merest
whitewashed barn vivified by the inspired eloquence

of a preacher ! the deep faith of a congregation
1 hut in Europe  Northern Europe !
Whitewash will never do in the East, will it, Mrs.
Harding?"

Mrs. Harding said she supposed not, and
Stasie kept her countenance with some difficulty.

And pray, my dear Miss Werner, have you
made great progress at school \ Have you any
idea of going in for these new examinations 1
Do you take to music or to art ?"

'neither, I am afraid. Lady Elizabeth. I
have not made much progress in anything."

*how is that? You really don't look by
any means stupid ! You must come to luncheon
with me some day, and I shall soon find
out what your abilities are in the musical and
other lines."

''I am sure you will very soon," said Stasie
good-humouredly.

Lady Elizabeth had a way of talking herself
out of breath, then making a little gasp and rushing
on again. She now took up the thread of
her discourse by exclaiming : '' There is Lady
Loftus, one of the most energetic and benevolent
women in London. Come, Mr. Kharapet, I must

introduce you to Lady Loftus. Au revoir, Mrs.
Harding ; I will not forget the cards for my conversazione."
So saying, she hurried away on
Kharapet's arm.

Mrs. Harding and Stasie passed on slowly,
enjoying the beauty and fragrance of the flowers.

I think a back-bone must have been omitted
when Mr. Kharapet's mortal frame was put together,"
said Mrs. Harding with a smile. " I
never saw anything like his bows."

I suppose Eastern politeness is very punctilious,"
replied Stasie thoughtfully; "but he certainly
bows gracefully."

You think so ? I am not a fair judge. I do
not like any thing * Oriental'"

'' I have observed that," returned Stasie; " but
why ? You give me the idea of being too calm
and reasonable for prejudice."

"I wish I were, Stasie; but I am afraid you
have not yet had a key to the enigma of my profound
character."

"Yet I fancy I know you pretty well, dear
Mrs. Harding. Do you think we shall dance at
Lady Elizabeth's party ?"

I am afraid not."

What is the use of giving a party if there is
to be no dancing ?"

There are heaps of parties in London where
people don't dance."

Here some other acquaintances spoke to Mrs.
Harding, and they mixed with the crowd.

It was some time before Kharapet joined
them, but when he did, there was an air of
exultation in his look and bearing, though he
tried hard to suppress it.

I have been detained," he said to Stasie ina
tone of apology, " longer than I expected ; but
Lady Locus was pleased to interest herself in
my project. And, moreover, she addressed some
flattering observations and queries to me respecting
yourself. Her words were precious "

Oh ! what did she say, Hormuz ? Do tell
me, it is so nice to be praised."

She said, ' Is that Mr. Wyatt's ward ? She
is handsome, very handsome, and really looks
like a gentlewoman.' And then she added some
words which I will tell you another time, if
I may."

Ah ! that is because they were not pleasant !
I do not want to hear any more."

"I trust you will not think them unpleasant."


But Stasie's attention was now attracted in
another direction. " Isn't that waltz delicious ?"
she exclaimed. "I wish I could dance to it.
Do you like dancing, Hormuz?"

Dancing ? no. That is not our taste, and it
is one of the few points in which I cannot agree
with English ideas. It would be agony to see you
whirling round in another man's arms  agony ! "

"What nonsense 1" said Stasie, colouring
deeply, with an odd sensation of offence, of being
revolted. " Why do you say such disagreeable
things ? If we should dance at Lady Elizabeth's
party you will have to undergo a good deal of
agony, for I shall dance every time I have a
chance ! "

You are a true woman, Stasie  loving power
and using it to torture !"

Stasie looked straight into his face with her
frank, fearless eyes, and burst into a fit of natural
healthy laughter. "Well, Hormuz," she said,
though you do not like the theatre, you are a
good actor ! "

"Actor!" repeated Hormuz, puzzled, "Do

you not perceive the difference between reality
and acting ? "

Hardly," returned Stasie. " Come, we shall
lose Mrs. Harding."

The next morning brought a total change of
weather. Mr. Harding had an engagement at
home, and was glad to delay his departure till
the rain had somewhat cleared. He was certainly
in a bad humour  first evinced by finding fault
with his curry, rejecting the toasted bacon, and
denouncing the poached eggs. Then Johnnie,
who, as having reached years of comparative discretion,
breakfasted downstairs, having eaten
plentifully, demanded more curry. His mother
refused it, whereupon Mr. Harding, with rough
impatience, exclaimed, " What bosh ! Let the
child have enough to eat. / don't want to see
him skin and bone to suit your refined taste!
Here, my boy, pass over your plate." He piled
it with rice and curry. " If you can eat that
stuff, eat it."

The boy chuckled. " It is very good, papa !
quite as good as it was yesterday."

Wel, eat it then, and hold your tongue !

I am glad it will not all be wasted, as so much is
in my house ! Stasie, when you have a husband
and a house of your own, I hope you will not
let things run to rack and ruin."

I hope not," said Stasie, with an uneasy
glance at Mrs. Harding. " But I am sure I shall
never manage better than Mrs. Harding."

The husband laughed a harsh scornful laugh,
and took up the paper. There was a few
minutes' silence broken by the entrance of the
parlour-maid with a note. " For Miss Yerner,"
she said. " A young gentleman left it."

It is from Ella Mathews," cried Stasie, with
much interest, after she had glanced at the contents.
" I suppose Bob left it. She wants to
see me very much ; she says she has a great deal
to tell me. Something has evidently happened ;
I must go to-day. There is nothing particular
to be done, is there, Mrs. Harding ? "

I think not," replied that lady.

You will not go in such weather," said Mr.
Harding, looking up from his paper. " And who
the deuce is 'Bob?"

*' Oh ! he is Mrs. Mathews' second son ; the
one that is to be a doctor."

"Hum, a medical student! The biggest
scamps out."

I am afraid lie is not very steady," said Stasie ;
but I believe he is better than he used to be."

"Not a very nice acquaintance for you,"
growled Mr. Harding.

Acquaintance ! " echoed Stasie, laughing.
Why, he is like a brother to me ; not a
favourite brother, I confess. You forget that I
know no other home than Mrs. Mathews' ! "

"The sooner you forget it the better," said Mr.
Harding, resuming his paper, " or you will find
the whole party a millstone round your neck."

'' You are not in earnest," cried Stasie, opening
her eyes with amazement. " You can't think
I could be so worthless ! "

Mr. Harding made no reply, and Stasie caught
a warning look from Mrs. Harding, which suggested
the prudence of dropping the subject.
After a few moments' uneasy silence she said,
*' I promised Ethel and Willie to read to them,
as they are not able to go out ; I daresay they
are waiting for me," and left the room unheeded
by her host.

Mr. Harding's tone chafed her beyond what

this words seemed to merit. " Is it possible," she
asked herself, as she mounted the stair, that
under his good humour and honhommie lurks an
ill-tempered brute ? that is the reason perhaps
that Mrs. Harding is so pale and quiet ! Perhaps
it is only a passing fit of irritation. Men have a
great deal to trouble them out-of-doors. Still,
worries or no worries, I am afraid I should have
a bitter battle with a husband who spoke to me
like that."

Meantime Mr. Harding threw down his paper
and drummed for a minute with his large heavy
fingers on the table; then, addressing his wife, he
burst out 

You are about as great a blunderer as ever
lived, in spite of your education and refinement,
and all that bosh ! " looking at her while he
spoke with fierce anger, which he evidently did
not take the trouble to conceal or to control.

"What has been my last blunder ? " asked
Mrs. Harding, a slight quiver moving her lips.

Oh ! you need not try to bamboozle me; it's
not to be done ! I can see plain enough you are
going against me and Kharapet about that girl,
and it's all a  blank  blank nuisance."

' Mr. Kharapet has been complaining of me,
I suppose ? "

*' Not lie ! he never said anything about it.
Don't you think I can see for myself ? Now you
had better leave it alone. That fellow Kharapet
has taken a mad fancy to the girl, and we had
better not interfere with him. I confess I never
expected such an upshot ; but his position gives
him a good deal of power, and he might make
things disagreeable for us, and for her too. If I
hadn't put myself out of the running years ago,
he shouldn't have had it all his own way, by
Jove ! I'd have cut him out. You don't find a
fine girl with a fine fortune every day, and I am
pretty sure to have distanced him."

'* It is much to be regretted that you are not
free to try your chance," said his wife in a low
voice.

Well, that can't be helped now. I know I
made a fool of myself, but I would not mind if
you would give that care to my comforts and
interests I have a right to expect."

Mrs. Harding folded up her table-napkin in
silence ; and after finishing the remainder of his
cup of tea, Mr. Harding resumed 

So mind you don't make a fool of yourself,
but back up Kharapet all you can. Try and
put that obstinate girl off lier whim of going to
see those beggarly Mathews people ; there is a
blank cub of a son there, and they will be trying
to snap her up for him. Do you think she has
any hankering that way ? "

I know nothing of Stasie's inclinations. She
seems to me too light-hearted  too frank  to be
troubled with any sentimental feeling."

Hum ! women are so infernally cunning.
What's that?" The front-door bell sounded.
' I hope it's not that fellow Kharapet. I don't
want him here philandering every hour of the
day ; it's enough to make a dog sick."

Here the parlour-maid entered with a card.
*' The gentleman wishes to see you."

Oh, Mr. Williams, the solicitor to the Seton
Park Building Company. Have you shown him
into the library ? "

Yes, sir."

Mr. Harding rose, brushed the crumbs from

his waistcoat, twirled his moustaches, and walked

into the next room, whence Mrs. Harding could

hear him exclaim in his heartiest and most cordial

VOL. I. 8

voice, "Williams ! very glad to see you, my dear
fellow."

Stasie lead finished the story she promised to
read to her little friends, and was in her own
room selecting a suitable present for Ella among
the treasures she had received the day before,
when Mrs. Harding tapped at the door; there
was a suspicious red recently-bathed look about
her eyes, which Stasie quickly observed, and
drew her own conclusions.

Oh, Mrs. Harding, which of these brooches
do you think Ella would like ? "

I cannot possibly say, dear. I never even
saw the young lady."

Well, which would you like yourself? "

I do not like either much, though they are
valuable ; still there is nothing prettier. I am
not fond of Eastern jewellery, or anything Eastern
indeed."

Are you not ? I have rather romantic ideas
of the East ; there is something weird and mysterious
even in the words Eastern and Oriental."

Stasie, dear, I wish you would give up this
expedition to Islington. It irritates Mr. Harding,
and would annoy Mr. Kharapet."

*' Mr. Kharapet, indeed," cried Stasie, putting
down the brooches with a slap on the dressing-table.
'' Tell me, does it vex you f "

Me ? no. I am not at all opposed to your
going, but I have been sent to dissuade you."

I thought so," said Stasie, sitting down and
beginning to put on her boots energetically.
Well, I shall get off as fast as I can. Why
should Mr. Harding object to my going to my
oldest and, except yourself, my best friends ?
Does he think he will persuade me to cut
them ? "

'For one thing, Stasie, it is hardly right that
you should go alone all that way."

Why not, Mrs. Harding % "  (diving into a
bonnet-box and taking out her hat)  " I am sure
I have gone often enough from Islington to the
Circus, and from Forest Hill home, before Mr.
Kharapet came here to make a fuss. I know
my way, and I am sure I am quiet enough."

Yes, I know you are ; but if you wait for a
day or two I will go with you myself"

No, dear Mrs. Harding, you will not : you
wouldn't be let, I see that ; and I should just be
drawn on from day to day, and have to go back

to school without seeing Mrs. Mathews. I should
be angry with you for coming here to prevent

my going, only I think I understand " here

Stasie broke off suddenly and kissed Mrs.
Harding.

"My husband is right, you are obstinate,"
said the latter with a smile and slight increase
of colour. " Come back as early as you can.
Mr. Kharapet dines with us to-day, and you
must pacify both gentlemen."

"I think I shall manage Mr. Kharapet at
any rate," said Stasie, fixing on her hat with
some care.

Take my advice on one point," resumed
Mrs. Harding; "take your gift to Miss Mathews,
but say nothing about it ; it will save talk and
trouble."

"But why? are not the things my own, and
can I not dispose of them as I choose ? " cried
Stasie, with an angry sparkle in her eyes.

"You are under age, dear, and you have to
deal with men who do not understand the joys
of giving''

I am sure Mr. Kharapet does. What a
lovely gold bangle he has given me ! "

True, yet "

Well, dear Mrs. Harding, I will say nothing
now until I have talked more to you; but if
there is to be any difficulty about it I will take
Mrs. Mathews and Janet a present too. Why,
I shall never want half those things."

Do not be so hasty : believe me, a woman's
only safe line is craft and conciliation. '

Oh, Mrs. Harding !" indignantly, " I cannot
believe that ; it is too humiliating. What a
horrible idea of life. I may try to be conciliating,
but I will never be crafty. Now, will you
help me on with my waterproof ? Is Mr. Harding
in the dining-room ? "

No, he has gone out with a gentleman ; so
you are quite safe."

*safe!" cried Stasie, "I was just going
down to ask if he would come with me to find a
cab."

Mrs. Harding stared ; Stasie burst out laughing,
gave her a hasty kiss, ran downstairs, and
soon the sound of the front door closing told
that she had left the house.

Mrs. Harding went to the window, and saw
the rebel step into a cab. She looked kindly.

sadly, enviously, after the tall slight figure whose
springy step bespoke hope and energy.

Then the watcher's misty thoughts rolled
slowly away, leaving the background of the past
clear and sharp, like a distant landscape in the
intervals of sudden showers. Her own quiet
happy girlhood in a country vicarage came vividly
before her. Its homely pleasures, its poverty
and self-denial ; its hearty affection and passing
quarrels ; the first dawn of love for a student
cousin, obliterated first by separation, and then
by the ardent suit of her husband ; the bright
hopes, the warm liking and gratitude with
which she accepted him ; the contentment of
her parents, the exultation of her sister at her
promising marriage. How vividly it all came
back to her ! and also the quick, dreadful awakening
 the rapidly-growing knowledge that she
was wedded to a human animal, to whom she
was a mere possession, with whom companionship
was impossible, and whom even tolerance
could scarce make bearable. In the familiarity
of married life it was hard to say which mood
was the most repellant  coarse good humour or
fierce and brutal anger. But the indissoluble link

was securely forged, and Mrs. Harding knew
that in silence and endurance she must wear out
her life ! Then came the death of an old uncle,
from whom her husband, rather than herself, had
great expectations," and whose will had disappointed
them, since which time Harding had
shown more and more clearly that he looked
upon his marriage as a sad mistake  the fatal
result of temporary weakness.

As to her own dear home, how rarely she had
been able to visit it ! and when she did, the impossibility
of speaking frankly, out of the fulness of
her heart, respecting her married life, robbed her
brief breathing space of its charm and healing.
How weary to look back at her ten or eleven
years of married life ; and if it was less weary to
look forward it was because that future had ceased
to be hers, and had passed into the possession of
her children, therefore a gleam of hope shimmered
over the dark cloudy abyss of coming years.
Ardently she wished that Stasie's might be a
different fate, and thought with satisfaction of
the girl's brave, if rather impetuous, spirit. " Yet
the bravest must give way to the wear of perpetual
opposition, continual detraction, if not

strong enough to silence or trample it down, and
/ am so weak ! "

No regrets or reminiscences, however, clouded
Stasie's heart as she sped onwards to Islington,
rather a sense of pleasant exhilaration at having
defied Mr. Harding, in which was quite as much
of girlish fun as self-will.

Why should I trouble myself too much about
Mr. Harding ?" she thought ; " Hormuz Kharapet
will back me up, and I am not doing anything
out of the way or unreasonable. I will not let
him or any one else frighten me into a nonentity.
I am afraid Mr. Harding is not such a good fellow
as he seems. If Mrs. Harding was quite
happy, would she recommend ' craft ' ? Pooh !
/ am not obliged to submit to any one."

Mrs. Harding waited with some anxiety for
her young 'protegees return, and as dinner hour
approached, became nervously fearful lest Mr.
Harding and Kharapet should arrive before her.
To her great relief she was informed that "Miss
Werner had come in and gone to her room at
once, just before a peal of the front-door bell
announced Mr. Harding's advent. Kharapet

came with him, and no inquiries were made
respecting the rebel.

Although Stasie had carried out her own
desire, it struck Mrs. Harding that she looked
fatigued and depressed. Nothing, however, was
said on that or any other subject of interest until
the servants had left the room after dinner, when
Mr. Harding, who seemed to have completely
regained good humour and placidity, remarked,
while filling her glass with claret, " So you have
got back safe and sound, Stasie ? Did you meet
with any adventures ? "

I must entreat you, Stasie," exclaimed
Kharapet, who had been remarkably taciturn
and grave of aspect during dinner, "not again
to go about in this independent manner. It is
not meet for a young lady of your or any
position to go forth quite alone, especially in a
great town. Had Mr. Harding informed me a
little earlier of your intention, I should have gone
to seek and bring you back. Surely there is a
want of delicacy in such daring ? "

Stasie flushed crimson. If she loved praise,
so she resented blame. "You know nothing
about English girls, Mr. Kharapet ! " she replied

hastily, " nor English, life. I should be sorry to
think London was such an uncivilised place that
a girl could not go about alone ! Why should
you and Mr. Harding make a fuss noir, when all
the years of my life before no one ever cared how
I came and went ? How often have I come here
from Forest Hill alone, or the greater part of the
way alone, and nobody ran away with me ? I
should like to see any one try ! "

Kharapet looked at her with a curious sidelong
glance, half admiration, half alarm.

"Ah I you've a spirit of your own, and no
mistake ; but if I were young and free I think
I'd try the running away. I am sure you are
well worth the trouble ! " cried Mr. Harding.

I think you are very tired, Stasie," said Mrs.
Harding gently ; " you look weary."

No, not tired exactly ; but I am a little cast
down, for I am going to lose my good friends ;
Mrs. Mathews is going away."

How is that ? " said Harding rather eagerly,
while Kharapet looked up with evident interest.

Mr. Baldwin  that is the gentleman Ella
Mathews is engaged to has been appointed one
of the masters of a big proprietors school or

college at C , so they are to be married soon ;

and Mrs. Mathews is going to give up her house

and go to C too, where she intends to take

boys to board, and they are all in such good
spirits. I feel a wretch for being sorry ! and yet
I am very sorry, for they will be lost to me !
Ella will, of course, be taken up with her husband,
and I can t say I should like to be in the
house with a parcel of boys ! "

Ah ! that's capital for the Mathews family,
though," said Mr. Harding, with an air of satisfaction
; " the old missionary didn't leave them
too well off."

'' Have you ever seen the janc ? " asked Mrs.
Harding.

'* Oh yes ! often before I went to school.
He was a great friend of Harry Mathews', and
used often to come in to tea and supper."

Kharapet offered a silent thanksgiving that
Ella Mathews " young man " did not know of
Stasie's fortune, as the Syrian never doubted the
result of fuller information.

There was a pause, during which Mr. Harding
filled himself a glass of port, and pushed the
apricots towards Kharapet. Stasie meantime

coloured, grew paler, and fidgeted with her
napkin. At last she broke out, " There is something
I want to do so much, if you and Mr.
Kharapet will let me ; and I am sure you will, because
it is only right ! "

Mrs. Harding smiled. " Come, out with it,
Stasie, I see you are half afraid of your own proposition."


That is because I am a goose," she exclaimed ;
I surely have a right to ask for something of my
own \ "

My dear," said Mr. Harding, " you may as
anything you like."

I understand," returned Stasie, with a smile
and nod. " Well, you see it will be very costly
to poor Mrs. Mathews this moving, though she
hopes to get on ever so much better when she is
settled; and then she has to give Bob money,
because he is to stay in London."

'' And who is ' Bob ' ? " asked Kharapet.

Oh ! the second boy ; he is a medical student.
Now, as I lived so long with them, and Mrs.
Mathews was quite like a mother to me, I should
like to give her a little present  something
useful."

Pray, what do you think of giving," asked
Mr. Harding in a peculiar tone, while Kharapet
kept profound silence.

Well, there is nothing so useful as money,
and  and I think a hundred pounds would be a
great help."

Mr. Harding burst into a loud fit of laughter,
and Kharapet breathed the words " a hundred
pounds ! eighty-six Mohammed Shah Kerans," in
an awe struck tone.

Stasie was dreadfully confused by this way of
taking her daring suggestion, but she was true and
staunch, and rallied her forces to repeat the attack.

Do, dear Mr. Harding, tell me how much
money I have, and then I shall know what I
may give. Surely, if I am well oflP, and Ella tells
me I am, I can spare a hundred pounds ? "

Miss Ella Mathews is a confounded chatter-box,"
said Mr. Harding sharply. " I can tell you,
Stasie, you are not rich enough to scatter your
money about in that fashion, and, by Jove, you
shall not, while Kharapet and I have hold of it.
When you are your own mistress you may make
ducks and drakes of it, and you will too if you
haven't the sense to hear reason."

But a hundred pounds is not much, and as
it is my own money it can only matter to myself.
It can make no difference to you ! and I
shall be so very very much obliged to you 1 "

Mr. Harding laughed again, but less unpleasantly.


"My dear child! you don't know what you
are talking about ! Why, I dare not give you
your own money  I'd have the guardian down
upon me ! We can do nothing without his consent
; and he would think Kharapet and myself
off our heads if we proposed such a scheme. It
is simply and completely out of the question,
aunt it, Kharapet ? "  

"It is so utterly unheard of and foolish, and
and wicked," cried Kharapet, almost stuttering
in his eager denunciation of poor Stasie's
outrageous idea, " that I doubt if it could have
originated with Stasie herself ! Confess now that
these good people suggested this liberality." He
bent his head slightly to one side, pressing his
hands together, and looking with a slow insinuating
smile into Stasie's eyes.

"They did nothing of the kind," she cried,
firing up. " How can you have such mean

thoughts ? Mrs. Mathews and Ella are incapable
of asking for money  quite as incapable as you
are yourself ! I wish you would remember the
Mathews are my friends  my best friends 
when I had no one else to care for me."

A care that was always well paid for," put
in Mr. Harding.

*' And what is the use of having money if I
cannot help them," continued Stasie, flashing just
one angry contemptuous glance by way of answer
at Mr. Harding.

You will find the use of it all in good time,"
he returned coolly ; '' but for the present what
you want is out of the question, and there is an
end of it."

' Do you not think that if it were possible
I should not try to meet your wishes ? " said
Kharapet soothingly.

Stasie was silent. In fact, anger and disappointment
were almost too much for her. She
felt the hot tears ready to fall, but fearing the
species of contemptuous indulgence with which
they would be received, she mastered her emotion
by a stout effort.

''If it cannot be, why, I must say no more,"

said she, at last, with downcast eyes, crimson
cheeks, and throbbing breast, and kept profound
silence till Mrs. Harding made a move to leave
the room, when she escaped to her own, and enjoyed
the luxury of a good cry, calling Mr. Harding
by some very bad names in her heart.

Lady Elizabeth Wyatt's house in C Street,

Mayfair, was old-fashioned and roomy, but not
imposing, its furniture and decorations by no
means costly or elegant ; yet her rooms looked
like the dwelling of a gentlewoman, and had a
character of their own, from the number of curiosities
and specimens of various arts and manufactures
profusely scattered about. The aspect
of the company was equally cosmopolitan, for Mr.
Percy Wyatt was exceedingly liberal, both politically
and socially, and all sorts and conditions,
both of men and women, were wont to assemble
at Lady Elizabeth's conversazione. To Stasie,
however, all seemed very grand and a little alarming.
The staircase was bordered with flowering
shrubs, and crowded with gaily-dressed people.
It was some time before Mrs. Harding and her
young friend could effect an entrance into the
VOL. L 9

room where Lady Elizabeth stood to receive her
guests. Kharapet, who of course accompanied
them, was of little use in a crowd of this or of
any description. He was disposed to yield to
pressure, to bow and back, and make way for
every one, and it was by her own exertions and
quiet perseverance that Mrs. Harding at last
reached the lady of the house.

'' Ah ! Mrs. Harding  Miss Werner ! very glad
to see you. Are you not late ? and where is Mr.
Harding ? "

' He rarely goes out of an evening. Lady Elizabeth,
and we have been some time making our
way so far."

No doubt ; we are rather crowded to-night.
Have you had tea ? Mr. Kharapet, the Duchess
of Pembroke desired me to present you to her ;
she heard you speak at Lord Saintsbury's meeting,
and was quite pleased : she is in the next room.
Mrs. Harding, we must find a seat for you, or
would you like to look at some very curious
specimens of Lapland work with fish-bones and
dried sea weed ? They were presented to Mr,
Wyatt by those most interesting people who were
here last autumn. Mr. Metcalf," to a pale, slim,

typical evening-party young man, "Mr. Metcalf
Mrs. Harding  Miss Yerner ; pray take these
ladies to see the Lapland work, and those new
photographs. I congratulate you on your dress,
Miss Werner,"  coolly viewing her through her
eye-glass ; " it is in good taste ; you are looking
very nice  really very nice 1 "

Thank you," said Stasie, laughing.

Come, Mr. Kharapet," continued her ladyship,
'the Duchess will be going immediately,
she only looked in en route to the Princess's concert;"
and Kharapet, bowing profoundly, followed
her with a bland and beatific expression
of countenance.

If you will take care of Miss Yerner I will
follow you," said Mrs. Harding, as the pale young
man hesitated how to divide himself, and they
proceeded slowly in the opposite direction to that
in which Lady Elizabeth had carried off Kharapet.

The loud buzz of conversation, the warm perfumed
atmosphere, the multitude of strange faces,
produced a bewildering effect upon Stasie ; she
fancied every other person against whom they
brushed must be a celebrity, and she burned to
know who was who, but hesitated to ask her

cavalier, to whom she felt by no means attracted.
Meantime J he seemed somewhat at a loss for conversation.
He asked if she had heard Rebellion
Lucretia, or Giuliano in Martha? or if she
had attended any of Dickens's readings ? to all of
which Stasie replied in the negative, whereupon
a pause ensued, broken at length by Mr. Metcalf
remarking languidly, " Wonderful woman, Lady
Elizabeth ! she collects the largest amount of curiosities,
animate and inanimate, to be met with
anywhere."

"Yes, I should like to know who they are,"
said Stasie eagerly. *' I have never been here
before. Do tell me who some of them are ? "

"I do not know the half of them ; but there,
that lady with the toasted hair and a red velvet
bodice is Miss Malcolm, the famous women's
rights woman, and the bald man in spectacles is
the celebrated Tompkins, the philanthropist," etc.
etc. ; and he continued to pour forth a large amount
of information which yet did not greatly enlighten
his hearer, who felt a not unusual degree of disappointment
at the aspect of the various '' famous"
and  renowned " individuals pointed out.

But are there no other really remarkable

people here ? " said Stasie at length, after they had
inspected some queer, dingy-looking, oddly-shaped
garments, covered with a kind of entangled pattern.

"I should like to see some of the great writers
or artists, or Lord Lytton or Millais, or Jefferson
the actor. Oh, I should like to see him  shouldn't
you, Mrs. Harding ? "

But Mrs. Harding had turned to speak to an
acquaintance and did not hear.

I don't think you meet so many literary and
artistic people here as you do travellers and distinguished
foreigners, and  and starters of new
movements and all that sort of thing," returned
the pale young man vaguely. " Here is a seat Missa
 two seats, and I am afraid I must wish you
good-evening ; I am going on to Mrs. Perkins de
Parens's dance. Know the de Parkynses ?
Charming people  enormously rich  sorry I am
engaged  a  good evening."

Stasie sat down, feeling a little desolate for
the moment.

Mrs. Harding seemed absorbed in her conversation
with a white-haired, dignified, clerical-looking
old gentleman, and for the moment oblivious
of her charge.

Looking round for some object of interest,
Stasie's attention was arrested by a gentleman
near the door, who was speaking to a fat old lady
in a towering head-dress of lace and feathers.

A tall gentleman  tall and large framed,
though spare. A well-shaped head, short wavy,
almost black hair, a dark complexion, a firm chin
clean shaved, long moustaches, heavy eyebrows,
and somewhat sunken temples. These do not
sound like the items of a handsome whole, nor
was the object of Stasie's notice a handsome man,
yet he interested her more than any of the celebrities
who had been pointed out.

There was a composed steadfastness in his
look  an air of repose in his attitude that pleased
Stasie's rather vivid fancy ; and she amused herself
by imagining to what class of celebrity this
tall gentleman might belong. He was not a
poet, she felt sure ; there was nothing at all
dreamy in his aspect. If a litterateur he must
be a historian, an essayist, or a political economist;
perhaps he was an explorer of strange
lands, or a " war correspondent." Yes ! the last
fitted him best. He had quite a soldierly look
and bearing. Perhaps he was a soldier, and had

been in a dozen fights during the Indian Mutiny.
She wished she had noticed him in time to ask
Mr. Metcalf who he was. Then she began to
think how different his swarthiness was to that
of Kharapet ; though nearly as dark, his darkness
was distinctly European. " I wonder what
his eyes are like," thought Stasie lazily. She
was beginning to feel bored by sitting there
silent and unnoticed.

Even as she thought, the unknown, who had
been listening courteously to the fat lady's eager
talk, looked round as if a little weary. His eyes
met Stasie's, and dwelt upon her with quiet
scrutiny  a scrutiny that did not in the least
embarrass or disturb her ; but his eyes were disappointing,
of no particular colour, rather deeply
set, and decidedly too light for his general complexion.


She looked calmly at the stranger with an odd
feeling of fascination, which yet seemed natural
and in no way oppressive. This encounter of
glances lasted perhaps a second or more  it
seemed much longer to Stasie ; then he shook
hands with the fat lady and walked away, passing
Kharapet, who entered at the same moment,

and came straight to where Mrs. Harding stood,
still conversing with her friend ; then perceiving
Stasie, at once took the seat beside her.

"You must forgive my prolonged absence'
he said earnestly ; ' but Her Grace was most kind
and condescending, and detained me to discuss a
plan for a meeting which she proposes to have at
Waterford House  a ladies' meeting  Her Grace
in the chair. She wishes to raise a fund to supply
the Christian women of Syria with straw hats to
supersede veils, and copies of two works which
seem to form the foundation of female education
in England  Magnates Questions and The Guide
to Knowledge  but "

Stasie interrupted him with a merry laugh.
What nonsense !" she said. " Do tell me who is
the tall gentleman who passed you as you came in ? "

I did not notice any tall gentleman," returned
Kharapet, looking round quickly. * There
are several about here."

Oh ! he has gone away now, but he just
passed as you came in, and he is rather more
like a remarkable person than any of the others."

Well, / did not remark him," said Kharapet.
Tell me, Stasie, do these crowds please you ? or

would you not, like myself, prefer the happy
seclusion of a peaceful home with those you love
beyond all that the world can give of grandeur
and ambition ? " When Kharapet tried to be
charming, he was apt to use what he considered
fine language.

Stasie laughed again, and bestowed a mischievous
glance upon him. " No matter how
much I might love any one," she said, " I should
like variety sometimes, and a crowd occasionally !
But tell me, are you going to translate Magnate
and The Guide to Knowledge I assure you
they are not worth the trouble ! You must tell
the Duchess that the march of intellect has left
them far behind. And do you believe your
countrywomen would wear the straw hats Her
Grace wishes to provide ?"

A curious smile glittered in Kharapet's eyes.
"We must try to gently guide this somewhat
ignorant zeal," he said. Here Mrs. Harding
brought her prolonged conversation to a close,
and approached them. Kharapet rose and offered
her his seat. She looked paler than usual, though
her eyes were animated.

Excuse me for leaving you so long," she said

to Stasie, " but I recognised an old friend of my
father's  the Dean of Llanmenai  whom I have
not seen for years, and we had so much to say to
each other. I fear you have felt neglected, dear."

'not at all! I have been amused looking
about and conjecturing who a tall gentleman
standing near the door might be. Did you see
him, Mrs. Harding?"

No, my back was to the door."

I must say, however," resumed Stasie, " that
I do not see the use of lighting up one's rooms
and decorating them with lovely flowers when
there is no dancing or music."

But there will be music," said Mrs. Harding.
"Lady Elizabeth told the Dean that a new
American contralto was to make her debut here
this evening, so let us go into the farther drawing-room.
I caught a glimpse of a piano there ;
come, Mr. Kharapet."

They found places with some difficulty, and
the best part of the evening now came for Stasie.
The American songstress had a glorious voice,
and sang with passion and dramatic power. Soon
the present ceased to exist, at least for one of her
hearers. Other scenes rose up out of the realms of

imagination, and unrolled themselves to Stasie's
mental vision ; all that was sweetest and tenderest
in her memory awoke to the magic of the
music, almost melting her to tears. But suddenly
the spell was broken, the music ceased, and Mrs.
Harding was saying, '' Stasie, here is Mr. Wyatt."

It was so long since Stasie had seen her
guardian, she felt as if making his acquaintance
for the first time. He was a man below middle
height, but broad and stout, with a lion-like head
and thick beard which added to the likeness.
His eyes were kindly but somewhat unsteady,
and the impressiveness of his words was impaired
by a slight occasional hesitation.

Miss Werner, ah ! indeed, to be sure ! Lady
Elizabeth mentioned you were to be here. Very
glad to see you ! quite grown up  quite a young
lady  a charming young lady, eh, Mrs. Harding ?
We must be making fresh arrangements for
you. Ah ! Kharapet, you little thought what a
precious charge your worthy brother committed
to our care," he said.

I am deeply impressed by the sense of my
responsibility," returned Kharapet.

Have you had a  sandwich  or anything ?
Allow me," resumed Mr. Wyatt to Mrs. Harding,
offering his arm, and leading her towards the
wide landing, where light refreshments were laid
out. ' I have really been so much occupied and
overworked' he went on, after he had administered
to. the wants of his guests, "that I have
been quite unable to attend to my fair ward's
affairs. It is indeed time something definite
were arranged. Will you give my compliments
to Mr. Harding, and say I am quite at his service
(and Mr. Kharapet's) for any day next week they
may choose to appoint, excerpt Wednesday, when
I am on committee. I fear, my dear Miss Yerner,
you must think me very negligent of your business,
and a "

I fear my affairs must be a trouble to you ;
but please, Mr. Wyatt, do try and arrange forme
to leave school."

School ! yes, certainly, by all means : quite
too bad that you should be shut up at school
when you ought to be adorning society. Eh,
Kharapet ? we must see to this. Another glass
of claret, Mrs. Harding  no ? Kharapet, do look
for Lady Elizabeth. I am not sure what our

engagements are for the next week or ten days,
but  a  a  you must really give us the pleasure

of your company at dinner or luncheon, or "

he paused, fearful of committing himself. " Perhaps,"
he began again more cheerfully and decidedly,
'perhaps you might like an admission
into the ladies' gallery of the House of Commons.
There is not much going on at present, but next
week "

Oh, thank you," cried Stasie, her eyes
sparkling ; " that will be delightful, will it not,
Mrs. Harding ? I should so like to hear Gladstone
and Disraeli speak."

Ah ! a young politician. But you will
excuse me ; I see Prince Zneezeouski is going, I
must speak to him ;" and Mr. Wyatt disappeared
just as Kharapet returned with Lady Elizabeth.

Are you going, Mrs. Harding ? it really is
not late. What did Mr. Wyatt want ? "

Something about me, I think," said Stasie,
colouring.

Ah ! well, my dear Miss Werner, I shall send
you a little note when I know Mr. Wyatt's
wishes, and we must see you sometimes while
you are in town. Good-night, Mrs. Harding;

goodnight, Mr. Kharapet. By the way, the
dear Duchess thinks of fixing the 30th for her
meeting. Remember you must lunch here and
come with me. I am afraid Mr. Wyatt will
not be able to attend ; he has to support some
stupid motion about factory children. Goodnight."


    

The conversazione at Lady Elizabeth Wyatt's
was on the whole disappointing. Stasie had
met with no adventure, and received very little
notice. She had in an indistinct way, unacknowledged
even to herself, expected both. Parapet'
s undisguised admiration had raised her self-estimate
to undue proportions, and she had
anticipated she knew not what of triumph or
success. She dearly loved admiration and amusement,
but fortunately for herself was blessed
with a certain amount of humour and a healthy
readiness to throw aside disagreeable. She
therefore told herself she was a fool to expect
special success in a London party, where so
many prettier, better-dressed, and more highly-bred
girls than herself were sure to be assembled.
"They are rather different from Miss Boaden's

young ladies," she thought, as she dressed herself
next morning. " But some of the people were
very queer. Hormuz certainly looked handsome.
What lovely eyes he has I He seems quite a
favourite with all the great people too. I wonder
why he has a sort of timidity in his manner.
What has he to be afraid of? That tall dark
gentleman looked as if he would have talked
coolly to an emperor." Then her thoughts
strayed to the cruel disappointment of her generous
wish to help her friend Mrs. Mathews. She
knew that it took all that good woman's care
and forethought  a perpetual mental strain  to
make both ends meet, and keep a decent appearance
in the eyes of the world. Then she had
such a thorn in her side (familiar but admirable
simile) in Bob. Stasie recalled an ominous shake
of Ella's head when that young man was mentioned,
for which she had had no time to ask an
explanation, and she feared Mrs. Mathews was
not quite aware of all the difficulties which lay
before her. What a dreadful shame it was
that she (Stasie) was not permitted to help her.
What if she spoke to Mr. Wyatt ? she would not
mind doing it a bit ; but somehow she could not

hope much from him, or imagine him opposing
Messieurs Harding and Kharapet. "They are
all so smooth and civil, but somehow they don't
mind me in the least. I am fed and petted, but
utterly disregarded as a rational being, and this
is to go on for three years. I don't know how I
am to bear it. I begin to think I shall quarrel
outright with Mr. Harding if I live in the house
with him. I believe I had better stay with Mrs.
Mathews, boys or no boys. It would be nice
too to be near Ella and Mr. Baldwin. What a
kind, good little man he is ! I wonder, though,
she could ever fall in love with him, yet I believe
he is clever and learned." Here her meditations
were interrupted by the breakfast bell, and she
ran away downstairs, for punctuality was a
deadly sin in Mr. Harding's eyes.

In the afternoon of the following day Mrs.
Harding went out, as Stasie termed it, "in state,"
to make several ceremonious visits  that is, she
put on her very best bonnet, and had a smart
hired brougham.

I know I ought to go with you, for you will
be bored to death," said Stasie, as they rose from

luncheon. "But I do want to call on my aunt
or grand-aunt, Miss Stretton ; she will think me
remiss, and I feel drawn towards my only relative.
She amuses me too."

"Pray do not mind me," returned Mrs.
Harding, smiling. " I am too well accustomed
to be bored to shrink from any amount. I
will call with you on Miss Stretton and leave
you there."

Thank you very much," cried Stasie, as she
went upstairs to make her outdoor toilette.

Miss Stretton's residence was in one of the
short streets leading out of Melbourne Grove,
which at that period was not absorbed in " Whiteley's"
enormous "frontage"  a semi-detached
house of good size and appearance, with a rather
ragged garden in front, and a rail or two missing
from the ornamental fence.

Miss Stretton was at home, and they were
shown into a tiny little back parlour, overlooking
a garden festooned with clothes hung out
to dry, and furnished apparently with old, not
elegant, extracts from other and more favoured
rooms.

Having caught her foot in a hole in the carpet,
VOL. I. 10

and stumbled against a rickety table which she
almost capsized, Mrs. Harding effected an entrance,
followed by Stasie.

This is a miserable place for my aunt to live
in," said the latter.

'rit is only a temporary abode, I suppose,"
returned Mrs. Harding. *' She does not seem
sure of her future plans."

After a few minutes' waiting Miss Stretton, ina
rather worn black dress, but with a smart cap,
elaborate lace collar, unexceptionable cuffs, and
an air of haste, made her appearance.

Dear Mrs. Harding  my sweet Stasie  show
good of you to come so soon to see a lonely individual
like myself! How are the precious pets?
and you, Stasie ? I need not ask ; you are the
picture of blooming health."

Having received satisfactory assurances that
all was well. Miss Stretton drew forward the
least unsteady chair for Mrs. Harding's accommodation,
rummaged out a moth-eaten hassock
for her feet and proceeded 

"I ought to be ashamed to receive you in
this poor little parlour after your lovely house,
but I know you are too high-minded to despise

those whose worldly goods are few and far
between ; and really I am fortunate in having a
landlady who permits me to receive my visitors
in her private sitting-room,  instead of dragging
them up to the top of the house,  for as I hope
not to be here long, it would be foolish extravagance
to indulge in more than one room."

*rare you going away, aunt ? " asked Stasie,
who felt an instinctive wish to keep her newfound
relative near her. " I hope not."

"You dear child !" effusively. ''I am quite
flattered, but what can I do ? I am obliged
to seek employment while yet I am active, and
provide for a rainy day ! "

'' Very sensible indeed ; and have you anything
in view % " asked Mrs. Harding.

"Yes ; that is, I have answered an advertisement,
which may lead to something. You see," ina
severely judicial tone, " the present rage for
education puts me at a disadvantage ! I only profess
to be a fairly-well-informed gentlewoman. I
might conscientiously undertake to prepare my
pupils for refined society, but I could not fit them
for learned professorships. So I am out of date, like
the lighter graces that lent such a charm to life."

And Miss Stretton put her head to one side
with a little deprecatory smile, as if she embodied
all the graces that could charm drawing-room
or salon. She was unmistakably lady - like,
but her refinement was limp, as if damp and
hard wear had taken the curl out of it.

Stasie looked kindly down upon her from the
glorious heights of youth and strength, both
untried and unbroken, and thought how terrible
it must be to have lived through both, into
the dull cloudy autumn time, even beyond the
colouring of the changing leaf, almost into the
bareness and darkened days of winter, and to be
poor and alone, without the material solace, the
luxurious lodging, the delicate eating, the rich
clothing, the respectful observance, which waits
on wealthy age !

Surely I can be of some use to her, thought
Stasie, as she beamed a bright kindly smile upon
her aunt. ** I am sure you look quite young,"
she said, with the amiable thoughtless flattery of
inexperience. " You must not think of growing
old." After a little more conversation, in which
Miss Stretton bore the largest share, Mrs. Harding
rose, saying she would leave Static with her

aunt to find her way home herself, a proposition
received with the greatest pleasure.

You may indeed trust her to me, Mrs. Harding
; she will be precious to me as the apple of
my eye ! I so well remember her poor dear
mother on one of the few occasions on which I
saw her after her widowhood saying, ' There is
none to whom I should so readily trust my sweet
little Stasie as to you, Clementina.' We were so
near of an age that we dispensed with the formalities
of aunt and niece."

When Mrs. Harding had been duly escorted
to the garden-gate, and seen off with many hand-kissing
and bowing. Miss Stretton returned.
"Now, dear, suppose we ascend to my small
chamber, en haut!' (Miss Stretton liked to use
French phrases occasionally). I am in the habit
of indulging in a cup of tea at this hour, and I
make it myself. You will excuse the homeliness
of everything."

Stasie followed her aunt up three flights of
stairs to a front bedroom, where some sticks
and a piece of newspaper on the hearthrug
bespoke an attempt to light the fire.

The apartment was indeed homely, but neat

and clean; a patchwork coverlet, a darned carpet,
and curtailed windows bespoke the poverty of
the land. Still Stasie rather enjoyed the task
of assisting to light the fire, and set the table,
while Miss Stretton from the depths of a painted
chest of drawers drew forth tea, sugar, and buns.
The whole thing savoured of a surreptitious feast
at school, and Aunt Clem (as she requested
Stasie to call her) was so kind and so flattering
that Stasie grew familiar and more and more
attracted to her aunt as the moments flew by.
She found herself describing her whole life, confiding
her hopes and fears, her likes and dislikes
to Miss Stretton, who on her side shed a few
tears over the memory of her late niece and the
sacrifice she had made for her child's sake ; she
described Stasie's mother to her in glowing terms,
but acknowledged with some reluctance that
her daughter did not in the least resemble her.
Then she dwelt on the loneliness of her own life, the
coldness and ingratitude she had met from so many
of those whom she had guided in the way they
should go, and led in the paths of propriety and
elegance. "And now," she concluded, "I have to
go forth again among strangers; it is a hard lot."

Perhaps there is something better in store
for you' said Stasie, as the idea began to form
itself in her mind, that it might be nice to live
with Aunt Clem. But, with unusual caution,
she kept it to herself. " I must be quite sure
what Ella and Mrs. Mathews are going to do
first," she thought.

I leave myself in the hands of divine Providence,"
returned Miss Stretton, lifting her eyes
to the ceiling and then dropping them again,
with a quick side glance to see what effect her
words produced.

Stasie was silent, and after a pause her aunt
resumed.

** What a very delightful person Mr. Kharapet
appears to be ! So interesting, so handsome, so
gentle ! He seems quite devoted to you, my
dear."

I am not sure of that," cried Stasie discontentedly
; " at any rate he would not oblige mein
a very small matter, and I feel very much put
out with him and Mr. Harding."

'' How so ?" asked Aunt Clem.

Whereupon Stasie told of the intended uprooting
of the Mathews family, of her own great

desire to help them, and of the unfeeling refusal
of Messrs. Harding and Kharapet to make any
advance  not even a poor hundred pounds."

A hundred pounds !" cried Miss Stretton.
My dear, I am not surprised. That is a quantity
of money. I don't think they would be
justified in advancing you such a sum. The
guardian could call them to account  and for
that matter so could you. They really must not
give you your own money while you are a minor."

'' "Well, they might have lent me some of their
own. I am sure they have plenty," said Stasie,
with a pout.

My dear, sweet child," cried Miss Stretton,
*' you expect quite too much. It is out of all
reason to suppose that two men of business like
Mr. Harding and Mr. Kharapet would give their
money with so little hope of return, to say
nothing of profit. Ah, Stasie ! when you have
seen as much of the world as I have you will
understand the  the impossibility of such a
thing."

"Shall I?" said Stasie. 'but they would
have lost nothing. I should have paid them;
don't I look honest ? "

Honest ! Yes, indeed, and charming too.
Still, you must put such ideas out of your head'*

I suppose so ; but it is very annoying not to
be able to help those who have been good to me.
And I am sorry, too, that Mrs. Mathews is going
to leave London and take boarders. I should
have liked to live with her  indeed, I still wish
to do so part of my time.

Ahem !" Miss Stretton cleared her throat.
Whereas, you will, I presume, continue to
reside with that very interesting Mrs. Harding,
eh?"

*' She is nice, isn't she ? But I am not sure
that she cares to have me with them ; nor am I
sure that I should care to stay."

You surprise me ! I should imagine that
it would be just the place for you  a handsome
house and a pleasant companion like Mrs. Harding,
and"  breaking off suddenly, and then
resuming  "What kind of person is Mr. Harding?"

'' Oh, he is very nice to me ; and he is tall and
rather good-looking, and sometimes very bright
and amusing, but  I don't think he can stand
being contradicted or interfered with, or put out
in any way.'

No man can, my dear. They are all alike
in that respect. And what would you like best
yourself?"

I hardly know. First, above everything, I
should like to travel. I have seen nothing 
nothing all my life but Islington and Forest Hill.
Then I should like to come back, and stay a while
with Mrs. Mathews, and move about, and all that,
till I am twenty-one. By that time I shall really
know what I want, and what is best to do."

By that time, dear child, you will be married,"
exclaimed Aunt Clem. " With your face
and your fortune you will be married  I hope to
some distinguished man. Meantime I am sure
your ideas are very sensible. How you would
enjoy the beauty, the sunshine, the art, the  the
general delightfulness of Italy  the gaiety of
Paris  the music of Dresden !"

Have you enjoyed all this ?" asked Stasie,
with admiration.

Yes, I have indeed  that is, I have to a
certain degree. It has not always been my lotto
travel with genial, sympathetic, kindly young
creatures like yourself, dear Stasie ; but too often
in charge of scornful misses, who showed me that

my superiority bored them, and my dependence
called forth disdain."

What horrid disagreeable things ! " cried
Stasie.

Yes ; my position did not permit me to
enjoy to the full the pleasures of travelling. My
digestion, too, is delicate, and foreign cookery
tried it much. Still  and this is strictly between
ourselves, my love  should matters be
arranged according to your wishes, I should not
mind braving the minor discomforts of continental
life to be your ' guide, philosopher, and friend,'
if I may so express it. I feel sure that in you
I would have the kindest, the most interesting
companion."

I don't think I should be disagreeable," said
Stasie, reflectively. " And I am sure it is quite
a delightful idea  it would be so nice and natural
to travel with my own aunt. I will really speak
to my guardian about it. Would it be very
expensive ?"

No, not by any means," replied Miss Stretton
quickly. " That is, with an experienced traveller
like myself. By the way, who is your guardian,
my dear 1"

Mr. Percy Wyatt. He is rather a grandee,
and his wife, Lady Elizabeth, is so funny."

'' Very distinguished people indeed, and very
enlightened. I am told that Mr. Wyatt is to
have a seat in the Cabinet. They are well known
in France and Italy, and might be most useful
to us. Alas, Stasie ! mine is a lonely and somewhat
hard life ; nor is there much brightness in
my future."

Perhaps there will be more brightness in it
than you expect," said Stasie significantly. " I
am sure I can feel for you, for I am often very
lonely myself, knowing that I belong to nobody
and nobody belongs to me  especially since I
knew Ella Mathews was going to be married."

' Ah, my dear, you are young and charming,
and rich. I was not a fright myself ; but, dear
me, money, money, was always the obstacle ; and
1 am lonely, poor, and growing old."

Miss Stretton pressed her handkerchief to her
eyes.

I am sure you were ever so nice," cried
Stasie sympathetically ; " and as we are both
alone, let us stick by each other."

*you dear, warm-hearted girl!" cried Miss

Stretton, coming over to kiss her brow. '' I feel
that a kind, a heavenly Father has sent you to bea
comfort and a solace to me !  only, it would be
as well not to say that we discussed the question
until  until you can prepare those gentlemen
who have your affairs in their hands. They
might think / put you uj) to  that I originated
the idea, whereas it came from you entirely, my
love."

Of course it did ; and I will take care. It
is too bad that I cannot have what I want, for I
am not unreasonable. Still, I think I shall
manage."

After this the conversation turned on dress,
and Miss Stretton gave her niece many excellent
and economical hints. Then it was time for
Stasie to return. Her aunt insisted on walking
part of the way and putting her into a cab.

*' I must take care of the only relative left
me, and one who, I am sure, well deserves it.
Good-bye, my dear child. "We must try and
carry out our little scheme of foreign travel,
only pray be cautious, my sweet Stasie  very
cautious. ''

It wanted yet an hour to dinner when Stasie
reached York Gate, and hearing from the servant
that Mrs. Harding had returned, she ran quickly
upstairs to the drawing-room, eager to take
counsel with her friend respecting the new and
delightful plan which she had just formed.

On opening the door she saw Mrs. Harding,
still in her bonnet and black lace mantle, sitting
on a sofa beside a small work-table, on which her
arm rested, a brighter and more tender expression
than she usually wore lighting up her face,
and evidently in deeply-interesting conversation
with a gentleman who was reposing in a large
easy chair, his feet stretched far out, and his hat
on the carpet beside him  a gentleman whom
Stasie immediately recognised as the possible
essayist, political economist, or war correspondent
who had attracted her attention the evening

before. Seeing her hostess thus engaged, she
made a movement as if to retire, but Mrs. Harding,
perceiving her, exclaimed, '' Come here,
Stasie ; don't run away. My cousin, Dr. Brooke,
Miss Werner."

Stasie came forward with a strange sensation
of shyness  of being supremely awkward.

Dr. Brooke rose very deliberately, made Stamina
grand bow, and moved as though he would
have brought her a chair, but she hastily placed
herself on the sofa beside Mrs. Harding, and
began to untie her bonnet almost unconsciously.
Dr. Brooke ! "  only a doctor, when she had
expected him to be a colonel or a correspondent
at least.

Well, Stasie, have you had a pleasant visit
with your aunt \ " asked Mrs. Harding.

'' Oh yes ! very pleasant ; she is so kind. She
was telling me of her travels. It must be charming

to travel. I wish " Stasie stopped abruptly,

though brimful of her subject ; she remembered
it would not do to broach it before a stranger.

Were you at Lady Elizabeth Wyatt's reception
the night before last ? " asked Dr. Brooke, a
little abruptly, of Mrs. Harding.

l( T T "

was.

I wonder I did not come across you. I saw
Miss Yerner, who was, I suppose, with you ? "

Yes ; and I saw you," cried Stasie, with a
little nod. She had quite got over her momentary
feeling of awkwardness. '' Mrs. Harding was
beside me, but her face was turned away."

Ah ! had I seen you I should have recognised
you immediately. You are changed, of course,
yet still very much the same," remarked Dr.
Brooke to Mrs. Harding. But he gave Stasie a
quiet, contemplative look, as if she were an object
of philosophic interest.

Yes ; it must be nearly twelve years since
we met," returned Mrs. Harding, with a pensive
smile and a far-away look in her eyes.

'about twelve! "What antiquities we must
seem to your young friend !" rejoined Dr. Brooke ;
"yet it is but a short time to look back upon."
His voice struck Stasie as remarkably pleasant,
deep, clear, refined,  what she was disposed to
think a '' sensible voice," as if the metal that
produced those full distinct tones must be of the
best quality.

'short! do you find the time short *?" Mrs.

Harding was saying ; while Stasie thought thus :
**I think it is a tremendously long period, a
cycle, a century ! "

Well, it has been the most stirring period of
your life, the transformation from a schoolgirl to
the head of a family. Eh, Livy ? "

*' Yes, a transformation, indeed," returned
Mrs. Harding softly, thoughtfully ; then rousing
herself she exclaimed, ** Oh, Stasie, I forgot 
there is a letter for you from ' Forest Hill,' I see.
It is on the table there by the door."

From ' Forest Hill 1 ' " cried Stasie, starting
up and walking to the other end of the room to
take it. "I wonder what Miss Boaden has to
write about ? " and she stood there for some
minutes, first reading her letter, then evidently
reflecting upon it.

** What has become of the Falconers ? " asked
Dr. Brooke, after a short pause, during which he
looked in the same quietly scrutinising way after
Stasie. "They are distant relations, are they
not?"

They are. Old Mr. Falconer is dead, the boys
are in Canada and New Zealand," etc. etc. ; and
Mrs. Harding plunged into family history for a
VOL. I. 11

few minutes till interrupted by Stasie, who came
slowly back and stood by the sofa, the letter in
her hand, and a suspiciously moist look in her
eyes. '' Well, and what does Miss Boaden say ? "
asked Mrs. Harding kindly, seeing she was waiting
to be spoken to.

'' She wants to know when I am going back,
and wonders I have not written. She thinks I
have lost time enough,  so do I, but not for the
same reasons ! There is nothing to learn at Forest
Hill. If I might have some really good masters,

some " breaking off suddenly. " What ought

I to say, Mrs. Harding % I don't want to go
back. But I must not trouble you now." And
Stasie gathered up her gloves and parasol as if
going.

'' I am quite willing to be troubled, dear.
You must tell Miss Boaden that we cannot part
with you yet, and that I will write to her next
week myself"

Oh, thank you, dear Mrs. Harding 1 I will
go and answer this at once."

It will be time enough tomorrow." But
Stasie, whose perceptions were keen and sensitive,
fancied that Mrs. Harding and her cousin

would ji'efer their tete-a-Ute unbroken by her
presence, said, ''I would rather write now," and,
with a slight bow to the doctor, left the room.

Who is the young lady ? " asked Dr. Brooke.

Mrs. Harding briefly explained.

She is a handsome girl," he observed critically
; " not pretty, but fine ; her honest, steadfast
eyes struck me last night. I observe that
you rarely meet, except among Englishwomen,
girls who look straight and fearlessly at you,
yet without a tinge of consciousness or boldness.
She has a splendid physique too."

" What a professional view of the subject! " said
Mrs. Harding, laughing.

"A rational one. What is so admirable as
perfect health and full development ? Well, Livy,
you seem to have changed for the better, from the
tumbledown old vicarage to this handsome house
and your present surroundings."

A faint colour rose to Mrs. Harding's cheek as
she replied  " No house can ever be more lovely
in my eyes than that sweet old home ; but you
are right  this is a nice house, and I wish the
children were in ; but I shall see you often while
you are in town, I hope. Do you make any stay ? "

I am quite uncertain  in fact I am uncertain
about my plans altogether. I was in London
about a month ago, and then I went into Wales
to see an old acquaintance who is settled there.
Since I came back I have been trying to find you
out, for I had no idea where you were ; I have
scarcely had a correspondent in England."

*' No ? well, you certainly dropped us all as
soon as you went to India," replied Mrs. Harding
with an arch smile.

'* Much the wisest thing I could do under my
circumstances," said Brooke, returning her smile.
'' Ah, what jolly days we have had together in
old times. By Jove ! it brings back another and
a different stage of existence to see you again and
hear your voice telling of all our former friends."
He looked at her kindly, gravely, and very searchingly.


Yes," she replied calmly, almost coldly, " the
present is widely different in all ways from the
past. Now tell me of yourself  what you have
done, and what are you going to do ? "

On the whole, I have not done badly. You
know, though I was not the steadiest of fellows,
I could always work when I chose. You remember

I was appointed assistant surgeon to the

Dragoons just as the Regiment was ordered to
India. Well, I saw a good deal of service there,
I mean professional service,  for my superior
was old and lazy. It was a pleasant life too. I
got my share of tiger-shooting and pig-sticking.
Then came the Mutiny. I shouldn't like to live
through that time again ! I was twice hit when
looking after the wounded in action  rather badly
hit the second time. Then I held a pretty good
temporary appointment while matters were being
settled ; but having had a bad attack of fever, I
thought it better to take my leave, and come home.
So here I am, not knowing if I shall return to
India, or try and make a practice in some English
town. I shall look about me for a twelvemonth
or so and decide ; I really don't much care which
way, only I fancy I shall be better in health here."

'' Yes, I should think so," said Mrs. Harding,
and I hope you will. You would be a friend toto
my children, Jim ; for you know I have no
near relative  no man relative I mean."

I trust you will never need my services," he
returned, looking keenly at her, for there was a
slight pathetic hesitation in her speech. " Mr.

Harding, your husband, is in good health, I
hope, and seems to have plenty of this world's
goods."

Oh yes, and is a most affectionate father ;
still it is always better for a woman to have a big
brother of some kind behind her."

Perhaps it is," he said thoughtfully, dropping
his eyelids till nearly closed ; " perhaps it is, and
you were always a shocking little coward, Livy,
but a sweet little coward too  a sort of little
coward that generally finds men ready to work
for her, and if needs be die, for her. Eh, Livy % "

Mrs. Harding burst into a laugh  a harsher
laugh than might be expected from so soft and
gentle a woman.

You must indeed have been living * far from
the haunts of men ' to have preserved such chivalrous
ideas, Jim. I never expect any one to
work or die for me ; but if  if I wanted   "
She stopped, and evidently changed her intended
speech  'sound advice about the children, or 
or myself, you would take more interest in us thana
stranger."

Oh, professional advice ! I assure you every
medical man takes an equally profound interest

in his cases, whether they are personal friends or
not."

I cannot believe that," said Mrs. Harding
candidly.

You may, I assure you. By the way, are
you sure you do not want advice now? You
have not developed as I always expected you
would."

How ought I to have developed ? "

*' Into decided emhonpoint  into a sleek roly-poly
little woman, with very bright eyes and a
beautiful complexion, a little lazy and very merry.
Now you are thin and pale  too thin and pale.
How is that ? "

How can I tell V said Mrs. Harding, laughing
good-hum surely. " But I am very glad I
have developed my own way, not yours. I suspect
I am all the better for not being a rolypoly !"

I hope so," said the doctor gravely. " You
have had no doubt some of the trials almost inseparable
from motherhood. Have you lost any
children ? "

*' Yes, one  a sweet little girl ! my second child.
It was a cruel blow." Her soft eyes were suffused
with tears.

No doubt ; but these babies cannot make a
place in your life. It is a wound that heals
quickly."

Mrs. Harding shook her head.

I should like to see your babies," continued
Dr. Brooke. " I shall come again soon, but will
bid you good-bye now. It must be nearly your
dinner hour ! "

Mrs. Harding flushed slightly ; she would have
liked to have kept him to dinner, but was not
sufficiently mistress in her own house to take such
a liberty. " You will leave your address, Jim ?
Mr. Harding would like to call. He will be very
pleased to make your acquaintance."

"I feel quite anxious to make his, I assure
you," he returned, taking out his card-case to
place a card on the table. '' What are you going
to do with your handsome young friend ? not to
send her back to school ? That would be cruel
and absurd."

I should like to keep her with me. She is a
charming companion, but her fate is not in my
hands ! "

"She looks like a girl that would prefer
directing it herself. Well, good - morning,

Livy! I suppose it must be Mrs. Harding
before the general public \ "

I suppose so  good-bye, Jim ! "

When Mrs. Harding was alone she took up
Dr. Brooke's card and stood for several minutes
gazing on it  but gazing with dry eyes and a
quiet set face  a face from which hope seemed
to have gone  utterly and for ever  so still and
cold did it look. She was roused by the door
opening to admit the children, fresh and rosy
from their afternoon walk. Her countenance
cleared, her lips relaxed, and, sitting down, she
took little Willie on her knee and began to ask
him about the boat he had been sailing.

Stasie, in the retirement of her own chamber,
lost no time in answering Miss Boaden's letter.
She did this with mixed feelings. She thought
from Mrs. Harding's manner that she was not
again to be imprisoned within the respectable walls
of Elm wood House, and she rejoiced at her prospective
freedom. Nevertheless, she felt an un expected
tender regret at the idea of bidding a final farewell
even to her enemy Miss Amelia. Still more
deeply did she feel that she was drifting away

from her old friend Mrs. Mathews and her family
in spite of herself. " Yet I can go and see them
if I like," she mused ; " and by and by, when
everything is settled, for they must arrange forme
to live somewhere, and give me some money
for clothes and things " ('' they " meant Harding
and Kharapet), "I shall be able to pay Ella a visit,
and make her a present now and then ! How nice
it would be to travel with Aunt Clem ! to learn
to sing and to speak German, and see all the
delightful places she has seen. I suppose that Dr.
Brooke has travelled a great deal, but there is no
knowing. I thought he must be somebody very
distinguished, and he is only a doctor, after all."

Her letter finished, Stasie, who was violently
tidy by fits and starts, applied herself to arrange
her drawers, and put fresh lace in the sleeves
and collar of a dress, speculating meanwhile if
she should ever rise to the dignity of having a
maid of her own.

Mr. Harding was a little late for dinner  and
somewhat silent thereat  and the repast was
nearly over before Stasie, who was generally the
principal talker, made up her mind how to open
the subject of her return to school.

I had a letter from Miss Boaden to-day, Mr.
Harding. She wants me to go back," she said
at length.

She does, does she \ and I suppose you are
very anxious to go  eh Stasie ? "

You know about that ! Mrs. Harding said
I might write that I should not return just yet."

Hum 1 so she is not tired of you ! Well,
Stasie, curiously enough, / have been writing to
Miss Boaden myself to-day."

What about, dear Mr. Harding ? "

Only to tell her that you will not return to
school after the holidays ; and as they are only
three weeks off, you may as well stay where you
are  so you can go to Forest Hill and pack up
your belongings as soon as you like ! "

Oh, thank you, that is delightful ! And
you will let me live with you  that is to say,
when I am in England."

When you are in England ! pray where are
you going to ? "

I am sure I don't know ; only I am not
going to stay in London all my life ! "

God knows what an enterprising young lady
of your sort may do ! At any rate you are

welcome to stay here till you have a house of
your own ! "

You are very good and kind* said Stasie
warmly. " I should like a house of my own by
and by when things are settled, but above all I
want to travel."

Well, you must just wait a bit," said Mr.
Harding a little impatiently ; and his wife, with
the watchful tact born of much experience in
the art of management, rose and led the way to
the drawing-room.

Be satisfied with one step at a time Stasie,"
she said, as she opened her work-basket. " You
may lose more than you gain by asking for too
much."

"It is rather hard to be obliged to beg for
what one has a right to," cried Stasie indignantly,
throwing herself into a large easy-chair. Why
should I not go abroad ? there is nothing unreasonable
in the wish."

Certainly not. And I daresay later you will
be able to carry it out ; but for the present
would it not be wiser to wait patiently for the
consent of those who are, I am sure, doing their
best ? Believe me, we are neither better nor happier

for having everything our own way, especially at
your age."

Perhaps so. But it is very disagreeable to
be contradicted," replied Stasie, adding after a
pause. " I am sure, dear Mrs. Harding, I am
always very happy with you, and  and would it
bore you if I had music lessons ? I cannot be
quite idle ! "

'' It would not bore me in the least ! You
are quite right, Stasie ; there is nothing so dull
as idleness."

' And let me teach dear little Ethel and
Willie to read ! "

That you are most heartily welcome to try,"
said Mrs. Harding, laughing ; " you will not like
the task long."

*' I assure you I can be persevering I There,
there is the front-door bell. I daresay it is
Hormuz Kharapet."

** Ah ! I do not think he would come in
the evening when he had not been invited to
dinner, unless, indeed, he has business with Mr.
Harding."

'* Why don't you like Hormuz % he is so nice
and gentle."

Why do you suppose I do not like him ? "
*' I cannot explain why, but I am quite sure
you do not." Mrs. Harding laughed, and Stasie
changed the subject by consulting her friend as
to what day would be best to fetch away her
things from Elmwood House. This interesting
discussion was interrupted by the entrance of Mr.
Harding, followed by Kharapet. Mr. Harding was
looking brighter than he had done at dinner.
Kharapet, having greeted: Mrs. Harding, drew a
chair beside Stasie. '' I have not seen you since
Lady Elizabeth's party," he said slowly, while
his glittering eyes, half veiled by their long lashes,
dwelt on her intensely, hungrily ; but Stasie was
so much occupied with the intricacies of a lace
cravats she was making for Mrs. Mathews, that
she did not heed them, and he gazed to his
heart's content.

No ? How fast time goes in London ! " returned
Stasie, a little irrelevantly. ''Do you
know I am not to go back to school, Hormuz ? "
looking suddenly in his face  an odd feeling,
partly surprise, partly nervousness, making
her laugh as she met his eyes. "Are you
astonished?"

'' I am not, considering that I was the chief
cause of the change you so much desired. I was
determined, whatever the obstacles, that you
should not be sent back to the imprisonment you
hate."

While Kharapet was whispering assurances
that Stasie's wishes were his law, Mrs. Harding
was saying, " I had a visit from Dr. Brooke today.
You remember hearing us speak of my
cousin Jim ? "

Ay," taking up the card his wife held
out, " I remember. I fancy he must be the Dr.
Brooke old Pearson, our chairman, was speaking of
yesterday. He has just come back from India
hasn't he ? "

' He has."

I'll call on him, and have him to dinner. I
dare say he could give me a wrinkle about "

What, did not appear, for Stasie broke in, ' I
am sure that Dr. Brooke must have travelled a
great deal. He looks like it. He is the man I
asked you about, Hormuz,  at Lady Elizabeth
Wyatt's, I mean ; you had not observed him.
Don't you remember ? "

Hormuz did remember ; and his face grew

serious as lie asked, " Who ? who is this gentleman
? "

A cousin of my wife's ! You must come and
meet him, Kharapet."

Stasie's next visit to her good friend Mrs.
Mathews was rather painful in more ways than
one. First, it was a farewell. The old house
was dismantled ; the rusty untidy little den
where she had often stolen away from her work
or lessons to devour novels, poetry, plays, anything
she could lay her hands upon, was absolutely
empty, as most of the heavy luggage had
already been despatched, and the family were
crowded into two or three rooms. Secondly,
Mrs. Matthews was not so cordial as formerly ;
she remarked that no doubt it was an effort for
Stasie to come all that way from the grand house
she was staying in now to their humble abode,
or she might have come oftener to see them,
though, perhaps, she (Mrs. Mathews) ought to be
thankful that she came at all, etc. etc., stings
which soon roused Stasie to indignant remonstrance,
and finally to a torrent of tears, when Ella
interposed, standing up manfully for her friend.

You don't know how hampered and worried
I am," sobbed Stasie ; " I cannot do as I
like ! Besides, it would not be civil to walk
out of the house when I chose, without caring
whether Mrs. Harding wanted me or not. But
if you think I would rather be sitting in her grand
drawing-room, doing crochet or wool-work, instead
of helping you to pack with my gown tucked
up, you are very much mistaken ! I wish you
would not be so unkind, Mrs. Mathews ! When
I am more my own mistress you will see I do
not forget all your goodness to me.'

"Well, well, Stasie, I never thought you a
heartless child ! but law ! my dear, the world
soon changes the best of us ! There, dry your
eyes, and have a cup of tea. I would much rather
believe you to be kind and true than a weathercock."


That she is not, I am sure," cried Ella
heartily. ** Do not mind mother, Stasie ! she is
tired and worried. We are very anxious about

Bob ! There is nothing for him to do in C ,

so he will be sure to get into mischief, and he
ought to go on working for his diploma. Fortunately,
our old friends Mr. and Mrs. Deacon have

VOL. I. 12

offered to take him in till he can look about him ;
still it will be money out of mother's pocket, and
I know he is in debt  not much, I daresay, but
always more than we can afford. If it were not
for Bob I declare we should be too happy ! "

Well, well. Bob will come right yet,' said
the fond mother. " I can see the poor lad is
dreadfully down at the idea of parting with us."

Stasie opened her eyes at this, but wisely held
her tongue. A friendly cup of tea succeeded,
in which all bitterness seemed to be drowned,
and the future was fully discussed.

Ella was not to be married for a month or
two, as she wished to assist her mother in
settling in her home, so as to be quite prepared
for the October term, for which date they had
already secured one boarder, and had the promise
of another.

It will make me quite independent and
comfortable if I can get four or five," said Mrs.
Mathews. "Janet is getting now to be a great
help, and, I will say, is a steady, industrious girl,
so she can do most of the housekeeping, but no
one will ever be to me what Ella is," etc. etc. etc.

Peace and good understanding being thoroughly

restored, Stasie parted with her old and
valued friends not dry eyed. After many hearty
hugs and kisses, promises to write, and assurances
of constancy, she was carefully put into a
cab by Mrs. Mathews herself, who demanded the
driver's ticket, and gave him the address, with
many injunctions to take special care of the
young lady.

When Stasie returned to Mrs. Harding's, bringing
with her all her worldly goods, and having bade
a final adieu to school life, she experienced but
little of the exultant joy with which she was
wont to anticipate that event.

She was rather vexed with herself for feeling
pleased. She accused herself of being hard and
ungrateful to the Misses Boaden. After all,
their lives were far from easy : their task was no
child's play, and had they not done their best
for her ? Had she done her best for them ?

There is in young creatures of the higher
type an exalted idea of what life ought to be, of
which their elders, from whose hearts the rude
contact of the work-a- day world has brushed
these fair and delicate impressions, have seldom
any notion. A supreme sense of duty at all
costs  of self-devotion at any sacrifice  of conduct

pure, graceful, self-restrained, which only
needs consistency and the power of resistance to
make youth more dignified than age. These two
essential ingredients are, however, what youth
generally lacks. Would youth be youth had it
the force to act up to its own ideal ? And so
the sweetest, kindest girls often walk unevenly
among the snares and pitfalls of their onward
path, with here a vista of pleasure too tempting
to be resisted, and there a stumbling-stone of
irritation too big and rugged to be surmounted,
while consciousness of the weak places thus
probed, the vulnerable points thus discovered,
galls and humiliates  not always strengthening
the spirit against the next encounter, save in
those rare instances where power is equal to
aspiration.

Few who have not been admitted into the
full confidence of higher-toned girlish hearts can
imagine how little pleasure, as mere pleasure,
enters into their scheme of life.

With all her vitality, her sense of enjoyment,
her little surface vanity, Stasie's was a nature of
this order. This necessity to be in sympathy
with and useful to her fellows gave poignancy

to her regret at her own isolation. She owed no
particular duty to any one. She had nothing todo
but to please herself.

If she had a grumpy grandfather, a sickly
sister, an exacting father or mother, it would be
more satisfactory. As it was, the best thing
perhaps she could do was to adopt Aunt Clem.
She was the only person to whom she could
possibly be necessary, and, though a dear good
soul, would probably want bearing with and
humouring occasionally. To Mrs. Mathews
Stasie felt she could never be so essential. Mrs.
Mathews had her own large family to struggle
for and with, to love and to be loved by : a
little money help kindly and delicately administered
was all she needed. But Aunt Clem was
like herself, utterly alone. She was also growing
old and very poor. Aunt Clem therefore, for
the present, must be Stasie's object.

Thus reflecting, Stasie dressed for dinner.
She was pleased at the idea of meeting Dr.
Brooke, who was expected, though he was only
a doctor. She hoped she would have an opportunity
of talking to him. She wanted to put
many questions to him, and was determined not

to lose her chance. Stasie was not shy, but she
had too much natural taste and tact to be in the
least forward.

Having attired herself carefully in one of her
pretty new dresses of soft French gray and white
lace, and braided her light-brown hair into broad
plaits behind her little ears, looping them up to the
coil at the back of her head, she went downstairs.

The drawing-room was only occupied by the
children. Johnnie was in a rocking-chair, which
was a source of great delight ; Willie and Ethel
stood at a little distance watching him rock to
and fro with some violence.

Stasie, he has been rocking himself ever so
long, and he won't give me a turn," cried Ethel,
running to meet her.

No, I haven't," said Johnnie, " and I am not
going to give up to a bit of a girl like you."

You are a rude selfish boy," remarked Stasie.
Passing him she took up an illustrated book, and
knowing it would create an ill-timed disturbance
if she tried to evict the tenant of the chair, she
called the two little ones to her.

Come and sit by me on the sofa, and I will
tell you stories about these pictures."

We have seen all those," said Ethel discontentedly.


Well, bring me another book, Willie."

We have seen them all," remarked Ethel.

Never mind. Stasie, tell us about the other
sides of the pictures."

"Yes, I will, you dear little man," cried
Stasie, delighted with the child's quaint speech,
and taking the book he brought, she established
herself on a large sofa at the end of the room, a
small hearer at each side. Ethel knelt, resting
an arm on Stasie's shoulder, and gazing on the
page below. Willie sat beside her upon one leg,
the other hanging down, his elbow on Stasie's
lap, his eyes fixed on her face, absorbed in the
fairyland of wicked giants and lovely injured
fairy godmothers' children which she proceeded
to open up to him. It was a pleasant picture,
as the door opened and Dr. Brooke was announced.
He advanced, grave, cool, a smile in
his eyes. Stasie put aside her encumbrances
and rose to meet him. " Mrs. Harding will be
here directly," she said, not quite sure if she
ought or ought not to give him her hand. He
decided for her by making a rather formal bow.

I fancy I am too early," lie returned ; " but
I wanted to make my small cousins' acquaintance,
and feared they might not be visible after
dinner."

I will present them," said Stasie. " Come
here, Johnnie,"  to the " rebel of the family,"
who had ceased to rock, and sat looking at the
new-comer with curiosity not untinged with awe,
" This is Master John Harding, the eldest son,
and here is Willie, the youngest ; this young lady
is Miss Ethel Harding, who comes between them."

Dr. Brooke shook hands with Johnnie, then
placing his hand on the child's head put it back,
and looked earnestly in his face. " Glad to see
you, my boy. No trace of the mother or her
people here ! Ah ! Willie, you are of a different
brand ! You are not too old to be kissed. And
Miss Harding ! come here ! You have your
mother's eyes. I congratulate you." He kissed
the two younger ones kindly, and took Ethel on
his knee. Willie retreated to Stasie, and Johnnie
stood looking distrustfully at the stranger.

I can remember Mrs. Harding about the age
of this child," said Dr. Brooke to Stasie, " a most
delicate little lady."

Papa says I am more like my Aunt Mills,"
said Ethel with a pout.

So much the worse for you," he returned.
'' "Who is Aunt Mills ? '' to Stasie.

A sister of Mr. Harding's, I think."

"And you, my little man," stretching out
his hand to Willie. " So you make Miss 
Miss " he paused 

"Yerner," supplied Stasie, noting in her own
mind that he had forgotten her name 

Thank you !  Miss Werner tell you stories.
Are you not a lucky little fellow ? "

*' Yes ! Such pretty stories, all about fairies
in the woods, and sometimes poor peasants and
giants and even ogres."

I don't care for them; they are all nonsense,"
said John, who was in a contradictory mood.

*' What a wiseacre ! " replied Dr. Brooke.
Why, if they do not take care, you will set the
Thames on fire. Do you like the stories. Miss
Curly Locks?"

Oh yes ! And Stasie dresses my doll. Stasie
can cut out paper boats and crosses and "

*what a clever young lady!"  a laughing
glance at her. " Do you think she would tell usa

story while we are waiting for mother ?  Is it
mother or mamma ? "

Mamma, I am sorry to say," replied Stasie.

"Yes, * mother' is better. But will not Miss
Werner tell us a story ? "

Do, do, do, Stasie, dear ! "

''No. Dr. Brooke has been in Fairyland
himself; he ought to know beautiful stories, 
real ones,  not merely made up, like mine."

I have no genius for story-telling ; I am too
matter-of-fact."

"Don't say that," cried Stasie impulsively.
You do not look like it. I hate matter-of-fact
people ! "

"Indeed!" very gravely. "Then I retract
the statement."

Stasie laughed merrily. " I am glad you do."

"You have been away in India," observed
Johnnie, who was contemplating his new acquaintance
with profound attention ; " and papa
says you ought to have made heaps of money
there. Have you ? "

I deeply regret to say I have not."

Why not ? " persisted Johnnie.

Go and tell mamma that Dr. Brooke is here,"

said Stasie, blushing at the boy's rude speech,
yet unable to subdue a smile at the characteristic
inquiry.

The doctor laughed mockingly. "By all
means send off the young gentleman, lest his inquiries
should display my weakness too plainly."

I don't want to go," said Johnnie, and
stepped out upon the balcony.

Wont you tell us a story ? " persisted Willie,
slipping his hand into Dr. Brooke's.

Mine would be too grim for a little man like
you," he returned. " Miss Werner's fancies must
be much pleasant. You, too, have been in the
East, Mrs. Harding tells me," addressing her.

So long ago that I cannot remember it ; but
I should like to go there again. Indeed I long
to travel an?/ where."

The doctor smiled upon her an indulgent
smile  " As if I were an infant like Ethel," she
thought indignantly ; and then their conversation
was interrupted by the entrance of Mrs.
Harding.

Stasie remarked that she greeted her guest
with unusual cordiality, and that he, too, was
more animated in his manner than when speaking

to the children. In a few minutes they were
joined by Mr. Harding, who was loud and profuse
in his apologies for being a little late, and seemed
anxious to impress on his wife's relative that he
was particularly glad to see him. It had never
before occurred to Stasie's inexperience that her
friend and ally, Mr. Harding, was common or
underbred ; but contrasting the repose, the ease
of Dr. Brooke manner, with the kind of rough
cordiality assumed by her host, she felt his inferiority,
and this added a shade or two more to
the half-unconscious distrust which was gradually
deepening in her mind towards him.

Mr. Williams, a gentleman who had more than
once dined at York Gate during Stasie's sojourn,
and the inevitable Kharapet having joined them,
they went down to dinner.

The conversation was unusually animated, as
the new guest's opinions were different on most
matters from those of his convives Nor did he
hesitate to show this difference distinctly, though
civilly. His way of expressing himself, too,
though plain and straightforward, bore the stamp
of thought and culture, and Stasie was well
content to listen, disregarding the whispers of

Kharapet, who sat beside her. He spoke little
to any one else, but at times listened to what was
going on with very close attention. When the
repast was over, and the servants had left the
room, something was said about Giuliano in the
Trovatore, upon which Stasie exclaimed how
much she should like to hear an opera.

"It is not easy for us to go," returned Mrs.
Harding. "Neither Mr. Harding nor Mr. Parapet
like to face the discomforts of a theatre ;
and I think Stasie and I require an escort to
such a crowded place as the Italian Opera."

Why do you not make use of me ? " asked
Dr. Brooke. " I am an idle man at present, and
though I should prefer a play, I have no objection
to an opera."

That would be delightful," cried Stasie.
Do  do x a day, dear Mrs. Harding."

Tell me what days you are disengaged,"
said Dr. Brooke, " and leave the affair in my
hands"

But you wrong me," exclaimed Kharapet
eagerly. I should always be ready to go with
you where I could be of use, though I do not
pretend to enjoy these exhibitions ! "

Then it is better to have some one who
does, for it is not pleasant to know you are inflicting
a punishment," said Stasie gaily.

No service I could render to you would bea
punishment to me," returned Kharapet. "But
I confess I neither enjoy nor approve these
musical and dancing entertainments. I am of
my noble and good friend Lord Saintsbury's
opinion, that it is derogatory to the charming
young ladies of England to witness such things.
In the East we take better care of our ladies."

Do you never admit Nautch girls into your
houses in Syria ? " asked Dr. Brooke. " I had
some friends with Outran's expedition who gave
me curious accounts of the Nautch dances at
Baghdad."

They are never permitted in the houses of
Syrian Christians," replied Kharapet with some
emphasis.

Oh, indeed ! " said Brooke. " I beg your
pardon. Well, Mrs. Harding, when shall we goto
this shocking exhibition ? "

'' Any day you like next week. To-morrow
will be Saturday, and of course there is no chance
of getting places."

** I hope you will see that my dinner and all
that is cared for," said Mr. Harding. " I need
not be uncomfortable as well as deserted."

'you should dine at your club," returned
Brooke.

"I am so domesticated I do not belong to
one," rejoined Harding.

* A great mistake ! Mrs. Harding, you ought
to have him put up at the 'Reform ; ' every man
ought to join a club."

You ought to join mine, the 'West Central.'
It is a capital club,  meet every body,  great
opportunities for discussing business matters,
and an excellent cook," said Mr. Williams.

Well, I'll see about it," returned Harding, as
his wife rose to leave the room followed by Stasie.

Come up here, doctor," said the host, making
a place by him after the ladies left, " and try a
glass of this port. It's not bad ; in fact, it's a
sin to throw it away on women."

They seldom avail themselves of their

chances in that way," said Brooke, moving into

the place offered him. " It is rather a feminine

failing to be indifferent to the joys of the palate."

" I am not so sure ! " replied Williams.

** Some of them are a little too fond of alcohol,
if we are to believe all we hear."

' A small minority, I imagine."

*' Fill your glass, Williams," cried the host ;
*' don't mind Kharapet. It's his misfortune more
than his fault that he can't drink a decent glass
of wine."

' You are to be congratulated," remarked
the doctor gravely, ' on having a necessity
the less  nevertheless  it is well to be able
to enjoy a frustrate vintage, such as this, Mr.
Harding."

'' Eight you are, doctor," he returned heartily.
Mr. Harding was rarely seen to greater advantage
than when entertaining his male guests 
pride in the excellence of his wine  both as a
delicacy and a representative of money's worth,
pleasure in the gestation, backed by the presence
and encouragement of others, and supported
under the extra expenditure by a subtile imaginative
hope that in some indirect way the
outlay would bring forth profit, either in
extending his connection or securing similar
enjoyment at the cost of others, warmed him
into hospitality. At present, for some reason,

VOL. I. 13

he was anxious to be civil to, and make a good
impression on his wife's cousin.

"And so, doctor, I hear you are nearly tired
of grilling under an Eastern sun."

Not exactly. In some respects I like India,
but I begin to think I might do better at home ;
the career of a military surgeon is limited."

"No doubt," said Mr. Williams. " If you
could get a start in a new neighbourhood, it
would be the making of you." Dr. Brooke
looked at him, but made no immediate reply ;
the familiarity of the remark did not please him.

As I do not drink wine, may I be allowed
to join the ladies ? " asked Kharapet, rising.

To be sure," said Harding, laughing. " You
are not much good away from them  one of them
at any rate." An indescribable smile, self-satisfied,
sensual, overspread the Syrian's face ashe
left the room  an expression that made
Brooke feel a strong desire to quench him with a
.sudden douche of cold water from the glass jug
which was temptingly near. " Well, well, we
all have our mad fits, as I dare say you both
know," continued Mr. Harding apologetically;
but to return, as you are looking about you,

doctor, Mr. Williams will tell you about a
locality which is worth your notice  a very
rising place indeed."

Yes ; as a connection of my worthy friend
Harding here, I don't mind putting you up to a
good thing, either as a residence or an investment.
Two or three years ago a few sound City
men observed a property in Surrey, in a capital
situation, half an hour from Waterloo Station,
unoccupied and in the market. They thought ita
promising spot for villas, and they formed themselves
into a ' Landed Estate Company,' bought
up the property, advanced money to tenants who
wished to build, made roads and drains, put up
fences, and divided it into plots. So far we have
been very successful. (I am solicitor to the Company.)
We have a splendid site for a church,
where there is a temporary iron erection, and
many of the houses are let to most respectable
people. All we want is a resident doctor of high
standing, and then having provided for the religious
and bodily health of our tenantry we shall
do well. If you, my dear sir, will make a small
investment  say a couple of thousand pounds 
you can be your own landlord in a sense, or erecta

mansion for yourself! I omitted to mention
that there is an affiliated company linked with
ours  The Sefton Park Building Company, Limited.
This Company builds houses of a frustrate
order at wonderfully low terms, shares ruling at
seventy-five, and rising rapidly. I will send
you a prospectus. Mr. Harding is one of our
directors, and has purchased a good deal of land,
knowing its value, like a shrewd man of business
as he is."

Thank you'' returned the doctor, helping
himself to some olives ; "I don't fancy such a
neighbourhood would afford much of a practice.
Still, let me have the prospectus."

I think you know our chairman," said Mr.
Harding  " Sir Frederic Pearson, an old Indian."

I have met him, poor old fellow ! Does he
still dabble in shares ? He has been bitten too."

Ah, well ! he is all right with us."

"No doubt."

Mr. Williams now turned the conversation by
asking some questions about Indian matters, and
having answered him, Brooke in his turn inquired
as to Kharapet's nationality.

He is not a Mahometan, I see," he added.

No ; he is a Syrian Christian  a Nestorian,
or some such thing. His brother was our Consulat
Mardin. A money-making old buffer ; scraped
a decent lot together, and left it all to that good-looking
girl upstairs. Our friend Kharapet is
co-executor with myself, and inclined to go in
for the property and the proprietress."

Dr. Brooke made no reply, but a look of disgust
crept over his dark grave face ; and Mr.
Harding went on, " Kharapet is not a bad fellow,
and a deuced sharp one ! He makes his way
wonderfully with my Lord Saintsbury and Exeter
Hall. A pious duchess pets him, and a couple
of countesses coddle him. In short, if my pretty
friend makes up her mind to give him herself
and her money, she may float into swell society."

** I fancy she would pay a high price for it,"
returned the doctor carelessly.

Ah ! you Indian officers are a little too hard
on natives. Kharapet is a handsome fellow ;
Lord bless you ! a man is a man to most women,
no matter what his colour or creed. And Parapet
is a hand fide Christian." Then, a propos
of this profound remark, Mr. Harding proceeded
with much chuckling and enjoyment to relate

one or two osgood stories," not too delicate in
their details, which Mr. Williams loudly applauded,
while Dr. Brooke laughed a little
contemptuously, the conversation which ensued
being neither interesting nor edifying. Dr. Brooke
rose and said he would join the ladies; on his
departure Mr. Harding and his man of business
immediately plunged into serious and absorbing
conversation.

Brooke walked slowly upstairs, an undefined
sensation of uneasiness and disgust crispin the
current of his thoughts. He was himself above
the average in ability, and endowed with all the
qualities that fit a man for the profession he had
adopted : closely observant, with nerves of steel,
logical in thought, and possessed of an imagination
sufficiently vivid to be the pioneer of discovery.
Though no saint, he was a man of clean
and active life. He had had a boyish fancy for
his pretty cousin, which absence and occupation
had so far obliterated that it pleased him to know
she was well married. He was half amused at
the tender gladness his meeting with her evoked.
He did not think there was so much sentiment
left in his practical nature. The first sight of

her face suggested doubt as to the happiness of
her prosperity, and now his interest in her was
rapidly deepening as he reflected on the horror
of being indissolubly linked to such a man as her
husband. " Does she feel it ? Women are so
mercifully endowed with the power of self-deception,
a compensation for the blindness in which
they grope about the world ! How can any girl
know the man she is going to marry ? Not if
she had been on speaking terms with him for
years. Livy ought to have had a gentleman and
a good fellow. This man is neither. I wish it
had been possible to have kept her for myself,
but of course the everlasting contradiction of
things forbade that."

So thinking, Dr. Brooke opened the drawing-room
door, and saw the object of his thoughts
sitting at a small table pouring out tea. Kharapet
Alas close beside her, speaking with earnestness ina
low tone, and the new-comer fancied he read
weariness and dislike in her cold, composed aspect.

At a little distance, comfortably ensconced in
the corner of a sofa near the lamp, Stasie was
reading so attentively that she did not look up
when the door opened. Unconsciously piqued

by this inattention, Dr. Brooke, after receiving a
cup of tea from his hostess, walked over to where
she sat, and with a civil "May I venture to
interrupt you ?" took a place beside her.

"What is your study, Miss Werner V

Such a delightful book  quite different from
anything I ever read before  Ruskin's Seven
Lamps of Architecture  do you know it V

I can't say I do. I have seen reviews of it,
but that is all ; works of imagination are not
much in my line."

But this is not a work of imagination," said
Stasie, laying it open on her lap. "It is all
about churches and cathedrals, and windows and
columns  real, solid things."

Still I think, unless I have formed a very
false idea of the work, it is highly imaginative,"
he returned, with a smile at her earnestness and
the slight hesitation that showed she was unaccustomed
to put her graver thoughts into
words. " Mr. Ruskin finds all sorts of meanings
and intentions and laws in these fine old buildings
and their decorations, which I am quite
sure the builders were incapable not only of
expressing but of conceiving."

"I do not like to hear you say so," said
Stasie, slowly and thoughtfully. " I cannot tell
why, but I feel you are wrong. Perhaps these
old builders, without knowing or intending, just
worked their hearts and minds into the stones
they were cutting or fastening together."

Very good. Miss Werner. I see you are quite
competent to understand and appreciate Ruskin."

If you knew the delight he has given me,
I think you would leave him alone."

*' I will ; he is sacred to me now," returned
Brooke, laughing gently, and looking down into
the soft, dark, pleading eyes so seriously raised
to his, with no small surprise that a mere schoolgirl
should put so much heart into such a subject.
Nay, more, I will concede that there is always
some character, some individuality in the work
of men's hands, so that the work of a Persian, a
Hindoo, or a Chinaman, must differ widely."

' Well, that is just what Ruskin says."

He goes much farther, I believe."

' Do read the book ; I am sure you will be
delighted with it. Dr. Brooke."

** Very well, I will read it."

A pause. Then Stasie began, with some

timidity, *' Did you ever hear anything about the
Eosicrucians when you were in India ?"

'* The Eosicrucians ? What do you know
about them?" asked Brooke, with increasing
surprise.

Oh, next to nothing  only what I have read
in Bulwer s Zanonir

Do they allow Bulwer at your school, or is
he a school classic ?"

Ah, no. I read some of his novels before I
went to school. Are they not delightful ? "

Before you went to school ! You must be
very precocious ! No. I am not very fond of
Bulwer. He is too stilted and unreal."

Stasie raised her eyebrows with a look of
mock despair, and persisted in her inquiry.
*' But did you ever hear anything about the
Eosicrucians in India ? "

Nothing whatever. I cannot say I felt any
interest in the subject."

But there was such a sect or order ?"

'* No doubt  something of the nature of Freemasons
or "

Will you not charm us with some of your
sweet music, Stasie ? " interrupted Hormuz,

coming softly up to where she sat. " I have not
enjoyed it for more than a week."

"My music is not worth listening to, you
must know it is not ; and Dr. Brooke is just going
to tell me some things I want to know," returned
Stasie, with great candour and some impatience.

I should much prefer listening to your voice
than to my own, especially as I can give little or
no information on the profound subjects which
interest you."

Stasie coloured vividly for a moment as the
idea that he was laughing at her presented itself.
If I thought my music could give you any
pleasure I would play or sing at once ; but I ama
mere beginner "

"To me it is divinely sweet," said Kharapet
in a low voice. As he spoke the door opened to
admit Mr. Harding and his remaining guest.
If you go and play now, Stasie, said Mrs,
Harding from the tea-table, ' you will help conversation,
and no one will listen to you."

"Very well," returned Stasie good-humouredly,
rising and moving towards the piano.

What a curious incentive !" said Dr. Brooke,
looking after her. Hormuz followed, but did not

attempt to open the piano or help her to find
her music. He stood leaning on the instrument,
gazing at the musician, who went quietly through
her simple pieces very contentedly, while she
observed that Mr. Harding and Mr. Williams continued
some discussion begun before, coffee cups
in hand, and Dr. Brooke went over to Mrs. Harding
and soon seemed absorbed in talk with her.

"What were you speaking of to this stranger?"
asked Kharapet at length, coming closer to Stasie.
He looked less mild and smiling than usual.

'' Oh, books and things you don't care about."

I am not unlearned, Stasie. Do you know
that I am consulted by some of your greatest
men respecting Assyrian antiquities ?"

''Oh, very likely ! But do not talk to me
while I am playing  it puts me out."

Hormuz's countenance darkened into a very
ugly expression as he stood contemplating what
was to his Eastern mind a problem not easy to
solve  a woman, a mere girl, with an independent
existence, who could tell him to be silent
when he wished to talk  who was often quite
unconscious of his gaze  and to whom, however
incredible it might seem, he felt he could

not communicate the flame that consumed himself.
After all, the slumber of her unawakened
womanhood might account for this extraordinary
indifference  northern women were slow to develop.
If once he spoke to her, and poured out
his love in the burning phrases he felt thronging
to his lips, surely she would melt and tremble,
and yield to his ardent affection.

Alas I very rude, Hormuz ?" said Stasie,
coming to the end of her piece and noting his
downcast looks. *' But I cannot play and talk."

She smiled sweetly, archly, as she spoke, and
before he could answer Mr. Harding called out,
Give us a song, Stasie."

She complied at once, singing a Scotch ballad
which she knew by ear.

Dr. Brooke came across to the piano when she
ceased. *' You really have a sweet, sympathetic
voice," he said ; *' much might be made of it."

' I am glad you think so. I am going to
have lessons."

*' Good-night, Miss Werner. I will not forget
the opera."

   

I like your cousin Dr. Brooke so much,"

said Stasie to Mrs. Harding, as that lady turned
into her young guest's room on her way to pay
a last visit to the nursery before retiring for the
night. " I am afraid he is satirical, but I am
sure he is very clever."

He is a man of ability, and used to he very
nice and kind, but the world changes men
greatly," returned Mrs. Harding with a sigh.

At any rate he will take us to the opera,
and that will be delightful. Mr. Harding does
not mind, does he ?"

He would certainly have said so if he did,"
said his wife quietly.

Dr. Brooke, walking back through the dim,
quiet streets to his hotel, reflected on the drama
opening up to him in the glimpses he had caught
of under currents eddying round his former
sweetheart. " Poor little Livy ! I am afraid
she is mated to a brute, and not even a straightforward
brute ! I don't fancy the legal adviser,
either ; and as to the Exeter Hall pet, I'd like to
kick him when I see the fellow gloating over that
nice, bright girl as if she were his particular property
They will never let her degrade herself
by marrying the hound ? Yet the fellow is good-looking

and soft-spoken ; and what can a creature
like Stasie Werner know of life ? She is very
handsome. What a sweet mouth !  not too
small  and that look of perfect health in her fine
velvety skin is a supreme beauty. Blondes are
not much to my taste, but she is not insipid. I
am not sure she isn't troublesomely intelligent ;
girls that ask questions are rather a nuisance, for
it is ten to one if they understand your answers,
unless they have been exceptionally trained. At
any rate, it is pleasant to go to the opera or
any other haunt of fashion with two nice, bright
women than alone, especially as I am quite free
to dispense with them when I choose. My poor
little Livy ! I Lavish she could dispense with that
prosperous, ostentatious husband of hers ! "

The days that intervened between this evening
and the projected visit to the opera were both
happy and successful in Stasie's estimation. She
had broached the subject uppermost in her mind
to Mr. Harding and to Kharapet, and to her delight
it was not violently opposed. They promised
to consider it, and that she should have
an opportunity of speaking to her guardian 
without whose consent nothing could be done.
With this news Stasie flew to rejoice Aunt
Clem's heart, but that sympathetic relative was
"not at home," to her visitor's great regret.
Still Lady Elizabeth Wyatt's promised invitation
to luncheon did not come, though Kharapet, who
was in greater request than ever with the
fashionable religious world, brought numerous
messages from that busy philanthropist to Stasie.
But the chief ingredient in this pleasant time

was the frequent society of Dr. Brooke. His
conversation, his presence, acted like a delightful
tonic on Stasie's brain. His voice charmed her
ear ; his remarks, his incidental descriptions and
reminiscences susoested fresh and invigorating
strains of thought. His manner, frank, kindly,
and utterly innocent of admiration or insinuated
compliment, was delightful after the sugary
sweetness of Kharapet or the rough adulation of
Mr. Harding ; nor was she piqued or offended
by finding herself unmistakably second to Mrs.
Harding in his estimation, but rather more at
her ease; she showed her pleasure in his presence,
her keen enjoyment in arguing with him even in
accepting defeat at his hands without an attempt
to disguise it.

It is not in male nature to be indifferent to
such subtile unintentional flattery ; and Stasie
was rapidly becoming a favourite in a sort of
careless, half-appreciative fashion with her hero,
though at times she unconsciously made his
pulses throb quicker than they need, by her
frank girlish playfulness  it could scarce be called
coquetry  with Kharapet. Often, after she had
been bored by the latter's persistent adoration,
VOL. I. 14

which she scarce understood into impatience and
sharp speeches, she would try to make amends
by smiles and glances which both men misinterpreted,
and which, with all his reason and
philosophy, woke murderous thoughts in the
cool self-possessed doctor.

He could not bear to doubt the straightforward
earnestness which interested him so much
in this half-educated half-wilful girl !

The opera was like an enchanted dream to
Stasia ; the only drawback was the presence of
Kharapet, who joined them at the last moment,
but that, too, was forgotten in the griefs of
Leonora  the love and sorrow of Azucena. She
would have liked Dr. Brooke's arm instead of
Kharapet's coming out, but of course he (Dr.
Brooke) took Mrs. Harding, and so darkness
and commonplace settled down over the glorious
revelation of beauty and melody, to be reproduced
by fancy in the silence and freedom of
her solitary moments.

The next afternoon's post brought her a note
from Aunt Clem, written from her bed. The
poor lady had been very ill with a bad feverish

cold. She was now better, and a visit from her
sweet Stasie would complete her cure.

I can go tomorrow, Mrs. Harding ? there is
nothing to be done ? "

'' Nothing ! you had better see her at once,
for Lady Elizabeth's invitation may come any
day, and you would not like to refuse."

Certainly not. And, Mrs. Harding, as you
are going to take Johnnie to the dentist, I will
stay at home and write a long letter to Ella
Matthews  she will be so pleased to hear about
the opera."

Stasie therefore settled herself to her letter at
Mrs. Harding's writing-table in the inner ,
but she did not get on. The music of
last night was in her ears, its scenes before her
eyes, and it seemed like a continuation of its
delights, when Dr. Brooke was announced.

' I am so glad you have come ! I want to
talk to you about last night ! " was her greeting.
But Mrs. Harding is out."

"So I hear. Well, let us talk of last night
by all means," drawing a comfortable chair
opposite her, and disposing himself at ease. " I
am almost as new to such scenes as yourself.

I have been occasionally at the opera long ago,
before I went to India. Grist was at her highest
height then ! I do not think we will hear anything
like her for a long time to come ! '

*' Oh ! could she be finer than the Leonora
last night ? "

*' Yes ! infinitely, quite different."

' The only thing I don't think I liked was
the recitative. It seems rather silly to talk in
sing-song."

*' For that matter it is all silly enough ! yet
very delicious. I am fond of music in an
ignorant way, but I agree with you recitative is
a mistake. I fancy the songs would have more
effect if the dialogue were spoken."

'' We must not quarrel though with what is
so charming ! How lovely that song ' II bale
del suo morris ' is ! '

* The lightning of thy smile," said Dr.
Brooke, musingly. * Yes, there are smiles that
flash upon one."

They are not the best," returned Stasie. " I
like Mrs. Harding's smiles, they are so soft and
quiet, and  just a little sad  not sunny smiles !
more like moonlight ! " Dr. Brooke looked up

quickly, keenly, at her, but she did not notice
him.

You describe her exactly ! ' he said. "Where
IS she, by the way % "

*' She has taken Johnnie to the dentist."

' Ah ! she'll have a bad quarter of an hour !
That young gentleman has not a heroic nature.

' I should think not," returned Stasie emphatically.
"He is such a troublesome imp,
I do long to box his ears two or three times
a day."

I doubt if the discipline would be judicious,"
said the doctor gravely, while a smile glittered
in his eyes.

I daresay not, but he deserves it ! I don't
think he cares one straw about his dear sweet
mother I "

You are very fond of Mrs. Harding ? Do
you never quarrel ? "

'' Never, though I am rather quarrelsome. I
shall be so sorry to leave her."

Are you going away?" asked Brooke quickly.

Not immediately, but I have almost got Mr.
Harding's and Mr. Kharapet's consent that I
should travel on the Continent for some time."

Almost ! but a long way from ' altogether
I suspect."

Why. do you think so ?"

'because that Eastern gentleman does not
intend to lose sight of you if he can help it."

Why?" asked Stasie, opening her eyes as if
startled.

*' Oh ! for many reasons  lest you should
spend too much money, for instance." ,

But the money is my own, not his !"

"Well," with a smile and a curious look at
her, " I daresay he has an abstract objection
to spending, even though the money be hot
absolutely his. He is probably close-fisted by
nature."

I do not think he is  not to me. He tries
to do every thing he can for me  pray da not say
anything against him. I believe he is one of my
kindest, best friends, though he has tiresome
ways."

'' That is an awful sentence ! How is he tiresome
? "

'' I really cannot exactly tell, only he never
seems to have much to say, and he does not care
to talk about what interests me. But I am very

ungrateful to say this ; pray forget it, and let us
speak of something else. I am very fond of
Hormuz, I assure you."

*' Very well, we will leave him. I am not
disposed to dwell on the subject, I assure you.
So you are not to go back to school ? Are you
not delighted V

Yes ; but I feel curiously adrift. Now Mrs.
Mathews is gone, I seem to be quite alone."

Dr. Brooke looked at her to see if she thought
of creating any sentimental effect by this speech,
but her eyes were dreamy, with a sort of distant
outlook, and her tone was as if she spoke to herself.
There was something soft and wistful in
her expression, an unconscious natural grace in
her pose that touched his heart. She was, he
feared, in the hands of unscrupulous men ; and
she was so fearless and confiding, so innocent
of guile. He did not admire fair women himself,
and yet it flashed upon him that a man might
love this unformed girl very passionately. " You
resided with Mrs. Mathews since you were cjuite
a child, I am told?"

Oh, yes ! that is the reason I miss being
with them. But I have an aunt  that is, an

aunt of my mother's  and I hope I may be let to
travel with her."

I imagine you will always make plenty of
friends," said Brooke kindly.

"Do you think so?" with a bright, grateful
look. 'thank you." There was a silence  a
pleasant, sympathetic silence.

Then the door opened, and Jane announced
very audibly, "Mr. Mathews," whereupon entered
a slight, short young man with a pale, pasty
face, ill developed moustaches, and untidy hair.
He wore a light paletot, deficient in one or two
buttons and relaxed about the pockets. He held
a short stick and his hat in one hand, and made
his entry with an air of mingled awkwardness
and swagger.

Stasie looked up at him for an instant with 
what seemed to Brooke's fully roused curiosity 
not pleased surprise ; then her brow cleared, and
she started up exclaiming, " Bob ! why, what has
brought you here % I am very glad to see you !"

Well, I thought I would just call round and
see you. I was not at home the day you were

over at our place, and " he stopped, with an

uneasy glance at Dr. Brooke,

"Sit down, Bob," resumed Stasie. 'when
did you hear from your mother, and how are
they getting on ?"

I had a letter yesterday ; they are all stunning,
thanks, and awfully busy."

And are you going down to C ?"

I don't know  at any rate, not yet."
Are you still with Mrs. Deacon ?"
Yes ; it's cruelly slow. I wanted to tell you
about one or two things."

Here Dr. Brooke rose. Stasie had in her surprise
and confusion quite forgotten him. " I will wish
you good-morning," he said. " Tell Mrs. Harding
I shall look in tomorrow or next day to see how
she is after her trials of this morning." A low bow
to Stasie, a slight one to Bob, and he was gone.

That is a good riddance," said Bob, with a
sigh of relief. " Who is he ?"

"Dr. Brooke, a cousin of Mrs. Harding's."
Ah ! he is not to be taken alive, I should
say." Another pause.

"Now then. Bob, what is it?" You have
something to tell me ?"

"You are about right, Stasie; I am in a
regular hole."

'' You generally are," she returned, leaning her
elbows on the table, and supporting her chin on
her hands.

 *Eyes, but this is out and out the worst, because
I was just going to be steady. I had just
got my first chance, and a couple of scoundrels
that hold some bits of paper of mine swear they
will nab me if I don't pay up, and they might
as well ask me for the, national debt !"

'' Tell me all about it, Bob, for I do not understand."


Whereupon Bob did a tale unfold-by which
it appeared that when the family exodus was
decided upon, there was a great difficulty what todo
with him ; and by his own account he began
at last to feel ashamed of being a drag and a
burden on his mother. He therefore bestirred
himself, and succeeded in obtaining an engagement
for a voyage to Shanghai and back.

Mrs. Mathews had managed to pay off a few
of her son's small debts,  all she was aware of, 
a great strain upon her slender resources. Bob
confessed that he had hoped to escape his larger
creditors, but unfortunately the date of the ship's
departure was postponed. The creditors got scent

of this intentions, and informed him that they
were determined to have their money.

In fact they never lose sight of me' concluded
Bob. " I should have been in quod by
this time, only they let me go about to try and
scrape up the cash."

This is dreadful ! " exclaimed Stasie, full of
warmest sympathy with Mrs. Mathews and Ella.
Oh, Bob, Bob ! what a boy you are, and what
a trouble you have been ! oughtn't you to be
ashamed of yourself? What is to become of you ? "

*' That's just what I have come to ask you,"
returned Bob, looking very straight at her.
Don't you kick a fellow that's down, but help
to put him on his legs. You've lots of tin.
Couldn't you manage to lend me forty or fifty
pounds for my mother's sake ? You'd just save
me and make my fortune. I'll pay you again,
as sure as I am a living man ! "

*' / am not so sure, though," said Stasie, with
much candour. '' Not that I would mind much
whether you did or not  for your mother's sake
Bobbut I can't  I can't indeed. I have hardly
any money at all ; and I shall not have any till
I am twenty-one. "

*' But, Stasie," urged the young man imploringly,
" you live among swell monied people,
couldn't you coax a trifle like fifty out of any of
them ? Don't be hard on me, Stasie. You and
I were always good friends. Many's the pound
of tofiy we have made together ; many a
bull's-eye I have given you ; and many's the
time I have pulled the swing for you till my
arm ached ! "

And tried to throw me out, and break my
neck too," said Stasie, laughing. " No, Bob, don't
talk nonsense ; we never were friends ! You were
always selfish ; and, I must say it, rather unprincipled.
Yet, as I said, I wouldn't mind one
bit if I could help you, and, after all, you may
come right yet. You have some good somewhere,
I suppose, you manage to make your poor
mother love you so much."

She does," said Bob, a little huskily ; ' and
if I can get over this I'll be a good son to her ;
see if I'm not."

Stasie looked fixedly at him, and seemed lost
in thought. " If I thought you would be ! "

Bob broke out into the strongest asseverations,
and Stasie recounted to him the abortive attempt

she had made to induce the executors to give hera
hundred pounds of her own money. While she
spoke, and noticed the dull despair that crept
over Bob's face, her indignation against her enforced
impotence, and a growing belief that Bob
was not hopeless, waxed strong in her heart,

I think ril just go jump off Westminster
Bridge," said Bob despondingly. Stasie still kept
silence, but her face was beginning to brighten,
** Bob," she said, at last, " if you will really try
to be a good son, and a well-behaved gentleman,
I'll do the only thing I can, I will give you some
of my trinkets,"

' You are a real brick, Stasie," he returned,
not very cheerfully ; " but I am afraid a few
trinkets won't do much good."

'' I have more than you think ; stay, I will
show them to you ; but we must be quick, no
one must see them about."

She ran out of the room, and soon returned
with her jewel-box, the contents of which she
displayed to the admiring Bob.

My eye !" said that young man, " you have a
heap of sparklers there. Why, Stasie, my darling
! you'll save me ; you'll make my fortune ;

you'll give me a chance for life if you let me have
some of these."

Only some of them, then ! and, indeed, Bob,
I don't like to part with any of them ; they were
all my poor mother's."

But you need not ! " cried Bob eagerly ;
I'll pledge them with some highly respectable
uncle, and when I come back from Shanghai
I'll take 'em out, see if I don't."

'' You mean you will pawn them ? I remember
how you pawned Mrs. Mathews' diamond ring ! but
she had to pay for it before she got it again ! "

And what a trump she was about it. I
got ten pounds on it  there's many ten pounds
there."

I don't know," said Stasie, doubtfully ; " I
can't give this, or this, or this," pointing to the
gold ornaments, a bracelet, a clasp or two, etc. etc.

Well," cried Bob, " I am sure there's sixty
or seventy pound's worth left if we go judiciously
to work. If you give them to me you'll see how
I'll manage, and I'll bring you back what's not
wanted, faith and honour."

No, Bob," said Stasie steadily, " I will not
let them out of my own hands. I will go with

you and see what we can get. If there is anything
over I want it for myself."

Bob coloured. " I think you might trust
me," he said, " and I don't think you will like
going into these kind of places."

Why should I mind ? I am not doing wrong !
I am only taking my own, though I shall keep it
secret as long as ever I can. Of course there will
be an awful row about it, for it will be sure to be
found out, but you will be away and the money
gone ; and. Bob, if you are not steady and industrious
after this, I'll  I'll say you are no
gentleman, but a thief ! "

Don't call names," said Bob, too infinitely
relieved to take offence, " but how shall we
manatee ? " Stasie thought for a minute. ** We
must try and do it to-morrow' she said ; '' I am
going to see aunt Clem  Miss Stretton, you know.
If you can meet me somewhere near these places,
we can dispose of the things, and I will go on to
her after."

Capital ! first rate ; better meet as near as
possible, corner of Edgeways Eoad and Cambridge
Terrace ? You know the place. Will two o'clock
suit \ "

*' Yes, quite well ; and go away now, Bob,
please. I want to put away my pretty things,
and I don't want you to meet Mrs. Harding."

I suppose you're ashamed of a shabby friend,"
said Bob.

'* If it was only shabbiness of clothes I would
not mind, but you know it has been shabbiness
all through. Bob. Yet, I begin to hope there's
more good in you than I thought. Oh ! if you
turn out well, how proud I shall be of you ! "
<    

It was not without a struggle that Stasie
had made up her mind to part with her trinkets
even temporarily, but the hope of helping the
family through the family incubus was tempting ;
and though deeply distrustful of the erratic Bob,
he had on this occasion contrived to inspire her
with an unusual degree of faith. Moreover, it
was, as he said, his first chance, and if he lost it
he might never come right.

As to any doubt respecting the disposal of
what was her own, any hesitation as to the
propriety of walking about with Bob, to whom
she had been used all her life, such considerations
never crossed her brain, and she enjoyed

the idea of helping Mrs. Mathews indirectly, in
spite of guardian or executors. She sent off
her letter to Ella without saying a word of her
prodigal brother, and started next day as soon
as possible after luncheon on her circuitous route
to Aunt Clem.

Of course Bob was punctually in waiting, and
greeted her with a grateful exclamation of " Well,
Stasie, you are a trump ! " He further proposed
the daring: extravagance of a cab. *' It will save
time, and you will be seen less," he said. "" I suppose
the swells you live amongst would be shocked
to see you going about with a young man ? "

"Not a young man that is like a sort of
brother," returned Stasie, whose bourgeois upbringing
left her in some ignorance of the conventionalities
of higher life.

Still, it is as well to keep out of sight if you
want to keep this business dark," urged Bob, ashe
hailed a four-wheeler.

He directed the driver to the Strand, and, arrived
there, he dismissed the conveyance. " There
are lots of first-rate ' uncles ' about here," he observed,
" and I will just put up my umbrella to
keep off this nasty drizzle, and curious eyes."

VOL. I, 15

It was, as Bob remarked, a nasty, damp, oppressive
day ; the streets were greasy, the footways
dirty, a sort of atmosphere that suited their
shady proceedings, Stasie thought. She was not
prepared for the sort of shame and disgust which
abashed her, when she stood in one of those dingy
little sentry-box divisions by which the incognito
and delicacy of applicants for avunclar aid are
supposed to be preserved. A faint doubt as to
whether she was right presented itself, but was
quickly banished. By Bob's advice she had
made up her jewels into various small parcels.
'' It will never do to show all at once," said that
experienced youth. This compelled a prolongation
of Stasie's discomfort, as they were obliged
to visit many establishments before they collected
the sum required by Bob, and a balance
which Stasie appropriated.

I had better leave all the tickets with you,"
said Bob considerately, when the last bracelet was
disposed of, and they stood in the entry of one of
the grandest institutions they had yet visited.
I might lose them, you know, moving about.
Isn't this a swell place ? I might be buying a
suit of diamonds for my ' young lady,' from the

looks of it' he continued, unable to repress the
bounding high spirits which this great deliverance
inspired.

"If you ever did buy such things you would
be sure to pawn them next day," said Stasie.
She felt cross and vexed both with Bob and herself.

They stepped into the street as she spoke,
turning towards Westminster.

"I do not see why it should be more disgraceful
to raise money on rings and pins, or even a
tail-coat, than on your hereditary estate or your
scrip and securities," said Bob philosophically,
while he struggled to open his umbrella. But
Stasie neither heard nor heeded him. That unsheltered
moment brought her face to face with
Dr. Brooke. They did not speak, and he passed
on without the slightest hesitation. Yet Stasie
saw that she was recognised, that her companion
was recognised, and that Dr. Brooke thought
it well not to see her. Bob, engaged with
his umbrella, saw nothing. Stasie, her conscience
clear of offence, was puzzled by this cut
direct. She would not have hesitated to give
the fullest explanation of her presence,  only for
Mrs. Mathews' sake she would not like to display

Bob's delinquencies too openly. Still, the
rencontre made her uncomfortable. She would
take the first opportunity to tell everything to
Dr. Brooke ; it would be a relief. She was determined
not to say a word to Mrs. Harding,
lest in the row which she fully anticipated she
should be in any way implicated. But would it
not be taking a liberty to thrust her affairs on a
stranger ? She would wait and see if an opportunity
for speaking offered.

Get me a cab. Bob ! " she exclaimed, interrupting
the flow of his talk. ' I must go to Miss
Stretton's as soon as I can, or I shall have no
time to spend with her."

Stasie was feeling shivery and miserable, and
longed for her aunt's caressing words and tone
of admiration.

' All right ; and I will bid you good-bye now.
I daresay it won't break your heart not to seeme
again. Wait a bit, Stasie ; Til show you Fm
not an ungrateful scoundrel ! Have you the
tickets safe ? "

''I have. But stay. Bob; are we not near
some nice fruit shop, or Covent Garden ? I want
to get some fruit for my aunt ; she has been ill."

"To be sure, there is a fruiterer's over the
way."

But what an awful place to cross ! "
Stick to me. I'll take care of you ! "

There is no more desolate creature in the world
than an elderly decayed gentlewoman of Miss
Stretton's type.

Kindly, weak, vain, sensitive, and not over
brave, she was apt to irritate the young people
under her charge by pretensions she had not the
pluck to uphold ; to excite their mockery by
little transparent deceits, at which the cruel
hardness of youth will not smile indulgently, and
to " rile " them by cutting speeches for which she
was only too ready to apologise. In short, she
had not the knack of making friends, albeit capable
of much good nature as well as a little spite.

Being of an essentially religious caste of mind,
she was inclined to see the finger of Providence
in the misfortunes of those she disliked and the
success of those who had befriended her, and she
considered her introduction to Stasie the direct
guiding of a merciful Father.

The inopportune cold, which had been nearly

a fever, and which interrupted her communications
with her niece, was a great blow, as she
was most anxious to make good her footing with
the young heiress and her directors. Here, indeed,
was a chance not to be neglected,  and she
was laid up helpless, unable to improve it !

Trained as she had been, poor soul,  in the
conviction that young people were selfish, and
the only way to get on was to avoid troubling
or crossing them, it never occurred to her to
write to Stasie to come and nurse her, an employment
Stasie would have rather enjoyed. So
when that young person beamed in upon her, on
the dull, damp, depressing afternoon we have
described, with a basket of grapes, apricots,
and a big nosegay of sweet flowers, she seemed
an angel of hope and deliverance to the poor
solitary woman.

Weakened as she was by illness, she thanked
Stasie with hysterical tears, which made a great
impression on her visitor. Had Miss Stretton
planned for a twelvemonth the best method of
attracting and attaching her young niece, she could
have hit on no device so certain of success as this
unmistakably natural outburst of feeling.

Now, don't cry, Aunt Clem. I won't have
it. You are not going to be lonely any more.
I have spoken to Mr. Harding and to Hormuz
Kharapet, and they have all but consented to
my going abroad with you. Indeed they cannot
do more until I see Mr. Wyatt. He, you know,
must decide, and I don't believe he cares a straw
what becomes of me. So you must try and get
well, for we might go abroad this autumn. Let
me peel this apricot for you, and have you any
wine % I am sure you ought to have some wine."

There is a little, dear, in the cupboard by
the fireplace. ''

Stasie had it out in a twinkling. " Why,
there is scarcely a glass left," finding one and
pouring out the muddy port, then colouring
from fear of seeming to presume, " Might I  '
would you mind if I sent out for some more ?
you know it is a mere trifle."

Ah, Stasie, you are your dear mother's own
daughter. The good God has sent you to console
me for the sorrows and disappointments of
my life. Yes, love, I will accept your kindness,
and it is three-e-e and"  sob  "sixpence a
bottle."

After this some delightful conversation ensued.
An extensive tour was planned, a tremendous
scheme of study sketched out for Stasie,
and various details suggested and discussed, till,
to the surprise of the friends in council, they
found it was nearly six o'clock. "I must runaway,"
cried Stasie, ' I shall be late for dinner."

"You take my sunshine with you, dear.
When shall I see you again % "

"Not for a few days. I am going to write
boldly to Mr. Wyatt and ask for an interview.
I get nothing " done unless I do it myself. Mr.
Harding promises everything and does nothing.
I suppose there is no harm in writing to my
guardian % "

"None whatever, and, Stasie, be sure you
get him on our side. I may say our side, my
love ? For, believe me that Mr. Kharapet will
make a determined resistance to your leaving
England."

"I don't think he will. Aunt Clem. He is
always ready to do what I wish, and really does
the things  not merely promises, like Mr. Harding."


Nevertheless, when it comes to travelling

abroad, you will find him the greatest difficulty,
unless, indeed he comes with you "  a keen look
at her listener with these words.

But Stasie neither understood nor heeded.
Oh, I should not care for that. He is very
nice and good-natured, but he would be rather
in our way. He  he does not understand

things, or care about art or But I must runaway.

Good-bye, dear aunt ; I will come again
as soon as ever I can."

God bless you, my sweet child ! I shall count
the days till we meet again''

It was late when Stasie drove up to Mrs.
Harding's, and she went straight away to her
room. She dressed quickly, thinking over her
day's work with delight and amusement. She
had helped Mrs. Mathews most effectually in
helping Bob ; she had secured nearly twelve
pounds for a wedding present to dear Ella ; she
had completely turned the executors' flank,
which was a glorious triumph, and, above all,
she had cheered and comforted door Aunt Clem,
who was the only creature to whom she (Stasie)
could possibly be of importance and use. '' And

please God, I ivill help her and stick to her,"
said Stasie to herself resolutely. There would
be a row, and a very big row, when her delinquencies
were found out ; that she did not
care about, provided the discovery were not made
too soon. Once Bob was safe away, detection
might come when it would. But how if Dr.
Brooke, who would probably come to dinner tomorrow
or next day, made any uncomfortable
inquiries about her expedition to the Strand ?
that was a danger against which she must
guard. She stood still a moment lost in thought.
Would he not think her bold and maidenly
if she wrote to him, a comparative stranger ?
Very likely he would; yet she must stop his
mouth at all costs. By and by, when the
clearing-up came, she would explain all to him,
and he would quite understand. She would
not for worlds he thought ill of her, he was
such a grand, kindly man, worthy of being a
Kosicrucian himself. Now time pressed; she
must write shortly. She opened her blotting-book,
wrote a hasty line, signed, sealed, and delivered
it to the nursemaid, whom she caught
going downstairs, who, noticing the address, and



being utterly devoted to Miss Yerner, scented
a prosperous love affair, and posted it with
the utmost secrecy, not even confiding a syllable
of her conjectures to her ally the kitchen-maid.


This same dull drizzling day Dr. Brooke dined
with an eminent M.D. whose pupil he had been.
It was a man's party (the M.D. was a bachelor)
and a very pleasant one  wit and humour,
culture, and knowledge of life, are splendid additions
to a material feast, and Brooke returned to
his hotel, highly pleased with the entertainment.
He felt enriched and enlightened, his own powers
roused, his faculties put upon their mettle, as such
intercourse is wont to affect those who have been
for long strangers to similar influences.

London was certainly the most desirable field
in which a man of science and ambition could
labour. It was so crowded, though ! How could
he hope to secure a niche in a fane bedecked
with multitudes of striking figures ? Was there
an unoccupied spot left for him? Yes ! he might
find it if he could afford to wait ; he was still

young, but his capital was small ; yet give him
time, and he felt he would make a place for himself.
He was sure of his own industry and confident
in his own power, with the calm of
certainty, which is so widely different from the
restlessness of self-conceit.

In this pleasant frame of mind he reached his
room, and putting on his dressing-gown resolved,
as he felt so wide awake, to write a long letter
to a regimental chum. He drew his chair to the
table, lit a cigar, and then proceeded to open
two or three notes given to him as he came in.

One was a bill ; in the next Lady Pearson informed
him she was at home on the evening of
the 30th, while * dancing," in diminutive letters
at one corner, indicated the amusement proposed ;
the last was a plain white envelope, directed
in large, clear, rather straggly, writing, quite
unknown to him, too bold for a woman, too undecided
for a man. " Whom can this be from,"
he murmured, gazing on the superscription 
Dr. J. Brooke, Grosvenor Hotel." Then with
a smile at the stupidity of conjecturing, when he
had but to tear the envelope and know, Brooke
opened it and read, " Dear Dr. Brooke, please do

not tell any one you met me in the Strand today.
Yours truly, Stasie Yernee."

Brooke threw down the paper impatiently.
He felt as if some discordant note had jarred
upon the pleasant harmony of spirit in which he
had sat down to peruse this brief epistle.

He had remarked Stasie and her companion,
but was not sure they had seen him. It had in
some way offended him to see her out alone with
so objectionable a young man as "Bob;" but he
did not think much about it, intending to give
Mrs. Harding a hint that she ought not to permit
her young friend to go about under such
escort.

Now, the matter took a different colour altogether.
There must have been some deliberate
purpose in Stasie's expedition, perhaps some old
entanglement. Good heavens ! what extraordinary
creatures girls are. What strange fascination
he had known coarse, common, brutal men
exercise over gentle, refined, ladylike girls !
Titania and Bottom in an ever-recurring drama !
But somehow he had fancied that Stasie was of
different calibre; her tastes, her struggling desire
for higher things, seemed to point to a different

ending. To make clandestine appointments with
an unmitigated cad, and then to write coolly to
himself, a comparative stranger, to hold his
tongue respecting her doings, showed a mixture of
cunning and effrontery that  Pah ! why should
he think of it any more ? what was this girl to
him ? She was a thorough coquette, and the
memory of sundry soft glances and speeches to
Kharapet came back to him  speeches and
glances, by the way, generally bestowed after
having cut the Syrian short when he attempted
to interrupt her conversation with himself (Jim
Brooke). Yet what a fine creature she is ! was
Brooke's concluding reflection. " None of your
regular beauties  but lovely ! Such a figure ! so
rich and graceful ! and those clear, fearless eyes,
so unconscious and careless at times of self and
her own charm, though I daresay she knows
right well she is good-looking. She will be a
sort of woman that men make fools of themselves
for. I am glad I have had a glimpse of
the under - current ! There is Livy, too, Mrs.
Harding ! How did she come to marry such a
clown ? but I fancy the old Rector had a hand
in that ! What an upside-down world it is ! I

do not see why a fellow should not get on quite
well without a wife'

Having come to this wise conclusion, he tore
poor Stasie's little note into minute fragments,
and settled to his letter, effectually dismissing
the matter from his mind.

The day but one after Dr. Brooke had made
these profound reflections, he left his club early
in the afternoon, and walked forth in some uncertainty
as to how he should spend the next
hour or two ; he found himself almost unconsciously
following the streets and turns which
led to York Gate. He was due there, he told
himself. He had not seen Mrs. Harding for
some days, and she was such a pleasant, quiet
little thing to talk to ! in fact his cousin and her
friend were rather amusing studies to him. Nor
need he renounce his study, because one of them
developed new and disagreeable characteristics.

Mrs. Harding was at home. She was teaching
her little girl to work a kettle-holder, the
little lady's first attempt at fancy-work.

The day was warm and sunny, so the transition
from the sultry streets to a shady room, cool

and quiet, and sweet with the perfume of violets
and mignonette, was very grateful to the pedestrian.

"What are you doing, Miss Ethel?" said
Brooke after the first greetings were exchanged.

Making a pretty holder for mamma," returned
the child, bringing it up for inspection.
Shall I make one for you ?"

"Yes; I shall want it for my house when I
have one."

When shall you have one V

I don't know  by the way, your friend Mr.
Williams, Livy, is quite ready to settle the important
question of residence and practice for me. I
am to buy or build a house at Sefton Park, and
assume the sanitary direction of the inhabitants."

"At Sefton Park!" echoed Mrs. Harding;
well, I presume you will look at the place first
before coming to a decision." She spoke with a
slight smile.

Your tone is not encouraging. Pray what
is your opinion of the locality ?"

"It is not disagreeable in summer, but I think
you would like a wider sphere. However, you
will judge for yourself. We have a house there,
the original farmhouse, and will be going down

VOL. I. 16

to it in a fortnight or three weeks. I hope you
will come and see us."

I shall be delighted."

'there is an orchard there, and I have a
garden of my own too," said Ethel.

It must be an Eden," returned Brooke, taking
her on his knee.

I shall be glad enough to go out of town,"
said Mrs. Harding. 'rit is fresh and countrified
as yet at Sefton Park ; later it will be too much
of the suburban villa order."

Ethel continued to tell of ponies, cows,
and fowls, of nutting and blackberries, while
Brooke played with her golden hair, when their
discourse was broken in upon by the entrance of
the eldest boy, followed by a staid, solid-looking
woman. "Mamma!" cried Johnnie, rushing upto
his mother, " must I go with nurse ? I want
to go with Harry Middleton into the enclosure.
He has a new boat, and "

The last day as you went out with Master
Middleton, sir, you come in with your feet sopping
wet, and your clothes in tatters," said nurse.

"You had better go with nurse and the
children, Johnnie."

''No, I won't! why should I? I'm not a
baby!"

If he comes with us, I can have an eye on
him, ma'am."

I don't want her eyes !" cried Johnnie.

You really had better go with nurse, Johnnie,
and you must," said Mrs. Harding.

*' Well, I won't, there now ! Papa says you
never know what's best, that you blow hot
and cold, and he won't mind if I do go with
Harry." So saying, he darted away, slamming
the door.

Never you mind, ma'am ; I'll see after him,"
said nurse hastily, and she left the room followed
by Willie and Ethel.

There was an awkward pause. Mrs. Harding
had flushed crimson, feeling that her boy's words
were a painful revelation. Dr. Brooke felt as if
a panorama of his cousin's life had been suddenly
unrolled, and for a moment could find no words
wherewith to recommence the conversation.

Mrs. Harding was the first to speak. With a
slight smile curling her lips she said : "A specimen
of judicious upbringing, is he not ? We
must hope years will improve him."

*' Get him to school as fast as you can," replied
Brooke.

Let us talk of some pleasant matters," rejoined
Mrs. Harding, recovering herself. " Stasie
Yerner is out ; she is gone to luncheon with
Lady Elizabeth Wyatt  gone in high spirits,
poor child ! hoping to get her guardian's consent
to her scheme of continental travel under the
chaperonage of her aunt, Miss Stretton."

' Don't you think she will succeed V

I doubt it. Mr. Harding and Mr. Kharapet
are, for some reason, not inclined to let her go,'

She paused as if expecting some question from
her companion, but he only said, ' Indeed."

I think it would do her a great deal of good.
I do not know that Miss Stretton is the best
person to be with her ; she seems very kind and
complaisant, and Stasie seems to have taken a
fancy to her. She has been ill, and Stasie spent
nearly all the day before yesterday in her dull room
not a very enlivening occupation for a young
girl ! and Miss Stretton is almost a stranger to
her."

It was remarkably kind," replied Dr. Brooke
drily.

' I think it was," said Mrs. Harding, a little
struck by his tone. He had generally spoken
of Stasie with a certain degree of interest, and
Mrs. Harding, whose heart had warmed to him
from the first time he had presented himself,
hoped he might prove a useful counterpoise to
Kharapet ; in short, she had begun to think it
would be a good arrangement if Dr. Brooke were to
marry Stasie. He seemed likely to make a kind,
husband, if any man could be steadily kind and
courteous when possessed of a husband's irresponsible
j)c>wer. And her money would be most
useful to him in the outset of his career.

Mrs. Harding was a woman of too much tact
and delicacy of feeling to show her hand in such
an affair. She only held herself in readiness,
gently to fan any kindling spark she might perceive
on her cousin's side ; and something in his
voice to-day told her he was unsympathetic.
Perhaps he thought Stasie responded too readily
to Kharapet's unconcealed admiration, his sickly
but unmistakable passion ; so she continued quietly
keeping her eyes on her tatting. " I should be
sorry to lose her, yet glad if she did go abroad,
were it only to get her out of Mr. Kharapet's way.

I suppose it is mere prejudice, but I have an unaccountable
dislike to him ; and it would grieve me
more than I can say if he succeeded in winning
Stasie  not that I really think he has much
chance ! "

She does not seem inclined to be hardhearted'
returned Dr. Brooke in the same tone.

"You do not understand her as I do," said
Mrs. Harding earnestly. " She has some surface
vanity, and she is pleased and amused by Parapet's
flattering devotion, but utterly unconscious
of the reality of his plans and intentions. I am
certain his proposal, when it comes, will be a
surprise to her. Her mind is full of other things.
She has no idea of falling in love, and she feels a
certain superiority to him. Both these mental
conditions make her deaf and blind to what you
and I see. I only hope when she refuses him he
may not turn into a spiteful enemy ; so I should
much prefer her going abroad with Miss Stretton
out of harm's way."

"You are a very far-seeing observant little
woman," replied Brooke, laughing ; " and I congratulate
Miss Werner on having so faithful a
friend. I think you are highly imaginative, Livy.

Agere I you, I should not distress myself about
Miss Yerner ; she is a bright, handsome creature,
with a sufficient dash of coquetry; she will manage
Kharapet and two or three more, I daresay, before
she makes some fellow happy with herself and
her money."

Mrs. Harding was silent. She had too much
experience of what she considered the crookedness
of masculine nature to pursue the subject. Some
influence unknown to her was at work, and she
must watch and wait. Perhaps Brooke expected
an eager reply, for he looked at her attentively ;
but her shuttle was entangled, and when she had
put it right, she said in her usual tone 

' Are you going to Lady Pearson's on the 30th1"

Are you ? "

Yes, I am going to take Stasie, who never
was at a dance as yet \ "

Then I will go, and you must dance with me
for  auld lang syne's ' sake ! "

My dear Jim, I forget how to dance. I never
go to anything but dinners  stately regulation
dinners I"

*why not? Is Harding jealous? Doesn't
he like you to dance ? "

"Jealous ! Mr. Harding j jealous ! " She laughed
quite merrily. " He never dreams of such fancies.
He is not imaginative enough. No ; he hates
evening parties, and does not like to be left alone."

I fancy you give in to him too much, Livy''

You will be quite as exacting yourself, Jim,
when you marry."

Perhaps so," he returned thoughtfully; " and
I suppose I must marry \ "

*' I see no necessity  no urgent necessity if
you do not care about it."

I am not sure that I do. It is very pleasant
to talk about oneself to a wise woman like you
but I have observed that wives are not always
interested in their husband's confidences."

How do you know what husbands and wives
are tete-d-Utef'

True. I think, by and by, when I have
amused myself and decided on my future plans,
I shall look out for a wife, a nice, sensible, practical
woman with a little money."

I suppose you would never be guilty of the
weakness of falling in love ?" said Mrs. Harding,
laughing.

N  ; not if I can help it. Do you know

I was deucedly miserable when I bade you goodbye,
and felt it was final ! " He threw a wonderful
amount of tenderness into his eyes as he
spoke.

"Did you really?" and Mrs. Harding laughed
again. " No one would have found it out ! and
it was just as well we were separated. You are
an ambitious man, Jim, and had you felt me or

any other woman a drag well, it would not

have been pleasant for the drag."

You are wrong, Livy ! I hope I am strong
enough to bear the inevitable without whimpering,
and I do not think I should be a brute to
any woman."

I don't think you would ; but I imagine you
might be bitterly indifferent."

Indifference is not bitter," he said, with some
surprise at her tone.

'' Bitter to bear," I mean.

Another silence. Dr. Brooke found himself
longing to say, " Livy, are you very unhappy ?
can I do anything to help you ? " but he dared
not. That she was not happy seemed clear enough ;
the only question was as to the degree of her
unhappiness ; her hint in their first interview

that all married women were the better for a
'big brother" relative of some kind was very
expressive  that and her eldest boy's insolence
told much. Jim Brooke had a kinder heart than
he himself knew. He had a large knowledge of
the world's seamy side,  none see so much behind
the scenes as doctors, for whom poor humanity
is generally in deshabille,  and he felt that his
years were too few, his relationship too remote,
to permit of his playing champion for his interesting
little cousin ; besides, until you knew them
well, it was not easy to fathom women. God
knows what was at the bottom of Livy's unhappiness,
yet he was inclined to believe her real,
simple, truthful,  as to her young protegee she
had managed to throw dust in her friend's eyes
very successfully. Mrs. Harding had evidently
no notion how she had occupied the hours supposed
to have been spent in Miss Stretton' sickroom.
" What a daring, cool hand she must be !
fresh from school too ! The whole group at York
Gate was worth a little study, and amongst the
individuals that composed it how immeasurably
superior his former sweetheart appeared  so
gentle, so delicate, so composed, no unfeminine

daring' no bold stratagems, about her. What a
hicks fellow that Harding is ! " he mused, while
his companion tasted in silence. " If he should
happen to break his neck I shall certainly try my
chance with his charming widow."

Still a sort of unrecognised regret that his idea
of Stasie Werner, as an original piquante specimen
of girlhood, had resolved itself into a reality
of common-place intrigue and coquetry, irritated
and annoyed him more than he was aware.

*' I shall be going out of town myself soon,"
he said at length. '' I suppose I shall find you
settled at Sefton Park when I return ?"

Yes ; we generally stay there till November,
and hope you will run down and see us often.
We live somewhat in the rough there. We have
an old farmhouse to which Mr. Harding has
made a few additions, and it is very homely and
pleasant. Nothing to take care of in short,
which is an immense relief."

I should think so. English women seem tome
rather heavily taxed for their high-toned
existence here. They lead gloriously free lives
in India  everything done for them."

I should not object to a fair amount of care

and trouble," said Mrs. Harding with a slight
sigh ; " but to pass one's whole time preserving
porcelain from chips and sideboards from scratches
is not exhilarating."

I should think not," returned Brooke, laughing.
'* Well, I suppose I must say good-morning.
I have been paying you a visitation."

I am very glad to have a talk with you. If
you wait a little perhaps Stasie will return."

' Or, better still  put on your bonnet and
come out for a stroll in the Botanic Garden.
There is a cricket match or some such thing on
at Lord's, and we will have the place to ourselves."

Yes, I will come, if you don t mind substituting
the enclosure for the Gardens, and then I
can see the little ones."

Your young barbarians all at play! Very
well, it is the same to me. I have not grown
used to this strange feeling of having no particular
occupation, and I am very grateful when you
permit me to bestow my tediousness upon you."

Meanwhile Stasie had succeeded, as she thought,
remarkably well at the long-expected luncheon.
She was less overpowered by the consciousness

of her own ignorance and insufficiency than on
the occasion of her first visit, which she had so
feelingly described to Ella Mathews. To-day she
was in high spirits  she had had a bright, happy
letter from her friend and schoolfellow announcing
the delightful fact that Bob had succeeded
in finding employment, a great weight being thus
lifted from his mother's shoulders ; and winding
up with a full account of her own and hevjlance's
plans and projects.

Lady Elizabeth received her husband's ward
in her morning-room. She was writing busily
at a table covered with letters, papers, and pamphlets,
and looked so pale and wrinkled that she
might have been at work all night from her
appearance.

Ah, Miss Yerner ! Very glad to see you.
Are you not early ?" looking at her watch. " I
protest it is one o'clock ! I had no idea it was
so late. Sit down, my dear, and tell me all
about yourself. How is Mrs. Harding ? Very
nice woman indeed  so posse and well-bred 
quite wonderful ! Who was she ?"

'* She was a Miss Rivers ; her father was
rector of some place in Herefordshire."

All, indeed ! Then she was a gentlewoman.
And what have you been doing ? Any parties ?
I hope Mrs. Harding has taken you to hear some
of Professor Holzenkopfs lectures on Hieroglyphics.
You really ought to hear him  (may
I trouble you to ring the bell)  the enormous
development of discovery in these days requires

the utmost Oh, Roberts, has Mr. Wyatt come

in yet V as the footman appeared.

'' No, my lady. Lord Cecil Annesley is in
the drawing-room, my lady."

'' Oh, indeed ! We must go to luncheon, then.
I shall not wait for Mr. Wyatt, Roberts." To
Stasie, *' He is so overwhelmed with work about
the middle of the session that he has hardly
time to eat or sleep. I tell him he undertakes
too much. Come into the drawing-room. Miss
Werner. Lord Cecil is a very interesting person.
He made a voyage down the Euphrates on a raft
with Mr. Wyatt at the time your friend Kharapet
was his interpreter  charming person Kharapet !
He is engaged at present in translating a little
volume of poems I published about a year ago
into Arabic, for the use of schools we hope to
establish in Turkish Arabia. Such a universal

genius ! I told Mr. Wyatt to bring him in to
luncheon. Lord Cecil will be delighted to see
In."

'* But," said Stasie, snatching at a brief opportunity
when Lady Elizabeth paused to take
breath, ' but I wanted so much to speak to
Mr. Wyatt and yourself alone. I want his consent
to a plan I have made to travel on the continent
 to "

'' To travel abroad," interrupted her ladyship
as she walked quickly towards the drawing-room,
which was at the opposite side of a large lobby
or landing. " A very good idea ! It would improve
you immensely. Whom would you travel
with ?  that is the question. I should not mind
taking you with us to Eome next winter if we go
there. Your whole future depends on being well
introduced."

Stasie's heart sank at this sentence. It would
be all very well for her, but how about Aunt
Clem ? Meantime, having reached the drawing-room,
Lady Elizabeth was rushing into a fresh
speech.

'' How d'you do. Lord Cecil ? How d'you do ?
Have I kept you waiting ? Mr. Wyatt will be

here directly. Let me present you to Miss
Werner, a ward of Mr. Wyatt's. I am sure you
must have known her father at Mardin  a delightful
old man from Mr. Wyatt's account.
Consul Kharapet  excellent, enlightened man ! 
left this dear child all his money. She ought to
aid us in our work of raising the women of Syria
in the social and intellectual scale. Take Miss
Werner down to lunch  it is quite ready."

Lord Cecil was an elderly young man, slight,
tall, a little stooped, a good deal near-sighted,
with a glass in his eye which was perpetually
dropping and interrupting him in the midst of
his most important sentences.

Long since you left Syria ? " asked Lord
Cecil, as they descended the broad stair.

About eleven or twelve years ago," returned
Stasie drily, a little provoked at being represented
as other than English.

' Ah ! oh, I see ! brought up here."

"I am not an Eastern, I am English 'pur
sang, "

Yes ! Well, but Kharapet, nice old
fellow ! he was Eastern to the tips of his
fingers ! "

'' He was a dear, kind, good man, but he was
only my mother's husband."

*' To be sure ! I might have guessed it \
Where shall we sit. Lady Elizabeth ? "

Oh ! here on my right." And the occupation
of eating caused a short cessation of Lady.
Elizabeth's endless talk. But she soon took up
her parable again, and plunged into the details
of a gigantic bazaar which she was assisting the
Duchess of Pembroke and the Ladies Langton
to get up.

Lord Cecil did not seem too much interested.
He tried hard to talk with Stasie, who was amused
at his vain efforts to keep his glass in his eye,
and his persistent attempts to break away from
Lady Elizabeth, although she felt vexed and anxious
respecting her interview with her guardian.
How could she speak of her own affairs before
Lord Cecil, and especially before Kharapet, who
would, she felt sure, oppose her ?

They had been but a short time at table when
Mr. Wyatt entered, followed by Kharapet ; and,
after a very polite greeting, and many apologies
for being late, he took his place at the end of the
table. Kharapet looked more than usually sleek,
VOL. I. 17

handsome, and picturesque. He bent with Oriental
grace and deference before the lady of the
house, and then passing on to Stasie took her
hand in both of his, and murmured a Syriac sentence
he had once explained to her, and which was
all glowing with adoration and flattering similes.

You remember Lord Cecil Annesley ? " said
Lady Elizabeth.

Yes ; Mr. Kharapet remembered him vividly,
pleasantly, especially in connection with that
night attack by Arabs on the raft, when moored
at the river-side ; how his lordship's courage and
decision

Gad, I was in a horrid fright ! " interrupted
Lord Cecil, " and blazed away in the dark, till
the enemy got into a worse fright than myself."

'Tis ever the habit of your countrymen to
disparage their own bravery, my lord," returned
Kharapet, dwelling on the last word as though
he loved the appellation.

Conversation now grew loud and general, and
Stasie feared for her opportunity ; but fortunately
Mr. Wyatt was more occupied with his luncheon
than the topics under discussion, and Stasie was
next him.

"I do SO want to speak to you," she said at
last, coaxingly, with her sweetest smile.

Certainly, my dear young lady ! I am quite
at your service, only I must leave in half an hour.
Tell me what it is. Oh ! don't mind them ; they
won't hear a word we are saying."

AVell then, Mr. AVyatt," began Stasie desperately,
" I want your permission to go abroad,
to travel, to study, to have masters and all

that. I am but half educated "

'* Very praiseworthy indeed ! an excellent idea !
We must find you a good chaperon  and  I will
speak to Lady Elizabeth ; she always has heaps
of distressed gentlewomen on her list who would
be charmed with such an appointment. What
do Kharapet and Mr. Harding say ? I am really
so busy that "

Oh ! tlieij refer me to you. Pray do not send
me back to them."

"No!"  smiling pleasantly on her. "There
can be no possible objection to your plan. Nor
need you make any secret of it. My dear," 
raising his voice to catch his wife's notice,  " here
is Miss Werner wanting my permission to go
abroad ! I have not the slightest objection, if

we can secure a suitable companion for her. You
will, no doubt, know of some such person ? "

I know of one myself," put in Stasie eagerly ;
but no one heeded her.

'' No doubt I can," returned Lady Elizabeth
amiably. '' But it is just possible we may be
going to Eome this winter ; why should not Miss
Werner come with us ? "

I should be charmed," said Mr. Wyatt, helping
himself to some Stilton cheese. '' Very pleasant
society in Eome  art, antiquities, studios,
and all that sort of thing. Miss Werner might
cultivate herself to any extent, and come on to
Florence in the spring."

I am sure it would be a happy chance,"
began Lord Cecil. Here his glass dropped plump
into his plate of strawberries and cream, and had
to be picked out, wiped, and refined. Meantime
Lady Elizabeth had taken up the running, and
Lord Cecil's happy chance was lost for ever.
Kharapet kept silence, looking steadily at the
tablecloth, till Lady Elizabeth came to the end
of sundry proposals and suggestions.

"It would indeed be an enormous benefit to
my dear young charge to be with your ladyship,"

he began, raising his eyes, from which he managed
to banish any special expression  (why will he
call her ' her ladyship,' as if he were a footman ? "
thought Stasie)  " and until Mr. Wyatt and
yourself decide on your plans it would be fruitless
to arrange anything for Miss Werner. Such
an opportunity must not be lost."

But, Lady Elizabeth ! " cried Stasie, in despair
at seeing how the current was setting,
though it would be very nice to go with you,
I should like to go at once, and you will not go
till winter, and you may not go at all. Besides,"
colouring: and hesitation a moment in a little awe
at opposing the august assembly, " I have an aunt
that is, my mother's aunt  who has travelled
a great deal, and she  that is, I said I would take
her with me if I were let to go. She is very
nice and kind, and the only relation I have, so I
thought it would be natural and pleasant to have
her with me." Stasie had talked herself into
calmness and courage. She would not allow herself
to be overawed. It was a decisive moment.

"An aunt ! I had no idea you had any relations,"
said Lady Elizabeth. " Had you ? " to her husband.
He shook his head, and sipped a glass of port.

'well, I suppose it would be a natural arrangement.
In short, you might go to Switzerland or
the Tyrol with her during the summer and autumn,
and then send her back and join us at Rome."

Lady Elizabeth was always reluctant to give
up any scheme of her own when opposed, although
ready enough to change if yielded to. Stasie

shook her head. " If she comes with me " she

began, when Kharapet interrupted her eagerly 

'' I fear this good lady is by no means in independent
circumstances. Miss Yerner would have
to pay her expenses as though she were a stranger,
though perhaps, on account of the relationship,
she might not expect a salary."

Stasie darted a look of contempt at her friend
and ally.

*' Oh, that is of no consequence, provided she
is a proper person with whom to trust my ward,"
said Mr. Wyatt easily ; people are so often liberal
with money that does not belong to them.

'' But," urged Kharapet, '' think of the great
advantage of being with Mr. and Lady Elizabeth
Wyatt. I do not think, my dear Stasie, you are
sufficiently aware of the value of such protection,
or grateful enough."

Indeed I am grateful," said Stasie with sweet
frankness, " and I should greatly like to be with
Lady Elizabeth in Eome ; but as she is so kind
herself, she will understand that I cling to my
mother s only relative,  at least the only one I
know anything of,  especially as I may be of some
use and comfort to her."

"Very nice of you, my dear  very proper,"
remarked Lady Elizabeth, carefully selecting an
apricot, and Lord Cecil having restored his
glass, said, with a laugh, '' I assure you. Miss
Yerner, you have only to announce ' a few relations
wanted,' and an enormous crop will spring
up. I daresay I could prove that I am a first
cousin only once removed if you will permit me
to try."

Thank you, I will not put you to the proof,"
returned Stasie, smiling a nervous little smile ; she
felt in truth more disposed to cry ; her heart beat,
her lip quivered, as she perceived how helpless
she was among the contending wills of those who
had the disposal of her fate. She was indignant
too. Hormuz had no right to talk of Aunt Clem's
poverty before that grinning stranger lord. The
chatter to which she had listened had not impressed

Stasie with any respect for the opinions
of those who coolly discussed what to do with her ;
she was rapidly growing too indignant for fear or
even prudence  her guardian did not care a straw
about her !

'' Yes' Lady Elizabeth was saying, when Stasie
again attended to what was going on; '' sentiment
and good feeling are all very well, but you must
be guided by what those older and wiser than
yourself think best for you."

Just so' observed Mr. Wyatt, rising. " You
will excuse me, Miss Werner; excuse me. Lord
Cecil ; my time is up. I have much pleasure, my
dear ward, in giving my consent to your making
some stay on the continent ; you can arrange the
details with Lady Elizabeth, who has a capital
head for business, and is truly interested in your
welfare. Good-morning, Kharapet ; om revoir,
Lord Cecil ; we meet at the Speaker s dinner
to-night."

Good-bye !" said Stasie, standing up with
flushed cheeks, and giving him her hand, " I ani
very much obliged to you, but unless I can go
with my aunt I don't care to go at all. I shall
stay with Mrs. Harding."

"Very well, very well!" said Mr. Wyatt
hastily, and left the room,

Kharapet looked absolutely aghast, and Lord
Cecil fixed his glass a little more firmly, to observe
the different faces.

This little ebullition rather amused Lady Elizabeth,
and suggested the idea that Stasie might
not be a desirable companion, perhaps rather
difficult to manage ; indeed the proposition to
take her with them to Eome had been a mere
passing thought, still she did not care to give it
up without a fair amount of resistance, but she
was in a hurry to go out, and had spent time
enouoii on her husband's ward.

Come, come. Miss Werner," she said good-humouredly,
'you must not take things apiece
la lettre. Our movements are quite uncertain.
Suppose you make your arrangements with your
aunt, and leave our meeting in Eome to the chapter
of accidents."

I should be charmed to meet you there," cried
Stasie warmly, but with an emphasis that showed
she stuck to her colours. "I have already promised
my aunt she should accompany me, and I
do not like to disappoint her,"

' The promises of a minor don't count' returned
Lady Elizabeth*

Still the minor may feel bound by them,"
said Lord Cecil ; " I am sure Miss Werner is the
soul of loyalty."

' How can you possibly tell ? " exclaimed Stasie,
laughing.

Kharapet opened his lips as if to speak, and
then closed them.

Stasie's words revealed a new influence  a
fresh complication with which he had not reckoned.
He recalled the lady-like, limp old maid
he had met at luncheon, and thought hard, how
best to manipulate obstacles to the furtherance
of his own schemes.

That Stasie should not leave England save
with himself he was firmly resolved, so he kept
silence and listened.

Now," resumed Lady Elizabeth, " if you have
all finished luncheon, I must go out. Miss Werner,
would you like to go with me ? I am going to
young Leonardo Mel vin's studio; you know he has
been so shamefully treated by the Royal Academy
people ; every one of his pictures refused  everyone,
so Lady Kilconquhar and the Duchess have

begged of me to take all the people T can find
to look at them in his own studio. Now, if
Miss Yerner chose to buy a few of his watercolour
sketches, just for her own morning-room
(when she has one), it would really be money
well spent, would it not Mr. Kharapet ? You
have the management of Miss Yerner s money,
have you not ? "

Kharapet turned pale at this appalling proposition.
*' I share that responsibility with Mr.
Harding," he stammered.

I must wish you good-morning," said Lord
Cecil, " Miss Yerner, I hope I may have the pleasure
of meeting you again, and proving that we are
cousins ! Shall you be at Mrs. Bernard's to-night ? "

Stasie disclaimed any acquaintance with Mrs.
Bernard, and Lord Cecil made his adieux and
departed.

* I shall not keep you a moment," said Lady
Elizabeth, ringing for the carriages ; * can we put
you down anywhere, Mr. Kharapet ? I presume
you will come with me, Miss Yerner ? '

Yes, with pleasure ;" but Lady Elizabeth was
gone. Directly they were left alone Stasie opened
on Kharapet.

Why did you talk about Aunt Clem being
so poor  before total strangers ? It was not nice
of you, Hormuz."

'* You English are superior to that consideration
for wealth which affects other races' said
Kharapet ; " and I was too anxious about you to
choose my words." -

That is all nonsense ! You know we are most
shabbily ashamed of poverty in England, and I
don't want to go abroad with the Wyatt. . You
have been very unkind and disagreeable, Hormuz."

How can I atone ? I was not aware I vexed
you."

'' I was in hopes I could tell Aunt Clem that
all was settled. It is nearly, if you will only
back me up with Mr. Harding. I would like to
go and talk to Aunt Clem ; but I must not refuse
Lady Elizabeth."

Certainly not ! and Stasie  fair sweet Stasie !
you do not want to buy pictures, do you, Stasie ? "

Pictures ! no, where could I put them ? "

' That is well  that is very well ! Now, will
it please you if I go and see your good aunt ?
and tell her of this day's conversation, and how
you have won your guardian's consent."

Oh, thank you, Hormuz ! that will be so kind.
You think I have Mr. Wyatt's consent, then ?
they all seem so careless of what I wish."

I think you may be satisfied. Give me Miss
Stretton's address, and I will go there."

Give me your pencil, and I will write it on
one of your cards. Thank you ever so much,
dear Hormuz ! "

beautiful hand ! lovely lips that speak
so kindly T' cried KharajDet with unguarded fervour
that startled Stasie with sudden frightened
prescience.

When Kharapet lead seen Lady Elizabeth, and
Stasie drive off, lie made his way slowly into
Park Lane  slowly and in deep thought. On
the whole, he was hopeful and content. He was
near the moment for which he so intensely
longed, and which he had postponed partly in
deference to Mr. Harding's advice, partly from
an unwonted distrust in his own fascinations.

The effect produced upon him by his brother's
stepdaughter was something totally different
from anything he had ever before experienced.

The love of an Eastern is utterly dissimilar
from what we know or imagine of the feeling ; we
can scarce conceive the materialism of a passion
stripped of the delicate drapery in which fancy and
tenderness and chivalrous respect enshroud it.
To a man like Kharapet  in his natural normal
condition  love was the brief fierce fire of an

hour, a vivid blaze and then extinction, a
momentary necessity, apart from his real life,
pursuits, ambitions.

To accumulate wealth was the chief aim of
his existence ; to stand well with the powerful
the second, and the most powerful, the most
dominant, men, he had ever encountered were
the English grandees whom accident had thrown
in his way.

He was a clever, capable fellow, beyond the
average in intellect, and, given a chance, clung
to it with tenacious grasp. He had had a hard
struggle for existence in his boyhood. His elder
brother had given him little or no help, yet he
had hoped against hope that he might bequeath
him some of his wealth. Becoming interpreter
and secretary to Percy Wyatt, Esq., M.P., he had
guided that gentleman's steps to the Mardin
Consulate, and managed to establish friendly relations
with H.B.M.'s Consul there by appearing
independent and thriving.

He there saw Stasie as a little four-year-old
pet and plaything, and on a subsequent visit was
not inconsolable to observe her failing health.
From this time he never lost sight of his half-brother,

and, having been called to Baghdad by-business,
proceeded farther to pay him a visit.
He thus happened to be at Mardin when the
elder Kharapet died. But his opportune presence
brought him no good fortune. He found
that the late Consul had been for some time
transmitting all available funds for investment
in Norland. Nor was he aware that he was
named one of the executors to his brother's will
till informed by Mr. Harding. The object was
obvious. Various sums were still due to the
estate by doubtful debtors in Bombay, and an
executor on the spot was useful.

The disappointment was keen ; but Hormuz,
after an evil quarter of an hour looked round for
the next best means of securing some of the supposed
wealth bequeathed by his brother. The
way seemed simple enough. He would go to
London and marry the heiress. He did not
hasten his movements, however. She was safe
at school, and when a little older, riper, and
readier to stand up for her own rights and
wishes, he would *' come and see and conquers'
get the money, and lay the foundations of a
colossal fortune.

He did not calculate, however, on the effect
his step-niece (if such a relation exists) would
produce upon him. Her fairness, her tall graceful
figure, her pale golden brown hair, her dark
speaking eyes, seemed to him the perfection of
loveliness ; at the first interview he was lost.
If rich, he would even have paid out much
money to be the owner of such an angel !

But, when added to her other charms, she was
possessed of something nearer twenty-five than
twenty thousand pounds, he was indeed ready
to fall down and worship.

Yet his position with her, though commanding,
did not always seem to him secure. There
were looks and tones, and little speeches, and
even gestures that suggested to him at times
vague fears, undefined apprehensions. Though
a mere woman  an unformed young girl  to
whom man's love was a necessity so great, that
nature would compel her to grasp the first
offered, there was a nameless something, a
freedom, a careless unconscious strength, a self-sufficiency
impossible to define that warned
Kharapet to be circumspect, that conveyed by
some subtile electric intelligence the impression
VOL. I. 18

of a spirit he could neither comprehend nor conquer,
and which he might rouse to arms against
him by his too hasty action ! There were times
when this sense of impotence on his own part
weighed so forcibly upon him, that in the midst
of his most passionate longings, strange flashes
of fierce hate would dart through him and stir
his soul with murderous impulse.

But this bright afternoon no such unpleasant
sensations disturbed Hormuz Kharapet. Stasia
had been kind, and circumstances seemed setting
in a favourable current.

How fair and friendly life looked to him !
When rich and wedded to Stasie he would do
something grand, something benevolent, that
would show gratitude to God, Fate, fortune 
whatever it is that orders our destinies, and
thus improve his position with his eccentric but
powerful patrons among the nobles of England.

Whatever of good was in his nature clung
round the idea of Stasie. Had she returned his
love, she might perhaps have raised him, or
satiety might have broken the spell, and he
might bring her low, even to the ground, with
the degradation of his rule !

A little flower-girl trotting by his side offered
him a bouquet of violets for a penny, a pinched
pale-faced hungry-looking urchin. His heart was
soft and glowing with anticipation of the great
joy almost in his grasp,  he paused, and nearly
jut his hand in his pocket, but a second glance
showed him that it was not a good pennyworth,
so he checked the rash impulse and hailed a
Melbourne Grove omnibus.

From the time her niece bade her good-bye
Miss Stretton had not ceased to dwell with
mingled anxiety and delight on the prospect
opened up by Stasie's ready acceptance of her
suggestion respecting foreign travel.

Nothing could possibly have offered, more
desirable or full of promise. The relationship
between herself and her intended 'protegee would
give her quite a different position from that of
merely a paid chaperon. " I will not stick out
for high pay either," she thought. "I see they
are inclined to keep her tight. Stasie is a dear,
generous, high-minded girl, just like what / used
to be when I was her aofe, and she will not let me
want for anything. I should not wonder that

she made me a nice little allowance when she
comes into her property if she does not marry !
Poor dear ! it would be much more for her own
happiness not to marry young!" and in a half-unconscious
way Aunt Clem resolved to do her
best for that happiness by keeping presumptuous
suitors at a distance.

Time had not robbed Aunt Clem of her imaginative
powers, and the present being generally
dark, drear, or difficult, she never failed to deck
the future in the brightest and most charming
colours. Each fresh " dear young creature " she
undertook, was an angel, who would no doubt
prove a friend for life ; and as each cruelly and
heartlessly disappointed her, she set to work to
build new castles in the air. But a well-dowered
niece was something not to be had every day ;
and with what Aunt Clem (who was a very
religious woman) called pious gratitude, she
determined to be all that was affectionate and
complaisant to Stasie and those connected with
her.

The severe cold from which she had suffered
had weakened her considerably, and she felt low
and tremulously eager for news of Stasie's progress

in obtaining lier guardian's sanction for
their scheme. " I must try and get up my
strength' she thought, " for we may have to
start soon. It is very fine to-day ; I will go
out for a little walk, the air will do me good.
What a fright I look! rest and good food
would soon set me up. I almost wish that
dear child would be content to have a pretty
house in London or its neighbourhood. I don't
feel quite equal to traversing about the continent,
and eating those table cZ' lite messes.
What is it ? come in," this in answer to a knock
at the door; enter the household slavey with
a card cautiously held in an interior fold of her
apron.

The gentleman is below, shall I tell him to
come up, miss ?"

'' Up here ? into my bed-room ! You are indeed
ignorant, Jemima ! I will come down ;
can I not see him in the back parlour ?"

"Yes, 'm,'* and the girl retired sulkily.

"It is the executor," said Miss Stretton to
herself. "It's a mercy I was dressed and had
my bonnet on ; I wonder what he has come
about % to say Stasie cannot be placed with

me !" With an aching anxious heart the poor
lady descended the stairs.

Kharapet was in the sole possession of the
shabby little parlour  the infirmary for unsound,
halt, and maimed furniture, when Miss Stretton
entered. He was standing in the window, the
soft and rather picturesque felt hat which he
affected as a compromise with British head gear
in his hand, his attitude a very fair reproduction
of Mr. Wyatt's favourite pose when listening to a
crotchety constituent.

He greeted Aunt Clem with one of his best bows,
to which she responded by an elegant curtsey.

"Won't you sit down, Mr. Kharapet?" she
said sweetly. Mr. Kharapet bowed again, and
took a chair. " To what may I owe the honour
of this visit ?" asked Miss Stretton, as Kharapet,
according to his custom, left the initiative to her.

I have come as ambassador from your niece.
Miss Verner,' he replied in the most carefully
softened voice. ' She begged me to explain to
you that she is obliged to go out driving with our
kind friend Lady Elizabeth Wyatt, and cannot
therefore call upon you as she wished. I am
also anxious to improve my acquaintance with so

near and valued a relative of my poor brother's
adopted daughter."

You are very good' murmured Aunt Clem,
still uneasy.

More' resumed Kharapet, " I am commissioned
to tell you that Mr. Wyatt  Stasie's
guardian  sees no objection to her going abroad.
My Lady Elizabeth suggested that her husband's
ward might travel under her protection, but your
niece bravely and resolutely declared that she
had promised to go with you, and would go with
no one else."

Sweet child !" ejaculated Miss Stretton, her
handkerchief to her eyes.

I need not say that I am anxious to carry
out her wishes," continued the Syrian, " but I
am not alone in my office of executor. I have to
manage as best I can with my colleague, Mr.
Harding, an excellent man of business, but less
sympathetic than myself with the natural desires
of a young and charming creature."

He paused and looked at Miss Stretton, not
knowing exactly how to shape his course. Time
was pressing, and he was engaged for five-o'clock
tea at the Dowager Lady Kilconquhar's.

He had spent the moments while waiting for
Miss Stretton in looking at the books on a small
centre table, and had picked out a volume of
severely evangelical sermons, on the fly-leaf of
which was inscribed, "Miss C. Stretton, with
Christian greetings from the writer."

Do you think, sir, that Mr. Harding would
object to my niece residing with me ?" asked poor
Aunt Clem tremulously, as he was thus reflecting.

He can have no reasonable objection, my
dear lady. Still, I cannot answer for him. He
is my very good friend, and Mrs. Harding is also
good, very good ; but I venture to speak frankly
to you  there is no trace of devotion in the
household  the world and the things of the
world alone occupy them. I may seem too
severe in my ideas  they may not suit yours ;
but I cling to my faith, all the closer because I
have felt the whip of persecution."

Indeed, I am rejoiced to hear you express
such opinions. They have long been mine.
They have been my support under many trials.
Yes, I quite agree with you ; that dear child
should not be wholly left to such guidance 
perhaps an absence from England  but," interrupting

herself, "Mr. Harding's opposition may
prove an insurmountable obstacle. What do
you think ?" anxiously.

I hope not. In fact, I am not without influence,
and I am prepared to use that influence
on your behalf. The strong attachment which
Miss Werner has conceived for you, the evident
similarity of our opinions on most important
points, disposes me to think you would be a kind
and judicious companion, especially if you would
condescend to be in some measure guided by my
counsels."

I shall be most happy, my dear sir, to have
the benefit of your advice."

Then, Miss Stretton, may I trust you not to
divulge to any one, especially not to Stasie, what
I am about to confide in you 1"

Ah, you may trust me, Mr. Kharapet. I
have been the depository of many secrets."

Then," said he, drawing his chair nearer to
her and lowering his voice, " I will trust you.
Miss Stretton, my highest hope is to call our dear
Stasie my ife ! I am already connected with
her. I am of the same faith  of an older branch
of the Universal Church. I am the favoured

guest of some of your greatest nobles. I state
these facts to show that I am not unworthy of
your niece ; but I am not quite sure that Mr.
Harding really favours my pretensions. He does
not openly oppose me, yet there is something not
quite friendly in his aspect. Dear Miss Stretton,
give me your effectual aid and you will find " 
slowly and emphatically  " that I am not ungrateful."


' What does he mean ? " thought Miss Stretton,
while she said, " Is Stasie, then, not aware ? Do
you think her well disposed towards you ?"

How can I tell I" exclaimed Kharapet, clasping
his fine brown hands together, and resting
them on the table near him. " She is so young 
so inexperienced, so unsuspecting. She thinks
she wants to study, to travel  a thousand things ;
but when I speak to her, when I tell her how
my life, my hopes, my all hang upon her, the
hidden springs of passion, of affection will rise,
and respond, and bless me. I am sure  at least,
I think I am sure  of her guardian's consent ;
but should I be accepted by your niece, the
marriage may not take place for some time. I
cannot tell, difficulties may arise ; and it is during

this period of an engagement that I should
like her to be with you, where I might have unrestrained
access to her."

I feel a little bewildered, Mr. Kharapet,"
returned Aunt Clem, still uneasy, yet hopeful.
I certainly do not know you much ; but from
what you say, and indeed my own observation,
I am sure you would make my dear Stasie happy.
Of course I have only found her to lose her, but
I must not think of self."

No, madam. You must leave it to me  tous,
I hope I may say  to think of and for you.
If in this matter you befriend me, I will assist
Stasie to do that which I know she would wish
that is, to ensure your future against the
necessity "  he paused and looked round  " of
living in an apartment so ill suited to a lady of
your condition as this''

"You are too kind! too considerate!" cried
poor Aunt Clem, deeply affected. " Mine has
been a life of trial and  and privation ; and I
honestly confess that the prospect of a little
peace and comfort is as unexpected as it is delightful.
I know I have no claim on my dear
niece, but I am ready to do all I can for her,

and for you. Your great kindness proves that
you are worthy to be her husband. I don't care
to go dragging about the Continent, though I
will go if necessary. I don't want much, Mr.
Kharapet ; a little ease of mind, now that I am
not so strong as I used to be, would indeed be a
boon."

Trust to me !" returned Kharapet, rising,
his black eyes shining on her as he smiled a soft
caressing smile. " I will see that the future
shall have no terrors for you. Probably Stasie
will call on you tomorrow. Pray use your
influence against the Mathews family. I distrust
them. They have tried to get money out of
Stasie."

"How unprincipled!" cried Aunt Clem indignantly.


Let us say nothing against them," returned
Kharapet, " for Stasie is very tenacious of her
likings. They have left London. Might I suggest
that when Stasie comes you do not oppose
her schemes ; let her talk of plans and arrangements
 a few days may bring a change. Above
all, do not permit her to think we have entered
into this little compact. It would injure you in

her opinion  very unjustly  yet it would so. I
am disposed to have unbounded confidence in you.
I am by nature deeply grateful to those who assist
me ; but, as is usual with such natures, perhaps
a little unforgiving to those who cross me. We,
however, are sure to act in unison, for we have
the same motive  the welfare, the happiness of
our dear Stasie. Your excellent tact may suggest
little words of sympathetic goodwill which will
help me in her estimation, for she thinks much
of you."

I feel I can most conscientiously forward your
wishes," replied Aunt Clem with some solemnity.

They shook hands cordially, and with some more
complimentary speeches bade each other adieu.

Well ! " thought Aunt Clem, as she slowly
climbed to her bedroom, ' I am thankful I was
not out when he came. It has not been a bad
day's work for me ! I would rather have had the
dear child all to myself, but that would not last
long ; some greedy fellow would be sure to pick
her up. Now, Mr. Kharapet is a truly religious,
sensible, superior man, in the very best society,
and so handsome ! Then we know who he is,
and that is a great comfort. He is a sort of man

one can trust, and I feel that Providence lias
directed the whole thing. I can really hardly
believe that I can face the future with hope I  A
cup of tea will be a great refreshment. Ill ring,
and give that disagreeable girl a shilling ; then
she'll be more civil and boil my kettle for me."

Nor was Kharapet less content. He had a
vague suspicion that there were difficulties to be
overcome before he could call Stasie his own absolutely,
and he felt that in Miss Stretton he had
secured a useful, pliable tool. He had not committed
himself to anything definite ; yet had
raised hopes which he could fulfil cheaply, in the
letter ; as to the spirit, each was free to form his
or her theory ; for the rest, the excellent lady
was rather agreeable to him, her tone of admiring
amiability was very soothing and acceptable to a
man who was perpetually in the presence of those
to whom he felt obliged to pay the same tribute
himself.

'' She has evidently gained a strong hold on
Stasie," he thought ; " and even after she has
accepted me it will be well to have her aunt's
friendship and help."

While these schemes revolved round the unconscious
Stasie, she went her way bright and
unruffled. A little note from Aunt Clem thanked
her in elegant phraseology for sending so charming
and agreeable an envoy to tell of her success
so far. She described her delight in looking
forward to companionship with her dear Stasie,
and promised to come and see her soon. This
missive put Stasie in the highest good-humour
with Kharapet, although she did not quite forget
the startling effect of his parting words at Lady
Elizabeth Wyatt's.

She was so accustomed to his flattering
speeches, so used to account for them in her own
mind as Eastern hyperbole, so amused at his
empressement, that she was blind to the reality
beneath it all.

Moreover, she was deeply impressed by Dr.
Brooke. He filled her mind, to the exclusion of
Kharapet and his sugary compliments.

She was unconscious of the hold Brooke had
upon her imagination, because there was something
fresh, something legitimately interesting,
in their conversations, which were always free
from the least approach to what could be called

flirting. She, therefore, never hesitated to let
her thoughts dwell upon him. She compared
him with all her favourite heroes in history and
fiction, and found that, although inferior in some
respects, he was undoubtedly equal in others,
and so struck a satisfactory balance.

The few days that intervened between her
luncheon at Lady Elizabeth's and the dance at
Lady Pearson's were actively and agreeably employed
in preparing for her first ball.

The delights of such an occupation have been
often enlarged upon, and to none could it bring
greater pleasure than to Stasie. She knew, in a
large-minded way, that she was handsome ; but
she did not dwell upon the idea, only she found
herself unusually anxious about the fit and
becomingness of her costume. However, Mrs.
Harding employed a good modiste, and the result
was successful.

A diaphanous cloud of white gauze, its draperies
caught up with ferns and wild roses ; her
abundant hair, arranged with cunning simplicity,
produced an effect which elicited some very forcible
expressions of admiration from her host
when she presented herself in the drawing-room,

where Mrs. Harding was waiting for her. Her
figure and style were well adapted for evening
dress. The creamy fineness of her skin, the unconscious
dignity which came from her height 
her natural carriage, and the setting on of her
head  save her an air of distinction more suited

o

to the descendant of a noble line than to the scion
of a semi genteel family.

You look very nice indeed' said Mrs. Harding
kindly.

I am sure, so do you," cried Stasie in frank
admiration. "I never saw you in full dress
before." Mrs. Harding's costume was of white
silk and black lace, with damask roses in her
hair. She looked as she generally did, graceful,
refined, complete.

'she ain't bad; but she'll never be such a
stunner as you are, Stasie ! " said Mr. Harding,
turning his back on his wife. " Then you see
you are fresher by ten years at least."

Stasie looked uneasily at Mrs. Harding to see
how she took this speech, the brutality of which
seemed so unpardonable that for the moment it
chilled the young debutantes joyous mood. But
Mrs. Harding; looked serene and unmoved.

o
VOL. I. 19

I think Kliarapet will be at the end of his
tether in the way of compliments when he sees
you to night' continued Mr. Harding, as the
carriage door closed on them, and they rolled
away toward the festive scene.

He will be spared that strain on his resources.
He is not invited," said Mrs. Harding.

How is that ? "Why did you not get him a
card \ "

'' He does not approve of dancing, and he does
not know how to dance."

Excellent reasons," said Stasie, laughing ;
she was somehow relieved to find that for this
evening she should be free from the observation
of her Eastern friend. It seemed as if Mrs. Harding's
words had filled up her measure of delight.

Lady Pearson's was a large house in the
then new district behind West bourne Terrace.
The ball-room and approaches were brilliantly
lighted and decorated with flowers in the usual
fashion. There was nothing more or less in the
arrangements than in those of fifty other parties
going on in London that evening, but to Stasie's
inexperience it seemed fairyland, a scene of enchantment.
She felt tremulous with excitement

as she ascended the stair leaning on Mr. Harding's
arm, and following closely on her chaperon's
footsteps. In truth, though she did not acknowledge
it even in " communing with her own
heart," she was nervously anxious to meet Dr.
Brooke. It was a week since she had seen him
not since that disagreeable expedition of hers
with Bob Mathews to the Strand, when she had
encountered him so unexpectedly.

She had looked for him oftener than she would
have confessed, although she had once exclaimed
to Mrs. Harding, " I wonder what has become of
Dr. Brooke?" and had been satisfied with her
reply, " There are some Indian friends of his in
town,  the people he was staying with in Wales,
and he is a good deal with them."

But now, in her new dress, and conscious of
looking well, she longed to hear his half-grave
half-playful comments on her first appearance in
public. His remarks generally had a tinge of
elder-brotherly superiority, with a strain of suppressed
warmth breathing through. She would
be able to talk to him too without being bored by
Kharapet, or feeling it necessary to atone for her
occasional, nay frequent, preference of Brooke's

conversation. A quick glance, first round the
tea-room, and then at the groups, looking on
at the first quadrille just begun as they entered,
showed her he had not yet appeared. Stasie's
thoughts, however, were agreeably diverted by
Lady Pearson, who after greeting them at the
entrance of the ballroom, called up a slight gentlemanlike
well-set-up young man, with a correct
button-hole bouquet, and accurately parted hair,
Let me introduce my son. Miss Werner," she
said, whereupon he immediately took the card
she had just received, and, saying, "May I ask
for two dances ? the next waltz, and the lancers
later on," began to inscribe his name.

Oh yes, the waltz certainly ; but I do not
think 1 could ever manage the lancers ! "

Permit me to be your pilot I " said the young
man, returning the card with a bow. " Meantime,
you are in a draught here ; will you come to the
other side of the room ? the quadrille is nearly
over ;" and he offered his arm.

Stasie, not quite sure of her ground, glanced
at Mrs. Harding, who, with a smile and nod, said,
You will find me on the sofa there, near the
fireplace."

Stasie, therefore, accepted the offered arm,
and walked away pleased with her cavalier, who
was well supplied with small talk. " You were
not at Mrs. Broadest's party last night. Miss
Werner? It was rather slow  a lot of singing
and fiddling first, and then a dance when one had
grown limp with heat."

This is the first real party I ever was at,"
said Stasie, ' except one, and that was only a
reception."

'' I know ! awful concerns those receptions !
I am proud to think I shall be your first partner
at your first dance." Stasie laughed, and soon
found herself asking and answering questions
respecting herself and her partner. He was in a
cavalry regiment he told her, and had a few days'
leave to run up for his mother's dance. " Very
lucky for him," he added with a complimentary
smile and glance. He was quartered in a horrible
place, Manchester, and hoped the regiment would
soon be sent to India, and so on. While they
talked easily together, another gentleman was
brought up by Lady Pearson, and a third was
presented by Stasie's own partner.

Her card was being rapidly filled, till she

almost feared she would not have a dance left
for Dr. Brooke. " I suppose he dances," she
thought, never doubting that he would ask her.

But the first chords of the waltz were sounding,
and she glided into the delightful dance.
Young Pearson was an excellent partner, and
though doubtful of her own powers, Stasie soon
felt safe in the hands, or rather the arms, of her
guide.

Ix the lieiglit of lier enjoyment, flattered at
being so eagerly sought (not dreaming that a
rumour had run through the room proclaiming
her heir to the untold wealth of an Eastern
potentate), hoping that Dr. Brooke might witness
her success, Stasie had paused for a few
moments' rest, and smiling not without some
coquetry on her cavalier, who was ready to proclaim
her the j oldest girl he had ever met  " so
bright and up to fun, none of your fast ones
either ! " when she saw Dr. Brooke come in by
a door exactly opposite where she stood. She
was quite sure, in some occult way, that he saw
her, yet he made no sign, and after looking
round the room, he walked over to where Mrs.
Harding sat engaged in intermittent talk with
a stout and gorgeous dowager.

Stasie's partner soon started her off again.

"Don't let us lose the finish," he said. "They
will soon stop ;" but through the throng, and in
spite of her rapid gyrations, she could see Brooke
leaning on the corner of the chimney-piece, and
talking to his cousin, evidently with interest and
animation. Then just as the music ceased, Mrs.
Harding rose, took his arm, and went away.
"My chaperon has deserted me," said Stasie,
looking after her.

"Who ? Mrs. Harding ? What a nice little
woman she is ! My governor is a great admirer
of hers. She has just gone out with Brooke ;
do you know Brooke ? I believe he is a very
clever fellow ; a brother officer of mine used to
be in his regiment, and "

Stasie was listening eagerly for the conclusion
of his sentence, when No. 2 on her card presented
himself, and she was carried off for the
next polka, during which neither Mrs. Harding
nor Dr. Brooke reappeared. At its conclusion,
however, Stasie perceived her missing chaperon
talking in an adjoining room with a stately
gray-haired old gentleman who wore one or
two decorations, and whom she guessed to be
Sir Frederic Pearson. Thither, therefore, she

directed her steps, rejecting lier partner's suggestions
that it was probably cooler and quieter
in the conservatory, and dismissing him with a
slight bow, when she found herself beside Mrs.
Harding. No. 2 therefore departed with the
impression that the young heiress was already
beginning to give herself airs.

Mrs. Harding introduced her to Sir Frederic,
who, after a few pleasant courteous words, left
them to attend to his duties elsewhere.

'has Dr. Brooke gone away?" asked Stasie
as soon as she was alone with her friend.

You saw him, then 1 Oh no ! He is only
gone to look for Mrs. Marsden's shawl. The
Martens are his friends from Wales. There
are two girls, one of them is rather nice. The
mother is very amusing. Jim took me away
to introduce me to her. I hope you are enjoying
the dance, Stasie. Let me look at your card ;
why, it is nearly full."

Oh, it is delightful ! " said Stasie, looking
down at the carpet ; but as she said it she felt
as if something like a cold mist had come over
her, and the lights had suddenly grown dim.
But this was absurd ; she roused herself ; of

course Dr. Brooke must pay attention to this
friends, and by and by he would come and talk
to her. It was not his momentary absence that
dulled her, but his curious cold look of recognition
without acknowledgment, and that too
after the longest break in their intercourse,
which had occurred since the beginning of their
acquaintance. She was half ashamed of herself
for such morbid nonsense, only she thought she
was rather a favourite with the grave doctor, and
that he would have come at once to speak a congratulatory
word or two at this her first party.
Still she was resolved not to allow herself to be
ridiculous about such a trifle, and so went away
cheerfully and graciously with No. 3, a gaunt
pale young man, much given to music and high
art, which had not yet become sestheticism.

This time the dance was a quadrille, and just
as it was formed, Stasie saw Mrs. Harding come
up on Dr. Brooke's arm, followed by a rather
pretty red-haired girl, conducted by the son of
the house, and take their places vis-a-vis,

Stasie felt considerably cheered ; he had not
gone away at any rate, and after this dance he
would no doubt come and speak to her. But

no ! When the last notes of the last bar died
away, and the dancers turned to look for seats 
or ices  Dr. Brooke led his partner towards
the refreshment room, giving Stasie a perfectly
polite, but rather indifferent, bow, as he passed.

There was no use in thinking about it. In
rather less than a week her friend and ally, her
pleasant adversary, the only man of thought and
culture she had ever known, had nearly forgotten
her !

This disappointment cut deeper than might
have been expected. It seemed to quench all
the innocent pleasure she took in her own appearance,
to lower her in her own esteem, to
reveal to her the loneliness and isolation of her
position. Yes ! she was absolutely alone ; she
had not a natural tie in the world except poor
Aunt Clem, and no one cared for her save
Kharapet, and from him she shrank with an
instinct newly developed. There in her pretty
dress, in the midst of her little triumph, envied
by many a partnerless girl, she could have sat
dowTi and cried, even while she felt angry with
herself for her folly and weakness ! She felt
quite glad when Mr. Pearson, slightly out of

breath, but bright and exultant that his turn was
come, approached, and she rose with a smile so
kind and sweet to take his arm as he said 
This is our dance. Miss Yerner  the lancers "
=  that he was more convinced than ever that
it will be a lucky fellow, by Jove ! that can get
such a girl, with all her money."

When they reached the ballroom, however,
and Stasie saw the confusion of even taking
places for the dance, her courage failed. " I
know I shall never get through it," she said,
you had much better find another partner. I
shall be quite pleased to look on."

'but I shall not be pleased to dance with
any one else," exclaimed young Pearson. '' Shall
we sit it out?"

Oh yes, certainly ! I should like it ever so
much better."

So should I. Let us go into the conservatory,
it is far cooler than this room."

In a comfortable, dimly-lighted nook Mr.
Pearson established himself and his companion
to whom he flattered himself he did the agreeable
very successfully. She was more silent certainly
than at first, but that allowed of his making more

play. So he favoured her with his ideas on many
subjects, and she occasionally asked questions
which started him off again when he came to a
pause. At last she exclaimed, " The music has
stopped, had we not better go upstairs ?"

*' It's a horrid bore. Look here. Miss Werner ;
will you give me the next dance but one ? I see
it's not filled on your card. It's a waltz. And
then we go down to supper. I'm engaged to
that little red-haired girl, Brooke's friend ; but I
will introduce another fellow to her."

< Very well," said Stasie indifferently.

' Thank you," putting his initials against the
waltz, ' that's all right. I protest it's a shame
to leave this quiet nook. Isn't it ?"

Perhaps so. But one does not go to a dance
to sit in the corner of a conservatory all the
evening!"

'' Quite true ; but / would go to a dance any
night on those conditions, if you would sit it outwith
me ! "

The compliment was so broad as to be nearly
rude, but the manner of saying it was frank,
almost boyish ; and Stasie took no notice, partly
because, as the words were spoken, she and her

partner passed out of the conservatory on to the
first landing, and met Dr. Brooke face to face
going in with the before-mentioned little repaired
girl on his arm. He must have heard
young Pearson's last words, as that gentleman's
voice was neither soft nor low.

Brooke gave Stasie a smile in passing, and she
returned it, thinking how terribly foolish she was,
for of course Dr. Brooke must be occupied with
his old friends.

It was not till after supper she found herself
again beside Mrs. Harding, who was sitting in
the smaller drawing-room beside an elderly lady
in a warlike-looking head-dress decorated with
red feathers.

'' It is getting late, Stasie," she said, '' and Mr.
Harding is impatient to go home, but I do not
like to take you away. Are you engaged for
many more dances ?"

"Only two or three more. Oh, do not go
away just yet ! Where is Mr. Harding ? I will
ask him to stay."

'eat present he is in no hurry; he is in the
supper-room."

Stasie looked at her card. The next dance 

a quadrille  was free, and then came three names
in succession ; then she must go. How soon it
would all be over, and tomorrow would be here,
cold, prosaic tomorrow ! Could she ever be quite
the same after the experience of to-night ?  the
revelation of her own importance in one direction,
her insignificance in another? For a moment
she was lost in thought, the next she was recalled
to the living, vivid present.

I suppose you haven't a dance to spare forme.
Miss Werner?" said Dr. Brooke, coming up
from behind her.

'' Yes, I have just one," holding out her card,
and Speaking with her natural frank ease, " and
you do not deserve that one for being so tardy
in asking for it !"

"Am I tardy?" he returned, taking the card
to write his name; "modest, you should say.
What am I, a mere tyro in ballrooms, that I
should presume to thrust myself among the
splendid youths who dispute your favour ? That
is the correct three-volume style, isn't it?"

I think you are very ill-natured not to have
asked me before this if I am enjoying my first
party 1"

*'A most unnecessary question' said Dr.
Brooke laughing,  when I see what I see ! You
look like the spirit of the ball  an unrelenting
spirit I suspect  ready to devour victims of high
9-nd low degree."

"Do you mean that it is all fish that comes
to my net," asked Stasie with spirit, for something
in his tone, though light and pleasant,
struck her as different from that in which he used
to address her ; ''if so, why, thank you !"

Well parried," said he, with mock gravity.
Miss Yerner, you improve rapidly."

Improve ! " said Stasie, looking straight into
his eyes wither serious puzzled expression ; " you
mean something quite different !"

Here the music struck up ; Brooke offered her
his arm to join the couples already assembling,
and as they passed a long mirror he paused, and
pointing to her reflection in it, said, laughing,
A creature like that need not fear much faultfinding
!" There was real admiration in his eyes
as he spoke, yet Stasie felt wounded, disappointed,
indignant, and for once too perplexed for a ready
reply. Brooke, thinking she had taken in the
flattery, which had a certain amount of surface-truth,

made profound reflections on the intense
conceit of women in general ; of the terrible
counterpoise which it formed, even to intellectual
abilities beyond the average. Better a plain,
commonplace girl, not likely to be tempted into
forgetting the delicate timidity so essential to
female character, than a brilliant creature whose
vanity betrays her into clandestine meetings with
such a fearful cad as that Mathews I " And
with all my common sense I had begun to idealise
her ! At any rate she is far too attractive
to quarrel with." Dismissing his philosophic
thoughts, Brooke made himself very pleasant.
He could talk well when he liked, though slightly
sarcastic, and Stasie found him more amusing
than usual, but certainly not so nice. All through
the dance, Stasie did not know why, but his talk
oppressed her. There was a change in him which
she felt keenly, but could not define.

When the quadrille was over he led her back
to the place where they had left Mrs. Harding,
but she had disappeared.

*' She will return no doubt to look for you,"
said Dr. Brooke ; and he sat down beside his
partner. There was a moments silence, when

VOL. I. 20

something prompted Stasie to speak of her note
to him ; perhaps an unconscious desire to pierce
through the screen of careless civility and light
bright talk, behind which his real self had retreated.


I suppose you had my note, Dr. Brooke. I
was so afraid you might have mentioned having
met me with Bob Mathews."

'' Yes, I had it," he replied, looking With no
small surprise at her open, unembarrassed countenance.
" Did you expect a reply ?"

''Oh no ! it would have been awkward if a
note to me had been seen in your writing. I
daresay you thought it rather strange of me to
write to you, but you see it was the only means
I had of warning you not to tell !" Brooke still
looked and listened in surprise. She spoke quite
easily without downcast eyes or blushes. "It
won't long be a secret, and then you may say
what you like ; but for the present I do not want
any one to know. I have not even told Mrs.
Harding."

'' In that I am sure you are wise," said Brooke
drily.

"Yes," said Stasie, misunderstandings him.

It does not do to get her into a scrape with Mr.
Harding ; he will be awfully angry when it all
comes out, but then / am not his wife, so it does
not matter. He will never speak to me as he
would to her."

Indeed 1" returned Brooke. " I do not know
which to admire most, your consideration for your
friend or the simple directness with which you
carry out your plans ! "

His tone was so unsympathetic, so hard, that
Stasie felt impelled to put herself right with him.
She had grown to believe firmly in his superiority,
in his sound judgment ; perhaps he thought she
was wrong to have written to him ! she would
tell him all. " I will tell you all about it," she
said, blushing now, and raising her dark eyes,
moist and entreating, expecting an encouraging
smile. She met a smile, certainly, but not an
encouraging: one.

Pray do not confide any romantic secrets tome.
Miss Yerner ! I am far too commonplace a
fellow to be worthy of them ; besides, I have no
shadow of right to any explanation from you.
Of course your commands as to secrecy will be
implicitly obeyed ; " and Brooke paused, thinking

low well lie had kept himself clear of Miss Yerner's
schemes and coquetries.

She looked at him in surprise, then flushed
crimson, and said, '' You are quite right, I will
not trouble you !"

Here comes one of your cavaliers!" exclaimed
Brooke, ' eagerly searching for his lost princess !
I must resign you, and bid you good-night too.
I see Mrs. Marsden is looking for me ; I promised
to see her and her daughters home."

** Good-night," said Stasie, mastering as best
she could a horrible choking sensation in her
throat, while an overwhelming sense of shame
and degradation made the blood tingle in her ears
and quiver in her lips. To have offered her confidence
and have it rejected with such polite mockery
! What a fool she was, and how ignorant of
the usages of society! How was she to learn
them ? who would teach her !

Her new partner found her silent and distrait,
and by no means so fascinating as young Pearson
proclaimed her to be ; and, the dance over, Stasie
declared she was quite tired out, turned a deaf
ear to Mr. Pearson's entreaties that she would
wait for one more waltz, found out Mrs. Harding,

who was rather anxious to return home, and
finally unearthed Mr. Harding, who was dosing in
the card-room.

The sense of deep mortification still clung to
Stasie when the morning light broke in upon her
slumbers next day. It was none the less deep because
it was modified by the introduction of a new
ingredient. She was angry with herself, but still
more so with Dr. Brooke ; she was also alarmed
and ashamed to perceive, in the introspection
which the change in his manner induced, that
she had grown quite fond of him  on the verge of
falling in love with him ! A man who had never
sought her,  who had never shown her the slightest
lover-like attention,  only a quiet, gentle,
almost condescending interest in her crude ideas.
She might well be ashamed of such weakness !
she had always despised and pitied the women
she had read and heard of who had given their
love unsought. It was always incomprehensible
to her that such a thing could be, and here she
was almost over the precipice herself. Is it possible
that Dr. Brooke  experienced man of the
world as he was  perceived what she now began

to suspect, and took this method to save her from
throwing herself at his head ! It was too maddening
! She wished she could scourge herself with
scorpions ! She would have willingly seared her
heart with hot irons could she thereby have
obliterated the consciousness of this degradation.
That she could surmount and subdue it she did
not doubt ; but how should she prove her strength
and indifference to Dr. Brooke ? Time would
show.

She must be up and doing ; she would not be
idle any longer ; she would press on Mr. Harding
and Kharapet the necessity of preparing for her
travels with Aunt Clem. She would see her aunt
that very day, plan out their tour, and make an
estimate of its cost, so as to be ready for all
objections. It was too bad that she should be
thus obliged to fight for her rights ! iliad came of
her loneliness ; but she would show them {i.e.
Messrs. Kharapet, Harding, and Wyatt) that she
could hold her own, and if she could not get her
own way quite, at any rate she would make
herself supremely disagreeable. In this irritable
and belligerent mood she descended to breakfast,
which she found half over.

"So here you are at last!" exclaimed Mr.
Harding, who was looking thundery. " You'll
find the tea cold, and the butter hot, for the ice is
all melted!"

I don't care in the least," said Stasie. " How
are you, Mrs. Harding ? I hope you are not very
tired "

I am sure I am!" exclaimed Mr. Harding.
'show rational beings can encourage such fooleries
and waste their money is more than I can understand
1 I cannot put up with any more of it.
These cursed dissipations which interfere with the
comfort of the family bread-winner ought not to
be encouraged. I had to wait nearly half an
hour for Mrs. Harding this morning before I
could get a cup of tea !"

And could you not pour it out yourself for
once 1" cried Stasie. " I protest if I ever marry
I will marry some poor man, and then according
to your theory, Mr. Harding, he will have to
get up and pour out my tea, because my money
will buy the bread."

I think your head has been turned with all
the damned nonsense of last night," returned Mr.
Harding rather testily.

Mrs. Harding looked surprised.

Not at all, I am quite logical  the toast,
pleases' said Stasie.

Mr. Harding took refuge in the Times, Stasie,
being really independent of him, and, moreover,
that sacred thing, " a woman of fortune," he did
not feel disposed to bluster and swear as usual.

After a few minutes' silence Mrs. Harding
began to talk of the people they had met the
evening before, interrupted now and then by
inarticulate growls indicative of disapprobation
from her husband.

At length he exclaimed, " "What a blank
nuisance that Mrs. Parker is dead  died three
days ago !"

' Who is Mrs. Parker?" asked his wife.

'* Oh, you never know anything," he said
roughly. '' She had agreed to take one of my
Sefton Park houses on lease, and everything was
ready for her signature when she came back to
town. She had gone to the Isle of Wight for
change of air, and now she is dead. I wonder if
her daughter will take it, or if she is in any way
committed. I must see Williams. I thought I
had a capital tenant. It's. a blank nuisance," he

repeated, and soon after he rose from table. '* If
Kharapet comes here to-day don't ask him to
dinner," he said. *' I want to have one evening
in peace. It's all very well now and then, but,
by George, the fellow lives here ; and," to his
wife, " you had better begin to think seriously
of going out of town. Look about you, and look
alive ; don't leave everything to be hurried and
scrambled at the last, as usual. Time is money
you must never forget that,' going to the door
and opening it. " Hullo ! Here's a long scratch
on the panel  a scratch as if done with a pin on
purpose ! Look here ! Don't you care enough
about your house to get up and see the mischief
those blank, blank, careless servants do V

Mrs. Harding rose hastily and went to the
door. " Yes, it is provoking ; but the scratch is
not very deep  you can only see it in a particular
light."

You would never see it in any light ! Now
I expect you to find out who is responsible for
that door by the time I return. I'd have the
servants up myself only I must catch Williams,"
and he left the room, closing the door noisily
behind him.

Mrs. Harding returned to her seat with a slight
sigh, and Stasie looked at her in wonder, not
untinged with contempt, at her amazing patience.
It was a bright, warm, summer morning ; the
open windows admitted the perfume of the
mignonette in the flower-boxes ; the water-carts
went slowly past, making a momentary freshness
; that especially summer cry, " All a-blowin'
and a-growin' " came repeatedly from itinerant
florists. All seemed full of joyous, sunny life
thought Stasie, yet how bitter and disappointing
were the realities which lay beneath. She was,
as we know, in a state of irritation, and she felt
especially wrathful against Mr. Harding, because,
for his wife's sake and also from a natural sense
of good-breeding, she had suppressed more than
one sharp speech that rose to her lips. It was
this sense of irritation that prompted her to the
unusual imprudence of saying to her hostess as
the outer door was audibly shut, *ris he ever
pleased?"

Sometimes, I believe'' returned Mrs. Harding
with rather a sad smile. "But he rarely
betrays it."

*' I know it is very rude and wrong of me to say

it, dear Mrs. Harding ; but idly are you always
so sweet and patient \ I am sure it would do you
both so much good if you fired up sometimes."

Mrs. Harding shook her head. *' I daresay it
would be better for Mr. Harding to have married a
woman of stronger character than myself, but as
for me, I shall never get out of my groove now

Stasie forced herself to be silent. She had
long perceived the bitter bondage in which her
friend was held, but to-day she was disposed to
champion all the oppressed, and hit the oppressors
hard. However, she contented herself by crossing
to where Mrs. Harding sat and kissing her
brow. " It is too fine to stay indoors," she said.
I will go out with the children. Let me take
them into the Botanic Gardens. Nurse need not
come. I mean Willie and Ethel  I cannot quite
manage Johnnie."

'' Thank you, dear. I have some shopping todo
and will take him with me. After luncheon
I am going to call on Mrs. Marsden. Will you
come with me ?"

No, thank you. I want to spend the afternoon
with my aunt."

The open air, the bright sunshine, the necessity
of listening and attending to her young
companions did Stasie good. She returned to
the house graver, more composed, and most
firmly resolved to put Dr. Brooke out of her head
and heart. She was not, she flattered herself,
the sort of girl to sit down and mope ; she would
fill the empty chamber of her heart with nobler
guests than had yet dwelt there, and take up
her life in earnest.

As soon as luncheon was over Mrs. Harding
went away to keep her appointment with Dr.
Brooke, who was to meet her at his friend's
house, and Stasie went to her room to dress for
her expedition. She had scarce reached it when
the servant overtook her with a card bearing the
name of

Mr. A. Vandaleur Pearson,

th Lancers.

"Did you say Mrs. Harding was not at home?"
asked Stasie, feeling vexed at this interruption.

"Yes'm, and then the gentleman asked for
you."

I will put on my hat and go down ; he will
not stay long if he thinks I am going out.'

Mr. Pearson met Stasie with many apologies
for detaining her, but he was the bearer of a
note to Mrs. Harding, the contents of which
he knew  perhaps Miss Werner woukl open and
answer it.

"I don't quite like to open Mrs. Harding's
note'' said Stasie, hesitating.

You needn't mind, it is about yourself," cried
the young lancer eagerly ; whereupon Stasie
opened it and read. It asked dear Mrs. Harding
if her charming young friend would like to accompany
the writer to the opera on the following
evening, as she had a box and a place therein
very much at Miss Yerner's service, " if Mrs.
Harding would allow her to join their party." 

Young; Pearson watched her as she read, thinking
how awfully well she looked in a large gray
straw hat, turned up at one side, and lined with
velvet of the same colour, though she was so much
paler than last night.

How very good of your mother ! " cried Stasie,
looking up from the note ; " pray thank her forme.
I should like so much to go, but I cannot
say yes or no till I have seen Mrs. Harding,
though I am sure she will allow me. I will write

this evening directly I see her, if Lady Pearson
will be so kind as to keep the place open."

Yes, of course she will ; I'll answer for that.
Hope you are not very tired this morning, Miss
Werner ? "

"A little," said St ashe; "but I enjoyed the dance."

So did I ; never enjoyed a dance so much
before. I suppose I must not keep you  you are
going out ? " a little entreatingly.

Yes, I am going to see my aunt, who has
been ill, and "

"Mr. Kharapet!" said Jane, throwing open
the door.

Mr. Vandaleur Pearson looked a little surprised
as Hormuz came in with his softly gliding
step and graceful bow.

A gleam of startled anger flashed in his eyes
when he found Stasie tete-astute with a fashionable
good-looking young man.

'' Oh, Hormuz," cried Stasie with easy familiarity,
" I am going to Aunt Clem's ; will you come
with me ? "

Yes, certainly ; I am at your service." Mr.
Pearson, not being asked to sit down, thought he
had best bow himself out.

I will be sure to write this evening," said
Stasie, shaking hands with him.

Pray do ; sorry not to have seen Mrs. Harding."



"Who is that young man?" said Hormuz
solemnly, as the door closed upon him.

Mr. Pearson  Sir Frederic's son. I danced
with him last night. Isn't he nice ? He has
brought me an invitation from his mother to goto
the opera ! so very kind of her ! " and Statement
across the room to place it in Mrs. Harding's
blotting-book.

Kharapet felt giddy with a spasm of rage and
fear. If these insolent young swells and their
designing mothers had begun to gather round
Stasie, might they not rob him of what he looked
upon as his legitimate property  his undoubted
right. Deep in his inmost heart he vowed that
no one should take her or hers from him; all
hesitation  all memory of Mr. Harding's counsels,
were swept away by the wave of fear and passion
that swept over him.

Stasie," he said. Something in his tone
startled her ; she turned quickly. He was standing
bv the sofa, his hand resting on the back; he

looked deadly white, his large black eyes fixed on
her with an expression of pain.

What is the matter ? are you ill ? " and she
came over to him in some anxiety.

' I am sick to death for love of you ! " he exclaimed
in a hoarse voice, *' It kills me to see
other men near you."

Stasie stepped back in dismay  there was a
pause.

Do you hear me," he began again almost
harshly. * I love you ! you must be my wife,
Stasie ! " then, as she stood overpowered with
averted eyes, blushing to the roots of her hair
with distress, nay, horror, at this unexpected outburst,
Kharapet came nearer, thinking she was
only surprised, that after a few moments to take
in his words, she would confess that she now
knew she also loved him. *you seemed an
angel to me," he went on, pressing his slender
hands together. "An angel of light and loveliness
from the first, and now ! I cannot live without
you ! You possess my soul ! And you do
not hate me, Stasie? You have always kind
words and looks for me ! Promise to be my
wife, my love, my rose ; give me those fair hands

and sweet lips and lovely eyes, and I will be
your slave. You shall do what you like I and
if you trust your money with me I will double
and treble it before long ! You shall have jewels
and beauteous raiment, for all that I have is and
will be yours ! Say you will love me, Stasie."
He stretched out his arms with a sudden passionate
gesture, almost touching her.

Stasie, shrinking away, felt she must speak.
She was frightened, but also grieved ; there was
unmistakable sincerity in his voice and eyes.

Oh ! I am so grieved, Hormuz. I wish you
did not care about me. Of course I like you,
you have been so good to me, but I always considered
you a sort of  of uncle. I do not want
to marry any one ! I could not."

"Ah! sweetest! that is but a young girl's
unawakened fancy. Let me teach you, beloved,
how to love."

"You shall do nothing of the kind," cried
Stasie with a sudden sharp repulsion. "That
is," regretting her own abruptness, " I do not
think you could ! I don't mean to say I will
never marry, but 1 am quite determined to enjoy
a little freedom before I give it up. I am a

VOL. L 21

mere school-girl, too, and have to learn quantities
of things before I am fit to be married ! "

Then let me hope' said Kharapet, considerably
chilled by her firmness, and almost haughty
avoidance of his touch ; " I will wait for you !
You cannot be so hard and cold as to turn from
the natural joys of woman's life ; let me be your
friend until I can win your love ! "

I shall always be glad of your friendship,
Hormuz," she returned, growing pale, while her
manner became colder and more composed.
But do not think of love ; there are differences
of nature between us. Why, you would not be
happy with me. I like everything you dislike,
everything that there "  interrupting herself
 " there is no use in talking about it ! Be
my friend, my valued friend, but never think
of being more."

You shall not kill my hopes ! " exclaimed
Kharapet. "Promise me at least, to atone for the
pain, the agony you cost me, that you will keep
this conversation secret from all  from your
aunt, from Mr. and Mrs. Harding  may I trust
you, Stasie ? "

"You may! Indeed I would much rather

say nothing about it, and you  will you promise
to put the thought of me out of your mind ? "

Kharapet bowed his head with an air of despondency,
which touched Stasie.

'ris there then no chance for me?" he said
slowly.

*' I must speak the truth, Hormuz, there is
none." Without a word he turned and crept
noiselessly out of the room.

END OF VOL, I.

Printed hy R. & R. Clack, Edinburgh.

1

Ld.

University of Illinois Library

r

'm 1 6 !:)5:

L161 1141

3. ,o)dtl

BY

MKS. Alexander

AUTHOR OF

THE WOOING O't; 'WHICH SHALL IT BE?' 'THE Frees,' 'HER DEAREST FOE,

AND 'LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP.'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOLUME IL

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

uWsi)txB in rtiinars to fex fHajcstg tlje aucm



AU rights reserved.

THE Execute,

Chapter I.

It was late on this eventful afternoon when
Brooke, having Tvalkecl back with his cousin after
her visit to his friends, and refusing her invitation
to come in, turned away, and strolled in the
direction of his hotel, musing as he went on the
conversation he had just had with Mrs. Harding.
It had been unusually confidential, and yet she
was never quite ofi" her guard. " I suspect she
has a hard time ! What a destiny for a womanlike
Livy to be in the clutches of a great brute
such as Harding ! She ought to try and keep
him down. I am certain she could. I imagine
women credit us with far more resolution tlmn
we possess ; but even if she could, what a life
for a tender-hearted gentlewoman, to be perpetually
bullying her husband ! I wonder how

VOL. II.



her friend Miss Stasie Werner would manage such
a partner ? She would either do it or bolt !
How fond Livy seems to be of that girl ! and yet
they cannot, ought not, to suit each other. Miss
Werner is bold and deep under her frank, open
manner. A week ago I would have sworn sh e
was as modest as she was honest. Still I hope
she will not be drawn in to marry that Syrian.
I don't like his sort of partnership with Harding."


So reflecting, Brooke reached Oxford Circus,
and paused to watch for an opportunity to
cross. It was the most crowded hour in the day,
when the dwellers in the suburbs, having completed
their shopping, were trying to find places
in the numerous omnibuses coming ujd every
moment from remote East Central regions.

Brooke was not in a hurry, and he looked
with some amusement and a little compassion on
the rush and scramble of those who were fighting
for places. Among them his attention was
attracted to a small, slight, exceedingly clerical-looking
young man, pale and thin, with hay-coloured
straight hair and a kindly look. As
Brooke watched, the patient yet weakly persistence

with which ao;ain and a-aiii he strove to
effect an entrance into the crowded conveyances,
the pale face with its simple, honest expression
grew more and more familiar to him. His whole
attention was absorbed by the unsuccessful combatant
; an old play ground with its rough gravel,
its eager games, its quick quarrels, its hearty reconciliations,
its buzz of boyish voices, rose u})
before his memory. He stepped off the pavement,
dived into the crowd, and, touching the
young divine on the arm exclaimed, " Robinson
Jack Robinson ! if I don't mistake ? "

The clergyman turned quickly, looked a
moment with a puzzled, surprised expression at
his interrogator, and asked in his turn, " Why,
it can't be Brooke, Jim Brooke ? "

'' Yes, it is Brooke ; and he is heartily glad to
have fallen in with you, old fellow ! Are you
absolutely obliged to wedge yourself into one of
those detestable conveyances, or can you come
with me ? "

"While they spoke they stepped aside from the

throng.

'' "Well, you are the last man I should have
expected to see. I thought you were in India ? "

I was ; I have only returned about three
months. And now, what are you going to do ?
Can you come and dine with me \ '

Yes, I will," cried Robinson with an air of
decision. *' I was on my way to dine with my
aunt at Nottingham ; but I will telegraph to her ;
there is an office somewhere here."

This settled, the newly-met friends chartered
a hansom, and bowled away to Brooke's hotel,
where they soon sat down, in the highest good
humour with themselves and each other, to enjoy
the good things set before them.

A meeting like this is pleasantly and healthfully
exhilarating. To Brooke it brought back
something of youthful freshness from cricket-field
and playground, and called up kindly
memories of the bright, vague anticipations
which they two had shared in the old days,
when their chrysalis minds were working themselves
clear of the cocoon which authority and
childishness and the hesitation of undeveloped
courage weave round the immature.

Brooke found the retrospect was cheerful and
encouraging. He had made to the full as much

way as he could expect.

He had sown the seed of future success, while
young enough to see it bear fruit before he had
reached middle age. Moreover, he could conscientiously
fight for his own hand. He had no
claims upon him. His father and mother were
both dead, and his sole near relations were a
couple of brothers, each doing fairly well in
various parts of the British dominions.

'' Now tell me something of yourself," asked
Brooke of his clerical friend with half unconscious
pity for the narrow limits, the unavoidable
monotony which must have hedged his career, ashe
had confessed that his farthest flight had been
to Paris for a brief holiday, and that his highest
success, which w?fs owing more to good luck than
to merit, was his appointment to a suburban incumbency
called " Sefton Park."

Sefton Park ! " repeated Brooke. " I have
heard of that place. Whereabouts is it ? "

Oh ! about three-quarters of an hour down
the South Western line ; a nice place enough,
but a little disheartening. The people are all
well-to-do and irreproachable, but not the
slightest trace of devotional life amongst them.
Now, if one had a district in the East End or at

the Docks that would be invigorating, there
would be something tangible to fight against,
some visible reform to fight for. It is true that
at present we are in an embryo condition. We
have only an iron church ! Now, though it is
necessary to make a beginning, these iron erections
vex my soul; they are the very incarnation
of modernism ; they are so at variance
with the order and spirit of the worship carried
on within it, and, would you believe it ? the congregation
is content, perfectly content. We
have gone on in this deplorable makeshift way
for two years, and I have only collected a hundred
and fifty pounds towards a stone edifice. Yet
some of the congregation are wealthy, absolutely
wealthy."

' I know a man who has property there  a
Mr. Harding."

'' Yes ; he is about the largest proprietor at
Sefton Park. He says as soon as I have three
hundred pounds he will give another  which
sounds liberal. A plain but suitable Gothic
building to seat five hundred would cost two
thousand pounds, and I really see no chance of
arriving at that sum."

"That is a nuisance," returned Brooke absently.
" And the wife ; do you know her \ "

'' Yes ; a very charming woman ! But she does
not interest herself much in Church matters. I
imagine her life is not of the smoothest. They
say  but I never heed idle talk  that he is a
man of violent temper, avaricious, harsh ! "

'' I am sorry to hear it," said Brooke. " Mrs.
Harding is a cousin of mine."

'' Oh, indeed ! I had no idea. I am sure I
should not have mentioned it. I have no doubt
these reports are mere idle chatter."

Let us hope so," replied Brooke, smiling at his
companion's readiness to repeat the mere chatter.

"At any rate he does not care much for appearances.
He never by any chance comes to
Church, not even when I persuaded the Bishop
of Zanzibar to preach a sermon in aid of the
building fund ; but Mrs. Harding and the children
are most regular in their attendance. It is a
pretty place, and a nice country all round. You
must really come down and see mc, Brooke. I
should be so pleased. I am most comfortable 
too comfortable."

If you have only to complain of being too

comfortable, you are not mundi to be pitied. I
will come to see you with great pleasure, however.
And now, tell me, are you really content with
your calling ? "

'' I should think I was ! It is the noblest in
the world," cried the young divine. " Now especially,
when the Church is reasserting her rightful
supremacy, and truth is growing clearer day by
day."

Is it ? It seems to me that the enormous
amount of vari-coloured light breaking in on every
side tends rather to bewilder than to illumine."

If you have but a sure guide, you will find
nothing to bewilder in the present condition of
things."

A sure guide ! That is indeed a desideratum''


After long and cordial talk the friends separated
with promises to meet again soon. Brooke
in vain tried to persuade the ardent little churchman
to steal a holiday, and accompany him in a
trip to Switzerland and some of the old towns of
Germany. This was not the time, he said, to
think of personal pleasure, rather of earnest work
and diligent conflict. So Brooke saw him into

the nine train  the last by which he could reach
Sefton Park, which had a diminutive station all
to itself.

"When Stasie recovered herself after her scene
with Kharapet, she hastened to pay her intended
visit to her aunt, feeling curiously stunned and
stupid, and therefore less keen to observe and
cavil at a slight but decided change in Miss
Stretton's tone as regarded their future plans.

She was as affectionate and admiring as ever.
She was insatiable in her inquiries into every
particular concerning the dance at Lady Pearson's
; she wished ardently that she had seen her
dear Stasie dressed for that festive occasion ; she
deeply regretted that nice charming Mr. Kharapet
had not been of the party  poor fellow ! )ie, no
doubt, was inconsolable I "

Stasie felt her cheeks burn at the sound of his
name, but she kept herself very composed, and
firmly resolved never to reveal the secret between
them.

Then Miss Stretton poured forth a long catalogue
of her complaints; and when Stasie attempted
to cheer her by suggesting that traveling

would do her good and set lier up, she shook her
head, cleared her throat gently, and pressed her
handkerchief to her eyes. ''My dearest Stasie,"
she exclaimed, "I have no doubt you observe
how low I am ! Alas ! I begin to fear the fates
are against me ! I fear that my digestion is radically
wrong. If so, I must not venture abroad.
I must resign the hope which for a moment
brightened my dark horizon  the sweet hope of
being your companion, your second mother ! But
self-preservation is imperative ! To-morrow I am
to have an interview with my medical adviser,
and if he forbids my quitting England, why, I
must let you go, dear child  go with some happier
and healthier guide than myself" Here she
wept very genuine tears, for she was dreadfully
afraid of losing hold of her niece, whom she
heartily liked, over and above the material advantages
to be derived from her.

Oh, dear ! don't talk in that way. Aunt
Clem! I am very sorry you are so ill. You
must suffer awfully. I do hope the doctor will
let you travel  at any rate in a month or two.
Even if we do not go abroad, we might manage
to live together. "We shall see."

My own clear Stasie ! I shall let you know
what the doctor says at once. Perhaps a few
weeks' treatment would make a change. My only
wish now is to be of use to you. I will write to
you directly I have seen my medical man."

The aunt and niece parted as usual with much
warmth. Stasie, however, returned to her temporary
home more depressed and disappointed
than she had felt since her days of despondency
at Miss Boaden's. After all, she seemed doomed
to fail in her grand scheme of emancipation and
enjoyment.

That the difficulty should arise from Aunt
Clem was indeed an unexpected misfortune. It
was just the one obstacle that she could not
fio-ht against. If Aunt Clem's health would not
permit her to travel, why, there was nothing for
it but to submit. Stasie decided that it would
be better to wait for her recovery than to travel
with any one else. Miss Stretton's affection,
admiration, and helplessness had laid fist howl
upon her niece. To desert this kindly, lonely
woman now, after giving her hopes of a brighter,
happier, life, was impossible ; and Stasie decided
to cling to her aunt in any case.

Though much attached to Mrs. Harding, she
thought she would like something of a home of
her own  a place to herself, where Kharapet
could not come whenever he liked, and where,
too, she thought in her inmost heart, dear Mrs.
Harding might find a cheerful change from the
monotony of her life. Still she clung to the
hope that Aunt Clem's doctor might, after all,
not forbid her to go to France or Italy. She
(Stasie) so longed to get away where she should
be free from all chance of seeing Kharapet, or
hearing his voice ; indeed she did not wish to see
Dr. Brooke either  she had so evidently " warned
her off." This she felt the more keenly, because
she acknowledged to herself with shame and
contrition she had been on the verge of falling
in love with him !

A man who was in no way moulded on the
heroic lines she had imagined for a possible lover,
simply a well-informed, well-bred, self-possessed
gentleman of her own class, who showed her
kindly attention until  by her own over-eagerness
for conversation which interested her, and opinions
which woke up her own mental powers  by her
forwardness, in short, she had disgusted him. In

no other way could she account for his sudden
withdrawal from the pleasant friendliness which
had existed between them. Well, she would not
again offend. He should have no further need
to reject her advances or confidences ; and yet,
after all, he might have been vexed about something
else, or bored, or preoccupied. Perhaps
the next time they met he might be different.
At any rate, it was disgracefully weak to think
of him at all, and she had plenty of other matter
whereon to exercise her thoughts.

She was silent and preoccupied that evening,
which attracted her host's attention. He had
recovered the effects of his rare appearance in
society, and was inclined for conversation. So
he attacked Stasie, who was pretending to work
while thinking what she should do if Aunt Clem
were pronounced too unwell to travel.

What's the matter, Stasie ? You seem
rather in the doleful dumps. Have you quarrelled
with Kharapet ? I thought he was coming
to dinner. Have you forbidden him, or what ?

'' No. I have no quarrel with him. I knew
nothing about his coming to dinner."

I don't say I am inconsolable," returned mr.

Harding with a chuckle. " He is a nice young
man, I daresay (not so very young either), but
one wants a man to be reasonable sometimes.
He's a lively companion, eh, Stasie ? lots to say on
a variety of subjects. Never mind, he's a devilish
shrewd fellow about business. You'd have to
get up early to do him  even you would find he
could hold the purse-strings tight, if you ever
give them into his grip," and Harding looked
sharply at her. Stasie, unsuspicious as she was,
heard something in his tone that put her on her
guard.

Mr. Kharapet has always been most kind tome
and liberal with, I presume, my own money.
I am as grateful to him for giving me my own
as if it were his ; indeed more so, as I could not
take it in any other case."

By George ! you'd have to bid high if you
expected to bag any of Kharapet's cash ; but
nothing for nothing is the rule with all men of
sense, except myself. I was out of my mind
once, and have had to pay for my whistle."

Not too dear, I hope," returned Stasie for
the sake of saying something, and not understanding
to what Mr. Harding alluded.

"Well, we will say no more about that," lie
rejoined. *' So you and Kharapet haven't fallen
out, hey ? "

I hope not ; did he say we had ? "
"No. I haven't seen him to-day. Gad, I
would like to tell him how you carried on with
that swell son of old Pearson's. He'd turn green,
by Jupiter ! Did you ever notice the colour he
turns when he is vexed and dare not show it % "

No, Mr. Harding. I would rather not see
him vexed when he does all he can to please mea
great deal more than you do," said Stasia
stoutly. She felt angry with Mr. Harding.
She thought he was talking treacherously of a
man with whom he professed to be on the most
friendly terms, and besides she was disposed to
feel savagely towards most people just then.

Hill ! are you bristling up for him ? " exclaimed
Mr. Harding in some surprise. " I
fancied he had gone down below par with you."
Why % " asked Stasie shortly.
"Well, I don't exactly know why, but you
are right, Stasie ; I thought I'd just try you.
Kharapet is a very nice chap, and, I am sure,
your staunchest friend, to say the least of it."

Again lie looked very keenly at lier, but she did
not answer. He was afraid lie had been making
a mistake in speaking as lie did of Kharapet
from some crookedness of motive we cannot at
present follow. Perhaps she favoured the
Syrian's pretensions. If so, Kharapet was a
power to be pacified.

More to please you than I do ! " he repeated,
reverting to her former reply. " Come, now, that
is cruel and ungrateful, aunt it, Livy ? " to his wife.

I really think you loth devoted to Stasie's
service," she returned, with a slightly scornful
smile.

"There, you hear that?"

Oh yes ; you both do what you choose todo
readily enough. But when I wanted something
so very, very much, with my whole heart,
you would not do it."

'when was that?" asked Mr. Harding,
astonished.

When I wanted to help Mrs. Mathews, you
both laughed at me."

'* Oh, but that was out of all reason. When
you have more sense you will understand it all,
and see we were right."

More sense ! " exclaimed Stasie. *' Am I a
fool now ? I do not think I am quite. Pray,
am I to go on in this way  thwarted at every
turn, treated like a baby, and comforted with
sugar-plums, for three long years (I shall not be
eighteen all out till Sunday) ? I feel inclined to
make you wish the three years were over. I
think I could give you trouble if I liked."

Come, come ! I protest you are unjust,
Stasie. How do we thwart you ? There never
was a girl so petted ; you are going to get your
own way about your travels, and "

I do not think I am," interrupted Stasie.

'how so?" asked Mr. Harding with some
eagerness.

*' Because my aunt is so unwell. I doubt if
she can come with me ! "

Ah ! " exclaimed Mr. Harding with animation,
and then stopped short.

"I am horribly vexed about it," returned
Stasie frankly, as she began to fold up her work,
'' for I shall not go with any one else."

"Miss Stretton does not look very strong,"
remarked Mrs. Harding, to fol up the pause
which ensued.

VOL. II. -2

"No, poor dear tiling," said Stasie. " I do
not think she has had a very pleasant life. It is
past nine, Mrs. Harding, and I am very tired.
You will excuse me if I go to bed ? Good-night,
Mr. Harding ; " and Stasie disappeared.

I'm d d if I know what to make of that

girl" said Mr. Harding, looking after her.

I don t think she is a complicated puzzle,"
replied his wife. " She is very candid and outspoken."


' You think so ? Well, in some ways you are
bright enough, Livy, and I thought you might be
of use with Stasie Yerner ; but I have an idea
she is too many for you."

"I am certain she is as honest and true as a
girl can be," returned Mrs. Harding quickly,
but what do you mean about being of use with
her ? I am very glad to be of use to her ! "

*' There you go with your infernal fanciful
trash ! Your starting a devoted friendship with
the girl is about as great a nuisance as if you
refused to have anything to do with her. Don't
you understand I don't want her to break with
Kharapet, and I dont want her to accept him.
You might be a great help in the business if you

liked, and you ought to be thankful to help mein
any way, considering '

He stopped expressively.

Mrs. Harding, who was making a dainty little
pinafore, smiled a peculiar smile, and observed,
I should be very happy to prevent her accepting
him, if it were necessary to exert any influence
for that purpose, but you may make your
mind easy. She never will."

Then whom does she fancy ? At her age she
will not like to be without a sweetheart. That
young man she danced with last night % "

Why, she has scarcely seen him ! " said Mrs.
Harding, laughing.

That's nothing. Has she talked of him to
you

'' Yes," she replied after a moment's thought.
I. have seen very little of her to-day ; but she
spoke of him."

Ah 1 just so. Now, I want to find out if
Kharapet has asked her to-day'? He was m
awful taking yesterday, and swore no, he is too
mealy-mouthed to swear; he declared that he
would put himself out of pain one way or tl
other to-day. Has he, do you think \ "

le

** No, I am almost sure he lias not' replied
Mrs. Harding reflectively. " He was here, but
for a yere short time ; and just then young
Pearson had called with an invitation for Stasie
from his mother to go with them to the opera
tomorrow. She told me all about it, and is delighted
to go. I do not think she could have
kept back anything so exciting as a proposal ! I
am almost sure Mr. Kharapet did not see her
alone, or if he did, only for a few minutes."

"Hum! that's as well. It's odd about this
old aunt of hers. She was all game for foreign
travels, and now she is crying off; I suspect
Kharapet is working the oracle in that quarter !"

How do you mean ? " asked his wife.

I believe he has made Miss Stretton's acquaintance,
and has been very favourably received.
Now, look here ! I have been speaking-pretty
freely and confidentially to you; don't
you go repeat what I have said to Stasie or anyone
else. I am half afraid of the friendship
between you. You just remember your first duty
is to me."

*' I generally do," replied Mrs. Harding drily,
her eyes on her work ; then suddenly raising

them, and speaking with more decision than
usual, she said, " I will help you heartily to keep
Kharapet at a distance, but do not count on mein

any thing that will pain or injure Stasie."

Don't talk like an idiot, for you ain't one !
Why should I injure her % What good would it
do me ? Fm deuced fond of the girl. I tell you
if I were free, I'd cut out Kharapet. You're not
j jealous, are you, Livy ? "

This was rather an amiable speech for Mr.
Harding.

Not in the least," returned his wife calmly.
By George ! I believe it would not move you
if I had a rival establishment over the way,"
cried Harding, laughing coarsely.

Yes ! it would move me very much," she
said with some emphasis.

"Never fear!" rejoined her husband reassuringly.
"I am not given to unnecessary
expense."

I know it."

All right then. Will you bring me the
evening paper ; I left it by the window, and I'll
see what the last quotations are ! "

Soon the rustle of the newspaper dropping

from his hand told Mrs. Harding that her
husband was asleep.

She softly laid down her work, and, placing
her elbow on the little work-table beside her,
looked long and steadily at her slumbering lord,
her mild brown eyes darkening and growing
deep, with a peculiar expression, a look which
perhaps acted magnetically on her sleeper, for he
stirred, made some inarticulate sounds, and then
half started up wide awake.

Hey ! what is it ? " he asked.
" There is nothing the matter," she said
quietly.

I don't know what I was dreaming, but
something unpleasant. I suppose Pearson's
supper champagne ' disagreed with me ! I'll be
off to bed."

He stumbled up and went out of the room.

Mrs. Harding sighed slightly, rose, fetched a
book, too large for the ordinary novel, and,
placing a couple of wax candles on her table,
drew it near a window, sat down to enjoy an
hour's deliverance from the present.

In spite of her vexations, Stasie's spirits rose as
she dressed for the opera. It was so kind of
Lady Pearson to think of her ! and it was so
delicious to go to the opera under any circumstances
! She liked young Pearson too. He was
bright, boyish, and amusing. But, above all, that
afternoon's post had brought her a letter from
Bob Matthews, sent ashore with the pilot. Bob
wrote in the highest spirits, and, though roughly
expressed, full of gratitude. "You have saved
me and made me," he concluded, " I'll pay you
one day, though I don't yet feel sure when. I
think I have a capital berth here. The captain
seems a jolly fellow ; there are a lot of passengers ;
we have a fine ship, and a favourable breeze to
carry us down Channel. I begin to feel half a
sailor already ; but the pilot is waiting, so goodbye,
and God bless you."

Having read this twice with no small exultation,
Stasie struck a match and carefully consumed
it. That was safely done. With all the
executors' authority and indifference to her
wishes, she had accomplished something of what
she wanted. Bob was now safe away. Messrs.
Harding and Kharapet might do what they chose ;
they could not get back the money. She felt justa
little frightened at the idea of the row that
would follow the discovery of her misdoings, only
enough to give pleasant excitement to the coming
conflict ; all she really dreaded was to draw Mrs.
Harding into a scrape.

'what a life she has ! I am sure in her place
I should run away ! Yet no ; not if I were
obliged to leave Ethel and Willie behind."

Lady Pearson was not very punctual, and
Stasie had been waiting for a few minutes when
she drove up.

I am so stupid not to have thought of asking
you to dinner," said Lady Pearson when Stasie
had taken her place in the carriage ; " I do not
know how I omitted to do so ; my son has been
scolding me ever since*'

'' Oh ! it is no matter," said Stasie ; " you are

very kind to think of me at all. I am so delighted
to come with you."

Yes, and Martha is such a jolly opera," added
young Pearson.

The overture was finished and the curtain up
when they reached their places. Stasie was at
once absorbed, and became deaf and blind to
everything off the stage ; so Mr. Pearson found
his attempts at even the most fragmentary conversation
useless, until the end of the first act
released her.

Then the young Lancer tried to make up for
lost time, as Stasie was ready enough to talk and
full of curiosity respecting the celebrities present.

Have you never been in London before this
season. Miss Yerner ? " asked Lady Pearson.

Oh yes ; I have always been in London, but
not in this region. I lived ever so far away  in
Islington."

In Islington," cried Mr. Pearson with undisguised
horror. " Why did they let you stay in
such an unknown country ? "

'' Because I had nowhere else to go," said Stasie
cheerfully. " I was very happy there ; and I
should not mind going back, only the lady who

took care of me when I was little has gone
away."

Very sweet and good of you to say so, my
dear, but it would scarcely do for you now' remarked
Lady Pearson.

Why ? " returned Stasie, with a slight sigh ;
then raising her opera glass she scanned the boxes
facing her, discovering almost exactly opposite
Dr. Brooke, with his friends Mrs. and Miss
Marsden and an elderly gentleman. Stasie instantly
turned her " Lorgnette " on the stalls, for
she thought Brooke's was directed towards the
box where she was sitting; then she spoke to
Mr. Pearson, who was leaning on the back of
her chair, and set him off in full swing by a few
questions respecting his regiment. She listened
to him with great attention and occasional smiles,
thus redeeming her character as a charming girl
in his estimation, for in the beginning of the
evening he was disposed to think she was not
quite so bright and agreeable as he imagined.

Then the drop-scene went up, and Stasie, with
a gesture which commanded silence, again devoted
herself to the stage.

At the next pause in the performance Stasie

did not attempt to look at the house ; she again
settled herself to listen to Mr. Pearson, but he
had gone away to get ices, and when he returned
he brought Dr. Brooke with him.

Stasie was completely taken at unawares. She
instinctively drew back behind the shadow of the
curtain beside her, and thought rapidly what a
silly goose she was to mind ! Dr. Brooke was
nothing to her, even if his manner to-night indicated
a return to his old frank cordiality ; a
minute more would show, for he was greeting
Lady Pearson, and Stasie gathered from what
she said that she regretted not having been able
to talk more to him at her party, and that she
had known him in India just before she had left
that country.

Not till all this was said did Brooke turn
to Stasie, and observe civilly, yet with the indefinable
change of tone which to her was so perceptible,
" I did not expect the pleasure of seeing
you here, Miss Yerner; and how do you like
Martha ? "

"Very much, but not so well as The Troas
she said smiling, as she returned his bow.

He did not seem inclined to offer his hand.

Stasie had time to collect herself and to meet
him with exactly the same civil indifference as
his own. She had made no mistake ; he evidently
wished to mark the terms on which their acquaintance
was to exist, and she would show no reluctance
in accepting them. It was no small amount
of strength in so young a creature that kept Stasie
from rushing into a visible flirtation with the gay
Lancer ; she only gave quiet but flattering heed
to his sometimes silly, sometimes almost witty,
talk, through which she heard nearly all Dr.
Brooke said. He was very bright and agreeable,
and just what he used to be when arguing and
chaffing Stasie in their friendly days  little
more than a week ago  which seemed to have
gone away so far back ; and, while answering some
question from Mr. Pearson respecting her summer
plans, Stasie heard Lady Pearson ask Dr. Brooke
to dine with her the following week.

I am sorry I cannot," he said. " I start on
Monday for Dieppe with my friends Mr. and
Mrs. Marsden ; after spending a few days there
I am going on to Switzerland."

Lady Pearson expressed polite regret; then
Brooke suddenly turned to Stasie, whose presence

lie appeared to have forgotten, and said,
*' I suppose you will soon be starting on your
travels, Miss Yerner ? "

*' Not so soon as I expected."

All ! perlia23S you are inclined to change
your mind as to the desirability of going abroad,
he said, with a look which she did not understand."


*' Are you going abroad. Miss Werner ? " cried
young Pearson. " What a shame ! It is ever so
much nicer to stay at home. Why don't you goto
the Highlands for the summer ? My mother
and sister are going ; it would be so jolly to
meet you there."

Thank you," said Stasie, laughing, " but I
intend to go abroad as soon as my aunt is well
enough to travel."

"Is Miss Stretton ill?" asked Brooke carelessly.
" That is awkward for you ; she is your
deus ex macJiina"

I do not understand Latin," returned Stasie
quietly. She divined that there was a sting in
his words, though she did not exactly know where.

Brooke laughed. " I only mean that she arranges
your difficulties for you  does she not?"

She would if lie could," replied Stasie looking
at him very straight, with eyes that said as
plainly as eyes could, 'what do you mean V

Brooke made no reply either by look or speech,
unless a few minutes' thoughtful silence could be
considered one. Then he began again to talk with
Lady Pearson, and finally, when the curtain again
drew up, he took leave, this time distinctly offering
his hand to Stasie. "All well at York
Gate?" he asked, as he wished her good-night.
I am afraid I cannot call to make my adieux
before Sunday."

Very well, I will tell Mrs. Harding ;" and he
was gone.

Stasie returned from the opera, feeling stronger
and braver. She would not trouble herself about
a changeable, fanciful personage like Dr. Brooke.
If she had been foolishly eager for his society and
conversation she would abjure that weakness ;
indeed, if he was going away she might probably
never see him again, so much the better; yet
deep in her heart she knew that Dr. Brooke was
a man she could have looked up to  at whose
feet she could have sat, and loved with faith and

tenderness. But this was not to be, and Stasie
told herself that the world was wide enough and
full enough to offer many a chance of meeting
heroes more heroic than the disdainful doctor.

Still the experience dulled her bright anticipations
of a life of enjoyment and acquirement.
Now if her pet scheme was defeated she would be
cut off from the best means of renovating her
mental health and hopefulness.

The day after she had been to the opera
decided this question.

Miss Stretton, according to her nature, invariably
avoided the necessity of saying " no "
directly. She beat about the bush, and if
possible wrote the obnoxious monosyllable. So
the afternoon post brought Stasie the following
effusion : 

"My Dearest Stasie  It is with infinite
regret I proceed to give you an account of my
interview with Dr. Grind. After going most
carefully into the case (Dr. G. is remarkable for
his great care and deliberation, but is not so well
known as he ought to be), he said I was suffering
from anorexia with a tendency to asthenia, and
that I required to pay great attention to diet, and

complete repose. He absolutely forbade me to
think of travelling, and advised change of air to
some quiet country place.

I need scarcely tell you, my precious Stasie,
that this terrible sentence made me quite ill ! I
had so set my heart on being your companion,
so fondly hoped to find in you the object I have
long needed, and now to be separated from
you (for I cannot expect you to give up your
plans for me) is almost more than I can bear !
However, the first duty of a Christian is to preserve
the life that is given to us to cherish
for some ulterior purpose ; and though, Heaven
knows, mine is a sad and lonely one, I must do
my best to preserve it. Therefore, dearest Stasie,
I must with bitter tears and an aching heart
renounce the prospect which for a while cheered
the darkness of my future. I trust, dear, you
may find some congenial spirit who will supply
my place. You may, no doubt, find many who
are intellectually and even socially my superiors,
but none who will love you more truly and
warmly than, dearest Stasie, your attached and
affectionate aunt,

'' Clementina Stretton."

Stasie's first feeling when she had read this
moving epistle was a kind of angry sorrow. It
was altogether too contrary and vexatious ! She
was inclined to disbelieve that doctor,  to think
there must be some malignant cause at work to
cross and defeat her favourite project ; but after
repeating the letter she was ashamed of the
selfishness which underlay her impressions, and
resolved to stand by her aunt.

If she was in such bad health,  and the names
in the letter were big enough for the most deadly
disease,  she wanted some one to take care of and
be a daughter to her. And Stasie would fill the
role, as she felt sure her aunt would devote herself
to her (Stasie) under similar circumstances.

Only by affection and disinterestedness could
a home be made, and for a " home," a safe haven
of kindness and rest, Stasie yearned in spite of
her love of gaiety and admiration, and all that
youth delights in.

Of course she took the letter to her friend
Mrs. Harding. '' Poor thing ! she is evidently in
great grief at the failure of your pleasant project,"
remarked that lady when she had read it. "I
am very sorry for you too, Stasie. It would have

VOL. II. 24

been so nice for you to travel with your aunt ;
only I am afraid you would have led her instead
of her leading you."

And would that matter much ? I am not
such a goose after all ! "

'' No, but you are young and very inexperienced,
and so liable to make mistakes. I should
be sorry for you to miss your excursion to the
Continent, it would do you a world of good.
What shall you do ? ask Lady Elizabeth to take .
you, or look out for another chaperon ?"

No," returned Stasie slowly, as she folded
up her letter and replaced it in its envelope.
No ; I will not run away from poor Aunt Clem,
because she cannot be of use to me just in the
way I want ; I think I should like to live with
her somewhere and nurse her ; perhaps by and
by she might be able to travel, and we should
be better friends than ever."

Or find out that you could not endure each
other," put in Mrs. Harding quietly. Stasie
laughed.

I like to hear you say those funny ill-natured
things," she said. ' They come from your head,
never from your heart, dear Mrs. Harding."

'' Don't be too sure, Stasie ; " she stopped a
moment and then resumed. "You had better
talk to Mr. Harding  he will help you to settle
some plan, and Mr. Kharapet  I wonder what
has become of him ! I have not seen him for
some days."

He was here for a few minutes, you know,
just as I was going out on Wednesday," said
Stasie mechanically, still looking down at her
letter.

Yes ; but I did not see him."

Well, I must write a line to Aunt Clem at
once to assure her I will not leave England
without her, just to cheer her a little, and then
we can wait and hear what Mr. Harding has
to say."

So Stasie hastily despatched a few lines
which brought considerable consolation to Miss
Stretton, who waited with some trepidation the
result of her communication.

It happened that Hormuz Kharapet, who had
been himself suffering from an attack of nervous
headache, as he told his friend Harding in a note
that morning, had ventured as far as Shrewsbury
Road, to inquire after his new ally, and

was sitting with Miss Stretton when Stasie's
important reply arrived.

' She is, indeed, one in a thousand ! " cried
Aunt Clem on reading it. " Never can I forget
her truth and constancy ! She will find me the
most faithful of friends ; read that, Mr. Parapet,
and tell me, if I have not reason to be proud
of such a niece." The tears stood in her eyes
as she handed him the note.

"It is good ; it is as it should be," said
the Syrian in a low suppressed voice, while he
carefully kept his eyes downcast to hide the
triumph which he felt glittered there. " Stasie's
heart and sound sense show her it would not be
well to cast aside such a relation as yourself.
We must now reflect how matters can be most
comfortably arranged. I am glad I persuaded
you to seek medical advice. I feel sure the disturbance,
the excitement of foreign travel, would
have proved fatal to you. And now ! if you
stand my friend, I do not fear ; but, in profoundest
confidence, I believe I have an enemy
in Mrs. Harding, I know not why. She has,
perhaps, an idea that her cousin, a military
doctor, who is much at the house, would be a

suitable liiisband for Stasie, or that Stasie's
money would be very useful to him. But, my
dear lady, lie is a scoffer, a man who believes in
nothing, a materialist ! and his calling leads him
back to India, where your niece would be lost to
all her friends ! How could we trust her to a
man of this description ! Alas, the lives of too
many Englishmen in those regions are a disgrace
to their faith and nation."

You horrify me ! Mr. Kharapet," exclaimed
Miss Stretton. "Mrs. Harding ought not to
introduce Miss Yerner to such a character ! "

Pray, do not mistake me," cried Kharapet ;
"I how nothing positive against Dr. Brooke,
save his opinions. I only mention what I have
known of others, and he has evidently no Christian
principle to restrain him. Then his connection
with India ; the probability of his taking
his wife there is a serious objection."

But you, Mr. Kharapet ! " said Miss Stretton,
shrewdly enough, "were you to marry Stasie,
would you not take her either there or to
Mardin ? "

No ! dear madam, certainly not ; my wish,
my ambition is to dwell in England in London

or its neighbourhood. Business might oblige me
to visit the East for a short time, but my home
shoukl be here. Here I have friends, patrons 
kind and powerful patrons. My earnest faith,
my attachment to all things British and enlightened,
cuts me off in a great measure from my
own compatriots. In England I hope to live
and die, and, need I add that my idea of home
is associated with yourself, either as an inmate
or a near neighbour?"

'you are very good, I am sure," returned
Miss Stretton, with a grateful and well-pleased
smile. " I am as anxious as you can be for your
success. Nor shall you have to complain of any
indifference on my part to your interest. I
earnestly hope that dear child will see which
way her true happiness lies ; but should she
take up other ideas, why, I must humour her
you know"

I only ask you to do your best for me, dear
lady ; we must be patient, patient and persevering.
When do you say you saw Stasie last ? "

"The day before yesterday, rather late in the
afternoon. She had been detained by visitors, and
looked pale and tired after Lady Pearson's party."

Kharapet passed his hand slowly over his
mouth, and stroked his long moustaches, while
he fixed his eyes on the carpet. Stasie had kept
her promise then ! And as she had been with
her aunt so soon after the excitement of his proposal,
and her rejection of it, the temptation of
confiding all to her only relative would have
just then been strongest! If she would but
guard the secret, and could be kept within the
range of his influence, all might yet be well.

He raised within himself at his own imprudence
and impatience in trying to pluck the
fruit which was not yet ready to fall into his
hands ; but he was more than ever resolved that
it should be his, sooner or later. Wealth, and
beauty, and love  at any rate the two first.

When he roused himself from his meditation
Miss Stretton was speaking in a mild lady-like
manner of the evils arising from want of mental
humility and the presumption of those who
turned from the light of revelation to the errors
of reason. " I fear our dear Stasie has not been
brought up with that amount of Christian discipline
which might have been expected in the
family of a well-known missionary."

"It is true," said Kharapet with an air of
profound conviction, but not quite knowing what
she was talking about. " You will be of infinite
use to her. Now I must bid you adieu for the
present. To-morrow I hope to feel better, and
equal to go into the city, where Mr. Harding
(without whose co-operation I can do nothing)
and myself will devise some plan for the future
which will satisfy you and Stasie."

And Kharapet, with one of his deep deferential
bows, took his leave.

Well, Stasie must have a harder heart than
I thought, if she can resist so charming, and
handsome, and Christian a man as that 1 "
soliloquised Miss Stretton, looking after Parapet,
as she prepared to mount to her elevated
chamber from the back parlour, which was her
hall of audience. " I am sure his manners
would grace a court, and his gentleness and consideration
might put many of our fine gentlemen
to the blush. I do hate roughness ! Then the
way he appreciates me is quite remarkable ; he
sees I am something out of the common, and
treats me accordingly. I do hope they will come
to some decision soon, for the discomfort of this

house, and the steepness of the stair, is perfectly-exhausting.


That evening after dinner, when the servants
had left the room, Stasie produced her letter.
*' Head that, Mr. Harding," she said, handing it
to him with a curious feeling of defeat.

Mr. Harding turned it over, glanced at the
signature,exclaimed, "Ha !" and read it through
with provoking slowness ; then he looked up,
but instead of speaking at once on the topic
which concerned her, he further provoked Stasie
by remarking : " There are very few people,
especially women, who can write a good letter ;
just see how this aunt of yours beats about the
bush ; she could have said her say in about a
dozen words. ' The Doctor forbids me to travel ;
I am very sorry, but it can't be helped,' and
here are four sides of notepaper filled with
repetition."

Oh ! don't mind being critical," cried Stasie
impatiently. " The letter pleases me, and I want
to talk about what we had better do now."

Hum, it is a very serious consideration.
What are your own ideas, Stasie ; should you

like to find some other old lady to travel
with ?"

*'Noy thank you, I should prefer remaining
with my aunt. Might we not take a house and
live together somewhere ? "

Yes, that might be arranged," returned Mr.
Harding thoughtfully.

' And after a few months Aunt Clem might
be well enough to go abroad," cried Stasie, elated
to find that her proposition was not opposed.

Just so," said Mr. Harding still reflecting.
Look here, Stasie, I have a nicish house and
garden down at Sefton Park that might suit you
for a few months. It isn't furnished, but I could
easily put in some, and I wouldn't be a greedy
landlord. How would that do for the rest of
the summer and autumn ? "

I think it would be delightful," cried Stasie
with sparkling eyes. ' ' Quite near Mrs. Harding and
and you' suggested a prudent afterthought.

Yes, I fancy it might answer very well  at
any rate, till you see how this aunt of yours goes
on. She seems a shaky kind of a spinster."

She is a dear kind soul," cried Stasie, '' and
you will please speak of her respectfully ! "

Ay ! to be sure, whatever you like. But
about the house  you had better go down and see
it before you make up your mind."

Yes ! you must look at the place first," said
Mrs. Harding, who seldom joined in any conversation
between Stasie and her husband. " I
think you would like it for the summer, at any
rate, and it would be a great pleasure to me to
have you near."

Let us go and see it by all means, and as
soon as possible," returned Stasie. " I should be
so pleased to be in a house of my own."

Ay ! and I dare say you will be mistress of
your own house," said Mr. Harding admiringly."
Well, can't you and Mrs. Harding go down and
look at it on Monday ? Make up your mind ;
I'll give the necessary orders on Tuesday, and ina
fortnight all will be ready for you."

I think we ought to ask Miss Stretton to
come with us," observed Mrs. Harding.

Do that as you like I " said her husband indifferently.


May I ask her to luncheon on Sunday  my
birthday ? or rather will you, Mrs. Harding ? I
know she does not like being out late. She is

afraid of all sorts of tidings." Mrs. Harding
hesitated, and looked at her husband.

'' Yes, yes," said he hastily ; " ask her by all
means. I shall have an opportunity of speaking
to her on several matters, and it will be a very
good plan."

Thank you ! " cried Stasie, beaming all over.
You are very good really, Mr. Harding ! "

"What! as good as Kharapet?" he asked
laughing.

Oh, yes ; quite as good, even better for
suggesting such a nice plan."

We'll see how it will answer. By the way,
you must ask Wyatt's leave, you know ; go and
call on Lady Elizabeth, and tell her all about it,
and then write to him."

Let us go tomorrow  that is, if I ought to
go with you," said Mrs. Harding.

Of course you ought. I had much rather
you did."

Yes ; there is no reason why you should not,"
was the fiat of the domestic Jove.

Then we will have a brougham tomorrow,
call on Lady Elizabeth, go on afterwards to see
Miss Stretton,and ask her to luncheon on Sunday."

"Pray, how many times have you hired a
brougham this season ? " asked Harding.

'' Not oftener than was necessary, and never
without your knowledge."

Saturday is Lady Elizabeth's day ; we shall
be sure to find her," said Stasie, disregarding this
question and answer. Stasie had not felt so
happy and satisfied since the days when she used
to enjoy Dr. Brooke's visits, and looked forward
to the delights of visiting famous places. After
all, her original plans were only postponed. A
summer in a nice, sweet country place would
quite restore Aunt Clem. She might even have
Mrs. Matthews to pay her a visit, which would
be quite delightful. In short, she built a gigantic
castle before she slept, which she filled with a
large number of guests. Even Miss Amelia Boa-den,
who had been her mortal enemy for two
whole years, was to be invited ; and Kharapet !
well, Kharapet was very foolish to have thought
about her in the way he did. She felt a little
ashamed of herself for shrinking from him with a
sort of repulsion ; but he was sensible, and would
get over his nonsense, and see it was altogether
out of the question and unbecoming. She did

not want to be ill-natured to Kharapet if lie
were content to be friendly,  and so sleep stole
over lier softly like a caress, her last thought
being a dim conjecture why she had no letter
lately from Ella Matthews.

The next day after luncheon Mrs. Harding
started with Stasie to pay their intended visits.

Lady Elizabeth was at home, and surrounded
by a number of visitors more or less remarkable.

She was very amiable, but exceedingly occupied,
and Stasie with difficulty managed a moment's
private talk, in which to tell her the arrangement
suggested by Mr. Harding.

Lady Elizabeth highly approved. "A most
excellent idea, my dear Miss Yerner  nothing
could be better ! Mr. Wyatt and myself are
going to visit Dalmatia, and perhaps Montenegro,
as soon as the session is over. There is much
that requires ventilation in those districts. So
I am afraid my scheme of taking you with us to
Eome is out of the question. It will be very
nice for you to be near that charming little Mrs.
Harding, and a great relief to Mr. Wyatt to know
you are so well looked after. Is there any one
here you would like to be introduced to ? There

is Paradoski, a most remarkable Pole. He has

invented But," interrupting herself  '' then

he only speaks German and Latin besides his
own language, and you may not be fluent in
either."

Indeed I am not' said Stasie, laughing.
Well then, there is Mrs. Mandeville, the
celebrated emancipation woman, just returned
from America."

'spray, Lady Elizabeth, allow me to remind
Miss Yerner of my existence," said Lord Cecil
Annesley, extricating himself from a group where
lie had been entangled.

Stasie was very well pleased to talk with the
agreeable, easy-going ci-devant jeune homme,
who begged to be presented to Mrs. Harding ;
and after a little conversation and some inquiries
on Lord Cecil's part as to her change of plans,
they caught Lady Elizabeth's attention to say
adieu. It was a long time before Stasie saw her
again.

Miss Stretton had just gone out for a little
walk,  so the maid who opened the door informed
Mrs. Harding when they reached her abode,  and
was a good deal better.

Mrs. Harding, therefore, left her card, and a
little note of invitation with which she had provided
herself, and drove away home, where Stasie
was occupied till dinner in composing a letter to
her guardian, which Mr. Harding touched up
a little, and then pronounced quite the right
thing.

Sunday was a dull oppressive day, the atmosphere
thick with a continuous drizzle, the pavements
coated with greasy mud, and the aspect of
things in general depressing.

Miss Stretton arrived a little before luncheon
time, wrapped in a waterproof cloak as dingy as
the day, her feathers all uncurled, the graceful
length of her best dress so brail ed up as to reveal
india rubber overshoes of surprising magnitude,
which covered her boots. Stasie, who had been
on the look-out, ran down-stairs to meet and
assist her. She conducted her aunt to her own
room, and there the unmistakable traces of
transit per omnibus on a bad day were effaced,
and Miss Stretton enabled to adjust an elegant
fabric of lace and rose-coloured ribbon which
adorned her head and softened or hid the ruder
touches of time.

VOL. II. 25

'rare you sure, love, that my cap is straight ?
I am very anxious to produce a good impression
on Mr. Harding, for I can see he is the person to
be propitiated."

"" Yes, auntie, it is all right ; you look very
nice, and we had better go down to the drawing-room.
Mr. Harding is sometimes funny and
suspicious. He might think I was putting you
up to something, or you me."

You do not say so ! Let us go by all means,"
replied Miss Stretton eagerly.

Stasie was touched by the nervous anxiety of
the poor lady. It was evident she had much at
stake, and while thus moved, she observed with
pleasure that her aunt was a very ladylike presentable
person.

The Harding family were all assembled in the
drawing-room, and, to Stasie' s confusion, their
number was augmented by Kharapet, who was
dividing some sweetmeats among the children.
He looked ill and shrunken, Stasie thought, and
her heart reproached her for the kind of unavowed
disgust with which she had thought of his voice
and look and gesture whenever she recalled the
uncomfortable moment when he had avowed his

passion for her. Why should she feel thus towards
a man whose only fault was being too fond of her?

Mrs. Harding rose to receive Miss Stretton
kindly and graciously. Mr. Harding, who was
looking out of the window and grumbling at the
weather, turned quickly, and on being introduced
by his wife, greeted his guest with his best air of
frank honhommie,

Very glad to see you. Miss Stretton ; this
troublesome girl has talked no end about you !
You have a bad day. Hope you are none the
worse of coming out ? "

While Kharapet met her with much empressement,
all of which Miss Stretton accepted as
gracefully as her nervousness would permit,
Stasie, with a degree of composure which belied
her inward condition, went straight to Kharapet
and bade him good-day.

He bowed low, and took her offered hand in
silence, held it loosely for half a second, and spoke
a few words in a constrained voice. Then he
stood back with a subdued air, which had a double
effect on Stasie  it moved her to pity and an
inclination to laugh  fatal combination for a
lover's hopes.

Miss Stretton went off into raptures over the
children. She was really fond of children theoretically,
never having much to do with them,
and, being conscious that this tendency was praiseworthy
and popular, made the most of it ; while
the little monkeys, like nearly all creatures who
are aware of being courted, were cool, cautious,
and distant with their worshipper.

Come here, you little darling," she exclaimed
to Willie; "come and sit on my lap." She
lifted him up, he neither yielding nor resisting,
but making himself heavy, after the manner of
children whose views respecting their admirers
are undecided.

He is a poor little chap," said Mr. Harding,
more contemptuously than sympathetically. He
was a sort of man who thought a delicate child a
reproach, and somehow failing in duty to his
parents. " He has given his mother no end of
trouble."

And no end of pleasure too," said Mrs. Harding,
stroking his dark curls tenderly.

Here is a sturdy fellow," continued Mr.
Harding, drawing Johnnie forward. 'this is
my boy."

And a very fine one, I am sure," cried Miss
Stretton with elaborate admiration, though she
hugged up Willie at the same time. " He is your
living image, Mr. Harding. How old is he, may
I ask ? Not quite ten ! You don't say so 1 I
should certainly have taken him for twelve or
thirteen," etc. etc.

While the rest were thus grouped round Miss
Stretton, Kharapet found an opportunity to say
almost in a whisper to Stasie 

Will you forgive my haste and imprudence ?
I see now I was to blame ; will you forget it, and
let me be once more your true, your devoted
friend \ "

Oh yes, yes ! " said Stasie in the same tone ;
I should be very glad, for you have been always
good to me."

'' And it will rest ever a secret between ourselves
only ? " This with some eagerness.

Certainly, you may trust me."

There goes the bell," cried Mr. Harding in a
loud and joyous voice. " There is nothing to be
done on such a day as this but to eat and drink."
He offered his arm to Miss Stretton as he spoke,
and Kharapet, after a moment's hesitation, presented

his to Mrs. Harding, Stasie and the children
bringing up the rear.

Luncheon on Sundays at York Gate was early
dinner, at least for all the family save the master,
who generally had a small feast all by himself
at seven o'clock.

So the table was handsomely spread, and Miss
Stretton was visibly cheered by the politeness of
her host and the sight of the good things before
her. She had been warned by her medical adviser
to avoid this or that, she said, but on the present
happy occasion she would relax the rigidity of
her regime and enjoy herself.

Mr. Harding was unusually hospitable and
pressing, yet frequent sharp words to the servants
and rough rebukes to the children showed his
wife and Stasie that all was not serene.

As soon as the meal was over and the children
had said grace, Mr. Harding exclaimed, 'snow
run away, youngsters. I suppose there is nurse
or some one at home to look after them ? "  this
to his wife.  All the servants don't go out on
a Sunday, I suppose ? It is a preposterous
notion this right of servants to go out. By
George ! we would not stand such rubbish in the

East, eh, Kharapet ?  and you call this a civilised
country."

'poor things ! they must want to go out and see
their friends as much as we do," ejaculated Stasie.

There, be off with you," continued Mr.
Harding to the children, not heeding her.

Won't you come, Stasie ? " said Ethel, pausing
beside her.

*' Yes, do come with me, Stasie," cried John,
taking hold of her arm.

'* Go this moment," cried his father.

And the children ran off.

Ah," said Mr. Harding, exulting, " the
young scamp knows a pretty girl when he sees
one already. Now then, take a little more claret-cup.
Miss Stretton, and let us talk over matters.
I daresay Stasie has told you my idea "

No," interrupted Stasie. " I have not seen
my aunt since you told me."

Ah, well then. Miss Yerner has wisely given
up her whim about travelling on the Continent
as you cannot go with her, and I propose that
you should set up housekeeping together, and I
will let you one of my houses at Sefton Park for
four or YQ months," etc. etc. etc.

And Mr. Harding went fully into the scheme,
Miss Stretton coming in, in the treble, with
ejaculations of, "I am sure nothing could be
better," '' most admirable ! " ' so far as I am
concerned, I perfectly approve," and so on, her
face lighting up as he proceeded.

Then Stasie expressed her satisfaction ; Parapet,
with an air of melancholy acquiescence, stated
that he saw no objection ; and Mrs. Harding
observed how pleased she should be to have
Stasie and her aunt for neighbours, at any rate
during the summer. All went well. Even the
question of finance was got over without great
wrangling or difficulty. Mr. Harding proposed that
all bills, etc., should be sent in to him for payment.
But Stasie, having seen something of the
working of his domestic system, stoutly resisted
this suggestion, and to her surprise found, though
he said little, that Kharapet was on her side.
So a temporary arrangement was agreed to.
Miss Stretton was to have a monthly sum
for housekeeping, and all outgoings, such as
wages, rent, etc., were to be paid by the
executors.

Having arrived at this amicable conclusion.

Mrs. Harding rose from table and, followed by
the rest of the party, went upstairs.

So soon as she reached the drawing-room she
went to her own little work-table, and took out
a small, delicately embroidered sachet, which she
slipped, as she thought, unperceived into Stasie's
hand, saying, "A little memento for to-day, Stasie."

Oh, thank you, dear Mrs. Harding. It is
so good of you to have worked it yourself. I
did not think it was for me when I saw you
doing it, and," opening it, " what a love of a lace
cravats ! You really are too kind. You know
how fond I am of lace."

What's all this ? " asked Mr. Harding, attracted
by Stasie's exclamation.

Not much," returned his wife ; " only a trifle
I worked for Stasie as it is her birthday."

Hey ! I never remember these things," said
Mr. Harding contemptuously. " All these kind
of gifts and ceremonies are bosh, but I wish you
many happy returns of the day all the same,
Stasie. You haven't a heartier well-wisher than
myself," and he shook hands with her. " Why
didn't you remind me it was your birthday, and
we should have had a bottle of champagne ? "

*'I really did not think of it myself," said
Stasie, smiling ; *' and I am sure I have your good
wishes, wliicli is quite enough without either gifts
or champagne."

I am so vexed, dearest child, I did not know
it was your natal day," exclaimed Miss Stratton
who was established in a luxurious easy-chair,
and beaming with delight at the prospect opening
before her, '' or, poor though I am, I should
have brought you some small offering of affection."


It is not at all necessary, dear auntie ! Besides,
have you not given me yourself to-day ? "

I have indeed, you dear, sweet thing," exclaimed
Miss Stretton much affected.

Mr. Harding, his hands in his trousers' pockets,
looked on with an expression of wondering, careless
curiosity ; and all seemed as serene and
sunny as if the summer weather, which ought to
have been shining out of doors, had concentrated
itself within, when Kharapet, who had kept a
little aloof near one of the windows, came forward
to introduce (most unconsciously) a charge of
dynamite into the amicable group. "I was
aware of the occasion," he said gently, " and considering

myself, through my hate brother, your
nearest connection, and by my own choice your
sincerest friend, I ventured to bring a little token
in remembrance of the day." He drew from an
inner pocket a small case, and opening it displayed
a very handsome ring of large opals and
small diamonds.

Stasie flushed up to the roots of her hair.
She was infinitely annoyed ; she saw at a glance
that it was impossible to refuse, nor did she
recognise anything but renunciation of his
former pretensions in the little speech with
which he had presented his gift. Yet she did
not want to be encumbered with any obligation ;
there was something instinctively antagonistic
to him in her impulses,  on the crest of every
wave of thought that stirred her brain. Ever
since she began to perceive the true nature of
his feeling towards her, she had been constantly
compelled to run through a little chain of reasoning
before she could bring herself into an amiable
state of mind towards him. Still it was impossible
to refuse, and if she accepted, she must
accept graciously. She therefore constrained
herself to take the rincr with a smile and a few

kindly words ; but she quickly put it on her
finger herself to avoid the giver's touch. Still
flushed and uncomfortable, she tried to hide her
embarrassment by showing it to Mrs. Harding
and Aunt Clem. The latter broke into
admiring exclamations, and Mr. Harding, thinking
to himself, " He is bidding high for her, and
biding his time ! " took out his double eye-glass,
which he used on very critical occasions, to scan
the stones. "They are not bad," he said
gravely. " Give me the ring, Stasie. Ah 1 "
taking it, "they are set transparent."

They are the best I could get," said Parapet
with a quick flash of his dark eyes towards
his colleague.

"No doubt, no doubt," returned Harding,
in a disparaging tone, " but they are not to be
compared to the stones in that biggest ring of
those that came from Mardin."

'' I don't remember," said Kharapet sullenly.

"Let us look at them both together," cried
Mr. Harding, still holding the object of his
criticism. " Go, like a good girl, Stasie, bring
us the other ring ! "

Stasie hesitated; the ring was among the

things she had pledged for Bob's benefit. She was
quite ready to disclose that transaction now that
Bob was out of reach ; but on this day, when
every one was happy and kind she would rather
not vex either Mr. Harding or Kharapet ; however,
she felt she had no choice, and even while
these thoughts flashed through her brain, she
nerved herself to meet the inevitable. " I am
afraid I cannot show it to you. I haven't it at
present," she said.

A blank expression of utter surprise changed
Mr. Harding's self-satisfied aspect.

Kharapet raised his head with a look of keen,
almost fierce, expectation.

Why, what the devil have you done with
it ?" exclaimed the former.

"It is my own ! I suppose I may do what I
like with it," she replied, roused by his tone.

No ! you may not 1 You are under age ;
you are under tutelage, an infant in the eye of
the law."

The box, Stasie ! " said Kharapet in a deep
tragic whisper of concentrated feeling. "The
box ; bring down the box."

Stasie turned, paused, looked at him, then with

a slight scornful laugh, exclaimed, " One might
think a life was at stake," and left the room.

"I don't like this at all," said Mr. Harding
angrily. '' That girl has been up to some blank,
blank mischief. Do you know anything about
it ? " to his wife with fierce emphasis.

'nothing whatever," she returned, growing
a little pale. " But I am sure you will find
nothing wrong ; Stasie is incapable "

*' Don't tell me," interrupted Harding, " you'd
swear black was white for each other ; there will
be no getting at the truth between you both,
with your ridiculous friendship ! and you,
ma'am," pouncing on Miss Stretton with a
suddenness that made her jump, " what do
you know about this business ? "

"Nothing, I give you my solemn word''
cried poor Aunt Clem, appalled. 'rand, like
Mrs. Harding, I have every confidence in my
dear niece."

I have no confidence in any girl living,"
growled Harding.

Kharapet said nothing, but stared fixedly at
the door by which Stasie had gone out.

'' I'll get to the bottom of this, by George ! "

cried Mr. Harding. '' I foresee that girl will
give us a heap of trouble. She is-what,

did not appear, for at that moment
Jane, the accomplished parlour-maid, threw the
door wide open, and announced in her clearest
accents, "Dr. Brooke."

Whereupon enter the visitor, cool, collected,
well dressed, and perfectly unconscious of the
whirlpool of anger, suspicion, and fear into which
he was launching himself.

Mrs. Harding stood up to receive him with
the sense of relief and protection his presence
always brought.

Mr. Harding was too preoccupied to give him
more than a gruff greeting. Kharapet's smooth
civility was not to be ruffled by any ordinary
test, and Miss Stretton, by an effort, assumed
her usual air of well-bred attention.

Brooke himself was immediately aware that
there was a storm brewing, and felt curious, but
determined to stay on if possible, in case he
mio-ht be of use to his cousin.

Miserable day," said he, drawing a chair near
Mrs. Harding ; " I felt pretty sure to find you at
home. How are the children ? "

He looked at her as he spoke, and saw that
she was anxious, or in some way disturbed.

They are all well," she returned.

Her further speech was cut short by the entrance
of Stasie, her jewel-box under her arm, and
a look of resolution in her face. The sight of the
new arrival, however, checked and chilled her.
She did not want Brooke as a witness of the
quarrel she felt imminent, yet she knew not how
to escape it.

While she paused he came forward to greet
her, with what in her own mind she termed his
new manner.

*' That's right," cried Mr. Harding, reassured
for a moment by her speedy return. " You have
got them all there ? "

'' I have the hox, and you can look at it," said
Stasie, standing at bay.

What is the matter ? " asked Brooke in an
undertone.

I scarcely know," returned Mrs. Harding ; " I
believe Stasie has given away one of her rings,
and they are angry."

Ought I to go ? "

No, no," she whispered ; " don't go."

Meantime Mr. Harding, with some little difficulty,
had put the clumsy key into the lock and
opened the case ; for an instant he was silent, and
then uttered an exclamation of dismay. " Look
here, Kharapet. Here's a pretty business."

Kharapet came swiftly to his side and saw the
top tray empty of all but the white wool in which
the jewels used to nestle ; over this lay scattered
several small oblong cards of different colours,
nth names and addresses and also numbers, etc.
Kharapet, gazing with dilated horrified eyes,
stood silent.

Where," exclaimed Mr. Harding, who seemed
for the moment paralysed, " where are they ? "
A pause. Stasie, gathering up her forces, did not
reply, but looked straight and rather defiantly at
both executors. " Where," repeated Mr. Harding,
collecting himself, " what have you done with the
things that were here ? and, good God ! " lifting
the first tray, " there isn't a thing left but two
brooches, a clasp, and the gold set. What the
deuce have you done with them ? and these pawn
tickets  why, what the devil, there is something
d  d disgraceful and mysterious under this ! I'll
get to the bottom of it ! "

VOL. IL 26

Kharapet said nothing. He sought with eager
trembling fingers through the cotton wool ; his
earnest alarmed look would have seemed almost
ludicrous to Stasie had she not been so horribly
mortified by the presence of Dr. Brooke. It could
not be avoided, so she rushed to the encounter
without giving herself time to think.

There weill be no difficulty in getting to the
bottom of it," she said coolly, though she felt her
mouth dry ; '' I am going to tell you the whole
story," She sat down as she spoke on the sofa,
near which she stood, and went on, her eyes fixed
unflinchingly on Mr. Harding. *' You know how
you and Hormuz refused me, when I begged for
some money to give Mrs. Mathews. No, not to
give her  to repay her ; for she has never been
half paid for all her care of me  all she provided
for me ! "

By George, I see it all," cried Mr. Harding,
who was getting very angry.

"No, you do not," returned Stasie. "Just
listen. A week after  I think it was a week 
Bob Mathews came to see me, don't you remember
1 " turning suddenly to Brooke  she felt an
odd desire to drag him in, to transform him from

a judicial spectator to an actor in the scene  " you
were here when he came ? "

Yes, I remember," he replied, drawing his
chair a little forward.

He told me he was in great trouble. I did
not mind at first, for he generally {. in trouble.
However, he went on and described how he had
an appointment as surgeon on board a ship going
ever so far off, but he had debts, and his creditors
would stop him and put him in prison. Now I
knew this would be ruin to him, and just throw
him on his mother's hands altogether. I saw he
was in earnest, and I was at my wits' end to held
him. But there was no use in asking you, and
as he wanted forty pounds I could not take it out
of my allowance, so I thought of the jewels, but
I told Bob I did not like to sell them. Then he
said I need not, for there were people that would
lend money for them, and give them back when
you paid it."

Kharapet groaned audibly, and cried in a piteous
voice, 'when you pay it, and twenty percent
besides."

Stasie gave him a quick glance and went
on. "I was very glad to hear it, and I took

nearly all, as you see, and went to meet Bob. We
went into several places in the Strand, and
got the money he wanted and a little more.
Coming out of the last, we ran against Dr.
Brooke  you remember, don't you ?  and that's
all."

All ! " cried Mr. Harding, " and quite enough.
Don't you see what a blank blank piece of folly
and imprudence you have been guilty of ! a downright
disreputable action, by George ! Stealing
away with your jewels, like a  like a  common
thief, to give them to a sneaking scamp of a rascally
medical student, who has, I suppose, bamboozled
you into promising to marry him! I
never heard of a more shamefully deceitful trick.

I'll lock you up, by . I'll report you to your

guardian. I'll "

' How dare you talk such nonsense \ " interrupted
Stasie, starting up, and roused to the
wildest indignation. " Promise to marry Bob
Mathews ! a poor fellow who has not the strength
to keep himself straight ; who lets himself down
to beg help of me ! who cannot even dress nicely.
You little know me, Mr. Harding. I helped him
out of pity, because he was his mother's son, and

I believe he will do well yet ; but to think that
I could be in love with a boy that is like a tiresome
brother ! " She broke off and laughed scornfully.


Kharapet had paused in his examination of
the box, and stood slightly bent with the pawn-tickets
in one hand, his face lividly, greenly
pale, gazing intently at Stasie, but as she spoke,
his countenance relaxed.

That's right ; brazen it out  brazen it out,"
exclaimed Mr. Harding, not a little startled and
checked by Stasie' s spirit ; for like most tyrants
he had a strain of cowardice under his bluster.
But you'll not throw dust in my eyes. Now I
must insist on your giving me this young man's
address. You may as well, for a detective will
soon discover him."

'' I will give you his address with pleasure,"
returned Stasie. " Robert Mathews, surgeon onboard
the Queen of the Isles, now on her voyage
to Shanghai."

By George ! He is off there ? " Mr.
Harding stopped, as if under the influence of
feelings too deep for words, and Kharapet's voice
filled up the pause, adding up in a melancholy

undertone, " fifteen, seven ten  five  twenty, five
ten  fifty-three "

'* It is as bold and  and disreputable a  a 
dodge as ever I beard of," said Mr. Harding, furious
at being checked and defied, while he walked up
and down  a certain sign of great disturbance 
and scarcely able to express himself. " I'll  111
have that young rascal arrested as soon as the
ship is in port, I'll be d  d if I do not. I'll
wring the money out of him or his cursed psalm-singing
old humbug of a mother."

You shall not speak of Mrs. Mathews like
that," cried Stasie, " or I shall go straight away
to my guardian and tell him how you speak tome.
He at least is a gentleman, and would not
use such words."

*' Don't you see yourself how disgracefully
you have acted," resumed Mr. Harding more
mildly, and beginning to perceive that he must
not go too far. "' I appeal to any one if Parapet
and myself have not just cause to be angry,
trusting you with property, as we legally had no
right to do, and then to see it flung in the gutter,
as one might say."

Why, what have I done ? " asked Stasie.

Taken my own things and lent them to a friend.
I haven't robbed you ! Do you think I have been
so wrongs and shameful ? " turnings to Mrs. Harding
; then a thought suddenly struck her, for she
went on quickly, "Yes, yes, you are strict ; you
will be vexed with me, that is the reason I did
not say anything about it to you. But you
Aunt Clem, do you think me so very base and
bad?"

It was a crucial moment for Miss Stretton.
She was really frightened by Mr. Harding, but
her s}Tiipathy and affection went with Stasie.
And Aunt Clem had a heart, though a good deal
frayed out, and she let herself be moved by its
promptings.

"Indeed I do not, Stasie," she said. "You
were imprudent, my dear; you should have
taken counsel with your kind friend Mr. Harding,
and he would have perhaps yielded to your
persuasion, or with me, and I should never have
allowed you to go alone to the Strand with this
objectionable young man ; but I love you all the
more for your generous thoughtlessness. Pray
allow me to be a mediator," she continued,
with her best air to Mr. Gardiner. " I am sure

our dear Stasie has no better friends than yourself
and Mr. Kharapet; only to men of your
intellect and business habits these little feminine
weaknesses must seem silly indeed"  an ingratiating
simper.

Silliness is no word for it," said Mr. Harding,
still walking up and down, and frowning
portentously.

Stasie gave her aunt a nod and smile, and
feeling a terrible tendency to burst out crying,
put on a braver front, " Yes," she cried, " I know
they are very good to me, and I shall forgive
Mr. Harding his rude words ; but if any of you
think I am sorry for what I have done you are
quite mistaken."

There is a speech for you," cried Mr. Harding,
stopping short. " How are we to trust you
with anything when you make such a  a  statement.
Gad ! you will never be safe out of our
sight. I shall retract my consent to your residing
with Miss Stretton, there ! she would let
you blow your brains out if you fancied it.
Ill "

Do not be hasty," interrupted Kharapet.
Do not be hasty, my good friend. I am sure

Stasie will on reflection regret the pain she has
given us ; " he sighed, as if from the bottom of
his heart ; " but do not be too severe. We must
try "

By George ! you are, going in for it," interrupted
Mr. Harding with a sneer. "But I
will appeal to any one," he looked fiercely at his
wife, who kept profound silence, though her
colour varied, " if there ever was a more audacious,
disgraceful trick played. I ask you. Dr. Brooke."

Pray don't," cried Stasie haughtily. " It is
too bad to have offended a stranger with such a
scene, and as he is not concerned in it in anyway,
why trouble him for an opinion \ "

Oh, I have had enough of fine speeches and
balderdash," said Mr. Harding with brutal sulkiness.
'' I'll go off to Williams : it's such a blank
nasty day I daresay he will be at home, and see
what's best to be done ; " so saying he took a
bunch of keys from his trouser's pocket with one
hand, and seized on the jewel-box with the
other.

Stasie did not make the slightest resistance.
She gave one steady stare of intense disdain,
then, in tones that faltered in the last words said,

*' Very well, take it, and this day three years I
will claim it, and the last fraction that belongs
to me." She turned away and walked towards
the door.

Dr. Brooke started up and opened it for her,
distancing Kharapet, who made for the same
goal, saying in a half whisper, " I will go with
him, Stasie, I will restrain him."

Brooke held out his hand, " Good-bye, Miss
Werner," he said. " I hope to have the pleasure
of seeing you on my return." But Stasie did
not reply. She gave him her hand for an instant,
not daring to trust her voice, and ran away to
her room.

A moment's dead silence ensued, then Mr.
Harding exclaimed, " The care of such a girl is
enough to turn a saint into a devil. By George !
I wish we had some Eastern customs in force
here. I will bid you good-morning, doctor;"
to his wife roughly, ' See you don't encourage
any of this pernicious rubbish. Let that obstinate
minx mope if she likes."

Here Miss Stretton rose and very quietly left
the room. Mr. Harding looked after her grimly,
and then with a nod to Brooke went out.

One moment," exclaimed Kharapet. " 1
will come with yoii." He made hasty but ceremonious
adieux to Mrs. Harding and Brooke,
and walked swiftly away, closing the door after
him.

When Brooke, who had observed this scene with
deep interest and vivid curiosity, was left alone
with his cousin, he was surprised to see her cover
her eyes with one hand, while her lips quivered
as though she were struggling with strong
emotion. Before he could frame a question as
to her mood, however, she looked up, and he
saw that the tears hung on her lashes.

I am such a shameful coward," she said, in
an unsteady voice. " You cannot think how
degraded I feel in my own eyes."

"Why ? " asked Brooke, drawing his chair
nearer to her. "I am not aware that you have
done anything heinous."

No ; that is just it. I have been false and
cowardly by my silence. Did you not perceive
how Stasie appealed to me, and then with
generous tact released me from the necessity of

a reply ? She knows, Jim  none so well  the
truth of my weakness, of my circumstances, and
she spared me."

*' My dear Livy, you surely exaggerate.
There is nothing false about you. You mean
you did not like to contradict Harding. You
were rio-ht on the whole  it is ill talking: with
an angry man."

' Perhaps ; and I should have done Stasie
little or no good. Nevertheless, I vas false to
her !  it is always better to speak the truth ;
and she is so brave herself she will despise me ;
yet she will not change, even though she cannot
respect me."

Don't take matters so seriously," said
Brooke. ' Miss Yerner must not measure everyone
by herself She has an unusual amount of
pluck and "

She has no one to fear," put in Mrs. Harding.



I hojDC you are free from so unpleasant an
incubus ? "

'' I am never free from fear," exclaimed Mrs.
Harding, who was evidently excited and off her
guard. " You are too observant, too keen, not

to have seen it, but you cannot know all the
degradation of such a state. You heard how
roughly, how brutally Mr. Harding spoke to
.Stasie. You see how innocent of all evil, how
natural and generous her conduct has been
throughout. It was my duty to have restrained
him, to have defended her, and yet I dared not.
When she turned to me I could not, dared not,
speak, and she understood it. Did you see how
quickly she released me from the ' question '
which was indeed the rack to me. Why, even
poor Miss Stretton, whom I somehow look upon
as weaker and sillier than myself, she stood by
Stasie better than 1 did ; " and Mrs. Harding's
tremulous hands played nervously with the.
fringe of the arm-chair in which she sat.

Brooke looked at her with infinite grave sympathy.


Harding was rough  indeed I might use a
stronger word. Perhaps, Livy, if you had had
courage enough to hold your own, to face him,
it would be better for him as well as for yourself."

Of course it would," she returned, resting
her cheek on her hand. '' But how was I to
know that ? When I married I never dreamed

of a possible struggle with my husband. I only
thought of making him happy, of pleasing  or
if we differed, to speak gently and reasonably to
win him, to persuade ; and so I lost my chance.
Had I been a woman of stronger, coarser fibre, it
would have been better for me, better far for
him. Now he has brought me down. I am
under his feet. I would do any meanness
for peace, I dread him so. Yet it is not so
miserable as it was  there is nothing more to
know, nothing more to discover. I lost all force
and all hope in losing self-respect ; and were I
burning with indignation, quivering under the
cruel cutting speeches he makes, I yet could
not, dare not, show it, he is so strong and so unscrupulous
; " she shuddered.

Good heavens ! " cried Brooke. " I guessed
a good deal, but nothing like this. What is to
be done ? Can you find no pretext for separating
from him ?"

Mrs. Harding laughed a low mocking laugh.
'' Mr. Harding is an irreproachable husband in
the eye of the law. He gives me a good house
to live in, clothes to wear, plenty to eat. He is
on the whole an affectionate father, except when

very angry ; lie occasionally tells me I am a fool,
and a weak treacherous idiot, and a worthless
weight, who does not contribute a sixpence to
the housekeeping  all this, with many expressions
I could hardly repeat ; hut, he does not
beat me, he does not deprive me of the necessaries
of life, he does not put me out of doors, and I
am powerless : no one can give me any redress."

Ah, Livy," cried Brooke, carried away by
his deep compassion, and feeling that she was
too absorbed in her own sorrows to be conscious
of the smallest revival of old tenderness, '' I
wish it had been my good fortune to have married
you ! I am no pattern man, but I should never
have grieved you, and you do not know how
fond I was of you. Is there nothing I can do to
help you ? Might I not, if I chance to hear him
speak brutally to you, warn him that I consider
myself as an elder brother, and bound to protect
you?"

You would do me infinite harm," returned
Mrs. Harding quietly. " The interference of any
man not really a brother would be liable to all
kinds of misinterpretation. You have no rights,
and you would produce no effect. You can help

me most by keeping on good terms with Mr.
Harding. You are in a certain degree a successful
man, and I see lie likes to stand well with
you. He has a great regard for appearances out
of doors, though he does not heed them at home.
Do not let him see that you think him brutal,
and he will restrain himself in your presence at
least ; that is all you can do for me."

Mrs. Harding had recovered herself as she
spoke, but there was profound hopelessness in
her voice and eyes.

Brooke was greatly moved ; he started up and
walked to and fro once, then, returning to his
seat, he exclaimed 

You say you have no courage, Livy ! It
must be no common fortitude that enables you
to face such a future. Good God ! it is a living
death ! How can you support it V

I have still a hope  still something to live
for, to endure for. I have my children. There
is the real bond ! I cannot and would not break
away from my husband, for even if I could prove
any legal justification, I could not take them
all with me, and I should destroy the home. I
could stand martyrdom a hundredfold more
VOL. II. 27

detestable rather than do the smallest act that
would injure the children. No ! my sole care is
to keep the home as decent, as happy as I
can for them, and to do that needs all my
strength, my self-control, my courage, if I had
any ; but I think as the children's needs increase
it will revive ! God will give it me ! "

She stopped an instant, and Brooke muttered
something which was not a blessing. " My little
Willie," resumed Mrs. Harding with unspeakable
tenderness in her voice and eyes, ' is a delicate,
timid, child ; he is no favourite with his father,
and he fears him terribly. The poor little
fellow's whole love and trust is in me, and I tell
you, Jim, that I will not die, or yield to any
misery, until I see that child old enough and
strong enough to take care of himself."

I can understand that," said Brooke.

Ethel is a favourite, and Johnnie especially ;
that boy's likeness to his father distresses me.
There is a vulgarity of nature about him, too,
that vexes me ; but he is not without feeling,
and I will develop it. There, Jim, I have
opened my heart to you, and it is an infinite
relief. You are safe ! there is no one else I

could speak to. I, too, was very fond of you.
I can say it now, when all is past and gone ! "

I would not say so too often if I were you,"
returned Brooke kindly. '' You are a very charming
little woman, Livy, and I might like to hear
it too much."

She looked up to him with a sweet amused
smile. " No, I have no fears of that sort, Jim I
Mr. Harding put you quite out of my head. Do
you know, I was really fond of him when I first
married, he seemed so frank and free and fond
of me. It was the finding him out that made
the agony of our first years  that crushed me in
the dust. I really suffer less now, but I do not
love him ! " She paused ; a peculiar smile curled
her lip, and glittered in her eyes.

Brooke watched her keenly. '' No, I do not
love him," she repeated thoughtfully. " Nor do
I hate him now. I would not do him the
smallest harm ; hut, if he were to die ! I do not
think I could contain my joy ! think of it, Jim !
my children, all my own ! to train as I believe
to be best, to make their home lovely and
refined, to be free ! ! "

'' To be happy, with some one who loved you

truly ? " asked Brooke, curious to see what was
the bent of her mind.

I should want no love but the children's.
No man should ever come between us. I could
not support the idea of marriage ; it has been tome
the most utter degradation. I could have
loved you well, Jim. I remember the time when
your coming made my heart beat ! Now, you
are a dear pleasant friend, but as nothing to me
compared to my children. See, talking of my
possible love for you does not quicken my pulse
by one throb." She stretched out her hand to
him.

He took and held it closely in both his.
"Yes," he said, "it is steady enough! Well,
my sweet cousin, I lost what might have been
the crown of my life when circumstances forbade
our being united, but I will be your true friend.
You will let me know whenever I can help you.
I trust in God your children will repay you, but
try and pluck up heart to put Harding down for
their sakes. I am certain you could ! It wrings
my heart, Livy, to feel I can do so little for you,
and you know there isn't much I would shrink
from for your sake'' He kissed the hand he

held as he spoke with warm, yet brotherly-affection.


But while he was thus absorbed in his cousin's
griefs and his own feelings, the door of the back
drawing-room opened noiselessly, after the fashion
of well-conducted doors, and Miss Stretton came
in a few paces,  far enough to hear his last words,
to see him kiss the hand he held fervently.
It was but a moment. Aunt Clem immediately
retreated unperceived. She was only too happy
to escape. She was by no means an intentional
maker of mischief or a deliberate thinker of evil
thoughts, and just then her sympathies were
strongly on Mrs. Harding's side, who had always
been kindly and courteous, and was distinctly in
favour of establishing her with Stasie. Yet she
was a little startled, and made a solemn resolution
to hold her tongue. Then she reopened the
door with a discreet amount of noise.

Oh ! I beg your pardon, Mrs. Harding. I
just came to see if you were alone. I want that
dear child to come downstairs, and she does not

like to meet  a  Mr. Harding  or a " she

stopped.

Well, I shall say good-morning," said Dr.

Brooke, " I have paid you an unconscionable
visit."

I fancy Stasie was horribly vexed at your
being present," said Mrs. Harding, rising to bid
him good-bye.

She need not have been ! I think she
turned the executor's flank cleverly ; but it
certainly was not pleasant to be spoken to so
roughly before witnesses. I suppose, Mrs.
Harding, you will be at Sefton Park when I
return ? "

Yes ; you will come and see us, will you
not ? "

Without fail ! Good-bye. Good-morning,
Miss Stretton." And he was gone.

Sefton Park, the scene of Mr. Harding's
speculation in Sand, was some twenty miles from
town on one of the many lines diverging from
the Waterloo Terminus.

It was a well-situated, well-wooded tract,
rising up from the little local railway station
to a ridge, at the top of which stood Sefton
House, as the old original farm-dwelling purchased
by Mr. Harding was called. From this

the ground sloped away suddenly, giving a fine
view over a richly-cultivated and wooded country.
A little below the old-fashioned house of
mingled timber and brick which the Harding;
family occupied in summer, was a triangular
space shaded by a couple of grand elms ; this
was partly occupied by the iron edifice which so
offended the taste of the Eev. St. John Robinson,
and nearly opposite this, at the other side of the
road from Sefton House, was a neat villa in the
suburban Tudor style.

A bow window at one side looked out on a large
field and a fine group of beech-trees, behind which
the sunset spread a gloriously-tinted background
on fine evenings. At the opposite end of the
house a sort of tower, which contained the staircase,
diversified the outline; a tolerably large
dining-room to the back commanded a vegetable
garden ; the kitchen lurked behind the tower,
and in front stretched a pretty pleasure-ground
with flower-beds, further adorned with a few
chestnut-trees, limes, and elms, the remains of
an old plantation which had been cleared to
make way for the " house and grounds of Limeville,"
as the stately language of Mr. Harding's

advertisements described the tenement destined
for Stasie's occupation.

Lower down and nearer the railway station
were a variety of residences finished, in progress,
and just begun  some small and picturesque in
the " cottage orne " style, some huge red brick
staring edifices, like London houses escaped
from square or street, towering over their neighbours
in hideous disproportion  bare and brazen,
like big bullies. Moreover, in that portion of
the park where one of the more ambitious shareholders
had erected a couple of these ' mansions,"
there had been no woods, from which to cull
some of the leafy nobles to confer grace and
beauty on the intrusive its, who paraded their
unblushing ugliness among the fair fields.

One of these untempting abodes, which did
not let readily, was assigned to the Eev. St.
John Robinson. The little man lived in a corner
of it, waited upon and dominated by an elderly
female of stern aspect, who had been selected for
him by his aunt, who was the wife of Mr.
Williams, solicitor to the estate. He had, in the
enthusiasm of his first arrival, planted some
roots of ivy along his ruddy front wall, but the

owner objected to that parasite, as calculated to
loosen the brick-work, and create damp. The
i , depressed, perhaps, by this sentence, showed
no vitality, and the Eev. St. John gave up the
struggle. He had, however, an inscription
painted on his gate post in red and dark blue
old English characters, " St. Monica's Parsonage,"
which was a sort of promise that in time a
real church and parsonage should beautify and
elevate the neighbourhood.

With the usual variety of British climate, the
damp oppressive Sunday had been succeeded by
a bright, sunny, warm morning ; and Stasie, recovered
from the agitation and anger of the day
before, prepared to accompany Mrs. Harding to
Sefton Park.

Mr. Harding had remained to dine with his
confidential man of business, and did not return
till after Stasie had gone to bed. His mood was
less furiously angry than his wife expected, and
he did not use absolutely bad language respecting
her carelessness, indifference, and stupidity
as regarded Stasie.

At breakfast next morning, he tried to turn
the subject into a kind of joke, as if Stasie had

been the only excited and abusive individual, but
she would not let it pass. When he asked with
meaning how she had slept, and hoped she had not
had bad dreams after flying at her best friends
like a tiger cat, she replied that she was equally
anxious to know how he felt after exciting himself
to so unpleasant a pitch as to draw forth the
attack she had made.

Mr. Harding turned off this thrust by a laugh,
and then with his frankest, kindest air, exclaimed,
*' Come now, Stasie, don't let us quarrel ! You
know you were enough to vex a saint. You forget,
my dear girl, that Kharapet and myself have
to account for every farthing and every bit of
property that belongs to you, and apart from the
interest we both feel in your affairs, it is a very
serious thing to find you done out of fifty or sixty
pounds ! However, Kharapet has volunteered to
release the trinkets, and says he will be quite
content to receive the actual cash out of pocket
without charging interest, which I must say is
handsome!"

"Is it?" said Stasie indifferently. "I am
very much obliged to him."

"And," continued Mr. Harding, "if you will

give me a solemn promise not to part with them
for any purpose I will restore you the box and all
that remains in it."

I shall give no promise, and I do not want
the box or its contents," said Stasie grandly, " at
least until I can claim it by right. I care very
little for jewels, and I detest obligations."

Hoity toity !" cried Mr. Harding, a little surprised.
" Well, you'll think better of it ; anyhow
let bygones be bygones, and be off, all of you, to
see the house. I find I have to go to Manchester
and Liverpool in about ten days, and I'd like to
fix about the furnishing and all that before I go.
You'll be better and safer out of London away
from the pawn shops ; and, by George ! I believe
that aunt of yours is a capital old woman. She
and Kharapet seem to have hit it ofi" first-rate !"

With these overtures Stasie thought it wiser to
close, which she did the more readily, feeling that
she had by no means had the worst of it.

A messenger was accordingly despatched to
Aunt Clem, who had departed in great uncertainty
the previous afternoon, begging her to
meet Mrs. Harding and Stasie at the Waterloo
Station; and the whole party (for the three

children and head nurse were permitted to join)
started in high good-humour on their visit of
inspection.

It was a very successful day. Stasie was
agreeably surprised by the beauty of the view,
and the pleasant situation of the villa offered to
her, as it was quite out of sight and hearing of
the houses lower down. It amused her to ramble
all over the place guided by the children, and
plan all sorts of country recreations ; she thought
that a summer and autumn might pass very
pleasantly at Limeville, and went through the
rooms with Aunt Clem, who was radiant, appropriating
and distributing them, forming great
schemes respecting the garden, and splendid projects
as regarded future hospitalities.

Finally the gardener's wife, who had charge
of Sefton House, gave them a delightful countrified
lunch. Ham and eggs, curds and cream, raspberries
and currants  strawberries were nearly
over ; and Mrs. Harding made all arrangements
for coming down the following week.

It was hard to drag the children away; to
them Sefton Park was paradise. But at length,
after being lost in the copse at the far end of the

park, chased out of the cow-house, and routed
from the poultry-yard, Mrs. Harding was able to
muster her forces at the little station, where the
bowing, obsequious station-master delayed the
seven-o'clock train one or two minutes to permit
the important visitors time to take their places.

** I hope you are not very tired. Aunt Clem ?"
thus spoke Stasie as they reached Waterloo.

My dear child, I am too happy to be tired !
The idea of a few tranquil months in that sweet
sjDot with you to cheer me, gives new life and
strength to this weary frame."

Yes, I think it will be very nice ; but you
must have a cab, auntie. Yes, I insist upon it ;
there, let me help you in."

After some correspondence and considerable
wrangling, all preliminary arrangements for setting
up Stasie's menage were at last made  Mr.
Harding undertaking to pay a fair rent to himself ;
how much, Stasie never asked.

Mr. and Lady Elizabeth AVyatt were duly
consulted, and expressed complete satisfaction.
They were in fact so anxious to clear up all business
prior to their tour of examination in Montenegro,
that they were ready to accept almost any
proposition.

All through these disputes and pourparlers
Kharapet had been invariably on Stasie and Miss
Stretton's side ; he had been also scrupulously
undemonstrative, very quiet, and slightly pensive.
Indeed, his sole occupation seemed to be to fetch
and carry for Miss Stretton and her niece.

Stasie felt quite angry with herself for wishing

SO heartily that he woukl go away somewhere
even for a few months, though she felt quite sure
that he had given up his ridiculous fancies about
herself.

In the midst of their preparations came a pressing
invitation from Ella Mathews. She did not
feel, she wrote, as if she could be married without
Stasie. Mother and every one wished for Stasie.
It was not a long journey, and they would not
keep her more than a week.

Stasie at once declared her intention of accepting,
and to her surprise met with no opposition.

It was a very happy visit. The wedding was
as simple and homely as it could well be, yet it
was full of the promise of true and deep happiness.


The bride and bridegroom had known and
loved each other long and well, they were so ready
to go hand in hand through rough and smooth,
so kind and considerate for those they were leaving,
so grateful for the sudden stroke of good
fortune which permitted their union considerably
before they had dared to hope for it, that none
could fear for their future.

Stasie was delighted to be with Mrs. Mathews,

and help her to organise her house, which required
much " seeing to," as that good woman expressed
it, for she expected to begin the September term
with four boarders  an exhilarating prospect  as
she calculated on large benefits to accrue therefrom.


The return to the familiar ways, the homely
occupations, the family interests she had been
used to in her childish days, had a soothing,
healthy influence on Stasie after the excitement
and contradiction of her life at Mrs. Harding's,
yet she did not look forward with the less satisfaction
to a home with Miss Stretton. C

was too far away from London and its advantages
to make it a desirable abode, and though quite
content for the present to stay in England, she
had not in the least given up the idea of foreign
travel.

Mrs. Mathews parted from her former protegee
with unfeigned regret. She had been so helpful
and cheery  so sympathetic and generally " improved,"
Mrs. Mathews thought.

School has done you a world of good, my
dear," she said ; 'you don't seem to go into tantrums
now ! You were such a peppery little

creature when you came first. How you and Bob
used to fight, poor fellow ! every one was down
on him, but I always knew he would come right ;
and now he has got a good appointment. And
do you know, that just before we came away he
insisted on giving me the ten pounds I paid to
get my ring out ! You remember that unfortunate
business ? Adhere he got the ten pounds I
don't know ; perhaps some of his pay was advanced
to him  anyhow, it was the sweetest bit
of money ever I had."

I am sure it was," said Stasie heartily ; " and
I believe too that Bob will astonish us all yet.
I am sure he is clever, if he will only be
steady."

This was just as she was leaving. Many
hearty hugs and promises on the part of Mrs.
Mathews to pay her dear Stasie a visit whenever
she could be spared from home ensued, and assurances
from Janet, now the eldest girl at home,
that at any rate she would come and see Stasie
in her own house, which seemed rather a good
joke. So Stasie bade them very heartily farewell
and sped Londoners one fine afternoon at the
end of July, feeling for the first time since she
VOL. II. 28

had left the shelter of Mrs. Mathews' roof that
she was going home.

o o

With Aunt Clem she would be pretty well her
own mistress, and yet could make her chaperon
happy. She could practise to her heart's content
without worrying any one, and if she was out of
the way of good lessons, it would not be for long.
Besides, the present was holiday time all over the
world. Then she would have a subscription at
Muche's, and read quantities of interesting books,
not all novels.

Her quarrel and reconciliation with Mr. Harding,
her success in establishing herself with Aunt
Clem, had put Dr. Brooke out of her head for the
present ; yet that Sunday, when she had left the
drawing-room in a towering rage, there was something
in his tone and gesture that conveyed the
impression that he was on her side, but she did
not think much of him. If they had not met
again, he would have left little trace upon her

mind or memory ; if Oh, most fateful

monosyllable !

Meantime Miss Stretton had not for many
years, if ever, enjoyed herself so much as at this

period. Stasie left all details to her ; on her
devolved the important business of seeing to the
furniture, remonstrating against inferior articles,
and ]protesting against lame sofas and unsteady-tables,
which she did with all the more firmness
because Mr. Harding, to the relief of his family,
was absent during this interlude, and left orders
with the struggling upholsterer, who did work
cheap for the ruling spirit of Sefton Park, to
move the household ooods from a tenement which
had just been let on lease, to the villa occupied
by Stasie, and to make good deficiencies.

Then the task of engaging servants was new
and delightful so far. Miss Stretton was too
inexperienced in household management to anticipate
any difficulty in managing them. Through
all these labours Mrs. Harding gave valuable
assistance ; and, having now settled herself at
Sefton Park, was on the spot. With her help
Miss Stretton secured a nice :
housemaid ; while '' cook " at the
House," as the old dwelling-place was called,
recommended a very " respectable young persona
cousin of her own, who only " wanted experience
" to be a '' cook of hioh degree ; " of course

she (Mrs. Harding's chief) could give any hints
that the neophyte might require. Miss Stretton
hastened to secure this possible treasure. But,
alas ! it soon proved that the experience which
was 'only" wanted was about everything, as
in the case of Susan, whom Miss Stretton preferred
to call by her surname Barnet, as more
genteel, want of experience meant total ignorance
; and for some time Stasie and her aunt were
forced to feed on scorched mutton, bleeding beef,
watery vegetables, bullet-like potatoes, and extraordinary
compounds either dried to chips, or
swimming in smash, and intended for puddings ;
while the weekly accounts were of alarming and
disproportioned magnitude ; but we must not
anticipate.

The day Stasie was expected home Mrs.
Harding was obliged to go into town, and offered
to meet her and convey her home, to Miss
Stretton s great relief.

She had sat down to rest after her luncheon
or early dinner, thinking how much and how
well she had done, for Miss Stretton was one of
those not uncommon individuals who are at once
timid and conceited.

It was pleasant sitting there in the bay window
of the drawing-room. The sono of the
birds, the perfume of the mignonette, which had
considerably overrun the boundaries of its original
bed in the neglected pleasure-ground, the
reo'ulatino of which Stasie reserved for her own
inspection, came through the open casement.
After regarding the carpet with some jDride (she
had stood out stoutly for a new one, and gained
her point  a fact that raised her in her own
esteem and disposed her to believe temporarily
in herself, as a woman of bold and determined
character). Miss Stretton continued to muse
sleepily on her own good fortune.

Here she was transplanted, as by an enchanter's
wand, from a wretched top-bedroom
and fare not too plentiful, to the comfort, the
security of this pleasant home  to the dignity
of being not only chaperon but aunt and
nearest-of- kin to a handsome young heiress,
who was inclined to pet and make much of
her only relative. Most firmly did Aunt Clem
resolve to make herself useful, agreeable, indispensable
to that sweet, dear girl, Stasie, who
was strong enough, too, to stand up for herself,

and would not let Mr. Harding trample
on her as lie did on that poor weak creature,
his wife. It was altogether a piece of luck
beyond hope. Miss Stretton shuddered when
she looked back on the varied discomforts and
mortifications of her chequered career  its
terrible uncertainty, too, or rather its terrible
certainty of failing as years robbed her of her
activity and efficiency.

Stasie, she thought, would not leave her unprovided
for when age and helplessness crept
over her. And if she married  well, please
God, she would marry that nice, considerate
Mr. Kharapet, who was calculated to make any
woman happy, and who had as good as promised
that he would provide for her (Miss Stretton) if
she took his part and helped him to win the
woman he so fondly loved, poor fellow ! It was
quite a pleasure to see a man so heartily and
avowedly in love in these days of hardness and
calculation.

With such soothing ideas growing indistinct,
Miss Stretton had nearly dropped asleep, when
she was roused by the door opening and the
servant announcing " A gentleman, ma'am,"

which was Mary the housemaid's mode of surmounting
the difficulty of a name she coukl not
quite catch. Miss Stretton started up and instinctively
put her hands to her cap as she turned
to meet Kharapet, who advanced with a winning
smile. " I am very glad to see you," exclaimed
Aunt Clem warmly.

*' Thank you, dear madam, thank you," returned
Kharapet, taking her offered hand. " I
have been looking forward to this pleasure, but
did not like to intrude sooner, knowing you
would be greatly occupied ; but to-day I was
anxious to have a little conversation before your
niece returns."

She is to be back this evening."

I know, and I trust," accepting the chair
drawn forward by Miss Stretton, " I trust you
find all things satisfactory ? Is your house comfortable
? I do not pretend to understand all
the needs of delicate English ladies, but if
anything is deficient, let me know, and I think
I shall be able to induce Mr. Harding to make
it good."

"I am sure I am ever so much obliged to
you, Mr. Kharapet. There are a few little things,

absolute necessaries, which we really ought to
have  a wardrobe for my room. There is but
one, and of course that is for Stasie. Then the
dining-room door will not fasten, and there is no
butler's tray," etc. etc. etc.

Miss Stretton ran on with a string of absolute
necessaries which considerably surprised Kharapet.

He, however, took out his pocket-book, and
gravely made a note of her demands. "Mr.
Harding is perhaps a little hard in his dealings,"
he said. " A man of strict integrity, but severe."

Well, I am sure his severity does not prevent
him from furnishing his own house most luxuriously,"
said Miss Stretton with some tartness ;
and I suppose my niece. Miss Werner, pays for
what she has ? "

No doubt, dear madam ; but it shall be my
care that she gets full value for what she pays."

Ah ! " cried Miss Stretton, as if some new
light had broken in upon her. '' Well, Mr. Parapet,
I am sure you will do your best for us. I
quite identify myself with my dear niece, you
see. It is such a comfort to have a friend like
yourself ! And tell me, are you quite well ? I
must say you have not seemed so of late."

I am better ! " replied Kharapet with a deep
sigh. '' But the constant strain of deferred hope
of doubt  of  of dread  is trying ! I had
thought of risking an avowal to Stasie some
weeks ago." He paused, looking keenly at his
interlocutor from under his partly-drooped lids.

*' And why didn't you ? " exclaimed Miss
Stretton briskly. " I can't think she would have
refused you ! "

These words satisfied Kharapet that the good
aunt was still ignorant of the true state of
the case. She was much too transparent a
subject to be capable of deliberately misleading
him.

"You do not understand the nature of my
hesitation," said he softly. " At present we are
on the happiest terms. She looks on me as a
relative  a kind of uncle  and I fear waking her
too rudely. In time, away from the excitement
of her life in London, I hope to arouse in her sentiments
similar to my own. It is to this end I
crave your help. We will take time, dear Miss
Stretton ; we will take time ! "

'' Oh, as much time as you like ! " cried Aunt
Clem with a pleasant smile. ''I assure you I

am in no hurry to quit such comfortable quarters.
I am, I think, very disinterested to further your
plans as I am ready to do."

You are very kind," returned Kharapet emphatically
; ' but as to disinterestedness, I trust
you know that your interests are bound up in
mine. I hope you understand that I consider
myself bound to take care of you, should the
happy day arrive when I can call Stasie my
wife."

"It is very good of you to say so," said Miss
Stretton, with twinkling eyes ; " and I will
frankly admit that I depend upon you."

'you may, dear madam, you may," earnestly,
 " and I depend upon you ! I feel as if
you were my best, my only friend ! I own to
fearing Mrs. Harding's enmity, I know not why,
but I fancy Stasie's coldness and indifference of
late are owing to her influence. I own I dread
Mrs. Harding's cousin. He is not a good man ! "
Kharapet shook his head solemnly. '' But he is
gone, and his return is uncertain. I too am going
away for a week or ten days. My noble friend
and patron. Lord Saintsbury, has invited me. I
will not intrude on Stasie until she is settled in

her Dew abode. I leave myself in your hands,
my good friend ! You will do me what service
you can. I do not ask you to speak of me save at
intervals, as occasion offers. By and by you may
say more. I will suggest  I will suggest." He
pressed his palms together, as was usual with
him when very earnest.

Very well ! You may leave yourself in my
hands, my dear sir ; for in seeking to serve you
I feel sure I am acting for Stasie's happiness also.
I hope you will come and see us directly you
return. I am quite sure you will be very welcome
to Stasie as well as to myself. Now you
must let me offer you some refreshment. I know
you do not care for tea, but I think I can give
you a tolerably good cup of coffee. If you will
excuse me I will go and see to its preparation
myself And, oh ! I will give you Stasie's portrait
to look at. She was photographed just
before we left town."

So saying she placed a cabinet photograph in
his hand and departed.

Kharapet walked slowly into the bay of
the window where he had the best light, and
gazed long, with burning eyes and a strange,

greedy, cruel smile, upon the picture. It was a
good and pleasing likeness, the figure in profile,
but a turn .of the graceful throat bringing the
face three-quarters round. There was a frank
smile in the eyes, a tender sweetness in the
mouth, and yet a look of resolution in the whole
face that seemed to Kharapet to convey defiance
defiance to himself especially. How vividly
he recalled her peculiar charm of complexion and
colouring ! His instinct prompted him to seize
by force, were it necessary, and hold fast the
woman who had roused his passion, whose youth
and inexperience, by all the laws of nature and
probability, ought to have given her unresisting
to his wishes ; and yet there was an indefinable
something under all her tenderness, and at times
caressing softness, which, in spite of himself, he
feared and shrank from. By one and the same
impulse he could have clasped her in his arms
and loaded her with kisses, while he could have
cut her delicate flesh with the lash for her indifference
and daring.

How fiercely and intensely he resolved that
nothing should deliver her or her fortune out of
his hand. It rested with herself to be his ruler

or his slave. His in either case she should be.
The strength of his own will calmed him. It
was not likely that equal force could be found in
any of his possible rivals. Moreover, no one
had any stronger claim to influence Stasie than
himself: no one took any deep interest in her.
That foolish elderly body her aunt, who counted
for something at the present stage of affairs, notwithstanding'
her inherent insignificance, was all
his own. He felt his growing power over her,
and esteemed her accordingly, or rather weighed
her in the cruel balance which tests all things
by their possible utility to self. His was the
nature that bows pliantly, willingly to the strong,
but relentlessly crushes whatever is weak, and
can no longer be of use. He was still musing
over the photograph when the return of Miss
Stretton warned him to put on his mask ; and
as the coffee soon appeared, he fell into soft and
amiable conversation with his hostess, which she
found most soothing to her taste and self love,
it was so new to her to be a personage of any
importance.

Together they discussed the necessity of mixing
liberality with prudence. They agreed

touching Stasie's unfortunate attachment to the
Mathews family, and congratulated each other
that they were at a tolerably safe distance.

I confess I rather dread their influence,"
said Miss Stretton, helping her guest to a second
large slice of pound cake. " There is no doubt
that Mrs. Mathews did her duty by Stasie, and
is a good woman  Heaven forbid I should detract
from any one's merits !  but when a mother has
sons whose fortunes she could further in so agreeable
and simple a way, it is not in human nature
to  to refrain."

You are right, you are right," returned
Kharapet thoughtfully. 'You are profoundly
observant, and therefore I ask, do you think
there was anything more than  than pity, sisterly
feeling in Stasie's extraordinary and imprudent
conduct respecting those jewels?" and he raised
his large deep eyes to hers with a look that
seemed to search her thoughts.

What a handsome creature he is," thought
the imaginative spinster, as she answered with
an amiable smile : " Nothing, my dear sir, nothing
whatever. You could see she despised
that good-for-nothing Bob Mathews ; and when

a girl, especially a girl like Stasie, despises anyone,
it is all over."

But lie is young and she is young, and if he
spoke to her of love, of course she would love
him."

My dear Mr. Kharapet, it would be much
more likely that she would box his ears and send
him about his business. English girls are not
like over-ripe plums, ready to drop into the firsthand
that touches them ; " and Miss Stretton
laughed at her own smartness.

A slow cynical smile crept over Kharapet's face.

"Nature," he said, 'nature, dear madam, is
pretty much alike in all ; lout Stasie is slow to
waken."

"By the way, what have you done about
those jewels?" asked Miss Stretton with some
curiosity. " The interest will run up frightfully."



Do you think," cried Kharapet indignantly,
that I should be guilty of such culpable negligence
? No. I have redeemed them. I redeemed
them immediately."

Oh, indeed," cried Aunt Clem. " I am
sure Stasie will be pleased to have them again."

'' Ah ! " returned Kharapet, rubbing his hands
slowly together. 'You must be aware that I
could not give them back without Mr. Harding's
consent, and he is suspiciously distrustful ; besides
he is away, and we must confess it was a
startling act."

"It was a natural impulse in a generous
young creature."

"Do you think," asked Kharapet insinuatingly,
"you could induce her to give you the
remaining trinkets to keep ? and you might pass
them on to me. It is possible some such generous
impulse might seize her again."

Not I, indeed," cried Aunt Clem, laughing.
I will not vex my dear niece in such matters,
and I think you may make your mind easy ; she
will never give away what specially belonged to
her mother : take my advice, let the matter .
rest. If she knows you have taken the other
things out and not given them back to her she
will  well, she will not be pleased."

"But will she not see my care for her interest
? " cried Kharapet.

She will not care a straw about that," said
Miss Stretton; "eight or ten years hence she

may, not now : believe me, I know her, and yoii
had better be guided by me. I can give you
many hints

Kharapet looked earnestly at her, ' I begin
to think you are right," he said.

Mrs. Harding and Stasie did not reach Sefton
Park till seven o'clock, and found nurses and
children gathered at the little station to meet
them. They were received with much attention
by the station-master, with whom, as with most
of the employed about the place, Mrs. Harding
was a great favourite, while the children hailed
Stasie with shouts of welcome.

'this is really like coming home," said
Stasie.

Yes," returned Mrs. Harding, to whose hand
Willie was clinging. " It is very nice, that home
feeling. You will be pleased to see how well
Miss Stretton is looking. She told me as I
passed this morning that she preferred waiting
to receive you at home, and to have all ready.
I wanted you both to have high tea with me, but
she thought it better not."

"Thank you, dear," returned Stasie. "1

VOL. IT. 29

think it is better I should spend the first evening
with my aunt. I am sure she is very happy,
poor thing !"

Here, a short slight man in a very ecclesiastic
single-breasted frock coat, who had
been speaking to one of the porters, turned
round, and, raising his soft felt hat, approached
Mrs. Harding. "I am glad to see you back
again," he said. " I understood you had gone
away for some weeks."

No, only for a few hours' shopping in town,
and to meet my friend Miss Werner. Stasie,
let me introduce Mr. Kobinson. I have brought
an addition to your flock, Mr. Robinson. This
lady and her aunt have taken Limeville."

'' I am very happy to hear it," said the Eev. St.
John Robinson with his natural frank courtesy.
'' We are glad to welcome any addition to our
congregation, especially if it be a recruit for the
choir. I am in some difficulty, Mrs. Harding ; we
have lost one of our best voices  Miss Thorne.
She has gone away for the autumn, and is then
to be married."

A short conversation on local matters ensued.
Then Johnnie asked to drive the cart which had

been sent to take Stasie's luoorao-e, and on his
receiving permission, Miss Ethel clamoured to betaken
np also. Willie, however, still clung to
his mother, so the elders of the party proceeded
to walk up the central road towards Sefton
House  Mr. Kobinson beside Mrs. Harding, and
nurse trying to keep up with the cart, wherein
Johnnie stood triumphant like a classic charioteer.

I believe my old friend Jim Brooke is a connection
of yours," said the incumbent breaking
away suddenly from his previous subject.

You know him ?" returned Mrs. Harding in
some surprise.

Oh yes ; we were at school together. He
was my patron and protector, and very good tome,
though he was a trifle overbearing and pugnacious."


"I could quite imagine that," cried Stasie
impulsively, and the next moment was sorry she
had spoken.

Why should you ?" said Mrs. Harding. " I
have always found him kind and gentle."

He could scarcely be anything else with you."

I am not so sure ; boys can often be rough
enough to their female relatives, and men too."

You surely are mistaken !" exclaimed Robinson,
evidently shocked.

*' I hope so," said Stasie.

I had a letter from Brooke yesterday," resumed
the young clergyman. ' He has left his
friends at Dieppe, and writes from Geneva ; he is
going to have a look at some of the German towns.
He came home through Italy, you know. I
wish he would settle in London ; I am sure he
would make his mark. He is a very clever
fellow."

I wish he would," echoed Mrs. Harding ;
but I think he is fond of the life in India, yet
he is ambitious."

' Yes, but to succeed in London requires
capital, especially for a medical man," returned
Robinson.

Thus talking, they passed the lower portion of
the park and the staring houses before described.
Stasie, taking Willie's hand, walked on with some
eagerness in front. She was dying to be at home
to be welcomed by Aunt Clem.

As the road ascended, the view towards the
Surrey hills widened. The setting sun gleamed
in golden glory through the leafy screen to the

west, and Stasie thought it was indeed a delightful
place.

'' I will let you meet Miss Stretton without
me," said Mrs. Harding, pausing at the gate of
Limeville. " I think she would very naturally
like to have you to herself; perhaps you will
both come out for a stroll after tea."

I will, at any rate," cried Stasie, and with a
bow to Robinson, she ran quickly through the
garden to the open door, where stood Aunt Clem
in a new dress, bristling with flounces, hisses, and
danoiino; ends of ribbon.

Need it be said with what effusive joy she was
welcomed  with what pride she was led from
room to room  with what eloquence Aunt Clem
described the battles she had fought over each
superior article of furniture  with what care and
caution she insinuated that Mr. Harding, no
doubt from the best motives, was just a beetle
hard to deal with ? Then the servants were presented
to their young mistress, who repudiated
the title, declaring that she wished it to be applied
to her aunt. " I am too young and too
ignorant to manage things, auntie, and as you
will have all the trouble, you had better have a]l

the authority too. I see you have given me the
best and biggest bedroom, with a dressing room
too. You ought to have that ; I don't want to
be made a personage of, only to do pretty well
what I like and enjoy myself, as I am sure I shall
with you, dear auntie. How nice you have made
everything, and what a heap of trouble you have
taken ! I think we shall be very happy here fora
few months, and then perhaps you will feel
well enough to travel. You look, oh ! so much
better."

"And I feel so, dearest Stasie. I do not
doubt that after a month's repose and happiness
with you I shall feel quite ten years younger
and equal to anything."

So, with generous kindness, looking forward to
make those around her happy, content with the
present, though eager for further and higher enjoyment,
and not dreaming that clouds could
gather over a future so bright and full of promise
as her own, Stasie entered on this new phase of
her existence.

She soon contrived to fill her days not unprofitably.
She applied herself to gardening with
enthusiasm, under the guidance of Mrs. Harding's

gardener, and she gave what help lie could to
Mr. Robinson in his choir and school. These
avocations, with long walks in Mrs. Harding's
company and a subscription to Muche's, left no
time on her hands. Miss Stretton, having once
organised the household, did not over-exert herself.
She found some congenial society among
the residents at Sefton Park  ladies who had enjoyed
fewer advantages, and boasted fewer pretensions
than herself, and who treated her with
a deference equally new and delightful. Thus
all went well. Mr. Harding's absence was unusually
prolonged, and his wife deeply enjoyed
the breathing space thus afforded her to recover
her strength for future trial.

Though amused and interested in the various
places he visited, Brooke grew tired of travelling
alone, and made his way towards London some
five or six weeks after he had left it.

He had promised to visit a friend of his
brother who had made a fortune in the Colonies,
and settled in Scotland, where he offered Brooke
the inducement of good shooting and a pleasant
party. Of course it was necessary to take
London en route, and once there it was incumbent
on him to see Mrs. Harding and Miss
Werner. It was curious how interested he felt
respecting the latter,  who was a stranger, and
a somewhat hasty self-willed personage. Yet
he was anxious to be good friends with her
again, and to be on the same footing as before
she had outraged his sense of propriety. He was
even vexed with himself for having misjudged

her, and anxious to see how she would receive
him.

It was a fine autumnal evenings, and the
suburban Park looked to great advantage as he
walked leisurely up the hill, having asked his
way to Mr. Harding's house.

He noticed as he went alone the flaring redbrick
mansion with the inscription " St. Monica's
Parsonage," and thought he would call on his
friend Robinson before he returned to town ; so
thinking, he reached the top of the hill, and
saw the low rambling house, its porch covered
with honeysuckle, the gable nearest the road
sheltered by two huge lime trees, and beyond,
at the opposite end, a big brown barn roofed
with mellow red tiles, which dwarfed the ,
and had quite a grand air, owing
to its high arched doors, under which a loaded
wain could pass. Beyond, again, came a clump
of oaks and elms, and from an open space in front
of the entrance stretched the leafy avenue before
described.

A small lawn or pleasure-ground bordered
with rose-trees, some of which were still in
bloom, and studded with beds of geraniums and

verbena, lay between the road and the house,
across which  straight path led to the door.

Here Ethel and "Willie were playing "Les
Graces' and no sooner had they caught sight of
Brooke than they threw away hoops and sticks,
and ran forward with shouts to meet him.

Oh ! Dr. Brooke ! you have been away such
a long time."

I am so glad you have come back ! Mamma
is writing in the sitting-room. Come in, come
in''

We have another pony this summer," cried
Willie.

"And we have a governess, and lessons all
the time ; isn't it a shame ? " exclaimed Ethel.

Brooke greeted them cordially, and each
taking a hand, led him to the house, chattering
as they went.

Mamma, mamma ! here is Dr. Brooke,"
cried Willie, throwing open the door of a long
narrow room panelled with oak, and afflicted with
a cross light, having a window at each end. A
thick Persian carpet and a few attractive easy-chairs
gave an air of comfort to the homely
room. At a centre table Mrs. Harding sat

writing. She started up with a look of unmistakable
pleasure, as the children arid their captive
entered. Brooke was glad to see that she looked
better and brighter than when he left her.

'I had no idea you were coming back so
soon," she said, after the first words were exchanged.
" When did you arrive ?"

'* The day before yesterday. No, I have not
stayed away as long as I intended," and he
entered into some description of his wanderings,
to which the children listened eagerly, till a dark-eyed
smart-looking little lady in a black dress
came in, and, with a pretty curtsey to Mrs.
Harding, summoned " ces chers enfants " to their
lessons. Ethel and Willie reluctantly obeyed.

That is a new importation ? " said Brooke,
who had risen on her entrance, as he resumed his
seat.

"Yes, the children ran too wild here, so I
found a French girl to teach them. She is a
nice little thing, and useful to me in many ways.
Have you had luncheon, Jim ? "

"Thank you, yes. Now tell me all your
news since that Sunday when I witnessed the
scene about the jewels."

Mrs. Harding smiled and coloured a little.
That horrible day ! " she said. '' However, all's
well that ends well. Things came quite right
after. Mr. Harding was called out of town on
some business, and got over his vexation. Mr.
Kharapet behaved amazingly well ; he went and
released the jewels,  but holds them,  and Stasie
is settled quite near us, with Miss Stretton asher
companion and chaperon. I think she is very
happy and quite busy. We will go and see her
presently. It is a wonderful addition to my life
having her here. She cheers and interests me."

So it seems," he returned, looking steadily at
her. ''I see a great change for the better in
you, Livy ! I hope, my dear little cousin, that
things are easier for you than when we last
spoke. I have often thought of our conversation
! "

So have I, and partly regretted it," exclaimed
Mrs. Harding. " But I could not keep
back the words, it was such a relief to tell you
the misery of my life ! But somehow things are
better, Jim, or I have more hope, a sort of
feeling that the worst is over, that something of
courage is growing up in my heart ! You may

think it a trifle, when I tell you an incident that
has revived my soul." She paused.

'* Go on' said Brooke.

"About a fortnight ago Johnnie went to a
boarding-school for the first time. I am ashamed
no, not ashamed, why should I be ? I am
obliged to say that I looked forward to his absence
with a certain sense of relief. The night before
he left I was alone with him ; he suddenly threw
his arms round me, and exclaiming, ' I know I
have been a bad naughty boy to you, but I do
love you, mother  I do, I do ! ' he burst into
sobs, and hugged me with all his might. Jim,
I cannot tell you how his words filled me with
joy and hope. The child lias a heart, and it is
mine ! His love for me will be the saving of him,
and to me an infinite reward."

A wonderful glow lit up her face, a smile of
unspeakable tenderness curved her lips ; she was
lovely at that moment. Brooke looked at her
with deep and warmest sympathy.

Yes," he said, "the love of a mother like you
ought to be the salvation and the making of any
boy. / never knew anything like it."

But you were strong enough to make yourself,"

exclaimed Mrs. Harding, recovering her
composure. "Do you know, I fancy you have
more feeling now than you used to have ? "

"Perhaps so," replied Brooke thoughtfully;
I imagine it takes knowledge and experience to
develop a boy's heart, whereas a girl's is so much
more delicately organised that she feels and perceives
instinctively where we are impervious ; but
you don't think me a cold-hearted fellow, Livy ? "

No, indeed, I do not; though you are far from
soft ! I should be so glad to see you happily
married, Jim. In spite of my own experience, I
believe no life is so happy  as happy married
life. Children are such marvellous teachers ; no
one knows more than one side of existence who
has never experienced what it is to be a parent ;
but you must be prudent and choose well."

Brooke laughed. " If I begin to be deliberate
in such a choice, I suspect I shall go wrong," he
said. " I look for what my friend Robinson would
call ' divine guidance '  that is, impulse, and the
mysterious attractions which no philosophy can
explain."

"The effects of which are sometimes disastrous,"
replied Mrs. Harding gravely.

"No ; not except with weak blockheads."

' Which, you flatter yourself, you are not?"
said Mrs. Harding, laughing. Then they passed
to other topics, and spoke of Mrs. Harding's only
sister, who was married to a man in the Indian
Civil Service, and wrote rarely. Brooke had heard
of the husband as a rising man, and Mrs. Harding
was interested in her sister's prospects.

At length Brooke said it was time to think of
returning to town.

You need not hurry away, Jim ; come with
me to see Stasie, and I will walk with you to the
station after. You know I never ask any one
to dinner without first apprising Mr. Harding,
though you are rather a favourite with him."

I regret to say the feeling is not mutual,"
said Brooke, laughing. Mrs. Harding made no
reply, but, putting up her writing, went into the
hall, or rather entry, and took her garden hat
which hung there. " This is a nice place," said
Brooke, as they issued from the house.

It is. I am fond of it, and always have felt
less unhappy here than in London. The air too
is pleasant and remarkably healthy."

'' Tell me," resumed Brooke, " how does Parapet

get on ? Is lie still persevering in his designs
on Miss Yerner ? "

He has been very persevering and determined
hitherto, and has made himself exceedingly
useful, nay indispensable, to Miss Stretton, who
is not the best manager in the world ; but he
gains no ground, indeed he loses it. Though
Stasie says nothing, I can trace indications of
disgust and repulsion which she never showed
before. I have an idea that some little time
ago he made Stasie a declaration  probably
a violent one; for though he has enormous
self-control, there is a tiger under the soft fair
outside."

The presumptuous beggar ! " cried Brooke,
he is incapable of measuring the distance between
Miss Yerner and himself ; no Eastern could
possibly perceive it. I cannot tell you how murderous
I feel, when I see that fellow's eyes resting
as they do on your young friend."

It annoys me too ; and, between ourselves,
I think Mr. Harding would rejoice in his discomfiture."


'' Why then does he openly countenance his
pretensions'?' cried Brooke. "It is a serious

matter to play fast and loose with so precious a
thing as a woman's whole future."

"It is certainly ; but, Jim, no great harm can
be done ; Stasie will never listen to him ; and I
think he is giving up himself, for he is going
away in a few days to pay a round of visits to
some grand country-houses  Lord Saintsbury's
among the number. Perhaps he will find some
less obdurate heiress than Stasie."

"She has money, has she not?" asked
Brooke.

Yes," said Mrs. Harding, laughing ; " I am
not sure how much, for both Mr. Harding and
Kharapet are very reticent on the subject. Are
you interested ? "

Yes. It is a very strong reason for Parapet's
hanging on to her like grim death. I have
a great dislike to these Eastern Christians."

Is not that unjust, Jim ? They have been
a persecuted race, and surely the religion they
profess must in some way bring forth fruit."

I doubt it. It was necessary for Christianity
to filter through a Western medium to become
what it is. Depend upon it, the early converts,
could their dust be reanimated, would be greatly

VOL. II. 30

astonished at the outcome of Paul and Peter's
preaching."

Mrs. Harding did not answer, and a few
moments more brought them to the gate of
Limeville, Stasie's new home. The entrance
door stood open in country fashion, and Mrs.
Harding walked in without ceremony.

Crossing a neat little hall, Brooke followed her
into the drawing-room, which was sweet with the
scent of flowers, and full of mellow light, as the
Venetian blinds softened the glare of the evening
sun.

Miss Stretton was settled comfortably in an
easy chair for the uninterrupted perusal of the
Times, and rose to receive her visitors with her
wonted amiability.

Where is Stasie ? " asked Mrs. Harding.

She must be in the garden, I think ; I have
not seen her since dinner. She often goes to
read to Janet there."

'* I will go and look for her," replied Mrs.
Harding. " I hope she is not gardening in the
sun again. Strong as she is, she cannot dispense
with ordinary prudence," and she stepped through
the open window

You seem to have a pleasant abode here,"
said Brooke. " How does Miss Sterner like such
retirement ? "

She seems exceedingly happy ; indeed she
has the sweetest possible nature, and is so easily
pleased. Of course, though I say it myself, she
finds the warmest sympathy and devotion from
me, and hers is a heart that would pine without
such solace. She has her little whims, it's true.
There is one of those Mathews that she fancied
was out of health, so she has had her up here,
and just lavishes every care upon her  reading
improving books, hearing her practise, and all
that  exceedingly praiseworthy, but a little tiresome.
Yes, the place is charming, and the
repose in my weak state of health is most soothing,
nor is it monotonous. Our good friend, Mr.
Kharapet, is frequently here, and is a most
delightful companion. I do not know v/hat we
shall do when he goes away. Mr. St. John
Robinson, too, is a great addition to our small
society, though scarce sufficiently evangelical in
his views for me. Altogether we are very happily
placed. And so you have been travelling on the
Continent, Dr. Brooke ? "

Brooke assented, adding that he found a great
charm in the mediaeval towns of Southern Germany."


*' Ah, yes I I know some of them well. Dresden,
and Berlin, and "

Miss Stretton's further reminiscences were cut
short by the return of Mrs. Harding, who was
followed by an awkward-looking girl of fourteen
or fifteen in a striped cotton dress that showed a
pair of gigantic boots. A large and would-be
ornamental pinafore slipping off one shoulder
gave her an air of crookedness, not redeemed by
a broad, heavy-looking freckled face and rather
coarse red hair. Outside Brooke could hear
Stasie's voice saying " Thank you ! You have
done it very nicely indeed ; now you might
move these plants nearer the outer paling." An
indistinct murmur followed, and then Stasie
stepped into the room  Stasie, in a simple lilac
print, a black waistband marking out her supple
waist, a large garden hat shading her face, and
wash-leather gauntlet gloves defending her
hands.

Brooke took in every detail of her figure (he
could hardly make out her face), even while bowing

at Mrs. Harding's formal words  "Dr.
Brooke, Miss Janet Mathews." He was scarcely
aware low much he had been haunted by the
vision of Stasie  erect, indignant, defiant, as he
last saw her, until she thus stood before him ina
mood so different.

I did not think you would be back so soon,"
said Stasie almost in Mrs. Harding's words, as she
drew off her rather earth-stained glove and gave
him a soft, warm, white hand. Some undefined
change struck Brooke's vividly-awakened senses ;
something gentler, milder in her tones ; something
slower and less alert in her movements, as she
walked to the sofa and sat down, removed her
hat and placed it beside her, raising her eyes to
his with a smile. " I did so envy you when
you were going, and now I am very pleased with
this place. Still, I hope to make the grand tour
myself as soon as Aunt Clem is strong and well.
Don't you think she looks better ? "

Very much better," returned Brooke stoutly
(he had a very misty recollection of her former
aspect). "But she can hardly fail to get all
right here."

There was a slight pause, filled up by Miss

Mathews, who exclaimed, *' Do you know, Mrs.
Harding, that the rector is going to have a
school feast, after all ! Mr. Robinson was here
this morning and told us. We are all to help'*

 I am sorry my strength is not equal to the
task," said Miss Stretton. " Mr. Robinson knows

that my spirit is willing, but " an expressive

hesitation.

Mrs. Harding seemed interested, and while
the three engaged in a discussion on the subject,
Brooke approached Stasie.

*' So, after all, you did not carry out your
plan," he said.

I put it off of my own free will," she replied.
*' I could not drag my aunt away when
she was unfit to move."

'No, of course not! You seem to have a
nice garden ? Will you show it to me ? "

'' Yes, if you like," frankly ; " we have some
delightful old trees that make it pretty." She
took up her hat again, unnoticed by the others,
and stepped through the window. Brooke followed,
and they strolled over the mossy grass
for a minute or two in silence.

"There is our avenue, of which we Seton

are very proud. Then, this is my study
on fine days' leading the way to a rustic hexagonal
summer-house partly enclosed, which was
raised on a green mound, and through the open
panels of which a view could be obtained of
Mr. Harding's somewhat picturesque residence.
*' You see the commonplace road and houses are
quite invisible from this."

Yes ; it is very well arranged."

But you cannot think what a state of neglect
we found it in," Stasie went on, warming with
her subject. " Fortunately the grass was good ;
it only wanted watching and cutting, and now it
is quite velvety."

How long have you been here ? " asked
Brooke.

'' Nearly two months."

Do you know," resumed Brooke, after a
moment's silence, *' I have always wanted to
apologise to you for having been present at that
uncomfortable scene, when "

Yes, I remember," said Stasie, interrupting
him as he paused, having thoughtlessly rushed
into an awkward subject. " I was vexed about
it at the time,  one does not like to be scolded

roughly before a stranger,  but I don't care now.
1 gained my point ; and," her eyes sparkling with
a keen sense of the ridiculous, '' do you remember
Mr. Kharapet's face of terror and dismay ashe
felt about among the cotton-wool, and found
nothing ! I don't think the loss of all the trinkets
in Europe or Asia would have so moved an
Englishman, except, indeed, Mr. Harding."

Flattering opinion you seem to have of
that gentleman ! I confess I felt inclined to
give him a shake when I heard him speak ashe
did."

"They say I ought not to have written to
you  I mean about meeting you when I was
with poor Bob Mathews  but I cannot see it''
returned Stasie reflectively, and as if to herself.
Did you think it very wrong ? "

It was unconventional, not what can be
termed wrong," said Brooke, availing himself of
her eyes being downcast in thought to study the
expression of her face.

I don't see how I could have managed without
writing to you," said Stasie, still musing;
then suddenly turning her sweet frank eyes upon
him, she exclaimed archly, '' I don't think you

approved of it yourself ! I remember I felt so
at the time."

 Did you ? " exclaimed Brooke. " I am very
flattered at your feeling anything respecting my
approval ! " The words had hardly passed his
lips before he felt they were a mistake, although
a genuine expression.

"There is nothing flattering to you in my
perceiving that your manner changed in an indefinable
way. It only showed I was not quite
stupid  I really am not ! and I think I am
waking up here. I like the place, and I like to
see Aunt Clem so happy, and to be in my own
house, and able to ask one of the Mathews
to stay with me. That girl is Mrs. Mathews*
second daughter. She has rather outgrown her
strength, and she is not very bright now, but I
am quite sure she will turn out much cleverer
than they expect."

I am sure you are a kind hostess. Miss
Werner. I am glad to find you are so satisfied
with your surroundings. I often thought of you
when I was in Munich and Dresden, and Nurn-
burg especially. You would be charmed with
them, especially Nurnburg."

I wish I had been with you ! " cried Stasie
warmly, and this time Brooke judiciously held
his tongue. ' But I have by no means given
up my plans, only I see Mr. Harding and Hormuz
are determined to oppose me. However, I have
a will of my own, I assure you."

I am already convinced of it," said Brooke
gravely.

Stasie laughed pleasantly. ' Come, now, and
see our kitchen garden," she said, and led the
way through a gate in a low wooden paling,
overgrown with ivy, into a good-sized patch of
ground, where peas, French beans, lettuce, and
such finer vegetables seemed flourishing. "It is
quite delightful to eat things out of one's own
garden, I can assure you ; but it takes a great
deal of care and trouble to keep it in order."

While she spoke, a very unusual figure 
unusual at least in a suburban park  came out
from behind a high range of scarlet runners.
A short slight man, in dark trousers, a sailor-like
jacket, and a scarlet and purple waistcoat
edged with gold cord ; his dark-brown face and
large Eastern eyes were surmounted by an embroidered
cap.

Why, what a strange gardener you have,
Miss Yerner ! Where did you pick him up ? "

I will tell you in a moment," she said
smiling, and then nodded to the man, who
made a deep bow, carrying his hand to his
forehead.

*' That is our right-hand man," she resumed,
as he passed out of earshot, and they strolled
slowly round the garden. He is from Bombay.
He used to be at Mardin, and Hormuz found
him by a strange chance. But first I must tell
you that I was so delighted with the garden when
we came here that I worked too much in it,
especially in the sun ; and one day, about a fortnight
ago, perhaps a little more, I grew queer
and giddy, and so sick and uncomfortable ! Aunt
Clem was quite frightened. Hormuz came down
the next day, and made such a fuss. So I said
I must have a gardener. Of course Mr. Harding
grumbled about the expense. Then Hormuz
said he had met a poor Hindoo, who begged of
him in the street, and, moved by compassion, he
had helped him. (I could not help wondering,
Dr. Brooke, if Hormuz really had given him
money.) He said he would be thankful to serve

US for food and shelter, and that he might be very
useful ; so he is. He speaks a little English, and
is so nice and well-mannered. The servants are
delighted with him. Aunt Clem wanted to put
him into livery, but I laughed at her. He keeps
the garden very neat, but he does not really understand
gardening. Indeed, he ought to have
a better situation."

These Eastern fellows are wonderfully handy
and intelligent about work," said Brooke, looking
after the lithe figure retreating with a slow, dignified
step towards the house. " He is in luck
to get housed here."

I assure you he is quite a treasure. The
little Hardings are so fond of him, and Mr. Robinson
(he is a friend of yours, is he not ?) talks
of converting and baptizing him. If so, I shall
be his godmother."

I think Robinson had better let that alone ! "
returned Brooke.

Here the sound of voices and footsteps approaching
made them look round, and they saw
Mrs. Harding and thanet coming to join them.

After some further conversation Dr. Brooke
took leave, having promised to come again soon,

and bring the photographs he had collected during
his travels for their inspection.

With a sense of having spent the afternoon
pleasantly, he walked at a slow pace down the
road, and paused at St. Monica's parsonage, intending,
if asked, to dine with his old friend.
But Mr. Robinson was out ; he had gone to town,
his servant said, and was not expected to return
till the last train.

Brooke therefore returned to the lodmnojs in
which he had established himself, intending to
make London his headquarters for some time,
and found them uncommonly dreary and desolate.


The day after Dr. Brooke's visit Mr. Harding
took a holiday. He had designed a new fowl-house,
with some curious arrangements, by which
he hoped to ensure the correct return of all eggs
laid therein. He rather enjoyed overseeing, and
even sharing the work of his employed, especially
of extracting the last farthing's worth of
labour.

He was in high good-humour  to his wife's
relief, as she had, with Stasie, planned a little
excursion and gipsy tea at a favourite spot two
or three miles distant, where, in the midst of
a heathy common, a sudden hillock or knoll
was crowned with a clump of larch and pine
trees.

The children's ponies and a rusty basket-carriage
drawn by one of the horses employed
about the place, were the means of locomotion.

Great were the anticipations called forth by
these preparations for an afternoon's outing, and
dire the fears lest '* papa's ' unexpected holiday
should interfere with the pleasure party.

However, papa did not want any one but the
carpenter and the " odd man" who was generally
working about the place. He told them all they
might be off as soon as they liked, and desired
they should not forget nose-bags for the horses,
as they were by no means to go to any inn or
stable, to run up expenses."

They accordingly started in the highest
spirits. Ethel and Willie on two little Shetland,
tame as dogs ; Janet Mathews, proud and
happy, on a mild low-spirited pony of larger
size, lent for the occasion by Mr. Robinson ;
while Stasie, with the courage of ignorance,
undertook to drive Mrs. Harding and Mademoiselle
in the carriage.

Miss Stretton had declined the party with
great regret, but she feared damp, and also
dreaded fatigue ; though much better, lie was
glad to say, she was not yet strong enough
to take liberties.

It was not prudence, however, which was

really at the bottom of Miss Stretton's refusal,
rather a hope that Mr. Kharapet would pay a
farewell visit previous to leaving London, as he
had not appeared at Limeville for three days.
Miss Stretton had fallen so far under his influence
that she ardently desired to take his parting instructions
in a Ute-astute, and she shrewdly expected
that he would not depart without bestowing
them.

She had grown to believe her fortunes
depended upon the soft-spoken Eastern, who
evidently, with all his gentle deference, had some
pull upon Mr. Harding in spite of the latter's
affectation of blunt strength and overbearing
prosperity. Aunt Clem was proud of her own
tact in making friends with 'That nice kind Mr.
Kharapet, who is never tired of helping us in
every way, I do trust."  Thus her reflections
generally terminated.  "Dearest Stasie will see
her own true interest and accept him, but young
girls are apt to make fatal mistakes."

Miss Stretton was right. About an hour after
the merry party had set out on their expedition,
a ring announced a visitor, and Mr. Kharapet,
who never took the liberty of entering without

notice, was duly lieraldecl by the neat parlour-maid.


I thought you would come to-day," said
Miss Stretton, who was attired in a new aud
most elaborate cap, as she rose to meet him, " so
I refused to go with the rest to have tea at the
larches'

Is Stasie not at home then ? " asked Parapet,
with a swift glance round the room.

*' No ; she is gone with Mrs. Harding and
the children to have a gipsy - tea at some distance."


Kharapet sat down, and a low quick sigh
escaped him. " I wished to see her," he said,
but I can wait. I have also to call on Mr.
Harding, who was not at his office to-day. And
are you well, dear madam ? feeling stronger and
better ? "

Miss Stretton was much better ; feeling years
younger in short.

You continue to find Bhoodhoo useful ? "

"Extremely. Indeed, I do not know what
we should do without him."

Ah, that is well. Do not hesitate to make
him work. I doubt not he can cook and do
VOL. II. 31

many things, more than you imagine." An
abrupt pause, and Aunt Clem observed that
Kharapet looked less blandly smiling than usual.

'rand what has happened since I saw you
last," he asked, slowly rubbing his hands together,
and fixing his large soft dark eyes on her.

'' Not much ; that girl is still here. Not that
she interferes much, but I don't quite like to
see the hold those Mathews have upon our dear
Stasie. She is quite devoted to Janet  inspects
her practising  makes her read aloud  a perfect
torture, I assure you, my dear sir ! Then there
must be eggs beaten up in milk before breakfast
; a glass of port-wine at eleven ; and calves-foot
jelly for supper ! really a serious addition to
the housekeeping when one has a limited, a very
limited allowance ! But Stasie is young and
enthusiastic, and probably likes having a sort of
toy!"

'' Probably, probably ; still I do not like the
idea of all this devotion to the sister of that 
that evil-disposed young man, who induced Stasie
to part with her jewels. That was a terrible
affair. I endured much. I bore with great provocation."


No doubt ; but, Mr. Kharapet, you need
not distress yourself about Bob Mathews I My
niece would not look at him were he hung with
diamonds."

Ha, you think so ? Alas ! I fear your accustomed
wisdom fails you in this matter ! How
can I account for Stasie's indifference to myself
save by her preference for another \ "

Still I do not think she gives a thought to
Bob Mathews," persisted Miss Stretton, not
noticing the self-conceit of Kharapet's speech.
"By the way, I forgot to mention that Dr.
Brooke, Mrs. Harding's cousin, called here
yesterday."

Did he ? " cried Kharapet, a sudden gleam
like a flash of forked lightning sparkling in his
eyes. He recovered himself instantly. "I thought
that gentleman was gone away for a long, an
indefinite time."

"Well, he is back again, and from what
I can gather he is to make some stay in
London."

Kharapet murmured something not English,
and, rising from his seat, walked to the window,
looked out a moment, and returned. " I see

Bhoodhoo is busy in the garden," he said. '' I
trust, then, Stasie does not expose herself to the
sun % "

I think not," replied Miss Stretton, and
waited, perceiving that Kharapet had more important
matter in his mind.

He resumed his seat. "May I be quite confidential
? you will not betray me ? "

'' Have I ever betrayed any one ? " said Aunt
Clem sentimentally, " least of all a good and true
friend, as I believe you to be."

Kharapet smiled, a rather forced smile. " Then,
dear Miss Stretton, I will confide to you that I
ventured to try my chance with Stasie Werner,
and  she refused me."

Miss Stretton sat bolt upright with an expression
of the greatest interest and surprise, but she
did not interrupt the speaker.

'* She did not speak harshly or very decidedly,
and I have by no means lost hope ; but it is
well to be very prudent in such a crisis, and  I
confess I fear this proud cold doctor. He is no
doubt attracted by Stasie's fortune. I implore
you be watchful, and do not encourage him."

'*0f course I will not. You know I sincerely

wish you success with Stasie. (Sly thing
never to tell me a word about your offer !)
But I think you alarm yourself unnecessarily'
concluded Miss Stretton with a complacent simper,
as if she knew a thing or two.

How do you mean % " asked Kharapet, eying
her with curiosity.

Oh ! I don't mean much, and I don't know
much, only I am convinced that Stasie Yerner
is not the attraction for Dr. Brooke at Sefton
Park."

How ? who then ? Nay, dear lady, I pray
you speak."

"Well  but remember it is the greatest
secret, and I don't mean to say I believe there is

anything really wrong, only " she paused, and

Kharapet kept his great watchful eyes fixed upon
her  " I mean to say that I think Dr. Brooke is
very fond of, and very sympathetic with, Mrs.
Harding."

Kharapet suddenly bent his eyes on the carpet,
and kept silence for a moment, while a bland
and satisfied expression spread over his face.

What reason have you for thinking thus ? "
he said softly*'

All ! my dear sir, I have seen much of the
world, of society, I mean, and I have watched
and kept my eyes open, and that is the conclusion
I have come to."

Some unusual strain of reticence kept Aunt
Clem from disclosing all her reasons.

It may be so," remarked Kharapet thoughtfully,
pressing the palms of his hands together,
as though moved in some measure. 'yet what
is there to gain in such a connection, whereas
Stasie has a fortune  money, available money 
and youth, dear lady. Ah ! delightful youth."

"Very true; but I don't think Dr. Brooke
cares much for money, he has enough for himself,
and if he returns "

Ah ! " broke in Kharapet with an expressive
gesture. 'all men care for money  all  all:
and Harding, what does he think ? does he suspect
? It will bruise his pride."

Goodness, gracious, Mr. Kharapet, you are
running away with the story. I don't think
there is anything for Mr. Harding to suspect.
There can't be a nicer, sweeter woman than his
wife. It is only the doctor who is a little, justa
little fond of her, quite Platonic, you know,

and I must say he is very much to be liked ; if
he did not come in your way I should like him
well enough."

This speech puzzled Kharapet a good deal.
An Eastern cannot understand Platonic, but he
gathered enough to make him feel that Miss
Stretton's leaning towards the obnoxious doctor
must in some way be rectified, so he shook his
head solemnly. "Ah!" he said, "Dr. Brooke
is no gentleman, or he would never use the words
he did."

"What words?" cried Miss Stretton with
keen curiosity.

I do not like to repeat them," said Kharapet
with soft hesitation.

"Why not, my dear sir, I am supremely
safe."

I would rather not. Miss Stretton."

Was it anything against me. Come, I must
insist."

"Perhaps, indeed, I ought to tell you. It
will show you something of his real nature, which
is far from refined."

You don't say so. Now do tell me."

It is in strict confidence ? "

Yes, yes, Mr. Kharapet, the strictest'

Well, then, he called you in my hearing a
talkative old cat."

An awful silence followed, and then Miss
Stretton said with a little scornful laugh, " I am
sure I am very much obliged to him, considering
he had never met me but once, and then I did
not say half-a-dozen words. Pray, how and
where did he say this ? I thought he went
away the day after I saw him at York Gate."

He did, but not till the evening, and I
happened to meet him at a restaurant, where we
both dined."

Oh ! it is really not worth noticing, only I
am surprised that a man of Dr. Brooke's position
would express himself in such a vulgar, not to
say low fashion ! I must say he is not a fit
companion for our dear Stasie. I am sure, Mrs.
Harding is welcome to her elegant cousin."

You see you have drawn forth this statement,
and now I trust myself in your hands."

* And I am sure you may ! Do not be discouraged,
my dear sir ; the whims of young girls
are unaccountable, and I daresay Stasie is even
now regretting her. ill-considered conduct. You

inciy leave yourself in my hands, Mr. Kharapet,
I will back you up all I can."

I have full faith in you, but I deeply regret
being obliged to leave town just now ; however,
I cannot offend my good and powerful patrons,
but I will return as soon as I can. I fear I
must bid you good-morning now, as I have a
visit to pay to Mr. Harding. Oblige me by not
letting Stasie know that I confided my disappointment
to you ; let us gently guide her in
the way she should go, and trust me. Never
can I forget your faithful friendship."

It was late when Kharapet's interview with
Mr. Harding was over, and he walked down the
garden to the road, with anything but a satisfied
expression. Mr. Harding was not particularly
glad to see him, and though, as usual, he yielded
to his colleague's wishes on sundry points, he
did so with unmistakable reluctance, so that
Kharapet feared unwilling co-operation might
prove little different from opposition.

Teaching the road, Kharapet paused, and
mused for a moment. Then, turning in an opposite
direction to the railway station, walked

slowly for some hundred yards or so, not heeding
the closing day nor the fact that he ran the risk
of losing the last train to town.

Soon the sound of horses' feet and the
laughter of children reached his ear, and he
paused again, till the returning gipsy-party came
up, and he was cordially greeted by its more
juvenile members, for he was decidedly a
favourite with Willie, Ethel, and their new playfellow
Janet.

He turned with them, walking beside the
pony-carriage till they reached Sefton House,
where Janet Mathews bade them good-evening,
and trotted off to restore her pony to his rightful
owner ; Mrs. Harding was occupied with Willie,
who seemed over tired, and did not press Stasie
to come in, so they parted at the gate.

I can walk back with you," said Kharapet*

' Had you not better go on quick or you will
lose your train ? " returned Stasie, wishing to
avoid him, yet not liking visibly to decline his
escort.

I have lost it," he said, " but by walking onto
Welwood I can get a later train on the chief
line."

I am sure you can have the pony-carriage.
I know you are not accustomed to walking."

I prefer it now," replied Kharapet, "and I
want to speak to you."

Oh ! very well," said Stasie, seeing there was
no escape, and they walked on for some minutes
in silence.

I am going away to - morrow for some
weeks," began Kharapet at last, and he stopped
suddenly.

I am sure I hope you will enjoy yourself,"
said Stasie.

'' Do you think I shall, Stasie ?"

Why not ? you are going to be feted and
petted by all the great ladies, to see heaps of
lovely things, and to eat delightful dinners, and
all for nothing, not a penny to pay."

Stasie," stepping a little in front of her and
barring the way, *' why do you mock me ? Do
you not fear that you will turn my love to hate ?
Take care! a little more  and  and tenderness
will harden into revenge."

*'Do not talk in that way, Hormuz," said
Stasie, not frightened, but vexed and uncomfortable.
" Why have you not the sense to see that

there is no use in it ? I never can like you, love
you, I mean, as you wish. I cannot tell why,
you are very handsome and pleasant, and you
will find plenty of girls who would be very
pleased to marry you, but I cannot, and there's
an end of it."

But I want you, only you," whispered
Kharapet, creeping close to her. " Why will you
not be my wife ? I would teach you to love me."

'' That you would not," exclaimed Stasie with
much animation. " I liked you much better
before you wanted to marry me ! I do not wish
to marry any one. I wish to enjoy myself, and
to be free, at least, till I am of age."

Ha ! " cried Kharapet, suddenly grasping
her wrist with more force than could be expected
from his slender hand. " Will you promise,
solemnly, sacredly promise me not to marry until
you are twenty-one ? If you do, I will endure, I
will be silent. Will you promise me, Stasie ? "

Indeed I will not. Why should I ?" she
exclaimed indignantly, and wrenching her hand
from him. He had never dared so much before.
I am tolerably sure I shall not marry before
I am one-and-twenty, but I promise nothing."

No, you will not promise ; you wish to deceive
me. But you do not. I understand you.
I know every design that forms itself in your
heart ; you will wed, and that soon. If, oh !
foolish one, you can wain that cold, stern, scornful
doctor  but he cares nothing for you  his eyes
and his thoughts are with another. He heeds

you no more than " he paused and struck his

open palms, slanting first up then down across
each other with that peculiarly Oriental gesture
indicative of nothingness.

'* How dare you speak to me of Dr. Brooke''
cried Stasie, panting with indignation. " Can I
not speak like a lady to a gentleman without
your intruding your miserable suspicions, your
wretched misunderstandings, to worry and annoy
me ? You don't understand English people  you
never will ! Do you think I cannot speak to a
man without looking on him as a lover ? without
wanting him as a lover \ He may love any one
and every one but me, and yet be an agreeable
companion, which you have not been of late ! I
used to like you ; wdiy do you persist in worrying
me into dislike V

Stasie," returned Kharapet huskily, " you

are cruel  you are very hard to me, and all
because I love you too well ! "
 ** I am sure I wish you would not. You were
far nicer when you did not."

I cannot help it," said Kharapet in a tone of
despair that touched Stasie's heart. '' And is this
your last word  is there no more hope  none ?"

None whatever," she returned, not unkindly ;
and I do wish you would put all hopes and
ideas about me out of your head ; then we could
be friends again. I should be so pleased to befriends
with you, Hormuz, but I never can while
you tease me. Do be sensible."

'* And you wish me to be content with this ?"

' Yes, and so will you be if you make up your
mind. Perhaps you will see some nice fair girl
at the Saintsburys' or at Lady Kilconquhar's, and
take a fancy to her ! and she may have money
too "

Be silent !" exclaimed Kharapet, vehemently,
rudely. " Why do you taunt me ? I love you
for your beauty  your charm  your devilish
charm which I cannot resist ! And so you would
  you would have my friendship, Stasie, and
nothing more ?"

I would value it very much ; you would find
me grateful," said Stasie, more calmly than she
might have done had there been light enough to
show her the expression of her companion's eyes.
A deep silence ensued, which lasted till they were
close at the gate of Stasie's house, when Kharapet
spoke softly in an altered voice. " I will never
offend you again," he said. " I will never speak
of love to you ; I will put it out of my heart forever."
He dwelt on the last two words, " You
will forgive my offences and trust me once more ?"

I will, indeed, and like you as much as I
used," cried Stasie cheerfully, for something in
his tone struck her as being peculiarly earnest.

Give me your hand, then." Stasie held it
out. He took and kissed it twice, a long kiss ;
then letting it go, he murmured something not
English.

The few remaining steps were accomplished
in silence, and at the gate they met Bhoodhoo,
who explained that the '' mem Sahib " had sent
him to seek " missed."

I will say good-night, then," said Kharapet
in the same softly-subdued voice that so touched
his hearer ; " and when I return, you will find

your wishes accomplished so far as I can school
myself."

Well, good-bye; and I do hope you will have
a very pleasant trip," said Stasie heartily. She
did not offer him her hand, but ran quickly indoor.

The Hindoo accompanied his benefactor a
pace or two ; they exchanged a few sentences,
then, with a deep salaam, he stopped and returned
to the villa.

When Stasie opened her eyes the next morning,
her first thought was that Kharapet had
gone away  that for a fortnight or three weeks
at all events she should not see him  should not
be offended and made uncomfortable by the
glances she had learned to understand  by the
whispers which moved her to a strange mixture
of pity and disgust. Her sense of relief, too, was
heightened by recalling the tone in which he had
promised her to renounce and conquer the love
that she found unacceptable. If he did so, she
might in time feel at ease with him, but never
again could she feel as she once did. Then she
wondered vaguely why Kharapet  handsome,
graceful, devoted as he was  should have inspired

her with a sense of angry repulsion. She
could not account for it,  she was only very
certain of the impression.

She had risen and dressed while she pondered
these things, and, finding she was yet early, took
a book and wandered into the garden, enjoying
the crisp freshness of the early autumn, and still
thinking over her conversation with Kharapet.

She felt as if she had grown years older since
she left school  since she had come in contact
with a passion which revolted rather than flattered
her ; she had the instinct of a warm pure
nature that feels lowered in its own esteem bywords
of ardent love from any save its own true
mate. This Kharapet could never be, and she
looked back with a half angry feeling that she
should have been so rudely startled into full
womanly consciousness by a creature she nearly
hated, and certainly despised. " Yet I am most
ungrateful," she argued with herself. '' Because
Hormuz does not suit my fancy, am I to dislike
him when he has really been good to me ? As
to his being greedy about money, I suppose he
has never had a chance of knowing anything but
money making. I am sure Mr. Harding is as
VOL. II. 32

bad, and I have not the same feeling about
him!'

Meanwhile there was one point of last evening's
talk from which Stasie tried to turn her
thoughts, but it would come and place itself clear
and distinct before her mental vision. This was
the assertion made by Kharapet, with scarce suppressed
fury, that she (Stasie) was ready to wed
if she could win Dr. Brooke, but that he was
utterly indifferent to her. How was it he dared
to say this ? or rather how came he to think
it % She well remembered the bitter mortification
with which she attributed Brooke's change of
manner towards herself to a wish to show her
there was no use in falling in love with him.
Was it possible that her conduct had given the
same impression to Kharapet ? If so, appearance
must have gone far beyond reality ; and yet she
knew in her heart what a charm Dr. Brooke's
conversation, manner, voice, had for her; how
unconsciously she had grown to look for his
coming  to feel that he took an interest in her.
Yes, blushing there alone in the still fresh morning,
she acknowledged that she could have loved
him well, if so superior a being would have

deigned to care for a half-educated schoolgirl like
herself ; as it was, she did not of course. No ;
he might be far above her as an archangel, yet
she would not give her heart unasked. Foolish
child ! she little thought it had gone from her, 
not perhaps irrevocably,  yet never again would
any other make quite the same impression.

She certainly would like to know who that
other " was with whom, according to Kharapet,
his eyes and thoughts were occupied ; but this
was folly  she would not dwell on the idea in
any way. She tried to fix her mind on her book,
but, finding this of no avail, and observing the
new factotum at work in the kitchen garden, she
strolled away to talk to him.

After bidding him good-morning, Stasie stood
for a moment watching him weed the bed on which
he was engaged, and then said :

''Mr. Kharapet tells me you were in the service
of the Consul at Mardin ? "

Yes, missed ! I served the ' Pourra Sahib,'
your good second father."

'' How long were you with him ? "

"Five, six  eight years. I mind you very
much at the big house, one little missed ]baba !

and you was the apple of the eye of the old man.
He did plenty cry when you leave him to go with
Padre Sahib to this country."

'' I cannot remember you, Bhoodhoo ; I only
remember my nurse."

She was a very good ayah  big black woman,
went away too with you."

Why did you leave my father ? "

A great travelling gentleman who liked my
nabobs and curries, my helwa and feziljan ; he
ask the Pourra Sahib to let me go with him to
Bombay. I like to go back to my country. Then
bad man he steal my few pice ; then I go for
cook on one great big ship, and cross the blackwater
 got sick in London, got no money, meet
Kharapet Sahib, he speak to me in my own language
; he very good to me ; then brought me
to you."

And are you content to stay in our quiet
house ? ''

Yes, missed, I like it much ; you all very
good ; like to be in same house with daughter of
old master ! I will serve her well, and make her
many nice things to eat."

' I wish you would make me some helwa ; I

like it very much, and currie. I have not tasted
currie for a long time."

'' I can make them good  very good."

Very well, Bhoodhoo. Is it not dark and
cold in this country ? "

It makes more cold and black to have no
pice and to be with strangers. You not stranger
to me. I mind you very little baba, and it dome
plenty good to serve the same little child,
now one beautiful mem Sahib."

I am very pleased to have you here, Bloods
If you serve me well, I shall not forget to
reward you."

*' Missed Sahib will be pleased with me, I have
no fear."

Here the conversation was interrupted by
Janet Mathews, who came quickly from the house,
letters in her hands and tears in her eyes.

Here is a letter for you Stasie from mother,
and I have one too. She says I must really go
home next week. The classes have begun, and
she is sure you have had enough of me."

Indeed, I have not," said Stasie kindly, and,
putting her arm over Janet's shoulder, turned
with her towards the open window of the

drawing - room. 'what does Mrs. Mathews
say'

Oh, she writes in excellent spirits. Ella has
got her house nearly finished, and mother has a
new boarder at the full price, and Atty is getting
on ever so much better than he ever did before ;
but I wish I could stay only a little while longer,
only I fancy mother really wants me. What does
she say in your letter, Stasie ? "

Stasie opened and looked through it.

Very much the same as in yours, dear. She
evidently does want you at home. Mary is too
young to be of much use. How glad I am that
Ella is so happy and comfortable 1 Well, Janet,
you certainly shall not go till after the school
feast, then I think I must let you return. Is
Aunt Clem in the breakfast-room \ "

'' Not yet, but I heard her calling Mary, so I
suppose breakfast is ready."

"Let us come in, then." . ;

Though London, at least that part of it which
may be termed ' courland," was a desert, Brooke
did not hurry away to the enjoyments offered
him in the north. His journey would keep fora
week he thought, especially as he received an
invitation from his friend Robinson to join in the
rustic festivities which were to be held at the
rectory, and to dine with him after. Brooke,
very willing to visit Sefton Park on any pretext,
readily accepted, and found himself thinking the
intervening days uncommonly long.

The anticipated day was dull, oppressive, and
threatening. Nevertheless, Brooke found the
little station at Sefton Park quite gay and animated,
as most of the owners of the " Houses,"
Villas," and cottages in the lower portions of
the Park had made holiday and invited guests
from town. On reaching the parsonage he found

that the young incumbent had already gone
to the scene of action, but left word that Mrs.
Harding would not probably go till later.

At Sefton House, accordingly, he found the
mistress waiting for him, and in the porch reading.
She told him the children had gone on
with Mademoiselle, as they were too full of
assisting at Stasie's table to have any patience.
And, having administered a biscuit and a glass
of sherry to her guest, they set out together.

*' Be sure you have everything ready for your
master's dinner," said Mrs. Harding to the servant
as they left the house. '' He may return
early, and you must not think of leaving the
house until he has dined. Susan shall return
about five, and then cook may come, and you as
soon as your master has been served. I fancy
there will be some dancing as late as half-past
six. I will not stay much later than %n o'clock
myself."

Very weller," returned Jane, but she did
not look well pleased.

"I see you spoil your husband as much as
ever," observed Brooke, as they walked leisurely
along under the arching boughs of the big elms.

between which the evening sunshine pierced,
lying in broad streaks of golden light across
the grassy sides and gray roadway of the
avenue.

After all these years I am not likely to
change my system," she replied. " Besides, it is,
I fear, too late ; but I wish he had consented
either to stay here and join us or dine in town."

'' Take my advice  do not return until late ;
let him take care of himself for once ; he can join
you if he likes."

But he will be so cross and say disagreeable
things, and "

Let him for once. Make a stand. It riles
me frightfully to see you enslaved in this way.
One could forgive him a good deal if he could
not bear you out of his sight ; but you say his
motive is different."

Oh," said Mrs. Harding, laughing, " I do not
flatter myself that my society gives him the
slightest pleasure, but I always try to keep the
peace."

To secure which it is necessary to be well
armed. Believe me, Livy, excessive yielding is
just as fatal to peace as excessive opposition.

Make a stand this evening ; 111 back you up
you risk nothing."

** I feel half tempted to try  but hark I
What a fearful amount of big-drumming  the
fete seems in full swing'

They had reached a sudden bend in the avenue
where it descended a steep incline, and a small
turnstile admitted to a path across a couple of
the rector's fields which led to a pretty broad
debouching on the old, gray, ivy-grown parish
church and the entrance to the rectory. The
gate stood hospitably open ; the lodge was deserted,
so Mrs. Harding and Brooke walked upto
the house unquestioned.

The approach between large old laurels was
short, and on reaching the entrance a large grassy
space, shaded by fine trees and bordered by
flower-beds, was discernible beyond a farther
angle of the comfortable homely mansion.

Here a long table, decorated with fruit and
flowers, was spread for special guests.

Guiding her companion round to the back
front of the house, Mrs. Harding paused to look
at the scene presented by a large field dotted
with one or two groups of trees, and separated

from the pleasure-ground by a sunk fence,
bridged at one side for the occasion by a temporary
planking.

To the left, near the sunk fence, was a large
tent. One side was open, displaying three long
tables, which were crowded with boys and girls
of all ages, from two years old and upwards,
while the clatter of plates, the busy hum of
voices, the various smart young ladies and
clerical-looking young men flitting to and fro
with sugar and milk, jugs of tea, and baskets full
of buns, showed that the feast was at its height.
Still a large contingent of the holiday-makers
were "playing blind - man s-bufl"" and "thread
the needless' besides occupying a couple of swings,
which were surrounded with clamorous groups.

On a broad gravelled walk before the windows
of the drawing: and dining rooms were two rows
of chairs for the dignified spectators, among
whom Mrs. Harding found a few acquaintances,
when she had presented Brooke to Mrs. Dale,
the rector's wife, who was a little querulous
about the innovations of modern fashion. " Yes,
yes, it is all very fine to see them amusing themselves
; but when we came here first no one ever

thought of such things ; nobody wanted them,
and we did just as well without them."

Leaving Mrs. Harding to play audience,
Brooke strolled away across the foot-bridge and
into the tent, where he was soon pounced upon
by Willie. " Oh, Dr. Brooke ! do come over
to our side. Come and help me  Stasie has
given me five little children to wait upon, and
they have eaten twenty-seven buns already, and
I have spilt nearly a whole cup of tea up my
sleeve ; it is so uncomfortable."

"I should think it was. Where is Miss
Yerner ? "

Just at the end, near Aunt Clem. Aunt
Clem is pouring out tea, only she doesn't do
much. She has Bhoodhoo to help her. See !
there's Bhoodhoo  no, he's gone. He has his
best things on,  his sash and his embroidered
cap,  and he looks quite grand ! "

By the time Willie had uttered all this very
volubly, they had managed to make their way
to the head of a table where Miss Stretton was
enthroned in a state of beatitude, attired in
lavender silk and black lace, with the obsequious
Bhoodhoo at her orders, and an elegant, dignified,

fresh-coloured portly divine, held in animated
and interesting conversation behind her
chair, while a large vessel of the tea-urn order,
over which she was supposed to preside, was left
neglected, its tap at the mercy of all who chose
to turn it.

' Oh, Dr. Brooke ! how do you do ? " cried
Stasie, who was holding a large jug to be replenished
from the above-mentioned vessel. *' Take
care, or I may scald you ! We are tremendously
busy.

'' So I see ! Can I help you ? "

Yes ! Just take this tea, and fill the cups
down this side. Janet and I can take the milk
and sugar."

Brooke readily obeyed, and was not a little
amused by the whole scene. The intense eagerness
of the children to cram as much cake and
swallow as many cups of tea as possible in the
time allowed, as they were fed in relays ; the
sudden demureness as soon as any of the young
ladies, Sunday-school teachers, or curates came
near, and the outburst of giggles, pinching, and
gratings directly that pressure was removed.
The grace and elegance of some of the genteel

servitors, the business-like attention of others,
notably Janet Mathews. Stasie was the busiest
there, with pleasant Avoids and kind attentions
for the old grannies, who were brought to balance
the juveniles, and who seemed to enjoy themselves
the most of the two.

At last the intensity of demand and supply
relaxed; and Stasie, pausing from her efforts,
leant against one of the tent-poles and fanned
herself, while Miss Stretton's clerical friend proposed
a hymn of thanksgiving, collected the
children, and started the tune himself in a very
fair tenor voice. His call was eagerly responded
to, a noise being always acceptable to the young,
and soon a chorus, loud and shrill, if not harmonious,
rang out, startling those conservatives,
the rooks, who showed their displeasure by sailing
away in a floating phalanx towards the quiet
country farther west.

But the claimants for tea and buns began to
diminish and sink into a mere dribble of greedy
boys seeking for more, and soon the attendants
began to clear away the debris,

"You have done your duty like a Briton,
Miss Yerner," said Brooke, who had walked round

among the holiday-makers, with Willie for a
ouide, and now returned. " You must be tired.
Come and sit down in the garden. I believe
Mrs. Harding is there."

I have not seen her all day," said Stasie.
Do you know if Mr. Harding came back early?"

No. At least I heard his wife giving very
special instructions respecting his reception when
he did return."

Stasie shrugged her shoulders expressively,
but said nothing. She looked pale and thoughtful,
and Brooke was aware of a very strong desire
to make her talk. He was dimly conscious of
some change in her, towards himself especially,
which roused his curiosity and interest.

Where is your picturesque friend, Mr. Parapet
? " he asked. " He would have been a great
addition to such a gathering as this, and it would
have been quite in his line too."

"He is not in town," she returned; 'she has
gone to pay some visits in the country. I do
not think he would care for a school feast. It
really takes a long time to understand the great
difference of idea and feeling between an Eastern
and ourselves. Hormuz certainly understands

English perfectly, and speaks it as well as I do,
I daresay more grammatically ; yet I am quite
sure when I talk to him of plans and  and the
future, and my own fancies, I speak an unknown
tongue."

I have no doubt you do. Hollo ! what's
the matter ? "  this to a wee toddler of three or
four, who, hurrying to overtake some elder playfellows,
stumbled, fell, and, finding his retreat cutoff
by strangers, set up a howl of dismay.

Poor little soul I he is frightened," said
Stasie, stooping to pick him up. " Where are
your schoolfellows ? '*

I want Sally," sobbed the child ; " I want
Sally ! "

*' Come, we will go and look for her," said
Stasie kindly ; " and if you stop crying I will
give you a nice sweetie."

The urchin listened to the voice of the charmer,
and opened his mouth. Stasie took a bonhonniere
from her pocket, from which she extracted a
morsel of thick whitish paste, and popped it into
the expectant jaws.

Is that good ? " she asked. But the consoled
one made no sign, and Stasie was about to renew

her proposition to seek for Sally, when a stout
girl in a straw hat and fiery pink ribbons came
running up.

*' Oh, Dicky ! you naughty boy ! I thought
you were lost. What are you eating ? "

Only a sweetie I comforted him with. Do
not lose sight of him ao;ain," said Stasie. ' He
was dreadfully frightened."

Oh ! thank you, miss, thank you ! Make a
bow to the lady, Dick ! " But Dick was impenetrable.
He clung to Sally, and hid his face in
her frock, as she led him away.

What a fine little savage ! " said Brooke
laughing, " though not grateful."

And the sweetie was very good. Will you
have some ? Perhaps you have tasted this kind
of thing before. It is a Baghdad or Mardin
sweet ; almost the only thing I remember in
Syria."

Brooke took a piece, and after a few seconds
replied, " No, I never met anything like this. It
is very good. Where do you get it ? "

'' Bhoodhoo makes it for me and for the little
Hardings ; they are very fond of helwa."

While talking thus they crossed the plank
VOL. II. 33

which led to the pleasure-ground, and found the
children of the neighbouring gentry arranging
themselves for a country-dance, which Mrs.
Harding was assisting to organise.

Do look at Ethel shaking out her skirts,"
said Stasie laughing ; " she is such a little
coquette."

I believe she is. She will be charming
For my part, I like coquettes ; they stir the pool
of life."

But not a real coquette," said Stasie,
opening her large eyes  '' a cold heartless
coquette ? "

*' No ; not a monster of loveliness and cruelty
such as you meet in the penny dreadful,"
returned Brooke, laughing. " I fancy a man
must be wanting in observation if a coquette
takes him in long ; but they had better make
haste and get their dance over, for the rain is
coming at last, or I am very much mistaken."

Stasie and her cavalier had strolled along
under some wide-spreading elms which shaded
the stretch of grass where the dancers were
collected, and where, almost out of sight themselves,
they could see the general company. As

she made no reply Brooke turned to look at his
companion, but at the same moment she caught
his arm and suddenly tottered against him, while
her eyes were half closed, and one hand was outstretched
as if groping in the dark.

You are ill," exclaimed Brooke, putting his
arm round her.

She was silent, and her head fell against his
breast. She was not insensible  for her lips
moved, but no sound came from them. Brooke
looked hastily round ; a seat was near, he lifted
her to it, intending to call Mrs. Harding when
he had placed her there, but, with a long shivering
sigh, she seemed to come to herself, turning
her eyes slowly on him with a puzzled look,
and trembling violently.

Still holding his arm with one hand, she
passed the other over her brow. " What is the
matter ? " she asked, in a low thick voice.

You are overdone with heat and fatigue, I
imagine," said Brooke, looking anxiously at her.
If I could leave you I would get you a glass of
water."

Don't leave me," said Stasie, still as if with
difficulty. " I am better." She sighed deeply

and pressed her hand on her heart, letting
Brooke's arm go to do so. He was quite still
and silent, watching her while she slowly tried
to untie the lace handkerchief round her throat ;
gradually the pallor of her face grew a little less
death-like, and again she sighed as if oppressed ;
but she was now quite herself, though she spoke
slowly and her voice sounded weak.

What could it have been ? " she asked, with
a wondering look at her companion. "I was
not so very tired or overcome with heat ; and I
am always well. I never had anything the
matter with me. When the Mathews children
had measles and scarlatina I never took either,
though I helped to nurse them."

 Some slight changes in your system of life,
your diet  it is hard to say what without some
examination might cause such an attack," said
Brooke, who saw she was a little alarmed ; indigestion
might have such results."

'' I have not eaten much to-day," replied
Stasie. " It was a horrible feeling ; every thing
seemed suddenly to grow so indistinct, as if
waving to and fro. I felt that for a minute or
two, and then my heart beat as if it would burst ;

it was horrible." She paused. " There ; I am
much better, and I will not think any more
about it, but I will find Aunt Clem. I should
like to go home."

Wait," said Brooke, who was more impressed
by Stasie's sudden seizure than he wished
her to perceive. '' Don't try to walk just yet ;
you will be all right in a few minutes. I can
see Miss Stretton  away there by the house;
she is in deep conversation with the rector. I
can bring her to you in a moment."

' I would rather not, thank you; she would
make a dreadful fuss. I am nearly well, and I
shall just steal away by myself; then you can
tell Mrs. Harding."

You shall not walk home alone," said
Brooke decidedly. "" I will go with you."

Very well," replied Stasie quietly ; " but
when I reach home I shall find no one in the
house. We had better tell Mrs. Harding."

Brooke was conscious of a strong desire to
take charge of her himself away from all interference.


The magic of contact, the unconscious grace
of her attitude as she leant helplessly against

him, the natural fear with which she tried to
keep him beside her all seemed to give sudden
life to the fire that had long smouldered in his
heart, almost unknown to himself. He recognised
not only that she was sweet and fair,  a
most excellent specimen of youthful womanhood.
but that she had for him the subtile mysterious
individual charm, which made her the one thing
needful to his life. All this came to him in a
flash of instantaneous revelation, and he as instantly
strove to master the impression, smiling
in his own mind at such boyish folly.

But this swift wave of sensation passing over
the electric " chain with which we are darkly
bound" made no difference in his quiet grave
kindliness of manner. " Shall I bring Mrs.
Harding to you ? "

Oh, no ! I can walk to her quite well, and
presently I will ask Mary  one of our servants  -
to come back and stay with me."

'' I will go with you to your house," replied
Brooke ; " and let me beg of you. Miss Yerner, to
take medical advice ; some very slight remedial
measure may save you from a repetition."

"Oh, yes! I will see Dr. Hunter," interrupted

Stasie, hastily, as if she feared to allow
him to finish his sentence. " He is such a nice
dear old man ; he has done Janet so much good."

Don't be afraid ; I shall not insist upon prescribing
for you," said Brooke, smiling.

** Oh, I did not mean ihat exclaimed Stasie,
now speaking in her natural voice. *' You are
having your holiday, and it would be too bad to
make you work;" and she coloured up, looking
quite like herself.

Ah ! Miss Yerner, that is all very well, but
you evidently have no faith in my skill."

*' I trust I shall not want much of any one's
skill. I feel so much better that I am already
ashamed of the fuss I made," looking shyly into
Brooke's eyes.

' You were a little frightened. Eh, Miss
Yerner ? but I don't think you made much fuss."

*' I am all right now, at any rate," cried
Stasie. " I begin to forget I felt so ill."

Do not forget to consult your favourite
doctor however. Are you quite equal to go and
look for Mrs. Harding ? "

*' Oh ! quite, quite ; but I do hope I shall not
feel that horrible sensation again."

I daresay a little care will prevent its
return," said Brooke cheerfully. " Are you
sure you feel equal to walking ? "

Yes, quite sure, though I feel a little dazed
and giddy." She rose as she spoke, and walked
steadily, though slowly, back to the house, while
Brooke watched her with a new interest.

' Where have you been, Stasie ; and what is
the matter, dear ? You look ill."

Stasie gave a slight description of her faintness,
and said she would like to return home.

''I will go with you," said Mrs. Harding.
'' I have had enough of these, and the children
are quite safe with Mademoiselle. I must tell
Miss Stretton, however."

The school feast had brought Miss Stretton
nothing but unalloyed pleasure. She had been
treated with the utmost consideration ; dignified
divines had bestowed much conversation upon
her, she had been given a seat among the magnates
of the neighbourhood, while she saw many
of her acquaintances from the park wandering
unheeded among the promiscuous multitude.
All these privileges disposed her to remain where
she was, though on hearing Mrs. Harding's
account of Stasie's indisposition she immediately
proposed to accompany her niece home. It
was not difficult, however, to convince her that
she had better stay where she was, as Mrs. Harding
wished to leave on her own account, and it
would be unkind to take Janet away in the height
of her enjoyment; moreover, the shades of night
would soon be closing, and then aU must retire.

The Rev. St. Holm Robinson, disentangling
himself from a group of the younger children,
whom he was assisting to play oranges and
lemons, came up hastily to beg Miss Stretton
not to leave, as some hymns were to be sung
before the party broke up, which he thought
would please her. He was much concerned to
hear Miss Yerner had been so unwell. It was
such a pity she was obliged to go, etc. " I shall
be at the parsonage by seven o'clock," he said
earnestly, aside to Brooke. 'you will wait if
you arrive before me, and there is to be a train
as late as nine-thirty this evening, so we can
have a quiet talk."

Brooke assented, and then hastened to overtake
Stasie and Mrs. Harding, who were walking
slowly towards home across the fields.

Stasie, always affirming that she felt quite
well, quite herself, was very quiet and silent,
while Mrs. Harding and her cousin talked pleasantly
on many topics, the latter watching the
fair invalid from time to time with keen but unobtrusive
attention.

On approaching Sefton House they perceived
Mr. Harding and another gentleman strolling

to and fro in the garden as they enjoyed their
cigars.

"Who can Mr. Harding have brought with
him?" exclaimed Mrs. Harding. "It is most
unusual for him to find unexpected guests."

"I think' said Stasie, raising her head, "it
looks like young Mr. Pearson."

"It cannot be," said Mrs. Harding greatly
surprised. But further speech was cut short by
Mr. Harding and his companion advancing to
meet them, when Stasie's conjecture proved to
be right.

Ah ! here you are ; I scarcely expected you
so soon," cried Mr. Harding, who seemed to be
in an excellent humour. " It is fortunate I came
home in good time, or our friend here, Mr. Pearson,
would have had his ride for nothing."

Upon this salutations were exchanged. Young
Pearson was looking bright and devonshire. He
was admirably dressed. A mixture of boyish
frank gaiety and soldierly a ijlomh gave a charm
to his manner, and made him a general favourite.

Stasie was quite pleased , to see him. He
brought an atmosphere of healthy joyous youth
with him that was peculiarly acceptable to her.

Did you ride all the way from London ? "
she asked, when, having shaken hands with Mrs.
Harding, he passed on to her.

"Oh, no. I came over from Hounslow. Weare
quartered there, about five or six miles off.
I only returned last Saturday. I have been
staying with my people in the Highlands  nice
place  rather sorry to leave, though it is great
luck to be sent to Hounslow."

"Is it ? " said Stasie ; but Mr. Pearson was
shaking hands with Brooke, and Mr. Harding
was saying, " I suppose you are glad enough to
get away from the row ; we could hear the big
drum here. Where are Miss Stretton and the
children ? "

Mrs. Harding explained that Stasie had been
overcome by the oppressiveness of the weather,
by the heat of the tent, or the fatigue of helping
so many, and felt faint, so faint that had not Dr.
Brooke been beside her she would have fallen.

Ha ! that was well managed, Stasie," cried
Mr. Harding with rough jocularity, " to have the
doctor beside you. A strapping fellow too, able
to hold you up."

Oh, I did not want much holding up," she

returned wearily. "The feeling soon passed
away ; but I should like to lie down and rest
now."

"Will you come to my room then?" asked
Mrs. Harding.

No, dear, thank you, I should like to go
home. Aunt Clem said she would send Mary
back."

''Oh, nonsense," said Mr. Harding. 'you
are all right now. You stay and dine. Mr.
Pearson has promised to wait for dinner. I
suppose Madame has something for us to eat ?
and," with a little hesitation, " Dr. Brooke, I
hope you will stay also."

Thank you, I am engaged to Mr. Robinson."

And indeed I had better go home," said
Stasie. "I do not feel as if I could speak a
word ; you will be better without me."

That I cannot believe," said Pearson with a
bow.

Now, Stasie, I'd give long odds that if the
doctor stayed you would," cried Mr. Harding.
Come, doctor, change your mind, and persuade
your patient to do likewise."

Stasie was very vexed at this rude speech,

but though still feeling dazed, she collected
sufficiently to say, ' I should be very pleased to
dine with Dr. Brooke and all of you, but I do
not feel equal to it."

I am so sorry. Miss Yerner," said Mr. Pearson.
"You ought not to have overdone it,
attending to those brats. If j-ou will allow me
to call, I will ride over the day after tomorrow
to ask how you are going on."

I will not press you, Stasie," said Mrs.
Harding, " for you would be better lying down
in the dark ; but I will walk with you to your
house."

The whole party therefore moved on, Stasie
between Mrs. Harding and Pearson, and Dr.
Brooke with Mr. Harding. "Have a cigar,
doctor % " he asked after a pause, a question he
rarely put, giving not being one of his weaknesses.
Brooke accepted and struck a light in
silence. '* I never was so surprised," continued
Harding, " as when young Pearson turned up
just now. By George I I could hardly make
him out. He seems to have taken a sudden
liking to Mrs. Harding and myself. Lord 1
doctor, it is easy to see his little game ; he is

going in for the heiress. It will be as good as a
play to see Kharapet's face when he comes back.
Of course I am disposed to be on Kharapet's
side ; but that young Pearson would be a very
suitable match, good-looking, well off (r)iay be
rich if the general does not go into too many
companies), young, and taking. I don't think
Kharapet would have a chance with him, only
Stasie Yerner has her crotchets, and is obstinate,
devilish obstinate about them. I do think Parapet
is really far gone about her, independent
of the money."

I fancy your Eastern friend might overlook
the charms, or want of charms in a bride, provided
he secured the needful ! "

You are right ! He would have married a
Hottentot venus, but finding a deuced handsome
girl attached to the cash made him wild to
secure both. I don't mean to say that he hasn't
a chance, but I am inclined to think it isn't
much of a one."

Brooke smoked for a few moments in silence,
a whole regiment of unwelcome ideas having
been evoked by Mr. Harding's remarks. Parapet
had, he felt sure, no chance with a girl like

Stasie Werner, though he was capable of trying
every means, honest or dishonest, to obtain
her and hers ; but the gay, gallant young lancer
might take any girl's fancy. Brooke's heart
sank while he looked after the graceful 
soldierly figure, as he could not have dreamed
it would when he started that morning. What
a doubtful good money was to a girl ! Here
were a set of sharpers, or little better, trying to
snap up a diamond of purest water for the sake
of the setting.

I presume," he said at last, impelled by an
irresistible desire to draw Mr. Harding into
further talk on this interesting topic. " I presume
you would prefer th-e young lady to marry
an Englishman."

I don't know," replied Harding cautiously.
*' Kharapet is not a bad fellow, and quite Euro-praised.
He is desperate fond of her, and he
will be sure to take care of her property. He
looks on it already as his own, for if Stasie were
out of the way of course it would be. He will
be in a devil of a temper if she won't marry him,
and she might do worse. He is hand and glove
with the swells. He ain't bad-looking. Once

married, I suppose one man is about as good as
another."

** I don't suppose you would like your wife to
take that view of the subject ?"

My wife. Oh ! that's another matter ! She
knows I picked her out for herself alone when
I might have had a fortune, I dare say, for the
asking. She oiiglit to think me Al, but she and
Stasie are a pair, they both have crotchets. I
never thought two women would stick so close
to each other."

Ah ! possibly there are depths in feminine
nature you have not fathomed."

"Very likely," returned Harding with a
vaoue irritating' sense of being; sneered at. "I
have had other fish to fry, and leave it to parsons
and doctors, who find it pay probably to sound
the depths you talk about ! "

Perceiving that his companion was nettled,
Dr. Brooke laughed good-humouredly. " Yes, I
dare say we find our account in ministering to
the delicate maladies of our fair patients."

Well, what a heap of humbug goes to grease
the wheels of every profession. By George ! I
begin to think trade is the honestest of the lot."

VOL. II. 34

*' It has great capabilities for the other thing,
however," returned Brooke.

Perhaps so  perhaps so," said Harding carelessly
; but Mrs. Harding had now paused at the
gate of Limeville, and Stasie was bidding Mr.
Pearson good-evening.

*' Good-bye, Jim," said Mrs. Harding to her
cousin. I am going in with Stasie, and shall not
see you again. Come back soon."

I shall," he returned. " I shall come tomorrow
to ask how Miss Werner goes on. I
depend on yo%i to call in the local doctor ; a
seizure of this kind may be nothing, and may
indicate the necessity for careful treatment.
Besides, I am going to Scotland for a week or
two on Thursday. I am half sorry I said I
would go."

Oh ! thank you ! " exclaimed Stasie. " I
am quite well; there is nothing really the matter
with me ! only that tent was so hot and airless."

'' You ought not to be so careless of yourself,
Miss Yerner!" said the lancer sagely. "Good
people are scarce ; it would not be so easy to
replace you !"

In short, when Nature moulded me, she

broke the die, eh, Mr. Pearson ? " said Stasie,
lauohincy.

He murmured a reply which Brooke did not
hear, and then with a general good-night Statement
into the house.

"You will attend to what I say, will you
not V were Brooke's last words to his cousin, ashe
turned and walked on to St. Monica's parsonage.


But the parson had not yet arrived, so the
severe Amazonian female, who had received
Brooke a few hours before, ushered him into a
nondescript apartment  half study, half 
 not uncomfortable though poorly
furnished. A horse-hair sofa was embellished
by a couple of splendidly-embroidered luxurious-looking
velvet and satin cushions, every chair
had a more or less elaborately-worked antimacassar;
and before the fireplace stretched a
fender-stool, elegantly adorned with a pattern of
blue and white beads on a crimson cloth ground.
The window-curtains of chintz were scanty, buta
bright though small fire, and a few autumnal
flowers in a glass on the chimney-piece, gave a
pleasant aspect to the room. The

though, oppressive, was damp, and the long
threatening rain had begun to fall in a fine
misty drizzle.

'' If you'll take a seat, sir, my master will be
here very soon. Daylight is nearly over, and
they can't keep it up much longer. I'll light the
gas if you like."

'' No, thank you ; there is no need," returned
Brooke, throwing himself into a chair, for he felt
weary  unaccountably weary. It was quite true,
as he had said to Mrs. Harding, he was sorry he had
promised to go to Scotland. He would much
rather have migrated to Sefton Park to watch 
what 1 He scarcely knew. The growth of an
attachment which was in every way probable,
suitable, and natural, between Stasie and young
Pearson ? Why did the idea haunt him ? Was
it possible that this young half-educated schoolgirl
had so impressed herself on his fancy,  his
imagination, his heart,  that it gave him a keen
sense of annoyance to contemplate her probable
marriage with another ? He fell into a kind of
nightmare-like reverie, from which he was roused
by the entrance of his friend.

Ah, Brooke, have you been sitting here long

in the dusk ? I was obliged to stay to the last. It's
all over now, and I'm not sorry. I am dead beat.
Everything has gone off very well, but it's hardwork
" (hunting about for the matches). ' The
fattest, heaviest girls all insisted on swinging, and
I had to swing them ; and the little ones had a
way of falling off the merry-go-rounds quite wonderful
; my back ached picking them up. One
little fellow nearly broke his arm, and his mother
abused me vehemently. Come, you will like to
wash your hands. I have a spacious house, but
only four rooms furnished ; in fact the first steps
in life are very costly. I was fortunate, however,
to attain my present position so early. It is a
great thing to have a church of one's own ; and
though the rector, Mr. Dale, is quite old-fashioned
in his ideas, he is glad of my help, and not averse
to my influence, especially as I am quite independent
of him."

And the young clergyman talked on as he
conducted Brooke to his room, which had a bare
barrack-like aspect. He was quite excited by the
unusual pleasure of having a guest, and that guest
his old and favourite schoolfellow.

The dinner will be quite ready, sir, in twenty

minutes," said the grim female before mentioned,
her head appearing above the kitchen stair. " I
would not put down the steak till you were safe
in the house."

Oh thank you, Mrs. Harris," said Kobinson
deferentially ; " whenever you are ready we are."
(To Brooke) '* Most excellent person that cook of
mine ; my aunt, Mrs. Williams, placed her with
me  she is quite invaluable, but a little short
tempered."

Then the Mr. Williams, who appears to be the
presiding genius of Sefton Park, is some relation
of yours ?  asked Brooke, when they returned to
the study.

*' Yes, he is my cousin. His mother was my
father's eldest sister. She has been really a very
good friend to me. She is very well off, and naturally
has a good deal of influence with her son, so
she made him speak to the directors, and he got me
this church. The emoluments are small, but they
have given me this house, which is really quite a
mansion ; it is not as thoroughly well built as
might be wished, and I am obliged to keep it in
repair."

I fancy they get nearly as much out of you

as they give," said Brooke. " That cousin of
yours evidently wishes to catch all the floating
talent he can, and attach it to his rising colony.
He wanted me to settle here and create a practice."

Did he ? " cried Robinson, laughing. I am
afraid that would have been but a poor look-out.
It is a most healthy locality and scarcely needs a
physician ; now, healthy or not, a " curer of souls "
is always needed, so there is more room for me
than for you, Brooke."

I cannot say Sefton Park has much temptation
for me ; indeed, I am strongly inclined to
return to my regiment."

I daresay life is pleasant enough there ; yet
if you return you will never be anything else buta
military surgeon."

True "

The dinner's ready," said, or rather snapped,
Mrs. Harris, and Brooke did not finish his sentence.
He followed his host into a very small
room behind the study, which boasted little more
than a table and chairs.

** You see I should feel quite lost in the real
dining-room," said the young clergyman ; " twenty
people could dine there comfortably, and I often

dine out, especially in summer when the Hardings
are here ; and this year Miss Stretton and Miss
Werner, with Mr. Kharapet coming to and fro,
make it quite lively."

The dinner, though very simple, was remarkably
well cooked and served. Brooke was inwardly
amused at the extreme politeness of the incumbent
to his handmaid  he seemed quite grateful to her
for cooking the dinner and putting it on the table,
and anything like an order was generally prefaced
with " Don't you think, Mrs. Harris," etc. etc.

When the meal was over and they returned to
the study, the host said, '' I know you would like
a cigar  pray don't mind smoking ; you will excuse
me, it does not suit my cloth to be altogether
as other men, but " he paused.

Come, Robinson, you don't mean to say
that because you are a parson you must never
indulge in a weed ? Why, it is a most harmless
bit of worldliness."

"Yes, I know; but you see my congregation
have rather strict ideas, and  would you mind
closing the shutters, Mrs. Harris ?" as that individual
appeared with the tea-tray. ' ' I daresay the
Morrison are watching our shadows on the blind."

There are three faces flat agen the windy-panes
opposite," remarked Mrs. Harris in a deep,
harsh, solemn voice, as she drew up the blind to
fasten the latch.

Well, well, shut them out," said Robinson.
*' Eeally it is rather hard to have the inconveniences
of town and country both."

You may say so," said Mrs. Harris emphatically,
as she retired.

After all," said Brooke, having lit his cisfar,
I am not sure that Sefton Park is so healthy as
to suit every one. Miss Yerner, for instance, 
she seemed to me when I first met her the incarnation
of sound health, and I do not imagine she
would have nearly fainted as she did to-day had
she not been in a locality that in some way depressed
her system. I don't understand it."

*' Was she really almost gone ?"

Very nearly. She soon recovered, but "

Brooke paused.

She did a great deal both in preparing for
the feast and telling at it. It may have been
over fatigue ; she is always very good in helping,
whether the poor or the sick, and I do not fancy
she has much command of money, but she certainly

has not a devotional spirit. She never
comes to early service or any of the week-day
services. Her aunt again has a great deal of
piety ; she would gladly attend all our services,
but she is physically unequal to the exertion at
that hour of the morning."

"Oh, indeed I"

' Mr. Kharapet, their great friend, is really a
very interesting fellow. He is most anxious to
inform himself as to the doctrines and practice of
the Church of England. He is learned, too, in
his way, and has more than once passed the night
down here at Miss Stretton's in order to attend
matins at seven o'clock. He always puts up at
Miss Stretton's ; he is her prime councillor."

I know that," said Brooke, taking the cigar
from his lips, and letting the blue smoke curl
upwards. '' Now tell me, Eobby, have you seen
much of this man, and what do you think of him,
apart from his taste for your morning service ?"

I understand the sneer, Brooke," said the
young clergyman good-humouredly. " Well, sofar
as I have been able to observe, I think he is a
very worthy man, anxious to ascertain the truth,
but cautious, and not too ready to jump to a conclusion.

I have found it interesting' to discuss
some portions of the Old Testament with him.
He knows Hebrew, and is of course at home in
Syriac. He has certainly thrown new light upon
some passages in the Prophet Isaiah."

"Then, you think him a sincere believer V

'' Yes, I do," with hesitation. " He says little
about his beliefs or opinions, but he is anxious to be
instructed in Anglican doctrine, and would gladly
see some link established between the Nestorian
and our own Church."

He is a prime favourite with the Saintsbury
set."

I know ! " cried Mr. Robinson eagerly. "They
got hold of him first. I cannot help imagining
that had he fallen in with the orthodox party
he would have been more favourably impressed.
He is much pleased by the service even in that
temporary metal erection."

Suppose, Eobby, you had a sister," began
Brooke after a pause.

I have," returned his friend.

Well, would you let your sister marry
Kharapet?"

*' I don't think I should object. He always

has been a Christian, has been duly baptized,
and is, I believe, very respectable,  nay, estimable.
His manners are excellent ; he is received
into the best society, and will, I am
inclined to think, develop into a sound churchman."


Brooke, with his little finger, flicked the ash
contemptuously off his cigar. " I suppose you
may be right. I know nothing against the man,
but I have an invincible objection to him. I believe
him to be  well, there is no use in airing
my prejudices. Come, tell me something about
yourself and your prospects, old fellow. You are
infinitely too good to be pottering about here
among a lot of pious women, young and old.
You ought to have more stirring work to do."

I am satisfied," said Robinson with a slight
sigh. "I am most worthily employed when
doing the work given to me with all my might."

That is sound doctrine at any rates' returned
Brooke thoughtfully, and the old acquaintances
began to talk of past experiences and future
hopes, time passing so rapidly that Brooke very
nearly lost his train.

Mrs. Harding was faithful to her promise, and
sent for the local doctor, more in obedience to
Brooke's injunction than from any apprehensions
of her own. It was not to be wondered at that
heat and fatigue together had been too much for
Stasie ; and as she had hitherto been always
perfectly well, any little indisposition was unlooked
for and startling.

Stasie herself, though declaring she was quite
right, and felt no remnant of weakness, was
evidently not averse to see Dr. Hunter, whose
advice had, she thought, already done Janet
Mathews so much good.

Miss Stretton was much exercised respecting
her niece. She was deeply concerned and
warmly sympathetic, but, though she would
have angrily denied the imputation, if anything
could have made her happier than she was at

present, it would have been the necessity, or
even the imaginary necessity, of dosing, watching,
regulating, and coddling Stasie on the plea
of delicate health.

The doctor's verdict, however, was comforting.
There isn't much the matter, Miss Yerner 
pulse a little irregular, and general condition low.
We must build you up. Did not sleep very well
last night, you say ? Ha ! you generally sleep
sound, I presume ? "

'' Oh yes ! I never wake from the time I lay
my head on the pillow till Susan rouses me ; but
the last three or four nights I have woke up
often, though I did not stay awake."

"Debility, nothing but debility. We will
soon set you right. A simple tonic  a glass of
port wine every morning about eleven ; a small
basin of strong beef-tea, hot or cold as you like,
before going to bed ; light, nourishing diet  fish,
game, underdone chop or steak, milk-pudding,
not much vegetable, and no potatoes  you will
observe, no potatoes."

I am particularly fond of potatoes," urged
Stasie.

'' Renounce them for the present, my dear

young lady. I will send up the tonic directly.
Follow my directions as to diet, and you will
soon be out of my hands."

Very well," replied Stasie good-humouredly.
You are going to lose one patient as soon as
you gain another. Miss Mathews returns home,
I am sorry to say, tomorrow."

The good old doctor, who was proud of his
young patient's rapid improvement, which he
considered due to his own skill more than to
such accidents as change of air and congenial
society, expressed proper regret, and hopes of
seeing her again ere long, and was going to take
leave when Miss Stretton exclaimed  "Before
you go, doctor, I must really consult you about
this mysterious pain in my left arm. It commences
generally about the elbow, slowly
ascends, increasing in torture every moment,
passes through the shoulder, and culminates in
my ear ! "

Very remarkable," said the doctor gravely.

'' Perhaps you will just step into the diningroom
and hear a more detailed account of the
symptoms."

Certainly, madam."

I wonder auntie has not complained before,"
said Stasie to Janet, who had come in from the
garden to say good-bye to the doctor. '' She must
have suffered a great deal from what she says."

Oh, I heard her complain two or three times,
but I did not mind much."

' She is rather funny about her complaints,
yet I daresay she does suffer, poor soul. She has
not had a very smooth life."

Perhaps not ; it is pretty smooth now."

I hope so."

Though Stasie said she felt quite herself, she
was aware of a weary, depressed sensation, against
which she struggled earnestly, telling herself it
was but laziness and a tendency to self-indulgence.


She therefore busied herself in assisting Janet
to pack up her belongings, adding some useful
gifts to that young lady's possessions.

Late in the afternoon Brooke appeared with
Mrs. Harding, and made very particular inquiries
as to Stasie's condition. Her report seemed to
satisfy him, and after a short visit he departed,
leaving an impression on Stasie that he was unusually
silent and preoccupied.

Of course I shall find you here on my return
from Scotland," he said, as he rose to take leave.

'' Oh yes," replied Stasie. " I suppose we shall
stay far into the winter, but not the whole of it.
I want to ofo to town before Christmas : it will
be very dull when Mrs. Harding leaves."

We shall not leave just yet," said that lady.
*' Mr. Harding seems disposed to stay till November."


I hope to find you more blooming than ever
on my return," said Brooke, holding out his
hand to Stasie. " So au revoir  not good-bye."

Alt revoir" replied Stasie pleasantly.

Will you walk with me to the station ? "
asked Brooke of his cousin.

'' Part of the way, at any rate," she returned.

They went away together, and Stasie stood on
the doorsteps, where she had accompanied her
friend, looking after them somewhat wistfully.
She was conscious of a certain degree of sadness,
of a sense of being left alone. Why had not Mrs.
Harding asked her too to walk to the station ?
When should she see Brooke again ? He talked
of returning, but that was a mere chance.

She started at the consciousness of her own
VOL. II. 35

regret. This would not do. She ought to be
ashamed of herself for thinking with regret about
a man who, however nice and good, did not
care one straw about her ; she must not be weak
and sentimental ; she must impress him with the
idea of her friendly indifference.

In this mood she gladly welcomed Mr. Robinson
and Captain Pearson, both of whom called
to inquire for her, and spent an hour playing
croquet with Janet and herself.

It was sunset when they left, and Stasie,
throwing a shawl round her, went out to meet
Mrs. Harding, who was passing with the children,
whom she had met at the station. " Are you
quite well ? " she asked, " you look white and
tired."

Yes, I am tired," she said hastily ; '' but I
must not stop, Stasie. Tell Janet to come up
and say good-bye to morrow morning ! " and she
pressed on.

May I never put my head in such a yoke I"
thought Stasie, as she looked after her for a
minute, and then turned to go in, when Bhoodhoo
came from behind some rose bushes where he had
been weeding.

He made a low salaam, raising his right hand
to his brow, with the dignified humility of an
Eastern.

The missed Sahib is well again ? " he said in
his soft broken English ; " I so sorry, so frightened
to hear she was sick."

' Thank you, Bhoodhoo, I am quite right today.
I suppose I was over-tired. It was a nice
treat for the children, was it not ? You were a
great help, I am sure," she added kindly.

The man again salaried and paused. '' The
missed Sahib is very good to Bhoodhoo  too
good ! It was nice, very nice feast ; pleasant to
see little babas eat and run about. If Kharapet
Sahib were there, he very much pleased  he very
kind good gentleman."

Yes, he is very good to you ; and, Bhoodhoo,
you made me an excellent currie to-day. / like
currie, though no one else does ! "

Yes, missed, I eat up what missed left ;
de cook and Mary say it is not good ; foolish
women."

I will tell you what you shall do for us,"
said Stasie ; '' I will ask Mr. and Mrs. Harding,
and you shall cook us an Eastern dinner."

The man's eyes sparkled. He was an artist
in his way. '' I sure to please the mem Sahib
and Pourra Sahib. I can make good dinner 
very good  with English dishes too. If missed
Sahib will listen to me she will make me cook ;
woman cook no good ; she know nothing ; she
use butter like that "  holding one hand about
half a yard above the other, and "meat like
that," putting them some two feet apart ; she
is good herself, but she know no better ; let me
be cook, and missed will see she can eat well and
not use half as much."

You must talk of all that to Miss Stretton,"
said Stasie, smiling ; " I do not interfere."

Ah, but the missed Sahib will let me speak ;
she not angry ? "

'' Oh, no ; but how will Susan like to be superseded
 to have her place taken ? " she added,
seeing that Bhoodhoo did not quite take in her
meaning.

She well pleased ; does not like standing
by fire ; make her hot and red," said the man a
little eagerly ; " and I do not mind working a
little in garden for missed, but that is not my
work in my own country ; another man make

garden, but I have crossed the black water, and
can do many things."

Very Avell, Bhoodhoo, speak to Miss Stretton
if you like."

Thank you, missed." The man stopped suddenly,
as if keeping back some words, and Stasie
left him still standing, as she walked into the
house.

The next day was a sorry one to Janet, who
had deeply enjoyed the many pleasures and, as
it seemed to her, the luxuries of Sefton Park.
Still, going back was not without its compensations.
She was pleased to see "mother" again,
and, if lessons had not loomed in the near
horizon, would have been less depressed.

Miss Stretton bore the separation with much
equanimity. She was given to a slightly unreasonable
jealousy of " those Mathews " and
their claims upon Stasie. Her consciousness of
her niece's honest, faithful affection for her early
friends forced her to be very prudent in her
expressions respecting them, which did not
diminish the mental virus.

Now that Janet's visit was fairly over, she

thought she would have Stasie all to herself, and
see what could be done to further Kharapet's
views. For her own part she would not have
been sorry if Kharapet had betaken himself to
his native land, and left her to enjoy the unexpected
good fortune which had befallen her. But
the Syrian gentleman had managed so to impress
upon her an idea of his power, to serve or to
injure her, that she never dreamed of disobeying
him. Besides, he had managed to stir the last
embers of expiring romance yet living in her
somewhat starved imagination, and she really
sympathised with what she considered his true
and devoted attachment to Stasie. Miss Stretton
was heartily on his side, and a little inclined to
be peevish with her niece for not reciprocating
his passion. Now that Janet was going away,
she would have more opportunity of talking confidentially
with, and influencing, Stasie. " Those
Mathews" being somehow or other inimical in
their effect, filling the dear child's head with
silly notions of her own independence.

Miss Stretton was therefore most amiable and
thoughtful in her provision for Janet's journey,
and threw herself so heartily into the packing-up

of some dainties in the shape of game and preserves,
etc., for Mrs. Mathews, that Stasie, who
vibrated with unerring responsiveness to the
lightest discordant or sympathetic touch, was
quite drawn to her aunt.

    

Though scarcely a companion, yet Janet
Mathews was a loss to Stasie.

She brought an atmosphere of youthful,
healthy life into the quiet house. Stasie missed
her noisy ascents and descents of the stairs, the
necessity of calling out, ''Do shut the door, Janet,"
followed by a reckless slam ; she also missed
the demands on her time and patience  she
now had nothing to do but to sit down and read
or study music, or please herself in any way she
liked. She was not discontented, nor was she content.
But she did not sit down and indulge in
morbid fancies, she went out and in, and tried
to speak French with Mademoiselle, to help Mrs.
Harding with her needlework (for Mr. Harding
expected his children to be smart, at the smallest
possible cost), to help Mr. Kobinson with the
poor, and make Aunt Clem consent to entertain
him and Mr. and Mrs. Harding at dinner. This

was a tremendous exertion, but a great success ;
Boodhoo covered Himself with honour, and fixed
his position as a " cordonbleu."

Mr. Harding, who was in the highest good
humour, as usual with him when eating and
drinking at other people's expense, declared that
Boodhoo must come and show his cook how to
boil rice, for it was an extraordinary fact that no
Englishwoman could accomplish that simple
operation successfully.

Having found his way to Sefton Park, Mr.
Pearson soon became familiar with the road,
sometimes making a visit to Mrs. Harding, his
ostensible motive, but often coming direct to
Limeville with a book, or some original composition
of the regimental bandmaster's for Miss
Werner to try over, or, in short, some mature
rendering of 'ran apple or a cherry, or a new
invented game " of the old ballad.

I declare, here is that Mr. Pearson again,"
cried Miss Stretton the day after their dinner
party, " and I have not changed my dress  so
early too ! I suppose he expects luncheon !
Stasie, dear, I must run away  you do not
mind ! "

Not in the least ! but, auntie, you need not
run away. Your wrapper is very pretty ; you
look quite nice."

But Miss Stretton was gone ! and enter Mr.
Pearson, slight, graceful, in a dark admirably-fitting
shooting-jacket, perfectly attired at all
points, moustaches carefully trimmed, bright
laughing eyes, mien of a conqueror, perfectly,
yet pleasantly, pleased with himself.

Hope you will forgive me for calling so early.
Miss Werner ? "

I am glad to see you," said Stasie simply
and truthfully.

The fact is," resumed Mr. Pearson " I am on
duty to-day and must return early. To-morrow
I am going down to Southsea for a day or two,
so you see I cannot come again till next week."

"Do not apologise," returned Stasie, laughing.

You are very good. Miss Werner," settling
himself comfortably into a deep armchair.
What have you been doing since I saw you "?
How is the parson ? dangerous fellows these
parsons ! "

Are they ? " returned Stasie, opening her
work-basket and taking out a little print frock

she was making for the child of a poor widow,
lier favourite 'protegee, " I don't know much
about parsons, except Mr. Kobinson, and I am
very fond of him /"

*' Poor Robinson ! It is rather annihilating
to a man when a young lady says openly, 'I am
very fond of him !'"

I do not think Mr. Robinson would mind.
I flatter myself he is very fond of me."

That is exceedingly probable," said the
gallant lancer. " I dare say you find it is a
general tendency among your friends."

'' I am not sure."

What are you making. Miss Werner ? is it 
is it  a chair-cover ? "

No, Mr. Pearson," said Stasie, laughing ;
it is a little girl's frock."

Ah ! I see  a Dorcas concern. I had a
sister who went in for that sort of thing  she
was in love with a parson then ; but I don't
think she was a first hand. The mothers complained
she didn't give the right cut ; the frocks
were not in the last fashion."

' My poor people know nothing of fashion ;
they are very thankful for anything they can get."

Well ! my sister cut the whole concern 
quarrelled with the parson, threw over the
women and babies, and married a cavalry colonel
old enough to be her father; he had been
aT\ully fast, but they are as happy as a pair of
doves, and she is never at home except when
she receives."

That was certainly a change."

I am going to stay with her for a garden
party and something else. I wish you were
coming, Miss Werner."

'' Thank you. So do I."

*' If we had only thought of it  it might have
been so easily managed. You must be awfully
dull here ! "

*' No ; not so dull as you might think. But
I do not intend to stay here always."

/ should think not ! What do you say to a
little riding ? My second charger is uncommonly
safe and steady, and I should be only too glad if
you'd try him. Do, Miss Werner! My man
could bring over the horses early of a morning,
and let them rest, and I could come later, intime
to give you a lesson (I think you said you
have never ridden). We could manage it three

times a week. In a month I am certain you would
be quite at home on horseback, Do, Miss Werner,"

It would be perfectly delicious ! " cried
Stasie, laying down her work and gazing at him
with sparkling eyes.

Mr. Pearson's said very plainly that he
thought anything shared with her would be
delicious, but his reply was cut short by the
entrance of Miss Stretton, who reappeared in all
the glories of her afternoon costume.

She was dignified, and not too gracious ; but
young Pearson was sweetly respectful. He rose
with impressment ; he drew forward a chair, he
sought for a footstool, he inquired with every
mark of interest after her health  and his reward
was that Miss Stretton said somewhat icily :
As you are so early, Mr. Pearson, perhaps you
will stay to lunch ? "

' Oh yes. Aunt Clem ! " cried Stasie, somewhat
scandalised at this inhospitable invitation.
Of course Mr. Pearson will stay to lunch ; do
you know, he is so kind as to say he will lend
me a horse and come and teach me how to ride."

Father you will have the kindness to accept
my teaching."

Ahem ! very kind indeed," said Miss
Stretton, drily.

Do you think we could manage it, auntie.
It would be so delightful, and do me so much
good, for really I have never felt quite  quite
myself since that day I fainted ; I get so dizzy,
and my heart beats sometimes as if it would
burst  only, you know, for a moment or two."

Certain horse exercise would set you up ! "
exclaimed the lancer.

My dear Stasie," with a slightly shocked
air, " an instant's reflection weill show you the
impossibility of such a scheme, unconnected as
you are by any relationship with Mr. Pearson ;
you could not ride about without a chaperon.
If Mrs. Harding could accompany you, or Mr.
Kharapet "

Kharapet ! " repeated Mr. Pearson. " By
Jove ! fancy him on horseback ! He would want
an armchair and a pair of slipper-stirrups."

Miss Stretton grew red with vexation ; Stasie
laughed good-humouredly. *' I rather think Mr.
Kharapet must know how to ride ; how else
could he get about in his country ? "

Well, he does not look like it. But, I am

sure, I have no objection if lie will get a mount
and come with us. Why won't you come yourself,
Miss Stretton ? I am sure you would look
stunning on horseback."

Miss Stretton drew herself up ; she fancied
the gay lancer was amusing himself at her expense.
Stasie gave him a private warning look,
to his great delight, as it seemed to establish an
understanding between them.

'' I wonder if Mr. Kharapet and Mr. Harding
would let me have a horse of my own ? I am
sure they might'' to Pearson.

'' I should think so."

My dear Stasie, a horse for you would involve
a second for a groom, and an infinitude of
trouble," cried Miss Stretton.

Yes, yes ; you had much better use mine.
Miss Werner ; and you must be awfully bored in
this hole "

"I do not think that is very polite, Mr.
Pearson," said Miss Stretton, bridling.

Isn't it ? I am sure I am very sorry," began
Mr. Pearson, when the sound of a bell announced
luncheon.

Miss Stretton was sorely disturbed by this
visit and daring proposition. She was afraid to
speak to Stasie, who was tolerably persevering in
her fancies ; and when she had mentioned the
matter to Mrs. Harding that lady had not seemed
at all surprised, simply remarking it would be a
great treat for Stasie.

But, my dear Mrs. Harding ! if we allow
this young man to come here constantly, the
next thing will be a proposal for my dearest
niece."

Yell, Miss Stretton, young Mr. Pearson is
quite unobjectionable ; and it is well that Stasie
should see other men than Mr. Kharapet and
Dr. Brooke, though I do not fancy she intends
to commit matrimony for some time. She wisely
wishes to see something, and enjoy something of
life before she plunges into its cares. Let us
leave her to herself, poor child ! "

Yet  alone as she is in the world, dear Mrs.
Harding  would it not be well if she were settled
safely with a kind protector, a good husbandlike
that kind and excellent Mr. Kharapet ? "

Who ? " said Mrs. Harding sharply. Then,
returning to her usual tone, she continued with

an air of indifference, " Provided the husband
was a protector, not a robber,  yes."

No more was then said, but Miss Stretton
mused over Mrs. Harding's words till she worked
herself into a virtuous rage. " She wants the
dear sweet girl for that cousin of hers," thought
Aunt Clem, " when she knows he is attached to
herself! It is too infamous! She would just
dictate everything in their house and out of it !
I shall never forget the tone of this voice the day
I overheard them talking. I don't suppose it is
anything more than one of your sentimental
friendships, that is half a love affair, still it is
very reprehensible ; and I daresay, if we knew
but all, we would find poor Mr. Harding has
enough to put up with ! I am sure I always
find him frank and friendly."

The worst suspicions gathered darkly and unresisted
before the spinster's sharpened vision,
giving her ample food for reflection, which was
not without a degree of pleasurable excitement.

Some days passed, however, and the obnoxious
lancer did not make his appearance. Miss Stratton's
uneasiness became therefore less keen ; but
her anxiety for Mr. Kharapet's return increased ;

it was tiresome of him to stay away so long, and
foolish too. Certainly Stasie was more settled
and stay-at-home the last few days, not always
flying after Mrs. Harding. It was as well she
should learn to do without her !

These reflections had been mingling with and
somewhat marring Miss Stretton's efforts to makeup
the week's accounts, always a severe trial to
her temper ; for Aunt Clem was an indifferent
financier, and found it extremely difficult to keep
within any given sum, while she firmly believed
that she owed it to herself to make some private
savings from the house allowance. At present,
however, things went better, and Bhoodhoo's
administration was decidedly economical.

At length she put away her books and went
into the drawing-room, where the lamp was lit
and the night shut out, for the evening meal was
over.

She found Stasie lying on the sofa, a light
shawl round her shoulders, and a big book in her
hand.

''My dear, it is something wonderful to see
you lying down ! Don't you feel well ? "

Not exactly. I felt very weary and dizzy
VOL. II. 36

all yesterday and to-day. I suppose it is the
autumn. They say that spring and autumn are
trying. This evening I am chill and tired, so I
lay down." ;

My darling Stasie, I feel quite uneasy. You
inst see Dr. Hunter tomorrow."

Nonsense, auntie ! I am not bad enough for
that. I shall be all right tomorrow. I hate
taking medicine, and those bottles of his have
not done one bit of good."

Still, my dear, if you are not better tomorrow,
I must call in Dr. Hunter."

Very well. Aunt Clem ; I shall be much
better tomorrow."

I trust you will, my love," said Aunt Clem,
roaming rather aimlessly about the room. I
wonder where Mary can have put my work ? I
know I laid it on that little table by the window
before tea, and I had just two or three sprigs to
finish of the pattern."

Perhaps she put it in your basket," suggested
Stasie.

' Not she ! it never would occur to her to put
it in the right place. But perhaps it would;
be better not to work by hip-light ; my eyes

are far from strong. I will just finish the
paper."

Miss Stretton drew up the easiest of the easy-chairs
close to the table, and settled herself for
an exhaustive examination of the morning paper.
So Stasie was left awhile uninterrupted to her
studies. But this could not last long. Aunt
Clem generally found the presence of a companion
an irresistible temptation to speech.

What are you reading, Stasie V

'* The history of civilisation."

Isn't it rather dry for you, my love ? Perhaps
trying to understand it may have helped to
make you dizzy ? "

No, I do not think so. There are bits lam
too ignorant to take in quite, but on the whole it
is immensely interesting. It seems to open my
eyes. How miserably ill-educated I am ! "

'' I do not agree with you, Stasie. You certainly
have not had first-rate masters, but you
know quite as much as most young ladies, and
you are coming on nicely with your music.

Stasie made no reply, and silence reigned till
it grew oppressive  to Miss Stretton at least.
She looked at the volume in her niece's hand for

B few moments, seeking in her memory to clear
some dim association from the mists which
wrapped it. At last she caught the idea :

Stasie, dear ! is that the book Mr. Robinson
said was decidedly atheistic in its tendency ? "

It is, Aunt Clem."

"Then why will you persist in reading it
against the advice of your spiritual director ?
Depend upon it, this kind of literature is most
pernicious. You really ought to give it up."

I do not think it does me any harm," said
Stasie wearily ; " and Mr. Robinson only said it
was written by a sceptic ; he did not advise me
against it. I should not have minded if he had."

My dear child, I fear you have rather a rebellious
spirit ! At your age you need guidance."

Yes, I daresay I do. If Mr. Robinson said
the book was bad, or coarse, or anything like

that, I would never have looked at it, but "

She stopped, and began to read again.

Well, at your age Stasie, I would have
trembled at the thought of an irreligious book !
I composed some prayers myself at the age of
twelve, and always taught in a Sunday school,
of course the style of thing that was then the

fashion. I mean," correcting herself rapidly, 'the
present refined and elevated tone of religious
conviction had not developed, and the individual
was left more to her own resources  to wander,
perhaps ! We had less of the spiritual guidance,
the personal care which is so soothing and improving
under the High Church system."

Finding that Stasie neither listened nor replied,
Miss Stretton ceased, and dipped into the
evidence in an interesting case of robbery and
murder ; but, after a while, Stasie, in her turn,
interrupted her aunt by speaking suddenly :

Will you give me the card that is lying on
the table near you, auntie, please ; I want to
mark the place ; I am sure Dr. Brooke will explain
this to me when he comes back."

Why not apply to your natural guide, Mr.
Kobinson, or that really good and learned man,
Mr. Kharapet ? "

'* Neither of them know half as much as Dr.
Brooke, and he is very good too."

'' Ahem ! we really know very little of Dr.
Brooke," said Miss Stretton stiffly.

Stasie did not heed. She read on, but presently
put down her book and closed her eyes.

Aunt Clem, observing this, softly laid down her
paper, to avoid the noise of its rustling. She sat
awhile in thought, and then, with a glance at the
sleeper, drew a pack of cards from her pocket
and began to shuffle them for some moments with
an earnest fixed look in her eyes ; she then cut
them several times, and proceeded to spread them
out in rows. She was so absorbed in this occupation
she did not notice that Stasie had moved
restlessly and opened her eyes. She was therefore
considerably startled when her niece exclaimed,
" What are you doing, auntie ? playing
patience ? Why don't you take up the
cards?"

*' Well, it is not exactly patience," returned
Miss Stretton with slight embarrassment ; " it is
a different sort of game in short, I learned it
from a dear old French lady who was staying in
the same pension with us in Paris  oh, a longtime
ago ; she had been taught by the celebrated
Mademoiselle Le Norman. I suppose you know
who she was ? "

"The fortune-teller they say Napoleon the
first Napoleon  used to consult."
- exactly."

Then are you telling your own fortune,
auntie ? "

'*No  that is, there isn't much to foresee
about myself. Thanks to you, dear child, I hope
I have seen the last of my troubles ; but I was
just trying to get an idea of when Mr. Kharapet
would come back."

But you don't believe in this fortune-telling,"
cried Stasie, getting off her sofa and coming over
to the table.

*' Oh no," said Miss Stretton, " of course not,
no one does, you know ; but it is amusing, and it
is really curious how things turn out sometimes."

If I were to be superstitious," said Stasie,
kneeling down on a large footstool and resting
her elbows on the table, " I should prefer astrology
to cards  there is something grand and
fanciful in having a star presiding over one's fortunes
 but these bits of pasteboard "

Yet people  men of commanding intellect  
have deigned to consult them," put in Miss Streets
ton gravely, as her niece paused ; " and I have-myself
seen wonderfully clear at times. Of course
it is all nonsense," she went on quickly, seeing 
sparkle of fun in Stasie's eyes, " and (gathering

up the cards) they shall not offend your superior
sense ; let us put them away."

No no, auntie dear," cried Stasie, catching
her hand. " Was I rude ? Forgive me. I should
like to see how you do it. Won't you tell my
fortune, auntie ? "

I think, my love, you are a very persuasive
child ; but if you have a fault, dear, it is preferring
your own youthful judgment to the experience
 the maturer opinions of your elders."

I am afraid I do think too much of myself,"
said Stasie reflectively. " Come now, Aunt Clem,
do tell me my fortune ? "

'' If I do, you must never say one word to Mrs.
Harding : she is one of your cold intellectual
women, who despise such little pastimes, for I
need not tell you that it is a mere amusement."

'' Oh yes ; nothing more of course," returned
Stasie, struggling to keep the corners of her mouth
in order, for she perceived that it was in reality
anything but play to her aunt. '' And, trust me,
I shall never say one word to any one."

< Very well ; now take the cards and shuffle
them ; now cut nine times. No, leave them there ;
I will take them up."

Having done so, Miss Stretton cut them once
more, glanced rapidly at the card turned up, and
replaced them. Then she proceeded to lay them
out in rows of nine, till the pack (from which
she had extracted the smaller cards) was exhausted.
Stasie watched with amused curiosity,
while Miss Stretton, gazing intently on the cards,
her lips moving as though repeating something
to herself, kept silence for a minute or two, and
then exclaimed impressively : '' It is really quite
remarkable, and as plain  as plain as I see you,
Stasie ! '

What is plain. Aunt Clem ? "

'* There is a dark man  a very dark man  at
a distance, whose thoughts are all about you,
making[ arrangements at this moment to come
back to you."

Can you see all that ? " cried Stasie, smiling.
Has he a portmanteau, or only a travelling
bag ? "

Ah ! you may laugh, but I see it quite clear.
He is a long way off, but not across water."

Can you not see the name of the place % "
asked Stasie, whose pale cheek began to show a
little warmth, and her eyes lit up.

No, no ; that is expecting too mncli," and,
slily, *' if the cards speak truth, you too are thinking
of his return."

"Then it is Mr. Pearson," said Stasia "I
shall be very pleased indeed to see him back."
 Miss Stretton shook her head. " He is clubs,"
said she sagely. " The man who is thinking of
you is spades ; " she paused. " I cannot make
it out. There is some danger threatening you
from a dark man and a woman, some one very
much interested in you, it cannot be me ; let me
see." She touched one or two cards, murmuring
something. "Yes," she resumed, "a club
woman."

Can you see when we are to start on our
travels, aunt ? "

No ; but I think you will go far away. Stop,
Stasie, I want to try this again. That other
dark man and the club lady are very much mixed
up together, and fond of one another. Could it
be Dr. Brooke and Mrs. Harding ? "

I daresay ; they are very fond of each
other."

"Why, have you observed that?" exclaimed
Miss Stretton with emphasis.

Of course, I know they were dear friends in
their early days and relations."

That may be, still it is not right, and must
be rather trying to poor Mr. Harding."

'' AVhat are you talking about, Aunt Clem % "
cried Stasie flushing crimson. "AVhat in the
world is there 'trying' to Mr. Harding in Dr.
Brooke's friendship with his wife ? What possible
harm can there be ? what offence in such
friendship ? "

Ah ! my dear child, don't fly into a rage.
You have not seen as much of the world as I
have ; and," shaking her head, " though I don't
suppose Mrs. Harding thinks much about it, at
least I should hope not, I know he is very much
attached to her, and that sort of thing is imprudent
and really immoral."

'' How do you know he is so much attached to
her?" asked Stasie, struck by her aunt's certainty.

Oh ! I can see it quite well. And men of
Dr. Brooke's stamp, wanderers, men used to
camps and the wild ways of military companions,
they have really no principle worth mentioning ;
and if Mrs. Harding interests him, and / hioii
she does, why "

"Aunt Clem, I am certain you wrong Dr.
Brooke. He gives me the idea of an upright
honourable man. How is it chat you are so convinced
? "

Well, dear, I heard something by the merest
accident. I would never breathe it to a soul but
yourself, for indeed I am truly interested in that
dear little Mrs. Harding," began Miss Stretton
suddenly, imagining that she had hit on the best
possible means of lowering or altering Stasie's
esteem for Brooke, who was by no means a
favourite with the gentle spinster.

''"What did you hear?" cried Stasie, almost
quivering with indignant eagerness, as Miss
Stretton paused.

You remember that Sunday, the day they
found out that you had given away your jewels ? "
Stasie nodded. " Well, you remember you asked
me to go down and see if they were all gone, the
gentlemen I mean. When I went in they, Mrs.
Harding and Dr. Brooke, were talking so earnestly
they never heard me, and before I could
say a word or make a noise in any way I heard
Dr. Brooke say, ' You know there is nothing I
would not do for you. I would lay down my

life for you,' and with that he kissed her hand
several times. It was not the words only, Stasie,
but the voice ; I could not describe it. I would
not believe that cold, stiff man could have
spoken so tenderly, so softly, had I not heard
him."

Stasie again flushed, but her colour died
quickly away. *' And what did they say when
they saw you ? " she asked.

They did not see me, dear ; it would have
been too awkward. I just slipped out of the
room, made a noise with the door-handle, and
came back again."

You should have stayed," said Stasie gravely,
'* and they would have explained it. I cannot
believe that either feel anything but sincere
regard and friendship for each other. I am sure
I wish poor dear Mrs. Harding had married
Dr. Brooke ; she would have been ever so much
happier. There, don't let us talk any more
about it, and do put such suspicions out of your
mind ; they are base, unjust, unworthy. There,
go on with my fortune, do, auntie."

I must say, Stasie, you allow yourself to
speak most unguardedly, with a degree of heat

which is neither ladylike nor respectful. Were I
wealthy and independent you would not address
me in such a tone." Miss Stretton pressed her
handkerchief to her eyes ; this was an unfailing
devices 

You know you are quite wrong," cried Stasie,
jumping up and turning her aunt's face forcibly
to her. " I'd say twice as much if you were,
I wish you had ten thousand a year, that I might
abuse you heartily, for I am very, very angry.
Mind, I don't believe you are right, not a bit ;
and yet you have made me uncomfortable."

Well, my dear, time will show ; I shall be
very glad to know I am wrong. As to the cards,
I see there is one man, a very dark man, truly
and devotedly attached to you, and he will soon
be here. I am sorry to say I also see a great
deal of trouble and worry and confusion, from
which a faithful female friend will help to save
you, and then there is nothing clear except the
devotion of this king of spades, whose thoughts
follow you everywhere."

'rand is this muddle all you can make out,
(auntie % " said Stasie, rising from her footstool,
to which she had returned. " I suppose the

devoted friend is yourself, and I see quite well
this ugly king of spades you intend to represent
Hormuz Kharapet. If so, I shall tell you the
end of the fortune myself. My trouble will be
to make you well and strong and able to travel,
in which you will help. As to Hormuz, he may
think what he likes, but beyond the power law
gives him to dole out my money by driblets, he
shall never have anything to do with me or my
affairs once I get them into my own hands. So
good-night, Aunt Clem."

Nearly three weeks had elapsed since Dr. Brooke
had appeared at Sefton Park. During this time
life flowed as usual, smooth and unruffled, in
that modern Arcadia, yet Mrs. Harding was aware
of a distinct change in her husband from the
comparatively sunny mood which had rendered
the first months in their summer quarters unusually
easy and even cheerful to her.

He suddenly ceased to take any interest in the
garden, in the pigs, in the poultry, or even the
completion of the fowl-house  that chef d'ceuvre
which had emanated from his own brain. He
no longer returned early from town to harass
the gardener, to worry the nondescript caretaker
of the ponies and horse, who was a mixture of
groom and odd man, to tramp about the fields
devising how ' rights of way " might be stopped,
and the hedge-rows converted into gold yielding

sites for villas. He no longer came in healthily
fatigued at night to amuse himself by elaborate
calculations of how much the pigs  principally
fed by refuse from the house  would stand him
per pound when killed, cured, and ready for the
table, or the value of the eggs produced under
the same conditions.

He now returned by the last train, and sometimes
missed that, leaving Mrs. Harding to form
what conjectures she liked rather than incur the
cost of a telegram. And when he did return, he
growled less about his food, and was less keen in
noticing specks on the plate. Occasionally he
was furiously impatient, but on the whole less
oppressively exacting than usual ; besides this
he ate less, and did not seem to care what he ate,
a sign of disturbance more serious than anything
his wife had ever before observed.

She felt sure that something serious had
affected him, yet she did not like to ask what.
There was no attempt at confidence between
them. He was a harsh, over-bearing taskmaster,
and she a silent, submissive, but deeply resentful
slave.

Even when a kindly feeling exists between

VOL. II. 37

husband and wife, a thoughtful woman will hesitate
to put questions which may only trouble a
husband already wearied with care, the answers
to which she perhaps could not understand, and
the difficulties which they reveal she cannot help
to disentangle. Often a truly sympathetic wife
wisely waits for a confidence to be given, which
it would be useless to force.

Still Mrs. Harding's was not a nature that
could look with indifference on signs of suffering
even in one who had inflicted so much on herself.
When not stirred into active but impotent anger,
her mental attitude towards her husband was that
of indifference, tinged with contempt. She had
long striven to win him ; it was long before she
could believe that all the delicate nostrums she
had heard and read of for the cure of brutal, selfish,
tyrannical husbands  affection, forbearance,
submission, patience and the like, were fruitless,
unavailing  before she learned the bitter lesson
that there are men with whom stinging self-assertion
and unhesitating displays of coarse ill-temper
do more than all the refined self-control
of the most gracious gentlewoman. But these
were weapons unfitted to her hand, while the

means supposed to be infallible only server! to
put her under the feet of her savage lord. Now
her sole hope was to keep a certain exterior
decency in their home. The thought of quitting
it, of freeing herself from the almost intolerable
degradation of her life, never crossed her brain.
She lived for her children ; she knew the cruel
penalties that awaited a separated wife, and the
family thus sundered ; nor had she the legal right
to complain. No, endurance only was all left
to her, and she resolved to endure.

But at present she felt anxious about Mr.
Harding; nothing save money troubles could
affect him, she felt sure, and these would touch
her little ones. She felt even disposed to question
her husband, but that the dread of a rude
rejoinder kept her silent. At length, one evening,
Mr. Harding having sent away his dinner nearly
untouched, and asked his wife to mix him a third
tumbler of brandy and water, she ventured to
speak. " You do not seem well  you have
scarcely eaten, and I do not think it can be good
for you to take such an unusual amount of
spirits."

Don't bother about that I I feel to want

it. No, I am not quite the thing, and I have
had a thundering big bill for those new curtains
we got for York Gate house last spring.
It's infamous ! Just look here," drawing a long
envelope out of his breast-pocket, " sixty pounds,
by George ! There must be some infamous imposition
somewhere !"

Mrs. Harding took the account and looked
over it. ''I do not think we can object to any
of the items," she said. '' I remember we agreed
to almost all this when we ordered the curtains."


'' Ay, just so ! that's right. Always stand up
for everything that can drag money out of your
husband's pocket !"

This was a style of answer to which Mrs.
Harding was well accustomed, but the tone was
unusual,  not angry and contemptuous,  rather
dejected and querulous, as if he were the victim
of a virago. She could not help smiling.

' I am sorry you have such a large sum to
pay, but I fear it will be useless to dispute anything.
However, I have no doubt these people
will wait till it is convenient to you "

Ay, but when will it be convenient ? Don't

suppose I am going to get richer, nothing of the
kind! Give me my cigar-case, will you."

A silence ensued, while Mr. Harding cut off
the end of his cigar, lit it, and took a few preliminary
puffs.

Then in the same subdued manner he said
reflectively, '' I wish you had had some money,
my dear." Mrs. Harding was more than astonished
at this different setting of an old tune.
He must have some great trouble on his mind,
she thought, and answered gently 

'' I wish I had, John, if it could be of any use
to you."

Money is always of use," he returned with a
heavy sigh. '' You ain't a bad creature, Livy 
I always said so  but too careless, too regardless
of my interests  I who have done everything
for you, and made you what you are ! "

Mrs. Harding looked up from her work and
made no reply beyond a smile. Her husband
having puffed in silence for a minute, she said :
Have you had any loss ? I do not wish to
worry you for details, but if you want to reduce
our outlay, say so, and I will do my best."

Mr. Harding groaned. " That's the mischief

of it. Don't you think you could do on fifteen
pounds a month less and not make any material
difference ? "

That is quite out of the question, but we
might live very comfortably on much less than
we do by attempting less."

Ay, that's just like you. You have no
regard for appearances. How would it do to
stay on here till after Christmas % "

I should have no objection, and it would
certainly be an economy ; only I fear the old
house would be neither warm nor dry."

I will see about it. The fact is, I have been
shamefully plundered  shamefully, by a dashed
infernal fellow who pretended to be my friend."

Indeed ! " exclaimed Mrs. Harding infinitely-surprised.
To err by over trust in another was
not one of her husband's usual characteristics.

I hope to make up for it in time, but at
present I would be glad if you would take the
trouble to be very, very careful, Livy, as careful
as you can be without making any visible change.
Drawing in ' damages a man's credit."

I will do my best," returned Mrs. Harding,
struck by his unusual amiability and the fact

that he called her " Livy," for he rarely gave her
any name. She thought she would make an
attempt to establish a better tone between them.
In any case I will do my best," she resumed
after an instant's pause ; " and as we are talking
confidentially, don't you think you could manage
to forgive me my want of fortune ? It would be
much better for us all. You yourself would be
more comfortable if you were not constantly ina
state of resentful irritation against me. Of
course my want of fortune is exceedingly provoking,
but you see the law does not allow you
to repudiate me on that account. If it did, I
should not, of course, have a word to say ; as it
is, suppose we make the best of each other for
the children's sake. Suppose you take the trouble
to speak as politely to me as you do to  Jane,
for instance, I think you would find matters go
smoother."

Harding listened with a good deal of surprise,
not so much at the words as at the quiet, resolute
accent with which they were spoken. He was
too coarse, too morally blind, to perceive the
depth of indifference, the absence of all regard
which enabled his wife to speak as she did.

I don t think I ever heard you talk so
sensibly before." he said. " I am sure I always
try to be a good husband, and you want for
nothing. But you must see it is hard on a man
when all the expenses come out of one purse,
and I must say you do not show that keen regard
for my interest I have a right to expect. You area
curious creature, Livy. You don't care for appearances,
and yet you do not care to hold money."

I wish you could see that there is no real
gain in trying to beat down prices below the
market value, nor in undertaking the services of
those you employ. Nevertheless, I will do my
very best as I said, only never expect me to get
thirty shillings' worth out of a sovereign."

You know that's nonsense," interjected
her husband.

One word more, John," continued Mrs.
Harding, her courage growing as she spoke.
*' Put a little restraint on your own impulses,
your habit of crushing me with outbursts of contemptuous
anger. I have grown used to them,
and think I have tried silence long enough.
The next time you speak in this objectionable
way, why  I shall answer."

Mr. Harding stared at his wife, and she met
his eye steadily, gravely, without the least anger
or defiance.

Fm sure I don't know what you are talking
about," he said peevishly. " I only want to do
the best I can for us all. I wish you didn't take
these crotchets into your head. When a man
has been working his heart out for his wife and
family, he can't always be expected to be as
smooth as silk."

Perhaps not," returned Mrs. Harding calmly ;
but try and distribute your ruggedness impartially."


He did not reply, and silence fell upon them
both. Mrs. Harding's heart beat fast. Had she
indeed won the key of the position. It was a
great point to have been able without noise to
show her husband something of what she felt,
and now she must nail her colours to the mast !

After draining his tumbler, Mr. Harding,
speaking as if out of his thoughts, exclaimed 

Kharapet is back again. He was at the
office to-day."

I suppose we shall see him here tomorrow
then?"

*' Yes, lie said he would come down, and I
asked him to dinner, the sneak."

I thought you were on very good terms,"
said Mrs. Harding with surprise, " but I confess
I never liked him."

"Yes, I know that, and he knows it, and I beg
you will not show it so plainly. It does not
suit me to be on bad terms with the fellow.
Moreover it would be a bad business for Stasie
Yerner if the two executors could not act
together ! In short, Livy, you must not give
Kharapet the cold shoulder  not at present, at
least ; he is a queer customer."

I shall never be rude to him, but I cannot
be cordial."

*' Well, well, don't look at him as if he were
dirt."

Mrs. Harding laughed, and soon after her
husband declared himself too dead beat to keep
out of bed any longer.

Brooke was half surprised and half amused at
the impatience with which he looked forward to
the end of his visit in the Highlands. His hosts
were kind and cordial, he had a fair amount of

sport, and occasionally met very pleasant people.
Amongst them pretty lively monde girls, to
whom he made himself agreeable ; so agreeable,
indeed, that he was pressed to visit more than
one house. Business of importance, however,
obliged him to return to London, he said, and
there he duly arrived little more than a fortnight
after he had left it. He resisted the temptation
to run do\\Ti to Sefton Park the very next day,
and busied himself about some commissions for
his brother and the friends he had just left. But
he was none the less haunted by the vivid
memory of Stasie Werner who, from the first, had
made a deeper impression on his senses than he
was aware. He had but to close his eyes and
she was before them ; the round, rich, graceful
figure, the large earnest eyes, so variable in expression,
and the mouth so sweet, so proud, so
scornful, as the passing temper of the moment
moved her ; above all, the subtile fascination of
believing there was a secret sympathy between
them threw its glamour over him.

And he had misjudged her ! He had been so
dull, so low in mind, as to suppose that a
creature frank and noble, a woman capable of

forming a high ideal, would have stooped to a
miserable flirtation with a creature like Bob
Mathews ! and have had the effrontery to write
to himself, a stranger, to shield her clandestine
amour ! How gallantly, too, she stood to her
guns, when the moment of discovery came ! A
girl of such calibre could love, ay, well ! truly
passionately ! Why should he not try to win
that love ! But he was so much older than this
bright young creature, who was full to the lips
with life ! a grave sombre fellow too ! who had
none of the gallant graces that charm women, only
an earnest heart, that could be kind and true,
and, he began to suspect, passionately loving !

Of course Dr. Brooke did not sit down and
dream like a sentimental girl. But such
thoughts flashed through his mind at the most
unlikely times, always more or less vivid and
enticing.

Still he was no foolish boy to let go the reins
of his self-control or show his hand too soon, and
it was not till the fourth day after his return
from Scotland that he permitted himself to take
the train for Sefton Park, and present himself to
his cousin.

She received him with all the more cordiality
as she expected to see Kharapet, when the door
opened to admit him.

'' I did not think you would come back
so soon," she said, after they had exchanged
greetings. '' I thought Scotland and the moors
would have too much attraction to be left."

They are pleasant, but I wanted to be in
London for a while ; it has all the interest of a
possible future abode to me. And how has
everything been going on since I went away?"

Just as usual, for myself better than usual.
I am trying to follow your good advice. Oh !
what an idiot I have been ! "

I am afraid you have," said Brooke, laughing.
" And how is your friend Miss Werner ?"

Very well  that is, not quite well. I do not
think she has been so well since the day of the
school treat, though she does not admit it. I
imagine she is not quite so bright, so energetic.
You must notice her and tell me what you
think. She is looking well enough."

Then we will hope she is well ! " After
some talk about the children, a topic on which,
though not diffuse, Mrs. Harding always had

something to say, Brooke asked, 'rand what news
of the gentle Kharapet ? "

Mrs. Harding laughed. " He is to dine here
to-day. I am amused that both of you should
make your appearance simultaneously ! like the
good and evil heroes of a drama, ready to
counteract each other ! Mr. Kharapet has been
away at Lord Saintsbury's and elsewhere ever
since you were here."

I presume, as he comes from such saintly
quarters, Kharapet is the good hero, and I am
the impersonation of worldliness and wrong."

Ah, Jim, if I can only gather strength to
follow your counsels, I shall consider you "my
good genius."

Have you been bullying Harding ? "

No, not exactly," smiling, " but finding him
in a melting mood (I am afraid he has met with
losses), I ventured to speak out with some effect.
He listened, and only gently reproached me with
my want of fortune and general incompetence, so
I warned him. that in future if he did not refrain
from bursts of savage anger against me, before
the children and the general public, I would
answer accordingly. I think I could, if I once

nerved myself to the effort. I daresay he will
forget what I said, but I will, if I can be true to
myself, recall it to his memory on the first occasion."


Stick to that, Livy," exclaimed Brooke earnestly,
" and it will be better for you both. Men
respect strength in women ; it produces an immense
effect on our, say, lower nature. It is a
virtue you should assume even if you have it not."

"II ne faut jamais faire agir un homme dans
un sens different de son character," quoted Mrs.
Harding. 'how is weakness to assume strength ? "

I suspect there is more strength in you than
you are aware of; be brave, courage comes with
exercise."

After a little more talk, and an interview with
Ethel and Willie, who were going out to walk,
Mrs. Harding proposed paying Stasie and Miss
Stretton a visit. " I will leave with you," she
continued, " then you can tell me what you think,
for very probably I am all wrong in my ideas."

Is Robinson at home ? " asked Brooke.

"Yes, he is always at his post, as busy and
energetic as ever. What a good, earnest little
man he is ! He would be ever so much happier

in some miserable crowded East End parish. He
frets at being in what he considers the lap of
luxury here."

** I must say it is rather a waste to expend
one's energies preaching to a congregation of respectable
old women of both sexes, who have never
done anything amiss in all their well-regulated
lives  one would prefer a hand-to-hand fight with
the devil on his own ground."

Mrs. Harding walked on for a few moments in
silence, then she explained : " I am very glad Mr.
Harding thinks of staying here till near Christmas
; I should be sorry to leave Stasie, she has
quite grown like a sister to me."

It will be dull here for you both."

For me  no ; less dull than London ! For

Stasie " She stopped, for they were at the

gate.

When the neat parlour-maid threw open the
door of the drawing-room, it seemed to Brooke
that he was being ushered into a large company.

The day was warm, and the open window
showed the pretty garden and rich autumnal tints
of the trees beyond. Miss Stretton was sitting
at a well-furnished tea-table, flanked by Mr.

Robinson, who was evidently settled down to
enjoy a refreshing cup in comfort.

In the recess of the window stood Kharapet.
He had taken a glass of water from Bhoodhoo, who,
in his best clothes, stood deferentially before him.
Stasie was sitting on a sofa near the window,
in a well-fitting black dress, with lace collar and
cuffs, her hands were clasped, resting on her knee,
and her attitude graceful but pensive ; a slight
smile parted her lips as she listened to Mr. Pearson,
who was lounging easily on the sofa beside
her, and playing with a large paper fan.

When Mrs. Harding and her cavalier entered,
every one rose With emjjvessement, Stasie occupying
herself with Mrs. Harding until Brooke had
spoken to the rest. When at last he made his
bow to her, she held out her hand with a soft
kindly smile.

"You have come back sooner than you expected,"
she said.

I begin to think no one expected me to return,"
said Brooke, laughing ; " Mrs. Harding
received me almost with the same words : I had
better go away again ! "

Why? you don't suppose we are not glad to
VOL. II. 38

see you ? " asked Stasie, returning to her sofa,
while Brooke coolly took Mr. Pearson's place.

I hope so," he said, " for my first visit has
been to inquire for you. Have you quite recovered
your indisposition ? are you your own
bright self again ? " looking at her earnestly ashe
spoke.

' Oh, quite  quite ; do not talk of it anymore,"
a little impatiently ; " Bhoodhoo, get Dr.
Brooke a cup of tea."

Thank you ; I do not take any."

You have been in Scotland ? " said Mr. Pearson,
drawing up a chair, and determined not to
be distanced ; " had you pretty good sport ? "

Very fair ; the birds were rather wild, but I
do not mind that  half the charm of a chase is its
difficulty."

I suppose, after the big game you have been
accustomed to in India, our sport is rather slow ? "

Yes, a little tame."

I think I should like to have a shot at a
tiger, if the regiment goes to India."

Is it going to India ? " asked Stasie carelessly.

I am not sure  I used to hope so," with
expressive emphasis.

Were I a man I should like to go to India,"
she replied.

India is a delightful place for ladies, I assure
you," said Brooke, and continued to talk about
tiger-shooting and boar-hunting for a few minutes ;
while Kharapet, who had been speaking to Mrs.
Harding and Miss Stretton, left off to observe the
trio. Suddenly Stasie exclaimed 

'But where is Pearl ? "

Every one stopped and looked round ; and
Mr. Pearson, kneeling down, drew something out
from under the sofa.

The little beggar is hiding. Miss Werner," he
said.

The something, was a tiny pearl-gray Yorkshire
terrier, with long fine hair, pathetic eyes, and a
black nose. Mr. Pearson placed the little creature
on Stasie's lap.

"This is a new acquisition since you were
here, Dr. Brooke. Is it not a beauty ? Mr.
Pearson was so kind as to give it to me ; and it
is such a dear little intelligent creature ! He
begins to know me quite well, Mr. Pearson," in
confirmation of which Pearl made a nearly successful
attempt to lick his mistress's nose.

"Lucky little brute!" ejaculated the young
lancer, with an admiring glance. " He is wonderfully
intelligent, and very good-tempered; he
never bites  at least scarcely ever. There was
a groom of mine he never could stand ; he bit
hiw. once or twice, and, do you know, he turned
out such a dishonest blackguard I was obliged to
get rid of him. We always thought he tried to
poison Pearl. Just before the fellow left he was
very ill, the Vet. could hardly save him. He
thought the dog had been dosed."

"He is a beauty, worthy of admittance to
my lady's chamber,' " said Dr. Brooke, stroking
the little creature, who sniffed at him in a friendly
manner.

Willie is quite fond of Pearl," said Stasie to
Mrs. Harding. " But Ethel is still half afraid of
him  more than she is of Tilt, the big collie."

She is a terrible little coward. I do not
understand it, for she has excellent health," returned
Mrs. Harding.

She is a dear angel ! " said Kharapet in his
softest tone, as he drew a chair beside Miss Stratton.
" I often spoke of your fair children to my
Lord Saintsbury's daughters, who were always

interested, especially Lady Emily Lumley, who
is a most charming young lady."

All ! Mr. Kharapet," exclaimed Miss Stretton
with a playful, juvenile air. We do not want
you to find charming people anywhere but at
Sefton Park, humble though it be ! " At which
sensible speech Mr. Pearson elevated his eyebrows
in a questioning, contemptuous way, and looked
meaningly at Stasie. She returned his glance
with an unmistakable air of mutual understanding
that struck and startled Brooke, but not so
much as did a glance from Kharapet, which he
caught, and which showed that the Syrian perceived
or imagined he was mocked. Quick as a
flash of lightning an expression of deadly hatred,
of fierce anger, gleamed in Kharapet's deep eyes,
so baleful, so menacing, that Brooke felt he had
been given a sudden revelation of the hell-fire
burning below his fair soft seeming ; but almost
before the notion formed itself in his brain Parapet
was smooth and composed as ever.

You are too good, too partial, dear lady," he
said gently. " You move the mirth of my dear
niece and her friend ! " and he smiled benignly
on them. Brooke was deeply impressed by this

sudden powerful exertion of self-control. A distinct
sense that Stasie was not safe sprang up
within him, never to be quite obliterated. Stasie
was equally struck by Kharapet's applying the
term " my niece " to her. He had not used it
since he began to show her the attentions of an
admirer. To her, his words were infinitely welcome.
She took them as an assurance that he
renounced all pretensions to be her lover ; that
he would return to the position in which he was
most acceptable to her; and her heart leaped
at the prospect of freedom from his persecution.


Mr. Pearson, who had quickly seen that Parapet
meant if possible to appropriate Stairhead
this speech with no small surprise. " Is
Mr. Kharapet your uncle % '' he said in a loud
astonished aside to Stasie.

"Not really." He is my dear stepfather's
brother, and," with a nod to Kharapet, " I am
quite willing to consider him a real uncle."

The Syrian bowed with a melancholy and
subdued air.

Stasie's eyes sparkled at the happy chance
thus afforded of showing her avuncular admirer

that she understood and appreciated this resumption
of his original character.

Brooke listened with profound attention, not
only to the spoken words, but to the vocal inflections,
which were, as a running commentary,
elucidating their text. He felt unusually watchful
and suspicious ; a curious uneasy consciousness of
mischief brewing seemed to sting his perceptive
faculties into supernatural acuteness, while he
softly stroked the little terrier, the tiny creature
sniffing and trembling; as if to acknowledge and
accept his attentions.

Meanwhile Miss Stretton was cross-examining
Kharapet as to the routine of domestic life at
Lady Kilconquhar's, and, Mrs. Harding and Mr.
Robinson were discussing the preliminaries of a
proposed book-club. None of them heeded the
young lancer, who, raising his eyes to Stasie
with the smiling, affectionate expression they
generally wore when looking at her, asked,
And when are we to begin our rides ? I have
made the groom use a side-saddle and tie a
horse-cloth round him when exercising: Cedric.
He will carry you first-rate, Miss Yerner, and
steady as a rock."

Thank you," returned Stasie, looking at
him dreamily, while she twisted one of Pearl's
ears. " I do not know how it is, but I seem to
have lost my fancy for riding  I do not feel upto
it."

Why ? how is that ? " cried the young
lancer, dismayed. "It is scarcely a fortnight
since you were full of it. Why, it is the very
thing for you. Don't you think so Dr. Brooke ? "

Brooke did not reply at once. He looked
very earnestly into Stasie's eyes, his own darkening
with an expression of anxiety, while she
answered : "I really cannot tell. I tried to ride
poor old Brownie  Mrs. Harding's horse  a
quiet thing that is often in the cart, and though
he only walked, I grew giddy and my heart
beat. I felt as if I must fall off at every step he
took, though Miles was leading the horse."

If you would only try Cedric you would not
fear  he goes so smooth and steadily," cried
Pearson. " Of course a brute out of a cart
would be enough to dislocate you ; and, I flatter
myself, you would have more confidence in me
than in Miles."

I am not so sure," said Stasie, laughing.

Miles was walking beside me and holding poor
Brownie's head; you would be careering on
another horse and obliged to take care of it as
well as of mine."

I think I might be able to manage so
much."

"It is rather disgraceful to confess it, but
just now I do not feel as if I could mount a
horse," returned Stasie, still smiling, but with a
slight trembling of the lip, which Brooke thought
showed that tears were as near as laughter.

I am quite sure all these fancies would pass
away if you once found yourself mounted on a
well-broken steady horse. Don't you agree with
me, Dr. Brooke ? "

''I do not," returned Brooke, who had leant
back and crossed his arms on his chest, with an
air of thought. ' If Miss Werner persisted in
following your advice against her inclination it
mioht turn her against riding; altogether. You
have been here too long, Miss Werner ; you should
have change  sea air, sea-bathing would soon
enable you to surmount these terrors."

He looked at her with a grave kind smile,
that somehow irritated Stasie.

I am afraid I am growing fanciful  and 
and ridiculous. If I were obliged to run about
and earn my bread, I should be all right, I daresay."


Perhaps so," said Brooke.

I tell you what you'll do, Miss Werner,"
cried Pearson joyously ; " come down to South-sea
for a while. It is a capital place. My
mother is going to take a house there next
month, and she will be quite delighted to have
you with her."

'rare you sure?" said Stasie frankly, and
looking straight at him with great composure.
1 should like to go, if Lady Pearson would
care to have me."

*' Of course she would," said Pearson emphatically.


*' Where are you going, Stasie," asked Parapet,
who had been listening to their talk under
cover of some long sentences from Miss Stretton
anent "the impossibility (as you must see
yourself, my dear sir) of paying all the household
expenses, even our occasional little hospitalities,
out of the rather restricted allowance
Mr. Harding sees fit to make. Surely you have

as good a right to regulate these matters as he % "
etc. etc.

Oh ! I do not know that I am going anywhere
; but Mr. Pearson says he will ask his
mother to invite me to Southsea. If she is so
kind, I should like to go."

'* My dear Stasie," cried Miss Stretton, " you
are really too much the ingenue. I do not
know what Mr. Pearson will think of your coolly
engaging him to get you an invitation from his
mother."

** You know what I think," said the lancer, ina
very low and confidential tone.

Stasie gave him a little nod as she replied, ' I
do not think I have said anything wrong, auntie ;
Mr. Pearson began it."

It would do you good, dear niece, to have
change of scene," said Kharapet, blandly, as he
rose and approached. " If you desire it, why
not take an abode ? Your aunt and some of your
servants might accompany you."

As he spoke, Kharapet, as if to testify his
complete reconciliation to his adopted niece,
essayed to stroke Pearl. Not liking animals, and
exceedingly distrustful, he touched the little

creature with a sort of nervous hesitation which
offended or annoyed the small favourite in some
mysterious way, for the dog, after showing his
teeth, which Brooke only noticed, suddenly
turned and caught the Syrian's finger between
them, inflicting a scratch. Kharapet turned
greenly white and snatched away his hand.
Miss Stretton started up with a scream. Stasie
slapped Pearl soundly and set him down, when
he retired growling under the sofa, and, catching
Kharapet's hand in both her own, began to examine
it with hearty expressions of regret and
sympathy. '' I do not think it is much, Hormuz,"
she said ; " and I am sure you fidgeted Pearl,
touching him as you did."

He is a venomous beast," returned Hormuz
viciously, yet struggling to preserve his soft
composure. '' He should be put to death. It is
dangerous for yourself, my dear Stasie, to have
so bloodthirsty an animal constantly near you.
Believe me, you had better have him destroyed."

Excuse me, Mr. Kharapet," cried Mr. Pearson
much offended. " If Miss Yerner does not
care to keep the dog she had better return him
to me, I don't want the little beggar put out of

the way. I am fond of him myself, and would
not have given him to any one but Miss Werner."

I do care to keep him ; he is the dearest
little dog ! " cried Stasie ; while Miss Stretton
fussed about the sufferer.

Dear Mr. Kharapet, I am so distressed ; it
is quite alarming ! Do come upstairs and bathe
your hand. Being the bell, Mr. Robinson ; oh !
call Susan, or would you like Bhoodhoo to attend
you, Mr. Kharapet 1"

I thank you," returned the Syrian gravely
as he contemplated his injured hand. " It seems
but a scratch, yet it is well to be prudent. I will
take your advice, dear lady," and he left the room
with an air of being quite at home, which completed
young Pearson's annoyance.

"I never saw a fellow in such a funk!" he
exclaimed, looking after him. " Come out, you
small culprit," he continued, dragging Pearl
from under the sofa where he had taken refuge.
I hope you do not think yourself obliged to
keep him, Miss Werner. If you are afraid of him
I am quite ready to take him back. By Jove !
I don't like to trust the dog with your Eastern
friend. He looks quite equal to put anything

out of the way that crossed him ;" and he stroked
Pearl affectionately.

Miss Stretton had fortunately left the room
to see that properly boiling water had been taken
up to the injured man, and so was saved from
hearing this blasphemy. Mr. Kobinson and Mrs.
Harding laughed at the young man's earnestness,
and Stasie exclaimed : " But / am not afraid of
him, Mr. Pearson ! You shall not take him
back ; he is a naughty little beauty ! Why did
you try to bite poor Mr. Kharapet ? " taking the
dog in her arms.

The little creature, whimpering, put its paws
on her shoulder, as if begging pardon with a world
of imploring in its pathetic eyes.

'' The promptings of instinct, perhaps, as in the
case of the groom," said Brooke gently, with a smile,
as he watched the effect of his words on Stasie.

She flushed up. " You are both of you very
rude, and not at all witty ! Do you forget that
Hormuz, after Aunt Clem, is in a sense my next
of kin ? He is not ' rough and tough ' like Joe
Bagstock and the typical Englishman; but though
he is gentle and considerate, he may be just as
brave and true as the best of you !"

"One for his Nob !" exclaimed Mr. Pearson
incisively, out of his cribbage experiences. " That
is a little hard on Dr. Brooke and myself, but I
am sure we are both disposed to kiss the rod, and
I am delighted to leave Pearl with you ; only do
take care of him. I shouldn't like the poor little
fellow to be poisoned ! "

You are quite incorrigible," cried Stasie.

Come, that is really too strong'' said Mr.
Robinson.

"Perhaps," uttered Mrs. Harding with quiet
emphasis. There was a pause ; Stasie looked
vexed till her eyes suddenly encountered Pearson's,
who was looking at her with a penitent
expression, half comic, half rueful, when she burst
into a natural, healthy, pleasant laugh, which
seemed to restore every one to ease and good-humour.
" I am afraid I cannot wait to seethe
result of Miss Stretton's treatment," said
Mrs. Harding, rising. " I have one or two
letters to write before post-time, so will bid
you good-bye."

Brooke also rose. " I trust I shall have good
accounts of the sufferer when I come again," he
said, smiling, " and pray take care of the formidable

animal, Miss Werner. May I venture to
give him a farewell pat ?"

He stroked the little creature as he spoke, and
the dog accepted the caress with evident satisfaction.


"Ah! you are evidently the right sort. Dr.
Brooke," said the young lancer. "As Pearl
approves, why, I would not mind trusting you to
get change of a sovereign ! "

Will you call at the parsonage later ?" asked
Mr. Robinson.

I will," returned Brooke, as he followed Mrs.
Harding out of the room.

Well ?" asked Mrs. Harding, when they had
walked some little way in silence. Brooke did
not hear her, he was lost in thought. Mrs.
Harding glanced at him and resumed, " How do
you think Stasie is looking ?"

"I do not know," he replied abruptly, with a start.

How '?" asked Mrs. Harding, a little surprised
at the indefiniteness of his answer.

I mean," collecting himself, " that I do not
quite know what to think. She is not looking
ill in one sense, but she is not well ; she ought to
have change of air and scene. Get her away."

CHAPTER XII.

Brooke was much too practical and worldly a
man to be troubled by sentimental or imaginative
worries, yet he found himself haunted to an
almost painful degree by a vivid recollection of
Stasie Yerner's face, her expression, and, above
all, by the brilliant yet strained look in her
eyes.

She was somewhat changed too in other ways
a little more guarded, a little more impatient
than when he first met her  less of a schoolgirl 
less liQ:ht-hearted. This was but natural. Four
or five months at her age are equivalent to years
later on ; still he could not resist the impression
that she was neither so happy nor so much at
ease as formerly. That the greatest change of all
was towards himself he felt rather than acknowledged.
She was frank and friendly, and quite
glad to see him, but all the old eagerness to talk

VOL. II. 39

to him, to hang on his words, to bring every
doubt, every aspiration to him for solution or
direction, all this ardent seeking of his guidance,
which had half flattered half amused him, had
entirely disappeared. She neither sought nor
avoided him. She liked to talk with him as she
would to any pleasant acquaintance, but she had
closed like a mimosa, retired into some citadel,
the existence of which he had not suspected,
where she defied intrusion or inspection. It was
strange the effect produced by this dropping of a
semi-transparent veil before the visible evolution
of a pure strong heart or mind  or both in one 
from formless childhood into ripening womanliness
; the sense of amusement vanished, and in
its place came an eager longing for the unhesitating
confidence once so freely given, an ardent,
almost passionate desire, to be welcomed and
sought, as in the earlier stages of their acquaintance.


Added to this was a curious indefinable uneasiness
respecting Stasie's surroundings, for
which, had Brooke been a younger man, he
might have laughed at himself But he had
known his inner " ego " long enough and well

enough to respect its promptings, he therefore
listened, in a judicial spirit, to its suggestions,
that Stasie Werner was in a very defenceless position.
The genteel debility of her elderly aunt
offered but a poor rampart against the schemes
and pretensions of the Syrian executor. Mrs.
Harding was kind, faithful, clever, but too enslaved
to be of much use. Mr. Harding was blind,
and deaf, and dumb, and brutish from excess of
animal selfishness. Stasie's only other friends,
]airs. Mathews and her daughter, where powerless
; and here among these contending currents
of low motive, selfish passion, avarice, and greed,
the nobly-planned, graceful, girlish nature, so
richly freighted, so sweet, so fair, must drift
without watch or pilot. What would become
of her ?

And Kharapet ! He was inclined to mock
himself for the intense dislike and fear which
had sprung up within him towards the gentle
Eastern. He must have been rejected, or whence
had the feelings arisen which betrayed themselves
in the glance of deadly hatred which
Brooke had noticed.

The only pleasant item in Stasie's environment

was the gay, boyish, young soldier, and
Robinson, though pie did not count for much.

Pearson was bright and attractive, and Stasie
evidently liked him. Yet Brooke could not
divest himself of a fear that by fair means or
foul Kharapet would possess himself of the bright
girl and, what he valued most, her money. " By
fair means or foul "  the words kept ringing in
Brooke's ears, a sort of echo repeating and emphasising
the last.

Troubled and absorbed by these impressions,
and finding no one at the deserted club, or indeed
in town at that depopulated period to divert his
thoughts, he soon found his way back to Sefton
Park and Stasie. The little station, the road to
the parsonage, had grown quite familiar. He
felt a curious mixture of attraction to the place,
and a wish to take Stasie out of it, away to some
distant region where she would be safe from
selfish schemers and unhealthy influences.

She would be a charming travelling companion,
with her intelligent curiosity, her vivid sense of
enjoyment ; and how pleasant to the eye  but
here the doctor pulled himself up. How was it
that he allowed this folly get the better of him ?

For form's sake he called on his clerical schoolmate,
but of course Robinson was out ; and he
then, with unconsciously quickened step, proceeded
to Limeville.

Miss Stretton has gone to town, but Miss
Werner is at home," said the servant who answered
his ring. Brooke heard the sound of
music from within, and followed the neat Mary
to the drawing-room.

Stasie was sitting at the piano when he
entered, and rose to meet him cordially with
something of the welcome in her eyes he used to
read there.

I am glad you have come," she said simply. "I
am all alone to-day ; I feel dull and out of sorts."

I am glad my visit is well timed," said
Brooke, while he held her hand perhaps for an
unnecessary second, looking down into her eyes
with a smile that gave sudden tenderness to his
strong face, and thinking that she had a thoughtful,
even troubled, expression, different from the
sunny animation he used to admire. Her rich
hair, pushed carelessly back from her brow, was
rough, as though she had been lying restlessly
against a pillow, and a simple morning dress.

gathered into the waist with a band, showed the
incomparable grace of her shoulders. A quick
thrill of delight shivered through his veins as
Brooke thought that for the next half hour at
least he should have her all to himself

"And it is a long time since we have had an
argument, Miss Yerner. This is a splendid opportunity,"
he continued, as he drew a chair near
the sofa, where she seated herself. " How is it
that they have left you all alone ? "

Oh ! Mrs. Harding and Aunt Clem had a
quantity of shopping to do, so they went up with
Hormuz Kharapet. He was down here yesterday,
and stayed the night because he wanted to
go to the early service at Mr. Robinson's church
this morning."

"Oh, indeed! And you ? were you early
enough for prayers % "

No ! "  with a shake of the head. " I am
so dreadfully lazy of late ; that is the reason I
did not go to town. I feel quite disgusted with
myself sometimes, Dr. Brooke ! " With gravity,
Do you think it a very bad sign not liking these
perpetual services ? they really bore me to death !
I don't mind on Sundays, you know, and I like a

good sermon, but the same thing over and over
again ! It is too much."

No ; I do not think you utterly lost, perhaps
because I share your pernicious views."

'* But there are the Misses Thompson, and Mr.
Williams's nieces  they all live in the park ;
they never seem happy unless they are running
in and out of church, or working for it, and they
are so good, always going about among the poor,
and so nice and gentle, while I  I never seem to
like anything that is right  yet somehow I don't
feel as if I were quite wrong ? "

I am afraid you are in a very illogical state
of mind," replied Brooke solemnly, while his deep-set
dark eyes glittered with a pleasant smile.
Indeed, I am afraid, in a dangerous state, for
you seem disposed to think for yourself  a terrible
tendency for a young lady."

Why should it be worse for a girl than a
boy ? " cried Stasie aggressively. " I suppose
we have some brains too ? though, indeed, my
thoughts are terribly tangled. I am only sure
of what I feel."

At all events you have a fair share of brains
to make the distinction. Do not fear, Miss

Yerner, you will think clearly enough by and by ;
be content for the present to enjoy your youth."

That is to say, try and keep a baby as long
as you can, which I do not wish to do! Besides,
I do not enjoy my youth."

How so ? You seem to possess every qualification
for enjoyment."

"Yes," with some hesitation; "I am rather
unreasonable and ungrateful riot to be more contented,
when I have so much that others need ;
but somehow I am not ! You see I lead a selfish,
useless life. I get sick of the poor people ; they
are greedy and uninteresting. I know I should
be better if I were compelled to do some work,
even if I disliked it, by somebody or something
that I cared to obey. Of course I like to indulge
myself, and I do not think I have the spirit of a
martyr ; but I don't want to live altogether for
self You will think I can talk of nothing else ! "

''I am interested. Tell me, what would you
like to dor'

For myself ? I scarcely know ; but I will tell
you what I should like." A pause.

Yes, tell me ! " drawing a little nearer with
an air of profound attention.

Well," resting an elbow on her knee and her
chin in the hollow of her hand, " I should like to
send Mr. Harding on a long, long tour to all the
commercial capitals of the world, where he should
make a lot of money, and not come back for six,
seven, ten years, so that dear Mrs. Harding
should have a little happiness before her youth
is quite gone."

Ah ! that is a scheme I would gladly assist,"
cried Brooke, " with this improvement  that
Harding should never come back."

His animated trenchant tone struck Stasie,
whose colour rose as she looked earnestly at him.
Then, averting her eyes, she said, " Yes, her life
has been cruel. I do love Mrs. Harding, she is
so wise and kind ! How delightful to be brought
up by a mother like her 1 How could she have
married such a man ? "

Women rarely have the faintest notion what
the real man is whom they marry. How can
they ? " said Brooke.

That is awful ! " remarked Stasie softly, as if
to herself. There was a pause. She leant back
against the sofa-cushions, fitting together in her
actively working brain Miss Stretton's hints respecting

Brooke's attachment to his cousin and
the sudden energy of his words respecting Mr.
Harding. Brooke, too, was thinking that he had
perhaps spoken too freely, when a deep sigh from
Stasie startled him.

She was lying back and deadly pale, her hand
pressed to the left side, the fingers twitching ina
curious way.

You are ill," cried Brooke, starting up.
Tell me, are you in pain ?" She did not reply,
but her strained wide-opened eyes stared at him
with an expression of fear.

''Stasie!"he said much alarmed and struck
by her symptoms, but reluctant to call any aid.
"Don't you know me ?"

Yes, yes, Hormuz !" she muttered in a thick
voice unlike her usual tone ; "I am sorry, but it
is no use. I cannot love you ; don't be angry 1 "
Then her eyes closed.

Brooke rang the bell loudly. ' Have you any
brandy at hand?" he asked, as the servant entered.

I am not sure, sir ; dear, dear, what's the
matter, sir ?"

Miss Yerner seems faint. Get the brandy,
quick."

The girl, looking scared, ran off, and soon
returned with a bottle and wine glass. 'the
cigarette is locked, sir, but this is a drop cook
had for flavouring."

Brooke half filled the wine glass, and with
some difficulty made Stasie swallow the greater
part of it. Gradually the nervous twitching of
her hands ceased, her colour came slowly back,
and with a deep sigh she tried to sit up.

Brooke took her hand to feel the pulse, but
she snatched it back in a strange terrified way.
He softly took it again. She did not resist, and
her strained eyes grew smaller and less distressed.
With a heavy sigh she seemed to come to herself.
''Ah, how strange !" she murmured, " everything
seemed to fade away, and then to come
back and close round me." She shuddered, and
sighed again. " Did I faint, Mary '? "

Yes'm, worse than you did that time in
your own room ! "

Had Miss Werner an attack of this kind
before ? " asked Brooke eagerly.

"Not near so bad, sir, but very like ; it was
only a minute or two."

"When?"

''Oh, near ten days ago, and Miss Yerner
would not have me, on no account, tell Miss
Stretton, because she has been so worried about
taking medicine, and Mr. Char ape t was in such
a taking."

You feel better now ? " asked Brooke, his
eyes fixed on her face in closest scrutiny.

'' Yes, yes ; nearly quite well ; that dreadful
giddiness and beating of the heart is gone ;
it was frightful I "

Would you like to go and lie down ? "

No, thank you, I am all right now. I will
go out presently and see Mademoiselle and the
children."

"It will do you good, but wait a few minutes."

Mary retired with the bottle.

May I stay and walk with you ? "

Oh yes, if you like." A pause. " I do not
care to be alone. I am so glad I am going to
Lady Pearson's next week. I shall enjoy the
sea. I have not seen it for so long."

"Yes, a change to the sea-side will make you
quite well."

Do you really think so ? How delightful !
for, do you know, I am tired feeling odd and

unwell. I cannot describe how, and poor Dr.
Hunter's medicine does not do me one bit of
good."

*' How do you feel, Miss Werner V

"Oh! dizzy, and faint sometimes, and so
restless at night, and then I have odd fancies.
I know they are unreal, and I will not yield to
them, but it is hard to resist;" then with a
change of tone, " perhaps it is only indigestion ?"

Only indigestion," echoed Brooke. " You
don't know what a fiend indigestion is ! What
have you eaten to-day ? "

I had a chop for my luncheon ; but I could
not eat it, and I had a pear, and some little bits
of helwa."

Helwa ! that is an Eastern sweet ? "

"Yes ! it is delicious. Bhoodhoo makes it for me,
and another kind  with flour and honey  something
like rahat lakoum, but not quite the same."

Bhoodhoo makes them !" repeated Brooke as
if lost in thought ; then, rousing himself, said
pleasantly, " Do you never share these goodies ?
I am rather fond of such things."

Oh yes, you shall have as much as you like ;
bring me that honbonniere that is on the piano."

Brooke obeyed, and Stasie opened and presented
it to him. "They are differently
flavoured, some with fleur derange and some
with cocoa-nut. No one likes cocoa-nut but me.
It is one of the few things I remember at
Mardin. Do you like it ? "

Not much. However, I will try some of
both, if you will allow me," helping himself, but
not eating either.

' I will give you a piece of paper to wrap
them in, they are sticky." She rose from her
seat, and made a step forward, then, stopping
short, put her hand to her head. '' I am still
giddy," she said. " I never was so bad as this
before," sitting down again.

Have you often been similarly affected ? "
asked Brooke, with deep though disguised
anxiety.

No ! only once or twice, but very slightly,
and I got quite right in a few minutes to-day.
Oh ! I must not fancy myself worse than I am.
I will go and put on my hat. I quite long for
some fresh air. Do you think you gave me too
much brandy ? "

I do not think so ; let me prescribe."

Oh no ! " she cried, her usual animation returning,
and a quick faint blush rising on her
cheek. '' Oh no, I want you for a pleasant friend
not a doctor, who would make me take things
and do things I don't like."

Might I not be friend and physician too \ "
asked Brooke, struck by her evident shrinking
from him in his professional character.

No, no ! " reiterated Stasie ; " you cannot be
both. I do not like doctors  I mean," colouring
at her own thoughtless speech, "I do not like
them as doctors."

I should be very vexed if I thought you disliked
me," said Brooke earnestly.

'' But I do not," said Stasie frankly. " I was

vexed with you once " she paused and raised

her eyes with a sweet arch look to his  ' because
you thought I had such bad taste as to engage
myself to poor Bob Mathews ! You know you did ;
and you showed pretty plainly what you thought
of me."

'' I was a dense idiot to misunderstand you,"
cried Brooke warmly. ' ' Will you allow me humbly
to beg you pardon, and more, grant it ? " He held
out his hand ; Stasie hesitated half an instant and

then gave him hers. Brooke held it, gently but
closely, looking at her with deepest attention.
You are feeling more yourself, I sees'

Ah !" cried Stasie, struck by the grave tenderness
of his manner, " you are anxious about me,
Dr. Brooke : you think me very ill. Believe me,
it will not signify much. I have always been so
well, it seems impossible that I should be really
ill. I shall get quite strong, quite myself, when
I go to Lady Pearson's.'

I believe so too," returned Brooke, greatly
touched by this struggle of a strong generous
vitality against the evident indisposition that
oppressed her. " Stay as long as you can. When
do you go ? "

Next Thursday."

That is nearly a week off. I shall comedown
and see you again before you go, if you will
allow me \ And, Miss Yerner, pray confide in Mrs.
Harding ; she is truly attached to you, and I need
not tell you how kind, how considerate  in short,
I know few like her."

'' Nor I," returned Stasie thoughtfully. " Now
I will put on my things, and you will kindly
walk with me to Sefton House. ' I will stay with

Mademoiselle Aubert and the children till Mrs.
Harding; and Aunt Clem come back. I don't
want to be alone."

You are right, Miss Werner. You suggested
indigestion as a possible cause of your illness.
Suppose you avoid these Eastern sweets for a few
days ? "

Very well, I will let you prescribe so much,"
said Stasie as she left the room.

She was soon equipped.

It is dark and threatening," said Brooke, looking;
through the window ; " still I think the air
will do you good."

I am sure of that. I do not mind a wetting
in the least."

As they passed through the hall, Bhoodhoo was
there removing the dead leaves and twigs from
some plants which decorated it. He paused, and,
turning, saluted Stasie with dignified deference.

Missed not well ? Missed better now ? Me
make nice dish for missed's supper ; the house
all sick when missed Sahib sick," he said, raising
his hand to his head.

Oh, I am quite well again, Bhoodhoo," returned
Stasie, smiling kindly on him.

VOL. II. 40

The man bowed, and, raising his eyes, they met
those of Brooke. He stood gazing as if fascinated,
until Brooke followed Stasie through the door out
of sight.

Eeally," she said, as they walked leisurely
towards Sefton House, '' I feel quite regal with so
devoted a 'personal attendant' as Bhoodhoo.
The poor fellow has quite attached himself to me.
You know, he used to be at Mardin, and knew meas
a little child."

Indeed ! but he has the look of one of
those nondescript Bombay fellows that will do
any work."

'' Yes, he came from Bombay, I believe, to my
stepfather at Mardin, so Hormuz says."

Brooke made no reply, and they said little more
till they reached Mr. Harding's house. Here Brooke
made his adieux somewhat lingeringly, though he
refused to come in and see Willie and Ethel.

On Saturday or Sunday I will run down to
see Mrs. Harding," said Brooke, careful not to
alarm Stasie by any exhibition of anxiety, " and
I shall, I hope, find you all right and blooming."

Thank you," she returned, while she thought,
Had Mrs. Harding been at home he would have

found time to come in. Poor Mrs. Harding, what
a pity they were parted ! "

Having watched his companion enter the porch,
Brooke turned away and walked a few paces
slowly, as if in deep thought, towards the railway
station ; then he stopped, drew a time-table from
his breast-pocket, and studied it for a minute or
two ; next he looked at his watch, and then struck
away down the embowered avenue at a steady
pace, as if he had to do a certain distance within
a given time. At the foot of the hill in which
the avenue ended he encountered Mr. Kobinson,
who greeted him cordially :

So sorry to have missed you, Brooke. I
suppose you have been at the parsonage. Where
are you going ? you are turning your back on
the station."

' I am going to take the train at Wei wood.
There is no one at Sefton Park to-day except
Miss Werner, and I have talked to her till she is
tired, and has taken refuge with the French
governess and the children, so I thought a quick
walk would do me good."

I daresay it will. It is over three miles to
the Welwood railway station. I wish I could

come with you, but I have to meet the architect
and Mr. Williams at four-thirty. They are
going to make a push at last about a permanent
church."

I will not keep you then : see you soon again ; "
and Brooke strode on with a far-off look in his
eyes, and his brows knit in deepest thought.

The road led through an undulating country
richly wooded, studded with charming villas in
the highest condition of care and cultivation, and
interspersed with breezy commons.

Brooke scarce noticed these pleasant features.
He walked like a man occupied by a set purpose
; but though his pace was good  three miles
an hour  the shades of a dull evening were
closing round him before he reached the village
of Welwood, and a slow drizzle, more mist than
rain, began to fall.

He did not go direct to the railway station,
however, though in time to catch the four fortyfive
up train, but, turning into the post-office,
which was also a general shop, he asked his way
to Dr. Hunter's residence.

Of course on reaching it the owner was out.

but an elderly servant said her master would
soon be in, and bestowed the visitor to sit down
and wait his return.

Brooke accepted the invitation ; he was shown
into a somewhat dingy back-parlour, and supplied
with a local paper. Time seemed to go very
slowly for the next twenty minutes. Brooke
was unusually restless ; he rose and walked to
and fro, he returned to his chair, he took up the
newspaper and threw it down again ; at last
sounds of a door opening, of heavy footsteps
approaching, told him his mauvais quart dlieure
was over ; next a stout elderly man, exceedingly
neat in attire, rosy of face, with a fringe of nice
white hair round a bald space on the top of his
head entered and saluted him with old-fashioned
politeness.

Brooke introduced himself as a relative of Mrs.
Harding. Dr. Hunter bowed, and Brooke continued
: "I have ventured to trespass on your
time in order to tell you of a sudden attack of
faintness from which Miss Werner suffered this
afternoon, for two reasons  first, because I am,
both on Mrs. Harding's account and for other
reasons interested in the young lady ; secondly,

because I thought you might like a professional
account of the seizure."

'* Certainly, certainly. I am much obliged to
you."

Brooke accordingly proceeded to give an accurate
account of the symptoms he had noticed in
Stasie, and succeeded in drawing Dr. Hunter
into a dissertation on 'the case."

Of course the conversation bristled with
technicalities ; but the elder physician was little
disturbed by the younger medico's report. " An
ordinary case, my dear sir ; quite an ordinary
case. The young lady is low. She has scarce
come to her full strength, she is consequently
slightly feverish, perhaps a little hysterical, and
inclined to yield to any tendency to coma ; nothing
more common with young ladies. I see,"
glancing at Brooke's card, " that you are a military
surgeon, you have therefore not much
experience in this class of disorder. But I assure
you, I have not seen the smallest cause for uneasiness
to Miss Werner's friends. It must be
six weeks since I was first called in, and she is
decidedly better. There may be a little weakness
about the heart. Mr. Kharapet, that Eastern

gentleman who is frequently at Sefton Park, tells
me the young lady's mother died of heart disease.
But really there is not much the matter with her."

'* Then you feel quite sure there are no exceptional
symptoms ? "

Perfectly certain, my dear sir ; and you may
tell Mrs. Harding so. It is one of those cases
where medicine is of little avail. Time and,
above all, change of scene, are the best remedies.
I meet such instances every day, sir, every day."

Then I will detain you no longer," said
Brooke, rising, "and can only reiterate my
excuses for occupying your valuable time. One
word more, may I depend on your silence respecting
this visit ? I do not care to appear in the
eyes of Mrs. Harding and her friend as a stupid
alarmist ; moreover, my visit might make Miss
Werner uneasy if it came to her ears."

"Trust me, trust me," replied Dr. Hunter
cordially. " We doctors can keep secrets ; but
you may make your mind easy, it is a common
case, quite a common case." With much courtesy
he escorted Brooke to the door, and watched
him go away into the damp darkness with a
heart as gloomy as the weather.

When Brooke reached Waterloo Station, he
made a hasty dinner in the refreshment-room,
and then drove straight to his lodgings.

It was a dark, damp night. He was glad to
draw up an easy-chair and to stir the fire into a
blaze. After pondering for some time with painful
intensity on the symptoms he had noticed in
Miss Werner, on the evident indications that her
health had been deteriorating since she had gone
to reside at Sefton Park, he started to his feet
and went to the sideboard, on which stood a large
tin despatch-box. Unlocking this, he took out a
thick manuscript-book, his journal, and re-established
himself before the fire. Opening the
volume, he sought through its pages till he found
certain entries, and read as follows : 

March 2Q, 18  .  A messenger came into cantonments
this morning from the Nawaub Assamodoolah, a Talookdar

of Oiidh, living some loss away from Lucknow, requesting
medical aid for his son, who was seriously ill.

Dr. C. begged me to accompany him, as he did not
care to go alone. The old man begins to doubt his own
nerve.

"A long tiresome ride brought us to the Nawaub's
abode, where, after some delay, we were admitted into his
presence. He received us graciously, but under his
oriental calm and dignity of manner I could see that he
was oppressed by deep anxiety.

He explained at some length the illness of his son 
his restlessness, his sleepless nights, his constant nausea,
and frequent palpitations ; while the last symptoms, cold
sweats and slight convulsions, had frightened the father
into seeking help from the English doctor.

"Dr. C, after putting some questions respecting the
earlier stages of the malady, proposed to see the sufferer."

A short description of the apartment adjoining
the zenana where the boy lay followed, and
then the entry continued :

*' Dr. C. requested me to examine the boy, a handsome
little fellow of eight or nine years old. I found him very
weak, skin hot and burning, very irregular action of the
heart, respiration markedly hurried and labouring, while
the dilated pupil of the eye and glassy look struck me as
peculiar, as were also slight convulsive movements of the
limbs, occurring at intervals.

I could find no apparent cause for the symptoms.
We inquired into the patient's previous condition, his diet,
etc., from the women around the charity, as the boy seemed

dull and averse to speak. I felt fairly puzzled. Dr. C, I
could see, was also in the dark. After a short consultation
we agreed that a sedative draught to allay the general
irritability was all that could be done. This we compounded
on the spot, having brought medicines with us,
and left directions for its use.

On returning to the apartment where the Nawaub
had received us, Dr. 0. asked who attended to the sick
boy % A simple question, which the father answered with
some elaboration. The boy's mother, his nurse, a bearer
devoted to his service, cared, cooked for, and watched
over him.

After the usual offering of scents and sweetmeats, not
omitting sundry gold moeurs, we rode away.

Talking over the peculiar features of the case and the
difficulty of accounting for them. Dr. 0. surprised me by
exclaiming, ' But there, it is no use conjecturing  the boy
is being poisoned. He is the Nawaub's favourite son, and
his mother's enemies or his own are doing away with him.
Nor is there any use in making a disturbance, for we could
never prove anything.' Whereupon he proceeded to describe
an alkaloid poison much used by Thugs, which is so
quickly absorbed, so rapidly evaporated, that it does not
leave a trace after an hour or two. This he felt sure had
been administered."

Brooke turned a page, and read under date of
March 28 :

News reached us this afternoon that the Nawaub's
son died in convulsions about dawn, and my syne, who had
accompanied me on our expedition, speaking of the event,

observed : * It would have taken many doctor Sahibs to
have cured the cliokra when he stood in the way of his
elder brother.' "

Brooke laid clown his journal, and, leaning
back, recalled to his mind all he had noticed in
Stasie that day. The strained, dilated eyes, the
faint but perceptible quiver of the under lid ;
the faintness, the wandering words that betrayed
Kharapet's avowal to her, and served as a
commentary on his look of hatred which had
impressed itself upon Brooke's memory ; the
twitching hands, the palpitating heart, the relief
from alcohol.

These were startling coincidences.

Still, with all the belief in an Eastern's capability
for crime, natural to an Englishman who
had had rare opportunities for seeing below the
surface, Brooke hesitated to believe that Parapet
would dare the tremendous risk of attempting
to poison Stasie Werner, surrounded as she was
by all the security of a family, English servants,
the safe routine of a well-ordered house.

True, the introduction of a Bombay servant
was suspicious ; but, even with his aid, how
difficult to administer any poison that should

affect only one out of a household that partook
of the same food, the same drink.

At this point, Brooke bethought him of the
morsels of helwa he had carried away. Stasie
said that no one liked the flavour of cocoa-nut
save herself It was now more than an hour
since he had eaten ; he would experiment on
himself. A dose that could affect a slight girl,
scarce yet come to her full strength, would be a
mere indication for him, but with his experience
a mere indication would suffice. He took the
paper from his pocket and unfolded it. As he
did so, the remembrance of Stasie's slender white
hands, still trembling as she wrapped it up, came
back to him vividly, thrilling his heart with a
sweet passionate yearning. The thought that a
creature so fair, so young, so generous and
defenceless, should be the victim of a foul
attempt, sent icy darts shivering through his
veins from head to heel. Whatever of doubt or
hesitation had hitherto stayed him vanished
before the rising glow of love and tenderness.
He loved Stasie  loved her truly, purely  and,
whether from schemes against her life or her
happiness, he would save her at any risk to

himself. Having eaten two of the largest fragments
of the helwa, he again took up his
j journal, turning over many leaves hastily, till he
found another entry on the topic then occupying
his mind. The colonel's favourite syne had been
taken violently ill, with symptoms strongly resembling
delirium tremens, which in a wine-abjuring
native were extraordinary. A curious
combination of circumstances led to strong
suspicion that poison had been administered to
him by a man of lower caste, also in the employment
of the colonel, with whom he had had a
quarrel. The syne died, but no trace of poison
could on examination be found. Farther on
Brooke found notes of undoubted cases of
poison by Natura Stramonium in the Jamset-
see Jeejeebhoy Hospital in Bombay. He studied
all the details with intense painful reflection,
and recalled other and slighter particulars imprinted
on his memory, the conviction growing
on him that the subtile poison he feared, would
produce in small doses exactly the same effects
as he had remarked that day in Stasie Werner.
He closed his book, and set himself to review the
position.

He had long ago seen that Kharapet was in
love, in his crawling slimy fashion, with Stasie ;
and seen too that for a while she was unconscious
or careless of the effect she had produced,
while her frank friendliness was quite misunderstood
by the Syrian, whose two strongest passions
were centred in her  greed for money and greed
for herself. That she had rejected him, probably
more than once, Brooke gathered from Stasie's
wandering words when half unconscious. He
felt inclined to think she was now the object of
one of those deadly murderous passions which
more than anything else is suggestive of hell
and the devil ! Then, if Stasie died unmarried
and under age, her fortune would be Kharapet's.
Here was a tremendous temptation to use the
power of silently, safely inflicting death ; nor
did Brooke doubt that, with his experience of
Indian life, Kharapet possessed this power. It
was remarkable too that he had told Dr. Hunter
Stasie's mother died of heart disease ; Brooke
determined to try and ascertain if this was true.
But, above all, the most suspicious circumstance
was the introduction of the man Bhoodhoo.
Without some such tool Kharapet could not.

unless at a great risk, attempt to tamper with
Miss Werner's life. All the circumstances seemed
to fit in to the diabolical design Brooke suspected.
And, if he were right, what could he do to
counteract it ?

He rose and paced the room, striving to see
another side to the picture that his imagination
presented in such strong colours.

Kharapet was a successful man. He had
made a hit in London society of a very good
class. He seemed in no want of funds ; but this
point was extremely uncertain ; he might even
aspire to a wealthy wife other than Stasie Werner.
Brooke knew the somewhat exaggerated value
placed by Europeanised Orientals on social
success in England. Could Kharapet be so
short-sighted as to risk the loss of all this, the
chance of a painful and ignominious exit from
this mortal life, by committing a hideous crime.
Surely calculation, self-interest, would keep him
back.

Like most men who have been much in the
East, Brooke had a very low estimate of Oriental
morality, and was disposed to credit Kharapet
with capability for base and cruel crime ; hut he

also counted more certainly on the deterrent
power of his ' cowardice. No ; it was impossible
lie could entertain so dangerous, so difficult a
design.

*' I am hipped and out of sorts myself,"
thought Brooke, " or I should not be so ready to
accept these horrible fancies for possibilities. I
must persuade Mrs. Harding to take Stasie to
Filmer. That Welwood doctor is an old woman.
Now I can venture to speak to Filmer. But
suppose this nightmare-idea of mine were right,
what could I do for Miss Yerner ? I see nothing
for it but to marry her ! Ay ; but for that two
consents are necessary ! and time  time is all
important."

Again he lost himself in uneasy, indistinct
thought, not without gleams of delicious hope.
At length, rousing up, he looked at his watch.
"It is more than two hours since I swallowed
that stuff, and I do not feel the smallest discomfort,
the slightest sensation that I could construe
into a symptom. I may be wrong, quite wrong.
I trust in God I am. If I do injustice to that
sneaking Syrian, I beg his pardon. At the same
time I wish he might never offend my sense of

the fitness of things by entering the same room
with Stasie Yerner."

Though a man of strong common sense and
considerable self-control, Brooke found himself
unable to regain his usual tranquil, equable condition
of mind. The struggle went on perpetually
in his brain between the memory of Stasie's
attack and its possible cause, and his more everyday
view that such a solution was in the highest
degree improbable. The third day he could stand
it no longer, and made his way at an earlier hour
than usual, to Mrs. Harding first.

He found her prepared to start for London, in
order to meet Johnnie and escort him home fora
couple of days' holiday. She was looking
bright, or at least less depressed than formerly.

I am sorry to leave you, Jim, but I am afraid
of losing the train, and Johnnie will be looking
out for me. I am in hopes he is greatly improved,
he writes such nice letters."

'' I am glad to hear it ! Boys are queer, unaccountable
creatures ; one can never calculate
how they will turn out. I suppose Harding is
in town ? "

VOL. II. * 41

"Yes. He is rather busy just now. Some
Bombay friends of Mr. Parapet's are in London,
and occupy him a good deal."

'' And how is Miss Werner ? She seemed very
unwell when I was down here last."

So she told me, and I felt quite uneasy
about her ; but she is certainly better, and in
high spirits at the idea of going to stay with
Lady Pearson. She goes to Southsea the day
after tomorrow."

'' I am delighted to hear it ; nothing will do
her so much good as change of air. When she
returns, Livy, if you are still anxious, you must
take her to Filmer  Sir Harcourt Filmer."

Then you think she is really unwell ? " asked
Mrs. Harding anxiously. This conversation took
place as they walked down the road to the station,
whence Brooke had just come.

I think prevention better than cure," said
Brooke ; '' and I believe Filmer quite the best
man she could go to."

'* Are you going to call at Limeville, Jim ? "

"Yes, of course. Shall I find Kharapet there ? "

No ; he has not been down here for several
days. Do you know, I think he has given up Stasie

as hopeless. There has been an indefinable change
in his manner of late, for the better."

I am glad of it," returned Brooke drily.
How does he like such a dangerous rival as
young Pearson ? "

I do not know ; but do you really think him
dangerous ? "

How can a man judge of another man's
attractions ? " said Brooke, laughing. ' I can
only say, I feel greatly disposed to enter myself
for the stakes against him."

' I wish you would," cried Mrs. Harding
warmly. " I have always wished you and Stasie
would take a fancy to each other."

At present I do not see the faintest chance
for me," said Brooke.

' How do you know till you have tried to win
her ? " said Mrs. Harding eagerly. " Try, you
have my best wishes, and rely on my keeping
your council."

That is all-important," said Brooke, smiling
to think how soon his new-formed wishes had
forced themselves to his lips. ' There  there is
the bell ; your train is in sight 1"

I declare ! " exclaimed Miss Stretton, as she
saw Mrs. Harding and Dr. Brooke pass, from the
window of a small front room which she called
the " study," where she generally wrote her
letters and made np her rather confused accounts,
and where at that moment she and Stasie were
inspecting a new dress-basket just arrived, for
the better conveyance of the latter's finery to
Southsea. " There is Dr. Brooke with Mrs.
Harding. Why, it is barely ten minutes since
he went up the road. I suppose he is going
back with her to town."

' Very likely," replied Stasie, busying herself
with the buckles of the basket. 'rit will be
pleasant er for her than going alone."

Perhaps so ; a good deal pleasant, I daresay
! " said Miss Stretton, not without significance.
Well, Mr. Harding may have his peculiarities
and faults, and I know he is not a favourite of
yours, Stasie ; but I must say he seems to me a
most affectionate father, and very fond of his
home. I am sure Mrs. Harding has every comfort,
and "

"Man does not live by bread alone, nor
woman either," remarked Stasie in a low tone,

while Miss Stretton went on without heeding*.


And I do not see the hardship of going upto
town by oneself to fetch one's boy from
school."

Nor I, auntie. This is a charming basket ;
it will take all my dresses. I hope Lady Pearson
will not think I have come to make a settlement
in her house when she sees such a formidable
amount of luo-aao-e."

I am sure she would be very pleased if you
did," said Miss Stretton ; and proceeded to deliver
herself of much good advices touching the necessity
of guarding against being betrayed into any
entanglement with young Pearson, who was anything
but steady, and who was  Aunt Clem
understood  a good deal in debt.

Stasie let her talk on uninterruptedly. She
was accustomed to this strain of conversation ;
she had ceased to fly out at these solemn
warnings, to hurl indignant and contemptuous
replies against these perpetual assumptions of
matrimonial designs in each and every masculine
individual who approached them. Moreover,
she took the opportunity of turning over in her

mind the probable truth of her aunt's suspicions
anent the Platonic friendship which undoubtedly-existed
between the doctor and Mrs. Harding,
not that Stasie was disposed to think evil, but
she knew what a cruel suppressed life Mrs.
Harding's was. She saw what an interesting
woman her friend must be, especially to a man
who had once felt more than cousinly regard for
her. She remembered the emphatic wish uttered
by Brooke only three days before, that Mr. Harding
might never return, and the tender regard
for the trust he expressed for his cousin.

It was his sympathy for his early friend that
drew him so often first to York Gate and now to
Sefton Park, and she, Stasie, must rule her own
heart carefully to resist the strange influence 
the almost irresistible attraction which the undemonstrative
doctor possessed for her  above
all, to hide it.

'' I know he is good, and clever, and nice,"
she thought in the depths of her honest heart,
"but if he be not nice for me, I must not care
how nice he be. I fancy I let him see too much
once, but I did not know what I felt then. Oh !
how glad I am to go to Southsea ! I shall see

all sorts of nice people there, and in a multitude
of fancies as well as counsellors there will be
safety."

Miss Stretton had wound up her exordium by
a weighty sentence. " Believe me, Stasie, dear,
it is not the brilliant butterfly of fashion, the
reckless man of fascinating exterior, who can make
a woman happy, but rather the man of more unpretending
style but of gentle nature, deep feeling,
high religious principle, like "

Dr. Brooke is in the drawing room, ma'am,"
said the parlour-maid, opening the door.

Stasie laughed gaily. " That was not the
name you were going to finish with, auntie''
she said.

Certainly not," returned Miss Stretton
sharply. " I dare say Dr. Brooke has his principles,
but I am sure they are not religious ones.
I suppose we must ask him to luncheon."

*' Oh, of course ; and ask Bhoodhoo to make
something nice. He could, I believe, out of an
old bagpipe, like the man in the story Mr. Robinson
told us."

"You had better go to the drawing-room,
Stasie. I must really change my cap."

Brooke was playing with Stasie's dog when
she went into the room, and he still held the
little animal under one arm as he advanced to
meet her, looking eagerly into her face as he said :
< " Well, Miss Werner, I see you are better. I
trust you have had no return of the faintness
that frightened me the other day?"

"Oh no I not in the least. I feel better than
I have done for some time. What friends Pearl
seems to make with you ?"

' Yes ; he is a nice intelligent little fellow.
Has your friend Mr. Kharapet got more reconciled
to the formidable animal ?"

I am not quite sure," said Stasie, smiling.
I do not think he is quite comfortable when
Pearl is in the room, and Pearl knows it quite
well, and is ready to bark and snap and growl in
the most absurd way, as if he gloried in frightening
Mr. Kharapet. I am afraid Mr. Pearson puts
Pearl up to these tricks."

Brooke laughed, put down Pearl, and placed a
chair for Stasie where the light would fall on her
face.

"No, I will not sit there," she cried. "You
want to examine me, and I will not have it ! "

"Why?" said Brooke gently. "Are you
cross because I am truly anxious to see you once
more enjoying the glorious health you seemed to
have when first I had the pleasure of meeting
you?"

Yes, it was a cross speech and unreasonable,"
said Stasie, suddenly conscious of her perversity.
But I have been so badgered about my health,
and I am cross and irritable. I do not understand
myself. Ah ! by the way, have you told
Mrs. Harding about my  fainting?"

No. I did not know your wishes on "

Oh ! thank you," interrupted Stasie. I forbade
Mary to say a word, so now it is all right.
There was a pause. Brooke's mind was full of the
fair girl who sat opposite to him stroking Pearl in
an absent way, and yet no words came to him.

I am going to Lady Pearson's the day after
tomorrow," said Stasie abruptly ; " and I feel so
delighted ; I fancy somehow I shall be spite well
there. I like the sea, and I shall hear music 
military music  and I don't know how it is, but
I feel as if I wanted to escape from this place,
though I was quite pleased to come here. I daresay
all this seems silly enough to you."

By no means. The place does not agree
with you. I am very glad you are going away ;
you will come back quite yourself. Do you take
the train here or at Waterloo ? "

Here Miss Stretton made her appearance, and
soon after they went in to luncheon. Before the
meal was over Mr. Pearson was announced.

That gentleman entered in some excitement.

How do you do, Miss Stretton ? good-morning,
Miss Werner ! " " Ah ! Dr. Brooke,
how are you % I have a letter for you, Miss
Werner, from my mother," producing it. " She
is most anxious you should start tomorrow, if
possible. There is to be an afternoon dance onboard
the " Ariadne " on Thursday. She isn't
one of the big ships, so it will be a small jolly
private sort of thing, and my mother thinks you
would enjoy it greatly. I am going to try for
twenty-four hours' leave, if possible, to run down
for it."

It would be delightful," cried Stasie.
Don't you think we can manage it, auntie ? "

But Miss Stretton, who was averse to the
whole scheme, made a contradictory indefinite
reply.

I am sure I don't know what to say, dear !
Mrs. Harding is away in town, and I expect Mr.
Kharapet to dinner tomorrow. Then your
things are not all come home."

Oh ! you can send anything that is not
ready afterwards," put in Pearson.

You will have plenty of dances, I daresay,"
continued Aunt Clem.

Not so jolly as this one will be."

Here, somewhat to Mr. Pearson's surprise
(for he had a vague incipient jealousy of him),
Brooke joined in with an emphatic recommendation
to Stasie  not to lose so pleasant a chance.

What matter about going a day sooner or
later ? " he continued, addressing Miss Stretton,
who was visibly disturbed, like a person suddenly
placed in unexpected circumstances and at a
loss how to act.

"I really do not know what to say ! I am
sure Mr. Kharapet will not be pleased."

Considering how evident it is that Miss
Yerner needs change," said Brooke, " he ought to
be very glad that she goes away a day sooner."

"And," put in Stasie with a flash of her
natural fire, "I do not care whether Mr. Parapet

likes it or not. I know you do not mind
really, auntie ; so, Mr. Pearson, I will write a
little line to Lady Pearson, and say I will go
with pleasure ! It will reach her tomorrow
morning, will it not ? "

That's right ! I will ride through Wei wood
on my way back, and post it before three," cried
young Pearson ; " and. Miss Stretton, you'll have
lots of time ; there is a capital train from
Waterloo to Portsmouth at four o'clock, arriving
at six, or a few minutes after; that gives you the
whole morning."

The very thing," exclaimed Brooke, as Statement
quickly away to write her note. " And I
will meet you at the station to be of any use I can.
Ladies often need help at the moment of starting."

Oh, I am an experienced traveller myself,"
returned Miss Stretton in a querulous tone,
for she was infinitely annoyed at being thus
swept along against her will, as by the force of
an irresistible current. " But it is impossible I
can do my duty  the duty expected of me by
those who have the right to direct Stasie and her
affairs when she opposes me in even the smallest
matters."

'My dear Miss Stretton ! why oppose Iter in
so small a matter ! Believe me, Miss Werner's
friends ought to grasp eagerly at whatever offers
to do her good, for her health has certainly deteriorated
since she came here ! "

Brooke uttered these last words with some
sharpness and much decision, as he was alone
with Miss Stretton, Pearson having followed
Stasie to the drawing-room.

Aunt Clem looked up startled.

Good gracious, Dr. Brooke ! you don't mean
to say that my dear, dear niece is dangerously
ill ? " the tears stood in her eyes.

No, by no means," returned Brooke, '' but
pray remember that prevention is much better
than cure  perhaps difficult cure."

Miss Stretton was silent and vanquished.

The next day was bright, clear, glowing, a
perfect specimen of autumnal weather. Brooke
rejoiced in the sunshine as he walked to Waterloo
Bridge to keep the tryst he had made the
previous day. He was infinitely relieved ; for a
week or two Stasie would be safe, and he would
have time to make some plan of action, to come

to some decision, for, though full of grave and
terrible doubts, he would not yet allow himself
absolutely to believe that Kharapet could be
guilty of the base crime he suspected.

Aunt Clem and Stasie did not arrive too
early at the station, and Brooke was of very
great assistance to them.

He was delighted to see Stasie looking
radiant, in a small black velvet Spanish hat,
which suited her fair hair and soft complexion.

"Is it not a glorious day. Dr. Brooke \ I
hope it will be as fine to morrow ! Do you know,
I never felt so delighted about an expedition
before. I have an odd sensation of escaping,
I don't know what !"

'' Have you ? " said Brooke, looking earnestly,
tenderly into her eyes. "Perhaps you are
running into danger instead of escaping."

If so," cried Stasie with a sweet laugh and
blush, " you are very ready to thrust me into it I
You seem as glad to send me off as I am to go."

I am, but I shall be still happier to see you
return, restored, as I hope you will be."

Shall you be in London when I come back ? "

'' Yes, certainly," said Brooke with emphasis.
"Tell me," lowering his voice and leaning against
the carriage-door, for Stasie had taken her seat,
and Aunt Clem had gone to buy a paper for her,
Tell me, has your heart troubled you since ?
have you felt faint ?"

N  no, just the least little bit, on Sunday,
hardly worth mentioning."

Brooke looked down in deep thought, then
with a sudden spur from memory he exclaimed,
raising his eyes, " By the way, I never thanked
you for that helwa. It was very good ; do you
happen to have any more about you ?"

Yes, that good Bhoodhoo made some last
night. I have it here," taking a packet from a
little hand-basket.

Well, pray give it all to me ! You are
better without sweets at present." He took it
from her hand, before she had time to resist.

"It is really serious to be on friendly terms
with a doctor," said Stasie, laughing. " Are all
your profession as tyrannical as yourself?"

Stasie, my darling child," cried Miss
Stretton, " one kiss I the train is just going."

Brooke stepped back, raising his hat. Aunt

Clem bestowed a hasty hug on her niece. The
clangorous bell rang out hysterically, and with a
smile and wave of the hand, Stasie vanished with
the receding train ; while Brooke, unseen by
Miss Stretton, hid the packet of helwa in the
recesses of his pocket.

Chapter I.

As she had told Brooke, Stasie was in the highest
spirits at the prospect of her visit to Lady
Pearson.

She anticipated a complete change of
"scenery, decorations, and actors." This was
enough to create great expectations, but beyond
and above this was a sense of joyous freedom, of
relief, in the certainty that for a fortnight at
all events, she was safe from hearing or seeing
Kharapet.

It was ungrateful and unreasonable to feel
thus, she told herself, for nothing could be more
irreproachable and brotherly than the Syrian's
conduct. He certainly looked ill, though he
made no complaint; this was a silent protest
with which she could not quarrel, but it worried

VOL. III. 42

and oppressed her. Now she was speeding away
from vexations, with an eternity of at least
fifteen days' light and liberty before her I

Beyond so large a space of time what young
creature would care to look ? especially one of
Stasie's joyous temperament, ready as she was to
believe all things, and hope all things.

The line to Portsmouth is sufficiently pretty
to interest and amuse so inexperienced a traveller.
"When she had exhausted Aunt Clem's newspaper
she gave it to a gruff old lady opposite, who relaxed
towards her, and went so far as to ask, in
condemnatory tones, if she expected any one to
meet her, adding that in her day (the old lady's)
young women did not run about the world
alone ! To which Stasie replied that the world
being much better nowadays, they could do so
with impunity.

It was near sunset when they reached their
journey's end, and Stasie quickly recognised
Lady Pearson's dignified and portly figures
by a grave, severely respectable " man
out of livery," as the train stopped alongside the
platform. She was speedily almost, if not altogether,
in her ladyship's would-be maternal arms.

So good of you to come on such short
notice, my dear Miss Werner !"

'rand still better of you to ask me," cried
Stasie, accepting an offered kiss. " I was feeling
that I wanted change when your invitation
came, and this is a delightful one !"

Stasie's luggage was soon disentangled, and
given in charge to Lady Pearson's man. While
her hostess explained that her daughter's carriage
awaited them, as Sir Frederic did not think it
worth while to bring their own from London.
You do not know my daughter, Mrs. Dalzell,"
continued Lady Pearson. '' She is very bright
and pleasant, rather like Van ; you will be sure
to like her," etc. etc. " If you are not very tired
we will go round by the pier." Stasie was not
tired, and much enjoyed the view as they drove
round the common. The sea lay sleeping,
bathed in gold by the grand blazoned of the
setting sun, now low down on the horizon,
beyond the richly-wooded gentle slopes of the
Isle of Aright, touched with light on its western
curves, shaded off into soft darkness to the east.
Nearer, one of the round forts which rises from
the water, was tinged with rich yellow light, in

which the majestic form of a 'man-of-war" at
anchor showed black and solid her masts and
rigging like a clear photograph against the vivid
sky.

Men were playing cricket on the common  a
wide stretch of green (very brown green at this
season) bordered by houses of various styles and
sizes at one side and the sea at the other, its
shore line broken by a quaint old white fortification
called the Castle. Children also disported
themselves there on donkeys ; gay dresses, red
and blue uniforms, added colour to the scene ;
while the shining water was dotted with small
craft, and white sails. Life  abundant joyous
life  was everywhere, and Stasie felt as if a
fresh stream of vitality had been suddenly poured
into her own veins.

'' How charming, how lovely !" she exclaimed,
her eyes sparkling.

Yes, it is very nice," returned Lady Pearson.
There is really nothing to speak of as regards
scenery ; but the sea, and the people and ships
and things make up a pleasant whole. I like
Southsea in the autumn  it is better still in
October  when most of the London people are

gone. We generally come here. My son-in-law,
Colonel Dalzell, lias an appointment here,
and I am glad to be with my daughter."

"Yes, of course," said Stasie with warm
acquiescence. " If I had a mother I do not
think I could bear to leave her, even for a
husband."

Ah ! my dear Miss Werner, that is not the
usual view young ladies take of their mothers,"
returned Lady Pearson, smiling, " though they
do not always find they change for the better."

Well, I suppose it is because I have never
known one that I have always longed so much
for a mother ! "

I am sure you would be a charming
daughter to any mother," cried Lady Pearson
with effusion. " But you would never want sympathising
friends under any circumstances ! I
am glad you like Southsea, my dear, and as we
have taken our present abode for a couple of
months, I hope you will prolong your visit.
Your aunt cannot hope to monopolise a girl like
your

"You are very good," murmured Stasie,
colouring with pleasure, and as usual responding

to the voice of the charmer. Praise was very-sweet
to her, not altogether from vanity, though
this had its share, but because kindness, approval,
love were so dear to her heart. She longed
always for affection, sympathy, comprehension,
and keenly felt the loneliness of her position at
times. Lady Pearson was a dear delightful
appreciative woman, and nothing but a growing
recognition of the fitness of things kept her
impulsive companion from throwing her arms
round her and telling her so.

Altogether Stasie's anticipations of pleasure
seemed likely to be fulfilled.

As she was so fresh, and there was plenty of
time, they took a second turn on the sea road,
and watched the sun sink, leaving an exquisite
flush of crimson fading into purple and saffron,
and finally dying out into a warm gray as they
drove slowly along. Lady Pearson returned the
salutes of men in and out of uniform, and hand-kissing
from ladies and children at nearly every
step.

At length the horses' heads were turned towards
Easter, and stopped at one of a row of
tall stone houses with large bay windows. The

door stood open, giving a view of the hall beyond,
and an array of hats and plaids hanging on the
wall in delightful country fashion.

"You must take us just as we are, dear," said
Lady Pearson, as they ascended the steps. " This
is a mere lodging-house, and we have only brought
my maid and Leonard ; but the people are very
obliging, and do not cook badly. Leonard," to
the servant, " tell the coachman to drive to the
pier, and wait for the seven o'clock boat from
Eye. Mrs. Dalzell said she would return
by it."

The drawing-room seemed handsome and
comfortable to Stasie's partial eyes, and the view
out across the Solent to the island was delightful.
Then the kindly, smiling hostess inducted
Stasie into her special apartment, which was
above the drawing-room, with the same outlook,
and nearly as large. A nice writing-table and
easy-chair in the window, a cheval glass, and
sundry luxuries to which Stasie was not accustomed,
made it seem quite grand to her. Her
box was conveniently placed and freed from
strap and cover, while a neat, composed young
woman stood by ready to unlock and unpack it.

It was all delightful, and when Lady Pearson,
with many injunctions to the maid to save Miss
Werner all possible trouble, when that functionary
asked with bated breath for the young lady's
keys, it began to dawn on Stasie's charmed senses
that she was something of a personage.

She is the very most delightful girl I ever
met in my life ! " said Lady Pearson to her husband,
when they met in the drawing-room, before
their guest descended. " Handsome, well-bred,
though not conventional, and so sweet and intelligent
! She would be a charming wife for any
man, independent of her fortune."

'' Hum," returned the General. " How much
do they say she is worth ? "

"From what I can gather, something like
forty thousand pounds."

Well, take it at half what you hear  and
that is not a bad sum to start a young couple
well."

'mrs. Dalton told me, and she is sure to
know. She is quite intimate with Lady Elizabeth
Wyatt. That handsome Eastern who is always
there, I forget his name "

Yes, I know, the executor," interrupted Sir

Frederic. " Harding is the acting man, I think ;
and, if I don t wrong him, he'll make the estate
pay for the trouble it gives him."

'' It would really be a mercy to marry that
dear girl to some nice, good young man as soon
as possible. She is terribly alone, and at the
mercy of designing people."

Eh ! my Lady," exclaimed the General,
laughing, " you go ahead at a swinging pace ! I
suppose you have a pattern young man in your
eye?"

I have indeed, Sir Frederic ! Oh, you need
not laugh ; but I never saw a girl I should so
like for a daughter-in-law."

Don't be in a hurry I and be sure about the
rhino."

Sh  sh ! " said Lady Pearson, whose seat
commanded the door, shaking her fan at her husband,
as Stasie entered, looking very fair and
graceful, in a white dress with a deep red sash,
and a bouquet of damask roses.

Sir Frederic met her with a pleasant mixture
of fatherly kindness and chivalrous courtesy, and
expressed his pleasure at receiving her at his
house. Stasie was delighted with him, and

showed it with a frank grace which captivated
the old soldier, as they stood together in the
pleasant light of a mixed wood and coal fire,
chatting about their young guest's journey and
the festivity of tomorrow.

Does Lou dine with us to-night ? " asked the
General.

No," returned his wife ; ' Colonel Dalzell
expects some friends from town."

Then whom are we waiting for ? "

Oh ! Lord Cecil Annesley. I met him today.
He had just come over from Brittany, and
stays for the dance. You know his brother
commands the Ariadne, so I asked him to
dinner."

'*A11 right," returned Sir Frederic, "only I
wish he would come. I am very hungry, and I
am sure Miss Werner is ' famished.' "

Lord Cecil Annesley," said a servant, throwing
the door open in fulfilment of his master's
wish.

Very glad to see you !  dinner, Leonard,
dinner at once," said the General in the same
breath.

Ah ! that means I am late. A thousand apologies,

my dear Lady Pearson ; but just as I was
leaving the hotel I was stopped by Frank Guthrie.
You know Guthrie, the water-colour man ? " etc.
etc., and Lord Cecil rushed through a fluent apology.
Lady Pearson assured him he was a very
little behind time, and then introduced him to
Miss Werner. Stasie, who was prepared to greet
him cordially, was not a little chilled by his
evident forgetfulness of her.

The announcement " Dinner is on table," however,
cut short her slight embarrassment. She
accepted Sir Frederic's offered arm, and went
down to the dining-room.

Soup and fish had been served before Lord
Cecil recognised the face and figure opposite
him ; then, in his surprise, he dropped his eyeglass
as usual, and had a little difficulty in sticking
it in its place again.

'why, Miss Werner! Yes, of course I remember
now. Had the pleasure of meeting you
at Lady Elizabeth Wyatt's last season."

I saw you did not know me at first," said
Stasie, smiling, while a blush flitted across her
cheek.

I am infinitely flattered by your remembering

me I' he replied ; " but the rencontre was so
unexpected  I  I hope you will excuse me."

Oh, yes, it was only natural. You see many
more people than I do."

'' But not many Miss Corners," said Sir
Frederic gallantly.

Ah 1 yes, to be sure. Mr. Wyatt is your
guardian," remarked Lady Pearson. " Curious
person Lady Elizabeth, she is always entete on
some subject; this season it was the education
of women in Syria  elevating their position, and
all that sort of thing. She always went about
with that Eastern friend of yours. Miss Yerner,
and quite raved of him."

What, of Hormuz Kharapet ? " cried Stasie.
Well, he is very nice and clever ; quite learned,
indeed."

He is in some way connected with you, is
he not?" asked Lord Cecil. "Lady Elizabeth
said something about it when I had the pleasure
of meeting you."

He is a sort of step-uncle, if there is such a
relation," said Stasie, laughing. "He is my
stepfather's brother."

Hum ! a connection, at any rate not within

the forbidden degree," returned Lord Cecil, significantly.
Stasie understood him, and the telltale
colour that came and went so readily flamed
in her cheek for an instant, to Lady Pearson's
alarm and disgust.

*' It is amazing how women of condition can
take up these fellows. I daresay Lady Elizabeth
Wyatt would not let an Englishman of a corresponding
grade farther than her servants' hall,"
observed the General.

But, Sir Frederic, Mr. Kharapet is a gentleman,"
exclaimed Stasie. '' His brother was our
consul "

'' Really, my dear," cried Lady Pearson, 'you
ought not to speak so thoughtlessly. You forget
his connection with this dear girl. You must
not mind the General, Miss Werner ; these old
Indians have a most unreasoning contempt for
every one of a different colour from themselves."


But, do you know, Hormuz is fairer than Sir
Frederic," said Stasie, gazing with simple honesty
at the embroiled veteran, and quite innocent of
intending to pay him back in his own coin.

The General perceived that she meant no

offence, and laughed good-liumouredly  "Fairly
hit, Miss Werner. I must humbly beg pardon
for disparaging your 'protege r

Why is it that you all look down . on
Easternss ? Mr. Kharapet is a Christian like
yourself' pursued Stasie, with some warmth.

Like me ? not a bit of it. I deny that in
tutor

Perhaps he is a better one," said Lord
Cecil.

Very possibly ; but still not like me," returned
Sir Frederic. " Come, Miss Werner, take
a glass of wine with me in bygone fashion, as a
mark of forgiveness."

Yes, certainly ; but pray say no more against
Hormuz Kharapet. He has been very good tome
; really more obliging about things than Mr.
Harding."

Ha ! very likely. Deuced pretty little woman,
Mrs. Harding; I must confess to being deeply
smitten with Mrs. Harding," said Sir Frederic.

'' And she is as nice as she is pretty," cried
Stasie, " and very, very clever."

I imagine you are one of those lucky individuals
whose friends are all highly and exceptionally

gifted," observed Lord Cecil, as he helped
himself to olives.

Yes ; I am lucky in believing them to be so
at any rate, returned Stasie with some emphasis.

Lady Pearson laughed and nodded to her
young friend, and then the conversation flowed
away into other channels, till the hostess rose
and led the way to the drawing-room.

There is a beautiful moon," said Stasie, who
had gone to the window to look out. '' I am
sure it will be fine tomorrow."

Alas ! in this climate we cannot be sure,"
replied Lady Pearson, who was reading some
letters which had come by the last post ; '' but I
think the weather promises to be fine."

' I do hope it will be. Lady Pearson. I quite
long to dance again."

I suppose you have not been to many
dances, Miss Werner ? "

"Pray call me 'Stasie,' Lady Pearson. I
don't like the people I care for to call me ' Miss
Werner.' "

My dear child, that is very sweet of you.
I shall always call you Stasie, for I feel as if you
were my daughter. You know my only girl is

married and so lost to me, I may say. However,
I must not complain : she is very happy."

'' Yes, it seems cruel," said Stasie thoughtfully
; 'every cruel indeed, to lose a girl you
have brought up and loved and cared for,  for
eighteen or twenty years,  just because she fancies
a stranger."

It is, no doubt," replied Lady Pearson with
a sentimental air. " Yet it is what all mothers
wish for, to see their children  be they sons or
daughters  happily settled  a mother's love is
so unselfish. By the way, I am rather a foolish
old woman about my children, and Van, your
friend, is an especial pet : I must show you his
last photograph." She rose and took from her
work-table a morocco case, which she opened and
handed to Stasie. It was a large full-length
portrait in uniform, which was very becoming to
the young lancer.

How nice, how well he looks ! " cried Stasie,
in genuine hearty admiration. " I have never
seen him in uniform ; I am sure it suits him."

Remarkably well," said the gratified mother,
coming to sit on the sofa beside her guest, and
to gaze at the picture. " He looks most distingue

in uniform, and indeed, though I say it,
he is a son any parents might be proud of, so
kind and warm-hearted, such a favourite in his
regiment  a most promising officer  a little
careless about money, but years will correct that."

Oh, yes, it is ever so much better than
being stingy. It must be delightful to have
such a son. And he is very pleasant with us
too ; we are always glad when he comes over, he
is so bright and cheery," and Stasie continued
to gaze with kindly admiration at the photograph.
Lady Pearson's heart swelled with
satisfaction ; surely her maternal schemes were
certain of success.

I suppose then, Stasie," she resumed, '' you
have not seen much of the gay world ?"

Oh, dear no ! I have been at our school
dances, of course, but yours was the only real
ball I was ever at."

She did not add what disappointment and
mortification it brought her.

Was it, indeed ?" said Lady Pearson, anxious
to get to the bottom of her intended daughter-in-law's
present position and antecedents. "You
must be rather dull, my poor child !"

VOL. III. 43

No, I don't think I am' returned Stasie a
little uncertainly, and then glided gradually
under Lady Pearson's judicious questioning into
a full and confidential account of her life past
and present, until the entrance of the gentlemen
changed the subject.

The rest of the evening was passed by Lady
Pearson and Lord Cecil in a game of piquet, and
by Stasie in listening to some tiger hunting tales
of Sir Frederic's, which, as they were heard for
the first time really interested her, while her
fingers were busy knitting a warm stocking destined
for the use of Bhoodhoo during the cold
days of coming winter.

Lord Cecil left early, and Stasie, somewhat
tired with her journey and the excitement, went
to bed.

So far everything surpassed her expectations.
Lady Pearson was a dear, and as to the General,
he was truly delightful. How nice, too, to see a
mother so fond, and a son so deserving her fondness
! How lucky she was to be noticed by such
people ! What a charming life they seemed to
lead, so smooth, so animated ! every one polite
and well bred, with a pleasant word and suitable

phrase ever at hand. What was it made the
subtile charm of the evening ?

Then, as she brushed her long fair hair, she
recalled the incidents of the day. The parting
from Aunt Clem (she hoped that gentle spinster
was not feeling very dull and low), finally, and
with a shy reluctance even in thought, she lived
through the few minutes she had spent with Dr.
Brooke at the railway station.

He had been so nice the last two or three
times they had met, only he was absurdly anxious
about her health ! There was really nothing the
matter with her, and she would not for worlds
have Dr. Brooke prescribe for her, or feel her
pulse, or look into her eyes with that searching
glance of his. Heaven knows what secret weakness
hee might discover hidden away in the depths
of her foolish heart. She wished he had left hera
little bit of helwa ; she had got into the habit
of eating a piece while going to bed. Why were
good things always bad for one ! Then healed
her thoughts to Bhoodhoo and to Kharapet.
It was a shame of Sir Frederic to speak so slightingly
of Kharapet  of any fellow-creature  yet
she was conscious that his words did not wound

her as they once would have done. She was
curiously angry and disgusted with Kharapet.
His avowals of love had had a strange effect ; she
felt as if some hot sirocco had swept away the
first freshness of her youth, and aged her before
her time. Argue with herself as she would, repeat
as she would that she was unjust, unkind,
ungrateful (especially as he seemed now anxious
to conform to her wishes), she could not away
with the feeling that his love degraded her in her
own eyes, that his touch was contamination !

Meantime Sir Frederic Pearson in the drawing-room
below was enjoying the mingled comfort of
a post-prandial glass of brandy and water, and a
confidential talk with his wife.

Do you know," said her ladyship, sipping a
little soda and sherry, " I am quite convinced
that dear girl is struck with Van ; a very little
attention on his part will bring matters to a
climax. If you had only seen the way she gazed
at his photograph !"

'' Pooh !" said the General. '' Most girls like
to look at a good-looking young fellow !"

Yes, but she listened with such deep interest
to all I said about him."

Which I'll lay heavy odds was a good deal.
We all know low long-winded you are when you
begin talking about Van," returned the irreverent
General.

Well, my dear, have I not every right to be
proud of him ?"

Yes, yes, he is a fine fellow ; but don't you
make too sure of the heiress. Why, there will
be dozens after her, sharp men of the world who
could buy and sell our boy !"

She has seen but little as yet, and I am sure
any girl might take a fancy to Van. I rather
think he is really smitten with Stasie Werner !"

Small blame to him ! She is a fine creature,
an uncommon taking girl ; if she were to accept
Van I should consider him a deuced lucky fellow."


"No doubt he would be most fortunate, so
pray, my dear, be guided by me. The sooner we
can make sure of her the better, both for her and
ourselves, pray do not ask any of those young
dandies of the Rifles, or that beauty man  what's
his name  of the Marine Artillery !"

Sir Frederic laughed a loud jolly laugh.

Why, after all, I think more of the boy than

you do ! I think lie is a match for those men in
every way."

I am sure / think so, but then there is no
accounting for a girl's whims."

Ah, ha ! then you are not quite so sure of
her, my lady ! Quite right ; never count your
chickens "

Eeally, Sir Frederic," interrupted his wife,
those old sayings are very stupid 1"

For once the weather was lenient to the projected
dance.

Stasie woke to see a bright blaze of morning
light shimmering over the sea, which laughed back
again in a thousand ripples, as though life were
one prolonged morning-tide of youth and joy.

Stasie peeped delighted through her Venetian
blinds at this inspiriting outlook. She felt unusually
well, with something of that delicious
sense of vivid life in her heart and veins, which
used to make bare existence a delight. Lately
she had been a stranger to this sensation, but
probably change of air and a slight degree of
fatigue had ensured her an unusually good night.
Certainly she felt wonderfully better and brighter

than she did the day before. No doubt change
was what she wanted, and she would return to
Sefton Park strengthened, refreshed, and quite
superior to Dr. Brooke's pitying, inquiring glances.

She was completely dressed for some time
before the breakfast bell rang, and busied herself
writing part at least of a letter to Mrs. Harding,
to be finished after her return from the dance.
She had despatched a hasty line to Aunt Clem
before dinner the previous day.

Stasie was greeted with the most affectionate
inquiries as to how she had slept, and whether
she had been comfortable, etc. etc. She found
Lady Pearson sitting behind a big tea-urn, in a
becoming morning gown and lace-edged muslin
cap, while the embroiled stately General looked
fresh and well in a rough gray suit, with snowy
linen and a coloured tie.

He was kindly and attentive to his wife as
well as to his guest, giving them morsels of news
from the Times, at which he glanced occasionally,
and rising with cheerful alacrity to obey his
wife's orders when she desired him to bring the
preserves or to cut her some of the cold beef
which was upon the sideboard. Stasie thought

that if men were all like Sir Frederic, one or two
would be rather an improvement to most homes,
a matter she had sometimes doubted when in
Mr. Harding's.

I think you were a true prophet, my dear,"
said Lady Pearson, as she handed Stasie her tea.
'ewe shall have a lovely day I hope. What
time does the eight o'clock train from Waterloo
reach Portsmouth, General? Ian was to try and
catch it."

"It's a slow train  devilish slow parliamentary
affair !  does not get in till eleven or eleven-thirty,
I think."

I hope Mr. Pearson will come," cried Stasie.
I shall be so utterly strange if he does not, and
he dances so well."

I think you may be pretty sure of him,"
said his mother with a pleased smile. " He certainly
is a good partner."

By George ! you'll have no lack of partners,
m be bound," cried the gallant General.

Still, I should like Mr. Pearson to come,"
added Stasie.

Lady Pearson meanwhile had opened some of
her letters. " Frank says they are going to have

a grand football match with the Harleigh Club
on the thirteenth ; he thinks his side sure to win.
I wish there was no such game ; it is most dangerous
and brutal," she said, looking to her husband.


Pooh ! nonsense !" he returned. "It is no
worse than other games. English boys do not
care for play thatlhas not a spice of danger
in it."

Football is much worse than anything else,"
persisted Lady Pearson. " Frank is our youngest
boy," she explained to Stasie. ''He is going to
try for the Civil Service, and is now staying with
some friends in Yorkshire for a little relaxation.
He has been working very hard."

the General made a grimace that provoked
Stasie to laughter.

"You are too bad, Fred," cried his wife.
Well, Stasie, what should you like to do this
morning? You must keep rather quiet on account
of the dance. We must take good care of
you, and send you back quite strong and well to
your aunt."

Oh ! Lady Pearson, I don't care what we do.
I should like to go out on the beach, but I shall

be quite content to sit in the window with a
book ; this is such a delicious, lovely place."

If you don't want to go very early to the
club, General, you might take Stasie for a stroll
on the beach."

I am quite at Miss Werner's service, if she
will allow me to finish the Tiniest

"Oh, of course ! I am so much obliged. Sir
Frederic ; I am afraid it will bore you."

What a cross-grained old hunks you must
think me ! I consider it an honour to be your
escort. There  I don't think Van could say
anything better, eh 1 Miss Yerner V

No, certainly not ! leo one could ; only
please don't call me Miss Yerner."

Come then, you will find the piano and
some magazines in the drawing-room," said Lady
Pearson ; " and just do as you like, dear, until
the General is ready. I must answer some of
these letters."

But Stasie felt rather shy of playing or singing
among strangers, so she took Temple Bar and
sat down in the window.

But the sunshine and movement outside were
too much for the attractions of even Miss Brad-don's

most thrilling tales, and the distant sound
of military music filled her with a vague pleasure.
She sat in a kind of dream, from which she was
roused by a sweet but rather high pitched voice
saying 

Miss Werner, let me introduce myself, as I
cannot find my mother. Mrs. Dalzell, Miss
Yerner  Miss Yerner, Mrs. Dalzell. Now we are
en regie, I suppose you know who I am ?"

Oh, yes I quite well," cried Stasie, who had
started up, and shook hands with a slight elegant-looking
little brunette, in a sort of yachting costume.
She was a diminished, softened, beautified
likeness of the General, but with a restless
expression very different from his.

So you are Miss Yerner," she resumed, throwing
herself into an easy-chair. " I want to look
at you and consider you, for I have heard a good
deal of you, and of course you are not a bit like
what I expected. They said you were fair, and
I cannot bear blondes ; they generally want salt,
but your eyes redeem you ! Am I impertinent %
I have the credit of it, but I am only frank.
Ah ! you do not like to be stared at."

"I do not think any one does," said Stasie

with some spirit, " but at least I can look at you
in return."

"Good!" cried the little lady, clapping her
hands. '' Am / like what you expected ?"

I had no expectations," replied Stasie candidly.


Mrs. Dalzell laughed merrily. " That is flattering;
pray did Van  did my brother never
mention me to you ?"

Oh, yes ! but not often."

Good-for-nothing boy! and I gave him the
sweetest little dog, which I believe he passed onto
you."

Was Pearl yours ? He is a dear little creature."


Having thus cleared all formalities at a bound,
Mrs. Dalzell proceeded to ingratiate herself
with Stasie by a series of compliments disguised
as fault-finding, and finally proposed
going out, pooh-cooling the projected escort of
Sir Frederic.

"Papa would much rather sit indoors and
read the Times from the births, deaths, and
marriages to Wivat regina,' and I shall amuse
you much more. I want some flowers and some

silks. I am a great lover of fancy-work, are
you r

'' No. I rather like common useful work. I
am not clever enough to do pretty things."

You do not give me that idea. By the way,
how frightfully dull you must be at that place 
what do you call it  something Park. How do
you manage to live ?"

It is not so bad," replied Stasie, who was not
accustomed to look on existence as a mere playground,
and thereupon Mrs. Dalzell led her young
companion into a long and full description of her
home and surroundings. She manipulated her
subject much more skilfully than her mother did,
and drew rather different conclusions.

When Stasie and her new acquaintance returned
from their ramble they found the house in
some excitement. Mr. Pearson had arrived rather
earlier than was expected, had breakfasted and
made his toilette, and came beaming out of the
dining-room to meet them. Stasie was delighted
to see him. He was like an old friend in that
strange place.

Oh ! I am so glad you have come," cried

Stasie, with sparkling eyes and sweetest smile,
I was afraid something might have prevented
you."

"It must have been a strong reason that
would have kept me away," he returned with
much significance. " And we are going to have
such a jolly day ! One is always on the stretch
in this climate until you know what the weather
is to be. Why, Miss Werner, you look pounds
better already ! Do you know, Lou, she is just
bored to death at Sefton Park ! You would
commit suicide after ten days of it, and the
victim is not even aware of her martyrdom."

She is not indeed," said Stasie, laughing, as
they went up to the drawing-room, where was a
lovely bouquet, fresh from Covent Garden, in
its newly-opened box, an offering from the enamoured
lancer to the heiress.

She was enchanted, but not intoxicated. In
the course of conversation young Pearson said,
'' I fell in with your friend Mr. Harding yesterday
morning in the city. Wonderful thing forme
to visit that money-making centre. He is
going away somewhere."

'' Is he ? That is quite unexpected."

I daresay his wife will not be inconsolable,
and at any rate she has that tall relative to look
after her, which I have no doubt he will. Brooke
can be a very pleasant fellow if he likes."

The words seemed to lay an icy grasp on
Stasie's heart for a moment ; the sunshine was
no longer joyous but cruelly fierce ; the pleasant
sound of cheerful voices was a confusing murmur ;
the scent of the flowers was heavy and sickening.
"Was it possible that others beside Aunt Clem and
herself noticed Brooke's devotion to his cousin ?
And if there was reason for such remarks, why
was she so strongly moved by them ? The
only sufferer from such a state of feeling would
be Brooke himself ; and of course she was
sorry for him. He had been kind and interested
in her. She would banish these uncomfortable
thoughts. Why should Dr. Brooke, or the ideas
he suggested, come to tarnish the vivid brightness
of her rare pleasure as he did once before ?
She had been silent but a moment and what a
tide of thought and conjecture had swept over
her brain ! As she looked up to answer some
question of Lady Pearson's, she met Mrs. Dalzell's
keen eyes fixed on her with startling intensity.

It was unpleasant for the instant, but the impression
soon passed away.

The dance was most successful. To Stasie it
was a scene of enchantment, from the start in the
steam-launch to the return at sundown, when the
young moon began to throw a shimmer of silver
over the sea.

The quarterdeck was converted into a huge
tent, embanked with greenery and beautiful
flowers ; the band inspiriting ; the boards perfection
; partners flocked in files to be presented
to the fair girl whose fortune suffered no diminution
by report.

She gave an open preference, however, to her
original cavalier, and a general conviction that
Van Pearson was a " deuced lucky fellow " was
adopted in both services.

That young gentleman was not so elate as might
have been expected. He had the instinct of an
honest heart, and was not inordinately conceited,
considering his years and profession. His mind
misgave him that the liking so frankly shown was
not exactly like a young girl's manifestation of
love; still it was all very pleasant and encouraging.

\-

The days that followed were diversified by
visits to Cowes, to Carisbrooke, to the Victory
(of course), and sundry other legitimate points of
attraction.

Mrs. Dalzell's untiring thirst for pleasure, her
wilfulness and playful tyranny over her grim-looking
husband, once a head sahreur, amused
Stasie immensely. She did not feel inclined to
trust her, yet could not help liking her. " Van "
got a few days' leave, and did his best to improve
the shining hour, but was less prompt in his
action than his mother wished.

Eeally, my dear boy, I do not know how
much more encouragement you want," said Lady
Pearson, as she sat in conclave with her son and
daughter after luncheon one afternoon, when
Stasie had been about ten days their guest.
What is the use of losing time ? If Stasie
Werner is unmarried, and goes out with Lady
Elizabeth Wyatt next season, your chances will
be considerably diminished. Why, even now
that stupid Lord Cecil is not without his pretensions.
You will lose her if you don't take
care."

And I can tell you, mother, I shall lose her if

VOL. III. 44

I am too prompt. She is not one bit in love
with me ! and I fancy I haven't as good a chance
here, as in that infernal hole, where I am the
only bit of life she sees."

I imagine Van is right, mother ! " said Mrs.
Dalzell thoughtfully. " I do not quite understand
Stasie Werner. What sort of man is
this Brooke of whom I have heard you
speak ? "

* A tall, grave, sombre fellow, not at all handsome.
Looks like a gentleman, though. I believe
he did some very gallant things attending to the
wounded under fire in India, but, oh ! there is
no danger there ! He takes very little notice of
Miss Werner. I see that Kharapet and Miss
Stretton think he is sweet on Mrs. Harding 
can't see it myself."

Well, I have pressed Stasie to give us
another week. She has just gone to write to her
aunt about it. You might get leave for a day or
two more, and then "

Further projects and plans were cut short
by the entrance of the Persons' servant bearing
a coloured envelope on a salver. Lady Pearson
opened, glanced at it, gave a slight scream, and

lay back in her chair. Her son seized and read
it aloud.

Frank had a bad accident yesterday  come
to him at once."

The football match," cried Mrs. Dalzell,
turning pale.

When Brooke had seen the train disappear
which carried Stasie away, as he fondly hoped,
to fresh air and renewed strength, he turned to
Miss Stretton, and asked if he could do anything
for her, or stay with her till the next train to
Sefton Park.

Many thanks, my dear sir ! I will not put
your politeness to so severe a proof ; as I am in
town, I will take the opportunity to do a little
shopping. I can go to Waterloo House, at least,
and catch the six o'clock down train. Ah, how
lost I shall feel in choosing even the most insignificant
article without that dear child."

'' No doubt," said Brooke sympathetically.

So if you would be good enough to call a
cab I shall trouble you no further."

Brooke complied with her request, and then
descending the steps on the arrival side of

the station, walked slowly on towards Westminster.


Passing along York Eoad his eye was caught
by some flaming placards of a sensational drama,
then enjoying the glories of a prolonged run.

The interest of the piece centered round a
mysterious case of poisoning, and reminded
Brooke of the intention with which he had taken
Stasie's sweeties from her. He drew the neat
parcel of Helwa from his pocket, and, taking out
a gray morsel, proceeded to eat it as he went
along. The sight of that flaring poster had set
him thinking deeply and uneasily. He had seen
Stasie set out on her journey with a mixture of
satisfaction and anxiety. That she would be
clear of Sefton Park, Kharapet, and that doubtful
Indian servant for a fortnight or three weeks,
was an infinite relief. It gave him breathing
time ; it freed him from the terrible blinding fear
of what each day, each hour, might bring forth,
which robbed him of his cooler judgment  of
the power of weighing evidence, of coming to anything
like a clearly reasoned-out conclusion.

Now for a short time his fears were at rest.
He could examine the circumstances of the case,

the sources of the horrible doubt which assailed
him. Even a cursory glance at the dark array
of details which awaited his careful consideration,
showed him the enormous difficulties with which
he would have to contend should he on more
mature reflection still think Stasie's life in
danger. Good God ! What an awful thought I
and her bright face, full of anticipated pleasure,
yet remembering Aunt Clem's feelings even in
her own joy, rose before him. Nevertheless
this same visit from which he hoped so much
might destroy all chance of his own success.
No doubt Lady Pearson would throw her as
much as possible with her son, and what more
natural than that the debonair young soldier
should be acceptable to an inexperienced girl
new to the world, and ready to gild most
things by the light of her own imagination ;
but even as the strong probability of such an
ending came before him Brooke felt that his
own disappointment would bring with it a
degree of comfort. Young Pearson, though
much below Stasie's moral and intellectual standard,
was, Brooke believed, a good, honest fellow,
and with him her sweet young life would

be safe. How bitter a disappointment such an
untying of the present bard knot would be none
but himself could know. Stasie was seldom out
of bis thoughts, not only on account of the
strange fears be entertained for ber, but because
of the remarkable way in wbicb sbe seemed to
bave closed the petals of ber soul against bim.

During the first weeks of their acquaintance
be bad been half amused, half flattered by the
eager pleasure with wbicb sbe sought bis society
and conversation, although be was clear-sighted
enough to perceive there was not a tinge of
coquetry or ordinary love of admiration in her
innocent preference. But from the hour he
stupidly misunderstood ber, and no doubt showed
his misunderstanding, sbe changed to bim, in a
subtile secret way that none save be himself
could perceive, and from that time, too, he
became aware that she was more to him than
any other woman ever had been before. Now,
she had indeed become *' the ocean to the river
of his thoughts." Was it possible that any man
breathed so cruel, so vile, as to plot against the
life of this fair, noble, generous-hearted creature ?

Dr. Brooke, you are in such deep thought

you walk against me." Looking up with a start,
Brooke found himself face to face with Kharapet
at the corner of Parliament Street.

''I beg your pardon," he exclaimed with an
odd dazed feeling as if some evil omen had
suddenly blighted him. " I was, as you say, lost
in thought."

It is a lovely day," said Kharapet, lingering
as if he did not know exactly how to break off
once he had begun to talk. " I am sure the
English climate is much belied, and I am hastening
to enjoy the fine evening with my friends at
Sefton Park."

You will probably meet Miss Stretton ;
there is no train before six thirty, and she returns
by it."

Returns," echoed Kharapet devouring his
interlocutor for a moment with big hungry eyes,
as if greatly surprised. " Has Miss Stretton
been in town to-day ? "

She has, I have just left her. We were
starting Miss Werner off for Southsea."

Kharapet had sufficient self-control to %.:l his
eyes on the ground, yet he could not quite
hide the change which passed over his face.

' Stasie gone to Southsea 1 how  how is this ?

I was not informed  I  I " he stopped

abruptly. Brooke watched the Syrian's uneasiness
and confusion, not without a degree of
pleasure; he was thoroughly roused, every faculty
keenly alive.

' Young Pearson came over yesterday with a
note from his mother," replied Brooke carelessly.
" It seems there is an afternoon dance, or a 
of some description,' tomorrow, and Lady
Pearson wished Miss Werner to assist, in the
French sense. Miss Stretton hesitated, but we
all backed up Miss Werner, who was of course
wild to go ; and she is gone''

Kharapet was silent for a few minutes, and
then said with a harsh laugh, "You were certainly
prompt. The one thing in English life I
neither understand nor approve is your neglect of
your young ladies. I had intended escorting
Stasie to Southsea myself. It is not well on
Miss Stretton's part to let her go alone."

A scornful reply rose to Brooke's lips, but he
restrained it. It would not do to defy Kharapet
in any case. If the deep-dyed scoundrel Brooke
suspected, he was a power not to be trifled with,

and must be fought with his own weapons. If
innocent, why, he was harmless, and deserved
decent treatment.

Well, you see ideas on these matters differ !
You are on your way to the Hardings ? Pray
tell Mrs. Harding I shall not be down for two or
three days."

The Syrian promised politely to deliver the
message, and they parted, going opposite
ways.

That fellow will be down on Aunt Clem,"
said Brooke to himself. ' He is awfully cut up
at Stasie's taking the law into her own hands !
Is it possible that such a quiet, mild kind of man
could conspire against the life of a fellow creature,
and such a creature ? but the look he gave
her that day was deadly. Pooh ! I must not
let imagination run away with me. I'll eat every
scrap of this sweet stuff before I come to any
conclusion. The last certainly did me no harm,
and if this too is harmless, why, that will score
one to Kharapet. It must be deucedly difficult
to poison one member of a family."

So musing, he proceeded to transact some
business at Grandly's, where he met an acquaintance

who was passing through town, and with
whom he dined at the club.

A few evenings after Brooke returned early to
his lodgings, intending to work for an hour or
two on a paper which he was 'preparing for a
medical journal. The occupation was a relief.
It drew him from the subject on which he dwelt
so continuously and so painfully. He spread out
his notes, which he consulted from time to time,
and wrote steadily for an hour or two.

The servant of the house brought him a carrie
of cold water with a tumbler, as was her custom,
before asking formally if he *' wanted anything
more." On the tray was a note from Mrs. Harding
asking him to perform some trifling commission,
and adding "You will be glad to hear that
Stasie Yerner is enjoying herself immensely, and
says she feels wonderfully better  quite herself
again. I fancy her fortnight will stretch into
three weeks. Mr. Pearson rode over yesterday,
and says she made quite a sensation at the
Ariadne dance. He goes down again tomorrow,
at which I am not pleased. When am I to see
you again ? "

Brooke pulled his moustaches gravely as he
perused this epistle. "What a trump Livy was,
and how little he had remembered her or her
troubles of late ! His conscience smote him.
After a pause he folded up the note and applied
himself to his work, but had hardly written for a
quarter of an hour when he suddenly dropped
his pen, and, seizing the arms of his chair, sat
rigid and still, while his breath came quickly.
He had been struck by a sensation of increased
warmth which for some minutes had been spreading
over his body, and now his heart beat wildly,
as if it would burst its bounds. The sideboard
opposite him, the mantelpiece and its ornaments,
seemed slowly turning round, and a feeling of
nausea oppressed him ! ' I know what wine I
have taken to-day," he murmured to himself,
and this cannot be intoxication." He rose to
his feet, and by a strong effort steadied himself
to cross the room, and throw open the window in
order to get air. Leaning out, he observed that
foot-passengers and vehicles seemed to move in
an odd, wavering, impossible manner. Slightly
revived, he struggled to the fireplace, and looked,
with a half-articulate exclamation of horror, at the

reflection of Ms eyes in the glass, at the dilated
pupils, the wild staring look. It was the same,
only exaggerated, which had alarmed him in
Stasie's and especially roused his suspicions.

Throwing himself into a chair, he buried his
face in his hands, and remained a few minutes in
deep thought. Then he again started to his feet,
and, staggering to the sideboard, took out some
brandy and swallowed a glass. He stood still,
his hand resting on the back of a chair, until he
began to feel more himself. His heart ceased to
beat in heavy thumps, his vision grew clearer.
At last, with a deep sigh of relief, he again approached
the window, and drew a long breath.

' I have it now," he thought. " I have at
length swallowed some portion of the helwa more
saturated with the poison than the rest. Yesterday
I was slightly affected, so slightly that but
for this experience I should not have remembered
it. It cannot yet be two hours since I ate the
last piece ! The infernal villains ! they are using
some alkaloid poison. Nothing else can account
for Stasie's symptoms or my own. It is a devilish
plot. I know how almost impossible it is to
detect. The symptoms, too, can be so easily

attributed to heart disease or other natural disorders
; and more, the doses may be so regulated
as to cause a gradual decay of strength ! how can
I act, or rather counteract ? "

At this point of his reflections Brooke ceased
to think clearly or consecutively. A whirling
cloud of terrible apprehension and of self-distrust
of painful anticipation seemed to enfold
his brain, and take from him the power of controlling
its action.

The cold sweat stood in big beads upon his
brow, and his strong frame quivered with a
nameless fear.

What could he do ? Gradually he recovered,
and by an enormous effort of will, compelled
himself to examine the position critically
and coolly.

First, he felt sure that Kharapet had determined
to remove the obstacle which stood
between him and fortune, the girl whose rejection
had swept away the slender barrier that
divides such passion as he could feel, from hatred
and vengeance. For this he had introduced the
Hindoo servant into Stasie's establishment, and
with a view to the probable termination of his

attempt, he had told Dr. Hunter that Stasie's
mother had died of heart disease.

Kharapet's position gave him great advantages
; he evidently had some occult influence
over Mr. Harding, he was a special favourite
with Mr. Wyatt, he was the deus ex macJiina for
good to Stasie's aunt. He was a man of irreproachable
character ; he stood well with irreproachable
and influential people. It would be
dangerous to attack him, for attack would only
serve to strengthen him by its failure. What
proof could Brooke osier that this paragon was
carrying out a diabolical plot against the life of
an unoffending girl? The tendency of the
British mind would be to pooh - pooh such
dramatic transpontine villainy at once. Such
goings on within the sacred circle of whited
sepulchres, were incredible, impossible ! Reason,
common-sense, self-interest forbid them. "Is it
likely a man already making his way successfully
would run the awful, imminent risk of discovery,
of ruin, of life, for a comparatively small stake ?
no game could be worth such a candle ! " Brooke
imagined the average Englishman saying. But
if it were next to impossible that detection

could overtake him, the Syrian hould dare to
destroy ! At that time alkaloid poisons were
very little known in England ; moreover, Brooke
reflected that much of the untamed savage still
lurked under the thin lacquer of European civilisation.


What was he to do ? He ran over in his mind
the people by whom Stasie was surrounded. The
Hardings ? it would be simple folly to name the
subject to them. Miss Stretton ? she was so
bewitched by Kharapet that if she saw him
administering certified poison, she would not
believe it. Little Robinson might perhaps on
good proof credit him with sharp practice in
money matters, but nothing more. Dr. Hunter?
pooh, an old woman ! No ; he was single-handed
against desperate odds ! And Stasie
herself ? At the thought of her his heart swelled
with tenderness and compassion, with intense
longing ; to her of all others, he dared not breathe
his terrible fears ; she would laugh him to scorn ;
yet he must, he would save her.

Then Brooke strove to picture to himself
Kharapet's probable line of action. He would
not do what he had set himself to do quickly.

No, the wretch had nearly three years before
him, unless, indeed, Stasie married. He could
weaken her, produce repeated attacks, apparently
of heart disease or softening of the brain ; and
then whenever a necessity arose, if she were
about to be married, or approaching her majority,
he could kill with one dose, the traces of
which would, more than probably, evaporate
before an examination could be made. What
a crowd of hideous images thronged Brooke's
mind as this idea presented itself !

Look at circumstances which way he would,
he saw but one way of escape. Stasie must
marry as soon as possible, but whom ? himself ?
If  if only he could win her, all might go well ;
for danger, though round her, was not imminent.
Ah ! what a delicious remedy, could he but persuade
her to adopt it,  if !

Four months ago, he should not have so
doubted his own powers ; but now, suppose she
rejected him ? he would lose his power to help
her, or weaken it fatally. He must proceed with
the utmost caution, with profoundest watchfulness.
If Kharapet perceived that he sought
Stasie, that he aspired to wed her, and was

VOL. III. 45

likely to succeed, it might be tier death warrant !
and if he seemed to make love to her sub rosa,
it might rouse her high spirit. Come what may,
however, he would do his best to win her, and
why should he not succeed ? New life seemed
to thrill through his veins as he contemplated
this possibility ; his pulses throbbed with fresh
vigour. The only chance for his love, his Hebe,
his beautiful Stasie, lay in their making what
is called making a bolt of it ! Disreputable but
delicious alternative !

Now, to review the forces on his side  first
his own energy and quick sight, sharpened by
intense feeling ; next Mrs. Harding, she would
help him in all ways with Stasie, and be as
useful as an ally could be, whose eyes were
but half open ; lastly Sir Harcourt Filmer, the
leading authority on heart disorders. He was
Brooke's former master and present friend, a
man of great attainments, of liberal and extended
views. He might be trusted and might
afford valuable help, to him alone could Brooke
confide his discovery, his fears."

And that cursed helwa ! there was still a lot
of it. He was not inclined to repeat the dose

just then, but lie would eat some each day, carefully
noticing the effects. He was sure the
poison was unequally distributed in the sweetmeat,
probably by design.

Even so much determined on was a relief,
though Brooke sat on and on, far into the night,
reviewing his extraordinary position from every
point of view.

If  if only Filmer would take up his views, he
might suggest some line of conduct more efficient
than any which had yet occurred to himself.

Dear Robinson  Do you never give yourself
a holiday ? I have hitherto always been
your guest. Can you manage to come with me
up the river ? We used both to pull a pretty
good oar at one time. We'll get away by train
to Richmond, have our spurt, and dine together
after. I am rather out of sorts, and have prescribed
for myself a course of social enjoyment,
which you must help me to carry out, as I will
explain. Get the curate at Wei wood to take
your morning prayers, and I'll put you up. I
will take no excuse, though you may take your
own time.  Yours always, J. Brooke."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF M}m\

This note reached the Eev. St. John Kobinson
the evenings after Brooke had the attack above
described.

The young divine was enjoying a cup of tea
after a hard day's work, for it was that on which
he was in the habit of assisting his friend the
curate with a distant parish, also held by the
Rector of Sefton.

It was a tempting invitation.

Robinson's holidays were few and far between ;
and for reasons best known to himself he did not
that autumn choose to take his usual three weeks'
leave of absence.

Neither life nor work were exhilarating at
Sefton Park. To a high-toned spiritually-minded
young minister there is probably nothing more
discouraging than the snug self-content of the
ordinary well-to-do irreproachable citizen, whose
life affords no excuse for meddling to the ardent
ecclesiastic. The Eev. St. John felt that a day
or two with his friend would be an immense
refreshment. His old schoolboy liking for Brooke
had revived and deepened; their dissimilarity of
thought and opinion gave charm and variety to
their talk, and after an hour or two passed

with his friend, Robinson generally felt a new
man.

He at once set about making the necessary
arrangements, and early in the ensuing week the
friends met to carry out Brooke's programme.

The weather, however, was not propitious ; it
was dull and oppressive, and though unmistakably
glad to see him, Brooke appeared unusually
preoccupied. He looked worn too ; his deep eyes
had a restless expression, his thin temples seemed
more craggy than usual. After a while he grew
more like himself, and talked with less effort.

The rowing was something of a failure  both
were out of practice, and a slow drizzle induced
them to return to the hotel, where they had
ordered dinner, sooner than they intended ; and
having reached it, the rain, which had driven
them in, ceased ; the low dun gray clouds, slowly
parting, drifted eastward as a breeze sprang up
and revealed the glories of a fine sunset.

Brooke and his friend strolled slowly to and
fro the terrace before the hotel, enjoying the view,
and gradually growing more and more confidential
in their talk.

'' You are looking rather seedy," said Brooke,

as he lit a cigar and offered his case to Robinson.
Why don't you take a run over to Switzerland
or Brittany ? The most complete change is
somewhere away on the Continent."

' I don't care to go this year," with a slight
sigh ; "I prefer sticking to my work  and,
Brooke, you are looking out of sorts yourself."

I know I am," returned Brooke grimly. " Tell
me about yourself, Eobby." (This had been the
Reverend St. John's school appellation.)

"There isn't much to tell. I am singularly
well placed in some respects. The freedom, the
position, an incumbency gives is, of course, a
great advantage ; but the income is as yet small
and a little uncertain ; in fact, barely enough fora
bachelor."

A bachelor, eh ! Then you are thinking of
becoming a benedict ? "

"No, Brooke; not thinking of it. Perhaps
were I quite sure it is desirable for a priest to
marry, I might wish to do so."

Don't call yourself a priest, Eobby ; it is a
term I am not fond of. Well, and why should it
not be desirable for a clergyman to marry ? "

There is much to be said for and against,"

returned Robinson thoughtfully. " I am by no
means in favour of compulsory celibacy ; but the
ideal priest (you must let me use the word, it
conveys to my mind a clear impression) should
stand above these mere earthly ties ; no human
love ought to come between him and the spiritual
life, of which he should be an example, and yet
the young man sighed.

He would be a deuced deal better priest if
he were an honest citizen, with family ties like
his neighbours," put in Brooke very decidedly.

And yet a home  and there is no such thing
without a woman to make it  must be sweet,
very sweet," resumed Robinson ; '' and to many
marriage is a safe refuge ; still, the ideal man of
God, strong and tender, absolved from the
dominion of self-love, and caring for wandering
sinners, bringing them home to their Father's
fold, himself purified from earthly passion, is a
glorious figure."

Not to my mind. I prefer the full exercise
of all the faculties bestowed on us. Why, you
rob yourself of part of your rightful inheritance
in resisting the strongest instinct of
our nature ; the result of such fruitless self-mastery

will be ' wisdom from one entrance quite
shut out "

'' Do you not yourself wilfully shut out one
class of wisdom, and of a very high class,
Brooke ? "

"Not wilfully. But come, I'll read your
riddle : you are in love, Eobby."

That reverend gentleman blushed, but shook
his head. " No," he said, " not in love. I think
I am sufficiently lord of myself to regulate my
feelings ; yet were I sure, were it clear to me, that
marriage would not militate against the usefulness
of my office, I might  that is, I know a young
lady who would make an admirable helpmeet."

Is she at Sefton Park ? " asked Brooke drily.

'* She is," returned the young incumbent, who,
having broken the ice, was once more at ease.

Can it be that he has fallen in love with Stasie
Yerner ? thought Brooke. I hope not ; he might
as well cry for the moon. "Do I know the
lactyl"

"Yes, I think you have met her ; she was at
the school-feast, and is often with Mrs. Harding."

Not Miss Werner ? "

Oh dear, no. Miss Yerner is quite absorbed

by Mr. Pearson. But have you not met a slight
girl with dark brown hair, and dark eyes, and a
remarkably sweet smile ? If you have, you could
not fail to observe her."

'' You are evidently far gone, Eobby," said his
friend with a good-natured smile. " Who is the
young lady ? "

A Miss Morison  Miss Marion Morison 
they, I mean the family, live opposite me at
Sefton Park."

What ? the people who flatten their noses
against the window panes to peep at you ? "

Only the younger ones ! not Marion. She
is quite above such things," cried Robinson, and
proceeded with some eagerness to dilate on the
position and prospects of his lady love, the eldest
daughter of a gentleman who was at the head of
a large business.

While he talked Brooke's thoughts flew back
to the objects seldom absent from them. How
curious this surface crust of ordinary every day
life, with its humble hopes and ambitions ; its
small loves and dislikes and efforts, lightly skinning
over the hot lava of deadly hatred  cruelty,
crime, which rolled its heated tide below ! Could

his terrible suspicions be true ? At times he
doubted their possibility ; again he was firmly
convinced of their reality ; and though for a
blessed week or two he was at rest (no harm
could come to Stasie while under Sir Frederic
Pearson's roof), but he dreaded the coming time
when she would be helpless in the hands of her
executioner. Dreaming over it, however, could
do no good. He must plan to be near her, to
carry out as quickly as possible the only way of
rescue which at present suggested itself. He
must keep his head cool, his nerves steady, or he
could be of no use.

Here a waiter informed the gentlemen that
their dinner was ready, and so cut short the
stream of Robinson's eloquence. There is always
a pleasing diversion in dinner ; and with all his
spiritual and lover-like aspirations the amiable
incumbent felt its cheering effect.

Take another glass of claret, Robinson," said
Brooke, after the cheese had been removed. " It
is better than I expected. I feel considerably
the better, too, of our expedition, though it
mioht have been more successful. London at
this season is not inspiriting."

Why don't you go away somewhere % You
can do as you like."

Yes, but I want to stay in London or its
neighbourhood. You see I have to make up
my mind between this and the end of January
whether I shall return to India or not, and I
want to study my ground. My old friend Filmer
will be in town again in about ten days or so,
and I look for sound advice from him."

Don t go back to India, Brooke. I am sure
you would do well in London."

*'I don't know, but at present it is not a
cheerful residence. Now you have a large house.
Suppose you let me chum with you ? I don't
think we should bore each other ? "

Chum ? " repeated Robinson with a note of
interrogation.

Yes, it is our word in India for sharing house
and housekeeping with another fellow. Let me
come and live with you, you have plenty of room."

*' I am sure I should be very glad  only, you
see," growing a little red, " I have no furniture
in the rooms."

No matter ; with us the other fellow always
brings his own sticks."

If you really care to come," cried Robinson
in his natural cheery, kindly voice, " that would
simplify matters, and / should be delighted.
But to be perfectly candid, I am not quite sure
how Mrs. Harris would take it. You see she is
a most respectable person, and quite invaluable
to me, as my aunt said, but a little peculiar in
temper."

So I imagine. But Eobby, we must reconcile
her to my awful presence. What's to be
done ? "

''I do not exactly know, but I think she
rather likes you. She said one morning, as she
was clearing away breakfast, that you were not
the ordinary run of whipper-snappers ! "

''I am an extraordinary whipper-snapper
then ! " said Brooke, laughing. " Well, try
and make terms with your ruler ; tell her I
am the most inoffensive chap breathing, easily
pleased, content with a dietary of chops and rice
pudding, and willing not only to brush my own
boots but to give hers a polish at the same time.
See if you can't manage this for me, Eobby ? and
as soon as you can."

Robinson looked at him, a good deal puzzled

bj his eagerness. " I am afraid you will be
bored in my quiet abode, but for me it will be
uncommonly jolly to have you "

'* Just fancy what it is to be alone in London
lodgings at this season, and you will understand
what a change for the better it will be to chum
with you' returned Brooke.

Why, we shall be quite a cheery party at
Sefton Park in a week or two," said Robinson,
rubbing his hands. '' The Hardings stay till
near Christmas, Miss Yerner will return about
the 30th ; Kharapet, whom I met yesterday,
tells me he is coming down to stay at Limeville
as soon as she is at home, so with the addition of
yourself "

'' I suppose," interrupted Brooke, " that impulsive
young spinster Miss Stretton does not
think it proper to entertain so fascinating a
youth as Kharapet in her niece's absence ! "

Robinson laughed. " Don't be cynical, Brooke !
There cannot be a better woman than Miss
Stretton; and as to Kharapet, do you know,
he is really a good fellow. He takes quite an
interest in my permanent church fund. He has
subscribed ten pounds himself, and collected

fifteen more among his friends ; and let me tell
yoUj twenty-five pounds is no contemptible sum
when the subscription goes on so slowly. Ah !
a real stone church would have a most beneficial
effect, not only on the worshippers but on my
position."

Then I drink to its success. But I wish
you had none of that Syrian devil's money in
your bag."

Eeally, Brooke, you are too prejudiced. The
more I know him the more I like him."

Brooke growled something inarticulate, and
then asked "if there were any tidings of Miss
Werner ? "

Yes ; I heard from Mrs. Harding that she
was wonderfully better, and enjoying herself immensely
 dances and excursions, and all sorts of
amusements. Young Pearson is always there
'making hay while the sun shines, I supposes'"


I suppose so," said Brooke, and straightway
fell into deep thought, saying little more till
they reached town, Mr. Robinson being so deeply
interested in his own hopes, fears, and doubts
that he scarce noticed his companion's silence.

"Be sure you open the trenches with Mrs.
Harris at once," were Brooke's last words. " I
want to take up my residence with you as soon
as possible."

That little beggar Robinson is going it, / can
tell yon," said Mr. Harding to his wife, as he
sipped a glass of port after dinner. " Why,
there was half a ship's cargo with his name on
the packages down at the station."

'indeed! I have not seen him for a few
days. I suppose he has been extra busy ? "

I should think so ! I met him going down
to the station to look after his goods and chattels,
and he tells me he is furnishing a bedroom for
Brooke  your cousin, the doctor  who is going
to put up with him for a bit."

"Is he ? " said Mrs. Harding, suppressing any
expression of the surprise she felt. " I wonder
he cares to come to this place. It cannot be very
attractive."

'' Hum ! that shows all you know about it,"
with a sneer. " There's attraction enough here,

I suspect, though the doctor is a cool customer,
and doesn't show his hand. Til be curious to see
Kharapet's face when he comes down and finds
him settled here ! Kharapet's conceit is too
much for any man to stomach since he has been
staying with those blank, blank psalm-singing
nobs ! What can you expect when a sneaking
native finds himself petted up by English lords
and ladies ? By George ! it's enough to make a
dog sick. But I suspect he has met his match in
our young friend me ! but she is a trump."

There is certainly very little chance for Mr.
Kharapet with Stasie," remarked Mrs. Harding,
lifting her eyes from a book she was reading.

Mr. Harding growled something inarticulate,
and seemed thoughtful for a moment. " If she
does not like him that's not our fault. No one
can say I ever set her against him."

It was not necessary. She is friendly enough,
but nothing more."

"Just so. And mark me," continued Mr.
Harding, roughly to his wife, " I won't have you
showing ofi" airs to him. I don't want to quarrel
with Kharapet. He is a devilish dangerous customer.
I just want to keep quiet till Stasie is
VOL. III. 46

of age. It's far and away better for her not to
marry till she is twenty-one, and got her affairs
in her own hands. Husbands are the deuce and
all to deal with. So let us go cannily to work ;
and mind what I say, none of your cool stand-off
airs to Kharapet."

Mrs. Harding's delicate cheek coloured faintly.
She never could get quite accustomed to her
husband's ruggedness ; his brutality degraded
her in her own eyes. In pursuance of her resolution
to assert herself, she made a brave effort to
reply, while her heart beat hard. " You might
say so with quite as much effect, and yet less
rudely," she said. "As to my manner, I am
always civil, and shall be. By the by," with a
change of tone, and wishing to conciliate, " I had
a very nice letter from Johnnie to-day. He is
greatly improved in his writing," and she took
it from her pocket to give him.

'' Ha ! " exclaimed Mr. Harding, whose face
had expressed blank surprise at her words,
That's right. It is a great advantage, a clear,
legible hand. The boy will turn out well,
though you think him a dunce."

'' More idle than dull. I too begin to hope

lie will do well. I am so glad I persuaded you
to let him go to school."

You persuaded me ! Gad, that's good !
Why, it was my idea ! "

Mrs. Harding wisely declined to dispute the
point. She smiled pleasantly, and said, '' Ah !
very well," glancing at her book again.

What are you reading ? " asked Mr. Harding
aggressively.

'' An old quarterly Mr. Robinson lent me."

It would better beseem you to be doing
needlework for the children or the house, trying
to save my poor pocket, instead of muddling
your brains with what you can't understand,

d me if you can ! Besides, a man wants

some one to talk to when he comes home."

I never neglect either house or children ;
but I should be more ready to talk to you if you
could speak as civilly to me as you do to Stasie
Werner for instance."

" To Stasie Yerner ! By George ! I believe you
are jealous 1 " with a coarse laugh, partly because
he was struck with his wife's words, and wished to
hide the impression, partly because he had a proposition
to make of which he was a little ashamed.

Mrs. Harding made no reply beyond a slight
smile, and Mr. Harding resumed : " I have asked
Kharapet to dinner on Friday, and I am going to
ask Warden to meet him."

'* Warden ? " repeated Mrs. Harding reflecting,
*' not Mr. Alfred Warden of that shipping
house ? "

*' Yes ; why not % " returned her husband,
frowning heavily.

'* Because he is not fit to sit at table with respectable
people. It is not a year since the
papers were full of the details of his disgraceful
conduct to his wife ; and now he lives openly
with another woman."

Bah ! You are always on the side of the
wives. There is no knowing what provocation
he received ; and as to his dining here, it is
a matter of business. I'll stand no d  d nonsense,
I say he shall."

I cannot, of course, prevent your bringing
him into the house," replied Mrs. Harding firmly;
"but I will not sit at table, nor will I receive him."
She was a little surprised at her own courage,
but the consciousness that she had a capital
cause for holding her ground encouraged her.

Harding, after an astonished pause, burst out
into furious language. " How dared she contradict
him ! She, a beggar, who had never contributed
a penny to their joint expenditure ! If
she would not admit his friends into his house,
she had better quit it. He would be master."

I should not mind quitting it in the least,"
said she coolly, " as you must very well know ;
but I maintain that I have a right to keep my
children's home free from the presence of persons
unfit to associate with them or me. Understand
me distinctly, I will not meet this man ;
nothing short of physical force will bring me into
his presence, and you will not dare to make a scene
for the sake of putting yourself in the wrong."

'' In the wrong ! What do I care what anyone
thinks," roared Mr. Harding, all the more
fiercely that he felt his spirit quailing before the
quiet firmness of his wife, which he so little
expected.

Yes, you do care ; every one cares for the
opinion of those they live among. If you must
entertain this repulsive man, why, ask him to
meet Mr. Kharapet at some restaurant in town,
though I should not have supposed any gentleman

would care to have him as an acquaintance."


That is all infernal bosh ! A dinner at a
restaurant, indeed, just like your damned extravagance
! I warn you, Livy, that you are
raising up a barrier between us that  that it
will be hard to overcome."

'' Why, you have been building up a barrier
between us for nearly twelve years," returned
his wife, in the same quiet voice, " and if you
persist in bringing this man into the house you
will complete it."

What do you mean % I think you have
lost your senses ! "

I am regaining them. I have no wish to
irritate you unnecessarily. But I wish you to
understand distinctly that I will not receive Mr.
Warden, whatever may be the consequences.
If you shut your eyes to what is right, it is my
duty to open them ; and, pray, remember that
as head of the house under you, and mother of
your children, I ought to be, and I will be, a
domestic power with which you must reckon."

As she said this slowly and distinctly, she
looked him straight in the eyes, and from hers

all the bitterness and resentment of her miserable
life seemed to flash in one intense electric
wave which swept down his meaner spirit, as
the rising tide forces back the poor ripple of a
stream.

Mr. Harding was stunned, he sat silent, open-mouthed,
while his wife rose and left the room,
a new and agreeable sensation of relief and
success thrilling through her veins.

She had made her first stand, and never
would she yield an inch again.

She had, indeed, made a deeper impression
than she was aware of. Mr. Harding lit a cigar,
and pondered the whole matter profoundly.

His wife's opposition had been so astounding
that his anger was stilled, and he reluctantly
admitted that should they come to an open
quarrel, the world would be on her side. Moreover,
by a mental process very common with
natures such as his, her self-assertion raised her at
least twenty-five per cent in his estimation. He
was not aware of being a bad husband, he did not
deliberately mean to be good or bad. He was,
on the whole, rather proud of his wife, but he
had failed to make a thoroughly good bargain in

his marriage, for he might have had money had
he looked for it. His vanity was enormous, yet
uneasy, and he was absolutely stupefied in some
directions with selfishness. Still the world's
opinion had great weight with him, and he felt
it would not do to quarrel openly with Livy.
Some extraordinary devilish spirit of obstinacy
had seized her, probably it would not last, and
then she would be sadly (he thought "dully")
submissive as ever ; meantime it would not do to
make a row in that little gossiping place, so he
pulled out his pencil and note-book, and finally
fell asleep over a calculation of what a dinner at
Very's would cost for three.

The next morning was bright and sweet, a
faint silvery haze hung over the distant uplands,
and a delicious crispness gave indescribable life
to the air. Having accomplished her usual
morning tasks, Mrs. Harding put on her hat and
strolled through the garden to the road, and soon
to ask for news of Stasie at Limeville.

She had heard no more of the projected
dinner from her husband. He had said very
little, but he had not been actively rude, and

she thought gravely of her position, and how to
make the best of it. She had quite lived through
the intolerable bitterness of finding out on what
merest, coarsest clay the pleasant outside colouring
of her husband's honhomie, frank hospitality,
and manly simplicity were lacquered. She had
gradually hardened in the cruel fire of experience
from the loving sensitiveness which shrunk from
a harsh word as from a blow to a quiet cynicism
which was nearly impervious ; but nothing could
efface the strong necessity of circumstances
which demanded that for her children's sake she
should no longer lie helpless at their father's
feet to be trampled on. This conviction had
been growing on her, but was suddenly brought
into active motive power by Brooke's energetic
counsels. She found, too, on looking into her
own heart that time had been forging weapons
for her. With the shield of indifference, the
spear of true, fearless words, the reserve force of
self-reliance, she was prepared for conflict. But
what a life, what a destiny hers had been !
Nearly twelve years of loneliness, of repression,
of harshness and contempt, varied by fits of
fondness, degrading and loathsome in their unreasoning

contrast, for what % to weld and fuse
the ingredients of her nature to a temper fitted
to struggle for bare existence ? What had she
done to deserve it?

Conscience answered '' nothing ; " she had
simply made the ordinary everyday error of
mistaking shadow for reality.

How much more bitterly ignorance or innocence
is often punished than crime ; under the
terrible rule of law there is no mercy, and the high
court of equity has but a limited jurisdiction in life.
She was little over thirty ; many a long year in
all probability stretched its weariness before her.
It was an arid outlook, but not quite denuded
of verdure. She had the future of her children
to live for and in. For their sakes she must
be brave and strong. That she could raise or
improve her husband she never now hoped for
an instant; there was in him no material to work
upon ; but she began to believe that he might
be kept in better order. She quite longed to be
able to tell Jim Brooke of the success attending
her first attempt.

"Miss Stretton is working in the morning-room
'm," said the servant who opened the door.

Do not disturb her ; ask if I may go to her
there."

Come in, dear Mrs. Harding," cried Miss
Stretton, who heard her voice. *' Come and
look at my work."

Mrs. Harding found her tied up in a large
coarse apron, a huge paste-brush in her hand, a
pile of bright-coloured pictures on a table beside
her, and in front a high screen of three panels,
which she was decorating to the best of her
ability.

"What do you think of it? There is a
terrible draught from that large window in the
drawing-room, and I thought I would surprise
Stasie when she came back."

'' Very nice indeed ! Do not let me interrupt
you ! Give me a pair of scissors. I can cut out
some pictures while I talk to you," drawing off
her gloves.

Oh, thank you ! You are a dear creature !
there are the scissors ; would you mind just
cutting the foliage of ' The Lovers' Tryst ' carefully.
It will be a pretty contrast to this
Harlequin and Columbine I one being coloured
and the other not is no matter ; indeed it makes

a greater variety ; a thing of this kind ought to
be quite careless and irregular." So saying, she
proceeded to affix poor Columbine and her companion
in a perilous slant.

And what news have you from Stasie ? "

'' Oh ! excellent. I had quite a long letter
from her this morning ! Would you mind
putting your hand in my pocket (mine are so
sticky !) ; I think I put it in there. No 1 then I
locked it up with the key-basket. Never mind,
I can tell you all about it. She has been dining
out, and making excursions, and going to croquet
parties, and I don't know what ; that young
Pearson seems to be down there perpetually ;
depend upon it. Lady Pearson knows how to
play her cards ! Look, Mrs. Harding, shall I
put this beautiful cock with the red feathers
here ?"

No, he would look as if he were perched on
the lover's head; put him a little to the right."

"Well, I fancy they are doing their best at
Southsea to spoil Stasie. All that excitement
and adulation really is not good for so young a
girl ; but she has a true noble heart ; she is just
as deeply interested in me, in you, every one, as

if she were in some dull quiet place. Indeed, in
her last she says  ' every one is kind, and everything
delightful, yet I shall not be sorry to be at
home once more'"

'' Does she say so ?" observed Mrs. Harding,
as she began to clip the surrounding white paper
from the picture of a splendid imperial cent garde,
She would never write that unless she felt it,
and yet there is little to attract or amuse here."

I am sure I don't know," returned Miss
Stretton with vague mysteriousness. " There is
no accounting for young girls' fancies. / shall
be very glad to have her back at any rate, and
I am happy to say she is ever so much better
and stronger."

I don't fancy this place agrees with her.
We shall see how she is after her return. I am
not sorry my cousin, Dr. Brooke, is coming
to stay here, for he will be able to see more than
we can, and let me know what he thinks without
alarming her."

Dr. Brooke coming to stay down here!"
cried Miss Stretton, pausing with uplifted brush
in hand, in great surprise. " To stay with you,
I suppose ? "

No, with his friend Mr. Robinson."

"Most extraordinary," ejaculated Miss
Stretton, fastening on "Romeo and Juliet,"
back uppermost.

I think it is very natural," returned Mrs.
Harding calmly. "He has business in London,
and I suppose it must be more agreeable for him
to be with his old friend than to be alone in a
lodging."

Of course ! of course, and much more agreeable
to you too, dear Mrs. Harding, to have a
relative near you."

Very agreeable indeed," said Mrs. Harding
unconsciously.

And pray when was this arranged ? " asked
Miss Stretton in a slightly peculiar tone.

'' I don't know. Mr. Harding told me last
night."

I wonder what Mr. Kharapet will say."

"Nothing! what is it to Mr. Kharapet '? "
asked Mrs. Harding a little sharply.

Well, you see Mr. Kharapet is so completely
one of us."

I do not admit that, and even if he were ? "

Oh ! I am sure it is nothing to me," returned

Miss Stretton  a slippery illogical style of answer
peculiar to ladies of her intellectual order, '' only
as Dr. Brooke's religious views are rather  confused
 to say the least." She paused.

Residence with so sound a churchman as
Mr. Robinson will help to disentangle them,"
put in Mrs. Harding carelessly. " When does
Stasie talk of returning ? "

Oh, not for quite ten days more. Mrs.
Dalzell, Lady Pearson's daughter, is going to
give a dance, and she wishes to wait for it."

'' She is right ! She ought to seize what
pleasure she can, while she can ! "

Ah ! my dear Mrs. Harding, pleasure is not
the sole end of life."

"No, but one of its objects; can you imagine
anything so horrible as life without pleasure ? "

Miss Stretton was not fond of argument, and
changed the conversation, which, however, did
not flow very freely.

Pray come and join the children and myself
at our high tea this evening," said Mrs. Harding,
rising and depositing her last feat in cutting out
on the table. *' Mr. Harding will be very late,
and the children will be delighted to see you."

Sweet darlings ! I shall be charmed ! "
returned Miss Stretton.

When Brooke, the following day, conveyed
himself and his personal luggage to Sefton Park,
he was conscious of a little more lightness or
perhaps revived strength of spirit than he had
experienced since the evening on which he had
suffered from the sensations we have described.

He had taken the first step in the struggle he
intended to maintain against the attempt which
he felt was being made upon Stasie Werner's life.
He had gained a good position. He must now
do his best to be wise as a serpent if harmless asa
dove. He must on no account rouse Kharapet's
suspicions, for the gentle Syrian, Brooke felt
convinced, held the means of ending the strife at
any moment he deemed necessary. Still, it was
clearly his interest to work slowly. In this lay
Brooke's only hope.

Sometimes he stopped himself, and asked if it
were possible that a man of Kharapet's standing
and seeming could conceive and execute so base
a crime ? Could it be Bhoodhoo's independent
villainy ? Might he not belong to that strange

sect whose religion expressed itself in assassination
? But a fanatic of this t5rpe would not cross
the black water. No ; he could only be a tool.
Even so, how could he be so inhuman as to
attempt the life of a creature who had loaded
him with kindness. At this point Brooke
generally checked himself for letting his thoughts
wander about in a silly, sentimental, feminine
style. What had he to do save with facts ; and
that the sweetmeat he had eaten was poisoned
he did not  could not  doubt.

The day after his arrival he was early afoot,
and made his way as soon as was permissible to
see Mrs. Hardin of.

Here both enjoyed a long and confidential
talk, at least it was thoroughly confidential on
Mrs. Harding's side. It was a new and delightful
pleasure to her to open her heart to so safe a
counsellor as Brooke. He was sympathetic, but
just, and quite alive to the necessities of her
position. No hard words were said of the family
tyrant ; but the wisest mode of dealing with him
was very frankly discussed, and the friends in
council agreed that the horizon showed something
of a gleam of light, especially as Mr.
VOL. III. 47

Harding had announced that morning in a more
than usually rugged and overbearing manner,
that, after all, it would not do to drag men
accustomed to their comforts down to a rough
rascally hole like theirs, so he would just ask
Warden to dinner at Greenwich or the Crystal
Palace, " and be hanged to it. I wish I had never
broached the subject."

Mrs. Harding wisely made no remark, and
accepted the dictatorial tone with which he sought
to cover defeat, but the victory was to her.

The repose, the pure air, the sense of being
on the scene of action brought a sense of relief
to Brooke ; and perceiving that for some reason
Mrs. Harding wished him to be on good terms
with Miss Stretton, which corroborated him in his
own intention, he next paid his respects at Limeville,
where he was on the whole well received.

Miss Stretton hated to be alone. She had
the liking for men's society which most women
naturally feel, but in a stronger degree ; and
when " Dr. Brooke" was announced she fled away
upstairs with extraordinary agility to don a fresh
and becoming contrivance of lace and ribbon  a
sort of ornamental adaptation of middle age.

In the absence of Kharapet she found Brooke
quite charming and entertaining, at very little
cost to himself. He managed to listen to all she
had to say with an air of deep interest, putting-intelligent
queries from time to time, which
proved that he heard and understood, and collecting
from her rambling discourse some gleams of
additional light as to the conduct and probable
views of Kharapet, which she little dreamed of
affording.

He carefully avoided mentioning Stasie's
name, but did not shut his ears when Miss
Stretton held forth on that topic. He was
cautious when the conversation turned on Mr.
Harding. Yet, prepossessed as she was with a
fixed idea on that subject. Miss Stretton's
imagination, rather than her observation, found
in his few and guarded words " proof as strong
as holy writ " of his deep and unfortunate attachment
to his cousin, who, " nice and sweet as she
is, is really rather imprudent," concluded Miss
Stretton in her own mind.

'' It is very nice for your cousin, Mrs. Harding,
having you down here for a while," said Aunt
Clem, as Brooke was taking his leave.

It is very nice for me to see a little more of
her than I otherwise should, but I fancy she is
so taken up with house and children that outsiders
are of small importance to her."

Here his attention was attracted by something
rubbing softly against his leg, and looking
down, he perceived Stasie's little dog.

Hollo, Pearl ! " he exclaimed, picking up
the little creature. " What is the matter ? You
are by no means in frustrate condition."

In truth, the dog had the indescribable rough
poor look in his coat, which is a sure sign of
neglect or indisposition ; his eyes were inexpressibly
pathetic, and the eagerness with which
he whimpered and strove to lick Brooke's hands
or face said as plain as a dog could say, *' A
friend at last ! "

'' He is quite well," said Miss Stretton ; " but
he has been a naughty disobedient dog since
Stasie went away, so he has been kept downstairs.
Indeed, I am always a little afraid of
him since he tried to bite poor dear Mr.
Kharapet."

I suspect the little beggar is sick for want
of sympathy," returned Brooke, laughing, 'let

me take him out for a walk and try and get up
his condition before Miss Werner comes back."

I am sure I do not know when that will
be," said Miss Stretton ; " she talks of staying
another fortnight."

' And she is right ; sea air will set her up.
Good-morning, Miss Stretton."

It gave Brooke a curious sense of pleasure to
have Stasie's little favourite under his care. The
springs of tenderness which in his character lay
deep down under the superincumbent strata of
pride and firmness, ambition and a thin seam of
hardness, had been reached by the profound and
generous pity which pierced through all. Full of
thoughts respecting the task before him, of vivid
memories of Stasie herself  her sweetness, her
variety, her grace, and attractiveness  he strolled
on and on, across the dull gray yellow of stubble
fields, through plantations where the ground was
red with fallen beech leaves, and over the corner
of a wide breezy common. It was delicious to be
in the country  the fresh crisp air gave him new
vigour ; he would yet come ofi* victorious and
defeat the machinations of that villain Kharapet.
Here the little terrier stopped and whined.

'' Ha ! Pearl, tired, little chap ? I have forgotten
what a scrap you are." He took up the
tiny creature and carried it kindly, thinking,
more or less clearly, till he drew near his temporary
home. " This is a great improvement on
deserted London," he said to himself, as he
paused where the broad leading to Sefton
Park turned off, " and at least I can enjoy it in
peace while Stasie Werner is away. From what
her aunt says, she is safe for at least a fortnight
or ten days."

Even as the thought formed itself in his
brain, a rusty-looking carriage, which he had
heard approaching for some minutes, passed him,
coming from Welwood.

As it passed at a tolerably good pace, he could
hardly believe his eyes ; and yet he could not
doubt, that in it sat Miss Werner and another
female figure. His heart gave a great throb.
Her unexpected return at the very moment he
was congratulating himself on her safety at a
distance seemed like an evil omen. What
unlooked-for event could have driven her back
into the toils ?

When Lady Pearson recovered from the first
stunning effect of the terrible telegram respecting
her son's accident, her only thought was to fly to
him as fast as express trains could carry her, and
soon the whole household was preparing for her
departure.

Sir Frederic had unfortunately gone from
home for a few days' shooting, and young Pearson
could not let his mother undertake such a
journey alone.

Mrs. Dalzell therefore took charge of Stasie,
and, though kind and thoughtful in spite of her
own distress, made no objection to her young
guest's proposal to return home at once.

The only train by which Stasie could conveniently
travel was one on the main line. It
stopped at Welwood somewhere about five o'clock,
and Mrs. Dalzell insisted on sending her own

maid as Stasie's escort. Country telegrams were
uncertain, she said, and Miss Yerner must not be
left to find her way alone in the dusk.

Stasie parted with sincerest sympathy and
hearty regret from her kind hosts. She was
deeply grieved for them. The thought of
her own pleasures all cut short did not occur
to her.

She kept picturing in her own mind what
Lady Pearson must feel and suffer on her long
sad journey. She earnestly prayed that she
might find her boy not fatally injured, and that
Mr. Pearson might be able to send her a tolerably
good account. AVith her usual impulsiveness she
had begged him to let her know how his mother
had borne the journey, and how they found the
sufferer.

Withal, she felt a certain sense of pleasure in
drawing near her home. How pleased Aunt
Clem would be to see her, and what delight to
describe her experiences to Mrs. Harding  almost
as delightful as the experiences themselves. Then
a little thought, a tiny point of interrogation lit
up in her mind : was Dr. Brooke still in London,
and if so, did he often come down to Sefton

Park ? From this, however, she turned resolutely,
and began to talk to her companion as
they drove homewards ; thus she missed seeing
Brooke, who stood aside to let the cab pass.

It was past six ; the gas was lit, and tea was
spread in the dining-room, where a small bright
fire had been kindled just to take off the feeling
of loneliness. Aunt Clem said to herself, when
the unwonted sound of wheels on the gravel
sweep before the front door arrested her hand as
she was about to measure out the tea, and Mary's
as she was hanging the kettle-stand on the bar
of the grate 

Good gracious ! What can it be, Mary ? "
ejaculated Miss Stretton, not without alarm.

Goodness knows,'m ; there is the bell, and
Bhoodhoo's out, or he might be a help," replied
Mary, who probably thought " a man's a man fora'
that," whatever his colour, in a moment of
danger.

'' Go and see who it is," rejoined Miss Stretton
with composure.

Mary disappeared, and soon a cheerful cry of
Law,'m, here's Miss Yerner ! " reached Miss
Stretton's astonished ears.

Stasie, my darling child ! How is this ? I
am so glad to see you ; and who " a pause.

Oh ! this is Mrs. Dalzell's maid. "We must
make her as comfortable as we can to-night ; she
is to return tomorrow. Mary, take Miller downstairs
and give her a nice tea. Come in, auntie
Mary will see to the boxes  and I will tell
you all about everything."

At all events, dearest Stasie, I am charmed
to have you back so soon, whatever the reason
of your coming."

Amid many ejaculations from Aunt Clem,
Stasie recounted the event which led to her unexpected
return.

Poor Lady Pearson ! What an awful blow !"
cried Miss Stretton in a voice from which she
could not banish a tone of satisfaction, so delighted
was she to have her niece safe back assail
from the dangerous whirl of pleasure into which
she had been plunged, and looking so well too
so heart-whole.

'* I do hope the poor young man will recover."

Yes, I earnestly hope he will. I dare say I
shall hear something tomorrow or next day. I
asked Mr. Pearson to be sure to write."

What ! to write to you % " Stasie nodded.

My love, that was scarcely comme ilfaut"

'' I never thought about it ; and in such a case
it surely could not matter. How else was I to
hear anything ? "

Through Mrs. Dalzell ; or you might have
asked Mr. Pearson to write to me."

Oh, auntie ! that would have been too silly.
I will go and take off my things, I feel so tired
and dusty ; I shall be quite glad of a cup of tea."

Go to my room, Stasie, dear. Yours is all
covered up. Of course, nothing is ready," called
Miss Stretton after her as she ran upstairs.

It was all rather bewildering to Stasie  this
sudden return, this sudden dropping of a black
curtain over the brightness, the movement, the
soothing, flattering atmosphere in which she had
lived for more than a fortnight ; yet she was
pleased to see how genuinely glad Aunt Clem
and Mary had been at her coming. It was really
like coming home to find faces brightening at
sight of her ; then, finding herself in the familiar
room made her think of the wonderful improvement
in her own health. How strong and well
she felt ! all her accustomed hopefulness and

sense of physical ease had come back to her. The
delicious sea air had set her up. True, she would
miss the gaiety of her surroundings tomorrow ;
but there would be Mrs. Harding to talk to ;
perhaps Dr. Brooke might come down sometimes,
and that would be a variety  at least he had
always something to say that was worth hearing.
If she were only on sufficiently intimate terms
with him to question him on many topics she
longed to talk about, how much she would gain !
but she was not, and she feared to bore him.

It was not worth while to do her troublesome
hair over again, she would go to bed early,
and have it properly brushed out, so she smoothed
it over, or tried to do so, pulled the lace round
her neck straight, and went away to join her
aunt.

On opening the dining-room door, to her great
surprise, a tall gentleman was standing face to
face with Aunt Clem, to whom he was saying,
so I took the liberty of coming in to assure
myself."

There she is to answer your queries," replied
Miss Stretton, who was still decked in
smiles.

The next instant Stasie's hand was in Dr.
Brooke's. She was startled by the eager questioning
of his eyes, as he looked into hers, and seemed
to search into her soul. She was girlishly annoyed
that her hair was in such disorder, that her dress
was not carefully arranged. She did not think
how sweet and fair she seemed to him, with
the renewed colour of health on her cheek, and
the rich confusion of her golden brown hair.

How is it you are here % " cried Stasie in
frank surprise, and in no way confused by his
gaze, which was simply anxious  not tender or
admiring, or in the faintest degree lover-like.

I was walking on the Welwood Eoad," he
returned, " and caught sight of you as you
passed. I could hardly believe my eyes. I know
you were not expected for some time, so I ventured
to call in order to allay my curiosity."

Stasie explained the cause of her return,
and, while she spoke, the whining and scratching
of Pearl attracted her attention.

You little dear !" catching him up, 'I am
ashamed of myself. I quite forgot to ask for
you. Poor Lady Pearson's trouble put nearly
everything else out of my head."

I did not fancy Pearl looked very flourishing,
and I took him out for a walk," said Dr.
Brooke. " 1 fear I made him go too far ; he was
evidently tired, so I carried him home."

How good of you ! " said Stasie. '' Do you
know, I do not think Pearl's coat looks as nice
as when I left. I am afraid he is not a favourite
with you, Aunt Clem."

Will you not join us at our evening meal,
Dr. Brooke ? " asked Aunt Clem blandly.

No, I thank you ; I cannot stay. But I
must congratulate you. Miss Yerner. I see that
change has worked wonders for you. You look
like what you were when we first met  ages
ago, was it not ? That is, four or five months
ago. Yet it seems in some strange way a cycle
at least to me."

And to me too, but then the change from
school accounts for that. Yes, I am much better,
quite well, in fact."

We must see that you do not fall back,"
returned Brooke. " I have a strong impression
this place does not suit you."

Here the door opened to admit Bhoodhoo,
who brought the toast-rack, and advanced with a

low salaam, a joyous expression beaming on this
dark face, and glittering in his black eyes.

Good-evening, Bhoodhoo, have you been
quite well ? " said Stasie kindly.

Quite well, but much, better now since
missed Sahib come back ! No sunshine when
missed away. No curries to make  nothing ! "

Thank you, Bhoodhoo ! You must make mea
curry tomorrow."

' I will, missed, beautiful good curry ;" and
with another salaam Bhoodhoo retreated.

I really think poor Bhoodhoo is quite fond of
me," said Stasie, looking after him with a smile.

He ought to be," remarked Aunt Clem
solemnly, " and he is certainly very useful."
Brooke said nothing. He seemed to Stasie
plunged in a sudden fit of deep thought.

In truth he was for a moment silenced, overwhelmed
by a horror that laid its sudden grip
upon him, as Bhoodhoo approached Stasie with
his soft false smile, and she was so bright, so kind,
so unsuspecting ! Had she indeed recovered her
full strength only to come back into the jaws of
death % and he, great heavens ! how helpless, how
very nearly helpless he was to save her !

A cold ripple shivered through his veins, and
it was with an effort he roused himself to bid
both ladies good-evening. " I shall see you tomorrow
if I may call," he said. " I should like
to hear some account of your plunge in the gay
world, Miss Werner."

Well, auntie," said Stasie after he had gone,
as she stirred her tea meditatively, ' if / have
recovered since I saw Dr. Brooke, I think he has
fallen off. Does he not look very ill ? "

One does not notice a change much in those
sort of thin, dark, grave men, but now you mention
it, he does look ill."

'' But how does he happen to be here, auntie,
so late, and "

My dear, it is all rather mysterious ! He is
staying with Mr. Robinson, actually living there ;
and what attraction a place of this sort can have
for a man of the world like Dr. Brooke, who is
fond of his club and men's society, and is quite
different from Mr. Robinson (indeed, I cannot
understand how they are such friends)  what
attraction Sefton Park can have for such a man,
I cannot imagine. In short, there can be but
one.

"And that?" asked Stasie, though she felt
pretty sure what the answer would be.

Well, my dear, it is with great reluctance I
say it, and I am sure a breath of such a suspicion
should never cross my lips to mortal save yourself,
but I cannot help seeing that Dr. Brooke is
deeply attached to Mrs. Harding. Mind, I do
not accuse her of encouraging him ! She maybe
unconscious (though I doubt it !) but I have
not the smallest doubt that this wonderful friendship
with Mr. Robinson is just to get near her ;
and his great interest in your health ! it is all
part of a plan ; and my own real opinion is that
the sooner he goes back to India the better ! "

Stasie mused. What more likely than that
the old tenderness for his charming cousin should
have revived with fresh vigour, especially when
he perceived the terrible life of isolation and repression
to which she was doomed ! That she
was conscious of anything save simple kindly
friendship, for which she was innocently grateful,
nothing would ever make her (Stasie) believe.
But Brooke ? how would it be with him ? He
must be very unhappy. Ah ! how sweet to have
the disinterested, faithful devotion of a strong

VOL. III. 48

thoughtful man such as he was. " I think,
auntie, you must imagine a great deal. Pray,
pray be prudent. I am as sure as that I live that
Mrs. Harding does not for a moment dream of
anything save the purest, simplest friendship."

We will hope so, at any rate," said Miss
Stretton with prudent reservation.

Stasie took her tea in silence, while Aunt
Clem, thinking that her niece was really improved
in habits of attention, continued to pour
forth a vast quantity of accumulated gossip.
Little of it, however, reached Stasie's ears.
Though she did her best to disregard her aunt's
suggestions respecting Mrs. Harding and Brooke,
they sank deep into her heart. Perhaps the
worn, uneasy expression she had noticed in
Brooke's face was to be accounted for by some
internal strut-orle. The idea rather recommended
itself to her romantic fancy ; as for any evil arising
out of it, that possibility never entered her
head. She pictured to herself Brooke, always
silently devoted to Mrs. Harding and her
children, growing renowned in his profession,
returning perhaps from India ultimately a gray-haired,
low-spirited, elderly gentleman, who

would treat little Ethel as a daughter, and leave
her heir to all he possessed.

Here the vision of Brooke, as he was in the
flesh, square, erect, cool, keen, the very antithesis
of everything sentimental, rose before her, and
she smiled at her own idea.

He was not the man to waste himself in despair,
or die 'because a woman's fair." Yet, if
he ever did love !

Well, what was it all to her ? How foolish
to spend brain power in pondering these things !
how weak and dreamy she was !

Good-night, dear Aunt Clem ! It is quite
nice to have a talk with you again ; but I ayn so
sleepy."

Though many an anxious, almost despairing,
day and night were yet to be encountered by
Brooke, perhaps none of them surpassed in torment
this first plunge into the reality of his position.
To think that he was obliged to leave
Stasie without warning, without an attempt
to preserve her, at the mercy of that wretched
tool of Kharapet's (Heaven alone knew what
devilish decoction he might not be at that moment

brewing to sap this young mistress's life), was
almost unbearable. That unforeseen circumstances
should have so favoured Kharapet's design
as to cut short the breathing space of safety
on which he had reckoned seemed an indication
full of evil omen. How should he shape his course?

Then Stasie herself, once more blooming with
the perfect health he so much admired, so bright,
so kindly, had deeply and freshly touched him.
The conviction that through him was her sole
means of escape, that he was her only efficient
protector, affected him powerfully. He was resolved
to win her if possible ; and so, resigning all
effort at self-mastery, he permitted his thoughts
to dwell upon her, living over again each moment
he passed with her since her indescribable reserve
had begun to pique his curiosity.

What a task lay before him ! Stasie was no
mere romantic schoolgirl, to be had for the asking
! And, after all, might she not prefer the
youth and brightness of young Pearson, which
resembled her own ? Even that he could bear,
maddening as it would be to give her up to
another ; but could he be sure her marriage would
take place in time to prevent the completion

of Kharapet's intended crime ? But he knew
it would not. The guardian's consent must be
obtained, and the guardian was wandering in
inaccessible places even then. Pearson might
easily be induced to wait six months  a year
and before the expiration of that period Stasie
would be in the cold grave.

Her only safety lay in marriage, immediate
marriage with himself. And he must work alone
unaided, unless, indeed, he could secure an ally
in Sir Harcourt Filmer !

My dear Brooke, what is the matter ? You
have been pacing the room for the last half hour
and more, with the aspect of a man ' on desperate
deeds intent.' "

 '  I beg your pardon, Hobby ; I am afraid I
am anything but a cheerful visitor. I did not
know I wore such a villainous aspect. The fact
is, I have a good deal to think about just now ;
it is not easy to make up one's mind on a question
of great importance without a good deal of
reflection "  he paused  " and reflection ijill come,
in and out of season. Come, Robinson, do you
ever play cards or chess or humbler backgammon ?
I don't want either to talk or think."

I have a chess-board and men, but I am a
most indifferent player. If you are one of those
impatient fellows that cannot put up with
mediocrity you will be smashing the board after
a short trial of me."

No, I shall not ! " returned Brooke, smiling;
"patience is a special virtue of mine. I have
carefully cultivated it, and I do not think you
will find me a formidable antagonist to-night."

They played for some time in silence, but
Robinson observed that Brooke's thoughts were
not on his game ; he even lost with equanimity
beyond what might have been expected even
from a patient man. The second game was
drawn out to great length, but Brooke was the
victor. He made no attempt to replace the
pieces ; and Robinson, who was quite proud of
having held his own so well, asked if they should
try for a conqueror.

No, thank you ! You are quite my match,
Eobby, to-night, at least." Robinson proceeded
obediently to put the pieces away.

When did you say Kharapet was coming
down here ? " asked Brooke suddenly, as if out of
his thoughts.

"I do not know exactly. Miss Stretton
mentioned that he would come when Miss
Werner returned."

Brooke growled something inarticulate, but
not amiable. ' I am often surprised that enlightened
men like yourself have such strong
prejudices on the subject of race and colour,"
said Mr. Robinson in reply to the growl. 'you
bristle vos at the sound of Kharapet's name ; now
he really is a very nice fellow."

But I am not prejudiced," returned Brooke.
I think I know Easternss pretty well, and I
like them better than most Englishmen do.
They have many good points we do not possess ;
they are sympathetic and full of tact  an
admirable quality, which ought to rank higher
than it does ; then their intelligence is of a high
order, though moulded on very different lines
from ours ; their heads are very differently
shaped ; still I can get on with Easternss, but
I dislike Kharapet, individually ; I distrust
him, and I would not have you too trusting,
Eobby "

But how could he hurt me ? " exclaimed
Robinson. "He couldn't rob me, for I have

uo money to lose, and I don't suppose he would
murder me, eh ? "

No," said Brooke slowly, as if to himself.
No, there is nothing to gain in murdering you!'

I protest you are too bad, Brooke ! '' cried
Robinson, laughing. " Have some brandy and
soda, and let us go to bed."

The morning light brought renewed courage
and resolution to Brooke. He must keep his
head clear, his nerves steady, or he could do
nothing. He went early into town, travelling
in the same carriage with Mr. Harding, who was
quite cordial and talkative on various subjects,
and finally invited Brooke to take " pot luck "
with him the following day.

The object of Brooke's visit to London was to
ascertain if Sir Harcourt Filmer had returned to
town, and if not, when he was expected to
return. Sooner or later, he must have recourse
to the aid of the great M.D. He, at least, with
his wide experience, would enter into Brooke's
terrible suspicions  nay, certainty  and help
him. He longed intensely to be able to speak
to some one of the load which oppressed him.

But Filmer was still absent, and not expected
back for a week or ten days.

There was nothing for it then but to be brave,
self-reliant, guarded. Whatever Kharapet's ultimate
designs, he would not dare to execute them
quickly.

Meanwhile, Stasie was away as soon as breakfast
was over to enjoy a long talk with Mrs.
Harding.

The children at the sound of her voice broke
bounds and rushed out of the schoolroom to
greet her, followed by Mademoiselle, who considered
Meet Yerner charmante,

How pretty the park is looking ! " cried
Stasie, throwing aside her hat, as, the children
having been recaptured, she settled herself for a
nice long confidential talk with Mrs. Harding.
The trees look so rich and lovely after South-sea,
which is very bare ! But oh ! was it not unfortunate
that poor Frank Pearson met with that
accident ? It must have been a bad one, or they
would not have telegraphed for Lady Pearson.
Oh ! Mrs. Harding ! if you had seen the expression
of her face ! so terror-stricken, so strained,
and think of the hours she must travel before she

can know the truth about him ! I am afraid I
should bear up very badly if such a trial came tome
; it is dreadful to be cowardly, and yet I do
not think it is cowardice altogether."

No, I do not think it is," said Mrs. Harding,
smiling kindly. " I don't think you would fail
at a pinch. But it was rather a pity that all
your enjoyment was cut short."

Yes ! I am selfish enough to think of that
too, but I am not sorry to be back with you,
dear Mrs. Harding, and poor Aunt Clem ! she
was so delighted to see me ! Yet life was uncommonly
pleasant at Southsea; every one was so
bright and easy, perfectly polite, and not a bit
stiff; and I was quite spoiled, or would have
been if I had not been well snubbed by dear
Mrs. Mathews and the boys in my early days ;
it would take a great many fine speeches to persuade
me I am an angel in the teeth of such
recollections ; yet I think all did like me "  a
long pause, Stasie gazing, thoughtfully out of
window at the lovely tints on the trees of a
thicket in the hollow below the house. Then she
resumed : " Tell me, dear Mrs. Harding, for I
think you see things very clearly, were I quite

poor, that is like dear Ella Mathews, I mean
Mrs. Baldwin, do you think they would all make
such a fuss about me ? Aunt Clem says things
every now and then that make me feel vexed
and disgusted. Surely some people would love
me, even if I had nothing."

"They would undoubtedly, dear," cried Mrs.
Harding with warmth. " I should, and I believe
your aunt herself would, and many others ; but
I doubt if people generally would make a fuss
about you. Lady Pearson is a kind good
woman, and is, I dare say, genuinely pleased with
you, but she would not ask you to her house and
encourage her son to be nth you perpetually if
she did not think you would be a good match
for him. This is only natural ; you need not
quarrel with her for that."

I suppose not," said Stasie, her big wistful
eyes glittering with something very like unshed
tears. " And Van Pearson, would he be as
pleasant and obliging and as ready to do everything
in the world for me if I were quite poor."

Oh ! he might. He seems a nice, honest
young fellow, and I suppose has a young man's
weakness for a handsome girl ; but  had you not

possessed the means of entering society on the
same footing as himself, why  you would probably
never have met, and if you had, prudence
would have kept him from cultivating the
acquaintance. Mr. Pearson will want more
money than his father can leave him."

There was another pause, while Stasie managed
to swallow her tears, for she had broached a
subject that troubled her occasionally.

Don't let me put you against young Pearson,"
resumed Mrs. Harding. " I like him, and
1 do not think (so far as I can judge) he would
marry any woman he did not like, or let us say
love, merely because she had money; but he
cannot marry without it."

How horrible and degrading it must be to
be married only for one's money ! " cried Stasie,
with a sparkle of scorn in her eyes.

It is cjuite as degrading to be married only
for one's beauty, or what a man considers one's
beauty," returned Mrs. Harding. " It is a charm
that soon vanishes, and then," she paused expressively
 Stasie was silent. "I like Mr.
Pearson, and I think he is very fond of you,
Stasie ; do not mislead him, dear. I do not

mean to insinuate that you are a coquette, but 
you may be thoughtless."

Do you mean to say I could ever think of
marrying Van Pearson ? "

You might do worse," returned Mrs. Harding,
with a slight sigh.

Why, my dear Mrs. Harding, he is a mere
boy. He hasn't as much sense as I have myself.
He ought not to think of marrying for seven or
eight years."

He is twenty-five or twenty-six  years older
than you are."

That is of little consequence when I don't
feel one bit of respect for him. He is nice, I
like him very, very much ; but I will mind
what you say, for I should be so sorry to disappoint
him. I wish people where not always
thinking of marrying me. Aunt Clem is perpetually
talking of it, and even you, who are so
kind and sensible, here you are holding forth on
the same topic."

'My dear Stasie, you led me into it yourself.
I believe that being free, and well of, your best
course would be to keep so."

Stasie was silent for a moment, and then

said softly and deliberately, " No, I do not fancy
a lonely selfish life. I should like to marry, but
not for some years  a good many years. Dear
Mrs. Harding, I am very happy in general, and
I know I ought to be ; but at times, not often,
I feel a strange bitter pang when I think how
lonely I am, for I belong to no one, and no one
belongs to me. I often wish I could have stayed
with the Mathews ; and then when I was ill,
before I went to Southsea, I used to have such
curious fits of despair. Do you know, I felt very
ill sometimes. But now I am well and strong ;
all this has passed away, and I see how thankful
I ought to be to have kind friends, and enough
money and health. You will think me foolish ;

indeed I feel I am, but " she stopped abruptly,

blushing and smiling,

dear, not foolish ; only liable to low
spirits like other people when physically out of
sorts. Don't dwell on such moods, they will
come ; just put them aside and forget them as
fast as you can."

Stasie jumped up, gave her a kiss, and, returning
to her seat, obeyed at once by starting a
fresh subject.

I found poor, dear Pearl looking very ill.
I am afraid he is not a favourite of Aunt Clem's
since lie snapped at Hormuz Kharapet. How
very good it was of Dr. Brooke to take the little
creature for a walk ! "

"Yes, he has a wonderfully kind heart under
a somewhat cold exterior. I am very pleased he
has come down here to stay, though it surprises
me a good deal."

He likes to be near you, I suppose," said
Stasie, feeling as if her question was so deeply
Jesuitical that she ought to be ashamed of herself.


" No doubt he does," replied Mrs. Harding
calmly. '' Still that does not seem to me a
sufficient reason. I think he is anxious and undecided
about returning to India."

Yes, he has a sort of careworn look. Do
you think you could come with me for a long
walk, Mrs. Harding, after luncheon to-day, round
by Welwood and the Common ? "

'' I might be able, if I can finish some letters
Mr. Harding left me to copy by two o'clock."

I will come and see," replied Stasie; "but
I must run away now."

The days which immediately followed Stasie's
return were very pleasant ones to her, and to
Brooke also they were sprinkled with happy
moments when the sweetness of a first real passion
a passion purified by true tenderness  made
him forget his haunting fears.

He was usually occupied in the mornings with
a work he was preparing on some physiological
subject of importance, and which he hoped might
lay the foundation of future fortune, but the
bright crisp autumnal afternoons were spent
walking or driving with Mrs. Harding and Stasie
through the pleasant picturesque country roads
and lanes, and over breezy commons which were
in the neighbourhood.

Kharapet's visit, which he had dreaded, made
little difference to this mode of existence. The
Syrian was very quiet and gentle, and scrupulously

avoided anything like interference with
any one. He was quite friendly to Brooke, who
felt compelled to accept his advances with seeming
readiness. The smooth-tongued, dark-eyed
Hormuz held in his cruel grasp a tremendous
weapon, the power of life or death over a creature
who was rapidly twining herself with Brooke's
every hope and anticipation. Any evidence of
suspicion on his part would only increase Stasie's
danger. Often Brooke's self-control was put to
a terrible test, when perhaps the little circle of
intimates were gathered in Miss Stretton's 
of an evening, and Boodhoo would
appear in his smartest clothes to wait specially
on Stasie. Every cup of tea or coffee he handed
to his kind young mistress sent a cold shiver of
dread through Brooke's veins. God only knew
what deadly mixture it contained ! Only when
Aunt Clem made tea in the room did he feel at
ease. With what intense observation he watched
Stasie, and each night as he was able to tell himself
that he could see no change in the expression
of her eyes  no acceleration of breathing  no
irritability of manner  he thanked heaven and
took courage. Time  time was all he asked 
VOL. III. 49

time to win her ! How he burned to carry her
away from all danger, to watch and tend her
himself, to pour out all the passion that swelled
his heart, to waken the love that lay dormant in
her rich generous nature, which some mysterious
influence seemed to have, not hardened against,
but veiled from him.

His very absorption in her, his deep serious
anxiety, were drawbacks to his progress as a lover.
He was too grave, too preoccupied for those
slight, graceful, contagious indications of feeling
that delicately suggest to a girl delicious possibilities
of loving and being loved. Yet Stasie
deeply enjoyed her walks and conversations with
him. His gravity  the long, earnest, wistful
looks she caught at times fixed upon her  interested
her in spite of her firm resolution to be
neither weak nor credulous. Brooke's preoccupied
and at times even melancholy manner she accounted
for by supposing him warmly attached
to his cousin, and depressed by the hopelessness
of her fate, the un happiness of her ill-assorted
marriage. Still, there were little incidents in
their daily intercourse which sometimes startled
other ideas from their slumbers in the inner

depths of her heart. The eager haste with which
he caught her once when her foot slipped in getting
over a stile  the strong throbbing of his
heart when for a moment she was held against
it  the magic revelation of his lingering touch,
if by accident their hands met  all these " trifles
light as air " disturbed Stasie at intervals, though
she kept her self-mastery with wonderful strength
for so young a creature. She was in some indescribable
way aware that she must not, dare not
yield to the longing that would spring up at the
least relaxing of the reins  the desperate longing
to be all and all to the man who on the slightest
deviation from his severe ideal of propriety coldly
backed out of the friendly intimacy which had
grown between them. Her pride perpetually
whispered, "Take care!"

Nevertheless, in spite of doubts and self-distrust
it was a very pleasant time ; and when Dr.
Brooke forgot his troubles to talk naturally and
easily, it was more than pleasant.

Meanwhile it was "fine times" also for Aunt
Clem. Kharapet was devoted to her, and Brooke
for his own reasons showed her much polite attention.
She rose, therefore, considerably in her own

estimation (being unprovided with any scale of
self-measurement, she generally adopted that of
her associates), so all went well and tranquilly.
No signs of disturbance such as he had before
witnessed in Stasie appeared to arouse fresh terror
in Dr. Brooke ; he was almost disposed to hope
that Kharapet had renounced his murderous design,
or could it be an independent villainy of
Bhoodhoo's ? This notion had presented itself
before, and been rejected.

Stasie's uneasiness respecting Lady Pearson
and her son had been early relieved by a letter
from her lancer friend, who was happy to report
his brother's injuries not so serious as at first supposed.
His leg was broken and he was much
bruised, but with good nursing they hoped all
would go well. Of course Lady Pearson would
take the invalid to their house in town ; so the
Southsea episode was over, but would long dwell
in the writer's memory. His leave would soon
expire, and then he hoped to see her again, as
the detachment would probably remain sometime
longer at Hounslow.

I shall be quite pleased to see him," said

Stasie to her aunt when she had finished reading
aloud this epistle. '' You don't know how nice
he was in his mother's house !"

'' Oh ! I daresay' rejoined Miss Stretton ;
'' but he has not the solidity of Dr. Brooke, nor
the gentle unobtrusive kindness of Mr. Kharapet,
the beauty of whose character grows upon one
more and more." It was Miss Stretton's misfortune
that she never could let well alone, nor
listen to a eulogium on any one obnoxious to
herself without uttering a qualification or a
protest.

These little follies irritated Stasie like the
bites of a midge, and had Aunt Clem been
wealthy and strong she would have received some
very rasping replies ; as it was, Stasie was far too
chivalrous by nature to hurt what was weaker
than herself, and generally met these small stings
with silence.

Kharapet had spent a few days at Sefton
Park, chiefly occupied in overlooking Aunt
Clem's accounts, and putting them straight,
creeping slowly round the garden, or through the
kitchen and pantry, to talk with Bhoodhoo, who
was profoundly respectful, smoking the pipes

which that accomplished native contrived to
make " in spite of many difficulties, or playing
draughts of an evening with Miss Stretton. He
seemed tranquil and content ; moreover to
Stasie's infinite relief, he appeared to have
dropped all lover-like pretension ; still her original
hearty liking for him never returned, but on the
surface they appeared as good friends as before.
Kharapet was almost ostentatiously careful not
to interfere in any way with Stasie's plans or
movements, and occasionally, when Brooke went
over to tea or luncheon at Limeville, Kharapet
took the opportunity of enjoying a Ute-astute
discussion with Kobinson on Biblical history and
criticism. Indeed his society was very precious
to the young incumbent, only at times he suggested
uncomfortable doubts regarding passages
which had previously seemed clear as light ;
still, except to Mr. Robinson and Miss Stretton,
his departure was a relief. But only in a slight
degree to Brooke, who felt that his presence or
absence had but little effect on Stasie's safety.
He found himself counting almost the hours, and
congratulating himself that he had not as yet
observed any change in the eyes he watched so

eagerly, yet furtively. How he longed to holdfast
the soft pinky white hand given to him at
least once every day, and gather from the pulse
some idea of the hidden action of heart and
blood !

It was a couple of days after Kharapet's
departure. Brooke had been in London during
the morning, and hurried back with his usual
fear of finding *' something wrong " on his return,
which generally grew upon him when absent fora
few hours. He stopped at the parsonage to
leave some books he had brought with him, and
then, armed with an illustrated paper as an excuse,
he called at Limeville. Both ladies were
out, the servant said ; they had driven over to
Wei wood with Mrs. Harding, she believed.
Brooke left his paper, and strolled on to the top
of the hill, feeling unreasonably disappointed.
The Hardings' house was quiet, no shrill joyous
voices sounded from the garden or yard. He
paused a moment to look at the pleasant view
over the downward sweep of woodland, with a
church spire in the blue distance, and then
descended the steep road which led through the
side of the park as yet not built upon. It was a

still, soft, gray evening, with a faint tinge of
autumnal melancholy in the atmosphere. Brooke
felt unaccountably depressed. What was to bethe
end of this terrible time of trial ? Stasie had
seemed in perfect health ever since her return
from Southsea, though yesterday he had noticed
her twice press her hand to her heart, but it
might mean nothing.

Kharapet might hold his hand for a while,
and then renew his attempts. Then he himself
seemed to make no way with her ; she kept him
at a distance by a wonderful calm, a steady self-possession
that paralysed him ! He was not
aware that the paralysis came from the intense
anxiety that blinded his eyes, and in one direction
dulled his perception. Again for the
thousandth time he reviewed the position. To
whom dare he whisper his suspicions ? Mr.
Harding's crass selfishness would shut him out
from the possibility of imagining any man such
a cursed fool as to risk such a crime. Mrs.
Harding, though she disliked the Syrian, would
not for a moment believe him capable of it, nor
the local doctor, nor Robinson, and Stasie herself
least of all. Then what proof could he osier \

Positively none. The effect of the helwa on
himself  a dozen common-sense solutions might
be offered to account for his symptoms, especially
as he had swallowed nearly all the sweetmeat
left with him, only twice feeling the same kind of
effect, and that in a much less degree.

As he worked round and round the same
painful circle of thought, he reached some sand-pits
at the foot of the hill, and turning by a
large oak-tree which overshadowed the cart track
leading down to them, intending to take a pathway
through the fields to the Welwood Eoad, he
came suddenly upon Stasie Werner and paused to
contemplate her strange employment.

Beside the road or rather track sprang a
plentiful crop of nettles, and browsing upon
them was a very miserable donkey, with desponding
ears and a helpless-looking tail which
he feebly twitched, trying to scare away the
flies attracted by an open sore beside his backbone.
Stasie had laid down her sunshade and
a little basket full of ferns which she had been
uprooting, and was carefully laying a large cool
dock leaf over the place, speaking tenderly to
the wretched animal, who ate on unmoved.

Brooke stood still a moment to look on, half
amused, half touched, and not aware that she
perceived him, until without any greeting she
said, " Do you think it will stick on ? "

I am afraid not, though it appears to adhere
to the broken skin at present."

Well, it will give the poor thing a little
relief, and when night comes those horrid flies
will not bite ! " so saying, with a parting pat to
the donkey, she took up her basket and sunshade,
and turned her steps towards home.

"I heard you had all gone over to Welwood,"
said Brooke, keeping by her side.

Mrs. Harding, Aunt Clem, and the children
have ; I only went as far as Ashy woods, and
came through them to get these ferns ; there are
quantities of ferns there, and, I imagine, heaps
of wild flowers in the spring. It will be delightful
to walk there if we are still here."

Where do you think you will be ? "

I have no idea  somewhere  anywhere. I
think often I should like to have wings, to be
perpetually in motion  it is a curious feeling,"
and she looked up at him with a smile.

Good God ! with what a wild pang of horror

he observed that her eyes had something of the
enlarged strained look he so dreaded. Her
manner, too, was less calm ; the way in which
she played with the tassel of her sunshade
seemed to him suspiciously restless and uneasy.

"It was a long lonely walk for you, Miss
Werner ; you ought to have had a companion."

There is nothing to fear, except, they say,
at the race time ; then London tramps come
about."

*' Why did you not send for me ? I am an
idle man now, and very glad to be of use." He
could hardly command himself to speak in his
natural voice. He longed to clasp her to his
heart, to implore her to let him take her away
that very instant from danger, from death !

Oh, I could not think of troubling you,"
said Stasie, little dreaming the struggle going
on in her companion's heart. " You would not
care to wander about woods rooting up ferns."

"Yes, I should," returned Brooke rather
abruptly ; " men of my calling are given to
botanist, 'to cull simples,' as old-fashioned
romances term it, and  and  at all events, now
that we are good friends (are we not. Miss

Werner ?), I like a talk and an argument, as we
used to have, four ages,  that is, four months ago,
even when I get the worst of it."

But you never do get the worst," replied
Stasie, laughing, "for even when I feel I am
right, I never know how to prove it."

Thus talking, with frequent pauses, for Brooke
recovered himself but slowly, they reached the
house.

Brooke hesitated, " I left an Illustrated
London Neivs for you just now," he said ; '' there
are one or two admirable pictures of Welsh
scenery in it. I should like to show them to
you."

Oh, come in," said Stasie, quite at her ease.
Aunt Clem will soon be back, and we are going
to dine at Sefton House. Is it not a grand
name for an old homestead?"

Brooke did not need a second invitation, and
followed her into the drawing-room, where they
found Bhoodhoo apparently occupied in sweeping
up the hearth. Stasie gave him her basket
and her hat ; then, sitting down as if tired on the
sofa by the fireplace, drew her little work-table
to her, and, leaning her elbow on it, she said,

What a good useful creature Bhooclhoo is !
He saves the other servants so much ! he thinks
of everything ; I do believe he has been putting
my work in order."

Do you keep your supply of Syrian sweetmeats
at hand there \ " asked Brooke sharply.

Sometimes," she returned, looking up much
surprised.

Have you any there now ? "

I had a few, but I see Bhoodhoo has put
some more ; " she took a piece and offered it to
him.

Give them all to me," cried Brooke, drawing
a chair close to her, and gazing into her
eyes as though he would pierce through the
fleshly veil into the depths of her being. " I
see that you have been eating this horrible
stuff ! Promise me you will not ! You cannot
hide from me that you are not yourself  not
quite well."

Do not look at me like that. Dr. Brooke,"
she exclaimed, covering her face with her hands.
' I cannot bear it. I will not have you cross-examine
me. You frighten me. You make me
feel ill and uneasy. There is nothing the matter

only  only the place does not agreed with me.
I will go away, I will take Aunt Clem ; we can
go for the winter to the seaside, or  you do not
think I am really seriously ill ? " with a sudden
change of tone.

I would not frighten you for worlds," said
Brooke, lowering his voice, and speaking with a
tenderness of tone that stirred Stasie's heart
strangely. "And, so far as I can judge, you
have magnificent health ; but just now you
should be careful. You should have advice ;
you do not wish for mine ; let me entreat you to
consult a man of the highest skill, whose advice
will, in all probability, enable you to overcome
these unpleasant symptoms. Tell me, I beg
you, this : have you felt your heart beat quickly,
so quickly for a few moments that you feel
breathless ? "

Not so bad as that ; but yesterday I fancied
it did beat faster than usual, and last night I
could not sleep. Now, do not ask me any more
questions, and do not think me rude," she went
on in her most serious tone, all playful petulance
banished. " If I do not want you to be  that
is, to prescribe for me  I am sure you are very

clever, very ; but you see you are a friend whom
I meet every day, and if you were my doctor too
I should always fancy I was very ill, or getting
worse, or something of that kind, every time
you looked gravely at me ; and you look awfully
grave sometimes. Dr. Brooke, almost unhappy."

Almost ! " repeated Brooke, " altogether ! "
The words escaped his lips before he was well
aware of them. Perhaps they might produce an
effect favourable to his object in arousing Stasie's
notice of her own health, her interest in himself.
There was an indescribable, sweet frankness in
her voice and manner as she excused herself for
not seeking his professional aid ; a dim delicious
idea suggested itself that her reluctance to accept
him as a physician might arise, perhaps, out of
the natural shrinking of a delicate girl from those
undraped communications which the relation of
patient and doctor compel, but which any dawning
of warmer feelings forbid. If she could but
love him the battle would be won. He had
almost unconsciously risen and paced the room
while he thought. Stasie watched him with
wondering eyes. What could disturb him ? What
could make him " altogether " unhappy ?

I quite understand you," he said, returning
to his seat. " Many persons have a nervous dislike
to the doctor's presence, save when it is
absolutely necessary. I do not wish to intrude
upon you ; but, in an outside way, let me advise
you to give up eating helwa and all made dishes.
You are not too dainty to dine on a plain joint,
I hope V and he tried, not very successfully, to
produce a playful smile.

; " Oh ! I am not such a baby as to eat what I
am told is bad for me," replied Stasie, who was
much impressed with his manner. " But can
there be much harm in helwa ? Poor Bhoodhoo
would be quite mortified if I did not eat his
sweeties."

*' Do not mortify him, then. Give me some,
put more in the fire, let him believe you take
them ; but pray give them up for a while, and
let me speak to Mrs. Harding about Filmer  I
mean, about your consulting a first-rate man, a
friend of mine."

"Very well," returned Stasie thoughtfully.
But I do not think this place suits me ; I was
a different creature at Southsea."

Brooke was so deeply conscious of this fact 

SO convinced in his own mind of its cause  that
he did not trust himself to reply, and Stasie went
on a little shyly, but always with a sweet honesty
''Do you know, Dr. Brooke, I do not think
Sefton Park suits you. You look, I do not know
exactly how, but worn and  and  you don't
mind my saying it ?  sad, melancholy, and
rather stern, as if something was going wrong."

Exactly," returned Brooke, resting one elbow
on his knee, his cheek on his hand, thus bringing
his eyes on a level with hers, into which he
gazed with a look so sombre that it did not suggest
any notion of a lover. " Things are going
very wrong, and the place suits me as little as it
does you."

'' Then why do you stay \ " cried Stasie,
imagining that his state of mind might be due
to his affection for his cousin.

*' Because, though ill at ease here, I should be
miserable away." Then after a short pause he
added, in a low tone, almost dreading to venture
so bold an opening lest he should startle or
repel her  '' Sefton Park is the world to me ; I
cannot leave it."

Good heavens ! " thought Stasie, in some
VOL. III. 50

mental excitement, ' is he going to make a confidante
of me f I would rather not. How nice
he is, and how unfortunate ! " Aloud she said,
with some confusion and a vivid blush  " Yet,
don't you think it would be better to go, even if
it were hard to break away ? At least it seems
so to me."

Does it ? " returned Brooke, much struck by
her words, and feeling his heart sink within him.
Nevertheless I cannot go ; a sense of duty,
which I must not explain, keeps me here, as well
as strong inclination. But I shall not forget
your advice."

'' Advice  oh ! I do not presume to offer advice
to you, who are so much older and wiser
than I am ; but there are some things in which
a sort of instinct directs even a mere schoolgirl
like myself."

And your instinct is against me," cried
Brooke, with a spasm of despair such as he never
dreamed any woman's words would have brought
him.

Against you ! Oh no ; / am not against
you. I, if you will let me say so," said Stasie,
who, when consulted or soothed, was humility

itself  '' I feel with you and for you, and am
only grieved to think you are unhappy in anyway
; but I do think it would be wiser to go
away." '' I suppose he thinks it his duty as a
relation to stop and look after Mrs. Harding," she
thought, " but it is no use, and she is getting on
better''

Forgive me if I differ from you : I may be
of use. I  I cannot explain to you now ; but
from no personal consideration, no selfish hopes,
I am resolved to remain."

"You know best," said Stasie, a little bewildered
; and there was an embarrassing pause,
mercifully broken by the entrance of Miss
Stretton, fresh and cold from her evening drive.
She was quite expressed in her greeting of Dr.
Brooke, but anxious to get away to her toilette.
Mr. Harding is so particular as to punctuality,
you know, my dear," she explained to her niece ;
so Brooke took the hint and his leave.

But the conversation she had had with him
dwelt long and vividly in Stasie's mind. She
could not have believed that a man like Brooke,
who had impressed upon her the idea of a will
too firm, a temperament too coldly composed, to

be moved by anything short of a moral earthquake,
would have been so shaken, so emotional,
as he had proved himself during that intensely
interesting interview. That Dr. Brooke should
have attempted to confide in her was too wonderful.


After all  though, of course, it was not right
to love a married woman so very much  she half
envied her friend the possession of a heart so
true, so disinterested. But that Mrs. Harding
should ever give him a warmer thought than
what of right belonged to a kind, sympathetic,
pleasant kinsman, she never for an instant believed.


Ah ! how good Mrs. Harding is ! I fear that
in her place I should not be so good. Only for
the children, they are the great stay."

This conversation produced a profound impression
upon Brooke. He could not shake it off.
For some hours it filled him with despair.

He sat down to dinner with his host. He
listened to his cheerful talk without hearing one
word he said while he watched the blue curls of
smoke from his cigar and repeated over and over
again Stasie's mysterious words  *' Had you not
better go ? " Was there then no hope for him ?
If so, there was little for her.

Was ever man so cruelly hampered ? Was
ever knowledge so horribly neutralised ? He felt
a contempt for himself, for his own impotence.
But what could he do ? If he attacked either
Bhoodhoo or Kharapet, the only result would bea
breach, which would make him look like a fool,
and deprive him of the only chance to save Stasie.
In the present stage of affairs Kharapet might

defy suspicion and inquiry. He knew well low
the action of such a poison as he feared could
be so timed as to close the drama at any moment.
No ! he must not let Kharapet have the smallest
inkling that he was watched and suspected. Here
was a position trpng and difficult enough, but
when Stasie, with sweet yet hesitating honesty
that made his heart ache, warned him off the
premises as it were, the last ingredient was added
to the sea of perplexity in which he felt himself
tossed to and fro.

Brooke was by nature a proud, masterful man,
only preserved from an over-tendency to dominate
by shrewd common - sense and a certain
amount of sympathy, qualities which made him
at once liked and respected by his fellows ; but
that he had so soft a heart had never been revealed
to him till he knew Stasie Werner, and the
sense of danger to her  danger known only to
himself  from which he only could save her,
fanned his liking into an intense flame.

If I could get that fellow out to drive with
me," he thought of Kharapet, " I would break his
neck as unhesitatingly as I would shoot a mad
dog or any noxious beast, but I must sjoeak him

fair  I must not let him suppose I doubt him.
And Stasie herself ? What a conceited ass I was
to imagine, as I did, that, on the whole, she was
disposed to love me ! " Then he began to ponder
on her words  her manner. There was something
in the latter he could not quite understand. She
hesitated to pronounce his sentence of banishment,
but there was none of the shrinking embarrassment
that might be expected from a sensitive,
warm-hearted girl fencing off the first approach
to a declaration. Was there any misunderstanding
on his part ? Could he, in the strong emotion
of the moment, have mistaken her meaning % He
would at any rate see her tomorrow on his way
to consult with Mrs. Harding, whom he would take
partially into his confidence, and endeavour to
recover his lost ground of friendly understanding
if he had lost it.

One pin s point of hope he had gathered from
their conversation ; Stasie's imagination could be
touched and alarmed, and she was a little uneasy
at her own sensations. This might help him.
But what a destiny for Stasie if driven only by
fear of death to take refuge in his arms !

'* Pooh ! I am growing womanish and hysterical,"

thought Brooke, rallying his forces ; " I must
keep cool and resolute : I will make my way out
of this cursed deadlock, and save her too, if I have
to kill those two infernal plotters with my own
hand." " I say, Robinson," he exclaimed, throwing
the end of his cigar into the fire, "I have
rather a headache, and I am too stupid for companionship,
so I will be off to bed."

As early as politeness permitted, Brooke sallied
forth next day to call on his cousin. He had
watched from his window till he saw Mr. Harding
pass at a rapid pace to catch the nine o'clock
train, which carried the bread-winners of Sefton
Park cityward to their daily toil, and with some
difficulty kept quiet for an hour or more with the
help of a weed and the morning papers, till he
thought he might venture to present himself

He walked slowly up the road. Slackening his
pace as he neared Limeville, he was devoured with
the desire to understand fully what Stasie meant
when she told him " he had better go." He was
painfully anxious to regain the friendly footing
he feared had been endangered, and he began to
confess to himself that at all times he would take

some trouble to rejoice his eyes with the sight of
her. On reaching the gate, he saw it stood half
open, and at the sound of his footsteps Pearl flew
out bounding and barking the wildest welcome.
Brooke stooped to caress the dog. " You must
not wander away and loose yourself, you little
beggar! you are much too precious." He lifted
the dog as he spoke, intending to put him inside
the gate and close it ; but while he stroked the
little creature, Stasie came quickly out of the
house as though in chase of her favourite.

Ah, Dr. Brooke ! " she exclaimed, pausing as
she reached the road; 'you have caught that
naughty little dog  he is always trying to
run away." She looked bright, sunny, and,
unless he was stupidly conceited, glad to see
him.

Here is the little culprit safe and sound,
Miss Werner. Who is your gatekeeper ? You
should insist on its being shut, or Master Pearl
will break bounds on every occasion."

I have no such important functionary," said
Stasie, laughing; '' but I will ask Bhoodhoo to see
it is kept closed ; he is so thoughtful. Come,
Pearl, you must stay at home to-day, and be

brushed and made pretty, for your old master is
coming to see you."

Has Pearson returned ? " asked Brooke
quickly, as he followed Stasie into the pleasure-ground.


Yes. He sent Aunt Clem a brace of partridge
last night, and a note saying he would
ride over to-day. I shall be glad to hear about
poor dear Lady Pearson and his brother."

Brooke was silent for a minute or two, and
Stasie, the gate being shut, set down Pearl, and
besfan to gather some of the few autumnal flowers

o

g

still blooming.

Why haven't you a shawl or something to
wrap round you ? " said Brooke abruptly. ' The
air is crisp."

*' I do not need it. I am going in immediately."


*' Is it permitted to ask how you slept ? " he
continued with a smile.

'eyes," returned Stasie; "that is a common
civility. I slept better than usual, and am like
a giant refreshed."

Good. I am rejoiced to hear it. Now, I
will venture another question ; answer me truly."

His deep-set eyes grew so earnest, so imploring,
that they fascinated hers, " Will it annoy or
offend you if I stay on here ? "

"Annoy me?" cried Stasie, surprised, lout
not embarrassed ; "no, certainly not. Why
should it ? "

''I do not know ; only I gathered from your
words yesterday that it would be unwise of me
to stay."

Oh, yes ! I remember," she said, recalling
their conversation, and colouring vividly. '' I
am afraid I was rather presumptuous, but" 
breaking off abruptly  " you know best. Let us
say no more about it. How could you imagine
your staying here would annoy we ?* "

Brooke was silent, seeking in vain for a solution
of her puzzling remarks. Could it be that
her fancy was disordered by the action of the
poison he believed had been given her ? At all
events, she did not wish him to go. What could
she have meant ? " Then I shall certainly remain,"
said he at length. "And, tell me, have
you been eating helwa since ? "

No," returned Stasie, raising her eyes smilingly
to his, "I am quite willing to take care of

myself, but I hide it away not to offend BhoodJioo,
who is so pleased to think I like it."

Quite right," said Brooke eagerly. " Give
it to me when you want to get rid of it. See if
Pearl will eat it''

*' I have tried him, but he will not."

I am going to Mrs. Harding's. I am going
to suggest her consulting Filmer about you, Miss
Werner. Promise me not to resist her advice."

I will not," said Stasie thoughtfully. " But,
Dr. Brooke, tell Mrs. Harding to speak first to
Aunt Clem. She likes to be first in everything,
and she is very good to me."

' And you to her, I am sure. I will remember
your hint. So good-bye for the present."

He raised his hat, and walked away up the
road. Stasie continued to search for and gather
what blossoms were left, while she thought somewhat
eagerly of the change she had suddenly
become aware of in Dr. Brooke. For some reason
or other he was deeply, unmistakably anxious
about herself. His manner, too, had lost its
calm superiority. There was a something less
assured, something curiously pleading, in his
eyes, his voice, that conveyed to her a subtile

sense of her own importance. Why was it so ?
On account of her close intimacy with Mrs.
Harding ? It must be. Stasie had carefully
ruled her thoughts, her imagination, had resisted
all temptation to let either dwell on Brooke, but
to-day she could not. She compared him mentally
to the various brilliant young men she had met
while staying with Lady Pearson. How immeasurably
superior he was to them all ! To her
the quiet strength which his tone and aspect expressed
was infinitely attractive. He was so
equable, so just and broad in his opinions ; and
although his composure might seem cold, she had
a conviction that beneath it was a deep spring
of warm sympathy for the few he loved. Then,
to her inexperience, he seemed to know everything.
Why, it was wonderful that he should
take as much interest as he did in a mere half-instructed
girl like herself, especially as at first
she must have seemed but too ready to worry
him with her questions and her company. For
though full of high and gallant spirit, Stasie had
a genuinely humble opinion of herself, and shrunk
from the idea of thrusting herself forward, as she
would from a blow. Was Dr. Brooke in love

with this cousin, as Aunt Clem thought ? It was
impossible to say !

Meanwhile Brooke went on a little more at
ease, from Stasie's frank assurance. He found
Mrs. Harding busy over her house accounts, and
alone.

Don't let me disturb you," he said. " I will
go smoke my cigar under the lime-trees. Send
for me when you can spare a few minutes ; I want
to talk with you."

It was a crisp gray morning, and as Brooke
loitered to and fro in a little grove of limes which
sheltered one end of the house, his courage and
composure seemed to return. If Stasie was quite
willing he should stay, he must have entirely
misunderstood her. His chief aim now must be
to impress his own feelings upon her, to convey
to her his hope, to win her and save her, and join
to his own that young buoyant life, that tender,
generous heart. What a vista of delight !

Here a servant summoned him to Mrs.
Harding's presence. After exchanging a few
commonplaces, she asked 

'' What did you want to talk to me about,
Jim ? "

He paused an instant, and then determined
to be quite confidential up to the limit of the
dreadful secret of his real trouble. He said in a
quiet steady voice, " I am uneasy about Stasie
Yerner, Livy."

'indeed!" with keenly-aroused attention.
'' Why, Jim % "

'' Because I see a return of those symptoms
which so alarmed us before. Believe me, she
ought to have advice  the advice of a first-rate
man."

You alarm me. What do you think is the
matter with her ? "

I could not tell without going more deeply
into the question than she would permit. Something
perhaps of the nature of heart disease,
which will not be incurable if it be not hereditary.
Kharapet says her mother died of heart
disease. "

I do not think she did. I perfectly remember
old Mr. Kharapet describing her wasting
away from continued attacks of fever, to which
she finally succumbed. No ; she did not die of
heart disease."

Why does Kharaj)et assert it then ? "

He may have heard she did ! He can have
no motive. Somehow, I always search for
motives' with Mr. Kharapet."

AVell, Livy, I want you to persuade Miss
Yerner to go to my friend Filmer. He is a profound
pathologist, and if any one can do her
good, Fie can ; but get the aunt to view the
matter in its true light, as of the last importance.
I tell you, that sweet bright girl may
slip through our fingers before we know where
we are."

There was suppressed emotion in his voice.
Mrs. Harding looked up surprised.

You are very deeply interested in Stasie,
Jim."

I am ; Livy, she is everything to me ! "

I hardly expected this," returned Mrs.
Harding thoughtfully; 'there is so little of a
lover in your style and manner ; but I am very,
very glad. I love Stasie ; and if any man can
stand the trials and temptations of matrimony, I
fancy you can. But, oh ! Jim, be good and kind
to her."

My dear cousin ! do you think there is the
faintest hope for me ? " very eagerly.

'* I cannot tell  indeed I cannot ; but if I
could I would not."

"Why?"

Because it would be treachery. I really
think Stasie is perfectly fancy free. Try, oh try,
to win her ! "

I need no urging ! but I fear ," he

paused, and, rising, began to pace the room.
That young Pearson has returned," he resumed.

Has he ? I do not think Stasie would ever
care for him  she feels herself stronger than
he is."

He is a nice young fellow ; but lie could not
save her ! " said Brooke, as if to himself.

How do you mean, Jim ? "

Nothing. If I were to succeed with Miss
Werner, I suppose I should encounter a tremendous
opposition from Kharapet and your husband,
and, through them, from the guardian ? "

From Kharapet, yes ; but I am not so sure
about Mr. Harding. I am certain he dislikes
Kharapet, but does not like to show it. Still, intime
you could get over all that."

'' Ay, time  and time is so infinitely precious."

But, Jim, you are quite young yet !  not

VOL. III. 51

two years older than I am ! You need not be in
sucti a violent hurry."

*' I am though, Livy ; in a most violent
hurry."

I should have thought you a more reasonable
man," said Mrs. Harding, with a smile.

In this matter I am utterly unreasonable,"
exclaimed Brooke, throwing himself into his
chair again, " and you must be my friend  you
must help me, Livy ! I do not say it from self-conceit
; but I sincerely believe it will be best
for Stasie Werner to marry me. If she is heart-whole
I think there is a good chance for me. I
do not think I should be attracted to her as I am
if she did not feel a certain sympathy for me ! "

Perhaps so ; but, Jim, how many men have
lavished the warmest affection on women who
did not care a straw for them ! "

'' True ; but ours  mine is no ordinary case ;"
this impetuously, then in an altered tone, " By
Jove ! I am only saying what every blockhead
thinks when he first falls in love. Yet there is
something more, but I cannot tell you."

'you are quite mysterious," said Mrs. Harding,
smiling. '' I must not flatter you by admitting

there is anything out of the common in your
case, except that you are very far gone, much
farther than I thought."

I could hardly be in a deeper depth," returned
Brooke ; " and I claim your friendly
aid."

So far as I can, I will gladly help you, Jim ;
but I do not think you have much opposition to
fear, except from Hormuz Kharapet."

Has he still any hopes of success with Miss
Werner ? " asked Brooke.

No ; that is, he seems formally and openly
to have resigned that project, but Heaven only
knows what his real views are. Of one thing I
am sure he will oppose her marriage with anyone.
He would neither like to give an account
of his stewardship nor give up the manipulation
of her money until compelled by her being of
age."

'' Three years," murmured Brooke, " and in
that time what infinite evil might be wrought ! "

'* I should be very glad indeed if you and
Stasie were to marry soon. She is terribly isolated,
and I should like as much of her money as
possible to be saved."

' So should I/' returned Brooke, " for every
reason, though I would gladly marry her tomorrow
if she had not a rap, imprudent though it
would be."

/ believe you, Jim, but many would not.
Well, count on me ; so far as a third person can
help, I will."

'* The first thing to be done," said Brooke,
rousing himself from a fit of thought, "is to
induce Miss Stretton to take her niece to Filmer.
Frequent short changes of scene would be useful.
Not a family exodus, you understand, just by
herself"

After some further discussion it was agreed
that Mrs. Harding should attack Miss Stretton
that very day, and Brooke accepted a commission
to go up to town and change a book in which
both Stasie and her friend were deeply interested,
for the second and third volumes, which would
give him an excuse for presenting himself at
Limeville in the afternoon, where Mrs. Harding
promised to meet him and observe what effect
Mr. Pearson's visit appeared to produce.

It was not difficult to deal with Miss Stretton.

She was keenly alive to the importance of Stasie's
health, and sincerely anxious to see it completely
re-established. Still she evidently would not
positively agree to anything till she had consulted
Kharapet. He made his appearance a couple of
days later, very opportunely, as he often did when
any matter of importance was under consideration
 so often that Mrs. Harding suspected Aunt
Clem of daily private communication with him.

The influence of the Syrian over her was
enormous, her present and future alike depended
on him, she thought, and as his personal flattery
grew less fine in quality as well as quantity, a
little wholesome fear began to leaven her strong
liking and admiration of the gentle Hormuz.

Stasie's wrath was often raised by the
tremendous fuss made by her aunt respecting
Mr. Kharapet's comforts and Mr. Kharapet's
favourite dishes, which were, as Mary the housemaid
remarked, '' a goodish few, and wasn't it a
mercy that nice obliging man Bhoodhoo was
there to cook them ? Such a mixing and a
stewing and a simmering Susan never could
manage ! but bless you, he cares for nothing but
to muddle among his saucepans all day long."

Whatever Kliarapet's needs, however, they
were elaborately supplied ; and Stasie declared
she felt as nothing and nobody in the house,
when Kharapet was there.

On the present occasion he was peculiarly
amiable, and quite tender in his solicitude for
Stasie.

He thought her not looking at all well, and
heartily agreed in Mrs. Harding's opinion that the
advice of a first-rate physician should be sought.
Why not Sir Harcourt Filmer ? He himself
would have suggested the famous Dr. Carus, who
always attended my Lord Saintsbury, but it was
really of no importance which of these eminent
men were employed.

Stasie made no objection. She had been
unusually quiet  even languid for the last few
days  averse to take long walks, and impervious
to Van Pearson's compliments and sallies. She
felt impatient to throw off this oppression, and
was full of hope for the results of consulting a
new and a great doctor.

Brooke had made up his mind to keep as
much as possible out of Kharapet's way ; their
meeting would do no good, and the strain on

his (Brooke's) self-control was too great when in
the presence of a man whom he suspected of such
treachery.

He ascertained, however, from Mrs. Harding
the day fixed upon for Stasie's visit to Sir
Harcourt Filmer, and wrote a private note recommending
her to his special attention, and
begging for a personal interview subsequently.

Then he eagerly waited the result.

The afternoon on which Stasie and Miss
Stretton returned after seeing the great doctor,
Brooke could not refrain from loitering about the
station at the time the train was due. Here to
his great relief he was joined by Mrs. Harding,
whose evening ramble with the children brought
her that way.

She dismissed them and sat down with him on
a bench outside, where from the elevated road-way
there was a pretty view over the Sefton woods.

Their train is overdue," said Brooke, looking
at his watch for the second time, after a pause
in their intermittent talk.

And you are over anxious ! You are really
looking ill yourself, Jim, which alarms me, not
for you, but for Stasie."

He made no reply. As she spoke the expected
train came round a bend of the line, and steamed
rapidly into the station, overshooting the platform.


Brooke hastened to assist Miss Stretton, who
went on at once to Mrs. Harding, with whom
she entered into animated conversation. Stasie
waited to collect some parcels, without which no
lady ever returned from London to Sefton Park,
and then gave Brooke her hand as she descended.


She looked pale and preoccupied, and Brooke,
as his questioning eyes dwelt upon her, imagined
he read disappointment in her expression. Her
first words were commonplace enough. " Pray
ask one of the porters to take these things
across and keep them till we send down for
them, and there is a small basket in the guard's
van."

' I will see to it," and he left her for a moment.
When he returned the train had moved on, and
Mrs. Harding with Miss Stretton were already
crossing the line to the gate of exit.

Stasie was standing quite still, and gazing
away over the gently-rising upland with its

variegated greens and browns, crowned by woods
which were in their last glories of autumnal
colouring ; there was a sad wistful look in her
big thoughtful eyes. Brooke thought they
glittered suspiciously, as if full of unshed tears.
Was it possible that she had drawn some discouraging
impression from her interview with
Filmer. Dare he hope that his old masters
wide knowledge and professional acumen had
detected something of the truth ?

Miss Stretton has gone on," he said.

"Oh, yes ; I am coming," said Stasie in a
dreamy voice, and began to follow slowly.

Brooke was burning to question her, yet
hesitated how to begin. After a few steps in
silence, Stasie exclaimed, " I am so tired."

Are you ? " cried Brooke ; " would you like
to sit down here, while I get the pony and trap
from the railway inn for you ? "

'' Oh, no thank you ; that would be much ado
about nothing," she returned with a smile,
having apparently quite recovered any unusual
emotion she might have felt.

"Then walk slowly, and tell me  what do
you think of Filmer ? "

*' I am not sure ; I thought him rather grumpy
at first. But, oh, what an eye he has ! lie looks
through one."

Doctors are bound to study a patient's
physiognomy."

I suppose so ; you have something of that
piercingness yourself ; and when you are a great
doctor it will be much worse  or better," said
Stasie in her natural, impulsive way.

Am I to be a great doctor. Miss Werner ? "

Yes, I fancy you ivill be,"  a pause.

' And where you satisfied with your interview ? "
asked Brooke ; he listened eagerly for her reply,
which did not come for a second or two.

No," she said at length softly, with a touch
of sadness in her voice, " not at all, rather disappointed.
I did so hope for some quite new
remedy, some little bit of information about
myself, and he just said nothing more than
poor old Mr. Hunter did ; he talked of debility,
and slight derangement of digestion, and gave
me a prescription. We had it made up, and
I believe it is just the same as Dr. Hunter
gave me."

Indeed ! you must remember that doctors

never tell their patients much about themselves."


That may be, but I am quite sure Sir Harcourt
Filmer does not think there is much the
matter with me. I fancied he was vexed at
having his time taken up with such a mere
nothing as my complaints, and I described my
sensations so badly ! "

But is it not encouraging to find he thinks
there is so little the matter with you ? "

No," said Stasie, " for "  she hesitated, and
then burst out with irrepressible confidence  " I
am not well ; I can't tell you how I feel ! But
this world is so lovely, and life so delightful, I
want to enjoy it ! I want to feel my own old
self again. Why, it used to be delicious even to
wake up in the morning and feel I was alive 
oh, how alive."

'you shall feel it again," said Brooke emphatically,
in a tone that struck to Stasie's heart.
He was deeply moved. If he dared speak out to
her? But the danger of it ! Suppose she were
averse to him in the character of a lover, would
it not cut her off from all the chances of escape
which her frank confidence in him offered.

You think I shall ! ah, I hope so ! "

Miss Werner, if this prescription fails, will
you let me have my innings'? "

We will see."

Did Filmer advise change of air ? "

Not very strongly, but Aunt Clem rather
caught at the idea, and has been planning an
exodus of the whole household to Torquay or
Bournemouth all the way back."

"That won't do! If you go you must go
alone," said Brooke with decision.

Stasie looked at him with some surprise, and
opened her lips to reply, when Miss Stretton
turned back suddenly, and joined in the conversation,
to assure Brooke of her great satisfaction
in finding that Sir Harcourt Filmer entirely
agreed with " that dear good Dr. Hunter in
whom I have the greatest confidence," etc.

Brooke was, on the whole, more hopeful after
this conversation with Stasie. If he could but
win her confidence and steal into her regard
without startling her into an attitude of self-defence,
there was hope still.

That evening's post brought Brooke a note



from Filmer, appointing the next day but one
for the interview he had asked.

Now for a bold stroke to secure my only
chance of help. If I can convince Filmer, all
may yet go well."

With anxious punctuality Brooke readied Harley
Street a few minutes before the hour appointed
by the great doctor.

SirHarcourt Filmer, however, was still engaged,
the servant informed him ; and Brooke accordingly
composed himself to bide his time as best
he could in the dreary waiting-room, where so
many hearts had fluttered with hesitating hope,
or sunk in darkest doubt.

He thought over again all he intended to lay
before his former master, striving to reduce his
ideas into the smallest and most compact form,
consistent with clearness, that he might not
occupy too many of the minutes, which were
literally worth their weight in gold.

He was still marshalling his few facts, and the
inferences he had deduced from them, when a

door opposite opened, and the well-known physician
stood on the threshold.

Ah ! you are there, are you ? Come in !
Come and have some luncheon. We can talk
while eating, and I shall not lose time."

He led the way through the consulting-room
to a very comfortable study, where a coal and
wood fire glowed in a grate of the newest and
most improved fashion, and a table was laid for
two.

The doctor rang sharply, and his summons
was quickly responded to by a servant, who
brought in the expected luncheon.

That will do," said Sir Harcourt, as soon
as they were seated. " Put the bell by me,
and you need not wait. What will you take,
Brooke?"

I do not want anything ; if you will let me
talk while you eat I should much prefer it."

Very well. At least take a glass of wine."

"Presently, thank you."

And now, what is it that disturbs you about
the girl you sent me ? I have just looked at my
notes, and there is not much the matter with
her."

"You think not? I am very uneasy on her
account."

I fancy she is a little out of sorts. In short,
in the nervous, restless, depressed condition very
common with young girls before they have attained
their full strength. Do you know if any
of her people had heart disease ? I rather think
her heart may be a little weak. The other
symptoms  sleeplessness, nausea, etc., can be
accounted for in various ways, none of them
alarming. I have given her a few drops of tincture
digitalis in combination with valerian and iron."

You evidently see nothing out of the common
in her case \ "

Nothing whatever ; and I am surprised that
you alarm yourself, but I suppose you have had
less to do with feminine ailments and fancies
(which are often synonymous terms), than I have.
I assure you, half the practice in London is made
up of just such nondescript maladies as your
young friend's. She is a fine girl, though ! She
ought not to be ill."

She was in perfect, almost ideal, health when I
first met her about six months ago," said Brooke.
"I had been away for some time, and on my return

I found her greatly changed, so  much so that I
ventured to speak to the local man who attended
her  a very sensible, ordinary practitioner. He
took the same view of the case as you do. I, for
special reasons, induced him to order change of
air. The effect was wonderful ; but circumstances
occurred which obliged her to come back too
soon, then all the symptoms reappeared even
worse than before. I have inquired as far as I
could as to the cause of her mother's death. Her
aunt says it was repeated fever, while Kharapet,
a Syrian, brother of her late stepfather, and one
of his executors, declares he always understood
that the mother died of heart disease.

Ah ! " said Sir Harcourt.

"I do not believe him, and the aunt stoutly
denies it."

*' Hum ! The aunt is that elderly chatterton
that came with her ? She has not as much
brains as you could stick on the point of a
needle ! "

Just the woman to be made a tool of," said
Brooke thoughtfully.

Very likely," returned Sir Harcourt.

You consider then that there is no cause for
VOL. III. 52

uneasiness  I mean Miss Werner's friends need
not be anxious ? "

No, certainly not. The worst symptom is
lier sleeplessness, but that will pass as her general
health improves."

' If'il improves," said Brooke very emphatically.


'' What is the matter ? I say, Brooke, are
you sweet on the young lady ? If so, why, your
judgment may not be very sound."

At any rate," returned Brooke, " I am very
deeply interested in her, because I have a theory
which I beg you to consider a professional secret."

Out with it then ! We doctors are accustomed
to queer corners behind the smooth surface
of society."

I will be as brief as possible," returned
Brooke. '' This girl, Miss Yerner, is the stepdaughter
of the late British Consul at Mardin.
The old man was much attached to her, and left
her all his money  a considerable sum. He
named as executors, Mr. Harding a merchant of
some standing, and his own younger brother,
Hormuz Kharapet, a protege of Percy Wyatt's
and some of the Exeter Hall saints."

I have met him," ejaculated Sir Harcourt
Filmer.

Well," continued Brooke, " this Kharapet
has devoted himself to Miss Yerner. He is or
was madly in love with her. She has rejected
him,  that is, I am almost sure she has,  but he
still hangs about her. She lives a short way out
of town with her aunt, who came here with her,
and who has the firmest faith in Kharapet. The
household consists of a ladies' maid, another
female servant, and a coloured man, a cook,
recommended by Kharapet."

"What does all this lead to?" asked Sir
Harcourt, as Brooke paused suddenly, struck by
the difficulty of impressing his hearer with his
own convictions.

For more than two months," resumed
Brooke, " Miss Werner's health has been failing.
She goes away for a fortnight  all her bad
symptoms vanish. She returns, and they reappear.
This Eastern is perpetually at the
house. A girl like Miss Yerner  of a physique
so fine, with every indication of splendid health
ought not to break down in this way without
an accident  an illness  a visible cause."

These things are hard to account for without
a very thorough knowledge of the patient's
circumstances. What are you driving at,
Brooke?"

Should Stasie Werner die under age her
property goes to Kharapet. Had she married
him he would have had a lovely wife and a good
fortune. He is not the man to lose both. He
is slowly removing the obstacle to his greed 
the woman who denied him."

My dear sir ! " cried the physician, opening
his eyes, '' you are positively dramatic. Would
you have me believe it is a case of poisoning ? "

I believe it is."

Come, come, Brooke ! You must have lost
your head ; just think of the certain detection
which would follow such an attempt ! How
could a system of secret poisoning go on where
a number of people are living in the same house,
eating the same food, drinking the same beverages
? others would be affected. No one would
be mad enough to venture on so daring a piece
of villainy ! "

Nevertheless he is venturing it, I am fully
convinced. When first my suspicions were

roused, I made Stasie give me some of the sweetmeats
that cook of hers makes, and '

Ha ! you analysed them," exclaimed Sir
Harcourt eagerly.

'' No ; analysis is most difficult with the class
of poisons I suspect Kharapet uses. No ; I ate
them myself."

The deuce, you did ! and what then ? You
are alive to tell the tale."

'' Yes ; I was pretty sure the dose would not
be strong enough to do me much harm ; but it
was not without effect. I felt something of the
fever, the nausea, the palpitation that are playing
the mischief with that sweet, unoffending girl,
and which will end in her death if Kharapet's
doings are not put a stop to."

' That's rather curious," said Sir Harcourt
thoughtfully ; ' but you are evidently imaginative
 you might have fancied these symptoms.
The correct plan would have been to analyse."

I will have a piece of the helwa analysed by
some good chemist, but I question if it will be of
much avail."

My dear fellow, I am sorry you have allowed
yourself to be overmastered by a fixed idea. Bethe

temptation what it may, you will never persuade
me that a man like this Kharapet (I sat
next him at dinner at Lady Kilconquhar's, and he
seemed rather a superior man), a man well received
in good society  in all respects a gentleman
; that such a man would run the risk of
attempting the crime you suppose  for what ? to
possess himself of a comparatively small fortune
(the young lady is not a millionaire, is she ?), and
to revenge himself on a girl who had refused
him ! Why, few men care enough about yes or
no in such a matter  an Oriental least of all !
You must remember how nearly impossible it is
to obliterate the traces of poison, and, I should
say, quite impossible to administer it to one
member of a family who has no need to take any
especial medicine or keep to a particular diet
without injuring the rest more or less. This
would involve immediate suspicion."

I see how the circumstances must appear to
you, yet my impression is still the same," said
Brooke, with some eagerness, though he strove
hard to be cool. " I should have taken the same
view had I not seen some curious cases of poisoning
in India, did I not know there is a poison

used by those scoundrels, the Thugs, since they
abandoned the sacred noose, which our best
analysts could not detect, so rapidly is it
absorbed and eliminated when given in small
and repeated doses, as is, I believe, their plan."

But this Kharapet is a Christian  a Syrian.
He may be as ignorant of this poison as I am,"
exclaimed Sir Harcourt.

'' He has lived much in Eajpootana and other
native states, where the deadly Datura stramonium
grows on the roadsides and offers easy
means to put away an enemy or slay a stranger
to propitiate their sanguinary goddess''

Still, I doubt if Kharapet would attempt
such a crime, or, indeed, that he could carry it
out. What is there in this man's character or
antecedents which leads you to suspect him ? "

' I know nothing of his antecedents," returned
Brooke, " nor do I know anything against his
character ; but I confess I have disliked and
distrusted him from the first."

Ah ! just so ! There, I suspect, lies the key
to the riddle. You must not let prejudice or
imagination run away with you. Cool sound
judgment is the most essential quality in a

medical man. Put these crotchets out of your
head ; if you take action under their influence
they will lead you into a mess that will be anything
but advantageous to your future career.
It is not like what I remember of you, to be led
away by fancy. There is some under current of
which I know nothing. If I were you, and so
deeply interested in the young lady, I should
just take her under my own care altogether,
especially as she has the wherewithal ; only, I
should like a sounder condition of health in a
wife. Send her to me in a fortnight ; I feel sure
I shall find her greatly improved."

Certainly, she shall have the benefit of your
advice ; but my doubts and suspicions are not in
the slightest degree changed by your natural and
sensible observations. I must do the best I can
unassisted."

This interview produced a terribly depressing
effect on Brooke ; it proved to him the enormous
barrier which habit and custom raises against the
admission of a new idea. Filmer was a learned
and enlightened man, broad-minded in the best
sense of the word ; yet a life passed among

proprieties, and in a society from which the
shocking " was carefully excluded, made it
impossible for him to believe that such a tragedy
as Brooke had suggested was being enacted within
a twenty-four mile radius of St. Martin's-le-
Grand. Had it been a piece of legal or stockbroking
chicanery, or the design of a spiteful
servant, or the proposed crime of some vulgar
ruffian, Sir Harcourt might have lent a ready
ear and a helping hand ; but that a smooth-spoken
well-mannered man, admitted into some
of the best houses in town  a man who, from his
position and education, must be aware of the
value of character  should risk all his advantages
for the sake of melodramatic revenge and preposterous
greed, was too much opposed to English
common-sense, too much like the plot of a
second-rate French novel, to be credited by a
Briton cradled in conventionality for so many
years, as the great doctor had been.

Brooke, as he walked away from the house,
felt half angry with himself for not having foreseen
this. Twenty years ago, when Filmer was
a young struggling man, he would have taken in
the idea more readily ; " as it is, prosperity has so

padded the walls of life's cell for him, he forgets
that beneath the cushions are rugged stones, rude
angles, rusted iron clamps. Now I must act
alone and unaided."

He made his way to his club, and finding one
or two acquaintances there who were passing
through town, tried to change the current of his
thoughts by talk on various ordinary topics, thus
seeking relief for an hour or two, that he might
return with fresh vigour to the all-important
question of his future line of conduct.

Meanwhile Stasie Werner's head and heart
were much occupied by conjecture as to what
could be the real meaning of her last conversations
with Brooke. At first she never doubted
that when he avowed, in an impulsive, irrepressible
way, that he was miserable at Sefton Park,
yet could not leave it, and that it was the world
to him, that he was on the point of confessing
his affection for Mrs. Harding ; yet what could
be more improbable than that a grave, self-possessed
man like Brooke, a man so much her
superior in age as well as everything else, should
make a confidante of her % It was, no doubt, an
involuntary expression of feeling of which he was

scarce conscious ; but if so, how unhappy he
must be, and how Stasie longed to comfort him !
But it would be better for him to go ; there was
no good in staying. As to Mrs. Harding, no one
in the world could come between her and her
children; and no doubt Dr. Brooke was well
aware of this, or a man of his principles (as she
supposed) would go fast enough. But all these
conclusions were upset by his last words on this
delicate topic. When he absolutely asked her
leave to remain where he was, there could be no
doubt of his being truly and deeply in earnest.
She seemed still to see the intense questioning of
his dark eyes. The relieved look that came into
them when she exclaimed naturally that his remaining
could not annoy her  what could he
mean ? Surely her opinion or permission could
have little value in his eyes. Could he possibly
be interested in herself ? Her heart beat at the
thought ; but instinctively she turned from it.
She was tacitly aware  tacitly even in her most
candid self-communing  that the idea was too
delightful, too flattering, to be looked at, lest it
should haunt and master her.

After all, if Dr. Brooke was interested in her.

it was probably as ''a case." He certainly
thought her very unwell ; he was anxious about
her, in that she did not deceive herself, and he
was clever, deep-seeing, quite beyond the average
of doctors. This conviction made her not so much
uneasy as depressed about herself; she never
could describe the many curious and unpleasant
sensations which from time to time disturbed
her. The sudden beatings of the heart that came
and went so mysteriously, the curious hallucinations
that flitted through her brain : for sometimes
she could have sworn she saw Pearl, or a
wild black cat that often visited the garden, come
into the room, though she knew both door and
window were shut ; she had even risen from her
seat to look for the creature she imagined. Such
things as these she was ashamed to tell. She
blamed herself for such fancies ; yet the conviction
grew on her that no one save Dr. Brooke
knew how ill she really was. Still she could not
conquer her reluctance to consult him ; and a
curious nervous dread of she did not know
what, began to fasten upon her from the day
Sir Harcourt Filmer made so light of her complaints.


In such a condition of mind Mr. Pearson's
visits were a most agreeable means of escaping
from herself, and Mrs. Harding's warning was
partially forgotten. Moreover, Aunt Clem was
so visibly vexed at bis coming that Stasie felt
bound to receive bim with cordiality.

What is the reason I don't get on with your
aunt ?" be asked confidentially, one wet afternoon
two or three days after Brooke's interview with
Sir Harcourt Filmer, as he was sitting beside
Stasie's work-table. He had ridden over in spite
of wind and weather, and had been very warmly
welcomed by Stasie ; soon after his arrival Aunt
Clem had been summoned out of the room
by the arrival of *' Mr. Kharapet, who is very
wetj'm, and must change his things before he
comes into the drawing-room," the servant announced.
Of course, Miss Stretton fussed away
to see to that gentleman's comfort.

Oh ! you get on with her very well," said
Stasie carelessly.

* Not a bit of it. I wish you would give me
the ' tip,' Miss Yerner ; I want to make friends
with her. In general, elderly ladies are deuced
fond of me ; I assure you they are."

I am afraid you think every one is fond of
you, Mr. Pearson."

I wish every one was fond of me," cried the
young man with emphasis ;  but I am afraid it
is just those I like best that care least for me."

"I imagine that is often the case," returned
Stasie dreamily as she played with Pearl's ears.

By Jove, Miss Werner, you have such a way
of shutting a fellow up."

'' I don't want to shut you up," said Stasie,
turning a pair of beautiful wondering eyes upon
him. '' I want you to talk, for I am very dull 
tell me about Lady Pearson ? "

Oh, my mother is better ; you know she has
been quite worn out nursing Frank ; but he is
doing very well, and she gets more rest. She
sent her love to you. She hopes, as soon as my
brother is all right, you'll come and stay with her.
Though it's not the season, there is a good deal
of fun to be had in London towards the end of
November. Any place would be better than this
hole ; why, even you, and I am sure you have no
end of pluck, you can't stand it  you looked
twice as bright at Southsea."

You don't think me looking ill, do you ? "

cried Stasie, starting up and going to look at herself
in the glass with undisguised interest ; " why,
you are as bad as Dr. Brooke."

'brooke! Oh, he couldn't take a cheerful
view of anything. He is going melancholy mad,
I believe. Why, he was at my father's two or
three times last season, and we all thought him
an uncommonly pleasant fellow. I never saw a
man so changed'

What do you think is the reason ? " asked
Stasie, with much interest, as she resumed her
seat.

Well, I do not fancy it is far to seek," said
the young lancer, with an expressive look, which
his companion did not see, as she was busy taking
up a dropped stitch in her knitting. " But as to
your looking ill, I never meant anything of the
kind. Ill or well, I  I seldom see any one like
you."

Stasie made no reply ; she still looked earnestly
at her knitting, but not a shade of consciousness
passed over her grave face. Poor Van Pearson
felt as if cold water had been poured over him,
and would rather have taken a wigging from his
Colonel than resumed the subject.

There was an awkward pause ; and then, to
cover his defeat, Pearson resumed his original
topic. "At any rate Kharapet is Al with Miss
Stretton. Does she always rub him down when
he comes in from exercise ? "

What a funny way of putting it ! " said Stasie,
laughing. " She is very fond of him certainly,
and he is dreadfully afraid of taking cold, so "

"He seems afraid of a good many things,"
interrupted Pearson. " Do you remember the
day Pearl snapped at him ? "

'' I do indeed. He can't help being nervous,
I suppose."

Nervous ! " repeated Pearson with infinite
contempt ; " why, he hasn't the courage of a
canary. These dark fellows never have."

'' I would not say that," replied Stasie. "How
calmly Easternss can die. I have heard they do
not value life."

The lives of others, I dare say," cried Pearson.
I do not like them."

"Ah, that is prejudice. It is strange how
prejudiced even good-natured people like Mrs.
Harding and yourself are about, or rather against
Easternss." Mr. Pearson murmured something

inarticulate in reply, and then proposed to give
Pearl a lesson in begging, in which pastime a
quarter of an hour passed merrily, and then, seeing
no possible excuse for staying, he rose to take
leave.

It is very good-natured of you to come over
to this stupid place," said Stasie unguardedly.

' Good-natured," cried Pearson, colouring ;
good to myself, you mean. Why, if I came as
often as I wished, I'd be here every day, only I
am afraid you would be tired of me."

No, I should not," began Stasie ; then, catching
sight of such a glow of triumph and joy in his
eyes, she hastened to do away with the false impression
she had unwittingly created. " That is,
if one has a friend  a pleasant friend  one does
not easily tire of him or  her." This was brought
out with such hesitating confusion that her listener
might well be excused for finding encouragement
in her broken sentence.

But, Miss Werner, may I venture to hope I
am welcome % Ah, you must know I should like
to be with you all day, and every day of my
life!"

A sense of sudden guilty confusion wrapped
VOL. III. 53

Stasie as if in a burning cloud. She should never
have allowed him to get this length. It was
terrible to undeceive him  she liked him so much
he was frank and boyish. With a great effort
she forced herself to speak. " But that cannot be,
you know, Mr. Pearson ; our roads in life will
probably be widely apart."

You intend them to be apart, you mean ? "

I do," said Stasie gravely, and bending her
head.

What an unspeakable idiot I am to have
spoken so soon ! " cried Pearson ; '' pray, pray forget
it ; let us be friends as we were."

"" Oh yes, always friends ; but you will forgive
me  you will not think me unkind ?  never anything
more."

Never anything more ! you are too unkind
too cruel. Miss Werner; and I cannot help
loving you ! Perhaps I may win you yet  I
cannot give up hope ! "

He seized and kissed her hand, and then
rushed away, nearly overturning Kharapet, who
had paused in the doorway, a spectator of poor
Pearson's adieux.

Stasie was greatly moved, and really sorry to

lose the bright young fellow's society, and, as
was natural to a girl full of warm feeling, overestimated
considerably the force of the blow she
had been obliged to administer. She threw herself
on the sofa, and yielded to an hysterical fit
of crying  a tendency which she had often to
resist, even when there was little or no moving
cause.

Kharapet stood looking at her for an instant,
his eyes kindling, a tremor stealing through his
muscles. He could not imagine what affected
Stasie so violently. He stole nearer, and again
paused. What if she had quarrelled with this
insolent young man ? Perhaps in her vexation
she might turn to him. Still he hesitated to
speak until, with a vague, uneasy sensation that
something or some one was near her, she turned
and met his eyes.

Stasie ! " he uttered, in a strange, suppressed,
imploring way. " You are unhappy ; you shed
tears ! What vexes you ? Can I not help, can
I not comfort you ? What has that young man
said or done ? How did he dare to kiss your
hands ? "

You are really very tiresome, Hormuz," said

Stasie impatiently. She was indignant and a
little frightened at his tone. '' You have no right
to ask."

I have every right ! Tell me, have you sent
him away ? I thought you loved him, Stasie.
If you had, bitter as it would be to me, I should

have forwarded your union ; if Tell me

frankly, have you dismissed him because you
feared my opposition or Mr. Harding's ? Speak,
and do not fear ; all depends on me. As to Mr.
Harding "  he struck his open palms across each
other, with that Eastern gesture expressive of
nothingness  '' I hold him in my hand. Speak,
Stasie ; do you wish that young man recalled ? '

No, certainly not," returned Stasie, somewhat
touched by Kharapet's words. He is very
nice and good, but I do not want him back."

I thought you loved him, Stasie. He is of
your own race ; you cannot despise him as you
do the poor Syrian whose fathers worshipped the
true God and His divine Son, when yours where
heathens."

"I do not despise you, Hormuz ! How have
I ever shown it ? I am grateful to you for all
your kindness, and "

"Then, if you do not love him," interrupted
Kharapet, drawing closer to her, '' whom do you
love ? Is your heart, indeed, still empty ? Ah,
Stasie ! is there then still a chance for me % You
do not know how I have suffered and languished
for you ! You do not know," closing his eyes
and stretching out his arms towards her for a
moment, and then dropping them to his side,
you do not know from what misery your love
would save me, from what you would save yourself,
if  if only you would be mine."

Well, but I cannot ; you know I cannot,"
cried Stasie, infinitely annoyed by this return to
the old conflict between them. " Can I not exist
without being in love ? I wish you would not
worry yourself and me. We had grown quite
comfortable and friendly ; why will you begin it
all over again % There is no accounting for one's
fancies or feelings. You will find many charming
girls willing enough to marry you, and I shall
always like you as "

But I want you  only you," broke in Parapet,
with a suppressed vehemence, a fierce
glitter in his eyes that startled Stasie, her nerves
being already a little strained. " I have ever

thought of you as mine, and looked to you, and
waited for you ; and if you be not my wife neither
shall you be the wife of any other. You shall
not mock me, I am resolved, without paying dear
for your sport ! Once more, Stasie, choose between
my love and hate ! "

I should be very angry with you for talking
such nonsense," cried Stasie, " only I see you are
disturbed in some unusual way. I do not think
you know what you are saying, and I am sorry
for it. But if you ever speak in this way again
I'll tell my guardian, and never let you inside
the doors any more. Why, you must have lost
your senses ! " She was . angry and frightened
both.

Kharapet was silent for a moment or two,
the fire died out of his eyes, his face showed a
deadly dusky pallor, his hands, which hung down,
clenched themselves, while he muttered, in a
thick, low tone, " On your head be it ! "

There was a pause. Kharapet turned and
went softly towards the door ; then he stopped,
and again, facing Stasie, said slowly, " Yes, I have
forgotten myself. I have lost my self-control.
I ought not to have offended you. You cannot

perhaps even imagine the terrible temptation
that came over me. Can you forgive ? I promise
never again to offend. I will go away 
away for a long time. You will forgive me,
Stasie?"

I will, I will ; only never speak like this
again, and do, do go away. I do not like to
make you unhappy, but I cannot listen to such
wild words any more."

She slipped past him and flew to her own
room, where she locked herself in, and indulged
in a long, irrepressible fit of sobbing and passionate
tears.

Kharapet's looks and manner, as well as his
speech, had roused an extraordinary degree of
fear and repulsion. How she hoped and prayed
he would go away ! A sense of being helpless
and unprotected oppressed her. Mr. Harding
was evidently of little avail ; Mrs. Harding, Aunt
Clem, powerless ; her guardian in some inaccessible
region ; Mrs. Mathews weak and poor ! It
was some time before she could compose herself
sufficiently to join her aunt, when she found to
her relief that Kharapet had gone to dine with
Mr. Robinson and Dr. Brooke.

At least lie lead the good taste not to force
himself upon her. How she wished she might
never see him again, for in her inmost heart a
sudden revelation told her he was a bitter and
implacable enemy.

Now that the evenings closed in early, Mr.
Harding's ardour for his country quarters abated
considerably. The walk up from the station of
a dark drizzling night was exceedingly disagreeable,
and the house, which in long fine days was
quite large enough with its supplementary porch
and garden, seemed too contracted to breathe in,
when shut up at half-past Rve or six o'clock.
This sense of inconvenience made him contradictory
and irritable for a day or two before he
could confess to having changed his plans.

This room is either so stuffy that one is
smothered, or so cold that one is perished," he
said, after changing his seat once or twice, " I
think I took cold walking up from the station
this evening in the rain."

The dinner had just been cleared away, and
the husband and wife were still sitting at table.

Perhaps you had better take some hot
brandy and water instead of wine," said Mrs.
Harding.

Perhaps I had, and, Jane, give me the paper,
I had no time to look at it to-day. After all, a
life like mine is perfect slavery, toil, toil, toil,
for others to spend. What good do I get of my
earnings \ "

You have what most men work for, a comfortable
home," returned his wife. ' What more
can any man, be he ever so rich, get out of his
wealth but food, clothes, lodging, and some
personal indulgences, besides the consideration
of his fellows, which counts for a good deal."

Ay ! a man whose pockets are well lined
is always respected," said Harding complacently,
and added, after a pause during which Jane
placed the materials requisite for the medicine
his wife recommended on the table, " you have
a good deal more sense than you used to have,
Livy."

"You flatter me," she returned gravely, 'you
see I have been your pupil now for quite eleven
years."

That's it,  you are right ! " with a tone of

superiority, " and you have been deucedly hard
to teach."

No doubt ; but you have quite succeeded."

Mr. Harding gave an inarticulate grunt of
uncertain import, and applied himself to his
paper. Mrs. Harding continued to crochet a
warm vest for Willie, and silence reigned for
some minutes. Then Mr. Harding threw down
his paper with disgust.

I never read such blank, blank nonsense,"
he exclaimed, " filling whole columns with this
bosh about the Education Act. I don't know
what we are coming to ! I am pretty sure that
if every ploughboy and mechanic is to be taught
reading and writing, and the Lord knows what,
we'll have the whole edifice about our ears, and
the devil to pay into the bargain."

It is scarce necessary to say that Mr. Harding
was highly conservative, keenly alive to the
necessity of rising himself, and of keeping his
inferiors down.

Is there any Eastern news ? " asked Mrs.
Harding, who had long ago given up all idea of
arguing with her husband.

* Not much ; I see there are one or two

failures in the tea trade. Things are not what
they used to be in China, nor, for that matter,
in India either. In my opinion, when matters
are a little settled in Japan, iliad will be the place
for an enterprising fellow. If Johnnie grows upas
I expect he will, I'll establish a house for him
out there."

It will be a good opening, I suppose."

I believe you,"  another pause, broken
suddenly by an exclamation from Mr. Harding.
I say ! do you know that Kharapet has been
down here for a couple of days ? "

"Yes, I saw him at Limeville yesterday."

And he never came near us ! It is most
extraordinary. I heard of him from Brooke
whom I met coming from Stasie Werner's house.
What do you think that Syrian thief is up to ? "

"I am sure I haven't the least idea. I
imagine he has quite given up all hopes of
Stasie % "

"And I am pretty sure he has not

"Why?"

Because he is so d  d particular about the
investment and management of Stasie's money !
He worries my life out ; no man would give himself

SO much trouble about what he did not consider
his own, or pretty sure to be his own."

It never will be his, I am convinced," said
Mrs. Harding quietly.

So am I ; but tell me, Livy, how does young
Pearson stand with her ? "

"It is hard to say. I am inclined to think
he has not much chance."

So much the better. It will suit her and
me all the more if she does not marry for a
couple of years. By the way, I want to ask
Robinson and your cousin, and Stasie and that
aunt of hers up to dinner on the 15th,  it's my
birthday,  and then we'll go away up to town.
This is a miserable place now winter is creeping
on us."

Very well' said Mrs. Harding, " I will
begin to prepare."

*' And write a line to Dr. Baring ; we'll have
Johnnie home for a few days to drink my health."

I do not think that would be wise," said the
mother gently, " he has hardly had time to settle
since he went to school, and you know from
what the doctor says he has been a little difficult
to manage."

The doctor is a blank psalm-singing old
beggar ! he is trying to break the boy's spirit,
and / want him ! So just sit down and write as I
tell you."

I cannot be accessory to what I disapprove,"
returned Mrs. Harding firmly ; " and if you
reflect, I think you will see I am right ! "

I shall see nothing of the kind. It is forme
to judge. Just you sit down without more
talk, and write to the doctor."

"No," said Mrs. Harding, "I will not. I
have as good a right to decide what is best for
my boy as you have, especially at his present
age."

Mr. Harding paused a moment thunderstruck,
and then, throwing the end of his cigar into the
fire, started from his seat and began marching
up and down the room in a fury. " I wonder if
he will beat me," thought Mrs. Harding, while
she kept a cool exterior.

''Do you know what you are about, contradicting
me in this way ! " he stuttered in a

transport of rage. " By I believe you have

lost your senses ! Who pays for the boy ? who
has a right to decide anything respecting him

but me ? By I'll have him home, if it were

only to show you your place."

'rit is my place to insist on what is for his
good, and I wilir Her voice, low and clear,
struck Harding with curious effect, as a new
force with which he had yet to reckon.

Have you thought of the consequences  the

serious consequences of your opposition to

my will, your obstinacy."

No, but let us consider them. What can
be the result of my maintaining my own opinion
as to what is good for my own child ? You cannot
put me out of doors for differing from you.
You cannot prove me failing in duty or in anyway
free yourself from the cost of supporting
me, to say nothing of losing the cheapest upper
servant you could possibly find ; and what about
the opinion of your world ? which is worth
something. Pooh ! my dear, do not waste your
energy getting into a senseless rage ; try to
understand your real position. I have been hard
to teach, as you say, but I have learned my
lesson at last. Do sit down  it worries me to
see you raging to and fro like a caged bear."

Mr. Harding: was so astonished that he did

sit down. His wife, nearly as much surprised at
her own courage, which grew as she spoke, and
as she observed the impression she made upon
her husband, went on quietly with her work
though her heart beat, and her fingers trembled.

This  this is very extraordinary," exclaimed
Mr. Harding at length. " I don't understand
you, Livy ! what are you driving at ; what the
deuce do you want ? "

Nothing that is not my due, and that,
believe me, I will have."

*' Who wants to defraud you ! I am sure I
am a good husband, and you have never wanted
for anything ; and now, this poor boy ! You
do not care to see him. I believe you do not
love him because he is like me."

Mrs. Harding laughed a low peculiar laugh,
as she thought how gladly she would obliterate
all trace of the father from her boy ; but she
said, " I should be well pleased to see him
resemble you in some respects, not all, and as to
loving him, poor fellow ! ask Mm what he
thinks !"

You don't want him to resemble me in all
respects, hey ! that is a pretty speech for a wife

to make ! Pray, in what respect would you wish
him different from me ? "

*' In temper and love of self."

** By Jove ! I am a brute, am I ?  a selfish
brute?" Mrs. Harding was silent. 'come,
answer me ; am I a selfish brute ? "

Yes, very often," returned Mrs. Harding
emphatically.

The devil I am ! do you think I care for
your opinion."

"I do not know ; but if you convey the
same impression to others, it may be inconvenient."


'' Well, I must say this is an extraordinary
speech from a woman I took without a rag to
her back or sixpence in her pocket ! "

"My poverty has nothing to do with my
opinions. I do not dispute the imprudence of
your choice ; but here I am, and you will find it
more to your comfort to treat your wife with
decent consideration than to trip to wipe your
feet upon her."

Oh ! if you are going into the heroics, I
have done ! but," rising with an attempt at his
usual swagger, '' I will have that boy home for
VOL. III. 54

the 15th ; I'll be d  d if I haven't. I can
write to the doctor myself, I suppose ?"

You can do what you choose, but / will
take no part in what I object to so strongly".

Mr. Harding hesitated, and then, muttering
something about a '' devilish obstinate little
virago," left the room, slamming the door,
beyond which Mrs. Harding heard him shouting
to Jane to bring another glass of hot brandy and
water to his room.

She put down her work, and, leaning her
elbows on the table, buried her face in her hand,
a slight shiver passing through her delicate
frame. " It is a desperate miserable battle,"
she thought, 'but I must fight it out, and even
victory will not release me from degradation,
but he shall never trample me under his feet
again."

    

Kharapet's outbreak made a deep impression
on Stasie : not even bis departure the following
evening relieved her of the strange nervous
dread he had evoked. She began to fear she
knew not what : to be alone, to be spoken to
suddenly, to go out, to stay in, a curious

feverish restlessness consumed her strength and
painful dreams alternated with intervals of wakefulness
through the night. Yet she bore up
bravely. She was strong and reasonable, and
Brooke, in his daily visits, noticed with deep
sympathy and warm admiration the resistance
she made against irritability and depression, the
sweetness with which she sought to atone for
any little outbreak of impatience, the force she
exerted to subdue or bear her nervous disturbance.
As to himself, a new power of insight of
assimilation seemed to be granted him during
this terrible and trying time. He managed to
propitiate Aunt Clem ; he made himself more
acceptable to Mr. Harding than before. He
grew all and all to Stasie. From the moment
he entered the room, where she sat trying to
work, or play some favourite morsel of music,
she was aware of a sense of relief. He always
suggested some topic that interested her, and
drew her out of herself ; and when he bade her
good-bye she could hardly restrain herself from
crying, " Stay, do not leave me ! " an impulse
quite distinct from the shy tenderness which
she could not eradicate, and which sprang from

the sense of comfort and safety conveyed by his
presence.

"What has become of young Pearson?"
asked Brooke one afternoon, as he sat talking
with the aunt and niece, having vainly attempted
to persuade them to come out. " I have not
seen him for a long time."

No ; he has quite deserted us," returned
Aunt Clem briskly. "I cannot say I deeply
regret it. He is very shallow, and not too well
bred."

Well, I liked him very much," cried Stasie.
He is very young, I mean young in nature,
but he is bright and pleasant."

Probably he is away on leave," said Brooke.

No," replied Miss Stretton. " I saw him at
Waterloo Station, and he all but cut me ; nothing
could be more stiff and awkward than his
manner."

Brooke looked towards Stasie and caught her
eyes ; she coloured quickly, vividly, and with a
thrill of delight he took in the situation. Young
Pearson had been rejected, and Stasie had
honourably kept the secret. Here was a possible
obstacle swept from his path ; dare he now risk

his own fate and hers ? He scarcely knew, he
felt dizzy for a half second. Stasie's extreme
reticence, born of her fear of displaying feelings
which were not to be reciprocated, held him
back, and she too was misled by her strong conviction
 first, that Brooke was attached to his
cousin ; secondly, that his interest in herself was
professional.

Meanwhile Miss Stretton was talking on
steadily. "I cannot say I think Stasie much
improved," she was saying when Brooke next
listened to her. " She is decidedly thinner and
more languid. I am rather anxious for next
Wednesday ; we are going to see Sir Harcourt,
and if he suggests nothing new, I should certainly
recommend homoeopathy."

Yes, it would do as well as anything else,"
replied Brooke, out of his thoughts, and not
heeding his words.

Do you then despair of me ? " cried Stasie
quickly, her large eyes very wide open, and dewy
with something like tears.

Despair ? no," drawing near her and leaning
on the back of her chair. " I wish I could persuade
you to consult me. I have the secret of

the true remedy, but you do not believe in
me ! "

Believe or not, I will ask your help if I am
not better soon."

The fact is, Stasie so often forgot her medicine
at first, and, I am ashamed to say, so did I
(you see I have so much to attend to, so many
cares on my mind. Dr. Brooke), that Mr. Parapet,
with his usual sound judgment, advised me
to entrust "

Here she was interrupted by the entrance of
Bhoodhoo, who held a small salver on which
stood a wine glass containing about a spoonful
of greenish white fluid, and a carafi'e of water.

Ah, just so ! here he is, as punctual as the
sun," concluded Miss Stretton, smiling on him.
The Hindoo approached Stasie with a slight
bow ; filling up the glass with water he presented
it to her, and stood calmly watching while she
drank it ofi" and returned the glass. He then
set down the tray on a table by the door, made
up the fire, put the chairs in order  all softly,
noiselessly  took up his tray again and departed.

Brooke stood straight up, with a sudden fresh
fear thrilling through his veins.

Did Kharapet advise you to confide the
administration of Miss Yerner's medicine to that
man ? " he asked.

"Yes; why should he not?" said Stasie,
struck by his tone.

I don't know, only it seems to me more
natural that your own maid should do this
service."

Oh ! no one is to be depended on like Bloods
cried Miss Stretton. "He is so thoughtful,
so attentive ! "

Brooke was struck dumb at the sight of such
a means of destruction placed in the hands of
Stasie's enemies. Had he been alone with her
he would then and there have risked all, and
asked her to be his wife. He felt he could not
endure this state of things much longer, and that
for the moment he must get away and speak to
some one, even in a half confidence.

He walked to the window and back. Stasie
felt he was deeply disturbed; she could not understand
why. Why should he be put out because
Bhoodhoo brought her her medicine ?

I must leave you ; I have not seen Mrs.
Harding since the day before yesterday. Miss

Werner, if I may come tomorrow I will read you
some bits from my rough notes of an expedition
I made into Cashmere ; they may amuse you."

"Oh yes, do come," cried Stasie, more warmly
than she was aware.

Brooke left the house and walked rapidly
towards Mrs. Harding's abode in a maddening
state of alarm and indecision. The net was
closing round Stasie, the danger growing more
imminent. He could not banish from his eyes
the picture of her fair, frank face, her kindly
smile of thanks, as she put out her hand to take
perhaps her death from the dark traitor she had
loaded with kindness. How willingly and easily
Brooke would have crushed his life out, if he did
not know that any overt act of his would have
cut off Stasie's only chance of escape.

He must not delay any longer. He must
avow his love for her, and strive to gain her
consent to an immediate marriage. Even this,
if successful, was full of danger and difficulty.
If Kharapet knew of such a project being on
foot, he could soon snap the delicate cords that
bound his victim to life ! Then even punishment
would be scare possible, and if it were, what consolation

could that afford ? what could earth
give to supply the loss of a creature that had
grown so inexpressibly dear to him, who had
revealed to him possibilities of joy and sorrow of
which he had never previously dreamed.

His burning anxiety for her safety and welfare
had given something of a father's tenderness
and consideration to his love for her, yet there
were moments when danger seemed less pressing,
or Stasie herself seemed more than usually confiding,
when a sudden sense of her beauty and
unconscious grace thrilled him with passionate
intoxicating delight, and made him fearful of his
own eagerness ; for affection such as his is always
self-distrustful. And she was so young, so inexperienced
; how could he tell that extended
knowledge of society might not show her many
whom she would prefer to himself ?

That she began to trust and lean upon him
he perceived, and had he time, he might possibly
win her love. She was proud and delicate ; suppose
a sudden declaration were to frighten away
the first soft gathering mists of tenderness, hereafter
to descend upon him in a golden shower of
bounteous love ! If he failed, he must warn her,

remove her at any risk. " The way to safety,
the only secure way, is to me such a heaven of
hope that my calmer sense reels. I must think
for her alone."

By this time he had passed Sefton House
considerably, walking with long swift strides, too
feverish and disturbed to heed where he was
going, when he found himself suddenly confronted
by the very person he sought.

Why, Jim, are you walking for a wager ? "

No, I was lost in thought, and I was coming
to see you."

"Then you have considerably overshot the
mark," said Mrs. Harding, smiling ; " we are quite
half a mile from home."

"I am afraid I took no heed of time or space
either," replied Brooke, turning with her ; " must
you go straight back, or can you come round by
the copse and the rector's fields ? I want a very
private consultation with you."

And I with you. No, I need not return just
yet. I have been down to Frome's house (the
man who manages our small farming operations)
with a message from Mr. Harding, and
he was out ; let us go round by the path and

try to find him again. Now, begin your tale,
Jim'

I prefer hearing yours first."

Well, there are one or two matters I wish to
speak to you about. First, what is most important
and interesting to you ! I am growing very
uneasy about Stasie Werner."

Ha ! " cried Brooke, with deeply stirred
attention.

She is getting into such a nervous state  so
unlike herself  that I do not know what to make
of her. She is conscious that her fears and fancies
are unreal, and yet she cannot master them."

How ? " ejaculated Brooke.

I will tell you, though it is a breach of confidence.
Yesterday she paid me a long visit, and
we were alone, which seldom happens. Gradually
she came to talk of Hormuz Kharapet, and I was
quite distressed at the curious unreasoning terror
of him she, at first, half-unconsciously displayed ;
then she opened her heart, and I gathered that
he had made a violent scene some days ago  a
scene that has produced an extraordinary impression
on her, quite inadequate to the cause. She
seems to dread and detest him. I really think

she ought to go away somewhere for a while ;
but if she goes with Miss Stretton, of course that
entails constant visits from Kharapet."

Go on ! " exclaimed Brooke. Mrs. Harding
glanced at him and continued : " I think Stasie
will have a bitter enemy in Kharapet when he
realises that she will never marry him. Mr.
Harding said the other evening that he must look
on Stasie's money as his own : he is so careful
about investing and managing it."

"Is he ? the infernal villain," ejaculated
Brooke, with a force that startled his hearer.

I do not know that you can help us in anyway,
Jim  especially as Stasie is averse to consult
you professionally, though she is certainly uneasy
about herself; but it is a comfort to talk to you."

No ; I know but too well how little use I can
be," said Brooke, "unless  indeed" he paused.

My dear Jim, are you not too distrustful of
yourself ? "

Do you venture to encourage me, Livy ?
Your opinion has great weight with me. Do you
think I have any chance ? "

In truth I cannot tell ; but were you accepted,
you would be a tower of strength "

And were I rejected, all would be lost."

Yes, for you ; but I am so anxious that Stasie
should like  love you  that perhaps my wishes
stimulate my hopes. After my own children, you
and Stasie are the only creatures I care for in the
world."

' Thank you, my dear cousin ; believe me, it is
more than the mere dread of rejection on my own
account that holds me back ; one day"  but interrupting
himself  " I will risk it, Livy, on the first
opportunity  dread of one suitor may drive poor
Miss Yerner into the arms of another. Should she
accept me, our marriage must be immediate."

I do not see that ! " exclaimed Mrs. Harding ;
"your position as an accepted suitor would entitle
you to exercise influence, and even authority."

"And how soon would Kharapet and Wyatt
and your husband admit my claim to either ? "
asked Brooke grimly.

Mrs. Harding's eyes met his, and she seemed
to take in some unspoken communication, at
which her colour rose faintly, and, after a pause,
she said low, but very distinctly :

Should you ever consider any extra prompt
measures necessary  which I do not think will

be the case  do not tell me. However heartily
1 may Sympathise with you both, it would not do
for me to connive at any  let us say unconventional
 proceedings in my own relative. . I
must manager my husband, you know, Jim ; and
indeed  indeed  once accepted, there would be
no need for unbecoming haste. '

No need for haste ! " repeated Brooke absently.
" We shall see ; at any rate, Livy, I shall
always count on your friendship  your good will,
may I not ? "

You may indeed," softly. There was a long
pause, during which Mrs. Harding stole a glance
at her companion's face. She was struck by the
look of resolution, sombre and set, which had
come into it. His deep, dark eyes were wide
opened, with a far-off look, as if he were reviewing
his scattered but available forces. At length
his companion broke the silence : "You think mea
dreadful coward, no doubt, Jim."

Who  me ? " cried Brooke, coming back from
his mental excursions. " No ! I wonder your
brain and nerves are not in a state of liquefaction,
considering the burning fiery furnace through
which you have passed."

I have not had a very happy life, but it is
going to be better  I am going to make it better,"
in a quietly firm tone.

' I am delighted to hear it ; and I believe there
is much in your own power."

Yes, and the power is coming, as I have
lived through fear and hope, and that terrible
longing for sympathy that does not exist. I have
won another battle since I last had a quiet talk
with you, Jim," and she described the struggle
she had had with her husband respecting a supernumerary
holiday for Johnnie.

Brooke listened with sincere interest. " I am
glad you won, Livy," he said ; " but were you
right to contradict him about the boy ? His best
point is his affection  such as it is  for the
children. It was better Johnnie should stay at
school, but "

It was," interrupted Mrs. Harding, "and still
more necessary for me to insist upon his remaining
there. My dear Jim, in a contest such as I
have entered upon, I must never yield. I will
be very careful, if I can, not to take the ironside
in any dispute ; but once I have adopted a
side, I must maintain it at all costs."

I am very glad you have taken my advice,
Livy."

Yes, your words strengthened me, but the
idea was dawning on me ; and the irresistible
appeal of the children, to whom I felt my emancipation
was all-important, gave me courage.
The first steps of an insurrection are always the
most difficult, I suppose. The first time I disputed
Mr. Harding's dictum was a supreme effort,
but the second was infinitely easier. I shall conquer,
Jim, in the end ; for, having nothing to lose,
I can dare all things. My supremacy will be a
boon to my husband as well as to my children,
if I win it. I look back at my past cowardice
with shame and contrition  but better late than
never."

No doubt," replied Brooke ; " you have inserted
the thin edge of the wedge ; all you have
to do now is to strike home."

'' I ought to tell you," concluded Mrs. Harding,
nth a smile, " that the night before last Mr.
Harding informed me, with an air of authority,
he had made up his mind not to have Johnnie
home for the 15th, and that I was not to write to
Dr. Baring. I answered meekly, "Very well," and

SO the matter ended. I wonder what our next
battle will be about % "

No matter ; nail your colours to the mast ;
I see you are right. In such a contest you must
neither give nor take quarter."

And God defend the right ! " concluded Mrs.
Harding, with a smile, half sad and slightly
mocking.

VOL. III.

Mr. Harding's change of plans threw a gloom
over the little circle at Sefton Park. Mrs.
Harding was tacitly looked upon as its head and
centre ; but the prospect of her departure woke
up in each member a sudden sense of her value
and importance.

To Stasie the prospect of her removal from
the immediate neighbourhood was peculiarly
depressing. Though attached to her aunt, she
could never find the companionship and sufficiency
she needed in her society, while Mrs.
Harding amply supplied both.

The knowledge that within a few hundred
yards was household warmth, ready kindly greeting,
the cheery rippling of children's voices and
laughter, a friendly sympathetic listener whose
simple straight-forward common-sense was always
at the service of those that sought counsel or

advice, was wonderfully comforting and strengthening
; and to think of that homely familiar abode
closed, its pleasant windows shuttered, its comfortable
chimneys smokeless, its hearth stones
cold, was intolerably oppressive.

Miss Stretton, observing the effect this approaching
separation produced upon her niece,
and beginning to think Sefton Park might probably
be a dreary residence in winter, suddenly
suggested that they might as well terminate their
tenancy of Limeville in the ensuing month of
November, and move to town into a furnished
house, ' for," concluded the thoughtful spinster,
after being accustomed to your own nice servants,
my love, you would not like to put up with
what you would find in a lodging. I will just
write and ask Mr. Kharapet to come down and
talk it over ; it is curious that neither he nor Mr.
Pearson have been near us for a week past."

Stasie said she would like to go to town very
much, and then reminded her aunt that more
than a fortnight had elapsed since her first visit
to Sir Harcourt Filmer, and that it would be well
to pay him another, as she did not think herself
much the better for his remedies.

To this proposition Aunt Clem eagerly agreed,
and the following day was fixed upon.

To Brooke this move brought little or no
hope. His interview with Filmer proved how
little there was to expect either from his knowledge
or his imagination ; yet he resolved to see
him once more, and ascertain from his own lips
his opinion of the young patient.

In the interim he had seen Stasie nearly everyday,
and though he had watched her narrowly,
he perceived nothing to increase his alarm. She
was paler, stiller, more apt to start and tremble
on slight occasions. Her eyes, too, had the
strained and slightly staring look that always
distressed him.

For the last few days she had by his advice
left off taking Sir Harcourt's prescription. This
was a little relief; but Brooke too was cast
down by the prospect of Mrs. Harding's departure.
He felt so sure of a faithful intelligent
ally, so fat as he could trust her, that her loss
appeared irreparable. How could he get on
when she was too far for daily, hourly communication
\ However, a conviction  a calming and
strengthening conviction  was growing upon

him that this state of things could not last long,
that he must soon find an opportunity to put an
end to it.

However, he availed himself once more of his
friendly relations with Filmer to call on the day
following Stasie's visit, when he held a brief conversation
with his old master.

I cannot say I find her improved," admitted
Sir Harcourt. " I begin to suspect that the case
is a little more complicated than I imagined.
The heart certainly seems weak, and there is
considerable depression ; but I still think the
same prescription, a little varied, and persevered
in, may give relief. I have told her to go on
with it for another fortnight, and then to return
to me."

If she still survives," put in Brooke quietly.

"My good fellow, are you still harping on
that poisoning theory of yours % Believe me, it
is a hallucination. I have thought it over as I
would not have done had it been propounded by
any other man than yourself, and I feel quite sure
it will not hold water. Let your young friend
follow my directions, and have a little change
of air ; you'll see she will come round."

'* I will take care she does," said Brooke, with
grim resolution.

"" Pray do, if you can suggest a better course
of treatment."

When Brooke left his former master he felt
none of the agitated despair that racked him
after their first interview. He was calm, with
the strength of a clear and fixed decision. He
would, on the first opportunity, ask Stasie to be
his wife ; if she refused, then he would tell her,
and her only, of his fears for her life. Even if
she objected to him as a husband, he thought
there was sufficient sympathy and understanding
between them to make her trust him as a friend,
as a man who would not speak unadvisedly or
yield belief too readily. She too was brave and
strong ; and if she would but confide in him he
might save her  save her to be happy with some
luckier fellow than himself. Brooke indulged in
no mental heroics over this magnanimous idea.
His ardent desire to save a young precious life,
possessed of all possibilities for good and happiness,
swallowed up every thought of self ; only,
if she would accept the safety which the position
of his wife would give her ! Why, the idea made

him dizzy with delight  so dizzy that he determined
to keep it out of his head as much as
possible. But should Stasie reject both his suit
and his suspicions, how would it be ? It was a
tremendous risk.

Even if she accepted him, how should he persuade
her to take so daring, so desperate a step
as to elope ! One of her greatest charms was a
peculiar, proud, frank modesty that would certainly
hold her back from such a step, unless, indeed,
frightened into it ; and he especially wished
to avoid startling her by any revelation of the
danger which surrounded her in her own quiet
home. However terrible the alternative, he must
risk an avowal, and be guided by what it brought
forth.

The dread with which Kharapet seemed to
have inspired Stasie, according to Mrs. Harding's
account, might help him, and he would for the
present hope the best.

The second visit to Sir Harcourt Filmer did
not appear to have produced so depressing an
effect as the first, though Stasie was very pale
and quiet that evening, when Brooke went in to
pay them a visit, as Mr. Kobinson had gone out

to dine with the father of the young lady whose
attractions had raised such a struggle in his
priestly mind.

But she told him with some animation that
Kharapet was coming down to arrange with Miss
Stretton for a move to town.

I am quite glad about it," added Stasie, who
was sitting in a low basket-chair near the fire,
playing idly with Pearl's ear. (She had grown
strangely indolent of late.) " Now that the
Hardings are going, I feel as if I could not stay
here. It seems dreadfully whimsical, for I was
quite fond of this place at first, but now I feel
anxious to leave it. It would kill me to stay."

You will be much better away," remarked
Brooke, who was standing on the hearth-rug, and
gazing at her downcast eyes, and the long lashes
which rested on her cheek ; and remember, Miss
Werner, I claim your promise to accept my advice
if Filmer fails."

I confess I have not much faith in him,"
said Stasie, raising her eyes to his, and colouring
quickly, as she met them in a way quite unusual
to her, which showed Brooke that his said more
than he imagined. " At present I feel tolerably

well ; but if I am ill again I %mll ask your advice,
Dr. Brooke, for you only seem to see that I amor
have been really ill. As for Sir Harcourt
Filmer "

"My dearest Stasie!" cried Aunt Clem, interrupting
her with some emotion, " do not say
that ! I am sure Dr. Brooke himself has seen
the deep, deep anxiety that I have felt on your
account. I am now convinced that this dreadful,
damp, desolate place is killing you ! So I have
begged Mr. Kharapet to come down and consult
with me. It is so difficult to catch Mr. Harding,
or get him to attend to anything ; and now
that he is full of his own move, he is worse than
ever. But I am sure Mr. Kharapet will arrange
everything for the best. I have the greatest
confidence in him."

A slight smile passed over Stasie's lips ; and
after a moment's silence she exclaimed, " Don't
you think, auntie, you are so much better now,
we might go to France or Italy ? "

I am sure, my dear Stasie, nothing would
give me greater pleasure ; but I must see Dr.
Grind, and ascertain if I dare undertake a
journey. It would never do for you to be

troubled dragging an invalid all over the continent
of Europe."

You must be all right yourself, Miss Yerner,
before you attempt the grand tour," said Brooke,
who could not shake off the impression which
Stasie's quick conscious blush had made upon
him. He longed for an enchanter's wand to
transport Miss Stretton away anywhere, that he
might be alone with Stasie, to clasp her hands
and read the truth of her heart through her sweet
honest eyes, to plead with her, to warn her !
He stood there absorbed, deaf to a continuous
stream of babble which Miss Stretton poured
forth, seeking in vain for another glance from
eyes that generally said so much. But in vain.
Stasie soon after rose and changed her seat, and
Brooke, finding the restraint on the expression of
his feelings intolerable, bade them good-night.

I really do think he is very clever," said
Aunt Clem, looking after him as the door closed ;
'' and, joking apart, he might suggest something
that would do you good. He is most polite and
considerate to me too. I wonder how he and
Mrs. Harding are getting on ? or if Mr. H.
is a little jealous ! He does not go nearly so

often to Sefton House as lie used, but that maybe
a blind!"

I wish you would not talk in that way, Aunt
Clem ! it is too vulgar. Dr. Brooke may be
fond of Mrs. Harding, but "

Vulgar ! " interrupted Miss Stretton, somewhat
indignantly. " Well, Stasie, that is the last
accusation I should ever have expected from you,
nor am I aware that I used any unladylike expression.
Indeed, my dear child, I do not admit
that you are a competent judge ; for though you
have an excellent disposition and all that, you
are decidedly deficient in that sense of propriety,
that elegant self-possession, which I have endeavoured
to inculcate on you." Miss Stretton
paused with dignity.

*' I know I am not genteel ! " cried Stasie,
and I beg your pardon if I spoke rudely.
I did not mean you were vulgar in words or

manner, that you never are, only " she

stopped.

*' Only in thought ! I am much obliged to
you ! " cried Miss Stretton. " However, vulgar
or not, they understand each other. It is only
three or four days ago since I watched them out

of the staircase-window coming down the avenue,
so utterly absorbed in each other that Thorn's
boy  the butcher at Welwood  had to drive
quite to one side, on the grass, to avoid running
over them, they never seemed to hear or see the
horse or cart."

Stasie made no reply, and Miss Stretton,
mollified by the sound of her own voice, continued.
" As to going abroad, I really should
like it well enough, and it's a curious thing,
Stasie, that when trying the cards for you dear
(you see I think of you, though I am a vulgar
person), it was as plain as the nose on your
face that you are to go across the sea to escape
a dark man ! but who it is I cannot think. Mr.
Pearson is fair, and so is Mr. Kobinson, and it
could not be Dr. Brooke ; he does not seem to
care enough about any one except Mrs. Harding
to do mischief, though he is very gentlemanlike
and well bred.

"Might it not be Mr. Kharapet," suggested
Stasie, with a faint mischievous smile.

Mr. Kharapet ! our best friend ! " cried
Aunt Clem. " Ah ! Stasie, I am afraid those
Pearson people have turned your head, for I

observe your manner has been quite different to
that kind good man since you came back from
Southsea ; and he is worth a dozen, nay dozens
of that conceited young Pearson.

The following day was a protracted penance
to Brooke. He found Kharapet installed at
Limeville, and the whole house redolent of
curry. Aunt Clem, in her best cap and sweetest
smiles, was far too much occupied with the
favoured guest to bestow much attention on
Brooke, and Stasie was not visible ; so he
wandered about the park and comforted himself
by a long talk with Mrs. Harding.

Mr. Robinson, who had presented a very
cheerful aspect since his dinner at Mr. Morison's,
was disposed to be communicative as the friends
sat together in the evenings.

'' I am sorry they did not ask you, Brooke,"
said the young clerg}Tiian. " They are really a
very nice family, Mrs. Imprison is so kind and
motherly, and the young ladies are very accomplished.
They are rich too. The father has
not had the same educational advantages as
his children, but he is a liberal-minded man.

He takes a great interest in the cliurcli. I mean
this church here, and is planning some means
with my Uncle Williams (he is my uncle by
marriage) to raise funds for a stone edifice. . I
am to meet them at Mr. Williams's office tomorrow
to talk the matter over. Three more
houses have been let lately  one of these large
houses and two villas  so the congregation will
be considerably increased." The Eev. St. John
paused, evidently not for want of words or
subject.

And the young lady you talked to me about
that day at Richmond is one of his daughters ? "
asked Brooke taking his cigar from his mouth
and laying down his book, as he saw his host
was disposed to be confidential. " What is this
Morison ? "

Oh ! he has a huge ready - made clothes
warehouse in the borough."

What ! like Moses ? "

No, no ; ladies' clothes, bonnets, flowers, all
sorts of things. He is evidently inclined to be
very liberal about the church ; and, do you
know, Brooke, I have thought very seriously
and conscientiously respecting the question of

marriage for a priest. After all, I begin to think
that family life is the holiest of all ! especially
when one can find a helpmeet so devout, so
eager to assist in all good works, so sweetly
cheerful, so kind-hearted as Marion Morison."

'' If she is all that, you ought not to let her
slip through your fingers," said Brooke, smiling,
as he looked at the beaming face of his former
schoolfellow.

I really think it would be weak and unwise.
I have hitherto been deterred by a consciousness
of my own narrow circumstances and insignificance
 at least personal insignificance  of
course the dignity of my calling is apart 
nothing can touch that. But, do you know,
Brooke,  I may be mistaken,  it struck me last
nio'ht, that somehow Mr. Morison would not
object to me as a son-in-law, and that his
interest in the church somehow is growing a
personal matter."

"Very likely. The biggest haberdasher in
London might be glad to get a clergyman of
the Church of England, and a right good fellow
to boot, for a son-in-law. Go in and win, my
dear boy!"

' I must not be too sure, you know, Brooke.
I shall know more tomorrow. Indeed, I feel a
little nervous about the meeting."

Faint heart never won fair lady ! I can't
go with you to this council of three, Eobby, but
I will go into town with you. I hate meeting
that fellow Kharapet, and I suppose he will be
here all tomorrow."

I think you are unreasonably prejudiced,
Brooke."

Reasonably or unreasonably. I'd like towring
his neck," said Brooke with vindictive
energy, that startled and shocked his friend,
who, after a pause, resumed their conversation,
which soon branched off to topics unconnected
With this story.

Brooke found occupation enough in visiting
his club, reading and answering some letters
which he found there, and executing one or two
commissions contained in one of them, to employ
him till evening had closed in; and he met
Robinson at the station in time to return with
him to Sefton Park by the last train but one.

Robinson was still radiant. He explained at
great length, and not too clearly, a complicated

scheme by which Mr. Williams proposed to raise
money sufficient to build the church, and he
(Robinson) was charged with the inspection and
selection of plans, etc.

Brooke was not profoundly attentive. His
thoughts were occupied with the question, Was
he right to absent himself for so many hours at
a stretch ? He was filled with a fear that some
untoward circumstance might arise in which,
were he on the spot, he might be of use to Stasie
or Mrs. Harding. He was curiously uneasy.
He was filled with burning anxiety to know if
Kharapet had left or would prolong his visit.

Did you see anything of Kharapet to-day V
asked Brooke, taking advantage of a pause in
Kobinson's ready flowing talk.

No ; I fancy he is staying down here. Mrs.
Harris tells me Miss Stretton's native servant
came over to ask for a few bay leaves to flavour
something, and that looks like more than the two
ladies themselves to dinner."

'Ha! very likely. What o'clock is it,
Robber'

"Half-past eight."

Not too late to have a word with Harding

VOL. III. 56

before I turn in ; " so saying Brooke rose, took his
hat and went forth. It was a still dark night,
full of the autumnal scent of some pine-trees, of
which a clump stood a little higher up the road,
of the faint odour of freshly-turned earth from
a newly ploughed field. No lamps as yet illuminated
the chief approach to Sefton House, but
Brooke knew the way well, and crossed to the
opposite side of the way, as the path there was
more worn and smoother. As he approached
Limeville he observed lights in two of the upper
rooms.

'' I wonder if Kharapet has bored Stasie to
death, and she has beat an early retreat," thought
Brooke, as his imagination pictured the soft
subtle Syrian, whose conversational powers, beyond
certain subjects, were limited, indulging
himself in furtive glances either of admiration or
hate  or both in one  or playing draughts with
Miss Stretton, a game in which he rather excelled.
These thoughts brought him within a
few steps of the gate, when it opened, and a
murmur of voices caught his ear ; two men were
speaking, not English. He paused and involuntarily
drew close to the paling, for in spite of

the dusky night he recognised Kharapet and
Bhoodhoo.

They spoke low but earnestly, Bhoodhoo gesticulating
with what seemed to Brooke's experience
an apologetic air. They were speaking
Hindoostanee, but Brooke could only catch an
indistinct murmur. There was a sound of rebuke
in Kharapet's accent. After a few paces
Bhoodhoo paused, and Kharapet went on a step,
then half turning, said in a louder tone and
emphatically almost like a threat, ''Khabar-ddrJ'
Bhoodhoo bowed low, stepped back, stopped an
instant, and then re-entered the grounds of Limeville,
evidently without perceiving the presence
of a third person.

Brooke paused till he heard the gate shut and
locked, he then walked on quickly till within a
safe distance of Kharapet, whom he watched
until he had seen him enter the garden of Sefton
House. He gave up his own intention of paying
Mr. and Mrs. Harding a visit, and, retracing his
steps, strolled as far as the railway station in
deep thought.

Khobar-dr J' He knew the word ; it conveyed
a warning, "be careful," in the sense of

not too fast." The tone in which it was uttered
gave deeper significance to the syllables.

It might mean anything. That Bhoodhoo
should be careful in his service, conscientious, in
conduct, or careful in carrying out Kharapet's
plans. Was he going too fast with his devilish
designs ?

The word haunted Brooke. The terrible
anxiety, which his own decision as to his future
conduct had allayed for a moment, especially ashe
considered Kharapet's presence as a kind of
guarantee against any immediate catastrophe,
woke up with redoubled force. He burned to
go straight to Limeville and comfort himself
with one look at Stasie before he slept, but that
was impossible, it was now considerably past nine.

He walked to and fro for a while, and then
returned to the house. Robinson was deep in
the composition of his weekly discourse, and after
a vain attempt to read, Brooke retired to rest, or
rather to unrest.

His first waking thought was of the ill-omened
word he had overheard the night before ; but
thank God it was daylight, and the day was
before him. He had not been to Limeville for

forty-eight hours, and now he was entitled to
pay a visit. He would go as early as politeness
permitted. His spirits rose as he dressed
and breakfasted, and his sense of relief was completed
by seeing Kharapet walking down the
road with unusual speed, probably to catch the
nine o'clock train, as he was followed by Bloods
who carried a large travelling-bag.

Brooke wrote a couple of letters, he smoked
a cigar, he discussed an article in the Times with
his friend, he strove to delay and occupy himself
in various ways, and yet it was only eleven
o'clock when he rang the front door bell at
Limeville. The door  now ordinarily closed
against the chill autumnal air  was opened by
Mary, the neat bright-looking housemaid, whose
aspect struck Brooke as unusually grave and
serious. " Are the ladies visible ? " he asked.

Yes, sir ; leastways Miss Stretton. Miss
Werner's not out of her room, sir. She was taken
very ill last night."

"Ill, how?" exclaimed Brooke, whose heart
stood still for an instant of agony. Had he delayed
too long in cowardly dread of losing her ?
was this the beginning of the end ?

She was taken faint, sir, like she was before,
only a good bit worse, and she was awful
frightened herself of things coming a-near her,
she said."

"Let Miss Stretton know I am here," said
Brooke, walking into the well-known drawing-room.
" Ask her if she will be so good as to seeme."


He felt beside himself for an instant. It took
all his power of self-mastery, all his consciousness
that on his own courage and coolness everything
depended, to control the emotion which shook
him.

Miss Stretton did not keep him long waiting.
She entered looking wan and worn, as if with
watching, her eyes red rimmed and dull.

Oh ! Dr. Brooke, we have had such a fright.
I was on the point of sending for you, only they
said you were away in London."

How is she now ? " asked Brooke abruptly,
and looking at her as if he were ready to devour
her words.

Better, thank God ! She has slept quite
quietly since between three and four this morning
; now she has had some tea and toast, and is

reading in bed. I have insisted on her staying
there to-day."

Tell me how she was affected," asked Brooke,
drawing a chair near the sofa on which Miss
Stretton had sunk.

"We had had quite a happy day. Mr. Parapet
quite went in with my idea of moving to
town, and we agreed to go in next week and
meet him to look for a house. Stasie was in
very good spirits, and talked a little of going on
the Continent ; she ate her dinner, and in short
was quite herself, when about seven o'clock, when
we were having tea, she grew quite silent and
still. I didn't mind her, for Mr. Kharapet was
giving us a most interesting description of a
school for converted Jews at Baghdad, when all
of a sudden Stasie stood up and tried to walk
towards me, staggering in the strangest way ;
then she sat down and said there was a wild
black cat in the room that frightened her, and a
snake, and caught at the sofa cushions, her hands
twitching and her eyes staring awfully. Mr.
Kharapet was quite frightened. We tried to
give her some brandy, but she could not take
it ; then she went into a dead faint and lay

insensible, I do not know how long ; at last
she came to, and we got her to bed. I do not
think I ever was so terrified. Of course we sent
off for Dr. Hunter, but he had been called. For
some time my poor dear Stasie was very uneasy,
so terribly giddy she would not let go my hand,
at last she fell asleep, and she seems much better
than I could have hoped this morning."

*' A very extraordinary seizure," said Brooke
as she paused ; he felt himself grow pale as she
described the symptoms which confirmed his
worst fears. " What had she eaten ? "

"Nothing but roast fowl and a simple pudding
; there was curry ; she did not take any,
which was unusual  and she has taken her
medicine quite regularly."

Will you allow me to see the prescription ? "
asked Brooke, determined to put an end to this
danger at any rate.

Certainly," replied Miss Stretton, who proceeded
to unlock the drawer of a writing-table
and take out an envelope, which she handed
to him ; he opened it and read the contents
gravely.

This must be discontinued at present," he

said with authority. " I would not let Miss
Werner touch it till she has seen Filmer again."

Very well," said Miss Stretton submissively.

"Give her something very simple, such as
your English cook can prepare, when she needs
nourishment." Brooke stopped, overwhelmed
with the sense of his own impotence to guard
or watch over her. " I wish I could see her ; I
fancy I might prescribe something myself. I

have seen attacks like this " again he stopped

abruptly, just saving himself from adding the
words " in India," which, if repeated to Kharapet,
might awaken him to the fact that he (Brooke)
was on the watch.

I will go and tell Stasie ; she may get up in
the afternoon."

Brooke paced the room. This attack explained
Kharapet's warning of the night before,
Khabar-ddr !" Bhoodhoo had been going too
fast ; the instigator of the crime did not wish
the end just yet ! When should he see her ?
when should he have the opportunity of pleading
with her, for her life and his own ?

Stasie desires her kind regards ; she feels so
tired she does not think she will come downstairs

to-day; Mrs. Harding is with her just
now  she will be glad to see you tomorrow.
Do you know, Dr. Brooke, I do not imagine she
has an idea how ill she has been ; she is talking
quite comfortably about moving into town''

Better she should not think of her own
condition," said Brooke. " Keep her as quiet as
you can." He took up his hat. " I shall call to
inquire in the course of the day, and shall hope
to see Miss Werner tomorrow."

It was a relief to be out of the house, to
stride across the fields in the open, and then
what a crowd of ideas thronged his brain. At
all hazards Stasie must be removed, and he
began busily to construct the details of a plan
by which her flight might be kept secret for a
week or two. This was all important, in order
that by no legal quibble, no chicanery or twisting
of the law as it affects minors, should Stasie
be for an hour alone in the presence or power of
Kharapet. Sometimes a glimpse of the possible
heaven awaiting him beyond the dangers of the
present struck him with a lightning flash of
almost painful delight.

At last he found himself miles from Limeville,

and, retracing his steps, sought some support ina
talk with his cousin. She was deeply concerned
about Stasie, but less alarmed than Miss Stretton,
not having been present when the attack came
on. She was very anxious to know Brooke's
opinion, but he committed himself to nothing,
waiting to see what tomorrow would bring
forth. He called more than once at Limeville,
where he was made very welcome by poor Miss
Stretton, who was thankful to have a sympathetic
listener. Her report of the invalid was better
each time. So the weary day wore through.

Whether from fatigue or mental exhaustion,
Brooke slept better than he had done for weeks
that night, and consequently woke calmer,
stronger, and less despairing.

While waiting impatiently till it was time to
see Stasie, sitting, as was his wont, in a large
window which looked upon the main road, he
saw, to his surprise, Miss Stretton walking in the
direction of the station, with her "rain-cloak" over
her arm. He caught up his hat and followed her.

Ah ! Dr. Brooke ! " she exclaimed, as he
overtook her, " I have a very good report to
give you. Stasie is quite like herself this morning.
She is up and dressed. She slept welland
has eaten a new-laid egg for her breakfast."

I am rejoiced to hear it ! Are you going
to town ? "

'' Yes. I had quite a consultation with Mrs.

Harding last night. (They have been most
kind!) And as dear Stasie is so anxious to
leave this, I am going to look at a house and
furnished apartments which Mr. Harding saw
advertised in the Times. I feel quite nervous
myself about staying on here. I am sure Stasie
will be better and more cheerful in town, so I
thought it better to go at once. Mrs. Harding
has promised to stay with Stasie."

Is it too early to call on Miss Werner ? "
Oh, no ! You will rouse her and amuse
her. She always enjoys a talk with you."
'* I will first see you into the train."
Miss Stretton was flattered, and they talked
very amicably together. The timid spinster informed
Brooke that she expected Mr. Kharapet
to meet and assist her in her choice of a residence.
*' For, I must confess. Dr. Brooke, I
shrink from responsibility."

Having seen Miss Stretton off, Brooke walked
at what he intended to be a slow pace towards
Limeville, but he soon found himself involuntarily
hastening his steps. If Mrs. Harding was
already with Stasie, surely she would give him a
chance of speaking alone with her ?

But he was at her gate, and this time was
admitted by Bhoodhoo, who informed him, with
a gentle kindly smile, " that missed Sahib was
much better, and so every one was better."
Brooke did not trust himself to reply.

Stasie was half-sitting, half-reclining, in her
favourite corner of a large old-fashioned sofa, her
work-basket beside her, and a book in her hand,
She wore a warm winter dress of dark gray ; a
cravats of soft old lace round her throat ; her
hair rather loosely drawn back, showing the
graceful curved line of its growth round the
temples. She was very pale, and her eyes looked
heavy ; but she smiled brightly as she held out
her hand to him.

I hope I have not come too early. Miss
Werner ? but I have been desperately anxious to
see you."

His eyes seconded his words ; they dwelt on
hers eagerly, intensely, compelling them, as it
were, to meet his gaze.

You are very good," she said languidly.
I am really quite well,, that is, as well as I have
been at any time since I was at Southsea ; " she
sighed.

That is not saying much ! But are you
quite free from giddiness and the unpleasant
sensations in your head ? "

Yes, quite. I do not think I was so ill as
they fancied, but I feel dull and weak." There
was a pause ; Brooke drew a chair opposite her,
and, looking round, said  " I expected to find
Mrs. Harding here."

I have just had this note from her ; " and
Stasie, who seemed averse to speak more than
she could help, handed it to him, and he read 
Dearest Stasie  I am very vexed that Mr.
Harding wants me to go into town with him to
see to some alterations at York Gate. I hope to
return early, and will come to you. In the
meantime send for Mademoiselle, if you do not
like to be alone."

She must have gone by the nine train," said
Brooke, returning the note, " for I have just
seen your aunt off, and Mrs. Harding was not
there."

"Yes, I fancy this note was forgotten till just
now ; I have only had it a few minutes."

There was a pause, interrupted by the entrance
of Bhoodhoo carrying Pearl, who had just

been washed, and was looking miserable.
Brooke, by an instinctive movement took the
dog, before Bhoodboo was near the sofa, and
held the little creature, who looked up at him
trembling from among its long hair.

Will the missed Sahib have some nice soup
presently ? " Brooke listened anxiously for the
reply.

No, thank you, Bhoodhoo ; I shall not want
anything till dinner time. I shall not dine till
two, for Mrs. Harding or Mademoiselle will dine
with me."

Bhoodhoo salaried and retired.

This little animal is not half dry," said
Brooke, considerably relieved by Stasie's words.
I will put him before the fire. There, Pearl,
good dog ! lie still."

Pearl found the warmth very agreeable, and
soon settled himself to sleep without further
discipline.

Then there was another pause, most oppressive
to Brooke, whose heart was too full for
words.

At length Stasie, leaning her head languidly
against the cushion beside her, said quietly.

naturally  "People cannot make wills before
they are twenty-one, can they ? "

No ! Why do you ask ? you do not want
to make yours ? "

'' Yes, I do," looking at him with a pleasant
smile. " I should like Mrs. Matthews and Ella
to have some of my money if I die."

But you must not, shall not die," cried
Brooke with sudden passion, starting up and
leaning against the mantelpiece, looking down
upon her with an expression of pain and tenderness.
Something in his tone stirred Stasie's
heart, and as she met his eyes she raised her
head and exclaimed with animation 

"I believe you can cure me ! No one else seems
to understand hoi ill I am, not even I myself ! "

How can it be otherwise ? " returned Brooke,
mastering his agitation, and compelling himself
to speak calmly, while he moved nearer, and
bending one knee on a footstool before her, took
both her hands gently between his own. " How
can it be otherwise, when my life is bound up in
yours ? Yes ! Stasie, I can save you, if you
will give me the right to watch over you night
and day, a right with which none can interfere ! "
VOL. III. 57

Stasie was silent from astonishment 
astonishment so great that it had no room for
shyness or embarrassment. She left her hands
unresisting in his, and his clasp 'grew closer ashe
went on. " I do not dare to suppose that
you love me, but if  if you are indifferent to
others  if your heart is all your own  a love so
strong as mine, must win yours ! I entreat you,
do not reject me ! my life has been one agony of
fear, and, scarcely hope, since I come down here,
anticipating this moment ! look into my eyes,
Stasie ! and read more than my lips can tell ! "

His whole aspect indeed attested the truth of
his expressions ; the veins on his somewhat
rugged temples showed themselves, as if swollen
by the quick tide of feverish circulation ; the
hands that grasped Stasie's shook slightly.

She was overwhelmed by the sight of a man
ordinary so calm, so self controlled, to whom
she looked up as to something above the
common, thus overmastered by his emotion, and
all for her ! Still surprise was her strongest impression,
only a subtile delightful glow of pride
and joy and tenderness began to spread itself
through her heart.

And you feel all this for me ? " she exclaimed
at length in a low soft tone, looking
straight into his eyes with her honest earnest
glance for a second, before it drooped and turned
away. " Why do you care for me so much ? "

How is it possible to explain the attraction
one nature has for another ? " Brooke returned, a
sense of hope, of possible success sending new
fire along his veins. " I might tell you that you
are fair and sweet enough to be the desire of
any man's heart ; but you are more than this tome
! I have no hope, no ambition, no future unconnected
with you in my heart, and with me,
Stasie, you will regain your glorious health, your
full power of enjoyment ; speak to me, Stasie ? "

She had gently withdrawn her hands, and
held them clasped upon her knee. ' I do not
love you now," she said slowly, and raising her
eyes to his again. " I did not think you cared
for me. But if, oh ! if you love me so much, I
will love you  love you well ! " She held out
her hands to him with an inexpressibly noble
frank gesture of acceptance. Brooke kissed them
with passionate delight, but felt he was only
half through his difficulties.

Then, Stasie, I have your promise that you
will be my wife ? and that soon  very soon ? "

Why so very soon ? " she asked, withdrawing
her hands again, while he rose and sat
down beside her. " I think an engagement must
be very pleasant, people get to know each other.
Ella Mathews and Mr. Baldwin used to be very
happy, and "

But, dearest, I do not think we are bound to
arrange our plans on the lines laid down by Mr.
and Mrs. Baldwin," interrupted Brooke, who
watched with eager satisfaction the brighter look,
the healthier colour, that had come into her eyes
and cheek. " You are very differently situated.
You have no real home, and I may have to return
to India. Shall you object to going to India ? "

No," with a smile and quick soft blush,
though I am not so fond of Eastern things and
people as I used to be."

'* Ah ! you feel you have an enemy in that
villain Kharapet ? "

Stasie hesitated a moment, and her lip quivered.
" I am foolish, perhaps, but I do fear him.
I cannot tell why ;" and, unconsciously, she drew
a little nearer to Brooke.

My darling," he cried, unable longer to resist
his intense longing to hold her in his arms,
though half afraid of startling her, he drew
her gently to him, till her cheek lay against his
heart.

It is a true instinct ! Hear me. I have
reason to know that we must expect strong opposition
from every one. From Mr. Harding because
he does not wish you to marry any one
for years to come ; from Kharapet because you
have rejected him (dog ! that he should dare to
raise his eyes to you), and because he is brewing
devilish plots ; from your guardian, because
the others will influence him ; from every one."

From Mrs. Harding ?" asked Stasie, strangely
tempted to stay where she was and feel the strong
throbbing of his heart, which made her own beat
in sympathy.

j\Irs. Harding ? oh, no. In her I have my
best friend. I know I have her best wishes for
my success with you. But I must speak plainly,
Stasie ; everything depends on our keeping our
engagement profoundly secret for a short time."

"Why?" asked Stasie with natural surprise,
and disengaging herself from him ; " why

should they object to you ? you are as much a
gentleman as I am a lady ; indeed I daresay you
are better born. They can only worry a little,
which will not signify much."

"Ah, Stasie ! I am aware I am no great
match ; as far as worldly advantages go, you
might do much better than marry me ; but I
cannot be unselfish where you are concerned."

Stasie smiled an arch sweet smile. "I so
hate having to conceal anything."

Brooke felt he was getting into the thick of
it. He rose and walked once up and down the
room, then reseating himself by her, he said
gravely, "You say, dear, you will trust your
future life to me. Is it too much then to be
guided by me in our preliminary action ? can
you not believe that I have good and sufficient
reasons for what I suggest? reasons which,
when I explain them to you hereafter, you will
acknowledge were aZZ-sufficient. Can you have
faith enough in me for this ? "

"Yes, I can," said Stasie thoughtfully; "but
I am puzzled."

I am going to put your confidence in me to
a still severer test," said Brooke, watching her

countenance anxiously, and urged by an irresistible
prompting from within to risk all in this
first momentous interview.

What is it ? " asked Stasie nervously.

I want you," said Brooke, speaking very
low and distinctly, *' I want you not only to keep
our engagement secret, but to marry me soon,
in about three weeks or so  privately  unknown
to any one, and to come away with me somewhere
until we are discovered, which of course
we shall be before long ; then no one can separate
us, for you know the difficulties which surround
the marriage of a minor are great."

"You ask me to run away with you," exclaimed
Stasie, colouring to the roots of her hair,
even down to where the lace wrapped her creamy
throat. " To deceive Aunt Clem, who is so kind,

and Mrs. Harding, and Yoii propose this.

I can scarce believe it. It is too extraordinary ;
you must have some reason, some very powerful
reason ; tell me what it is ? "

I have an all-powerful reason," returned
Brooke ; " one that you will acknowledge is sufficient,
but I do not wish to tell it to you now."

"You must, you ought," said Stasie very

gravely. " You ask me to take a terrible step,
and I believe in you so much that I feel sure
you have some reason that seems good to you,
but," hesitating a little, and timidly, "may not
think so, and indeed you must tell me."

"You have every right to ask, dearest," leaning
his arm on the back of the sofa so as to draw
nearer to her, and feeling that the tug of war
had come. " It is most natural that such a proposition
should raise the gravest doubts in your
mind. I can but implore you to trust me : my
conscience acquits me of any intention that is
not blameless. Passionately as I love you, it is
not the impatience of a lover that induces me to
urge you to what you justly call a terrible step,
but the forethought, the anxious care of a friend
who would save you from  well, serious inconvenience.
Will you not trust me, Stasie ? "

She looked at him searchingly, then covering
her face with her hands, exclaimed, " It would
be too shameful, before you have even asked my
guardian's consent, which he might give. Oh !
I do trust you ; but there are some things of
which none but one's own self can judge, and this
is one. If I could speak to Mrs. Harding ! "

Have you more confidence in lier than in
me ? " asked Brooke, more as a special pleader
than from any movement of jealousy ; he had
quite expected this resistance, distressing as it
was. Stasie was not the kind of girl to be carried
away by the first impassioned words of a lover.
She was silent. " Have you more confidence in
her ? " repeated Brooke.

Yes, in this matter ; she is a woman," said
Stasie slowly.

I would gladly consult and confide in Mrs.
Harding," resumed Brooke, but that I fear to
expose her to her husband's brutal bad temper ;
and I am convinced that if I did tell her all, she
would be on my side."

"No, we must not get her into a scrape," returned
Stasie.

Brooke pleaded long and earnestly; he succeeded
in making a certain impression, in creating
serious uneasiness in Stasie's mind. She
was not angry with him for what seemed to her
so strange, so daring a proposition, but she could
not conquer her repugnance to it. It was this
shrinking from what seemed bold and indelicate,
more than any distrust of him, that held her back.

Indeed, she had always looked up to him as
the embodiment of all that was high-minded and
cultivated, and the sudden revelation of his passionate
love for herself, his strong emotion, Diis
extreme tenderness, had shaken her mental
equilibrium, and set her pulses throbbing with a
fearful delight ; but she did not lose her head so
completely as to be blind to the reality of such a
step as Brooke urged her to take, nor was she
anxious to rush into marriage. A pleasant interval
of companionship, time to know each
other, to grow familiar, seemed to her desirable,
as it is to most thoughtful girls. She felt too
that he had gained immense sudden influence
over her by the irresistible conviction of his
great earnestness, which every word and look
conveyed, and she half feared to yield to it.

Brooke too had patience with the scruples he
respected, yet even his self-control began to fray
out. She might trust him, she was a trifle too
prudent, and time was so precious. He was
almost tempted to tell her the truth, but a double
fear held him back  first, lest he should seem
wanting in coolness of judgment, and so be
lowered in her estimation, should she disbelieve

his theory of Kharapet's designs ; secondly, if
she accepted it, the strain on her sorely-tried
nerves might be terribly injurious.

- Finally Stasie, much moved by the look of
despondency, almost despair, in Brooke's eyes,
proposed to think over his proposition and give
him a decided answer tomorrow.

'* It will not be easy to see you alone," he said
dejectedly.

*' I can go and see Mrs. Harding, and  and
you might be there and walk back with me,"
suggested Stasie, looking down.

I have no doubt I shall manage it," said
Brooke, smiling ; ' but we must be very cautious
for the present. One promise you will give me,
dearest ; do not let this day's post pass without
writing to your friend Mrs. Mathews ; ask her
to invite you as soon as possible. Nothing will
do you so much good as change of air ; besides,
if you yield to my most ardent prayer, it will
suit my plans to have you away from Sefton
Park.'

Stasie promised readily, and after a little more
conversation, which, however, was slightly chilled
by the difference between them, Brooke rose.

I suppose I must go. Bhoodhoo, and even
the amiable Mary, will report the unconscionable
length of my visit. And Stasie, my own darling
(you are my own, are you not ?), you will try to
bring your mind to what I ask. You do not
doubt that I think of you more than of myself ? ''

I do not indeed ; but  do  do tell me why
you ask such an extraordinary proof of my
trust."

"Not now, I must not. Good-bye. I may
come in this afternoon, I suppose, when Mrs.
Harding is here. I could not stay away,"
kissing her hands, and then looking imploringly
at her.

I dare say you may," stepping back shyly.

There was a pause ; Brooke half turned to go,
then, springing to her side, he suddenly caught
her in his arms and strained her to his heart.
By heaven ! Stasie," he exclaimed in deep
hurried tones of passionate entreaty, impressive
resolve, " I cannot leave you. I will not let you
go until you promise, solemnly promise to do
exactly as I desire in this matter. My love !
my life ! you do not know what depends on
your decision. I only seek your welfare, your

safety." He held her close, looking down into
her eyes.

A strange thrill of conviction quivered through
Stasie's heart. Brooke had some knowledge she
did not possess.

* You fear something," she exclaimed, clinging
sto him. 'you fear, like me, you do not
know what ; you fear /or me ? "

'' I do, and I how what I fear." Stasie grew
very pale, her lips quivered, her slender fingers
clutched his arm.

I will go with you," she whispered. "You
are not easily frightened ; it is something real.
I have had strange thoughts sometimes, and life
is very sweet."

It is," he exclaimed ; " and it shall be sweet
to you, if it is in the power of man to make it
so. You will then consent to a private marriage
as soon as it can possibly take place ? you will
be guided by me in all things ? "

'' I will," returned Stasie, trembling as she
leant against him. *' I wish I could go away
now. Could I not live with Mrs. Mathews till
you get my guardian's consent ? "

You will be better, safer with me, darling,"

cried Brooke, overjoyed at this sudden solution
of his great difficulty.

I should like to go away before Hormuz
comes back. He hates me, I know he hates me.
He will not come back for a few days."

*' Then you can very well manage it. Write
to Mrs. Mathews now, this moment  I will
post the letter  you can have a reply the
day after tomorrow, and start the following
day."

Stasie at once sat down to her writing-table
and rapidly traced a few lines, expressing her
great need of change, and begging leave to come
to her friends at once.

Brooke stood at a little distance, watching her
with deepest delight, hardly able to believe that
the moment of deliverance was at hand. Her
fears were all directed to Kharapet ; she did not
seem to doubt Bhoodhoo ; so much the better,
she would be at rest comparatively. And after
the emphatic warning Brooke had overheard
Kharapet address to his tool, the latter would
not attempt much for the next few days, after
which danger would be at an end.

Will that do ? " said Stasie, handing him

her letter, with a simple confidence which touched
him. Brooke glanced through it.

It will do perfectly, seal it up and I will
take it away at once. And now, my own ! my
love ! you must give me one kiss, just one before
I go, and say ' Jim, I love you.' "

Stasie hesitated ; her sweet mouth quivered,
she stretched out her arms, and with a burst of
tears exclaimed, " I love you, Jim, for loving me
so much ! "

When she recovered herself a little she was
strangely reluctant to be left alone. " I wish
you could stay," she said.

So do I," returned Brooke. *' Suppose you
come out with me; I will walk with you to Sefton
House, and then go on to the post."

Stasie gladly accepted the proposition. She
was thoroughly unhinged ; the vague fear and
dislike she had conceived of Kharapet had
suddenly suggested the solution of Brooke's
extraordinary and passionately-exjressed desire
that she should consent to a secret marriage and
escape with him  from what, if not from some
dreadful design of Kharapet's ? The idea that a

man so rational, so experienced as Brooke, should
be ready to act on what she resisted as a morbid
fancy, alarmed her profoundly. He must know
more than he chose to say. She was well aware
that Kharapet had great influence on Mr. Harding,
and was all potent with her aunt. No one
distrusted him save herself and Mrs. Harding ;
she felt therefore in some measure in his power.

What a strange, disturbed, anxious, thrilling
day it had been ! thought Stasie, when at an
unusually early hour she escaped to her room.
The sudden revelation of Brooke's love for her
was bewildering, yet how her heart had leaped
to answer his call upon it ! She was half
frightened to think how utterly, completely, she
was his. To look back a few months, which
seemed to have flown so fast, and which yet for
her had been a whole cycle of life, and recall
that first vision of him at Lady Elizabeth's conversazione,
when she wondered who he could be,
putting him down in her own mind as proud,
cold, stern, and to-day he had trembled at her
touch, and humbly begged for an assurance of
her love. Again and again she lived over the
strange experience of being folded in his arms.

and wondered at the sense of safety, of delight,
his embrace had given her. She would never
feel at rest until Brooke had the right to stand
between her and her enemy, if indeed Kharapet
was the bitter enemy that from time to time she
fancied him to be. This she had often doubted,
but now that Brooke was evidently of the same
opinion, she was convinced that the dim fancies
which had agitated her were shadows of a reality.
Yet the idea of marrying under such circumstances
tormented her ; what would Mrs. Harding
think % what would Aunt Clem say ? How
could she ever convey to them the hunted, terrified
feeling, which made her ready to take refuge
with Brooke, the only creature who seemed to
perceive her need of help and protection ? No
matter, life was sweet ; how sweet it would be
with him ! She would risk everything and be
guided by his counsels.

VOL. III. 58

That evening, while Stasie communed with her
own heart, and Aunt Clem poured out to the
sympathetic Susan her fears that her dear niece
was far from strong  "She looked perfectly
worn out, and I am sure the sooner she is away
from this place the better," etc. etc.  Brooke
was busy writing at one table, and his friend
Robinson at another, with notes, letters, memoranda
scattered about. " Hobby," said the
former looking up suddenly, *' I must leave you
in a few days. I shall have to go over to Paris,
and I have matters to arrange previously in
town."

This is very sudden," cried Robinson, pausing,
pen in hand. " I am very sorry ; I shall
miss you very much, old fellow ! What is taking
you away ? "

'' Business," returned Brooke briefly.

I ought to ask why you stayed rather than
why you leave," continued Kobinson, nibbling
the top of his pen. " I must say I have
wondered why you came here."

Your modesty, Eobby ! Don't you know I
wanted to enjoy your society ? "

'' Well, joking apart, it has been a treat tome,
and the place will be awfully dull when you

go."

I don't think I have been a particularly lively

companion," returned Brooke, smiling grimly.

"Even so," replied Robinson with friendly
candour. " It is not good for man to live alone."

Oh ! you have quite come to that conclusion
? "

Yes ! " said Mr. Robinson, blushing. " It
is, I believe, a very distinct injunction."

'' To all, priests included ? " asked Brooke.

After mature reflection, I am convinced it
is especially needful that priests should set an
example of family life," said the young incumbent.
Brooke smiled, indulgently this time, and
resumed his writing ; then after a few minutes'
silence, " I think I shall stay in town for a few
nights and go on to Paris next week."

And then ? "

Oh, I shall ultimately return to London."


'' Mrs. Harding will miss you' said Robinson
with a glance at his friend.

Yes, I daresay," replied Brooke carelessly.

Little more passed between them that evening.
Brooke was up at cock-crow next morning,
and infinitely to the disgust of Mrs. Harris (who
had formed a high opinion of her young master's
stately, silent, but civil guest), departed for town
before breakfast could be prepared. There's just
one thing I can't abide ; it's to see any one go
out on an empty stomach," she grumbled to Mr.
Robinson as that gentleman sipped his coffee an
hour after. '' It's just preparing one's self for
fever and blood-poisoning, and everything that's
bad."

Arrived in London, after a hasty breakfast at
his club and a visit to his lodgings, where he
occupied himself with a rearrangement of his
baggage, Brooke sallied forth and walked
quietly down Piccadilly. Near the circus he was
stopped by a young man in civilian dress, but of

soldierly carriage, who exclaimed " Brooke ! I
fancied you were in Scotland 1 at least they
thought so at the club ! I wanted to look you
up directly I came to town. Where have you
been ? "

Ah, Thornton ! when did you arrive ? "

About ten days ago. I have made a trading
voyage of it home. My people were at
Florence ; then we went into the Tyrol for the
summer, had a peep at Vienna, up the Danube to
Passa, etc., and now I have run over here for a
week or two on business, and return to Paris the
day after tomorrow."

After some exchange of question and answer
respecting their mutual friends (the young man
was a captain in Brooke's regiment), Thornton
seemed disposed to attach himself to his newly-discovered
acquaintance, but Brooke soon disposed
of him. '' Sorry I am particularly
engaged to-day and tomorrow, my dear fellow !
but give me your address in Paris. I may be
there next month."

*' You'll be sure to call," said Thornton, writing
on the back of one of his cards; " my mother
will be delighted to see you."

Brooke thanked him, put the card carefully in
his pocket-book, and, hailing a hansom, ordered
the driver to Dalton, somewhat to the surprise
of his friend, who stood on the kerb to see him
drive off.

The journey," almost '* due north " was long
and tedious, affording ample time to the
traveller to meditate and arrange a somewhat
complicated scheme, by which he hoped to steal
a march on the enemy, and secure at least a
fortnight of undisturbed happiness with his
bride ! It was almost incredible that he had
cleared the difficulties, before which his spirit
had quailed, at a bound. Stasie's curious instinctive
dread of Kharapet had befriended him
marvellously. But for that sudden revelation,
that unexpected lifting of the cloud of hesitation
and distrust by the pale spectre of terror, he
could never have persuaded her against her
better judgment ; but now he felt sure of her,
and his heart throbbed with pride and joy as the
idea suggested itself, that she loved him better
than she was herself aware !

But he resisted the tendency to dwell upon
these delicious reminiscences, and set himself to

think out steadily the details of his plan. His
first care must be to lull suspicion as regarded
himself. He must seem to leave London so soon
as he was sure the day was fixed for Stasie's departure,
and he must be resident for two or three
weeks in any parish where his marriage was to
take place ; round these leading lines the whole
scheme must form itself. He had no particular
business, nothing on hands that necessitated the
forwarding of letters ; he might safely lose himself,
and he could think of no more remote or
unexplored region than that towards which he
was now travelling. He never had known anyone
who had visited it, or come from it, and he
only knew the name from seeing it on the map
of London, or in the Eegistrar-GeneraFs report.
There, at least, he could find obscurity, safety,
and happiness. " Here we are, sir, where to
now?" said the driver looking down through the
trap-door at the top.

Whereabouts is the parish church ? " was
the counter question.

"" Don't know, sir. These parts is strange tome."



'' Draw up. I'll ask myself."

Cabby obeyed. Brooke descended to make
inquiries at a large grocery establishment. " The
old parish church, sir ? " said a stout, important-looking
man, in a white apron, coming forward,
as he noticed the boy behind the counter hesitate
in his reply. "Why, it's more than two mile
farther on."

Then, may I ask, what is the nearest church
where you attend yourself ? "

'' Oh, / go to Mr. Sims', the Congregational
Chapel in Hill's Place, sir ; but there is a big
church, St. Barnabas, about twenty minutes' walk
from this, where there is an excellent preacher,
the reverend Mr. Philips."

Oh, indeed ! and is it much attended ? It
is a district church, I suppose ? "

It is, sir."

I suppose they have christening, and marriages,
and funerals there % "

Plenty of marriages and christening, sir.
The funerals are conducted in the cemetery."

Thank you ! I am very much obliged. Pray,
which is the way to this church ? "

Drive straight down this street to the end,
where there is a broad road crossing it, turn

left, and tHen take the second to the right ; you
will see the church before you."

Brooke thanked him courteously, and, leaving
the shop, conveyed these directions to Jehu ;
then, jumping in, they drove off smartly.

I wonder what that tall grand-looking chap
is after ? " said the jovial master of the establishment.
" Has he a baby to christen, or a parent
to bury ? "

' Maybe he has a young lady to marry on
the sly ? " suggested the elder assistant. '' He
looks a regular west-end swell." The master and
his men chuckled over the notion, and business
resumed its sway.

Meantime Brooke's conveyance stopped before
the church, and Brooke, descending, asked, " How
much?"

Six-and-six, sir. It's a long stretch," said
the driver tentatively. Brooke paid without a
question, being averse to impress himself on the
man's memory. " Thanked, sir." Brooke left him
rather ostentatiously rubbing his horse's head
and neck, as if the animal had been over-driven,
and strolled round the handsome edifice, which
was environed by a border of grass, with posts

and chains. A semicircle of new houses, of a
higher class than those in the neighbourhood,
partially surrounded it; Brooke noticed on one
of them the inscription " St. Barnabas Parsonage
;" then, after standing for a moment in deep
thought, he turned briskly down one of the
streets leading from " Granville Crescent," as
the semicircle was named, and walked briskly
for a few minutes, looking sharply right to left,
as he went, at the houses.

He was seeking for lodgings, and seemed
very hard to please, when he found a locality
where frequent announcements of " apartments "
adorned the windows.

He seemed more interested in the landladies
than their rooms ; some of scrupulous cleanliness
and neatness rather took his fancy ; but
when the mistress of the house appeared severe,
metallic, unbending, or dressy, smiling, and over-gracious,
he declined to decide, and retreated
rapidly. He had thus visited five or six abodes
all, as their owners declared, perfect in their
appointments, their order, their freedom from
noxious insects, etc., and still he was unsuited.
He was, in truth, anxious respecting the aspect

of the landlady, for he knew that he should be
obliged to place Stasie alone in whatever rooms
he chose, for at least part of a day and a night,
and he was keenly alive to the unavoidable pain
and discomfort she must endure even under the
most favourable arrangements. He, therefore,
sought eagerly for a motherly respectable-looking
hostess, who could be some stay to his fiancee.
How shameful, how infamous, that she should
be obliged to save her life at the cost of such
concealment !

But time was pressing ; he wanted to be at
Limeville that afternoon, and he must engagea
lodging before he returned.

At length he reached a neat row of semi-detached
villas with gardens, and in the window
of one he discovered an afiche.

"You have rooms to let ? " he asked, as the door
was opened by a diminutive but tidy servant.

Yes, sir ; walk in, please, and Til call
missis." Brooke was beginning to be tired and
impatient of the oft-repeated formula. Immediately,
from some region below, arose a stout,
fresh, kindly-looking, brown-eyed person, not
quite a lady, but above the average letter of

lodgings. She was very neatly dressed in a
clean print and a black apron. With pleasant
courtesy she showed Brooke a bright, if somewhat
gaudy parlour, lighted by a bay-window,
and a fairly comfortable bedroom behind it.
Brooke paused in deep thought as she named a
moderate price enough for the accommodation,
and the good woman, fancying he hesitated at
the terms, observed, " Of course, sir, if it were
for a permanency that would make a difference."

It will not be for more than three weeks ora
month," said Brooke, rousing himself. " May
I ask if you have any children ? "

Not young children, sir. I have two girls ;
one goes to school, and the eldest is daily governess
in a family close by."

That sounded well. Brooke liked the aspect
of the house and its owner. '' I will take your
rooms," he said, " from the day after tomorrow."

Very well," with a little hesitation ; " but
I have been advised always to ask for references."


A necessary precaution," said Brooke, with
a smile. " There is my card. I will write the
address of my agents, Messrs. Grandly, on the

back, they will answer for me ; but as I am a
total stranger to you I will pay a week's rent in
advance," taking out bis purse. " I shall, probably,
not come in till Monday next, but I am
your tenant from Saturday."

"Well, sir, I can have no objection as you
are so straightforward ; sit down for a minute or
two till I write a receipt."

But Brooke was too restless and excited to
rest quiet  he paced the room. He congratulated
himself on its cheerful outlook, as a street
opening in front showed a glimpse of the church.
He pictured to himself Stasie's embarrassment
and trepidation at arriving there alone. It
would be a tremendous trial for her, yet he
could not help a thrill of delight at the idea of
consoling and encouraging her. While he thought
thus he heard the door open, and turning met a
very pretty, dark-eyed, ladylike girl face to face;
she was well and quietly dressed in outdoor
attire. " I beg your pardon," blushing, " I
thought my mother was here."

Brooke made her a low bow, and she went
quickly away. '' The very place," he murmured.

His new landlady soon returned, smiling and

contented. " Here is the receipt, sir, and my
card, and what would you like for dinner, sir,
on Monday ? and what hour are you likely to
come in ? "

I will write you all particulars," said Brooke,
putting away the receipt and card, on which was
printed, " Mrs. Hicks, 9 Alma Villas, Dalton,"
carefully in a breast pocket, " and now I must
bid you good-morning."

And I trust you will find yourself comfortable
in my house, sir."

I have no doubt I shall."

Brooke, observing it was not a neighbourhood
where cabs were to be found, asked his way to
the nearest omnibus line, and walked off rapidly.

Aunt Clem had been only partially successful
in her house-hunting, and Stasie was too much
upset, too visibly unwell, to hear any description
of the chase on her return.

Next morning, however, our heroine woke up
wonderfully refreshed and strengthened. Her
first thought was that she had given her solemn
promise to Brooke, and that in a sense she belonged
to him  a thought that had less of fear

and more of joy than it possessed yesterday.
She was also less impressed by her own vague
terror of Kharapet, but deeply convinced that
Brooke knew something very important, very
inimical to her own welfare, or he would never
urge her to so desperate a step as an elopement
! She could scarce bear to think of it.
How ardently she longed to see Brooke's face,
to hear his voice ; nothing else could give her
courage. But he had told her he would not be
with her till the afternoon, so Stasie composed
herself to listen attentively to her aunt, towards
whom her heart swelled with repentant tenderness,
as she thought what a state the floor lady
would be in when she found herself deserted and
deceived.

"You must be so tired, auntie, after your
long day yesterday," she said kindly, jutting a
footstool under Miss Stretton's feet.

"Yes, my dear, I am; but the worst was to
find you looking like a ghost when I came back.
You are quite a different being this morning.
Were you too much by yourself ? "

"Oh, no; Dr. Brooke," turning to fetch her
work-basket, " came in; he expected to find Mrs.



Harding here ; and then I went to see Mademoiselle
Aubert, and walked with her and the
children; then Mrs. Harding came back. It does
me so much good to go out. Now tell me all
you did."

"Well, my love, if there is anything more
exhausting than another, it is looking for houses ;
going up and downstairs, and being worried
with the caretakers, who always try and put you
against the place. I saw very nice apartments
in Upper Baker Street that would suit perfectly
well, and we might just keep Mary as a ladies'
maid ; but Mr. Kharapet is dead against apartments
; he thinks you ought to have a house of
your own now."

Don't mind him, auntie ; just choose what
you like."

Father what you like, my dear ! I cannot
decide on anything without you."

I am sure you may. I shall like whatever
you choose."

"It is very sweet of you to say so, dear.
But don't you think we should be quite comfortable
in lodgings ? "

"Yes," thoughtfully; "only I should not like

to send away Bhoodhoo, poor fellow : what would
become of him ? "

"Well, Stasie, we really cannot arrange our
plans merely to provide for Bhoodhoo."

Perhaps not."

' It is all very well to be so very considerate
for others, but there is a duty," etc. etc. Stairhead
the murmur of her aunt's refined and
somewhat monotonous voice, but, deep in her own
thoughts, lost all consciousness of what she was
saying, till roused by the cessation of sound.

" Ah, auntie, how I wish I were of age ! "

Why, Stasie ? " in some surprise.

Oh ! I should like to give you some money,
what they call settle it upon you, or leave it to
you in my will, so that you should never be
obliged to live in a miserable patched-up bedroom
again."

My dear child ! my sweet Stasie ! " rising
to kiss her, and then resuming her seat. " You
are kind and thoughtful beyond your years : I
am deeply touched by your affectionate care.
Do not trouble about me, my love ! The Lord
will provide ; and in any case that good kind
Mr. Kharapet would be a true friend."
VOL. III. 59

''Do you think Hormuz would do anything
for you ? or give you a farthing of my money if
I were gone ? for all mine would be his. You
little know him. Why, Aunt Clem, don't you
see he is a mass of spite and selfishness % He
hates me, and "

Stasie, Stasie ! You must have lost your
senses to talk in this way of your best friend !
You used to be quite fond of him," cried Miss
Stretton, aghast at such unholy sentiments.

Friend ! " cried Stasie, bursting into tears.
I have not a real friend in the world but you
and Mrs. Harding. Even Mrs. Mathews does
not care for me as much as she used ! "

My darling child ! You are not at all yourself
! You are weak and low. Do have a little
sal volatile or camphor, or  dear me  I was in
hopes you were ever so much better this morning
! Do let me send for Dr. Hunter."

No, no, no," said Stasie, trying to recover
herself. " He could do nothing. I am only weak
and stupid. I am so sure nothing will do me
good but change that I wrote yesterday to Mrs.
Mathews asking leave to go down to her for a
week or two."

"Very right, dear," cried Miss Stretton, too
startled and uneasy to object to anything. " I am
sure it will do you good ; and if she cannot take
you in we will just pack up and go to Aix-les-
Bains or  or  Cannes, or Mentioned  or anywhere.
Why should you be moped to death here
for any one's fancies ? You may count on me,
my dear, dear Stasie ! I will submit to any
sacrifice for your sake !"

Embraces and tears ensued, and Stasie, glancing
at the clock, saw to her delight that the
hand pointed to three.

I think I will go and ask Mrs. Harding to
walk with me," said Stasie restlessly. She felt
as if she could not meet Brooke in her aunt's
presence, and that he would be sure to follow her
to Sefton House.

Very well, dear ! I daresay you will find
Dr. Brooke there. I fancy he is there most of
his time."

Not more than he is here," replied Stasie,
unable to let this pass.

Perhaps not ! Mrs. Harding is here nearly
as much as in her own house."

"Aunt' said Stasie, colouring crimson. "I

am sure you are quite mistaken. I do not believe
Dr. Brooke thinks of his cousin as in

the way you imagine ! "

Well, then, what makes him stay down
here ? I am sure I hope you are right. I can't
help liking him, in spite of the rude way Mr.
Kharapet heard him speak of me ; and he has
been looking wretchedly ill, poor man ! "

I am certain he never spoke rudely of
you, auntie ! I don't care what Mr. Kharapet
said he heard, I am certain Dr. Brooke never
did."

With this parting shot Stasie walked out of
the room, leaving Aunt Clem bewildered, with a
sensation as though the earth had opened up
before her, and there was no longer a firm foothold
to be found anywhere.

Putting on her hat occupied Stasie longer than
usual, and when she returned to the drawing-room
she found her aunt ensconced in an easy-chair,
in conversation with Brooke, who was
standing on the hearth-rug. Fortunately Miss
Stretton's back was to the door, so she did not
see Stasie's sudden vivid blush, her change of
expression, as her eyes fell upon the visitor. Her

heart fluttered for a moment with a wild thrill,
half joy, half fear.

Going out. Miss Werner ? " asked Brooke
advancing to meet her, with what she thought
marvellous coolness and composure ; but so soon
as her hand was in his she recognised how thin
was the seeming, when, feeling that he intervened
between Miss Stretton and her niece, he laid his
other hand over hers in a mute caress.

'* Yes," replied Stasie, a little unsteadily. *' I
am going to see Mrs. Harding ! "

'' Indeed ! May I come with you ? I find I
shall have to go to Paris the beginning of next
week, and I want to tell her my plans''

Very well," said Stasie, still trembling with
a strange faintness. " I will take Pearl ; the
children like to see him."

''My love to Mrs. Harding. I am much too
tired to go out to-day," said Miss Stretton
amiably.

I want you to take a long walk with me,
Stasie. I want to talk to you of a hundred
things, and it seems years since I saw you yesterday,"
said Brooke, as soon as they were clear
of the house.

'rand I want to talk with you so much," replied
Stasie. *' I have been miserable  no, not
altogether miserable, but so restless and frightened.
But I must ask Mrs. Harding to come with us."

'Yery well," returned Brooke, after a
moment's hesitation, and kept silence till the
short distance was accomplished.

Mrs. Harding was at home, and the children
soon carried off Pearl to their special garden.
Then Brooke told his cousin he was going over
to Paris the following week for a short visit, and
that he would not probably return to Sefton
Park. " Indeed, you will all be flown by that
time. I shall find you in town, eh, Livy ? "

*' Yes. We will move about the twentieth of
next month."

Then Stasie, a little timidly, asked Mrs. Harding
if she would come out. Brooke, at whom
Mrs. Harding glanced (feeling in some inexplicable
instinctive way that he and Stasie understood
each other), slightly shook his head, and
Mrs. Harding answered quietly, " No, dear ; I
have a good deal to do to-day."

There is not much time," remarked Brooke
to Stasie. " The evenings close in so soon."

Then Stasie found herself walking away down
the avenue of elms, and soon turned into a path
which led through a strip of woodland to the
highroad.

'' We are tolerably safe here," said Brooke,
drawing her hand through his arm. ' Now, let
us talk over everything, for we shall probably
not have another opportunity."

How long the memory of that day dwelt in
Stasie's heart !  the crisp rustle of the withered
leaves, the subtile perfume of the larch and pine-trees,
the single note uttered at intervals by some
bird not quite resigned to coming winter, the
murmur of a little brook that prattled along its
pebbly course near the path, as they walked to
and fro beneath the sheltering trees ; and Stasie
felt all doubt and fear and hesitation melt away
as she listened to Brooke's clear, decided statement
of his well-defined plan, or wondered at the
amazing change in him from the cool, rather indifferent
man of the world, to the eager, tender
lover, whose controlled ardour testified to his
care and consideration for her. He seemed to
be years younger than when she first met him 
blither, softer, more genial.

"It is quite dusk," said Stasie at length. " I
must not stay any longer." She was growing
more at home with him, more deliciously familiar.
And there is one thing I should like to say to
you, only I am half afraid "

Tell me everything," interrupted Brooke ;
every thought of your heart. You have no
choice, my own darling, but to trust me in all
things."

*' Don't you think, then," resumed Stasie,
coming a little closer, " that we might manage
to wait, if I stayed with Mrs. Mathews, until
you could get Mr. Wyatt's consent? I might
refuse to leave  I can be very determined 

and Oh ! it is not that I doubt you, but I

'lo shrink from a marriage of this kind, it seems
so terrible. Is it not possible to manage in
some other way ? "

'' Stasie, it is not possible ! " returned Brooke
impressively. " Believe me, you do not wish to
avoid such an alternative more than I do. I
would wait willingly for you, dearest, for months,
rather than hurry you into such an undertaking,
were it not that I feel convinced you will be safe
only when you are my wife. Keep this before your

mind, and let no hesitation disturb you. Have
confidence in me : can you not believe that your
safety, your welfare, are paramount with me ? "

I can, I will," said Stasie, moved and convinced
; "only when  when everything is settled,
I must do something to make Aunt Clem comfortable
for life."

'' You shall do what you like with your own,
and I will help you."

Ah ! yes, I want your help so much, and "
a wistful look into his eyes  "I do hope I
shall get well and strong, and not trouble you
with anxiety or sickliness."

My love," drawing her to him with infinite
tenderness, " you shall be well and strong, and
we shall enjoy life together ; but if not, who can
care for you and tend you as T will. I take you
for better, for worse."

Tears sprang to Stasie's eyes as she unconsciously
pressed close against him.

'' I will see you home," said Brooke, " but we
must part here," and clasping her in his arms he
kissed her brow and eyes and lips, with more of
passion than he had hitherto allowed himself to
show.

The following day brought a joint letter from
Mrs. Mathews and Ella. The former was greatly
vexed that she could not take in her dear Stasie.
Her house was already crammed, but Ella had a
nice spare room, which was quite at Stasie's service
; and Ella herself wrote a most hearty and
loving invitation. Unfortunately she could not
receive her friend till the following Wednesday.

Stasie would have liked to start the very next
day. It was intolerable to her to be in hourly
communication with her aunt, who was more
than usually attentive and affectionate, and yet
to keep silent respecting the thoughts that filled
her brain to bursting, with joy and fear and hope
and pride.

Her only calm and happy moments were when
Brooke was present, then a subtile warmth and
strength seemed to fill her veins as with a potent

life-giving elixir, and she knew how her heart
had elected him as its mate, its other self, from
the first moment they had met, though she had
mastered its natural cravings.

But Brooke was only occasionally at Seftcn
Park during the few succeeding days. He had
gone back to stay in London, and the Rev. St.
John Robinson was quite dull for want of his
companionship. When Brooke did come, too,
Stasie could rarely secure a few moments' private
conversation with him. She never forgot the
strange slowness, and yet awful rapidity, with
which those intervening hours flitted away.

At length the last day but one was upon
them; the last day but one before she would
quit Mrs. Harding and Aunt Clem, never to
return to them as Stasie Yerner ; for in spite of
her repugnance to the course she was obliged to
pursue, she felt it would be still more terrible if
her marriage with Brooke were prevented.

Brooke came in rather late in the afternoon.
He looked bright, alert  like a man on the road
to success  and made himself especially agreeable
to Miss Stretton, too much so, for she persisted
in remaining gracefully posed in her easy-chair,

till Brooke began to think lie must ask Stasie to
come out with him, which he did not like to do,
as it was raining heavily. Still nothing else
was left for it, and he had just opened his lips
to broach the subject when enter Mary with a
note, " If you please 'm, is there any answer ? "

"Wait a moment," hastily opening it. ''I
hope the messenger is not gone ? "

"Nom."

Then I shall just go and give him the answer
myself. Stasie, dear, do you know where my
receipt-book is ? "

'' I believe it is locked up in your Davenport
in the morning-room," said Stasie falteringly.

Aunt Clem left the room briskly.

Thank God ! " ejaculated Brooke, starting
up, and, coming over beside Stasie, took out his

pocket-book, "tell me your address at C ,

my darling, quick ; care of the Eev. G. Baldwin,

The College, C " (writing quickly), " is that

all ? Then Stasie, you shall find a letter from
me on your arrival giving you my address  you
might let it be seen were I to give it to you
here, and no clue must be given. Write to me
the moment you arrive : I shall know no peace

till I hear you are safe with your friends. How
awfully you tremble ! courage, my own love !
in some ten or twelve days we shall be safe
away. One thing more, lend me one of your
rings, you shall have it again." He had only
time to kiss the hand that gave it, and conceal
the ring, when Miss Stretton sailed in again.

I am sure. Dr. Brooke, you will excuse me.
Our neighbour, Mrs. Morison, wrote to beg the
loan of my receipt-book. It was rather a liberty,
but I could not refuse, and it was not in the
Davenport, Stasie, it was on the mantelpiece."

I only waited your return to make my
adieux," said Brooke. " I have to say a word to
Robinson, then I must catch the five train."

Good-bye then, my dear sir. I trust you
will enjoy your visit to bright, beautiful Paris."

''I have no doubt I shall," said Brooke significantly.
" Have you any commands ? The
little Hardings have given me endless commissions.
Good-bye, Miss Werner ; remember my
advice  hope, and plenty of exercise. I expect to
see you looking much better when we meet again."

A close pressure of her hand, and he was
gone.

He is quite right, Stasie, my dear ; you
should not despond about yourself. I am sure
a change to London will do all the good in the
world."

I think it will," said Stasie, smiling archly,
though tears stood in her eyes ; " and I earnestly
hope I shall never give you any more trouble,
auntie," kissing her. ' Now I will go away and
finish packing."

Very well, dear ! but you seem to me to betaking
a great deal more than you will want."

I do not not think so. Aunt Clem."

Meantime Brooke was exchanging a few last
words with his old schoolfellow ; they had shaken
hands when Brooke exclaimed, " I had nearly
forgotten, will you take charge of this parcel ? "
it looked like a couple of books tied up in
brown paper  " till I come back, or I will write
to you about it."

Certainly, with pleasure."

Good-bye, old fellow ! take take of yourself."


It was a gray lowering day when Stasie started
for C . She had felt faint and ill with the

wild beating of her heart, which always filled
her with uneasiness, the night before her departure.
This greatly increased her intense desire
to escape. A vague dim fear of poison was
forming itself in her mind as the only solution
of Brooke's hints and her own sensations ; but
she contrived to conceal her indisposition. Nothing,
she was determined, should interfere with
her journey.

Miss Stretton accompanied her to town. At
Waterloo they were met by Kharapet, who
escorted them to King's Cross, and was infinitely
amiable, smooth, insinuating, yet Stasie shrank
from him almost visibly. She read something
sinister in his glance, something sneering and
treacherous in his smile, nor did she breathe
freely till the steam-whistle sounded, and she
was whirled away from her old life for ever.

The quiet days, the rest, the sense of safety
in Ella's simple happy home, were of infinite
service in calming Stasie's excited nerves, and
restoring tone to her spirits. At first Mrs.
Mathews and her daughter were greatly distressed
to see how pallid and worn she looked,
to observe how readily her eyes filled with

tears, and how violently she started at the least
noise. Gradually these symptoms disappeared,
and Stasie grew more like herself, though restless,
always wishing to be out of doors, watching
for the postman, and constantly writing letters,
which she preferred to post herself.

Believe me, Stasie has more in her head
than you think," said Mrs. Mathews to her
daughter. " I never saw a girl so changed  indeed,
I must say, improved  she is so gentle
and ready to hear reason, and thoughtful. I am
certain she is in love."

Oh, no, mother ! she would be sure to tell
me!"

*' Don't you be too sure ; look how she watches
the postman ! "

Oh ! the delight, the pride, the strength conveyed
by those letters ! It was worth being all
that way away from Ifiim to have them ! and how
delicious, though puzzling, to reply, for Stasie
never could bring herself to write honeyed ]phrases,
but sought to veil her tenderness in playful conceits
and saucy little quibbles, which sent many a
thrill of joy through the heart of the reader as he
noticed that her mind was regaining its tone.

On the whole a fortnight slipped away much
faster than Stasie expected, and the moment of
departure had come.

I do wish, dear, you could have stayed just
one week longer," said Ella, as she stood with

her friend on the platform at the C station,

whither Mrs. Mathews, Janet, and one of the
younger boys had also come to speed the parting
guest. " You are so very much better. You would
have been quite yourself in a few days more."

You have done me worlds of good indeed,
but it would have been quite impossible for me
to stay," returned Stasie, who was flushed and
feverish. " I will write to you, dear, as soon as I
get to town, just to say I am safe. You must
really come and see me when we are settled in
London."

Here the youngest Mathews boy came running
up. " Here are your stamps, Stasie, and the
change ; I posted the letter all right."

Thank you, thank you. No, I don't want
the change, keep it. Oh ! here is train. Goodbye,
Ella. Good-bye, dear, dear Mrs. Mathews ;
I can never, never forget all your goodness tome,"
embracing her with tears.

VOL. III. 60

My dear, there was little I could do for you.
Are you sure your luggage was ticketed % "

Yes ! I saw to that," cried Fred, the third
boy, proudly. " They'll go all right, but she
never put her name on the box."

'' Good-bye ! Be sure you write ! "

Best regards to Mr. Baldwin ; thank him
for all his kindness ;" and she was off.

Tell me, Tom," said his mother, as they
walked slowly towards home, '' how was the
letter addressed that you posted for Stasie ? "

I dunno," said Tom. " I think there was
Sefton Park on it."

Sefton Park ! " repeated his mother ; " that
is strange, when she is going straight back there ;
it is very strange."

That lonely journey was probably Stasie's
greatest trial, but there was ample compensation
at the end of it, when Brooke, who had been on
the watch for some time, opened the carriage
door, and with a hasty whispered " At last, my
darling, at last ! " assisted her to alight, and,
drawing her hand through his arm, went to extricate

her luggage. This was quickly accomplished,
for the train was not crowded. Then
Stasie felt as if all her troubles were over. She
had in effect crossed the rubicon, and put herself
beyond the region of doubt. She possessed that
most precious gift that can bless the soul of
woman, complete faith in the knowledge, wisdom,
and honour of the man her heart prompted her
to love, and she was with him now for ever.

At Alma Terrace a vigorous preparation had
gone on since morning. Brooke, after a week's
residence, had announced the object of his
sojourn. His landlady and her daughter showed
the warmest sympathy. Indeed Brooke always
got on well with women, and though he said
as little as he could possibly help in explanation
of the privacy he wished to maintain, both
mother and daughter united in constructing a
little romance highly creditable to the fascinating
doctor if not to " his young lady."

It can therefore be imagined how delighted
Stasie was to be welcomed by a portly, kindly,
respectable-looking woman, who received her
with much deference and evident sympathy ;
then Brooke, laughing gaily, called for Miss

Hicks, and presenting lier to his fiancee, said,
'' I flatter myself I have remembered most things,
and I claim great credit in having provided you
with a bridesmaid."

Thank you, very much," said Stasie, whose
colour went and came with natural emotion,
penetrated as she was by the tender thought
shown for her by her lover, and she held out her
hand to the pleased smiling girl.

A bright fire, plenty of flowers, a table laid
for dinner, gave a gala aspect to the sitting-room.
Mrs. Hicks was ready to act as a motherly
lady's - maid, and the terrible sense of being
ashamed of herself began to be lifted from poor
Stasie's heart.

sewell, she is a sweet young lady," was the
judgment pronounced on her downstairs.

*' She is indeed, mother. She is quite beautiful
; any gentleman might want to run away
with her. And isn't he fond of her ! He looks
years younger than he did yesterday."

I am sure I hope they'll be happy," returned
the mother with a sigh. "Now I have seen
loth, I am quite sure it must have been heartless
brutes that came between them ! they seem just

made for each other ; but he is a good bit older
than she is. I am glad I persuaded him to
have a cake. I'm sure the young lady would
have thought it a poor compliment not to have
a cake ! Here, 'Lambeth, the fowl is done to a
turn, get the tray quick. Love or no love, people
must eat."

Upstairs, when Stasie had removed her wraps
and smoothed her hair, and come back to the
sitting-room with a slight graceful embarrassment,
Brooke caught her hands in his, exclaiming,
" Now let me have a good look at you after
all these long weeks." There was nothing in the
deep tender interest of his gaze to make it insupportable.


' I see you are nearly yourself again. My
love ! you have left all the ills, from which care
and affection can shield you, behind, when you
escaped that sneaking devil Kharapet."

The evening passed quickly in talking over
their plans.

"Aunt Clem writes me word that she has
taken a small house in Upper Baker Street," said
Stasie after a short pause, " and I fancy from
what she says that Mr. Harding and Hormuz

Kharapet have nearly quarrelled over it. Hormuz
would not agree to our having apartments,
and Mr. Harding thinks the house too dear.
Oh, Jim ! what a frightful row there will be
when everything is found out ! "

I expect there will," returned Brooke philosophically
: " but that will not matter much if
we can keep out of the way for a fortnight or so,
and I have had a letter posted for Robinson in
Paris that will rather throw them off the scent."

You will never let any one take me away
from you, Jim ? "

I should like to see any one try," rather
grimly. " Do you know, I have had to do a bit
of hard swearing for you. When I applied for
the license, the fellow in authority  surrogate I
think  asked about your age, and the consent of
parents, etc. I said you were an orphan ; fortunately
he did not press for particulars, and
only warned me of the penalty I incurred if I
married a minor against the consent of her protectors.
I wish, Stasie, I could catch Wyatt
before Harding and Kharapet get hold of him.
But it is time for me to leave you ; I want you
to get a good night's rest. Good-night, my love.

my own ! this is our last parting." A long embrace,
and, calling Mrs. Hicks, lie enjoined upon
her special care of the young lady before he
went away to the hotel where he was to sleep.
The next morning they were married.

Meantime all went smoothly at Sefton Park.
Mrs. Harding's removal to town had been delayed
in consequence of Willie having taken a severe
cold. Miss Stretton was briskly, cheerfully preparing
for her own removal, highly pleased at
the idea of being settled in town for the winter,
and quite convinced by Kharapet's reasonings
that a house and establishment of her own was
much more suitable to Stasie's comfort and dignity
than furnished lodgings. 'the thought
and consideration of that dear man is quite
amazing," she observed to Mrs. Harding the
afternoon of the day on which Stasie was married,
as she walked with her towards Limeville, after a
ramble through the rector's fields, all unconscious
of the important event which had taken place
that morning.

He gives himself a good deal of trouble, and
irritates Mr. Harding more than is necessary,"

replied his wife. '' You would have been quite
comfortable in furnished lodgings."

Perhaps so ; but certainly a house is much
more comme il faut. Ah ! here is Mr. Robinson."


The incumbent raised his hat with his usual
urbanity, and after an interchange of greetings,
asked if Aunt Clem had good accounts of Miss
Werner.

Excellent, my dear sir ; she writes in good
spirits, and intends to remain another week.
She asked, in her sweet way, if I could spare her
for a little longer as she was feeling so much
better. Of course I told her to stay by all means,
that I could manage our moving without her.
This morning I had a few lines thanking me, and
I imagine they are going to have company or
something, for she says she will be much occupied,
and that she will not write again this
week."

'i Very glad she is so much better, and very

sorry we are to lose her and you. Miss Stretton."

By the bye, have you heard anything of

Dr. Brooke ? He has not written since he left,"

said Mrs. Harding.

I had a note from tim a few days ago from
Paris, asking me to send some books lie lead left
at my place to this old lodgings, and he desired
his kind regards to you."

Did he say when he was coming back ? "

No ; there were not half-a-dozen lines in
all."

I daresay he may go on to Brussels. He
has been wanting to see Brussels."

* He is a lucky fellow to be able to run about
as he likes. Good morning ;" and Mr. Robinson
passed on.

There was some cleaning and white-washing
to be done in the house selected by Miss Stretton,
or, rather, by Kharapet, and the workmen were,
as usual, procrastinating and provoking, so the
days went past, and Miss Stretton grew impatient
and weary of living half-packed up, and far from
comfortable.

It is very wretched here," she said one afternoon
more than a week after the above conversation,
as she was parting from her friend Mr.
Kharapet, who had been enjoying some of Bloods
best dishes, and bidding her adieu. I do
wish you would call at the house-agent's and

endeavour to hasten him. The Hardings will
be away on Thursday, and I really cannot stay
here alone."

No ; certainly not. We will hasten these
lazy dogs. We will make our dear Stasie return
to you."

Indeed, I am astonished Stasie does not
write, and, by the way, there was a letter for her
this morning. I will send it on, and ask what
she is about "

A letter for Stasie ? " interrupted Kharapet,
with sudden sharp curiosity. *' Let me see it."

Miss Stretton obeyed. It was a ship letter,
directed in a straggling hand, and the envelope
was of the commonest. It was, moreover, addressed
to Mr. Harding's care, and had been readdressed
by one of the clerks. Kharapet turned
it over and over ; his fingers itched to open it,
but he dared not.

Returning it to Aunt Clem, he said gently,
'eyes, dear lady, I would send it on at once, and
beg her to fix a day for her return. I shall be here
again the day after tomorrow, and hope to tell you
that your new abode is ready. If you will write
a few lines to Stasie I can post them in town."

Miss Stretton complied, and the Syrian carried
off the epistle and its enclosure with him.

The next day but one Kharapet made his
appearance at an unusually early hour. He
wanted to consult Mr. Harding (who was not
going into town that day) respecting some
matter of business, and to return to the city
before noon. But he found time enough to pause
at Limeville, and give Bhoodhoo a private hint
that he had not yet breakfasted.

He was so early that Miss Stretton had not
appeared above the visible horizon. She was not
an early riser either by taste or habit. Kharapet
therefore waited with what patience he could.
He tried to read the paper, but in vain ; his attention
was engrossed by two letters which lay
on the breakfast-table, addressed to Miss Stratton,
one in a curious, left-handed looking writing,

while the other, a thick packet, had the C

postmark.

Presently Miss Stretton, arrayed in a " sweet "
morning cap and smiling a gracious welcome,
entered.

"How very kind of you, dear Mr. Kharapet,

to come in sans ceremonie ! I hope Bhoodhoo
has something nice for us."

You are always well provided," with a bow ;
but do not let me keep you from your letters,"
handing them to her.

Dear me ! whom can this be from '? " examining
the smaller envelope. ' I seem to know the
hand, and yet I don't. ' N. E.,' I know no one
in the N. E. district ; but this, this is Mrs. Baldwin's
writing," tearing it open in haste, and letting
a letter fall out, whilst she glanced with changing
colour at a note enclosed.

Oh, good gracious ! What has become of
her ? Oh, read, read, Mr. Kharapet ! my head is
turning round."

Kharapet seized the paper with fierce eagerness,
and read 

"Dear Miss Stretton  Janet says she is
sure the enclosed is from you. I therefore lose
no time in returning it. I trust there is nothing
wrong ; but dear Stasie left us on the 28th, by
the 12.30 train for King's Cross.  Yours very
truly, Ella Baldwin."

Kharapet uttered an exclamation in some unknown
tongue, and then stood silent, paralysed.

Miss Stretton burst into tears. 'My dear
child, my precious niece ! Lie has been robbed
and murdered, and heaven only knows what'*

Bah ! " broke out Kharapet furiously, for
once natural and unrestrained. " Don't you see
she is gone of her own free will. She has fled
with some one, and escaped  escaped ! "

I don't believe it, I can't believe it," cried
Aunt Clem.

'' Head this ! " he exclaimed, in a tone of rude
command, and he tore the other letter open for
her.

'' Ah ! " cried Aunt Clem, " it is from herself ;"
and she read 

'dear Aunt  I am well, safe, and happy''

Stasie."

'' I don't believe it," sobbed Miss Stretton
hysterically. *' Some villain has forced her to
write this with a pistol at her head ! "

Kharapet did not heed her. He was closely
examining the writing, the envelope, the signatures
of both letters.

"sae never would go away with any one,"
continued Miss Stretton. " She did not care
enough for any one "

I must take these to Mr. Harding at once'
interrupted Kharapet, who was greatly agitated,
and even forgetful of his breakfast. "It is most
mysterious. Hear me ! " lie said, harshly, roughly,
to the weeping, trembling woman beside him, "Be
silent in the matter. Do not let the household
know. Should we discover and bring her back,
their ignorance would make her return easier."

I will not say a word," cried poor Aunt Clem,
terrified and obedient. "" But do wait for me.
I will put on my bonnet in a moment. I can't
stay here by myself."

You can follow," returned Kharapet, in the
same abrupt savage tone ; and gathering up the
letters he crushed them into his pocket. Miss
Stretton hesitated an instant, and then followed
him into the hall, where she found him speaking
rapidly and emphatically in Hindoostanee to
Bhoodhoo, whose big dark eyes were alight with
an expression of surprise and alarm. Neither
noticed her ; and when Kharapet ceased to speak,
Bhoodhoo said something in reply  a few words
but ending in " doctor Sahib," at which Parapet
shook his head, and, with an exclamation,
went rapidly away.

The morning meal at Sefton House was over.
Mr. Harding had thrown down his table-napkin
and taken np the Times, the children had gone
for their morning run before settling to lessons,
and Mrs. Harding's hand was on the door, as she
was going to her diurnal interview with " cook'
when Kharapet, pale, breathless, rushed in, nearly
overturning Mrs. Harding in his onset.

'' She is gone, fled, we know not whither ? "
he gasped, his face greenly white, his eyes flashing
angrily, viciously.

Who has gone ? what's the matter ? are you
out of your mind, man ? " exclaimed Mr. Harding:,
rising.

Stasie ! " cried Mrs. Harding, with a stunned
feeling, as if dazed by a sudden revelation.

Ah ! yes, Stasie. You knew, did you ? " cried
Kharapet, turning on her fiercely.

"I say, what the deuce is the matter?" said
Harding, looking from one to the other, half
angry, half bewildered.

Here, read and understand," said Kharapet,
spreading out the letters with trembling hands.
See what a devilish device ! She, so proud, so
cold, she has given herself to some beggar ; she
has refused me for some scoundrel who dared
not ask for her openly. We will have her back,
shall we not ? and punish both. What is your
law for such an offence, Harding ? foolishness, I
doubt not : a woman like that should not live ; "
and he suddenly burst into Hindoostanee, speaking
with vehemence in broken sentences, gasping
as if for breath between them, as though under
the influence of furious passion.

Even Mr. Harding's attention was diverted
for a moment from the papers before him. " Gad !
you have lost your senses, Kharapet, you don't
know what you are talking about ; pull yourself
together, for this is a nasty business. Here, let
me understand."

Thus admonished, Kharapet seemed to recover
some of his habitual self-control, though his
voice still trembled, and his tongue seemed

parched. He explained how these letters had
just arrived, and that the one enclosed had been
forwarded to C by Miss Stretton. Mr. Harding
now began to peruse them, and his wife,
thrilling with anxiety, leant over his shoulder
as he had resumed his seat. Kharapet paced
the room, striving to master his agitation.

"It is pretty clear then," said Harding, looking
up, "that Stasie disappeared on the 28th,
this day week, and has not since been heard of.
Now she didn't go alone : the thing has been well
planned. She has got a week the start of us ; it
will be devilish hard to track her ; our only chance
is knowing the train she travelled by. The guard
may have noticed who met her. We must apply
to the police. The question is, Who is the man %
Have you any idea ?" turning sharply on his wife.

I have no reason to suspect any one," she
said nervously. " Could it be that  that Mr.
Pearson ? "

Mr. Harding shook his head. " He need not
have run off with her. We could not have refused
him if she consented ; it would have been
a suitable marriage." Kharapet murmured something.
" No, that's not the man. Whom else did

VOL. III. 61

she know ? " continued Harding, '' your cousin
Brooke, eh, Livy ? He is unlikely to do anything
disreputable. He would have asked openly;
no, it is some secret disgraceful affair." Here
poor Miss Stretton came in, her bonnet awry,
her shawl half off, and sinking on the sofa proceeded
to drown herself in tears.

I am convinced that the dear child had no
attachment whatever ; she was the essence of all
that is modest and correct. She has been taken
away by stratagem : I saw there was a dark man
bent on working her evil."

"That is all trash," replied Harding rudely.
What do you think ? " to his wife.

I do not know what to think or whom to
suspect, but I am afraid Stasie has gone of her
own free will."

At any rate, she has done for herself. We
cannot break the marriage now. It's a devil of
a business. You don't think it's Brooke's doing,
do you ? "

It is the last thing I should accuse him of,"
cried Mrs. Harding warmly ; " besides, he has
been away in Paris for quite three weeks."

Are you sure of that ? "

"Yes; Mr. Robinson lead a letter from him
from Paris the other day."

Send Robinson a line asking for the letter,"
cried Mr. Harding : " ask him to come up ; " then,
looking hard at his wife, " If I thought you had

any hand in this, by , you'd find out low

angry I'd be."

In all her deep distress for her friend, Mrs.
Harding remembered the task she had undertaken,
and, looking straight into her husband's
eyes, she said quietly and firmly, '' I should do
what I thought right, irrespective of your anger.
However, I can truly say that I have not the
smallest reason to suppose Dr. Brooke capable
of such a breach of propriety."

Harding's eyes fell, and he then exclaimed,
Why, what dolts we have all been ! Here, this
letter may throw some light on the matter," and
he picked up the one which had been returned
to Miss Stretton, and unhesitatingly opened it.
By Jove ! " he exclaimed in great surprise, '' it
is from that scamp young Mathews, and here's a
bill on Grey, Hughes, and Co. for 15 ; it is dated
from Shanghai." He proceeded to read 

"My dear Stasie  We are only just in

port after a splendid voyage, Not a soul among
the passengers afforded mee an opportunity of
proving my skill ; but a couple of the crew were
oblioino enough to be ill, and I cured them first-rate.
I have made friends with the captain,
who has relations here, and they have asked me
to stay with them. I am to draw my pay tomorrow,
so ril send 15, as a first instalment off
my debt to you. Fm not good at sentiment,
but I believe you've been the making of me, and
I'll never forget it. You take care of yourself,
Stasie, for you are an uncommon nice girl ; don't
you be imposed upon. I don't think much of
that long-legged doctor ; you've rather a fancy
for him, or I'm much mistaken. I'll be right
glad when I know you are safe out of the clutches
of those greedy sneaks the executors. Wouldn't
they like to pocket your cash and send you about
your business, in spite of their white covered
respectability ? I declare, if we were not so like
brother and sister, I'd marry you myself, just to
look after you. I have to write home, so must
stop. God bless you ! may you fall into the
hands of as good a fellow as yourself is the prayer
of yours ever, Egbert Mathews."

The vulgar, impudent, young blackguard, '
cried Mr. Harding indignantly, "what do you
say to that, ma'am ? " to poor Miss Stretton, as
the most helpless object on which to pour the
vials of his wrath. "There is a nice intimate
friend for a young lady. I don't think we need
doubt now about her being too delicate to run off
of her own free will."

'' I will . . ne . . ver give up my . . faith in
that swe . . et girl," sobbed Aunt Clem, ' though
what is to become of me I know not."

If you had looked after her a little sharper

began Mr. Harding, folding up Bob's bill,

and proceeding to put it into his pocket-book.

Pardon me, Mr. Harding ! " said Kharapet,
almost restored to himself at the sight of this
appropriation, "shave the best right to that.
1 redeemed the jewels with my own money, and
you had better give it to me."

* Pooh, nonsense ; we'll place it to the account,
and you can have your interest."

Kharapet objected, and a warm dispute would
have raged had not Mr. Robinson been announced.


I have just met your messenger, Mrs. Harding,

and have come in to answer in person. Why,
what is the matter ? "

It was soon explained, and the little man was
deeply distressed. He was quite sure Brooke
was not the partner of Miss Werner's flight,
though he fancied his friend was a good deal
impressed by that young lady's charms. As to
the note, he had unfortunately torn it up. There
was nothing in it, but he quite well remembered
that the post-mark was Paris, October 28. After
this came a great confusion of tongues, and Mrs.
Harding at length avowed her leaning to the theory
of Brooke being the delinquent. She thought
his great anxiety about Stasie's health was more
than that of an acquaintance ; in short, she knew
he would have gladly tried to win her, but feared
she did not favour him ; then the hint in Bob

Mathews' letter, and she could not tell why,

but the conviction grew upon her, she had often
thought Dr. Brooke unnecessarily alarmed about
Miss Yerner s health.

Kharapet turned many colours while Mrs.
Harding spoke, and a silence ensued, broken by
an occasional sob from Miss Stretton, who saw all
her fair hopes of the future shivered and laid

low. " I cannot believe Dr. Brooke guilty of
such reckless impropriety," said Mr. Harding,
"I think it more in that smart young lancer's
line. Let us send over to Hounslow and ascertain
his whereabouts, and now there is nothing left but
to put the matter in the hands of the police. The
mischief is done ; we can but do our best to save
the property. You had better come with me,
Kharapet.'

That individual rose mechanically from the chair
into which he had subsided  pale, limp, crest-fallen.

Do, do take some refreshment, my dear sir,"
cried Miss Stretton, faithful to the last, " you
have had a great shock, and you need support."
But Kharapet was too far gone to heed anything,
till Mrs. Harding, struck by his exhausted look,
seconded Miss Stretton's proposition. Then the
gentlemen departed on their rather hopeless
errand, and Mrs. Harding kindly insisted on poor
distracted Aunt Clem spending the rest of the
day with her.

But the search was difficult ; so much time
had been gained by the fugitive that her traces
were lost.

Meantime, the days flew fast for the newly-married
pair. The strange sweetness of finding
herself the object of passionate affection, and,
at length, bound by the ties of duty as well
as preference, lent a new aspect to life in
Stasie's eyes. Yet she could not feel quite at
rest until all was known to the few friends she
valued so highly, and more than once she hinted
to her husband that it would be well to return
to London and get through the bad quarter
of an hour which awaited them, as quickly as
possible.

But Brooke could not bring himself to curtail
the delicious interval by a moment. He had
never dreamed of anything half so delightful as
this close and loving intercourse with a heart
and mind so fresh, so keen to perceive, to enjoy,
to learn, ready to look up to and believe in him,
yet never losing their individuality. It seemed
to bring back the brightness and vitality of his
own boyhood, without lessening the strength and
richness accumulated by matured nature.

To avoid the roving English who abound at
all times and seasons in Europe's fairest capital,
Brooke had selected an old-fashioned hotel near the

Luxembourg, where everything was thoroughly
French. He himself often made excursions to
the more cosmopolitan side of the Seine, to get
books, English papers, etc., but Stasie kept out
of sight in the old Faubourg.

One morning (for Brooke considered that the
safest time of day) as he was leaving Gagliani's,
intending to cross the Tuileries gardens to the
bridges, he ran against a very English-looking
Englishman  clean shaved, with snowy linen,
and correct travelling costume. The gentleman
started back and begged pardon. To Brooke's
surprise he recognised Mr. Percy Wyatt. Our
doctor was a man of prompt decision ; he immediately
raised his hat, saying, " Mr. Percy Wyatt,
I think?"

'' Yes," said that gentleman blandly ; " I am
sure I know you quite well, but at this moment
I cannot remember your name."

I have only had the pleasure of meeting you
twice," replied Brooke, 'rand in your busy life
you see so many that I do not expect you to remember
me. I am a little better known to Lady
Elizabeth. Allow me to introduce myself  Dr.
Brooke,  th Dragoons."

Very happy, I am sure."

Is Lady Elizabeth in Paris ? "

Yes, yes ; we arrived the night before last
from Istria. Most interesting country. We have
had some very curious experiences ! The abuses
there are frightful, most frightful. I mean to
expose them thoroughly."

Ah ! a fatiguing journey for Lady Elizabeth."

No doubt, but her energy is amazing, quite
amazing."

'' I should like to do myself the honour of
calling, if you think Lady Elizabeth would be
disposed to receive me."

Oh, certainly ; by all means," said Mr.
Wyatt, who was never quite certain of his ground
among his wife's many favourites, and was not
sure as to Brooke's standing. He might be the
last Al ; and at any rate there could be no harm
in admitting a good-looking, well-bred man. " I
am just returning to Maurice's (we always put up
at Maurice's) ; come with me. She will be delighted
to see you."

Brooke very readily complied.

Her ladyship was not in the little salon when
they ascended to Mr. Wyatt's suite of apartments,

and Brooke lost no time in opening up his subject.


I want to ask Lady Elizabeth's permission
to present my wife to her. We are here on our
wedding trip."

Oh, indeed ! I was not aware. Very interesting,
I am sure."

"The fact is," resumed Brooke, "the young
lady is an orphan and was rather peculiarly situated.
Her guardian at a distance, a dangerous
rival to be circumvented ; so I persuaded her to
dispense with consents, and escape with me."

Indeed ! Very romantic ! very interesting !

Lady Elizabeth will be deeply Oh, here she

is ! My dear ! this is a friend of yours  Dr.
Brooke  who is anxious to know how you have
borne the fatigue of our adventurous journey."

Ah ! Dr. Brooke," said her ladyship graciously,
" I am very glad to see you ! I am sure
it is a marvel that I am alive ! I am going to
write my experiences, which I am sure Bentley
will be delighted to publish. I have made copious
notes," etc. etc.

Brooke listened patiently with profound attention
for nearly half an hour, at the end of which

time ]her ladyship being exhausted for the
moment, Mr. Wyatt put in his word.

Our friend here has been committing matrimony
since we had the pleasure of seeing him 
ran away with a young lady, to escape a dangerous
rival ! Quite a romance of the nineteenth
century."

How shocking ! " cried Lady Elizabeth, with
a winning smile. "I should not have believed it
of you, Dr. Brooke. I hope she has a large
fortune ! "

'' I am not sure what she has. Lady Elizabeth.
But I should like to ensure your acquaintance
and friendly offices. Your backing up would be
of great importance, I need not say."

Indeed ! you overestimate my influence,"
cried Lady Elizabeth ; " but such as it is it will,
I am sure, be at your service when you have told
me a few particulars."

These you have a right to ask," returned
Brooke, smiling. '*My wife is an orphan, she
has no near relative. Her guardian, a man of
high position, who is necessarily almost a stranger
to her, was away, we scarce knew where. She
was persecuted by a man she did not like. The

time of my return to my regiment was drawing
near, so, with much difficulty, I persuaded her to
run away with me."

Lady Elizabeth listened with deep attention,
a light dawning on her as Brooke spoke. ** Pray,
are you not some relation of Mrs. Harding's ? "
she asked, as he paused.

I am her first cousin."

Then you have run away with StasieVerner?"
cried her ladyship, clasping her hands together.

I have."

With my ward ! This is most extraordinary
most reprehensible  most  most  really,
words fail me ! And, great heavens ! what an
additional load of work and worry it will lay on
my already overburdened shoulders. It is most

inconsiderate, to say the least, and  and "

cried Mr. Wyatt.

My dear sir, do not worry yourself unnecessarily,"
said Brooke with quiet decision. " Stasie
has been my wife for nearly three weeks. Nothing
can undo that. Give your consent, and all
difficulty will be at an end. Tie up my wife's
fortune as you like, so long as she has the benefit
of it, backed up by you, the executors cannot

object, and you will find that in the end I have
saved instead of given you trouble."

Mr. Wyatt was much struck by the arguments
adduced by Brooke, who proceeded to lay his own
position and prospects before the philanthropic
M.P. Lady Elizabeth, after some demur occasioned
by backward glances to her favourite of
last season, was caught by the glow of Brooke's language
and the force of his representation. Both
being mainly influenced by the fact that nothing
now could undo the marriage ; so at last Mr.
Wyatt, having stipulated for the most careful
detail in the post-nuptial settlement, agreed to
withdraw all opposition. Whereupon Brooke,
determined to strike while the iron was hot, persuaded
the guardian to Avrite his consent, addressed
to Mr. Harding, which Brooke accompanied by a
friendly letter from himself.

Stasie had been wondering at her husband's
prolonged absence, and even began to hope that
nothing unpleasant had occurred, when he entered,
looking so radiant that she sprang up to
meet him, exclaiming, " Who have you seen ? "

'* My darling," cried Brooke, throwing his
arms round her, " sit down and write to Livy

Harding and Aunt Clem as fast as you like. I
have been spending the morning with Mr. Wyatt
and Lady Elizabeth. He has not only given his
consent, but written it ; and that limb of Satan,
the executor, is fairly checkmated.

With virtue rewarded and vice defeated, if
not punished, the story ought to end. Very little
remains to tell.

Of course the bride and bridegroom returned
to London, to wait the conclusion of legal matters
before going to Italy for the remainder of winter.

Aunt Clem again retired into "furnished
apartments," but they were neither mean nor
uncomfortable ; and she frequently observed to
her female friends, of whom quite an agreeable
circle gathered round her, " that a sweeter or
more distinguished young creature than her niece,
IVIrs. Brooke, did not exist  and grateful too.
She has never forgotten how faithfully I stood by
her in very trying circumstances."

Mr. Harding found he had to reckon with a
very friendly inquisitor when matters came to be
investigated, and the little errors he had committed,
in his efforts to enrich his young friend,

were overlooked. On the whole, Stasie's fortune
was nearly intact.

On one point Brooke was inflexible. He
would not permit Kharapet to enter his wife's
presence. Indeed, he wrote what Kharapet told
Miss Stretton in confidence was a most unchristian
and uncharitable letter which, out of consideration
to Stasie's husband, he (Kharapet) had destroyed.
In short, the gentle Syrian thought it well to avoid
his former beloved niece, and to find that pressing
business demanded his presence in Bombay.

A few days before Dr. and Mrs. Brooke were
to start on their southward journey, he was reading:
the Times after breakfast, when he uttered
an exclamation, and called to his wife, '' Look
at this, Stasie ! "

She came, and leaning upon his shoulder, read
as follows, under the head of '' Ponce Intelligence
: "

'' Thames Street.  Inspector Moule of the C
Division attended to explain to the magistrate
the circumstances attending the death of a Hindoo,
who was yesterday seized with strong convulsions
in a lane near Tapping, and who died
while being removed to the infirmary. The man

was well dressed, and had a considerable sum 
over fifty pounds  sewn up in his waistband.
In a pocket-book was a certificate of good character,
and a recommendation to captains of vessels
trading to Bombay, of the bearer, Bhoodhoo,
a native of that town, signed by Mr. Harding, a
gentleman well known in the city, and Mr. Hormuz
Kharapet, whose interesting speeches in favour of
extending English protection to the Christians of
Syria, at the meeting in favour of that project,
may be remembered. Epilepsy, conjoined with a
weak heart, is supposed to have been the cause of
death. The magistrate directed that the gentlemen
above mentioned should be communicated
with, in order to obtain their directions respecting
the disposal of the poor man's money."

Brooke looked at his wife significantly, and
said in a low voice, " The dead tell no tales."

Stasie's lip quivered, and putting her arms
round his neck, they exchanged a long, silent
embrace.

