CHAPTER I.

IHE morning tide of business some dozen
years ago was at its fullest flow in the
extensive premises of Messrs. Thornton
and Trent, solicitors, Sydenham Chambers,
E.C. Rows of clerks on the ground-floor offices
were rapidly covering sheets of paper with dreary
crowds of monotonous words, or, worse, long columns
of appalling figures. Others came to and fro, and
spoke frequent messages into tubes up and down,
for the * well-known firm ' occupied several stories
of the building.

Above, in the first floor, were the private rooms
of the partners  solemn chambers, where law
assumed its stateliest aspect, and visitors instinctively
perceived the courtliness of Chancery.
In another quarter of an hour luncheon-time
VOL. I. I

would bring a temporary lull ; meantime, all worked
at full steam.

Upstairs Mr. Trent had been in consultation
with Mr. Thurston and one of their chief clerks
respecting some difficult points in a heavy Chancery
suit.

Mr. Trent, a slight spare man, with keen dark
eyes, hair just touched with grey, and a countenance
somewhat worn and watchful, had turned his chair
a little from the knee-hole table loaded with papers
before which he sat, to look at his partner, who
stood in front of the empty grate.

Mr. Thurston was the type of a high-class man
of business. His Oxford-grey morning-coat and
nether garments had come from the hands of an
artist, his snowy linen was the * outward and visible
sign ' of exalted respectability, and his pale cream-coloured
summer waistcoat perfection itself in cut
and getting up. His neat black tie was surmounted
by a face somewhat old-fashioned in aspect (there
are old-fashioned faces), but by no means unpleasing.

A much older man than his partner, his hair was
yet quite free from silver threads, and his eyes
could look all men clearly in the face, although they
needed the help of the small unobtrusive eye-glass
with which he habitually played while discussing
knotty points.

The third in the group was a young man of perhaps
six-and-twenty; he might be more from his airof cool
self-possession. Taller than either of his employers
and remarkably well proportioned, he had that indefinable

air of distinction which they lacked 
abundant wavy hair, called by friends golden, by
detractors red, eyes of blue-grey, and lips rather
soft and full perhaps, yet which could smile sweetly,
frankly, intelligently, even when a glimpse of something
hard might be caught in the eyes. His clothes
were well cut and carefully put on, and altogether
he was a figure which could not be unnoticed, as he
stood at the other side of Mr. Trent's table holding
the back of a chair with his long shapely
hand.

Well, then, that is the line we shall adopt,' said
Mr. Thurston in conclusion, drawing the fine black
cord by which his eye-glass was suspended through
his fingers ; ' and now I think I shall take my biscuit
and sherry''

'It is almost one o'clock,' observed Mr. Trent.
I have not finished half my letters, and I have an
appointment at two about that compromise of
Thompson's.'

Nevertheless,' said the young clerk, coming a
step forward, ' I am going to ask for a few minutes
of your time on my own account.'

Certainly,' said Mr. Thurston.

By all means said Mr. Trent.

I see in to-day's Times I continued the young
man, taking up the paper and turning it rapidly
over, ' that a cousin of mine has been killed when
hunting. Here is the paragraph;' and doubling
down the paper at the passage he had found, he
handed it to Mr. Thurston, who, raising his glass,

I  2

read aloud in a well-trained voice and with correct
emphasis as follows :

The accident, reported in our impression of
yesterday, to Mr. Hugh Piers, of Pierslynn, while
hunting with the Saltshire hounds, has, we regret
to say, terminated fatally. The unfortunate gentleman
breathed his last yesterday evening in the
cottage where he had been carried from the field.
His death will cast a gloom over a large circle with
whom he was deservedly popular, both as an excellent
landlord and a thorough sportsman. Mr. Piers
was unmarried, and we understand his estates devolve
on a distant cousin.'

'Ah  um  I think we have heard of this relative
said Mr. Thurston.

It affects you, Reginald?' asked Mr. Trent.

Considerably he returned with a quick, irrepressible,
exultant laugh ; * inasmuch as I am now
Piers of Pierslynn.'

Indeed !' exclaimed Mr. Thurston.

You are sure you can prove your title?' said Mr.
Trent.

Certain,' replied Piers. * I am well up in the
ramifications of my family ; and though I never
dreamed of succeeding to the estate  for this poor
fellow was little more than thirty-nine, in rude
health, likely to marry and have no end of sons
and daughters  I have been always aware I was
his next-of-kin. If you will glance at this '  drawing
a paper from his pocket  * it will show you
how I stand.'

He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and placed it
before Mr. Trent. It was inscribed thus :

Dorothy Piers, of Pierslynn, m. Geoffrey Stapleton, who
took her name.

\

I II!

Gilbert. Hugh. Arthur. John.

i I I

I I Geoffrey. Gilbert.

John. Arthur, I

I died unmarried. Algerian.

Hugh. I

Reginald. Helen.

Here you see,' he continued, ' is our common
ancestor, Geoffrey Stapleton Piers. He had four
sons. The man just killed was the grandson of the
eldest. I am the third in descent from Arthur.
Mrs. Trent is the great-granddaughter of John.'

That seems quite clear,' said Mr. Thurston,
following his young friend's explanation with
urbane attention and observant eye-glass.

Yes,' added Mr. Trent. ' But what about this
Geoffrey, son of Hugh ? Had he no family?'

No. Geoffrey died unmarried ; in fact, as is
usual, only the pauperism branches of our family
increased and multiplied.'

Well, my young friend,' said Mr. Thurston with
solemn kindliness, ' accept my best congratulations
and good wishes.'

It will be a great change for you, if your claim
proves valid,' remarked his partner gravely.

Very great,' returned Piers. ' From genteel

pauperism to fortune and position ! I never can
be grateful enough to that brother-in-law of mine
for having let me have the run of his stables occasionally,
or I should be an unworthy inheritor of
Pierslynn, and successor to such a mighty hunter
as the late owner.' The young man's face grew
radiant, and his eyes evidently saw distant visions,
as imagination depicted a fascinating array of pleasures
and privilege awaiting the owner of a fine
estate.

'What is the rent-roll?' asked Mr. Trent, turning
to his table and drawing his writing-book to him.

I do not exactly know  not under five thousand
a year, I fancy,' returned Piers.

I hope it is unencumbered,' said Mr. Thurston,
advancing from the hearth rug in the direction of
the door ; ' a bachelor of sporting proclivities is
only too apt to outrun his means.'

'Not Hugh Piers!' exclaimed his successor. 'He
was a shrewd fellow, by all accounts, who never let
pleasure cost him too much.'

'I rather imagine, my young friend, you have
been taking stock of your possible inheritance,'
said Mr. Thurston, fingering his eye-glass, with a
smile of superiority ; ' although you say you never
anticipated this sudden turn of fortune's wheel.'

I assure you I did not ; only rumours quill get
afloat,' replied Piers.

Well, well, you have my best wishes ; and, I
may add, the law has lost a smart disciple ;' which
porte and proper sentence brought Mr. Thurston to

the door. Before he had touched the handle, however,
it was opened rather abruptly  a clerk entered,
and, with a deferential ' I beg your pardon ' to the
respected principal, went straight to Mr. Trent's
table, and laid a card before him, saying, ' Wishes
to see you, sir.'

Show him up,' returned Mr. Trent ; adding, as
the clerk went out, 'it is the Admiral  Admiral
Desbarres. I wonder what has brought him up to
town again. Reginald ! I have no time now ; but
dine with us to-day, and we will talk matters over.
Mrs. Trent will be very glad to see you.'

I will just shake hands with the excellent
Admiral before I leave you,' said Mr. Thurston,
pausing.

'And I ' began Piers, when he was interrupted

by the entrance of an old gentleman, above middle
height, with slightly stooped shoulders, iron-grey
hair, and whiskers nearly white ; a thoughtful,
almost sad expression softened his handsome, embroiled
face, and full, dark, wistful eyes.

'Hope I see you well, sir?* said Mr. Thurston,
with an air of deference.

This is an unexpected pleasure. Admiral,' said
Mr. Trent, rising to receive him. ' I hope all's well
with you ?'

*With me, yes,' returned the Admiral, shaking
hands with him; 'but I have come on a sad errand.
Is not this gentleman Mr. Piers  Mr.Reginald Piers?'
he added, arresting the young man's movement to
leave the room.

Yes,' replied Mr. Trent, as Piers paused and
bowed.

I have had the pleasure of meeting you, sometime
ago, at Mr. Fieldenen's?  the Rev. Frederic
Fieldenen's,' continued the Admiral in a pleasant
deliberate voice, and with much grave courtesy.

I remember perfectly having been presented to
you at Cheddington, nearly three years ago; but
I hardly thought you would remember me.'

I seldom forget,' said the Admiral. ' I regret I
have to tell you that our mutual friend, Mr. Fieldenen,
died about a week ago. It is this that has brought
me up to town on my way to Dresden, where he
and his family have been residing for some time.
You are aware that my ward, Laura Piers, who is
some distant relation of yours, I believe, always
lived with her Uncle Fieldenen ? Poor fellow ! His
death has been very sudden. He was considered a
malade imaginaire, but he has proved the reality of
his pretensions. His niece, daughter, and a young
son are left sadly desolate.'

I am very sorry to hear this,' replied Reginald,
with an air of much concern. ' It will be a blow in
every' way to Dick, the eldest son, who was my
chum in former days.

'He is in a banking house in Calcutta, is he not?'
asked the Admiral.

He is, and doing very well, I believe.'
This is the second sudden death we have heard of
this morning,' said Mr. Thurston gravely. ' It is
remarkable and startling. I will leave you with

my colleague, and wish you good-day, Admiral
Desbarres.' He left the room.

Good-morning,' said the Admiral, politely dismissing
Reginald Piers, who bowed himself out,
and, drawing forward the skirts of his loose-fitting
dark frock-coat, the Admiral sat down opposite his
confidential man of business, and then there was a
pause. The Admiral was not to be hurried.

At length Mr. Trent remarked mildly, 'I am
quite at your service ; but I have an appointment
at two.'

I will not trespass long on your time,' said the
Admiral in his gentle voice, which one could hardly
fancy shouting orders through a speaking-trumpet ;
but I am somewhat puzzled how to act under the
present circumstances.'

How do you mean, my dear sir?'

I mean, how shall I best fulfil the serious responsibilities
which have devolved upon me through
the death of this poor gentleman ?'

Of Mr. Fieldenen ? I do not see what responsibilities
have devolved upon you through his
death.'

They are very distinct to me. For years Mr.
Fieldenen's kind care of my ward provided her with a
happy home, and relieved me of all anxiety on her
account. Now, he is summoned by the Great Master,
and the boy and girl who were as brother and
sister to Laura are left, I fear, unprovided for. How
can I separate them, and leave these helpless young
creatures to battle with life as best they can ?'

Your ward has, I presume, some fortune of her
own?'

An officer's daughter is seldom well dowered 
of course, it is clearly my duty to care for her ; but
the others  I must help them, though I can scarce
devise the means.'

But, my dear sir, this is benevolence run riot.
The children of the late Mr. Fieldenen have no
shadow of claim upon you,' etc., etc. ; and Mr. Trent
went on to discourse very logically on this theme.

The Admiral heard him with an unmoved countenance,
while he drew a large note-book from his
pocket, and turned over its contents slowly. 'I see,'
he resumed, selecting a slip of paper covered with
clear, carefully neat writing and figures, * by this
memo, of my resources, I see there is a sum of two
thousand five hundred pounds which only pays
three and a half per cent. I should like to get
higher interest, say five or five and a half.'

Certainly you might, Admiral Desbarres ; but if
you remember when we invested that amount for
you, you said you only cared for a fair and safe
income, and that you would run no risk.'

True ; but circumstances have changed. I heard
a short time back of an undertaking in Hungary, a
scheme to connect some towns  the names of
which I cannot recall  by means of a canal, for
which the nephew of a friend of mine was organizing
a company. He assures me that money invested
in this undertaking would yield a return of eight
per cent, to the original stockholders.'

Mr. Trent shook his head with utter, unmistakable
disapprobation. * No, no, my dear sir, you
must touch nothing of the kind. They would probably
give you eight per cent, for eighteen months
or thereabouts  that is, they would give you about
two hundred pounds for your two thousand five
hundred, and that is all you would ever see of the
investment. No ! if you midst have higher interest,
we \Yill look out for you ; but remember there is
scarcely anything safe over five per cent'

'It is a small provision,' said the Admiral thoughtfully,
' and it is evident the poor children are almost

destitute. Laura writes ' He unfolded a letter,

and read as follows : ' " I wish you could come to us,
dearest guardian. I feel quite bewildered, no one
knows what to do ; poor Winnie is stupefied with
grief. We have only twenty-five marks and a few
pfennige in the house, and it seems as if there was no
more money anywhere. Where did my dear uncle
keep his money ? Winnie thinks you may know.
Pray forgive me if I ask too much, but we do not
seem to have a friend on earth except yourself"
There can be but one answer to that appeals continued
the Admiral. * I am now on my way to
Dresden ; but before quitting England I wish to
leave matters in train to increase my income.'

I shall of course do my best to carry out your
instructions ; but I must entreat you not to take a
load on your back which you may not be able to
carry  at least, without due reflection.'

I have reflected,' said the Admiral, * and it is

strongly borne in upon me that I ought to be the
protector of these poor, helpless orphans, at least
till they can help themselves. As I am bound to
reside in the home my invalid sister has made forme,
I must seek some safe shelter for the bereaved
young creatures.'

'But these young Fieldens have surely some
relatives who will befriend them, or some funds of
which your correspondent is ignorant V said Mr.
Trent.

I shall endeavour to ascertain the first : of the
last, from my knowledge of the deceased, I have
little hope.'

 How old are these young people .'"

My ward Laura Piers is nineteen or twenty, her ,
cousin Winifrid must be seventeen or eighteen, and
the boy Herbert I should say is thirteen.'

'A very serious charge to any man  young
people at these ages! Pray be cautious, my, dear
sir ; be cautious.'

*I shall be prudent. Believe me, I am no enthusiast
; but there is a voice within the heart
which must not be disobeyed !'

Mr. Trent shook his head in token of disbelief in
any voice which counselled quixotic generosity.

Will you allow me to write a letter in your quiet
room, as I have a good deal to do before I start
this evening?'

With pleasure,' returned the solicitor, placing a
chair before a spare writing-table, and opening a
blotting-book.

The Admiral at once sat down, and, taking a
silver holder which contained both pen and pencil
from his note-book, wrote long and deliberately,
with frequent pauses. Mr. Trent had finished five
or six brief but important letters before the Admiral
had enclosed his in its envelope, and directed it to
Mrs. Crewe, 13, Leamington Road, Melbourne
Park.

Meantime Reginald Piers rapidly descended the
stairs and entered the inner office occupied by himself
and two other principal clerks, where he found
only one of them, his especial friend West, a quiet,
shy, gentlemanlike young man, who looked upon
Piers as ' no end of a swell,' and was favoured by
him in consequence.

Well, old fellow, I have great news for you !'
cried Piers, slapping him on the shoulder. ' I am
about to bid farewell to courts  at least, of law  to
suits, six-and-eightpenny letters, and your excellent
company. I am going to be a " fine young English
gentleman who lives on his estate !" Look here !' 
showing him the Times  ' read and wonder !' The
astounded listener took the newspaper and skimmed
the paragraph pointed out.

'And do you mean to say you are this man's
heir ?' he exclaimed incredulously ; for, to do
Reginald justice, he always had too much savoir
faire to talk of wealthy or exalted relatives.

Yes, I do ! Look here !' He spread out the
genealogical table, and pointed triumphantly to his
own position as undoubted heir. ' What do you

say to that, my boy?  a fine old ancestral place,
five thousand a year at the very least, a good round
sum of ready money  this cousin of mine was a
saving man  a well-filled stable and well-kept preserves.
Why, it is like a bit of magic! and, between
ourselves, I never was so hard up as at the present
moment. I protest, the last two nights I have lost
no end of sleep, thinking of a bill that will come to
maturity next week, and wondering where the
deuce I should find funds to meet it. I tell you
what it is. West, I should like to dance a hornpipe
on your desk, if it were not too undignified 1'

I'm sure I am truly delighted to hear of your
good fortune !' exclaimed West cordially.

Thank you. West ; I believe you are ! and I
hope to see you at Pierslynn, where I will teach you
to ' cross country," old fellow !'

I am afraid I am too old to learn,' returned
West, laughing good-humouredly.

By Jove ! it is a special providence that I know
how myself V cried Reginald ; * I never had cash
enough to keep even a donkey.'

But, Piers, what will Holden say.?  in a tone
expressive of exultation and curiosity.

God knows ! Of course he will not believe a
word of it.'

Here there was a whistle from the speaking-tube.
West responded.

You are wanted in Mr. Thurston's room. Piers,
he said ; and added, as Reginald was about to fold
up his memo., ' leave that ; Holden will be here

directly, and whatever he says, this will '' conioxm.
his politics." '

*Pooh, I don't care!' said Reginald with elaborate
indifference as he went out ; but he left the paper
behind him.

He was not detained long by the senior partner,
who only wanted a little information respecting one
of the many cases in progress. When he returned
he found the third occupant of the inner office
standing beside West's table, and looking at the
paper Piers had left there, with an expression of
contemptuous scrutiny.

Holden was considerably older than either of his
companions, but, though shrewd and capable, was
less trusted by his employers. He was suspected of
unsteadiness latterly, and was more than once
severely indisposed on the eve of the Derby. He
was a thick-set, dark-complexioned man of a lower
type than Piers or West, with bushy whiskers, garments
of a sporting aspect, and rather shifty black
eyes. A covert warfare had always existed between
him and Reginald Piers, shown chiefly in a species
of shotted chaff, in which the latter had much the
best of it, as he was indifferent to his antagonist's
enmity, while Holden hated him for his easy
superiority and steady, though civil, rejection of all
attempts at familiarity, the more bitterly because
the hatred was impotent.

To-day Holden's aspect was forbidding. Generally
he was flashily good-looking, but this morning
there was a coarseness in his expression, a carelessness

about his dress, that bespoke relaxation of
self-respect.

So ! you have come into your kingdom,' he
exclaimed, looking up as Reginald opened the
door, ' or you think you have ; but there's many a
slip between cup and lip ! Are you sure there isn't
a nearer of kin than yourself ?'

Certain ! Are you so muddle-headed as not to
understand that table of degrees ?' cried Reginald,
who was less cool than usual, owing to the excitement
of the morning.

Are you so muddle-headed as not to perceive
that everything depends on the marriage, or no-marriage,
of this fellow ?' pointing to the name of
Geoffrey.

Of course I do,' replied Reginald scornfully.
But as it is perfectly well known in the family
that he died a bachelor, why, there is no more to
be said about it'

Nevertheless, he may have left descendants who
could trouble you. For all you know, you may
have to put some of them out of the way yet, and
supply a drama in high life to an admiring audience
of us poor plebs.'

Bah !' returned Reginald. ' It was well known
that he never married.'

My dear fellow, don't grow furious at a small
contradiction. What a high and mighty lord of the
manor you will be ! You know it's all my fun,'
said Holden, with irritating good-humour and disgusting
familiarity. ' I don't doubt your title, and

I am as well pleased you are not going to " reign
over us" in this humble shrine of the law any
longer.'

Reginald made no reply, but sat down to write,
having got somewhat in arrear of his morning's
work.

Kingdom or no kingdom, I must obey the behest
of our masters while I am in this lower sphere,'
said he at length, when he had recovered his
momentary irritation enough to speak in his usual
tone.

'How soon do you think you will get possession?'
asked West.

I haven't an idea. I dine with Trent to-day.
We shall settle what is to be done ; but I do not
anticipate any difficulty

Had you ever any relations at a little place
called Llanogwen ?' asked Holden suddenly. He
had been in deep thought for some moments,
gazing at Reginald's extract from the family tree
which still lay on the table before him.

Not that I know of,' said Reginald carelessly.
Have you any acquaintance of my name V

'Acquaintances ? O Lord, no ! you and yours are
altogether a touch above me,' returned Holden,
with a sneer. 'But I think I have heard the name.'
So saying, he threw the paper at which he had been
staring in a fixed, abstracted way across the table,
and turning to his own desk, began to open it and
move his pens and ruler about in a noisy, reckless
manner.

VOL. I. 2

I saw Admiral Desbarres going up just now
said West, after all three men had written for
some time in silence. ' You know him, don't you.
Piers ?'

I have been introduced to him ; nothing more.'
Isn't he a little touched on religious matters ?'
asked West. ' I remember hearing Mrs. Trent say
something to that effect.'

I say. Piers, do you still hang out at Palmerston
Terrace ?' asked Holden abruptly. ' I am coming
to leave my card on you ; for I suppose you intend
to give West and myself a spread in honour of
your accession. It's clearly your duty.'

Oh yes ! I will bestow a banquet upon you,'
said Reginald drily.

'Well, you may count on me. I'll call round at
your place tomorrow evening.'

I am afraid I shall not be at home.'

Then I'll try again and again, till I find you,*
returned Holden, with a rather peculiar laugh.

You are very good.'

A gentleman wishes to see Mr. Holden,' said
one of the clerks from the outer office.

Holden rose, and went out hastily.

I think Holden is deuced queer to-day,' said
West, looking after him.

He is in some scrape, or was drinking hard last
nights replied Reginald carelessly ; ' but I am not
going to finish up by a quarrel with the poor devil.
Now I must attend to my work.'

UlHE day which had wrought so Important
a change in the Hfe of Reginald Piers
was drawing to a close ; and while, in
their handsome dining-room, in one of
the new squares which fill up the space, physical
and social, between Westbourne Terrace and Westbourne
Grove, Mr. and Mrs. Trent sat long over
their strawberries and sauterne, discussing with their
guest his future plans  the owner of a far humbler
dwelling was walking slowly through her neat but
rather scantily furnished abode, with a thoughtful
and even troubled expression, a tall, very tall, stately
woman, perhaps past middle age, though preserving
a fine figure, draped in a garment exceedingly
ancient as to material, but pieced, and trimmed, and
festooned into startling novelty of form. Her still
glossy dark hair, streaked slightly with grey, was
braided under a contrivance of lace and ribbon,
which happily preserved the juste milieu between
the coquettlshness of youth and the dignity of age.
Her countenance still showed traces of beauty,

22

though the eyes were faded and the lips had grown
thin. She had already perambulated the highest
story of the house, and had with much deliberation
descended to the next, holding on her left arm a
cat  a cat with long fine hair, mixed black and
yellowish-grey  like a beautiful miniature tiger. A
long, bushy tail hung over the supporting arm, the
fore paws and small shapely head resting on her
mistress's shoulder, with an air of profound content;
while with her right hand the lady occasionally
touched the banisters, regarding her fingers suspiciously,
as if on the look-out for dust. Reaching
the second floor the lady paused, and called inaudible
tones, ' Collins !'  a pause  no reply  then
to the cat, ' My precious puss ! did I wake you up ?
Collins !' still louder  a faint voice came from the
depths, ' Coming, mum.'

Collins ! I am surprised you can let me exhaust
myself in this manner, calling and calling, when
you know I am far from strong. Laziness, Collins,
is really a positive sin.' This, while Collins tumbled
upstairs at break-neck speed.

I'm sure mum, I run the very mint I heard
you, and I am sorry '

There, there, Collins, don't. I must beg you not
to talk. I really cannot bear it. You have quite
put what I wanted to say out of my head ! Do you
know the window in your room is open ? I am
sure we shall have a storm ; go and shut it.'

Yes, mum ; but I am going to bed presently,
and then I'll be sure '

Now don't answer me, my girl ; go and do what
I bid you! One of the first duties of a Christian is
to obey your pastors and masters continued the
speaker, as though she enjoyed the catechetical
euphony.

Very well, mum,' proceeding past her mistress
at a run.

Collins ! have I not told you that it is not
respectful to rush past me in that way } nor is such
hurry necessary. And, stay, Collins '  severely 
did you dust these banisters to-day ?'

That I did, mum.'

I trust you are telling the truth, Collins ; but' 
holding out her hand, and speaking majestically 
look at that 1'

Well, mum, I did so ; but the dust in this house
is fusser than '

'Now don't tell me, Collins, that my house is

worse than others There, Collins,' interrupting

herself, ' there's the front-door bell. Go, my girl,
gOj go? 0 ! though,' she went on as the servant
hurled herself downstairs, ' it is too late for any
useful visit.' And stroking the cat softly, she
descended leisurely to the ground-floor, where were
the dining and drawing rooms.

A letter for you, mum,' said Collins, meeting
her in the hall.

Indeed !' as if a letter were not a common
occurrence ; and, taking it, she turned it over with
much interest, examining the post-maryland reading
the superscription  'Mrs. Crewe, 13, Leamington

Road, Westbourne Park.' ' It is from the Admiral!'
she exclaimed. ' Here, Collins, take my precious
Toppy ; there is a nice drop of milk left in the jug,
give it to her before she goes to bed.' And Mrs.
Crewe sallied into her rarely used drawing-room,
and, sitting down by an open window, proceeded,
with a visible clearing of her countenance, to open
her letter and read as follows :

Dear Mrs. Crewe,

'It is some time since I heard anything of
you. I trust you are well and prospering. Will you
be so good as to let me know if you have stillroom
for an inmate? My object in asking is
that I shall soon want a home for my ward
Laura Piers, of whom you have heard me speak.
She has just lost her excellent uncle, the Rev. Mr.
Fieldenen, and with him the fatherly protection she
has hitherto enjoyed. Will you, then, take the
matter into consideration, and let me know, within
the next week, what sum you would require for
this young lady's board and residence? She should
of course share your sitting-room, if agreeable to
you, and have the advantage of your society.

I know how moderate and conscientious you are ;
I therefore add that my young friend's means are
limited, and she would require nothing beyond your
own ordinary style of living. Further, Mr. Fieldenen
has left a son and daughter, in what position I am
not as yet aware. Should I find it necessary to return
to them something of the benefits bestowed upon

my ward by their father, I would be glad to know
if you could accommodate Miss Fieldenen also, and
the boy during his holiday. I am now on my way
to Dresden, and hope to bring back my ward in
about a fortnight. My address will be  Victoria
Hotel, Dresden.

I trust you have good accounts from your son.
I am yours very faithfully,

'George Desbarres.'

A ward of the Admiral to reside with me !'
ejaculated Mrs. Crewe half aloud.  Why, it is the
very thing !'  and she began to read the letter over
again  ' something always turns up. I was quite
cast down when that Mr. Holden left me, though
lie was really not a gentleman, and very irregular
in his payments. Now, it will be quite different to
have a nice girl, a lady of position, with me,' she
thought as she folded up the epistle, and locked it
away in a shabby little writing-desk with an infirm
hinge. Then she looked round rather restlessly,
feeling the desperate need of expatiating on her
prospects to some one. At that moment, enter
Collins with the cat.

She won't drink the milk, mum, anyhow; but she
has lapped up nigh half a saucer full of cold water.'

Has she, the dear ? Really, Collins, there is
something quite distinguish about Toppy, quite
superior to other cats ; she has scarcely ever touched
milk since she was a kitten. Give her to me !
And, Collins, do you think we could put two beds
in the large back room on the second floor ?'

It would be a tight fit, mum.'

I am afraid it would ; but I might take it
myself, and give them the front one.'

Are you expecting new lodgers, mum ?'
I wish, Collins, you would not express yourself
with such vulgarity. I do not keep a lodging-house
; I take a few well-recommended inmates.'

Law, mum, I thought "inmates" was only in
lunatic asylums and workhouses.'

Never mind, Collins '  with a superior smile.
I rather expect a young lady, perhaps two, to-reside
with me ; that is, their guardian, Rear-admiral
Desbarres, wishes to place them under my
care.'

Well, mum ! I do hope and pray you are not
thinking of setting up a boarding-school. You have
been a kind missus, and I always wished to stay on
with you, but a school I can't abide ! I was eighteen
months in one, till my bones were near through my
skin with hard work ; and the poor lady as kept it
she was drum nearly out of her mind, what with the
young ladies writing notes to the Commercial
Academy gentlemen, and sending out for sweets
till they were tJiat sick ! Her heart broke over it
all, and she died within a year after I left !' This
was uttered with immense volubility.

What a dreadful story !' returned Mrs. Crewe ;
'but of course these young ladies are quite different,
and of a different class.'

Don't you think it, mum ; in or out of class, they
are all the same.-*

Besides,' continued Mrs. Crewe, 'I do not dream
of having a school. There, you may go, Collins ;
and as you have cleaned up the morning-room and
kitchen, and must be tired, you can take the rest of
that bottle of ale with your bread and cheese.'

Thank you, mum '  going.

'And, Collins, have you heard how Mr. Brown is
to-day ?'

No, mum ; but I suppose he must be better, for
there's Miss Brown a-watering the back-garden.'

Is she ? I will go and speak to her. Collins I
be sure you shut your window ; I will put Toppy
to bed myself

So saying, Mrs. Crewe issued forth into the
entrance-passage, and proceeded to descend the
few steps which led into the garden. The little
space in the rear of the house was judiciously laid
out, being principally occupied by a large grass-plot,
having a group of rose-bushes in the centre, a
couple of horse-chestnut trees at the end, and a
border of bright flowers and mignonette between
the gravel-walk and side walls. It was neat and
well kept, thanks chiefly to the personal exertions
of the owner, who considered gardening a lady-like
occupation.

The next strip of garden was much more elaborately
ornamented ; it had box-edging and tiny,
many-coloured flower-beds, a spasmodic fountain,
and two or three plaster figures. The owners were
an elderly brother and sister  the former, managing
clerk in a City warehouse  both patronized by Mrs.

Crewe as ' good, well-meaning creatures, though not
what you would call gently /' nevertheless, a source
of comfort to the somewhat lonely widow, who
found it a relief to talk about herself, her son, her
affairs, her trials, and former grandeur, to the
shrewd little old maid, who looked somewhat
enviously up to her as a brilliant woman of the
world.

Good-evening, Miss Brown,' said Mrs. Crewe,
stepping up, always with stateliness, on a large
reversed flower-pot, thus bringing her head well
above the wall ;  I hope your brother is better.'

'Yes, thank you,' raising her head from the flowers
over which she was stooping, and standing, watering
pot in hand. ' The attack is passing away ; he
hopes to go to business on Monday.'

Colds are much worse in summer,' observed
Mrs., Crewe ; ' his attack was pleurisy, was it not ?'

It was, ma'am ; but he is nearly himself again,
and sitting in the front parlour. I am sure, if you
could spare half an hour just for a little talk, it
would cheer him ever so.'

I regret extremely that I cannot this evening ;
I have sent the girl to bed. She has to be up for
the washing very early, and I do not like to leave
the house. To-morrow I shall be most happy to
pay Mr. Brown a visit.'

 Thank you, Mrs. Crews; you are very good.
And pray, ma'am, have you heard of anyone in
the place of the young man that's gone ? You
know, I have not seen you for a week.'

Not exactly,' returned Mrs. Crewe, drawing herself
up with an air of elegant JiaiLteur.

Dear, dear !' exclaimed Miss Brown, ' That's
sad ! Take my word for it, ma'am, there is nothing
like a card in the window. If you would only put
one up, Mrs. Crewe, you would let in twenty-four
hours.'

Perhaps so. Miss Brown, but it would not suit
me. Mine is not a mere lodging, or even " rooms
to let ;" but, having a house too large for my
requirements, I am willing to accommodate a
gentleman or two, personally recommended. However,
it is possible I may change my plans. I have
just had a charming letter from an old and valued
friend, Rear-admiral Desbarres, who wishes to
place a young lady of good position (his ward), and
probably her cousin, under my care. It will be
rather a tie, and they may expect me to introduce
them into society,  but that I really cannot do ; the
effort would be too great"*

Well, I'm sure I am delighted to hear it. It is
a great piece of luck for you. I suppose they will
pay well ?'

We have not entered into that part of the question
yet,' said Mrs. Crewe loftily. 'With such a man
as the Admiral it is not necessary to bargain.'

He must be one in a thousand,' remarked Miss
Brown simply.

He isl returned Mrs. Crewe emphatically. 'Still,
it is as well to form some idea of what one ought to
ask. Of course I shall require to keep a good table.'

Of course,' said Miss Brown. ' You'll want a
joint, vegetables, and sweets every day, with poultry
sometimes, and fish now and then ; and that's not
to be done for nothing.'

True, Miss Brown ; though I must say that the
aristocracy care more' for elegancy in serving than
delicacy in eating,' replied Mrs. Crewe, with the
idea of saying a good thing.

Aristocracy ! Is she a " ladyship' then ?' cried
Miss Brown.

No ! She belongs to the untitled aristocracy ;
she is of very old family and highly connected.'

I hope she is well off,' observed Miss Brown
severely. ' High-born paupers are very expensive
customers, I believe.'

" Pauper " is a curious term to apply to the
ward of a rear-admiral and the cousin of '

Dear, dear 1 I never intended to apply nothing !
It is only my interest in you ma'am, that made me
speak : you are that generous and confiding.'

I am much obliged to you,' said Mrs. Crewe
stiffly and offended ; ' but I don't think you quite
understand my character. I hope I am just, but I
am not aware that I am confiding'

'Ahem!' said Miss Brown. 'At any rate,' she
resumed, after a short pause, ' aristocratic or not,
you can't board the young lady under thirty shillings
a week ; then there's the rent of her rooms.'

'She will use my drawing-room,' interrupted Mrs.
Crewe.

With her bedroom, you could not ask less than

five guineas a month ; and what with fire, and light,
and h'nen, and additional trouble to the " girl," ' ran
on Miss Brown rapidly, ' to say nothing of your
own care and company, a hundred-and-fifty a year
wouldn't pay you. You ask two hundred, Mrs.
Crewe.'

I shall ask what I think fit,' returned that lady
sternly. 'There are some subjects on which we by
no means think alike.'

'Very likely, ma'am,' said Miss Brown, suddenly
lapsing into humility, * Our up-bringing have
been different.'

Perhaps so. Miss Brown ; and now it is getting
quite dusk, I will say '' good-evening." My components
to your brother; I am glad he is better. I
shall do myself the pleasure of calling on him
tomorrow.' And with much dignity Mrs. Crewe
stepped down from her flower-pot, and sailed into
the house, depositing the cat in her bed, and proceeded
to lock the doors and shut up for the night.
Then, pen in hand, she sat long, with a pleased
countenance, by the light of a single candle, covering
scraps of paper with hieroglyphics in writing
and figures, which seemed traced with the point of
a skewer rather than a pen. At length the sound
of a latch-key, gently turned, followed by the
striking of a match, told her that her upstairs
tenant, a quiet, elderly man who occupied a bed
and sitting room on the first floor, was safely
housed. Then, after a final and searching look
round the premises, she, too, retired.

There is a tide in the affairs of men ;' and in the
inner life, too, there is a gathering of the waters at
particular periods when events and emotions accumulate,
and waves of joy or sorrow mount to a
certain pitch, ebbing back after a while to the
ordinary level of existence.

Such a pitch had been reached by Laura Piers
and Winifrid Fieldenen when the former wrote her
appeal for help to the Admiral.

Hitherto theirs had been a tranquil, simple life,
sheltered in a peaceful home, and looking up to
father and uncle as the most charming and accomplished
of men.

The Reverend Frederic Fieldenen had held for
many years the small living of Cheddington, in one
of the southern shires  a beautiful pastoral district,
where life was only half-alive, and of which Mr.
Fieldenen, whose nature craved very different surroundings
had soon tired. He was a gentle,
sociable, semi-artistic personage, exceedingly self-indulgent
in an amiable manner, and afflicted with
what his wife termed ' a sensitive soul ;' zee. utter
want of endurance, an irresistible tendency to runaway
from everything disagreeable, and to shut his
eyes to everything unpleasant. Fortunately for
him, he had a wife who guided while she adored
him ; and it was owing to her influence that he
had not, while their children were quite young,
given up the modest competence which his sleepy
little living afforded, in the vain hope of existing
on the pittance he could call his own, by

impossible economics, in some congenial foreign
town.

But Mrs. Ficlden was resolute in her determination
to hold fast the substance they possessed, at
any rate till the children were set forth in life; that
is to say, the boys. So she skilfully kept the
family together on a wonderfully small amount, and
gave her parson rope enough to disport himself
mildly in town each year viewing the exhibitions,
attending classical concerts, and hearing the most
fashionable clerical orators, so rendering life bearable.
But, in addition to her own flock, the parson's
good wife took a little stray lamb into her pleasant
fold.

One of Mr. Fieldenen's sisters had married an
officer, a quiet, thoughtful, promising young man.
It was a love-match, and against everyone's consent.
For Captain Piers had little or nothing but
his pay. Nevertheless, they married and enjoyed
some three or four years of great happiness before
fever, during an extra unhealthy season in the
West Indies, cut them both off, leaving a baby-girl
of about a year old.

Among the acquaintances formed by Captain
Piers during his military career was Admiral
Desbarres, and some especial sympathy drew them
together. It was the Admiral who saw to the
funeral of the young wife (who was the first to succumb),
and it was he also who soothed the last
moments of the father by a solemn promise to look
after the poor bereaved baby, and, if possible, to

induce Mrs. Fieldenen to give the little creature houseroom.
' She is a kind, good woman,' gasped the
dying man ; ' she always loved my wife, and there
isn't another soul on earth I could turn to, nor
have I a claim on mortal.'

The Admiral earnestly promised to do his best,
and he did it.

Mrs. Fieldenen was too motherly a woman to refuse
this last request, so little Laura became as one of the
family at the parsonage. The Admiral, thankful to
have his helpless ward so well provided for, carefully
nursed the few hundreds which was all the
provision left for her, adding interest to capital till,
when she was old enough, he was able with a little
help from his own purse to share with Mrs. Fieldenen
the cost of a governess for the cousins ; for a little
girl had appeared in the clerical nest about a year
and a half after Laura had been lodged there.

Thus Laura Piers and Winifrid Fieldenen grew up
like sisters, the former scarce knowing she was an
orphan. She was petted and punished by her
aunt ; snubbed, sent on messages, and occasionally
told she was a trump by the eldest boy, who was
rather a hero to both girls ; and decidedly a
favourite with her uncle, as she grew to be useful
to him at a wonderfully early age  hunting out
passages for quotation, and authorities on theological
or artistic subjects, when he composed his
sermons or wrote letters on the proper punctuation
of Shakespearian sentences, or articles on the influence
of religion on art, or vice versa. For Laura,

though not pleasing to the eye, like his own
daughter, was a clever, thoughtful little thing, passionately
fond of books, and careful and loving in
her treatment of them.

Among the group associated with those happy,
tranquil early days the figure of Reginald Piers was
prominent.

He was the favourite chum of Dick Fieldenen, the
eldest son, and frequently a guest at the Rectory
during the holidays ; for he was the only son of a
widowed mother, whose means of affording pleasures
or advantages to her boy were extremely
limited, especially as she had in later years resided
with a married daughter, who had made what was
considered a ' splendid match.'

Reginald was a general favourite. He was a
good cricketer, a successful angler, a tolerable shot,
easy-going, and sufficiently vain to take pleasure in
pleasing. As he was a little older than her own
son, Mrs. Fieldenen treated him with an amount of
confidence she never bestowed on Dick ; while
Laura regarded him as an Admirable Crichton, and
gloried in the slender degree of relationship he condescended
to admit.

The last holidays spent by Reginald at the
Rectory had had a peculiar charm for the Rector's
orphan niece, as he had especially patronized her,
trying his "prentice hand' in the art of delicate
attention ; for Reginald showed a decided predilection
for young ladies, even at the risk of being considered
and called a ' muff' by his companions.

VOL. I. 3

But the Rectory had seen its best days. The
winter in which Laura attained her sixteenth and
Winifrid her fourteenth year, Mrs. Fieldenen, never
very strong, caught a severe cold, which soon
became bronchitis, and finally robbed the family of
their best friend and firmest stay.

To Mr. Fieldenen the loss was irreparable. Haddington
became insupportable to his * sensitive
soul ;' and fancying he could, with the help of some
small savings, painfully scraped together by his
provident wife, and the pursuit of literature, eke out
existence on his infinitesimal income more agreeably
on the Continent, he gave up his living, sold
his superfluous books and belongings, and much
against the advice of his eldest son, who had
already made his first step in life  a considerable
stride, as it carried him to Bombay  removed himself,
his youngest boy, and the ' dear girls ' to
Dresden, where they could find educational advantages,
and himself the repose his broken health
and broken heart required.

Here they spent two very comfortable years : an
English clergyman of good private means (so report
endowed him), charming manners, artistic tastes,
and interesting circumstances, was hailed as an
acquisition by the Anglo-American colony in that
social city. His occasional sermons, when health
enabled him to lighten the labours of the overworked
chaplain, were universally admired, and
altogether Mr. Fieldenen found the change from a

rural parish to the Saxon capital answered in every
respect remarkably well except financially.

He was indeed at times painfully surprised to
find how rapidly money melted away, though food
was moderate, and amusements cheap. To be sure,
amusements never entered into the Cheddington
budget ; but at Dresden it was quite necessary that
the 'dear girls' should attend the theatre to improve
their knowledge of German, and the concerts
to improve their taste for music, while it was impossible
to accept the constant hospitality of compatriots
without making some return ; so the Rev.
Mr. Fieldenen's aesthetic teas became quite the rage,
and his opinion on all matters of taste universally
deferred to. Meantime his funds dwindled away
with alarming rapidity, though he consoled himself
by hoping that his book on ' Historic and Artistic
Dresden,' for which he hoped to receive a handsome
sum from that enterprizing firm, 'James Younger
and Co,' would put him straight, and then he would
retire to some quiet nook in Switzerland, and practise
strict economy till Herbert was fit to adopt a
career.

The third year of their sojourn, however, was not
so pleasant. Laura, who was housekeeper, found it
very difficult to get the money requisite for daily
needs. Herbert's school accounts remained unpaid.
Whispers got about that the family in Christian
Strasse were not flourishing so fairly as they did at
first Then both Laura and Winifrid perceived a
great change in the tenderly cared-for father and

32

uncle. He could not write, or talk, or amuse himself,
as he used ; then a low fever attacked him,
against which he seemed to have no power of resistance,
and before he was thought in danger, he
seemed in some mysterious way to give himself up,
and died.

The suddenness of this event paralyzed Winifrid,
who was her father's idol ; she could only think of
her bereavement. But Laura, on whom the rougher
and commoner cares of their daily life always devolved,
was, while truly and profoundly grieved to
lose so dear and kind a protector, puzzled and
terrified by the utter emptiness of the exchequer.

The Fieldens had never kept up much intercourse
with their relatives ; and when the half-frightened,
sorrowing girls had written to an uncle
in India, and an aunt who had married a merchant
in Liverpool, they had no more to do but to sit with
folded hands and wait what help the Admiral would
bring.

As yet Laura knew him only by frequent gifts
and rare visits, but she felt instinctively that he
would not fail her. And when he came, what
would be their destiny } Should she have to
separate from Winnie, who, though little more than
two years her junior, was like her child ; and
Herbert ! who would look after him, and keep him
brushed and mended, and prepared for school ?

Where were they to go ? What was to become
of them ? In the midst of these sad conjectures,
before almost they thought the Admiral could have

received her letter, came a telegram to Laura from
her guardian.

I will be with you the day after tomorrow.
Refer all persons to me.'

Then she breathed more freely, and got a little
sleep.

iT was a disheartening task which the
Admiral set himself, to disentangle the
hopeless confusion of Mr. Fieldenen's
affairs. He had left no will. The
death of his wife nullified the one he had originally
executed, and it had been destroyed ; but he
had never brought himself to make another. Little,
indeed, was left. He had many years previously insured
his life,and paid the premiums with regularity;
but then it was found that he had borrowed upon
it, so that not much was left  barely what sufficed
to clear the family credit in Dresden.

During the fortnight which succeeded Admiral
Desbarres' arrival, though gentle and tender to the
orphans, he said very little as to his intentions. He
was at all times a man of few words, and those
few were principally addressed to Laura, with whom
he went over the books and accounts. He meanwhile
cogitated his plans in silence. If he took
these young people under his protection, he would

arrange all things, and nothing save obedience
would remain for them.

He was by conviction and training a despot  of
the kindest and most benevolent description, but
still a despot  all law, according to his belief,
emanating from a Supreme Ruler. Family and
social relations were but inner rings of the great
circle, and ought to reproduce in miniature the
same system of fatherly protection and childlike
submission. This silence was hard to Laura,
although by nature patient and reasonable ; but it
was intolerable to Winnie, an eager, sanguine, warmhearted
creature  the beauty and pet of the family.

She was considerably impressed by the Admiral's
imposing tranquility and weighty presence. ' What
is he going to do with us?' she asked impatiently,
one evening, nearly a fortnight after her father's
funeral, when the Admiral had taken Herbert to
walk, and the two girls were left alone in the once
pretty salon which now looked so bare and desolate,
as all the books and photographs and small ornaments
had been packed up, and everything sold or
made ready for their departure. Winnie had thrown
herself into the large armchair which had always
been Mr. Fieldenen's. It was drawn up by the open
window, commanding a view of some pleasant
gardens and the distant dome of the Russian
church. Winnie was a tall slender girl, with sloping
shoulders and a pliant waist; carelessly graceful in
every movement, with a clear though somewhat
brown complexion, pale when in repose, but with a

rich, mantling colour that came and went when she
was surprised or pleased or vexed or moved in anyway,
and was a means of expression second only to
her large liquid eyes, which some thought deepest
blue, and others darkest hazel, and which at this
period of her life revealed every passing emotion, as
if the soul that looked through them was still ' as
that of a little child.' ' What is he going to do with
us, Laura ? How I wish he would leave us here 
we could live more cheaply than in London, and
far, far more happily. I suppose we are to go to
London ?'

I think so, though the Admiral has not said so
positively.'

If I am to do anything,' resumed Winnie, pushing
back her rich wavy dark brown hair  ' to earn
money, I mean, I would rather do it here, though I
hate the idea of having to do it at all. How it
would have broken my poor darling father's heart
to think of such a thing! But I suppose I must,
Laura ?'

We both must, dear Winnie. I do not see how
we can live without it. I cannot be dependent on
my guardian, though he would not let me broach
the subject, and told me to wait till he had laid
his plans.'

But / am not his ward. I have a right to
choose ; and I don't suppose he thinks of supporting
me. I would not let him, if he did. Oh Laura,
if he takes you away, what is to become of Herbert
and me ? Dick is not rich enough to have us with

him in India. How maddening it is to be such a
burden yet, what can I do ? Oh my father, my
father!' and the ready tears began to flow
afresh.

Dear, dear Winnie T murmured Laura, holding
back her own, though her Hps quivered as she knelt
down, and, putting her arms round her cousin's
waist, laid her head on her lap. 'Try and have
patience ; we are so young and helpless, and the
Admiral has always been so good and kind, what can
we do but trust him and wait his time ? He told me
just as he was going out that we were to start for
London on Monday ; and when there, he would be
able to tell me his intentions. Do not vex him by
seeming restless or dissatisfied. He only tries todo
what is best for us.'

I dare say ; but it is too bad not to be consulted.
I declare I will ask him myself this evening
he always answers me.'

*Yes,' returned Laura, with a kindly smile, 'as
usual you are a favourite ;' and she rose and leant
against the window, gazing sadly out over the garden,
and inhaling the perfume of mignonette which was
wafted from it.

Laura was less reluctant to quit Dresden than her
cousin. She had been too seriously alarmed by the
difficulties with which she had had to contend
during the last eight or nine months to permit of
forming such pleasant impressions as Winnie, who
seldom troubled herself about anything, and in
some vague way thought that breakfast, dinner, and

supper were a spontaneous growth which would
always be ready for people in their position.

Laura did not resemble her cousin. She was
not short, but she was not so tall as Winnie, and,
though straight and well-made enough, was rather
high-shouldered and square-looking. Her features,
too, were irregular ; the jaw somewhat large, the
mouth somewhat wide, though it could smile
honestly, sweetly, and showed fine white teeth*
Then her complexion was sallow, and her hair a
dull brown ; nor had she fine eyes to redeem other
deficiencies  they were well shaped, but of a pale
grey, with little brilliancy, though there were topics
at which they would light up and change the aspect
of her face amazingly. Still, Laura Piers was always
considered a ' plain girl ;' but she was possessed of
a certain gentle composure of manner, a self-possession
that was never cold, which made her presence
soothing to irritable people, and acceptable to all.

Laura vas by nature an artist  gifted with that
marvellous power of sympathy which bestows upon
the possessor almost ' second sight ;' and, besides, a
love of beauty so deep and keen, that she never
looked in the glass without a sigh to see how little
she possessed of that most precious dower.

Yet, though this regret might occasionally sadden,
it never embittered  partly perhaps because she had
been brought up in an atmosphere of kindliness
and genuine affection ; partly because she had an
inner consciousness that the joys of intellect could
compensate for much.

'Yes! I will talk to him to-night,' continued
Winnie, drying her eyes. ' He is a dear. I am
sure I do not know what would have become of us
without him ; but I don't like to be driven blindfold
about the world, and I cannot part with you, Laura
you know I can't, dear, dear Laura !' kissing
her fondly. ' I never knew I loved you so
much.'

A slight glow mounted to Laura's cheek, and
her eyes shone through the tears that filled them as
she pressed Winnie to her.

*I don't think the Admiral will do that not
willingly, I am sure ; but we cannot yet know what
will become of us.'

Winnie kept her word. Their usual supper was
not quite over, when, with an effort for which she
was almost angry with herself, she exclaimed,
Dear Admiral Desbarres, Laura says we are going
to leave on Monday. Would you mind telling
where we are going  I mean, in London ?'

The Admiral looked at the speaker at first
gravely; then gradually an indulgent smile overspread
his face.

'I think, Winifrid, you might trust me; nevertheless,
it is time you should be told, dear children, of
my plans, so far as I can form them. For the
present, I mean to place you with a lady whom I
have known for many years, Mrs. Crewe, the widow
of an old shipmate of mine, where I hope you
can dwell in comfort, until I can ascertain what
your aunt and brother can do to assist you.

Should they be unable, or unwilling, believe me I
will not desert you, Winnie.'

You are ever so good and kind,' cried Winnie,
flushing with mortification, while her eyes sparkled
through her tears, ' but how dreadful it is to be  a
beggar !' The word was brought out with a sob 
I must try and do something  I can teach German
and music and '

For the present, you must be guided by me,' interrupted
the Admiral, in his slow deliberate tones.
Hereafter we may arrange some such plan  for the
present your youth and helplessness are a claim upon
those who have the means to befriend you ; and
these necessities, though painful, are but the expression
of a law which emanates from One whose
supreme will must not be resisted.'

And I shall stay with Laura ?'

/ would never willingly separate you,' returned
the Admiral kindly.

Thank God for that !' cried Winnie. ' But I do
hope this lady, this Mrs. Crewe, is not severe
and '

I can only repeat that the charge of caring for
you seems to have been given into my hands. I
must therefore demand from you that submission
which alone can enable me to fulfil the responsibilities
I have undertaken. I will say good-night now,
as I must write some letters before I go to bed.'

It was not much that Winnie had extracted from
the arbiter of their fate, but it was satisfactory sofar,
and she felt less uneasy.

The hours slipped quickly by, and soon the last
day came. Laura and Winnie escaped in the fresh
early morning, when there was small chance of
meeting any acquaintance, to look once more on
the river with its smiling border of vineyards and
trees up to where it makes a wide bend beneath the
villa of the Prussian Prince who gave up royalty for
love.

It was a delicious morning ; the river sparkled in
the tender early sunshine, the air was crisp with the
youthfulness of spring, and both girls exclaimed
that never before had the view of Dresden and its
old bridge, with the towers of the Hof-Kirch and
Schloss, looked so lovely. They had crossed to
the gardens of the Japanese Palace, after strolling
along the Bruhlsche Terrasse, and looked long in
silence on the old town which probably they would
never see again ; then, with a mutual sudden impulse,
a vivid flash of feeling that they had nothing
left save each other, they exchanged a hearty kiss
which, without uttering a word, each felt as a pledge
of loyalty and love.

And so they looked their last on Dresden.

The arrival of the Admiral's ward and her cousin
was a great event for Mrs. Crewe. In the first
place, it set her mind at ease on the momentous question
of rent ; next, it raised her in her own esteem,
and Mrs. Crewe's mental spectacles were of high
magnifying power; then the presence of two young
ladies in the house promised cheerfulness and company,

which latter was very dear to Mrs. Crewe's
heart, in spite of her troubles and disappointments ;
finally, it would be very pleasant for ' Denzil ' when
he came home. Denzil was her son, the only survivor
of several children, who had passed away in
those terrible former days when the ' expensive
habits'  i.e. furious drinking  of her late dear
husband hardly left them food to eat. It need
scarcely be said that Denzil was her idol, the one
object that filled her life and satisfied her imagination.
He was, unlike most idols, a good son, a
quiet, steady fellow, who from stress of circumstances
had entered the merchant service instead of
the royal navy, much to his mother's mortification ;
indeed, she never mentioned the fact without an
elaborate explanation.

Collins ' had a hard time of it from the day Mrs.
Crewe received the Admiral's reply readily accepting
the terms she proposed. Not only the apartments
to be occupied by the young ladies, but every
portion of the house, 'from turret to foundation-stone,'
had to be brushed, scoured, polished, and
dusted. The life of the mild upstairs tenant, Mr.
Jenkins, was made a burden to him by the disarrangement
of his belongings in this tremendous
cleaning ; and even Collins's powers of endurance
would have come to an end, but that in a certain
degree she shared her mistress's brilliant anticipations
of the indefinite benefits to accrue from such
desirable boarders.

Everything was in order, however, by the time

the travellers arrived. Flowers in the vases, and
fresh antimacassars bristling with starch from the
over-plentifulness of domestic washing, adorned
the drawing-room, while an excellent breakfast or
luncheon was laid out in the little dining-room
behind.

I am sure, my dears, you are welcome to what I
trust you will consider as your home,' exclaimed
Mrs. Crewe, with a delightful mixture of dignity
and cordiality, as she stood at the front door to
receive her new inmates, who looked weary enough
with their dusty black dresses and white faces.
Miss Piers, I presume,' smiHng upon Winnie, who
happened to come first.

No ! I am Winnie Fielding
Oh ! I am truly glad to see you ; and this is
your brother, Miss Fieldenen, dear fellow ! I love all
boys for the sake of my own ! Come in; you must
be so dreadfully tired. How many hours have you
been en route  thirty-eight ? dreadful !  had you a
tolerable passage ?'

Horrible !' exclaimed Laura, with a shudder, as
they followed their hostess upstairs.

Poor Laura was dreadfully ilV said Winnie, with
a slight smile, ' but I rather liked crossing ; I stayed
very late on deck with the Admiral.'

Well, there is your room  very simple, as you
see, but I trust homelike and comfortable. Pray
ring for anything you may want, for I must leave
you  I have not spoken to the Admiral yet.'

She swept away to meet the general benefactor,

and express to him her gratitude, her satisfaction,
her admiration of these ' charming girls,' who, at
the first glance she saw would be an ' acquisition to
any family.'

But there was in the profound gentle composure
of the Admiral an irresistible something that
quenched in an indefinable way the fire of Mrs.
Crewels eloquence, and she was soon listening to
him in silence, as in a few clear sentences he
thanked her for the help she had afforded him, by
receiving the young people on such moderate terms.

I trust my own ward will remain with you permanently
; as to Miss Fieldenen, I do not know what
her brother or other relations may wish to do for
Ber, but at any rate it is a great relief to place both
girls, for the present, with you. You know how I
am situated. Having made a home with my invalid
sister, I can neither leave her nor introduce any
disturbing element into our house ; and youth,
however amiable, must be disturbing.'

Then Mrs. Crewe ventured to touch on her own
affairs, and tell how her son Denzil had sailed as
chief officer in one of Duncan's ships, how he had
contrived to save enough to share a venture of
merchandise on his own account, besides helping
herself to pay the last instalment of her debt to her
listener, ' which I have ready for you, my dear sir,
in a purse of my own netting,' she concluded ; ' the
only sort of fancy-work I could ever accomplish ;
and this is all I can pay of the immense obligation
I owe you  in fact, my present independence ; for

though it was a struggle, I do make both ends meet
in this house ; and with your ward -'

But the entrance of the girls, quickly followed
by Herbert, checked her speech, and relieved the
Admiral from the necessity of a reply.

And now Mrs. Crewe was in her element, conscious
of having on her best black silk, which suited
her well, her choicest cap, her watch, and her
chatelaine crowded with charms and trinkets, the
crown jewel to which she had tenaciously clung
through many a bitter day of despondency and
privation. She had a bland delight in patronizing
these ' elegant girls,' and the boy who, though ' not
good-looking, had a charming countenance.' Good-looking,
Herbert certainly was not. He was a very
ugly likeness of his handsome sister, with a widemouth,
limp, straight; straw-coloured hair, and a
complexion naturally dirty-looking, and little improved
by any care he bestowed upon it. He was
tall of his age, but stooped awkwardly, and with
huge hands and feet and ill-cut German clothes, he
was anything but attractive. Both Winnie and her
brother were honestly hungry ; but Laura could
not eat ; she was therefore the object of much persecution.
' My dear Miss Piers, you take nothing ;
let me give you the least bit of this veal and ham
pie, with a little jelly and a morsel of Egg. My cook
is rather remarkable for her meat pies  it distresses
me to see you unable to eat  would you like my
smelling-salts?  let me open the window beside
you,' etc.

VOL. I. 4

The tea is so nice, it will do me good ; I shall be '
better presently,' murmured poor Laura, whose head
ached terribly.

How nice it is to see an English breakfast-table,
so bright and clean !' cried Winnie. * Though I
am very fond of Germany, there is no place like
England for niceties.'

I am charmed to hear you say so,' exclaimed
Mrs. Crewe radiantly ; ' I feared you would think
but little of my humble cottage after foreign
grandeur. But this is really a very convenient
house and a most improving neighbourhood. The
White Hart omnibuses now come to the end of the
street, and you see we have a nice garden at the
back ! I assure you I never buy a pennyworth of
mustard-and-cress, radishes, or parsley,' concluded
Mrs. Crewe triumphantly.

It is an exceedingly suitable abode,' remarked
the Admiral, ' and does credit to its owner.'

You flatter me, my dear sir ! but, indeed, if
there is one thing more than another on which I
pique myself, it is order  order and cleanliness ! 
and no words can tell the difficulties of maintaining
either with ignorant, self-willed servants. Really,
nowadays, with these new-fangled notions about
education, and women's rights, and all that, it is
almost impossible to keep house !'

' We are terribly in need of that most excellent
virtue, obedience, in these latter days,' said the
Admiral thoughtfully. ' Few think of the help

they can give to government by submission, instead
of rebelling and finding fault'

Quite true,' replied Mrs. Crewe, with a profound
tone ; ' but your young friends must not suppose
that I am a dragon of severity ; on the contrary, I
like a cheerful home and freedom for everyone :
and though I have but few acquaintances (indeed,
there are not many of my own rank of life around
me), I trust we shall not be dull. By-the-bye,
young ladies, I have not introduced you to a very
important member of the family ;' and Mrs. Crewe
rose, and walking to the little sofa standing at one
side of the fireplace, took up the cat, which was
sleeping there in profound repose, regardless of the
smart red ribbon with which she was decorated in
honour of the day.

This is my sweet Toppy, Miss Piers  is she nota
beauty, Miss Fieldenen ? Remember ' (to Herbert),
whatever pranks you may play, I will never forgive
any against Toppy. Is she not beautifully marked ?
and such a lovely tail ! Do you know, an old friend
of mine. Major St. George, told me that his sister,
the Countess of Chill, would give twenty pounds
for such a cat (she is a great cat-fancier) ; but no
twenty pounds would buy my Toppy !'  kissing the
creature, who winked with preternatural gravity.

She is very pretty,' said Laura, stroking it
gently.

Very pretty,' echoed Winnie, without, however,
touching it.

It is curious to study the nature of animals,' 

4~2

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOiS

marked the Admiral, patting its head ; but the
moment he touched its fur, puss gave a sudden,
sharp, vicious mew, and struggled to get away.

show very extraordinary!' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe ; ' I never knew Toppy behave so badly ;
she is generally the gentlest and most amiable of
cats. I wonder,' examining her dress, ' if I have a
pin anywhere.'

Meantime, unseen by anyone, Winnie gave Herbert
a noiseless kick and a warning look, while Mrs.
Crewe deposited Toppy on the sofa and returned to
the table. A little more conversation, intermittent
and slightly forced, ensued, in which the weary,
depressed girls took no part, and then the Admiral
rose.

I shall now leave you,' he said, ' to make each
other's acquaintance. To-morrow afternoon I hope
to call and to have favourable letters for you, my
dear to Winnie. ' I shall be as usual at the " Burlington,"
and shall remain about a week in town.
Good-morning, Mrs. Crewe ; I feel happy in leaving
my young charges under your care. God bless
you, dear children, and direct you in this beginning
of a new life's

Laura, always self-controlled, only took his hand
and pressed it lingeringly in both her own, while
she murmured, ' How can we thank you enough !'
But Winnie, with a sudden movement, threw her
arms round his neck and kissed his cheek.

You will be sure to come tomorrow, will you
not ?' she whispered.

*Yes, Winifrid, without fail,' said the Admiral
emphatically, while he tenderly returned her embrace.
The old man was visibly touched, and the
moisture shone in his beautiful dark eyes. * Be
of good cheer he added kindly, as he shook hands
with Herbert ; ' for young creatures like you there
is many a bright day in store behind the sad present
; only keep a clear conscience before Heaven,
and all things will work together for your good.'
And with a courteous wave of the hand he left
them.

I am sure,' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe, taking her
handkerchief from her eyes (she was easily affected),
if ever there was a thorough gentleman and a true
Christian, it is Admiral Desbarres ! He is a saint
upon earth, though one always thinks of a saint ina
long woollen gown with a rope round his waist,
whereas the Admiral is always so well dressed ' 
in a tone of the highest admiration  ' which shows
that true religion need not interfere with the elegancies
of life ! My dear girls, you must cheer up ;
I will do my very best to make you happy ! look
upon me as a mother. I have lost two dear little
girls, and I have a mother's heart.'

She embraced one after the other, or would have
done so, only Herbert dodged and made a snatch
at her hand.

Thank you, dear Mrs. Crewe,' said Winnie.

You are very good indeed,' added Laura.

And now, would you like to lie down and resta
while ? You must be quite worn out !'

Thank you said Laura ; ' I think I should like
to put our things a little in order, and then I will
try to sleep.'

Do so, dear Laura. I am not going to call you
by your surname any more ; we must be at home
with each other.'

Certainly, Mrs. Crewe.'

And you, Master Herbert ?'

Well,' replied that young gentleman, * I should
like to go out and take a stroll, just to see what the
place is like.'

Very well, Herbert ; only do not lose your way,
my boy.'

If I do, I speak the language, you know.'

'When we first went to Dresden,' explained
Laura, ' and he was quite a little fellow, he
wandered out one morning and never came back
till night.'

You must have been terrified !' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe. ' Here, dear, here is your travelling-bag ;
you left it in the hall'

And as the cousins ascended the stairs they heard
the front-door shut after Herbert, while Mrs. Crewe
was calling in audible tones, ' Collins ! Collins !
come and clear away the breakfast-things ! Now
don't delay ; there's plenty to do !'

On reaching their own room, Laura, by an impulse
unusual with her, locked the door, and sitting
down beside the dressing-table, bent her elbows
upon it, covered her face with her hands, and burst
into tears which she vainly tried to suppress.

'Dear Laura!' cried Winnie, putting her arms
round her and looking dismayed  for she was more
accustomed to receive than to administer consolation
 what is the matter ? Do you feel very ill ?'

What is the matter ?* repeated Laura, with a
sob ; ' there is plenty the matter, I think ! I don't
know how it is, but it suddenly seems so awful to
be here, away from everyone we ever knew. If
we had been left at dear Cheddington, the good
Squire and his wife, and the Doctor, and everyone
would have been old friends and helped us ; and at
Dresden there was the Grain and the Macdonald,
all so kind ; but here ' an expressive pause.

Oh yes, it is dreadful ; but then Mrs. Crewe
seems very good and pleasant  much better than I
expected.'

Yes, she is nice, and I think I am quite overtired.
I shall just unpack the box, and then I will
lie down.'

It is rather bare,' observed Winnie, looking
round the room with a dissatisfied expression ; ' yet
I do not see how there would be room for anything
more. I wish there was one of those delightful
bureau-wardrobe contrivances we had in Dresden,
with little drawers and pigeon-holes. I don't know
how you will contrive to be tidy here, Laura.'

Oh, we must be doubly tidy, or it will be intolerable,'
said Laura, drying her eyes ; ' and it is
the only place we can have to ourselves, for we can
scarcely write, or paint, or do anything downstairs,
I suppose.'

So saying, Laura rose, and began rather wearily
to open and unpack a large box, which was all they
had brought with them.

When the rest of our things come, where in the
world shall we put them ?' asked Winnie, standing
in the middle of the room, her hands folded, and
her eyes wide open with a puzzled expression.

Oh, I dare say there is a box-room or some
such place. Come and help me, like a dear girl 
you look so distracted standing there ! I feel better
already from doing something,' returned Laura.

And I feel as if I should never care to do anything
again,' cried Winnie, suddenly dropping on
her knees and beginning to pull out the contents
of the box vehemently. 'To think that I shall
never, never hear his dear voice, nor see him smile
as he used when I had a pretty new hat, or anything
that suited me ; and my father was not old,
Laura  not quite sixty-one. I sometimes feel so
angry with myself, because I forget for a few
minutes, and am amused. Why, I could have
burst out laughing to-day when Mrs. Crewe was
praising the cat, and Herbert pinched its tail and
made it almost bite that angel of an Admiral  I
never felt so fond of him before. But Mrs. Crewe
is great fun : she is so elegant and aristocratic ;
still, she is quite a lady, and I am a shade less
miserable since I saw her. Oh, Laura ! is it not
contemptible to change about as I do ?'

I don't know,' said Laura sadly, catching a roll
of music which Winnie tossed to her. * You can't

help your nature, and anything is better than pretending
to be what you are not ; besides, if one was
always so wretched as one is at moments, you would
go mad or die.'

That's true,' ejaculated Winnie. After a short
silence she rose from her knees and went to one of
the windows, peeping through the chink between
the edge of the blind and the window frame. ' It
is rather a nice little street; all the houses have
gardens in front, and trees, but they are very small
and low; and'  turning to the dressing-table,
which was rather unsteady, but elegantly draped
with white muslin and pink lining  ' what an awful
glass ! my face looks absolutely green, and quite
stumpy; and did you ever see such a marvel of
darns as the piece of carpet !'

I am afraid Mrs. Crewe is not much better off
than ourselves,' returned Laura, looking round with
a slight, not unkindly smile; 'but everything is
very clean, and she has given us a friendly welcome.
Dear Winnie, I have put things a little in
their places, and I feel I must lie down. You will
find our best dresses in the hanging cupboard by
the fireplace ; we cannot wear these till they are
well brushed ; they are so full of dust.'

Certainly not,' said Winnie, who was always
ready to put on her best on the smallest provocation.
' And as I am not a bit tired, I will write to
Elise von Eichwald, while you rest, you dear old
thing ; we promised to let her know all about our
journey.'

And Mrs. Macdonald too  do not forget her
murmured Laura, laying her weary head on the
pillow.

Soon the swift scratching of Winnie's pen grew
fainter and fainter and sleep came, bringing a
respite from the anxieties and responsibilities it
was her destiny to endure.

HE day after Mrs. Crewe's new inmates
had arrived, there was an entertainment
of some importance (at least, in the
host's estimation) at Mr. Trent's handsome
comfortable residence in Cleveland Square.

It was not a solemn festivity, such as he felt it his
duty to hold three or four times in the season, to
which were bidden chiefly professional equals and
some of his leading counsel.

This, he was secretly satisfied to think, was more
of a family affair. Yet it included a baronet of
ancient lineage, a banker of high repute, a distinguished
Indian officer, and a man of good position
among the landed gentry, with ladies to match,
besides one unmatched, or rather unmated, China
merchant with several lacs, and a liver.

Mr. Trent was, on the whole, a good specimen of
a prosperous professional man. He was a gentleman
and his father before him had been a professional
gentleman. He was an honourable man, with a

decently good temper and a circulation not too rapid,
who, preserved by circumstances and temperament,
had never meddled with things 'common or unclean.'
Yet he had committed the incongruity of
making what was considered a love-match  that is,
he had married the daughter of a rising barrister
into whose company he was thrown a good deal by
business ; but the barrister died before he achieved
fortune, and the family were scattered.

Mrs. Trent, 7iee Kate Piers, was a handsome
blonde inclined to ' embonpoint,' with a bright face
and pleasant manners, frank, laughter-loving, and
intelligent. Mr. Trent was quite satisfied with his
bargain, but was clearly of opinion that his wife
received to the full as much as she bestowed ; he
was, therefore, more coolly approving than enthusiastic,
and never hesitated to express, in sharp,
decisive sentences, any disapprobation suggested
by domestic arrangements or expenses, though far
too sensible a man to be a niggard.

Still, with all his mental breadth, he could not
shake off the influence of his training and associations,
and it was with a sense of satisfaction, as we
have said, that he descended from his dressing-room,
on the evening in question, half regretting
that he had not an opportunity of reassuring himself,
by a few words with his wife, that the iced cup
was abundant, and that the best champagne was in
the coolers. He had been detained at the office,
and some of his guests had already arrived.

On opening the drawing-room door, he found

Mrs. Trent showing the last photographs of her
two youngest children to her brother and sister-in-law,
Major and Mrs. John Piers.

I thought it was to be quite a family party,'
said Mrs. Piers, looking with some dismay at her
hostess's dress of creamy white muslin and lace,
with turquoise and diamonds at her throat, and
fastening a coquettish tuft of blue ribbon in her
hair, from which floated lace lappets.

So it is, if five of one family can make it so.
My principal security against completing the characteristics
of such an assembly is, that we are too
great strangers to have any casus belli ; a general
fight is the usual ending when two or three of these
blood are gathered together. To be sure,
there is a cousin of Mr. Trent's coming, a man of
metal, who would help to keep the peace,' returned
Mrs. Trent, laughing.

Dear me !' said her sister-in-law with a look of
dismay, as if she almost anticipated fisticuffs ; she
was a simple little thing, much younger than her
husband, and familiar only with the manners and
customs of Indian society. Mrs. Trent laughed
again, and Mrs. Piers continued : * You see, I
thought that we should probably only meet that
young something Piers  I forget his name, who
dined here last autumn when we first arrived  and
your own party ; so I put on my black silk, which
is scarcely a dinner dress.'

I am sure it is a very pretty one, and that point
d'Alengon is exquisite : it is my favourite lace.'

Yes, it is very nice ; I bought it in Paris when
we were there last month. Now tell me, who are
coming ?'

Well, first of all there is Reginald Piers, who
has become quite something and somebody since
you met him  come into a fortune unexpectedly ;
his mother, a very charming person, and his sister,
Lady Jervois, who was a beauty, but, though
young, has gone off terribly; her husband. Sir
Gilbert, who is  well, not charming. Then there
is the Trent cousin, Mr. Cannon and his wife ; he
is really a great gun in the Banking Brigade ; and
our respected partner, Mr. Thurston, who is devoted
to me, I flatter myself And oh, a Mr. Matthews, a
man from China ; I don't know him much, but he
does not seem to have acquired many celestial
qualities, though I believe he has grubbed up a
sufficiency of filthy lucre  that's all, I think.'

And your daughter V looking over to a slight,
ladylike, rather pretty girl, well-dressed, coffee,
grantee, and generally well put out of hand, to whom
her father and Major Piers were talking affably.

Yes ; Katie dines with us to-day, as it is not a
state dinner.'

She has grown a good deal since we were here,'
began Mrs. Piers.

Further comments, however, were cut short by
the announcement of Mr. and Mrs. Thurston,
followed by the remaining guests, ending with Sir
Gilbert and Lady Jervois and Mrs. Piers ; whereupon
entered a scrubby little man in an evening

suit of some antiquity both as to cut and aspect.
He had an upturned nose, stubbly whiskers, and a
slightly bald head, yet his wide and somewhat
loose-lipped mouth wore a perpetual grin of conceit
and satisfaction difficult to account for. On his
arm leant an elderly lady with silvery grey hair,
too grey for her years, arranged in soft feathery
curls on each side of her pale aristocratic face, and
crowned by a graceful cap of rare white lace ; a
dress of rich black silk, much trimmed with lace,
and a large Spanish feather fan completed a figure
widely different from her companion.

Lady Jervois followed : a slight, frail, graceful
little woman, with a shy, anxious expression in her
large blue eyes, prettily dressed in grey with black
lace  a costume which suited her.

Mrs. Trent met them half-way from the door
with a pleasant greeting.

Very happy to see you, Mrs. Piers,' she said ; * I
was but a girl when we last met, yet I am sure I
should have known you again.'

I can scarcely say as much,' returned the lady,
smiling ; * but at your age change is for the better.'

And you. Sir Gilbert ! you have been a stranger
to London for some time.'

You see, I have had no parliamentary humbug
to call me from my preserves and farming, so I've
been deuced glad to stick to the plough and the
gun,' replied Sir Gilbert, with a quick, harsh laugh.

Very likely ; but you had no business to bury
Lady Jervois alive.'

Oh, she was welcome to come up to town if she
liked.'

I am sure I should have come, in her place !
But, Mrs. Piers, Lady Jervois, let me introduce my
brother, a cousin you have never met before,' etc.,
etc. ; and the necessary presentations ensued ; then
glancing round, Mrs. Trent perceived that the tale
of her guests was not complete.

Where is Reginald ?' she asked. ' I thought he
would come with you,' to Mrs. Piers.

I have not seen him since yesterday. He is
staying at the Bingham, and we have taken a house
in Mount Street, you know ; but he will be here
without fail. We were speaking of you yesterday,
and '

Changed times for Master Reggie,' interrupted
Sir Gilbert with a chuckle ; ' from a clerk to a
county magnate.'

Magnate or no, we must not spoil our dinner for
him,' said Mrs. Trent * Pray ring, Mr. Thurston ;
even in his 'prentice days he was not too punctual.'

The convives had, however, scarce taken their
places when the tardy guest arrived.

Ah, Reginald !' said Mrs. Trent, as he came
quickly up the room to shake hands with her ; ' you
see you have not yet acquired importance enough
to be waited for :' and she smiled graciously upon
him.

Mrs. Trent, with her candid manner and pleasant
ways, managed to colour the familiarity, which
once was slightly patronizing, with a tinge of elder

sisterly partiality, that conveyed a degree of subtle
flattery, and yet did not suggest, even to self-love
as sensitive as Reginald's, a suspicion that she
was influenced by his change of fortune.

I should think not,' he returned with a good-humoured
smile ; ' and I have a thousand apologies
to offer, though not one good excuse. I really was
engaged, and forgot to look at my watch.*

Never mind  you have lost nothing ; there is
your place, between Mrs. John Piers and Katie.
I am afraid you have been going to too many
festive scenes  you look tired, Reginald.'

No ! I assure you I am by no means " a favoured
guest ;" my invitations are not too numerous,' said
Reginald, going round to his place and shaking
hands with his mother and Mr. Trent as he
passed.

Oh, they'll come fast enough, as your merits
become known,' said Sir Gilbert with a grin.

When did you return to town ?' asked Mr. Trent,

About a week ago.'

And while a dropping fire of question and answer
ran round the table, Mrs. Trent thought that Reginald
looked pale and weary, and altogether less
radiant than when he had last dined with them,
before going down to Saltshire to go through the
pleasant process, * taking possession.'

I suppose you don't care to visit the old shop
even as our "respected client?' said Mr. Trent,
smiling, as the grave butler and his auxiliary forces
were handing round the salmon and cucumber.

VOL. I. 5

'No  yes/ returned Reginald/hesitating slightly,
while his colour deepened. ' That is,' with a smile,
I have really very pleasant recollections of my
office days, but somehow time slips away so fast,
and so many fresh engagements turn up, that I
seem to have no more time to myself than when I
belonged to the famous firm. I dare say,' turning
to Miss Trent, 'you too find, now that you are
emancipated (you are out of Miss Barton's hands
for good, are you not ?)  then, do you not find you
have quite as much to do as when you were enslaved
?  eh, Katie ?  I suppose I may call you
Katie, as you are not absolutely out ?'

Oh yes, if you like,' said Miss Trent, blushing.

Sherry or 'rock ?' said the butler, in a confidential
whisper.

'Sherry.' Then to his neighbour, 'Are you to
burst on a dazzled world next spring ? I think we
ought to get up a Christmas party and a ball at
Pierslynn this winter.'

That would be very nice,' she said , colouring
with pleasure, though a little confused by his notice ;
and Reginald continued to bestow all his talk upon
her for a while during which the general conversation
was intermittent, the company being well
employed discussing the good things provided for
them.

'No, no fowl, but bring me another slice of
mutton. You are a sensible woman, Mrs. Trent, to
give us mutton ; one loathes lamb at this season of
the year said Sir Gilbert to his hostess, y

George ! we have had lamb at every house we have
dined at since we came to town. Not that we are
overwhelmed with engagements ; it's amazing how
soon one drops out of one's set in London ! Because
I've not been in town for two or three seasons, not
since I gave up Parliament, I believe everyone
thought that I was dead and buried. The fellows
at the Club who can remember me cry out, " Jervois,
where the deuce have you come from !" as if I had
no business to be alive  Gad, it is disgusting !*

Yes ! It takes a great deal to make a lasting
impression on London society,' returned Mrs. Trent.
*I am flattered that you approve of my mutton.
Have you any currant jelly. Sir Gilbert ? I feel inclined
to hide your plate from Mr. Trent with my
fan ; he considers mutton and jelly dangerously
wintry and unorthodox at this season. But of
course a lawyer is a good deal ruled by precedent.'

Sir Gilbert turned his light cunning eyes approvingly
on his hostess ; he was a hearty admirer of
handsome women.

Mr. Trent, like most of his trade, knows how topick
out the plums in more ways than one,' he
said.

I wish he were a good boy from the Jack Horner
point of view,' said Mrs. Trent, laughing. ' But I
fear he is not a sharp enough practitioner ; I fancy
you have dexterous thumbs yourself. Sir Gilbert !'

Not I, by George ! I don't think I have made
many hits in my life. Look at the luck of that
young Piers! Why, Hugh Piers might have married

5-2

any day for these twenty years past, and yet he
kept single ; so my precious brother-in-law steps
into five thousand a year ; a deuced nice lot of
savings he added with indescribable gusto, as
though his mental nostrils sniffed them from afar.

What an odious little brute he is !' thought Mrs.
Trent, smiling pleasantly on him, while she replied
sympathetically : ' There is something very nice
about a large lump of money to take slices off when
you want them.'

Better slice very thin,' muttered Sir Gilbert, his
mouth full of mutton. ' But young Piers will make
ducks and drakes of it all: 'set a beggar on horseback,"
hey ?'

I don't think so, Sir Gilbert. He seems steady
enough, and I am sure has behaved very sensibly
and moderately ever since he came into the estate.'

Ah ! but he comes of a spendthrift lot. I know
'em. I've got my lady into pretty good training,
but I wish you were to see Madame Piers there
trotting off to the Bond Street shops to rig herself
out as the Dowager of Pierslynn ! However, it's no
affair of mine ; Master Reggie will find out that
five thousand a year is not Fortunatus's purse by-and-by.'


Sir Gilbert was a remarkably outspoken man.
He was too thick-skinned to feel pricks himself,
and consequently never hesitated to inflict them on
his neighbours.

Mrs. Piers has been an excellent mother,' said
Mrs. Trent gravely, ' and she has had rather a hard

life of it. I am glad Reginald appears so considerate
of her.'

A hard life ! Gad, that's good !' cried Sir Gilbert,
helping himself to devilled whitebait. ' Considering
she has lived ov). the fat of the land at
Ashley Grange for the last seven or eight years,
with nothing to do but to bother me for clothes for
the poor, and soup-kitchens, and the Lord knows
what, pauperizing my people and '

Is Lord Langford likely to succeed in the
representation of your county, Sir Gilbert ?' asked
Mr. Thurston, interrupting the Baronet's domestic
revelations.

I don't know, Mr. Thurston, and I don't care,'
he returned. ' I have washed my hands of politics.
They don't pay in any sense. It is all very well for
adventurers, fellows that have to push their way, to
make stepping-stones of the Conservative interest,
or Liberal principles ; but I find enough to do to
manage matters at home.'

It is well that all country gentlemen are not of
your way of thinking,' said Reginald. * I confess I
should like a seat in Parliament by-and-by.'

I dare say you would ; and to run a horse at
Epsom, and keep a yacht at Cowes, and all the rest
of it.'

Political influence is a proper object of ambition,'
said the Banker, who had scarcely spoken, 'and
men of weight and property should not let it slip
into the hands of men of straw.'

These things right themselves,' said Sir Gilbert,

tossing a bumper of champagne ; and a pause
ensued, the Baronet's abrupt contemptuous repudiation
of politics and politicians acting as an
extinguisher on the subject.

Admiral Desbarres called after you left resumed
Mr. Thurston, addressing his partner. ' I met him
on the stairs, and took him into your room. He
arrived from Germany yesterday, and has brought
back his ward and her cousins.'

I am afraid the Admiral is taking up a burden
that will break his back,' returned the host. ' Champagne
to Mr. Thurston, Peters. Try that wine,
Thurston ; I had it direct from Ai last November.
You remember we were obliged to send to Troyes
to look up evidence in the Bouverie will case ; I
took the opportunity to order some of the best
brand in that district.'

'Who is Admiral Desbarres?' asked Lady Jervois,
speaking almost for the first time in a soft timid
voice. ' I seem to know the name.'

'He is one of the famous naval family of Desbarres.
He has two brothers in the Navy ; one, his junior,
has only just retired, and is also an admiral ; our
friend, Admiral George Desbarres, is a man of extraordinary
benevolence. He is by no means
wealthy ; nevertheless, he is always helping someone,
and now he is going to adopt his ward, because
she has lost her home, and her cousins because 
well, I suppose because no one else will'

The other Admiral Desbarres used to command
Archie Bertram's ship, when he was with the

Channel Fleet  don't you remember?' said Reginald,
whose attention was by no means absorbed by
his conversation with Miss Trent.

Yes, I remember now returned Lady Jervois,
with a little more animation of tone and look than
usual.

Hum ! he will land himself in the workhouse,
and I shall be curious to see which of his proteges
will take him out!' said Sir Gilbert, his loud grating
voice drowning the aside between brother and
sister.

He is a fine old fellow,' cried Reginald, ' and
desperately religious. I remember Mr. Fieldenen
telling us at Cheddington that at one time he
thought the Church of England too slow, and joined
the Ranters, or the " Latter-day Saints," or some
very fast sect.'

My dear Reginald,' said his mother entreatingly,
pray do not speak so flippantly on such subjects.'

I wish Admiral Desbarres would be advised by
us,' said Mr. Trent. ' He really undertakes too much.'

Where has he placed Laura and the children ?'
asked Reginald, with some interest.

Somewhere in the Westbourne district. I do
not know exactly.'

'This ward of Admiral Desbarres is a sort of
distant relation of ours,' continued Reginald, turning
to his right-hand neighbour, Mrs. John Piers.
*And I used to know her in our boy-and-girl
days, for I frequently spent my vacations at her
uncle's house.'

Dear me, that was very nice !' returned the lady ;
is she pretty ?'

*No, certainly not pretty, but a deuced clever
girl; quite a "comrade," you understand, though
she was not so plucky as her cousin, little Winnie
Fieldenen.'

I think my father. General Garden, used to know
an Admiral Desbarres,' said Mrs. John Piers, blushing
a little at drawing attention to herself, yet not
sorry to parade her father the General.

It was Admiral Stephen Desbarres,' remarked
her husband.

'Will Miss ' asked Mrs. John Piers, pausing;

Miss '

Piers,' supplied Reginald.

Piers live with him ? I dare say she will marry
a naval officer.'

'Women's heads are always running on marriage,*
said Sir Gilbert to Mrs. Trent, as he helped himself
a second time to cheese shuffles.

Well, considering the wretched position we hold
in society, it is not to be wondered at,' returned
Mrs. Trent, laughing : ' of no value without an " O '*
in broad-cloth behind us.'

Whose cash you fling about till you reduce him
to nought,' growled the Baronet.

Is it possible you believe us to be extravagant ?
exclaimed Mrs. Trent, with innocent wonder.

Possible !' shrieked Sir Gilbert.

Meantime the Banker and Mr. Thurston talked
finance, and Major Piers laid down the law on

Indian affairs to Reginald, who seemed to listen,
but was somewhat preoccupied ; then Mrs. Trent
gave the signal for retiring.

Reginald was the first to join the ladies, who
were grouped, some round the best of modern
refuges, the photograph album, some looking over
Miss Trent's music, while Mrs. Trent and Mrs.
Piers were talking together in a friendly way on a
remote sofa. Lady Jervois was sitting alone, turning
over the pages of a gorgeously got-up book of
Tyrolese scenery, with an expectant look on her
sad, nervous little face.

Reginald went straight to her.

I could not manage to call before one, Helen,*
he said in a low voice, as he drew a chair beside
her, * but I have not forgotten my promise. Have
you a pocket under all that lace .-''

Yes, dear Reggie,' she replied, with a slight
quiver in her voice.

Here, then, put this away before he comes up ;'
and he took a large thick envelope from his breast
and passed it to her. * There ! I think it was a
proof of brotherly love to spoil the set of my
faultless garment with such a package,' he said,
laughing, while he moved his chair between his
sister and the rest of the company.

A quick, partly suppressed sob swelled her
throat, as she seized the packet with nervous haste,
feeling for her pocket so eagerly that she twice
failed to find it.

Keep yourself better in hand, Helen,' he went

on in a low warning tone. * Will this put you
straight?'

Yes, quite ! You have given me life, Reginald !'

Then for heaven's sake keep straight ! I cannot
do this again ;' and Reginald's good-looking
face contracted with an expression which it rarely
wore.

Trust me, I can and will keep right. I shall be
able to endure now to the end, and if ever in anyway
I can repay '

I am very sure you will,' interrupted Reginald
pleasantly. ' I will give you an opportunity some
day, perhaps.'

There was a pause, and the packet having been
successfully hidden away, Reginald pushed back
his chair a little, and resumed.

What have you been doing since yesterday ?
What has my mother decided ?'

Oh, she has nearly made up her mind to take
that house at South Kensington. Sir Gilbert is
anxious she should. He thinks as it is so near the
Museum, it would be very nice for us  Sybil and
myself  to come up for a few months every year 
for her education, you know.'

I dare say he does,' returned Reginald with a
scornful smile, ' even if he shares expenses, which I
shall take care he does ; it will be a deuced good
arrangement for him.'

And what a charming one for us !' returned
Lady Jervois, her face brightening up at the prospect.


Poor little Nellie ! You have had an awful
hard time of it,' said Reginald compassionately.
It may be better for you, now that I am able to
play the part of your " big brother." But whatever
you do, keep free of debt. It would give him
such a pull over you, if he found it out ; and remember,
I shall have heaps of claims  claims you
know nothing about  on my spare cash ; I cannot
help you again

Believe me, I shall not require help,' said Lady
Jervois in a low, earnest voice. ' And oh, if I could
convey to you an idea of the relief you have given
me ! God bless you, Reggie !'

There ! there !' he returned, pressing her hand
hastily. 'Don't lose hold of yourself; perhaps
you'll bring me luck. I will come and see you tomorrow.'


Come to luncheon ?'

No, no. The worthy Baronet would expect me
to bring my own slice of beef and pint of wine,'
said Reginald, ' as he is in London lodgings, and
buying his provisions' per ounce. But I will lookin
after. I want you to come to Pierslynn for a
fortnight or three weeks. I hear Sir Gilbert is
going to have an economical debauch in Paris
among the Palais Royal restaurants  dinners at a
franc seventy-five, and fifteen-centime excursions
on the imperial of the Pass trams ; so you and
my mother had better come and stay with me
while he perpetrates these extravagances.'

It would be very nice. But, Reggie, you need

not be so witty at Sir Gilbert's expense ; remember,
you have spent a good many weeks at Ashley
Grange, and had many a day's ride.'

*" Quite true, Helen. If he hadn't spoilt your life
I would spare him ; but '

Reginald,' said Mrs. Trent, interrupting them,
you are really a good-for-nothing boy, never to
have been to see me since you were at Pierslynn.
I wanted to hear all about the place.'

I dare say I have seemed negligent, Mrs. Trent,
but you don't know what a heap of business I have
had to attend to.'

Business ! Why, Mr. Trent says you have not
appeared at the office either.'

No ; of course I have had a good deal todo
with Fairfield and Thwarted, the Pierslynn
solicitors.'

Oh, indeed !' returned Mrs. Trent, making a
mental note of his answer ; ' well, tell me all about
it  your castle and broad domains.'

You must come and see for yourself, Mrs. Trent.
I think you will like the place. There is a rambling
old house, not at all grand, but comfortable, and
rather picturesque. There is a fine country round :
Welsh hills springing up almost from the grounds,
and the remnants of an old fortalice, where our
excellent ancestors used to store up the spoils they
took from their neighbours. There is, they tell mea
good neighbourhood, and I must say the stables
filled me with a keen delight. I am quite impatient
to return to them.'

'That is all very nice. And tell me, Reginald,
is the house in good order? and what are you going
to do about an establishment ?*

Oh, I found a stately [old dame in black silk
with a huge bunch of keys, and an elderly gentleman
of clerical aspect, to whom the place seemed
to belong much more than to me, both looking
very glum ; so, as everything was in apple-pie
order, I made them a speech, requesting they
would remain, and serve me as well as they appeared
to have done my predecessor, since which
everything went well.'

How long did you stay there ?' asked Mrs.
Trent ; but the rather thin, tremulous tones of Miss
Trent's voice, upraised in an air of Schumann's,
compelled them to silence.

Mr. Thurston, Sir Gilbert, Mr. Cannon, and
Major Piers sat down to whist, and so postponed
the hour of departure considerably beyond the
usual time of breaking up ; when Sir Gilbert rose
from the card-table joyous and triumphant, the
happy winner of four shillings and sixpence.

Some time previously, however, Reginald had
made his excuses and taken leave.

We are going to have another and more welcome
change in the office,' said Mr. Trent, accompanying
him to the door.

Indeed ! how so ?'

Holden tendered his resignation to-day. He
wants, it seems, to join some relative in New
Zealand or Sydney. I can't say I shall regret him ;

THE ADMIRALS WARD,

he was useful in some respects, but latterly he
grew very unsteady. I fear we should have had to
dismiss him, which would have been unpleasant.
It is as well he should take the initiative.'

It is,' returned Reginald ; ' and he will be no
great loss. Good-night. I shall call on you the
day after tomorrow to discuss one or two matters.
Good-night.'

RS. CREWE'S happy and contented
mood suffered no diminution during
the first week of her new inmates'
residence. The girls were quite punctual,
and perhaps a little too silent for their
hostess's taste. Next to detailing her own affairs,
Mrs. Crewe loved to hear the histories of other
people. Still, she made large allowance for her
young guests* depressing circumstances, and did
not doubt that after a while they would, to use
her own expression, ' put every confidence in her.'

Meantime, the complete change from all they
had been accustomed to, though far from agreeable,
helped both Winnie and Laura to throw off
the first numbness of their grief

After the Rectory, with its roomy old house
and numerous outbuildings, and even the Dresden
stage  which, if more limited, had exterior compensations
in the shape of studios, galleries, and
museums, where they might ramble together unquestioned

and unmolested  life seemed curiously
crippled and confined in Mrs. Crewe's suburban
semi-detached villa.

Moreover, the neat, well-kept surroundings,
trim gardens, and orderly white-muslin-curtained
windows, bright brass handles, and general uniformity
of the neighbourhood, produced a sense of
extreme weariness on the cousins, when, after an
elaborate toilette, Mrs. Crewe took them for 'a
walk abroad.' Herbert amused himself better.
He rambled as far as the parks, and spent a few
stray pence on omnibuses, from the top of which
he enjoyed a bird's view of the streets.

I wonder if every day is to be the same, Laura ?'
exclaimed Winnie one morning. She had been
standing in one of the windows of their room, gazing
upon without seeing the street below, and spoke
abruptly out of her thoughts. * I feel hopelessly
idle, as if I never could take to anything again !
Even if I could bring myself to bear the sound of
music, the piano is so awfully out of tune, that it
would be impossible to practise. And where in
the world could you paint ?  there is no room here ;
and Mrs. Crewe is so terribly afraid of things being
spoiled downstairs, that I do not see how you are
to manage it.'

*I think I could contrive to paint here,' said
Laura, looking round.

Then there are scarcely any books in the house,
and the whole thing is so hopelessly commonplace ;
one cannot mend clothes every day and all day

long. I do hope the Admiral will call to-day ;
perhaps he will take us out. Come in !' exclaimed
Winnie, interrupting herself, as a knock at the door
made itself heard ; whereupon the door opened,
and Mrs. Crewe, in a washed-out but scrupulously-clean
dressing-gown, sailed into the room, her
favourite cat resting on her shoulder, and a letter
in her hand.

Well, my dears ! I hope you are getting your
things straight. I am sure there is nothing so
wretched as untidiness. Here, Winnie, is a letter
from the dear Admiral  no mistaking his remarkable
writing  so clear and even.'

Oh, thank you, Mrs. Crewe !' cried Winnie,
catching and opening it eagerly, while Mrs. Crewe
continued to talk. ' I see you are very orderly,
Laura. Would you like to have that large box put
away } I have a nice box-room upstairs.'

'Thank you, Mrs. Crewe. It is very useful to
keep things in.'

Ah ! I see. But I am going to get you another
large chest of drawers and a table. I am only
waiting for a sale which will take place in about
ten days, at the corner house in this road. The
room is bare at present,' looking round with an air
of dignity and candour ; ' but the notice was short,
and between you and me and my precious Topsy
here,' stroking the cat with airy jocularity, ' cash
was not plentiful at the moment, or I should have
made things nicer and prettier.'

But these are very nice,' said Laura quickly,

VOL. I. 6

'and we shall be most comfortable with another
chest of drawers. Won't you sit down, Mrs.
Crewe ?'

Thank you, dear settling herself for a gossip.
I have never brought Topsy to see you since you
came,' placing the cat in her lap. ' Look, my
sweet ! look at Laura's room ! look at yourself in
the glass.' The creature deliberately jumped down
and began to inspect the apartment. ' It is the
dearest, most companionable puss in the world.
You will grow quite fond of her by-and-by. And
now, dear,' continued Mrs. Crewe, ' let me see some
of your German fashions. I confess I am always
interested in dress, especially for nice young girls
like yourselves.'

But we have brought very little with us,' returned
Laura. 'Winnie and I had only one mourning
costume each. We made up theses touching her
skirt, ' out of some black dresses we had ; German
fashions are only French ones grown old.'

Did you make those yourselves ?' asked Mrs.
Crewe, eyeing them critically. ' Very nicely made
indeed ; but, as you say, a little old-fashioned.
Why do you wear that black frill round your
throat, my dear ? How much better Miss Fieldenen
looks with a white one.' Mrs. Crewe, considering
Winnie a possible bird of passage, treated her with
a little more ceremony than Laura.

Oh ! because it lasts longer,' said Laura good-humouredly,
' and there is no use taking too much
trouble about my looks.'

Not at all ; care improves everyone returned
Mrs. Crewe impressively, ' and you do not do yourself
justice ; you must let me '

The Admiral desires his compliments to you,
Mrs. Crewe,' interrupted Winnie, who had come to
the end of her letters, for there was one enclosed.
He hopes you will allow him to come to tea, ashe
is engaged all to-day. I have a letter, too,
from my aunt in Liverpool, Mrs. Morgan  and,
Laura, she asks me to go and stay with her ! It is
very kind, and  oh, I do hope I may not be
obliged to go ! She is quite a stranger, and then I
shall want heaps of things. I could not go as I
am!'

Of course, I shall be charmed to see my
esteemed friend. Admiral Desbarres,' said Mrs.
Crewe in her best tone. Then, with a little more
eagerness, ' Your aunt in Liverpool  who is she ?'

Mamma's sister. I have only seen her once or
twice, and did not like her much ; but I dare say
she is very good, and I believe her husband is very
rich.'

Well, she is decidedly friendly,' said Mrs.
Crewe, with an air of dispassionate consideration,
and you should not be too ready to reject what
may prove an advantageous offer, my love ! You
will excuse my speaking; but I can truly say I
feel a mother's interest in you both, not only for
the Admiral's sake, but for your own. And Liverpool,
if inelegant, is substantial. There is no
knowing,' with a significant nod, ' what good luck

62

you might find there. I would not refuse if I were
you ; but of course you will be guided by what the
Admiral says. Just look at that dear Topsy ; she
has settled herself to sleep in the crown of your
hat ! she will not do it any harm, she is so gentle.*

Oh, never mind,' said Winnie, making a slight
grimace at Laura, behind the speaker.

And now let us consult,' resumed Mrs. Crewe,
returning to her seat, after having stroked and
fondled Topsy ; ' I am, though I say it myself, an
excellent manager. Let us see, what would you
require to make a good appearance at the table
of these wealthy relatives ? Another dress, more
fashionably made and trimmed with crape. I see
you have none on the dresses you brought with
you, and crape  you'll excuse my saying it  crape
is indispensable.'

They do not wear it in Germany, and it is so
dear there.'

Yes, yes ; but here you must have it. I daresay
I could manage to get you a very pretty
costume for four pounds.'

Four pounds !' echoed Winnie, in despairing
accents.

'And then,' continued Mrs. Crewe, evidently
enjoying the prospect of buying and bargaining,
you might do without another hat, though you
ought to have one ; and  you'll not mind my
mentioning it ?  but you must have a pair of boots.
Those you brought with you are really a disgrace
to your feet. I never saw such things ; why, they

are half a yard square at the toes. Then, a mantle
and a dinner-dress  in such a house as your aunt's
you must have a dinner-dress ; fortunately, in
mourning one does not want a variety.'

Oh, there is nothing fortunate about mourning,'
said Winnie, shaking her head.

Then, there are gloves and ribbons and things.
I am sure for twelve pounds I could supply you
well with all necessaries,' continued Mrs. Crewe,
not heeding the interruption. ' Just let me see
what you have already : you needn't mind me, my
dears ; my interest in you is sincere, and God
knows I have seen ups and downs enough, and
known what it is to be almost without a gown to
my back' Nothing short of her intense itching
to handle the belongings of her young friends and
dive into the recesses of the big box would have
drawn this confession from Mrs. Crewe, who
piqued herself on ' keeping up appearances,' but
who on emergencies like the present was apt to
reveal the secrets of the past in bursts of overflowing
confidence. A little unwillingly, yet reluctant
to seem unfriendly, Laura and Winnie submitted
to a rigorous search  nothing escaped ; and
amid admiring ejaculations and high-pitched
queries, she managed to extract the price, history,
transformations, and migrations of every article
they possessed. ' That is a beautiful portrait of
your father, Laura,' she said, looking at a clever
sketch in water-colour of an officer. ' In his
uniform, too ! It would look very nice in the

drawing-room, and might be a comfort to you, my
dear, to look at. It is a pretty frame, too.'

Yes, it is very nice,' said Laura, quietly taking
it out of her hands and wrapping it up again in its
paper. ' Uncle Fieldenen said it was very like. /
cannot remember : Uncle and Aunt Fieldenen were
my real father and mother.'

And I am sure they loved you as if they were,'
cried Winnie, with a sudden increase of colour,
as if called upon to back up Laura in some way.

Well, dears, it is nearly one o'clock,' said Mrs.
Crewe, who had passed the morning entirely to her
satisfaction. ' I must change my dress before
dinner, so I shall leave you. Trust me, I shall
represent what you require in a proper manner to
the Admiral, and he will act  as he always does 
handsomely.' She picked up Topsy, who settled
on her shoulder.

Indeed, indeed, you must do no such thing !'
exclaimed Winnie. ' I have no claim whatever on
him, I am not even his ward ; and I should never
dream of asking him for anything.' .

'Well, we'll see,' returned Mrs. Crewe, smiling
superior as she opened the door. ' Laura, my dear,
what does the Admiral like with his tea } I did
think of pressed beef, but it is scarcely enough ; a
little pickled salmon would be just the thing, only
there is no time. I am giving you a fore-quarter
of lamb and peas for dinner to-day, to be cold tomorrow,
as it is the girl's Sunday out. Some of
that with the beef, etc., etc'

I am sure I do not know what the Admiral
likes, Mrs. Crewe. I do not think he cares for
anything.'

Oh, everyone has his likings, only it takes sometime
to find them out. Dinner will be ready in
about twenty minutes ;' and with a kindly patronizing
nod, Mrs. Crewe went out and shut the door.

I am so glad she is gone !' cried Winnie, seizing
Laura somewhat violently by the shoulders and
forcing her into a chair. ' I have been just dying
to show you this letter. I don't like it ; and there
is one part,' pressing it open against her bosom,
that might offend you as it has offended me ; it is
so mean. But I must talk to you about it, and you
will not mind  will you, my own dear old Laura ?'

No ; why should I mind what a stranger says ?'
cried Laura, a little wondering.

Kneeling at her cousin's feet and spreading the
letter on her lap while she took one of her hands
in hers, Winnie read as follows :

My dear Winifrid,

I should have written to you on your
father's death had you announced it yourself,
but it seemed to me rather negligent of
you to employ your cousin to convey the sad
intelligence. I was of course greatly shocked and
surprised, for though he often talked of his health,
we none of us believed there was much the matter
with him. However, you are, I am sure, too well
trained to repine at the Divine will ; and, knowing

that your dear father has made a good exchange,
you must not give way to grief, which will only
unfit you for your work here below. Both Mr.
Morgan and myself are deeply grieved to hear,
through your good friend Admiral Desbarres, that
there seems to be no provision for you. It is
really too dreadful. If all the money your father
expended on your cousin had been invested, you
might now have a nice little sum to fall back upon.
I never could understand how your mother permitted
him to adopt a niece  the child, too, of a
marriage to which he must have been opposed for
every reason. However, that cannot be helped
now, and I am sure you must acknowledge that
you really have no claim on Mr. Morgan. As to
myself, I had no fortune of my own, and of course
I cannot take my husband's money to give to my
relatives ; but while you are looking about you, I
shall be very happy to have you with us for a few
months, and I dare say you will get on very \ell
with my girls. I write also to Admiral Desbarres
enclosing this, and you will of course be guided by
his advice. If you accept my invitation, let me
know at once when we shall see you. I shall be
happy to pay your fare, second class, and will send
some one to meet you at the station. Meantime,
with all good wishes and kind regards, in which
Mr. Morgan joins, I am,

Your affectionate aunt,

'E. Morgan.'

Winnie ceased, and a pause ensued.

Isn't it hateful ?' said she at last, looking a little
anxiously into Laura's face ; 'but you don't mind ?'

No,' returned Laura slowly. ' I don't mind, but
it is a sort of revelation to me of my uncle's great
goodness. He was so much like a father that I
scarcely thought of him as a benefactor. Oh no
Winnie, what Mrs. Morgan says does not hurt me,
for we have all been like real brothers and sisters ;
but if I ever can pay back to you and Herbert
what '

She stopped, for her voice broke.

*Yes, of course. It seems quite extraordinary
that anyone should think of us as anything but
sisters. You see, I did not want to give you the
horrid thing to read while Mrs. Crewe was here.
She is awfully curious, Laura, and I really believe
can read what you are thinking, through the back
of your head, especially if it is about money or dress
or anything like that.'

Still, we ought to be very thankful to be with
such a good-natured, kind-hearted person.'

Yes, I know ; and she is such fun, too. Oh,
Laura, I long to sail across the room and imitate
her with her "precious puss," only it is too unfeeling
of me to think of such things. But this letter,
Laura : do you think I ought to go ? Oh, I hope
and pray not ! Fancy staying with such a woman
as Mrs. Morgan must be !'

It would be dreadful. We will hear what the
Admiral says to-night. And, Winnie, what are we

to do ? We cannot go on living like this ; we must
try and help ourselves. Might we not teach ? /
can paint, and you can play. If we could only live
here together and work, it would not be so bad.'

Ah, yes ! Yet, how cruel it is to think that the
dear father is lying in Dresden alone ; he that we
used to take such care of! It seems as if we had
nothing to do now.'

Laura did not speak, but two big tears welled
over, and slowly coursed down her cheeks. ' What
is to become of Herbert, too ?' she resumed. *I know
the Admiral is trying to get him into some school,
but how can we get him clothes, and railway fares,
and oh, all sorts of things ? I almost wish the dear
Admiral would tell us a little what he intends to do.
But I don't like even to think so.'

Why not ?' said Winnie, a little rebelliously; and
rising from her lowly position, she walked to the
looking-glass. ' I know he is an angel of a man, and
I love him. What beautiful eyes he has, Laura !
still, he is not us ; he can't know exactly what we
want.'

He thinks he knows what is good for us a great
deal better than we do, but somehow there is something
slavish in folding one's hands and letting
one's life glide into another's grasp.'

 That's just what I think, Laura, only I cannot
say it like you. However, we are bound to do what
the Admiral desires, at any rate for the present-how
much money have you, dear ?'

Four marks eighty-five pfennige. I suppose we

can get them changed into English money ; then,
Winnie, my quarter will be due in about a fortnight;
that will be nine pounds and some shillings.'

And we shall have no one to spend it on but ourselves
now !' sighed Winnie, with unhesitating appropriation
 a retrospective acknowledgment which
spoke volumes.

No one, indeed !' echoed Laura.

A heavy thump at the door. ' Please come down
to dinner,' said Collins outside. It was the voice of
one weeping, and Winnie, who had been gazing at
herself in the glass, and carefully arranging a bow
of black ribbon and an old-fashioned jet brooch
which fastened the white frill Mrs. Crewe approved
of, turned half around. ' Thank you,' she said, ' we
will come directly ;' adding in a subdued tone, with
a low sweet laugh, 'Collins has been coming through
the fire of tribulation, I imagine ; I don't think she
has a very easy time of it. Are you ready, Laura ?'

In a moment, Winnie ; and do shut up your
writing-things and those letters. You never put
anything back in its place

Ah ! I fear you will never get me into training ;
but then, Laura, I can put on my clothes and do
my hair better than you do.'

I know that,' returned Laura, with a slight involuntary
sigh ; ' but come, we must not keep Mrs.
Crewe waiting.'

It was a genuine delight to that lady to place the
best of everything within her means before her young
guests, to load their plates, to press them to eat

and it was a real disappointment when they failed
to consume what she provided.

Her enthusiastic appreciation of Winnie's good
looks and pleasant manners knew no bounds.
Laura she summed up as a nice good girl, ' a little
cold and reserved perhaps, but will no doubt improve
on acquaintance.' Such, at least, was her
description of that young lady in a short confidential
interview with her next-door neighbour. Miss
Brown ; for Mrs. Crewe found her time fully occupied,
while the speed at which Collins galloped up
and down and to and fro, under the energetic spur
of her mistress's exhortations, was almost alarming.
How the poor creature escapes a broken neck is a
miracle,' was Winnie's comment.

'Your brother has not come in yet,' said Mrs.
Crewe, as the two girls entered the little dining-room.
It is really too bad. He will not get his dinner
comfortably. A fore-quarter of lamb cannot be
played tricks with ; it must be done to a turn and
served at the right moment. I will cut off his
dinner. Collins will keep it hot for him ; and,
Collins, bring me my precious Topsy's plate.
Collins !' in a tone of righteous wrath, ' how dare
you appear to wait at table in such an apron ! It
would be intolerable even were I alone, but before
these young ladies it is positively insulting! Go, my
girl  go, go, go ! There, I will pass the plates ; but
put on a clean apron before you appear in my
sight.'

Please 'm/ sobbed Collins, retiring overwhelmed,

the laundress she have lost two of my best, and I
hasn't got another.'

Now, don't answer me, Collins ; it is a thing I
cannot and will not endure. I shall speak to you
afterwards. Ridiculous creature ! she begins to
cry if I look at her. Laura, my love, let me send
you this nice little rib. We will keep the shoulder
for this evening. Dear, dear ! that girl has never
left a dish for it ! Would you mind passing me
that hand-bell, the regular bell is always breaking.'


Let me go and tell her what you want,' said
Laura good-naturedly, and rising from her seat ; *it
will save her a journey upstairs.'

No, no ! pray do not trouble yourself, my dear ;
you really will spoil her, and I am sure I do not
know what you will think of my menage P

You need not trouble about that,' said Winnie,
smiling, as Laura left the room. * The kitchen and
the dining-room doors were exactly opposite each
other in Dresden, and we often helped to bring in
the dinner.'

Dear me ! is it possible ?' said Mrs. Crewe, who
was anxiously struggling to separate the short bones
without splashing gravy on the cloth ; then, after
success had attended her efforts, sitting down with
a slight sigh, ' How many servants did you keep,
my love ? Thank you, Laura ; do sit down and eat
something. Is that girl coming? Oh, here, Collins!'
as the afflicted slavey, still drowned in tears, her
offending apron turned back in three-cornered

fashion, appeared ; ' come, come, hold the dish
nearer ! There, put that in the larder directly,
Collins ! on the left-hand shelf, mind. Take some
mint sauce, Winnie  I really cannot call you Miss
Fieldenen.'

Pray do not,' returned the young lady.

'But you did not tell me,' persisted Mrs. Crewe,
when the next break in her hospitable cares permitted
 ' you did not tell me how many servants
you kept'

Only one,' said Winnie.

And you were four in family, and saw company,
you say ? It must have been a tight fit ! But
then, no doubt, German servants are very different
from the conceited young ladies zve have to contend
with ; who think themselves as fine as their mistresses,
and do not like to soil their hands !'

'They are troublesome in Germany too"* said
Laura; 'they can work very hard, and would just as
soon scrub the floors at seven o'clock in the evening
as at any time, but they have no notion of method ;
you have to direct them perpetually.'

Still, to live in the style you did with only one
servant was wonderful management !'

'We did not live in any style,' cried Winnie,
laughing, and then added with a sigh : ' But we
were very, very happy !' and for a few minutes
silence ensued. Then Mrs. Crewe observed :

Ah ! yes, young people like variety. There!' interrupting
herself, as the sound of the door-bell
reached them  * there is Herbert !'

'I will let him in,' said Winnie, jumping up and
hurrying away.

I declare you are the most obliging young creature
I ever met,' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe, while she
rang the hand-bell vehemently, thereby evoking
the presence of Collins, who came in nearly head-foremost.
* There, there, Collins, bring a hot plate
for Master Herbert ; I will cut his dinner for him,
then you can take away the lamb, and bring the
tart.  Well, Mr. Herbert, where have you been ?'

I am very sorry to be so late, Mrs. Crewe, but I
strolled away as far as St. James's, and saw the
guard mounted ; then I fell in with a German
nurse, as I came back through Kensington Gardens
; she was looking for one of the children who
had strayed away, and she could not speak a word
of English ; so I stopped and helped her. Thanks,
Mrs. Crewe, that's a tremendous plateful, but I am
awfully hungry.'

Then Mrs. Crewe attacked the tart, a delicious
lightly browned flaky-looking tart, and distributed
large helpings, finally exclaiming in a severe tone,
Collins ! bring me a plate, Collins ! There,' she
continued, heaping up a liberal supply  ' there, eat
that yourself, and never let me see such an apron
again !' Exit Collins, overpowered, but consoled.


They never can say that they are not well fed
here,' added Mrs. Crewe defiantly : 'they  meaning
generally the succession of domestics who had
toiled in her service. ' And now, my dears, what

are you going to do this afternoon ? Would you
like to go out ?'

I do not want to go out,' said Winnie sadly.

*Nor I,' added Laura.

And it is broiling hot !' said Herbert.

Then,' said Mrs. Crewe cheerfully, ' let us have
a nice quiet afternoon, working and talking. I
suppose you young ladies have some elegant fancy-work
on hand ; / am reduced to darn my stockings
 a work I detest.'

If I might bring down my paint-box and
things,' said Laura with hesitation, ' I could finish
a note-book I have been doing for my guardian.'

Certainly ! cried Mrs. Crewe with great readiness.
' I adore everything artistic'

And if you like I will help you to darn your
stockings,' said Winnie, leaning a little towards her
hostess in the half-caressing manner peculiar to
her ; ' for I have no work of my own.'

You are really a darling !' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe. *We will have dinner cleared away as
soon as Herbert has finished, and settle ourselves
here, because (I did not mean to tell you, but I
cannot keep it) I expect the tuner this afternoon ;
the instrument is a good one, but terribly
neglected.'

Oh, that will be delightful !' cried Winnie. ' I
long to play, and yet I dread to hear the sound of
the airs  the music my father used to love !'

Very natural indeed,' said Mrs. Crewe. * But
you must endeavour, my love, to conquer these

vain regrets.  Collins ! Come and take away !
Collins ! She does not hear me '  an hysterical
fantasia on the bell.

I do not think I have shown you my son's
photograph said Mrs. Crewe, after Laura had
settled her painting materials and recommenced
the half-finished group of wild-flowers on pale
grey Russia leather which she designed for her
guardian, and Winnie, with a basketful of stockings,
had established herself on the sofa. Mrs.
Crewe had drawn a stocking on one hand, and then
permitted it to repose on her lap. ' I do not think
I have shown you my son's photograph.'

Yes. Do you not remember the day before
yesterday, when you took us into our room ?' said
Laura.

Oh, that one !' in a disparaging tone. ' I mean
the last, a coloured one, cabinet size. He gave it
to me just before he went away. I will bring it ;'
and she left the room for a minute, returning with
a morocco case in her hand, which she opened and
handed to Winnie.

Is he not a handsome fellow ? He has such fine
eyes ; and see, what a broad intellectual brow ! He
is, though / say it, wonderfully clever, and so
naturally refined ; while his devotion to me is something
too sweet ! Is it not a charming face ?'

Very nice indeed,' said Winnie kindly, looking
at it for a moment and passing it on to Laura,
while Mrs. Crewe took up her stocking again and
stuck her needle into it.

VOL. I. 7

Laura took the portrait and gazed at it with
some interest. It represented a man of perhaps
thirty, with certainly a broad forehead, which
seemed low from the mass of black hair that fell
over it ; dark, well-assured, somewhat wistful eyes ;
and the rest of the features large and strong rather
than refined ; the embroiled countenance grave,
almost stern. ' It is a resolute face, yet I should
not be afraid of it,' said Laura thoughtfully, as she
continued to look at the picture.

Afraid !' echoed Mrs. Crewe. ' I should think
not ! He is the gentlest, quietest creature in a
house.'

Let me see,' asked Herbert, who was looking
for a book among a few volumes of novels, travels,
and essays which filled a bookcase between the
windows. ' I would not like to vex him was the
boy's comment. ' He looks like a fellow that could
give you a thrashing if you deserved it. Is he in
the Navy, Mrs. Crewe ?'" for something like a button
and gold braid adorned his collar.

No, I am sorry to say he is not,' sighed Mrs.
Crewe, taking the photograph and looking long
and earnestly at it. ' It has always been a
mortification to me that he could not follow his
father's profession. Captain Crewe was in the
Royal Navy, you know. But he died when my
dear boy was just old enough to want a great deal
more in the way of education than / could %\v
him ; and then a kind friend got him a berth onboard
one of Duncan and Gibbs' ships  which it

would have been a clear tempting of Providence to
refuse  and so he went into the Mercantile Marine ;
but it was a bitter trial : though what the Mercantile
Marine is to the country no words of mine can
express, yet the officers do not take the position
they ought.  Don't take so much trouble over that
stocking, dear ; it really is not worth it. The way
they destroy things in the wash is abominable.
But as I was saying, I could not give Denzil  his
name is Arthur Charles Francis Denzil, after my
mother's grandfather, Lord Denzil of Coomb ; and
that is a thing that annoys me  the other officers
in Duncan and Gibbs' service are not well bred.
When they come up here to see my son, it is
Denny here and Denny there, as if he was any low
Irishman. Dennis is quite a common name among
the Irish.'

Indeed ! said Winnie, examining another stocking.


Herbert took ' Ivanhoe ' from its place, and went
away to read in the garden. There was a pause,
during which Collins put in her head.

Please, 'm,' she said, ' there's a gentleman called
as wants to repair the piano.'

A gentleman !' repeated Mrs. Crewe with strong
emphasis, as she rose with dignity, clearing her lap
of cotton, scissors, etc., etc. * When will you learn
to speak correctly ? Gentlemen don't go about
with bags to tune pianos.'

Anyways, 'm, he has a tail-coat and a top-hat.'

That does not constitute a gentleman,' said Mrs.

72

Crewe, sailing out of the room. ' There, Collins,
do not answer, but go fetch a duster and a damp
rag. Make haste, Collins ! make haste !'

Oh, Laura, is she not fun ?' whispered Winnie.
We are in for a chapter of Denny. He is very
good, I dare say, but he looks like a smuggler  a
sort of amiable Dirk Hatteraick.'

I like his face,' said Laura thoughtfully, leaning
back to look sideways at her last touches, * and he
must be a good son to be so loved.'

Winnie made no reply and darned in silence
for some minutes.

I do wonder what my fate will be,' she said at
length. * I long, yet dread, to hear what Admiral
Desbarres will say.'

 I do not think he will want you to go to Liverpool,'
returned Laura.

I am afraid to hope so.'

Re-enter Mrs. Crewe. Discordant sounds from
the next room.

Now, my dears, we shall have a little music of
an evening,' said Mrs. Crewe, resuming her seat.
*I delight in music. I used to play myself, but
my dear father, who commanded the 5th Native
Regiment for many years, and was a very distinguished
officer, always said my ear was too correct ;
I had not patience to practise. However, I am
longing to hear you play, Winnie ! What were we
talking of?  oh, Denzil. Yes, as I was saying, it
was not in my power to give him those advantages
which he deserved ; but he is quite a book-worm.

Those are all his books there. He was always
fond of improving himself I remember when he
had the measles  he had measles very severely
when he was about six years old. My sister and I
she came to help me nurse him, like a kind, good
creature as shews, and married a naval chaplain
afterwards, who turned missionary, and after preaching
the Gospel in many climes he was killed (and
they say eaten) in the interior of Africa or some
such place. Well, I assureyou that dear boy made
us read " Little Arthur's History of England "
quite through five times.J I have never forgotten
it. I have had a good idea of English history
ever since : Alfred burning the cakes, you know ;
and Canute with the waves ; and the citizens of
Calais  though that is not English history exactly
and Richard the Third, and those poor little
princes  horrid greedy wretch !  and Latimer and
Ridley  I mean Latimer and Ridley  and all the
rest of it. Oh, he was most persevering !'

He must have been rather cruel to put you five
times through that horrid little book said Winnie,
smiling ; ' I should never have had patience to read
it over and over.'

Oh yes, you would,' said Mrs. Crewe with unconscious
pathos, ' if you had such a dear, brave,
patient boy, and as little to do with and amuse him
as I had. Those were trying times, my loves !
such as I trust you will never know ; but I hope I
never forgot, all through the worst of them, that I
was the daughter and the wife of British officers,

and tried to keep up the appearance of a gentlewoman.'


I am sure you did,' said Laura kindly ; ' and I
know how hard it is to keep up appearances. I
am afraid it is rather waste of energy to do so.'

No, that it is not,' returned Mrs. Crewe warmly.

It just gives strength and courage to feel that
you are holding your place where God put you, in
spite of difficulties. I am conservative and aristocratic
in my principles, and I have always managed
with these principles to keep out of debt.'

I am sure some of the most charming aristocratic
English people we met in Germany were so
deeply in debt that they could not return to
England,' said Winnie, laughing.

Theirs was not true aristocracy,' returned Mrs.
Crewe loftily. 'But with these views you can
imagine how bitterly I felt putting a son of mine
into the Merchant Service ; but he seems very
happy, and is getting on very well. He was promoted
to be chief officer the voyage before this
one, and I hope he will soon be captain. I rather
expect him home in a month or six weeks. He
has not had a very long voyage this time, only to
the Cape with cargo and passengers. Ah ! he will
be pleased to find I have two charming girls to
keep me company, for he was not at all satisfied
when he left because I had taken a young man to
board  a very respectable young man, who is one
of Thurston and Trent's clerks  the Admiral's
solicitors, you know; but he grew unsteady and

irregular in his payments ; then he wanted to bring
in friends to supper ! He even took liberties, and
tried to call my son " Denny," which of course was
out of the question  Denzil soon settled that. At
last he borrowed small sums, and gave notice ; but
I have never seen him or any money since.'

That is too bad,' remarked Laura sympathetically.


Oh, I fancy he will pay me yet ; I do not think
he was bad-hearted  only thoughtless and  not a
gentleman,' etc., etc. ; and for a whole afternoon
Mrs. Crewe talked and questioned and exclaimed in
the largest capitals. She would not have had the
talk all to herself, however, had not Winnie been a
good deal occupied by conjectures as to what the
Admiral would say on the momentous question of
accepting her aunt's unattractive invitation. Whatever
his decision, she felt she must be guided by it.
His benevolence, her own helplessness, forbade her
liberty of action ; yet she shrank from the plunge
into strange waters, and prayed to be delivered
from coming in contact with her unknown relatives.
-x- * * *

I wish, dear,' said Mrs. Crewe to Laura a few
hours later, ' that you would just look at the table,
and tell me if it is all right. I never attempted to
entertain the Admiral before, and I do not know his
tastes.'

Nor do I,' returned Laura, ' I have never seen
much of him till lately, since my dear uncle's death,
and then he generally dined at the hotel. I think

his tastes are very simple, and everything is very
nice, Mrs. Crewe. Admiral Desbarres is a man for
whom one would never put on fine things, or make
a display: but indeed I hardly know him ; he came
but rarely to the Rectory, and I wrote to him about
three times a year. I do not know how it is, though
I love and revere him, I am not quite at ease in his
presence.'

I know said Mrs. Crewe, nodding her head
sagaciously; ' I feel the same as if I were in church,
and had my best bonnet on, and must not think
profane thoughts. But how kind and generous
he is !

Still, Laura, though he is so superior,' put in
Winnie, ' I fancy he likes people to look nice ; and
I wish you would wear one of my white frills  it
would be such an improvement.'

'Very well, Winnie replied Laura carelessly.
The result of which assent was that Winnie took
charge of her cousins toilette, much to the improvement
of her personal appearance.

The Admiral was a little late, for which he made
a careful and distinct apology. He had been issuing
from his hotel, when a young man  ' your relative,
Laura, Mr. Reginald Piers  came in, and I could dono
more than turn back with him, as his visit was
an entirely gratuitous act of civility. I trust therefore,
Mrs. Crewe, you will see that my want of
punctuality was unavoidable. I told Mr. Piers after
a few minutes that I was due here at seven-thirty,
and he at once released me.'

*Pray do not mention it, Admiral; tea is not like
dinner, and we are all well pleased to wait for
you'

But the Admiral's presence acted in a marvellous
way upon the bubbling flow of Mrs. Crewe's talk,
and the evening meal was more silent and quickly
despatched than usual.

After the third cup had been universally declined,
though the hostess assured them that there
was still excellent tea in the teapot, Admiral
Desbarres said very deliberately, ' Will you permit
me to go into the next room with Laura and
Winnie ? I have some matters to speak about, the
result of which I shall communicate to you afterwards.'


Certainly, my dear sir ! certainly !' replied Mrs.
Crewe blandly, although disappointed at not being
included in the privy council. ' I shall be waiting
here whenever you want me.'

So Laura rose, and led the way into the drawing-room,
which was Mrs. Crewe's most sacred shrine,
and, though not too abundantly furnished, was
cheerful and pretty, and sweet with mignonette
and wallflowers.

The Admiral sat down on the sofa, Laura on a
low chair opposite, and Winnie, after a moment's
hesitation, said with a smile and a blush, ' May I
sit by you?' The Admiral immediately held out
his hand, and Winnie nestled to his side with her
naturally caressing manner. 'We have several
matters to discuss,' said the Admiral, after a pause;

'your affairs, my dear Winifrid, are the most pressing.
You have had a letter from your aunt ? and
as I have for the present taken the place of your
guardian and nearest friend, I feel justified in asking
to see it.'

Yes, of course,' cried Winnie, rising to go
and find it. ' I intended to show it to you ; I am
sure you will think it anything but kind ;' and she
went quickly away.

She is a loving gentle child,' said the Admiral,
looking after her kindly, ' but has all the hasty prejudice
natural to youth. You, Laura, seem gifted
with better and calmer judgment ; you must assist
me in guiding this impatient spirit'

Winnie is very bright,' said Laura in her usual
low but clear refined voice, 'and has a good deal of
natural insight ; the letter is rather harsh.'

I must read it myself and judge,' he replied, and
kept silent till Winnie returned and placed it in his
hands, watching him with undisguised anxiety
while he slowly perused it.

The Admiral still kept silence, even after he had
finished and returned the epistle to its envelope.
It is deficient in kindliness of tone,' he said at
length ; ' nevertheless, it is kind in reality. Your
mother's sister offers you the shelter of her home,
and for every reason it would be well to accept it !'

Winnie's eyes filled up, and she shook her head.

Reflect,' resumed the Admiral, ' she is your
nearest of kin ; you have a certain claim on her,
and she on you ; she is disposed to befriend you.

If you reject her advance, you perhaps deprive
yourself of a natural ally ; if you go to her, you are
very likely to touch her heart and convert her into
a valuable friend. It is worth while to try your
chance with these unknown relatives.'

Another pause, during which two big tears rolled
down Winnie's cheeks.

'It may be painful continued the general
benefactor, *but I am sure you must agree with
me. I too have had a letter from Mrs. Morgan,
somewhat in the same strain : she suggests what
you have yourself thought of  that your education,
your familiarity with foreign tongues, ought to be a
means of support. She is probably right ; but, my
child, you are so young, so inexperienced, that I
rather shrink from the idea of your going among
strangers.'

I am sure I would prefer real strangers 1' ejaculated
Winnie.

Besides,' continued the Admiral, not heeding
the interruption, ' I have a strong prejudice  I
should rather say conviction  against women going
forth to battle with the world ; it is opposed to the
Divine will, so far as we can trace it in natural
laws. They have plenty of work, most useful
work, placed before them ; but let it be in private,
and under the shelter of sufficient protection.'

Yet it is disgraceful to women, as v/ell as to
men, to live on the bounty of others,' said Laura.

Not so much,' he returned. ' You have rights,
which no man of proper feeling can deny.'

At all events, you think I ought to go to Liverpool?'
said Winnie ruefully. *I hoped I might
stay here, and perhaps Laura and I could get
pupils ; or she might sell her pictures or copies, and
I might translate things : for Mrs. Crewe is so kind,
we feel quite at home with her, and both Laura
and I are '  hesitation and blushes  ' are ashamed
of costing you so much.'

A tender smile spread over the Admiral's
thoughtful face. ' You need not think of that ; you
are two fledgelings God has given me to shelter.
Laura is really and legally my charge ; while you,
Winifrid, are just as welcome to my care and
help ; but I do not feel justified in withdrawing
you from your relatives and natural protectors ;
they may be able to do more for you than I can.
Therefore, while we try to ascertain if anything
can be secured for you from the wreck of your
poor father's property, or otherwise arrange your
future, you had better accept your aunt's invitation.'


It will be terrible to part,' urged Laura.

But we must,' added Winnie despairingly.

It is not for ever,' said the Admiral with his
kindest smile. ' I would not be harsh with you,
Winifrid. If upon trial you find yourself unkindly
treated, or that you fail in creating the tender
motherly interest which blesses both giver and
receiver, tell me frankly, and I will remove you ;
but you must give your aunt and her family a fair
trial.'

Oh, thank you, dear, dear Admiral !' cried
Winnie, fairly bursting into tears ; ' that is a gleam
of hope, and I will do whatever you wish  whatever
you wish !'

All will be well if you are patient and faithful
said the Admiral, taking her hand in both of his,
which was his nearest approach to a caress. He
was a self-sacrificing, self-controlled man, who
scarce allowed himself to taste the honey of his
own beneficence. ' And now that we have discussed
these letters, which it would have been
unfair to display to strange eyes, suppose you ask
Mrs. Crewe to join us ; I want to ask her if she
can keep Herbert for the present. The holidays
are at hand, and as his English is somewhat
deficient, it would be well if some private lessons
could be obtained for him.'

Need it be said with what grace and dignity
Mrs. Crewe added herself to the 'friends in
council ' ? but she was penetrated with regret at
the idea of losing Miss Fieldenen ; she had already
begun to feel a mother's interest in her charming
young friend. As to Herbert, the dear boy should
be well looked after, and she thought her friend
next door, Miss Brown, knew one of the masters of
a large school close by, who often remained during
the holidays, and might be glad to give English
lessons. Really, Miss Fieldenen's departure would be
quite a blow. When must she leave them ? Next
week ! was not that rather quick ? She (Mrs.
Crewe) believed there were certain indispensable

additions to dear Winifrid's toilette that must be
provided.

Indeed !' said the Admiral with sudden attention.
* Be so good as to let me know what money
is requisite, and I will endeavour to supply it'

You know, my dear guardian, that there will bea
little money of mine coming soon,' murmured
Laura. * I shall stay here ; I shall not want anything.'


My dear, I require that you leave your affairs
in my hands for the present,' said the Admiral with
authority.

And then Mrs. Crewe launched forth in voluble
particulars as to what was necessary for her
charming young friend, till the worthy gentleman,
bewildered by a torrent of terms he could not
understand, mildly demanded a sum-total. This,
after some contention, between the excess of Mrs.
Crewe's computation and the more modest estimate
of the young ladies, was finally adjusted : and then
the Admiral was pressed to partake of wine and
biscuit, and even a glass of ' grog ;' Mrs. Crewe
blandly observing that she understood a sailor's
tastes, while Laura and Winnie stood aghast at the
sacrilege of offering such a beverage to their exalted
'guardian angel.'

Thank you, no,' said the Admiral, smiling. ' In
early days I enjoyed my glass as heartily as most
men, but this quiet sheltered life does not entitle
me to such strong stimulants. I rarely taste spirits,
and never touch anything after my evening meal.

I had almost forgotten to mention, Mrs. Crewe,
that my young acquaintance, Mr. Reginald Piers,
requests permission to call upon you and his
relative Laura, whom he used to know before she
went to Germany.'

'Oh ! of course, Admiral; any friend of yours will
be most welcome.'

Reginald Piers !' repeated Laura, the colour
slowly, faintly coming to her cheek.

Reginald Piers !' cried Winnie. ' I remember he
used to be such a tease. Oh, I shall be so glad to
see him !'

A few words of leave-taking, and the Admiral
was gone.

There was never such a charming, well-bred,
true Christian,' said Mrs. Crewe, as she replaced the
bottles she had hospitably set forth on the sideboard.
' But I wish you were not to go away,
Winnie ; you must try and come back as soon as
you can. And who is Mr. Reginald Piers, my
dears ? Is he a first cousin, Laura ?'

Oh no ! third or fourth  I do not know exactly.
He was at school with Dick  Winnie's eldest
brother  and used often to spend the holidays
with us.'

He is very nice  or he used to be very nice,'
added Winnie. ' He is older than Dick, and very
clever, I believe. The last time he was at Haddington
he had just gone into some business or
office in London. I wonder how the Admiral met
him } But if you do not mind, Mrs. Crewe, I will goto

bed ; I feel quite heart-broken at the idea of
going to this strange aunt. I cannot tell you how
I dread it'

Well, we must only hope it will turn out for the
best,' said Mrs. Crewe kindly, as she bid her young
guests good-night ; and as t-hey ascended to their
chan:iber, they heard her calling sonorously, 'Collins
Collins ! where is Topsy } I have not seen her
the whole evening. I cannot go to bed unless that
precious cat is safe.'

Arrived in their own quarters, poor Winnie quite
broke down; she hung round Laura ; she conjured
up the most painful pictures of her own desolation
Vvhen banished far from all she loved ; she refused
to be comforted, and when at last Laura persuaded
her to go to bed, sobbed herself to sleep like a
weary, disappointed child.

Then Laura drew forth her writing-case, and sat
down to make a few entries in her journal, which
was a kind of confidant and companion to her, and
though very still and quiet, large tears welled up
and dropped upon the page ; while she looked long
and tenderly at the flushed cheek and parted lips of
the sleeper, whose breath even yet quivered with
the violence of her past emotion ; and then from
out of her few treasures she took a case of photographs,
and gazed at the well-known, well-loved
faces of the aunt and uncle who had been as
parents to her. Finally, she dwelt long upon the
portrait of a young man  a bright bold face with
the suspicion of a mischievous smile  a face that

satisfied her ideal of manliness, intelligence, refinement;
and while she gazed, she lived over again
many a ramble through wood and field, many a
joyous game of noisy play, many an eager argument,
many a quieter talk when the boy's dawning
ambition suggested air castles, to which she
listened with delighted interest; and nearer memories
still recalled the last weeks they had spent
together, which from some hidden cause had been
imbued with such strange sweetness  sweetness her
heart ached to remember ; and then all was dark
and dreary. Reginald Piers passed out of her life
into the world of reality beyond her ken ; change,
and sorrow, and separation came, and she saw him
no more. But he was coming!  coming of his own
free will and unconstrained kindness ! What joy
to listen to that pleasant voice, to see those bright
laughing eyes once more ; if only  only she were
not so plain and colourless, so little gifted with
grace or loveliness ! Oh for even a shadow of
Winnie's beauty !  that beauty which her artistic
soul loved and admired with a generous appreciative
love.

How weak, and foolish, and contemptible I am,'
she murmured at last, hastily closing up the case,
to waste my heart in such fruitless longings ! Let
me grasp what gifts I have, and make the most of
them. Friendship is worth something ; and at
least it rests with myself to be like the king's
daughter, " all glorious within." '

VOL. I. 8"

m Luncheon was over in the temporary
dwelling of Sir Gilbert Jervois, one
warm rainy afternoon at the end of
May, more than a month after the
death of Mr. Fieldenen and the accession of Reginald
Piers to the family estate.

Is Sir Gilbert at home ?' asked that gentleman,
as the only man-servant the Baronet deemed
necessary to his town establishment opened the
door.

No, sir ; Sir Gilbert started this morning for
Paris, but my lady is in the drawing-room.'

She was not there, however, when Reginald was
shown in, nor did she join him for some minutes.
These he employed, first in staring out of the
window, evidently not seeing what he was looking
at, and then in turning over some books which lay
upon the table, till his attention was arrested by a
volume of Byron, in faded but once gorgeous binding
; when the sombre, almost savage expression of

his countenance gave place to a half-mocking, half-kindly
smile, as he opened it and read on the fly-leaf,
' To H. G. R, from her attached A. P.'

That book ! he had known it all his life ; it had
always been one of the ornaments on his mother's
table in the dimly remembered time when he could
just recall his father, a querulous troublesome invalid,
the family Juggernaut, beneath the castors of
whose chair were prostrated metaphorically wife
and children, but to chance visitors a charming
high-bred man of the world, such a delightful companion.


Algerian Piers had been for a good many years
attache to a small legation at a small German
Court, and even in this simple society of homely
highnesses he contrived to amass a tolerable amount
of debt. These encumbrances had reached inconvenient
dimensions when a family of wandering
English visited the picturesque little town of Stole
The agreeable attache soon became indispensable
to the visitors, and ended by fascinating
the wealthy orphan niece of the leader of the expedition,
a good-natured inert ex-militaire, who, as
the young lady was of age, wisely offered no
opposition, and the course of true love in this
instance ran exceedingly smooth.

But the smoothness of Mr. and Mrs. Algerian
Piers's after-life was of a fatal slippery kind. Indolent,
self-indulgent, unsuspecting, ignorant of the
value of money, whenever any unpleasant pressure
pinched them, money was raised, or stock sold, till,

82

when her husband was overtaken by his last illness,
Mrs. Piers awoke to find herself almost reduced to
poverty.

Plow well Reginald could remember the narrow
limits of his early home-life ; the stocking-darning
and boot-mending ; the long consideration of  'to
be, or not to be,' as regarded new clothes; the enormous
importance attached to his sister's dress ; the
steadiness with which his mother closed up her
ranks and presented an unbroken front to that
inquisitive foe, ' Mrs. Grundy ;' and then his schooldays,
the rather intermittent education which his
military great-uncle assisted to pay, with their
many small mortifications, the severe training which
taught him to cover up his natural pride and disdain,
wounded feeling, and vain ambition, with a
mantle of good-humoured careless indifference and
readiness to oblige.

Then came the great event from which dated the
years of his later boyhood and maturer days. Sir
Gilbert Jervois met Reginald's sister (who was
several years her brother's senior) at the house of a
mutual relation, was captivated, and, after a short
struggle between parsimony and passion, proposed
for the pretty, penniless daughter of the ex-diplomatic.


Great changes ensued. Mrs. Piers fondly believed
she had come to the end of all her troubles,
having a sort of notion that a rich son-in-law ought
to support her. This was not quite Sir Gilbert
view of the subject ; but whether he thought it

better to keep his wife quiet in their remote home,
by letting her have her mother's company, or considered
it a cheap piece of generosity to let her
have the run of the house, expecting her to be a
sort of unpaid head nurse, it is impossible to say,
but after about a year Mrs. Piers went to reside at
Ashley Grange, and there it was that Reginald
gladly accepted Mr. Fieldenen's invitation to pass the
holidays at the Rectory, for Sir Gilbert's hospitality
was spasmodic, though at the Grange a month or
two more made small difference. Finally came his
own launch into life, when his cousin, Kate Piers,
now become Mrs. Trent, mindful of pleasant days
spent in his father's house, persuaded her husband
to take the young relative at a reduced premium
into his flourishing office.

How vividly all these events came back to him
as he stood musing with ' Child Harold ' open in
his hands, and now ' the winter of his discontent
was made glorious summer by the sun' of unexpected
prosperity. No more need to wear a mask,
to follow uncongenial drudgery with a smiling face,
to clothe himself in a panoply of careless good-humour,
from which the shafts of insolence or the
rebuffs of authority glanced off harmless ; yes, it
was glorious ! yet the words ' Too bad !' dropped
from his lips, and his next thought was, ' The poor
mother ! she has had hard times of it. It is something
to get her out of Jervois's clutches. I am
glad I am not a woman ; they get the worst of it,
as the weak always must.  Ah! Nellie, so Sir

Gilbert is off!' turning as Lady Jervois entered the
room.

Yes, he was obliged to put off his departure, but
he is gone !' and though not by any means inclined
to shake her chains, Lady Jervois could not suppress
a certain tone of relief in the last words.

Well, I shall be able to see you with some comfort
now. Did you say anything to him about
coming down to Pierslynn ?'

No ; it was not necessary. We have this house
for a fortnight longer, and then, if he is not back,
we may do what we please.'

Yes ; but, Helen, I do not want to go to Piers-lynn
so soon ; I have business that may detain me ;
still, if you and my mother and Sybil like to go, the
place is at your service. Where are you going T

For Lady Jervois was in her outdoor attire.

'lam going to the Scholastic Agency Office in
Piccadilly to see about a German governess for
Sybil ; she is really too backward for a girl nearly
ten years old. Indeed, I fear I have neglected her
I have been so absorbed in my own troubles ;
but you, dear Reggie, have set me free, and I can
never thank you enough.'

It ought to bring me luck,' he muttered, evidently
lost in thought.

Luck ! I think you have had luck ; and you
deserve it,' returned his sister.

Reginald did not seem to hear her. ' Where is
my mother?' he asked abruptly, after a short
pause.

She went up to put on her bonnet  she is
coming with me.'

I want to speak to her,' said Reginald.

I never saw such a change as in her said Lady
Jervois. ' She is ten years younger since you succeeded
to Pierslynn ; indeed, I am almost as much
revived. I really think my mother and myself are
more elated than you are.'

Ah ! you do not know what this succession is tome.
I '

The entrance of Mrs. Piers prevented his finishing
his sentence.

Reginald,' said his mother, kissing him warmly,
I did not know you were here. I wish you could
come with me to see the landlord of my house, and
get him to finish the alterations we want. I should
like to get settled by the middle of August. I do
not want to go back to the Grange, and it will be so
lonely to stay here after Helen goes.'

'Very well,' returned Reginald. 'And now,
mother, I want Nellie and you to do something forme.'


What is it, Reggie ?' said both ladies together.

You remember I told you that poor Fieldenen was
dead ? Well, Admiral Desbarres has brought over
the daughter and youngest boy as well as his ward,
Laura Piers, who is a distant cousin of ours, and
placed them with some lady, the widow of an old
brother-officer, I think. Now, I want you both to
call on these girls  you especially, mother. It
would be only right, considering all the hospitality

I received from the Fieldens, and  you'll come
with me, will you not ?' breaking off abruptly.

' What sort of girls are these wards of Admiral
Desbarres?' asked Mrs. Piers in an unfriendly
tone.

Laura only is his ward,' returned Reginald.
Oh ! they are nice and ladylike  at least, Laura
was  the other was quite a schoolgirl when I saw
her last. I do not know how she has turned out ;
but Laura was a very pleasant girl with lots to
say.'

Is she pretty ?' said Mrs. Piers in a frigid tone.

No ! not a' bit,' replied Reginald, laughing.
Why, are you already scenting matrimonial rocks
ahead, mother .'*'

Indeed, Reginald, you may laugh,' she returned,
herself relaxing into a smile ; * but it is well for a
young man in your position to be cautious. Without
any thought on your part, your attentions may
give rise to hopes which it would be painful to
crush ; these boy-and-girl friendships are apt to
become entanglements it would be well to avoid.'

'A pleasant look-out for me,' said Reginald,
still laughing, 'if I am to weigh every word I
speak to a pretty girl ! Why , downright matrimony
would be freedom compared to such a state of
things.'

Ah, my dear boy, would to heaven I could find
a suitable wife for you !' said Mrs. Piers piously.
For you are not only entitled to, but deserve, all
that is best.'

'Youth, beauty, rank, accomplishments, and
riches. Eh, mother ?'

However, as Miss Piers has none of these
qualifications, there can be small danger. Let us
go and leave our cards upon her,' said Lady
Jervois. ' How is she related to us, Reginald ?'
she added.

I scarcely know. Her father was a Captain
Edward Piers, and I think he knew my father.
Do you remember anything of him?' to Mrs.
Piers.

Oh ! she is Edward Piers's daughter ? Yes, I
remember his staying with us at a pretty little place
we had near Goodwood. He came for the races.
He was certainly a cousin, and he and your father
used to be together a good deal as boys, I believe ;
but there was a something about his family not
quite connie il faint. I don't know what. Oh, it
was ages ago. He was very nice. I remember his
strolling in the garden with me by moonlight, and
telling me how desperately in love he. was with the
sister of a clergyman, somewhere in Devonshire,
I think ; but her people opposed the marriage 
then I lost sight of him / and Mrs. Piers heaved a
sigh at the backward glimpse of happy days thus
recalled.

'I am not at all up in genealogy,' remarked
Reginald ; ' all I know is that the Pieldens were
very kind to me, and we ought to show these girls
some attention.'

Very well, Reginald. Where do they live ? If

not very far, you might come with us to call there
first'

There is the address,' taking Admiral
Desbarres' card, on the back of which he had
written it from his note-book  * 13, Leamington
Road, Westbourne Park'

That is rather out of the way  beyond the
parks,' said Lady Jervois.

I know it was too expensive a neighbourhood
for me to lodge in, six weeks ago,' returned
Reginald, laughing, ' and I used to envy a fellow-clerk
of mine having such nice quarters. I believe
he lived in this very house ; to be sure, money was
no object to him, as he did not pay unless convenient.'


Let us go, then,' said Mrs. Piers ; adding in a
rather dissatisfied tone, ' They will certainly be at
home such a day as this

Reginald threw a curious glance, half laughing,
yet resolute, at his mother ; and then, with extreme
politeness, offered his arm to lead her to the
carriage.

X--JC- * *

But in spite of rain and mud, Collins, somewhat
excited by the unusual appearance of 'carriage
company ' in Leamington Road, reported ' Missus
and the young ladies ' as gone out, whereupon a
small pack of cards were deposited in her grimy
hands, for Collins had embraced the opportunity
of having the house to herself, to enjoy a good

cleaning of the bedrooms while safe from being
worried.'

Each of the ladies left two cards, and Reginald
three, while he drew anxious looks from his mother
by writing the name of ' Miss Piers  on one, adding
at the back, ' Sorry not to find you  will call again
soon.'

I do not think that necessary, Reginald,' she
said.

'Never mind, mother,' he replied, as he drew up
the windows of the carriage. ' Laura is a sensible
girl, and will not order her troiissemi on the
strength of my message. Set me down at the
corner of Bond Street, Helen.'

Mrs. Crewe's regret at missing these distinguished
visitors was both loud and deep. ' I am sure it
was very kind and friendly to call, and such a bad
day ! They evidently intended to find us at home.
I see Mr. Piers has left three cards ! I suppose one
is for me. I am rather surprised the ladies did not
do the same.'

Oh ! I dare say one card was meant for Laura
and me together, you know, as we are like sisters,'
cried Winnie, with ready tact and half believing
what she said.

Reginald says he will come again ; how glad I
shall be to see him !' cried Laura, studying his
card. ' I hope you will not be gone when he
comes, Winnie. How surprised he will be to see
you !*

To this Winnie made no answer : she could not

command her voice to speak of her fast-approaching
departure ; for neither the pleasant operation
of renewing her rather exhausted wardrobe, nor a
fairly polite letter from her unknown aunt, had
reconciled her to the prospect of this plunge into
life on her own account.

She had submitted to the Admiral's decision,
but with utter hopelessness as to the result ; only,
she had made up her mind to accept the dictum of
her benefactor without murmuring, and even got
up some interest in the purchases declared indispensable
by Mrs. Crewe. To that lady the interval
of preparation was decidedly enjoyable ; to get a
large amount of value for money actually expended,
by ransacking Marshall and Snelgrove's,
and examining the innermost recesses of Whiteley 's ;
to pick up unheard-of bargains in frilling, fans, and
jet pins ; to beat the dressmaker down to the
lowest margin of profit ; to devise amazing transformations
of old materials, and expend much
eloquence in the effort to bring her young friends
round to her special views touching ' flounces,
fringes, plisses and princess robes,' kept her constantly
and agreeably excited. As she remarked
during a flying visit she paid to her friendly next-door
neighbour, ' I have of course a good deal on
my hands just now ; these poor dear girls do not
like to do anything without me, and it is both a
duty and a pleasure to assist them ; they are so
grateful for my help, so lady-like and refined,
quite what I have been accustomed to,' etc., etc.

To which Miss Brown replied, ' I dare say they
are ; but a young woman of twenty or twenty-one
did you say Miss Piers was?  ought to be able
to take care of herself and save you trouble.'

Oh, I am quite ready to be of use to them,
poor young creatures ! You can't think how
accomplished they are. Miss Piers paints and
draws like an artist; she is making a beautiful
picture of my precious Topsy  quite life-like !
Winnie Fieldenen, too, she plays most beautifully.
Come in and have a cup of tea with us this evening,
just to hear her  you understand these things
and have had more to do with them than I have 
and I am sure you will be charmed.'

You are very good, Mrs. Crewe. I shall be
very glad to have an opportunity of seeing your
young friends after hearing so much about them.'

She is a good soul,' thought Mrs. Crewe, as she
bid her a smiling good-day ; 'but a little envious
of my superior advantages.'

She is a kind neighbour,' reflected Miss Brown,
as she attended her deferentially to the door ; * but
all her geese are swans.'

Meantime, the dreaded day of parting drew near
with appalling rapidity. Laura was more affected
by Winnie's sudden determination to endure and
to submit than she would have been by the loudest
lamentations. She would have given anything to
go in her place, for though not three years Winnie's
senior, she had a wonderfully maternal feeling for
her cousin, a longing to spare her in all possible

ways ; partly, perhaps, from the tender, grateful
regard she had had for the aunt, to whom this only
daughter had been so inexpressibly dear, partly
from the pleasure she always took in Winnie's
beauty and grace. Moreover, the child was both
winsome and winning, one of those fortune's
favourites who, without effort on their own part,
seem to attract to themselves the best of everything.


Laura exhausted all the topics of consolation
in her power ; but chiefly she dwelt on the Admiral's
permission to return should Winifrid find life in
Liverpool unendurable.

Yes ; but that depends on what constitutes
being unendurable,' said poor Winnie despairingly.
To live there at all seems to me unendurable ; but
Admiral Desbarres does not think so. Oh ! dearest
Laura, strive to get leave for us to work together
while I am away. We surely have a right to independence
if we can earn it.'

Trust me, I will, and I shall succeed ; for you
know, Winnie, I think there is a limit to obedience.
Only, I cannot bear to vex the Admiral'

And you will write often, dear, dear Laura ?
Answer all my letters, and tell me all about
Reginald Piers.'

Yes, dear, I will.'

Let me sleep with you, Laura, to-night. I feel
as if I could not let you go. How desolate I shall
be tomorrow ! There ! I will not talk any more ;
I must make up my mind and be brave.'

Yet, it was Winnie who slept, and Laura who
watched and prayed. So the night passed.

The next morning, with many a tearful embrace
and reiterated promises to write, with a motherly
blessing, a huge packet of sandwiches, and a flask
of sherry-and-water from Mrs. Crewe, an illustrated
paper and the Leisure Hour from the Admiral,
Winnie, trying to smile through her tears, was set
forward on her first step alone in the journey of
life.

HE days which followed Winnie's departure
were like a strange bad dream.
They had never been separated before,
and Laura was like a creature that had
lost her other self To wake in the morning, and
see Winnie's little white bed smooth and empty; to
sit down to work or paint, and find herself on the
point of uttering some thought as it stirred the
convolutions of her brain, and suddenly remember
that there was no other self to receive the utterance ;
to go to rest at night unconditioned, alone  how
painful it all was ! What a sense of being lost
weighed down every minute of those first days !
Then, though heartily grateful to Mrs. Crewe for
her warm hospitality, it was not diverting to listen
to an unceasing flow of anecdotes respecting persons
she had never known, histories of complicated
transactions rendered incomprehensible by endless
parentheses, or a course of searching interrogations
as to her own life and adventures, her uncle's

income, and why he had not saved money, the probability
of the Admiral leaving his fortune to her,
etc., etc. Above all, there was the perpetual working
of her imagination : ceaselessly did it present
pictures of what Winnie was doing or suffering ; of
how Winnie would conduct herself, and manage her
clothes ; and how miserable she would be by herself,
even if her stranger relatives were nice and
kind. Mrs. Crewe was most sympathetic : ' I am
sure I don't wonder at your feeling your cousin's
loss !' she would say ; ' a sweeter girl I never saw,
and so pretty ! You'll see she will pick up a rich
husband in Liverpool, so it may be all for the best'

I do not know that's said Laura, smiling ; ' I
should lose her then altogether !'

Oh, in a good cause you would not mind! Now,
don't stay moping in your own room ; bring your
painting-things, or whatever you have to do, here,
and we will be company to each other. I like to
see you painting, it is quite wonderful ; and I had
such a charming letter from my dear boy : I will
read it to you.'

And she proceeded to do so, with telling emphasis,
running every now and then into passages not intended
for public perusal, and then pulling herself
up short. * You see what a dear considerate fellow
he is,' she concluded ; ' how pleased he will be to
find I have a nice girl like you with me ! And
now, dear, if you are not going to paint, and have
nothing particular to do, would you mind altering
the neck of my black grenadine for me ? it is too

VOL. I. 9

low at the left side. I cannot manage these sort
of things, and you are so handy ; meanwhile, I will
just look at the paper and read anything interesting.'

Very well, Mrs. Crewe,' said Laura resignedly ;
and Mrs. Crewe had just left the room to seek
the garment in question, when the second post
brought the eagerly anticipated first letter from
Winnie.

Four days had passed since they parted, and, as
agreed upon, after despatching a post-card to
announce her safe arrival, Winnie waited to gain
some idea of her surroundings before writing.

With almost trembling
open the envelope and read

With almost trembling eagerness Laura tore

My own dear Laura,

I feel as if I had such a volume to tell you,
I do not know where to begin. First of all, I cried
half the way here ; I felt nearly as miserable as
that terrible evening when the dear father was
taken from us ! An old gentleman who sat
opposite to me was so good, and wanted to get me
some refreshments when we stopped somewhere ; so
I showed him my packet of sandwiches, and then
he ate a good many of them : tell Mrs. Crewe they
were so nice !

When we arrived at Liverpool, I felt half
frightened, to be quite alone among such a crowd
of strangers ; but my kind old gentleman stayed
with me, and presently a rather rough-looking manlike
a bad style of groom, came along the platform,

saying, " Any lady here for Mr. Morgan's, Prince's
Park ?" so I stepped forward, and he asked my
name ; then he said it was all right, he had been
sent to fetch me, and had a cab waiting. We had
quite a long drive  oh, such a wretched drive !
This is a fine large house, splendidly furnished,
quite stiff with grandeur ; but when I got in, there
was only a parlour-maid to receive me, a nice smart
girl. My aunt was out in the carriage, with my
eldest cousin, and the little ones were away with
their maid. The servants offered me refreshments,
but I preferred waiting for dinner. Then I went
to my room  a pretty little room, very tiny  and
made myself presentable; by that time the servant
knocked at the door and said Mrs. Morgan was
waiting for me in the drawing-room.

I felt nervous, you may be sure ; however, I
went down. My aunt is an immensely stout
woman, and was gorgeously arrayed, but is rather
good-looking, and greeted me pleasantly. " I
thought you wouldn't be here before six," she said.
'' Here, Amelia, here is your cousin Winifrid !"
and then my cousin Amelia came forward. Oh,
such a slim, elegant, laced-up young lady ! she
gave me a hand which was merely what Herbert
would call a " bunch of fives," such cold loose
fingers !

At dinner I was introduced to Mr. Morgan ; he
is tall and thin and yellow, and very well dressed,
but he does not seem quite like a gentleman ; he
hardly took any notice of me, and seemed rather

92

cross. He found fault with everything at table,
though all was excellent ; when he had finished
eating, he suddenly asked what this Admiral friend
of mine intended to do with me : '' Is he going to
adopt you, or support you ?" I said I should
think not ; that I hoped to support myself; then
he gave a sort of a sneering laugh, and said that
was easier said than done ; so my aunt cried out,
Nonsense, Tom ! the girl shows a right spirit ;
don't you discourage her."

After dinner we went into the drawing-room.
Mr. Morgan settled himself to sleep in the biggest
armchair, and Mrs. Morgan sat down and fanned
herself in another, while Amelia asked me if I
could play. Presently her mother asked her to
open the piano ; she did so, and played a valse of
Chopin's  one poor dear Fraulein Decker used to
play so deliciously. It did not sound a bit like the
same thing  she seemed to stutter over the music.
Then my aunt asked me to play ; so I sat down,
and quite enjoyed the piano ; it is very good. I
played that lovely spinning song from the " Flie-gender
Hollander ;" and just as I was swelling up
the wonderful chorus part, Mr. Morgan suddenly
woke and shouted, " Hold that row, will you ! I
call that music gone mad." I was startled, but
could not help laughing : it was just the sort of
scene a German would consider characteristic of
England. My aunt exclaimed, " Law, Mr. Morgan,
you are enough to frighten the girl out of her wits !
I am sure you must have practised a great deal,

Winifrid ; but Mr. Morgan is tired : so, Amelia,
you had better shut up the piano."

Soon after this the children came in. They
had been spending the evening somewhere; they
were wonderfully dressed, and their hair was plaited
and frizzed and tied up with ribbons ; they took
very little notice of me, but seemed great pets with
their father. There are two little girls, ten and
twelve, and a boy of eight  the eldest boy, about
fourteen, is away at Rugby. These children are
quite odious ; they seem to be guessing the money-value
of every new thing they see ; I am really
quite sorry for them, they are so unnatural !

Yesterday my aunt and Amelia went to an
afternoon " at some lady's house, so I was put in
charge of the second girl Sarah, and the nursemaid
or bonne, to walk about the leading streets.
It is a fine city, full of life ; but I do not think I
shall like it. Now. do not imagine I am going to
be fanciful and easily offended. I shall be patient
and reasonable. I really do not dislike my aunt,
she seems kind and good-humoured ; but I never
felt so small in my life before  so poor and insignificant.
Still, things may get better ; but oh,
Laura  dear, dear Laura, if I could only throw my
arms round you and hear your voice and have a
good cry, I should feel quite strong ! Write to me
soon  very, very soon  ask Herbert to write ! I
never thought I loved him so much ; I hope he is
not troublesome ! My kind love and thanks to dear
Mrs. Crewe. Oh that I were sitting down to tea

with you to-night! but I am determined to be brave
and cheerful. I write to the Admiral by this day's
post. Now I must go down to dinner. I have put
on my new dress with the train, and the jet pins in
my hair, and I think I look rather nice ! God bless
you, dearest Laura; I pray for you every night.
Ever your loving cousin and sister,

'Winifred FlELDEN.'

Laura devoured with fond greediness the epistle
she had so anxiously anticipated. These Liverpool
relations seemed anything but congenial.
Winnie, though putting a good face on it, was
evidently miserable, and deep in her inmost heart
Laura vowed that she would deliver here ere long
from the thraldom of aunt and uncle. ' But she
is good and brave,' thought Laura, with almost
maternal pride. ' I hardly hoped she would be so
strong.' While she thought thus, turning over the
pages of the letter to re-read it, Mrs. Crewe came
back with Topsy on her shoulder.

The utter carelessness of Collins she said, * is
most disgraceful. Not one morsel of breakfast has
this precious puss had to-day ! and when I went to
look for her, she was crouched in the garden with all
her dear little toes tucked under her, absolutely weak
for want of food ! so I stopped to give her some
cold mutton. You have had a letter, dear ?' interrupting
herself ' From our sweet Winnie ? Tell
me all about it,' sitting down and arranging the
cat in 'her lap, prepared for a feast of news.

Laura read her some small extracts, aid told
her the rest, being resolved against too unlimited a
degree of confidence. Mrs. Crewe was by no
means satisfied.

Does she not mention her uncle, dear ? I
imagine she will be a favourite v/ith him ! Men,
young or old, are always mollified by good looks,
and of course it is most important to stand well
with him ! Is there an elder son, my dear ?
That might be fortunate or unfortunate  a daughter
about the same age is unlucky. Does she say
if they keep a butler ? Oh ! you need not be
afraid to trust me; I never gossip. Dear creature
! I wish she were back here, with all my
heart ! Now, don't make yourself unhappy,' for a
tear had fallen upon the paper. ' So far as soil
have allowed me to understand, I think everything
is very satisfactory.'

There was a certain amount of rebuke in Mrs.
Crewe's emphasis, but before Laura could reply,
a sudden sharp ring diverted her interlocutor's
attention.

'That is the front-door bell, and it is rather
early for visitors.'

A moment's pause, when the much-enduring
Collins put in her head cautiously sideways, so as
to keep one eye on the umbrella-stand.

There's a gentleman wants to see you, mum,'
holding forth a card at the same time.

Is it the beer-man ?' asked Mrs. Crewe, without
moving.

Laura rose and took the card, turning strangely
Riot and cold as she read aloud, * Mr. Reginald
Piers.'

Goodness gracious ! cried Mrs. Crewe, ' put
him in the drawing-room, my girl, and pull up the
Venetians  the sun is nearly off now. Would
you mind going in, dear Laura, while I put on
another cap ?'

No, Mrs. Crewe,' said Laura, trembling a little,
and glancing at a small mirror that hung between
the windows, as Mrs. Crewe hurried out of the
room. It gave back the reflection of a pale face
and eyes never very bright, but now dimmed and
slightly red ; lips that closed perhaps too firmly,
yet could smile pleasantly ; and a figure, as has
been said before, straight enough, but somewhat
square. Her hair was neatly braided, and her
dress was carefully put on, but the absence of the
slightest coquetry of toilette, the sombre unrelieved
black of her garments, bespoke an almost pathetic
renunciation of woman's first, most natural ambition
 the power to charm ; nevertheless, her movements
as she walked towards the drawing-room
were easy and not undignified, and the somewhat
unsteady hand she laid upon the door was small
and well-shaped.

Surely it was a glorified likeness of her cousin
Reggie, rather than the well-remembered original,
which met her eyes as she entered the apartment
sacred to Mrs. Crewels cult of the ' genteel.'
Taller than she expected, straight, ' svelte,' attired

in faultless garments, the subtle elegance of which
informed her hitherto blank intelligence  blank in
the matter of masculine costume  a gardenia and
morsel of heliotrope in his button-hole, a riding-whip
and his hat in one hand, the other extended
to take hers  Reginald Piers was as pleasing a
specimen of ' the upper ten ' as could be met within
a day's march.

Laura, I am delighted to see you again ! I was
determined to find you this time, so I came at an
outrageous hour ; but you and I. need not stand on
ceremony, eh ?'

Oh, Reginald, I am so glad to see you ; and yet,
how you bring everything back to me !'

Her voice broke, and she stood still and silent,
struggling hard for self-control. Reginald laid
down both hat and whip, and put his other handover
the one he held,

Come,' he said, 'you must not let me think the
sight of me is painful. My dear girl I I am afraid
you have had hard times of it since we met. Come,
sit down, and let us have a long talk.'

He drew her to the sofa, placing himself beside
her, and relinquishing her hand.

Ah !' exclaimed Laura, smiling frankly as she
looked at him, ' the sight of you is very pleasant tome,
dear Reggie ; it is so long since I have seen
anything or anyone familiar, and you are very
good to come and see me.'

Good !' repeated Reginald, with a slight smile ;
good to myself ! You cannot know how vividly

I remember our old friendship,' he continued, after
a scarcely perceptible pause ; ' how often I recall
our rambles and adventures by flood and field. I
only feared to find you more cut up and altered,

instead of looking ' What, he did not say, but

he gazed into Laura's eyes with an expression that
puzzled but did not embarrass her.

The Admiral has told me something of how
matters are, but no particulars he resumed, after a
pause ; ' and you must grant me a kinsman's right
to inquire into your affairs. How long are you
going to stay here ? What are you going to do ?
What is to become of the Fieldenen children ?'

As to me, I hope to stay on here. Mrs. Crewe
is very kind, and I hope to get some pupils for
German and drawing, and perhaps to sell some of
my paintings. Do not laugh, Reginald, but I have
improved, and learned a great deal since we met,
and I quite long to be self-supporting.'

Laugh V he replied kindly. ' I shall do no such
thing. You were always what Dick Fieldenen would
call a " dab " at drawing. Don't you remember a
sketch of the east end of Cheddington Church and
the big oak-tree you did for me when I was last at
the Rectory ? I have it still, Laura, among my
treasures.'

Have you really T a faint colour stealing into
her cheeks, and something of brilliancy lighting her
eyes at the low tone in which he uttered these last
words.

I am glad you kept it ; you see, I am so alone

that any bit of kindliness is precious,' she added
candidly.

'Tell me about poor Mr. Fieldenen's death,' he
asked ; and Laura, with unconscious force and
pathos, described the last scene in Dresden  big
tears slowly coursing down her cheek unheeded as
she spoke. 'Awfully trying for you,' said Reginald,
taking her hand tenderly in the attempt to
console her. ' How the deuce our friend the Rector
could have let himself drift into such a mess I cannot
conceive ! and Herbert and little Winnie, what
are they doing ?'

Oh, Winnie is taller than I am, and has grown
so pretty  more than pretty  poor dear Winnie 1
Her aunt in Liverpool invited her to stay there,
and the Admiral thought she ought to go ; but I
am afraid she is as wretched there as I am without
her; and Herbert is here for the holidays. But
oh, Reginald, I have just had a letter from Winnie,
and I am sure she cannot stay there ; yet what can
I do ?'

We must try to put matters in better train ; we
will consult together. Times have changed with
me '

Here the door opened suddenly, and Mrs. Crewe
entered majestically. She had not only changed
her cap, but put on her best black silk dress and
Honiton lace cravat ; indeed, she might have been
a dowager countess, from her aspect and carriage.
A quick glance and instantly suppressed smile as
she came in showed Laura she had noticed that

their distinguished-looking visitor was holding her
hand affectionately.

Both Laura and Reginald rose, and the former
performed the usual ceremony of introduction.

I am very happy to have the pleasure of making
your acquaintance said Mrs. Crewe graciously ;
any friend of the Admiral and of my dear Laura
is welcome to me.'

Reginald bowed politely.

I am very glad to find Laura so happily placed,'
he said, obeying the graceful gesture with which
Mrs. Crewe waved him to a seat.

You are very good, Mr. Piers, and I assure you
I am most happy to have such a charming companion.
I was very sorry to have missed Mrs. Piers
and Lady Jervois when they called the other day.'

Oh yes, they were , very sorry too,' returned
Reginald, catching a glimpse of Mrs. Crewe's idea,
and feeling the necessity of adopting it. ' I hope
you will soon be able to return the visit. My
mother is quite anxious to make your acquaintance,
Laura ; she has heard so much about you.'

Has she ?' said Laura, opening her eyes.

And,' continued Reginald, ' if she can be of any
use to the young Fieldens, she would be most
happy. I assure you we neither of us forget poor
Mrs. Fieldenen's kindness and hospitality to me when
I was a raw youngster.'

Oh, Reginald, you are as kind as ever !'
Laura's lips quivered, and her eyes lit up with
pleasure and gratitude as she spoke.

It is not every day such noble sentiments are to
be met with,' said Mrs. Crewe softly; and then,
quickly descending to her usual level of curiosity,
she added, ' I see you have ridden out here this
morning, Mr. Piers. It is a delightful exercise,
and most healthful.'

Ridden out !' repeated Laura, in some surprise,
for she had no idea that her old companion's fortunes
had changed so much for the better. ' Have
you a horse, Reginald ?'

I have,' he said, smiling. ' I was going to tell
you, when Mrs. Crewe came in, that I have succeeded
to the Pierslynn property. Hugh Piers  a
cousin, you know  was killed out hunting about
six weeks ago, and I am his next-of-kin.'

Really ! this is quite a romance,' said Mrs.
Crewe, her head inclined gracefully to one side, her
eyes glistening with delight at the vision of a distinguished
circle of acquaintances which dawned
upon her.

I never heard of him before,' replied Laura ;
and are you rich now, Reginald ?'

'Yes  that is, fairly well off; and, what is better
still, I have a nice old place in the country, where
I hope we shall enjoy some rambles together as in
old times  eh, Laura?' leaning forward and glancing
up at her with a look half tender, half playful.

A blissful smile spread itself over Mrs. Crewe's
face, as with pride in her own penetration she
thought she saw how the land lay.

I can hardly believe it,' returned Laura, feeling

strangely, delightfully disturbed, a glow as of
softest springtide warmth diffusing itself through
her veins, and sending unwonted colour to her
cheeks. ' I thought we were all poor together !
Do you know, I feel half sorry. Your riches seem
to put you away at a distance.'

Why, you do not think I am such a cad as to
fancy myself in any way different from the Reggie
Piers you used to quarrel and make up with, in our
school-days, because I have had the luck to inherit
the family estate ?'

No, indeed !' ejaculated Mrs. Crewe, with
warmest approbation ; ' anyone might see, Laura,
that your cousin's nature is far too noble to forget
those he once  a  let us say preferred !'

Thank you for your good opinion,' said Reginald,
laughing.

But,' resumed Laura, scarcely able to take in
the idea that her former playfellow, who was often
out at elbows, had really developed into a man of
fortune, ' are you able to keep horses and carriages ?
and do you still go to that office in the City 
Thurston and Trent  was that the name ?'

Oh ! I have left the shop, of course, but I see
Trent very often ; his wife was a Piers, you know.'

Dear, dear ! how curiously things come about !'
cried Mrs. Crewe, on the stretch to understand all
the ins and outs of the story; 'I suppose you
mean Messrs. Thurston and Trent of Sydenham
Chambers.'

Yes,' returned Reginald.

'Then you probably knew a Mr. Holden, who
was a clerk in their establishment ? He was for
some time an inmate of mine  for I do not mind
confessing to a man of your exalted turn of mind
that I am obliged to seek occupants for a portion
of my house, which is really larger than I require.
A sailor, my dear Mr. Piers, no matter how well
he may serve his country, seldom leaves a wealthy
widow. But Mr. Holden mistook the character of
the house, and became very irregular in his hours,
and when I remonstrated he showed temper and
gave me warning : I by no means regretted him.'

' So Holden was here, was he?' ejaculated Reginald,
with evident interest ; ' he certainly was no
fit inmate for you. He is not a gentleman ; of
course I knew him, being in the same office, but
that was all : I am afraid he is not very steady.
Well, Laura, when will you and Mrs. Crewe come
and call on my mother and sister ? I should like
to meet you there  will Tuesday next suit you ?'

All days suit me,' said Laura, ' if it will suit
Mrs. Crewe.'

'May I suggest Wednesday?' said that lady
sweetly ; ' I have an engagement on Tuesday.'

Oh ! certainly,' he returned, rising. ' I have
paid you a visitation, but you must let me come
again soon. I should like to see Herbert  he was
quite a small boy when I was last at the Rectory ;
and then we are to make some plans for Winnie's
deliverance ! I shall look in on Monday or Tuesday,
if you will let me, Mrs. Crewe.'

You may come when you like and as often as
you like,' said she, smiling unbounded approbation
upon him.

Many thanks ; good-morning,' returned Reginald,
bowing low. ' Good-bye for the present,
Laura : you must cheer up ; I trust there are
pleasant days in store for you ! The sight of you
has recalled some of my happiest hours,' he added
in a low tone, pressing her hand with kindly,
cousinly warmth.

And you ! oh, how you recall mine ! I feel as
if all the past had not quite gone from me when I
hear you speak, Reggie !' she returned : her voice,
always musical and expressive, was instinct with
warm sympathy.

" Ail revoir, then,' and with a parting bow he
left them.

At the sound of the front door closing, Mrs.
Crewe moved quickly to a vantage-post, wherefrom
behind the shelter of the muslin curtain, she
could see without being seen. ' What a nice young
man ! Such distinguished manners, and a beautiful
figure ; he is standing at the gate putting on
his gloves in a brown study, waiting for the horses.
Here they are ; such beautiful horses and a most
stylish groom ! Laura, my dear, you ought to
come to the window and kiss your hand to him
before he rides away. There, he is off! Why did
you not tell me what a charming cousin you had !
Why, my dear Laura, what is the matter .?  sitting
there crying ! when you ought to be so pleased to

have a young man of fortune and distinction and
high family so much attached to you ! Now, do
not contradict me, dear. I know the world ; I have
had great experience, and I say that elegant young
fellow is sincerely attached to you.'

Yes, as a friend, a sister, I think he always did
like me,' cried Laura, with a sort of nervous fear at
Mrs. Crewe's words, a dread lest the possibilities of
a delicate hidden preference might wither and die
under the glare of her reckless observation ; * but,
believe me, anything else is out of the question.
Indeed, considering it is more than three years
since we heard anything of him  never since Dick
went to India has he written or inquired about us
I am quite astonished that he has taken the
trouble to come here and see me. He was always
nice and good-natured, but I scarcely expected
this!

My dear, he was probably not in a position to
marry, and so was prudent. Now it is quite different
'

Dear Mrs. Crewe,' earnestly, with clasped hands,
pray do not destroy the great pleasure I have in
seeing Reggie by suggesting such ideas ! I have
had so much sorrow ; let me have a little comfort
now.'

Well, well ! if you take it in that light, I will
not say another word ; only, dear, I have ray
own opinion, and one day you will confess I am
right.'

Laura smiled good-humouredly. * You do not

VOL. I. 10

know how ridiculously impossible such a thing
seems to me,' she said. ' Now, Mrs. Crewe, you
have some needlework for me, have you not ?

'You can settle down to needlework?' asked
Mrs. Crewe. 'Well, that is being quite philosophic
; but as you are so good, I will just show
you what I want. Come, let us go into the diningroom
'' where, after an elaborate explanation
touching the depth and length of the ill-fitting
collar, Mrs. Crewe settled herself in an armchair
and took up the paper ; she could not, however,
long attend to abstract matters. ' I think, my dear
Laura, this dress and my black lace mantilla will
do very well for our visit on Wednesday T

I am sure you will look very nice,' said Laura.

But, Laura,' in a serious and impressive tone,
I am really anxious about you ! You will forgive
my motherly anxiety. You ought to have a new
dress  a black Barge, if I might suggest  with a
crossover pelerine to go out in, and a new hat :
appearance is of the last importance  especially
sometimes. Now, I think it very necessary that
you should make a good first impression on Mrs.
Piers ; and though I am the last person to counsel
extravagance, I think, dear, you ought to treat
yourself to a new dress and hat. Come, make up
your mind : I know the Admiral brought you your
allowance or dividends, or whatever it is, the other
day ; so let us put on our bonnets directly dinner
is over  there are charming things at Whiteley's,
and we can get the dressmaker to take your

measure this evening. Eh ! my love, I consider
these purchases absolutely essential.'

'No, Mrs. Crewe, I cannot indulge myself in
anything of the kind this quarter ; I have all I
absolutely require, and it would be a little extravagant
to buy fine things for the sake of one visit,
for I have an idea that we shall not see much more
of Mrs. Piers. I know at the Rectory we all
imagined her to be a proud cold woman, from little
things. I remember she wrote a letter to my aunt
once, thanking her for her kindness to Reggie, and
my aunt laughed about it, and said it was rather
stiff and condescending. Indeed, I wish I had not
to go and see her.'

Well, Laura, I wish you would be guided by
me. I believe it is a duty you owe to yourself to
make this little outlay. Believe me, you could improve
yourself immensely by careful dressing ; you
do not give sufficient thought to appearance''

I give as much thought and more than it
deserves to my own appearance,' returned Laura,
laughing. ' But tJiis sacrifice to the beautiful I do
not feel called upon to make.'

Whereupon Mrs. Crewe resumed the thread of
her discourse, and argued with some force and
great good sense in favour of the purchases she
considered so requisite ; finally, finding she failed
to persuade her listener, she was not a little
offended.

Oh, very well,' she said ; ' we will say no more
about it ; I should not have intruded my advice

10  2

were I not actuated by the sincerest interest in
your welfare, and a knowledge of the world which
at your age you cannot possibly possess. You may
regret not having attended to my advice, for I am
quite sure much may arise from our visit on
Wednesday

I am sure you are both wise and kinds cried
Laura, anxious to mollify her, ' but I want to save
my money for '

Pray, my dear, do not allow yourself to grow
penurious; it is not amiable in a young person ;'
and Mrs. Crewe took refuge in the broad sheet of
the Standard ; for it need scarcely be said that
she was aristocratic by taste and Conservative by
conviction.

The rest of the day passed tranquilly. Some
delicate attentions to Topsy at dinner completely
reconciled Mrs. Crewe to her young friend, and
Laura occupied the afternoon in writing a voluminous
letter to Winnie, largely made up of details
of Reginald's visit, and then in arranging the
materials for a picture she was attempting partly
from memory, partly from an old very sketchy
sketch of a glade in the woods behind the Rectory,
with a number of curious lichen-covered stones,
the remains of some shrine or altar, the memory of
which had passed away, and a sleepy little shadowy
pool bordered with moss and rushes. The visit of
that morning had brought the scene back to her
more vividly than ever, for it was a favourite spot

with both herself and Reginald ; many an afternoon
gotten of bread and fruit, many a long hour's
perusal of some favourite book, had they enjoyed
there, with and without Dick, who was of a prosaic
disposition. The attempt to reproduce this well-remembered
spot was, in any case, a delicious
employment ; but to-day her thoughts and fancies
were like sweetest chimes * ringing peals of merry
music from the belfry of her heart Yet she had
been quite sincere in assuring Mrs. Crewe that the
idea of anything lover-like in Reginald Piers seemed
impossible to her. He was too much an ideal hero
for her to think it possible that she could ever be
anything but his  friend, his somewhat humble
friend, in spite of a certain intellectual equality.
But to find him so true, so kind, so considerate,
was a heavenly surprise ; for, perhaps unconsciously,
under all her liking and admiration for her bright
good-looking playfellow, lay a scarce-defined
feeling that exalted loyalty, or warm remembrance,
was somehow not' too certainly to be expected from
Reggie. She had never done him quite justice;
and now, to be able to let the full flow of her liking
and admiration rise unchecked, heightened by
hearty gratitude for the frank completeness with
which he took up the well-nigh broken thread of
their friendship and knotted it together more firmly
it was too delicious 1 The sense of loneliness,
the weight of responsibility as elder sister, which
used to press her down, seemed suddenly dispersed,
or to be as nothing to the strength given her to

THE ADMIRAL'S WARD.

support it. With Reginald's sympathy, she could
remove mountains. He would help her with her
dear good beneficent guardian, and aid her in her
attempt to get Winnie back. For to be happy
while Winnie was miserable was something impossible,
sacrilegious ; and so Laura traced the outlines
of her picture, being at that blest stage of
gratified affection when nerves, fancy, imagination,
boldness, are at their fullest and firmest, when faith
in another radiates faith in one's self, before the glow
and warmth that vivifies has passed into the flame
that consumes.

iJgDMIRAL Descartes' stay in town
had extended itself into the third week,
and he was beginning to be weary, to
long for the quiet and sweetness of the
simple home of which he was so fond. But he was
not a man to leave his work undone, and he waited
bravely on until he saw Herbert fairly at work
with the tutor he had found for the holidays, and
until the investment was arranged for which
Messrs. Thurston and Trent had promised to lookout.
The office was as full and busy as it had
been the morning Reginald Piers had stood smiling
in Mr. Trent's room to announce the mighty
change in his fortunes ; but on this occasion it was
Mr. West who held council with the second partner
Mr. West, the only one remaining of the two
who had formerly occupied the inner office on the
ground-floor. They had been in earnest talk, and
Mr. Trent's countenance looked more than usually
dark and keen, when, as before, their conversation

was interrupted by a clerk who presented the
Admiral's card.

Ah, my dear sir,' said the solicitor, after they
had exchanged greetings, and West had bowed
himself out, ' I suppose you have come to reproach
our tardiness for not getting that little affair of
yours settled. But, do you know, it is not so easy
to find an investment in every way suitable, such
as I should like to recommend to you.'

*I have not come to reproach you interrupted
the Admiral, with his grave, sweet smile. * I amon
the contrary, well pleased that matters have not
gone farther. I had long interviews yesterday and
the day before with Mr. Atkins, nephew of my
old friend Lord Trevelyan ; he has thoroughly explained
his scheme of the Szolnok and Often Canal.
He is himself a very honourable man, and an
engineer of some experience. It is not, you know,
a project in embryo. The company is formed, and
they expect to hear daily that the Hungarian
Chamber has granted their charter. Shares are
rising, and it is by special favour that he is disposed
to give me a sufficient number for the
amount of capital I have to invest. Lord Trevelyan
is in it, and Mr. Grey, of Grey, Hughes, and
Co,' continued the Admiral, taking a paper from
his breast-pocket. 'Also Mr. Simon Pounce, Q.C.
These are good names, and I see no reason for
losing such an excellent investment from mere distrust
of a scheme which has received the sanction
of shrewd and honourable men. I have therefore

resolved to invest in this company, especially as it
is highly probable no further call will be made
than fifty pounds per share, which at present pay
six per cent.'

My dear Admiral, I but repeat what I said
before, that you are running a great risk. I certainly
see with no small surprise the names you
mention in connection with this company, and I
by no means intend to insinuate that the gentlemen
who promoted it are not sincere and well-intentioned
; bit I would not risk my own money
in it, and am most reluctant to let you risk yours.'

'Your profession inclines you to be distrustful;
but I am, I assure you, by no means disposed to
believe too readily,' replied the Admiral, with an
air of knowing what he was about ; at which Mr.
Trent was secretly amused. ' And having, as I
said, informed myself thoroughly in the matter, I
have made up my mind to put the whole of the
money at my disposal in this undertaking.'

Mr. Trent shook his head.

Well, Admiral Desbarres, I can say no more.
You are of course free to do what you like with
your own, but I most emphatically protest that
you are acting entirely against my advice.'

Yes. I absolve you from all responsibility,' he
returned, smiling ; ' yoiir strength lies in unbelief,
mine in faith : time only can show which will be
justified.'

There was a short pause. Mr. Trent was truly
interested in his client, and much annoyed at not

being able to dissuade him from what he considered
a more than doubtful investment.

I think of leaving town the day after tomorrow,'
resumed the Admiral. 'You will be glad
to hear that the aunt of one of my young charges
I mean Miss Fieldenen  has offered a temporary
home to her nieces

Yes, it is a little lightening of the load,' said
Mr. Trent. *" What are you going to do with your
ward ?'

Nothing at all at present ; she is happily placed,
as I think I told you. I see she has some exalted
idea of maintaining herself by teaching or painting
; however, the question of self-support is a very
delicate one where a young girl is concerned. I
insist upon her waiting until we see what the elder
brother of the Fieldens can and will do for them ;
then we can arrange some plan of life.'

Can she paint ? your ward, I mean ?'

I am no judge, but I think she can ; her trees
look like trees, and her figures like men and
women ; but who would buy such unknown
work ?'

It is hard to say. Everyone must have a beginning
; at any rate, encourage the spirit of independence.
There is nothing dangerous or unfeminine
in painting a picture and selling it. I
am sure Mrs. Trent would be very happy to be of
any use to her and you. If you like, she will call
on your ward. Mrs. Trent is fond of dabbling inartistic
matters, and is somehow distantly related

to Miss Piers. I never understand relationships,
but there is some connection between them.'

You are very good,' said the Admiral, rising.
'Mrs. Trent's acquaintance would be a great
acquisition to Laura in any case. I hope she and
all your family are well.'

Quite well, thank you. I wish you could give
us a day before you leave town, my dear sir ?
Mrs. Trent would be charmed to see you.'

I thank you, but I rarely dine out. This evening
I give to my ward ; tomorrow I dine with an
old friend who is trying to assist me in obtaining
admittance for Herbert Fieldenen into the School for
Sons of the Clergy.'

Well, when you come up again, you must positively
dine with us. You are quite a good Samaritan
; you seem to have no object but to help
others.'

In my case, I fear it is but enlarged selfishness,'
returned the Admiral, with a smile. ' I must wish
you good-morning.'

Good-morning, Admiral ; I wish you would be
guided by me in this Hungarian Canal concerned

my head be it,' said the Admiral ; shaking
hands cordially with his legal adviser, he left the
office, and walked deliberately towards the Mansion
House by the shady sides of the streets, apparently
in deep thought. The warning of his solicitor
caused him little or no apprehension. Having
satisfied the requirements of his own simple unsuspicious
mind, he troubled himself no further,

and was only too glad to find he could increase his
means of helping others.

The evening before the momentous visit to Mrs.
Piers and Lady Jervois had found Mrs. Crewe ina
state of advanced preparation for that event.
Laura had been occupied the greater part of the
afternoon in the composition of a lace collarette.
Real lace was an article of almost religious faith
with Mrs. Crewe. Real lace, real jewellery, and real
Indian shawls were with her the outward and
visible signs of inward and unmistakable gentility.
They covered a large amount of shortcomings in
other ways, and she cherished a certain card-board
box, containing a moderate quantity of point
d'Alengon, point de Bruxelles, and Honiton, with
almost reverent care, as a kind of patent of nobility.
And in this Laura was not unsympathetic. Lace
is always attractive to the artist. There is so
much high-bred beauty in the delicate filmy texture.
It is the poetry of decoration, compared
with which, jewels, however magnificent, are vulgarly
material.

I am sure, my dear, you have done that most
beautifully, quite like a first-rate milliner,' said
Mrs. Crewe, sailing into Laura's room, where she
sat at work, with the famous box under her arm.
It is absolutely perfect !' holding it to her throat ;
and now, my dear, what are you going to wear
yourself ?'

I have but one dress and one hat I can wear

said Laura, smiling ; ' but I defer to your better
judgment, Mrs. Crewe ; I bought some white frilling
when I went out with Herbert this morning,
and I am going to wear it.'

I am very glad to hear it, dear,' returned Mrs.
Crewe solemnly. ' It will be an immense improvement.
I wish you had followed my advice in
other respects ; but the young always think themselves
wisest. Would you mind my suggesting a
drooping feather in your hat ? A black feather is
quite admissible in mourning, you know; and I
would be most happy to lend you mine which I
had in my, winter bonnet. It is r/ ostrich ; I am
sure you will appreciate my motives in offering it,
and not feel offended.'

Offended ! no, indeed, you are very kind ; but I
think, dear Mrs. Crewe, a feather would scarcely be
suitable to so plain and quiet a personage as I am.
Do not try to lift me out of my natural insignificance,'
said Laura, laughing.

Insignificant or not ' began Mrs. Crewe with

a knowing nod of the head, when a knock interrupted
her.

A quick * Come in !' was followed by the appearance
of Herbert, looking rather red and dusty, with
a large bouquet of exquisite fragrant flowers in one
hand, and a note in the other.

Here, Laura !' he exclaimed, * just see if there is
any answer ; there is a smart little chap in cords
and tops waiting downstairs, and the Admiral was
coming into the garden as I was in the hall.'

Gracious goodness !' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe, in a
fever of excitement ; ' and I have only eggs and
bacon for tea ! Is it not unlucky ? But what
lovely flowers ! Do look at the note, Laura dear ;
of course it is from Mr. Piers. Is it to put us off
tomorrow ?'

No !' opening the note quickly and glancing
through it. 'It is only to say he has had these
flowers from Pierslynn, and sends them on ; he
begs me not to forget our appointment for tomorrow.'


That's right, my dear ! I will go down to the
Admiral at once. Pray come as quickly as you
can ; I don't know how it is, I never can keep
up a conversation long with that dear kind
Admiral.'

But Laura waited to write a line of acknowledgment
for the following note :

My dear Laura,

I send you a bouquet which has just come
from Pierslynn, remembering your old love of
flowers, and am very sorry a troublesome engagement
prevents my bringing them myself Remember
we are to meet at my sister's tomorrow
at 2.30, when I hope to settle with you to visit
some of the galleries and exhibitions now open,
where no chaperonage is requisite beyond that of
your affectionate friend and kinsman,

Reginald Piers.'

This pleasant token of consideration, and the

vista of joy it opened out, sent Laura down to
meet her guardian with an amount of Hight and
colour in cheek and eyes that almost transformed
her usually pale plain face.

Of course the Admiral was established in state
in the drawing-room ; while Mrs. Crewe, posed
elegantly in an easy-chair, diligently engaged in
the task of entertaining her honoured guest,
watched with some eagerness for the entrance of
her charming young friend to relieve guard, and
set her free to inspect the preparation of the evening
meal.

The Admiral, cool, well-dressed, with the slight
languor which always gave such repose to his
bearing and manner, was listening with the honest
attention he invariably gave to everyone and
everything, while Mrs. Crewe, thinking she had
hit on a congenial subject, was describing the
clergyman whose church she attended.

For I never like to neglect church, although as
yet my means will not permit me to take a sitting ;
and I assure you Mr. Middleton is most eloquent.
Last Sunday he enlarged upon the Ninth Article
you know it is all about Original Sin, and that
sort of thing  and he was so convincing. I am
sure I don't know how anyone can help being sinful
and going wrong.'

Is that not a dangerous doctrine,' said the
Admiral thoughtfully, ' and one of the most difficult
a preacher can attempt to handle ? If we
admit the taint of birth-sin to its full extent, it is

difficult to maintain the responsibility of free will ;
and without free will '

He paused, and seemed lost in profound and
painful thought.

Exactly so returned Mrs. Crewe blandly ;
that is just what I said to dear Laura as we came
out of church. How is one to do right and be
spiritually minded when one is wrong from the
beginning ? I am sure the thoughts that come in
one's head, even when the organ is playing in
church, are most extraordinary. But here is Laura
herself,' in a tone of relief. ' What lovely flowers !
Look, my dear Admiral  are they not ? Young
Mr. Piers has just sent them ; very pretty of him,
is it not ? He is such a charming young man.
Are you going to put them in the drawing-room ?
Thank you, dear. You are very generous to share
such a precious gift ; is she not, Admiral ?' concluded
Mrs. Crewe airily, as she swept away.

Laura advanced with outstretched hand to her
guardian.

It seems so long since I have seen you,' she
said, with the soft earnestness which was one of
her few attractions.

 I have been much occupied, chiefly on your
account and your young cousins,' returned the
Admiral, smiling kindly upon her, and pressing
her hand warmly. ' I am glad to see that youth is
asserting itself,' he continued, gazing with interest
at her. ' You are looking wonderfully revived and
better  better than I ever saw you before ; and

i

young Piers sent you these flowers ? It was a kind
and kinsman civility. You were friends in your
boy-and-girl days ?'

Yes, great friends replied Laura frankly, while
she looked for a suitable vase to hold her precious
flowers.

A long pause ensued. The Admiral drew from
his breast-pocket a letter (in Winnie's writing,
Laura could see), and began to read it.

The Admiral's deliberation was sometimes a
little exasperating to persons of slighter, quicker
natures, and not even the happy mental effervescence
induced by Reginald's present could
make Laura indifferent to the anxious question
which suggested itself, * I wonder how Winnie
wrote, and how the Admiral will take her view of
her new relatives ?'

But before he could speak Herbert made his appearance,
hastily brushed and washed, and made
fit to be seen. Then he had to undergo a cross-examination
as to his work with, his new tutor.
The Admiral was sterner and colder with boys
than girls, and Herbert was mortally afraid of him ;
consequently never appeared to advantage under
the raking fire of his benefactor's questions. However,
deliverance came quickly in the shape of
Collins, who with tearful eyes and a fiery face,
keeping herself well behind the half-opened door,
asked, ' Will you be pleased to come in to tea T

The Admiral, with old-fashioned politeness,
offered his arm to his ward, and, followed by
VOL. I. 1 1

Herbert, went into the dining-room, where Mrs.
Crewe awaited them beside a well-covered table.

Mrs. Crewe was great in emergencies, and on the
present occasion the commonplace  not to say
vulgarity  of bacon and eggs was almost hidden
by the refinement of a large dish of strawberries
plentifully garnished by leaves ; while a homemade
cake tastefully ornamented with cut paper,
and a basket of mignonette and pinks, partially
concealed a tin kettle and spirit-lamp  tin, but
polished to silvery brightness  which blazed and
hissed behind them.

I never apologize for humble fare which is
heartily offered,' said Mrs. Crewe, with a distinguished
air. ' Mine is a very modest household,
as no one has a better right to know than yourself,
Admiral Desbarres, and such as it is, you are
always a favoured guest. Bacon and eggs may
not be fashionable, but it is a most nourishing and
pray sit on my right. Admiral ; Laura, go next
your guardian ; Herbert, like a dear boy, blow out
the .spirit-lamp for me. Collins T ring, ring, ring,
ring. ' Oh, Collins, do not rush in head foremost ;
it is quite bad style ! Collins, do bring my precious
Topsy ; put her chair by me. I trust, my dear
Admiral, you do not mind my little favourite
coming to table. You know, until you sent me
that dear girl there, she was my only companion,'
etc., etc.

These dumb creatures are a curious study,' said
the Admiral, after he had partaken moderately of

the good things set before him. ' They seem to
have the germ of much that characterizes human
beings. I remember a pet monkey we had onboard
the Revenge when I was a youngster. He
used to sleep in a different berth every night, sometimes
in the first lieutenant's cabin, sometimes atone
of the mates' doors ; but he never went so low
as to associate with the midshipmen, except in
broad daylight.'

How extraordinary !' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe.

How do you account for that, sir ?' asked
Herbert, curiosity loosening his tongue. ' Did he
ever sleep with the captain ?'

The captain would not have him.'

He could not have known the difference of
rank,' said Herbert.

Perhaps the midshipmen teased him more than
the others,' said Laura.

Perhaps so, but he never seemed to dislike the
teasing,' concluded the Admiral. ' I only know
the facts. In small as well as great things our
understanding is very limited ;' and he remained
silent until Mrs. Crewe suggested that the Admiral
would probably like to go into the drawing-room
with Laura, where she would join them presently.

Let me see you before I go,' said the general
benefactor to Herbert, and he followed his ward
into the next room. * I am going to leave you, my
dear Laura,' said he, when he had taken his seat in
an armchair and watched his ward knitting for an
instant. ' 1 return home on Thursday. My sister

II 2

is not well ; I think I have mentioned that she is
highly nervous, and I have been away from her fora
long time.'

You have indeed !' exclaimed Laura, ' and for
our sakes. You have been so good that I feel it
is beyond our thanks. How lonely I shall feel
when you are gone ; and yet I should feel much
worse if Mrs. Crewe were not so kind ; that is
another debt to you, this quiet home.'

I am convinced of your gratitude,' said the
Admiral calmly. * You are my particular charge,
and I think you are a girl of principle ; but I much
incline to believe that you have a ground-tier of
self-will. Not that you have ever opposed me, but
I have observed you closely, and I counsel you ta
subdue any tendency to wilfulness when you perceive
it arise, my dear Laura.'

Laura listened in no small surprise.

I am not aware of it,' she said ; ' but I will
watch myself.'

Submission is a rare and noble virtue in the
young,' continued the Admiral ; * strive to attain toit
:' and he held out his hand for hers, which he
pressed kindly.

Your cousin has of course written to you,' he
resumed. ' I have had a letter from her, from
which I can see she is not pleased with her relations
or her reception ; does she write in the same strain
to you ?'

'Just the same,' returned Laura, earnestly hoping
he would not ask to see the letter.

The beginning is painful in most things, and
strange places and people are often unattractive at
first ; but Winnie may grow to like her aunt and
cousins, and find a happy home with them. She is
herself so lovable that she will no doubt make
friends wherever she goes.'

She is indeed ; and oh, what a loss to me 1'

'That I can understand,' replied the Admiral
kindly. * However, it would be well if she should
continue under the care of such natural protectors
as she has found. I am a little afraid of her
making vain and imprudent efforts at self-support ;
if she can make herself useful and acceptable to her
aunt, it would be better than to run any risk among
strangers

dear guardian, do you not think that even
young girls have a right to try and earn their own
living ?'

With certain restrictions, yes.'

I am deeply interested in your opinion cried
Laura, ' because I want to sell my pictures if I can.
It is a- tremendous if, I fear, and I can do nothing
without your consent.'

The Admiral smiled indulgently, with a soft, faraway
look in his dark eyes.

Yes, yes, I know you young creatures are led
away with a dream of independence ; you think if
you can but fill your purse you can be free : you
forget that time alone can set you free from your
apprenticeship  from the duty of obedience to
those whom nature or circumstances, which are

God's by-laws, have set over you. Nevertheless,
I do not say that the ambition is altogether wrong.
Paint your pictures, Laura, but do not go abroad to
sell them. Let me know when you have something
to dispose of, and we will see what can be
done.'

But I have some ready cried Laura, her heart
palpitating with eagerness ; ' one or two copies of
pictures in the gallery, the Dresden Gallery , and
two scenes in Saxon Switzerland. They are here
now  they came in our heavy boxes ; may I show
them to you ?' and she rose up.

It would be useless, Laura ; I have no knowledge
of such things, and little taste for them ; at
best they are a poor travestie of the beauty of
nature. I prefer to talk with you.' He paused.
Mr. Trent, my solicitor, has proposed that his
wife, who is some relation of yours, should call
upon you,' resumed the Admiral. ' If she asks to
see your paintings, let her see them ; she is perhaps
able and willing to help you.'

Did she say she would come and see me ? how
very kind !' cried Laura ; ' why, I am gathering
quite a circle of acquaintance. I forgot to tell you
that Reginald's mother and sister called a day or
two before Winnie left, but we were out.'

Indeed !' said the Admiral, visibly gratified.
They are no doubt cognizant of the kindness
shown to young Piers in the Rectory days.'

'But tell me, dearest guardian, should Winnie
find these Liverpool people unendurable, you will

let her come back here ? Oh, how happy we might
be living together, if I could sell my pictures and
she could get music-pupils !'

Do not allow yourself to speak with that disrespectful
tone, my dear child, of persons who maybe
worthy of all esteem : these careless modes of
speech deteriorate thought. Yes, should Winnie
really be unhappy, I will deliver her out of their
hands,' said the Admiral kindly. 'But we must
give them a fair trial : we must not judge prematurely.
Trust me, however, Laura ; I do not wish
Winnie to be crushed, and should her aunt and
uncle prove harsh or unfriendly, she shall leave
them. Now tell me, Laura, how are you off for
money? I know you are prudent, but I do not
wish you to be penniless.'

 Oh, thank you !' exclaimed Laura, colouring,
I have the money you brought me almost untouched.
I only wish I had not to live upon your
bounty.'

There is the pride and self-will of which I
spoke,' said the Admiral, not unkindly; 'you know
I have gladly charged myself with the care of your
future. I only hesitate to undertake that of your
cousin, because I do not yet see clearly that it is
given to me.'

No pride could be hurt by an obligation to
you,' replied Laura warmly ; while she thought,
By what instinct does he divine my rebellion
against authority  even his kind authority t for I
have never disobeyed him ; yet how essential freedom

is to my very existence ! Why is it that I
must walk in paths of my own making if I am to
move at all ?'

But this conversation comforted Laura. The
Admiral was so absolutely true and sincere, that
the lightest word with him was binding as the
solemnise vow, and she firmly believed that poor
Winnie's evil days would not last long.

HE important Wednesday broke mistily,
with gusts of rain and wind. Mrs.
Crewe was loud in her lamentations at
the untoward change of weather.
It makes such a mess of one's clothes,' she said,
as she endeavoured to discover a morsel of blue
sky in the square portion visible over the back
garden. ' And there is that dear Topsy washing
her face as hard as she can, which is a sure sign of
a wet day ! Don't you think, Laura dear, we might
share a cab from the Marble Arch  it would be
money well spent  and then we would go in at
Lady Jervois's nice and fresh, instead of being
draggled and splashed and untidy ? I don't want

you to look like a poor relation '

Well, nor do I, though I am one,' returned
Laura, laughing; Met us have the cab, by all
means.'

It will be just sentence each, omnibus included,'
said Mrs. Crewe, making a rapid calculation ; * and

170 THE ADMIRALS WARD.

if you do not mind a cold luncheon at half-past
twelve, it will give us time to dress and get to
Mount Street by two o'clock.'

The moment of giving their names to the serious-looking
man out of livery who opened the door was
one of no small trial. Laura could not reason herself
out of the mingled apprehension and excitement
with which she looked forward to the ordeal of
introduction to Reginald's mother and sister.

Why should she dread meeting people who had
gone out of their way to show her civility ? But
though there was no satisfactory answer to this
question, she could not quiet the rapid throbbing
of her pulses, nor attend to the whispered observations
of Mrs. Crewe, who, with an air of haughty
self-possession, uttered sharp comments under her
breath : ' The stair-carpets are shockingly shabby,'
and, ' What a dusty landing !' ' The paint does not
look very fresh,' etc. The next moment the door
was flung open, and their names called out in loud
tones :

Mrs. Crewe and Miss Piers.'

But there, just within the threshold, stood
Reginald, erect, fresh, smiling, with flowers in his
button-hole, and his usual well-cared-for aspect.
At sight of him, new courage sprang up in Laura's
heart.

In an easy-chair near the window, with a small
work-table beside her, sat a refined-looking elderly
lady, whose quietly rich morning dress was well-suited

to a dowager of distinction; and in the
middle distance a small, delicate, pretty woman, ina
simple cent costume, with pale blue ribbons and
a ' Corday ' cap of muslin and Valenciennes lace,
was looking at an illustrated paper.

The whole scene stamped itself on Laura's
memory once and for ever : the somewhat dingy
ready furnished look of the room, the perfume of
the heliotrope and roses which were its best ornaments,
the pose of its occupants, the indefinable
air of assured position stamped upon them. Finally,
the image of herself reflected in a long glass
between the windows facing her as she came in,
so black, so insignificant, in her scarf and large hat.
She did not observe, what Reginald did, that there
was something dignified in her composure, something
pleasant in the honest steadiness of her eyes,
which, to those who took the trouble of noticing
them, saved her from being commonplace. The
reflection of Mrs. Crewe was also a little incongruous;
her height was overpowering, and though slight
rather than stout, she had large ways ; her dress,
too, though in passing good taste, had evidently
not come from the same class of laboratory as
Mrs. Piers's. While these thoughts were flashing
through her mind, Reginald was greeting them
cordially.

Very good of you to come out in such horrid
weather, Mrs. Crewe. Let me introduce you to
my mother. My sister Lady Jervois, Mrs. Crewe.
Mother, let me present my old playfellow, Laura

Piers, to you ; you have often heard me talk of her
and of the Fieldens.'

Mrs. Piers rose, and, stepping a few inches
forward, made a slight stiff courtesy, first to Mrs.
Crewe, then to Laura, and after a scarce perceptible
hesitation held out her hand to the latter.

Very happy to see you  won't you sit
down ?'

Lady Jervois was much more cordial ; she came
forward smilingly, and said she was very pleased
to make their acquaintance, but she too only
offered her hand to Laura. Mrs. Crewe was an
outsider, a dweller on the threshold, an unknown
quantity, who must be, as it were, kept beyond the
barriers, and though good-breeding insisted on
padding those barriers, they must, nevertheless, be
impassable ; all of which was perfectly perceptible
to Mrs. Crewe, who by nature and grace was
peculiarly qualified to penetrate and appreciate
the mystic cabala of good society. She showed no
sign, however, only from the reserved force of
family connections evoked the shade of her noble
great-grandfather, and held him in readiness for a
decisive moment to turn the tide of opinion in her
favour.

After the first greetings had been exchanged,
they sat down  Laura near Mrs. Piers, Mrs. Crewe
near Lady Jervois, and Reginald between them,
ready to lend his aid to either party.

I was very sorry to hear of Mr. Fieldenen's death,*
said Mrs. Piers, looking earnestly at Laura, her



countenance relaxing as she looked. * It has been
a sad loss to his family.'

'A terrible loss, one we feel more and more
each day returned Laura; and Reginald thought
that a voice so sweet and clear and delicately
refined was in itself a beauty, a recommendation
with which his mother must be pleased.

No doubt. You were brought up with the
family, my son tells me,' said Mrs. Piers, whose
manner was coldly polite.

I never knew any father or mother except my
uncle and aunt Fieldenen,' replied Laura, with a little
quiver in her voice.

Yes ! Laura was poor Mr. Fieldens special
favourite,' put in Reginald ; ' she was his secretary
and right hand. He kept you pretty close, too,
Laura ! Do you remember the day we were going
to see the sheep-shearing at Garlands, and you
could not come because your uncle had to finish
something by post-time, and you were obliged to
copy, or look up authorities, or some such thing ?
It was awfully hard lines ! I remember you tried
to hide the tears, but / saw them, eh, Laura ?'

Yes, it was a fearful disappointment,' said Laura,
with a sad little smile at the memory.

So it was to me  by Jove ! I did not enjoy
the expedition a bit without you.'

Mrs. Piers looked curiously at her son.
Meantime Lady Jervois, with some difficulty,
started a conversation with Mrs. Crewe.

Sorry not to find you at home the other day !

I had no idea Westbourne Park was such a nice
neighbourhood. Have you been residing there
long ?'

Nearly two years  yes, it is pretty well for a
suburb,' said Mrs. Crewe magnificently ; * but if I
had more of this world's goods, it is not the situation
I should choose. However, I need not say that a
sailor's widow has not much power of choice, and
I was a good deal influenced by the advice of my
dear friend Rear Admiral Desbarres (an old messmate
of my late husband's) in the choice of residence,'
returned Mrs. Crewe blandly.

Oh ! indeed,' said Lady Jervois. ' It's rather a
long way out.'

The omnibuses are very convenient,' rejoined
Mrs. Crewe, who disdained concealing her mode
of locomotion. 'They are not elegant, but most
commodious,' etc., etc.

Are you going to make any stay in town ?' asked
Mrs. Piers.

Yes,' said Laura ; ' I think my home in future
will be with Mrs. Crewe.'

'Ah !' ejaculated Mrs. Piers softly.

Have you seen the Academy exhibition V asked
Lady Jervois.

Not yet,' said Laura ; ' it is almost the only
thing I care to see '

Very well,' remarked Reginald. ' We must go,
and I shall listen with deference to your criticisms !
Miss Piers is an artist herself, Helen.'

I am very fond of painting, but I fear I have

small claim to the title of artist returned Laura,
colouring faintly.

Indeed you will allow me to say, though perhaps
I am no great judge, that you have a decided
genius,' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe. * I assure you,'
addressing Mrs. Piers, ' there are some heads (one
especially of an old man in a turban) which my
friend Miss Piers did in Germany, that look absolutely
alive, perfectly wonderful ! Then she is
making a charming picture of my favourite cat  a
great pet  such an intelligent darling !  and she is
also painting a sweet landscape  that pretty thing
with trees and a pool of water, Laura  it reminds
me of a part of my great-grandfather's woods at
Coomb, Lord Denzil of Coomb  perhaps you
know the family ?'

I know whom you mean, but am not acquainted
with any of them,' said Mrs. Piers icily.

It must be very nice to paint,' said Lady
Jervois. ' Used you to copy in the Dresden
Gallery ?'

Yes, occasionally.'

You must let me see your pictures, Laura,' said
Reginald. ' I will come tomorrow about two, if
you will let me, and turn over the contents of your
studio ; of course you have a studio ?'

No, I regret to say not as yet,' said Mrs. Crewe
loftily ; ' we have scarcely settled down, but I hope
to keep my young friend with me for a long time,
and I have a very nice breakfast-room opening to
the garden, which I shall certainly give her for an

atelier ! The exercise of talent such as hers should
not be impeded.'

Certainly not. And Laura, you must comedown
to Pierslynn and immortalize some of our
"banks and braes." I fancy, from the glance I
had (it was little more), that there are many pretty
bits about the place. Eh, mother, we must get
Laura down there, and let her paint to her heart's
content !'

Mrs. Piers smiled  not a cordial smile. ' You
are the master Reginald,' she said ; ' it is for you to
invite the guests.' Then, turning to Laura, ' I was
sorry not to see Miss Fieldenen when I called.
Reginald owes many pleasant days to her father's
hospitality.'

Oh yes ! Reginald was quite one of us at the
Rectory ; we always enjoyed his visits,' returned
Laura, with unconscious familiarity; and she looked
kindly and frankly at him.

Mrs. Piers's delicate cheek flushed slightly, and In
spite of a lifetime of social training her brow contracted
with a momentary expression of annoyance
at this indication of intimacy, of perfect equality,
with that important potentate her son, the lord of
Pierslynn  the future spouse of some noble damsel.
She familiar ! a mere waif and stray  a remote
offshoot of the family !

But Laura did not notice it  for Reginald, bending
a little towards her, with a look that sent a
strange shiver through her veins, said very distinctly,
' They were my happiest days.'

And Lady Jervois followed up the speech
quickly by saying, 'Miss Fieldenen has left town,
has she not ?'

She has gone to stay with her aunt in Liverpool,'
replied Laura.

Then a somewhat languid conversation dragged
on  something was said about regret at leaving
town so soon, and not being able to see Miss Piers
again ; and Lady Jervois explained that they were
going to her brother's place in a few days, to await
Sir Gilbert's return ; and then, to Laura's relief,
Mrs. Crewe rose to take leave.

I will come too said Reginald, with the same
easy cordiality he had shown all through the visit,
and followed them downstairs. ' How are you
going back?' he asked, as they issued from the
house.

It is not raining now,' said Mrs. Crewe, raising
her dress dexterously in graceful folds, ' and we
have a little shopping to do before our return, so
we will make our way to Regent Street.'

Very well. Where to 1  Howell and James's ?'
No, to Jay's.'

But you have not told me if I may come tomorrow
and see the paintings. Eh, Mrs. Crewe ?'

Oh ! my dear Mr. Piers, you are most welcome
as far as I am concerned said that lady
graciously.

If you really care, Reginald, I shall be very
pleased to show you my work ; but I did not think
you would be troubled with such things.'

VOL. I. 12

I am more artistic in my tastes than you
fancy !'

They talked pleasantly until they reached the
well-known emporium, where Reginald left them,
with a parting pressure of the hand, and the
words, * At two, then, tomorrow.'

Well, my dear ! and what did you think of our
visit ?' said Mrs. Crewe, as she settled herself in her
favourite chair, her feet on a footstool, and Topsy
curled up luxuriously in her lap.

They had done a good deal of miscellaneous
buying at a small outlay since they parted with
Reginald. They had had a severe struggle for
places in a ' White Hart ' omnibus, and reached
home late, where Mrs. Crewe found a short but
satisfactory letter from her son awaiting her ; thus
tea was delayed, and this was the first moment free
for discussion.

There is not much to think about,' said Laura,
who was sitting by the open window in unusual
idleness. ' It was all very commonplace. Mrs.
Piers is very different from Reginald ! I do not
think she was particularly glad to see us.'

'And I think,' said Mrs. Crewe, with candour
and decision, ' that she is a most forbidding, contemptuous
person ! Why, she hardly took any
notice of me ; no more than if I was  nobody at
all. Who is Mrs. Piers, I should like to know?
Nothing very particular, I believe ! Lady Jervois
is much nicer, much better bred ! How that elegant,

charming, delightful young man can be her
son (I mean Mrs. Piers's) I cannot imagine ! But,
Laura, my dear, I understand it all  to me it is as
plain as A B C. That woman (excuse my calling
her so, but I can't help it)  that woman is
afraid of yon ; she sees that nice son of hers Is
devotedly attached to you, and she Is enraged at
his constancy ! Now do not Interrupt me, Laura ;
pray do not be foolish at such an Important crisis
of your life. I. am sure you are superior to mock
modesty, and I am also sure you cannot be Indifferent
to your cousin ; it would not be human
nature.'

Mrs. Crewe, I beg of you ' began poor

Laura, trying to stem the torrent of her eloquence.


Do hear me out,' cried Mrs. Crewe persistently.
Don't let any ridiculous false pride come between
you and fortune, happiness, and your bounden
duty. Be advised by me, I implore and beseech !
You know I only speak for your own good. Why
you should be blind, or pretend to be blind, to Mr.
Piers's Intentions, I cannot understand !'

You would understand, Mrs. Crewe,' said Laura,
seriously distressed, and eager to disabuse her
hostess's mind of the unfortunate impression she
had so readily adopted  ' you would understand if
you knew the terms we were on at Cheddington.
Why, he used to tell me his love affairs, and I used
to darn his socks  for he was a good deal neglected
 and he used to talk to me as if I were sure

12 2

to be an old maid  that is, till the last time, when
I suppose he was old enough to think it uncivil.
He was always fond of me in a way, I think,
because I understood him. But to fall in love with
me ! dear Mrs. Crewe, you don't know how he
adores beauty, or you would never dream of such
a thing.'

'There is no accounting for such feelings,' returned
that lady, with more candour than courtesy.

It is just the old kindly brotherly feeling that
brings him here. .If you talk in this way, you will
destroy my comfort in seeing him  I shall feel and
seem awkward, and he will perceive it, and fancy
heaven knows what ! perhaps not care to come
near me any more ! I could ill spare so good a
friend. If you will only leave him alone  well  I
will readily promise to accept him if he proposes
for me, but only on condition that you never say
anything more about the possibility of such an
event ;' and with a pleasant caressing smile, Laura
took Mrs. Crewe's hand.

Very good,' returned that lady, who was easily
mollified. ' I agree ; but I must just once more
say, that I firmly believe I shall see you mistress
oi Pierslynn before many months are over.'

'Then remember our bargain,' said Laura,
laughing.

Yes, I will ; but you cannot prevent me from
forming my own opinion ;' and Mrs Crewe nodded
sagely.

However, she evidently considered the compact

binding, for she at once changed the subject, and
did not openly allude to it for a considerable time
covert hints and knowing glances she never
could resist  but for the present she began to talk
of turning the breakfast-room into a ' studio,' as
she liked to call it.

It is really a nice little room in summer, and
opens on the garden. I don't think you could use
it in winter  it never has any sun  but that is of
no consequence. You will probably not require 
ahem ! I beg your pardon.'

It has a north light, perhaps,' returned Laura,
disregarding this lapse ; 'and that is just the thing
for a painting-room.'

After some further explanation touching her intentions
of placing sundry articles of furniture,
culled from the not too-abundant 'perishing of
the other apartments, in the studio, ending with
Your cousin must have a chair to sit down upon, my
dear,' to which Laura returned good-humouredly,
And so must you, when you come to see me,' Mrs.
Crewe produced her son's letter.

Dear boy,' she said, ' he was just going to leave
the Cape  for a place called Rio  and hoped to
see me before three months were over. I think
you will be very pleased with Denzil, Laura ; he is
so intellectual and refined. He is as much a gentleman
as if he were on board a flagship ! Ah ! what
a pity it is-that adverse circumstances did not
permit of his going into the Royal Navy,' etc., etc.,
etc.

When Laura was at last alone in her own room,
she could not regulate the thronging crowd of
thoughts that passed wave after wave through her
brain, and stood long, her hand resting on the
dressing-table, just as she put down the candle,
seeing visions of the old time and the new.

Poor Mrs. Crewe's imaginings were simply the
dream of a kind, commonplace person  whose
idea of feminine good fortune could reach no
further than a rich marriage, and was quite incapable
of conceiving friendship between man and
woman  still, strive for mastery as she would over
the suggestions of fancy, Laura could not quite
turn from the glories suggested by her good-natured
friend's conjectures ; it was sweet and
delightful enough to find Reginald so true and
frank and kindly, but if it were possible that he
should love her! surely the confines of mortal
mould would be too narrow to hold her enraptured
spirit !

She knew how fondly she had cherished the
memory of her gay, gallant, good-looking playfellow
down in the innermost depths of her soul,
where none could see her weakness, not even
Winnie, her dearest confidante. And in this
secrecy was her strength. Never had she deceived
herself as to the quality of Reginald's feelings,
and the discovery of her own warmer affection,
which dawned upon her with the growing wisdom
of womanhood, had brought with it the bitterest
mortification. To love, when that love was unsought,

was degradation ; and to hide and conquer
the intense longing for a return of what she gave
became the supreme effort of her Hfe. Nor was it
unsuccessful. 

Round Reginald still centred her tenderest interest,
her most artistic imaginings, that purple and
golden haze of loveliest illusion, fairest, sweetest
attribute of youth and genius ; but his love she
had ceased to long for, or regret, or regard as in
any way possible. She had never hoped for it.
Now she could hold his hand with quickened
pulse. She could look into his eyes with the
calmest, most sisterly glance. Yet the love was
not dead, but slept, ready to spring into vivid
burning life at the touch of the master's hand.

And Laura coitld love.' Within that plain unattractive
exterior was enshrined a soul of rare
and subtle power, keen to perceive and drink in
beauty, to recognise all that was noble and true,
unstinted in its generous self-devotion to those she
loved, quick to resent injustice, and glowing with
the healthy circulation of a pure rich nature ! Ah !
could she have moulded the prison-house of such
an inmate in harmony with its fair proportions,
no lovelier form had ever inspired painter or poet.
As it was, ' she was just a good sensible girl, but
decidedly plain,' in the sight of her kinsfolk and
acquaintance, except in Winnie's, who firmly believed
in Laura's genius and knowledge and universal
ability.

'Oh, I do hope ]airs. Crewe will leave me in

THE ADMIRALS WARD.

peace ! her words rouse up old follies. I shall lose
all, if I lose my precious calm friendship with

Reginald I want nothing more  yet ' and even

her thoughts became indistinct at the recollection
of his last look and hand-pressure.

At last, with a supreme effort, she roused herself
and undressed, taking a tough German book to
bed with her, read resolutely until she had brought
her imagination within bounds, and at last dropped
asleep.

""gHE little downstairs parlour was a tower
' of refuge to Laura, and a source of

great enjoyment. There she could
spread out the implements of her art,
and leave them undisturbed, to return to when she
could. There Mrs. Crewe occasionally descended
with Topsy on her shoulder, and gave utterance
to her admiration and approbation in the largest
capitals. There, too, were Miss Brown and Mr.
Brown solemnly introduced to view the progress of
the fine arts as exemplified by Miss Piers's brush
and pencil. There Herbert tried chemical experiments,
creating horrible odours, and also endeavoured
to draw, under his cousin's direction.
Above all, there Reginald lounged in the early
afternoon or evening, criticizing, praising, disputing,
talking of himself and his plans, his hopes, his
ambitions, very much as in the Cheddington days
only there was something of a foundation in his
present castles.

He had taken Laura to several of the Exhibitions
and Galleries ; he had presented Mrs.
Crewe with a box at one or other of the best
theatres on several occasions, much to that lady's
gratification, for she dearly loved sight-seeing and
junketing ; and above all, he had more than once
partaken of tea-dinner, with great apparent content,
praised the veal-and-ham pie, and declared
the pressed beef worthy of all commendation.

Meantime Laura was half frightened at the dim,
delightful haze of happiness that seemed to fold
her in its vague, soothing sweetness  could it last ?
Could it be possible that she was growing dear to
Reginald } Meantime, it was almost faithless to
be so happy when dear Winnie was sad and
alone.

Winnie's letters had not increased in cheerfulness.
For the first couple of weeks Aunt Morgan
had been very pleasant, and ' uncle ' less morose ;
then the former had suggested that while Winnie
was looking about, and she herself not suited with
a governess, her niece might as well hear Fanny
practise, and give both younger girls lessons in
German, with occasional instructions in ' conversation'
to Amelia, 'who has had very expensive
lessons indeed'' So Winnie found herself an unpaid
governess, with an infinitely more difficult
task as regards discipline than a stranger would
have had, owing to the familiarity of her cousins ;
while their parents evidently considered themselves
as infinitely benevolent in permitting her ' to try

her 'prentice hand at teaching,' as Mrs. Morgan
expressed it.

Still poor Winnie wrote bravely, though here and
there touching little phrases expressive of helpless
despondency escaped her pen. Yet she forbade
Laura communicating the true condition of things
to the Admiral.

I write to him every week,' she said, ' as truly
but as cheerfully as I can, and it is evidently his
intention that I should endure until it is unendurable.'


Laura understood the spirit that upheld Winnie
in her courageous obedience. Moreover, though
Dick wrote kindly and sympathetically, it was
evidently out of his power for the present to give
the family any substantial aid.

If I could but have her with me !' was Laura's
cry ; and then Reginald would whisper mysterious
consolation.

Don't make yourself miserable, Laura. Let
me go and see the Admiral ; I will go as soon as
ever I settle my mother at Pierslynn, and then 
we shall see.'

One of the pleasantness episodes of this pleasant
time was a visit from Mrs. Trent.

Laura and Mrs. Crewe were upstairs preparing
for an expedition to some elysium of cheapness in
Tottenham Court Road, where Mrs. Crewe proposed
to make various purchases of beauty and utility for
her house, which was to her a shrine on which she
lavished time, toil, and money.

Please come down, ma'am ; there is a lady in the
drawing-rooms said Collins, as Mrs. Crewe opened
her door to the knock.

Dear, dear ! I should not wonder if it were Mrs.
Piers. Laura ! I believe Mrs. Piers is in the
drawing-room, but that stupid girl forgot to bring
up her card.'

Mrs. Piers !' repeated Laura, turning a little cold
and pale with an unaccountable degree of apprehension,
' I do not fancy it is Mrs. Piers.'

On entering the carefully darkened drawing-room,
a tall handsome woman, richly and tastefully
dressed, came forward smiling and civil.

Miss Piers, I presume ! I must present myself
I am a sort of far-away cousin. Perhaps Mr. Piers
of Pierslynn may have mentioned me to you 
Mrs. Trent, nee Piers.'

Oh yes said Laura shyly, ' I am very happy to
see you sand then the usual introduction to 'Mrs.
Crewe followed.

Mrs. Trent was abundantly civil  quite sunny 
ready to agree with anything and everything : she
had been away, she said, to Southey with the
youngest little girl, who had lately recovered from
whooping-cough and required change, or she would
have sooner done herself the pleasure of calling on
Miss Piers and Mrs. Crewe. Had they seen the
Admiral lately ? What a charming ideal kind of
man he was, a sort of knightly Christian ! Miss
Piers was fortunate to have such a guardian. Mr.
Trent  though, like most men of business, exceedingly

unimpressionable  was quite impressed by
Admiral Desbarres. Had Miss Piers been lone in
Germany ? ' Three years ! How nice ! / have
only paid flying visits to the'principal towns during
our legal holidays, and always longed to make myself
better acquainted with the country. I am told
you are an artist, Miss Piers. May I see some of
your pictures ? I am a humble lover of art myself
'

Indeed, I have nothing worth looking at !' said
Laura.

Nonsense, my dear,' put in ]airs. Crewe loftily.
Pray show Mrs. Trent the studio , as she is so good
as to take an interest in your work. I assure you
my young friend has decided talent, not to say
genius. Do take Mrs. Trent downstairs, Laura.
Mine is but a tiny mansion,' continued Mrs. Crewe
elegantly, 'but we can contrive a home for art
within its limits, humble as they are.'

But I am sure it is charmingly pretty and sweet,'
returned Mrs. Trent amiably, while she listened to
Laura's aside :

The place is all in disorder, and Reggie has
been smoking there this morning.'

Never mind, dear, a studio never is orderly ; and
I am sure I don't know the morning that Mr. Piers
has not been smoking there,' with a significant look
at Mrs. Trent which fortunately escaped Laura.

If you really care to see any of my attempts,'
said Laura, ' I will bring one or two for you to look
at,' and she left the room.

You see a good deal of Mr. Piers, I suppose ?'
observed Mrs. Trent.

A great deal,' returned Mrs. Crewe ; * and a
very charming young man he is, so unaffected and
unspoiled with all this wonderful change of fortune.'

Quite so acquiesced Mrs. Trent. * We were
always fond of Reginald, and saw a good deal of
him formerly. I believe the Pierslynn property is
a very fine one, and besides there was a large sum
of ready money, investments, and I know not what.
Do you know Mrs. Piers and Lady Jervois?'

Slightly ; we have exchanged visits,' said Mrs.
Crewe, with supreme elegant nonchalance. 'But
Mr. Piers is naturally a good deal here, his old
friendship with '

It is impossible to say of what imprudence Mrs.
Crewe might not have been guilty, when Laura's
return interrupted her speech and Mrs. Trent's
somewhat eager attention.

This is rather a large picture, but as it was a
favourite of my uncle's, I copied it in the same
size as the original. It is in the Dresden Gallery,
and is by a pupil of Rembrandt.'

It is evidently an excellent copy,' said Mrs.
Trent, stepping backwards till she got it into a
proper light. ' Your flesh-tint is very good, and
that white turban must have been difficult ; really,
Miss Piers, you have a great deal of talent ; and
these smaller pictures ?'

These I painted from nature ; that is a little
study of rocks and trees near Konigstein ; and this

is a bit of the Elbe in Saxon Switzerland, a
sunset

'Very charmln<, very sweet,' remarked Mrs.
Trent, evidently a little surprised. ' I am no judge,
yet they seem to me very good. I hope you will
not be displeased if I ask you to let me carry these
pictures away with me : Mr. Trent understood from
Admiral Desbarres that you would not object to
sell some of your paintings.'

Object!' exclaimed Laura, flushing with pleasure
at this opening, ' I should only be too glad to sell
any of them, or to get an order  as artists say 
but I fear the head is too large for your carriage to
hold conveniently''

Oh, I shall manage it,' said Mrs. Trent complacently.
' I am not able, you understand, to be myself
a patron of art, but I have a friend who is a
great picture-fancier, and he might possibly fancy
one of these ; I should like this Elbe picture myself
 pray, what do you expect for it ?'

Oh ! I have no idea what to ask,' cried Laura,
smiling ; ' I should be quite satisfied with whatever
you would like to give ;' on which Mrs. Crewe,
behind the visitor's back, frowned with a warning
shake of the head.

Indeed,' she said, stepping forward, * I often tell
my dear young friend that genius like hers, if known,
would command a high price, and I want her very
much to try what a real judge of painting would
offer for her charming pictures. We have a very
artistic neighbour, who is of opinion that j\Iiss

Piers ought to exhibit in oh, I forget the

name of the gallery, and then she would ascertain
her true value  it is not well to under-rate oneself.'


Exactly so,' said Mrs. Trent blandly, ' and that
is just what those horrid picture-dealers who
frequent the galleries would do ; they would
persuade Miss Piers that her work was mere
daubing. We must do better. You are content,
then, to leave the affair in my hands ? Trust me,
I shall do the best I can for you.'

I am most grateful to you for this help,' said
Laura warmly.

Ahem ! Miss Piers is quite enthusiastic in her
artistic ardour,' said Mrs. Crewe, a little disdainfully
; she was always averse to Laura's project of
selling her pictures. ' But don't you think, my
dear,' turning to her, ' it would be as well to consult
your cousin before you part with them ? He takes
such a deep interest in all that concerns you, I
think it would be only right '

Oh ! I do not see any necessity interrupted
Laura, a little surprised ; * Reginald will be very
pleased to know that I have a chance of selling anything
'

Very well, Miss Piers, I hope I may bring you
good fortune. And tell me what you are going todo
this summer : I suppose you would like to see
something of English scenery, after your long
residence on the Continent ?'

I do not suppose I shall see anything of English

scenery beyond Kensington Gardens or Hampstead,'
said Laura, smiling.

Ah ! you think of staying in town all the
summer ? Well, it may do for once, as you have
been so much away ; but in general one requires a
little toning up for the winter after the season, and
the unavoidable excitements etc., etc., and the
conversation rippled languidly along conventional
channels for a few minutes ; then Mrs. Trent rose
and Collins was summoned to assist the refined
footman to carry the pictures to the handsome
double brougham in waiting, while Mrs. Trent took
a gracious farewell of her young relative and Mrs.
Crewe.

I hope to see more of you,' she said, smiling ;
and as soon as I can fix a day I trust Mrs. Crewe
and yourself will come and dine with us sans cerc-
ino7iie!

Thank you, said Laura simply.
It will give me great pleasure,' said Mrs. Crewe
formally ; and with a final ' Good-morning ' Mrs.
Trent departed.

How very nice and kind she is !' cried Laura
impulsively, as Mrs. Crewe hastily moved to her
usual post of observation behind the muslin
curtains.

Ye  es  a very neat turn-out indeed,' said Mrs.
Crewe ; ' a pair of dark chestnuts, coachman and
footman  well, well, it has taken a great many
six-and-eightpences to pay for all that, and I must
say she is a stylish well-mannered woman. Did
VOL. I. . 13

you observe, Laura, she had a " Marie Stuart "
bonnet and a fringe ! and real Spanish lace on her
mantle ; but  I don't know how it is  I feel a sort
of distrust ! It is really almost a misfortune to have
the keen insight / have ! I do not like her carrying
off your pictures in that way ; depend upon it,
she will not get half their value for you ; there is
something under it all I cannot understand. Eh,
Laura, does it strike you ?'

No, not at all, Mrs. Crewe ; I see nothing
whatever but simple good-nature, suggested, no
doubt, by the Admiral. Why should we suspect
evil ?'

Ah ! my dear, when you have seen as much of
life as I have, you will be as distrustful of appearances
! If there is one thing on which I specially

pique myself, it is insight into character ; and '

A pause. ' Should Mrs. Trent invite us to dinner
(which is far from certain), what shall I wear ? and
what have you in the way of toilette ?' etc., etc., etc.

In the lazy after-dinner time of the same day,
when the children had had their share of dessert,
and, having fulfilled their unconscious task of
amusing ' Papa,' had gone to bed, Mr. and Mrs.
Trent were left alone, as their eldest daughter was
staying with some friends in the Isle of Wight.
Monsieur ' was half asleep in his chair, the evening
paper he had been endeavouring to decipher
slipping from his hand, and ' Madame in her cool,
careful demi-toilette of grey silk and white lace,

had put down the morsel of fancy work with which
she had been playing.

The room was deliciously dusk and fresh, the
odour of cut grass and flowers stealing in from the
gardens on which the windows opened, the small
Sutherland tea-table, with its burden of delicate
china and graceful silver, still standing where it
had been placed an hour ago against a background
of leaves and blossoms, which filled up and hid the
fireplace, the whole apartment expressive of the
well-ordered luxury which distinguishes a wealthy
English middle-class home, where every means
and appliance that can make the chariot-wheels of
life turn noiselessly and roll smoothly is used unsparingly,
yet without relaxing that constant self-restraint,
that steady regard for appearances, which,
let Bohemians sneer as they will, give Philistines
the whip-hand of society.

I called on that Miss Piers to-day,' said Mrs.
Trent, after a silence of some minutes. No answer.
Are you asleep, John ?'

No  not at all ; what is it ? what do you
say V

I called on the Admiral's ward to-day,' resumed
his wife.

Well, you ought to have gone long ago ! why, it
is more than ten days since he left town,' said Mr.
Trent rather gruffly.

'And only three since I returned to it,' replied
Mrs. Trent, with unruffled composure. * Do you
know, John, I really believe Reginald is smitten

132

with that very plain friend of his youth  Laura
Piers. It is evident he goes to see her every day.'

Hum ! what is she Hke ?'

She is a bundle of negatives  neither tall nor
short, nor dark nor fair, nor absolutely ugly nor
decidedly ungraceful : just the sort of girl men
would pass over without seeing ; and yet Reginald
goes every morning and smokes in some den of a
painting-room she has underground somewhere.'

Oh ! He will take care of himself  he is ambitious,
I can tell you ! He is not at all the kind
of fellow to make a foolish marriage.'

*I don't know  I think beauty goes a long
way with him ; but this Miss Piers is decidedly
plain.'

I thought she was not " decidedly " anything.'


Don't be contradictory, John !  I admit there
is something pleasing and ladylike in her manners,
and her voice is peculiarly sweet  otherwise she is
supremely commonplace; but what impresses me
with the idea that Reginald is more closely /// with
his cousin than we think, is that he came here
yesterday quite late in the afternoon, and begged
me to go see the young artist and her works ;
moreover, he requested me to expend twenty
pounds for him in the purchase of some of her
pictures, as he knew she wanted money, and did
not know how to help her. He is of course to be
kept out of sight'

A very pretty bit of romances said Mr. Trent,

with a quick, mocking smile. ' Could he not hand
twenty pounds to the Admiral for her use ?'

Perhaps the Admiral would not take it ; at any
rate, I performed the commission, and brought
away three pictures. She paints very well ; I
should rather like to take one myself  I think it
would look well.'

What would you do with it ?'

'I do not know  I am going to ask Katie's
drawing-master to look at them '

Oh, as to value, that's " nil," I fancy  but buy
one if you like, only do not be too romantically
generous as to price ; I think you give your imagination
too much play about young Piers  he is a
very cool hand. Why did you not keep him to
dinner yesterday ?'

He was engaged to a county neighbour, Lord
Midhurst, who seems very civil to him ; I fancy
there is some political basis to their friendship.
The present member for North Saltshire is very old
and in bad health.'

There was a long pause. Had Mr. Trent been
a smoker, a few meditative puffs might have filled
up the interval appropriately, but he was superior
to such commonplace indulgence, so he sat quite
still until the fall of the newspaper roused him.

'When does Katie come back?' he asked
suddenly.

Mrs. Trent, who had been watching him, smiled
slightly, and replied :

On Wednesday or Thursday next, and then I

was going to propose asking Miss Laura Piers and
Reginald to dinner.'

I don't see the necessity  but I dare say you
have some object in it I don't understand !'

Really, John ! you credit me with more depth
than I possess. My object is simply to show
civility to the Admiral's protege and Reginald's
cousin,' returned Mrs. Trent, with a good-humoured
laugh ; 'your legal habits incline you to fish for
whales in any milk-jug that comes in your way !'

Well, do as you like said her husband.

Mrs. Trent rose and rang the bell for the servant
to remove the tea-things ; then, resuming her seat,
she asked :

Does Reginald never go to the office now ?'

Never,' returned Mr. Trent sharply. * He intends
leaving his affairs in the hands of Fanshawe
and Green, the late man's advisers.'

'Well  I think it is rather ungrateful of him,
considering your kindness in taking him into the
office on the terms you did.'

Nonsense !' said Mr. Trent tartly ; * it is nothing
of the kind. It is quite natural he should employ
the men who have always managed the property ;
and we  we can do without his business.'

Oh, no doubt !' returned Mrs. Trent soothingly,
while she thought to herself, ' He does not like it,
though.'

Reginald is wonderfully quiet and unassuming,'
she resumed aloud, ' considering it is really a case
of a beggar set on horseback.'

Wait ' said Mr. Trent cynically ; ' he has not

been in the saddle quite three months ; I believe
there is not a prouder, more ambitious young
fellow in England than Reggie Piers ! You'll see
he will slowly turn his back on everyone, but he is
far too knowing to do it suddenly.'

Come, come ! you are a little unjust ; I have a
great regard for Reginald ! Would you like the
lamp, or candles t I am going to see the children in
bed.'

Well, ring, and I will tell Thomas to bring the
lamp.'

The possibility of selling her pictures, of earning
enough for herself, suggested by Mrs. Trent's visit,
was the crowning item of joy in the ingredients of
this summer-time of happiness which had suddenly
shone out from among the quiet, grey clouds which
formed the ordinary background of Laura's neutral-tinted
existence. Of course the Admiral and
Winnie were duly informed of the great fact. The
former wrote a grave but not too cordial approval.
He earnestly warned his dear ward not to expect
too high a remuneration. He himself sincerely
admired her work, but large allowance must be
made for the partiality he felt for his ward, who
had always been a source of satisfaction to him.
She must therefore not be too much disappointed
if her well-meant efforts proved fruitless. He himself
cared little or nothing as regarded the question
of her independence. He was, or would be, better

off than hitherto, and looked on her as a sacred
charge, whose well-being should ever be his first
consideration. * I had a letter from Winnie yesterday
he continued ; ' she is evidently progressing in
the estimation of her relatives, and able to be of
use, I am glad to perceive, pending Mrs. Morgan's
search for a governess ; yet, though she does not
complain, I see she is not content ; nevertheless, it
will be a satisfaction hereafter to her to think that
she has availed herself of her aunt's invitation in
the same spirit in which we have a right to suppose
it was offered.

My dear sister is, I am happy to say, better and
more cheerful. I do not despair of her making
your acquaintance at some future period.'

'Well! he really is a <3r//7.' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe, after she had perused this letter which Laura
handed to her. ' I wonder if he has come into
money ? Do you think he has ? If so, it will bethe
better for you, my dear ! Do you know anything
about it ?'

Indeed I do not, Mrs. Crewe. Why do you
think so ?'

Why, he says here  where is it ?' turning back
the page  ' oh, here  " I am, or will be, better off
than hitherto." Now, that must mean money. I
protest, Laura, you are a lucky girl.'

Yes ! I think I am,' she returned, smiling a
smile that came from a grateful, sunny spirit.
Whether anyone leaves me money or not, the best
of all would be to sell my pictures.'

f

Pooh, nonsense ! Voit will never need to sell
them, or anything else. Eh, Mr. Piers ?'

For while she spoke the door had opened to
admit Reginald.

What is the question ?' he asked, as he shook
hands with both ladies.

I tell our dear Laura that there will be no
necessity for her to sell her pictures.'

The fact of their being saleable is a sort of hall-mark,
however returned Reginald ; ' what has
brought the matter on the tapis ?'

Because,' exclaimed Laura eagerly, ' your
charming friend Mrs. Trent was here the day
before yesterday, and took away three of my
pictures, hoping to dispose of them ; was it not
kind of her ?'

To take away your pictures  I am not sure. I
hope she will get a good price for them. You must
let 7/2 have your present work, " A Glade near Haddington
;" will you not, Laura ?'

If you will give it room in your grand house, you
are heartily welcome to it.'

Ah ! I don't mean that. But come along to the
studio ; I want to see what you have been doing
during those long days I have been away. Do you
know, I have been cultivating my Saltshire neighbours
who happen to be in town, which I hope
accounts '

I, for one, feel sure that you did not absent
yourself without cause, or willingly,' said Mrs.
Crewe airily, as she picked up Topsy and cradled



her in her arms. ' Get away to the studio, then,
you artistic people ; I am going to look in the
Shipping News " for my son's movements.'

Collins has not opened the window this morning,'
said Laura, going to it with an odd unusual sensation
of embarrassment, for there was something
grave and unlike himself in the way that Reginald
watched her movements. 'I am afraid you find the
smell of paint very strong.'

And what did Mrs. Trent carry away T asked
Reginald, looking round. * Oh ! the Dresden head,
and those two Saxon landscapes. How have you
been getting on with the water ?  very good  it
seems to my untrained eye very like water indeed ;
you have done a good deal.'

I worked a long while yesterday,' said Laura,
arranging her materials and taking up her palette.
I have had a long letter from Winnie, and I am
afraid she is getting quite worn out with those
dreadful cousins of hers ; they plaj all manner of
pranks, and are so common and vulgar. I don't
imagine Mrs. Morgan is at all nice. I think
seriously of trying to find music lessons for her
here. I intend writing to the Admiral about it,
and '

Wait,' interrupted Reginald with some eagerness
; * promise me to do nothing till I return.'

Return  where are you going, Reggie ?'

To Pierslynn, with my mother and sister  only
for a few days. When I see them settled, I will come
back. You will miss me a little  eh, Laura ?'

looking steadily at her, for she had grown rather

pale.

Oh ! I shall miss you very much ; but of course
I must get accustomed to that. I cannot suppose
I shall always see as much of you as I do now.'

'Why not, Laura?' then, after a short pause, ' I
have made a sort of plan of life-I will tell you all
about it when I come back-will you help me to
carry it out ?'

Yes, if I can ; but how can I do anything for

soil ?'

I will tell you by-and-by, and then we can see
what can be done for Winnie.'

A pause, during which Reginald looked at the
picture as if absorbed in thought ; then, rousing
himself with an effort, he began to talk of Herbert
and the Admiral and Mrs. Crewe, but his manner
was not easy and unembarrassed as usual. At last
he exclaimed :

I must go, Laura ; I only came to tell you that
I shall not see you for a week ; and here if you
and Mrs. Crewe would care to hear " Rigoletto "
tomorrow night I have got a box for you on the
second tiers

Thanks, dear Reggie ; you are really very good.
We shall be quite delighted. When do you go to
Pierslynn?'

To-morrow. My mother is very sorry she could
not see you before she left town, but she has been
busy about her new house. When she is settled I
hope you will see a great deal of her.'

To which Laura replied : ' I hope so.'

Then there was another pause, which Reginald
broke abruptly by saying :

Good-bye, then, Laura  or rather au revoir 
for I shall not be many days away ; and you are to
pray for me night and morning, remember,' he said,
with a pleasant laugh. ' And here is a new photograph
I have had taken of my noble self; you see, I
do not trust to your unassisted memory.'

But I think you may, Reginald. I have not so
many friends that I should forget one so kind and
true as yourself

Reginald's answer was to catch her hand and kiss
it twice very warmly. ' Say good-bye for me to
Mrs. Crewe,' he said, and turning away rapidly, he
left the room.

Laura looked after him puzzled, agitated, almost
terrified at the possibilities suggested by his mode
of taking leave. What interpretation could she put
on his evident reluctance to part from her even
for a few days, save that he loved her with love
passing that of a brother ? The idea made her
tremble, she dared not use her brush, the tears came
to her eyes with a sob, and laying aside her palette,
she began mechanically to arrange and dust the
rather miscellaneous furniture of her little room as
the sound of a foot on the stairs warned her of Mrs.
Crewe's approach.

Well !' cried that lady, bursting in, evidently
much disturbed, Topsy sitting upon one arm, with
head erect and disapprobation glittering in each

wide-opened eye. ' Well ! so he is gone ! is he ?
I do hope and trust you have not done anything
foolish !*

Reginald desired me to say good-bye to you,
Mrs. Crewe. He had very little time to-day, for he
goes out of town with his mother and Lady Jervois
tomorrow.'

Out of town with those women !' cried Mrs.
Crewe. ' How unfortunate ! how ill-advised !'

She sat down hastily, and let Topsy jump to the
ground unnoticed.

Why did you let him go ?'

How could I possibly prevent it ? He is not
gone for ever, Mrs. Crewe,' returned Laura, restored
to herself, and smiling at her friend's discomfiture ;
he is coming back at the end of the week.'

Ah ! he thinks so, and you think so, but don't
expect it ! I know what men are  the last woman
that talks to them has the greatest influence !
Mark my words, that mother of his will not let
him come back. She knows what his intentions
are towards you, Laura, and now they have got
him down there, we will not see him back in a
hurry ! Oh, Laura ! why did you not send for me
before you let him go, you foolish, foolish girl !'

;S Mr. Thurston in his room ?' asked Mr.
Trent one morning some days after
this blow had fallen on Mrs. Crewe, ashe
finished dictating a letter to a clerk,
who took down his words in shorthand.
He is, sir.'
And alone ?'

Yes, sir.'

I want to speak to him.'

And Mr. Trent rose and walked across the
landing to his partner's room, which was the best
and most luxuriously furnished in the establishment.
Mr. Thurston was enthroned in state in a
mighty chair of oak and leather, surrounded by
papers, law-books, and all the insignia of hardwork,
but his absolute employment was reading
the Times.

I have had a letter from Admiral Desbarres this
morning : he wants a codicil added to his will,
bequeathing two thousand five hundred pounds

(which he has persisted in putting into this canal
concern) to his ward, with another thousand should
she survive his sister. Here is his letter. I wish
you would see to it, Thurston, for I have arranged
to run down to the Isle of Wight for a sniff of the
briny this evening, and to escort my daughter
home on Wednesday.'

'Very well replied Mr. Thurston, taking the
letter and reading it.

You see, he wants it to be got ready at once,
as he does not know what day he can come up to
town, and he wishes it to be ready for his signature.'


I will attend to it. It is a simple affair,' said
Mr. Thurston. ' How thorough the Admiral is in
all things ! This young lady is very fortunate to
have such a guardian.'

'Very. I hope there will be some of the two
thousand forthcoming when the will is proved ! I
don't believe Admiral Desbarres will ever get back
a sixpence of it.'

I am not so sure,' returned Mr. Thurston,
looking at the Times again. ' I see the shares
are going up ; there was a rise of a sixteenth to an
eighth yesterday.'

The Admirals purchase has given them a fillip,'
said Mr. Trent grimly.

Well, well ! we must hope for the best,' replied
the elder partner, who represented the heavy metal
rather than the motive-power of the firm, and was
indolently good-natured. ' Get him to sell out

as soon as you can ; you have a good deal of
influence '

Not I !' interrupted the other, ' nor anyone else.
Admiral Desbarres' lines of action are determined
on principles which actuate few, and moulded on
types to be found in dreams and moral essays !
his gold is too pure for general circulation  and
so well-nigh useless.'

Perhaps so.'

Mr. Rogers wishes to speak to you, sir,' said a
clerk, coming in with a card.

Oh, show him up ! I will attend to this at
once, Trent, though I see Admiral Desbarres does
not think of being in town before next week.'

Mr. Trent returned to his room and his writing,
while many thoughts passed through his brain.
Though it was no breach of professional etiquette
that Reginald Piers should have left the business
of his estate in the hands of the firm who had
always managed it, yet he was displeased. He
had the instinctive longing to gather up and holdfast
documents, deeds, and papers inherent in the
legal mind. The desire of having the basis on
which suits, and leases, and covenants, and undertakings
might be built up within his grasp, safely
stowed away in tin boxes, calculated to defy moth
and rust and thieves, was but natural to a man
whose training had been exclusively legal. There
was something beyond this, however. Reginald
Piers, his wife's struggling young relative  his
own protege and favourite  had escaped away out

of his hands. He could not accuse him of neglect
or ungraciousness, or any uppish airs, or failure on
any point of good-breeding, but, with all his frank
friendliness of manner, Reginald was all at once
Piers of Pierslynn, about whose affairs he did not
presume to ask a question, or offer a word of
advice.

While Mr. Trent finished his day's work, and
hastened home to be carefully packed up and fed,
comforted with cool drinks and sent on his way
with every possible provision for his needs, while
his wife, having kissed her hand to him at the hall-door,
stepped into her neat brougham and drove
away to pick up a congenial friend on her way to
the opera, Laura Piers sat at work in Mrs. Crewe's
dining-room by the open window, feeling unreasonably
depressed and sad. Mrs. Crewe, with
Topsy on her lap, was nodding over yesterday's
Times, and Herbert was composing with pain and
grief an epistle to the Admiral at a rather unsteady
writing-table beside the fireplace, his fingers dyed
an inch high in ink, one cheek almost touching his
left hand, as if his nose was ambitious of assisting
to guide the pen.

I have put that, Laura,' he said, after an interval
of silence and scratching over the paper, and he
read aloud : ' " I am getting on pretty well with Mr.
Walker, and hope he is satisfied with me." I am
nearly down to the bottom of the second page,' he
added. ' Don't you think I might end up now ?'

No, Herbert try and think of something else.'

VOL. I. 14

'But how is a fellow to fill a letter every
week ! and not a thing to write about, no cricket or
rowing  no nothing ! Why, it is beyond reason

Well, really, Herbert, you ought to put something
of your own in ! However, I will tell you this
time. Say  oh ! say that you will be glad when the
holidays are over, as you shall like school-work'
again.'

Ay  by Jove, so I shall ! I never had such
stupid, horrid holidays ! I declare I am quite glad
to go to old Walker of a morning for something todo.
There, I can't say more.'

It is dull for you, poor boy ! but it cannot be
helped,' said Laura, with a sigh. ' Next year things
may be better.'

To this there was no reply, as Herbert was
now scratching on to the ' finish.' ' That's done 1'
he said at last. ' I've put my name and all, for it is
quite a long letter ! Just look over it, like a good
girl, will you ;' and he began to put away his writing
materials. * I say,' he resumed, after a pause, ' I
would much rather go to sea than stew over Latin
and Greek ! I ain't one bit the sort of fellow for the
Church ! I tell you what, when Mrs. Crewe's son
comes home, I'll talk to him about it. / have no
objection to the mercantile marine.'

What is that about ?' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe,

rousing up at the sound of the detested appellation.

Who did you say was in the mercantile marine?'

No one. But I should like well enough to be

in it,' returned Herbert.

Don't think of such a thing, my dear boy.
Would you mind opening the door? that precious
puss wants to go out  she did ask prettily, she did.
No, no ; how much nicer it would be to go into the
Church, as the dear Admiral wishes ; so much more
dignified and gentleman-like ; perhaps getting to
be a bishop with those elegant lawn sleeves and a
seat in the House of Lords  think of that ! instead
of knocking about on a horrid dirty ship with all
sorts of second-rate people; obliged to dip your
hands in a tar-bucket to fit yourself for the service
so a very nice young man Denzil brought up here
one day told me  though Denzil had suppressed
the fact in consideration for my feelings.'

Oh, I should like sailing about and seeing all
sorts of places well enough, and I would not mind
the tar-buckets said Herbert. ' You must ask your
son to take me with him when he goes to sea
again,' and he left the room with a good-humoured
nod.

I am sure the Admiral would be 'greatly displeased
if such an idea took hold of Herbert said
Mrs. Crewe, looking after him. 'You must do your
best to put it out of his head, Laura.'

The best plan is to do nothing,' replied Laura
languidly. ' He merely talks, he has no strong
likings  as to a profession, I mean. Do you
not think it is very oppressive this evening,
Mrs. Crewe, as if we were going to have a thunderstorm
?'

She dropped her work as she spoke, with an

142

unconscious desponding gesture, and leaning back
in her chair, passed her hand over her brow.

No ! I do not find it oppressive, Laura Piers ;
but I do see that you are depressed, and I am not
surprised at it, Mrs. Crewe was beginning, when a
low melancholy mew proclaimed that Topsy was
waiting for admission outside. ' Oh ! you dear,
dear thing!' cried Mrs. Crewe, rising quickly, though
a little stiffly, from her chair. ' How soon you have
come back !' and she hastened to open the door,
whereupon entered Topsy with much dignity, her
tail erect and her eyes fixed on an especial chair
where she loved to sit. ' Do you know, Laura,'
continued Mrs. Crewe, still pausing at the door,
suspicion and displeasure strongly expressed in her
face ' I should not be one bit surprised if that good-for-nothing
girl has slipped out and taken the key I
I know that precious puss can't bear being alone,
and not finding anyone below she has come back tous.
Collins !' advancing towards the kitchen stair,
Collins !'  no answer. * Collins !' in tragic and
awful tones  still no answer.

Well !' sailing back to the dining-room, ' I call
that disgraced ! and I had put a sponge-cake in the
oven and told her on no account to leave it. There
is no depending on one of them ! I must see to it
myself;' and with a swift but not ungraceful step she
disappeared. Almost immediately there was a sharp
ring at the front-door bell. It was the postman,
who delivered to Laura a perfumed cream-coloured
note, with a dainty blue monogram, directed to

herself in small beautifully formed firm characters.


Laura opened it eagerly, glanced at the contents,
uttered a little scream of delight, and flew downstairs,
where Mrs. Crewe, with mingled wrath and
dignity, was removing a delicately-browned cake
from the oven.

Dear, dearest Mrs. Crewe  what do you
think '

Has he written to say he is coming, then ?'
interrupted Mrs. Crewe eagerly, while she continued
to lift her cake on to the table.

No, no  not at all ! Listen to this :

*''My dear Miss Piers,

" My friend  the connoisseur of whom I
spoke to you  has, I am happy to say, taken two
-of your pictures, the copy of a head from the
Dresden Gallery, and the ' On the Elbe,' for which
he has given twenty pounds. And if you will
allow me to keep the view near some fortress  I
forget the name  I beg your acceptance of four
guineas for it. I therefore enclose a cheque for
twenty-four pounds four shillings  and congratulate
you sincerely on your success. I think it not
improbable my friend may like to have some other
productions of your brush. I am not at all aware
what price your work would be likely to command
among regular dealers, and Mr. Trent thinks it
would be well if you could ascertain this, with a
view to fixing your own prices. Perhaps my

daughter's drawing-master might be able to assist
you ; I should be happy to give you an "introduction
to him if you wish it : he does not live far
from you. Of course, the present little transaction
is exceptional.

" With compliments to Mrs. Crewe,

" I am, dear Miss Piers,

" Very truly yours,
'skate Trent."

And there  there is the cheque for twenty-four
pounds four shillings !' cried Laura excitedly,
holding up a long slip of pale lavender paper
bearing the magic numerals. ' I can scarcely
believe it ! Isn't she kind  is it not marvellous ?'

And she sat down on the nearest kitchen chair,
her heart beating with pleasure at this gleam of hope.

Twenty-four pounds four,' repeated Mrs. Crewe
in doubtful tones, stepping back the better to contemplate
her cake. ' Well, it is a nice little sum,
but nothing very generous. I suppose this connoisseur
she talks about is rich  and my opinion is
that he has got a bargain ! Let me look at the
note, my dear : I am not so overjoyed as you are.
I did think it was from Mr. Piers, by the fuss you
made !'

Well, Mrs. Crewe, so I ought ! I mean, I ought
to make more fuss about it than about one from
Reginald  fond as I am of him. This ' (handing
it to her friend) *may be the beginning of independence.'


I declare, Laura  for a sweet girl, which you
are, you can be rather provoking ; but I will say
no more now. Look here, my love  I call the end
of this note nasty  decidedly nasty ! Does she
mean that you have got too much for your beautiful
pictures  or what does she mean by calling it
an exceptional transaction ? I am sure when I went
to see the Royal Academy with Miss Brown, I saw
nothing better than your pictures  nothing  I give
you my word.'

Then I am very sorry for English art,' returned
Laura, laughing good-humouredly. *I am sure
Miss Brown would not agree with you.'

Oh ! I am quite aware I am ignorant on many
subjects, art included.'

You are too good to those you like,' said Laura
apologetically. 'But what shall I do with this
money ? I want to make some very good use of
it.'

Buy yourself a new dress and hat, and put what
is left away in the Post-office savings-bank. You
may want it, or you may not nodding her head
sagely. ' We shall see what we shall see !'

Laura made no answer. She had for some time
resolutely refused to notice, or reply to, any of Mrs.
Crewe's insinuations or suggestions, hoping they
might cease for want of opposition. She was
provoked, nevertheless, to find that, however
successfully she preserved an unmoved appearance,
she was inwardly vexed and disturbed by these
gadflies of words. She sat silently gazing at the

slip of paper which she held, and which she felt
ought to be a talisman to her and strengthen her
in the daily conflict.

I must write to the Admiral and Winnie,' she
exclaimed, at last rousing from her thoughts.
Perhaps we may both be with you, dear Mrs.
Crewe. Suppose I could sell six or seven pictures
in a year at ten pounds apiece, with my own little
money and some drawing lessons I could do quite
well ; and they might lead to pupils for Winnie 
you do not know how clever she is in music and
languages.'

I do not doubt it, my dear : but teaching and
all that sort of thing is miserable work. Winnie
Fieldenen is so handsome, that if she could just be
dressed up and set out in society, she would marry
well ; mark my words.'

I dare say she would, for she is a dear ! and so
bright and pleasant ! But though it must be very
delightful to have a nice, kind husband, don't you
think it is better and more honest to try and get
one's own living than to buy fine clothes on the
chance of winning a good marriage ? It is like
gambling on the Stock Exchange 1'

Yes, yes, I know. That is all very fine, no doubt,
just like the sentences they put in copy-books ; but
no one cares to act upon them. It is how can you
get on best and fastest, people think about ; but as
for women, they have so few ways of getting on.'

But, Mrs. Crewe, you have always been honest
and self-sustaining, and you have got on.'

After a fashion. Ah ! dear Laura, I wish
every girl a better lot than I had. There ! there
is no use talking.'

No, indeed,' echoed Laura ; ' so I will go away
and write my letters. Oh, how thankful I am to
have such news to tell !'

Laura's letter to the Admiral was tempered by
the same sort of instinct which makes impressionable
people speak low when they inspect a church,
and which generally affected those who held intercourse
with the rare old man ; but to Winnie she
wrote with all the exuberance of a joyous heart,
gratified beyond the money's value by the recognition
of her own capability which a price paid stamps
upon artistic work.

I know she is wretched,' thought Laura, as her
pen raced rapidly over the paper. * The very lifting
of the mist for a moment will do her good  to think
there is a chance of our helping ourselves may
give her courage ; for though she says so little, I
know what a horrible life she must be leading,
especially since that nephew came ;' and laying
down the pen, she opened Winnie's last epistle,
turning to a part she had already read more than
once. After describing her difficulties with her
small cousins and pupils, Winnie continued : 'Don't
think I am selfish in pouring out my grievances 
it helps me to bear them when I can relieve my
mind, and I am by no means so doleful as I seem
by this letter ; but I have a fresh worry. As if
Fanny and Jack were not bad enough, a nephew

of Mr. Morgan's has lately come here from some
place beyond the seas. He is a stout, \ 'back-eyed,
dreadful young man ; rich I believe, lor his fat,
stumpy fingers are adorned with rings, and, besides,
he is treated with much consideration. Well, this
unpleasant personage seems to have taken a fancy
to me. He is always running against us out
walking, and stares at me until I am inclined to
throw " the thing that lieth nearest " in his face.
Moreover, he manages to show his preference in a
queer stealthy way, as if it were not degradation
enough that such a creature dared to look at me ashe
does !

I rather imagine they all (himself included) want
my eldest cousin to marry him. Mrs. Morgan has
been so disagreeable since, and I am sorry for it, for
she is much the best of them, and inclined to be
kind to me  but for all that, I will put down Mr.
Price ! Oh that I could talk to you once more,
dearest and best ! No poverty can compare with
the mental starvation I suffer here V

This is not to be endured,' thought Laura, as she
put the letter again into its envelope. * The Admiral
ought to know, but how can I tell him? I will
consult Reginald when he comes, tf he comes, for
Mrs. Crewe may be right,'  and she sighed. He
had been so much with her lately, that it seemed
almost impossible to endure life without him. But
this would not do ; she had to think of work, of
real practical existence ; she must write a politely
grateful little note to Mrs. Trent, she must try and

finish that picture of a glade in Cheddington
Woods, she must throw herself into art more than
she had hitherto done. In occupation, in real work,
she would find strength and consolation. And
Time, the mighty healer, would bring about new
combinations and display fresh aspects, till only the
tender grace of the present would be remembered,
and its pain and suffering be overshadowed by the
raven down ' of merciful oblivion.

So Laura closed up her letters and took them
herself to a neighbouring post-pillar. On her return
she found Mrs. Crewe, with Topsy in her arms,
holding forth to the delinquent Collins in the hall.

Don't tell me you were dressing, Collins ! don't
do it ! I know better. I would have called you up
at once when you came in (for you vere out), only
Miss Brown was with me ; but now I tell you it will
not do ! Well, suppose you were dressing, what
business had you to leave my cake to burn ? Do
you know what judgment awaits the untruthful ?
Oh, you may cry, Collins, but it is most disgraceful
! and if you cannot behave better, you
must leave my house this day month. There, now
it is time for prayers ! Go  fetch me the large Bible
and my glasses; they are on the drawers in my
room. Go, go, go, my girl ! do not dawdle ! Oh !
Laura, my dear, I am quite exhausted trying to
impress Collins with the iniquity of her conduct ;
would you mind reading prayers to-night ? Read
that chapter in the Acts about Ananias and Sapphira.
Dear, dear ! I am so tired  Collins, do you
intend coming down to-night or not ?'

HE morning after the receipt of Mrs.
Trent's note, Mrs. Crewe, having had
an early dinner, started to make some
important purchases at Shoolbred's 
taking advantage of Miss Browns company, as she
was bound on a similar errand.

Laura rejoiced in a long afternoon all to herself ;
she had spent the morning in adding touches to
her now finished picture of the Cheddington Glade.
It was a labour of love, and it was with reluctance
she removed it from the easel, lest further efforts to
improve it might have the opposite effect. She had
sought among her sketches for another subject, and
fixed upon a view of Meissen  the old cradle of the
House of Wetting. It was a water-colour drawing,
and therefore a better basis for a picture ; but she
feared the subject was difficult and required a more
practised hand than hers. While she looked and
thought, she was dimly conscious that the door-bell
had rung loudly, and that Collins had clattered upstairs
in obedience to its summons.

Suddenly the door of her little studio opened,
and Reginald stood before her. She was too
startled for an instant even to be delighted, and
felt that she grew pale.

Why, Laura, you look as if you had seen a
ghost !' he cried, coming quickly to her and taking
her hand in both of his. ' I have frightened you ?
Are you not glad to see me ?'

Yes, I am indeed ! and I have good news for
you.'

Well, you do not look as if you had been having
a good time, as the Americans say. Dear Laura,
have you been well ?' still holding her hand.

Quite well  quite comfortable  and '

All the better for not being troubled by my
visits, eh ?' he interrupted.

Yes, of course,' returned Laura, smiling in spite
of herself ; ' but sit down, if you can find a chair.'

I don't want to sit down. I want you to put
on your hat and come out with me. It is a heavenly
day, and I have a trap and pair of horses I have
been trying, at the door. It will do you a world of
good ! It is a capital chance, as Mrs. Crewe is out,
and I can have you all to myself.'

That will be delightful!' cried Laura frankly,
beginning to put away her paints and turning her
picture to the wall ; ' but let me tell you of my
good fortune,' and she proceeded to recount her
success in selling her pictures. Reginald listened
with an expression half pleased, half amused.

Well done, Laura ! we will see your pictures on

the line one of these days  but go, like a good girl,
put on your things, and let us be off.'

Laura gladly ran upstairs, and attired herself
quickly, yet with unusual care, and descended looking
a new creature.

Good ! you do not spend too much time on
your toilette !' cried Reginald, who was putting on
his gloves at the open door as she came down.
You are always the right thing,' he added, turning
to look at her ; 'how do you manage it, Laura ?'

That is a compliment,' she replied, smiling. ' I
am afraid I must not accept it. I used to be all
wrong occasionally in old times !'

Perhaps so, but not now. Come along ! Tell
Mrs. Crewe,' he went on, addressing Collins, who
was at the door, ' that she may expect us when she
sees us. I will bring Miss Piers home all right
some time this evening.'

Collins grinned delight and approbation.

'Is it not a neat turn-out?' asked Reginald, as
they walked down the little garden. Laura expressed
her admiration.

It was a mail phaeton, dark blue picked out with
a lighter shade, drawn by a fine pair of brown bays;
a smart groom in snowy buckskins and a leather
belt stood at their heads.

You are my first fare,' said the owner, smiling
as he handed her in. ' And I have made up my
mind to put the charge at a high figure.'

You may do that if you like ; it is of no consequence
to me, seeing I cannot pay.'

I am not so sure of that replied Reginald, ashe
took his seat beside her and gathered the reins
in his hand. The groom sprang up behind, the
bays arched their necks, and the equipage dashed
off at a good pace, while the inhabitants of Leamington
Villas flattened their noses against the
window-panes to watch its progress. ' Where to,
Laura ?' asked her charioteer ;  shall we go to the
Park, or get away from town ?'

Yes  by all means  away from the town ; do
you mind going to Hampstead ? I am so fond of
the view from the Heath.'

You have never seen Richmond, I think ? you
will like it better than Hampstead ; we can put up
the horses and take a stroll in the park.'

It will be perfectly delightful, Reginald ! What
a good boy you are to give me such a treat !'

Boy, indeed !' he returned, laughing. ' Pray remember
I am five or six years your senior, to say
nothing of being ages older in experience.'

Yet I have had my experience too,' said Laura,
who was quivering with the intense enjoyment of
this unexpected reunion. * I feel quite old from
having had the care of my uncle and Winnie for
nearly four years. By-the-bye, Reginald, I had a
dreadful letter from Winnie a few days ago,' and
she proceeded to detail its contents. Reginald
listened not too attentively, being a good deal occupied
with the eccentricities of one of his horses ; at
the conclusion Laura exclaimed : ' Is it not all very
disagreeable ?'

Very ! But if this fellow is not too bad style,
and has lots of money, why can't Winnie make up
her mind to marry him ? It is such awful hard lines
for a woman to be poor !'

But, Reginald,' cried Laura, pained and wounded
by his words  ' don't you see how horrible and
shocking it would be to marry such a man as she
describes 1 Better for her to work all her life for

bare necessities than Oh ! if you could see

Winnie ! Do you remember her ?'

Yes, of course ; and I suppose this is an atrocious
cad. However, if your little cousin is as pretty as
you say, she will have lots of chances. Do you
think me a brute for suggesting such a termination
of her troubles ?'

Such a beginning of them, you mean ! No 
you were not thinking of what you said.'

That is the truth, I am afraid. Never mind,
Laura ; I am going to pay the Admiral a visit in a
day or two, and I will do my best to induce him to
restore Winnie to you ! I don't like to see that
fretted look in your eyes when you speak of her ;
do you know that you have very expressive eyes,
Laura ? Did anyone ever tell you so ?'

No, indeed,' returned Laura laughing. ' I don't
think anyone ever looked twice at them except
Winnie, and that only when she wanted to see if I
were vexed with her or notes

Ay ! they speak truth  they are eyes one can
trust, as you trust heavens cried Reginald, turning
to look at her earnestly ; ' and that is more than

can be said of most eyes, however beautiful they
may be !'

I hope I am true. I try to be true,' said Laura
softly, much moved by Reginald's words and tone.

He drove on for some time In silence, apparently
lost In thought ; while Laura, though a little wondering
what train of Ideas could be working in his
brain, yet felt exquisitely happy with the sense of
sympathy which existed between them.

At last the pause became oppressive, and Laura
broke it to Inquire for Mrs. Piers and Lady Fervors;
after which the conversation, though intermittent,
flowed with tolerable ease on ordinary topics,
Reginald pointing out anything that was worth
notice as they drove by Mortgage and Sheen, and
so into the remoter side of the park.

On reaching a beautiful point of view over the
river, Reginald proposed to alight.

It is deliciously cool and shady here,' he said.
Let us stroll about for a while and walk back to
the Star and Garter  while you,' to the groom, ' can
drive there at once, and put up the horses.'

The man touched his hat, and when Laura had
descended drove slowly away.

Come, this is like old times, to be once more
alone together under the greenwood tree. Is it
better than Hampstead ?'

Yes,' returned Laura ; * I did not think Richmond
was so beautiful ; but I do not give up my
Hampstead view  the view behind "Jack Straw's
Castle." '

VOL. I. 15

I know it said Reginald ; and they walked
slowly on. * You would like Pierslynn/ he resumed.
I saw more of it during this last visit. It is really
a nice old place  my mother is charm-ed with it and
all its belongings.'

No doubt returned Laura.

Here is a seat and a capital view  shall we sit
down ?'

I think you would like Pierslynn/ repeated
Reginald, more to himself than to his companion ;
and you could help me to make it a charming
home.'

/ could !' exclaimed Laura, greatly wondering.
Oh, of course I should be ever so happy to help
you in any way, but it would be the lion and the
mouse over again

Laura said Reginald, turning to her with his
sweet, pleasant smile, and taking her hand,  is it
possible you don't yet understand my hopes and
wishes ?'

How  what hopes }' she returned in a low
voice, while a strange tremor ran through her
frame.

Don't you know, dearest old friend, that I have
always loved you ? that this sudden change in my
fortunes would be valueless to me if you will not
consent to share them ! Will you be my wife,
Laura ?'

She could not reply ; for a moment, astonishment
overpowered every other feeling.

'You love me, Reginald! you wish me to be

your wife !' she said at last brokenly. ' I do not
seem able to believe it.'

Why not ?' exclaimed Reginald eagerly. ' We
were always dear friends  when we were too young
to think seriously : what more natural than becoming
lovers now ? You always had a charm forme
! and, Laura  I think I have always been 
well, a favoured cousin ?'

Laura was silent  too bewildered to think or
speak distinctly.

Believe me,' resumed Reginald earnestly after
a moment's pause, during which he looked at her
anxiously  ' Believe me, almost my first thought
on succeeding to Pierslynn was to try and win
you ! and I repeat, that everything will be valueless
to me if I cannot succeed. Answer, Laura !
don't, for God's sake, tell me you are entangled with
anyone in Germany 1'

He spoke in a tone of sharp apprehension so
unmistakably real, that Laura was deeply moved.

Ah ! Reginald she said almost in a whisper,
with scarce-veiled tenderness, ' I have always loved
you as a brother  because you seemed so like
one ; even now, I cannot help fearing that you
mistake your own feelings. It seems quite out of
character that you should really love me. Oh ! do
look well into your heart, lest you make a mistake
that might destroy us both ! Be sure before you
do what cannot be undone  now I can be happy
in your friendship, your quiet regard ; but if in
truth you wish for more  if you really want me to

152

be your wife Ah, Reginald ! I could love you

well ! too well !'

She covered her face with her hands, turning
slightly from him, while her throat swelled with
quick sobs for her habitual self-control was not
equal to so great a strain. A look of relief relaxed
Reginald's countenance as he gently strove to
remove her hands.

Dearest,' he exclaimed, when he had possessed
himself of one, ' trust me ! I understand what I
want and wish perfectly well ! I want your love
and companionship all my life. I know I shall
have in you the best of wives, the truest of friends.
When I first met you after you came back from
Germany, I resolved to ask you to be mine, and I
have delayed doing so, only because I feared you
might think me too precipitate ! Now give me
your promise  your solemn promise  to be my
wife, and that soon, in spite of any difficulties which
may arise. I can never settle to my new life, I
can never feel secure, until I have you by my side.'

He kissed the hand he held as he spoke.

You promise me then, dear Laura ?'

If indeed I be necessary to you,' returned
Laura, the strange delicious certainty that she was
truly loved and warmly sought creeping through
her veins like some divine and potent elixir. ' I
will be your true wife  but oh ! Reginald, the
difficulties will be great ! I foresee your mother's
disappointment  how could it be otherwise ! I
am frightened to think of her opposition.'

You must not be he returned firmly. ' I have
always done my best for my mother, but in the
choice of a wife I have a right to please myself,
and I will. When she knows you, my mother will
learn to value you ; and after a decent time given
to persuasion, I am determined to do as I choose
in this most important act of my life.'

Ah ! you expect a formidable resistance, I see,*
cried Laura, pressing the hand that held hers
nervously  ' is it wise to call it forth ?'

That question is settled,' he returned ; ' I have
your promise, and I will hold you to it ; in fact, the
sooner we are married, the sooner everyone will
come round to Mrs. Piers of Pierslynn, and find
her the most charming, spiritiielle artistic lady of
the manor imaginable.'

He slid his arm round her as he spoke and drew
her to him, while he laughed a happy boyish laugh
that completed the measure of Laura's content  of
her boundless joy.

Good heavens !' exclaimed Reginald the next
instant, * how your heart beats ! my dearest, I think
you love me ! I believe I can make you happy !'
and then followed a long delightful rambling talk
reminiscences of the past, and plans for the
future ; Laura somewhat shy and embarrassed by
the sudden change in their relations, until drawn
into confidence and comparative ease by Reginald's
charming lover-like tenderness and cousinly frankness.


How unspeakably sweet, how intoxicating it all

was ! The shadows lengthened as they conversed
and so long as she lived, Laura never forgot the
outlook on which she gazed : the rich woods, the
fair flowing river winding below the hill whereon
they sat, the perfume of some pine-trees near them,
the wealth of many-tinted leafage, mingling with
the short sweet grass, the thin golden haze hanging
over the dim distance, while the soft ' coo, coo ' of
the wood-pigeon, that most loving of all inarticulate
sounds, came from the recesses of the wood.
Never did she hear it again without hearing too
the echo of Reginald's voice as he painted their
future in glowing hues to his happy listener.

But, Reginald, it must be dreadfully late !' exclaimed
Laura at last, struck by the changing
light. * Do see what o'clock it is !'

Oh, never mind ; Mrs. Crewe will forgive us oursins
 but, by Jove ! it is half-past six. I believe
we had better be going, and you are looking pale
and done-up. Ah, Laura, I intend to take good
care of you. Now, before we return to the haunts
of men, give me a kiss, to seal our compact  for,
remember, it is a very serious one.'

Laura silently complied. To her it was a solemn,
sacred rite  a betrothal as binding as a marriage 
and she grew pale instead of blushing when her
lips first met her cousin's.

Laura,' said Reginald, as they approached
Leamington Road, ' I think we had better tell Mrs.
Crewe at once.'

They had driven rapidly and rather silently back :
a few queries respecting Mrs. Piers and Lady Jervois
from Laura ; a few kindly questions as to whether
she was too hot, too cold, or would like a wrap, etc.,
from Reginald  was all that passed between
them.

Oh no, not just yet !' exclaimed Laura, shrinking
from the vision evoked by his words. ' You might
as well announce everything in large capitals on
every dead wall  she cannot keep silence.'

Well, in this case she need not. I do not want
to make a secret of our engagement, Laura. Do
you ? Why should it not be made known at once .?
I intend going down to see the Admiral tomorrow,
and on my return, darling, let us arrange some day
early next month for the marriage ; we shall then
have time enough for a peep at the North of Italy
before we settle down at Pierslynn, at home for the
winter. Eh, Laura, does it not sound oddly familiar,
being at home together ?'

Reginald, it seems still impossible that such
things can be ; and, remember, nothing can be
settled until your mother is brought round.'

Nonsense, Laura ! / ought to be your first consideration,
and, j/?/ must remember, that you have
solemnly promised to be my wife, irrespective of
anyone's consent or approbation.'

Well  we must be guided by what the Admiral
says.'

To a certain extent  yes,' returned Reginald.
*At any rate, it is quite necessary Mrs. Crewe

should be duly informed. Heavens, how she will
hold forth !'

A few minutes more brought them to the door.
It was opened directly by Collins, grinning more
broadly than before ; while farther back Mrs. Crewe
might be descried, attired in her favourite grenadine,
her face wreathed in smiles, nodding and
waving her head gracefully to her 'young friends.'

I really believed you had eloped !' she exclaimed,
as she advanced to meet them ; ' pray, have you
any idea what o'clock it is ? Never mind ! young
people will be young people. Come, your tea is
quite ready  a beautiful pigeon-pie, and some
peaches  make haste and get off your hat, Laura.'

Sorry I cannot stay  Mrs. Crewe, may I speak
to you for a moment ?

While Laura ran hastily upstairs out of the way,
Reginald followed Mrs. Crewe into the drawing-room,
and soon explained how matters stood to his
delighted auditor.

Meantime Laura hastily locked her door, threw
herself on her knees beside her bed, and strove to
think clearly of the mighty, glorious change the
last few hours had wrought in her destiny.

To be Reginald's especial choice ! to have always
been loved by him so truly that his new-found fortune
was valueless if not shared by her ! It was
incredible  incomprehensible ; pray God he did
not deceive himself, for somehow, though so true
and affectionate, he still seemed more a brother
than a lover.

But why attend to the scarce perceptible shadows
on the glowing field of vision opened out to her ?
She knew she could indeed be Reginald's true
friend and helpmate. The consciousness of being
beloved by him clothed her with beauty, and
strength, and wisdom in her own eyes, and gave
her power and capacity, by bestowing the self-confidence
she had hitherto needed. She would help
him to guide his life worthily, even while she ruled
herself by his will and knowledge. Reginald, her
bright, brave, clever kinsman, loved her, and all
things had become possible. Then thoughts a step
or two lower down the ladder of cogitation suggested
themselves  What would the Admiral say ?
And Winnie ! how delighted she would be ! and
surely Reginald and herself, between them, would
work deliverance for Winnie  even '

Here a sharp knock at the door, accompanied by
the words, ' You must let me in, my dear,' interrupted
her and announced Mrs. Crewe. Laura
hastily dried the tears, of which she was till that
moment unconscious, and turned the key.

Ah, my dearest Laura !' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe,
entering with a radiant face. ' Didn't I always
tell you so ? Confess that my experience guided
me unerringly. I congratulate you from the depths
of my heart !' and she folded her in a huge embrace.
' Nothing has given me greater pleasure for
many a year. You ;r a lucky girl, Laura ! A
more charming, delightful, agreeable, handsome
young man never existed ; and so desperately in

love, dear ; quite a romance, I declare ! We'll have
the wedding here, of course. By removing the
sideboard and bureau, and using a horse-shoe table,
we can accommodate thirty people quite well at
the breakfast, and '

*Dear Mrs. Crewe, you are indeed going far
ahead,' cried Laura. ' There is much to be done
and arranged first.'

My dear child ! delays are dangerous,' returned
Mrs. Crewe significantly. ' Don't you oppose your
cousin's wish to be married immediately  it is very
natural and quite right ; but come down, he is just
waiting to bid you good-bye  for he cannot stay
to tea, I am sorry to say  but he wants a word
with you. Dear me, how pale you look ! and I
declare you have been crying ! Here  ' rapidly
pouring out some water into the basin, ' bathe your
eyes, do, dear ! I am sure it must be tears of joy
you have shed ! and then brush over your hair a
little. I will go down and say you are coming :
God bless you, my dear child ! you have my
warmest good wishes.' And having bestowed a
second hug on her young friend, she left the
room.

Laura hastily removed what traces of emotion
she could, and descended to speak with Reginald.
How strange yet delicious was the feeling of shy
hesitation which made her pause with her hand on
the dining-room door, before she opened it, and
met Reginald face to face, transformed from a
relative into a fiance.

THE ADMIRALS WARD. 235

'You are quite right, Mr. Piers Mrs. Crewe
was saying, as she came in ; ' there is nothing like
prompt action.'

Ah, Laura !' he exclaimed, rising to meet her,
forgive me for teasing you to come down : but
I did not like to leave without seeing you, and I
have letters to write, and twenty things to do this
evening, so must be off.'

I will wish you good-bye, then, as I must speak
to Collins,' said Mrs. Crewe, and she discreetly left
the room.

I intend going down to see the Admiral tomorrow,'
said Reginald somewhat abruptly as she
left the room ; * and though it is not much more
than two hours' journey, the return train is a late
one, and I do not think I can manage to see you
till the day after. I suppose the good old man will
have no objection to me?' and he smiled a pleasant
smile of easy assurance.

I imagine you are a favourite with him already,'
returned Laura, glancing shyly but brightly up
at him. ' And I am sure he will be pleased to
hear ' she stopped.

That we are going to take each other for better,
for worse ? Well, I think so too ; I shall also write
to my mother to-night.'

Yes, Reginald,' she said, with an unconscious
shiver. ' I dread her reply.'

Nonsense !' he replied, taking her hand in both
his. ' We have only to be steady to our own intentions
and to each other to conquer all opposition.

Good-night, dearest ; do not fret or worry about
anything ; we are going to be the happiest couple
to be found anywhere. So good-night'

He drew her to him, kissed her warmly, and was
gone.

Laura was not sorry to be alone ; she was so confused
by this sudden blaze of happiness, so blinded
by excess of light, that she wanted the rest of
silence and darkness.

She was not long left in peace, however. Mrs.
Crewe, with Topsy, soon reappeared, and then she
was tormented to eat and to drink, and tortured
with conjectures as to what Mrs. Piers would say,
and how soon they might begin to prepare the
wedding garments, and by short calculations as to
the cost of ' a neat little trousseau, my dear, which
would carry you on until you received your pin-money
; of course, as the wife of a gentleman of
fortune, you would have a handsome allowance,'
etc., etc.

Meantime Reginald, having partaken of dinner
at his hotel (he was not yet in any club), sipped a
glass of very passable claret as he reviewed the
events of the day, thinking also of how he should
frame the letter announcing his engagement to his
mother, which he was determined to write before
he slept. Then he thought of Laura herself, and
that consideration brought content. ' She has
capital sense, and perfect tact ; she will suit me
down to the ground ; by George, I am a lucky
fellow !'

HE morning after this auspicious day-brought
the following letter to Laura :

My own dear,

I told you how worried and
annoyed I have been of late, and yesterday put a
climax to it all.

That horrid little wretch Jack must have been
telling my aunt some stories more or less false about
our meeting Mr. Price out walking, for she asked
me to come up to her room before dinner, and
made a long speech about the impropriety of trying
to attract her husband's nephew, because a marriage
with me would be so very disadvantageous to him
and displeasing to his people (who are, I believe,
small farmers in Caernarvonshire). Well, you may
fancy how I answered ; indeed, the whole thing
was so ridiculous that I could not help laughing,
which seemed to surprise her. Then she said that
both Mr. Morgan and herself were anxious to help
me on ; so, if I would undertake to be very circumspect
in my conduct, I might remain with them as

governess at ;20 a year ! provided always that I
accepted the position and kept with my pupils,
etc. etc.

Darling Laura, I-could have jumped for joy as
she spoke, because I know the dear Admiral will
see the abominable injustice of her proposal  and
this will deliver me out of their hands

I know I looked quite pleasant as I replied
that I must ask Admiral Desbarres before I made
any decision. " By all means," she said ; " and
you will see how glad he will be to get rid of you."
I do not believe that ! At any rate, I wrote to him
last night. Now, Laura, I think it would be a great
help if Mrs. Crewe would put in an advertisement
for me in some paper for a daily engagement  
German, and French, and music, and all that  so
as to have things in train when the Admiral gives
his consent. Oh ! if you can sell your pictures,
and I can find pupils, we shall get on splendidly !'

She is right,' thought Laura, as she finished
reading this letter ; ' the Admiral will never consent
to such a proposition ; but I must wait to see
Reginald before I reply  yet she will think me
negligent if I do not write at once. I will send a
few lines to cheer her up, and say I hope to send her
good news tomorrow. Ah ! what wonderful news !*

So Laura opened her little writing-case, set out
pen, ink, and paper, and forthwith fell into a delicious
reverie. Indeed, her whole day passed in this way :
an attempt at her usual occupations, a lapse into

rainbow-hued day-dreams, a struggle to shake them
off, to be up and doing, and then another excursion
into cloud-land. Thus the day wore through ;
Laura was too startled by her own high-fortune to
think clearly, or enjoy to the utmost the bright
dawn of bliss tinging her near horizon with ' celestial
rosy red.' Meanwhile Mrs. Crewe pervaded
the house with triumphant activity, having instituted
a searching and complete cleaning of the
dining and drawing-rooms in anticipation of a visit
from Reginald, in the character of an accepted
lover, on the following day. She occasionally penetrated
to Laura's room, and sat for a few minutes
with Topsy in her arms, pouring forth suggestions
touching Laura's trousseau, the persons to be invited
to the wedding, and the amount of wages to
be given to a competent lady's-maid.

A loud imperative ring of the front-door bell
disturbed her during one of these visits. 'Who
can that be? It is too early for visitors. How
annoying !  and I have not changed my dress !
Who is it, Collins ?' as that functionary entered
with a smutty face and a dirty apron, but a look of
some exultation.

Mr. Holden, 'm, as would like to speak to you if
convenient.'

'Mr. Holden !' in a scream of surprise. 'Well,
wonders will never cease ! I trust and hope he is
going to pay me my money at last'

I think he is, 'm,' said Collins cheerfully. ' He's
just give me half-a-crown, and he is dressed elegant*

Dear me !' returned her mistress, rising quickly.
This is extraordinary. I shall not mind seeing
Mr. Holden in my dressing-gown,' and she went
away rapidly.

In the entrance the chairs and tables from the
drawing-room were piled up, and in the midst of
the chaos stood the ex-clerk of Messrs. Thurston
and Trent, looking more complacent and self-satisfied
than ever.

Good-morning, Mr. Holden ; this is quite an
unexpected pleasure said Mrs. Crewe, with stately
civility.

Happy to see you, ma'am. I suppose you had
given me up as a bad job he returned facetiously.

I had indeed ceased to anticipate a visit from
you she rejoined; 'pray walk in. You find me
rather in confusion ; but never mind.' And she
opened the dining-room door, discovering that
apartment advanced to the stage of having the
furniture restored, but not yet put in order, ' Here
continued Mrs. Crewe, hastily removing a pile of
books and old music from the sofa  'here is a
seat / and clearing a chair of some small china
ornaments, she placed herself opposite, dignified
displeasure contending with a certain degree of
satisfaction in her expression.

'Well, Mrs. Crewe, I must compliment you on
your looks. By George ! you are as blooming as
the flowers in May! The world has been going
well with you, to judge by appearances

The world is as hard as ever, Mr. Holden,

though, thank God, I have not suffered so much as
I might have done through irregularities  and  but
I will not dwell upon the subject.'

Come now, don't be down upon a fellow ! I
know you have just cause of complaint. I know I
have not behaved well, but the fact' is I got into a
mess, and now I have got out of it ; so my business
here is to make all square, and pay up like a
gentleman. I think you have a bit of paper of
mine ?'

Yes, Mr. Holden,' emphatically, ' I had so much
faith in you that I have not yet thrown it into the
waste-paper baskets

Mrs. Crewe rose, and, going to the table, extricated
the little writing-desk with the broken hinge
from under some cushions, a card-plate, and the
freshly shaken and folded table-cover. ' Here,' she
continued, turning over its crumpled heterogeneous
contents and selecting an exceedingly creased
morsel of paper  'here is your I O U  fifteen
pounds ten shillings and sentence.'

Fifteen ten, is it ? I thought it was only
fifteen V

Look for yourself, sirs returned Mrs. Crewe,
with dignity.

Oh, never mind ! its all right, and that's all
right,' slapping down a ten-pound note, five sovereigns,
and the rest in silver, rather noisily on the
corner of the table. ' There's fifteen eleven ; trouble
you for sixpence.'

I regret I have no copper,' said Mrs. Crewe

VOL. I. 16

elegantly, 'but pray take sixpence and I will
consider the affair settled,' handing him the I O U.

Stop a bit ; I have a brown somewhere about,'
rummaging his pockets. ' Here you are,' and
Holden added a penny to the little pile of money.
'Now, ma'am, we are quits, ain't we V tearing up his
lOU.

We are, Mr. Holden,' she returned, satisfaction
surmounting the graver expression of her face as
she gazed with delight at the money she had
despaired of receiving, feeling that its unexpected
restoration had doubled its value. * And I always
did think you intended to pay me one day ; I
think your heart was right, but difficulties, and
circumstances over which you probably had no
control, prevented that punctuality more congenial
to your better nature.'

You have just hit it, Mrs. Crewe, replied
Holden, with an indescribable mixture of a nod and
a shake of the head. ' Now tell me how you have
been getting on, and what you have been doing ;'
and, with his usual ease, Holden settled himself
down for a gossip, his bold beady black eyes
twinkling with an expression of curiosity and
exultation.

First let me offer you a glass of wine,' said Mrs.
Crewe, her hospitable instincts strongly roused by
the agreeable nature of the visit. * It is quite a
journey from the City out here :' and making a
place on the crowded table, she produced a bottle
of sherry and a seed-cake of her own composition.

By George, I'll not say nay !' exclaimed Holden,
with much cordiality. * I know your cakes of
old.'

And so you have left Thurston and Trent, I
hear ?' said Mrs. Crewe, filling him a bumper and
cutting a thick slice of cake.

Who told you ? Young Piers ? I thought so !
Yes, I have cut the shop. It was so deuced slow,
nothing to be done there ; and such a set of psalm-singing
cads, I couldn't put up with them any
longer.'

Ah, indeed ! I am afraid you are not as steady
as you might be, Mr. Holden, and you will be sorry
for it yet ! What are you going to do with yourself
now ?*

Oh ! I am safe enough. I have come into a
little money, and I am going to join a cousin of
mine out in Australia. He is a horse-dealer on a
large scale, and it is a sort of trade that will suit
me a deuced deal better than quill-driving.'

No doubt,' returned Mrs. Crewe, with some
emphasis ; ' and so you have come into some
money } I am truly glad to hear it. Pray, was it
by bequest or inheritance ? Have you lost your
father or any near relative ?  you will excuse my
asking, but I am really interested.'

Much obliged to you. No, I have not lost any
relation lately. Oh ! it is only a trifle that's come
to me through my mother.*

Now, do take care of it, Mr. Holden ! Invest it
prudently, and don't squander it on folly.'

16  2

Thanks for your good opinion,' said Holden,
with a slightly insolent laugh. ' And now tell me
about Denzil ? Where is he cruising about ?'

My son, Mr. Denzil Crewe, is I hope on his way
home. He has been last at the Cape and Alloa
Bay.'

'That's all right. And is old what's-his-name
upstairs still ?'

If you mean Mr. Jenkins,' with some stateliness,
' he still occupies my first floor, and is a pattern of
punctuality in every respect !'

Very different from your humble servant ! eh,
Mrs. Cuewe?'

Oh I you have acted as you ought, and I meant
no allusion ; but I don't think you seem to know
that Admiral Desbarres has placed his ward Miss
Piers under my care, and also Miss Fieldenen, her
cousin, who is just now on a visit to her aunt.
You know, of course, who Admiral Desbarres is ?'

I should think I did,' said Holden, rather
irreverently. ' So the ward is with you ? I did
hear something to that effect at the office. It's
rather a good thing, I suppose ?'

Most agreeable and satisfactory, though less
remunerative than gratifying. Not that I have
anything to complain of

*Then I suppose you see my old office-mate,
Reginald Piers sometimes? He is somehow related
to the Admiral's ward, isn't he ?'

Very closely connected said Mrs. Crewe, with
a superior smile.

Ah, indeed !' returned Holden, watching her.
Well, he is a deuced stuck-up fellow  always was
even when he hadn't a rap in his pocket ; and
now there's no holding him. Gad, it's disgusting
to speak to him !'

' I don't at all agree with you,' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe sharply. ' He is as nice and simple and
unaffected as can be ; he is in and out with his
cousin every day in the week. I am sure we quite
miss him when he does not come ! I consider him
a charming young man.'

So do other people ! I am told Trent counts on
him for a son-in-law,' looking keenly at her. ' His
daughter is about nineteen, and swell enough, I
believe, even for Piers of Pierslynn.'

There is not a word of truth in the report.
Don't you believe it, Mr. Holden,' said Mrs. Crewe
loftily.

Well, I don't know ; I had it from pretty good
authority,' returned Holden, with a provoking air
of superior information which was almost too
much for Mrs. Crewe to bear.

Pray, who was your authority ?* in a tone of
scorn.

A young fellow who used to be a good deal
with Piers and me. He is a bit of a favourite with
Mrs. Trent, and dines there ; so he knows what he
is talking about.'

And I am very sure he does not,' said Mrs.
Crewe emphatically, ' as I could prove were I at
liberty to speak.'

Oh ! that's all very fine. But you don't mean to
say Piers makes a confidante of soil T asked Holden,
with a sneer.

He might do worse returned Mrs. Crewe,
driven to the end of her endurance. ' But I am
not going to talk of his affairs to you, even to
show you you are wrong.'

I understand,' cried Holden, with an insulting
laugh. ' It's a sort of secret not difficult to keep
a mare's nest, in short.'

I must say, Mr. Holden, you are neither well-bred
nor polite,' said Mrs, Crewe, irritated beyond
her prudence. so, as there is really no necessity
for secrecy, I do not mind telling you that Mr.
Piers is engaged to my charming young friend
Miss Laura Piers, and the wedding is to take place
here in about six weeks  there now !'

Holden gave a long loud whistle, while an indefinable
change passed over his countenance.

'Oh! that's it, is it?' he said. *Well, Mrs.
Crewe, you have the pull of me, I admit ! But it
seems sharp work. However, I suppose it's a case
of boy-and-girl attachment  extra constancy, devotion,
and disinterestedness. I presume the young
lady is a beauty ?'

*No, Mr. Holden, she is not what is called a
beauty; but she is most interesting, and has charming
manners.'

'Just so ; and has the sainted Admiral given his
consent ?'

Oh, of course he will ! The marriage is unexceptionable.'


Quite so ; in fact, it's a wonderful hit for any
girl to make, and rather mufifish of a young fellow
just come into freedom and fortune to run his
head into the noose. I must say it's not what
one would have expected from Reginald Piers !'

 Our ideas on such subjects are not at all alike
said Mrs. Crewe stiffly.

I suppose not,' returned Holden, by no means
cast down by the sense of difference between them.
I say, Mrs. Crewe, could you manage to let a
fellow have a peep at the young lady ? I'd give a
good deal to see her 1'

I do not think I can ask her to come down.
She is writing letters  business letters of importance
 in her own room, and ought not to be disturbed.'


You tell her her young man's special friend is
below, and most anxious to make her acquaintance
; she will come fast enough.'

It is quite impossible, Mr. Holden ; she '

What Mrs. Crewe was about to add was never

known, for at that moment the door opened to
admit the young lady in question, in her walking-dress
and with a letter in her hand.

Laura, having written a short reply to Winnie,
and knowing that Collins was in the throes of an
extensive cleaning, put on her hat to go to the post
herself Absorbed in her own thoughts, she forgot
Mrs. Crewels visitor, or vaguely supposed he must
have left, so came into the dining-room to ask
Mrs. Crewe if she had any commission to be
executed.

Laura stood still and Holden stood up, while
Mrs. Crewe, rather annoyed at the unexpected
meeting, pronounced a hasty introduction.

I'm sure, Miss Piers, I consider myself very
fortunate to have the honour of making your acquaintance,'
said Holden, with elaborate politeness.


Laura bowed, and advancing into the room found
a seat for herself.

He will be congratulating her in a minute,*
thought Mrs. Crewe uneasily, * the great stupid !'

I have often heard your cousin, Mr. Reginald
Piers, talk of you,' resumed Holden, forcing himself
to speak with his usual assurance, for something
in the restful quiet of Laura's manner and
bearing oppressed and disconcerted him. ' We
were great allies, you know, at Thurston and
Trent's ; so I don't feel as if you were a stranger.'

Indeed !' returned Laura, looking straight at
him with some surprise.

Yes,' continued Holden, ' he was always a
steadier fellow than myself; still, we were pretty
well out at elbows when luck turned up for us both
an odd sort of coincidence.'

Very odd !' returned Laura, seeing that he paused
for a reply.

Fine place, Pierslynn,' resumed Holden. ' Have
you been there ?'

 Never,' said Laura.
Have 7?/ ?' asked Mrs. Crewe aggressively.

Yes,' said Holden ; * I was down in that part of

the world last week, taking a look at my own native
place, which is a couple of hours farther on, over the
Welsh border, and I stopped to say " how d'ye do ?"
to my old pal. It's a deuced fine place, and a nice
old house  regular English  not grand, but comfortable,
and well-kept and fit for a gentleman. I
don't think Piers was particularly glad to see me
with a harsh laugh. 'But I say, Madame Piers
won't like to make way when Master Reggie gives
-Pierslynn a mistress t Don't you think so, ma'am?*
to Mrs. Crewe.

No doubt she will rejoice to see her son happy,'
said that lady, feeling very uncomfortable.

And happy he will be if there's truth in the report
I hear and the appearances I see,' returned Holden,
with terrible significance.

Laura looked at him much puzzled, the colour
rising in her cheek.

You'll excuse me,' he said in answer to the look,
with his head a little to one side, and a curious,
half-mocking, half-inquisitive expression in his face.
But I hope Mrs. Piers is not your aunt, or I would
not have spoken so free.'

No ; she is not my aunt,' said Laura softly, still
puzzled.

No ? Then I may ask the degree of relationship?'
asked Holden.

I cannot say  I never knew,' returned Laura.
Our relationship is distant, I imagine. It was
the accident of early association that made us
friends.'

*And something more said Holden, rising to
take leave with a coarse laugh. ' Well, good-bye,
Mrs. Crewe : we are quits now, and we are not
likely to meet again ; but I can tell you, I never
was so comfortable as in your house, and I consider
you no end of a trump, if you'll forgive the expression.
Good-bye, Miss Piers, and permit me to offer
my sincere congratulations on your approaching
union with Mr. Piers of Pierslynn. Pray tell that
gentleman I had the honour of being presented to
you, and I think he is the luckiest dog going ! My
best wishes for your long life and happiness.'

So saying, he picked up his hat, made an abrupt
bow, and left the room, the sound of the front door
closing reaching the ears of his auditors before they
had recovered power of speech. Then Laura exclaimed
reproachfully :

Oh, Mrs. Crewe ! how could you tell everything
to that dreadful vulgar common man !'

My dear child ! I never was so vexed with
myself! but he dragged it out of me. You know
the almost diabolical skill of these legal people, and
I defy anyone to have resisted his cross-examination.
I don't know why he should want to know !
only that he may be an emissary of those Tents
who have set their hearts on catching Mr. Piers,
and are ready to snap your nose off for coming
between them !'

I don't like to say much about it, Mrs. Crewe,
but I am awfully vexed that you should have
spoken of Reginald and myself to such a man.'

Do, dear, forgive me ! though I am quite sure
in a few days your approaching marriage will be
openly announced, and then it is no matter who
knows.'

I am not so sure. Remember, we have got to
hear what the Admiral will say, and, above all, what
Mrs. Piers will say  and oh ! Mrs. Crewe, let us not
be too sure of anything.'

'Pooh! nonsense, my dear! there are many bright
happy days before you ! You have brought me
luck  Here ! look at these crisp notes, and the gold,
such nice, new-looking gold ! That dreadful lowbred
creature has paid me after all, and now I will
put on my bonnet and go out with you. There's a
pretty square of carpet at Johnson's in the Edward
Road, that I have been dying to buy for this month
past for your room ! We will fetch it home in a cab,
and I will lay it down to-night.'

UT Laura's displeasure was quickly dispelled
by the sunshine of Reginald's
presence, when, true to his tryst, he
arrived early the day after his visit to
the Admiral, bright, debonair, and complaisant, as
became a successful wooer.

Laura had so far caught the prevailing epidemic
that she rose at an unusually early hour, and regulated
her little painting-room, decking it with
flowers, and arranging it with a degree of pleasant
picturesque confusion suitable to an artistic abode.
No longer dared she turn a glance of stoic disregard
on such small vanities as lace frills and cambric
tuckers; on the contrary, she was careful to put
the softest and knowest tulle round her neck and
wrists, and found herself gazing with almost painful
anxiety in the glass to see if any amount of brushing
could convey to her dull hair the satiny sheen which
was the characteristic of Winnie's. She desisted
with a slight sigh, resolving to leave herself alone.

He loves

me

for

something

better than

my

looks she thought, * or he would never have sought
me.'

Mrs. Crewe was discreetly engaged when Reginald
rattled up in a hansom, having dispensed with
pomp and state ' in the shape of servants and
horses.

It was a moment of almost painfully nervous
pleasure till the first greeting was over and they
had settled down into the charming frank cousinly
intercourse dashed with lover-like warmth which
Reginald always maintained.

Well, Laura,' he began, after they had settled
themselves in the drawing-room for a good talk,
my interview with the Admiral was very satisfactory
on the whole. He seems favourably disposed
towards me, but he did not commit himself. He is
coming up to town tomorrow to talk with you,
dear. It is evidently a tremendous affair with him !
Whereas to you and me, who have known each
other for the first half of our lives, it seems quite
natural to spend the rest of it together. Eh
Laura ?'

No, Reggie  not yet ; to me at least it seems
very strange ; and the Admiral is coming ! Don't
think me foolish and weak  but I quite dread the
idea of talking to him. What an awful array of
responsibilities he will set before me !'

Reginald laughed. '

Let him talk, Laura  why should you mind ?
/ am the principal personage, and you don't think
I am going to be a hard taskmaster ?'

What did he say about your mother, Reginald ?'

About my mother ? Oh ! nothing  nothing
particular.'

Of course you spoke of her. What did he say ?
Does he think it will be very difficult to get her
consent ?'

Oh no. He thinks it is quite right and natural
the correct thing, in short  that we should marry.
He was good enough, too, to express high approbation
of my unworthy self*

I knew he always liked you, Reggie. Have you
written to your mother ?'

I have. She is frightfully slow about answering
letters, so I shan't expect a reply much before the
day after tomorrow.'

Surely she will reply quickly to such a letter as
yours !' cried Laura, surprised.

We will see,' returned Reginald evasively.  By
the way, I did not forget about your cousin Winnie.
The Admiral had had a letter from her, and was
rather indignant with her aunt. He is going to
send for her forthwith, so she will be a nice little
bridesmaid for you.'

And he is really going to send for her ? Oh,
that is too delightful ! What have I done to
deserve all this happiness ?' and the quick tears of
joy sprang to her eyes.

Dear Laura !' cried Reginald, looking keenly at
her. ' You are happy, then, to be my wife ! You
do love me ?' etc., etc.

  *-Jf- *

It was a day long to be remembered  everything
was couleur de rose. Reginald was not so absorbed
in his role of lover that he could not do the agreeable
to Mrs. Crewe, and solace her soul with little
anecdotes of the Saltshire magnates, etc.

The afternoon was spent strolling through the
galleries of South Kensington, and art never
seemed so charming before to Laura, for her appreciation
was keen and deep, and Reginald was not
without taste and culture, while the morsels of
tender personality niche in among more general
topics lit up their intercourse like jewelled points.

But evening drew in, and Reginald was obliged
to leave early, as he had an appointment at eight
which he had postponed to give the day to Laura.

Oh, Reggie,' she exclaimed as he was going, ' I
forgot to tell you that an acquaintance of yours was
here yesterday  a Mr. Holden.'

Who !' asked Reginald, as if astonished.
Holden ? What brought him here ?'

He came to pay Mrs. Crewe some money.*

She should not parade you for all the raff of
clerks that have lodged in her house !'

She did not ; I came in accidentally.'

Well, I don't want you to know such fellows.
He was the plague of my life at Trent's office. He
does not know his place.'

Well, Mrs. Crewe says he is going to Australia.'
He is right to export himself before it is done

for him.' Reginald spoke hastily  harshly ; then,
with a sudden change of tone, he bid Laura an

affectionate good-night, and left her slightly wondering
at his impatience.

* *-jf *

But despite her sense of happiness her faith in
Reginald's loyalty and love, the morrow which succeeded
this blissful day was one of trial to Laura ;
though Mrs. Crewe, with all her warm-hearted
sympathy, was not aware that she suffered, yet
there is real suffering in the ' fearful looking for of
judgment ' from one who, however loved and respected,
is actuated by motives and ideas somewhat
beyond ones ken.

But the Admiral tarried, and poor Laura had
even gone through the semblance of eating her
early dinner, when the sound of a cab stopping at
the gate and the ensuing peal of the bell told her
the supreme moment was at hand.

Go, dear,' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe. * I will see
him afterwards. Stop  let me put in this hair-pin
and put your sash straight  there ! you look very
nice.'

Laura's heart sank within her as she opened the
drawing-room door and found herself face to face
with the Admiral. He was standing beside a
small cabinet looking at a photograph of Winnie
which stood upon it, and turned to meet her with
a kind, grave smile.

My dear Laura,' taking her hand in one of his
and then laying the other over it, ' I have been
detained, and fear I have caused you some uneasiness.'


I have been very, very anxious to see you said
Laura, in a low, unsteady voice.

Naturally said the Admiral, ' naturally / and
he led her to a chair  drawing one beside it for
himself. Then there was a terrible pause. ' It is
a very solemn matter I have come to discuss with
you, my dear ward,' he began ; * but you have my
sincere sympathy, my entire approval.'

As no suitable words would present themselves,
Laura took her guardian's hand gently and kissed it.

It is a sacred and mysterious relationship that
you and your cousin propose to enter into,' he continued.
* I hope, I believe, you would not enter
lightly upon it. It is a solemn undertaking, Laura,
to accept a man's life ! A wife's responsibility is
great. God has given a mighty and a glorious task
into the hands of the woman, even to be as the
hidden leaven  working unseen till the whole existence
she shares is leavened.' The Admiral
paused with the usual wistful, far-away outlook in
his soft, grave, dark eyes. ' The husband has his
part he resumed ; 'and though just now Reginald
is in the flush of youth, prosperity, and first affection,
there is that in him which will develop into
the true Christian man  strong and faithful. His
constancy to the love he so early conceived for
yourself is in my opinion an evidence of his high
character.'

I am myself amazed at it,' said Laura softly.

Nay, / am not replied the Admiral, with a
kind smile ; ' I admire and approve his choice. I

VOL. I. 1/

believe my ward will make a true good wife. But
Reginald tells me that he has persuaded you to an
almost immediate marriage. I do not think this
desirable or possible.'

He spoke to me of it,' said Laura, blushing
vividly. ' But I neither agreed nor refused  I
could say nothing till I had seen you !'

Quite right  quite right,' returned her guardian,
with an air of entire approval. * It is natural that
the young man should be anxious to make you his
wife  especially as you are an orphan and without
a real home ; but there is an obstacle  I greatly
regret it  an obstacle which must be, and no doubt
will be, overcome. I find it rather an ungracious
task to explain.'

I can save you,' interrupted Laura, her colour
receding even quicker than it came. ' His mother,
Mrs. Piers, refuses her consent.'

She does,' said the Admiral. ' Why, how did
you know ?'

Because it is only natural that she should,' returned
Laura sadly. ' I have little to recommend
me as a daughter-in-law to a proud woman  and
Mrs. Piers is proud ; I have met her, my dear
guardian ! and if I am really a fit helpmate for her
son, I do not think she could perceive it. This is
a terrible, almost insurmountable obstacle.' She
stopped short, her heart beating painfully.

Serious  but not insurmountable,' said the
Admiral soothingly. ' Mrs. Piers, like most loving
mothers, estimates her son too highly, but in this

love is our best ally ; she cannot long refuse her
consent to what is important  nay, essential  to
her son's happiness.'

Alas !' replied Laura, ' I fear it will be difficult
to remove her objections.'

I scarcely understand them,' said the Admiral
thoughtfully. * You are a well-educated gentlewoman
of his own blood, not too nearly related,
well known to him in every particular of your life,
in every respect an unusually prudent choice. I
only fear it is greed which actuates her, and a somewhat
vain ambition ; but, my dear Laura, I propose
to visit her myself. I go to Pierslynn the day after
tomorrow, and hope to bring her to reason and
common sense.'

'What, you undertake this journey for my sake !
for my interest !' cried Laura. ' You are indeed a
father to me ! But, dear, dear Admiral Desbarres,
spare me the humiliation of being forced on Reginald's
mother! at least, leave the attempt to him. He
can do more to reconcile her than anyone else. I
would not for worlds cause any dissension between
them, or enter a family averse to receive me.*

*That sounds finer than it really is,' said the
Admiral gravely. ' You have promised to be
Reginald's wife  your first duty is to think of his
happiness, not your own pride ; and though you
are both bound by every means to seek his mother's
assent to your union, if she is obstinate in her objection
to the marriage, I  I scarce know what to
advise,' his eyes assuming a troubled expression.

17  2

The duty and obedience due to a mother is almost
limitless,' he resumed, after a moment's pause, in a
slow, hesitating manner. ' Yet the obligation on
her to promote her son's welfare is equally imperative.
I feel it right that I should see Mrs. Piers,
Laura ; and do not doubt I shall be directed aright.
There is no use in urging any objections '  for
Laura made as if to speak  ' I have resolved upon
this visit; I shall then go on to Liverpool and
bring Winnie back with me.'

Bring Winnie back !' cried Laura, her face
brightening. ' Oh ! dearest guardian, how grateful
I am to you ! It will be so delightful to have dear
Winnie back again !'

The Admiral smiled.

She has been unjustly treated, poor child, and it
is my intention from henceforth to take charge of
her fortunes. I think I have mentioned that I amor
shall be, a richer man than I was, so that neither
of you dear children need hesitate to accept the
help I have pleasure in giving. It is business connected
with my money-matters that prevents my
going to Pierslynn tomorrow, as my young friend
Reginald requested me. The feeling and tenacity
he displays have, I assure you, touched my heart
and enlisted my sympathy. He was on the point
of accompanying me here, when some person called
and detained him. He will soon be here. I depend,
Laura on your good sense and high principle
resisting any entreaties of your fiance to take a
rash step. Remember, it is an evil beginning to

outrage the first earthly duties. In time all will
come right.'

You may indeed trust me ! I will not encourage
Reginald to disobey his mother. I would rather
forego '

'Beware of pride,' said the Admiral gently.
For the present, then, it is merely an engagement
subject to the consent of Mrs. Piers. Meantime,
you will learn to know each other in your new
relationship ; but I warn you, you will find Reginald
rather unreasonable ; and now we can say no
more : the future is in God's hands. Tell me, what
arrangements can Mrs. Crewe make to receive
Winnie ?'

Laura gladly pursued the fresh and welcome
topic, while her veins thrilled with mingled pain
and pleasure  pain at the evidently determined
opposition of Mrs. Piers, and pleasure at the eagerness
to call her his displayed by Reginald. She
knew of old how tenacious a will he possessed, and
never doubted that in the end he would overrule all
opposition ; in the meantime, there was an evil
quarter of an hour to be endured with what fortitude
and cheerfulness she could.

While she listened and replied to her guardian, a
quick firm foot sprang up the front door-steps, and
a loud decisive ring made her heart leap for
joy.

The next moment Reginald entered with head
erect, a smile on his lips, and an indescribable look
of triumphant satisfaction in his eyes. He walked

straight up to Laura, and taking the hand she held
out, pressed closer to her and kissed her cheek with
an unmistakable air of proprietorship that drew a
kindly smile from the Admiral.

Well, Laura,' he said, still holding her hand
while he bowed to her guardian, * has the Admiral
told you of my mother's letter ? but I see he has.
Come, my darling, you must not let that worry
you. My poor mother has the sort of estimate of
my value usually formed by widows of their only
sons ; and were you a princess with half your
father's dominions for a dowry, I doubt if she would
think you worthy of my noble self

Oh no, dear Reginald,' said Laura, with a deprecating
shake of the head. ' She would welcome a
princess fast enough ; but I do not wonder at her
being a little surprised at the choice her prince has
made. We must have patience, and try to bring
her round ; for indeed, indeed, I could not marry
you save with her consent.'

Nonsense, Laura ! with or without it, we will beman
and wife before six months are over. What
do you say. Admiral ?'

That in all probability you will be man and wife
with your mother's consent,' he returned.

'When did you hear from your mother, Reginald
?' asked Laura.

I found a letter waiting me when I returned
last night.'

May I see it V she said timidly.

No, no, there would be no use. Eh, Admiral

Desbarres ? Besides, it would be a breach of confidence
to show it.'

That is enough,' returned Laura resignedly ;
but she looked very downcast and sad.

I want to make some arrangement with Mrs.
Crewe about Winnie,' said the Admiral, breaking
the short silence which had fallen upon them.
*Will you ask if she would kindly receive me,
Laura ?'

Laura rose to seek her, and Reginald, who for all
his bright looks seemed restless and ill-appease,
followed \i\?> fiancee as she left the room.

You will find me in the studio,' he said. ' I
have not inspected your work since I came back.
And the Admiral will like a tete-tete with Mrs.
Crewe.'

Laura smiled and nodded as she ran upstairs to
summon Mrs. Crewe.

Whether Mrs. Piers gave her consent or not, she
could not deprive her of the delight of. being
watched and waited for by her hero, her king, her
rev de quinze aris.

So while Mrs. Crewe, decked in her very best
black silk, her most carefully preserved fichu of
real lace, her most gracious smiles, went to discuss
finance with the general benefactor, Laura descended
to the painting-room, where she found
Reginald seated smoking a cigar with cousinly
familiarity.

You don't mind a little smoke, Laura ?' he said,
rising to put a chair for her near his own. ' It is

the right thing for a studio, you know. I always
think, to be an artist, you must smoke, were it only
cigarettes. But I want a talk all by ourselves.
We know what we want as no third person can.'
And throwing the remainder of his cigar out of
the window, he began to exclaim against his
mother's unreasonableness, her want of consideration
for him, not harshly, and partly in jest, but
winding up by a strong appeal to Laura's love and
faith in him, not to allow anyone's opinions or
whims to separate them ; urging her with vehemence
that half-frightened her, while she could not
quite keep possession of her cool reason before the
unexpected force and fire of his arguments and
entreaties. He knew his mother, he said ; no
amount of persuasion would avail ; he was, indeed,
averse to the Admiral's plan of an interview, which
was not consistent with what was due to Laura, his
beloved and respected future wife. Nothing but
decided action would produce any effect on his
mother ; once they were absolutely married, and
Mrs. Piers saw the fruitlessness of opposition, she
would come round and become reconciled. Would
Laura have the courage to be his, in spite of all
opposition ? Mrs. Crewe would certainly befriend
them. Once the marriage ceremony had been
performed and they had been away on their wedding
trip, no one would attempt to take Laura from him,
though she was still under age.

Reginald, Reginald !' cried Laura, startled into
her senses again by the wild plan he was suggesting,

and withdrawing the hand he had held tightly
in both of his, ' what are you thinking of ? You
cannot wish to marry in the face of everyone's disapprobation,
to make a runaway marriage, before
trying what reason and persuasion will do ! It
would be disgraceful folly. It is not like you to be
so  foolish.'

A cloud gathered on Reginald's brow. * I
thought you had warmer sympathy with me,' he
said gloomily.

Before Laura could utter the earnest denial of
this charge which rose to her lips, Mrs. Crewe was
heard calling discreetly before opening the door :

Laura, my dear Laura !' and then presenting
herself ' The Admiral wants to see you both
before he goes said she ; ' and he cannot stay any
longer, I regret to say.'

Laura rose immediately, and Reginald with
evident reluctance.

Think of what I have said,' he whispered as they
left the room and followed Mrs. Crewe to the
Admiral's presence, ' and do not let an overstrained
idea of duty or propriety make you indifferent to
my happiness.'

The Admiral took leave with his usual kindly yet
formal politeness, apologizing for taking Mr. Piers
away from more attractive society, but saying that
they had still some important matters to see to and
arrange.

Mrs. Crewe, with impressive observance, followed
them to the door, from which she observed a somewhat

dilapidated four-wheeler approaching, and
displacing the smart hansom which awaited the
Admiral and Reginald.

Who in the world can it be ?' said Mrs. Crewe.

Please, 'm, Mr. Piers has forgotten his gloves,'
cried Collins eagerly.

Run, then, my girl,' Mrs. Crewe, said turning and
standing back to let her pass, so that she missed
seeing a gentleman get out of the cab  a man of
middle height, but exceedingly broad-shouldered
and square, with loose-looking dark clothes and
a cloth cap. There was a short stoppage while
the departing 'guest received his gloves ; then the
hansom drove off, and the new-comer, shouldering
a large portmanteau, entered the garden.

Mrs. Crewe gave a sudden joyful shriek.

It is Denzil !' she cried. * Denzil himself !'

She flew down the steps and endeavoured to
embrace him, portmanteau and all.

My dear, dear boy ! my blessed son ! Here,
Collins, take this great horrid portmanteau. Come
in, my dearest son. You must be so tired and
hungry. Do give that thing to Collins.'

No, mother, it is too heavy for the girl ; I will
put it down indoors. Why, you are looking uncommonly
well, mother !  ever so much better than
when I left you.'

He quickly ascended the steps, and Laura, not
liking to intrude on the joyful meeting of mother
and son, ran away upstairs to her own room.

HE light of a glowing July day was
changing to evening's hue when Mrs.
Crewe tapped at Laura's door : she
entered with radiant looks and eyes
still moist with tears of joy.

You must not think I have forgotten you,' she
said ; ' but my dear boy and I have had so much
to talk over. And, God be thanked ! I had so
much good news to tell, the minutes, and indeed
the hours, have flown by. Ah, Laura ! we have
seen such rough times together, that we have each
grown to feel every throb of the other's heart.'

I am sure it is quite natural you should forget
everything except each other,' said Laura kindly.
Is not his return a great surprise ?

It is. He had written to me from Pernambuco
more than a month ago, saying that he was on the
point of sailing for England, but I have never had
the letter. And now he is come to make some
little stay, for the firm will not send him out again
except in command ; and one of their captains.

who is expected home from Calcutta, is going to
resign, so Denzil is to wait for his ship. Comedown,
dear ; tea is quite ready, and Denzil is prepared
to meet his mother's dear friend in you.'

She led the way, and Laura followed.

In the dining-room the lamp was lit and the
table was set. Flowers in the centre, and even the
candles in the ornamental lustres on the mantelshelf
lit up  a most unheard-of piece of extravagance.


Standing on the hearth-rug was the man of whom
Laura had caught a glimpse when he descended
from the cab that afternoon : a strong, sailor-like
figure with large dark eyes and a quantity of
black curly hair ; a very brown, steady, even stern
face, with a square jaw, broad brow, and a mouth
concealed by thick moustaches. He was looking
towards the door as Laura entered, and holding
Topsy on his shoulder after his mother's fashion.

This is my dear young friend, Laura Piers,' said
Mrs. Crewe, laying her hand on Laura's arm ; * and,
Laura, let me present my dearest son to you.'

Denzil Crewe made a low bow and put down
Topsy, while a frank kindly smile lit up his bronzed
countenance and showed a set of strong white
teeth.

I am very happy to know you he said in a
deep but not unpleasant voice, ' and thank you
heartily for the comfort and companionship you
have afforded my mother.'

He came forward as he spoke, and with simple

cordiality and a slight but not undignified hesitation
held out his hand. Laura readily placed hers
in it, expressing her hearty sympathy in the
pleasure his return gave to his mother.

And then a very happy trio sat down to their
evening meal. To them Herbert soon added himself.
Denzil Crewe, in his eyes a sort of 
Sindbad, who had been in the
Valley of Diamonds, if not in the grasp of the Old
Man of the Sea, was an object of intense interest.
He measured him with his eye ; he stole searching
though furtive glances at him in the intervals of
his cold beef, bread and butter, and tea ; and as
the new guest bestowed more attention on him than
anyone else, he gradually warmed up to the pitch
of putting a series of questions, nautical, geographical,
and commercial, all of which Denzil
Crewe answered, clearly, kindly, shortly, without
the slightest reference to himself, even resisting his
mother's efforts to draw him into personal narrative
by her persuasive exclamations of ''Do, dear
Denzil, tell us about the narrow escape you had on
your second voyage, when the ship was wrecked in
the Pacific ;' or, ' I am sure, dear, Miss Piers would
be so interested to hear of how you saved that
poor man's life in the Bay of Bengal. He ought
to have had the Humane Society's medal for it,
Laura, but then he does not care for such things ;'
all of which attempts Denzil turned aside with
solid good-humoured immovability that amused

Laura, but gave her an impression of his superiority
to petty vanities.

He is a silent man, who nevertheless can talk,'
was her mental summing-up.

Tea over, Denzil proposed to take a turn in the
garden and have a smoke, inviting the delighted
Herbert to accompany him.

I am afraid I have taken your smoking-room,
Mr. Crewe,' said Laura, with a sudden sense of the
fitness of her atelier for such a purpose. ' Your
mother has kindly given me the breakfast parlour
downstairs to paint in. I imagine you must have
had it before.'

Not at all ; I never smoke in the house.
Indeed, I am not often indoors; do not trouble
about that.'

I am sure, Denzil, you will be charmed with
Miss Piers's painting. He has quite a taste that
way himself, Laura. Have you brought home any
sketches this time, dear ?'

Very few  mere scratches ; but I shall like to
see your pictures. Miss Piers. I have never known
any lady artist  scarce any artists, male or female.
A Hfe on the ocean wave " is not favourable for
cultivating the fine arts. Come along,' to Herbert
' let us have a stroll in the garden ;' and Herbert
gladly followed him.

'Well, dear,' cried Mrs. Crewe, directly the door
was shut, while she piled up the plates and cups
on the tray, ready for Collins ; ' well, dear, what
do you think of him? Isn't he a darling? Ah,

if you only knew his goodness and patience and
self-denial in the old times ! but he will have his
reward. You cannot think how well he stands
with the firm ; they have the highest opinion of
him : and between you and me, from what he tells
me, I think there is every probability that they will
take him into partnership, and then I consider that
his fortune will be made, and he need not go to
sea again. Oh, how I pray for that day ! Is he
like what you expected ?'

Not exactly ; people never are,' returned Laura,
with hearty sympathy. ' But I think he is better-looking
than his portrait, and seems very nice and
sensible.'

Sensible ! my dear, he is immensely clever !
There is nothing he does not know and understand
; the worst is, he makes so little of himself ;
another man would put himself forward twice as
much. Do not mind what he says about his
sketches  he draws beautifully, Laura, beautifully.
Do ring that bell ; twice, dear  once more, please ;
Collins is so slow, and there is a good deal to do.
Yes, Laura, you must see Denzil's drawings, and
judge for yourself. Oh, Collins ! Come, my girl !
Come, come, come ! Here, take away the tray ;
and then make haste and put your master's room
right. He always likes to go to bed early. Be
sure you wash up everything to-night. He must
have his breakfast at half-past seven tomorrow,
and, indeed, every day ; he has to go down to the
docks and to the office, so be sure you have plenty

of boiling water at seven or a quarter to ; and,
Collins, pray don't forget to set the alarm at five,
Collins; and, stop, my girl, don't you think you
might put a nail a little lower down and hang the
clock just near your ear ? It is so hard to wake
you, Collins. There ! Go, go, go ! Do not waste
time looking at me with your mouth open,' etc.

5f-K- * jK

Denzil Crewe's presence made very little
difference in the quiet household of Leamington
Road. He had his breakfast early, and departed
quietly about his business, returning to the usual
high tea at half-past seven, after which he often went
out with Herbert, on whom he bestowed most of
his attention and conversation. Indeed, it was not
for some time that he found an hour of daylight
free to look at Laura's paintings, or exhibit his own
sketches

Meantime, events ran on their course  just now
slow and halting. Reginald came according to his
promise, and took Laura for a long delightful drive
to Harrow, and round the pleasant lanes in that
direction.

He was quieter and more gently agreeable than
on the day of the Admiral's visit, but was evidently
displeased to hear of Denzil Crewe's arrival,
although he congratulated Mrs. Crewe on her son's
return with cheerful cordiality.

What sort of a fellow is this sailor } is he a
gentleman ?' he asked with a frown. ' I never
dreamt he would come home.'

Yes, he is certainly a gentleman returned
Laura thoughtfully ; ' not in a conventional way,
but there is something I like very much  something
one can trust  in his simplicity and quiet.
Yes, he has all the best essentials of a gentleman.'


That's a high eulogium, Laura,* cried Reginald,
partly amused, partly offended, as he touched up
his horses. ' I begin to feel that this mariner of
England is dangerous. I must keep a sharp lookout.'


Reginald !' she exclaimed, a ring of reproachful
surprise in her sweet tones, ' I will not let you talk
nonsense, even in jest. Imagine your being jealous
of anyone P

Laura,' said he, turning to look long and earnestly
into her eyes, ' I believe you are faithful and true,
if ever woman was. But,' he added, after a short
pause, * I do not like to think that unsuitable
society has been forced upon you  society "unsuitable
to my future wife.'

Set your mind at rest, Reginald. Mr. Crewe is
quite fit to associate even with greater ladies than
your future wife''

I wish the future were nearer, Laura,' said Reginald
tenderly. ' Do you know, that dear old boy
the Admiral was not to be put off seeing my
mother ! He sticks to his own ideas with marvellous
tenacity  nails every colour he adopts to
the mast, in short.'

I am very vexed he is so determined on seeing

VOL. I.  18

Mrs. Piers said Laura, her eyes filling with tears ;
it is humiliating to me.'

No, do not think so returned Reginald soothingly.
' I have been thinking and hoping he may
produce some effect on my mother. At any rate,
he will have done what is possible by fair means.
If that fails, I don't think even the Admiral will
be against our taking the law into our own hands.
And I have your promise (have I not, dearest?) 
your promise to be mine, with or without the
maternal consent, when we have exhausted all
means of persuasion ?'

'Ah, Reginald !' cried Laura, quivering with the
effort to deny the voice and words so dear to her,
we must wait awhile, and see what time will bring
forth.'

*I consider you have promised said Reginald,
and at once turned the conversation, as he knew
well how to do, drawing his fiancee into delightful
absorbing talk of the fair future that lay before
them, putting the finishing touch to her satisfaction
by proposing that they should offer a home to
Winnie at Pierslynn. She would be a nice useful
companion, Reginald suggested, for Laura, and
probably find a happy and suitable marriage among
their country neighbours.

Was there ever so thoughtful and generous a
lover ?

The day but one after this conversation the
Admiral was expected to arrive, * bearing,' not his
sheaves, but Winnie with him.

A few hasty, enraptured lines from the latter had
told Laura to expect them about six.

The day seemed unaccountably long, especially
the minutes from five o'clock on. And Reginald
was particularly engaged, could not by any possibility
come out to see Laura, though next day he
hoped to spend with her, and make Miss Fieldenen's
acquaintance.

Mrs. Crewe had been exceedingly busy arranging
a chamber for Winnie, as Laura was now far too
important a personage to be in any way incommoded.


Then that unreasonable old Jenkins had taken
offence, partly on account of the copper kettle
having been denied to him, and partly because he
had received notice to quit.

Though, believe me,' said Mrs. Crewe, when
detailing the particulars of their last interview, ' I
expressed myself in the most lady-like manner,
with the greatest consideration, so I cannot help
it. He is determined to be off on Wednesday
next. He must just please himself I am not
sorry he is going. I want all my rooms now that
Denzil is here and dear Miss Fieldenen coming.'

Laura's heart throbbed painfully fast with joy
and expectation, when, a few minutes after the appointed
time, a cab stopped at the door, and the
next moment Winnie was in her arms.

What a wonderful delight it is to hear again,
after long absence, the voice for which one has
longed, to look into the dear familiar face, and

182

read again sympathy and affection in well-known
eyes; to recognise the little gestures, the peculiar
turns of expression, so associated with happy
days of perfect unrestricted intercourse ! and two
months was a long separation for the cousins
who had never before been parted even for a
day.

Laura was too deeply moved even to speak ; but
Winnie, whose tendency it was to express every
feeling, rushed into rapid words.

Oh, dear, dear Laura ! I can hardly believe
that I am safe with you again ! It has been so
dreadful ! And how well you are looking, dearest !
quite charming. Ah ! Mrs. Crewe, I am so pleased
to come back  so thankful you can take me in !
And how is Topsy ? Collins, are you quite well ?
How nice and home-like everything seems ! Your
house is so delightful after the stiff gilding of
Liverpool !' etc., etc.

And everyone crowded round her, feeling pleased
and elated by her uncontrolled joy at finding herself
amongst them once more.

A little graciousness on the part of youth and
beauty goes so far ! and Winnie was always frankly
cordial.

Mrs. Crewe embraced her with effusion ; Collins
courtesies with a grateful, well-pleased grin ; Topsy
purred loudly on being stroked by her, and Herbert
greeted her with a sonorous hearty kiss.

Let me look at you quietly,' said Laura, when
they were safe in the privacy of Winnie's chamber.

You are not looking like yourself, dearest ; what
ails you ?'

In truth, she looked pale and thin. Her deep
blue eyes were bright with the joy of their meeting,
but a dark shade beneath them suggested
suffering of some kind.

Yes, I am sure I look old and worn,' returned
Winnie, glancing at the glass ; ' but I shall soon be
myself again now I am with you. Oh ! I have
been quite miserable. Do you know, I don't think
my aunt meant to make me unhappy, and Fanny
and Jack only followed their natural instinct to
trample on, or try to trample on, what they thought
weaker than themselves. It was Mr. Morgan who
hated me, as something he could not conquer ; perhaps
he was unconscious of it himself. But oh !
that is all past and gone now ; and you, you dear
old thing, are really going to be married to Reggie
Piers ! Is it not funny that you should be married
before me ! I do not know how it is (I am sure he
is in the greatest luck to get such a dear good wife
as you will be !), but somehow I never thought you
would marry !'

Nor did I either,' said Laura, laughing. ' I
hardly believe it now.'

But I do,' cried Winnie, ' I quite believe it now,
you are looking so bright and well and  no, not
pretty  better than pretty  as if a soft, bright flame
had sparkled up from your heart. And when is it
to be .'" continued Winnie, who was brushing her
hair and making a hasty toilette.

Not yet awhile,' said Laura, with a sigh. * I
will tell you all after dinner; but pray make
haste.'

Then pray take out my black dinner dress 
do you remember Mrs. Crewe's anxiety to get it
for me ?  I have only worn it twice. It is in the
tray of my box ; there, thank you, dear ! Is my hair
straight ?*

Not quite, a little more to the right ; and
Winnie, did the Admiral mention having seen Mrs.
Piers ?' asked Laura anxiously, as she tied a jet
locket round her cousin's neck.

No, not a word. Why ? is there any difficulty
there ?'

Yes, great difficulty, I fear. Mrs. Piers naturally
expects her son to make a brilliant match, and '

She must be a horrid old cat, then ! and cannot
knowj/2//' cried Winnie, with much frankness and
decision.

A heavy thump on the door startled them. * I
say, are you two not ready yet ?' said Herbert outside.
' Mrs. Crewe says dinner is on the table, and
the fish will be quite cold.'

We are coming directly,' said Laura.

How much Herbert has grown ! He seems to
have his wits more about him, too !' exclaimed
Winnie. A last touch to her hair, a last look in
the glass, and she declared herself ready.

Mrs. Crewe meantime had awaited the appearance
of her two young friends with much impatience.
She had on this festive occasion put no small strain

on the resources of her modest establishment by-resolving
 now that her son was at home to take
the foot of the table  to give the Admiral a proper
seven-o'clock dinner.

Over the consequent sufferings of Collins wc
draw a veil. In an evil hour, and under the
generous promptings of her uplifted heart, Mrs.
Crewe proposed to engage auxiliary force in the
shape of an elderly charwoman of high character
and undoubted ability ; who, from the heights of
her own respectability and knowledge, so looked
down upon oppressed and insulted Collins, that
that much-enduring young person absolutely turned
upon her, and the success of the entertainment was
seriously imperilled by a tremendous explosion of
wrath in the kitchen.

However, matters had settled down to working
order again. Laura had decorated the table with
flowers, and Mrs. Crewe had polished the glasses
and folded the napkins after the distinguished style
of the butler at her late grandmamma's.

A most wonderful woman my dear grand-mamma,
Laura. I remember her when I was quite
a little girl. She was a daughter of Lord Denzil's,
you know, and always walked with a silver-headed
cane. She died at the advanced age of eighty-nine,
and had thirty-two teeth in her head the day of
her death !' so explained Mrs. Crewe as Laura and
herself assisted to set forth the table.

Many and complicated were the instructions
bestowed on the tearful Collins as to changing of

plates and handing of dishes ; nor would she have
escaped the agonies of passing round the wine, and
the misery of spilling the same on the best cloth,
but for the interference of Laura, who gently urged
that in a quiet, almost family party the guests
might help themselves and each other, to which
suggestion Mrs. Crewe assented.

Mrs. Crewe, the Admiral, Herbert, and Denzil
were assembled when the two girls entered, and,
after a hasty introduction of her son to Miss
Fieldenen, Mrs. Crewe took the Admiral's arm and led
the way into the dining-room. Mr. Crewe naturally
gave his arm to Winnie, and Herbert brought up
the rear with Laura.

It was a pleasant sight to see Mrs. Crewe beaming
on her guests from behind a dish of picturesquely
brown fried soles on a snowy napkin, to
observe the warm hospitality with which she pressed
her friends to eat, and popped unexpected tit-bits
and sudden spoonfuls of gravy on the Admiral's
plate. It was a real joy to her, first to provide
good things, and then to see them appreciated.
Her heart swelled within her, as her eye roved from
the daintily roasted leg of mutton, plump, brown,
and juicy, across the intervening tomatoes and
salad, to the veal-and-ham pie, on the composition
of which she prided herself; whilst Collins, in a new
dress and painfully starched collar, flitted round the
table with a dish full of floury potatoes, dropping
the spoon occasionally with a mighty clang, and
hitting the head that ' came nearest  hard with her

right elbow as she handed them over the shoulders
of the guests. The tide had indeed turned for Mrs.
Crewe, and despite the privations and struggles
long drawn out and the hope long deferred of the
hard old times, the indestructible buoyancy of her
nature sprang up to meet fortune's favouring gale
with sympathetic gaiety.

Then a moment of triumph awaited her, when
the dessert, which she wisely substituted for second
course, was placed on the table, and everyone
came twice to use her own phrase, for the cream,
on which she had expended much care.

The little dinner was very successful, and Laura
observed that Denzil Crewe was a capital support
to his mother, and played the part of host well and
easily. He and the Admiral had much to say to
each other, about shipping, and the many changes
introduced into the means and appliances of vessels,
on the new developments of the carrying trade
brought about by the opening of the Suez Canal,
etc. ; while he by no means neglected the young
ladies right and left of him. Winnie, still excited
by the joy of being once more free and safe with
Laura, talked frankly, with much animation. Laura
noticed that Denzil looked often long and thoughtfully
at her when she turned partly from him to
speak to his mother or the Admiral, a wistful, half-wondering
look, but grave and respectful. Laura
herself was silent ; she had as yet had no opportunity
for speaking with her guardian. She was
not, however, eager for the report of his interview

with Mrs. Piers. She felt quite sure he had met
with no success, and she rather feared to hear particulars.
Herbert meantime was reaping the reward
of having earned Mrs. Crewe's regard. What private
slices of rare quality were slipped on to his
plate ; what surreptitious spoonfuls of goody were
dropped upon it ; what huge, mellow, juicy pears
were picked out for him, and 'just a drop more' of
rarely tasted sherry frequently added to his glass,
it boots not to tell.

Do take a little more claret, Laura dear,' cried
Mrs. Crewe. ' I only wish Mr. Piers were here.
He is such a charming companion altogether, quite
a model young man. He was particularly engaged,
I am sorry to say.'

Of necessity he has much to look to on succeeding
to his inheritance said the Admiral, ' and he
has an eager nature  even somewhat impatient, I
fear.' He smiled a kindly smile to Laura as he
spoke, which called the colour to her cheek.

Has Mr. Piers reddish-auburn hair, and blue
eyes?' asked Denzil Crewe, helping himself to a
peach.

He has,' returned Laura, looking at him with
some curiosity.

I fancy I met him at the Docks this afternoon,
coming off a vessel outward bound for Melbourne
I think ' added Denzil.

You must be mistaken,' cried Laura, much surprised.
'You have never seen him. How 'could
you know him, Mr. Crewe ?'

 My mother has shown me his photograph  and
I cannot help thinking it was the original I met.
One of those odd recognitions that seize a man
sometimes flashed across me. I feel sure I saw
Mr. Piers to-day.'

I should have thought you too calm and philosophic
to entertain such presentiments,' said Winnie,
smiling on him. * Do you believe, then, in second
sight ?'

No ; but there are strange moods that come
upon one, and I am not philosophic. Miss Fieldenen.
Sailors are generally considered superstitious, you
know.'

I do not object to superstition,' said the Admiral
thoughtfully. * Superstition is but the ill-directed
craving of the soul for something beyond the meat
which perished, an unconscious confession of the
need for faith '

It is certainly a confession that we are working
in the dark, under laws of which we have but a
very vague idea said Denzil Crewe.

Still, I cannot believe you saw Reginald,' observed
Laura, returning to the point from which
they had started. * Did you know,' addressing the
Admiral, * if Reginald had any business at the
Docks ?'

No  I should think he had not, and I imagine
Mr. Crewe must be mistaken.'

Well, perhaps so,' said Denzil carelessly.

I shall certainly ask him if he was there,' returned
Laura  and the subject dropped.

Soon after, they rose from table, and the Admiral,
at his own request, went to hold a private conference
with Laura in her little studio.

I have had a long conversation with Mrs. Piers,'
he began.

And the result is not satisfactory,' said Laura,
turning rather white, while her heart sank within
her.

Mrs. Piers is more prejudiced than I anticipated,'
returned the Admiral gravely ; ' more than is justifiable
 although she commands my sympathy on
one point. Still, I do not despair of her coming
round  but you must both give her time.'

What is the point on which you sympathize
with her, dear sir .?' asked Laura anxiously.

I will tell you hereafter, Laura  nothing in
which you are to blame. Indeed  as I told Mrs.
Piers  you are a daughter-in-law whom any
mother might be anxious to secure, although you
have none of this world's goods  but there is no
need of dwelling on anything unpleasant. If you
and Reginald have patience, all will come right; and
I rejoice to think how true and affectionate a lover
you have, my dear Laura ! this gift of love is the
crowning jewel that God has set as the seal and
sign of his delegated Majesty. It is a very sacred
thing, and not to be lightly entertained. I once
knew something  a foretaste  of its strength and
sweetness  but to me it brought a long martyrdom.'

Laura felt, she knew not why, strangely cast
down by the Admirals speech, and the evident

suppression of something, which suggested the
existence of an obstacle more tangible than a
mother's natural ambition.

But, dear guardian, is there not some grave
objection which you conceal from me  something
you fear would wound me ?'

No,-' he returned, and paused long in deep
thought. ' No he repeated, with a tinge more of
cheerfulness. * Nothing that need cause you
uneasiness or self-reproach. Hereafter, when allis
well  when you are a happy wife  I will explain
my slight hesitation. For the present, be strong
and of a good courage  be strong, I mean, against
the persuasions with which I feel sure Reginald
will tempt you. This impetuosity is perhaps but
natural in a young man. I will, however, speak
seriously with him myself

The Admiral ceased, and Laura did not care to
break the silence. On the whole, she thought
matters were not so bad. That they  Reginald
and herself  should have to wait, she always
expected ; but it was evident that, for whatever
reason, the Admiral was more warmly on their
side than before, and there was no great hardship
in delay, while she could see Reginald daily
with all the freedom of an acknowledged engagement.


I thought Winnie looking very ill and worn,'
said the Admiral, breaking silence at last. * I
must say, my heart smote me for having prolonged
her trial beyond what was needful. I fear her aunt

was neither just nor judicious. I wish I had sooner
removed her.'

Oh, she will soon revive with me  with us,' cried
Laura, hastening to reassure him.

I think I see an improvement already,' he observed.
* Now, my dear Laura, send Herbert tome.
I wish to prepare him for going to school
after the holidays, and to speak on other topics.'

When Laura reached the drawing-room, she
found Herbert and Denzil Crewe deep in a game
of draughts ; Winnie playing a soft, dreamy
Schemer Lied,' and Mrs. Crewe, with an expression
of supreme content, nodding gracefully in
her armchair beside the piano, while Topsy was
curled-up on a footstool near her.

The Admiral wants to speak to you, Herbert.'

Can't I stop to finish the game ?'

Oh no  not now ; I will take his place, Mr.
Crewe, if you will let me, but Herbert must go.'

Ay, you must  be off with you, youngster,' said
Denzil good-humouredly.

'UT the next day did not bring Reginald
Piers, nor the next. Pleasant little
notes of excuse came, however, a tempting
basket of fruit and flowers, a civil
message to Winnie, who expressed her impatience
at this delay much more energetically and openly
than Laura. Both girls, indeed, were exceedingly
busy preparing Herbert's wardrobe for school,
whither he was to go the following week, and very
delightful it was to both of them to work together
once more ; while Winnie's lively pictures of life
in Liverpool made Laura and Mrs. Crewe merry,
as their nimble fingers sped through their self-imposed
task.

For it was quite self-imposed. Mrs. Crewe, who
had received most liberal instructions from the
Admiral, was by no means satisfied Jn her own
mind that it was right to permit the future Mrs.
Piers of Pierslynn to wear out her eyes mending
her cousin's old socks and running the heels of his
new ones.

Winnie indeed, being of a careless, pleasure-loving
nature, was greatly disposed to limit her
exertions to the choice of new garments and the
giving of orders.

'That dear old angel seems to have loads of
money, and wishes to get rid of it ; why need we
work our fingers to the bone, Laura ?'

Oh ! Winnie dear, just think! he is giving
Herbert everything, We are bound in duty and
honour to make his money last as long and go as
far as possible.'

To which Winnie, vibrating instantly to the touch
of truth, replied :

Yes ! of course, of course ! What a heedless
unprincipled thing I am, not to think all that for
myself!'

Certainly we must not waste the Admiral's
money,' said Mrs. Crewe gravely. ' But really,
Laura, I think you might go and paint a little,
dear ; Winifrid and myself can get on very welland
I do not know what Mr. Piers would say if he
came in and saw you stitching away as if for dear
life,' etc.

I suppose Reggie does not want his own socks
mended now,' remarked Winnie, with a laugh.
How nice to marry a man who need never trouble
you to mend or make for him ! Is he as conceited
as ever, Mrs. Crewe ? Of course he has no human
frailties in Laura's eyes.'

Conceited !' cried Mrs. Crewe. ' He is nothing
of the kind !, He is the kindest, best bred, simplest,

most straightforward young man I ever met, except
my own dear boy.*

Ah ! so you are bewitched too,' exclaimed
Winnie. ' I foresee that I shall be the only one
capable of holding the scales of justice among you
all!'

This conversation took place in the drawing-room,
which was littered with garments new and
old, the third afternoon after Winnie Fieldenen's
arrival at Leamington Road  she was still bubbling
over with joyous excitement at having escaped
from her nondescript position in her aunt's house.
She was more like her old self of the Cheddington
days than Laura had seen her since they left
Dresden, and she felt her own happiness doubled
by this congenial change. If Winnie was thus
bright and sympathetic with Reginald, he would
be all the more disposed to offer her a home with
them, ' a consummation ' she devoutly desired ;
for Laura was too young, too unsuspicious, to foresee
the many-sided peril to which such an arrangement
might lead.

Her guardian had bid them an affectionate and
cheerful good-bye the evening before. He was
always in a hurry to get back to his invalid sister,
over whom hung a thin veil of mystery most attractive
to Winnie, who had built up many theories
to account for the retired separated life of their
benefactor.

The afternoon had slipped rapidly away, and
Winnie was beginning to think that she had sat a

VOL. I.  19

long time at work, when Herbert put his head into
the room, and asked her to come out with him.

It is not at all hot, and, Winnie, there is such a
beautiful knife at a cutler's in Westbourne Grove.
I want you to look at it and see if we cannot get ita
bit cheaper ; the fellow wants five shillings for it.'

Oh, that is a great deal too much ! But I will
come with you, Herbert. Will you come, Laura ?'

No, thank you.'

Why, that would be losing her chance of a
visitor,' said Mrs. Crewe.

'Ah! yes, I forgot that! Well, if Reginald
comes, be sure you keep him till I come back.'

'Ah! I can tell you, once he comes, he is in no
hurry to go,' cried Mrs. Crewe with a knowing nod,
as Winnie disappeared to put on her hat.

She is really a dear, sweet, elegant creature,' said
Mrs. Crewe, looking after her. ' She will not belong
" on hands." I would not blame any man for
making a fool of himself about her.'

No, nor I ; though she was such a child in
Dresden, the people used to stare at her quite unpleasantly.
What a charm there is in beauty !'
added Laura, with an unconscious sigh.

Yes, to be sure,' returned Mrs. Crewe quickly ;
but, after all, it is only skin-deep, and it is well that
men are to be found with taste and judgment to
choose women of intellect and  and excellence 
and '

Mrs. Crewe ran aground In her not very judicious
but Laura did not heed her; she was

thinking how precious beauty had ever been to
her, but that now she would give ten even of the
sunny years which she had every reason to think
lay before her could she thereby purchase that most
rare gift. To be a beauteous woman for her love,
a graceful, gracious chatelaine of whom he might be
proud ; to have some treasure of comeliness, some
natural wealth of fair seeming to give in return for
all that he had laid at her feet  ah ! what price
would be too high to pay for such a possession ?
And though she felt so sure of Reginald's loyalty
and true affection, proved by his free unhesitating
choice of herself  his ardent desire to carry out
their engagement in spite of all opposition  a
strange chill grey cloud stole over her heart, weighing
it down for a few instants with a dim shadowy
fear, shapeless, undefined !

It was but for a moment : her strong calm sense
told her the folly of such sentimental delusions,
and a better charm came to break the spell. A
peal of the door-bell, a rapid shuffling upstairs of
Collins, and the longed-for announcement :

Mr. Piers is in the drawing-room, 'm !'

Laura rose with unusual precipitancy.

Good gracious, my dear Laura ! do shake the
threads off your dress, at least cried Mrs. Crewe,
shocked by her young friends reckless disregard of
appearance. Laura complied hastily, and the next
moment her dread, and doubts, and self-distrust had
all gone, as she stood face to face with Reginald,
and felt his smile and heard his voice.

19  2

He looked very bright and affectionate, and
greeted her with a joyous warmth that made her
heart glow.

And how are you, my wise sedate monitress,
after these long days ?' he cried. ' It seems such
ages since we met. But I have got rid of a heap
of business, and shall not lose sight of you for such
a long time again. Tell me how you got on with
the Admiral, and if you have missed me much ?
and if Winnie is all right ?' He drew her to the
sofa, and sat down beside her, gently kissing her
hand, keeping it in his ; they talked long of their
plans and hopes, and Reginald was more than
usually delightful ; he even managed to communicate
the unfavourable intelligence that Mrs. Piers
had left Pierslynn and was on her way to Vichy,
without startling his hearer ; it was merely to ward
off a threatened touch of gout, and to indulge a
long-cherished desire to renew her acquaintance
with Continental life, that his mother undertook the
journey, he said. 'She will return in her right
mind, dearest, I trust,' he concluded ; ' and the only
obstacle to my happiness will be removed,' he
added, with a quick genuine sigh. ' For after all, I
would rather marry with, than without, her consent.'


I am so glad you are reasonable, dear, dear
Reginald,' cried Laura. * Yes ; that would indeed
be a happy solution of all difficulties. How long
will your mother be away ?'

Oh, a month or six weeks at the outside  she

wanted me to go with her  but that was not Hkely
eh, Laura ?'

If she really wanted you '

But she did not ; she only wanted to take me
away, as if that would be any avail after the test of
nearly four years' separation ! Ah ! Laura, my love
is like Conrad's,

" Which nought removed nor threatened to remove." '

Laura was listening intently, when the door was
suddenly opened, and Winnie stood before them 
tall, lithe, delicately round, with the graceful poise
of head that gives so much dignity to the figure 
her ordinary black dress borrowing distinction from
the wearer  a large hat with crape band and rosette
slightly to one side giving a picturesque Gainsborough
look to her head, the delicate oval face
slightly tinged with rose, the somewhat full yet
refined red lips parted in a surprised smile, the big
dark blue eyes gazing frankly, earnestly at the pair
she had disturbed, and the masses of her wavy,
satiny, nut-brown hair fastened loosely, but not
carelessly, back from brow and eyes into a knot,
low down upon her neck, contrary to the prevailing
fashion.

A fairer picture , Laura thought, never presented
itself, but she looked on her cousin fearless and unmoved.
In the love she had won was no variableness
or shadow of turning.

Ah, Winnie, I am so glad you have come in !'
cried Laura.

Reginald immediately rose from his seat and
stood an instant in silent surprise ; then springing
forward to meet her :

Is it possible this is little Winnie ?' he exclaimed,
shaking hands with her warmly. * Why, I should
never have known you  you are so tall, so altered,
such a young lady.' He stopped and gazed at her
with an eager searching look for an instant.

But I told you, Reginald,' said Laura, beckoning
her cousin to sit down by her  ' you know I
told you.'

Did you ? returned Reginald, stepping back tolet
Winnie pass.

Ah ! yes  I dare say you did, Laura ; and I
dare say Reggie (I suppose I may call him Reggie)
never heard you. You have something else to
think about. But,' leaning her elbow on the back
of Laura's chair, ' / should have known you ! You
certainly look years older, yet you are just the same
as you used to be at Cheddington, the same sharp,
merry, impatient look, the same conceited air, a
little more conceited  eh, Laura ?

Conceited !' cried Reginald, laughing good-humouredly
as he returned to his place. ' I am not
conceited, am I, Laura?'

I am not sure ; you know your own value.'

By Jove ! I have fallen into the hands of relentless
judges '

Ah  you are pretty well spoilt, / suspect,' said
Winnie, taking off her hat and laying it on the
carpet. * But what a charming idea of yours and

Laura's to marry ; you were always such friends ;
you will get on beautifully 1'

Your consent is of the last importance, and weare
most grateful for your approbation returned
Reginald.

A lively conversation followed, the only drawback
to which, in Laura's estimation, was that the
word-play between Reginald Piers and Winifrid
sounded rather too sharp  a trifle too stinging to
her sensitive ear.

Upon this congenial talk Mrs. Crewe obtruded
herself, and was, as usual, received with much empressement
by Mr. Piers.

I had no idea you had come in, my dear,' she
said to Winnie. ' What have you done with Herbert
?'

He went to say good-bye to some boy who is
going away.'

Well, Mr. Piers, you will stay to tea  will you
not? It is nearly seven o'clock, and I want so
much to introduce my son to you  you have never
met him ?'

Reginald professed his desire to make his acquaintance,
and graciously consented to remain.

I am so glad !' said Mrs. Crewe. ' Oh, Winnie,
my dear, would you mind coming with me? you
did say you would like to know how to make horseradish
sauce. I am just going to make some.'

Indeed, I should very much like to know !' cried
Winnie, starting up and following Mrs. Crewe to
the kitchen.

You know,' resumed that lady, when they had
reached a safe depth  'you know we must leave
the affianced pair to have their talk out ; they must
have much to talk about, as j<97/ will no doubt discover
one of these days, my dear ; and I am always
very careful not to intrude upon them.'

I see,' cried Winnie, feeling a little vexed ; ' but,
dear Mrs. Crewe, could not be an intruder; they
are both so familiar with me  that '

Ah, my dear,' interrupted Mrs. Crewe, ' a third
party in such affairs always spoils sport. Now, just
hand me that little jug of cream,' etc.

-Jf >Jc >K *

Reginald was always a pleasant addition to the
party, and though to Laura and Winnie it seemed
quite natural that their old familiar friend Reggie
Piers should share this essentially bourgeois meal
 should pass round the cheering cups, distribute
the bread-and-butter, cut the cold ham or beef, and
plunge the shining spoon far down into the rosy
depths of the strawberry jam  Mrs. Crewe never
forgot, or let anyone else forget, that Mr. Piers of
Pierslynn, but for the love, loyalty, and general
nobility of his character, might at that moment be
seated at late dinner and waited on by obsequious
but gorgeous menials ; might have claret-cup on
his right hand and champagne upon his left, while
archdeacon servitors of the first rank, with distinguished
manners and unexceptionable broadcloth,
might be whispering tender inquiries as to
his predilection for ' hock or sherry ;' and all this

under the cool heights of his ancestral hall, or amid
the refined luxury of some Pall Mall club !

The second cup had been served, and Laura was
in the act of handing the horseradish sauce to
Reginald, when Denzil Crewe came in.

Very pleased to make your acquaintance,' said
Reginald Piers, rising and coming forward to greet
him with well-bred cordiality, as Mrs. Crewe pronounced
the formula of introduction. ' I am quite
familiar with your name.'

'You are very good,' was Mr. Crewe's only answer,
as he accepted Reginald's offered hand, and the two
men stood looking at each other for a moment 
looking into each other's eyes with a sudden darkening
and dim distrust, as if recognising in that instant
contact of spirit a vague but perceptible antagonism
a something neither would acknowledge or could
put into words, yet which would govern their
mutual action and reaction ; Denzil Crewe standing
square, steady, profoundly composed ; Reginald
alert, gracious, his light eyes keen but courteous, a
tinge of condescension in his suavity  not inapt
representatives of a battle-axe and a rapier.

Laura watched both with interest and odd,
uneasy feeling at which she was herself surprised.
Naturally she compared the well-bred grace of her
betrothed with the solid, nay, somewhat heavy,
strength of Denzil Crewe, to the advantage of the
former, yet she felt a sincere liking for her kind
hostess's son ; there was a strong degree of sympathy
between them, and she welcomed him with a

pleasant smile as he took his place between Winnie
and his mother.

I saw the Admiral this morning said Denzil,
as I was coming from Mr. Duncan's, in Gloucester
Square.'

Is it possible ?' cried Winnie. ' I thought he
had gone away yesterday.'

It was the Admiral, however,' returned Denzil,
looking at her, a peculiar soft, pleasant smile overspreading
his face. ' Admiral Desbarres is not to
be mistaken, and I have known him all my life as
my patron saint'

The Admiral has evidently been amusing himself,'
said Reginald, with a smile, ' and outstaying
his leave. I, too, thought our tutelar deity had
gone back to his rustic retreat yesterday, and I saw
nothing of him last night'

The dear, good Admiral !' cried Winnie. ' Do
you think, Mr. Crewe, he could ever have smoked,
and sworn, and drunk grog, and chewed tobacco,
like other sailors ? They all chew tobacco In
Marryat's novels, you know.'

*I don't think he ever could. But, Miss Fieldenen,
all sailors don't smoke and drink and chew tobacco,
though there is still room for Improvement, and weare
rather a rough lot,' observed Denzil.

I assure you there is much that is reprehensible
going on in the Royal Navy,' said Mrs. Crewe,
shaking her head sagely, as she poured out the
eleventh cup of tea unflinchingly.

There Is plenty that Is reprehensible in every

profession said Reginald amiably, ' and plenty of
good fellows to be found in all

I fancy schoolmasters are the worst lot going
put in Herbert.

I remember you used to be very fond of Professor
Schroeder said Winnie.

Well, he was a proper sort of a chap, full of life
and spirit'

Which is remarkable in a German philosopher
said Laura.

Did not somebody tell us that he had gone
to Africa or Australia with some exploring expedition
V asked Winnie.

' Yes. I did hear something of the sort returned
Herbert.

Oh, Reginald !' exclaimed Laura, her memory
stimulated by this remark, ' have you any friends
about to emigrate ? for Mr. Crewe fancied he saw
you coming away from a ship in the West India
Dock, three or four days ago  the day Winnie
came back to us. I do not fancy it could have
been you !'

While Laura spoke, a sudden gleam of surprise
and displeasure flashed from Reginald's eyes in the
direction of Denzil Crewe, who was not looking at
him ; it was but instantaneous, and his face immediately
settled into somewhat hard composure.

Yes he said, rather slowly, * I was at the Docks
that day ; and he added, with a smile, *you may
probably see the result of my visit hereafter at
Pierslynn.'

'Ah,' cried Herbert, 'I know! Kangaroos, or
something queer for the park.'

Or black swans for the lake. Have you a lake,
Reggie ?' said Winnie.

No,' he returned, laughing good-humouredly ;
and if I had, I should be satisfied with the I'ara
avis I have already caught !'

At which pleasant conceit everyone smiled approvingly,
and Laura blushed and shrank into herself;
compliments, especially public compliments,
distressed her infinitely ; anything that drew attention
to her was an annoyance ; and, probably perceiving
this, Reginald changed the subject cleverly
by proposing to give a whitebait dinner at Greenwich
to the party there assembled, adding, to
Laura's intense surprise, ' I expect my sister, Lady
Jervois, in town tomorrow, and she will no doubt
postpone her departure for the North to preside.'

Mrs. Crewe at these words stopped in the act of
pouring out,' teapot in hand, too astonished and
delighted to continue.

I am sure that is quite charming ; only, I
thought she wouldn't  that is, I did not know 
dear me, it will be very nice !' she exclaimed,
breaking off her sentences rather unconnectedly.

Reginald smiled pleasantly at Laura, and then
Mrs. Crewe said :

If you do not want any more tea, we will leave
Herbert to finish his, and go into the drawing-room.
It will be much cooler there.'

Whereupon Laura rose, knowing that Mrs. Crewe

wished to be left behind to cram Herbert, and
direct the removal of the tea-things. The rest went
into the drawing-room, which was cool and sweet,
with open windows and Reginald's flowers, while
the light of one lamp was sufficient, though very
soft.

Will you not play to us ?' asked Denzil of
Winnie, opening the piano, ' if it is not unreasonable
to ask you every night. But I don't suppose
you can imagine the enjoyment it is to me to sit
in the half-light and listen to you.-*

Yes, I can, Mr. Crewe. I enjoy the same thing
immensely, but I also enjoy playing; so, what shall
I play ?'

Anything you like  anything soft and dreamy.'
And he sat down in a dusky corner, from whence
he could see the player ; while Winnie's fluent
fingers wandered over the keys, seemingly without
an effort, discoursing excellent music  endless
'Vols Lieder,' bits of operas, Hungarian dances,
and Polish waltzes, which are more laments than
incentives to merry movement.

Meantime Reginald followed Laura the window,
where she went to let down the Venetian blind.

This little room is really sweet and pleasant,' he
said, throwing himself into an armchair.

'It is,' said Laura, looking 'round, a delicious
sensation of content and hope and security stealing
over her heart, like the soft ripple of a rising tide of
happiness. 'Ah, Reginald, what pleasure wealth
enables the owner to bestow ! The charm of the

room is due to your thoughtful and delightful gift
of flowers. You are really very good and generous,
Reginald, though I am not going to praise and
spoil you.'

I am far from good,' he returned softly and
slowly, ' but I intend to be desperately good. By-the-bye,
Laura, I have something for you here. I
forgot the last time I saw you. I was vexed about
my mother, and it went out of my head.' He drew
from his breast-pocket as he spoke a small leather
case, opening which, he took out a brilliant ring of
sapphire and diamonds. ' There,' he said, slipping
it on her finger  ' there, the diamonds for you ! the
sapphire for my hopes !' And he sighed  a quick
sigh, which touched Laura deeply. Was it possible
that the delay of their marriage troubled him so
much, and sent that cloud sweeping over his brow
at intervals  often-recurring intervals ? '

It is very beautiful,' she said, looking down at
the ring through the tears that stood in her eyes.
I never possessed anything so beautiful. Ah, dear
Reginald, if your hopes depended on me, none
would be unfulfilled.'

But they do  utterly depend on you.'

Really, Laura, this Reginald of yours is very
nice,' said Winnie that night, as she brushed her
long hair. ' He used not to be so good-looking,
and his manners are quite distinguish. I fancy he
is a little quick-tempered, but very nice, all the
same. You know, I think he will have his own

way ; he is a bit of a flirt, and he is scarce good
enough for you, you dear, steady, sensible old
thing ! Though he is true, at any rate he found
fault with my singing of " Aennchen von Tiara,"
when Denzil Crewe thought it perfect.'

Though the announcement of Lady
Jervois's intended call had for the
moment gratified Laura, the anticipation
of it was far from pleasurable.
In fact, she had worked herself into a condition of
nervous dread before that lady arrived, which she
was ashamed to confess, and which Winnie only
half perceived. The result was, that she had rarely
appeared to such disadvantage as during the visit
of her fiance's sister. She was oppressed with the
consciousness that she was the disturbing element
in what would otherwise be the sunny tranquillity
of good fortune and content, and the anxiety to
choose her words with wisdom and prudence
paralyzed her powers of conversation, naturally of
no mean order.

On her side,, Lady Jervois was timid, and, even
to the least observant, evidently acting under pressure
; while Reginald though composed and fluent,
was a little too perceptibly doing the agreeable.
Mrs. Crewe, with much discretion and self-denial,

decided not to appear ; nor did Winnie, until
Reginald, probably finding the restraint of everyone's
consciousness intolerable, asked for her ; and
when she came, she quickly dispersed the dim mist
of hesitation and difficulty which had settled down
upon the unfortunate three, who had been groping
about in a quagmire of make-believe talk upon
every subject except that uppermost in their
minds.

Bright, friendly, fearless, disposed to like Lady
Jervois for what she considered her generous espousal
of Laura's cause, she chatted away about
the weather and the climate of Germany, the picnics
they used to have there, and the nutting excursions
Reginald used to share at Cheddington, of
her pleasure at being with dear Laura again, and
her delight at meeting Reginald, etc., till Lady
Jervois quite cheered up under the refreshing
shower of commonplace sentences, which led
naturally and easily away from predominant and
oppressive ideas. She was evidently ' taken ' with
Winnie, and at the end of a comparison between
English and German scenery, she said, with timid
civility :

I should like to show you some bolder views
than you meet in the south, Miss Fieldenen, when I
shall, I hope, have the pleasure of seeing you at the
Grange.'

Yes,' added Reginald, looking pleasantly at his
sister, * Ashley Grange is well worth a visit ; it is
within an easy drive of Coniston. We will all

VOL. I. 20

come and look you up, Helen, one of these days ;
and now, don't you think we had better be moving,
if you intend to get through that formidable
list of commissions you showed me this morning?'



Lady Jervois rose with alacrity, receiving a warning
look from her brother as she did so, which
brought the colour to her pale delicate cheek.

Good-morning, Miss Fieldenen,' she said ; ' I hope
to have the pleasure of meeting you again ! I am
sorry, Miss Piers, that I am obliged to leave town
the day after tomorrow, as Sir Gilbert returns
from the Continent to accompany me, otherwise I
should be most happy to be of my brother's party
to Greenwich. I trust that we shall be very good
friends,' she added rather nervously, sand I hope
that my mother will soon recognise how essential
370U are to my brother's happiness, and withdraw
her opposition, which I regret extremely.'

You are very good ; I am greatly grieved to bethe
cause of any unpleasantness, of any difference
'

Laura stopped abruptly, borne down by an overwhelming
sense of humiliation.

You are very considerate'' murmured Lady
Jervois, offering her hand for a chilly touch ; and
with a sweet but rather conventional smile, her
ladyship passed out.

Reginald lingered an instant.

What the deuce Is the matter with you, Laura ?'
he said In a low quick tone. * Why were you so

cold and stiff with her ? You ought to have chatted
away Hke Winnie.'

Ah, Reginald T returned Laura in the same
tone, ' Winnie has nothing at stake ;' but he was
gone almost before she had finished speaking.

Laura looked after him for a moment, and then
threw herself into a corner of the sofa, and covered
her face with one hand, while the other dropped at
her side in expressive listlessness. Winnie stood
exactly where she had said good-bye to Reginald,
gazing puzzled and silent at her cousin, watching
the rise and fall of her bosom as her breath came
quick and irregularly, feeling a dawning comprehension
that all was not as it ought to be.

Dear, dearest Laura,' she exclaimed, suddenly
approaching her and taking the hand which hung
down, ' what is it that distresses you ? tell all tome
; sometimes one's worries shrink into a very
small compass if we take them out and look at
them. What is it, Laura i*'

I cannot tell ; I do not know,' returned Laura,
lifting her head and showing a very pale face, Vv'ith
lips that quivered, though her eyes were steady.
I have suddenly grown unreasonable and superstitious
; but something I cannot define, even to myself,
in Lady Jervois, the sort of forced civility she
showed me, the kind of veiled aversion I fancied I
perceived under her politeness, struck me as an
evil omen. The corner of some curtain seemed
lifted to give a glimpse of trouble and disappointment
and suffering. Oh ! I fear Reginald is not

202

wise in choosing; me : and then, his words were so
sharp and cold ! I am overwhelmed with a sense
of dread

She pressed Winnie's hand tightly as she spoke,
and looked eagerly into her eyes, as if she sought
comfort there. Winnie was more touched than
she liked to show.

What !' she exclaimed, ' is this my Mentor,
my wise clear-sighted Laura, to be so affected
by the awkwardness of a nice little woman in
an awkward position ? Of course Lady Jervois
feels with her mother as well as her brother, and
no doubt will get a scolding from Madame. But
her coming at all was a great advance  why should
you mind anyone except Reginald ?  and you are
sure of him. I tell you what it is, Laura  if Mrs.
Piers does not give in soon, and Reggie gets out of
patience and urges you to marry in spite of them,
do it  he is quite right, and when the irretrievable
step is taken, everyone will come round.'

And the Admiral V said Laura reproachfully.

Well, he is the real difficulty,* began Winnie,
when Mrs. Crewe came suddenly into the room, a
serene smile on her lips and Topsy nodding on her
shoulder.

Why, goodness gracious ! what is the matter ?'
she exclaimed, as her eyes fell upon the pair so unmistakably
giving and receiving consolation. * You
surely have not quarrelled with Mr. Piers, even if
his sister was nasty V

Winnie hastened to explain and laugh at Laura's

unreasonable presentiment ; and Mrs. Crewe uttered

quite a small volume of strong common-sense on

the same text ; and so, between them, Laura was

coaxed into laughing at her own forebodings.
* * *

The ensuing weeks were very happy to Winifrid
Fieldenen. The hearty sympathy with which she
rejoiced in Laura's happy prospects, the consciousness
of being a pet with Mrs. Crewe, and perhaps
an acknowledged enjoyment of Denzil's partly disguised
admiration, which she was far too true a
woman not to recognise  all were agreeable ingredients
in a pleasant whole. But the brightest
jewel of all was the delightful brotherly companionship
of Reginald Piers. Scarce a day
passed that he was not with them walking in
Kensington Gardens, chatting and smoking in the
studio, driving the two girls far into the beautiful
environs of London, and accompanying them to
such galleries and sight-seeing as were available at
the close of the season. In these latter expeditions
Mrs. Crewe often joined ; and as she generally
wished for the fullest information on all subjects,
she was frequently handed over to Laura.

Winifrid's nature was essentially pleasure-loving,
but in no selfish sense. Full to the lips
with healthy joyous life, she yet vibrated to the
smallest discord in the rhythm of another's
existence, if that other were in any way linked with
her: perfectly aware that she could charm, she
liked to cast her spell on all who came near,

scarcely in a spirit of coquetry, rather from the
loving necessity of drawing all to herself. Such
was the sunny surface of her disposition in this her
first springtime ; but beneath it warmer, stronger
qualities slumbered in the stirred, unsuspected
depths of her being.

The quiet happiness of these pleasant days was,
then, for a while unbroken. The Admiral's veto
and Reginald's earnest request put a stop to her
humble projects for winning independence ; so she
practised and read and was unusually diligent with
her needle, and, seeing her cousin so patient and
content, was, like her, satisfied to wait till a better
spirit entered into Mrs. Piers and wrought relenting
in that lady's heart.

The prevailing subject of interest about this
time to the whole party was a plan of Reginald's
to which he attached some importance. Among
his miscellaneous belongings were a couple of very
tumble-down tenements in the market-town of
Midhurst, which was within half an hour's drive of
the Pierslynn park gates. The leases of these
houses had just expired, and Reginald proposed to
pull them down, and on their site to erect a workmen's
reading and lecture room with a library, if
the mayor and corporation would aid him in
supplying books. These potentates graciously
promised to assist, and Reginald, with his usual
eagerness, set architect and contractor to work, and
generally made his appearance in Leamington
Road with a roll of plans or a memorandum of

estimates. The project necessarily caused numerous
visits to Pierslynn, and afforded Mrs. Crewe
material for much mental calculation of the amount
spent by her delightful friend Mr. Piers on railway
fares.

In this scheme Laura took the warmest interest,
and under Reginald's direction made various
designs of possible facades, which were of course
pooh-poohed by the architect with professional
contempt.

Yet, in spite of this congenial occupation, of the
frequent presence of her fiance, the sympathetic
companionship of her cousin, the grey cloud which
had fallen on Laura's spirit the dayof Ladyjervois's
visit never wholly left her: rifts often came, it is
true, through which the sunshine poured warm and
cheering, and bits of promising blue sky appeared ;
but the mist still hung round the near and distant
horizon, ready to close again. Besides, though no
eye could perceive the smallest change, Laura felt
there was a subtle difference, not so much in Reginald,
who was frank and kind and always ready to
talk about his own affairs, as in herself; she involuntarily
tJioicgJU of what she was going to say
before she said it, and felt, in a way she could not
define even to herself, that an impalpable 'something'
had arisen between them.

Meantime Mrs. Piers still lingered in France, and
seemed well pleased with her travels. Reginald
from time to time mentioned having had letters
from his mother, but the question of her consent

to her son's marriage was allowed to rest by tacit
agreement

Denzil, though obliged to pay daily visits to the
City, was less busy than during the first six weeks
after his return home, and was a great addition,
both in Winnie's and Laura's estimation, to the
home circle during Reginald's occasional absences.
When that more ornamental gentleman was present,
Denzil Crewe was remarkably silent, and often
went out to smoke his cigar, though Winnie
in her pleasant, outspoken way, would sometimes
ask him to stay.

One morning, about a month or six weeks after
Lady Jervois had left town, Mrs. Crewe had
asked Laura to accompany her to make some important
purchase for which she had been saving up
shillings and sixpences pared from the 'house-money
' and stored in a little paper trunk which
had once contained bonbons, and had been presented
to her by Herbert in an unusual fit of politeness.
As it was a matter of taste, Mrs. Crewe was
anxious to have her dear Laura's assistance.

Winnie had a slight cold, and so stayed at home,
settling herself to write to Herbert, who seemed to
be getting on at school to his own satisfaction, and
also to her brother in Bombay.

All was very still, the windows of the diningroom
were open, and through them the odour of the
flowers came softly on the warm air, while Winnie,
in a black-and-white morning-gown drawn in at her
waist by a black band, the open sleeves showing

something of her creamy white arms, looked
charmingly graceful, and felt delightfully at ease
and safe from interruption ; for Denzil had gone to-town,
and Reginald was to start that morning at
some early hour for Pierslynn, where he was ta
receive a shooting-party in the afternoon and
remain for a few days.

Winnie, therefore, wrote with fluency and content,,
pleased to describe everything to her absent
brother, and grateful for the good news of herself
and Herbert she was enabled to give. She had
quite finished her Indian letter, and had commenced
the other, when the door opened very unexpectedly
and Reginald Piers walked in.

Reginald !' cried Winnie, greatly astonished.
I imagined you nearly at Pierslynn by this time.*

And I should have been,' returned Reginald
throwing himself into an armchair, 'but for that
stupid fellow of mine, who was so confoundedly
slow about everything this morning that I just
missed the morning train ; so I came up here to-have
a look at you all before I go.'

But how about your friends ? Who will receive
them ?'

Oh ! I shall go down by the same train, and do
the honours quite as effectively.'

Laura and Mrs. Crewe are out,' said Winnie
feeling an odd unusual sensation of embarrassment,,
for there was a something curiously sombre and
intense in Reginald's eyes that made her fear she
knew not what.

Are they ?' returned Reginald, and relapsed into
silence.

Reggie,' cried Winifrid, *is anything the matter?
anything wrong? You look  I do not know how
but not like yourself!'

Reginald laughed, not quite a pleasant laugh.

You are easily frightened,' he said, ' for a
plucky girl, as I have sometimes thought you.
No, sweet cousin !  you are nearly my cousin,
you know !  I have no fatal intelligence to communicate.'


That is all right returned Winnie, and stopped,
not knowing what next to say.

Reginald did not speak either, so after a few
minutes' silence Winnie exclaimed, holding up the
sheets she had covered :

Look ! Have I not written Dick a long letter ?
"Doss, yoitr sister treat you as well ?'

She treats me better  she writes briefly.'

Very well ! If I ever have to write to you, I will
remember your taste.'

I do not suppose, Winnie, we shall have to
write to each other often. You know, Laura and I
intend you to be our sister, and favoured  not
guest, but home-bird  eh, Winnie ?'

You are really too kind and good, dear Reginald,'
she replied, the moisture springing to her
eyes as she raised them to his for an instant, and
then looked away. ' I do not know what I have
done to deserve such friendship.*

Don't call me "dear Reginald," ' said he ; 'you

know you do not care a rap about me  except sofar
as I am of importance to I.aura.'

Indeed, indeed I do,' exclaimed Winifrid earnestly.
' I like you for your own sake ; you are true
and kind, and wonderfully good to me. I should
be ungrateful if I did not like you.'

Ungrateful !' he repeated, gazing at her with the
same sombre intense expression which had disturbed
her when he first came in. ' I do not want

gratitude ; I want your ' he paused  ' sisterly

regard,' and he laughed again.

Well, I am sure you have it,' replied Winnie
shortly.

There was another pause.

As we are alone,' recommenced Reginald, rousing
himself with a sort of effort, and rising to put a
little water-colour drawing, on the opposite wall,
straight  ' we are alone, are we not, Winnie ?  nota
soul in the house except ourselves ?'

Except Collins,' she replied, smiling uneasily.

She does not count. However, as we are actually
alone, I want to secure your help. I have not often
such a chance. Winnie 1 will you help me to persuade
Laura that it is unjust and unwise to postpone
our marriage on account of my mother's
opposition ? She considers her pride more than my
happiness. You would not act in the same way.'

*Yes, I should, Reggie; though I do think Mrs.
Piers is rather unreasonable. Wait till she comes
back  she may be in a better humour. Believe
me, the real obstacle is the Admiral ; if he thought

you might marry without your mother's consent, I
do not think Laura would long hesitate ; but '

Ah, Winnie interrupted Reginald, ' you have
warmer, quicker blood in your veins ; you would
not wait for two or three consents to make the man
you loved happy ! You do not know how this indefinite
postponement of our marriage unsettles
me ; my future depends upon it ; and Laura will
bitterly regret hereafter if, owing to her cold-hearted
delay, unforeseen hindrances arise

What is the matter with you to-day ?' interrupted
Winnie, in her turn. ' You are talking rank
treason ! Laura cold-hearted ! You must not say
such things to me.'

No, I ought not ; nor will I, if you promise todo
all you can to induce her to let our marriage
take place, say, before Christmas.'

I will try and persuade the Admiral, or rather I
would, if I had a chance of seeing him. He is the
most important person to win over.'

Thank you, sweet friend,' said Reginald softly,
as he sat down beside her and took her hand, holding
it with a gentle, lingering pressure. ' You will
always be my friend, dear Winnie ? I want your
sympathy and friendship more than I can express ;
there are difficulties before me which I cannot
explain now, but in which your help might be all-important.
And then, we both love Laura so truly
and deeply that we may well share the task of
shielding her from the ruggedness of life. You
will always let me confide in you ?'

Yes, of course said Winnie, feeling half frightened
at the idea of mysterious difficulties and
dangers thus suggested, yet finding something
wondrously sweet and attractive in Reginald's unusual
softness and earnestness. ' I would do anything
in the world for Laura, and, indeed, for you
too, Reginald ; but I think Laura is too wise and
strong to want anyone as a shield.'

She tried to draw away her hand as she spoke,
and he slowly relaxed his hold, almost imprisoning
it again just as she had extricated it.

'We all want help one from another,' he said,
half to himself ' I want you to remember, Winnie,
that I count on you as a real friend. I want to have
some silent sympathy. Ah, I do not know what I
am talking about ! At any rate. Winnie, my dear
little playfellow, you will give me some of the affection
you lavish on Laura ?'

*Yes, of course,' returned Winifrid, her heart
beating with curious uneasy pleasure. ' But before
long you will be united  indeed, you are now, if
there is true love between you  so what I give to
one belongs to both.'

I suppose so,' said Reginald, with a low sigh ;
and he sat for some time silently watching Winnie's
fingers folding her letter and placing it in its envelope.


Do you expect them back soon ?' he asked at
last.

Yes ; they started quite early. They wanted to
be in Tottenham Court Road at eleven, and now it
is one o'clock. We are to dine at three.*

There was another pause ; then Reginald began
abruptly :

There are two pretty rooms above the library at
Pierslynn, looking out over the woods to the Welsh
hills. They shall be yours, Winnie, and you shall
have your piano there, and no one shall cross the
threshold without your permission. You will make

a home with us until But I will not look too

far forward. There, is that bribe enough to make
you plead my cause with Laura ?

Indeed, I want no bribe, Reggie ; nor do you
need any advocate with Laura. I hope when Mrs.
Piers comes back all will go well ; till then, you
must be patient'

Patient ! Great heavens ! and am I ;6'' patient ?
Can you not imagine what it is to come out to this
cursed hole day after day (great as the attraction
undoubtedly is), feeling that all my plans are hindered,
my projects kept in abeyance, my future
success endangered  for I have lots of leeway,
remember, to pull up  all on account of the petty
sentimental scruples: of the girl who is to share my
life, my fortune, my all, and to whom you will
grant I have shown myself tolerably constant ?"

He again started up and paced the room impatiently
as he spoke.

It is true,' said Winifrid soothingly. ' Yet grant,
Reginald, it would be strange and unseemly to
hurry on your marriage without attempting to win
your mother's consent'

Perhaps so ; but we have been nearly three

months at this game of winning, and are no further
than when we started. By Jove ! it is very hard on
me. If it were any other girl in the world, I would
break with her. And then, there are temptations
which I dare not name, that nearly drive me mad.
Don't look so startled out of those big beautiful
eyes of yours, Winnie checking himself and forcing
a laugh ; ' but I am the safer for relieving my mind,
and you will do infinite good to Laura and to me
by letting me confide in you. Do not think I
undervalue Laura  she is golden ! Would she had
a little more alloy ; there are times when it is
heavenly to sit and talk calmly and reasonably with
her, and hear the ring of the true metal ! Gad \
how much better I feel after one of those quiet
hours ! But, Winnie, there are other moods, when
I am driven by intense passion  by desperate temptation
 to my own ruin ! Can you wonder, therefore,
that I long for the rest and security of marriage
with my gentle Mentor ?'

No, indeed,' cried Winifred, much moved. ' You
would be infinitely happier If dear Laura were
really your wife, always by your side ; and I will
tell her so, and beg her to marry you in spite of
everyone. But, Reginald, it astonishes me to hear
you talk In this wild way. Surely you are strong
enough to be a law to yourself! I always believed
you to be cool-headed and worldly-wise, and so
fortunate. What can have happened to upset
you?'

Reginald, who had stopped by the window, muttered

something about a ' confounded idiot ;' and
then, turning to face the speaker, he said with a
constrained smile : ' I suppose you think I have
been rehearsing for private theatricals ? I am a
little ashamed of the exhibition I have made of
myself Pray forget it, and let me sometimes
relieve my mind or heart, or whatever the thinking,
feeling power within us may be, by displaying the
weakness and passion Laura would despise, to
you.'

Ah, Reginald ! Laura would never despise you :
she is your truest friend. Nevertheless, you may
trust me too, if I can be of any use to you I And
now, Reggie,' for he stood silent, half turned away
from her, ' when does your train go ?'

*At 3.50. Are you anxious to get rid of me?
There's lots of time ! Yet perhaps I had better go.
You must tell Laura I was sorry not to see her ; tell
her how anxious I am for our marriage. And now,
Winnie, give me that rose you have in your dress. Is
it not late for roses ? Did it come from Pierslynn ?'

No ; and I cannot give it to you. Mr. Crewe
was out early, and brought it in to me at breakfast-time.'


Crewe brought it to you ?' repeated Reginald,
his face changing, his brow contracting, and his
light grey eyes blazing with sudden anger. ' Winifred
! do you know where your coquetry towards
that fellow is leading you ? I have often suspected
you have been playing a game, but I know it now.'

I really think you must be out of your mind,

Reginald, to talk like that !' cried Winifrid, surprised
and indignant. ' Can I not talk pleasantly
to an acquaintance without incurring your anger ?
I am utterly unconscious of deserving your accusations


Have I not heard you asking about his favourite
songs, and turning up your eyes to his, till I could
have  till I wonder he did not propose to you on
the spot ! How could you lay yourself open to the
degradation of addresses from a fellow like that,
scarcely above a common sailor ?'

Reginald, how can yoii be so unjust, so absurd ?
Denzil Crewe is a true gentleman, and, what is
more, a dear, good fellow ; so kind and gentle and
considerate. If I carediox him, I would marry him
readily enough ; but I do not'

If such is your opinion, no doubt love will
come !' He spoke with a sneer.

Perhaps it will,' returned Winnie defiantly, and
she burst into tears. * You are unkind and cruel
she faltered, struggling to regain self-control.

Reginald looked at her steadily, the anger and
suspicion of his look dying out as he gazed.

I am an unreasonable brute,' he said, ' and will
not trouble you longer, at present ; but, Winnie, if
you will be to me the friend I hoped for, if you
would soothe an irritation you cannot understand,
do so much for me  give me that rose.'

Winifrid hesitated, trembled, raised her eyes to
his, and then, as by a sudden impulse, caught the
flower from her waistband and held it out to him.

VOL. I. 21

With a gleam of triumph in his eyes, Reginald
seized it, and, first pressing it to his lips, tore it
savagely in pieces, and strewing the fragments on
the floor, exclaimed, ' I wish I could do the same to
the giver !' and then he hastily left the room.

CHAPTER I.

-

Having accomplished her business visits
satisfactorily, and found that her place
had been supplied in only one instance,
Laura bent her steps to Mrs. Trent's
residence, having a good excuse for calling.

She had found an invitation for herself and the
Admiral to Miss Trent's wedding ; she decided to
refuse it in person, and thus find the opportunity
she sought. It was a little past luncheon-time, but
the sedate man out of livery at once admitted her.
She had scarcely reached the drawing-room, when
Caroline, the second daughter, a merry little damsel
of thirteen or fourteen, came running upstairs.

Oh ! Miss Piers, mamma says will you come into
luncheon ? We have not finished yet  do comedown
!'
VOL. in. 43

And Laura went down to the handsome diningroom.


I am very glad indeed to see you said Mrs.
Trent cordially, as she rose to meet her in her rich
silk dress, delicate laces, and dead-gold ornaments,
a picture of solid prosperity and content. ' When
did you return 1 James, a chair here for Miss Piers.
You came back yesterday } Very good of you to
call so soon. What will you take ? There is some
cold roast lamb, and the remains of currie. These
children will not eat currie. James, some lamb,'
etc., etc.

How is Miss Trent ?' asked Laura.

Oh ! quite well  a little tired. She is staying
with her future mother-in-law, at Bushy. Dear
Mr. and Mrs. Thurston are so kind and so fond of
her.'

There were only the three younger children and
their governess at table, and these Mrs. Trent soon
dismissed.

Miss Merton, if you manage to get through all
your work before tea, you shall have the open
carriage for a nice drive this evening. I am only
going a little way, and the horses will be quite
fresh.'

Oh, thank you, mother ! Come along, Carry ;
come, Louis ; let us make haste !' cried the
youngest, a curly-headed rogue of about seven, to
his sisters. And with hasty adieux to Laura, they
scampered off, followed more sedately by their
governess.

Children are such a nuisance when you want to
talk comfortably said Mrs. Trent ; ' and I want to
hear all about Pierslynn. We are to have the
pleasure of seeing you and the Admiral at the
wedding ?'

Laura excused herself and her guardian ; and
Mrs. Trent, though she said all that was right and
proper, did not press her invitation too vehemently.


If you will not take anything more,' said Mrs.
Trent, after Laura had refused a second supply of
gooseberry-fool, ' let us go upstairs.'

And they settled themselves for a comfortable
talk on the balcony of the smaller drawing-room,
which was covered by an awning and liberally
supplied with fragrant plants.

Now tell me all about Pierslynn,' repeated Mrs.
Trent, leaning back in a folding-chair and slowly
fanning herself. ' I take quite an interest in
Reginald and his young wife. They say he has
been spending a heap of money lately.'

I do not think that can be true,' said Laura.
They live according to their station ; but I saw no
sign of extravagance.'

I am glad to hear it. Well, what is the baby
like ?'

'A funny, puny-looking little thing; but it improved
immensely before I left.'

Mrs. Piers mere says it is a wonder it lived. I
cannot understand that ; young Mrs. Piers is the
beau-ideal of a healthy young mother.'

43-2

She is,' returned Laura ; ' but she is sensitive
and excitable.'

Ah ! so I believe,' said Mrs. Trent, with a degree
of significance Laura could not help noticing.

And they have a nice place ?'

Laura gave a glowing description of it and
Winifrid's happiness, her own enjoyment, and
everyone's kindness.

'And  you will forgive me, dear Laura, if the
question is intrusive ; you know I am not prompted
by idle curiosity  how did you and Reginald
meet ?'

In unembarrassed friendliness,' said Laura, smiling
and colouring a little. ' I think we are both
glad we discovered the true state of his feelings
before it was too late.'

Mrs. Trent looked at her with wide-open eyes,
and slowly shook her head.

You and your cousin Winifrid are most amazing
people she said ; ' and she is as great friends with
you as ever? not at all jealous about her husband V

Winnie jealous of me !' returned Laura, with
frank surprise. ' That would indeed be absurd !'

Well, I do not know,' said Mrs. Trent, laughing ;

I can't help thinking that, were I a man, I should
be very fond of you.'

If you were a man you would not. I think
some might like me ; but I shall never again
believe that anyone could fall in love with me.'

Nonsense, my dear. There is a sort of soft
repose in your manners, a kind of feeling in your

voice, that must be very attractive to many
men.'

Pray go on,' said Laura gravely ; ' you will
prove I am a beauty in time.'

These personalities are very rude,' said Mrs.
Trent, laughing. ' Revenons d nos visions. How
does Winifrid bear her honours, and get on with
the county ?'

They again plunged into the Pierslynn question,
and presently Laura brought the conversation
round to the point she had waited for.

There are some curious old portraits of various
bygone Piers in a kind of gallery, and several more
modern in the library. I found a Geoffrey Piers 
my grandfather, I believe  among them.'

Yes, I suppose so,' said Mrs. Trent, with a little
reserve.

Mrs. Trent,' said Laura, with some earnestness,
I have never known much of my own family.
Can you tell me in what degree I am cousin to
Reginald ?'

Oh ! I am by no means well up in such matters
third or fourth cousin  I suppose. I believe he
is my third cousin once removed, to be accurate ;
but I do not know exactly where your father came
in. I must show you some of Katie's pretty things
before you go, Laura,' she added, with the evident
intention of changing the subject.

Thank you,' returned Laura. ' But I want first
to understand whereabouts I come on the family-tree
; though I fear I am neither fruit nor flower.'

'Ah! Let us say an acorn, with the germ of
future greatness within you cried Mrs. Trent
readily. 'Why trouble about such old-fashioned
follies as genealogies and family-trees ?'

Yet I wish to know,' urged Laura, with gentle
persistence. ' I have an idea that my father was
not legitimate, which would account in some measure
for Mrs. Piers being more ready to accept
Winnie for a daughter-in-law than myself.'

Well, I believe you are right,' returned Mrs.
Trent a little reluctantly, 'though it was very
stupid of anyone to tell you ; for at this distance of
time it is really of no consequence, and people
have such narrow prejudices on the subject.'

'I think they are very natural prejudices,' said
Laura. * But now that we are over that difficulty,
tell me something of this grandfather of mine.'

I do not know much, and it is so difficult to
explain relationships. Let me see : you and I, and
Reggie, all had the same] great-great-grandfather;
no, he was your and Reggie's 
! How awkward not to have a word
in English to express all these " greats " ! This
"urahn" Piers (as the Germans would say) had
three sons ; you and Reggie are descended from
the second, and myself from the third  that is all
I know ; but I think I have heard Mr. Trent say
that it was lucky for Reginald that your grandfather
Geoffrey never married. Now are you
satisfied ?'

I am.' She paused, and resumed in a few

moments in an altered, pained tone : ' Do you know
anything of my grandmother ?'

Very little ; she was a French Canadian, you
know. Your grandfather was one of the unlucky
Peninsular men who were sent off to America, and
so missed Waterloo. I rather fancy she was of
humble birth ; at any rate, he never married her 
more shame for him ! But I see these historical
reminiscences vex you. I imagined you had more
sense ; do not give it another thought. It is such
an old story no one knows anything about it ; you
are just one of the family, no matter the exact
degree.'

But I am not. I can claim no tie with you !
My only relatives are Winnie and her brothers.'

Come ! you must admit my claim,' said Mrs.
Trent kindly and pleasantly. ' We shall all be
ambitious to call you cousin, when you have
reached the position to which your ability entitles
you. I assure you I heard high praise of your
talent a few days ago.'

Where ?' exclaimed Laura, in genuine surprise.


At Mrs. Piers's, the dowager's. Mr. Trent and I
were dining with her, to meet Reginald and a very
charming Madame Moscynska, some relation of one
of their Saltshire neighbours. She said she thought
your work full of promise, and was sure you would
yet take high rank ; she seemed to understand
what she was talking about. She is rather a remarkable
woman, and quite fascinated Mr. Trent*

\ am much obliged for her prophecy,' said
Laura gravely.

Her toilet is a study,' continued Mrs. Trent ;
only it suggests the idea of too elaborate care.
Its arrangement must need a world of thought, a
lifetime of experience. Yet it was worn easily
enough. Mrs. Piers told me that Madame Moscynska
wished to make my acquaintance, which rather
surprised me ; I should have imagined that quite
professional people like ourselves were not likely to
attract a fine lady such as she is. However, I calledon
her yesterday, or rather left my card, for she was
out.'

Laura listened with an odd feeling of displeasure
and uneasiness that made her vexed with herself.
Why should she not like the idea of acquaintanceship
between her pleasant friendly relative and the
Polish princess ? Why did she suspect Mrs. Trent,
in her heart, of a weakness for grandees, albeit so
frankly accepting her excellent middle-class position?
It was one of those strange currents of
thought, different in temperature and of contrary
direction from the surrounding mental condition,
which at times traverse it, as the Gulf Stream does
the ocean.

And Miss Trent's pretty things ? You were so
good as to say you would show them to me,' she
said, rousing herself and resolutely turning away
from the subjects of which they were speaking.

Yes ; I shall be delighted. It is like being
married over again, having the care of all these

fine things,' said Mrs. Trent, laughing. ' Really,
Reginald's gift is quite splendid  a lovely dessert
service of silver and engraved glass ! I believe, as
Mrs. Piers could not come to town, Madame
Moscynska helped him to choose it  she has perfect
taste.'

After nearly an hour's inspection of the various
presents, an hour far from uninteresting to Laura's
womanly taste and instincts, she was obliged to
hasten home in order to be in time for the four
o'clock dinner provided by Mrs. Crewe's thoughtfulness.


Of course Mrs. Crewe was ravenous for a description
of the preparations for Miss Trent's wedding,
and delivered a carefully considered opinion that
Laura would have done more wisely, and upheld
her own position better, had she accepted Mrs.
Trent's invitation to the ceremony.

'You are one of the family, my dear. Why
should you not be one of the guests at your
cousin's wedding ? Your absence is a sort of admission
that you are scarcely a relative.'

I really do not care whether I am or not,' returned
Laura, laughing ; ' not enough, certainly, to
expend the cost of a wedding garment.'

My dear Laura,' said the Admiral, looking up
from his plate, which Mrs. Crewe had liberally
supplied with curried lamb, * the claims of kindred
should not be lightly disregarded. The family is a

divine institution, and the right to belong to one
ought not to be thoughtlessly relinquished.'

If I have a right I should certainly not give it
up returned Laura, smiling slightly  a peculiar
smile, that seemed to fix the Admiral's attention,
for he continued to look at her with a questioning
expression for another second.

I am sure a new summer dress would not ruin
you, Laura,' observed Mrs. Crewe, coming in with
her blessed undercurrent of commonplace to sweep
away the pin's point of light that for an instant
gleamed on the Admiral's brain. * If Mrs. Reginald
Piers comes to town you will want a change ;
you cannot go about with her in your old black
dress for ever.*

We shall see,' returned Laura, evading the discussion
; and then she led the conversation to her
visits of that morning, and the satisfaction she experienced
in finding that she had lost very little by
her prolonged visit to Pierslynn. Finally the Admiral
requested her to put on her hat and mantle,
as they would not be too early for the charitable
tea.

It was a somewhat long expedition to the
north-eastern district. The evening was close
and thunderous, and the room, though large,
was crammed with not too well-washed boys and
girls and tiny urchins, so that Laura found the
atmosphere rather overpowering.

In spite of haste, the Admiral and his ward
were a few minutes late, but the former was sufficiently

important to be waited for. Directly they
had penetrated to the top of the room, Laura was
given a seat among the leading female members of
the congregation, while her guardian was invited
to * step up ' on the platform. A broad-shouldered
big man, with well-flattened, white-brown hair,
who had apparently twisted a small table-cloth
round his huge throat, said, ' Let us join in prayer.'
Whereupon everyone knelt down.

So soon as the tremendous rustling and scuffling
which ensued had subsided, the speaker proceeded
to deliver a long address to the Deity, confessing a
cairn of sins and backsliding, and asking for a
string of benefits, pleading for his spiritual opponents
rather in the ' Don't nail his ears to the
pump ' style, and generally wrestling with the Evil
One so vehemently that his shouts might have
been heard afar ; these gradually died off into
pathetic moaning supplications, and after coming
very often near the finish, and then starting afresh,
he at last concluded, and the impatient children
were permitted to attack the cakes, bread-and-butter,
etc., which had divided their attention, and
got the lion's share of it.

Then the distribution of viands began, and
Laura grew interested in helping the little street-arabs
to buns and bread-and-butter, watching
their weird, prematurely old faces, and contrasting
this evening's meal and its surroundings with the
fastidious elegance of her luncheon at Mrs. Trent's.

The excitement and bustle was tremendous.

The steam of many tea-kettles, added to the heat
of the crowded room, made the atmosphere overpowering,
and by the time the Admiral rose to
address the meeting, Laura felt faint and dizzy.
She managed to find a seat near the principal
entrance, and waited with the trepidation which
generally attends any public effort on the part of
one dear to the listener.

At first the kindly gentleman was a little indistinct
and hesitating ; but soon warming with his
subject, and deeply impressed with its importance,
his voice grew firm, his language fluent, and his
face lighted up with the consciousness of the
blessed message he was empowered to deliver.

Seeing him thus secure of his audience, Laura,
leaning back in her chair, her head resting against
the wall, her hat supported on her knee, gradually
lost sight of the present and the preacher. Her
conversation with Mrs. Trent came back to her
vividly, word for word, and this her first attempt to
test the truth of the strange communication from
our Antipodes ' so far confirmed it. So far it was
evident that, had her grandfather been just and
true to the woman who must have loved him well,
she herself would now be the possessor of Piers-lynn,
and all the beauties apt luxuries she had
admired without envying. But would this repay
her for the destruction of her faith in human
nature? If Reginald could be so base  so false 
whom could she trust ? And yet  did she not
always know, deep down in her instinctive recognition

of Reginald's nature, that there must be
some unacknowledged motive underlying his choice
of herself? Nevertheless, she could not believe
that he was coldly, deliberately false and dishonest.
No, it was not possible that Reginald could have
intentionally cheated her. Could any gain in
lands or fortune make up to him for the loss of
self-esteem such conduct must entail ? Her heart
beat suffocatingly at the idea of the bitter contempt
which must replace her old admiration
should this strange story prove true ; and if it did,
what could she do .? Rob Winnie and her boy of
their means of existence ? Submit to the shameful
wrong practised upon herself? Both seemed
equally Impossible. And what would Winnie say?
would she ever believe her husband guilty ? She
must, by asserting herself, lose both friends. But
it remained to be seen if this horrible, distressing
tale were true. Before a week was over she would
quietly examine Into the facts communicated, and
she almost prayed they would prove false. Then
her thoughts grew confused  her brain seemed to
burn. She saw Winnie  her baby in her arms 
sorrowful, reproachful, sobbing out with tears, ' Is
this revenge or justice ?' or worse, turning revolted
from her husband, their love and confidence shattered
! and this would be her work.

The place swam before her  a painful rushing
noise sounded in her ears, a dark film spread over
her eyes. She had been greatly tried during the
last three days, and she was obliged to ponder

these things in her heart, without the relief of confession
or sympathy. It was a strain to which her
strength was not quite equal. The platform and
her guardian's figure grew dim and indistinct, a
terrible consciousness that she was helpless even to
ask help oppressed her, when some one touched
her. A voice said, ' You are ill  let me help you
out,' and a strong arm was round her. The next
moment she felt a delicious current of fresh air, and
coming to herself, she found Denzil Crewe and a
large goodnatured-looking woman in a big bonnet
with funereal feathers beside her, in an outer
chamber or vestibule.

You are all right now ?' asked Denzil, whose
eyes were fixed upon her with much eager anxiety,
while he held a glass of water in his hand. *Take
a little more water.'

Laura obeyed.

Did I faint ?' she asked. ' I cannot remember.'
'Very nearly. Directly I came in I saw you

were almost gone. We just managed to get you
out. As soon as you are able to stand, we will be
off home.'

The heat and the emotion were no doubt too
much for the young lady. It was a touching
spectacle, and the excellent Admiral had improved
the opportunity so admirably,' said the lady in the
feathered bonnet.

Laura turned and thanked her civilly for her
kind attention.

Do you think you can venture to walk a little

way ?' asked Denzil, who seemed impatient to begone.


Yes. Oh yes ! I should like to go home.'
Denzil took out his carcase and scribbled a few

lines on the back of a card.

May I ask you to send this card to Admiral
Desbarres as soon as he has finished speaking ?'

This the lady promised to do ; then arranging
her hat and hair as well as she could,, by a hand-glass
brought her by the friendly matron, Laura,
still feeling a little tottery, took Denzil's arm, and
they sallied forth.

I am afraid cabs are not easily to be found
here,' said Denzil, looking round, ' and I am sure
you are scarcely able to stand. I am surprised you
could hold out as long as you did in such an atmosphere.'


It was very oppressive, certainly returned
Laura. ' Still, I do not understand being so faint ;
I never felt faint before.'

I am quite sure your visit to Pierslynn has done
you no good rejoined Denzil rather gruffly ; ' you
look a different creature from what you were when
I came back.'

Well, Pierslynn did me no harm said Laura
with a slight sigh.

'You are not leaning on me,' exclaimed Denzil ;
you are only touching my coat-sleeve with the tips
of your fingers.'

I am feeling quite strong now returned Laura.
'Nonsense said Denzil, more earnestly than

politely ; ' you are still very shaky. Let us turn
down this street to the left. I scarcely know my
bearings, but I imagine it leads towards Gray's Inn
Lane.'

Gray's Inn Lane ?' repeated Laura, struck by
the name : * whereabouts is that ?'

It is a long way from this, I fear ; it leads, you
know, from Lowborn to the Great Northern ; it is
full of lawyers and legal gentry. Hallo ! there's a
cab! Stand here an instant  I will catch it;' and
he darted aw-ay, returning soon with the captured
fourwheeler.

The drive back was rather silent, and seemed to
Laura interminable. Her brain felt confused, the
prominent sensation being a pained anxiety.

When at length they reached Leamington Road,
Collins announced that ' Missus was gone out with
Miss Brown ; and that everything was locked up.'

That is a nuisance,' cried Denzil ; ' you ought
to have a glass of wine or something.'

I want nothing whatever,' exclaimed Laura,
sitting down on Mrs. Crewe's best sofa ; ' the quiet
and freshness of this pleasant room is enough.'

When did my mother say she would return ?'

She never said nothing about coming back, sir ;
but I did hear Miss Brown say, as they were going
out of the door, something about catching the ten
train, and I was told to have everything ready for
supper by ten o'clock.'

Very well  all right, Collins ;' and Collins disappeared.
* The mother seems to have gone off on

a private spree said Denzil. * I am glad you w ill
be looking better by the time she comes in. She
would have been startled if she saw your white face.'

I am really quite recovered, and when I have
arranged my hair and bathed my brow, I shall
look as well as I ever do returned Laura, rising
and speaking as bravely as she could. But the
weak flesh failed to support the willing spirit ; even
in uttering the words her voice broke, and she
burst into irrepressible tears.

Sit down again,' cried Denzil, taking her hand
and drawing her back to the sofa. ' If you go
away upstairs by yourself, you will be fainting
when you are alone, and God knows what ! I wish
my mother were here !' He stopped, looked with
a rueful expression at Laura, who felt powerless to
restrain her tears and hardly able to stand, yet
terribly ashamed of herself ; and then he began to
walk up and down the room in a troubled fashion.
I wish you wouldn't cry like that,' he exclaimed
at last ; ' it is awful. Look here, Laura ! if there is
anything vexing you  anything on your mind, you
know  just tell me ; look on me as a brother. I
would do all in my power to help you. Something
extraordinary must have happened to distress you.
This is not like your usual strength and self-control.'


I am very much ashamed of my weakness, and
of troubling you,' said Laura brokenly. * I never
behaved so badly before ; the heat of that place
was too much  the '

VOL. III. , 44

Yes interrupted Denzil, resuming his quarterdeck
walk while a cloud gathered over his brow ;
you have overtasked your strength in every way ;
you are but human, after all, Miss Piers ! and your
visit to Pierslynn was an imprudence  it was more
than your cousin ought to have asked ; but I am
probably meddling with what does not concern me.
I thought  I thought you were more steeled against

old impressions ' He stopped abruptly, and

stood gazing out of the window.

The extreme surprise his words caused her
checked Laura's tears, and gave a new turn to her
thoughts. The friendly confidential tone in which
they had of late been accustomed to treat each
other prevented her from feeling that Denzil was
taking a liberty in speaking thus ; but the impatience
and odd irritation in his voice and manner
wounded her a little ; she felt so bruised, so fooled,
so betrayed, where she had put fullest faith, that
she was more than usually disposed to cling to the
kind, unpretending, straightforward sailor, whose
friendliness appeared so brotherly and so sincere.


That he should be disposed to blame her in some
inexplicable way seemed too hard.

I do not think I quite understand you,' she returned,
speaking more steadily. ' I have been
troubled, just lately, in a somewhat unexpected
way, but my visit to Pierslynn has nothing to do
with it. It is something widely different, and when
I can decide how to act, I shall no doubt feel at

rest. Are you displeased with me for any reason,
that you speak in that tone ?'

*No returned Denzil, collecting himself and
stopping opposite to her. * I feel that I have presumed
to speak as I had no right to do ; but if you
knew '  he paused, and renewed his pacing to and
fro  ' if you knew how much I have felt for you
and with you  how sincerely I have admired your
spirit, your courage, your fortitude  you would
forgive me if I am angered to think that the whim
of that pretty petted cousin of yours should have
drawn you into contact with her husband and
forced upon your notice the difference of your
respective lots. It was impossible to suppose you
were not to be shaken by such close contact with 
with a fellow who was all and all to you, yet I am
fool enough to be disappointed at the result'

I hardly understand you,' exclaimed Laura,
growing red and indignant ; yet she did understand,
even more than he intended. ' You have been so
kind, so brotherly to me, that I feel you have a
sort of right to say much ; but I imagine you are
somewhat unjust and very much mistaken. I have
nothing to reproach myself with ; I have simply
tried to do my duty so far as I can see it. I am

tired and worried, and But I cannot talk any

longer ; I must go away and be quiet in my own
room. I do not want to quarrel with you, and I
shall if I stay.'

She rose and went slowly to the door. Denzil
sprang forward to open it for her.

442

I do not know how I have come to forget myself,
and speak in this way. You must forgive me,
Laura  Miss Piers. I have been rude, presumptuous
; but too am disturbed. I made a discovery
to-day that has startled me ; I feel the effects still ;
it will influence my whole life perhaps  and  weare
still friends then, although I have deserved your
displeasure ?'

Oh yes ; very good friends, if you wish. I
hope your discovery is of nothing bad for yourself
or your mother ?'

I hope not. One day we may exchange
secrets,' he returned. And Laura gave him a sad
little smile as she passed, and hurried to her room.

Good-gracious T cried Mrs. Crewe, when she
reached home about half an hour afterwards. ' I
had no idea you would be back so early. I just
took the opportunity of going with Miss Brown to
see Cooke and Maskelyne, and most extraordinary
they are. But I never dreamed of your being here
before me. I am quite distressed to hear that
Laura was not well. You were quite right to take
her away at once. I am convinced she has taken
cold, and I shall make her some gruel, with a little
moist sugar and just tablespoonful of brandy.'

'Make it a glassful, said Denzil, unfolding an
evening paper. ' There is no sense in your spoonful.'

'Oh, that would be too much,' returned his
mother, hurrying from the room. 'You do not
suppose a young lady can take strong stuff like
your sailors.'

It was a couple of days before Laura
quite shook off the effect of her .
In truth, her strength seemed
scarcely equal to the load laid upon
her, and at times the questions, ' What shall I do ?,
how shall I guide myself?' became absolute torture,
so perpetual were their recurrence. Yet, amid the
gravity of such thoughts she found room for a
smaller annoyance, which fretted and stung her.
Denzil Crewe evidently thought she was still pining
in hopeless love for Reginald Piers ; and she saw
no means to undeceive him. On such a subject
she could offer no assertions, and if she could they
would not be believed. Her depression, her preoccupation,
her altered mien, might all be naturally
accounted for by the theory of an unrequited passion,
and for many a long day to come her lips must be
sealed, if indeed she should ever speak to tell the
strange discovery which had presented to her the
bitter cup of mingled gall and vinegar, which she

could not choose but drink. It was strange, how
this minor matter vexed her, and revealed how
surely she had trusted in her friend's complete and
sympathetic perception of her mind and character.
That he should misunderstand her on such a subject
seemed too hard. Meantime she determined to
test the truth of the extraordinary statements contained
in Holden's letter.

Her daily occupations secured her an unusual
degree of independence ; it was perfectly easy to
arrange not to give a particular lesson, and the
time it would have occupied was at her disposal unquestioned.
By such an arrangement she was sure
of some hours of freedom one day about a week
after her return from Pierslynn, and turning her
back on the scene of her daily labours, she started
to seek the church named in the letter which had
so changed her life.

It was a long, wearisome drive, in an omnibus
filled to overflowing with a constantly fluctuating
crowd of passengers, and Laura descended at the
Mansion House, dusty, crushed, and with a sense
of having been trampled underfoot ; after a
moment of bewilderment she collected herself and
applied for direction to a stately policeman : ' St.
Slave's, miss } let me see  it is in a rare out-of-the-way
corner ; you had best make your way into
Cannon Street, turn towards St. Paul's Churchyard,
and take the third street to the left after you pass
hesitation It is a narrow, crooked lane; after
that, you had best ask your way again.'

Laura thanked him, and turned away with an
odd sense of being ashamed of herself and her
errand, and a strong wish that she had on a thicker
veil.

She found her way easily enough to the opening
of the narrow street indicated, following its winding
for a little distance, and after some further directions
from a porter who was lounging at the entry
of a court, Laura made her way to a quiet nook
bounded by dingy red brick houses on three sides,
the fourth being occupied by a high iron railing
which separated them from a space of green sward,
shaded by a large lime-tree whose blackened,
gnarled trunk gave little promise of the leafy crown
which sheltered the enclosure. Beyond was a very
old, smoke-dimmed, decrepit-looking church, and
at the farther side of the little square was a small,
two-storied house with a vivid green door, with a
bright brass plate inscribed ' James Pratt, clerk.'

As Laura approached this door it opened, and a
respectable-looking middle-aged man came forth,
who asked her civilly what she wanted, listening to
her reply with a slightly surprised expression.

The entry of a marriage in 18 19 or '20,' he repeated.
'Yes, certainly, you can look at the
register. I am obliged to go out, but my wife will
show you the books, and the fee is eighteenpence.
You can pay it when you have examined the
register. Here, Sarah !' a plump, rosy woman responded
; ' I will give you the keys.'

He left the room, but soon returned with three or

four ponderous keys on a rusty ring, and, after
murmuring an indistinct apology about pressing
business, walked off.

The wife hastily took off her apron, put on a
bonnet, and led the way through a wrought-iron
gate, and then, unlocking the church-door with a
clang, ushered Laura into the dark, damp old
edifice. The earthy odour, the James I. monuments,
and statues in the hideous Queen Anne
style, the deserted, disused aspect of the interior,
struck her with indescribable, chill melancholy.

This way, miss,' said her guide, turning down
a passage between the high pews, and conducting
her into a dingy little vestry, where a limp surplice
hung in a ghostly fashion against the wall.

About what date, miss, do you want ?' asked
the clerk's wife, selecting a rusty key and opening
an old oak press.

'I had better look at the register for 1820,' said
Laura huskily, recalling her father's age, and the
date of his death.

She trembled as she spoke. She was on the eve
of testing the truth of the strange story which she
strove to doubt, and yet which seemed to force
belief upon her. If'it proved true, what a task lay
before her !

Will you please look yourself, miss ? I am not
much of a scholar, and the back of this here book
is rubbed terrible.'

Between them they selected the volume, and
then Laura searched nervously back from the date

of her father's birth. Even at that distant epoch
the quaint old church seemed to have been falling
into disuse, as the marriages seemed few, considering
the thickly inhabited district around it.

Laura turned over two or three pages, and finally,
among the entries in July, 1820, she came to the
following :

'25th. Geoffrey Piers, gentleman, bachelor, of
Llanogwen, residing at No. 4, Church Row, and
Valerie Levelled, also of this parish.'

Laura sat looking at the faded writing, speechless,
scarce able to collect her thoughts, while her
companion moved the chairs, and made a semblance
of re-arranging things, in order not to leave
the visitor alone with the church registers.

It is true, then,' was Laura's only distinct idea.
And what next ?'

I suppose I may copy this T she said at last,
rousing herself with an effort.

Yes, sure, miss. I think there is a pen and ink
somewheres about.'

Do not trouble yourself I have a pencil and
note-book ;' and she hastily wrote down the entry.

I thank you,' resumed Laura, when she had
completed her task. ' I need trouble you no
further, I suppose. I can inspect the register at
any time, on payment of a fee ?'

Certainly, miss ; only if you come about dinner-time
you are more likely to catch my husband.
He assists in keeping the books of a house in
Cannon Street, and is often out. Really, the

fi

church is so deserted, there are no fees nor nothing,
in a manner of speaking, to make a Having by ;
people must take care of themselves,' etc.

No doubt,' returned Laura absently.

She strolled to the door and stood there a moment,
comparing the sunshine without and the
chill earthy dulness of the interior ; trying to
picture the group at the communion rails at the
lonely, secret wedding of her grandfather and his
Canadian wife ; pitying the humiliation such a
marriage must have been, even while the friendless
girl must have been grateful for the tardy reparation.
But why had her grandfather permitted the
stigma of illegitimacy to rest on his son ? What
misery and injustice had arisen from this suppression
of the truth ! And what would be the end
thereof ?

Good-day, miss,' said the clerk's wife, approaching
to lock the doors. And Laura felt she must go
forth to work out her destiny.

Slowly she retraced her steps to seek a westward
omnibus, striving in vain to think clearly and with
sequence.

Issuing from the sleepy nook into the eddying
rush of the main stream, Laura found herself again
at the Mansion House. She was profoundly occupied
with the question, should she, or should she
not, finish her work by calling in Gray's Inn Lane
before she returned home t She dreaded the visit,
partly because she shrank slightly from venturing
on such an unknown land alone, but more because

she so much dreaded that the stranger in whose
hands Holden had left his papers might cross-examine
her, and extract from her any knowledge
that could disgrace Reginald. How keenly, how
bitterly she felt that he was irretrievably disgraced
in her own eyes ; yet, at all hazards, she must
shield his reputation from those of others !

What would the Admiral say? His judgment,
however, would be softened by his dominant belief
in the wretchedness of human nature, unassisted
by divine grace. But what would Mr.
Trent say, with his strict ideas of honour and
integrity, uninfluenced as they were by any theory
of spiritual rectification ?'

How should she guide herself so as to be just,
yet not pitiless ?

Why, Miss Piers, what brings 7// into the City?*
said a familiar voice ; and Laura, startled out of
her thoughts, looked up, with a sudden sense of
detection, to encounter Mr. Trent's eyes fixed on
her with a look of surprise. ' I am afraid you will
not find much material for art, high or low, here.'

I am not so sure,' returned Laura, rallying her
forces and shaking hands with him. The materials
of true art abound everywhere. ' How is Mrs.
Trent ?'

Remarkably well, I think ; she says she is
utterly worn out with fatigue. You know the
wedding comes off on Tuesday, and the whole
household is upside down with preparations''

I can understand that. When it is all quite

over, I will come and hear about it from Mrs.
Trent.'

She is always glad to see you. Your cousin,
Mrs. Piers, is coming up for the ceremony ; very
friendly of her. I have just parted with Reginald.
I was nearly as much surprised to see him in the
City as to meet you. What shall I tell Mrs. Trent ?
That you have a commission to paint the Lord
Mayor and Corporation ?'

Such a subject deserves a Titian, if we had one,'
returned Laura, smiling. ' No ; say I was making
a large investment  anything you like.'

Very well ; and good-morning. I am somewhat
pressed for time.'

He hurried away, and Laura went on almost
blindly for a minute or two, so stunned did she feel
by the notion of her narrow escape of meeting
Reginald. How could she have spoken to him?
How could she have met his eye ? Her difficulties
seemed to spring up thick and fast. With a kind
of desperate resolution she determined to go straight
to Gray's Inn Lane and finish her task.

By the time she had found the number 'inscribed
on Holden's letter she felt calmer, and soon discovered
the name of ' Winter, accountant,' painted
on the side of the doorway, with a large ' 2 ' indicating
the second-floor.

On reaching it, she was admitted by a grubby
clerk to a dingy office, and, on asking for Mr.
Winter, was shown into an inner den, where sat an
elderly, grizzled, red-eyed, not too neatly attired

man, who was writing at an office-table surrounded
by a litter of papers

Miss Piers he said, looking at the card his clerk
had given him. * Ha ! Miss Piers,' he repeated, as
if trying to remember something. * Sit down, if
you please.' But Laura, who felt a quick aversion
to the man and his surroundings, remained standing.
* Now then,' he went on, as the clerk left the
room and closed the door, * what can we do for you,
ma'am ?'

I have come,' said Laura, restored by a wholesome
feeling of antagonism and speaking with
quiet firmness, * to claim some papers which the
late Mr. James Holden tells me, in this letter, he
left in your care for me.' She opened the letter as
she spoke, and took out the one enclosed and
directed to ' Mr. G. Winter.'

Oh ! ay ; that's it. I remember now,' he returned,
looking sharply at her while he drew his left
finger and thumb slowly down his cheek-bones till
they met at his chin, while he perused the letter.
Yes, I heard our poor friend was no more, a few
days ago ; an old pal  I mean companion  of his
was here last week, to know if there were any
assets, for he owed him, he said, fifty odd ; but I
knew that couldn't be, for Holden paid up everything
before he started for Sydney. I managed the
whole thing for him. It was then he left the parcel
you are in search of. Pray,' rising, and placing
himself on a threadbare hearth rug before a rusty
grate, 'how am I to know you are Miss Laura Piers?*

I am sure I cannot tell,' returned Laura. ' If
the possession of this letter, and that which I have
just given you, is not sufficient proof of my identity,
I have no other.'

Hums looking very earnestly at her. 'What
sort of a man was Holden ?'

I never saw him but once. I think he had black
eyes and hair. He was rather stout, and looked as
if he rode races, or went to races.'

That's him. Where was he employed ?'
At Messrs. Thurston and Trent's.'

Good ! Do you know what the papers are ?'

Scarcely. They concern myself, I believe ; and
possibly may not be of much value.'

Likely enough ! And I dare say there is no
use in making much ado about nothing ; as you
have brought me the man's own letter authorizing
me to give them to you, the bearer, I suppose I mayas
well give them up. You will, I presume, pay
the usual fee on delivery?'

How much is it ?' asked Laura, doubting that
she had sufficient money with her, and feeling inclined
to forfeit everything rather than return to
the office of Mr. George Winter.

One guinea,' he returned, thrusting his hands
deep into his trousers-pockets.

I will pay it,' said Laura shortly.
'And give me a receipt ?'
Certainly.'

Sit down, then, while I look in the safe,' he returned.
Taking a key from a drawer in his table,

he proceeded to open and examine several bundles
of papers in an iron safe which stood in one corner,
keeping up a running fire of comment while he did
so. * Poor Holden ! He was a pleasant fellow,
but a trifle too fast. It's more than two years since
he left that packet  (where the dickens has it got
to ?)  in my keeping. " Don't give it to nobody,"
says he, " that hasn't a written order from me ; for
I know you are true blue !" Ay ! I helped him out
of more scrapes than one ; and, between you and
me, he was on the verge of *' all up " when he got
the pot of money that put things square. But he
was uncommon close ; never could find out how he
came by it ! It was just a month or two before he
left England. Paid everything in brand-new Bank
of England notes and gold ; no tracing anything.
Ay, here it is at last. There you are, ma'am,' beating
the dust off against the chimney piece, then
laying the parcel, which was wrapped in brown
paper, beside his blotting-book ; and locking the
safe, he took up his pen to write out a form of acquittance
for Laura to sign.

While she sat still and silent in the chair she had
at last accepted, feeling as if in a dream, and looking
with a sort of dread at the commonplace parcel
which contained the key to the mystery so unexpectedly
revealed  she longed, yet half feared, to
examine its contents, yet she almost trembled with
eagerness to have it safe in her own possession. If
this uncouth, repulsive man had any idea of its contents,
what a scourge he would be to Reginald !

Into what depths of degradation might he not drag
him!

'Now then, put your name there, ma'am ; handover
one-one, and the papers are yours. I hope
you will find them worth the money with a slight
smile.

I hope so,' returned Laura carelessly, as she
rose, and, advancing to the table, read over the
receipt he had written, and signed her name to it \
finally she laid the desired one-pound-one upon the
table.

All right,' said Mr. Winter, scrutinizing the coin
severely. ' I am happy to hand you over this parcel,
and should the relatives, heirs, executors, or assigns
make any opposition or inquiry, you will bear me
harmless.'

I feel sure no one has any interest in the documents,
whatever they may be, save myself

Very well ; wish you a good-morning.'

Thank you,' said Laura, bowing as she moved
towards the door.

*And,' continued Mr. Winter, who seemed loth
to let her go, ' my clerk's fee is half-a-crown !'

Indeed,' replied Laura, continuing her retreat
before he could interpose between her and the exit,
but without again opening her purse till the pale
and grimy lad in the first room opened the outer
door and stood with it in his hand, when in passing
she bestowed the stipulated half-crown on him,
saying, ' Mr. Winter tells me that is your fee.'

The astonishment depicted in his face enlightened

Laura a good deal as to the legality of the fees
demanded.

She was thankful, however, to be out of the house
and in possession of the papers, whatever they
might be, at any cost.

Though the interview had seemed long, it had
not really occupied much time, and it was barely
half-past three when she escaped into the open air
and the busy obscurity of the streets. She felt
strangely nervous, ready to start at her own
shadow. What if she met Reginald bound upon
the same errand as herself? for perhaps he knew of
Holden's death, and the existence of these letters.
She must command herself, and strive with her
unassisted judgment to decide on the most prudent
and least vindictive plan of proceeding.

Meantime, she feared to be alone. She knew
how little chance there was at that hour of the day
to find a seat in a Lowborn omnibus, so she ventured
on the extravagance of a cab, and thus
managed to reach her own quarter of the town intime
to give one of the private lessons which properly
belonged to that day.

VOL. III. 45

CREWE had made a considerable

change in her domestic

arrangements

since her son had taken up his abode
with her. She had adopted the six
o'clock dinner, instead of the indiscriminate meal
with tea and bread-and-butter, over which she used
to preside at that hour.

It is a cheap piece of gentility she observed in
one of her many confidential conversations with
her' excellent neighbour, Miss Brown. ' Call it
dinner or tea, people are as hungry for one as the
other. I wanted late dinner from the first  I mean
since the Admiral came  but he would not hear of
it. I dare say he thought I saved a fortune by
calling luncheon " dinner," and dinner " tea ;" but I
am sure he did not like it. How could he, accustomed
as he has always been to the elegancies of
aristocratic society ? only he is such a Christian,
that he is never so happy as when he i thoroughly
uncomfortable in a good cause,'

*That may be Christianity, but it is not commonsense,'
said Miss Brown , with a snap.

Mrs. Crewe slid dexterously out of the discussion
by remarking that the Admiral had attained to
spiritual heights beyond their reach, and then
brought round the congenial topic of Collins's
shortcomings.

On this particular day Laura was delighted to
find herself in excellent time for the evening meal
and passed to her own room unquestioned and unsuspected,
her precious packet concealed in a large
roll of drawing-paper.

That's right, dears said Mrs. Crewe, opening the
dining-room door. ' I was just beginning to hope
you would not be late ; it has been so warm, and
you look that tired and dusty and worn out, it gives
me a pain in the back to look at you.'

*Then I will hide myself as soon as I can,' returned
Laura, running upstairs.

Her first care was to put away the parcel in her
safest box, which had a patent lock. Then she sat
down to rest and breathe, while memory raised the
curtain of the past.

Scarce two years ago she had sat and thought in
that very room, almost dazed by the sudden flood
of love and light and intolerable joy that had
broken in upon her. Was it possible that she had
really had a lover, and such a lover  charming,
handsome, distinguished ? Alas ! was it all a
gigantic sham ? Yet in the old times, when neither
had a thought of the future or its possibilities, she

452

had been Reginald's chosen friend and confidante !
There was a certain amount of sympathy and
mutual comprehension between them which nothing
could quite uproot. And yet, if this strange story,
the truth of which she could no longer doubt, was
true, how basely he had robbed her ! How she had
been beaten to the earth by the storm of disappointment
and mortification ! What a martyrdom
she had endured since those days of dazzling delight
; and she was there still, living, breathing ;
her own self, not crushed out of mental form and
intelligence, but calm, resigned ; and, as she acknowledged
to herself with surprise, not incapable of
enjoyment in some directions, but that she was at
present somewhat over weighted with the task that
lay before her. For she could not, must not, allow
Reginald to go altogether unpunished.

Yet how could she strike him without hurting
dear, innocent, unsuspecting Winnie ? She could
not answer the question. She must first acquaint
herself with the contents of Holden's packet  and
then? She found no convenient conclusion, so
proceeded to make a more than usually careful
toilette, in order to avert attention from her worn,
weary aspect ; nor did she leave the grateful shelter
of her chamber till informed that * dinner was on
the table.'

Both the Admiral and Denzil were waiting when
she entered the drawing-room, and she apologized
in some confusion for her unusual want of punctuality.
Laura was always anxious to show her

regard for those with whom she lived, by her quiet
observance of the small politeness that are to
society what mortar is to bricks, without which the
wall could not stand.

When dinner was over, the partie carrie assembled
in the drawing-room, and Laura observed
that the Admiral seemed unusually disposed to
talk. He had met an old shipmate that day who
had been * interviewing ' one of the Lords of the
Admiralty on behalf of his son, a young lieutenant,
and this opened up a long vista of bygone days.
The Admiral was deeply interested in his old
friend's son, and announced his intention of speaking
to certain influential personages in his favour.

Mrs. Crewe listened with much attention and
approval, and did not fail to observe with a sigh
that she wished his interest could be employed in
favour of her dear boy.

The ' dear boy,' meantime, lay back easily in his
chair, apparently lost in thought, and Laura,
though resolutely keeping her mind present with
her, was glad to be silent, and occupied with some
ornamental work destined for Mrs. Crewe.

Presently their neighbour, Mr. Brown, joined
them with a Tones in his hand, to talk over an
important City article with Denzil. But Denzil
was not disposed to talk, so Mr. Brown, nothing
loth, turned to the Admiral, and they were soon
deep in an argument on the amount of benefit
really derived by society from what is usually
termed progress.

Play us something, Laura dear,' said Mrs. Crewe,
who did not care for conversation of this description.


Laura silently went to the piano, and began to
play from memory the old airs and dreamy cradle-songs
that she knew her listeners liked. While
she did so she remembered that she had scarcely
exchanged a word with Denzil since the evening
when he had spoken to her so harshly. The absorbing
interest of her search for the documents
indicated by Holden had thrust it back among the
stores of memory, but not obliterated it. She
wondered why he had been so cross that night, and
earnestly hoped no evil had happened to ruffle the
rare interval of peace his mother was enjoying, or
indeed to wound himself She hoped he did not
think she had avoided him because she was
offended ; she had been a little hurt at his tone,
but even that had passed away ; she would not
easily let so good and pleasant a friend go ; so she
thought within herself while she touched softly,
tenderly, the pathetic notes of 'Ye Banks and
Braes o' Bonnie Down.'

We have been quite strangers for the last week,'
said Denzil's voice suddenly, close behind her. ' I
know you are above small spite of all kinds, yet
whether you intended it or not, I have felt it
punishment.'

That is your own fancy,' she returned, * certainly
not my intention. We are both too busy for
imaginary wrongs.'

And too true, I hope,' he added.

There was a pause, and Laura's fingers strayed
over the keys and brought out, almost unconsciously,
* Logie o' Buchan.'

Denzil came a step forward and leant against the
end of the piano.

I found a book to-day I have heard you express
a wish to read, so I have brought it to you.'

Indeed ! What is it ?'

Freytag's last volume.'

Is it for a peace-offering ? that was not needed,'
said Laura, looking up with one of her brief sweet
smiles. * Yet I thank you heartily, and accept it
greedily"'

That's right,' returned Denzil, looking well
pleased. ' I wish I could read German.'

It is not so difficult ; I think I could teach you.'
Do not tempt me,' he returned, his deep dark
eyes lighting up with a kindly glance. 'For me,
it would be waste of time. Lives like mine are too
full of indispensable work to allow of excursions
into pleasant by-ways. I must stick to the main
road if I mean to accomplish what I want.'

And what do you want .''' ceasing to play, and
looking up at him with interest.

Independence and a fair position.'

Yes, and you will win it. Men have the game
in their hands. But what uphill work it is for a
woman to make a place in this crowded world !'

I dare say it is ; but women have men to work
for them.'

Sometimes. The time is going by for that.
Do not suppose I am too self-asserting, but when
you think of the hundreds of women who cannot
possibly find men to work for them, you must
admit we have a right to help ourselves if we can ;
we are becoming too heavy a burden for you.'

Perhaps so ; the mere fact of increasing population
creates great changes.'

Work is no hardship,' said Laura ; * it is often
the highest pleasure.'

Your work, yes,' he returned. * But think of
sewing long seams and things, the livelong day.'

True ; the lot of some is very hard. Where is
my book ?'

Here,' said Denzil, turning to a side-table and
taking up a parcel that lay there ; he opened it,
and produced a foreign-looking volume with a
neutral-tinted paper cover.

You are really very good and kind to me.'

Then you give me plenary absolution ?'

You do not need it ; if you did, this book would
purchase much.'

I do not like that way of putting it,' exclaimed
Denzil, his dark cheek growing red. ' I do not
want to buy a pardon, though I am very glad to
receive it a free gift.'

swell, needed or not, you have it*

Thank you.'

There was a pause ; Laura resumed her playing,
and Denzil stood still by the piano, leaning on the
end and looking dotvn into the face of the musician.

I had a visit from your young cousin, Herbert
Fieldenen, at the office this morning,' resumed ,
* He was on his way to Pierslynn, and had
some business in the City. I like the youngster 
there is something kindly and frank about him,
and he has a look of his beautiful sister ; all the
better for him. He hankers still after the sea ; but
I fancy Mrs. Piers of Pierslynn would scarcely care
to have a merchant skipper for a brother.'

I cannot tell  there is no pretension about
Winnie ; she is very true and real.'

Yes ; but remember she has another self to
influence her now, and one more alive to appearances
than she is.' .

Laura made no answer.

Herbert tells me his sister Is coming to town
for Miss Trent's wedding. It is to take place Immediately,
is it not ?'

Next week, I believe. I have not heard from
Winnie for some days. I suppose she waits to tell
me which day they arrive. I did not expect to
have the pleasure of seeing her so soon again.'

It is a great pleasure, I suppose,' said Denzil,
looking at her keenly. ' Unbelievers do say there
is no such thing as female friendship, but I think
Mrs. Piers and you are very fast friends.'

I think we are, and so long as I am sure of my
own friendships, I do not care to generalize on the
subject.'

There was another pause, and then Denzil said
somewhat abruptly :

Have you been working at South Kensington
since you returned ?'

Not yet ; tomorrow is a students' day, and I
think of copying there in the afternoon ; there are
some bits of Darby's I should like to get hold of.*

If I can leave the City in tolerable time, I will
come and see what you are doing  that is, if I
may.'

Of course ; I shall be glad to know what you
think of my work ; you have a very good eye for
colour, considering.'

That is encouraging ! You are feeling all right
again, Miss Piers ? quite recovered that attack ?'
Yes, quite.'
Yet you are not looking yourself.'

I should be very pleased to be some one else,
could I choose. Yet no! it would be base and
cowardly to shrink from one's own personality

Laura !' said the Admiral suddenly, ' may I
trouble you to bring me a small parcel of papers
tied with black ribbon which lies beside my desk ?
These reports, my dear sir, will show you the difficulties
our association has had to contend with,'
etc., etc.

And Laura's tete-astute with Denzil was over.

5}C ?|C  7v JJC

When she escaped to her own room it was nearly
ten o'clock, and having locked her door and shaded
the light, she drew forth the packet she had purchased
that day, determined to master its contents
before she slept. But first she put away the book

Denzil had brought her, with a pleased sense of
kindly recognition and satisfaction that the little
estrangement between them had been swept away.
 He is very kind and thoughtful, and a true gentleman
;' the half-uttered words came with a sigh, as
she felt that no temptation, no sophistry, would
have induced him to play the traitor.

Then she broke the seal of the packet, which was
inscribed :

To be delivered only to the person named by me.

J. HOLDEN.'

Within was a memorandum signed with the
same name.

'These letters were addressed to my father's
aunt, Mrs. Deborah Pryce ; she resided for many
years near the little town of Llanogwen, in North
Wales ; my father inherited what property she left,
and among other things these papers. They lay
for years, unnoticed, in an old desk, until about
four years ago, when, on my mother's death, in
looking through her few effects, I came upon them,
and thinking they might possibly be of use to
myself or some one else, put them aside. Mrs.
Pryce was for many years a widow, and had a farm
which she managed herself. She had always let
some rooms in her house to sportsmen, as there was
good fishing and shooting all round, and this
Geoffrey Piers and his wife appear to have been
her tenants from 1819 till the spring of 182 1. One

letter is missing ; it was a very short one, containing
the mere announcement that the marriage had
taken place. I gave it to Reginald Piers when we
came to an understanding respecting the Pierslynn
succession. In this matter I have acted for the
best for all parties, feeling satisfied that if I gain a
little, no one will be the loser, unless, indeed, certain
arrangements are not carried out, in which case I
reserve to myself the means of doing justice.'

Having read this carefully, Laura took up a letter
marked ' 2,' and seeing the remaining documents
were marked * 3 ' and ' 4,' proceeded to unfold it.
The paper, yellow with age, was covered on three
sides with small, fine, faded writing, while the fourth
bore the inscription, 'To Mrs. Pryce, Craigedon
Farm, Llanogwen, Merionethshire,' the London
post-mark, and was dated 'July 28th, 1820.' The
address inside was ' Church Row,' and the date,
written in old-fashioned style, ' This 28th of July,,
1820.'

The letter began, ' Dear and respected friend,*
and proceeded to say that they (her husband and
herself) had changed their plans, and instead of
returning, as her former letter stated, on the following
Wednesday, would remain a week longer in
town, as her dear husband (the new title was repeated
as often as possible) wished she should see
some of the sights in the great metropolis, especially
as sh felt so much stronger and better than when
she left Llanogwen.

The feeling that I can stand by my husband's
side in the face of the world seems to give me new-life,'
she continued. ' And it need never harm him,
for I do not want to intrude upon his proud people,
only to be his true wife and helper, in peace and
obscurity, in your pretty, pleasant home. How can
I ever thank you enough, dear Mrs. Pryce, for all
your goodness ! I know it was your excellent
advice decided Geoffrey to follow the inclination of
his own kind heart. You are a mother to me, the
only mother I ever knew ! Mine has been such a
lonely life. I so wished you had been with me at
church ; I had no one but the clerk and the woman
of the house where we lodge. Though I was so
happy, I could not keep back my tears, and when I
repeated after the pastor, " Till death us do part," I
felt a sudden chill, as though the parting was not
far off. You will scold me for this, dear friend !
but now I feel quite gay and hopeful. I shall remember
your advice, and take great care of my
marriage certificate till I can give it to you to keep.
I am writing while my husband is gone out on
business, and it is the next best thing to talking
with you. How much I shall have to tell you
when we meet !'

Then followed some mention of the Tower and
St. Paul's ; of a beautiful dress her husband had
given her ; and then it ended with the words :
Always yours attached

Valerie Piers.*

The tears rose to Laura's eyes as they perused
these lines ; she wondered that a French Canadian,
as her grandmother seemed to have been, could
write such good English. She had evidently received
some cultivation, and her letter had a
certain refinement that made it hard to imagine
how she could have formed such a connection as
that which at first existed between her and Geoffrey
Piers. But conjectures were fruitless. She folded
up the letter and took up a small slip of paper,
which certified 

That it appears by the Register of Marriages,
kept for the Parish of St. Slaves [City], in the

borough of , that Geoffrey Piers and Valerie

Levelled were married, the twenty-fifth day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and twenty.

Witness my hand this twenty-fifth day of July,
1820.

T. Lawrence, Vicar

One more letter, dated October, 1820, from
Chester, described the writer as not much the
better for the change, and very anxious to return
to Llanogwen, as Mr. Piers would be obliged to goto
his cousin's place at Pierslynn. Mrs. Piers was
always very fond of him, and she was ill, etc. ; and
the writer adds : ' I could not bear Geoffrey's absence,
unless I were with you. He is so kind and
gentle ; how shall I ever leave him ?'

Finally, in a rude round hand on a piece of ruled
paper, that looked as if it had been torn out of an
account-book, was written as follows :

This letter, October 27th, was the last she wrote
me, poor dear. She never left me again till she
went to a better world, the 9th of January following,
just a fortnight after her little baby boy was
born. I had him christened Edward, in our parish
church, as I knew his father was a prelatist ; but he
was too distraught, poor gentleman, with grief, to
know or care what I did.

I loved that boy, and had the sole care of him
for five years. Mr. Piers paid me regularly, and
came often to see him. At last he took him away
somewhere that he might be properly educated ; so
I lost my little darling.

I had a few letters from Mr. Piers telling me
how the boy got on ; but now it is nigh six years
since I had any tidings, and I do not expect ever to
see or hear anything more of Mr. Piers or his dear
boy ; but so long as I live I will keep these papers,
and I charge my nephew, Charles James Holden, todo
the same, as there is no knowing when they maybe
of use to the boy.

Deborah Pryce.

'Sept. \\th, 1831.'

This was all. Laura sat long in deep though
confused thought. What the legal value of these
letters might be she could not tell; to her they

were proof positive. Indeed, she could not conceive
a doubt existing as to her right to the family
estate.

Still the wearisome question arose again and
again, what should she do ?

To attack Reginald, although he had wronged
and robbed her, was almost beyond her strength ;
to submit to such a wrong with her eyes open was
not to be thought of. At last a resolution slowly
formed itself in her mind ; she would wait awhile,
and then she would speak to him alone. Having
shown her full knowledge of his treachery, she
would come to some terms with him by which he
should be neither beggared nor disgraced. This was
all she could decide, and so, after a long, unprofitable
reverie, she folded up the packet again, tied it
carefully, locked it away, and went to bed, whereto
her own surprise, she slept profoundly, having
been much exhausted by the fatigue and excitement
of the day.

:ic H:  He hic

The waking next morning, the going about her
usual work, the interest and vexations of teaching,
the writing a receipt for some small payment, all
seemed strange and difficult to her.

She was unworldly enough, and very little inclined
to cynicism or morbidness of any description,
yet she could not help smiling as she thought
of her social experience. She had learned so
deeply the lesson of her own insignificance ; not
that she was annoyed by it : the few she loved.

loved her; but to the world  the general world 
she knew she was just a praiseworthy ' young
person who maintained herself, and could draw a
little. Even of those who cared most for her,
which of them recognised the power, the capability,
that was in her ? Suppose she stood revealed
before them as the mistress of a fine estate, patroness
of a couple of livings, the possessor of the power
money always gives: with what sympathetic respect
she would be spoken to, with what consideration
she would be treated. Even Mrs. Crewe would
think of her with awe tempered by love.

She smiled, quite kindly, at the idea ; after all, of
those she knew, the one who seemed to know her
best was Denzil Crewe. He said little on the subject,
but the habit he had of listening to her opinions,
the very way in which he opposed them, proved a
degree of appreciation she had never met from
anyone else, not even Winnie, not even Reginald,
when he was playing the lover  * a part,' thought
Laura, with a sigh and a smile, * no one will ever
play to me again, unless, indeed, for the same
reason  my title to Pierslynn.'

Yet she went through all her daily duties with
more inward calm than she had felt for some time.
Her doubts were all resolved ; she held her fortune
in her hand, and at her own disposal. The pain of
this knowledge was always aching at the bottom of
her heart ; the terrible weariness of spirit that
comes of disenchantment. But constant occupation
gave relief, and the friendly companionship of

VOL. III. 46

Denzil Crewe brightened her rare moments of
leisure.

  :  -

The second day after Laura's excursion into the
City, she was a Httle late for dinner, and ran up to
her room to make a hasty toilet without first seeing
Mrs. Crewe.

Come away, my dears cried that lady, as she
entered the dining-room, where the rest were at
table. * I am so sorry you were late to-day, of all
days. It is the first time I have ventured to treat
you to salmon, and yours will be quite cold,' performing
a fantasia on the handbill. ' Collins, bring
oh, you have it ! Sit down, Laura, and eat your
fish, while I tell you the news. A little more
salmon, Admiral ?  just a thought ? No. Well,
Denzil, I insist on your taking that, and eating it,"
dropping an abundant spoonful on his plate.
Now then, Laura, who do you think paid me a
visit to-day ?'

I am sure I cannot guess, Mrs. Crewe.'

What do you say to Winnie ! Mrs. Piers, of
Pierslynn, herself, and the baby. She came, she
said, without writing a line, just to surprise us.
Collins, if you don't mind you will drop the knives
and sauce-ladle, and grease all the carpet. And a
great surprise it was. She looked sweet, in such a
bonnet and cloak and dress ! Madame Elise, my
dear ; no mistaking her style. She is just the same
dear, warm-hearted, charming creature as ever. Is
she not, Admiral ?'

Very interesting and worthy of affection indeed,'
he returned, ' though she has caused me much
grief.'

When did they come to town ?' cried Laura, all
attention.

Only yesterday ; was it not kind and friendly
of her to come out here so soon ? The baby is a
beautiful little darling, but delicate ; it requires
food, I am sure. Doctors may say what they like,
but as I told that dear inexperienced young
creature (and I think I ought to know), some babies
must be fed, pearl barley boiled to a jelly, with a
tinge of white sugar, and cooled to a proper degree
with the purest milk you can get, is admirable after
two months old ; I have known splendid children
reared upon it. Collins !' with withering severity,
I will trouble you to look at the bottom of that
plate, Collins ; one would think you had stood it in
the coal-cellar P

Did you look at the baby, dear Admiral T asked
Laura, with a smile.

Yes, I looked at it ; but these poor little
creatures are beyond my comprehension,' he
returned.

Its limbs are not at all what they ought to be,'
resumed Mrs. Crewe authoritatively. ' But what
eyes the precious dear has ! The exact model of
its mother's. Do you know, my sweet Topsy was
quite jealous to see the baby in my arms. She
jumped on the small round table, and sat there
straight up, with her pretty toes together, giving a

46  2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Ml. Mn,c

little croak now and then in a most intelligent
manner. Denzil, would you cut a slice of cold
beef for Topsy ? I heard her mewing in the
garden. She is annoyed with an ugly white cat
that will come into our premises.'

How long did Winnie say she was going to
stay in town ?'

She did not say, but I fancy they will be here
some weeks. She seemed so bright and happy, and
said how she enjoyed your visit, Laura. She got
well from the time you arrived.'

I have no doubt yours is a healing influence,'
said Denzil, smiling ; ' though you and Mrs. Piers
are so unlike in nature, I do not quite understand
your being such great friends.'

That is just it,' said Laura. ' Our angles fit
into each other ; were they a shade nearer they
might graze.'

The baby had a beautiful robe and pelisse,' resumed
Mrs. Crewe, ' all white satin and lace ; but
he has no cap. I must say I like a baby in a cap.
I stuck to them as long as I could, but even in my
day they were going out. I remember what a
sweet little angel Denzil looked in his close-quilled
cap-border with its loops of white ribbon.'

Both Laura and Denzil burst into hearty laughter
at the picture thus conjured up.

Mrs. Piers wrote a little note for you, Laura ;
it is in the drawing-room.'

An announcement which made the rest of dinner
seem very long, especially as the Admiral was

disposed to talk, and Mrs. Crewe did not like to
move.

Well, dear, what does she say ?' asked Mrs.
Crewe, when they had escaped the dining-room, the
Admiral having ascended to his own chamber, and
Denzil producing an evening paper, while Laura
read her note.

She begs me to go to her early tomorrow and
spend the day, which she supposes I can do, as it
is Sunday.'

Will you go V asked Denzil quickly.

Oh yes, of course ! Then I can tell her of my
engagements, and she will see that I cannot be
with her every day. '

I dare say her own engagements will be so
numerous that she may not want to see you everyday,'
he returned.

Very likely,' said Laura calmly ; ' our paths lie
wide apart. Still, it is very pleasant to catch a
glimpse of each other now and then.'

Denzil made no answer, and Mrs. Crewe took up
her parable.

No doubt it is, Laura dear ; and very right and
natural. I am sure it is highly to your credit
having kept up your friendship with young Mrs.
Piers so steadily. She may be a valuable friend to
you yet.'

She is always valuable to me,' said Laura, in a
low tone.

I wonder if Mr. Reginald Piers will ever honour
me by calling again 1 I used to be all and all with

him, but I dare say he would feel awkward now. I
must say my opinion of that young man is considerably
changed, and he must know it

'All that is past and gone said Laura very
gravely and composedly. ' I dare say he has nearly
forgotten the terrible mistake he had almost made.
Let us forget it too.'

It would certainly be in better taste to do so,'
said Denzil emphatically.

Please, miss said Collins, opening the door
suddenly, * the . Admiral says would you mind
stepping upstairs a minute ?'

SHALL be all alone to-days said Mrs.
Crewe, as she and Laura returned to
the dining-room the following morning,
after attending the Admiral to the
door as usual. He was in the habit of starting
early on Sundays, in order to reach 'Mount
Moral' in good time, and Laura did not feel
herself bound to accompany him invariably.
*Denzil started quite an hour ago, to catch the
9.30 train to Isleworth. He is invited to spend the
day with Mr. Gibbon, the senior partner, who hasa
lovely place in the country. Very flattering, I
am sure.' Then, after a pause, she resumed confidentially,
' Mr. Gibbons has a very nice daughter,
I am told, highly accomplished, and very pretty.
Now, it has struck me that all the attention Denzil
has received from the family of late may possibly
mean that he would not be unacceptable as a son-in-law.'


Perhaps so said Laura, stirring a supplementary
cup of tea.

My son may not be a wealthy man,' continued
Mrs. Crewe, with dignity, ' but he has birth, and
high character, good looks, and, though I say it,
first-rate abilities ; it is my impartial opinion that
the girl who gets my Denzil may bless her stars.'

I am sure he would be the best possible husband,'
returned Laura cordially. * And now I
must go too, as Winnie wants me to be with her
early. But I will come back in time for tea, Mrs.
Crewe, and go to church with you in the evening.'

It was with a curious mixture of pain and pleasure
that Laura hastened to her appointment next
day. Mr. and Mrs. Piers had established themselves
at the A Hotel, being somewhat nearer

the dowager's dwelling, as she professed the most
devoted attachment to her little grandson.

Laura found Winnie in a pleasant room, opening
on a balcony filled with flowers, she herself inmost
becoming summer attire, and ' baby ' in his
highly ornamented bassinette.

Winnie was writing when Laura entered, and
sprang up to meet her with her usual affectionate
warmth.

I am so delighted to see you, dear ! I was sure
you would come early. I want so much to have a
nice talk with you before Reginald comes back ;
he said he would come in to luncheon. How have
you been, Laura t You do not look as well as you
did at Pierslynn.'

I dare say not. London is so warm and exhausting
; but I am quite well. Now let me look
at baby.'

After half an hour or more spent in admiring-and
discussing the sleeping infant, and expatiating
on his surprising progress, Winnie exclaimed :

I have a note for you from Mrs. Piers. She
wants you to dine with her on Wednesday. You
must come with me, dear. She is very nice in her
own house, and you will like her.' And Laura,
after some hesitation, agreed.

While they still spoke the door was thrown open,
and a waiter announced ' Colonel Bligh.'

A tall, soldierly-looking man entered, and advanced
to shake hands with Winnie. He was very
sunburnt, with thick dark moustaches, abundant
black hair, just touched with grey, and keen red-brown
eyes.

Hadn't the least idea you were in town till Piers
looked me up this morning. Very glad to see you
so blooming.'

He shook hands with Winnie as he spoke, and
darted one quick inquiring glance at Laura.

He was followed in another moment by Reginald,
who was, Laura at once noticed, looking
brighter and better than when she last saw him.
He was evidently much surprised at finding her
with his wife, but assumed an air of great cordiality.


Ah, Laura ! delighted to see you ! I was going
to try if I should have better luck to-day than

Winifrid had yesterday, for I know you stay at
home of a Sunday. And how have you been since
you deserted Pierslynn ?'

The blood went back to Laura's heart with a
suffocating sensation as he spoke. His voice had
all its old charm for her ear. Was it possible that
this handsome, debonair gentleman, with his cordial,
winning grace of manner, was a cheat, an
impostor ? Surely he was belied. He did not
know her (Laura's) rights. He could not have
played so base a part. She grew deadly pale, and
it was a moment before she could control herself
enough to reply.

I am sure you were better at Pierslynn,' continued
Reginald, looking at her earnestly. ' I cannot
say London agrees with you.'

Nor can I either !' exclaimed Winnie. ' Let
me present Colonel Bligh to you, Laura. Miss
Piers  Colonel Bligh.'

The Colonel made a profound bow ; both gentlemen
sat down, and luncheon proceeded. Colonel
Bligh and Mrs. Piers kept up a running fire of conversation,
in which Reginald joined occasionally,
but in spite of herself Laura was absolutely silent.

Come, Laura, you have no wine. You must
take a glass with me,' cried Reginald at last.
'Hock to Miss Piers. I know you like the Rhine
wines. What have you been doing since you came
back to town? Has the Admiral been taking you
to too many prayer-meetings ? or have you been
working too hard ? Ah, Laura !' lowering his

voice, while Winnie and Colonel Bligh were laughing
over some n:iutual acquaintances, ' you are not
made for this dull, hard life. You must cut London
and come to us. Why, Winnie will scarce
ever feel any place home without you !*

Laura raised her eyes and looked straight at him
for the first time since he came into the room.

Thank you,' she said, slowly and coldly ; ' you
are very good.'

Something in her tone, in her eyes, suddenly-stilled
Reginald's warm hospitality. He looked
away, a quick uneasy frown contracted his brow
for an instant, and he turned from Laura to join
abruptly in the conversation of the others, but
soon again addressed her.

And what does the Admiral do with himself?'


He is always busy. He has joined a sect of
benevolent people, and has quantities of business
to do, examining into cases and visiting districts.'

Happy are the rogues and vagabonds whose
cases are inquired into by our good old friend !'
exclaimed Reginald, laughing, and pouring out a
large glassful of sherry. ' I imagine it requires no
great skill to throw dust in his eyes.'

I am not so sure,' said Laura. ' I imagine he
often sees more and deeper than we think, only his
goodness is of the order that shines equally on the
evil and the good.'

That is exceedingly Immoral,* said Colonel
Bligh gravely.

It must be horribly difficult to find out who is
deserving and who is not observed Winnie ; ' and
while one is trying to find out, some good creatures
may die of starvation ! Some more strawberries,
Laura V

I say, Piers, you must take Mrs. Piers down to
Goodwood. The races come off on Friday next.
Let us make up a party. There is Mrs. Compton,
a capital little woman, a sort of relation of mine
(she is going to call upon you Mrs. Piers, if you
will allow her), she would like to come, and some
of her following. By-the-bye, our old friend
Madame Moscynska is staying with her ; they are
an uncommonly jolly pair of widows, only Mrs.
Compton is far and away the best of the two

At the mention of this name Winnie's big eyes
lit up with a startled, angry look  at least, so it
seemed to Laura, who understood every change in
her countenance. She did not reply immediately,
and Reginald said quickly :

By all means. Mrs. Piers has lost both Epsom
and Ascot. She ought to see Goodwood  eh,
Winnie V

*I thought Madame Moscynska had gone abroad ?'
c she said slowly, pushing her plate away and leaning
back in her chair.

She said she was going, at any rate,' returned
Reginald easily. * But we know '' how light a cause
may move " that fair lady to change her plans.'

As to the lightness of the cause, it is impossible
to say,' remarked Colonel Bligh, helping himself to

mayonaise. ' She likes to be suspected of being a
political agent  a sort of pale phantom of the
celebrated Princess Leven, minus a great many-important
ingredients. She is deuced clever, for
all that, and one of the most eloquent listeners I
ever met.'

What a curious phrase, Colonel Bligh !' exclaimed
Winnie.

I mean, she has a way of appearing so absorbed
in what you are saying to her (if you are at all
worth the trouble), that a man begins to think himself
no end of a raconteur, or conversationalist, and
that she must be a very highly gifted woman to
have found it out.'

Exactly,' said Winnie quietly, though her colour
rose, and Laura could see a tell-tale pulse quivering
in her snowy throat just above her rich lace
cravats ; * quite clever enough to make unpleasant
use of the admissions or revelations her eloquent
listening may have led you on to make.'

Come, Mrs. Piers ! that is too severe. Angelic
women like you ought to leave sarcasm to poor
commonplace, worldly mortals.'

By Jove ! it is too bad,' cried Reginald, with
rather a forced laugh. * You must know that when
we first met Princess Moscynska in Paris, Mrs.
Piers being quite inexperienced in all matters
appertaining to the higher regions and mysteries of
the toilette, Madame took her in hand. ' I must
say she had an apt pupil. My wife soon found she
could go alone, considerably before Madame 

recognised the fact, and hence the blood-feud
which exists between them ; more on our
side, I confess, than on the arch-offender's.'

I am not surprised at the " Moscynska " being
distanced,' said Colonel Bligh, with a bow and look
of unmistakable admiration; 'she is much too
heavily weighted for competition with such an
opponent.'

'Well  well  you will see about Goodwood,'
cried Reginald impatiently.

Winnie opened her lips as if about to speak, and
then closed them resolutely.

*Yes, I am going to dine with Mrs. Compton
to-day, and will let you know what is to be done.'

Winnie did not speak, and Laura felt a new
light  a very unpleasant light  dawning upon her.

I suppose your sister, Lady Jervois, will be in
town tomorrow or next day,' said Winnie to her
husband.

I am afraid not ; I forgot to mention that my
mother (I was sitting with her this morning) had a
letter from Helen, and Jervois has caught a chill.
He was chopping wood or digging potatoes, or
some such amusement, and got overheated, so there
is no chance of Helen coming up till her lord and
master is all right'

I am so sorry,' cried Winnie ; ' not so much for
Sir Gilbert, I confess, but T do like Helen. Do
you know Lady Jervois, Colonel Bligh ?'

No, I have never met her ; but I have heard
Markham  you know Markham of the th Dragoon

Guards  talk of her. He says she was a perfect
pocket Venus, when she first came out.'

Poor Nelly ! how changed she is ! yes, Markham
was awfully spoony on Helen. But he had
no money, so he wisely sheered off.'

He has come into something since, has he not ?'
asked Colonel Bligh. ' He was very jolly with us onboard
the yacht ; and, by the way, what a capital
comrade the Princess was ! We missed her awfully
when she left ; she kept everything ship-shape, and
old Dereham could do nothing without her. What
an old muff he is ! she tells me she is going down
to keep house for him in August ; if so, I think I
will accept shooting-quarters there. 

You had better come to Pierslynn,' said Reginald
; * I think I can offer you good sport.'

Somewhat to Laura's surprise, this invitation met
with no seconding from Winnie, who seemed in
deep thought, and soon after said :

Laura, shall we go into the next room ? will
you come with me to Mrs. Piers ? I should like to
hear about Sir Gilbert, and I will set you down in
Leamington Road afterwards.'

Thank you,' said Laura.

'What are you going to do, Reginald V

Who ? me ? Oh ! I am not sure. Bligh and
myself thought of looking in on little Bob Norris ;
they say he wants to sell the famous brown mare
of his, that astonished us all with the Wiltshire
last winter. Tell you what, Winnie, if you and
Laura make your way to the Zoo about four, or

four-thirty, I'll meet you there, somewhere in the
aquarium

Very well,' said his wife. ' Remember we dine
at half-past seven with the Lloyds.'

Oh ! I had nearly forgotten.'

Winnie rose and went into the next room,
followed by Laura and the two gentlemen ; they
naturally fell into a double tete-astute, Colonel
Bligh talking on smoothly and pleasantly in a
lowered tone to Mrs. Piers, who, though she rewarded
his efforts with occasional smiles and
laughter, seemed to Laura absent and preoccupied.
Reginald tried to interest Laura and himself in a
discussion of her affairs.

How is the Admiral getting on ? Is there any
chance of his saving anything from the wreck of
that confounded company ?'

I am afraid not. He seems to have forgotten
about it, and we are all very content and happy
together in dear, kind Mrs. Crewe's dovecot.'

'Are you?' shifting his chair to place himself
between Colonel Bligh and her. ' I don't think
there is another girl like you anywhere ; or is your
philosophy the result of compensation .?'

Has your new life so dulled your wits, Reginald,
as to blind you to the conceit and presumption
of such a speech V returned Laura coolly,
though it stung and startled her.

By Jove ! it was both,' cried Reginald, recalled
by this rebuke. * I did not think of what I was
saying ; still, you are a sort of girl one does not

meet everyday. Winnie tells me you made no end
of charming sketches at Pierslynn. I wish you
would accept a commission from me, and work one
of them up into a picture.'

No, Reginald, I am too busy just now.'

'That is, you don't choose to accept anything
from me,' he returned, looking at her with a curious,
bold, hard stare, which made her feel angry and
regretful.

Angry at his effrontery, regretful for the subtle
indefinite deterioration in him, which she felt
rather than observed. To turn the conversation,
she remarked how well Winnie was looking  better
than ever.

Yes,' replied Reginald ; ' she is in great feather.
Hasn't she come out, too ? by George ! she has a
spirit of her own, but bright and true as steel. Do
you knows looking down, while his face darkened,
I sometimes wish she had been less handsome and
bewitching. Come along,' he exclaimed to Colonel
Bligh, interrupting himself in a harsh tone. 'If
we are not off we shall miss Norris ;' and he walked
away without a word to anyone.

Colonel Bligh made his adieux with much
deliberation, volunteered a promise not to forget
Goodwood, and with a profound bow to Laura,
followed his leader.

Winnie sat silent for a minute, while Laura
watched her. At last Winnie seemed to rouse herself,
and changing her expression, exclaimed :

He is very nice and agreeable, is he not ?'

VOL. III. 47

Who, Reginald ?'

No, no ! Colonel Bligh,' said Winnie, laughing.
I flatter myself he is a great admirer of mine.
Come, dear Laura, let us go and see my mother-in-law.
I should like to know about poor Helen.
Only fancy having to nurse Sir Gilbert ! It must
be an awful penance ; you don't know what an
odious little wretch he is.'

The following afternoon Laura returned very
warm and weary. Monday was always a day full
of work, and that of the least sympathetic kind.

It was the evening of the Admiral's monthly
meeting, on which occasions there was always an
early dinner for him. On this special Monday,
Mrs. Crewe had gone out in a great state of excitement
to visit a cousin, a post-captain in the Navy,
who with his wife had arrived in town from some
distant station, and had invited her and her son
to dine with them ; she had despatched a note
to Denzil at his office, requesting him to join herat
the Charing Cross Hotel. So Laura, having
changed her dress for a cool creamy summer gown,
and washed away the dust of the hot streets, partook
of a refreshing cup of tea, and strolled into
the little garden, where the ubiquitous Collins was
hard at work with a huge watering-pot, Mrs. Crewe
having carefully provided against the possibility of
her finding any spare time.

The little plot of garden was sweet and fresh,
the spreading horse-chestnut at the far side from

the house sheltering it from the sun, while Mrs.
Crewe's taste and care preserved it from neglect or
cockneyism.

Laura was glad to be alone for awhile, and yet
anxious to turn her thoughts from the weary iteration
that occupied and harassed them. She therefore
took refuge in the book Denzil had given her !
opening it with a slight sigh : ' How kind and
thoughtful he is ! I suppose if he marries his
partner's daughter, there will be no more pleasant
little gifts for me ;' and then the feeling of how
great a loss his friendship would be came upon her
with a degree of pain that surprised her. She must
get used to the idea, however, for some day their
sympathetic companionship would cease. Denzil
was the last man to whom a platonic liaison would
supply the place of wife and home. He was so
earnest and practical in all his ways of thought and
action ! Would it not have been happier for Winifred
to have married Denzil ? He was so steady
and so strong. Alas ! it had come to her as a
sudden revelation that Winnie was not quite happy;
there was a sort of insecurity pervading even her
brightest moments, and that pregnant expression
which had fallen from her lips more than once,
You know we are all right now implied so much
that things were wrong once and might be again.
Winnie herself was perhaps a little jealous and
exacting ; yet this was quite a new development
of her character. In her girlish days she was the
frankest and least self-seeking of mortals. Always

472

happily secure in her own grace and charm, without
seeming the least conscious of either, it seemed as
natural to her to give freely all help and kindness,
and pleasure, as to breathe, asking nothing in
return, yet rejoicing with youthful triumph in the
readiness everyone showed to befriend and oblige
her.

She is changed in some mysterious way ! some
evil touch has brushed away the sweet, fresh bloom
of her nature. Yet she is not so much changed as
Reginald ! I fear  I fear there are many dark days
before him ! He seems secure enough now ! Does
he know of Holden's death ?'

Turning from her own conjectures, she resolutely
fixed her eyes and thoughts on the pages of ' Die
Bride von Deutsche House,' and read with increasing
interest and relief.

She had got well into the story, though her
hours of idleness'  comparative idleness  were
few, and intended to read so long as the light
lasted. But she had not been half an hour
so occupied, and Collins had retired with the
watering-pot, when the smell of a cigar attracted
her attention, and looking up, she saw Denzil Crewe
standing on the door-step. Their eyes met, and he
came down the walk to her.

I thought you had gone to dine with Mrs.
Crewe at Charing Cross !' said Laura in some surprise.


I thought it impossible to get away from the
office in time, so I sent a line of explanation to our

host, and after all finished my work sooner than I
expected.'

Mrs. Crewe will be vexed.'

I hope not. I shall see these relatives another
day. Do you mind my cigar ?'

No  I like it on the air. I sometimes think I
should like to smoke too ; it must be soothing
when one is worried.'

It is,' returned Denzil, sitting down on the
bench beside her, but carefully to leeward, ' though
I hope you do not want a weed for that reason.'

Oh ! every one has their share ; I have nothing
especial to complain of.'

There was a pause, during which Denzil looked
thoughtfully at the gravel, and then Laura said
softly :

I have been enjoying the amusement you
kindly provided for me,' and she held up her
book.

Is it a thrilling tale ?' asked Denzil absently.

'Certainly a stirring one'.

'I have not seen you since yesterday morning,*
resumed Denzil rather abruptly ; 'you spent the
day with Mrs. Piers ?'

The greater part of it'

I went down to Mr. Gibbons's, the head of my firm.
He has a nice place away down the South Western
line, near Maiden. It is rather new and bare now,
but will be pretty when the trees are older.' He
paused, knocked the ash off his cigar, and resumed,
still looking at the ground : ' We had a long consultation,

Mr. Gibbons and myself  rather a serious
one for me.'

Indeed!' returned Laura, feeling a little startled,
and thinking, ' Is it possible he has been proposing
for the daughter T

It seems they are very much dissatisfied with
their agent in Japan,' he continued ; ' so they want
me to go out and look after him. More than that,
they want me to stay there for a couple of years as
their representative.'

He looked up gravely into Laura's eyes as he
ceased to speak.

Your mother would be terribly cut up,' she said ;
*but what do you think of it yourself?*

It would be advantageous to me in more ways
than one,' he returned ; ' but I have an unusual reluctance
to leave home. Still '  he paused  ' I
shall have time to think about it, for they await
replies to their letters, which cannot arrive before a
month or five weeks ; and,' stealing an inquiring
glance at her which she did not observe, ' we have
always been friends  that is, you have been so
good as to treat me as  well, as a sort of brother,
that I thought I should like to talk to you about
it' He said this with a slight hesitation and diffidence
that sat well upon his serious strength.

You know I shall be pleased and interested to
listen,' replied Laura, turning to him with a sweet,
frank smile.

Denzil was silent for a moment, and began again :

If I go out I shall certainly increase the stability

'>i:v

and business of the firm, and they will give me a
salary in addition to my share of the profits, besides
other chances that may arise to push my fortunes.
On the other hand, I dislike the idea of losing two
or three years (in one sense they would be lost) in
such a remote place, after all my frequent wanderings.
The firm would soon find as good an agent
as I should be, and my share of profit would not
be diminished were I to decline. Besides all this, I
have an especial reason for wishing to stay in
England, though, for the same reason, I am more
anxious than ever to make money.'

Then it is hard to decide. Your pros, and cons.
seems so equally balanced. It would be a great
disappointment to your mother were you to leave
her again, and she ought to be considered.'

Ay, she ought indeed. If she knew all my
motives, however, she would, I am certain, reconcile
herself to my absence.'

Then you incline to go .'''

Yes, if I do not lose more by going than by
remaining here.' He rose as he spoke, and slowly
paced round the garden twice, then, throwing away
the end of his cigar, he resumed his seat beside her,
and Laura looked up from her book again. * I am
very anxious to make money,' said Denzil, resting
one elbow on his knee and his head on his hand
speaking, as it were, out of his thoughts.

Most men are, I suppose.'

I am not greedy of riches ; but independence,
comfort, all men ought to strive for.'

Poverty must be worse to men than women said
Laura thoughtfully.

 I should have thought not ; women want more
of luxury than men ; they cannot rough it like us.'

In one sense, perhaps, yes ; but they can renounce
and endure more, while the dignity of independence
is more essential to men. To be master
of his own life must be the object of every man ;
even I like to feel that I am gradually winning
the command of my own.'

Even you ! Do you know, I think you have a
dash of masculine spirit ?'

I do not think I have any spirit at all ; but,' irresistibly
impelled to make a covert approach to the
ever-present topic of her thoughts, ' it must be hard
for a young man, full of life, of ability, conscious
of birth beyond his position, yet chained down to
inferiority by poverty, to resist grasping fortune,
even though infringing the rights of another,
another who would never miss them, and to whom
he hoped to atone.'

Is that the plot here i*' said Denzil, touching her
book and looking at her, a little surprised by the
emotion of her tone. ' It is a very poor kind of a
hero that would start his career with a theft. I
hope he gets properly punished in the end.'

I have not come to the end yet,' returned Laura,
accepting the shelter unconsciously offered. *No
doubt he will be.'

I should not think you would have any compassion
for a character of that kind.'

You ought to know the whole story before you
blame me,' said Laura.

I do not think you need fear my blame,' returned
Denzil, with the soft kindly smile which
occasionally lent beauty to his thoughtful face.

I am not so sure. I fear you are disposed to
judge me by too high a standard, and to feel impatient
with me if I fail to attain it.'

I deny that altogether ! In short, you misunderstand
me.'

It will never do to begin misunderstanding each
other after being so long ei rapport ; do not let me
hear the word again,' returned Laura, rousing herself
to reply with cheery playfulness.

Very well,' said Denzil Crewe. ' Yet ' He

stopped, and a short silence ensued. * And how is
Mrs. Piers ?' he asked, breaking it suddenly.

Remarkably well, and looking lovely.'

'No doubt,' he returned thoughtfully. she is
lovely  that is just the word. She made a great
impression on me when we first met.' He laughed
slightly, and leaned back in his seat. ' I was inclined
to build castles in the air respecting her ;
but I soon saw that was no use ; saw it in time for
myself.'

Laura did not know exactly what to say, but only
for a moment. The frank confidence which existed
between Denzil and herself was not to be clouded
over by a trifle.

Yes,' she exclaimed, ' I saw you were very much
struck by Winnie, and at the time I wished she

might love you, for I always liked you myself,'
concluded Laura, with the most unembarrassed,
sisterly cordiality.

And don't you wish it now ?' asked Denzil, a
quiet smile lighting up the depths of his grave
eyes.

'Ah, no ! How could I ? No doubt everything
has turned out for the best, I suppose ; yet she
might have been very happy with you. And God
only knows what is before her !'

Ay, God knows ! I am obliged to you for your
good opinion so far. Tell me, Laura  Miss Piers,
I mean  do you never think of yourself?*

Yes, often  too much. Why do you ask ?'

Because I never see any trace of self-love about
you.'

But I have it, though. I have a great longing
.to express myself; to put what I feel and think on
canvas, or on paper. I suppose you would consider
it a mere foolish fancy were I to tell you how Nature
seems at times to speak to me of her wrongs  of
the wonderful deafness and blindness we, her creatures,
are guilty of towards her, and commands me
to set forth her beauty, her law, her liberty.'

It is a curious thought. I have dimly felt something
of this when alone in the night-watches at
sea. I suppose there is some curious affinity
between us, or some of us, and physical inanimate
nature. You ought to be a great artist with these
ideas.'

But I never shall be,' said Laura with a slight

sigh. * I have at least acquired knowledge enough
to be aware of the narrow limits to which I can
attain. I am incapable of bold flights, or sustained
effort, but I think I shall be able to maintain myself
and enjoy. I am not sure that wealth could give
me more.'

'Perhaps not. Yet it brings with it a certain
amount of power ; and that, to men at least, is
always attractive.'

Here Collins made her appearance, and presented
a note which had just arrived, adding :

The man is waiting, miss.'

It was from Winnie, expressing her regret that
in making an appointment for the next day, with
her dearest Laura, she had quite forgotten the
Trent wedding ; and, as she would be late, and had
some inexorable visits to pay, she must give up
their plan of a drive together. Could Laura come
out with her on Wednesday at two, do an afternoon's
shopping, return to dress at the hotel, and
accompany her to dine with Mrs. Piers ? * Send
me a line by bearer,' was the conclusion.

I must answer this,' said Laura, rising to go
into the house.

But you will come out again ?' exclaimed Denzil,
somewhat eagerly.

I think so. It is pleasant here.'

But, when the note had been despatched, the
Admiral was back again, and wanted Laura to
look over some notes he had made of the proceedings
at that day's meeting; and, though Denzil

smoked a second cigar, Laura did not return to
renew their pleasant confidential talk.

jfc *  *

So !' cried Mrs. Crewe to her son, when she
returned at the unusually late hour of eleven, ' you
were not able to come. George Fleming and his
wife were so sorry ! So was I. Did you get any
dinner ? Being Monday, I know there was not
much in the house.'

Denzil assured her he had feasted in the City.

We had an excellent dinner. Green-pea soup,
salmon cutlets, fore-quarter of lamb, and a .
It must have cost them a pretty penny
at hotel prices, and I am bound to say that I make
better, lighter pastry myself. Still, they were very
kind and hospitable, only I wish George Fleming
had taken more interest in us twenty years ago, and
helped you into the Royal Navy.'

*All things considered, I am not sorry he left
me alone,' said Denzil drily ; but his mother did
not heed him.

But it is just the way of the world ! People
are always ready to show you kindness and
civility when you don't want it. Are you long
in, Denzil ?'

I got home about half-past seven.'

And found everyone out. Why in the world
did you not come to dinner ? We did not sit down
till nearly seven.'

I did not care much about it ; I had a cigar in
the garden and a chat with Laura Piers.'

Oh !'  a prolonged * oh.' ' I really think you
and Laura are growing very fond of each other's
society ! I begin to understand why you were too
late for the Flemings' dinner / and she nodded to
her son with an indescribably knowing smile, and
an air of complete satisfaction.

Look here, mother,' said Denzil sternly, pausing
in his * quarter-deck ' walk, in which he often indulged
when in deep thought or confidential talk,
'you must not worry Laura with these sort of
hints and innuendoes. It is seldom a fellow can
have the comfort of a real, honest friendship with
a sensible, noble-hearted girl like her, and I would
not lose it for  well, for more than I would care to
say ! She is as frank, as much at ease with me, as
if I had been born her brother ; but if you begin
to smile and nod in that fashion, she will just close
up like, a mimosa. Her wounds are still too fresh
to permit her to think of any man as a lover. I
know she would shrink from the idea, and no
wonder ; she has had a sore trial. If I can be of
any comfort or help to her, let me, and see that
you do not mar the innocent, healthy pleasure of
our intercourse ; promise me you will not,' pausing
opposite his mother.

My dear Denzil, you are quite awful when you
assume that solemn tone. I am sure I never
meant to make any mischief; one would think I
was a gossipping, meddling old woman. Really,
the whims and vagaries of young people nowadays
are quite unaccountable ; you are so over-refined

and  and I don't know what ! I am sure
there would be no harm done if you and Laura did
take a fancy to each other. I should have no objection,
and I am sure she would be a lucky girl ;
but '

Never mind all that said Denzil impatiently ;
'just promise me to put such fancies out of your
head, and out of your conversation.'

Very well,' returned his mother readily, for
Denzil's serious words were law to her, and after
a short pause she resumed the subject of her dinner,
of her hostess's dress, of the news she had heard,
with many parenthetical topics.

)T was a source of the deepest pleasure to
Mrs. Piers (the dowager, as she was
generally called by members of her
own family), to give a little dinner.

Social distinction was very dear to her soul, and
as the merely tolerated, impecunious step-mother
of Sir Gilbert Jervois, Bart., she had had a long
fast from such agreeable experiences. She was a
fairly amiable, well-intentioned woman, to whom
the idea of existence beyond the pale of the ' upper
ten ' was impossible and unendurable.

The fact that Laura bore the ' bar sinister ' in
her scutcheon rendered her hopelessly averse to
Reginald's project of marrying his poor relation.
His present wife she considered far from his equal.
Still, she was the daughter of a rector, who was a
scholar and a gentleman. Her mother, too, came
of a respectable family, and on neither side was
there any doubtfulness of character.

Young Mrs. Piers was handsome enough to

become the fashion  accomplished, graceful, well-bred,
so that Reginald's strange disregard of his
own interest in the matter of matrimony was a
little more excusable in this second choice.

In fact, his mother felt it would only be to her
own disadvantage if she opposed this fancy too
persistently, so she gave way frankly and graciously,
and she reaped her reward, for Winifrid was a pleasant,
observant daughter-in-law. Perfect peace
existed between them until shortly before the birth
of the son and heir, when a difference of opinion
on what seemed at first a trivial matter developed
itself, though at the present stage of affairs the
slight estrangement was shown by occasional
double-shotted speeches and veiled allusions,
chiefly understood by the speakers themselves.

On the present occasion Mrs. Piers's pretty little
house looked its prettiest. It was freshly and suitably
furnished, and sweet and bright with abundance
of flowers from the Pierslynn conservatories.
The dinner (furnished by a neighbouring confectioner)
was irreproachable, as were also the waiters
who accompanied it, and who might have been
family retainers, so far as almost feudal solidity
and respectability of appearance went.

It was the first time Mrs. Piers had entertained
Mr. and Mrs. Trent. Though she had wept over
the degradation of putting her son in a solicitor's
office, she could not deny that in taking him for a
very reduced fee Mr. Trent had done her and hers
a substantial benefit, and she felt a fair amount of

gratitude. Moreover, they were successful people,
and Mrs. Trent a very presentable person, who,
though ready to accept and return civilities, knew
how to hold her own, and never sought anyone.

Nearly all the company were assembled when
Mr., Mrs., and Miss Piers were announced, and as
the room which looked due west was carefully
darkened to exclude the too powerful rays of the
setting sun, neither Laura nor Winnie could at
first recognise the guests. Mrs. Trent soon came
forward to greet them, looking handsome and well
dressed as usual, and then stood talking and laughing
with Reginald near one of the open windows,
while Mr. Trent bestowed his efforts on Winifrid,
throwing occasional crumbs of conversation to
Laura.

I do not think you know Mr. Vignolles,' said
Mrs. Piers, leading a mild-looking man with a big
forehead and an eye-glass to her daughter-in-law ;
I had the pleasure of meeting him at Interlaced
last year, as I think I mentioned to you.'

Mr. Vignolles placed himself beside the sofa
where young Mrs. Piers and her cousin were
sitting, and at once opened on Swiss hotels and
prices, the best methods of organizing excursions,
and the mistake people make in going to the
nominally best hotels, where everything is dearer
and nothing better than in the more second-rate
establishments.

It is nearly half-past seven,' said Mrs. Piers,
coming across the room from where she had been

VOL. III. 48

talking to Colonel Bligh ; ' I do not think we can
wait any longer. I expect a relative of ours who
is anxious to renew his acquaintance with Reginald,
an old diplomate, in very indifferent health, Sir
Charles Dalrymple, and '

Before she could finish her sentence, the most
imposing of the two waiters threw the drawing-room
door open and announced, ' Madame .'


Laura felt that Winifrid started, but she could
not see her face,, for she turned quite away to ask
Mr. Vignolles a question about pedestrian tours,
which started him with renewed animation on a
fresh branch of his favourite topic.

Meantime a little withered old gentleman, grey
and bald, with a crush hat under his arm and a
couple of decorations in his button-hole, glided in
almost unnoticed in the wake of the Princess.

Round her everyone seemed to gather as she
stood for a few moments receiving their greetings
with her usual quiet grace and low-toned speech.
She was arrayed in clouds of black tulle, caught up
here and there with gold cords and tassels, gold
butterflies fastening the folds on her shoulders, a
rich, peculiar-looking gold necklace, and deep red
roses in her pale gold hair, and in the left angle of
her square low bodice the dark green leaves resting
on her snowy, velvety skin.

Reginald approached last, and spoke to her
apparently with pleasant, unembarrassed cordiality;
then Laura heard him say, as if in answer to some

question, ' Yes, she is here,' whereupon the group
divided. Madame Moscynska walked straight to
where Winifrid sat, and holding out her hand, said :

Dear Mrs. Piers, I am so glad to see you, looking
so well too. I was very unfortunate to miss
you when I called, though I came early.'

Winifrid had risen from her seat, and after an
instant's hesitation, perceived perhaps only by
Laura, she touched the hand presented to her,
answering coldly :

Thank you, I am quite well.'

Madame Moscynska, nothing abashed, next
turned to Laura :

I have the pleasure of speaking to Miss Piers,
though we met but once ; you are not to be easily
forgotten,' she said, this time substituting the
slightest possible courtesy for the offer of her hand,
and accepting the chair presented by Mr. Trent,
sat down in front of the cousins, and proceeded to
talk to Winnie with quiet, soft persistence, which,
in spite of the former's monosyllabic answers, was
calculated to give the impression that they were on
the most friendly terms.

This was soon interrupted by the stirring
announcement that ' dinner' was ready, when Mrs.
Piers presented the decorated old gentleman to
Winnie as ' My relative, Sir Charles Dalrymple,'
whereupon, with an elaborate bow and a little set
speech, he offered her his arm ; Reginald, acting
as host, came forward to conduct Madame Moscyn-
ska, being the lady of highest rank present, and

482

Laura found herself told off to the connoisseur of
Swiss hotels.

She felt strangely chilled and disturbed by the
unmistakable dislike which Winnie evinced to her
former ' guide, philosopher, and friend,' She had
always felt an instinctive distrust of this fascinating
personage, and was not sorry to see Winnie able to
withstand her charm, whatever it might be, but
that was no reason why she should be almost rude
to her mother-in-law's guest. She (Laura) feared
that Winnie would in some inexplicable way injure
herself by what looked very like a display of unreasonable
temper, though she had faith enough in
her cousin to believe that there was some better
reason than she knew for her evidently irrepressible
aversion to the fair Anglo-Pole. A vague uneasiness
took possession of Laura ; she seemed to see,
as through a glass darkly, that the smooth course
of life that appeared to spread itself before the
bright young wife was not without its pitfalls, and
that Winnie lacked just those qualities, circumspection
and self-control, which would enable her topick
her way through them unharmed.

Reginald, too, required peculiar treatment.
These thoughts coursed each other through her
brain while the soup was being served, while the
bland waiter whispered a confidential inquiry as to
her choice of wines, and her cavalier gave her
some curious information touching the potage d la
Cressy at the Allen Kong Hotel at Bale. Then
she looked round and saw Reginald at the foot of

the table with Madame Moscynska on his right
hand, Winnie between the ex-diplomate and
Colonel Bligh, while she herself found Mrs. Trenton
her right.

The dinner passed off very well ; there was
plenty of general talk, to which Reginald contributed
his share, with not unfrequent asides to
Madame Moscynska. Winnie was especially
animated ; her colour rose, and her laugh was frequently
heard louder than usual as she exchanged
repartees and reminiscences with her respective
neighbours.

Laura could do little beyond replying to the
observations of the gentleman next her ; an unaccountable
uneasiness weighed her down ; she
watched Winnie with nervous anxiety. There was
no true merriment in her laughter, and more
defiance than enjoyment in the brilliancy of her
eyes ; she fancied, too, that Colonel Bligh looked
at her curiously, if admiringly.

At length, after a fair amount of eating and
drinking, after some dozen subjects were started
and run sharply to death in a hand gallop, and
everyone seemed in good humour with themselves
and their convives, Mrs. Piers gave the signal for
the temporary separation of ladies and gentlemen.

Arrived in the drawing-room, Mrs. Trent bestowed
her attention on Winifrid, and Madame
Moscynska appeared quite occupied by a confidential
conversation with her hostess, while for
some minutes Laura occupied herself with a book

of photographs, that refuge of the destitute. She
had scarcely finished examining it, however, when
Mrs. Piers joined her, while Madame Moscynska
calmly went across the room to Mrs. Trent and
Winnie, who immediately lapsed into silence.

Well, Laura,' said the lady of the house, who
had fallen into a certain condescending familiarity
with her during their residence together at Piers-lynn,
' what have you been doing with yourself
since you came to town ; why do you never come
to see me ?'

I have been very busy, Mrs. Piers ; I have had
some fresh commissions  for copies only, 'tis true
and I have a new pupil

Really, you are getting on. We shall see you
on the line in the Academy yet. I am sure it is
very fortunate you have so much talent. And how
is Admiral Desbarres } I wish we could have persuaded
him to join us this evening; he is a most
interesting man. He is quite ruined, lost everything,
Mr. Trent tells me ; is he very much broken
by his misfortunes ?'

Not at all. Indeed, were it not for his mania
for giving, he would be very well off on his half-pay.'


Perhaps so ; but it is very unsatisfactory for
you. Taking you up as he has done, he, of course,
meant to provide for you. Now, he will have
nothing to leave, for of course his income dies with
him. You ought to persuade him to save.'

Who .? me, Mrs. Piers .? I would not take so

great a liberty. I hope to be able to provide for
myself.*

That is always difficult for a woman. It is fortunate
for you that art is the fashion. Work such
as yours is by no means unladylike according to
modern ideas.'

'I should think not,' said Laura, smiling.
Were I worthy the name of artist, I should indeed
be proud.'

That is all very well ; but the life is precarious.
Still, as I said, it is very fortunate you have the gift
you possess.'

Yes ; it atones to me for the stigma I am told
rests on my father's birth.'

Laura could not account for the impulse which
urged her irresistibly to utter these words.

Mrs. Piers looked confused and uncomfortable.

Who has been so ill-natured as to rake up that
old story, Laura V she asked. ' It does no good,
and only pains you, though you really need not
trouble yourself about it. No one can quarrel with
you for what is not your faults

Nevertheless, according to the sublime injustice
of the Decalogue, the sins of the fathers are almost
always visited on the children,' said Laura sadly.
And I dare say my poor father experienced this.'

I do not think so. He was very charming, and
very popular with the family ; a great favourite
with old John Piers  the late man's father  and
quite at home at Pierslynn.'

Is it possible T said Laura, with a degree of

sarcasm which quite escaped the notice of Mrs.
Piers.

Yes, I assure you. My poor husband was so
much abroad, that he knew less of him than the
rest ; but when he was in England we always had
him at our house.'

Laura, with all her common-sense and cool
judgment, felt moved to a kind of scornful indignation
by the tone Mrs. Piers adopted as consolatory.


'What are you discussing so gravely?' asked
Winnie, rising abruptly and coming to join them.

Only my family history. Not a pleasant topic ;
let us change it,' said Laura, as Winnie sat down on
the ottoman beside her.

Oh !' cried Winnie disdainfully, ' that is not of
much matter. There is no shadow of doubt on
the clearness and nearness of our relationship, dear
Laura, or our friendship either.'

Before Laura could reply, the door opened to
admit the gentlemen.

Colonel Bligh and Reginald approached ; the
latter, taking his place on the opposite side of the
ottoman from his wife, leaned over till his head
nearly touched Laura's shoulder, and began to talk
of Mrs. Crewe, of ' that son of hers,' and the Admiral,
but in an intermittent way, evidently with an
effort ; while every now and then he glanced at
Madame Moscynska and his wife. The former
was speaking with much suavity to Sir Arthur
Dalrymple as they stood together in one of the

windows ; while Mrs. Trent was listening with
apparent interest to Mr. Vignolles, the words
route * twelve hours from Strasbourg to Bale
not more than five-and-sixpence a day, allowing
for the exchange occasionally catching Laura's
ear.

Presently Madame Moscynska, accompanied by
Sir Arthur Dalrymple, walked slowly across the
room, and, addressing herself to Mrs. Piers, the
former asked :

I think, dear Mrs. Piers, you might settle a
question Sir Arthur and I have been arguing.
You were a good deal at Stolzstadt, were you not ?
Tell me, was it the Princess Stephanie or the Princess
Marguerite that went mad about one of the
equerries, and always fancied everything was
covered with dust ?'

Mrs. Piers had an entirely different version of
the old scandal to offer for consideration, and
Reginald vacated his seat to make way for Madame
Moscynska, who threw in queries and suggestions,
sometimes addressed to Winnie, who never made
any answer, though she ceased to converse with
Colonel Bligh, and sat in silence with elaborate inattention.
At length, at the first pause in the
dialogue, she rose and went to speak to Mr. Trent,
who was examining some water-colour drawings
which adorned the walls.

Reginald looked after her first with a slight
frown and then with a smile, an unpleasant, mocking
smile.

Sing us one of your Polish songs,' said he to
Madame Moscynska, with a certain familiarity
which struck Laura. ' The one you used to treat
us to when we lay off Fiume.'

She smiled, hesitated a moment, and then walked
to the piano.

It was a wild, plaintive air, with a peculiar accompaniment,
and she sang it admirably, dramatically.


Isn't it expressive ?' said Colonel Bligh to Winifred.
' It is so utterly unlike drawing-room music ;
I remember she used to charm us with those queer
ballads of hers when we were in the Adriatic'

Indeed !' said Winifrid.

Winifrid, my dear, do play one of your German
pieces,' said her mother-in-law, sailing up to her.

It is a long time since I played, but I will do
my best,' said Winnie, with something of her natural
sweetness.

The excited colour had died out of her cheek,
and Laura thought her voice unsteady. She
played, however  played well  though not with
quite her usual spirit, and was of course much
applauded.

Do you play, Miss Piers ?' asked Colonel Bligh.

While she was saying she did not, Madame
Moscynska came up with a small piece of manuscript
music in her hand.

Brava, brava, cherish said she, with an air of
familiarity. ' I wish you would try this little
Pense " for me. It is a motif by a young

countryman of mine in whom I am much interested
;' and she placed the leaves before Winnie.

I am sorry,' replied the latter, * I cannot attempt
it ; it is so closely written I fear I could not read it
correctly.'

Ah !' said Madame Moscynska, with a subtle
smile and a little contemptuous shrug, 'the caro
sposo and I know you do not always interpret notes
aright.'

Do you ?' said Winnie, rising slowly and turning
to face her. ' Are you sure I was wrong T

Come, dear Mrs. Piers, you are so bright and
quick, I am sure you must have Southern blood in
your veins ; do play us another of your charming
morceaux. Mr. Piers, persuade her to play to us.'

Oh ! people get tired of long pieces,' said Reginald,
who had not heard what passed, and coming
across the room at Madame Moscynska's summons.
As we are all here, let us settle about Goodwood ;
we have no time to lose.'

Pray do not include me in your party,' said
Winnie, low but distinctly ; ' I do not feel equal to
the fatigue. I have been doing too much ; I am
overdone now. If the carriage is here I will
leave. You do not mind coming, Laura, do you ?'

But, Winnie, you were dying to go last week !'

I prefer staying away now. Will you ask about
the carriage, Reginald ?'

Yes, if you really feel too unwell to stay ;' and
muttering something about ' an infernal bore,' Reginald
rang the bell.

What is the matter, my dear ?' said Mrs. Piers,
hastening up.

Only that London is a little too much for me,
and I am not quite so strong as I thought,' said
Winnie, smiling bravely. ' It is later than you
think.'

Indeed, you look very tired ; you will be the
better of a good night's rest,' said Mrs. Trent
kindly.

Will you come with me, Reginald " said his
wife, as, having taken leave of the company, and
openly disregarded Madame Moscynska's offered
hand, she paused beside him.

Sorry I cannot ; I promised to look in at the
club with Bligh. Our good friend Laura will see
to you ; I'll not be late.'

Will you take a glass of wine before you go,
Winifrid ?' said her mother-in-law, following her
downstairs to the study or workroom where the
cloaks were left.

No, thank you,' said Winnie. ' I must say I am
infinitely surprised that you should have asked
that woman to meet me ! I may be foolish, wrong,
suspicious, but I have a right to choose my own
associates.'

And I mine,' said the elder lady haughtily.
Certainly, but not to force them on me.'

'I should be sorry to so ' checking herself

and evidently trying to soothe. ' I had no idea
your prejudices were so strong and so unjust, Winifred
! You are wrong, and ill-advised to treat

Princess Moscynska with such unmerited rudeness.
For your own sake you should exercise
more self-restraint. Just think how vexed Reginald
must be. You are very foolish. Do you
think that I should invite anyone to my house
whose correct conduct I could for a moment

doubt r

I am sure you would not if you doubted ; but
you do not cried Winnie, softening, and taking her
mother-in-law's hand in both her own. * Why do
you not see that it is a battle for life I have to fight
with this woman ?'

I am afraid, my dear, that you are not yet quite
free from your feverish wanderings,' said Mrs.
Piers severely. ' Do, pray, Laura, try to bring her
to reason.'

Winifrid, with a slight despairing gesture, turned
abruptly away and walked to the carriage, and her
mother-in-law, saying in a low tone, 'This is a
pleasant outlook for my son,' went back to her
guests.

Laura, stupefied with surprise and distress, followed
her cousin.

Tell them to drive to the hotel,' said Winnie, ina
strange, stifled voice. ' You will come with me,
dear, will you not ? You can take the carriage on
afterwards.'

There was a moment's silence, and then Laura
said :

Winnie, dear Winnie, what is the meaning of
all this ? I am afraid you are very unwise.'

You do not know ; you do not know !' exclaimed
Winnie, with a cry of anguish. ' I cannot
tell you all now ; but I will. I thought never to
have told you. I hoped that I had beaten off the
foe, but the battle is still before me, and I cannot
fight her with her own weapons ; yet I fear any
others are nearly useless,' and she threw her arms
round her cousin, who was shocked to feel how she
trembled and sobbed.

But you cannot doubt your own husband, who
loves and admires you ! You cannot fear a woman
so much older so much less beautiful than yourself
! I think you must have let some morbid fancy
get possession of you ; try and clear your mind of
it. These suspicions are too horrible.'

They are,' returned Winnie more calmly. 'And
if you, too, turn against me and re-echo the cry
that I am foolish, morbid, mistaken, I shall not
keep my senses. I have striven hard enough
against my own convictions ; now they have come
back upon me in an overwhelming tide. I am not
angry with Reginald. I do not so much doubt him,
as I fear her ; for he is weak, or  or something like
it, and she is merciless unfathomable, and my implacable
enemy.'

My own dear Winnie,' said Laura, more impressed
by her cousin's words than she liked to
own, ' you surely must exaggerate. Of course, till
I hear your reasons, I cannot judge whether you
do or not. Yet it is impossible Madame Moscynska
can be so deliberately wicked ; one rarely meets

with such characters. You are excited ; you are
not yourself. To-morrow you may feel differently.*

Heaven grant it !' said Winnie, with a low,
shivering sigh ; * for to-night I despair.'

Leaning her head against Laura's shoulder, she
kept silent for the few minutes that intervened
until they stopped at the hotel. Then Winnie
started up.

I will come and have a long afternoon with you
tomorrow, if you can give me the time. When
may I come ?'

Not before four ; I will make it a point to be at
home then, and take care to be alone. And,
Winnie, try, dear, to be more prudent ; conceal
your feelings. It will not do to irritate Reginald,
or so dangerous a woman as you believe Madame
Moscynska to be,'

You do not understand,' replied Winifrid mournfully.
' I must defend my outposts, or all is lost.
Good-night, dear Laura ; good-night.'

RS. CREWE and Denzil were sitting in
the dining-room with both windows
open, for the latter was indulging in a
cigar as he read, and his mother was
busy arranging her letters, a very confused pile of
ragged papers, making many comments and explanations
respecting the writers for her son's
information, to which he occasionally replied by
inarticulate utterances that nevertheless quite contented
her.

'You are early, my dear,' said Mrs. Crewe, as
Laura entered. ' I did not expect you for an hour
yet.'

'Winnie was tired, so we came away a little
sooner than the rest,' said Laura, throwing aside
her cloak and standing by the table in her long
black silk dress, which, with her white lace fichu
and ruffle, suited her unusually well.

Her gentle dignity of bearing struck Mrs. Crewe
as though she had never noticed it before. She

felt, as most did who knew Laura, that there was
something in her to trust and lean upon, an inner
light and force which, though not easy to fathom or
define, would never fail or mislead. Thinking thus,
Mrs. Crewe did not speak immediately, and, looking
from mother to son, Laura said with a smile :

'how home-like and happy you seem, sitting
comfortably together. Your mother is quite ten
years younger since you settled down at home,
Denzil.'

Yes,' he returned, a soft gratified look stealing
over his face, and a slight increase of colour, perhaps
at Laura's unconscious use of his Christian
name, perhaps because he knew that his mother's
halcyon days would not last long.

We are all the happier and more home-like now
you have joined us,' said Mrs. Crewe, holding out
her hand to Laura. ' You are looking uncommonly
well, my dear. You have quite a colour ; hasn't
she, Denzil V

Of course I have, if you notice it,' returned
Laura, laughing and blushing vividly.

Denzil made no reply, but placed a chair for her,
and threw the end of his cigar away. Laura sat
down with a sigh, thinking of the terrible possibilities
her conversation with Winnie had disclosed,
and contrasting them with the safe and happy
atmosphere she then breathed, the ingredients in
which were so simple.

Well, dear, and what had you for dinner ?' began
Mrs. Crewe, hastily tying up a parcel of selected

VOL. III. 49

letters, and tearing up the refuse with much
energy.

Laura replied to the best of her ability, but
acknowledged that many items escaped her
memory.

You should always try to notice and remember
dishes said Mrs. Crewe gravely. * The ideas they
suggest will be of use to you when you have a house
of your own, and give dinner-parties.'

Laura laughed low and pleasantly.

Could you fancy me giving dinner-parties ?' she
said. * All that sort of society seems quite faraway
out of my reach and capacity ; my world will
never stretch beyond a studio and a few friends.'

You by no means know what your capacities are
yet,' said Denzil, as if to himself.

What did Mrs. Piers wear ? I mean the
dowager,' resumed Mrs. Crewe, and a severe examination
as to the toilets of the company ensued.
Then, after a slight break in the dialogue, Mrs.
Crewe remarked : ' I suppose young Mr. Piers still
seems very attentive and taken up with his wife ?'

Yes, of course ! Why should he not i*' cried
Laura, with a slight start; the question jarred
strangely upon her. Could Mrs. Crewe divine
that there was any reverse to the bright picture of
their lives ? ' That is, as attentive as good manners
permit. Why ?'

Oh ! I have no particular reason ; only it strikes
me that Reginald Piers will not be the most constant
man in the world. He was very nice and

pleasant, but I always thought him unsteady. The
fancy of the moment is all in all with him. I do
hope she will know how to manage him.'

Come, come, mother !' cried Denzil, smiling.
You are an awful Cassandra sometimes.'

I am nothing of the kind, Denzil ; and even in
joke, my dear boy, you should not call your mother
names ; these nautical allusions are quite beyond
my comprehension.'

I beg your pardon, mother,' quite gravely.

Is it necessary to manage?* asked Laura. * Surely
with truth and tenderness one might venture to
keep a straight course.'

And win the goal said Denzil, in a low tone.

I am not so sure,' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe. * You
see, one can never know what a man thinks, or what
crotchets he may have taken into his head. It takes
two to make truth of any use  one to speak and
another to hear it ; and most men are vexed when
a woman is true and reasonable. It does not amuse
them ; they are so fond of nonsense they can
correct, and mistakes they can smile down at'

I protest, mother, you are ferociously severe !
Why, I flattered myself you were fond of your
son's sex.'

So I am,' she returned eagerly. * I always like
to have men about me ; that is the reason I understand
them so well. They can be very kind and
useful, but the best of them require management;
they like it, too  so much the better for us.'

You must not let your son too much behind the

492

scenes,' said Laura. ' He will be quite unmanageable
when he marries, if you initiate him into the
mysteries.'

Oh, Denzil is different from other men,' cried
his mother. * Do you know, he has been making
such a delightful plan ; I hope you will agree to it.
There is a cottage belonging to a friend of his to
be let for two months, down somewhere on  on
what coast, Denzil ?'

Dorsetshire.'

Yes ; Dorsetshire. It seems that his friend
wants to take his little girl away to London for
medical advice, or some operation to be performed,
so Denzil proposes that we exchange houses. You
and I, and the Admiral (if we can persuade him),
will go down there the week after next, and Denzil
will come down when he can, from Saturday till
Monday (it will be holiday time then, and you can
take your paints and things and work away). Think
of the fresh air, and the sea beach, and the wildflowers,
the eggs and the milk, the cliffs (Denzil
says there are splendid cliffs), and cheap fish.
When can you manage to start, my dear Laura ?'

It would be very delicious exclaimed Laura
immediately, seeing refreshing visions of blue waves
and changing cloud shadows ; ' but I must arrange
so much, and oh ! I cannot go while Winnie and
Reginald are here.'

Her face changed as she spoke, and the dread of
Winnie's promised disclosures came like a grey
mist wreath wrapping her heart in a chilling vapour

and chasing the colour from her cheek. Denzil
looked sternly and steadily at her as she spoke, but
she did not heed him.

It is growing late,' he said abruptly ; ' we must
not keep Miss Piers up. I shall wish you goodnight.
You can discuss the question of Barton's
cottage tomorrow. He wants to come up here the
first week in August.'

So saying, he rose, kissed his mother's brow in
passing, and wishing Laura good-night, left the
room.

Dear me ! how very sudden Denzil is sometimes,'
said Mrs. Crewe. ' That is the misfortune
of not having been in " the Service." Nice and
good as he is, he cannot help a certain amount of
the je ne sais quoi which men in the mercantile
marine contract.'

I am sure,' cried Laura heartily, * there are Royal
Navy sailorsnot comparable to Denzil in manner,
or, indeed, in any way.'

You are a dear, kind, discriminating girl. But
just think what a chance this is of going out of
town, my love, without a shilling of expense
beyond the railway fares, and at this season we can
get excursion tickets. Indeed, I expect to make a
considerable saving, for of course milk, butter, eggs,
vegetables, and, I imagine, butcher's meat, will be
considerably cheaper than here. I believe there is
a vegetable and fruit garden, and a boat ; we might
fish for ourselves. Collins will remain here, and I
wish them joy of her! She behaved shamefully

to-day, and sent up the new potatoes perfectly raw
etc., etc.

After careful consideration, Laura decided not to
mention Winnie's intended visit to Mrs. Crewe,
and trust to the chapter of accidents to secure
them an uninterrupted tete-a-tete and accident befriended
her. The midday post brought a note
from Mrs. Crevice's cousin, requesting her help and
counsel in a severe day's shopping, as she was
leaving town the next day.

Mrs. Crewe, therefore, made a hasty luncheon,
and departed full of importance ; so, when Laura
returned, flushed and eager, almost fearing she
was late, she found the coast clear, and had hardly
divested herself of her outdoor attire when Winifred
arrived. She was looking very pale, and
her eyes had a pained, fixed expression which, to
Laura at least, bespoke mental strain.

How nice to find you all alone, dear Laura.
Since I made up my mind to tell you everything,
I have been thirsting to begin,' she cried, as she
embraced her cousin.

Mrs. Crewe is out for the whole afternoon. I
think we may stay in the drawing-room.'

Oh ! no, no,' said Winifrid feverishly, ' I can
only tell all I have to tell in your own room, with
the door locked. To think that I am but fifteen
months a wife, and have such fears, such doubts !
Is it not cruel ?'

Come, then, dear,' was Laura's only answer, and

they ascended to her chamber, where the owner
installed her guest in the only comfortable chair
she possessed, locked the door, and composed herself
to listen.

I must begin a long way back  a long, long
way back,* said Winifrid, drawing off her gloves
and removing her bonnet in an absent, hurried way.

Tell me,' put in Laura, as she paused, ' was
Reginald very, very angry and cross ?'

No, I have scarcely seen him since. He was
very late, and this morning he was odd and cold,
and a little contemptuous. He asked how I was,
and when I tried to tell him that he did not know
how I had been provoked, he laughed, and said, " I
dare say Madame Moscynska could manage a
dozen of you ! When you are more a woman of
the world, you will not make so much ado about
nothing. However, you must smooth down my
mother the best way you can. She is the belligerent
party in this instance," and then he went
out. I am more distressed when he is like tJmty
than by his anger.'

Now tell me everything,' said Laura.

'When we first went to Paris,' began Winnie
abruptly, and then broke off to exclaim, with a
quiver in her voice, ' Oh ! what a happy, happy
time it was ! When I look far away to those days
I feel how great, yet how gradual is the change
that has come over our life. And we might still
be so happy if only  yes  in those days I was
selfish in my enjoyment, I scarcely ever thought of

you ; and if I did, I put it away, because it was so
painful to remember that my gain was your loss.
Well, when we arrived in Paris, Madame 
called immediately. I had heard Reginald
speak of her, and I was quite pleased to know any
friend of his. I thought her charming. She
seemed so charmed with me ; she used to put mein
such good-humour with myself, and she used to
discuss what dresses would suit me with Reginald,
as if she were a loving elder sister. Then, in someway
I cannot describe, a little cloud came between
us, I scarcely knew how. I grew frightened at the
costly things she wanted me to choose, and would
not be persuaded to have them, and sometimes
Reginald sided with me. Then I used to feel a
little left out when they talked for hours of their
adventures in that yacht, though I was ashamed of
myself, and tried to seem interested, and was sometimes.
Then we went away, and did the Italian
lakes. Ah! how delightful that was, until poor
Reggie was ill at Florence. He has never been
quite  quite the same since. We came straight
back to Paris, and found the Princess just arrived,
from I do not know where. She was very kind
and helpful, and certainly managed to amuse Reginald
wonderfully. She dined with us every day,
and then she wanted still to buy everything forme,
but I resisted. I was not cross  indeed I was
not ; I only said I must learn to act for myself.
Reginald hated so to be left alone just then that
she was very useful.'

Well ?' asked Laura, as she paused ; ' an indefinable
estrangement had grown up between you ?'

'Yes, yes ; I am dwelling too long on this time.
One evening we were sitting after dinner, and they
were talking of their travels. I had got my old
piece of lace-work, to be doing something ; the
Princess had just said, " You remember that night
we lay off Istria," when I turned to find my needle,
and caught a look from her to my husband, a look
I cannot describe ; it made my heart stand still, it
haunted me, but not for long. Reginald, who was
very changeable, was so good, so tender, so taken
up with me, that I put away my doubts, yet I
never felt quite the same again to Madame .


Then we came to England. She happened to
be coming too, and gradually I began to feel that
she was like an evil spirit, bringing misfortune tome.
I cannot describe how she pervaded everything,
how she charmed everyone ; Mrs. Piers was
fascinated by her. But for a long time Reginald
did not mind her much ; she used to spend two or
three days with us now and then, but she was
chiefly at her uncle's. Lord Dereham's, and we met
at all the dinners and parties ; and as certain as
we met, she did or said something that made me
look foolish or awkward, or bete. It is impossible
to tell you the effect she produced upon me ! and
no one perceived it save myself. I felt she hated
me. One day I dared to open my heart to
Reggie, and told him how she affected me. He

was not cross, or unkind, but he laughed and kissed
me, and exclaimed, " Jealous already, Winnie ? If
you take that view of our friend, there is no use
talking reason to you." Then I felt I was fighting
the air, and all the time the air was poisoning me.
I tried to think myself foolish, morbid. Oh ! the
pain, the struggle of that time. And Mrs. Piers
openly sided with Madame Moscynska, and in a
covert way rebuked me for my bad temper, narrow-jealousy,
want of consideration for my husband's
comfort. Then Reginald began to have a way of
looking round as if he wanted somebody when he
came into a room, even at home. But in April
last we had gone to a great dinner at Dartford,
and I noticed that Reginald nearly cut the Princess.
There was a Polish cousin of hers there, Gras somebody,
a very handsome, wicked-looking man. He
and the Princess were always talking unknown
tongues together. After that I was very unwell,
could not go anywhere. Mrs. Piers had gone back
to town, and Madame Moscynska was talking of
going to Poland  she was always hinting at plots
and politics  but Reginald was very kind, and
stayed much with me.

One afternoon I had gone into his dressing-room
to put a new pair of braces I had worked for
him on his table. It was very untidy, papers and
things scattered about. His man had not been into
arrange it, so I began mechanically to put it
right. I gathered up the letters, most of them on
business, I knew, and went to put them into a little

box or case that closed with a spring and stood on
his table. The key was out, but evidently had not
been turned, for when I touched the spring it flew
open, and on the top lay an open note. It had no
address, but I knew the writing, and I remember
every word of it.'

Can you repeat it ?' asked Laura, deeply, painfully
interested.

Yes,' said Winifrid, slowly, with a far-away lookin
her eyes as though reading something at a great
distance. ' It was this :

" You were wrong to doubt ; circumstances have
been very hard for me; nevertheless, I will give you
the assurance you demand ; more, I promise all
you wish in future, provided." Then a long dash.
I have struggled with an untoward destiny all
my life ; must it overtake me now 1 I shall be in
town on the 25 th, when I can see you safely. You
have cruelly misjudged me. If only you will hear
me, all may be as it was before, when there was yet
hope for us both. Let me see you as usual on
Wednesday.

" Ever yours,

a H 

I knew the H. was for Hedwig. When I read
this, everything seemed to stand out before me in
clear blazing light. " Before " meant before he
married me. / was the obstacle, and by some
means I was to be effaced. I cannot say how I
felt ; deep, black despair seemed to wrap its cruel

arms round me. What was life to me without
Reginald and love ? And I was so young.'

She covered up her face as if she could not bear
the memory of that terrible moment.

I did not feel angry with Reginald she resumed.
* I felt sorry for him, as if we were both in
the hands of some merciless executioner. I think
I lost my senses for a moment ; then I remembered
it was Wednesday. I shut up the box, and put the
note in my pocket, went back to my own sitting-room,
and rang the bell :

" Where is Mr. Piers ?"

" He went out about an hour ago to fish in the
Dairysford pool," said the servant.

" Ask him to come to me when he returns."

I did not know what I was going to do or to
say. I was desperate, determined to end this state
of things, to know what I had to dread, what to
renounce, before another day had gone over my
head.'

She stopped for a moment ; her breath came
quickly ; she seemed parched and fevered. Laura
pressed her hand between both her own, and rose
to bring her a glass of water. Winnie drank it
eagerly, and recommenced :

I do not know how I lived through the time till
Reginald came back, and I could not tell if it were
two hours, or twenty minutes, or a lifetime, before
I saw him come into the room. It was so terribly
long, so frightfully short, I only know I ran to him,
for, as I said, I did not feel angry with him, but

wildly frightened, and burning to free him and myself
from some evil spell. I could not believe he
preferred anyone on earth to me. I ran to him,
and cried, " Oh ! Reggie, dear, what is this ? What
can it mean ?" holding up the note before him. Oh,
Laura ! I shall never forget his face. He looked
at me so that I shrank away. He grew darkly red,
and then hissed out, as if every word were a curse,
"Where did you find this ?" snatching it from me.

" In your despatch-box," I said, for his tone
roused me. " I went to put away some letters that
were lying about, and I found Madame Moscyn-
ska's note open."

" How dare you pry into my private papers ?
Have you a false key, or how did you manage to
open the box ? By heaven, she will think I have
betrayed her !" and he began to pace up and down
furiously, tearing the note into a dozen fragments.
I was stunned. Not a word to soothe me ; not a
syllable of apology or explanation ; his only thought
appeared to be of her. I watched him silently ; at
last he exclaimed : " Have you talked to anyone
else of your insane suspicions ?" Then my head
seemed to give way, and I just remember holding
out my arms to him and crying, " They are foolish
and insane, are they not ? No, no ; I would not
say a word of them to anyone but you, and you
will put them all away out of my head." He
turned to me with a changed expression, and then
I think he caught me as I was falling, and I can
remember nothing more till I came to myself in

mortal agony, and Reginald was beside me, and
the doctor, and I thought I was dying. It was not
death, however, but a new life that came to me.'

Again she stopped, and a few tears relieved her.

I was very, very ill ; I scarcely cared to live ;
only as the days went by, and I saw Reginald constantly
near me, so kind, and anxious, and tender, I
began to hope and to revive, and then I recovered
slowly. I could not put any questions to Reginald,
but I used to look at him, I know, with my soul in
my eyes ; and one day, almost the first I was able
to sit up, he said, " Now you are stronger, I want to
explain all that stupid affair of Madame Moscynska's
note." And I, with my hand in his, listened, glad
to believe anything rather than break the delicious
calm of that moment of repose. He went on then
to say that he feared he had been very brutal, but
that when a lady confided her difficulties to a gentleman,
it was too provoking to have it discovered
by another woman, and that an unfriendly one.
He said that the truth was, Madame Moscynska
had asked him for a loan of money, some time
before ; that he had hesitated to give it because he
thought it was to help her cousin, who was a scamp.
The Princess was deeply offended, and did not
speak to him for several days ; then she looked so
miserable that he sent her a little line to say he was
willing to oblige her. The note I found was an
answer to this, and as it was difficult to find an
opportunity for private conversation at Dairysford,
and my jealousy cut her off from Pierslynn, she

was obliged to make a rendezvous in the grounds,
and then he tried to remember the words of the
letter, helped him. He explained it all as bearing
on this loan. The " hope for both of us," he
said, meant for herself and her cousin, both of
whom were much embarrassed. The " seeing him
safely in London " was safe from the interference
of Lord Dereham, as Madame Moscynska was
always afraid of her uncle knowing the state of her
affairs.'

Was not that a very natural explanation .?' asked
Laura thoughtfully.

It seemed so to me,' said Winifrid ; ' it may be
so still. I was too glad to believe it then, only
Reginald said nothing explanatory about seeing
him as usual on Wednesday, and I would not be
so exacting as to allude to it, yet I did not quite
forget it. But I was glad to be quiet and to believe.
He was so dear and kind. Ah ! he loved me  he
still loves me ! I have not lost him yet ! I began,
in my returned happiness, to believe I had been
unjust to the Princess, that a condition of nervous
excitement had disposed me to exaggerate. Reginald
told me she was going away on a long visit to
some relations in Poland, and that he wished me
very much to receive her before she left. I consented
; I was so glad she was going.

'She came, more softly calm, more soothingly
pliable, than ever. I felt in an instant that she was
determined to win me  as before, I felt instinctively
that she deliberately set herself to cross and

neutralize me. I was wonderfully keen, and feared
nothing. After she had looked tenderly and
thoughtfully at the baby, as if divining his future
(I know she detested infants), and talking of the
interest everyone took in me, etc., she said, gently
raising those queer green eyes of hers to mine,
Before I go I must confess my sins to you, dear
Mrs. Piers, and tell you how generous and kind
your husband has been." So she went on to say
that both her cousin (who was like a brother to her)
and herself had got into difficulty in consequence
of being mixed up in some political schemes ; that
at the present moment they were greatly embarrassed,
and she had ventured to ask Reginald for
help, which he had kindly and readily accorded. I
said I was glad he could be of use, and then added,
He has, I see, told you that your note on that
subject fell into my hands, and probably that I
misinterpreted it.? I was foolish, perhaps, but,
dear Madame Moscynska, you should not write so
ambiguously."

She looked surprised, but did not change countenance,
and paused a little before she replied :
Have you not always misinterpreted me, ma belle
amie ? I have felt it deeply. Nevertheless, I shall
not offend again ; I am on the point of returning to
my own dear unhappy land for a long sojourn."
Then my mother-in-law came in, and they talked
till they tired me, and I had great difficulty in
getting composed and comfortable after she had
gone, so much had her " confession " disturbed me.

Though I blushed for my own suspiciousness, I
was always wondering if they had arranged her
visit, and what she should say, between them. I
was not so well after this, and then I began to
yearn for you. I knew Reginald was a little reluctant
about sending for you, but I was determined
to overcome that. I had a sudden bitter conviction
that nothing and no one was quite true and real but
you. I think so still, dear, dear Laura !'

A sudden choking sob stopped her utterance fora
moment.

At any rate,' she resumed, ' Madame Moscynska
went away, and I began to forget her. Reginald
was so dear and good ; and though I knew Mrs.
Piers thought me jealous, exacting, narrow, she was
kind enough, so I began to dream of happiness
again  and yet  and yet the same complete love
and trust I once had never quite came back. There
were looks and tones of Reginald's that in someway
always set me doubting, I did not know what'

I fear you tormented yourself ingeniously,' said
Laura, with a sigh.

I tried hard not,' returned Winnie ; ' but I felt
more exacting, less even-tempered than I used to
be. Then you came. That did me a world of
good. The days you spent with us were the best I
had had for a long time ; and Reginald was very
nice, was he not ? more at ease with you. And it
was so nice when Mrs. Piers went, even when
Reginald went away, until one morning do you
remember ?  probably you do not, you mentioned

VOL. III. 50

accidentally that Madame Moscynska had not gone
abroad. It gave me a great shock. However,
Reginald came back so soon, and everything looked
so fair, that I did not disturb myself much till I
came up to town, and found that dreadful woman
here ; found that she had laid her plans, that she
had got everyone on her side, and that she was resolved
to force herself on me, resolved to keep fast
hold of Reginald. Laura ! I do not know what
witchery there is about her ; but I fear as much as
I hate her, and I strive to deliver my husband from
her, as much for his sake as my own. But, ah ! he
is slipping from me. The moment she appears,
there is a subtle change in him. Indeed, he is
greatly changed. He is so much more " on guard "
than he used to be. Yet, Laura, I do not, will not,
despair. If only I had Reginald to myself, all
might yet be well ; but, dearest, you must never
let her win yon, over ; never let her persuade you
that she is a simple, well-intentioned woman, not
quite stiff enough for English ideas, and that I am
jealous, exacting, crazy.'

She shall never do that 1' cried Laura warmly.
I have always had an instinctive distrust of her;
yet, dear, dear Winnie, I do think you have tormented
yourself unnecessarily. Try not to worry
yourself, and things will mend.'

Not if I am off my guard. She shall never
display herself to the world as my intimate friend ;
and yet I almost tremble to think how she nearly
defied me last night ; that showed she felt pretty

sure of her ground. And she is going down again
to Dairysford, Laura, where I cannot escape her
without a fracas ! I am going to get Dr. Prior to
order me to Carlsbad or somewhere, and once
away, I shall feel safe ; Reginald cannot refuse to
come with me.'

'Yes, perhaps that would be well,' returned
Laura, and fell into deep thought.

How should she add to Winnie's burden by disclosing
the facts which had lately come to her
knowledge ? How shatter their home, their prosperity
? And yet might not the revelation of her
knowledge, the assertion of her claim, rouse Reginald
to repentance, to a sense of duty ? They
surely might arrange between them so that he need
not be impoverished, and yet that her rights should
be acknowledged.

While she thought, Winnie was saying that Reginald
seemed to have taken up his idea of a public
career again, especially when their member, Mr.
Challenger, was dangerously ill, about a fortnight
ago ; but now she was happy to say that gentleman
was recovering rapidly, so there would be no necessity
to remain at Pierslynn for any political reason.
How Madame Moscynska would revel in an election,
and how indefatigable she would be about it !
It is a direct intervention of Providence on my behalf
that poor Mr. Challenger is better,' added Winnie,
rising, and looking at her watch. * Dear Laura, I
have been talking to you for more than an hour,
and it has been a relief. I do not seem so hopeless

502

as I was. You do not think things so bad. What
do you think, Laura ?'

Oh, Winnie, it is impossible Reginald can care
for anyone but you. Be as resolute as you like
against Madame Moscynska, but be patient and
careful, control yourself, and Reginald will respect
you all the more. He is only amused with a clever
companion ; you see, as soon as she is out of sight
he forgets her.'

He seems to do so ; but I am growing to distrust
him and everything ; and as to self-control,
that woman has the most diabolical power of stinging
me with words no one else can understand.
Now last night no one save ourselves, or perhaps
Reginald, could understand why I grew so angry ;
but her audacity in reminding me of my not always
interpreting notes aright was more than I could
bear. Now I must run away. I have several visits
of ceremony to make. Come to me soon ; the day
after tomorrow.'

Yes, if I can. Good-bye. Be patient, dearest
Winnie, patient and strong ; these evil days will
pass away.'

Adieu, my own wise Laura.'

A hearty kiss, and she was gone.

FEW days passed, during which Laura
was too much occupied to seek her
friend often, and Winnie too much engaged
to visit Laura.
The long history which Winnie had recounted
of her strange struggle with Madame Moscynska
haunted Laura.

It was like the plot of a bad novel put into
action ; she could not believe that poison so loathsome
could arise from anything within the circle of
lives pure and natural as Winnie's and, she had
hitherto believed, Reginald's. Did Winnie exaggerate
things } Was it possible that Reginald would
vex his own dear wife rather than give up the
second-rate pleasure of being adroitly flattered ?
Certainly she had good reason to doubt her cousin,
her supplanter. Nevertheless, if she perceived that
he was weak, illogical, unprincipled enough to rob
her, she still believed that his heart was loving and
considerate. Even towards herself his intentions
had not been so bad as his conduct finally proved.

It was marvellous even to herself how she shrank
from exposing him. By degrees she made up her
mind to let herself drift with the current of circumstances
to some yet undiscovered anchorage, some
opening in the difficulties that hemmed her in,
through which she might steer her course.

Meantime the stream of events rolled on, not
visibly affected by the heart-histories being enacted
beneath or beside it.

Mrs. Crewe was deeply engaged in preparation
for their sojourn at the seaside. The Admiral,
who had been looking ill and worn for some time,
was persuaded to join them, after a short visit to
his brother. Laura had to use some persuasion to
induce her patron to wait for a month or two for
his bespoken copy ; for schools were breaking up,
and families leaving town, so that she had not
much difficulty in arranging her holiday.

She looked forward with a great sense of longing
to the repose and entire change of scene which
her visit to the coast promised.

As regarded Winnie, she would soon be leaving
town ; and even were she to be always near her,
she could do little to help her. A wife must fight
her own battles and * dree her own weird.' No
third person could interfere without doing more
harm than good. Surely the present clouds would
blow over, and Winnie's sky be blue and bright, as
it ought to be.

She herself, despite her doubts and cares, felt, in

some unaccountable way, a fresh interest in her
life ; a vague, quiet hope, such as she had not ex .
experienced for many months, and under this influence
was working at some nearly finished designs
with new energy one morning, intending to call on
Winnie in the early afternoon to tell her of their
approaching departure, and learn her plans.

She had almost put the last touch to her drawing,
and had paused, pencil in hand, seeing a vision
of the beach with the rippling waves stealing up,
when the door was suddenly opened, and Winnie
flashed in upon her, radiant, smiling, lovely in sapphire,
blue sateen, and Breton lace.

Winnie, dear ! What has happened ?' cried
Laura, starting up to meet her.

All that is good and fortunate !' said Winifrid,
embracing her. * Last night Mrs. Piers dined with
us ; she was wonderfully pleasant and amiable, and
brought a letter from Helen. It appears that Sir
Gilbert is recovering so slowly, and is still so weak,
the doctors insist on his going to one of the German,
or rather Austrian, spas ; Franzensbad, I
think. You may fancy my delight when Reginald
exclaimed, " What do you say to trying the waters,
or the air, Winnie ? It would set you up for the
winter ; and we might take baby, too, if you liked."
I hugged him on the spot. Think, dear, of his
proposing the very thing I wanted ! I am sure I
have done him injustice. He wants to escape
Pierslynn while that dreadful woman is at Dartford
as much as I do.'

I am delighted to hear this !' exclaimed Laura,
with most genuine sympathy. * All will go well
now !'

Yes, I hope so ; I believe so. I was so delighted,
I felt as if I trod on air. We went to a
dance at Lady Germaine's. She and her husband
are Saltshire people. It was charming, and I know
I looked well. Colonel Bligh and a heap of men
quite surrounded me. Oh ! it was great fun, and I
think Reginald was pleased. I wish you had been
there, it was such a nice party. This morning
Reggie and I have been busy making out the
route and our plans. We are to start on Tuesday,
and Mrs. Piers is going down to Pierslynn for a
month or two with a cousin of hers who often
stays with her. So the place will not be quite
deserted.'

That is well arranged. How glad I am to see
you so happy !' said Laura, embracing her. ' Now
you must banish all suspicion and uncomfortable
thoughts.'

Oh ! I will  I will indeed. I am too glad to
renounce them all. And it will be nice to have
dear Helen Jervois with us. Sir Gilbert is always
horrid, but if he is weak and ill, he will be more
manageable. Sybil is to come to her grandmother
at Pierslynn. Now, dearest Laura, tell me what
are you going to do ? I trust you will soon escape
the heat, and dust, and noise of London. Oh !
dear, I want you to be happy  happy as if I had
never come across you ; you know I do, Laura ;

and I think I think you are looking like
your own self only better. Are you happy,
Laura ?'

I am,' said Laura, quietly but earnestly. ' I am
at rest ; I have plenty of congenial occupation ; I
have hope of independence in the future, and
kindly companionship in the present. Ought I not
to be thankful and content? If I have still an
anxiety, why, I trust to the great Guide to make it
right. Do not trouble yourself about me.'

You deserve all good,' said Winnie, tears rising
to her eyes. * You must  you will have happiness
and success.'

To know that you are relieved from your fears
will give zest to my holiday.'

A few more descriptions of their plans, a little
more dilating on her own heart's delight and restored
confidence, a pressing invitation to dinner
on the last day of their sojourn in London, and
Winnie left her friend nearly as much excited and
overjoyed as herself.

After this interview, Laura did not see Winifrid
alone save for a hurried moment when bidding her
good-bye the evening she dined with her and Reginald.


She was, as usual, ill at ease with the latter, in
spite of all her own efforts, and his careful, almost
successful attempts at friendly, unstudied cordiality.
She was always imagining how he must feel looking
at her, hearing her voice, and knowing that he

had robbed and deceived her; that he had sought
her only to secure his plunder, and but for her
accidentally overhearing his avowal to Winnie he
would have sacrificed them both unrelentingly.
Whatever his passion for the latter, it had evidently
been his intention to marry herself.

Winnie was all bright anticipation, and with
Colonel Bligh, the only other guest, kept up the
conversation and animation of the partie cairee
without pause or effort.

Reginald tried to second her, and sometimes
succeeded, but Laura observed a peculiar tone of
repression, of indifference, perceptible, she thought,
through his amiable, ready acquiescence in all his
wife's projects and suggestions. It seemed to her
that he was enduring something with as good a
face as he could.

I must say it is rather hard lines to be carried
off to a German Bad a week before the twelfth,' said
Colonel Bligh. 'Why, you missed the Pierslynn
partridges last year !'

Oh, I shall come in for the grouse and pheasants,'
returned Reginald, ' and reap the reward of
my conjugal devotion, eh, Winnie ?'

You ought indeed ; it is too bad to drag him
away,' said Winnie, with a loving smile. * But I
do not think Reginald dislikes the idea of Germany,
or rather Austria.'

I have long ago resigned myself to my fate,'
remarked Reginald, with a slight laugh, yet with a
sound as of reality in his voice, * and I try to get

as much enjoyment out of life as my circumstances
permit'

Hear him 1' cried Colonel Bligh. ' His circumstances,
indeed ! the luckiest dog in Great Britain 1'

When do you think you will return ?* asked
Laura.

Oh, when the spirit moves us,' returned Winnie
evasively ; ' and when we come back I expect you
to pay us a long, long visit at Pierslynn. We can
give you a studio, and you can paint lots of pictures
before the Academy opens. Can't she, Reginald
?'

Of course she cans said Reginald wearily.
Laura wished them good-bye early, and went

with the young mother to look at her sleeping baby.
He is looking well, and greatly grown,' said
Laura, looking earnestly at the boy ; ' a very different
creature from the shadowy infant he was
when I first saw him.'

Yes, thank God ! Do you know, the little darling
holds out his arms to me now. I sometimes
wish there was nothing to take me from him ; but
I enjoy going out, and being seen too. Ah ! Laura,
if I am but safe from one fear, life will be only too
delicious. Do you see how ready Reginald is to
forego the shooting rather than return to Piers-lynn
? Trust me, all will go well.'

God grant it, dear ! When do you start tomorrow
?'

Oh, some time in the afternoon. We sleep at
Dover, and take the Ostend and Brussels route.'

Good-bye, dear Winnie ; write often

This last interview comforted Laura greatly. If
Reginald's heart was true and steadfast to his wife,
he might retrieve and atone for the past. She was
glad he was gone away safely for some months ;
when they returned, she would have a confidential
explanation with him, and so arrange matters that
her rights should be acknowledged and Reginald's
reputation saved.

After all,' she thought, with a slight natural sigh,
it would be a divided kingdom only for a lifetime.
I shall never marry, and after my death Reginald's
son shall have his own again,' so for the present she
put aside painful thoughts and doubts, and determined
to enjoy the rest and change which her visit
to the seaside promised.

The village of C , although within five or six

hours of London, had as yet escaped the overwhelming
tide of autumnal cockneys. Its sea-bathing
qualifications were only known to the neighbouring
gentry and farmers, with a sprinkling of
artists whose visits did not vulgarize the picturesque
seclusion of the place.

Denzil's friend, an ex-sea captain, had married a

C girl who inherited a small farm and cottage.

This formed a delightful retreat to the tired
mariner, who had added considerably to the quaint
residence, and generally improved its surroundings,
until it became the boast of the village, and the

captain's house was considered a type of all that
was luxurious.

The days previous to their departure were a trial,
mental and physical, to Mrs. Crewe, and through
her to Laura. The anxious discussions as to what
ornaments were to be left and what put away, the
sudden recollection that it would be better to have
kept out something which unfortunately was
already packed at the bottom of the largest box,
the long exordiums and injunctions to Collins, the
terrible uncertainty whether Topsy was to be taken
or not, the impossibility of starting by a mixed
train at 11.30, and being at home to give up the
house at half-past five, these were a few of the
difficulties which exercised Mrs. Crewe's mind.
But all finally arranged themselves. Topsy, it was
decided, would be happier in her own home, with
Collins, who promised and vowed to watch over
the beloved animal, to sustain her with mutton and
occasional fish, and to comfort her with a bed of
hay renewed every week. Denzil promised to receive
his friends, and advised a clean sweep of all
decorative articles, as the expected inmates were
bound on an errand which did not incline them to
regard trifles.

It is a downright mercy that the Admiral went
away to his brother's. What we should have done
with him in the house I can't think ; not that he
would grumble, dear good man ; but the idea of
having things topsy-turvy when he is with you
seems in a way  sacrilegious.'

So said Mrs. Crewe when they had fairly started
from Haddington, and waved their last adieux to
Denzil, who stood looking after them on the platform.


The Dingle, as Mrs. Crewe's temporary abode
was called, was a most tempting retreat seen, as
Laura saw it, for the first time on a fine summer's
evening. It stood a little way west of the village
in the opening of a dell or dingle which ran inland
from the sea, sheltered by the high grounds at each
side ; some oaks and chestnuts gave shade and
beauty to the little plot, half garden, half pleasure-ground,
which intervened between the parti'
thatched cottage and a low wall or embankment
separating it from the stretch of sandy beach which
spread from one dark reef and mass' of shingles
to the other.

At high tide the water touched the embankment,
and when it ebbed, left a wide margin of shining
gold in the sunshine. The garden was sweet with
roses, syringa, and heliotrope ; great bushes of
fuchsias and laurentius testified to the balmy mildness
of the air, while on the western slope of the
brae behind the house, where the fruit and vegetables
caught the fructifying rays of the morning
sun, lay a delightful kitchen garden.

The road from Northport,the nearest town, ceased
at the gate, which was at the junction of the grounds
with the beach, and as the travellers reached it, a
rosy-cheeked, countrified, but neat servant-maid
came running from the house to set wide the portal,

bobbing courtesies as she held the gate, and then
collected the unavoidable small parcels from the
omnibus conductor with evident hearty goodwill.

The tea and stroll in the garden which followed
were very delightful and invigorating. Mrs. Crewe
was loud in her praise of the air and scenery.

Really this charming place will make me ten
years younger,' she said to Laura. ' I am quite impatient
for Saturday, that Denzil may enjoy something
of this invigorating air; it will do him a
world of good, for I do not think he has been looking
at all well lately. Have you observed it ?'

I cannot say I have said Laura, who was
gathering some flowers, and not especially heeding
Mrs. Crewe.

Perhaps not,' returned that lady severely. ' You
have been so much occupied with Mr. and Mrs.
Piers, that I am not surprised you overlook my
poor boy, who, I must say, never forgets anything
in which he can oblige you!

Indeed he does not,' said Laura, with a frank,
sweet smile. ' You must not be cross with me
because I answered you carelessly. You know
quite well that I am nearly as impatient for his
coming as you are.'

Well, well, I believe so,' returned Mrs. Crewe ;
and though I say it, you ought, Laura, for the
pains and trouble he takes about you, is  is  quite
remarkable.*

I am most grateful to him, I assure you,' said
Laura, resuming her flower-gathering undisturbed,

well aware that Mrs. Crewe's weak point was her
adored son, and the observance due to him.

In spite of this slight breeze, they watched together,
in restored harmony, the glories of a beautiful
sunset, and retired to rest delighted with the
happy chance which gave them so sweet a resting-place
for their brief holiday.

    4(r

Time fled swiftly at the Dingle. Laura was
away out with pencil or brush before the morning
dew had breathed its last under the sun's kisses.
It was a time of purest enjoyment to her; she
steeped herself in the fresh beauty of the scenery,
and learned endless colour lessons in the inexhaustible
studio of nature.

On all sides she found material for pictures  the
fishing boats, with their load of gold and silver 
treasures of the deep ;' the brown nets hung out to
dry against the blue of sky and sea ; the cows
standing luxuriously knee-deep in the pool, into
which the burn that flowed through the dingle
widened in one place ; the little sturdy urchins, in
queer old-fashioned garments and ' clouted shoon,'
trudging home from school, their slates hung round
their necks, and books under their arms, with happily
a bright blue frock or pair of vivid red stockings to
lighten up their figures ; the great placid farm
horses, with shaggy fetlocks and flowing manes ;
the patches of pine and oak-wood which lurked in
sheltered hollows. Above all, the never-ending
variety of the sea : its lights and shadows ; the

coast-line, the cliffs, graceful if not bold, the long
sweep of glittering yellow sands. It was a continual
feast of beauty, enough, when accompanied
by the balmy, health-giving air, to account for the
delicious, tranquil happiness which seemed to radiate
from her heart.

Could she have hoped six months ago, when,
still bruised and aching from the cruel blows of fate,
she sought rest and found none, that she should so
soon taste contentment deep and pure ? Even six
short weeks ago, when those terrible letters of
Holden's reached her, and she felt for a while
stunned, her faith wrecked, her hold on all things
relaxed, how little she anticipated this after-glow !
Did she forget too quickly ? Had her nature grown
shallower? Were the inner depths of her heart
silted up with the gritty sands of disappointment .'*
Even her tender conscience answered ' No.' The
tree of life had put forth fresh leaves for her ; hope
beamed anew. Somehow, even Reginald's shameful
conduct had ceased to humiliate her, as the
knowledge of it did at first. He had erred, but
while time still existed it was never too late to
mend ; and she hoped so to manage that Winnie
should never know his baseness.

'i  5jC  TT

Saturday, on which day Denzil was expected,
came quickly, and Mrs. Crewe was early afoot to
make elaborate preparations for the expected
guest's breakfast, dinner, and supper, as it was
market-day.

VOL. III. 51

Laura, taking a small sketch-book and a large
basket, accompanied her into the village, and to
the little pier where the fish-wives spread out their
spoils.

Denzil is fond of fish ; let us get him some nice
mackerel for tea. Fried mackerel split open, with
just a small lump of butter in the middle, is one of
the nicest things for tea ; and there are some good
plums ; he is sure to like plums.'

Yes, Mrs. Crewe ; he is very fond of fruit and
vegetables.'

Sailors always are, my dear ; and no matter what
splendid things they get in other climes, they always
enjoy the humbler productions of their dear native
land. How much are your eggs a dozen, my good
woman ?  one and twopence ? Monstrous ! I could
not think of giving such a price. Say sentence, and
I will take two dozen.' aside) ' Hens are not laying
well just now, Laura, and we had better lay in
some,' etc., etc.

The day passed in the pleasant occupation of
making all things ready for the favoured guest.
The little parlour they occupied  not liking to use
the best drawing-room  was sweet and pretty, with
flowers carefully arranged by Laura ; the tea-table
was set forth by Mrs. Crewe's own hands. The
cosiest of garden-seats was placed under a spreading
oak tree, the largest in the neighbourhood, and
all things were in the highest state of preparation
by six o'clock. But no Denzil made his appearance.


Mrs. Crewe was half crying with vexation and
disappointment.

What can have happened, Laura ? for something
must have happened, I am sure. It is so unlike
him to be late in any ways

No, I do not think anything has,' said Laura,
rising to look for and examine the Great Western
time-table. ' I fancy he did not like to start as
early as we did, and lose a whole day. Here there
is a train that leaves at 5.40 ; express to Dartford
reaches at 8.30 ; then there is a slow train that
reaches Northport at 10.20 ; depend upon it, he will
be here by half-past eleven.'

I hope so ; I am sure it is a mercy I had nothing
hot for tea  it would be utterly ruined. Thank
you, Laura dear ; you always have your wits about
you.'

The hours wore on ; Laura took a book and retreated
to the garden ; Mrs. Crewe went to look at
the poultry, and enjoyed a long gossip with Mercy,
the neat little servant. In truth, this was a
favourite amusement of Mrs. Crewe's, and the
amount of information she thus acquired respecting
the histories of the surrounding families was more
remarkable than useful.

At length Mercy was sent to bed, and after a
careful inspection of the kitchen fire, Mrs. Crewe
also took a book, and very soon fell asleep over it.

Laura read so long as the light lasted, and then
sat thinking or dreaming till the night air felt chill,
and she went indoors to find a shawl ; then, seeing

512

that Mrs. Crewe was asleep, she closed one window
gently to save her from the draught, stepped out
upon the lawn again, and strolled down to the beach
wall. The tide was in, and lapping gently against
the stones, and a young moon was silvering a long
line across the bay, over part of which the shadow
of the western cliffs lay softly. Laura stood long,
listening to the murmur of the sea, drinking in the
briny odour of the waves, and lulled by the sweet
influence of the hour into a half-unconscious condition
of reverie.

Suddenly a distant sound struck her ear. She
listened. It was the sound of wheels and horses'
feet, which drew rapidly louder and nearer, and then
-Stopped at the gate.

I am afraid they will all be in bed,' said a voice
she recognised.

No, no, sir ; they ain't. I sees a light. Thank
you, sir. Shall I carry in your traps ?'

No, thank you ; I can take them in myself.'

Another good-night, and the gate opened to
admit Denzil.

I am so glad you are come !' exclaimed Laura
advancing to meet him as he stepped out into the
moonlight. * We expected you about six or seven,
and Mrs. Crewe was quite uneasy.'

Laura !' he dropped the small valise Fie held on
the grass, and took her outstretched hand in both
his own with more than usual cordiality. ' It is
delightful to find you here with a kind welcome.'


Laura felt for an instant startled by his warmth,
and the next vexed with herself for noticing it.

How is my mother ?' was Denzil's next question.


Oh, so well ; and looking so well ! . She was
tired waiting for you, and has fallen asleep. She
will be delighted to see you,' said Laura, turning
towards the house.

Wait a moment,' returned Denzil. ' It is such a
heavenly night, let us go round by the beach wall ;
I like to have a look at my old friend the sea.
This is glorious ! Doesn't it seem to lift one clean
out of the common cares and mean things of life ?'

It does, indeed ; as if there was a soul in inanimate
nature that was casting some spell upon you
as if she tried to explain herself to you.'

Denzil did not reply, and they walked together to
the place where Laura had been standing when she
heard the sound of Denzil's conveyance.

And you are pleased with the place ? You are
happy here ?' said Denzil, suddenly breaking the
silence, and turning to look at her.

Perfectly pleased ; quite happy,' she returned.
Very thankful, I assure you, for the opportunity of
renewing my acquaintance with nature in all, or
any, of her moods ; though as yet we have only
had sunshine.'

I wish you were never to have anything else,'
said Denzil kindly, and there was a pause. ' Yes
this is a delightful resting-place for a wayworn
mariner,' he resumed. ' I remember visiting my

friend Ritson when he first came here, some seven
years ago. I thought it charming then ; but even
by this light I can see he has made great improvements.
It has always been a dream of mine to
have a leafy nook to retire to when I have done
enough, and made enough, to entitle me to rest.'

You are too young to think of such a thing for
years to come.'

No doubt ; but it will take all those years to
make fulfilment possible ; even with good chances
and I have had them  it is a task of time to
create even a moderate competence.'

And if so for you, how much more for me 1
Only I want so much less. But come, let us go to
your mother,' and Laura again turned towards the
house.

One moment,' said Denzil, in low, quick tones ;
let me thank you for all your kind thought for my
mother ; all the pleasant companionship we both
owe you.'

It is but little I can give anyone,' said Laura,
with simple, unaffected humility, struck by what
appeared to her the uncalled-for emotion in his
voice and manner. ' I owe more to Mrs. Crewe
than she does to me ; she has made a home for me
when I should have otherwise been homeless. Let
us go to her now.'

Of course there was a rapturous greeting with
Mrs. Crewe, and then a pleasant, cheerful gathering
round the supper-table, and some light-hearted talk
before the party separated for the night.

Denzil delighted his mother by telling her that he
was going to stay till Tuesday, and intended to see
if he could not give both ladies a sail on Monday
to some rocky islets that lay a few miles south-east
from the bay.

By the way he said, as his mother was leaving
the room,  I quite forgot I have a letter for you
from the Admiral. It seems he has mislaid your
address, and so wrote to my care.'

I wonder at that j he is always so methodical,'
said Mrs. Crewe, opening it. ' Oh, he says he will
be with us on Thursday. His brother's house is
full of company, and it is too much for him ; he
wishes for the well-ordered quiet of my house.
What a dear, discriminating saint of a man he is !
He shall have everything he likes here. Goodnight,
Denzil ; be sure you put your candle out.
Laura  Laura, my dear, I am coming. I have a
letter from the Admiral to show you.'

HE boating expedition was charming,
perhaps not the less so because Mrs.
v;. Crewe declared her dread of the water
would not permit her to enjoy it, and
she therefore remained at home. Some rambles
on the shore and along the cliffs, with a drive to a
ruined castle at some miles' distance, made Denzil's
visit pass but too quickly. Though he parted from
his mother and Laura with cheerfulness, promising
to secure a longer holiday next time, it was very
lonely after his departure.

It is not that he is a great talker,' said his
mother, as she and Laura sat together under the
oak tree in the evening, ' but he listens so well, and
knows so much ; he is so kind and well-tempered
and considerate for a man ! Ah ! the woman he
marries will be lucky.'

 Yes ; he is very, very kind and pleasant and
well-informed,' said Laura heartily ; but added,
with a spice of mischief, ' I have heard Mrs. Trent

say that marriage is an extraordinary touchstone ;
that men who have been dutiful sons, kind brothers,
pleasant friends, sometimes turn out disagreeable,
tyrannical husbands.'

Then it must be their wives' fault. I am sure
Mrs. Trent need not talk she does as she likes
with her stiff six-and-eight-pence of a husband !
I do not think much of that Mrs. Trent. It is
rather extraordinary, considering the terms you
and I are on, that she never asked me to her
house !  as if the widow of an officer in the Royal
Navy was not more than the equal of the best
professional man in London !'

Well, dear Mrs. Crewe, she never asked me to
dinner save once or twice, and that was with the
Admiral ; yet I know she likes me  she is always
pleased to have me at luncheon, which seems to bethe
repast specially suited to the entertainment of
poor relations, and I like best to go then. I have
her to myself ; she is always so bright and pleasant ;
and Mr. Trent, though far from uncivil, evidently
considers it a hopeless loss of time to waste words
upon so insignificant a personage ; yet I am sure
he would do me a service if he could.'

And pray why are you sure ?' asked Mrs. Crewe,
with some severity ; and Laura making no immediate
answer, the conversation turned into other
channels.

The Admiral arrived on the appointed day.
Both Mrs. Crewe and Laura were struck by the

haggard, worn look of his kind handsome face.
True, he had had a long tiresome journey, having
come across the country by many changes of trains
from his brother's place in Worcestershire. He
was evidently glad to rest in the cool quiet room
prepared for him, and said little or nothing that
evening. But he soon recovered, and seemed to
enjoy his quiet room, the simple beauty of his surroundings,
the soft fresh air.

The Admiral was fond of an early walk with
Laura to the beach. or the pier, to see the fishing-boats
come in, or to watch the children hunting for
periwinkles, while he talked gently and kindly to
the fishermen, who soon recognised him to be at
least ' a noble captain ;' and so they used to come
back slowly, with leisurely enjoyment of the
sights and sounds, the beauty and the freshness
around them, to the cottage, and to their letters,
which were not delivered at the Dingle till noon.
So time went on so softly, so evenly, that the
dwellers in this pleasant ' sleepy hollow ' could not
feel the rapidity of its ceaseless flow, and were
conscious of a vague surprise when Sunday came
round.

One afternoon, on her return from an unusually
long ramble with her guardian, Laura, to her great
joy, found a letter awaiting her from Winifrid,
dated from Dresden. They had at the last moment
altered their route, as she had persuaded dear Reginald
to let her revisit the scene of so much pleasure

and sorrow, and to take a look at her father's
grave.

I cannot tell you, dear Laura's the letter went
on, *how present you are to me in our old haunts ;
I listen for your voice, and I think of all your
goodness to me, and what a wayward imp I was !
The dear father's grave is well cared for  our good
old landlord has seen to it. All the people we
know have been so pleased to see me  even the
Hausfrau, with whom, you remember, I used sometimes
to quarrel'

Then followed a glowing account of how well
baby had borne the journey and behaved ; of how
she feared Reginald was a little bored, as he did
not care much for picture-galleries and things of
that kind ; that they were going on the next day
to visit Prague, and thence to Franzensbad, where
she begged her dearest Laura to address her reply.
Finally, the words, ' Be at rest about me ; I think
all is well, and I am happy !' filled the cup of
Laura's content to the brim ; she let herself taste
to the full the quiet enjoyment of the hour, and
left the future to take care of itself

Denzil was not able to revisit the Dingle till
the middle of the following week. Then he arrived
looking pale and tired enough, yet bright and animated.


His friend Captain Ritson was, he said, in great
spirits ; the operation on his little girl's eyes had
been happily accomplished, and they hoped in
another month to be able to bring her back to

her seaside home. They were quite satisfied with
ColHns.

Then they are easily pleased,' said Mrs. Crewe.
Does the house look clean ? and have you any
idea if she makes the duster call regularly ?'

Denzil answered the first query in the affirmative,
but acknowledged his ignorance as to the other.

And my precious Topsy ? I trust that dear cat
is not neglected ?'

Far from it; she is an immense favourite, and
sits for hours in Mary Ritson's lap. I am afraid
Topsy is faithless.'

'That I am sure she is not,' said Mrs. Crewe
stoutly ; ' some allowance must be made for peculiarities
of nature.'

Laura felt an unusual degree of pleasure in the
return of her kind sympathetic friend, and showed
it with sisterly frankness. After the ' high-tea,'
which was their evening meal, the little party
strolled out upon the lawn to watch the receding
tide and the last gleams of a fine sunset. The
Admiral fell into conversation with Mrs. Crewe
on the subject of moon-blindness, which he had
often seen among sailors  a propos oi \h. operation
which Denzil had mentioned.

The latter was walking apart, smoking his cigar,
when Laura came from the house with a shawl she
had sought for Mrs. Crewe. After wrapping it
round her she turned away, and said, with the
familiarity that had grown greatly between them
of late :

Denzil/  he threw away' his cigar and joined
her at once  * I have ventured on a very audacious
project' since you were here. I was cogitating it
then, but I have quite made up my mind since.'

And what may that be ?'

There is a lovely little nook round that spur of
rock behind the Dingle, with a glimpse of blue seato
the right, and a tangled mass of brambles and
wild leaves over the lower rocks, with just two
larch trees, behind which at sunset the light comes
in the most marvellous way. It has taken hold of
my imagination. I feel as if I must and could
paint it ; and, do not laugh, but I think, if I can at
all work it up to my idea, I shall try to get it into
the Royal Academy.'

Laugh ! I shall not laugh,' said Denzil, directing
his steps and hers to the low wall which formed
a terrace over the beach, 'Try, by air means;
even if you do not succeed, it will be an incentive
to work, and no great harm done.'

Yes, but I want very much to succeed. You
must come and see the place and my sketch, my
idea of representing it, and help me with your advice

The best I can give is at your service ; but I am
afraid it will not be worth much.'

Oh, it is worth something. It would be such a
grand thing for me to have a picture exhibited ;
fancy what importance it would give me in the
eyes of that little Jew man who ordered the copy
I am to finish when I go back. I do not think he
would venture to call me " my dear " any more !'

The deuce he does !' cried Denzil. ' The insolent
beggar !'

Oh, he does not mean to be insolent,' said
Laura. ' It is a sort of official manner ; the more
he " dears " you, the more he beats you down

I don't like the notion of your selling things to
these fellows. It is a shame you should be obliged
to go to them.'

It is not like you to talk in that way ; if you
are to live by work, you cannot pick and choose
your patrons and purchasers. Why, I felt as if I
loved that little Jew when he said, "You do mea

good faithful copy of S 's 'Bring in a

breeze,' my dear, and I'll give you seven pounds."
You would have been edified to hear how I stood
up for myself, and haggled and squabbled until I
got an advance of ten shillings.'

Denzil laughed.

I cannot fancy you haggling ; that is more in
my mother's line. She is the most generous soul
in the world, and yet she dearly loves a bargain.*

Oh ! I am growing quite hardened. I remember
when it was agony to me to name a price, not
so very long ago. But I am much stronger in
every way than I was.'

I think you are  much stronger and better in
every way,' he returned, looking straight at her
with kindly thoughtful eyes, as if he rejoiced in the
new life that was visible in her whole face and expression,
in her colour and carriage.

Laura flushed with a sudden consciousness ot

the sorrow and mortification of which he was
thinking ; was it possible he had suspected her of
still grieving over the wreck he had witnessed ?
She had more than once thought she perceived
that he judged her harshly, imagining that she had
not conquered her feelings for Reginald. How
little he knev/!  but while she thought thus Denzil
was speaking again.

We must have a consultation over the picture
to-morrow he said ; ' and when that is over, I  I
want some advice from you, or rather your help in
making a decision.'

I am sure I shall be very glad to talk over any
of your affairs ; but I am afraid I cannot be much
help to you.'

Yes, you can,' returned Denzil decidedly ; and
there was a long pause, during which they both
gazed at the rippled stream of light stretching out
across the bay, and listened to the soft murmur of
the receding tide.

Do you know anything of Mr. Piers's whereabouts
at present ?' said Denzil, suddenly speaking
out of his thoughts.

I think they must be at Prague just now, but I
am not sure. I am to write to Franzensbad, on or
after the fifteenth.'

Do they make a long stay ?'
Winnie mentions no plans.'

The weather for the first two days after Denzil's
arrival was rainy and overcast, but a brief thunderstorm

cleared the atmosphere, and the third morning
was all a painter could desire. Laura therefore
determined to begin her great undertaking, and
made all due preparation in the forenoon, Denzil
having undertaken to accompany the Admiral in
his morning walk.

At dinner Mrs. Crewe announced that it was her
intention to visit a deserving and bedridden old
woman (under the Admiral's guidance), and take
her some tea and sugar, as the want of those necessaries
and inability to read the Bible were her two
principal deprivations.

'The amount of spiritual light bestowed upon
some of these poor ignorant souls is truly marvellous,
and it would be a sin and a shame to let a
woman of that kind faint for want of a cup of tea,'
observed Mrs. Crewe. 'What are you going to do,
Laura ?'

Oh, I shall spend the afternoon sketching in the
cove. Perhaps you will look in there and see how
I am getting on.'

With pleasure, my love. Denzil, what are your
plans ?'

I shall be resolutely idle, and enjoy myself I
had a long swim this morning while you and Laura
were gathering gooseberries, or cutting cabbages,
and I feel I am entitled to rest.'

But you are going to advise me,' cried Laura.

I do not forget ; it will not be fatiguing.'

As soon as the sun had got round a little to the
west, Laura gathered her materials together and

started for her favourite spot. Denzil, who was
lounging under a tree on the lawn, came forward
directly she issued from the open door and relieved
her of part of her load, walking beside her rather
silently while she talked freely.

One of the many advantages of my cove is that
two paths lead to it  one over the hill at the back,
as we are going now, and one along the beach when
the tide is out ; we can return that way.'

* I know the place, I used to ramble all about
here when I was staying with Ritson, five or six
years ago. It is a place to make one forget the
hurry and fret of life. I should like such a haven
when I am a little older.'

A little older, Denzil ! When you are an old
man of threescore years and ten, if you will ; it
would be shirking work to shrink from the burden
and heat of the day before.'

But suppose I were a man of fortune ?'

Even so, I think you would work, and I am sure
you would.*

I am not sure,' said he, smiling ; ' I believe I am
really a lazy fellow, only circumstances have been a
powerful whip. By the way, I always fancied that
cousin of yours, Reginald Piers, would have gone in
for public life.'

I thought so too. I suppose he finds life too
pleasant for such serious labour. You cannot think
what a sweet lovely place Pierslynn is, large enough
for dignity and beauty, but not too large for homeliness
and comfort.'

VOL. III. 52

Denzil stole a sharp quick glance at her ; as
she spoke her countenance wore an expression of
quiet restful content; not the slightest trace of what
might be construed into envy or regret was to be
seen there, and Denzil's own brow cleared as he
looked.

I think he resumed, ' that young Piers had one
ingredient that would push him into public life 
that is, vanity.'

You think Reginald vain ? I never observed
it

I confess I do not view him favourably ; still,
he can be pleasant, and I dare say open-handed,
though I believe self is his ruling motive  not a
narrow ill-natured selfishness that worries over
trifles, but a deep principle that never relinquishes
a strong desire, cost what it may.'

You are a little harsh ; but I begin to think I
never quite knew Reginald, or rather that circumstances
have greatly changed him ;' she sighed
slightly, and they walked on in silence for some
<vay.

When Denzil spoke again, it was on a fresh topic ;
and they proceeded, with occasional silences and
pleasant desultory talk, till they reached the spot
from which Laura had taken her sketch.

Then there was the business of opening the
colour-box and arranging the folding easel, the
fixing of the artist so as to catch the exact points
which she had sketched in previously.

You see said Laura, ' if I can only get enough

of the blue misty distance there to the left out to
sea, then the brambles and heather and mossy
rocks, and those two lovely larch trees with the
light behind their upper branches, it would make a
pretty picture. " Oh, wad some power the giftie
gie " me to make the dumb trees and sea and stones
speak to the world as they speak to me ; if I could
put the pensive tenderness and repose they express
on canvas, I would indeed be happy ! but that requires
genius, and I fear I have not enough for
such a consummation.'

I do not know,' returned Denzil, thoughtfully
and candidly ; ' I am not sure that I have the
power to recognise it if you had  at all events, it
is no common gift to understand what nature tells
us, without speech or language. Still, you have
got in these stones and the tint of the heather very
well ; your distance might be more distant  don't
you think these rocks, with a fringe of foam round
them, brought in in the middle distance, would
make the background farther off?'

A long interesting discussion ensued, and then
Laura set to work diligently, while Denzil lay down
on the soft, short mossy grass at a little distance,
and watched her in silence, just answering her occasional
observations shortly, as if he were enjoying
the dolce far 7iieiite too utterly to talk.

Some time passed, and then he rose, strolled
slowly away to where the little wavelets came lapping
the beach softly, caressingly, and stood therein
thought for some minutes ; then returning, stood

522

near Laura for a while, making 'an occasional
remark on her work.

Don't you think you might rest now?' he said at
length.

But I am not tired.'

Have you forgotten that you are to give me 
well, to help me to decide a matter of importance,
at least to myself? I waited patiently till you were
free to hear me.'

Oh yes ; I am quite ready,' laying her palette
carefully aside. ' I think I have done pretty well
this morning. In another half-hour the sky behind
the trees will be much richer. Well V looking up at
Denzil, who had sat down on the piece of rock
beside her, and, leaning his elbow on his knee, rested
his cheek on his hand.

He did not speak for a moment, and then said
rather slowly :

'You perhaps remember my telling you, some
weeks ago, that I might possibly go to Japan ?
The mail is nearly due on the arrival of which I
shall probably have to decide.'

Yes, I remember,' returned Laura, feeling suddenly
chilled and shocked at being confronted with
this painful possibility. * I am sure, both for your
mother and myself, I hope you will not go.'

Denzil plucked a handful of heather, pulled it to
pieces hastily, and flung it from him ; then turned
to Laura, and looking straight and steadily at her,
said :

That depends upon you.'

On me !' said Laura, genuinely surprised. ' How
so?'

Are you then still so much engrossed by another
that you cannot understand why my future is at
your disposal ?' cried Denzil impatiently. ' How is
it you do not understand, you do not feel, that I
love you, even though you may be indifferent tome
? Tell me, how shall I decide respecting the
appointment I expect ? Will you be my wife  and
give me an object to work for, even if I leave you
for a while to make my position more worthy of
you ?  or will you take the hope from me t  for,
perhaps against probability, I Jive hoped.'

Laura sat silent, bewildered, looking back with
the swift glance of memory at many an incident
which she now felt ought to have shown her that
Denzil was more than a friend, yet half incredulous.

I do not seem able to believe it,' she said slowly,
and without embarrassment. 'We have been so
tranquilly happy together, you have done me so
much good, is it not a pity to change such a friendship
for  for a more unquiet feeling ?'

'But,' returned Denzil, his strong kindly face
lighting up with an expression she had never seen
in Reginald's, ' suppose feeling gives you no choice?
I did not choose to fall in love with you ; but, living
with you, knowing you in bitter trial, in the brave
silent struggle against heavy odds, in the strength
and tenderness of your everyday life, who could
help loving you as I do, with my whole heart?'
He took her hand as he spoke, and bent his head

till his brow rested upon it, a gesture so loving and
reverent that Laura could scarce keep back her
tears ; while his words seemed to rend away some
cloud or curtain that had hidden the depths of Er
own soul, and she perceived how necessary he had
grown.

'But, Denzil,' gently drawing away her hand,
are you quite sure of yourself, quite certain that
your friendly interest, the absence of other women
you go so little into society  have not misled
you ? I am half afraid of ' She paused.

He smiled.

I am very certain of myself; it is of you I want
to make sure. Tell me how I stand with you, now
that you know my true feelings. Can you love me ?
Will you be my wife t I know I have little to
offer of this world's goods now, but I have my foot
on the ladder, and you are not the woman to shrink
from beginning humbly with the man you love  if
you will love me, Laura ?'

Laura covered up her face in her hands, unable
to master the emotion which brought quick tears to
her eyes.

I am afraid to believe, afraid to trust. Ah,
Denzil ! I have suffered so much, and I have passed
through it all into such rest and contentment, that
I fear to come out of the soft grey shadows of my
life even into sunshine.'

Dearest,' said Denzil, drawing nearer to her,
there is very little brilliancy in the existence I
want you to share ; there is very little change in

our relationship either, only we shall draw closer to
one another, and I shall know that you are all my
own ; that which we have called friendship will but
deepen into a more absorbing attachment. I am
not often presumptuous, Laura, but I think, I believe
 I could make you happy in the quiet homelike
way that suits you.'

Are you indeed so earnest ?' said Laura, impressed
by the depth and seriousness of his tone
Is it possible that you imagine me really necessary
to you ?'

You are ! I do not say that if you reject me I
should never strive or hope or recover myself again
I trust there is stuff enough in me to bear up even

under so heavy a blow  but ' a short expressive

pause  ' my life would be better and happier with
you than it ever can be without you. Listen tome,
Laura. When all was going fair and well,
when I first met you, I liked you ; but, as I daresay
you saw, I was tremendously taken with Winnie
Fieldenen  Mrs. Piers. She was the loveliest girl I
had ever met, and so bright and pleasant ; however,
I soon saw that although he kept it very quiet,
Piers was as far  ay, farther  gone than myself
about her ; I saw there were rocks ahead for all of
you, and yet it was out of my power to prevent the
mischief The day that Winifrid spoke to me about
her wish to go to Germany, I was sure of what I
suspected before  that she recognised your cousin's
feeling for her, and feared for herself Then, when
the mysterious quarrel rose between you and your

fiance I guessed you had come to a knowledge of
the truth, and I felt for you heartily. I watched
you with the deepest interest, and I understood the
fortitude, the faithfulness of a nature that could
keep so brave a front as you did. Then I went
away ; I was glad to go, glad not to be vexed with
the presence of a girl I could have loved well had
she cared for me ; but in my lonely hours at sea I
thought oftener oi you. Your cousin's marriage
did not surprise me, I knew what the end would be.
When I came back I was delighted to find you with
my mother. You made her house a real home tome
; you were the most interesting companion I
had ever had. Your true unaltered affection for
your cousin, your supplanter !  the quiet harmony
of your Hfe, all were unutterably restful to me ; I
felt soon that nothing the world could give me
would be complete without you  and  speak to me,
Laura ! I have at times horrible pangs of jealousy
when I think that Reginald Piers is still perhaps a
rival, or rather the man you thought he was. It
makes me savage to think you ever cared for him.
If that is all past and gone, might I not be your
faithful companion for the rest of our journey ?*

I am greatly startled,' she said slowly ; * I never
dreamed that you cared for me in this way. It is
sweet to be loved, and I scarce know how the
knowledge of your affection will affect me. I
confess I do not like to think of your going away ;
my life will be very dull without you  and if
indeed I can make you happy, if you are sure you

will be satisfied with so poor and insignificant a
partner as myself '

She stopped abruptly, her cheek growing pale,
her heart beating painfully, overcome with the
mixture of pain, pleasure, remembrance, fear 
astonishment that she was on the point of accepting
Denzil Crewe.

But he again caught her hand and tenderly
kissed it.

Do not hesitate,' he said ; * you see how dear
you are to me. You have known me intimately,
and surely know that I am at all events honest and
true ; and if hearty love and warmest sympathy can
make a woman happy, you will have both. I have
spoken abruptly, but it could not be otherwise; you
could not understand that I loved you till I told
you so. Now let me feel that I have a sure anchor
that I may go away, with the blessed hope of
finding you when I come home ready to share all
the best I can gather together for you.'

Laura did not speak for a moment, but she left
her hand in his, and he watched her with earnest,
eager eyes.

I think,' she said at length, with a sweet hesitation,
' that after all we ought to make each other
happy, for if sympathy and understanding cannot
make us mutually helpful, I know not what can.'

You will then promise to be my wife when I
return to England  that is, within a year from this
day V said Denzil, still holding her hand and looking
at her with all his soul in his eyes.

Laura thought yet for a moment ; then, raising
her eyes to his with a frankness too serious to be
shy, said, softly but distinctly :

I will.'

Denzil again kissed the hand he held, and pressed
it to his heart.

Laura,' he exclaimed, and there was a tone of
deep controlled emotion in his voice that thrilled
her strangely, ' you give me new life, new energy !'

Neither spoke for a few minutes ; both hearts
where full ; the light of a new, a solemn happiness
hushed them, as the stillness of earliest dawn is
most profound just before the first songs of greeting
burst forth from wood and field.

Then Laura rose, with soft downcast eyes and a
changed expression, as if the rising consciousness
of secure happiness shone through the outer shell
of her humanity, and imbued it with beauty ' that
was all from within.'

I cannot paint any more  to-day, at least,* she
said, and began to collect her painting materials
together with trembling hands.

No ; but you can stay a while longer said
Denzil, coming to help her ; I have so much to
say. I may find the expected letters which will
oblige me to start for Yokohama within a fortnight
on my return. Accounts received, since I last
spoke to you of this project, show the necessity of
examining into the state of things.'

And he proceeded to speak fully of his own plans
and prospects ; of his hope of an honourable and

profitable career ; of his regret at the necessity of
leaving his now affianced wife for such a length of
time (he could not hope to return before twelvemonths),
but his determination to do so because of
the advantages to be reaped from his expatriation.
Laura felt almost dizzy with the sudden change
that a few words had wrought in her life : almost
unable to believe that she was calmly discussing a
future to be passed with Denzil, who a few hours
ago was but a new friend. How wonderfully at
home with him she felt ! how quietly happy ! How
every word of his displayed an honest, resolute,
kindly nature !

And how pleased my mother will be,' were the
concluding words of one sentence.

Do you really think so V said Laura, a little uneasily.
' I know she is fond of me, and kind to me;
but she scarcely things anyone good enough to be
your wife.'

If she be not pleased, she is not the woman I
take her for.'

I hope I am not unworthy to be the wife of a
good man,' said Laura, with gentle dignity. ' Buta
mother might well be excused if she objected to
my want of all worldly recommendations.'

My mother knows too well what you can and
will be to her son, not to welcome you with open
arms. How wide she will open them !' added
Denzil, a happy laugh flashing over his brown face,
showing his strong white teeth, and sparkling in his
large hazel eyes. ' Must we go, Laura t It cannot

be six o'clock yet !  yes, it is. Come then, before
we leave this gate of heaven, give me one kiss, the
seal of our betrothal !'

He drew her to him, holding her with a close
embrace to his breast, pressing his lips to hers
with clinging warmth ; then Laura knew his
was a lover's kiss, and that she had never felt
one before.

she next day was still young, when
Denzil broke the news of his engagement
to his mother, without any preamble.
Laura had gone to look for a
book the Admiral wanted, and on her return to the
sitting-room, where Mrs. Crewe was busy over the
week's accounts, Denzil advanced, and taking her
hand, exclaimed :

Mother, Laura and I have a secret to tell you.'
I do not think you have,' she returned, shutting
her account-book with a slap, and coming up to
Laura, she opened wide her arms. ' I am far too
experienced a woman of the world not to see how
matters were tending. My love,' folding her in a
huge embrace, ' I receive you as a dear daughter,
for I am sure you will make my precious boy happy,
and that is more than rank or riches to me. I rejoice
on your account too, dear Laura ; for I will
say you are a lucky girl to have won such a heart,
such a disposition, as my Denzil's.*

'Mother!' he exclaimed, in a tone of remonstrance.


Do not interrupt, Denzil  I say no more than I
have right to ; you might, I am sure, have chosen
whom you liked ; but I think you have chosen
wisely. God bless you, my dear children ; may
you be happy in each other !'

And bending down her head on Laura's shoulder,
Mrs. Crewe shed a few tears ; finally, she embraced
her son, and sat down declaring that now she felt
her task in life was done, as her dear boy had
found a suitable partner.

How will the Admiral take it V were her next
words, with a slight accent of doubt and a look
towards her son.

He has already taken it well and kindly,' said
Denzil. ' I thought it right to ask his consent
before speaking to Laura ; I feared he might not
think me a good enough match for his ward,
but '

My dear Denzil ! / consider you a match for
anyone,' interrupted his mother.

Others may not take quite your view of the
matter,' he said, with a smile. ' However, I am
happy to say he accepted me most kindly, provided
I found favour in Laura's eyes ; and even did me
the honour to express his satisfaction in committing
her to my care.'

So well he might,' said Mrs. Crewe emphatically.

All this time Laura had not spoken, and had
contented herself with returning her intended



mother-in-law's embrace warmly ; she now said
softly :

Dear Mrs. Crewe, I will try to be a good true
daughter to you.'

To which that lady replied, ' I am quite sure you
will, my dear. And now I shall go and talk to
the Admiral. I dare say you two are wishing me
further.'

Indeed, indeed we do not !' from Laura.

Mrs. Crewe went on, not heeding her, ' As it is
market-day, I will take Mercy with me into the
village, and get something nice for dinner in honour
of this joyful occasion. I believe there are pheasants
to be had sometimes at the general shop 
poached, no doubt, but we need know nothing of
that ; and perhaps a brill, if the boats are in.'

But, my dear mother*, I have something more
to tell you,' interrupted Denzil, ' which may not
please you so much, though it is good news too ;*
and he proceeded to inform her of the proposal of
his firm to despatch him to Japan, to bring matters
there into order, and examine into the suspected
mal practices of their agent, and of the various advantages
he anticipated would spring therefrom.

At first Mrs. Crewe was irreconcilable, and even
shed a few tears ; but she gradually came round to
her son's representations, that a year and three or
six months would be the extreme limit of their
separation, and then he would really settle down into
a stay-at-home ' land lubber ' for the rest of his life.

So you said before, Denzil,' she exclaimed, ' so

you said before, and now you are off again to the
other side of the world. What does Laura say to
your scheme?'

'That Denzil knows best,' she said. 'Yet I wish
he had not to go.'

It is for the best he said gravely, * and the
sooner the better ; for every hour of delay will
make our parting more painful.'

When do you expect to know for certain the
time you must leave .'"

My week's holiday will end on Monday ; I expect
to find the letters which will decide everything
on Tuesday at the office. I must have a week to
prepare, and hope to start with the mail after next
that is, in about a fortnight.'

So soon?' cried his mother, while Laura silently
pressed the hand that held hers, and the conversation
was interrupted by the entrance of the Admiral,
who gave his cordial assent to the proceedings,
and plans and prospects were discussed with
friendly frankness.

The few days that intervened before Denzil left
them made themselves wings, and fled away with
surprising speed. There was an indescribable
mellow sweetness in the sober joy that pervaded
them : a certainty in the lasting happiness of love
so tender and considerate, so gradually matured
into fullest development. In those days Denzil
seemed to have suddenly grown one with her  to
be friend, brother, lover, all, and more than all.

How could she have ever even imagined happiness
without him ?

Then came a telegram from London :

Letters as expected. Must sail on 27th. Will
be with you on Thursday.'

This was followed all too quickly by a sudden
hasty parting, which seemed to cost the mother
more grief and tears than the fiancee who was
deeply touched and gratified by the strong feeling
betrayed by Denzil in bidding her farewell.

The first few days after Denzil's departure
seemed terribly desolate, dreary, and never-ending
; but the week over, both Mrs. Crewe and
Laura felt that the first notch in the tally of coming
time was surmounted, and though a trifle, was so
much deducted from the total.

Finally, the last letter sent ashore with the pilot
reached them, and they felt really cut off from the
wanderer.

Laura sought solace in earnest work ; Mrs.
Crewe was too used to these separations not to
bear this one Vvith resignation, while the bright
future beyond supplied her with an endless source
of conjecture and anticipatory arrangement.

She settled where Denzil was to live, the amount
of rent he ought to pay, the servants they were to
keep, and the parties they were to give. So the
hours slipped by, and Time, the healer, brought
beauty and hope into their lives.

VOL. III. 53

The time came quickly, too, when they must
quit their sweet summer retreat.

Just before she was to leave the Dingle for
Leamington Road, Laura had a long letter from
Winifrid, dated a week previously from .


It was written in high spirits. All was well with
her and hers. Lady Jervois and Sir Gilbert were
with them ; ' it was such a comfort to have dear
Helen with her, particularly as Sir Gilbert was now
obliged to have a proper attendant, and did not
object to his wife joining in expeditions which cost
him nothing. The walks and drives were lovely ;
the company most amusing ; the band excellent ;
dear baby blooming ; and above all, Reginald was
about to be rewarded for his goodness in giving up
the partridges at Pierslynn, for a Gras with many
consonants in his name had invited him to his
place near Kaliez, in Prussian Poland, where there
were forests and game of every kind ; so he (Reginald)
would take advantage of the presence at
Franzensbad of his sister and her husband to leave
Winnie in their care. On his return they would
bend their steps homeward travelling by easy
stages, and probably would reach London towards
the end of October.'

This letter gave Laura sincere pleasure, and extracts
from it formed a large item in the epistle she
was compiling in time for the next mail, in order
that Denzil should have home news as soon as possible
after his arrival at his destination.

After all, it was cheerful, now that the grey-autumnal
days drew in so early, to return to the
comfortable London home.

Mrs. Crewe was very busy indeed for some time,
regulating and replacing everything in its original
order.

Do you know, Laura, I do not think Mrs. Rit-son
has been judicious in her treatment of Collins
she would say during her many pauses for rest and
conversation, when she would enter and sit down
in the dining-room, duster in hand. * I had to call
her three times just now before she came, and then
she said she did not hear because she had turned
on the water-tap, which is nonsense, and impertinent
; I must really put her in her place again. I
doubt, too, if she was as kind to Topsy as she pretends.
Mrs. Ritson was greatly taken with the
dear cat ; but I suspect she did not owe much to
Collins. T never saw anything like the delight of
the darling beauty when she first saw me ; the way
she purred and rubbed her head against me was
positively touching,' etc.

So they settled down into their old system of
life.

Laura soon found plenty of work, and watched
with pride and pleasure the growth of a certain
little hoard kept with jealous care. Somehow or
other, whether it was that an assured future gave
cheerful firmness to her manners, or settled happiness
a bolder turn to thought and touch, success
seemed to come at her call ; so she waited patiently,

532

though not without a certain dread, for the return
of Reginald and his wife to London.

The Admiral, for some unexplained reason, was
less occupied with the Christian Brethren and
Mount Moral than formerly. Mrs. Crewe accounted
for this by supposing that the dear Admiral's
natural good sense and knowledge of the *
higher class of society had at length surmounted
his acquired fanaticism. Laura expressed no
opinion, but suspected that her guardian was in
some mysterious way short of funds ; she was
therefore doubly grateful to the Providence that
had so shaped her course that she was now very
nearly, if not quite self-sustaining.

Herbert Fieldenen, who was working, as arranged
by his brother, in an office previous to going out to
join him in Bombay, was a frequent visitor during
the months he was in London, and Laura was surprised
and pleased to find him companionable and
not without observation.

They sometimes took a walk together of a fine
Sunday, when he used to talk very confidentially.
He had not forgotten his strong liking for Denzil,
and their conversation often turned upon him ; butin
accordance with her own and Denzil's wish,
Mrs. Crewe had agreed to keep their engagement
a secret until his return from Japan. Nevertheless,
the boy's penchant gave an interest to their intercourse,
and drew them together.

Herbert also in his confidential talk frequently
let fall crumbs of information touching Madame

Moscynska which surprised and disturbed his
hearer. The fair Pole was a great favourite with
the unsophisticated boy.

Doesn't she ride and play cards ! I can tell
you she is more than a match for any of the men
at Pierslynn. She was awfully kind to me  indeed,

I think she took rather a fancy to me  and
taught me no end of games. She is a tremendous
politician, too, always plotting against Russia.
Mrs. Piers is very fond of her ; she was in great
hopes of converting her to Protestantism this
summer, only she was obliged to go abroad so
suddenly.'

Has she gone abroad ?' cried Laura. * Where ?'

I don't know. There was some plot on foot in
Germany, I think, so she went to help it. She is
an extraordinary woman.'

This conversation took place at the end of October,
and about a fortnight after, Herbert came in to
tell his friends at Leamington Road that he had
received an urgent summons from his brother, who
had found a berth for him in the house of a friend,
and to consult with the Admiral as to the preparations
requisite for his start, money matters, etc.

Laura could see that the inability to contribute
his share to Herbert's outfit was a keen mortification
to the Admiral.

I feel most severely that I trusted too much to
my own strength, and rejected competent advice,
when I embarked in that unfortunate Hungarian

undertaking. Having assumed the place of guardian
to you and your young cousins in a parental
sense, I should have been more cautious ; indeed,
mere mortal foresight is exceedingly imperfect, and
the strange perversions of the human heart are not
to be fathomed ; still, to live in a constant state of
doubt and suspicion is to neutralize all power of
doing good.'

He sighed deeply, and gazed away towards the
window with the painful perplexed look that always
touched Laura.

Dearest guardian, if you would only think more
of yourself, your own wants and rights, you would
be better and happier ; the only living thing you
are hard to is yourself. As for us, we are all well
provided for now ; do not trouble any more about
us ; it will now be our duty and happiness to take
care of you.'

Ay ! how differently matters are arranged for
us, compared with our own designs. But I feel at
rest as concerns you, dear Laura, and believe your
lot, if humble, will be a happy one. Winnie's is a
more brilliant and a more trying position. I trust
she knows where to find strength. Have you heard
from her lately V

Not for more than a month. I suppose she is
on her way home. I expect her next letter will say
when we may expect to see her.'

The Admiral so far opened his heart to Laura
after Herbert had left them, the evening that his
immediate departure for India had been decided on.

As is sometimes the case after speculating about
a letter, it arrives  the next morning brought a
brief epistle from Winnie, dated from Vienna.

From it Laura gathered that a previous letter
must have gone astray, as, after some account of
the baby, whom she did not think quite so well ashe
had been at Franzensbad, she went on :

I am weary waiting for a letter from you ; you
know there is no one on earth I rely on like yourself
If you cease to care for me, what is left ? and
you may judge from my last how happy I have
been since poor Helen left ! Sir Gilbert is really
wonderfully better  is it not strange how disagreeable,
unnecessary people are spared, and sympathetic,
kind ones, like the dear father, are swept
away? To think that it is little more than two
years and a half since we were left desolate at
Dresden ! I seem to have lived through two lives !'

After a slight sketch of what she had seen in
Vienna, she wrote :

I find my German very useful ; some of the
Grandes Dames " whose husbands Reginald met
in his hunting expeditions at Kaliez, have called.
They are amiable and civil, and delighted that I
can speak with them in their own tongue. But I
do not interest myself much in anything. I long
to be back in England, and shall not soon leave it
again. Baby must be a true English boy. I have

no idea when we shall start on our homeward way 
not for a week or ten days. Reginald is well amused,
and has many Austrian friends. He has asked
half the " curled darlings " of the Turf set here to
Pierslynn for Christmas.

Imagine how surprised and pleased we were to
meet Colonel Bligh, the other day, in the Prater.
He seemed like an old friend ; he has been with us
every day since, and is really quite a comfort to me.
Write to me at once, dearest Laura, that I may
have your letter before I leaves

This communication made Laura profoundly uneasy.
Something had gone wrong ; and all she
could hope was that she should soon see the writer
and have the satisfaction of a thoroughly confidential
talk.

Meantime, she was very busy helping Herbert
with his outfit and preparations, in which she received
much assistance from Mrs. Crewe. She felt
deeply parting with the bright good-humoured boy,
whose youthful selfishness at least never wounded.
He was one more link severed of the chain which
bound her to the past In another month a change
still greater would probably take place  when she
had revealed her knowledge to Reginald ; then,
indeed, * all things would become new.'

Herbert had gone. The dull and
shortening days of November were
(2> gliding fast away. Laura's working
hours were unavoidably restricted ; yet
the number of her pupils increased, and, but for
her uneasiness respecting Winnie, and the dread
with which she anticipated her denouement with
Reginald, the sombre season would have been very
happy, with peace in the present and hope in the
future.

As it was, nothing could long cloud the lasting
joy with which she looked forward to her union
with Denzil, and she proved a most willing and
sympathetic listener to Mrs. Crewe's various and
rambling recollections of her son's childhood, youth,
and adolescence.

Meanwhile Winnie did not write, and the only
news Laura received of her was from the dowager
Mrs. Piers, who came up to town for a few days'
shopping, and called upon Laura. She said her

son and his wife had left Vienna and intended
to return by Munich and Nuremberg to Paris,
where they would probably make a short stay; that
Winnie was a very bad correspondent, and that she
(Mrs. Piers) feared her daughter-in-law was subject
to nervous attacks similar to what had almost cost
her her life last spring.

*I am sure there could not be a more amiable,
easily pleased creature than young Mrs. Piers,
during the months she passed in my house,' said
Mrs. Crewe, who assisted in a stately manner at
this interview. She had an unavowed antipathy
to Mrs. Piers, and rather enjoyed contradicting her.
Perfectly reasonable and unselfish ; and I must
say it is not every man who has Mr. Piers's luck,
and can pick up a pearl as soon as he throws away
a diamond.'

Really, dear Mrs. Crewe, you are quite poetical,'
said Mrs. Piers, taking refuge in lofty coldness
against this masked battery. ' Pray, Laura, do you
know if Mrs. Trent is in town ?'

She was not when I called there about ten days
ago, but was expected this week, I think.'

I should like to have seen her before I leave. I
am going to Westmoreland the day after tomorrow.
Poor Sir Gilbert is far from well ; he has fallen back
a good deal since they left Franzensbad. Helen is
very anxious I should go to her.'

Very natural,' said Mrs. Crewe, with an air of
approbation that irritated Mrs. Piers. * There can
be no comforter in trouble like a mother.'

Of course,' returned Mrs. Piers. ' Pray, Laura,
how is your excellent guardian ?'

Laura made a suitable reply, and then asked the
date of Winnie's last letter to her mother-in-law.

Oh, I have not heard from her since just after
Helen left them ; then "she wrote a rather hasty,
imprudent letter. But I am no mischief-make
and I never intend to say a word about it to Reginald
 poor fellow ! he has his troubles, fair though
his lot may seem. God forbid I should increase
his irritation.'

Laura's heart beat high at these words. She
longed to ask Mrs. Piers boldly if the letter touched
on Madame Moscynska ; but the dread of Mrs.
Crewe's eager curiosity and endless comments held
her back. She could not expose this spot upon
Winnie's bright seeming of prosperity and success
to the uncompromising investigation of such eyes
as her future mother-in-law's.

You surprise me,' she said quietly. * Winnie
used to be the best-tempered and least exacting of
mortals, and always seemed to appreciate you sincerely.
At this distance one cannot understand
how things really are, or what misunderstandings
may exist. I cannot believe that she wrote hastily
to you without at least thinking she had good
cause.'

You are very loyal, Laura. I cannot enter into
particulars now ; but you would be surprised if I
did. At any rate, I shall be as well pleased to be
in the North when they pass through London.

Indeed, I am very anxious about Sir Gilbert, and
though his estate, being entailed, must go to that
cousin of his. Captain Howard Jervois, there will
be large savings for Sybil, and one never knows
how so crotchety a man may dispose of them. He
has made about four wills already, and may make
four more. The Jervois' jointure is miserably insufficient
; but most men think women can live
upon air.'

Exactly so,' remarked Mrs. Crewe, who was
burning to know what enibroinlleinent lay hidden
under Mrs. Piers's mysterious hint. * There is no
better test of a man's principles and sense of
justice than the way in which he disposes of his
property.'

No doubt,' returned Mrs. Piers, rising. ' I really
must go,' as if they were making violent efforts to
keep her. ' I have a hundred-anemone things todo
before dinner. And you do not think there is
any use in my going to call on the Tents ? Good-morning,
Mrs. Crewe ; good-morning, Laura ; my
best regards to the Admiral,' etc., etc.

Well, Laura, you may say what you like,' said
Mrs. Crewe, with much decision, as that young lady
returned from seeing Mrs. Piers to the door ; ' but
I consider it a downright misfortune to have such a
mother-in-law. She is a disagreeable, conceited,
cross-grained cat, and Winnie deserved a better
fate than to fall into such hands. She will just
make mischief between husband and wife. Tell
me, my dear, what do you think she was driving at

about the "hasty letter"? I hope Winnie gave it
to her properly, for she has a spirit of her own.
And to hear her speculating on her son-in-law's will
before the breath is out of his body  it is really
shocking ! What do you think she meant, Laura ?
I mean about the letter ?'

I cannot imagine : some trifle, I dare say. But
I really thought Winnie was on very good terms
with Mrs. Piers ; she always seemed very nice
towards her. I do not suppose there is much the
matter.'

I am not so sure,' said Mrs. Crewe, with a profound
air. ' We all know that from small beginnings"
noble structures rise  I do not mean that exactly,
but you know what I mean. Ah, my dear Laura,
I am glad to think that you will have a very different
mother-in-law and a very different husband, though
he may not have a grand place and five thousand a
year.'

So am I, dear Mrs. Crewe,' said Laura, with a
bright smile. ' Not that I believe Reginald is a
bad husband  I am sure he adores Winnie ; but I
shall be glad to have a good long talk with her
when she comes.'

'Ah, that shows me you do not think all is gold
that glitters, in her case. I know life too well to be
easily deceived. Well, well, time will show.'

Laura's uneasiness took larger and more indefinite
proportions after this conversation. She
feared she knew not what, yet all her forebodings

centred round the graceful image of Madame
Moscynska. Where had she gone when she cut
short her visit to Dairysford, and left her uncle's
house without a mistress ? What was the source
of that mysterious allusion in Winnie's last letter,
You may judge how happy I have been '? It
would soon be three weeks since she had written,
and still no reply. Every morning she came down
hoping to find a foreign letter awaiting her on the
breakfast-table, and every morning she was disappointed.
So she tried to persuade herself that no
news was good news, and that if Winnie were in
grief or difficulty she would infallibly turn to her
early friend.

Thus a certain degree of assurance crept over
her, and she waited with renewed patience the
moment that was to explain all.

One afternoon in the last week of November,
Laura had reached home after a long morning's
work, having two classes in different schools to
attend to on that day. It was dull and cold, and
snow had begun to fall before she reached home.
With a pleasant sense of labour accomplished and
rest earned, Laura changed her dress and removed
her damp boots, intending to allow herself an hour's
congenial reading of an article on Art in the * Fortnightly,'
as soon as Mrs. Crewe would allow the
lamp to be lit, until which time she had her knitting,
for which she required hardly any light

The dining-room was unoccupied when she
entered, save by Topsy, who was sleeping in a

favourite armchair ; a good fire glowed and gleamed
in the grate, contrasting pleasantly with the gloom
and slow-falling snowflakes outside. The room,
though neither richly nor abundantly furnished, had
an air of comfort and refinement.

I wonder where Mrs. Crewe is thought Laura,
as she drew a low easy chair near the fire, and
looked round for her work-basket.

She had come in with a latch-key, and had not
seen anyone ; she had knocked at the Admiral's
door, and receiving no answer, concluded that he too
was out.

I hope he has his umbrella and cache-nez, washer
next reflection, as she walked to a table
in the opposite corner, where she descried her
basket. ' He is not nearly so strong as he was last
winter.'

As she put out her hand to take her work she
noticed that a small card lay beside it, and on it
was printed the words, ' Colonel Courteney Bligh,
Junior United Service Club.' Laura stood still fora
moment or two gazing at this morsel of pasteboard,
lost in conjecture. What could have induced
a man of his style, habits, ideas, to call upon her?
She was utterly out of his line. Nothing short of
a direct commission from Winnie could have sent
him so far from his usual haunts as Leamington
Road.

Still holding the card, Laura took her knitting
and returned to her chair. How vexed she was to
have missed him ! She was inclined to write him

a note, asking if he had any special commission
from Winnie, and appointing a time to receive him
if he had. While she mused, Mrs. Crewe came in
Mrs. Crewe in one of her best caps, and a lace
fichu, her gold chatelaine too, at her side, certain indications
that some one or something unusual was
expected.

Oh ! you have found the card, have you ?' she
exclaimed as she entered. * Who is he, my dear }
I never heard of him before

is a friend of Reginald and Winnie's ; I have
met him with them. I suppose he" has some
message for me.'

Collins says he is a " grand gentleman," and
came up in a hansom. I had gone round to the
butcher. I must really leave those people, Laura 
the leg of mutton this morning was quite two
ounces short weight. I just begged them to remember
that I have scales in my kitchen  and
don't you ever be without them, my dear, when
you have one. What was I saying ? Oh, yes  I
had just gone round to the butcher's, and when I
came in I found Collins open-mouthed about this
grand gentleman," as if she did not see the most
perfect of gentlemen every day of her life. It
must have been about one o'clock. He was dreadfully
disappointed not to find you, and asked when
you would be in, and when Collins said at three she
thought, he said he would call about that time, ashe
wished particularly to see you. So I have put
myself a little to rights, as I do not think it quite

the thing for you to receive a man of that description
by yourself.'

Thank you,* said Laura mechanically, while
she ran over a wide range of possibilities in her
mind as to the motive of this visit. She was
startled and full of a fearful looking-for of evil,
and while she pondered, and Mrs. Crewe swept to
and fro, putting the chimney ornaments straight,
brushing up the fireplace, etc., a loud ring set Laura's
heart beating ; the next moment Collins opened
the dining-room door, saying in an audible voice,
The gentleman for Miss Piers, 'm,' calling forth
an indignantly murmured ' Ill-mannered creature !'
from Mrs. Crewe ; and Colonel Bligh entered with
the indescribable ease and courteous bearing, at
once composed and unassuming, which mark a man
of the world accustomed to associate on terms
of equality with men of all grades.

A tall, well-set-up man, with a somewhat
soldierly carriage, an aquiline nose, light brown
short crisp hair, and long red moustaches, light eyes
of no special colour, watchful and variable in expression,
but looking you honestly in the face. A
rough warm morning suit of incomparable fit,
faultless gloves and boots, completed the figure
that stood bowing before Laura.

I am very sorry I was not at home when you
called this morning, to save you the trouble of
coming again,' said Laura, smiling and colouring
slightly.

It is no trouble to me returned Colonel Bligh,

VOL. III. 54

in a wonderfully soft voice for so big a man. ' I have
stayed in town to-day expressly to see you.'

Indeed ! Let me introduce you to Mrs. Crewe.'
Another deep bow. and then Colonel Bligh took

the seat indicated to him, and, glancing quickly at
Mrs. Crewe, said in his usual quiet tone :

I saw our friends in Paris yesterday, and I
promised Mrs. Piers to see you.'

Ah ! how is she ?' cried Laura, her eyes lighting
up. * She has not written for such a long time !'

Why, that is her complaint against j?/ ! I told
her I thought there was a mistake somewhere.'

She has not written to me since they left
Vienna.'

That's strange,' said Colonel Bligh, looking
straight into the fire. ' Then you do not know that
the little fellow, the baby, is ill.'

I had no idea of it.'

How extraordinary !' exclaimed Mrs. Crewe,
who had arranged herself imposingly in an armchair.
' I assure you, Colonel Bligh, young Mrs.
Piers and Laura were always like sisters. Indeed,
so long as she was in my house we were like one
family, and a very happy family  though I say it.'

No doubt,' said he politely. ' I have often
heard Mrs. Piers speak of her stay with you ; and
as to Miss Piers, it is a regular case of Orestes and
Places, by Jove ! Well, I am sorry to say the
little fellow is very ill ; I had not seen Mrs. Piers
for two or three days, so yesterday I called to say
good-bye. She came down and asked me to see

you, and say she had written to beg you to come
to Tier if you could, as she was so alone. You see,
a man is of little or no use in such a case. I do not
think Mrs. Piers has any intimates in Paris except,
of course, Madame Moscynska.'

Madame Moscynska !' repeated Laura, feeling
stupefied with sudden sense of evil.

Ah ! Princess Moscynska,' said Mrs. Crewe,
with an ineffable air. ' A very charming person.'

Exceedingly charming,' returned Colonel Bligh,
slightly elevating his eyebrows, ' but not exactly 
a  sick-nurse.'

What !' cried Laura. * Did Winnie want me to
help her with the baby .'*'

So I understood ; and I think she was considerably
cut up that you neither wrote nor came''

Came ! Oh, I am ready to start now ! Do tell
me the truth  is Winnie very, very unhappy?'

She is of course anxious and uneasy,' returned
Colonel Bligh, with another glance at Mrs. Crewe,
who had risen to ring the bell.

Laura was silent, thinking * He has more to tell
me, but does not like to speak out'

Really, the negligence of servants is intolerable
cried Mrs. Crewe ; ' I must call to Collins to bring
the lamp,' and she moved towards the door.

Colonel Bligh started to his feet, first to open and
then to close it carefully after her ; returning to the
fireplace, he stood looking down into Laura's face
with a keener look than she thought his face could
assume, and pulling his long moustaches.

542

I scarcely know the exact scope of my instructions,'
he said, after an instant's pause ; ' but I
think I may venture to say that if you really care
about your cousin, now is the time to be with her 
no one ever wanted help and sympathy more ! Goto
her at once, if you possibly can. When you reach
Paris you will see how matters are, and your sense
and tact  you see I have heard a good deal of
you  may put them straight, if it is still to be
done.*

I will go at once,' said Laura, pressing her hand
on her heart, yet speaking with grave composure.
But, Colonel Bligh  ask me  suggest it before
Mrs. Crewe solely on account of the baby.'

He bent his head, and before he could speak
again Mrs. Crewe re-entered.

We shall have light in a moment,' she said.
Pray sit down, Colonel Bligh ; do not run away
so soon  you have not told us half the news.'

Thank you, I have just ventured to urge Miss
Piers to start as soon as possible. Mrs. Piers wrote
last Friday, nearly a week ago, and is almost
stupefied by disappointment at receiving no answer.
The child is in a very critical state, and she is alone.'

Certainly, I am sure dear Laura will go. The
Admiral can have no objection. It is shocking
weather for travelling. When the dear infant is
better, it will be interesting to see Paris.'

When can you start ?' asked Colonel Bligh, who
seemed restless, earnest, and altogether unlike the
careless, jovial man-about-town Laura took him for.

It is nearly four o'clock she said, rising to look
at the pendule as Collins entered with the lamp.

There is an evening train, is there not, by Folkestone
and Bologna ?'

'The tidal train leaves Charing Cross at 8.30 this
evening,' returned Colonel Bligh, with suspicious
readiness ; * and, allowing for stoppages, you will
reach Paris about nine tomorrow morning.'

This evening 1' almost screamed Mrs. Crewe.

It is impossible. You cannot pack up in the
time ; and that tiresome woman has not sent home
your new winter dress ; and no one to see you off,
or to escort you. Excuse me, Colonel Bligh  but
this dear girl is especially under my care. I could
not let her travel alone.'

Dear Mrs. Crewe, there is no help for it. I
must go. I will start by the tidal train this evening,
Colonel Bligh.'

If you will allow me, I will be at the station to
see you off, and put you in charge of the guard.
There is really nothing to fear from such a journey,
Mrs. Crewe. Ladies' cabins and compartments, all
the way through. Examination of baggage a mere
farce, especially at this season. Here is the address.
Piers has put up at a private hotel not
known to the general horde of English travellers 

Hotel St. R ; but I will give you full directions

when we meet this evening.'

Thank you very much.'

But Laura, my dear, I cannot *

I will leave this house at seven, to ensure being

in good time continued Laura, laying her hand
kindly, but imperatively, on Mrs. Crewe's.

You really are a trump !' cried Colonel Bligh.
I told her you would come, though I felt by no
means sure.'

How could she doubt me ?' said Laura.

Your silence  ' began the Colonel ; then Interrupting
himself, 'but I will not stay to prevent
your preparations. You will find me waiting you
at Charing Cross somewhere about 8 to 8.15.'

Will you telegraph to Winnie that I am coming ?'
asked Laura.

Telegraph ?'  a moment's hesitation  ' y% yes ;
of course I'll telegraph. And now I will wish you
good-morning. Do not be uneasy, Mrs. Crewe ; I
assure you there is no difficulty whatever on so
much travelled a route. I would offer to escort
Miss Piers myself if I thought there was.'

I have not the slightest hesitation about travelling
alone.'

We must abide by what the Admiral says,'
added Mrs. Crewe.

Good-bye, then, for the present.'

Good-morning, Colonel Bligh.'

Gracious goodness, Laura !' exclaimed Mrs.
Crewe, the instant they were alone. * This is really
a wild-goose chase. I am sure no one feels more
for poor dear Winnie than I do, for I well know
what it is to lose a precious infant, though I am
thankful now to think they are safe from the
miseries of this wicked world. But she has her

husband, and a first-rate nurse, and everything
money can buy. Why she wants to race you off
in the snow and cold and wretchedness of a bad
November, I cannot understand  just the selfishness
of prosperity. She never sends for you except
when she is in trouble  never for pleasure or company.'


Dearest Mrs. Crewe,' interrupted Laura, who
had seated herself at that lady's Davenport and was
scribbling rapidly, 'what money have you in the
house } can you spare me three pounds ?'

Yes ; I can do that much. But how do you
think Denzil will like your gallivanting off in this 
this wild manner } Really, Laura, you ought to
consider '

I have no fear of Denzil's disapprobation. He
would be the first to start me off. Will you kindly
see to these notes being posted, and '

Oh yes, of course. Really, the headstrong self-will
of young people is amazing  you do not pay
the smallest attention to my remonstrances ; you
have just lost your head, Laura. And what will
you travel in ? Your waterproof is quite shabby,
and your winter jacket a last year's concern ; and
to go among these grand high-flying people in your
old things, shows, I think, a little want of proper
spirit.'

Dear, kind friend,' cried Laura, starting up and
throwing her arms round her, *do not contradict
me; my whole heart is bent on this journey, and
when I return I shall have so much to tell you.'

Well, well,' returned Mrs. Crewe, always mollified
by a hug and a kiss, ' I am a fool about you, Laura;
you do what you like with me. Be sure you wrap
up well. To think of your being out on the stormy
sea all alone in the dark ; and, as ill luck will have
it, I have not a morsel of anything in the house to
make sandwiches of. I will send Collins out for
half a pound of ham this moment.'

Mrs. Crewe hastened in search of Collins, and
thenceforward became most active in furthering
Laura's preparations, albeit complaining all the time.

About five the Admiral came in, and Laura ran
up to his room to explain matters. He was a good
deal exercised by this sudden change of front, and,
like Mrs. Crewe, raised many objections to Laura's
travelling alone. But something in her ardent resolution,
the controlled eagerness, the tender haste
which pervaded her manner, carried him away also ;
and, a little past seven o'clock, she found herself
ready for the road, her portmanteau packed, her
travelling-bag replenished, and her purse sufficiently
fortified, while Collins stood in her bonnet and
shawl, as she had come from fetching a cab, at the
front-door.

The Admiral had almost put on his coat to
accompany his ward to the station, but she dissuaded
him eagerly. Reginald's friend. Colonel
Bligh, had promised to meet her and do all that
was needful ; the Admiral need not run the risk of
taking cold while waiting for an omnibus, nor the
expense of a cab to return.

She was feverishly anxious to have a few uninterrupted
words with Colonel Bligh, who impressed
her as knowing more than he liked to say. But at
last she was off, escaped from the Admiral's last
injunctions, from Mrs. Crewe's voluminous embrace.

She was not nervous or cast down, rather strung
to courage and composure ; she felt, in some impressive,
unreasoning way, that the moment of
action was close at hand, and that all uncertainty
would soon be at an end. If only she could spare
Winnie some suffering  if she could save Reginald's
reputation !

Lost in active thought, the long drive from Westbourne
Park to Charing Cross seemed quickly
accomplished, and it was with a sense of comfort
and protection she recognised Colonel Bligh standing
among the porters at the entrance of the
station.

You are quite up to time, Miss Piers,' he exclaimed,
as he handed her out and gave her luggage
to an already subsidized porter. *We will get your
ticket and see the luggage weighed, then I shall
have a few minutes to speak to you.'

This accomplished, he led Laura to a remote sofa
in the general waiting-room.

I am greatly relieved to see you fairly on your
way to Mrs. Piers,' he said ; ' she wants you terribly.
By the way, I did not telegraph.'

'Why?' asked Laura, with an odd feeling that
she knew he would not.

*0h, well, I had my reasons. It would not

hasten your arrival, and she will perhaps be less
disturbed. But tell me, do you know Madame
Moscynska ?'

Very little

Do you admire her ?'

No. I have a curious feeling of unreasonable
repugnance to her.'

Ha ! Then I suppose she will not bamboozle
you ; and I need not be afraid to say that she is
the devil's own intrigante. In short, I do not
understand her myself I am not strait-laced, but
there are certain things I cannot swallow. You
will judge for yourself, however ; and  and  I say
Miss Piers, would you mind writing me a line t 
to the club, you know  just to say how you find
Mrs. Piers is going on. I saw a good deal of herat
Vienna, and, by Jove ! she is an angel ! I
never met a woman like her. You will not mind
sending me word if the little fellow pulled through V

I will write to you if you wish,' returned Laura
unhesitatingly ; ' but I hope you will see us all soon
in London.'

'So do L I wish Piers had some friend who
could just put him straight, or say a " word in
season," as the parsons call it.'

Could j/z not offer him the advice you think he
needs i*' said Laura, looking curiously at him.

'Who.? Me.? No, by Jove! I am the last
person he would listen to ; but '

Now then for the Folkestone train !' cried a
porter, putting his head into the waiting-room.

*Give me your bag, Miss Piers. Will you not
have a glass of sherry ? Get you one in a moment ;
lots of time.'

Laura declined. So Colonel Bligh placed her
carefully in the carriage, seeing that the foot-warmer
vas warm, that her shawls and wraps were
comfortably arranged, and then held a private
conference with the guard, who came to the carriage
and promised most emphatically to ' look after the
young lady.' Then the whistle sounded. Colonel
Bligh shook Laura's hand cordially, and said,, *You
will be sure to write,' stepped back and raised his
hat, as the train moved out of the station at rapidly
increasing speed, dashing away into darkness and
the unknown future,.

Busy thought, and the patience of a strong spirit,
rendered the journey less tedious and fatiguing
than she expected ; the diminished number of passengers
at that untoward season made the few
difficulties of the well-worn route less difficult. At
last, in the dim cold light of a drizzling morning,
Laura found herself at the Gare du Nord, somewhat
puzzled and stunned by the vociferations of
guards, courtiers, porters, and others, in a tongue
which, however well known grammatically, was
orally unfamiliar.

[London is not so much spoiled by
gloom, damp, and drizzle as Paris.
To the beautiful riant capital of Ma
belle France ' sunshine is essential, and
bad weather mars her loveliness, as a fit of the
sulks or a burst of shrewish temper spoils the fair
face of a pretty woman ; whereas London, throbbing
with the strong pulse of business life, sombre,
mighty, loses little of its characteristics in an
even downpour,' a shroud of fog, or a shower of
sleet.

Paris had been to Laura, as it is to most vivid
imaginations, the object of many a day-dream.
To see that queen of cities, to wander through her
galleries and museums, to visit the various scenes
of the mighty drama enacted there nearly a hundred
years ago, when the new era then inaugurated
was brought forth in the desperate throes of more
than one generation, and baptized with fire and
blood, had long been a cherished desire ; and here

she was, driving over the wet slippery asphalte pav e'
ment, scarcely conscious that she was in the famous
city, so absorbed was she by the idea that in a i
minutes more she should see Winifrid, her pupil of
early days, her protegee, her friend, her rival, her
always earnestly loved Winnie. In what plight
would she find her ? and how would she be received
by Reginald ?

The way seemed endless, and she felt faint with
apprehension and excitement when the fiacre drew
up at the entrance of an hotel near the Tuileries
Gardens.

The establishment was en papillotes at that early
hour ; two gardens in their shirt-sleeves were sweeping
the entrance-hall and stairs ; a lady in a 
was looking through a huge account-book
in the bureau, and a newsboy with a bundle of
papers under his arm was talking to a stout man
of imposing appearance who had not yet found
time to shave. This last personage approached
\hQ fiacre as it stopped opposite the entrance, and
in answer to Laura's questions replied, * Yes, Mr.
and Mrs. Piers and suite were in the house ; but
they were not yet visible  indeed, he feared Mrs. Piers
could not see anyone. A great misfortune had just
happened ; the poor little baby died the night
before last, and madame was inconsolable.'

The baby dead !* cried Laura, overpowered by
this news. ' This is terrible ! Tell Farrar, tell
Mrs. Piers's maid that I am here, and let me have
a room as near Mrs. Piers as possible.'

She gave the head-waiter, as this personage
proved to be, a card with which she had provided
herself.

Ah ! Meet Piers said the man, reading her
name. ' Oh ! pardon, mademoiselle ! Par ici  this
way, mademoiselle ;' and he led her up more than
one flight of stairs to a rather dingy but well fur-furnished
bedroom. * I will call the femme de
chambre, and have a fire lit. What will mademoiselle
take for breakfast .'"

Thank you. I must see Farrar before anything.'


I will send for her at once ; she is not yet up.'

While he went away Laura removed her hat and
cloak, and gazed with tear-dimmed eyes at th-e
femme de chambre lighting up the fire.

The poor dear little baby dead ! The tender
life but scarce begun, so soon cut short ! What a
blow to Winifrid ! Surely such a grief would draw
Reginald closer to the bereaved young mother !
She waited with infinite impatience until the
lady's-maid should make her appearance, and
noted in a vague, half-unconscious way the foreign
look of the room and its furniture  the heavy
velvet-covered sofa and fauteuils, the lace curtains
hung close against the glass of the windows, the
tall vases and pendule on the mantelshelf, which
almost obscured the looking-glass  the stiff, uninhabited
aspect of the apartment. All sense of
personal strangeness and isolation were swallowed
up in her profound compassion for Winnie.

At last the door opened to admit the maid.

Oh, Farrar !' cried Laura, running to her and
taking her hand.

Then she stopped, and could not bring out
another word.

Indeed, Miss Piers, I am glad you have come ;
my poor dear mistress did so watch for you. Ah,
she is quite broken-hearted ! She just sat like a
statue all yesterday ; we could hardly get the dead
baby out of her arms. I persuaded her to go to
bed last night after Mr. Piers left her. Now she is
sleeping at last, and I must not wake her ; but it
will be a comfort to her to find you here.'

Oh no, do not disturb her., I am so terribly
grieved for her and the poor dear little baby.'

And he had grown such a fine fellow ! such a
beauty ! Ah, Miss Piers, it is not for me to speak,
but we have been all wrong since that  that
Madame Moscynska turned up at Franzensbad.
I never could abide her ; and nurse, she thinks no
one ever was so grand and good, and what not ;
but she is rather an ignorant woman, is nurse.
You must have some breakfast, ma'am. I ought
to have thought of it before, after such a journey,
too !'

I do not feel as if I could eat ; but get me a cup
of coffee and a morsel of bread while I wait.'

Yes, ma'am, I will see to it. Oh, how I wish you
had been with my poor mistress when baby began
to get bad !'

There was some mistake about the letter,'

began Laura ; but a sudden fit of caution seized
her, and she stopped, some unaccountable divination
suggested silence as to Colonel Bligh's intervention.


Then you did not get it in time ?' said Farrar,
pausing at the door, with a somewhat anxious lookin
her face.

No, or I should have been here before.'

That is odd,' said Farrar, and left the room.
While making a hasty toilette, drinking her

coffee, and striving to swallow a mouthful or two,
Laura thought intensely. She felt instinctively
there was a delicate and difficult task before her ;
that she must be firm and cautious, but fearless.
Farrar's words suggested mischief, all the more
threatening for its vagueness.

But Farrar soon returned.

Yes, 'm !' she cried, ' Mrs. Piers is awake, and is
just all of a tremble with pleasure at hearing you
have arrived ; do come, 'm !'

Laura started up, and the next moment crossed
the threshold of her cousin's room.

Winnie stood in the middle of it, wrapped in a
long dressing-gown of white cashmere and lace,
her abundant nut-brown hair all disordered and
hanging loose, deadly pale, her large blue eyes
dilated with a strange strained, almost stern look,
inexpressibly painful to Laura, who, by one of
those curious fantasies of memory, was carried
back by Winnie's dress and attitude to a morning
years past, when she was the sunny darling, the

Spoilt pet of the house, the wilful, generous, whimsical,
tender dictator of the family  she had come
to show her first dressings-gown to her mother, and,
to prove that it was not too long, had drawn herself
up with dramatic dignity. The contrast of
the 'now' and 'then' was too painful; Laura's
heart swelled with unspeakable compassion.

Winnie, dear, dear Winnie !' was all she could
say, as she threw her arms round her.

Winifrid was very still ; she slowly raised her
hands and clasped them round Laura's neck, resting
her head on her shoulder.

You could not come before ?' she said, with a
deep sigh.

Glancing round to assure herself that they were
alone, Laura exclaimed :

*I never had your letter, Winnie  never knew
anything of your sore trouble till yesterday, when
Colonel Bligh called. I came as quickly as I could.'

I knew he would not fail me, nor you either.'
She paused, and Laura felt her clasp tighten and
her heart beat vehemently. 'What shall I do,
Laura ? What shall I do ? I have nothing left'

'How do you mean, dearest? Yes, of course,
you feel desolate now ; but in time you will gather
strength. Time will bring consolation.'

You do not know  you cannot know,' resumed
the poor young mother. 'Ah, Laura, he was so
sweet ! he began to know me so well ; and he had
Reginald's eyes  the Reginald I used to love and
that loved me !'

VOL. III. 55

And does love you,' said Laura, looking down
anxiously into the poor dry strained eyes, feeling
alarmed by her feverishness. ' Lie down again,
dear Winnie, and I will watch by you. You are
worn out ; you scarce know what you are saying ;
a few hours' sleep would do you so much good.'

Sleep ! I never thought I should sleep again,
but I did ; I have only just woke up, and everything
seems worse. I do not want to sleep, or
rather I wish I might never wake. But come and
see the last of my poor little baby;' and letting
Laura go, she opened a door which led into the
child's room.

He lay so softly fair, in the satin-lined coffin,
that but for the pallor of the still rounded cheek,
he might have been in the profound sleep of
infancy.

Laura's eyes welled over as she gazed at the
little marble face, so happy in its expression of
intense repose.

It is my last look,' said the mother, still tearless,,
with a strange composed voice. ' The people will
soon be here to take him away  away for ever \
they take away the dead so soon here.'

Oh, Winnie, dear Winnie l' cried Laura again,
clasping her in her arms, ' it is terrible to see you
like this ! If our good kind mother could look
upon you now, how heart-broken she would be!
she loved you so much.'

Something in the allusion touched a tenderer
chord than had yet been struck. Winifrid shivered

all through her frame, her bosom heaved with a
mighty sob, and then the blessed tears forced their
way in a thunder-shower, as she burst into an
agony of weeping, trembling so violently that
Laura was frightened, and half led, half supported
her into her own room. Then, when the first force
of this torrent of grief passed over, she persuaded
her to lie down again, promising to watch over
her while she slept, and ran for Farrar to assist her
mistress.

When the long agony-weeping had subsided,
and Laura thought the mourner had dropped off
to sleep, she said softly to Farrar :

Where is Mr. Piers ?'

Winifrid turned immediately.

He is not up yet, I think,' she said ; * he has
not been well.' Then she closed her eyes, and lay
quite motionless, and to all appearance sleeping,
but from time to time a quivering sigh heaved her
bosom ; at last that too ceased, her features relaxed,
and real sleep stole over her.

Laura still kept watch, very weary, and feeling
sure trfiere was much more to hear. The sort of
speechless despair in Winifrid's face when she first
saw her made a profound impression on her loving
friend. And where was Reginald t surely it must
be a very serious illness that could keep him from
his wife's side at such a time ! True, there was the
funeral of his little son  that must have taken him
away.

How would he greet her ? She had an instincts



time presentiment he would not be pleased at her
coming. But that was nothing to her ; she felt
her mission was to protect Winnie, to bind up
whatever link was broken between the husband
and wife. Thinking thus, round and round the
same circle, Laura leaned back in the deep low
chair by Winnie's bed, and for a time lost consciousness.


She was roused by Winnie turning restlessly and
murmuring in her sleep ; then she called * Laura '
sharply, and woke up suddenly completely.

What o'clock is it, dear Laura T
A few minutes past eleven.'

Ah ! then he is quite gone ! If I had not slept
I might have had one more look at that sweet little
face. But he was to have been taken away at half-past
nine. Do ring for Farrar ; she will tell.' A
fresh burst of tears, this time gentler and quieter,
interrupted her. ' Ah, Farrar !' she exclaimed, asher
maid came in, * have they taken him away ?'

Yes, ma'am, nearly an hour ago,' replied Farrar
soothingly.

Then it is indeed all over !' cried Winifrid,
burying her face in the pillow, while convulsive
sobs shook her frame.

Farrar brought eau de cologne and water, and
bathed her temples, and tried to administer consolation
of the ordinary kind. At last her mistress
said hastily :

Thank you, Farrar ; you are very kind ; you

may go now ;' then, as she left the room, she again
stretched out her hand for Laura's. * You will stay
with me,* she whispered, ' until we go back to
England, at all events ; you are my only friend  I
lost everything when I lost my boy.'

Your husband, dearest, is still left to you, and
you must comfort him.'

My husband  oh yes, my husband ! I do not
forget him,' she returned with a deep sigh, and remained
long silent and motionless. Then again
rousing herself, she suddenly began on a subject sofar
removed from the present that Laura was
startled. * Do you remember my birthday  my last
birthday, at the dear old Rectory? How we had
luncheon in the woods, and my mother gave all the
school-children tea in the servants'-hall } Poor
mother ! it was the last birthday she was with me.
Herbert slipped into the mere, and Reginald pulled
him out. I do not seem to have any clear recollection
of Reginald before that day, although I know
he used to be with us every summer. But that day
I thought him so disagreeable ; he teased so much
about my importance, and seemed to mock at our
little /<:/; and twice he sent me off, as I considered,
rudely, because he was talking gravely to you. Do
you remember it all, Laura ?'

 Yes ; how well I remember it !' said Laura, her
eyes filling with tears.

And now ' began Winifrid, then paused expressively,
resuming in a strange rambling way her
reminiscences of her girlish days, every now and

then breaking off to describe the charm and promise
of her poor lost baby, Laura answering in
monosyllables, or by a silent caress, and beginning
to feel faint and weary. At length Farrar made
her appearance, bearing a tray with some food and
wine for her mistress.

Mrs. Piers has not tasted anything since early
yesterday morning, when Mr. Piers insisted on her
swallowing some wine and biscuit. Do try and
persuade her to eat a bit, madam ; and you must
be quite exhausted yourself Luncheon  breakfast,
as they call it here  is quite ready. Miss
Piers must have some refreshment, mustn't she,
ma'am ?'

Oh yes, yes ; I am so selfish in my grief ; I did
not think of you, and the long journey you have
taken for me, dear, dear Laura. Go and eat ; if
you will, I will try, too.'

Very well, then ; I agree to go on that condition.'


Farrar, show Miss Piers the salle a master!

I was thankful to see my poor lady shedding
tears at last,' said Farrar, who was a somewhat old-fashioned
type of abigail, simple and kindly ; * she
has had enough to break her heart,' she added in a
significant tone, which Laura perceived, but would
not notice, as she followed Farrar into a small
dining-room at the farther end of a long corridor.
Yes, they have laid for two,' said Farrar, as she
opened the door. ' Now do, miss, eat something,
and take a glass of wine. The bell is here by the

big chair, if you want anything ; for I must go back
to my poor mistress, and stay by her ; she is not fit
to be left alone.*

Do so, Farrar. When will Mr. Piers be back ?'
He will not be long now, ma'am.'
As soon as she was gone, Laura sat down and
tried to eat. She had scarcely made her way
through the wing of a chicken, always listening
for Reginald, when a door which led into the salon
opened very gently, and Madame Moscynska, in
outdoor dress, walked quietly into the room, with
the air of being at home.

The door was opposite Laura as she sat at table,
and before the Polish Princess could veil her countenance
in polite blankness, Laura caught a quickly
controlled flash of angry surprise in her pale face
and peculiar ys.

Madame Moscynska was the first to speak, as she
advanced to the table and rested her hand on the
back of a chair.

Miss Piers ! I had no idea you had arrived !
How glad I am to see you ! What a comfort you
will be to that sweet, suffering, bereaved young
mother ! She had almost despaired of you.'

I fear she had,' said Laura, rising courteously,
but feeling on guard at all points.

'Do not let me disturb you,' said Madame
Moscynska softly.' ' Indeed, I will join you ; I promised
to be with Mrs. Piers during the last agony,
when the poor little baby was taken away, and to
receive the sorrowing father when he returned from

the funeral, so he will expect to find me. Mrs.
Piers was sleeping when I came, and continues to
sleep, I am glad to hear. I suppose the letter to
you was delayed, or went astray T and Madame
Moscynska drew over a mayonnaise and helped
herself.

I suppose so,' returned Laura guardedly ; ' but
the moment I knew my cousin wished for me, I set
out.'

*I always said you would,' said Madame ,
with a soft approving smile ; ' only the
delay puzzled us.' She paused, and her lips parted
again as if to speak, but she closed them resolutely ;
it would not do to ask point-blank how the intelligence
reached her interlocutor. 'Poor dear Mrs.
Piers  the dowager, I mean  she will be dreadfully
grieved when she gets my letter  I wrote yesterday,
at Mr. Piers's request ; she was quite wrapped
up in her little grandson. You must be very tired
after your rapid journey  at night, too.'

Laura said she did begin to feel a little weary,
looking, while she spoke, with a dim, wondering
sense of distrust, yet of admiration, at the elegant
figure and interesting, though rather inscrutable,
face opposite to her, comparing her own ordinary
travelling-dress and almost homely aspect to the
recherche elegance of Madame Moscynska's winter
costume, and wondering if this gentle, courteous
woman could be the unprincipled intrigante Winnie
believed. But as she looked and thought, the doubt
resolved itself into certainty. Yes, there was a

something undefinable and repellant in the covert
watchfulness of those sleepy eyes, in the hardness
of the well-cut mouth, when not curved into the
sweetness of her conventional smile. Was it possible
that she was taking advantage of this terrible
time, when Winnie, prostrated with grief, was incapable
of resistance, to force herself into an
appearance of intimacy ?

'I must be cautious,' thought Laura, 'and not
commit myself on either hand. Winifrid will speak
to me ere long.'

I must see if Mrs. Piers still sleeps,' she said at
length, taking advantage of a pause in the easy
flow of Madame Moscynska's talk, as she gave a
sketch of the baby's illness and death, in which,
without asserting anything, she conveyed the idea
of having been the stay and comforter of both
parents ; ' and if she does, I must take that opportunity
to make my toilet, a matter of necessity
after a night journey. Shall I tell Mrs. Piers you
are here ?'

No, thank you ; I spoke to nurse, who had just
come downstairs from having a little sleep. She
was greatly exhausted by the long watch, poor
woman ; she loved her little nursling so much. She
will let Mrs. Piers know.'

Before she could finish her sentence, the door by
which Laura had entered the salle a matter opened
hastily, noisily, and Reginald stood in the doorway,
looking from one to the other with an air half surprised,
half amused.

At sight of him, Laura's heart beat and her
colour rose ; she went forward to greet him, and he
met her half-way.

Ah, Laura ! what a good soul you are to come
all this way just to please Winnie ! I always said
you were A i  didn't I ?' with a little familiar nod
to the Princess. ' This is a melancholy ending to
the poor little boy,' he went on. * Winnie is awfully
cut up ; still, she need not have imposed such a
journey upon you ! She will be going back to
London in a few days, and you could have seen as
much as you like of each other.'

But you know I do not count the cost, when I
can do anything for Winnie,' said Laura. ' She has
no friend so near as myself. I only wish her letter
had reached me in time.'

Well, you have done her good already,' said
Reginald, as he threw aside a loose overcoat, and
sitting down, poured himself out a large glass of
sherry. * I have just been in to see her, and tell
her that everything had been as well done as we
could manage. She had a good cry, and, with all
Madame Moscynska's kind care, we never could
strike the source of her tears before. I do not
know what we should have done without Madame
la Princesse !'

You make too much of my poor efforts,' she returned,
with a curious upward look at him. ' Would
it not be well to warn Miss Piers that your poor
dear wife's nerves have received such a shock, she
sometimes shows symptoms of mental alienation ?

very slight, and no doubt temporary, but the
usual marks of " reason tottering on her throne,"
distrust of and aversion to her best friends, those
whose society was previously most acceptable.
Myself, for instance  you would scarcely believe it,
she has suddenly evinced the strongest aversion tome'


This is terrible !' exclaimed Laura, with unmistakable
alarm, and looking very straight at Reginald.


Oh, you need not take fright !' he returned, in
an odd, indifferent sort of manner. ' She will come
round and be herself again. But, in the meantime,
she will no doubt tell you awful tales ; though you
are such a rock of sense, Laura, you will understand
how to deal with her.'

There can be little difficulty in doing so ; we
both know every light and shade in her character,'
said Laura, who was greatly impressed by the
change in Reginald.

He was looking ill, pale, languid, with haggard
eyes, a tinge of something like mockery in his
pleasant smile, and a carelessness in his manner
widely different from his former genial alertness.
There was more of an effort than usual in his
politeness to herself, and she felt keenly that she
was far from a welcome guest, that there was mischief
below the surface to which she had as yet no
clue.

Characters change a good deal with circumstances,'
Reginald was saying while these observations

suggested themselves to Laura. ' I assure
you he continued, addressing Madame Moscynska,
I consider Laura's friendship for my wife a sort of
triumphant refutation of all that wiseacres have
said about the fleeting nature of feminine attachments
 they are quite devoted to each other.
How much of it is due to a certain aptitude for
dominating on one side, and accepting domination
on the other, is beyond me to calculate.'

That must be the result of habit,' said Madame
Moscynska. * Mrs. Piers never gave me the idea of
being ready to accept domination.'

I am, then, the dominating power in our association
?' said Laura, with a grave smile. ' That is a
new position for me.'

*You are much stronger than Winnie, and
behave as such," ' said Reginald carelessly, pushing
away his plate and again filling his glass.
But now that you are here, Laura, it will be very
nice for her to have your company on her journey
back. She was quite wild to go to England before
the poor baby was taken ill. It has been all
deucedly unfortunate ; the loss of the little fellow
has half turned her head  indeed, I am awfully
cut up myself ! Still, it will not do for me to sit
down and weep.'

I cannot stay long, as you know,' said Laura,
startled by the possibilities shadowed forth in this
speech ; ' and when she has yoii she can hardly
want me.'

I know, I know,' said Reginald impatiently

But I have an engagement to visit a famous
racing establishment near Presburg, where I have
a chance of picking up some wonderful additions
to the Pierslynn stud ; so there is no use in my
going over to England merely to come back again.
I can do Winnie no good, and when we meet she
will be better, and more inclined to attend to her
husband than to nurse her grief.'

Laura had opened her lips to make an indignant
reply, feeling alarmed and hurt by the tone of this
speech, when a glimpse of a curious look in
Madame Moscynska's eyes, as though she was
watching for what would come next, made her
pause and say simply :

I am always glad to be of use to Winnie  or
to you  and, as she is awake, I will go to her
now.'

She rose and left the room as she spoke, but
closing the door hastily, caught her dress in it.
Opening it to free herself, the words * surprised '
from Madame Moscynska and 'infernal nuisance'
from Reginald caught her ear.

Was sie the infernal nuisance ? that was little
matter. This intention to let Winnie return to
England alone was a symptom of estrangement
that thoroughly alarmed her ; so did Madame
Moscynska's subtle hint respecting temporary
alienation of mind, one of those poison-drops
which might work incalculable evil.

Laura thrilled for a moment with the idea that
even she herself might have been put on a wrong

scent had it not been for Winnie's revelations in
London. Now she was forearmed, and resolved
not to let Reginald leave his wife without some
attempt to open his eyes to the selfish indifference
of his conduct.

How changed he is ! how ill he looks 1' she
thought, as she paused at Winifrid's door. * Things
are not as they should be ; but I must be cautious,
and wait till Winnie speaks before I attempt to
interfere.'

iT was the third day after the poor
little baby had been laid in its last
resting-place, and the mother's first
vehement grief had settled down into
deep silent sadness.

Laura had vainly attempted to interest her in
various subjects, and urged her at least to write to
her mother-in-law, from whom she had received a
long tearful letter, full of affectionate sympathy.
Winifrid rejected all suggestions, and entreated
Laura to write to Mrs. Piers for her.

I cannot ; yet I do not like her to be neglected,
and I am sure Reginald will not write
Why ?'

Because he never does anything he can possibly
help, except to amuse himself, and yet he is not
happy ; I am sometimes grieved for him. What
has changed him, Laura ? I often sit and wonder,
when I am alone.'

But is he so changed, Winnie ?'

Can you not see that he is ? He only dined
with us once since you came ; he cannot bear to be
without company. To be sure, I am dull and
wearisome, but that is not my fault. He used to
be so full of kind consideration. I think at times
that some spell has been laid upon him  that he is
not quite responsible.'

'That is nonsense, Winnie dear; what do you
mean ?'

I mean that I have quite given up the struggle
I was so fierce and eager about when we parted,
Laura. I cannot stand against that woman's influence.
I suppose there is something wanting in
myself, some power of sympathy, of companionship
; I cannot find out what. Once I fancied I
was everything to him ; I end by being nothing.'

Are you not morbid and worn out with grief,
dear Winnie, to fancy such things ?'

Yes, I dare say I am ; but it is not just now
these ideas have taken hold upon me. Only while
I had my baby I had something to endure for, to
keep up appearances for ; I was determined to
bear much, every thing save one.'

And what was that ?'

To have the society of a bad, treacherous, relentless
woman forced upon me, in order to shelter
Tier reputation. She has got fast hold of Reginald,
at any rate for the present. He may weary of her,
or she of him, or some change may bring him
back to me, and I do not say I should be hard or
unforgiving. Better and more charming women

than I am, or ever will be, have been deserted
before this ; but we  / never can feel quite what I
did  we shall never be quite the same to each
other!'

She stopped, with a deep sigh.

Winnie dear, this is too dreadful. " Never " is a
terrible word, and you say it so quietly.'

The quiet of exhaustion,' she returned, leaning
back among the sofa-cushions with an air of unutterable
weariness. ' If you only knew the fiery
battle I fought at Franzensbad and Vienna ! It is a
relief to talk to you, Laura, you are so safe ; and I
do not want to abuse Reginald ! He was so dear,
so charming to me once ! and I do not seem to
have lost my affection for him, though lately it has
been rudely shaken.'

She paused, looking out of her large soft eyes as
if at some distant object.

Yes, open your heart to me !' cried Laura, with
a sob she could not suppress, so deeply was she
touched by the hopelessness of Winifrid's voice
and attitude.

You know,' she resumed, in the same sad monotone,
' we were all well and happy at Franzensbad ;
that is scarcely three months ago, and it seems
gone away back into bygone ages. Helen was very
kind and pleasant, and Reginald was a little cross
sometimes, but nothing worth mentioning. Then
he went away to a hunting-party at Gras Wielizka's
place ; I was very glad he had some sport after
having lost the Pierslynn shooting on my account.

VOL. III. 56

He stayed longer than I expected, and only wrote
twice. I did not mind that ; he seemed enjoying
himself, and I was happy with Helen. He did not
return till two days after she left ; then he looked
ill, and was not quite like himself.

The evening after he came back, he was talking
very pleasantly, describing the shooting and the
dinners, where the men evidently drank too much,
and played too high afterwards, when he suddenly
exclaimed :

" By the way, our friend Madame Moscynska
turned up at Schloss Wielizka ; the Grain is her
cousin, and she was a host in herself."

I felt as if I had a sudden stab ; I could not
speak, and he went on :

" Madame Wielizka is in delicate healthy so she
begged me to find quarters for her here, she and a
little boy of hers ; and the Princess with that singing
fellow Bariatowski are coming here on Thursday
: we must see what we can find for them tomorrow."
'

*Was Reginald not aware of your objection to
Madame Moscynska ?' asked Laura.

He was ; but I then opened my mind fully to
him. I did not go wild, as I did afterwards. I
told him I could not and would not associate with
this woman ! I begged of him to leave the place ;
I promised that I would do nothing rude and create
no escla?idre, if on his part he would promise to
come away within a week after she came.'

Did he promise V asked Laura.

He did, laughing as if it were a silly whim of
mine ; provided, he said, I was still in the same
mind after the arrival of so pleasant a party. Well,
they came. I fulfilled my part ; though as stiff and
distant as possible, I did not cut Madame .
Then a dreadful struggle began. I could
not induce Reginald to leave ; I had almost to stay
in my own room to avoid that woman. I had
scenes with my husband ; I found he was losing
heaps of money to those dreadful men who are
about Madame Moscynska. I wrote you some
account of all this ; but you never had the letter, it
seems.

It was a dreadful time ! I never knew if I were
acting wisely or not. I felt I was right, and I was
perpetually being put in the wrong. At last Reginald
said one morning that we should start for
Vienna ; but I had lost hope, I did not seem to
care. However, she did not appear there, and I
tried to be friendly with Reginald, and sometimes
he would be nice and sometimes quite wildly gay ;
often I feared he drank too much, he had fallen
among such dreadful people. After about three
weeks we came on here, and found Madame 
installed in the next street. Here her
audacity knew no bounds. 1 implored Reginald
to come home. Then suddenly it came to me that
I was losing myself in such a struggle, so I gave it
up ; only I would not see Madame Moscynska.
But when baby was ill, and I almost lost my head
she came in and out. I was vaguely conscious of

56  2

her, and I am sure she gave the people in the hotel
the idea of being my best friend. I wrote to you ;
you did not come. One day  the last day 
Farrar, who has been such a good kind help all
through, rushed to me, and said : " Colonel Bligh is
in the salon alone ; beg of him to go and see Miss
Piers in London ; I believe he is going to leave
Paris." I ran to him, and had just time to say I do
not know what, when Reginald came in ; then I
was back with baby, who soon ceased to cry or
moan, and then there is a blank till I had the
comfort of hearing your voice. Laura, you must
stay with me !'

I will ! Winnie, dear Winnie, I think I shall
be able to help you. I will venture to speak to
Reginald.*

You had better not !' said his wife despondingly.
Nothing can do any good. The night my little
darling died he was so kind and tender to me  I do
not think he cared much about the baby  I hoped
for a moment that he was going to be himself
again ; but before he left me he asked me if Madame
Moscynska, who had been so good and interested
in me, should get me all that was necessary } I
only said, " I will not see her ; do not let her come
near me." And I have not seen her ; and though
I, the mother of his boy, am bowed to the earth
with grief for its death, he can resent that refusal.
It is this that has suddenly chilled me, and makes
me doubt if there is true love in his nature ; that
woman has utterly mastered him. People laugh at

jealousy ; they say it is mean, narrow. Perhaps it
is ; a jealous wife excites a sort of contemptuous
pity. But is there a more desolate creature on
earth than a wife left, as / am left, without hope,
without redress? For if another woman is more
charming and suitable to my husband, can he help
loving her better than he does me } Only he ought
not, and he shall not, force her upon me ; that I
will resist.'

She ceased to speak, and sat long in dead silence,
her eyes closed, apparently asleep, except for a
tremor that occasionally passed over her eyelids or
her lips.

Laura was deeply moved, both by pity and indignation.
She felt that she must do something, yet
the interference of a third party is proverbially
worse than useless ; but she held a power unknown
to anyone, and she would use it unflinchingly.
She curbed the indignant words which rose to her
lips : it would do Winnie no good to denounce her
husband. How could Reginald be so cruel, so
faithless ? Was it that the first deliberate choice of
evil so deteriorated his moral nature that he could
no longer discern between right and wrong ? She
could not look back upon all the sorrow that had
followed on his connection with her and hers, without
a stirring of the pulses. She rose and walked
to and fro. Winnie slowly opened her eyes, roused
by the unusual motion.

Tell me,' said Laura, pausing opposite to her,
what is Madame Moscynska's object in risking

her character as she does ? She does not give me
the idea of a woman who would sacrifice much for
anyone.'

I think she likes him well enough  he is very
nice, you know  and she hates me more than she
cares for him ; but, above all, she likes his money.
Little things have come to my notice  too many to
tell now ; but I am sure he pays for quantities of
things for her. She has no money, and is boundlessly
extravagant I believe, if Reginald was poor,
she would leave him alone.'

Winnie, try and put this out of your head for a
little while. We must endeavour to rescue Reginald,
if possible ; if we cannot, you must, as you
say, be patient and endure. Let us get away from
Paris as soon as possible.'

Winifrid looked up with a dumb sort of surprise
at the resolution and force which unconsciously expressed
themselves in Laura's tone.

'The sooner the better; but I am afraid that
Reginald has some scheme for returning to Austria.
If he lets me go back to England without him, at
such a time, it will be a slight I shall not forgive.'

He will not think of it,' said Laura, sitting down
beside her on the sofa.

Winnie turned, and, laying her head on her
shoulder, heaved a long, quivering sigh.

Let me rest here, as I used to do when I had
been in punishment at home, long ago, if I do not
tire you. Yes, Laura, he undoubtedly thinks of it.
But I trust he may be kept from leaving me, because

 I cannot tell you how I dread it. It would
be a kind of hopeless break. I scarcely know how
it would affect me. Could the day ever come that
I should not wish to see Reginald ?  to have him td
myself? I am so young ; life is so long 1'

Life will bring brighter days and happier anticipations
returned Laura, with a quiet firmness of
tone that gave momentary comfort to the sorrowing
wife. ' There is really nothing to keep us in Paris.
Come out for a drive with me to-day ; it is dry, and
there is no wind. You want all your strength and
courage, for Reginald's sake. Ask him, this evening,
to fix the day of our departure, and make all
preparations. When he finds that things are in
readiness, he will renounce his project of going to
Austria or Hungary, if he ever seriously entertained
it'

If,' repeated Winnie, and paused. * At least,'
she resumed, 'you will not forsake me ; for you  you
only  are left me.' And she burst into a long but
quiet fit of weeping, after which she seemed to rally
something of the courage her cousin advised ; and,
promising to be ready in half an hour for the proposed
drive, went to her own room to bathe her
aching head.

 * * * *

Laura had never felt before so heavy a sense of
responsibility as now weighed upon her. The destinies
of these friends, for both of whom she felt
the truest interest, for one the tenderest affection,
seemed thrust into her hands.

Though not without a certain reliance on herself,
she trembled at the idea of acting on her own
unassisted judgment in so delicate and difficult
a matter. Yet the only chance of salvation for
either Winnie or Reginald, lay in secrecy and rapid
action.

Winnie must never know that her husband was
a felon ; Reginald must never be degraded in any
other save her own eyes. If only she could be sure
that Holden had kept his counsel ! that Reginald
was safe from any detection except her own ! The
one counsellor for whom she longed unutterably
was Denzil Crewe ; and even were he beside her,
she could not, must not, betray Reginald to him.
But it was a comfort even to think there was one in
whose judgment, in whose sound, healthy, instinctive
common-sense, she could have such strong reliance.
When would she have the unspeakable joy
of having him near her again  to speak to, to be
silent with, to listen to ? Near him perfect sympathy
made spoken communication by no means
essential. When would the dreary days of separation
be ended t How sure she felt that no such
cloud as darkened Winnie's life could ever come
between Denzil and herself! Their affection had
all the depth, fulness, and placidity which characterize
a great river, the volume and force of which
creates a smooth-flowing current not to be broken
or rippled save by the mightiest obstacles. Looking
back to her brief engagement with Reginald,
she contrasted the strange unrest and excitement of

that disturbed interval with the profound trust, the
delicious tranquillity, of her present feelings, the
delightful anticipation of real companionship and
perfect understanding when at last Denzil and
herself should share the same home and help each
other in everyday cares and duties.

To enjoy this highest type of love needs a certain
degree of maturity. Youth is still in too sunny a
ferment to allow of this clear, calm strength ; something
of trial, something of experience, are requisites
for the rich mellowness of a love that is but a
deeper, fonder friendship, touched by imagination
and warmed by an under-glow of passion.

How would Denzil take her action in so important
a crisis ?' Laura continued to muse. Well,
she was sure ; at all events, she must act on her
own responsibility. He was too far away to be
consulted, and all must be decided and arranged
before his return.

Here she was broken in upon by Farrar, who
announced that the carriage was at the door and
her mistress ready.

3fC JfC 5|C 3|C 3fC

The air and a change from her own rooms seemed
to do Winifrid good, and Laura drew her into conversation
on various subjects not connected with
the absorbing topics of the present. She longed to
tell her of her engagement  this was a matter that
she knew would effectually draw Winnie out of
herself  but she dared not. It would complicate
everything, and tend to alarm Reginald. He must

not be frightened into recklessness. So she talked
of the Admiral and Mrs. Crewe, of their delightful
visit to the seaside, of Dick's improving prospects,
and Herbert's voyage. All went well till, turning
into the Rue St. Honore, a few paces from the
corner of their own street, Laura recognised Reginald
entering the door of a small private hotel,
which looked, nevertheless, very recherche and well
kept.

There is Reginald !' exclaimed Winifrid, her
pale cheek flushing as she spoke. ' Do you know
where he is going ?'

Where ?* asked Laura mechanically, though she
guessed at once.

He is going to call on Madame Moscynska,' returned
Winifrid ; ' that is her hotel.'

Laura did not know how to answer.

Let us only get him away to England,' she said
at last ' Ask him to-night after dinner. I will
slip away, and you can coax him to fix the day.
Believe me, all will come right. Perhaps you maybe
mistaken. Are you sure Madame Moscynska
really means to go with him? It seems too
daring.'

Winifrid only shook her head, for Laura's question
brought them to the door of their hotel.

There was a bright fire and some costly flowers
in the salon, which had evidently been arranged
and put to rights in their absence, and Winifrid sat
down at once in a low chair near the fire.

It is very doubtful if Reginald will come in to

dinner. If he does, I will do my best to persuade
him to come with me, and fix next Wednesday or
Thursday for our start. But, Laura, I see you
think I judge Madame Moscynska too hardly.
Perhaps, were I in your place, I should think the
same ; but you do not, you cannot conceive what
she is.'

Bad enough, no doubt ; yet '

And Laura paused, a sudden idea flashing upon
her.

Winifrid rang the bell.

Do you know if monsieur dines here to-day ?'
she asked, when the waiter appeared.

*I do not, madame. Monsieur was here about
an hour ago, with the commissionaire who brought
these flowers, but he said nothing of dinner.'

Very well ! They are lovely flowers,' said
Winnie, as the man left the room. ' It was nice of
Reggie to send them. Perhaps he will come back
to dinner,' she added wistfully.

Dinner-hour approached, however, and he did
not appear; so Laura and Winifrid sat down to
table without him, and had proceeded as far as
dessert and coffee, when he came in, still in morning
dress.

Do not disturb yourselves,' he said pleasantly.
I have only looked in to ask how Winnie is after
her drive. But I have promised to dine with
Wielizka and Latour, and one or two others, just
to talk over our plans. We do not dine till eight.
I think you seem the better of having gone out,'

he continued, drawing a chair to the table, and
looking at his wife.

Yes, thank you ; I am better. What charming
flowers, Reggie I the room looked quite bright
when we came in.'

Reginald smiled, and poured himself out some
wine.

Where did you go V he asked languidly.

Into the Bois. Do you know, I feel so much
stronger, that I am quite equal to start for England
tomorrow ! I wish, dear Reggie, you would fix
the day to leave Paris.'

'You had better settle it yourself with Laura,'
he returned indifferently.

I confess I begin to be anxious to go back,'
said Laura. 'You know I am not quite a free
agent.'

So saying, she rose and left the husband and
wife together.

There was a minute's awkward silence ; and then
Reginald, rising, went to the fireplace, and leaning
against the mantelpiece, said :

Well, then, when do you propose to start ?

I leave all arrangements to you !* returned
Winifrid, with a slight quiver in her voice.

Of course I will do whatever you want in the
way of preparation,' he rejoined, with careless good
humour ; * but I cannot return to England for a
month or two.'

And you will let me return alone !' exclaimed
Winnie, with a burst of indignation which shook

her from head to foot, but which she mastered ;
while her husband answered :

Don't romance ! You will have your favourite,
Laura, to keep you company  Laura, whom you
prefer to my friends

He spoke with cold composure, as if the glimpse
he had caught of her emotion had roused some
inimical feeling.

Winnie, conscious that every moment, every
word was of importance, rose, and coming to her
husband's side, passed her arm through his caressingly.


Reggie dear,' she said, with a pathetic quiver in
her voice, ' what is any company to me compared
to yours ? Do not let me go from you now ! come
with me ! I fear I have been selfish in my great
grief, but I will rouse myself to make your home
pleasant and cheerful. Can I not be your companion,
as I used to be, even though I am not a
clever woman of the world .'"

Reginald looked down into the sweet sad eyes
so tenderly and imploringly raised to his, and his
own softened as he put his arm round her and
drew her close to him.

That you certainly are not,' he said, not unkindly.
' But at least you must have learned that
a man need not be the worse husband because he is
not always tied to his wife's apron-string ! I will
not stay long  I will join you, in a month or six
weeks, at Pierslynn. Why should you grudge mea
little pleasure ? you know how readily I gave up

the shooting, and all the fun we intended to have,
to go with you to Franzensbad. If, indeed, you
would care to come with us, I am sure Madame
Moscynska '

Can you seriously propose such a thing ?' interrupted
Winifrid, drawing away from him in indignant
amazement. * Are you so blinded as not to
see it is an insult ?'

Please yourself,' returned her husband, shrugging
his shoulders. ' It is too bad to get so little out of

life when but there '  interrupting himself  'do

not be a fool, Winnie ; you will do yourself no
good by making scenes. / do not want to be
harsh or unkind if you let me go my own way ;
only I do not choose to be held up as a fellow
his wife can twist round her finger.'

Are you influenced by so mean a motive ?' exclaimed
Winnie, yet struggling for self-control.
Suppose you were weak and heart-broken, what
would you think of me if I left you to amuse myself?'

It is quite different he said impatiently. * Besides,
it is business as well as amusement that
takes me to Wielizka's place. You know I have
set my heart on making the Pierslynn stables renowned.'


'And I have set my heart on your returning
with me, dear Reginald ; you will not regret it
once you are away from Paris. Ah ! my husband,
if you send me from you now, it will never be the
same between us again I' and she caught his arm
lovingly.

Really, Winnie, this discussion has brought
back your colour, and made you look nearly as
handsome as ever. But do not waste your energies,
my dear girl ! I shall see you off on Wednesday
or Thursday, if you like, and start on my own
journey the day after.'

With Madame Moscynska V asked Winnie, in a
low voice.

Why not ?' returned Reginald sharply, ' if she
happens to be travelling in the same direction ?'

Winnie stood quite still and silent : her husband
looked at his watch.

By Jove !' he said, ' I shall be late for dinner ;'
and he walked out of the room without another
word.

[AURA waited the result of Winifrid's
interview with her husband in no small
anxiety, although she did not greatly
fear it.

Reginald might be weak, vain, inconsiderate,
but it was impossible he could be really cruel to
so fair and a sweet wife as Winnie ! one who loved
him so truly, so tenderly. Perhaps Winnie had
somewhat exaggerated his misdoings and those of
Madame Moscynska. Probably she was neither a
good nor a prudent woman. She might have been
a little spiteful and unkind towards Winifrid ; but
that a lady like herself, admitted into  nay, sought
by what is termed ' good society,' could be absolutely,
vulgarly bad in the full acceptation of the
word, appeared impossible to her ordinary commonsense.


Moreover, Madame Moscynska seemed neither
young nor impulsive enough to make the tremendous
sacrifice that an overt liaison with a married

man implies. No ! if Winnie only had the courage
and patience to speak frankly and lovingly to her
husband, all must come right. But would she have
it ? She was so sore at heart, her stake in the game
was so heavy  her all on a throw. There was no
use in thinking about it ; thinking would do no
good.

She stirred the fire and threw on another log of
wood ; then she drew the table nearer, and, taking
out a letter received the day before from Mrs. Crewe,
proceeded to answer it, hoping that, before she had
finished, she would be able to name the date of her
return. She was almost feverishly anxious to be
back in London, to lay the train to the mine she
longed, yet feared, to spring.

Her letter went on but slowly. She paused frequently
to lean back in her chair, and to think over
the plan she had carefully and painfully excogitated,
and by which she hoped to avert scandal and detection
from Reginald. Still Winifrid did not come ;
yet if their interview led to reconciliation and
right understanding they would naturally take no
heed of time. So Laura wrote on. It was more
than an hour since she had left Reginald and his
wife together, when the door opened to admit
Winnie  Winnie looking unusually well, with colour
in her cheeks, and new brightness in her eyes. She
closed the door after her, and drew a chair to the
fire.

How nice and comfortable you look !' she said
quietly. ' To whom are you writing ?'

VOL. III. 57

To Mrs. Crewe returned Laura, feeling uneasy
at this beginning.

Poor dear Mrs. Crewe ! Tell her, Laura, we
shall be in London on Wednesday or Thursday at
furthest.'

I am truly glad to hear it cried Laura, turning
her chair so as to face the speaker.

Are you ? Well, under any circumstances, I am
glad to leave Paris, but Reginald does not come
with us. I have played my last card, Laura.'

Do not say so. In such a game as yours there
is no " last card " I' exclaimed Laura eagerly. ' Do
not fix any day. Wait ; try again.'

It is useless ; if I delay, he will leave me here.
No ; I have quite resolved to start either in the
morning or evening of Wednesday. Had Reginald
asked me to stay, I should have stayed, but he
did not. I want to get away to London, and then
I shall be able to think quietly, and decide what todo.
Ah ! what can I do ?' this with a burst of
irrepressible despair, immediately checked. ' I
suppose I shall find out in time. I shall grow
stronger and wiser ; and you, you will stay by me,
dear '

She stopped abruptly.

Winifrid, dear Winnie, forgive me, but were you
patient and tender ?'

I was, I think I was said Winifrid, and proceeded
to repeat the conversation she had had with
her husband, in a strange, quiet, mechanical way.
Then he said he should be late for dinner, and

walked out of the room without a look,' she concluded.


But is this so very final ?'

I think it is,' returned Winnie, in the same quiet
monotone. * He was not cross or unkind in
manner. He does not seem to think the matter
worth exciting himself about ; but he will not
give up Madame Moscynska, and  I can do no
more.'

Let us see what tomorrow may bring forth,'
said Laura, dismayed, yet not liking to let Winnie
give up hope. ' As you parted without anger, at
least open reproaches, I do not despair of the effect
reflection may produce on Reginald.'

Reflection ! when he is with M. Wielizka and
M. Latour! there is small room for reflection with
such men. But there is no use in talking, and I
want all my strength. Have you any book that
would interest me ? I do not want even to think,
if 1 can help it'

I have not, dearest Winnie. I came away too
hastily to think of putting one in my bag.*

I wish it were not so wet and cold,' said Winnie,
rising and putting aside the curtains to look out,
or we might walk or drive somewhere. I feel as
if I could do anything but sit still.'

It is nearly ten o'clock,' said Laura, infinitely
distressed, yet not wishing \o admit the fact of
Winifrid's despair, ' and you have had unusual
fatigue to-day. Suppose you go to bed, and I will
find something among the railway books 



stairs to read aloud to you, that may send you to
sleep.'

Finish your letter replied Winifrid ; ' tell Mrs.
Crewe we shall leave Paris on Wednesday ; and I
will look for a book myself.'

She went to the door ; then, turning abruptly,
came to Laura, threw her arms round her and
clasped her tightly.

How good and true you are to me ! There is
no one like you, no one.*

Laura read long, in a carefully monotonous tone,
and at last had the satisfaction of seeing Winifrid's
dry, strained eyes close in sleep. She sat yet awhile
in deep thought beside her ; and at length, after
carefully arranging a night-light, and placing the
bell where the sleeper could touch it on waking, she
stole softly from the room, and, calling Farrar, told
her her mistress was asleep. But Laura's mental
work was not yet over ; while she slowly undressed
she revolved a scheme which needed all her courage.

She saw that it was hopeless to attack Reginald
directly, but how would it do to speak to Madame
Moscynska? She might not quite know all the
serious mischief she was working. Even if heartless
and unprincipled, she might have some regard
for her reputation, and, after hearing a calm
friendly explanation of the true state of affairs, she
might see the wisdom at least of declining Reginald's
escort.

It was a difficult and odious undertaking, but

worth trying. She felt, rather than reasoned, that
if the fascinating Princess withdrew from the intended
expedition, Reginald could be more successfully
dealt with ; but if he deserted his wife now,
the breach would be hard to heal, while any estrangement
between them would terribly aggravate the
impending blow. Yes, she would risk the interview
with Madame Moscynska. She might be
laughed at for useless interference, she might fail ;
but, if she succeeded, that would repay all risks.
Besides, Madame Moscynska was a woman of
good standing ; surely she would not peril her
reputation in the teeth of a warning faithfully and
temperately set before her under colour of supposing
that she was not aware of the view taken by Reginald's
wife of the state of things.

Madame Moscynska was a formidable personage.
It was no small undertaking to stand face to face
with so consummate a woman of the world, and
attack her with weapons from her own armoury, to
use which required trained skill, and this Laura
knew she did not possess ; but would not the cut
and thrust of a brave and honest purpose do as
well } Come what might, she would try, and that
before the next day was past its prime.

-jf -x- *

The following morning was crisp and clear after
the rain of the previous night. Winnie was calm
and silent  still, as if the fever of hope was past.
How to manage a couple of hours for herself alone
was Laura's first difficulty.

Have you anything for me to do this morning ?'

she asked her cousin.

No, dear, nothing. What do you wish yourself?'
Well, I should not like to leave Paris without a

peep at the Louvre.'

No ; of course you ought to see the pictures ;
but I do not care to go. Farrar says there are
some things we ought to get before we quit Paris.
I will take her out with me, and perhaps take a
little drive in the Bois ; it did me good yesterday.'


It was therefore arranged that Mrs. Piers should
not wait luncheon for her cousin, and that Laura
should linger as long as she liked in the galleries.

Laura never thought she could be among pictures,
and yet see so little of them as on that memorable
morning ; she thought over her intended visit,
and planned her opening speech. Once the subject
was broached to Madame Moscynska, her difficulties,
at least of one description, would be over.
Never was an hour and a half so long as that which
distilled in leaden moments before she permitted
herself to return to the hotel.

Madame had just driven away,' the waiter said,
and left word that she would probably not be
back till late.'

Was monsieur in the house?'

' No ; monsieur was not long gone out.'
Suppose I find him with Madame Moscynska,
what shall I do ?' thought Laura.
I shall not come in now,' she said aloud to the

observant waiter ; * I can breakfast on my return ;*
and with a steady purpose and throbbing heart, she
passed on to the unobtrusive hotel which Winnie
had pointed out to her as the residence of her foe.

A courtly personage in accurate costume, with
the air of an aristocratic butler, answered her inquiries.


Yes, Madame la Princesse was at home.'

And alone ?'

Alone ? yes, quite alone.'

Laura sent up her card, and was immediately admitted
to a small but most comfortably furnished
room, sweet with the perfume of flowers, which
were tastefully and liberally distributed on mantelpiece
and consoles.

Madame Moscynska herself stood in the middle
of the room, with Laura's card in her hand, and an
expression of slight amused surprise on her countenance.
She had apparently just risen from a table
strewn with letters and dainty costly appliances for
writing.

Though quite aware of the unpleasantness of
the task she had undertaken, its difficulties never
seemed so formidable as now that she stood face
to face with the little delicate-looking, spiritiielle
woman who confronted her, in a picturesquely
designed morning-gown of dark green Indian cashmere,
braided with gold, a scarf of white Brussels
lace draped with careful carelessness over her head,
and a red camellia thrust effectively between its
folds at one side.

Miss Piers,' said the Princess slowly, ' this is a
surprise, a very agreeable surprise ; pray sit down,
and tell me to what I owe this pleasure.'

She drew forward a chair, with a curious smile,
partly polite, partly defiant, and took a seat herself
at the opposite side of the fire, with her back to the
light.

I have ventured to call upon you ' began

Laura, feeling that she must collapse, and pass into
the conventional nothing of an ordinary visit, under
the tremendous ordeal of Madame Moscynska's
peculiar searching eyes, and cool unflinching gaze,
unless she mentally nailed her colours to the mast
and opened fire directly.

Pray do not talk about " venturing," ' said
Madame Moscynska blandly ; * is it my fault that
we are not on pleasant terms of everyday intercourse?
How is poor Mrs. Piers to-day? I was
glad to find you persuaded her to go out.'

I think the air and motion did her good.'

No doubt ; and you think of leaving Paris next
week ?'

Even sooner, if  but it is of this I have come to
speak to you, Madame Moscynska, said Laura,
gathering her forces. ' I feel it is a bold step  you
may resent it ; yet if I could clear away the  the
sort of misunderstanding which seems to have
sprung up between my cousin and yourself, I think
you would forgive me.'

You are very good,' said the fair Pole, politely
and guardedly ; * I am all attention.*

Mrs. Piers wishes to leave Paris,' began Laura,
her courage coming back gradually, ' but she does
not like the idea of returning without her husband.
It would convey the idea  of negligence  of  in
short, separation, if, after her sad bereavement, he
let her go home without him.'

'Ah !' said Madame Moscynska.

She is under the impression,' said Laura, hurrying
on with the succeeding sentences, while the
colour rose in her cheek, * perhaps an incorrect one,
that as you are returning to Presburg, or some other
place in Austria, Reginald intends to travel with
you, and it is of this I have come to speak. I do
not think you can be aware how deeply Mrs. Piers
would resent such a step. Justly or unjustly, it
would seem to her the most open neglect and defiance
; and if this is the wife's opinion, you maybe
sure the world will see with her eyes, and judge
both Mr. Piers and yourself severely ; at any
rate, the English world, which is still in a measure
yours.'

What do you wish me to do ?' asked Madame
Moscynska coldly.

Make Reginald understand that if he goes to
Presburg he must go alone.'

So I am a bugbear to my sweet young friend
said Madame Moscynska, with an amused smile,
which yet gave Laura a sudden sense of having
made a false move. ' Really, Miss Piers, I must
congratulate you on the pluck  that is the correct
English term, is it not ?  which emboldens you to

come to a woman of my position, and say, " You
are taking my cousin's husband from her, and endangering
your own reputation." You can know
very little of the world.'

I dare say,' returned Laura, with more decision
than she had hitherto shown. ' But I know you
are doing mischief of which perhaps you are not
aware, and I give you the benefit of the doubt by
telling you the truth, and trusting to your sense of
right, to the womanliness of your nature, to put a
stop to it'

The Princess looked at her for an instant,
and Laura met her eyes with a glance as unflinching.


What do you think Mr. Piers will say when I
give him a report of this flattering visit ?'

I cannot guess.'

Do you think it will make him more pliant,
more inclined to endure the  let us say tristesse of
a wife perpetually drowned in tears ?'

If you choose to tell him, I have made matters
worse, and I shall understand the part you intend
to play.'

You are wonderfully attached to Mrs. Piers, are
you not ? and yet whispers have reached me that
she played a treacherous part towards you. I
scarce understand such Christian charity.'

Mrs. Piers never was anything but true, and I
would dare much to secure her peace and happiness.'


Madame Moscynska looked at the carpet for a

while musingly, while a curious subtle smile stole
round her mouth.

You attribute more influence to me than I possess,'
she said at length. * I confess Mrs. Piers has
roused me and annoyed her husband, by her insolent
and persistent rejection of my acquaintance.
I have not been accustomed to such treatment ;
and, as Mr. Piers possesses to the full the masculine
horror of being bored and opposed, she drives him
to seek amusement in more congenial society.
However, I am not implacable, and, as she has
wisely chosen so good an envoy as yourself, I am
willing to make terms.'

I am no envoy cried Laura ; * I come here on
my own responsibility  on my own suggested
impulse.'

Be that as it may,' resumed Madame 
coolly, ' I will tell you to what I can
agree. I had been hesitating between a visit to my
uncle at Dairysford, or a sejoiLv with some friends
who have famous sporting quarters near Presburg,
when Mr. Piers kindly offered to escort me to Hungary
 far too agreeable a proposition to be declined
  and as Mrs. Piers's absurd conduct made Dartford
a less desirable abode than it otherwise would
be, I decided not to go there. If, however, I can
be sure of her treating me with civility, and allowing
the current of our lives to run smoothly and
pleasantly, why, I have no objection to the neighbourhood
of Pierslynn for the winter, and I have no
doubt I  wc  can persuade Mr. Piers to burn his

yule log and eat his Christmas pudding in the halls
of his ancestors.'

She leant back in her chair as she finished speaking,
playing with the ends of her lace scarf, surveying
her visitor with calm, deliberate contempt.

The audacity of this speech roused the hottest
indignation in her hearer. Laura felt her cheeks
glow with shame and anger  shame that she should
sit there and dispute with a hardened woman  dispute
what ? Winnie's right to the companionship
of her own husband  anger that she should dare to
propose such a compact. She had indeed made a
mistake in attempting to win over such a woman,
and she greatly feared that when Winifrid came to
know of her visit, she would be terribly vexed and
mortified. But at least Madame Moscynska's conduct
and avowal would give her the right to back
up Winnie in her resistance to the intimacy which
her husband sought to force upon her.

There was nothing left but to end the interview,
and she rose with a confused throng of angry, bitter
thoughts crowding her brain.

I have wasted your time and my own,' she said.
You know I can promise nothing for Mrs. Piers ;
your own proposition  your own words  justify
her conduct. If you are not inclined frankly and
voluntarily to repair the mischief you certainly have
done, nothing I can say will make you.'

She turned towards the door as she spoke.

Madame Moscynska laughed a low pleasant
laugh.

But, my dear Miss Piers,' she said, * is this not
much ado about nothing " ' '

The door opening interrupted her, and Reginald
Piers came in unannounced, and in a leisurely
familiar way. At the sight of Laura he stood still,
a look of the greatest surprise changing his usual
indifferent expression to one more animated.

The Princess laughed again, this time with real
merriment.

'Your entree is quite dramatic, mon ami. You
little thought that I was to have the honour of a
visit from your cousin when you left me this morning
! Pray do not run away. Miss Piers, the moment
the bone of contention appears. Let us have
the murder out.'

Laura hesitated an instant, and then stood her
ground.

Yes,' she said, ' Madame Moscynska, I am quite
willing you should tell everything to Reginald
before me.'

What the deuce is it all about ?' cried Reginald,
the colour rising to his cheek. ' What has brought
you here V

A very serious mission,' said Madame Moscynska
with quiet sarcasm. ' Miss Piers wishes to put us
all right ; she wishes to save you from the dangers
and iniquity of a journey with so worthless a personage
as myself She wishes to enable your very
charming wife to have her own way in rejecting
the friendship of your friend, and yet to receive all
the same devotion as though she yielded to your

wishes ; and as to myself, she wishes to see me
penitent  converted from the error of my ways,
and finally shut out from contact with such pure
pearls as her cousin and herself

By heaven, Laura !' cried Reginald, walking
quickly across the room to the fireplace, where he
took his stand upon the rug, * you have made an
awful fool of yourself! Pray, did Winifrid send
you ? or was it your own unassisted wisdom that
planned this attack ?'

You are right, Reginald,' said Laura. ' I have
indeed been foolish  foolish in disputing Winifrid's
opinion  foolish in believing that such homely,
narrow views as mine could influence so accomplished
a woman of the world as  your friend.'

I hope I deserve the epithet, dear Miss Piers,'
said Madame Moscynska blandly. 'At any rate, I
do not believe that in the eyes of vty world a
journey anywhere with Mr. Piers will injure my
reputation. It is good for so much.'

And do not suppose that such ill-bred meddling
will effect anything except to widen the breach
you seek to heal !* cried Reginald. ' Nothing shall
make me forego my intention to show the slight
civility of accompanying a lady whom I sincerely
regard on a long tedious journey, and you may tell
my wife so.

Madame Moscynska laughed a small triumphant
laugh.

Yes, Reginald,' said Laura, turning very pale,
but facing him with steadfast eyes. 'There is something

that may change your plans  your life. Before
you outrage your wife's feelings and risk your
own reputation, read some letters that were addressed
to me from Australia by a man who knew
you well but is now no more ; you will then perhaps
admit my right to dictate your conduct in this
matter.'

As she spoke the light of anger died out of Reginald's
face ; he made a step forward and then
stood absolutely still , a strange, dazed, startled lookin
his eyes. Laura kept the same position ; and
Madame Moscynska, raising herself from the attitude
of repose which she had assumed, looked with
no small curiosity from one to the other.

I'ki.y  0.A\' %m\mM\l!M nw

CHAPTER XIV.

Reginald, after an instant of stunned
silence, laughed aloud  a harsh wild
laugh.

Well done, Laura ! when you un-cart
a bogie you are right to make it indefinite.
What may these mysterious letters be, and from
whom ? Do they exist in a day-dream, or a nightmare
?'

*I will tell you all when we are alone,' said
Laura in a low voice, for she was frightened at her
own words ; and with a slight bow to Madame
Moscynska, who sat upright, holding the arms of
her chair, as if roused or excited, she left the room.

It was done, then ! The irrevocable words, respecting
which she had thought and planned so
much, had burst from her without premeditation,
almost involuntarily.

She walked on unconscious of the busy crowd
around, the question perpetually beating as if with
an iron hammer on her brain  ' Have I done ill, orwell,

for Winifrid ? Have I saved him  or driven
him to recklessness ? Have I in any way loosened
'or contracted the hold that woman has on him ?
When I see him again, how shall I bear to look
on him in his shame and degradation ? He who
was so bright  so chivalrous once  my hero  my
beloved !'

Laura was stirred to her innermost depths. But
out of the truth and tenderness that lay at the root
of her character, she gathered the fruit of courage
and resolution; she had begun, and she must finish.
If if only the shameful reality could be kept from
Winnie, if she could be left the comfort of loving
her husband ! If, in the present stage, Reginald
could be restored to her, she would and could forgive
his passing infidelity ; but such a stain as she
(Laura) could reveal, would it not eat out the heart
of love, and leave nothing but discoloured husk ?
How should she so guide the complication placed
in her hands as to save all concerned ?

For the moment she utterly lost sight of Madame
Moscynska. She felt instinctively that her words
had raised a white terror in Reginald's heart that
no witchery of woman could exorcise. Pondering
these things, she walked on, mechanically avoiding
collision with those she encountered, but deaf and
blind to the present. She was aware she had
reached the hotel; but, with a half-unconscious
design to escape contact and conversation, she
passed the door and paused at a crossing a little
beyond it which led to a gate of the Tuileries

VOL. III. 58

Gardens. There was a throng of carnages, and she
waited for an opportunity to traverse the street.
At last she. succeeded, and had descended the steps'
of the opposite terrace, still harassed by the agitated
thoughts she could not bring into order or sequence,
when a quick step gained upon her, and, looking
up, she saw Reginald Piers beside her.

Laura ! I insist on your explaining the extraordinary
speech you have just made.'

He was deadly pale, and his eyes looked wild
and eager.

My explanation involves a long story, Reginald,
and one that can be told to you alone. Where can
I find an opportunity ?'

Here !' said he, with fierce impatience. ' We
shall be safe from observation, and listeners, at the
other side of the garden. Come ; I am anxious to
know what you allude to.'

They walked in silence to the terrace that
overlooks the Seine, which is generally almost
deserted.

Now,' exclaimed Reginald, * we are effectually
alone  speak !'

Laura slowly raised her eyes to his.
'Reginald,' she said, 'I have known for sometime
that my grandfather was married. I have
seen and copied the entry of his marriage in the
reo-sister of St. Slave's Church. My father was
born in wedlock. / am therefore the rightful
owner of Pierslynn, and I am determined to assert
my right.'

They had stopped beside the wall as if looking
into the river beyond. Reginald drew back a step.
His lips opened, but no sound came from them ;
a wave of colour rushed to cheek and brow, and,
clenching his hands on the light cane he carried, he
exclaimed :

Great God ! is this revenge ?'

No,' returned Laura sadly ; ' it is justice.'

But how do you mean to prove that the entry in
the register you have seen is that of your grandfather
Geoffrey Piers's marriage? The name is not so
very uncommon,' said Reginald, looking intently at
her, and casting from him the fragments of his cane,
which he had unconsciously snapped in two.

Because the fact of the marriage, with the place
and date corresponding to the entry, is communicated
to the woman in whose house Geoffrey Piers
and his supposed mistress are known to have
lodged, and where my father was afterwards born,
in a letter which is in my possession.'

It is a forgery  a falsehood !' exclaimed Reginald
hastily  scornfully. 'No such document
exists. How did it come into your hands ?'

I found it in the keeping of a man to whom I
was directed by '

She paused, almost terrified at making the last
avowal which would show Reginald that she knew
all his treachery.

A letter written just before his death by a man
whom you knew  James Holden. He told me,
what I would rather forfeit many fortunes than

58-2

know, that you and he together visited the church,

and examined the register  so  so Ah, heaven,

Reginald ! what tempted you ?'

She broke off, almost choked with sobs.

'Come on,' said Reginald hoarsely: *we shall be
noticed standing here.'

They walked a few paces in silence, then Reginald
said, in tones that made every syllable a separate
curse :

*The lying traitor! How can you believe a word
such a fellow would write ?'

'Reginald,' said Laura, in a low earnest voice, 'it
is useless to argue. I know my rights, and I will
maintain them. God knows how bitter it is to me
to know all this, but '

It is all over with me,' interrupted Reginald,
stopping suddenly and sitting down on a bench by
which he paused. *I am at your mercy.'

He leant his elbows on his knees, supporting his
head on his hands, and gazing away into the blank
disgraced future with a look of such gloom, such
hopeless despair, that Laura's heart ached for him.

'You cannot believe that I will ever be merciless
to Winnie or to you. Her lot is bound up with
yours.'

'My God, Laura!' cried Reginald, turning to her,,
'your obstinacy in refusing to marry me has ruined
us both ! You would have made me a most admirable
wife : you would have kept me straight ; you
would not have worried my soul out with senseless
jealousy. By heaven! I never intended to

wrong you, Laura. I intended to give you Piers-lynn
and myself into the bargain, for you loved mein
those days ; only I was such a weak infernal
idiot that I could not hold my tongue, and I lost
you

Is it possible yoic can be such a traitor to the
sweetest, fairest wife a man could have, as for an
instant to wish me in her place ? How can you
be false to hers even in thought ? How can you
even temporarily prefer hackneyed wit and conventional
elegance to her bright nature and fresh
loveliness? No ; I cannot express my pity and
indignation ! Your very senses seem blunted; and
I loved you so much once, Reggie, that I believe
it costs me more to tell you this terrible history,
than you to hear it.'

You were always something different from other
women, and I still trust you, Laura ; yet life is
over for me. I wish to God I was out of it all, and
lying at the bottom of the river there !' he said
bitterly, as he rose, and went to lean over the
parapet. ' I have never known an hour's real happiness
from the day you broke with me ; though I
was wild with joy when I had really won Winnie.
She is all you say  yet I always dreaded half unconsciously
that you should find me out.'

There was silence for a few minutes. Laura felt
her tears welling over as she noticed the crushed
cowed look that his whole face and figure had
assumed. At length he roused himself, and, turning
round, exclaimed :

If then, Laura, you are inclined to be friendly
and forgiving, we may compromise matters ; we
might quietly share the property during our joint
lives. I might relinquish a couple of thousand a
year, and leave a declaration that would secure the
inheritance to your children should you ever marry.
We might live abroad a good deal, and no one be
any wiser.'

Laura shook her head.

No, Reginald ; you must leave the terms to me.
I must have a far more equitable arrangement.
But it is time we returned. I shall write out my
plan and suggestions ; in these you may help me.
You must remember that I hold you and all you
possess in my grasp ; you have no alternative but
to agree to what I propose, except so far as your
legal knowledge may enable you to improve upon
my ideas. Nothing can be done here. Return
with us to London, and try to soothe Winnie : she
is your best friend, your best defence ; and she
loves you still  so much.'

He did not answer till they had walked a few
paces.

I am in your hands,' he said ; ' but, tell me, are
you absolutely certain you never let the smallest
hint of this infernal affair ooze out ?'

Never !' exclaimed Laura; 'your honour is as
dear to me as my own. I will save it yet.'

My honour !' repeated Reginald,, with unutterable
bitterness. * Look here, Laura ; I owe Wield

some money, and  and  the Princess, too 
not much  some bets at cards, you know.'

I trust not a great deal ; but, for heaven's sake,
get clear of them before we start.'

You must wait a day or two.'

Settle that with your wife.'

Another pause. The grey mist of a November
afternoon was rising softly among the dark brown
trunks and bare twigs of the trees like a ghostly
presence ; a dull continuous roll from the streets
pervaded the air, like an angry moan over the
irrevocable past.

I ought to thank you, Laura,' said Reginald, as
they approached the exit from the gardens  he
spoke in a constrained voice  'I see you are
generous ; but the bitterness, the disgrace of the
whole thing, rage at my short-sighted folly, poisons
my soul. I am incapable of gratitude, of anything
but a blind fury against myself  against everything
 even you.'

Laura could not reply ; how could she comfort
him or reconcile him to himself? Yet her just
anger was fading before the rising glow of pity for
the criminal, little as she knew he deserved it.

Let us try to wipe out the past,' she said at
length. ' Of one thing be sure ; I will guard you
from suspicion ; I think I can, but you must be
guided by me.'

Reginald bent his head sullenly.

I shall see you this evening,' he said. ' We must
keep everything dark to Winnie  poor dear Winnie!

but I will leave you now, Laura ; I  I must be
alone.'

He turned abruptly, and walked quickly away
in the direction of the river. Laura looked after
him with a momentary uneasiness, but soon assured
herself there was no need for anxiety. All Reginald's
rage and regret was against his own failure
and detection, not remorse for his robbery of herself

Her chief sensation was relief that the dreaded
avowal had been got through, and it had come
about easily after all. Yet had she not felt the
pangs of shame more keenly than the offender?
Did he indeed realize that she was determined to
assert her rights } His rather audacious proposal
to give her about a third of her own, and keep the
affair to themselves, did not look like it.

These thoughts brought her to the door of their
hotel. She felt faint and exhausted, and forced
herself to swallow some food and wine ; then, as
Winifrid had not yet returned, she took refuge in
her own room. Little more than two hours ago
she had left the Louvre nervous with a degree of
uncertainty as to the wisdom of the bold step she
contemplated ; and now the Rubicon was passed,
and she was fairly launched on a wave of circumstance
which might lead her  where } But she
felt calmer and stronger ; things looked more
promising for Winnie. She might be happy after all.

He H: H: H: 4:

Laura dear, you are not feeling unwell ?' said

Winnie's kindly voice at the door, after a space of
quiet, how long Laura did not know.

Come in. I had a slight headache,' she returned,
opening to her friend; * a mere nothing

A picture gallery is always fatiguing,' said Winifred,
walking to the fireplace and putting her foot
on the fender. She was very pale ; her heavy eyes,
the sad curve of the sweet mouth, all bespoke hopeless
depression.

* You are tired too, are you not ?' asked Laura.

Yes, a little,' with a sigh. ' We did a good deal
of business, Farrar and myself; we got sundry little
presents. I need not forget my friends, even
though I feel as if I had done with the world.'

'You have not done with the world yet, dear
Winnie,' returned Laura cheerfully. * I trust there
are brighter days in store for you.'

Soil are looking brighter, at any rate, Laura,'
said Winifred, gazing at her more attentively.
There is some sort of change in your face  dear
old face that I know so well ! Have you heard
anything new ?' this with a little eagerness.

No, nothing whatever new. Let me see what
you have been buying.'

5fC w 5fC 5j* 3|C

As on the previous day, Winnie and Laura sat
down tete-astute ; but they had scarce finished their
soup when Reginald joined them.

I did not intend to be so late,' he said, placing
himself at table ; ' or are you extra punctual ?'

Winifred was silent. Laura made some slight

reply respecting the difference between watches
and dinner proceeded somewhat silently.

Reginald addressed himself principally to his
wife ; asked with languid but kindly interest where
she had been ; and, Laura could not help observing,
avoided her eyes as much as possible, looking
away even when he spoke to her.

When coffee had been served and the waiter departed,
Reginald, whose composure and easy tone
moved Laura to surprise and a certain degree of
admiration, suddenly observed  playing with his
spoon and looking rather steadily at the tablecloth
:

If you do not mind waiting till Thursday,
Winifrid, I will go to London with you. I find
the spring is a better time to visit the Zaradoski
stables than the present season, and I dare say
there is lots to do at Pierslynn.'

He brought out this last word with an effort perceptible
to Laura.

Winnie's eyes sparkled for a moment, but the
light quickly faded as she replied :

Of course, Reggie, I will wait any time you
wish, so long as you fix it'

Very well  Thursday morning, then ; we can
stay a few days in London and see my mother.'

Certainly, that will be very nice ; and Laura
dear, you must come on with us to Pierslynn,' cried
Winifrid, who could hardly believe her ears ; * you
do not know how charming Pierslynn is in
winter. By the way '  for she had suffered too

much to believe readily that her troubles were over
' is Lord Dereham to have a large party this
year ?'

Laura understood this leading question.

I believe not. I did hear he was to winter at
Nice.'

Another brief silence ; then Reginald shivered
visibly, and pressed his hand to his head.

I think I have taken cold,' he said; 'I am burning,
yet chilled ; my head aches. I think I will
go and lie down. Should anyone call, I do not
wish to be disturbed ; and, Winnie, would you
mind presently coming to bathe my brow with eau-de-cologne
and water } you remember at Florence
nothing did me so much good as your application
of cold water and eau-de-cologne.'

I will come in a few minutes, Reggie. I hope
you are not suffering much.'

I dare say I shall be all right tomorrow,' he
returned, as he left the room.

As the door shut, Winifrid changed her seat to
one next Laura, and laid her hand upon her
cousin's. She was trembling all over.

What can it mean, dearest Laura, this wonderful
change ? I dare not trust it'

It only means that Reginald has taken time to
reflect, and his better self has conquered. I would
have hope now, were I you. Go to him, Winnie,
and soothe him as much as you can. I think he is
unwell and suffering.'

Laura went slowly into the salon, and sat down
by the fire, intending to wait a while in case Winnie
returned, or sent for her, planning in her own mind,
the while, how she should frame the scheme she
had promised to write out for Reginald. Presently
the waiter came in with the letters just arrived by
the evening post.

Several for Reginald ; one for Winnie, with a
French stamp ; and one addressed in Mrs. Crewe's
writing to herself, containing an excellent report
of the Admiral, and brimming over with curiosity
as to the details of the illness of the poor dear
baby, who had been, Mrs. Crewe was always convinced,
very much mismanaged. The letter concluded
with some small details touching Topsy and
Collins, which brought the quiet cosy home in
Leamington Road vividly before Laura ; and she sat
lost in thought, contrasting the moral cyclone which
had suddenly wrapped her in its wild eddies with
the simple tranquillity of her past life  of the
serene future, to which she looked with such sweet
certainty ; while, though keenly alive to the tragedy
which Reginald had brought upon himself, she
could not help smiling as imagination pictured the
excitement, the curiosity, the exultation of Mrs.
Crewe when the time came for the great revelation.

Here Winnie broke in upon her reflections.

Reginald wants to know if there are any letters
for him,' she said.

There are several,' said Laura, pointing to them ;
the post has been in some time.'

I know most of these said Winnie, looking over
them. 'There is one from his lawyer, and from
Lord Dereham ; and this is a circular, and this is
from the steward at Pierslynn.' She sighed as she
said the name.

Are you very fond of Pierslynn ?' asked Laura,
looking at her with a strange yearning pity.

No, not particularly. At first I thought I was
going to love the place ; but I suffered so much
there  it is so associated with those first agonizing
doubts. But who can this be from ? it is a foreign-looking
hand.'

She opened the letter addressed to herself, and
looked at the contents, her countenance changing
as she did so.

This is very extraordinary,' she said. * Listen
to this, Laura :

" Madam,

"T think it right to inform you that your
husband prefers to remain in Paris because he
is in the toils of a fascinating woman, well known
in certain circles both here and in London, who
resides not far from you ; she intends to take him
with her on a distant journey. I warn you that
once away from such influence as home still
exercises over him, the lady in question, and the
staff of bloodsuckers connected with her by various
ties, will never leave their hold till they have
reduced your husband, and through him yourself,
to beggary and worse. Madame lias but

one object  to get and to spend money ; and, as
she cannot work altogether without help, she is
obliged to share with the infernal crew to whom
she is linked. You have hitherto resisted bravely
the attempts made to draw you into the net.
Make a strong effort now to rescue your infatuated
husband, who is every day getting more and more
involved in the meshes of a woman who never yet
cared to have a poor lover. Do not quit Paris
without him. All is arranged for the departure of

Madame and her victim on the 2nd, and

once gone, he will never return to you.
*" Your sincere sympathizer,

The cousins looked at each other in silence for a
moment. Winnie was the first to speak.

In one sense it is a false alarm,' she said. ' For
some reason or other Reginald is determined to
come with us on Thursday. Whether the Princess
has made any new arrangement, I cannot tell ; but
there is a change for the better in Reggie's heart,
and he is very unwell.'

Then you will take no notice of this } Anonymous
productions seldom deserve any.'

I do not know,' returned Winifrid thoughtfully;
I believe every word in this letter is true as far as
that dreadful woman is concerned  and Reggie too,'
she added with a sigh. ' Not that he deliberately
intended to leave me for ever ; and, you see, he is
really true at heart  at least, I begin to hope so. I

wish he could see the letter; it might be a warning.
I think I will show it to him, and say, " I know
it is false, because you are not going to leave me'"
It was late that night before Laura attempted to
sleep. She wrote steadily for a considerable time,
occasionally pausing to think, but making few corrections.
At length she folded up and sealed a
thick letter addressed to Reginald Piers, which she
shut into her writing-case, and then crept quietly
to bed.

HE few days which intervened before
Mr. and Mrs. Piers and suite left Paris
for England were evidently busy ones
to Reginald. He did not, as formerly,
absent himself for the whole day and often much
of the night; but he wrote a good deal in his own
room, and came to and fro, as if greatly occupied.
Laura had easily found a moment when she could
give him the memoranda she had prepared, unseen
by anyone.

Read it carefully, Reginald,' she said. ' When
in London we can discuss the subject thoroughly,
and arrange our plans.'

Reginald had merely replied, 'We will do so,'
and thrust the packet into an inner pocket.

These days were some of the most painful Laura
had ever spent.

To observe how Reginald shrank from meeting
her eyes, to see his pale downcast look, the indescribable
beaten aspect, which his wife attributed

to indisposition ; all this was infinitely distressing.
It seemed to her as though she was herself bowed
down by the shame she had been obliged to bring
upon the hero of her early youth. Do what she
would, she could not think of him without compassion,
and the keenest sorrow for her shattered
ideal.

The first time that Winifred was quite alone
with her and safe, which was the day following the
receipt of the anonymous letter, as they were
driving in the Bois (for Winnie was suddenly
anxious to take all means to recover her strength
and spirits), she said :

I gave the letter to Reginald last night, Laura.
He was so restless I did not think it could make
him worse ; he was lying on the sofa, for he did
not go to bed ; he walked about and sometimes
lay down. I said, " Here is a strange letter I have
just had," and added the words I said I would
speak. I did not make the least scene. He read
it, but was not so angry or upset as I expected. He
seemed as if occupied about something else. He
read it twice through, and examined it and the
envelope carefully. " It is very extraordinary," he
said. " Who can have written it ? She has many
enemies , but this is too much ; the misrepresentation
is ingenious." Then, after a pause, with a sort
of effort he went on : " You were right, Winnie, to
show it to me ; you will leave it in my hands ?"
I never wish to see it again," said I. " You have
yielded to my wish, and I am ready to trust you !"

VOL. III. 59

Ah, Laura ! that was not quite true, but I will try
to make it true. He put out his hand and drew
me down to him. " I believe you are a wise as
well as a good woman, Winnie," said he ; " let us
try and make the best of each other. You have a
generous heart. Would you  could you  still care
for me if I were old and sickly  and  and poor,
Winnie .?" Oh, Laura ! I never had such a struggle
not to make a scene. My heart yearned to him ;
and yet it burned, too, with anger, to think that
for all the indifference he had shown even in my
cruel sorrow, all the agony he must know he had
inflicted on me, he never said, '* Forgive me ; let
me atone to you ;" but I knew that my  our 
only chance was in at least seeming strong. So I
replied, " When you are old, Reggie, I shall be old
too ; and for the rest, you know me, and you need
no answer." "Yes, I think I do know you." He
kissed me kindly, but still as if his mind were full
of something else. " Go away to rest," he went
on ; "I fear you have had but little sleep of late.
I will send for you if I feel worse ; but I am not ill,
Winnie  only uneasy." He looked so ghastly pale,
with an expression as if he saw some far-away
horror, that I could not resist putting my arms
round him. "Reggie," I said, "let me help you, if
you need help, for I can love you still." He pressed
me to him for an instant, and said in a low hoarse
voice, " Good-night  God bless you." '

The last words were interrupted by irrepressible
sobs.

Have I done well, Laura ? Do you think I have
done wisely ?'

It seems to me you have done nobly ; and if
Reginald is not more yours than he ever was
before, he is unworthy of you,' returned Laura with
warmth, contrasting vividly in her own mind the
truth and earnestness of the wife with the slight,
selfish nature of the husband.

Winnie sighed.

It may all come right,' she said. * But I shall
never feel quite the same again, though he is still
very dear to me. I have an odd sort of pity for
him ; I think he has been under a spell.'

It was a dry crisp evening when they reached
London. Though Winifrid begged Laura to stay
with her still, the latter decided to go straight to
Mrs. Crewe's. She thought it better for husband
and wife to be alone together; and she felt sure
her absence would be an infinite relief to Reginald,
as it was to herself not to see him.

The simple yet not ungraceful homeliness of
Mrs. Crewe's house never before seemed so delightful
as on her escape from the false position, the
unavoidable mask, which her relations with Reginald
compelled her to assume. The transparent honesty,
the natural kindliness of tone which pervaded the
small establishment, produced something the same
effect as breathing mountain air after being imprisoned
in a back alley of a great town. Everything
and everyone was en fete to receive her.

592

The door was thrown open by Collins, who grinned
with pleasure, and displayed Mrs. Crewe in a most
becoming cap, standing under the lamp with Topsy
under one arm, and behind her the Admiral in the
doorway of the dining-room.

My darling girl, how late you are ! I began to
fear there was an accident or something. How
tired yow look ! I am sure we are delighted to
have you back. Here is the Admiral, quite wearying
for you, and this dear cat wandered about
looking for you for two or three days.'

This speech was broken by sundry hugs ; and
then Laura was passed on to the gentler and more
subdued greeting of her kind guardian.

Come in, my dear,' continued Mrs. Crewe ; ' you
evidently need refreshment. How is the poor
young mother? Ah! I have no doubt that poor
infant was sacrificed to wretched food and improper
treatment in a foreign country. Collins ! make
haste with MissPiers's chop and the buttered toast.
I would not let her put it down till you came,
dear ; but the fire is clear, and it will be ready in
ten or fifteen minutes,' etc.

Oh, how nice it is to be with you again !' said
Laura, the tears springing to her eyes as she
looked back at the agitating scenes through which
she had passed.

I am sure, dear, it must all have been very trying
returned Mrs. Crewe. ' But Winifrid is young
she will soon recover; and I have no doubt you
had every comfort and elegance about you that

money could get. Mr. Piers is a very liberal young
man, and quite the gentleman ; still, I flatter myself
your heart is in our humble home.'

It is, indeed,' said Laura, with a smile and a
blush. ' Tell me, dear Admiral,' taking his hand
again in hers, ' have you been well, quite well, since
I left .?'

She looked at him earnestly, for his face seemed
pale and worn.

Not quite so robust as usual,' he said ; * but I
am nearly myself again, thanks to Mrs. Crewe's
kind care.'

He was very seriously ill,' cried Mrs. Crewe 
bronchitis, and I do not know what. I wanted to
send for you, but he would not hear of it. Come
away and take off your things while Collins is
getting your supper ready.'

When they had reached the privacy of Laura's
room, Mrs. Crewe was in her element.

You see, my dear girl, I have taken advantage
of your absence to make a few improvements. I
hope you like your new curtains. You see they are
real curtains. You can draw them across ; the old
ones were a mere bit of drapery, to take off the
naked look. I had a woman in the house to make
them, and a machine. I am going to buy the
machine, paying for it by weekly instalments ; isn't
that a convenience } I have calculated that if we
do with half a pound less butter and only two
puddings a week, I can pay for it in twenty-six

weeks ; so I have told Collins she must use the nice
clean dripping both for herself and cooking.'

Indeed, Mrs. Crewe ?'

'Wait a bit, my dear. Look here  I have
bought you another chest of drawers, polished deal
you see, and bevelled edges ; got it such a bargain
not that I would mind what I spent on you ; you
are my own dear daughter, though you are not my
son's wife yet. He is no weathercock, like finer
gentlemen  no chance of his changing ; but you
see, dear, I am very anxious to save a littlemoney,
and I have begun to lay by. Why, you have
hardly noticed Toppy, and the dear pet quite knows
you,' etc.

. *-x- *

The following day Mrs. Crewe proposed to pay a
visit of condolence to Winifrid.

The preparations for this ceremony were considerable,
and in proportion to what Mrs. Crewe thought
was due to the rank and fashion of the person to
be visited. Laura therefore excused herself for
preceding her good hostess, as she had promised to
be with her cousin early, for Mr. and Mrs. Piers
intended to make a very short stay in town. The
dowager Mrs. Piers, too, was expected that evening
on her return from the Grange, where she had been
staying with her daughter, so this was about the
only free day at Winifrid's disposal.

Laura was anxious to see how Winnie had borne
the fatigue of their hasty journey, but still more so

for some communication with Reginald as to their
future plan of action. It was now four days since
she had given him her ultimatum. How earnestly
she hoped he would be honest and straightforward
with her, for she knew that his whole future depended
on the secret of his weak dishonesty being
preserved.

Winnie had not yet risen when Laura reached
the hotel. She had been greatly fatigued, her maid
said, and Mr. Piers had persuaded her to rest.
Laura was admitted immediately.

The curtains were partly drawn to exclude the
light ; but one ray of sunshine fell upon the pillow
and lit up the face which lay upon it, and Laura
was struck by the subtle change that had come to
the well-known countenance.

It had a pale loveliness, a grave composure, a
steadfast look which took from its youthfulness,
while it added beauty. It was the face of one who
had tasted the bitter fruit of the tree of knowledge,
and from whom the glorious unsuspecting simplicity
of Eden's inexperience had passed away for ever.

Law 'm,' cried Farrar, ' the sun is in your eyes,'
and she hastened to exclude it ; but the impression
remained with Laura, and revealed to her that
Winifrid had entered a new stage on life's journey,
where courage and patience had replaced hope and
joy.

How good of you to come so early !' said
Winnie, holding out her hand. ' I hardly hoped to
see you so soon. Am I not lazy to be here } But

Reginald begged me to rest, and I did not like to
contradict him. After all, I have nothing to get up
for. How did you find everyone ?'

For a while Winnie listened with some interest
to Laura's details ; then her attention wandered,
and her eyes became distrait. Laura paused, and
there was a short silence, which Winnie broke,
speaking in a low dreamy tone, as if to herself:

I seem to miss my poor little baby-boy more
than ever here. I was so happy, so full of brightest
hope, when we left London not five months ago !
and now, all is so changed, myself most of all ; I
seem to have no occupation, no hope. I thought,
just now, why should I get up ? I have nothing todo,
no duty to perform.'

It is natural you should think so at present ;
but you will knit up the ravelled skein of your life,
and find new interests and occupations, dearest
Winnie, later on.'

I hope so  I do hope so.' Another short pause.
' Do you know, Laura,' she resumed, ' I feel strangely
uneasy about Reginald. He looks so ghastly
white, and has such a curious fixed, almost despairing,
expression, and I cannot get him to open his
heart. Believe me, something occurred in Paris, of
which we know nothing, which cut him up awfully,
and made him change his plans. I wish I could
find out, not from curiosity, but that I might help
him or comfort him. I feel uneasy if he is out of
my sights and he is very little in it. But he is
kind, indifferently kind.'

A short deep sigh interrupted her, and she went
on.

He had a letter from Madame Moscynska this
morning. He was sitting here talking to me when
the letters were brought up ; and, though he
shuffled them all together, I caught a glimpse of
her writing  I could not mistake it, but I took no
notice. I do not want to tease him when he seems
so unhappy. So long as she is at a distance I do
not fear.'

I do not think there is much to fear,' said Laura
thoughtfully, ' except that Reginald may have been
losing heavily at cards enough to account for his
gloom.'

1 am sure I should not mind that, if he would
stop now,' cried Winnie. ' I should not mind being
poor, if we could only be all and all to each other,
as we were once  ah ! for how short a time 1'

I do not think Reginald would like poverty,'
said Laura ; * I hope you never will be poor. But,
Winnie, if you do not intend to receive Mrs. Crewe
in your room, you had better dress.'

Oh yes, certainly ! and then I will drive back
with her. Poor dear Mrs. Crewe ! How 1 should
like to ask her down to Pierslynn ; but somehow
I do not think she is a favourite with Reginald, and
do you remember how savage he used to be to
Denzil Crewe .'' That was because Denzil admired
fate. I always liked Denzil, he is so good and firm.
Perhaps it would have been better for everyone if
I had married him.'

I do not think so said Laura softly, with a
smile that Winnie dimly thought was peculiar.

Well, then, dear, go into the sitting-room, and I
will dress. Perhaps Reggie will come in. He
went to the bank, I know, this morning, and I think
he will come in to luncheon.'

Laura obeyed, and, taking up the Times, looked
vaguely through the shipping intelligence. But
her own thoughts were more interesting. Winnie's
utter unconsciousness the coming reverses touched
her deeply. Perhaps the fire of trial might draw
her and her husband nearer ; perhaps detection
might work a moral revolution in Reginald ; yet
she did not feel very hopeful. There was something
callous, something disappointing, in the way he had
taken the terrible tidings of her discovery and
intentions. Again, was it not rather hard to judge
justly of a nan so stunned, so paralyzed, as he must
have been ? While she pondered these things, the
door opened, and the object of her thoughts walked
in. His appearance warranted his wife's uneasiness,
but he did not seem surprised or disturbed by
Laura's presence.

I returned in hopes of having a word with you,
he said, after a slight greeting. * The less you and
I put on paper to each other the better ; but I want
to arrange a meeting when we can talk long and
uninterruptedly, and then I must get away the day
after tomorrow to Pierslynn. I, too, have a proposition
to make, but I will not put it on paper.'
I will meet you where you wish,' said Laura,

feeling her usual dislike to encounter his eye, or to
speak with him.

To-morrow,' he resumed, ' Winnie spends the
day with my mother; meet me at the Charing
Cross Hotel. I will have a private room, and we
can talk as long as we like.'

'Very well,' replied Laura; 'Charing Cross at two?'

Yes, at two. I need not make a note of our
rendezvous,' he added with a bitter smile ; ' it is not
likely to slip my memory.'

A short embarrassed pause ensued.

Is Winnie up ?' he asked.

Yes, and nearly dressed. She expects a visit
from Mrs. Crewe.'

does she? Then, I shall be off; I am in no
mood to stand her nonsense.'

Do you dine here to-day ?' asked Laura.

I am not sure ; I think not. Why ? can't you
stay with Winnie ?'

I was going to say that if we can persuade her
to dine with us it would be a great pleasure, and
perhaps be a useful change for her.'

I dare say it will ; try and persuade her. Poor
girl ! it was an evil hour for her when she fell in
with me !'

*Do not say so. You may make her happy, be
happy yourself yet. Do not lose heart, Reginald.'

He made a slight despairing gesture, and after a
moment's silence said :

Be sure you bring those letters with you, Laura.
I only want to read them,' he added hastily.

You may take them with you to read,' said
Laura, colouring with pity for the self-abasement
that suggested the assurance. ' You cannot think
I would guard against you as against an enemy ?'

You had better,' he said hastily. ' I cannot
answer for myself.'

Further speech was prevented by the announcement
in loud tones by one of the waiters :

Mrs. Crewe !'

Whereupon that lady entered, smiling and serene
in the consciousness of being well dressed, in her
best dress, bonnet, and mantle.

Reginald summoned sufficient self-control to
greet her cheerfully, and she greatly enjoyed the
ensuing hour of condolence, sympathy, and cross-examination.
Finally she was made quite happy
by Winnie's ready acceptance of her invitation to
dinner, and carried her off to spend a tranquil
afternoon which soothed and strengthened the
sorrowing young mother.

 * * H -J?-

The following morning Laura sallied forth, feeling
as we may suppose men feel who volunteer fora
' forlorn hope ' or any other desperate undertaking
; yet she nerved herself to pay a visit to her
first patron, from whom a fresh commission awaited
her on her return from Paris, on her way to Charing
Cross.

Reginald was loitering at the bookstall when she
entered the crowded station. When he turned at
her greeting he looked curiously at her for a

moment ; then led the way into the hotel and
asked for a private room, to which they were shown.

Bring me pen and ink, and some brandy and
soda,' he said to the waiter. ' Will you not take
something to eat, Laura ? he continued.

I am too anxious and distressed to eat.'

You are wonderfully changed,' said Reginald,
leaning on the back of a chair, and looking at her
with calm scrutiny. ' It struck me with new force
when I met you just now ; there is a quiet power
and composed manner about you quite different
from your old shy coldness. Ah ! there is no use
in looking back. Have you brought the letters,
and other documents ? Let us get to the bottom
of this infernal business as soon as we can.'

They are all here,' returned Laura, drawing out
the packet. * First, here is Holden's letter, and
the few lines which accompanied it and announced
his death. The note mentioned as enclosed I gave
up when I got the packet described ; the rest are
the papers it contained.'

As Reginald perused the lines traced by Holden's
dying hand, Laura observed how his grasp on the
paper tightened, and his pale cheek flushed and
then grew white. She felt herself trembling with
the terrible internal tremor of irresistible emotion.
It was a horrible experience to sit there, and watch
the man she had once passionately loved thus reading
his own condemnation.

Holden's letter finished, Reginald laid it down
silently, and, shading his eyes for a moment with

his hand, took up the next paper presented to him,
the short explanation appended to the documents
deposited at Winter's ; and so read on through the
whole, paleness spreading over his face, but retaining
a degree of hard composure.

The evidence is very complete,' he said, somewhat
huskily. ' How did you get possession of
these papers ?'

I went alone to this Mr. Winter, and he gave
them to me on payment of a fee.'

Then he made no difficulty about giving them
up ?',

Not the least'

Which proves that Holden kept counsel ; otherwise
a kindred spirit and chum of such a fellow
would have been making terms with me before
Holden was half-way to Australia. I begin to
hope the secret is between us alone ; that is the
best in a bad business.'

And with me you are safe,' said Laura, in a low
tone.

I believe it,' returned Reginald, and walked once
to and fro in silence. ' Laura,' he then broke out
hurriedly, in a changed voice, ' I do not want to
whine and cry '' Peccant I know how I must
seem in your eyes ! I can never right myself with
soil ; but I want to say  I must say  how impossible
it is for you, a calm-natured, untried woman,
to know the bitterness of having such fortune
within my grasp and see it wrenched away ! That
beggar Holden always hated me, I don't know

why ; I scarcely felt his existence ; but if I hadn't
been such an infernal idiot as to leave the Pierslynn
pedigree with West to show him the day my wonderful
luck first dawned on me, he would never
have dreamed of any connection between me and
the Geoffrey Piers whose history was known to his
aunt. When the facts stared me in the face, I felt
I could riot give up Pierslynn. Look here, Laura !
No one knew it, but ever since my boyhood I had
dreamed of inheriting the family estate. I had
silently watched for Hugh Piers's marriage, and
every year that saw him still unwedded, swelled my
hopes. I was man enough to keep quiet and seem
reasonable, but I was in the wildest fever of mad joy
when I read of the poor fellow having broken his
neck. I had had the character of being lighthearted
and easy-going. I am not ! I am proud
and luxurious and passionate, and I hated my life.
When I found that Captain Edward Piers, yoiLV
father, was legitimate, I resolved to secure myself
by marrying you, as I told Holden I would. I did
not want to rob you quite ; I liked you well enough,
better in fact than any girl I knew, for I had never
been what is called in love  I mean, real wild sort
of love ; and although I should have preferred
social rank, I was not at all averse to a home with
you ; and you loved me, Laura ; you scarcely knew
it, but you always loved me ! Why were you so
obstinate in delaying our marriage ? All, all might
have been well. Once your husband, I should have
got over my frantic passion for Winnie ; you would

have been wise and good. Remember he went
on, with cynical frankness, ' I do not say I should
have been a model of fidelity, but you would have
been my prime counsellor and best friend. Why
did you not marry me, Laura ?'

Because I suppose you were to be saved from
the crime of breaking my heart and Winners
said Laura severely. ' I do not think you are
aware what depths of selfishness you are displaying!'


Am I ?' he returned indifferently. ' Well, I
shall say no more about myself But, by heaven,
I did not intend to rob you ! I meant you to be
Mrs. Piers, of Pierslynn, surrounded by all that
could make life pleasant, and a moment of infernal
madness, my cursed ill-luck, betrayed me ! However,
it is useless to try back ; let us see what conclusion
we can come to

He sat down at the table, and drawing out the
paper Laura had given him before leaving Paris,
unfolded it, and seemed to read the lines far a
minute or two in silence.

Your plan is ingenious he said at last, ' and
generous. You propose to place all these papers
in my hand, and to let me account for their possession
as best I can, leaving it to me to announce the
discovery of your rights, and so pass before the
world as a just and honourable man.' He smiled
bitterly.

I should certainly come clean out of the affair.
I ought to jump at it. But, Laura, you are not an

ambitious woman ! You are not avaricious. Could
we not hush up the business in some other way ?
You love my wife, and would not like to push her
from her place. Can you not leave me  us  Piers-lynn
for my life ? I would agree to give you a
handsome income, and should you ever marry and
have children, I would secure the succession of the
estate to them. I am encouraged to propose this
by my knowledge of the extreme simplicity of
your tastes, the noble disinterestedness of your
nature. Wealth and station cannot have the value
for yoti they have for me ! Laura ! for the sake of
auld lang syne," for our old friendship's sake, do
not be too hard upon me !'

Reginald stretched out his hand suddenly, and
grasped hers hard as he ceased to speak, gazing at
her eagerly.

She felt a strange mixture of compassion and
contempt. That he should degrade himself by
such a speech seemed incredible ; was all the
wealth of England worth such abasement ?

I am not hard on you, Reginald,' she said sadly,
as she withdrew her hand. ' I wish to spare you,
but 1 will have my rights ! You have not thought
of what you suggest ! Suppose God gives you
other children ? How cruel it would be to bring
them up in expectation of an inheritance that could
never be theirs ! and how could I account for receiving
an income from you, on whom I have no
claim ? Do you not think such an arrangement
would point suspicion on your honour and on mine ?'

VOL. III. 60

Reginald sprang from his seat and walked to and
fro restlessly.

But, Laura,' he exclaimed, resuming his chair
again, ' if these cursed lawyers get their fingers into
the caldron, they will stir up all kinds of mischief !
They will tell you you can claim all the money I
have spent since I held the estate ; they will want
to know what I have done with it ; and, Laura, I
must not have that question raised !'

Can you not trust me, Reginald ? Do you
think I would really injure you ? Do you think I
would ask for any of the money I fear you have
squandered ? Be a man, Reginald ! put the past
away from you  lay hold of the future. You have
that in you to win a place yet, as good as what you
lose now ; but I am resolved to prove my father's
legitimacy, my own claims, and  you are in my
hands.'

She spoke low, but with indescribable force and
distinctness, with a flash of spirit, of unconscious
command, that startled her cousin as a revelation.

He rested his elbows on the table, and covered
his face with his hands. When he looked up, there
was a sullen, beaten look in his face, that made
Laura's heart ache.

As you will,' he said, in a low tone, and paused
again. ' Now, to settle how we shall carry out this
tragi-comedy. I shall take these letters (if you
will trust them with me), and say I found them
among old papers belonging to John Piers, the late
man's father. It so happens there are several letters

from Geoffrey Piers, your grandfather, respecting
his son. One tells of his removal from Llanogwen
to a school near London ; another describes his
having had a severe attack of fever ; and the third,
in 183 1, when he must have been ten or eleven,
entreats the friendly protection of the head of the
family for his poor solitary boy, who would soon bean
orphan, as he (the writer) feels his end approaching.
By putting all together in the same old yellow
envelope, no one will suspect that all were not
originally wrapped up together.'

That will do admirably !' exclaimed Laura.
*What will your next step be ?'

I suppose the correct thing will be to go in a
state of agitation to my solicitors ; they will probably
communicate with you and propose a compromise
; but I think it will be well to inform you
myself, in a burst of cousinly confidence, this is for
further consideration.'

He paused ; and Laura, not knowing very well
what to say, employed herself in folding up her
grandmother's letters and the memoir of Deborah
Pryce, which she handed to Reginald, carefully
returning Flodden's to her pocket.

You have still evidence enough there to send me
to penal servitude,' said Reginald, bitterly. ' Look
here, Laura ; can you wait a month for the assertion
of your rights? because I want to get Christmas over.
My mother wishes us to stay with her ; and  and
my poor mother ! to come back to the narrow
life she thought she had escaped for ever !'

602

Again he covered his face.

Reginald !' cried Laura, ' she shall suffer no
pecuniary loss, I promise that ; as to the rest, take
your own time. One point more : for God's sake
let no cloud come between you and your wife ! she
loves you so much. Cast away every thought that
can draw you from her. Is she not tender and
good, bright, companionable ?'

She is! She is lovely and lovable, pure, true ;
but God, Laura ! you do not know the magic there
is about a clever, unscrupulous, subtle woman, who
fears nothing, and knows everything, and is always
ready to put that knowledge to the best account to
amuse, to pique, or soothe the man who interests
her, either as a tyrant or victim. With the help of
such a witch as that, not even yoiiy Laura, would
have wrenched Pierslynn from me. No woman
ever fascinates as such a syren does, at least a man
of my nature !'

Ah ! is there, then, no place in your heart for
Winnie  dearest, sweetest Winnie, whom you
sought so eagerly and '

Laura burst into tears.

Reginald looked at her surprised.

This is a curious situation,' he said coldly ; ' my
old love entreating me to love the woman who supplanted
her.'

Laura, who was overstrained and exhausted, still
sobbed.

Don't r exclaimed Reginald at last ; * I cannot
stand tears, and I do love Winnie ! I was always

happy with her when we were alone together. I
love her a deuced deal more than half the married
men in England love their wives ! Now, we have
not much more to say ; only, before we part, tell
me to whom soit are engaged.'

Engaged !' repeated Laura, astonished ; ' what
induces you to think I am engaged ?'

Your regard for your rights ! If you had not
some other interest beyond your own to care for
you would not have held out so stoutly

You are mistaken,' returned Laura, startled into
composure, while her cheek glowed, and the tears
still hung on her eyelashes. ' Under any circumstances,
I should have stood upon my rights  as a
mere act of justice. I could not be party to a
fraud.'

Reginald looked intently at her as she spoke,
and in his turn flushed, but grew pale quickly. In
spite of Laura's effort to be steady, her eyes sank
under his.

'You have not really answered my question.
Laura, tell me who it is you are going to marry. I
am convinced you are engaged. There are, to my
mind, a thousand indefinable indications in your
countenance, your bearing ; who is the man, Laura ?'

If I am engaged, Reginald, it cannot concern
you.'

It does !' he exclaimed fiercely. * The secret of
my life will soon be at the mercy of a stranger, a
natural enemy.'

It will not, I solemnly promise, Reginald ; not

even to a husband, if I ever have one, will I betray
you

Reginald paced the room rapidly, an expression
of despair and rage in his face.

I know what such promises are worth,' he
growled between his teeth ; then suddenly stopping
opposite to her he exclaimed in a high strained
voice, ' By heaven, Laura ! you are going to marry
that sailor fellow, Crewe !'

Why do you think so ?' she asked.

I cannot tell, but I know it. God ! to be at his
mercy ! Probably he already knows his fiancee is
a wealthy heiress.'

Yes,' said Laura gathering courage. ' I have
promised Denzil Crewe to be his wife ; but he has
chosen me as I was  plain, insignificant, /r. He
has not the faintest idea of what I know ; and,
believe me, he never shall. Your reputation is as
dear to me as though you were my brother. You
cannot know how I shrink from exposing you !
Trust me, Reginald ; you must trust me !'

I have no choice,' he said gloomily. * But of
what value is life to me now } Would it not be
wiser to end this wretched tangle ? Laura, you
have been my ruin ! Had you married me at once,
all would have gone well ;' and he again paced the
room like a wild animal. * What is life to me ?'

Much,' said Laura somewhat alarmed, but
venturing to catch his arm. * The future may be
yours if you will. Your life belongs to Winnie.
Banish the past from your mind ; act in the living

present. If you manage well, not a suspicion will
attach to you. Reginald, you will atone to me for
everything if you will take up the broken thread of
your career, and make a place for yourself, as you
can if you choose.'

Reginald flung away from her and threw himself
into a chair. A few minutes' silence ensued. Then,
rising, he said in an altered voice :

Come, there is no more to be done. You give
me till the new year to make my arrangements.
Winifrid remains with my mother ; I shall come
to and fro, and will find an opportunity to get those
letters from you at the last moment. It is as well
you keep them now.'

He rang vehemently for the waterman continued :

You had better leave without me ; and, Laura,
I am not ungrateful. You have been generous :
we can never be enemies, but I would never willingly
meet you again. Give me your hand, and 
remember, I was sorely tempted.'

Good-bye, Reginald. Do not despair  and 
keep your heart warm with love for your best
friend  your wife.'

HE weeks which ensued would have
been very pleasant to Laura but for
the denouement hanging over her. She
saw Winnie frequently, and Reginald
scarcely at all. But she was gratified by observing
that the former seemed more tranquil and content ;
she looked better and fresher, and appeared to be
on more friendly and confidential terms with her
mother-in-law than formerly.

Winnie  kindly, real, true  was always a frequent
visitor in Leamington Road, and was erelong
entirely restored to the Admiral's favour,
while she became A i in Mrs. Crewe's estimation.
Reginald revolved between Pierslynn and London,
and no hint of the Polish Princess disturbed the
smooth surface of their lives.

Meanwhile letters from Denzil cheered the hearts
of his mother and his fiancee. It was Laura's first
love-letter, and, although a rational production, its
tone of deep tenderness, the details of his daily life

poured out with the confidence fond affection alone
can create, made her heart swell with pride and joy.

He was but a few days arrived when he wrote ;
yet he had already time to gather that although he
found matters in a bad state, they were less complicated
than he expected. He therefore hoped to
finish his work in about six months, as his longing
to return to the home he knew awaited him grew
more intense the further he went from it.

This letter made Laura burn to tell him all the
events of the past few weeks, but she resolutely
resisted the wish. She would never betray Reginald
to a man who had always, in her opinion,
undervalued him ; the name and fame of her old
love were precious deposits that should never be
breathed upon if she could help it. As Winnie's
husband too, he was, if possible, to be preserved, and
lifted over the chasm which had suddenly opened
under his feet.

One cold rainy afternoon in the first week of the
new year, Laura, on returning from her morning's
walk, was greeted by Mrs. Crewe with the news
that * Mr. Piers was closeted with the Admiral ;
and mark my words, Laura, something extraordinary
has happened ! That poor young man
had quite a scared look.'

Indeed !' said Laura, affecting to be occupied
with her wet umbrella to avoid scrutiny. * I will
take off my hat, dear Mrs. Crewe, and join you
immediately.'

Was the moment come ? and if so, how would it
all turn out ? A strange sense of suffocation oppressed
her  her heart beat  she did not know how
to endure herself ; she dreaded to go downstairs,
yet she could not stay in the silence of her own
chamber. She left it, and was overtaken at the foot
of the stairs by the Admiral and Reginald, both
looking grave and disturbed.

The latter shook hands with her silently, and
turning to the Admiral, said :

I leave it to you, my dear sir, to communicate
this extraordinary discovery to Laura, and I leave
myself in your and her hands without fear.'

You can with every confidence ; and may the
good God guide us for the best !' returned the
Admiral solemnly.

The matter will soon be public, there is no need
for secrecy,' rejoined Reginald; and, shaking hands
with the Admiral, he hastily left the house.

The Admiral looked after him for a moment ;
then, taking Laura s hand, said impressively :

I have a strange tale to tell you, my dear ; come
into the dining-room. Our good friend Mrs. Crewe
has a right to hear it also.'

It had come then, at last !

Laura, trembling in every limb, followed her
guardian, and Mrs. Crewe, who had caught the
words, ' strange tale,' was metaphorically standing
on the tiptoe of expectation.

'Do sit down, my dear sir, and tell us all about
it. You know if anyone is safe, / am.'

The Admiral did not heed her ; he stood by the
fire holding Laura's hand in both his own.

My dear child, it has pleased God to send you a
great, a totally unforeseen change of fortune. Your
cousin Reginald has just now told me that in looking
carefully through his predecessor's papers, a
task he had too long postponed, he came upon a
packet labelled " Geoffrey Piers' letters," within
which was a second parcel carefully sealed. On
examination it proved to contain the certificate of
your grandfather's marriage, some letters describing
that event, written by your grandmother, and some
other letters and papers, which prove, Reginald
says, beyond a doubt, that you are the real heir of
the Pierslynn estate, as you descend from the elder
brother of Reginald's grandfather. This, of course,
if all turns out as he anticipates, will bring a terrible
reverse upon your relatives ; but Reginald, with the
decision of an honest man and a true gentleman,
lost no time in laying the documents before his
solicitors, who yesterday examined the register of
the church (somewhere in the City) where the
marriage is stated to have taken place, and there
they found an entry corresponding to the certificate.
Your father is thus proved legitimate. It requires
but a few formalities, therefore, to establish your
claim.'

He stopped ; and Laura, trembling almost visibly,
could hardly utter the words :

'This seems incredible. I feel terrified at so
extraordinary a reverse.'

But Mrs. Crewe could not restrain her excitement.

Laura the owner of Pierslynn ! Laura the real
head of the family ! the ways of Providence are
past finding out. Why, my dear Admiral, no
romance in Muche's library can equal this. And
will the house and grounds, the carriages and the
horses, the  the pictures and the family jewels, all
belong to Laura ? I do not seem able to believe it ;'
and Mrs. Crewe rose from her seat and went to put
all the antimacassars straight as a sort of outlet to
her emotion.

I can hardly believe it myself,' said the Admiral,
still holding Laura's hand and looking with some
anxiety into her pale agitated face. ' I am by no
means sure how we ought to feel in these strange
circumstances. It is a sore trial to Laura, it is a
terrible blow to Reginald Piers. Let us keep our
minds calm and anticipate as little as possible.
Messrs. Greenwood, Mr. Piers' solicitors, have sent
down an agent to the village in Wales where
your father was born, to ascertain if his birth is
registered there, and how. Meantime, the deepest
source of regret and anxiety to Mr. Piers is that he
has spent so much of yoicr money, as he calls it.
Not only three years' income, but a large amount
of his predecessor's savings. This is but natural.'

I am sure, if this strange story proves true, he
need not distress himself about what he has spent.
/ will never trouble him,' cried Laura.

So I ventured to assure him,' said the Admiral
gravely, as he drew forward a chair for her. * Such

unconscious appropriation carries with it neither
guilt nor blame.'

I suppose not,' said Mrs. Crewe, returning to the
fireplace and gazing with a profound air at the
comfortable blaze ; ' but, though I say it myself, I
can see a little more below the surface than many,
and it seems to me very extraordinary : first Mr.
Piers' tremendous haste to marry our dear Laura
here, then the breaking of the engagement, then
this discovery. You see, if he had married you,
Laura, he would have still been master of Pierslynn,
whatever happened.*

Oh, Mrs. Crewe !' interrupted Laura in a tone
of genuine horror, for the suggestion terrified her.

My dear Mrs. Crewe said the Admiral, with
some severity, 'you should not permit yourself even
to think so uncharitably, and I must add unjustly.
It was entirely in this man's power to suppress and
destroy the evidence which robs him of his fortune.
When he discovered these documents he was alone
with his own conscience, visible only to the All
Seeing of whose presence I fear he is but little
mindful. Had he burned these papers he would
never have been found out, as no suspicion seems
to have existed that Geoffrey Piers ever married
the girl who was Laura's grandmother ; in short,
and even to a man of principle, there was a certain
degree of temptation in such a moment. Reginald
has surmounted it. I trust for all our sakes, Mrs.
Crewe, you will abstain from such thoughts and
expressions.'

You must know, my dear sir, that your wish is
law to me,' returned that lady, unabashed. ' I do
not intend to express myself to the same effect
again ; but not being as good and holy as you are,
or as high-minded as our dear Laura, though I
should scorn a mean action, I am perhaps a better
judge of worldly matters than either of you. However,
be my opinions what they may, I shall keep
them to myself.'

To your opinions, dear Mrs. Crewe, you have
every right, only pray be careful in forming them ;'
then, turning to Laura, the Admiral continued :
'Your cousin recommends that you should put
yourself in the hands of Messrs. Thurston and
Trent, as it is right they should prosecute inquiries
and see that everything is properly and legally
carried out. I therefore propose to accompany you
to their office tomorrow morning. Till then let us
try and divert our thoughts somewhat, for I cannot
yet quite believe that Reginald's rights can be upset.
If any doubt remains, he says he will defend them.'

'He ought,' said Laura thoughtfully. 'Are there
not sometimes amicable suits where both parties
are simply anxious to ascertain the truth ?'

I suppose there must be,' returned the Admiral.

I will go away to my own room,' said Laura.
I feel as if I must be alone ; I am overpowered by
the sudden strangeness of my position !'

God bless and guide you, my dear Laura,' said
the Admiral, laying his hand on her head as she
passed him.

Would you take a glass of wine, and then lie
down and try to sleep?' asked Mrs. Crewe
anxiously, as if she had met with an accident.

I want nothing but a little quiet thought returned
Laura ; and then with a sudden impulse she
threw her arms round the kind woman's neck and
kissed her affectionately as she left the room.
* * * *

The rest of the day was curiously constrained
and oppressive. The Admiral having advised
avoidance of the subject uppermost in their
thoughts, conversation proceeded intermittently,
and the hours seemed to Laura preternaturally
long. She was in some ways relieved to think that
the first much-dreaded steps had been taken towards
righting the foul wrong to which she had
been subjected, yet she was terrified at being
launched upon the rapids of such a startling course.
Moreover, the sense of playing a part weakened her
courage. She was especially desirous that all things
should seem so clear and natural that Denzil's
suspicions might not be roused.

My dear,' said Mrs. Crewe, as they went upstairs
at night, ' I feel as if I should burst. Do let me
come in and talk to you.'

Yes, certainly, come in,' returned Laura, opening
the door and lighting the candles on the dress-unstable.


To think of it all is too astonishing,' continued
Mrs. Crewe, sitting down on a smart ottoman which
was really a bonnet-box.

Laura took a low cane chair and resigned herself
to listen, while Mrs. Crewe proceeded to remove
her lace cravats and fold it up with mechanical,
unconscious care as she spoke.

To think of you, who were in a manner of 
and snubbed, and made little of,
being head over them all ! That poor conceited
set-up Mrs. Piers, the dowager as she liked to be
called, as if she were a duchess ! I really am sorry
for her ! Won't she be ready to cut her tongue out
for having refused to receive j/<?? for a daughter-in-law.
She is incapable of seeing your worth as
/ did, and was glad to welcome you without a
farthing ! Well ; it's not every heiress that knows
she was chosen for herself alone, as you know my
dear blessed boy chose you ; and when I say, Laura
Piers, you deserve him,' added the mother, with a
little sob, * I give you the highest praise you will
ever get, be the other what it may.'

I think you do said Laura, drawing nearer
and taking Mrs. Crewe's hand, which she stroked
gently.

Never forget that he chose you out of pure disinterested
love,' continued Mrs. Crewe emphatically,
* and he does love you, my dear, with all his
heart ! I saw that before you did. I wish he were
here to advise and support you in the present extraordinary
crisis. What do you think, my love ?
shall he have to take your name ?'

I know as little as yourself, Mrs. Crewe. I
should much prefer to take his''

And you are right, Laura,' she returned, with
grave emphasis, as she unpinned her cap and set it
on her knee, where it produced an uncanny effect,
as if she were holding a supplementary head.
The Crews are a good old family, though not in
the peerage, and a truer gentleman than my dear
boy never came of any stock, though adverse circumstances
compelled him to enter the mercantile
marine. Well, well, good luck comes to him at
last ! He gets a dear good wife and a fortune into
the bargain ; for I feel sure, my love, nothing will
make you break a promise once given !'

I hope not,' said Laura, with a faint smile, for
she saw the drift of her kind friend's conversation.
Nothing save Denzil's own wish would induce me
to break with him.'

And there is small danger of that !' cried Mrs.
Crewe, kissing her with warmth. ' But, my dear,
what will Mrs. Reginald Piers say ? It will be an
awful trial to her. I hope and trust she will keep
friends with yoti and not run away with the idea
that you ought not to assert your rights, and all
that sort of thing.'

I do not fear it,' replied Laura thoughtfully.
She has too much sense ;' but even while she
spoke, a dim fear arose in her heart and chilled it.

I am not so sure,' said Mrs. Crewe. ' We are
seldom just or reasonable about those we love as
she loves her husband. Depend upon it, she will
be awfully cut up at the idea of his loss and mortification,
for though he carried it off with frank care-vol.

Ill, 61

lessens, he was tremendously proud of Pierslynn
and his position. I changed my opinion of Reginald
Piers a good deal lately, and in spite of what
the Admiral says, I think the whole affair very
strange  very strange indeed.'

It does not seem so to me, said Laura  * at
least, in the sense you mean. But it is impossible
that Winifrid and I should fail to understand each
other ; and after all, our speculations may be quite
fruitless. Some fresh discovery, some new combination
of circumstances, may occur to sweep away
my pretensions ; let us not dwell upon them.'

That is not at all likely. I consider your claim
indisputable. I wonder if Mr. Piers has got through
much of the savings ! I believe there was a considerable
sum in hand. Do you think, dear, you
will have a town as well as a country house ?'

Oh, Mrs. Crewe !' said Laura, laughing, in spite
of the anxiety and trepidation which oppressed
her. * Such a question never occurred to me. Indeed,
I feel too much for Reginald and Winnie to
think how the change will affect myself.'

Very pretty and praiseworthy indeed, my dear.
But  listen ; there's Toppy crying to be let in. It
is a wet night. What an intelligent creature she is
to be sure! I'm coming, my precious puss, I'm
coming. Good-night, dearest Laura. I have kept
you too long out of your bed.'

The interview with Messrs. Thurston and Trent

(for both partners shared the important consultation)
was a severe trial to Laura.

The surprise of both gentlemen was very great ;
indeed, it was several minutes before even Mr.
Trent's keen faculties could assimilate the facts reported.


These succession cases are often very extraordinary,
and few can surpass the present one ?/" matters
turn out as you seem to think they will he said.

Very remarkable  very, indeed,' observed Mr.
Thurston, playing with his eye-glass ; ' awkward
discovery for a man to make ; yet, after all, perhaps
less mortifying than to have it made by another.
At any rate, it puts Mr. Piers 's reputation beyond
a shadow of doubt'

Yes,' returned Mr. Trent, tapping the table
thoughtfully with a paper-knife ; ' he acted as any
honourable man would. Of course, I am glad
enough of your good fortune,' to Laura. * But, at
the same time, I feel sincerely for Reginald Piers ;
it is a tremendous blow.'

You must direct me how best to soften it to
him,' said Laura, in a low voice, feeling strangely
guilty, and perceiving clearly enough that with the
usual masculine esprit de corps  the partners thought
it a deplorable freak of fortune that a fine estate
should pass from the hands of a capable man to
those of a woman, and a plain, quiet, unremarkable
woman to boot.

Of course we shall be happy to manage the
case for Miss Piers. Admiral, the sooner so import

 2

tant a matter is settled the better. I will call on
Greenwood this afternoon, and ask to see the
papers. There is no use in making any plans or
suggestions till we ascertain how you really stand,
Miss Piers. It is really a curious affair, very
curious. I shall let you know the result of our
conference tomorrow morning.'

This will be a startling piece of news for my
wife,' said Mr. Trent, as he escorted the Admiral
and Laura downstairs. 'She is in Dresden with our
youngest boy and girl, as you know, for the winter.
She was asking about you in her last letter. They
do not return till April'

My best regards to her,' said Laura. ' I shall
be glad to see her again.'

After a few more words, Laura and her guardian
bade Mr. Trent good-morning and walked away
homewards.

 :j  : >|i

Well, I confess I am profoundly sorry at this
discovery,' said Trent to Thurston. ' Just as Piers

was preparing to stand for and settle down

into an active country gentleman.'

He has not been very steady to the country as
yet,' replied the other drily. ' He was always running
abroad and hither and thither.'

'What an unlucky slip it was for him to have let
his engagement with this girl fall through ! Of
course, we thought him a fool then, and I must
say as far as beauty goes he has changed for the
better.'

93

'Yes said Mr. Thurston, ' perhaps ; but I find
Miss Piers a very interesting young woman.'

She will be extremely interesting to many now,'
replied Mr. Trent. ' I doubt if this fortune will bea
real gain to her ; some sharper will marry her for
her money.'

We must hope for better things,' rejoined his
partner, as Mr. Trent closed his blotting-book and
prepared to go out.

T was still early when Laura reached
home. She felt utterly uncomfortable
and at sea. She could not settle to
any of her usual occupations. Her whole
life was upset. The lines of her existence would
need to be laid down afresh on a broader gauge.
One question she revolved anxiously in her own
mind : should she write at once to Denzil, or wait
to impart the great news until he returned home ?

Her great longing to see him, to have the comfort
and support of his presence and counsel, inclined
her to write without delay, and on this she finally
decided. But looking into her heart, she found,
that first disturbed uneasy day, that the source of
her discomfort was the fear of finding Winnie
changed towards her, and misunderstanding her.
She hesitated to go and see her, for she shrank from
meeting old Mrs. Piers, as she did not know if her
son had yet announced his unfortunate discovery.
The promised report from Mr. Trent did not

reach his new client till the day after her visit to
him, and then he merely said that the proofs of
her claim seemed most satisfactory, but that he was
sending down an agent to examine the baptismal
registry in the church of Llanogwen. On the
return of this employe Mr. Trent would like to see

her again.

*****

The day following the receipt of this note, Laura
was writing a long letter to Denzil in her own
room, intending to finish it after her next interview
with Mr. Trent, if matters then seemed conclusive.

A tap on the door disturbed her. In reply to
her invitation * Come in the door opened to admit
Winifrid.

She looked pale, and her large eyes had a distressed
alarmed expression.

Dearest Winnie ! how rejoiced I am to see you!*
cried Laura, holding out her arms to embrace her.
I have wanted so much to come to you.'

Ah, Laura !' said Winifrid, her lips quivering,
what is all this that Reginald has been telling
me?'

What has he told you ?' was Laura's counter-question,
as she drew her cousin to a chair and
placed herself beside her.

Oh, I can hardly believe it !' cried Winifrid.
That Pierslynn is yours ; and all  all that we
possess. That Reginald has been unconsciously
keeping you out of your own ; and now he must
give up all to you. Laura, dear Laura, it is not

that I would rob you or wrong you ; but, oh ! I
feel it is hard, desperately hard, on Reginald. I am
sure, if you had only yourself to think of, you

might But I do not know what I am saying ;

you see Reggie has nothing in the world he can
call his own, yet he has been so luxurious in his
ways, and I am of so little use to him. Oh, Laura !
what can I do to help him V

Dearest Winnie, do not cry or make yourself
miserable. Do you think I could be happy, and
know that you and Reginald wanted for anything ?
Let us take counsel together, dear, and settle what
will be best for you. I cannot help asserting my
own rights. It is inevitable. Reginald could not
consent to retain Pierslynn at my pleasure. He
can, he will, make a place for himself He will
be in a better position than he has yet filled, and he
will be more your own.'

He has been all that I can wish in his hour of
trial,' sobbed Winnie. 'So noble, so just to you ;
and all I ask is to be of use and comfort to him,
but he is awfully cast down. Neither of us know
how to break the terrible news to his poor mother.
It will kill her.'

Believe me, she shall not suffer,' said Laura. * I
have determined she shall lose nothing by her son's
change of fortunes ; my first care shall be to secure
independence to her and to you.'

I am sure you will be kind and generous ; but,
Laura, it is very bitter to " give up," even to you !'
and Winnie shed some irresistible tears. ' For

myself I do not care. Indeed, indeed, I do not ;
wealth and grandeur brought me nothing but
trouble. But to see Jdm so pale, and still, and
downcast, is terrible. Yet I have had some moments
of exquisite delight. Last night, when he told
me all, he laid his head upon my shoulder and said,
But I have yoii left, and you will always be the
same, tender and true." So you see he must love
me best of all ! Then, Laura, I may assure him
that you will not forsake him  that you will not
rob him of everything V

*No, my own dear cousin ; I will be just, and it
is only justice in me to take care of your future,'
returned Laura, observing with a certain kindly
cynicism how completely the idea of Reginald, his
losses, his trouble and suffering, swallowed up every
other idea; even she herself was utterly overlooked;
only, thank God ! there was no bitterness or resentment
in Winnie's simple heart against her.

I am sure, I was always sure, you are kind and
just"* returned Winnie, with a little quivering sob.

Winnie, dear,' said Laura, anxious to change her
thoughts, ' try and find out what Reginald would
like to do, and where he would like to live, and so
soon as matters are settled and I have some
command of money, we must look out a nice home
for you. I cannot be happy till I know you are
comfortable.'

You are good and kind, Laura ! Oh, do help
me to keep Reginald in London ! He said something
last night of hiding ourselves on the Continent,

but I do not want that ! I know what it
means  annihilation for an Englishman, and worse
for ils. Oh, Laura ! how old Mrs. Piers will rage,
to think that she prevented Reginald's marriage
with you !'

I am sure no one else regrets it now,' returned
Laura, with a smile.

I feel more comforted,' said Winnie presently ;
 I wish dear Reginald did not look so despondent.
Shall I ask him to come and talk to you, Laura ?
I am sure you would do him good.'

No, dear Winnie ; situated as we both are, I
think you had better leave him to himself. However,
assure him from me that I am his true
friend.'

After a short silence Laura, to divert her listener's
mind, confided to her that she was engaged to
Denzil Crewe, a piece of news which roused Winifred's
interest. She was greatly astonished, for her
imagination always depicted Denzil as mourning
the loss of herself. She was kindly and sympathetic,
however, and full of all good wishes. But
the dominant thought was of the strange freak by
which Pierslynn and Laura would pass into Denzil's
hands.

And Mrs. Crewe ! What a state of excitement
she must be in ! Oh ! I cannot meet her to-day,
Laura ! I am not strong enough"*

*You need not, dear ; she is out.'

And I will go before she returns.'

Let me know when you have broken the news

to Mrs. Piers were Laura s last words as Winnie
kissed her warmly and went quickly away.

*****

The ensuing weeks were crowded with business
visits and consultations at Messrs. Thurston and
Trent's office, perusals of leases and examinations
of accounts, discussions of plans and preparing of
deeds. All the forms and technicalities of law
seemed to spread their tentacles round Laura and
her guardian. Yet no obstacle presented itself to
her quietly taking possession of her property.

Meantime Parliament met, and the world of Mayfair
had a few days' pleasant excitement over the
Pierslynn romance. The society papers gave it a
paragraph or two, and then a fresher topic drove it
from the field.

Laura's provision for her disinherited kinsman
satisfied the lawyers on both sides ; and Reginald,
as he gradually realized how wonderfully he had
been saved from the effects of his own dishonesty,
began to pluck up courage and cheerfulness. Laura
and Winnie found ample and interesting occupation
in seeking a house as Reginald consented to
reside in London, though he was somewhat slow informing,
or avowedly forming, his plans. So time
went quickly on.

The greatest sufferer was Mrs. Piers. Her pride
was deeply wounded, for she had always cherished
a species of dislike to Laura, born of pique and
resentment, at the indescribable superiority which
she most unconsciously maintained, in spite of

Reginald's desertion and her own position as a poor
relation. To have this offshoot of the family put
over her son's head  in his place  filling the eye of
the country which had hitherto been fixed on him,
was too much. Not even the generous readiness
with which Laura secured to her for life the same
income her son had settled on her could atone to
her for the infamous usurpation, as she considered
such an unfortunate exception to the ordinary rule of
succession in the male line. Her mental sufferings
culminated in a bad bilious attack which afforded
anything but agreeable occupation to Winnie, who
was her kind nurse.

From the time Laura had written a full account
of the events here recorded to Denzil Crewe, she
was intensely anxious for his return. Her own plans
must all remain in abeyance until she could consult
with him.

The Admiral, perceiving this, sought an interview
with the head of the house to which Denzil
had been lately admitted a partner, and ascertained
that there was no pressing need to prolong his stay.
Moreover, when informed of the fortune awaiting
his junior, the 'worthy principal ' rapidly advanced
from civility to cordiality  declared he would write
by the post which left next day, and exhort Mr.
Crewe to return as soon as possible, and hoped that
he would not desert the firm.

Meantime Laura looked eagerly for a reply to
her letters written early in January. The great trial
of distance is the length of time which must elapse

before an answer can be received ; while the
chances and changes of this mortal life go on ever
accumulating, till the answer, when received, is
almost too old to be applicable. How often Laura
calculated that March would be in its first decade
before her long report could be in Denzil's hands,
and before his reply could possibly reach her the
last of the spring months would be half-way
through. Surely his next letter would announce
his coming ! Laura would not hear of taking personal
possession of her house and lands. * Let
time accustom people to the change of owners,' she
said, ' and then I will slide into my place.'

So she lived in the same simple fashion as
before her accession of fortune, and time rolled
swiftly on.

May was past its prime, still no letter had
reached Laura. The China mail was a couple of
days overdue, and she suppressed as much as was
in her power the uneasiness and dread that gnawed
at her heart. Mrs. Crewe was less restless : all the
future was bathed in sunshine to her, and she had
gone one evening at this time with much pride and
delight to the opera, for which Laura had procured
two stalls, and begged Mrs. Crewe to let her stay at
home, and to take Miss Brown in her place. Mrs.
Crewe had started triumphantly in the congenial
character of a patroness.

The Admiral had retired to his own room to

proceed with a work he had lately undertaken,
chiefly for Laura and Mrs. Crewe's benefit, a sort of
commentary or explanation of the nth chapter of
Revelation, for which he was under the impression
special light and guidance had been vouchsafed
him.

Laura had taken refuge in her painting-room,
and begun half mechanically to work at the picture
of ' Sunset on the Beach,' which she had never
finished, but which was inseparably associated with
the happy day when she had sketched it. It was a
labour of love to touch and retouch it, while she
lived over again in memory the few exquisitely
happy hours that succeeded Denzil's avowal and
their acknowledged engagement. That was indeed
a pure unmixed joy, but the good of this sudden
accession of fortune was doubtful. And then, she
thought, would Denzil approve the measures she
had taken ? Would he be dissatisfied with her for
thus acting on her own judgment without reference
to him ? Yes, they were of one mind, one
faith ! She laid aside her palette as she thought
thus, and sat down by the window, through which
came the perfume of the many blossoms in Mr.
Brown's carefully kept flower-beds. How often she
had looked out upon those little garden plots on
which her windows opened in bitterest despondency
and self-distrust ! Even now she rejoiced with
trembling ; for how could she tell what the future
had yet behind its mysterious curtain } So she
wandered into dreamland, forgetful of the present,

and deaf to a confused murmur and stir which by-and-by
arose from below. A sudden sharp knock
recalled her to herself. Almost before she could
say * Come in,' the door flew open and Denzil stood
on the threshold  Denzil, browner and thinner than
he was when they parted. An instant's breathless
pause of astonished delight, and then she sprang
forward and was locked in his warm loving
embrace, silent from excess of feeling. While she
clung to him, all reserve or coyness was swept away
by the startling rapture of this sudden meeting 
feeling that every doubt and difficulty was at an end
now that he was present with her !

At last my love  my life !' said Denzil huskily,
as she gently withdrew from his long passionate
kiss. * And I am dear and welcome to you ?'

Oh, how welcome !' cried Laura, struggling with
the tears that would force themselves from her full
heart. ' It has been weary waiting ! When, how,
did you come ?'

When I had your letter of January,' said Denzil,
still holding her to him, ' I had already nearly
finished my work, for I had pushed on as energetically
as possible. I was devoured with eagerness
to reach the home I knew was waiting for me,
and there was not much left to settle ; so, as the
same mail brought me a very friendly communication
from my partners desiring me to return as soon
as possible, as they understood my private affairs
required my presence, I determined to answer your
letter in person. There were a few days to spare

before the next mail went. I managed to start by
it, reached Falmouth last night, and here I am.'

Then came a confused exchange of question and
answer, and Laura eagerly poured out something
of the load she had longed for him to share.

When they had somewhat calmed down, Denzil,
after a short pause in their quick-flowing talk,
exclaimed :

For one circumstance I do especially thank
Heaven. It is that you were pledged to me before
this extraordinary discovery took place. I should
have been barred from aspiring to the wealthy
heiress ; but sort know, my darling, you were as
rich a prize to me the day you put your hand in
mine, as if you gave me the gold diggings of
California with it. There is no use to explain this
to you, yet I should not have liked to pose before
the world as a fortune-hunter.'

 / should not have thought you one ; what
matter for the rest?' said Laura, with a happy
smile.

Nevertheless, I am glad it is so,' said Denzil
gravely. * I am not at all pleased you have inherited
this property, Laura.'

I am not sure that I am either,' she returned.

It is awful hard lines for Reginald Piers and
that charming wife of his, and I am glad you have
provided for them. But you and I would have goton
very well ; whereas, now I am bound to make
even more money, not to be overshadowed by my
wife ; yet I dare say we will manage not to interfere

with each other, or clash in any way. It is curious,
and shows how unjust the prejudices of personal
likes and dislikes make a man ; but in my own
mind I felt a little surprise that Reginald Piers,
feeling himself safe, as he must have done, from
every chance of detection, should have acted the
honourable part he did.'

Why should you have doubted him ?' asked
Laura carelessly, and passed to some other branch
of the subject without waiting for a reply.

At last they remembered the Admiral, and repaired
to his apartment to pay him a visit.

It was a night long to be remembered  the
rapturous delight of Mrs. Crewe on finding her
beloved boy ready to receive her on her return from
the opera, the joyous supper, the pouring forth of
accumulated information respecting the sayings
and doings of the last eight or nine months, the
boundless content in each other, while Collins,
decked with the broadest grins of welcome, waited
on them assiduously, and Toppy, after careful inspection,
jumped uninvited on Denzil's knee.

The Admiral said a special grace, full of such
heartfelt gratitude and thankfulness that Mrs. Crewe
was moved to tears.

Is it not well that, for a rare moment or two, life
can wear so sweet and tender a smile for the toilers
amid its rugged ways ! that they may rest and be
refreshed, to take up the burden again, to press
onward and upward !

VOL. III. 62

R. TRENT'S comfortable house looked
itself again. The drawing-room shutters
were opened, the newspaper wrappings
removed, the chandeliers freed from
their imprisonment in holland bags, and, in short,
Missus had come home.'

It had been, according to his own account, a
purgatorial period to Mr. Trent, that winter of
separation ; but in point of fact the peas in his
pilgrim's shoes had been boiled tolerably soft, and
both he and his eldest boys found Christmas in
Dresden a very pleasant variation from the ordinary
festivities of that season in London. Mrs. Trent
was not sorry to find herself in her luxurious home
towards the end of June, ready to give and accept
some dinner-parties before the end of the season,
and where she was something quite fresh and
attractive after six or seven months' absence ; and
on the occasion about to be recorded she had
arranged a peculiarly recherche little dinner for a

party of twelve of her husband's more intimate
acquaintances in the upper and middle strata of
legal life.

Host, hostess, and guests were in excellent spirits;
the service and the viands were equally good ; all
went smoothly. The first seriousness of eating
over, the sharp edge of appetite blunted, conversation
flowed freely and brightly ; there were several
excellent talkers present, and Mrs. Trent knew how
to throw the ball. German politics had been ventilated
a propos of Mrs. Trent's visit, the last remarkable
trials were mentioned, curious items of intelligence
concerning them discussed, boni mots of
counsel repeated and a few more perpetrated, and
everyone was pleased with him and her self.

'That is a curious story about the Pierslynn
property,' observed Mr. Watkins, a rising barrister.
There have been paragraphs in most of the morning
papers about it. Was not young Piers in your
office, Trent i*'

Yes ; he was articled to us, and was out of his
time, but still working for the firm, when his cousin
broke his neck and he stepped into the estate.'

And now he has proved to be illegitimate, or
some such thing,' said Mr. Blenkinsop, the well-known
parliamentary solicitor.

Not at all,' cried Mrs. B. * Some relation, a
poor girl who was employed by a milliner  they
say, Madame Elise  turned out legitimate, and hasa
prior claim.'

You are all wrong,' said Mrs. Trent, laughing ;

622

both parties happen to be relatives of mine, and
as the story is to the credit of both, I will tell you
the facts.'

And in her clear pleasant manner, Mrs. Trent
gave what might be termed the principal points of
the case.

Thus she concluded, * the property has changed
hands with very little profit to the " gentlemen of
the long robe," as the papers say.'

'Very hard on Piers,' growled Thornton, Q.C.

Could he not get up a case of any kind ?'

 Impossible,' returned Mr. Trent. ' He had no
choice between destroying the documents and holding
his tongue, or giving up his estate. He wisely
chose the last, for dishonesty rarely pays ; and Miss
Piers, who is a very' accomplished ladylike girl, has
behaved exceedingly well ; they had always been
on friendly terms. She settles a thousand a year
on him and his wife or the survivor of them, and
has bought a house for them, also settled on the
wife ; while she gives Mrs. Piers senior the same
income (five hundred a year) that her son allowed
her ; not promised merely, you know, but legally
secured, out of her own power or that of any husband
to alter; and what makes it more praiseworthy,
Reginald Piers had managed, besides of
course spending the income of the property, to get
rid of upwards of eight or nine thousand pounds,
which were really Miss Piers's.'

He seemed to live tolerably fast,' said Mr.
Thornton.

He made no great show, and Mrs. Piers did not
give me the idea of extravagance observed Mrs.
Trent.

Board of green cloth, eh T suggested Watkins.

It is impossible to say,' returned Mr. Trent.

*What is the poor devil going to do?' asked
Mr. Thornton. * He cannot live on a thousand
a year after spending What was the rent-roll
V

Five thousand.'

After spending five,' concluded the Q.C.

No. He is far too shrewd and active a fellow to
lie idle. I have advised him to study for the Bar ;
that was his ambition formerly, but he was too
poor to wait for briefs. He is going to take my
advice, I believe.'

I dare say he will do very well,' said Mr. Blending
*A man who has reduced himself by his own
straightforward honesty will start with a useful
reputation ; the very circumstance will put him
well before the legal world.'

I remember him,' observed Mr. Watkins. * He
was a very smart fellow, well connected, too. Is
he not brother-in-law to that queer little litigious
north-country baronet, Sir Gilbert Jervois ?'

He is,' returned Mrs. Trent ; ' and he is married
to such a charming pretty creature  quite a love
match.'

I hope the love will not fly out of the window
under the present circumstances. Love is somewhat
of a summer birds said the Q.C.

What heresy ! You must not preach false doctrine
here laughed Mrs. Trent.

'But, by Jove, what a catch Miss Piers of Piers-lynn
will be !' cried young Richard Thurston. ' She
is no beauty, I believe.'

Beauty or no beauty,' returned the host, ' she is
an uncommonly nice girl, and an artist of no mean
ability ; but she is not in the market ; she is going
to make a rather indifferent, not to say poor marriage.
It seems before this curious discovery made
her an heiress, she had engaged herself to the son
of the lady with whom she lives. He was captain
of one of Gibbs Brothers' ships, and must be a
steady fellow, for they have taken him into partnership.'


What ! going to marry a merchant skipper ?'
cried young Thurston, with contemptuous surprise.


Impossible !' exclaimed Mrs. Blenkinsop, with
horror.

Will she not listen to the remonstrances of her
friends?' said Mrs. Watkins.

I do not think they venture to remonstrate,' replied
Mrs. Trent, * as her guardian. Admiral Des-barren,
makes no objection. I wish it were a better
match ; but I do not see how she was to break her
promise to a man who proposed for her when she
had nothing, and was earning her bread, not without
difficulty.'

It is evident,' said Mr. Thornton, * that the
Piers '< family, to which, I believe, our fair hostess

belongs, are of the sails peur sans reproche order,
whose word is their bond.'

I hope so,' said Mrs. Trent, smiling ; ' and in
token of my sympathy with my cousin Laura, I
have promised to assist at her wedding on the
fourth of next month. Give me half a glass more
claret, Mr. Thornton, and I shall quaff it to the
health of all true lovers, and then we ladies will
leave you to discuss profounder subjects.'

>|j  H  *

Once more the curtain goes up, five years having
elapsed since the last act.

Scene  a handsome artistically furnished ,
overlooking Regent's Park.

Mrs. Piers-Crewe, fairer, brighter, better looking
than of yore (for nothing beautifies like unselfish
happiness), is discovered sitting by a writing-table,
trying to teach the alphabet to a brown-eyed
brown-haired urchin of perhaps three years old, by
means of picture-cards thrown on the floor.

Bring me B, George.'

George, after a short search, proudly produces S.

No, no, my darling ; try again. This,' rapidly
printing it on her note paper, * is the shape of B.'

Master George lies down on his stomach with an
air of determination, and after much turning over
of the cards selects R.

That is a little nearer,' said his mother laughing ;
but '

Mrs. Reginald Piers,' announced a staid footman,
in quiet livery, opening the door and ushering in

Winifrid  Winifrid charmingly dressed in a spring
costume of fawn colour, deepened here and thereto
brown. She was as handsome as ever ; indeed
handsomer, with a look of thought in her eyes, a
sweet pensive expression upon her lips.

Laura came forward to meet her with the same
tender cordiality which time had not altered.

'So you are teaching the poor little fellow already,'
said Winifrid, taking George on her knee, and
parting his abundant fringe the better to kiss his
brow.

It is as good a play as any other returned the
mother, * and he will come to know the letters intime.'


Perhaps so. I am not so prevoyante as you ; I
never was. How is the Admiral, Laura ?'

Very much the same, weak and averse to take
nourishment, but suffers no pain ; he seems wonderfully
happy. I do not fancy anyone knows how
much he has suffered from religious doubts and
difficulties ; and he told me yesterday, that, instead
of bodily weakness obscuring his mind as it was
usually supposed to do, his spiritual power seems to
grow as his strength declines, and he added : ' " I
begin already to catch glimpses and hear echoes of
what eye has not seen or ear heard." He spoke
with such a profound conviction, such solemn joy,
that for an instant I felt a strange thrill. What
wondrous power there is in religious enthusiasm !'

There is indeed,' returned Winifrid.

Just then, nurse returned from her dinner, and

gathered up the picture alphabet, and carried it
and the infant student away with her.

Shall you be able to move the Admiral to the
country this summer?'

I hope so. You know there is really nothing
the matter with him ; he is just burning out, like a
flame too strong for what it feeds upon.'

How terribly Mrs. Crewe will feel his loss !'
Terribly ! she is the most devoted nurse.*
After a short pause Winifrid resumed :

To turn to a very different subject, do you
ever look at the " Births, marriages, and
deaths"'

Very seldom, I am ashamed to say. Why ?'

Because,' said Winnie, ' the marriage of Madame
Moscynska with an American was in yesterday's
Times!

Indeed !' cried Laura, ' It is years since we
have heard her name.'

Ah ! I wish we had never heard it,' returned the
other ; * she did not leave a blessing behind her.
However, when I showed the announcement to
Reginald he smiled rather grimly, and just said,
' Won't she make his dollars spin !" '

*Well, she has long been removed from your
path,' observed Laura, 'and I think  I hope,
dearest Winnie  that your life has been tranquil
and happy since  since Reginald took so steadily
and successfully to work ?'

Oh yes, it has been calm ; I should like to see
more of yoUy dear Laura ; but, I do not know how

it is, there seems always some obstacle to our meeting,
save in the morning. I often want Reggie to
go out more of an evening ; he works too hard,
and '

Winnie, do not ask too much of human nature.
It is not possible that Reginald can care to be much
with us. How can he forget that I have pushed
him from his place T

He ought only to remember your goodness, to
be pleased at his own success ! Do you know, he
has been asked to stand for Thirsting, near Sir
Gilbert's place in the north, and will probably be
returned ?'

That will please him ; he is naturally a politician.'


He never seemed to care for anything but
pleasure in the old Pierslynn days. How is Mr.
Crewe, Laura ?'

Remarkably well ; always busy, yet never
hurried.'

'I do believe,' said Winnie thoughtfully, 'that
you are a very happy couple.'

We are,' said Laura, in a low tone of utter and
complete assurance, while her eyes grew moist ;
and,' she added with a smile, ' there were some
ingredients in our marriage that might have led
to little festering jealousies. Mrs. Trent calls us
Ferdinand and Isabella," because we govern our
separate kingdoms so independently and yet in
perfect harmony. The country rustic rule is mine,
the town and commercial division is completely

his ; you see, we have such thorough confidence in
each other.*

There hues the secret,' returned Winifrid, with a
sigh. ' Though it is only to you I would ever
breathe such a confession, there is a certain restraint
about Reginald, an impalpable cloud I
cannot define, that drifts between my husband and
myself He is kind, he is tolerably well-tempered,
he is even at times tender ; yet I feel there is a
memory or experience of the past that is hidden
from me, and the ghost of that forbidden something
chills and checks mutual confidence ; in short,
my hopes, my happiest moments, are with my little
girl. Ah ! thank God, this baby is a girl !'

But, dearest Winnie !' cried Laura, inexpressibly
touched, 'you and Reginald love each other dearly?'

I think we do,' returned Winnie slowly and
sadly ; ' yet something has changed in the love of
our first happy days ; the light of perfect confidence
is dimmed, the subtle fragrance of complete
trust has evaporated, I know not why. Can they
ever be restored ?'

