CHAPTER I.

pkelt:mixary.

:HAT ! nursing again, Muriel ! What
is Betty doing, and where is thy
mother ? " cried Mrs. Bancroft, the furrier, as
she walked into the back parlour of her son-in-law's
house, the mere turn of a handle having
opened the front entrance for her, without the
ceremony of knocking. It was only when
rioters or other rough people were about that
doors were bolted during daylight in the last
century, or indeed in the early years of this.
A slim girl, not more than eleven years of age,
was pacing the floor with a baby-brother in
her slender arms. She answered cheerfully ;

VOL. I. B

Betty is washing dishes iii the back
kitchen, and mother is upstairs putting the
clean clothes away. I have not had George
very long, grandmother. And I don't mind
nursing him one bit when he doesn't cry.
He has given over now."

Oh ! then he has been crvinof ? " and
there was some acerbity in the old lady's tone,
as if she had-minded" very much.

' A little. Poor fellow, his teeth plague
him, mother says ; " and Muriel Danger
bent over the big boy in her arms with
such a look of pitiful affection in her large
dark-brown eyes, as clearly told she was in
earnest, though he did make her arms ache,
and her heart too when she could not still
his complaining.

'' I suppose Anna and Marion are both at
schooled"' again questioned Mrs. Bancroft.
And where is Sara ? "

Upstairs with mother. Sh, sh,"  this to
the infant, whose lip was again curling to a cry.

The old lady's chintz gown of printed linen
was open in the front over a quilted petticoat,

though tucked up behind to keep her train
out of the dust, and on each side, under this
open robe, a pannierdike pocket balanced its
fellow. By a bright steel chain depended from
her waist the sheathed scissors and plump
pincushion, without which no good housewife
was equipped. Her keys would have dangled
from another chain, but that out of doors they
were slipped into the right-hand pocket, and
were consequently invisible, even the chain
beinsr lost under the over-sown. It was
summer-time, and a scarf-like mantle of
black silk covered her shoulders, as mittens
covered her arms, leaving her fingers bare
and free to use ; the bonnet on her head
towered high above her lappet-like cap, and
assisted by her high-heeled shoes (buckled
across the instep) imparted height and importance
to a short figure.

Emptying from one pocket a store of
cherries, and cakes from the other, she kissed
the girl on the forehead, and said, " Divide
these amongst you," and without waiting for

thanks quitted the room and marched upstairs.

B 2

She found her daughter, Mrs. D'An3'er 
quite a young-looking woman to be the
mother of five children  on her knees in front
of a carved oaken coffer, her own gift to the
married couple. She was counting and
arranging her household sheets and napery
fresh from the airing, with little Sara, a
fair-haired beauty of three years, watching
her movements, and hindering under the
pretext of help.

Without a word of prelude Mrs. Bancroft
liegan, in a broader vernacular than I care to
inflict on my readers, common as it was then
to the manufacturing class ;

I tell thee what, Ellen, I shall not leave
Muriel here any longer to be kept from school,
and sacrificed to that boy. She is not strong
enough."

Mrs. Danger rose to salute her mother, but
her gentle " How do you do ? " changed to a
faltering apology, " Well, mother, I should
not have kept her at home to-day, but I was
very busy "

And always will be " interrupted her

mother : " every clay brings its own duties,
and every household its own work ; only contrivance
and management can keep the hour's
work to the hour. But busy or not busy, I'm
not going to see Muriel grow lopsided with
lugging a great lad about, and grow up in
ignorance Whilst her sisters are being properly
educated. Thai must have a nurse if Betty
has no time. I know thanet not so strong as
thai should be  all the fruits of marrying too
young  and thai needs help ; but I don't
think John will mind thee keeping a stout lass
to nurse that lad of ]us. If he does, /'// pay
her wages ; and as I mean to take Muriel off
your hands altogether, that will square accounts."


Mrs. Danger, a mild, timid little Avoman,
stood in no small awe of her prompt, energetic
mother, but she also stood in fear of her
husband, and ventured a sort of expostulatory
protest, to which the old lady paid no sort of
heed.

"I tell thee, Ellen," she maintained, " the
eldest girl in a large family is always made a

drudge to the rest ; it was so in my case, but
I'll take care it shall not be Muriel's lot. She
shall go home with me ; I'll see her educated.
John won't miss her. I don't think he has
cared for the lass since the illness that seamed
her face and spoiled her beauty ; " and she
wiped a handkerchief over her own face,
warm with the excitement and energy of her
speech.

"Oh, mother!" was all the younger woman
could interject in remonstrance, as she placed
the last pile of linen in the coffer and closed
the heavy Ud.

Ah, thai may say, ' Oh, mother ! ' but
thai knows its true. I'll go and have a talk
to John in the warehouse. I suppose I shall
find him there;" and off she went, determined
not to let her project cool.

It has been said that Mrs. Bancroft was a
furrier. It may be added that she had for
many years carried on most successfully the
-extensive wholesale business of her dead
husband, in premises situated in the rear of
Tier handsome double fronted red brick house

on Eed Bank, Manchester, and was accounted
a wealthy woman in her sphere. Wealthy,
that is, as the world goes ; her possessions
could be reckoned in houses and land, bought
and sold as merchandise ; but she had scarcely
the true riches, though she went regularly to
church, stood in good repute, and had a profound
veneration for religious profession in
others.

Dingy enough now is the thoroughfare
known as Eed Bank ; even fifty years ago
the deterioration had begun, smoke doing
more than the finger of Time to tone down
tints of brickwork and stone ; nay, a publican
had set his sign over what had been Mr?.
Bancroft's door, there were shops where had
been private houses, and inferior structures
were creeping up the steep hill-sides to obliterate
every trace of grass or of the red
sand from which the road took its name.
Yet was the verdant country close at hand in
Mrs. Bancroft's time, grass and flowers and
bushes were plentiful atop of the rugged red-banks
left on either side by successive lowering

of the hill, over which then ran the main
road to Rochdale and Bury from Scotland
Bridge and the valley of the Irk upwards, and
Mrs. Bancroft's house at the foot of the brow
was a residence of some pretensions.

Twelve years prior to this decided enunciation
of opinion relative to her favourite
grandchild Muriel, her own daughter Ellen
was a dark-haired, dark-eyed, vivacious damsel
of sixteen, the youthful roundness of whose
cheeks softened the high cheek-bones, which
age or illness might define and sharpen as
they had done for the elder woman. They
were alike short in stature, alike active and
notable, but the resolute set of mouth and
the energy of the woman had no signs of
development in the girl.

At that period dancing was an accomplishment
more for the aristocracy than for traders,
but a certain Madam Bland had opened an
academy in a fashionable part of the town for
such as could afford to pay well for instruction,
and Mrs. Bancroft did not hesitate to enrol
Ellen amoniT the select circle of Madam

Bland's pupils, as a finishing touch to an
education which had, to say the least, cost
much.

No retail trader could have gained admission
for son or daughter into that circle ; the
line was drawn at merchants and manufacturers
; but of all those who did most honour
to Madam's professorship was John Danger,
who, though but the son of a Manchester
manufacturer, yet boasted he had blue blood
in his veins as in his name.

He was barely twenty, yet he stood six
feet high, and had a figure as finely proportioned
as his handsome face. Dancing was
only one of his many accomplishments, but it
was the one in which his peculiar graces of
form and manner were most likely to move
impressionable hearts ; and Ellen Bancroft
was only one of the damsels who sighed for
him. But in her case the attraction was
mutual. And not alone in minuet or cotillion
had they seen and admired each other. The
Bancroft and the Danger pews in the Collegiate
Church adjoined, there was speaking

acquaintance between the elders, and the two
3oung people might be said to have grown up
under each other's eye.

In Madam Bland's academy the acquaintance
ripened rapidly ; it furnished occasions
for mutual intercourse unsuspected at home,
and led to a step not in the Terpsichorean
programme.

One sunny morning when early May blossoms
scented the air. Miss Bancroft, arrayed as
for a fashionable assembly in a dress of cherry
colour-and-white satin brocade, her hair
elaborately coiled by the peruquier, was
handed by her admiring mother into a sedan
chair at the door of the house on Eed Bank,
as was customary on dancing days, and it
sightly struck the mother that "the lass was
in an unusual flurry."

Be this as it may, the chairmen bore the
sedan, not to Madam Bland's, but to the
Collegiate Church ; and when they again set
lier down at her unsuspecting mother's door
she was the wife of John Danger.

No one's advice had been asked, no one's

counsel taken. The girl, captivated by
a handsome face and graceful figure, had
allowed his dominant will to control her.
Had any reason existed for secrecy beyond
their immature age, it was unknown.

Three months later a loud ran tan, tan, tan,
tan, on the heavy knocker, startled the echoes
in the Eed Bank house. Mrs. Bancroft had
just come in from the warehouse for her
four o'clock tea, and a maid was carrying the
mahogany tea-board, with its freight of tiny
landless cups and saucers, into the household
room, and almost dropped it in her fright.

The clang on the knocker had not ceased
when she opened the door, and Mr. John
Danger, in a fashionable suit of plum-coloured
kerseymere, with silver buckles at
his breeches' knees and on the instep of his
high-heeled shoes, crushed past her into the
lobby, and in thick but imperious tones
demanded to see his " wife."

Margery insisted that he had mistaken the
house, and failing to convince him, turned
hack to seek her mistress in the kitchen.

To her amazement he followed her, not too
steadily, down the passage, to be confronted
by Mrs. Bancroft, who stood with her face
towards him, by the white deal table,
under the broad window, at which Ellen was
washing, in a large bowl, lace ruffles and
lawn kerchiefs, too dainty to be sent to a
common clear-st archer.

It was evident the young man had taken too
much wine ; his three-cornered hat was awry,
the ruffles ac his wrists, the falling neckcloth
edged With lace, were sullied and disordered ;
and so Mrs. Bancroft thought were his wits,
as he repeated, " I have come for my wife ; I
want my wife''

Your wife ? " she echoed, and would
have added, " There is no Avise of yours here,"
but she chanced to glance towards her
daughter, and the words died upon her lips.

It needed not his iteration of " Yes, Ellen ;
my wife ! " that white face, that shrinking,
trembling figure told all.

Whether in wrath, or to keep the girl from
fainting, she could never decide with herself,

she took up the earthen bowl and dashed its
contents, water and lace together, upon the
daughter who had deceived her.

Take your wife, take her ! and never let
her darken my doors again ! " she cried,
sternly, and passed out of the kitchen, not
to return until the door had closed upon
them both, as she had closed the door of
her heart.

Though an only daughter, Ellen was not an
only child. She had a brother three years
her senior, training to succeed his mother in
the business. His intercession for his sister
might have been expected.

Nothing of the kind occurred. Samuel
Bancroft had not a thought beyond self. He
sat down to the tea-table, after a rough preliminary
scrub in the scullery, rendered necessary
by his duties in the skin-yard  was
briefly told what had occurred, bidden never
to name his sister again,  and had no desire
to transgress.

He could have told, had he been so minded,
that he had been deputed to break the secret

to his mother ; but he preferred to assume
ignorance, and wipe his clean hands of the
offending pair, as he hoped to wipe his sister
out of the mother's will by-and-bye.

Months went by  months which sharpened
and hardened the outlines of Sarah Bancroft's
face. An idol had been shattered, and nothing
had replaced it. Her seat in the Old Church
was vacant ; she resolutely passed its walls
and trudged forward to St. Ann's (there being
no church nearer home at that time) ; but
though she heard the words-harden not
your hearts, as in the provocation," Sabbath
by Sabbath, she refused to take their import
to herself. If there was any softening of her
heart, it was unknown ; the silence peremptorily
enjoined at the outset became habitual ;
her business did not throw her in the way
of the D'Anyers, and she knew nothing even
of her daughter's whereabouts. Whether she
felt more keenly the barb of her child's
ungrateful secrecy, or the prolonged estrangement,
could not be told ; but unspoken feeling
of some kind brought out more sharply the

prominence of her cheek-bone, and ploughed
fresh Knew on her brow.

She had several brothers and brothers-in-law
in different trades ; but their places of
business lying away across the town, they did
not often meet.

One sleety afternoon in the following February,
as she was shaking hands with a
Bolton hatter, to whom she had sold a larixe
parcel of rabbit-skins (to be felted into veritable
beaver), her brother Ralph, a cotton
merchant, stepped into the warehouse,
amongst piles of skins, and barely waiting
until the hatter's back was turned bean, 

"Sarah, dost thai know the tale that's
going' about the town ? "

What tale ? " said both eyes and Hps.

Why, that thy daughter Ellen was turned
out of the house wringing' wet, with no clothes
but what she stood up in, and is now living'
on the charity of the D'Anyers! "

Mrs. Bancroft changed countenance.
Wringing wet ! " " No clothes ! " she
echoed, as if unaware how literally Ellen's

dismissal had been taken, but her pride caiiglil
lip the one word " charity," and her breast
leaved as with a pent-up burden. " Charity !
charity!" she exclaimed. "My daughter
living upon cliaritij ! I'll see about that! " and
to her brother's surprise, before he was aware
of her intentions, she was across the yard,
in the house, and out again at the front, with
the hood of her scarlet cloth cloak over her
bonnet, and lier patterns on her feet, hurrying
through the wet to the small ware manufacturer's
in Cannon Street, panting as she went
with suppressed and contending emotions.

I hear that my daughter is said to be
living on your charity, Mr. Danger," she
began abruptly, as the old small ware manufacturer
presented himself before his unexpected
visitor.

Nay, nay, Mrs. Bancroft, Ellen is as welcome
as th' flowers i' Mays I put another
loom down when she came, that's all, and I
mean to put another down now th' little lass
hath come ! I always put a fresh loom down
when a fresh mouth comes to be filled ; and

the more the merrier, say I. I only wish
Estella herself was stronger; but she has never
fairly got over the wetting you gave her. "

Mrs. Bancroft felt herself rebuked, though
she did not take in the full purport of his
speech. " Well, sir," said she, ignoring the
censure, " you can put the profit of your
looms to other uses. I do not intend my
daughter to live an any one's charities. If
your son has neither business to maintain his
wife, nor home to take her to, it is time he
had. And I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll furnish
them a house, and I'll be five hundred
pounds towards setting him up in business, if
you'll be another five hundred ; and they can
come to my house until they have one of their
own. But no living on charity ! " and the
word came out with a gasp.

There has been no charity, my good
friend," said Mr. Danger, with a genial smile.
No one regretted John's secret and precipitate
match more than myself and Manly " (his
wife), " but my son's wife is my daughter, and
as such we made her welcome. And I shall

VOL. I. c

be glad to meet you half-way in giving them
a start in life, either in my trade, or yours, or
one of your brothers'. But they will have to
stay here until they have a house of then-own.
We are not so thick on the spot as we
were, and the place is big enough to hold us
all. Besides  Ellen cannot be removed, and
I don't think it would be safe for you to see
her just yet ; she must not be agitated. But
there's naught to hinder you seeing the little
lass."

"What little lass?" Mrs. Bancroft would
have asked, but he was out of the room, and
she who had gone there in high-handed pride
and indignation, was left to institute comparisons
and ponder his meaning. Presently
he returned with a long-robed infant in his
patriarchal arms  and then she was enlightened.


Pride, indignation, resentment, dissolved in
tears over her first grandchild's face.

Little Muriel had come as a pacificator.

SETTLED.

fo THOUSAND pounds was a goodly capi-
yM tal to commence business with in 177S,
when John Danger elected to turn fustian
manufacturer, a term at that time of very
wide signification. A warehouse was found
and fitted for his trade in Sugar Lane, not
far from his own father's thread and small-ware
manufactory in Cannon Street. Then
Mrs. Bancroft, reconciled to the young people,
furnished for them, solidly and well, a house
in Broom Street close by, the exclusive respectability
of which was maintained by posts
and chains to bar the ingress of unprivileged
vehicles. Whatever the street may be now, it
was then genteel and dull ; but Broom Street
and Sugar Lane met at a sharp angle, and
there was the advantage of communication at

c 2

the back between house and warehouse.
Steam power had not been introduced into
manufactories, and very few were fitted up
with elaborate machinery. Outlay was
chiefly for raw material and work-people's
wages. In John D'i\nyer's, for instance,
warders  generally women  carried home
great hanks of yarn in their canvas bags, or
pokes," and brought it back on their heads
in huge flat balls, warped ; that is, threads of
sufficient number and length for the piece of
cloth, arranged and grouped together systematically
by means of pegs in the warmer's
cottage wall. The handbook weavers took
home the warp, with twist for the weft, and
brought it back in the piece ; again it went
out to be bleached or dyed, and, in the case
of fustians, to be cut. In these days so many
processes are carried on in one set of premises
that immense capitals are required. Then
John Danger was considered to start under
very favourable auspices, and expected to
make a fortune, as others had done before
him.

But they were plodders, he was not. He
was proud to be his own master, and the
master of others ; had taken to the business
kindly, and was not too proud to doff his coat
and lend a hand either to putter-out or
packer. Then, being vain of his penmanship,
he conducted his own correspondence,
not a very onerous duty, and kept his own
books, with a clerk under him ; and was as
good a buyer and seller as any on 'Change.
But he was vain of this person as well as of
his penmanship, and was apt to vary the
monotony of the Exchange Room with a stroll
under the trees of St. Ann's Square, the adjacent
fashionable promenade, or arm in arm
with friend or cousin of his own age, who had
more money than wit, finish the day at the
cockpit, or it might be in a carouse.

And in this John Danger must not be
judged by our standard. Temperance had not
become a creed : a man amongst men was he
who could carry most liquor with the steadiest
legs and the clearest head; and so long as a
man was up and about his business during the

day, no one troubled himself how he spent
his nights. That concerned no one but the
people at home.

And it must not be supposed that John
Danger's proclivity for convivial society was
such as to interfere with his business, or make
him other than a gentleman, although he had
demanded his girl-wife in most unseemly
fashion. He was wont to say he " would not
give a button for aay man who could not be
anything in any society," and certainly the
polished gentleman occasionally descended.
He was, however, a strict disciplinarian in
business or out, and his devoted little wife,
who had not her mother's strength of will,
was too timid to oppose act or word of his,
too nervous to propose aught to which he
might object ; and neither years nor motherhood
brought her self-reliance.

Mrs. Bancroft was loth to admit it even to
herself; but Ellen DAnyer had never quite
recovered from the effects of the Averting she
had given her twelve years before. Her imprudent
and impetuous young husband, too

excited to reason, had hurried lier away at
Mrs. Bancroft's harsh bidding, drenched as
she was ; and though he hailed the first sedan
chair they met, there was nearly a mile to
traverse between Eed Bank and Cannon
Street, and explanations to follow, before dry
garments could be substituted. Rheumatic
fever was a natural sequence, and lifelong
delicacy ; mental suffering having been superadded
to the physical. Her long illness had,
however, been borne with patient resignation,
and had served to draw her nearer to her
Creator. The seventeen-years-old wife had laid
down her self-will before Muriel was born.

It was therefore with no slight trepidation
she awaited, with her boy in her arms, the
return of her energetic parent from the warehouse
that summer afternoon ; having no
clear idea of the proposal to be made, or of
her husband's mood to receive it. Nor was
she much more assured by the triumphant
smile on Mrs. Bancroft's face as she walked
into the back sitting-room and bade Muriel
take Sara and her doll into the kitchen."

Well, it is settled," she began ; "I am to
find you a respectable and capable nursemaid,
and Muriel is to be turned over to me."

You are not coins? to take Muriel from
me," put in Mrs. John Danger faintly.

Yes, I am ; so have her box packed by
this day week. I'll see you have a nurse
before then ; and, by-the-bye, put nothing in
that is half Adorn. I'll see she has a fresh rig
out before she goes."

Goes where ? " asked the wondering youno-
mother.

Why, to Chester, with me. Did I not tell
you I was going to send her to school ? "

Mrs. John Danger's heart sank. She
dearly loved her first-born, if the father did
not ; and the announcement was like a sentence
of banishment to lier.

Cliester I Oh, mother, surely there are
good schools in Manchester ; you would not
send the dear girl so far away. And such a
dangerous road  that terrible forest to cross.
How could she ever come home for her holidays
! "

She will have no holidays.  You need not
look so blank. I will see to the lass. And
I'll get thy father's kinsman, the Eev. Thomas
Bancroft, to look after her, so she'll be well off,
for lie's a good man. She would only be
put upon at home ; be at every one's beck
and call ; be nursemaid and scapegoat for the
whole lot, and I've set my mind on making a
clever woman of her. Aye, and a happy one
into the bargain. She is ooinf amongst ladies,
to be treated like a lady. I'll see to that."

Tears sprang to the mother's eyes.

Now, don't be silly," cried the observant
grandmother ; " the child's not gone yet, and
won't go till Chester Fair ; so there's all the
time between this and Michaelmas to reconcile
yourself, if you are so foolish as to need
reconciling to a chancre which is for her
good."

'but what of Muriel? it will break her
tender heart ! "

Leave her to me, there shall be no breaking
of hearts. I'll see to that. There might
be some breaking of back if she stayed here

much looser. And now call lier in, and let
us have tea. John will be in directly."

During this colloquy Marion and Anna, the
one nine and the other seven, had come skipping
home from school ; but, kept in check
by Muriel with grandmother's cherries and
cakes, had remained discreetly in the large
bright kitchen. And as children were seldom
permitted to take tea with their elders, there
was no hardship in sitting down at the round
oak table to their brown bread and cans
of milk, whilst father, mother, and grandmother
drank tea and ate white bread and
butter in the parlour ; and unknown to them,
two strong minds strove to convince a weak
but warm-hearted mother that it was well the
daughter she loved should be taken from her.

The hardship came to the children a week
afterwards, when Sister Muriel went to stay
with Grandmother Bancroft, and a stout girl
of fifteen, rough and ready in her handling of
them, was the only substitute. They had no
forecast of the longer parting in store, 3'et
they cried themselves to sleep.

]s"or had Muriel when lie was sent every
morning up Eed Bank for a draught of new
milk at the farm-house by the stocks, " to
brinir a colour into her cheeks," as her grandmother
said ; or even when she was measured
for new frocks, and shoes and bonnets and
caps, and was provided with a fur muff and
tippet of grey squirrel, and was told that lie
was oroinsf with Grandmother Bancroft to
Chester Fair.

Chester Fair ! Did not her father and
uncles talk of it, and the business down therefor
weeks before and after ; and had she not
seen the preparations made for her father's
departure, the packing of his saddle-bags, the
loading of his pistols ! Surely it was a great
event to her, a something look forward to
With glee. Muriel had no prescience and no
fears. But the tender mother had ; and
though she had been enjoined to say nothing,
and to let the child go away quietly ; and
though she knew that Muriel was dearer to
Grandmother Bancroft " than all her possessions,
and that the resolute old lady was

actuated by a sincere desire to promote the
child's welfare, she could not let her go under
a false impression, to waken to reality among
strangers, and that without a word of farewell
warnings and counsel.

She took the opportunity when Muriel,
taller, stronger, and rosier for her four
months' residence and rambles in the fresh air
and green fields around lied Bank  the latter
shared with Silly Hargreaves, a favourite
cousin, whose father's dye-works lay between
Eed Bank and the Ever Irk  was permitted
to spend a couple of days in Broom Street
prior to the eagerly anticipated journey to
Chester Fair.

Never to be forgotten by Muriel so long as
she lived, was that hour with her mother in
the privacy of her chamber, an hour dark as
was the mahogany furniture and heavy
moreen draperies, for there she first learned
that her journey to Chester was not a mere
pleasure-trip. It was sad for both ; not that
the Misses Briscoe's school had terrors for
Muriel, or to Mrs. John Danger ; it had been

painted in the brightest tints ; but the parting,
the separation for a long and uncertain period,
the distance which must lie between them,
had. And to understand this, it must be
known that m 1789 there was no direct conveyance
for passengers between Manchester
and Chester. Goods were sent on pack-horses,
or by the Duke of Bridgewater's new canal ;
and horse-drawn packet-boats which met a
stage-coach three miles from Frodsham, were
also provided for the accommodation of passengers.
Otherwise the ordinary stage-coach
went no farther than Northwich, and people
who did not travel on horse-back must hire
a post-chaise or a cart, and run the risk of
highwaymen and footpads on their route
through Delamere Forest, if they wished
to reach the Palatine city.

These dangers had been too often discussed
in Muriel's presence to leave her ignorant.
There could be no home-coming at stated
times, and her young heart sank ; but when
she saw how her dearly-loved mother was
overpowered, she put a brave face upon it.

and said ' perhaps sallier or grandmother
might bring her mother over to see her at
fair time." She knew that her grandmother
had a relation in Chester, a clergyman, the
head master of the Grammar School there,
and had been told that he would be sure to
come and see her ; still, he was not her
mother, and her mother was all the world
to her.

But she grew grave and sober as her
mother exhorted her to " hold fast by the
hand of Christ at all times and in all seasons,
whether tried, or tempted, or troubled, and
never to let it go." And then her mother put
into her hands a thickly bound black volume
with massive silver clasps, on which were
engraved Dem., 1711, the same initials and
date being stamped in gold on either side.
Take this, my child," she said ; " it is the
most precious token of my love that I can
bestow upon you  the Bible and Prayer-book
of our ancestress Deborah Massey ; it washer
constant companion, the law of her life.
Make it yours, Muriel, and I shall never re gret

this day. The book has been handed down
as a precious treasure ; it has been such tome,
let it be such to you."

The tears of the mother and daughter
mingled on the black cover and on the silver
clasps, as the arms of Muriel went round that
mother's neck in a clasp as close, and a kiss
of assurance sealed the promise that she gave.

Travellers.

|g|ELAMEEE Forest and Cliester Fair !
tflif There was a promise of romance and
mystery in the one, of pleasure in the other.
What o-irl of Muriel's acfc but would have
looked forward with excitement and anticipation
?

It was a sad damper to learn that the
romance of the hazardous journey, the show
and delights of the great fair, were to terminate
in the reality of a strange boarding-school,
and long absence from home and the
mother she loved so dearly.

Gratitude to Grandmother Bancroft, which
had been bubbling up from the deep fountain
in her breast, as one new garment after
another had come from the mantua maker, and
her handsome furs from the warehouse, sank

to a low ebb when she learned the hidden
motive for so much preparation. It was not
in her nature to demur openly, but she said
to herself over and over again : " But for
mother, I might have gone away without
knowing ! It was not kind of Grandmother
Bancroft! It was not hind. Now could she
do it ? " Her murmuring were, however,
stilled by the remembrance that her own
mother had said " it was for her good, and
that it was very kind of grandmother to take
the charge and expense of Muriel's wardrobe
and education on herself." " If mother
thinks it is good for me, I suppose I ought
to be satisfied ; and if grandmother really
means it for the best, it is ungrateful to
grumble. Only it is so far I Well, as mother
says, the Lord can hear me, and see me, and
care for me in Chester as well as here, and for
them too ! " but she had her fears, missfivino-s,
and regrets, nevertheless.

It was in such mood Muriel watched her
Grandmother Bancroft as she packed new
linen and new frocks in a small trunk, covered

VOL. I. D

with mottled cow-hide, whereon her initials
M. D." shone in the glory of brass nails.

Who gave thee this ? " asked Mrs. Bancroft,
as the girl tendered the silver-clasped
Bible to be packed.

Mother," was the answer, " and see the
letters on the back are the same as 'those on
the box."

I think Ellen might have set more store
by Deborah Massey's Bible than to give it
thee. But see thai take care of it, and use
it well."

She did not say, "Make good use of it,"
that did not occur to her.

But how is my box to go, grandmother ? ''
asked Muriel, as the key was turned in the
lock, and a canvas cover fitted ; " if I am to
ride on a pillion behind Uncle Sam, our horse
could not carry it, and yours will have the
saddle-bags. Will one of the pack-horses
take it?"

Xo, lass ! I've done with pack-horses,
thank goodness ! Your box will go tomorrow
along with the bales of furs and peltry to the

wharfinger of the Duke's canal, and be sent
by boat to Frodsham, or nigh it, and on by
carrier's waggon to the Manchester Hall in
Chester ; the new hall that thy Grandfather
Danger, and me, and your uncles, and other
Manchester folk have gone shares to build."

So saying, Mrs. Bancroft sent the packing-needle
on its last errand through the canvas,
drew the stitch tight with a business-like jerk,
cut it away with the scissors at her girdle, and
rose from her knees.

Muriel was curious.

How did you manage, grandmother, before
the hall was built ? "

How ? Wh}, as best we could. Showed
our goods in booths in the streets, as had
been done for years before, or kept them atour
inns, and looked out for customers. But
that didn't suit me. I said I'd see about it,
and now we've a fine hall to cover us."

'hundreds of years!" Muriel had ejaculated,
but Mrs. Bancroft's task completed, she
had no mind to linger. She was wanted in
the warehouse, else she might have told

D 2

Muriel that fairs were of very ancient date,
and had their origin in the wants and necessities
of the people ; and that of the early-english
fairs, established and chartered for the
sale or interchange of goods and produce,
or for the hiring of men and maidservants at
a period when towns and villages were scattered
and far apart, roads few and unsafe,
Chester Fair was one of the earliest, and in
best repute. Its charter dated back almost to
the days of Hugh Lupus, the first Earl of
Chester, who held his rich Palatinate by grant
from his near kinsman, William the Conqueror.
Chester was an important seaport then, and
needed a strong hand to fortify the castle the
Eomans had left, as well as to protect the
commerce of the Dee from the pirates swarming
in the Irish Channel. She might have
told how the monks of St. Jedburgh had
represented " mysteries " or " miracle plays,"
to edify and keep from mischief the idle multitudes
who thronged to the fair for sport, of
wliicli the more modern show was the outcome ;
and how none but freemen of the city were

permitted to trade within its walls except
when a white glove was hung out from the
tower of St. Peter's, as a symbol of peace, of
the native trade, and of the fair. And she
might have justified her own special business
at Chester Fair with an old chronicler's summary
of its merchandise : 

"Hides and fish, salmon, hake, herrings,
Irish wool and linen cloth, falling,
And martens good, be her merchandise,
Hates hides, and other of veneris,
Skins of otter, squirrel, and Irish hose,
Of sheep, lamb, and fore, is her chafFare,
Fells of kids and conies great plenty,"

But she could not have told or foretold how
kettles o' stream " would go whizzing and
fizzing over the land with a besom of progression
in their train to sweep such chartered
fairs clean away as nuisances, not conveniences.


She had told the girl at various times quite
sufficient about Chester, its fairs, and its
double rows of shops, where the covered
pathway to the upper row was right over the
roofs of the lower set, above which the
prominent house-fronts formed a sort of arcade

; quite enough to put the looming school
in the background, and after the first tears of
parting were dried, to cause Muriel to sit her
pillion lightly, and clasp her Uncle Sam's
waist in hopeful mood and with a smile on
her cheerful countenance.

But Muriel had never mounted a pillion
before ; the journey was lonfjf and tedious ;
the roads were woefully uneven beneath the
horse's feet, and long ere they reached Forthwith
she was sick with the jolting, and her
face proclaimed it. Samuel grumbled hard
at the loss of time and money, when his
mother announced her intention to remain at
the Unicorn until the next morning on the
lass's account.

"It's not as if you were going right through
to Chester," he urged ; " it's only seven or
eight miles to Eddisbury, and you know the
Kingsleyss expect you. When Muriel has had
a good dinner and a horn of home-brewed,
she'll be as right as nine pence, I'll warrant."

It was not customary in the last century to
discuss business before young people, or make

them privy to the plans of their elders, and
Muriel took the sharp " Sam ! " and the significant
frown of her grandmother, as a
reminder that she was present, and need not
be enlightened ; but Samuel, keen and sharp
where his own interest was concerned, took it
as a hint that there were strangers in the
room, and that it was not wise to prate of
their path so openly.

Irritated as much at his own thoughtlessness
as at the rebuke, he rubbed his hands
smartly over his breeches' thighs, indulged ina
brief whistle, and rising, said :

Hang it, what a while they are with that
dinner I I'll go and have a look at the horses,
and see no tricks are played with them or
their feed. One need be sharp in this world ! "
and the cunning look in his greenish-grey
eyes said people had need to be very sharp
indeed to take Mm in. At the door he turned
round to say, " And if the lass be so desperately
tired let her lie down on yon settle by
the wall, if its cushion's soft enough," a hint
Muriel scarcely liked to take before strangers.

But lier grandmother's quick, "I'll see to
that," settled the business, and she lay down,
with a saddle-bag for a pillow, glad to rest,
and in the sense of repose soon forgot the
strangeness of all around, the farmers and
others by the hire. Then she began to
wonder if she also was expected at Eddisbury,
and what sort of people the Kingsleyss were,
and what sort of a place the Forest House
was, and to think how funny it was she
should be <io\\\(X there after all her wonder
about it. She had heard it spoken of many
a time, but curiosity was a crime in that
generation (and the next). " Don't ask questions,
children should be seen and not heard,"
being the general stopper on a thirst for
knowledge.

She had a hazy recollection of being told by
some one it was " only an old, rambling farmhouse,"
and very likely her informant had no
acquaintance with its history, and could have
told her no more. But that old, rambling,
picturesque, black-and-white, timber and-rubble
Forest House, of which scarcely a vestige

remains for the antiquary, occupied the
site of an older edifice still, the stronghold of
the wise Ethelred, the daughter of King
Alfred, the wife and widow of Ethelred, king
of Mercia, the sister and counsellor of King
Edward. Here, on a lofty elevation, in the
very centre of the great forest, she, whom the
old chroniclers call " the wisest of women,"
founded what she held to be an impregnable
city, strengthening it with earthworks, traces
of which remain, and with palisades, of which
only the name is left. The eleven thickly
wooded acres which had held Ethelred's
strong city of Eddisbury, still retain the title
of the Old Pale, and the "old farm-house"
Muriel was about to visit, dated back to times
when Delamere Forest was a chase for the
ancient Earls of Chester, and the chief custodian
of the red and fallow deer held the so-called
Chamber of the Forest, with a band of subordinates
to assist in the maintenance of the
forest laws, and his own privileges. This was
even before James the First knighted the Chief
Forester, or confirmed the appointment to Sir

John Dene and his heirs for ever, and so the
Forest House towards which Muriel was
wending, had, like the forest itself, seen its
palmy days depart, and was not merely old,
but ancient. But paint and whitewash covered
up the wrinkles of time, and it still showed a
good front to the world from that coign of
'vantage, " the storied hill of Eddisbury."

Nothing of this had floated into Muriel's
dreams, when she was startled from a doze by
the return of her Uncle Sam and his exclamation,
" No sign of dinner yet, and two o'clock !
It seems there are some fine folk upstairs,
mother, who came in yon chaise before the
door, and there's been such a fuss made over
getting dinner for them all in a hurry, that
plain tradesfolk that travel on horseback
must e'en be content to wait. Oh ! you're
here at last," he cried, as the hostess herself
came in close at his heels to lay the cloth, and
apologise for keeping old customers waiting ;
but " the lady dio came in the yellow chaise,"
she said, " was ill, and sick folk must be
minded first."

So they must," assented Mrs. Bancroft,
and I've been in no hurry. I wanted this
little lass to have a good spell of rest before
her dinner."

Muriel was too much shaken to eat a good
dinner, she felt as if all her bones had been
dislocated ; the hour's rest had not refreshed
her much more than the repast ; but she was
unwilling to cause unpleasantness or disconcert
her grandmother's arrangements, so, when
the meal was over, she answered Samuel's
"Well, are you ready?" with a smile and a
prompt assent, and stifled a sigh of weariness
as she stepped up on the horse-block, to
resume her seat on the pillion, well repaid by
her grandmother's look of satisfaction ; though
if she had obeyed her own inclination, she
would have preferred to stay where she was.

She was aware that Mr. Kingsley was the
Chief Forester of Delamere, and that her
grandmother, who had large dealings with
him, carried a silver whistle in the shape of
a horn, which had been given to her as a token,
but until Uncle Samuel had spoken she had

no idea they were going to the Forest House.
It was a reef to learn they were not going onto
Chester that afternoon. And Sam was in
haste to get to their journey's end before
dusk, as the road was not too lively, and not
in too good repute.

Mrs. Bancroft had a small freehold property
at Waverham, on the north-east border of
the forest, which required her supervision, and
for this, and other reasons, she had set out a
full fortnight before Michaelmas, and a week
prior to the fair. A few days later the road
would be alive with travellers of all sorts and
conditions wending towards the same goal.
As it was  though the post-chaise had left
the inn not ten minutes before themselves 
only a stray pedlar, a labouring man, children
nutting or blackberries, or a farmer on
horseback, were to be passed upon the road ;
and when once they were fairly in the forest,
notwithstanding the clearness of the afternoon
and the mellow tints of the autumnal
foliage, there was a sharp breeze which swept
the deep waters of the meres into mimic



waves, rustled over the waving frolics of fern,
went singing and sighing through the trees,
driving the brown and yellow leaves in
showers around them, and somehow revived
the mysterious influence of the old tales she
had so often listened to at home.

Yet as they rode steadily and slowly along
the ascending road, past wide stretches of
boggy moss, or yellow broom, undulating
pasture, billowy brake or low copse where
trees were sparse, her mind was disabused of
the idea that a forest was a dense impenetrable
mass of trees, such as she had read of
in an old book at home, Kinc Arthur and
his Knights of the Found Table sought
adventures in. Still there were giant oaks,
and stately elms, and graceful birch, and
smooth-bolted amber-tinted beeches massed
together here and there between, and in the
distance might wooded Eddisbury be seen
like a dark cloud of firs against the opaUne
sky. And as high overhead a pair of wild
ducks took their flight from mere to mere, ora
crested grebe on whirring wing obeyed the

call of an expectant mate, or a frightened hare
or rabbit scuttled away for safety amongst the
herbage, or a solitary lapwing trying the speed
of its thin legs against their horses', broke the
stillness with the sharp " peewheet, peewheet "
of maternal care : all these sights and sounds
unwonted told the town girl they were
intruders on nature's domain ; and that where
was a covert for deer was a covert also for
men of evil deed, and evil fame.

She clung closer to her uncle in silence, not
because he was a favourite, but because she
was timid as well ai tired ; and as they passed
moss and mere, she scarcely heard her grandmother
whilst pointing to places on their route
sav. * That's Massey Lodcre," " This is Crab-tree
Green," ' Yon's the Plague Hole, where
the dead were buried," and so on, for very
weariness and apprehension, not allayed when
Samuel Bancroft  who could feel her trembling
even through his thick riding coat  in a
spirit of mischief pointed with his whip ahead
to their right, with the remark : " And yonder's
the Thieves' Moss. Muriel. It lies in the

corner where th' roads meet." "Was not the
very name significant r

If in her unselfishness she had complied
with lier uncle's wish, and ignored her own
fatigue rather than be a cause of expense and
delay to her grandmother, she becran to think
it might have been as well to have accepted
her kind osier and remained at the inn, and to
fancy the afternoon was closing prematurely,
and that a robber was lurking behind every
tree and bush.

All at once, as if it had been whispered in
her soul, came the recollection ; " Mother has
often said father was as safe in the forest as in
the town if God's angels had him in their
keeping ; '" and there was strength in the
inspiration , not of body, but of mind. The
road was too rugged and uneven to let the
body rest.

They skirted the moss with the evil name
until the Chester road was crossed by another
which led uphill to the dense woods of the
Old Pale, where was situated the Forest House
whither tliev were bound. Here they turned

at a sharp angle, still keeping the Thieves'
Moss to their right, and had gone several
paces forward when something like a scream
broke the stillness.

Horses and riders pricked up their ears.
Muriel's heart stood still.

"It is only an owl," cried matter-of-fact
Samuel. " Let us get on."

I tell thee it's a woman," insisted his
mother. " We'd best see into it," as a second
and more terrified scream, blent with a confusion
of sounds, came in confirmation on
the breeze.

Without vaste of words mother and son
turned their steeds back, and after a moment's
deliberation urged the tired beasts along the
winding road towards Chester. In less than
three minutes they sighted an overturned
chaise, to which the restive horses were
threatening destruction, obviously the one
which had been re-horsed in Northwich, from
its conspicuous yellow body and the luggage
strapped behind.

Oh ! the poor lady ! " cried Muriel, her

dread of robbers vanishing before this real
disaster. " And I'm sure she was ilL I saw
her face as they drove off."

In another minute they were on the spot,
their bridles hitched to a bough, Samuel cutting
away at the traces with his clasped knife
and shouting to the postillion to keep his
plunging horses steady. Mrs. Bancroft's
ready hand unfastened the door of the upturned
chaise, and a fine man in military
undress, whose riHit arm was in a slings,
struggled forth with her aid.

I thank you, madam," said he with the
politeness of habit ; " but oh, my poor wife
and son ! I fear they are killed ! " and as he
spoke in tones of deepest emotion he bent to
look within the chaise, and called anxiously,
Celia ! Arthur ! "

/ am not killed, sir," answered a voice
from within ; and as the head of the speaker,
a handsome youth of sixteen, emerged from
the vehicle, Muriel clasped her hands in a
tremor of shuddering dismay, for a line of
blood ran from a wound down the side of his

VOL. I. E

face. " I was only stunned, sir ; but I fear
my mother is more seriously hurt. She is
quite insensible. Will some one assist me
to raise her ? "

Samuel Bancroft stepped forward. The
horses were cut loose, and the postillion kept
them aloof, but the chaise was a wreck, the
officer disabled, the lady to all appearance
dead or dying, and the evening closing
in.

"What is to be done?" ejaculated the
gentleman in trouble and perplexity, without
any hope of a solution.

"I'll see to that," said Mrs. Bancroft
briskly, as she withdrew her head from the
chaise. Up to her lips went the silver whistle
slung from her neck, and at once over moss
and mere, brake and thicket, went out a quick
succession of throbbing notes clear as the
ring of a bugle, and echo seemed to catch up
the tones and send them back from near and
far ; and presently, as if in answer to the call,
along the rutty road, over the dusky sward,
forth from copse and woodland, one figure

after another loomed dimly through the mist
and came towards them at a run.

At the first note of the whistle the officer
had started in apprehension. " Was this
break-down a plot to rob them, and this liard-featured
woman in league with highwaymen ? "
he thought ; but he cast his eyes on the pitiful
face of Muriel, and was reassured.

Mrs. Bancroft had seen his startled look, and
answered it. " Eh ! we are peaceful travellers,
sir ; you need not be alarmed. I carry this
whistle as a safeguard, for I have been hard
beset in this forest myself before now. It was
the gift of the head forester, and here come
the keepers to protect or assist their master's
friend."

One by one as the men came up, each,
armed with gun and hunting-knife, doffed his
cap to Mrs. Bancroft, as if in respectful
recognition.

The situation was apparent enough. Samuel
Bancroft and the youth between them had
with some difficulty managed to extricate the
hide from the broken chaise, and on its

E 2



 Illinois

cushions, placed by Muriel on the grass by
the roadside, she lay with her eyes closed,
still insensible, her husband bending over her
and Muriel chafing her small white hands as a
restorative, her own face pale as that under
the hood of the injured lady.

Mrs. Bancroft and her son held a brief
conference with the keepers. The officer was
spoken to.

The postillion rode back ruefully to Northwich
with orders, not merely concerning his
carriage, but to offer a heavy fee in the name
of Captain Wynne, of the Eoyal Welsh
Fusiliers, to a doctor to stimulate his speedy
attendance at Eddisbury.

The captain stripped off his crimson scarf
of netted silk with the remark that he " never
thought it would be put to such sad service,"
and it was spread to form a litter for his wife,
whose only sign of life was a quiver of the
nostrils, a momentary raising of the eyelids
when Samuel Bancroft poured a few drops
from his spirit flask between the white lips.

The captain's son, though he had made

light of his own injuries from broken glass,
was not sorry when Muriel offered to bind up
his bleeding head, and Mr. Bancroft passed
the flask to him, with the hint "you had
better mount Ball and take charge of my
niece. You don't seem in fettle for a long
walk."

The luggage was unstrapped, and mounted
on broad shoulders ; but as there were four or
five keepers, and Mr. Bancroft offered to lend
a hand at the litter, one of them set off by a
short cut to apprise Mrs. Kingsley of the
coming guests, expected and unexpected, and
the procession moved forward as quickly as
care would permit ; Captain Wynne by the
side of the litter with his wife's hand in his
own ; Mrs. Bancroft riding in advance and
keeping her eye not so much on steady-going
Ball as on his new rider, behind whom Muriel
had been mounted.

She was afraid lest he might faint and lose
his seat from loss of blood, and bring Muriel
down with him ; but of any connection between
the handsome young stranger and her

grandchild beyond the courtesy and service of
the hour, she had not a scintilktion in her
brain.

As for Muriel, she was in the sight of
Arthur Wynne just a good-natured, tenderhearted
child who had done what she could
for himself and mother, the mother whose
jDeril absorbed all his thoughts and interest ;
and Muriel's too, for that matter. The untoward
accident had put shyness and timidity
to flight, and called forth all the pitiful tenderness
of her nature; personal fear and
fatigue were forgotten, whilst anxiety for the
strangers amongst whom she had been thrown
blent with rejoicing that she had not yielded
to her own sense of weariness at Forthwith,
and so detained her grandmother.

Mist rising from mere and moss had met
the descending twilight, blotting out the
brushwood and the road before them ; but
the veil on the forest path was not so deep
as that which hid the future path of life
from all.

AT THE FOREST HOUSE.

lpHEX Sarah Bancroft said "I'll see to it,"
<!Mi discussion was at an end ; she had put
down her foot, and opposition was useless.
It had been so in her brief married life, and
in the long years of her widowhood. It was
so in her household, and in her business.
When she said a thing must be done or undone,
it was so. When she named a price to
give or to take, there was no chaffering, no
argument. It must be or not be. When she
had said " I'll see to it," Ellen D'Anjer knew
that her daughter was to all intents and purposes
taken from her. Mrs. Bancroft's "I'll
see to it," meant that she had taken Muriel's
future into lier hands, as if she had the power
and prescience of Deity.

It was true she had done this in the very
plentitude of her love for the girl, for, as her
son Samuel knew full well, Sarah Bancroft had
warm and susceptible pulses in her breast,
though her sharply outlined features bore
false witness against it, and she covered up
and hid her affections out of sight, as weaknesses
to be ashamed of, and kept well under
control ; as her dominant will kept all around
her.

She had never reasoned the matter with
herself, but that she was born to rule she had
never a doubt, any more than of her own infallibility.
She would have acknowledged a
Supreme Euler had the question been ]put to
her, but no one put the question, and she felt
herself sufficient for all things. Her faith was
in herself  to herself she was a law. When
Captain Wynne's troubled exclamation Alas
answered by her decisive " I'll see to it," and
she raised the forester's silver whistle to her
lips, it was as though an imperial list had
gone forth ; a guarantee of safety and protection,
care for the sick lady, hospitable welcome

for all. She had so decided, and who should
demur ?

Certainly the keepers looked one at another,
but no one disputed her behests ; and if Captain
Wynne took all for granted and was profuse
in thanks, and Muriel never doubted her
grandmother's power and prerogative, Samuel
Bancroft did.

He knew that Mrs. Kingsley was an Arden,
and never forgot for how many successive
generations an ancestor of hers had been
Chief Forester and bow-bearer of Delamere,"
and that she never allowed her husband to
forget that it was in her right he held the
office, even though the Kingsleyss had held it
first of all. And he felt pretty well assured
that no silver whistle would have been granted
to his mother without Mrs. Kingsley \s full concurrence
; but he was equally sure she never
contemplated its use in the service of casual
wayfarers, and felt somewhat dubious of their
reception.

He was right. The furrier's party had been
expected, and for them hospitality had provided

its best. But for any additions to that
party in the shape of strangers pulled out of
a broken-down chaise the forester's wife was
not prepared  and not disposed to prepare.
For once Mrs. Kinsfslev's insulted diornitv overshadowed
her humanity.

"AVhat I brinofiniT a hock of transfers into

CO c

this house without invitation or permission I "
she exclaimed, as the keeper delivered his
message. "Does Mrs. Bancroft mistake the
Forest House for her own, or for an inn ? "

"I think, wife'' said Mr. Kingsley astutely,
Sarah Bancroft just took thee for what thou
art, a kind-hearted, hospitable woman, too
good a manager to be put about by two or
three extra visitors, and too food a Samaritan
to let a fellow-creature perish by the wayside."

Indeed I " was all her response, though
she muttered to herself " Surely the inn at
Kelsall might have served their turn." Her
husband's two shots had failed to bring dignity
down from its perch, and she lost sight of

humanitarian necessity in her desire to teach.

%/

Sarah Bancroft a lesson.

A large vood lire was blazing and sputtering
on the stone hearth in the large square
entrance-hall, where stags' heads and antlers
were interspersed with other trophies of the
chase  bows and arrows, hunting-whips and
horns, fowling-pieces and shot-belts, as decoy a-
tions on its walls of panelled oak, with a
primitive oil-lamp or two on brackets to show
then' glories off. A carved oak settle and its
table, vrith a few straight-backed oaken chairs,
ranged against the walls, were all the furniture,
but two great hounds lav basins: before
the fire on a deerskin rug, and the atmosphere
was redolent of venison and haire and other
savouries.

The wide door stood open, the light
streamed a welcome out to friends and to
strangers ; the Chief Forester pressed forward
to greet the former and to give hospitable
assurance to the latter : the very dogs rose
from the hearth to salute the new-comers ;
but Mrs. Kingsley, in her green silk quilted
petticoat and overgrown, stood frigidly apart
with folded hands, to mark her sense of the

intrusion ; and for once Mrs. Bancroft found
lier sagacity and sufficiency at fault.

Even Captain Wynne saw there was some
misunderstanding, and pressed forward to
apologise ; but Mrs. Kingsley chanced to catch
a glimpse of the pale face of the lady in the
litter as she was borne in and laid on the oaken
settle, and of the stained bandage above the
equally pale face of the youth by her side, and
all her womanly sympathy was aroused on the
instant.

As she approached the litter she answered
the apologist, to the utter exclusion of the
others, "I can understand, sir, you were misled
; but be under no concern for this lady,
she shall have every attention, although this
is not an inn, and the influx of so many guests
was not anticipated." Then with the same
unwonted loftiness, turning her head, " Mrs.
]bancroft, I trust you are willing to surrender
your room to the lady you have brought ? "
and she laid an emphasis on the closing-words.


Of course I am, or I should riot have

brou2flit her here. And I broiifrht them all
here on the strength of your hospitality and
goodness to me on a like occasion when I
was a stranger. If I've made a mistake we
can settle it afterwards."

And there is no question that they did
settle it together afterwards ; but for that
night Mrs. Kingsley was on her mettle to
prove herself a good hostess and a kind
nurse.

Muriel mioht have been unnoticed amidst
it all had she not followed Mrs. Wynne's
bearers up the stairs and along the gallery
Which overlooked the hall, to the ready
chamber, her weariness forgotten in her
desire to be of service, and taking Mrs. Kingsley
by surprise by her aptitude and readiness
in administering such restoratives as were at
hand, and her delicacy of touch whilst helping
to disrobe the lady, whose wrist was
injured, and hung helpless.

And what a bright face was hers, when she
bore the intelligence to the anxious father
and son, " Mrs. Wynne has come to herself,

and asked for you'' Who then observed
that it was seamed and scarred ? Had not
her glad tidings irradiated and beautified her
countenance? Did she not seem to them one
of the o'ood angels that walk the earth in
disguise ?

Something of the kind glanced throuirli the

o o o

mind of Mrs. Kingsley, when Muriel, perceiving'
how she was distracted between her
duties as hostess and her cares for the invalid,
volunteered to remain with the sick lady
until the doctor came, so that others might
go in to supper.

"I can attend to Mrs. Wynne by myself; I
am not afraid, and I am not hungry," she said,
adding, " and the doctor will surely be here
soon."

Mrs. Kingsley had certainly been troubled
about the long-delayed supper and the spoiling
viands, but as she Avent across the wide
gallery and down the broad oak staircase, she
thought to herself what a patient little maiden
she had left behind in the big bedroom hung
with tapestry, and full of flickering shadows,

as the firelight rose and fell without reaching
its remote corners.

And some remark of the kind lie made as
she took her place at the long table in the
dining-room on the right of the hall, which
had been set more than an hour with the
whitest of home-spun napery, the brightest of
silver tankards and Sheffield cutlery, and
where drinking-horns with silver rims flanked
the horn-hafted knives and two-pronged forks
instead of glasses.

As composed and observant as a woman,"
she said, " and not at all afraid to be left
alone with Mrs. Wynne, in that strange room,
away from us all."

"' She was timid enough as we came through
the forest," interjected Samuel Bancroft, with
something like a mn ; " I've a notion she
fancied there was a robber hiding in every
bush."

Then thou hadst frightened her ! " said
his mother across the table, " and there was
no need of that : she had heard of Delamere
before to-day."

' Hidden dangers are apt to impress the
imagination, sir," put in the captain, resting
]his fork ; '* I have known men who never
blenched before the fire of the enemy, shrink
from the shadows of a dark room ; the little
lady must be naturally brave."

She removed a splinter of glass, and
bound up my head, without any show of
either fear or repugnance," added the captain's
son.

She seems a born nurse," then said Mrs.
Kingsley, as though in praise, as she helped
Samuel to a second slice of venison.

A born nurse ! I hope she was born for
something better ! " quoth Mrs. Bancroft, bridling.
" I'll see that Muriel Danger is no nurse."

' I think you misunderstood, madam," the
captain began.

' Oh, no I I did not," she answered. " I'm
taking her "

But the doctor  whose name was Holmes,
a little fat, pudgy, round-faced man  coming
at that instant, the rest of Mrs. Bancroft's
speech was lost.

The captain was too anxious about this wife
to continue at the board, and tliougli with an
ill-grace at the interruption, Mrs. Kingsley
held him excused.

Mrs. Wynne was discovered to be superior
from a broken wrist, and from severe shock
to her system, already enfeebled.

She will not be in a fit state for removal
for many days, and will require the utmost
attention, if she is to be removed at all. But
she is in good hands."

So said the doctor ; but he knew nothing of
the irritation of Mrs. Kingsley at having the
patient thrown on her hands in such a matter-of-course
way, to say nothing of the additional
husband and son ; when she had calculated on
a long gossip with her old crony.

Good part of the forester's income was
derived from his perquisites in the matter of
skins, and Diis wife's indignation at the use
Mrs. Bancroft had made of the silver whistle,
intended as a safeguard to herself, had
annoyed him greatly, Mrs. Bancroft had
bought so laroelv from him. lie was a 2:ood-

Vil. I. F

natured fellow, and was pleased at supper-time
to find that matters had adjusted themselves
comfortably.

Judge then his annoyance when Mrs.
Kingsley broke in on a business conference
in the malodorous skin-store the next morning,
with Mrs. Bancroft and her son. just as the
prices and quantity of deer, squirrel, marten,
and fox-skins had been settled, and the
question how many hundred hare and rabbit
skins should be supplied at a given rate was
under consideration.

The morning opinion of the Forthwith
doctor had been promulgated, and Mrs.
Kingsley came, in anything but the best of
humours, to vent her indignation at being
saddled with the care and cost of an invalid
and her relatives, for no one knows how
long."

Would you have had the poor woman die
in the forest ? " asked Mrs. Bancroft.

Certainly not ! " was the tart reply.

"Then be as thankful for the chance of
saving her life," answered the other, " as you

were when you took charge of me, and as for
the cost "

Why, make a bill out, and ask the captain
to settle it," thrust in Samuel, who had always
an eye to the money ; and thought that a very
plain solution of the difficulty.

Mrs. Kingsley drew herself up, and her nose
curled : " As if we were innkeepers," said
she.

Here, Mr. Kingsley," said Mrs. Bancroft,
take your whistle," and she released it from
her neck. " You'd best have it back, as I
don't know Avhen to use it. Sam, go and seethe
horses saddled, we'll be off to Wavorham
at once. And we'll take Muriel with us. If
we're not expected till tomorrow it won't
matter much there. But before we go I'd
better seek out the captain, and let him know
that I've made a mistake for once in my life ;
and /'// see about hiring a nurse in Waverham,
if there's no objection to that,"

And off Mrs. Bancroft set towards the
house, greatly to the chagrin of both Mr.
Kingsley and his wife, who followed her with

F 2

entreaties to return. He was afraid to lose a
good customer, his discomfited spouse to have
the truth blurted out to Captain Wynne all
too bluntly. She was not an unkindly woman
in the main, and had grumbled more to
put Sarah Bancroft down," than from any
lack of Christian kindness towards the sick
stranger.

Samuel slapped his thigh in satisfaction ashe
looked after them from the door of the
outbuilding  a place fitted with louvre-board
windows to admit air. " Egad, Mistress
Kingsley is caught in her own trap now ! I'd
back my mother against her any day ! But I
must be off after the horses if she's made up
her mind to go." Then he stopped short, and
as if he had hurt his thigh in slapping it,
rubbed it slowly and ruefully. " Whew ! " he
half whistled to himself, " suppose Averse in
th' wrong box in Waverham too ; an' it's like
enough if Lydia's none prepared. It's awkward
anyhow," and he went on his errand
slowly enough.

Captain Wynne was found pacing the stone

floor of the entrance hall, this left hand supporting
the arm in the sling, shaken when the
chaise overturned, his head down, his mind a
chaos of anxiety and perplexity. The precarious
state of his wife ; the wound in the
head of his son, which threatened to prove
troublesome ; his own helplessness, the result
of a duel with a fellow-ofFicer, were sufficient
causes, without the consciousness that they
were trespassing, still further to chafe the
proud man, who was accustomed to command
and to control ; and found himself cast like
a straw upon a stream, through the mere
loosening of a lincli-pin.

He had entrusted to Mr. Holmes, the
surgeon, who had undertaken the charge,
money and a letter, to be despatched posthaste
to Chester for his own servants. They
had been " sent on as couriers in advance to
have all things prepared at the Blossoms Inn,"
he said, " and would be themselves uneasy and
all at sea."

The announcement of Mrs. Bancroft's
sudden departure took him by surprise.

Somehow, though she did not suggest it, he
fek answerable for the change in her plans.
He had, whilst pacing to and fro, observed
Mrs. Kingsley intercept Mrs. Bancroft in a
side passage, and hold her as if in argument,
where the former seemed to urge and the
other unwilhug to comply.

I am convinced we are trespassing here,"
he said, as both women came into the hall
together, " vet with my poor wife's life
hanging on a thread I see not how it is to be
remedied. What compensation I can make
to our excellent host and hostess for this
intrusion on their privacy, and to your little
grandchild for her tender ministrations ''

We seek no compensation," began Mrs.
Kingsley loftily.

My grandchild's done her duty, Captain
Wynne, and that's her reward," interrupted
Mrs. Bancroft stiffly. " But Muriel's iroino'
and I came to ask if I had not better hire a
nurse in Waverham. one you can pay out of
your purse, and who can wait on Mrs. Wynne
night and day."

Miss D'Anver Dfoinn ? I'm sorry for that.
My son. who is upstairs with her and his
mother now, tells me that she is the tenderest
of young nurses, one of the sweetest creatures
that ever entered a sick room. I am
sure my wife will miss her greatly. I should
say that I have already sent to Chester for
Mrs. Wynne's own maid, but if  of course
with Mrs. Kingsley's sanction  you do not
mind the trouble of fmdins a suitable attendant,
you will add greatly "

**If my servants and myself are insufficient,
you are at liberty to do as you please in
sending for your own, Captain," interrupted
Mrs. Kingsley; "but don't you, Mrs. Bancroft,
send Maggy Blackburn into mi house," and
she turned on her heel as if she considered
the proposition a fresh indignity.

Xow Maggy Blackburn was precisely the
nurse contemplated by the furrier, but though
a skilled attendant on the sick as times went,
and a village distress of more than local
repute, she had two not over reputable sons,
n:ien suspected of a liking for game and other

property not their own  they were in very ill
odour at the forester's.

There was a window with a wide seat at
each side of the entrance ; into one of these
the captain flung himself as the very sport of
fate, bitterly lamenting the mischance of the
broken chaise, nay even the humiliating
intervention of Mrs. Bancroft  and she was
on her way upstairs to summon Muriel to
depart, when in through the passage burst
Mr. Kingsley, his brown face lit up with
excitement.

I say, Captain, you may thank God your
chaise broke down when it did, and that the
Bancroftss were at hand to bring you here ! "

Indeed ! " interjected the captain in a tone
not altogether free from incredulity.

"Aye, that you may! A traveller was
plundered and welhiigh murdered by two
ruffians last night not half a mile farther
up the road."

Hah ! " cried the officer, with amazement
on his face.

He was speechless," continued the forester,

" when one of our keepers found him
there battered and bleeding, with his pockets
inside out. And it was all Whitely and
another man could do to get him to the
inn at Kelsall. He had come to himself before
they left him, but I hear he's in a bad way.
He must have had a horse, for he had a whip
in his hand, but the horse was gone. Helped
the foot-pads to make off, I reckon. You had
a narrow and most providential escape."

A providential escape ! and he had been
questioning the ways of the Most High, as ]ie
had chafed and fretted in his walk on that
stone floor. A providential escape indeed !
A mercy not to be forgotten !

We may indeed be thankful," he said
seriously. "But cannot something be done
for the injured traveller? "

"Well, I'm just off to see what can be done
for him, and who he is. A man with
empty pockets is like to find cold comfort at
an inn. Though he might be worse off than
where he is."

I shall be glad to bear you company, sir,"

then eaiJ the officer to the forester, " and to
hold the innkeeper indemnified in case the
poor fellow be unable to pay. And if you
will allow me  I should like to reward the
humanity of your keepers. I owe them
something on my own account."

'tut ! Tut ! " said the other as a put off,
but Captain Wynne was not a man to be put
off

The news spread quickly. Not one of the
travellers but felt there was an escape to be
thankful for.

I expect that break-down was planned,"
said Samuel ; " I half fancied the rogue of a
postillion was playing tricks with his horses,
and now I am sure of it. My hat to a button
if that chap was not playing into the hands
of the robbers. Belike o'oin shares ! "

Robbers ! then there were robbers after
all ! " cried Muriel, clasping her hands when
she heard. " Oh, how glad I am that we
did not stay in Nortliwich ! and that grandmother
had that whistle ! Oh, Mr. Arthur, if
robbers had attacked you it would have killed

your mother with the fright, ill as she was I
God's angels must have been around her,"
and she looked reverently up.

I think they were'' said he ; but he knew
not she referred to her own mother's words,
and his had a double signification.

Mrs. Kingsley summoned one of the keepers
and questioned him ; and in the general excitement
Sarah Bancroft's departure was
retarded. Indeed to travellers like herself,
a violent act of highway robbery such as that
was not to be disregarded. She was anxious
to learn more, and that prompt measures
should be taken to discover the criminals and
bring them to justice. And the exciting question
was still under discussion when Mr.
Kingsley and Captain Wynne returned. The
latter much agitated.

"My God! Arthur, what do you think?
The poor fellow lying there disfigured and
lamed is Norris ! "

"Norris?" ejaculated the son in a higher
key, " What brought Norris there ? "

Owen's over-anxiety and his own fidelity.

They became alarmed when we failed to
arrive in the afternoon. At last he mounted
and left Chester to meet us. Their idea was
that your mother was too ill to proceed ; and
that his services mio;ht be needed. Poor
fellow, lie has paid dearly for his zeal. The
miscreants struck him from his horse, and
then rifled his pockets. There was very little
worth taking, except his watch, and in their
rage they beat him unmercifully. lie will
never be good for anything as a soldier
again!"

*' And his horse. Captain," put in Sam, from
the oaken settle, " was that worth much ? "

Worth something as a horse, sir, worth
nothing in the calculation of loss, where a faithful
servant's life is concerned," was the answer,
which somewhat took Mr. Samuel aback ; at
least he rubbed his knees, and said no more.

Then Captain Wynne expressed his hope
that Mrs. Wynne should not be disturbed with
the intelligence.

I think you may trust Miss Danger for
that, sir," said his son.

Miss D'Aiiyer \Yill not be here, sir,"
observed Mrs. Bancroft stiffly, once more
adjusting her cloak, and making a move.

I say, you'd best take the whistle back,
Mrs. Bancroft," suizcested the forester.

Aye, and make yourself comfortable
where you are," added his wife, more ashamed
of herself than she liked to own. " Miss
Danger has seen nothing of the place yet,
and I'm sure she will not want to go whilst
Mrs. Wynne is in danger, besides I don't think
she could be spared, she is such a helpful
little body," she was going to add, " and such
a capital nurse'' but she remembered the
grandmother's indignation at the word, and
stopped short in time.

The forester joined his wife in her arguments,
and after some little persuasion, to
which Sam added an interested word, Mrs.
Bancroft, for a marvel, yielded to persuasion,
took back the whistle, the horses were unsaddled,
she completed her purchases and
orders ; and when she and Samuel started for
Waverham the next day, Muriel was left

behind, to lier own satisfaction and that of
others.

Mrs. Bancroft had seen a finger that was
not hers directing these events, and pondered
over it. But she did not take the lesson very
deeply to heart ; and went forth on her other
errand to control human lives and destinies,
as if she had a ricfht Divine.

RED Riding HOOD AND HER FRIENDS.

pOPiE than a week had gone by, a week
W& which Muriel devoted to the sick
hide, with the solicitude of genuine interest,
without asking herself how her services Averse
regarded, or to be requited. She was one of
those who could not Witness suffering without
an active desire to alleviate it, one whose
simple aim seemed to be to make herself
useful to others.

It was nothing to her that Mrs. Wynne
accepted her ministrations as one accustomed
to homage and attention, one whose patrician
birth entitled her to such service as her inferiors
were ready to render. And if Mrs.
Wynne considered the child honoured in
being allowed to wait upon her, had not
Muriel said the same, and meant it.

What knew the lady of the long passages
and flight of stairs Muriel trod up and down
so frequently on her behalf? or of the wearisome
watch in a darkened room, when the sun
was shining on the autumnal foliage without,
and the twitter of birds, as well as the voice
of Mr. Kingsley, tempted the town girl to
stroll with him and Arthur Wynne through
the enchanting woodland ? Alas it not
sufficient that she, the daughter of a baronet,
recognised the peculiar delicacy of Muriel's
touch, and preferred her attendance to that
of Mrs. Kingsley or her own maid, Owen, who
was now by her side F And when at length
able to recline on a couch by the wood fire,
was it not enough that she smiled on the
gratified young nurse and pressed into her
hand a locket rimmed with gold and pearls,
in which reposed a coil of her own auburn
hair ?

Proud indeed was Muriel of the delicate
lady's progress toward recovery, and said it ;
proud too of the souvenir so earnestly pressed
upon her ; but had she or Sarah Bancroft

either had an inkling that the crystal locket
with the jewelled rim was tendered as payment
to cancel an obligation, the one would
have laid it down in sorrow, the other flung
it back in scorn.

Captain Wynne had chafed under the obligations
pressed on him by circumstances, as
such, but he had the sense to see the spirit in
which services were rendered, and that in
their degree the Kingsleyss and the Bancroftss
were every whit as proud as himself, and he
was careful not to wound a feeling he understood.


He was liberal to the two keepers whose
humane attentions to morris had kept life in
the man, no less than to those others who had
rendered him and his personal service, but he
saw intuitively that the Kingsleyss would be
insulted by offers of repayment, and his proud
spirit chafed at the dilemma in which he was
placed. His own sense of justice told him
that he had no right to trespass on the
hospitality of strangers ; yet here they were
quartered upon civilians for an indefinite

VOL. I. Cx

time, and civilians who assumed the rank and
position of equals. It was a trial to the pride
and independence of the military man, and
he paced the long stone hall by the hour,
inwardly rebellious and annoyed, outwardly
reserved and silent. In his manner when
addressed he was courteous, gratefully urbane
 but there was an evident effort to
keep irritation down, and he was not
cordial.

The young man alone (after the feebleness
consequent on loss of blood had worn off, and
he was no longer compelled to lounge in an
easy chair by his mother's bedside, or on the
oak settle in the great hall) fraternised with
their hospitable entertainers, made friends first
with the hounds, then sought initiation into the
mysteries of woodcraft, and was equally ready
for a day's jaunt with Mr. Kingsley, taking the
inn at Kelsall by the way, to look in upon
Norris, and see that he was not neglected, or
for a day's sport, and bore the forester company
with such an easy acceptance of the
situation as put those around him at their

ease also. Certainly he was at the age of
adaptability.

He had insisted on ]muriel, whom he had
dubbed ' Little Eed Adding Hood " from the
scarlet cloak she wore, joining in a stroll
through the park of the Old Pale and over the
slopes around Eddisbury on the day before
her departure.

"You may safely leave ]airs. AVynne to
Owen's care now," he said, '* and I am quite
of ]airs. Kingsley's opinion that you laye been
too long shut up with our invalid. A ramble
through the woods will bring sour roses back ;
and I will take care no wolf runs away with

Toi."

*/

Ah," she answered with a smile, ** the

wolf did not run off with Eed Eidimr Hood
from the wood. It was in her grandmother's
cottage he ate her up ; there are no talking
wolves now," and clasping her cloak she
stepped out of the doorway with him, as he
replied,

"Don't be so sure of that, !Miss Danger,
there are talking wolves to be met everywhere,

but they go on two legs, not on four. I've
heard it was a wolf of this description set his
teeth in my father's arm." And the young
man's face clouded as he spoke.

"A wolf!" she echoed incredulously, "I
heard your father tell Uncle Samuel that he
was wounded in a duel. But perhaps you are
right, for I think men who fight duels are
worse than wolves, and worse than Cain, since
they go on purpose to murder one another,
and I do not think Cain knew what he was
donor. He had never seen death before he

o

struck his brother."

Arthur Wynne looked down at her in
amazement. " That is a new doctrine," he
observed gravely, after a pause, " I shall not
force it," and for some time he walked on in
silence, keeping the child's hand in his as an
elder brother might.

It did not strike her that she had reflected
on his father, and if it occurred to him, he
made no remark.

Presently she stopped and looked back at
the house, with its many angles and gables.

its black beams intersecting in strange devices
the weather-stained rouorlicast, its windows of
all sizes, from the tiny dormer to the broad
mullion, and the one fine oriel over the entrance,
from which the road swept downwards
in a steep but gradual descent. It had been a
noble edifice in its time, but its best days were
gone, and there was a portion lapsing into
utter decay.

I wonder how old the Forest House is ? '*
soliloquised Muriel as she scanned it thoughtfully.
" It looks older than grandmother's
houses in Toad Lane, and they have been
built hundreds and hundreds of years ! "

We want my uncle. Sir Madoc Wynne, hereto
settle that question," replied Arthur ; " I
am not much of an antiquary, I only know
that the place is very ancient. Mr. Kingsley
tells me that Eddisbury was a fortified city in
Saxon times ; his own and his wife's ancestors
have held the place as Chief Foresters since
the twelfth century."

That is a long time," said Muriel, " it tires
one to count back."

"Aye," responded her companion, "it is
almost as far back as Sir Madoc counts the
pedigree of the Wynne."

"Pedigree! Oh! that's what my father
talks so much about. And it is so tiresome.
I don't think a long pedigree makes people
kinder or better. Do 3'ou ? "

"I have not considered the question, I will
tell 3'ou when I do," and lie laughed lightly,
showing a set of firm white teeth, and then
he stopped, and pointing westwards bade her
look across to the far horizon. You see
those gray mountains standing up like clouds
against the sky ? Amongst them lies the home
of Sir Madoc and his ancestors  and mine," he
added as an afterthought.

And that shining like water with the sun
upon it, and those church towers ? " she
asked, as if not much interested in ancestry.

She was told she looked on the river Dee
and Chester's old cathedral and churches ;
but there was a wide and varied landscape
spread out before them, nearer Oakmere
glittered like a diamond amongst emeralds,

and from another point in their ramble came
Salton Castle into view with the river which
gave its name to the ancient kingdom of.
Mercia ; the river which had scarcely begun
to swell with its own importance, for the 
of the Mersey were then unbuilt.

It Alas all new and glorious to Muriel, her
brown eyes expanded to take in the panorama
of moss and mere, village and woodland, city
or stream or mountain, and then as they
strayed through the woods tinged with the
gold and brown of autumn, or on the grassy
upland, the young man and the child, she
filled her hands with flowers, nor questioned
hoar many might have kept possession of the
soil since Saxon spades upturned it, though
every blossom called an exclamation forth.
Tangled amongst bushes and brambles (with
the blackberries of which her mouth and
fingers soon were stained), she found the
white and rosy trumpets of the bindweed, in
shady nooks the hart'stongue fern, and others
of the tribe ; Scotland's emblem, the spear-thistle,
held its head erect, and braved the

gatherer, but lie did not despise the yellow
crumbs of the common ragwort, or the golden
disk of the dandelion ; she found too a
single raceme of the pure blue milkweed, and
another blossom of the eyebright, lingerers
from July ; and out in the open, a nodding
harebell and a tuft or so of flowering grass
were added to lier posy, of wliicli she was
not a little proud.

It was shown with delight to Mrs. Kingsley,
Who, thinking little of these wild natives of
the forest, smiled at the girl's simplicity, yet
supplied a queer-shaped vase of antique ware
to hold them. And then they were carried asa
precious gift to the invalid, on whose lips
came a suspicion of a faint curl as she barely
glanced at them ; but Owen bade her place
her bouquet on a table in the oriel, and there
they were left, to be ignominiously cast out on
the morrow, when the giver was herself gone,
as " disgusting Averts."

But the harebell and the eyebright were
not thrown away with the rest. Someone had
taken them from the jar ; someone who had

pleasant associations with the '' vanished
hand " that had culled them ; someone who
could symbolize the graceful form, and the
bright eyes of the unsophisticated child with
these windings of the wayside and the wood ;
someone who had learned a lesson from the
child of which manhood might need a

o

reminder.

Well, have the murdering ruffians been
caught yet ? " were the first words of Mrs.
Bancroft as Mr. Kingsley helped her to dismount
the following morning, when she and
her son came for MurieL " Has the captain's
good horse been recovered ? " was the question
of the latter.

"Neither," was the answer of the forester.
"But there are two men missing from the
forest, who were hanging about the day before ;
and the captain's gone to Chester to set the
hounds of justice on their track."

Aye," chimed in Mrs. Kingsley, " and
we've a notion Maggy Blackburn knows
more of the business than an honest woman
should."

What, Nurse Blackburn ? " and a curious
look crossed the face of Sam Bancroft as the
ejaculation escaped him.

Aye, Nurse Blackburn ! " quickly responded
the mistress of the Forest House, with
a look as curious and meaning into the calculating
eyes of the querist, which shifted
beneath hers, " she's none too good, if all
were told ; and she knows many a thing more
than she tells."

Hush, hush, wife, a still tongue makes a
wise head, and Maggy Blackburn's not to be
blamed for her lads' misdeeds."

"I'm not so sure of that, she should have
brought them up better."

So she should," echoed Sarah, with a
proud glance at her own son, as much as to
say, " See how he has been trained." " As the
twig is bent the tree inclines."

Is Muriel ready ? " interrupted Sam, who
had his own reasons for changing the subject.

Yes, here she comes," cried Mrs. Kingsley,
as Muriel at that instant crossed the gallery
at the far end of the hall, in her scarlet cloak,

with the hood well drawn over her gipsy hat,
whether for riding, or to shadow eyes moist
from parting with languid and feeble Mrs.
Wynne it would be hard to say. " But you
won't go without a bite or a sup, and dinner
on the table ready for you."

Sam excused himself on account of the
horses standing out in the cold, but their host
set his mind at ease respecting them, and soon
he was busy with the game-pie and the home-brewed,
talking politics with the forester, whilst
his mother between the pauses of knife and
fork had a private gossip with Mrs. Kingsley.

Muriel lead been called to the board, cloaked
though she was, and young Mr. Wynne, who
had her flowers in his button-hole, saw that
she was not neglected.

After luncheon there was another run upstairs,
for another good-bye of Mrs. Wynne,
Mrs. Bancroft following her grandchild, and
both wishing the lady a speedy restoration to
health, for which she thanked them condescendingly,
with the graceful langour of excessive
debility.

But no sooner had the door closed behind
them, than the sensitive kdy cried to patient
Owen  " My salts, Owen, my salts ! How that
horrid old woman smelled of cheese ! And,
Owen, bathe my temples with the Hungary
water, her loud coarse voice has distracted
me. Thank Heaven I they're cone. That
child's exuberance had become quite oppressive.
And," after a pause, " my good Owen,
when you go downstairs, don't forget to throw
out those discfustinor weeds."

But when Muriel had taken leave of his
lady mother, Arthur Wynne accompanied her
to the front entrance, and with much real
friendliness lifted her to her seat on the pillion
behind her uncle, whilst Mr. Kingsley, as of
old, helped Mrs. Bancroft into her saddle. He
had a grateful heart, had the young man, and
saw that in his mother's set phrases of farewell
for which he would have been glad to
make amends.

On the broad doorstep, beneath the oriel,
also stood Mrs. Kingsley, in a figured linen
morning gown, whose last words were, " You

will let Miss Danger come and spend her
holidays here, old friend ; my young folk will
be home then, and they will show her about.
She has seen nothing of Delamere yet, mewed
up in a sick room," apparently forgetful that
Arthur Wynne was present, still pale, and
with a plaistered forehead, but courteous and
gentlemanlike as his father, for whose temporary
absence he had thought fit to
apologise, not omitting thanks in that father's
name, and his own.

ni think about it," was Mrs. Bancroft's
brief response to the invitation, as she stooped
to exchange a last business word with Mr.
Kingsley, whose hand was on her bridle.

But a smile of truthful earnestness broke
over Muriel's homely face and lit up her expressive
face while she answered for herself :
Nay, I had a delightful walk through the
woods yesterday, and I am sure I have
altogether had a very pleasant visit."

You have done your best to make it so for
others. Red Fading Hood," observed Arthur
Wynne, as he shook hands with her a second

time; "I do not know whether my mother
will miss you most or myself, and tliougli we
may never meet again, I assure yon, I shall
always remember the cheery little maid with
the gentle fingers and compassionate brown
eyes under her red riding-hood. I shall laye
a reminder here," and he touched his wounded
brow; 'good-bye!"

The war-path and the trade-path do not
often cross," murmured the young man to
himself as the travellers rode off, Muriel nodding
back. " There is not much chance of
our meeting ai'ain. Danger ! I wonder low
she came by her aristocratic name. By the
way, she said something of her father's pedigree.
I'll ask the forester. Anyway she is a
most obliging creature ! I wish I had a sister
like her, though she is not handsome. There
is something in those brown eyes that is better
than beauty. I would my father had been
here to take leave of them. I am afraid my
mother does not sufficiently estimate our
obligations to little Eed Adding Hood and her
friends, and he does."

And now the travellers from Manchester
were again on their road, each carrying away
a new chain of associations and speculations.

If Sarah Bancroft's equanimity had been
disturbed at Eddisbury, it had been restored
at Waverham ; and as for her son, wliy, he
carried satisfaction under his three-cornered
hat and buttoned up under his dark long-tailed
riding coat if any one did. lie had persuaded
his mother that she was arranoinf that
which he had arranged and settled quite two
years before, and he had done it to his own
satisfaction.

Yes, Mrs. Kingsley Sam is to marry
Lydia Bradley at Christmas ; it was that which
took me to Waverham this time," Mrs. Bancroft
had said to the forester's wife before she
came away. "He has loved the lass many a
year, but he has stuck to his mother and the
business, and would not even ask the girl till
I had seen her and said I was willing. Not
like that daughter of mine, Muriel's mother,
Vvdio took the world on her shoulders at sixteen,
with never a word to kith or kin. Xo,

I told Sam to see and keep single, and he has
done so to please me, and now I mean to take
him into the business, and find him a house to
live in, and the farmer will fit up the house
for them. I've settled it all."

Ah, well, it's about time Mr. Samuel had.
a home of his own and a wife in it, and
Lydia's a notable body," observed Mrs. Kingsley
dryly, asking after a pause, " Shall you
come for the wedding ? "

"Stay, it's our busy season, they can wed
without me."

So they can," assented Mrs. Kingsley with
a secret undercurrent of silent ejaculation.
Bless my soul, how clever people can betaken
in ! Trust Sam Bancroft to get all he
wants ! "

And having a prospect of getting all he
wanted, even to a share of Farmer Bradley's
guineas, Samuel chuckled at his own cleverness
as he rode along ; and cracked sly jokes
with the people on the road, for now there
were many journeying to the fair.

Muriel knew nothings of the business which

had taken them to Waverham, or of the coming
marriage of her bachelor uncle ; and as
they jogged along her thoughts went back to
the Forest House and those she had left there,
and lingered amongst the rustling bracken or
the many tinted bushes, followed the flight of
waterfowl from the meres, or of a hare or
rabbit as it scampered out of sight, or
travelled ahead to Chester Fair and the unknown
school where her journey was to end.

Daylight had not touched the veil of dusk
when Boughton Road Alas left behind, and
Foregate Street rose on either side, quaint and
curious. Midway, Sam made a feint of stopping
; he pointed to an opening on the right,
"Here's Queen Street, mother; suppose we
leave Muriel now."

Muriel's heart gave a leap ;  surely she
would not be left among strangers so abruptly !

Pede on, lad, and no nonsense," said her
grandmother, and speedily, to Muriel's relief,
the horses were entering the city under the
wide arch of the East Gate, and picking their
way amongst a throng of people and horses and

VOL. I. H

vehicles, and stalls of all kinds and degrees,
from that of the itinerant quacksalver to that
of the respectable tradesman.

For although there was a ground set apart
for the purposes of the fair, it was pretty
much abandoned to dealers in horses and
cattle, the booths of travelling showman and
mountebanks ; and the absolute bujdng, selling,
and barter of merchandise was carried on
in the highways and inns of the quaint old
city. The church of St. Peter had already
hung out the symbolic white glove, and the
fair was declared open.

It was not altogether a novel sight to
Muriel. Manchester had its fairs, if they
differed somewhat in character and importance,
and also had its narrow streets of overhanging
timber houses, picturesque and
diverse of gable and tint ; it was only wlicn
she saw the people walking in the Eows in an
arcade above the lower shops, or leaning on
the parapets, and amongst them Welsh-women
with men's beavers above their linen caps,
1 hat a feeling of strangeness was aroused.

So slow was their progress amongst the
crowd that she had ample time for observation,
and she was scanning curiously the
Yacht Inn at the corner of Nicholas Street,
where the ground floor modestly retreated
into the shade, and the upper stories advanced
successively overhead  quite unconscious that
they had halted at the old commercial house,
or that the red-faced landlord was waiting to
lift her from her seat  until she had a hint
from her uncle.

Come, Muriel, lass, bestir thyself. What
art' dreaming about ? "

They were shown into a low-ceiled apartment
where candles were already lighted, and
tables were spread with comestibles for the
influx of customers peculiar to fair time.
Huge loaves and joints of meat which had
lost their fair proportions, remnants of pies,
the separate halves of a cheese in japanned
higgins, and these flanked with mugs of brown
stone-ware with a foam atop, or brightly
polished tankards of ale. But Mrs. Bancroft
was disposed for something warm after her

H 2

journey, and soon a tea-board was before her,
and as she poured out the fragrant beverage
for herself and Muriel, Samuel carved a
roasted capon, and dispensed it with the
savoury adjunct of broiled ham. But he preferred
a plat a tankard to sips at a tea-cup.

Muriel's appetite, as before, had been jolted
out of her.

'you'd best make a good supper, lass,"
said her uncle, as he laid down his knife and
fork, and smoothed his hands along his
thighs. " There's no knowing when you'll
have another. They'll not feed you with
fowl and ham at school," and he chuckled
until he choked.

Muriel looked alarmed.

Be quiet, Sam ; don't you scare the lass ! "
put in his mother sharply. "She will have
plenty of good wholesome food. I'll take
care of that. Do you think Miss Frescoes
would have such a name if they starved their
scholars ? You mio-ht delight in tormenting
her!"

Whether or not, he had put to flight what

little appetite Muriel had sat down with ; and
sent her to bed in very unusual depression.

She was, however, fresh for breakfast the
next morning ; and when that meal was disposed
of, was in hopes that her grandmother
would take her to the fair. But no, Mrs.
Bancroft was too keen a business woman to
waste a morning so unprofitably. She did
not mean to be unkind, but hers were trading
instincts, and Muriel there was an encumbrance.


I'll see about it before the fair's over. You
may look about you as we go along. I've
already given a week to the king, it won't
pay to throw another day away into the
bargain," was all she said as she took Muriel
by the hand and stepped on briskly towards
Queen Street.

Samuel had been off some time to look
after their furs and peltry at the new Hall and
to see it unpacked.

LEFT WITH THE MISSES Bristol.

[IE liiglily genteel residence of the Misses
Briscoe, was a solid if somewhat grim
brick building with stone dressings, and a
flight of steps the iron handmaids of which
swept outwards with a curl right and left.

There they were shown into a fireless
reception room painted brown, where a pair of
globes stood sentry in arched recesses on
either side the hearth, and spindly fire-irons
in tall rests within a perforated steel fender
had an air of never being used, any more than
the square footstools on either side, where a
worsted cat and dog preserved unbroken peace.
High backed chairs, with contorted limbs and
painted velvet covers, were ranged like a
regiment against the sombre walls, whereon
Jung the pictorial embroidery and poona

which was the school's diploma ; and
on the centre table were books and other nick-nacks
presented by grateful pupils or their
friends.

After waiting a few moments the two Misses
Briscoe entered together, the thin listened
arm of the one sister resting on the thinner
listened arm of the other. Their high heeled
shoes fell on the faded carpet in precise step,
and their tall caps and prim long stomachers
seemed to bend in unison as they courtesies
with gracious if formal politeness and smiled
urbanely. They were supposed to confer a
favour in accepting the pupil.

Brusque Mrs. Bancroft was not easily
overawed. She had no time to spare for
ceremony, and after introducing Muriel as the
Miss Danger about whom she had written,
plunged into business at once.

The two maiden ladies, nowise disconcerted,
shook Muriel by the hand, spoke to her with
reassuring gentleness, told her she need not
tremble, she was certain to be happy under
their auspicious guardianship ; rang the bell

for a '' bliss Williams," and desired that young
lady, with the most benignant of smiles, to
introduce their charming new pupil to her
schoolmates.

As a rule, muriel was not demonstrative ;
but then, notwithstanding the winning aspect
of the teacher and the honeyed words of the
Misses Briscoe, she flung her arms around the
neck of her grandmother, and as if struck with
a quick foreboding, cried piteously, " Oh,
grandmother, dear grandmother, do not leave
me here ; take me back to my mother ; take
me back to my mother!"

"My dear, you are disturbing your kind
relative ; pray control your emotions," said
Miss Briscoe candy, releasing the clinging
arms with prim decision, and leading the
young girl to the door and to Miss Williams,
as if the latter had been a sort of warder and
she a captive ; her grandmother's "Don't fret,
Muriel, I'll see you again before I go back,"
following her with just a gleam of comfort.

There was a slight twitching of Sarah Bancroft's
hard mouth and a suspicious moisture

in her eyes as Muriel was led away, but Miss
Briscoe's unruffled demeanour recalled the
business woman to herself, and she soon found
that the Misses Briscoe, altliouoii smooth and
velvety as peaches, and she as rough as a
russet apple, were traders as keen and astute
as her own self.

There were so many small matters to be
paid for, not mentioned beforehand as extras,
so many little items in the way of plate and
linen to be provided for the pupil  and left
for the school, so much to be settled and
arranged respecting course of stud' and
needlework, the use of harpsichord and library,
each meaning a fresh dip into the pocket.
She, however, was prepared to be liberal, and
only stipulated that Muriel should " have a
sound education, plenty of good food, and a
comfortable home."

Alas for fair promises and testimonials !
The Misses Briscoe traded on their power to
mould their pupils to pattern, their own frigid
gentility the model. They made too much of
their Christian principles, and were strict

observers of fast-days and forms. But what
hearts they might have had m their youth, had
shrivelled up like their lean bodies ; and the
human hearts and souls in their charge were
all but ignored in their system of training and
discipline.

They had a single parlour-boarder, and for
the first fortnight Miss Danger was permitted
to take her meals along with this privileged
young lady, at the table of the Misses Briscoe,
which was set forth with due regard to the
proprieties  and economy. But no sooner
was the fair over, and the Bancroftss and
.D'Anyers " gone beyond come again," than
she took her place with the rest of the pupils.

True to her promise Sarah Bancroft had not
only obtained the Eev. Thomas Bancroft's
promise to watch over Muriel, as she told her
for her comfort before she went away ; but she
had also called to see her grandchild and take
her round the city, and although Miss Briscoe
and her echo had done their polite best to convince
her that " Miss Danger was perfectly
happy, and that, it would be a thousand pities

to unsettle the dear young lady again," she
said she "would rather risk that than break
her word."

She tempered her abruptness with an invitation
for Miss Briscoe to join them, and then
there was no longer any demur.

With a face all smiles, her scarlet cloak
around her shoulders, her gipsy hat tied down
under her chin, Muriel would have rushed to
her grandmother's embrace, but there was a
restraining hand to intimate propriety. And
there was the chilling presence of Miss Briscoe,
with eyes and ears open, whether under Mrs.
Bancroft's guidance they traversed the Eows,
or the walls, that enclosed the city within a
quadrangle of defensive rampart which peaceful
citizens had converted into a pleasant
promenade. And whether proud of her native
city, or of her historical lore, the precise and
stately preceptress descanted learnedly and
loftily as they went  if somewhat parrot-like
on its glories and antiquities, ignoring,
if not ignorant of the fact that Sarah Bancroft
knew pretty well as much of Chester as she

did herself, and most likely would have told
her so, if Muriel had not been there to see
and be instructed.

She, poor child, Avould much rather have
cuddled up close to her grandmother, on this
last day, and have talked of her mother, and
George, her father, and her sisters, and her
cousin Silly Ilargreaves, but politeness condemned
her to listen, and ere long she found
herself interested. For though she did not
care to hear that the citizens owed " to the
noble house of Grosvenor the magnificent
new arch " of the Eastgate (by the steps of
which they had mounted to the walls), and
could only see in the Cathedral an enormously
big church rather out of repair, when they
reached the angle of thewall where stood the
Phoenix Tower with the canal flowing tranquilly
beneath, and was told that "during the
memorable siege of Chester King Charles the
First looked out from the top and saw his
troops defeated b} the Parliamentarians on
Eowton Moor," she seemed to feel for the
sorrow of the poor king ; and would fain have

gone herself to the top of the tower and have
looked out like him, but her companions
scanned the formidable ascent to the doorway
and the promise of further steps inside, with
wholesome regard to their own years, and
breath, so Muriel scampered up the steps
alone, to be recalled midway, with a quick
Miss Danger ! " in which was compressed the
essence of the censure and rebuke she would
have in full the next day.

She had scarcely forgotten her own disappointment,
or that of King Charles, when
they reached the old North Gate, where their
path lay under a narrow arch in a superincumbent
pile of buildings, dark and ancient,
the roadway of course running under the
larger arch below. Here Miss Briscoe made a
pause to be the more impressive.

This," said she, " is not only our Xortli
Gate, but the City Gaol, and is of most
renowned antiquity ; indeed its foundations
were laid by the Eomans. Of course / was
never inside," and she drew herself up virtuously,
" but I understand it contains some

curious cells, and instruments of torture such
as were used in the old days of religious
persecution."

They don't use them now, I hope"' put in
Muriel earnestly.

Oil, no, my child, those dark ages are
past, no one is tortured now-a-days. There
was a meddlesome fellow, called John Howard,
who has a mania for visiting prisons, came
here five years ago and he reported that in
this City Gaol, the convicts and prisoners for
trial, were severely ironed by the neck, hands,
waist and feet, and chained to the floor, and
at night to their beds in the horrid dungeon ;
and he also said that the ' allowance of a
pennyworth of bread for felons, and a pound
for debtors, was inferior in quality to that
sold in the city.' And many other things he
said, even that ' men and women were not
properly separated ; ' all reflecting on the
humanity of the gaoler. But no doubt he
exaggerated grossly; or if not, does he expect
that we are to pamper criminals ? If men
will commit offences, or will not pay their.

debts, they deserve to go to gaol. They have
no one to blame but themselves if they are
punished."

I don't think they have a right to ]put
fetters on a man before he is tried," was the
commentary of Mrs. Bancroft who had a
habit of forming her own opinions, though
not more inclined to deal leniently with
offenders than others of her age and
time.

But Muriel, who had listened with dilating
eyes, broke in breathlessly :

I don't think they have a right to put
anyone in irons, and chain him to the floor ;
I think that must be torture."

Little girls of your age have no right to
think," was the severely grave rebuke of Miss
Briscoe, and Muriel was silenced.

Then, as if to efface any impression of
harshness she might have left on Mrs. Bancroft's
mind, this inimitable trainer of youth
waved a thin arm and a yellow mitten with
a courtly air, towards an old building in
an angle of the wall, with the gracious

intimation, " And now we approach the
ancient hallowed Dee,' as the poet Drayton
designates our classic river, and here stands
the Goblin Tower ; the Watertown you may
observe lies down below, though the water
no loser washes its base as of old."

Her hearers followed the wave of her arm,
and looked out over the flowing river and the
wide expanse of country on the other side
which Mrs. Bancroft told Muriel was Wales ;
but she was impatient to get back to her
business, and Muriel had not overcome the
impression made upon her by the shadows of
the dark Northgate, and John Howard's report
thereon. Her heart ached for the poor
prisoners confined within those hard stonewalls,
and she saw and heard all else vacantly.
The word Wales somehow brought up other
associations, and she wondered if the men who
had robbed and beaten Captain Wynne's servant
would be put in that '* horrid dungeon,"
and chained to the floor if they were caught,
and with a child's logic began to hope they
would not be caught, if that was how they

would be used  thoiigli they did certainly
deserve punishing.

Her grandmother observed that her mind
was astray, and asked " What art' a dreaming
about, Muriel ? " and being told, answered,
but not harshly, " Don't thee bother thy young
brains o'er such things, lass ! Eof]ues like
those deserve hancino;, and nothing: less.
How else are honest folk to travel in peace ? "

This was another problem for Muriel, who
walked dreamily on over the Watergate and
past the Eoodee, and only roused when the
Castle was pointed out.

What ! a real castle where knights in
armour used to live and fiofht ! "

The exclamation was addressed to her
grandmother, but Miss Briscoe replied :

"Yes, Miss Danger, and the ground at the
end of Queen Street, where you saw the shows
and mountebanks, was formerly the ' Justing
Field,' where the armed knights were wont to
tilt.' "

"Oh, like Prince Arthur and Sir Lancelot
du Lake, and Sir Tristan," and Muriel, who

VOL. I. I

had met with a few old romances, glowed with
a new enthusiasm.

"I'm afraid, Miss D'Ayner, yours has not
been an improving kind of study. We must
amend that," and the enthusiasm was damped.

Indeed, whenever the natural girl l)roke
forth, or addressed herself to her grandmother,
or crept to her side lovingly, there
Miss Briscoe interposed to keep the ]palpitating
young heart within bounds, and repress
any undue confidences. And dien,
having? left the Bride-cate far behind, and
the Wishing-steps which promise so much that
can never be, and having made the circuit of
the walls, descended once more into Eastgate
street. Miss Briscoe retained Muriel's hand
within her own ; 'for her safety in the throng
of the fair." Nay, even when Mrs. Bancroft
led the way to the New Manchester Ilall, and
generously pressed upon the admiring schoolmistress
a mink muff and tippet each for herself
and sister, with a view to bespeak favour
for her grandchild, her vigilance scarcely
relaxed.

It was during the selection of these that
Muriel saw her father for a moment, but he
was busy with a Welsh customer bartering
fustian, tufts, and moleskin for flannel, and had
not even a kiss for the child, who sighed and
Watched him wistfully, but beyond a brief
"Good-bye, be a good lass," she had no further
word or speech from him.

Do not disturb your good parent, you see
lie is engaged'' had been Miss Briscoe's frigid
reminder, unheard by the grandmother, or
she would have set that matter right.

With half-closed eyes Samuel Bancroft had
'' taken stock " of the stately old lady as she
entered the hall in the wake of his mother, and
courtesies to him as formally on introduction
as if in a drawing-room, and he certainly
must have sent a random shot home to her,
when he saluted the girl in his idea of jocularity
with, " Well, Muriel, you're a prisoner
now, I hope you like your gaolers,"

He had the jocularity taken out of him,
however, before the day was two hours older
when someone came to talk to him about

1 2

prisoners and gaolers, a tall thin woman in a
grey cloak, whom he called " Maggy," and
who came with a request, which took the
form of a demand, a demand that lead to be
complied with before he got rid of her.

It must have been no joking matter to him,
for long after she was gone, he looked right
and left and rubbed his knees, ejaculating
his breath, "Egad, its well that antiquated
piece of frozen honey and vinegar
took our old dame out of sight and hearing,
or there'd have been the very devil to pay."

It miofht be well for Sam, but though her
grandmother went back to Queen Street, and
she was politely invited to take tea at the
same table, Muriel had not one moment's
private speech with her.

The wary spinsters might have spared their
pains. Muriel was not given to feel oppressed,
or to complain ; they checked some loving
messages home, but no undue revelations. In
fact she had hardly bent her shoulders to the
yoke of discipline when her grandmother
went; but with the closing of the door

began her school life in earnest : school-life
as it Alas in the last century, when even in
the home the birch was the symbol of rule.

She had her first shock on the night of her
entrance, when the bedfellow to whom she
lead been assigned, a Miss Alice Ford, from
forthwith, led her upstairs to the dormitory
which she was to share with several others.

It was not only that there were five or six
pallet-beds in the room, or that pillows and
coverings were scant, or that lie objected to
a bedfellow, or to wash in a basin of water
common to others, or that the dim rays of the
dip-candle, placed on the landing to serve
four rooms, had a struggle to reach her
corner, or that she was told she must have
her clothes folded and be in bed in less than
ten minutes ; it was the culmination of all
these in a babel and a scramble in which there
was no jause for j)i'ayer, in which she knelt
down amidst confusion, to rise from her knees
in the dark, which seemed to overturn all her
own mother's reverent teaching, and overwhelm
her with dismay.

IfiROM a confused dream of home, and of
 nursing her infant brother, whose crying
was not to be stilled, Muriel was aroused
at six the next morning by the loud clangour
of a bell. There was a general leap to the
floor, and a repetition of the overnight
scramble, not unmixed with contention wJio
should be first to use water or towels, whose
turn it was to fasten the backs of bodices, or
to make the vacated beds, the prompt willingness
of Muriel to give place or to assist
others resulting in disaster.

When the bell rang its second summons
her frock was not on her shoulders, and of
those she had been ready to help not one
would stay to fasten it for her. They could
cry, " Make haste, you'll be late ! " but only

Miss Ford, the daughter of a Northwich
yeoman, had the grace to turn back and
bestow three mutes on the new pupil.

Those three minutes represented a reprimand,
and a fine which went into a money-box
'for the poor." ]S'o excuse was admitted.
Miss Ford paid for her act of courtesy (on the
score of dilatoriness), and once more Muriel's
sensitive heart was shocked. That she, being
fresh to the school, and ignorant of its rules,
was exonerated, was no satisfaction to her so
long as another was punished on her account.
She would have refunded the fine.

"Keep your pence," said Miss Ford, who
was two years older than herself ; " you will
need all your pocket-money."

And so Muriel thought when Miss Williams
warned her not to stand on the hearth or she
would be fined, and when the entrance of Miss
Betty after a tour of inspection in the dormitories,
and the discovery of stray articles,
such as caps and brushes, added sundry pence
and halfpence to the growing fund " for the
poor."

year. Miss Br hit her head

with a final " Good coming, ladies," as her
aster had dcHie, to be in turn saluted with low
and daboiate curtseys from the pupils n
tiff I If Miss W illijun?; the mild and ladylike
readier, then placed a large book on a table
near the fire, and at the signal, with won-crony
little shuffling, the girls dropped to
ther knees simultaneously, and Miss Briscoe
read, ex detained, a morning prayer from
the volume.

After prayers there was more reprimanding
for inattention, careless, lack of devotion;
and Lurid wondered at her own escape, for
her mind would stray homewards, and institute
comparisons between the prayers of her
mother and of Miss Briscoe.

Breakfast followed, but until she had ceased
to be the especial guest of the principals,
Muriel knew nothing but hearsay of schoolroom
fere.

Zr as of the boiled milk

and bread set before the young ladies for
breakfast thrice a week, which the careful
cook had seasoned with bits of g shell,
cheese, suet, etc., shaken in ~1: the crumbs
from the bread-basket and kitchen table.
Oh ! for a cup of the new milk from the
Stocks' Farm, and a plate of oatmeal pc rri-ge !
This mess is uneatable," thought she.

T- cic ere plenty of hungry candidates for
that Ahich she rejected, and on null mori i : -
she generally went breakfasted.

Xor did dinner make amends. A gu<:d appetite
was " vulgar," ** over-feeding tended to
corpulence," consequently the meat and
vegetables were doled out with due regard to
the shm gentility of the young ladies. The
consternation when " Oliver Twist asked for
more'' could not exceed that when Muriel
passed her plate innocently for '* another
potato, if you please,"

As at dinner, so was the long tea-table set
out, with due rard to gentility. Each young
lady had her own china cup and silver spoon ;
but a very wishy washy apology for tea was

poured therein, and one tiny lump of loaf-sugar
duly dropped in from silver tongs as
flavouring, by Miss Williams, who presided.
(Brown sugar was not genteel, and white was
expensive.) Plates of thick bread, with a
microscopic film of butter, were ranged at
intervals, and hungry Muriel unsuspiciously
helped herself to more than the regulation
quantity.

Some one else, better informed, must have
done the same, for when Miss Ford and the
other monitress, whose duty it was literally to
icait, sat down to their own chilled repast,
the plates were bare.

Oh, that's nothing new," was the answer
of her next neighbour, to a question from
Muriel ; " only two pieces each are sent
in. If any one takes more, some one
must go without. There is no more to
be had."

Muriel was dismayed. A second time Miss
Ford was doing penance for her. She could
not stand that. Her sense of justice overcame
timidity. She rose, and begged that

Miss Williams would order in a fresh supply,
explaining that she found she had taken more
than her share.

It is against the rules," said the teacher
quietly, but she flushed to the roots of her
hair, as if she felt her task unpleasant, knowing
how insufficient Alas the quantity for
f]rowinof crirh.

O Do

It is certain that Muriel's frank admission
and request were not displeasing, or she would
not have shut her ears to the indignant " Ita
shame ! " with which the novice sat down.
As certain as that Muriel had a friend in Miss
Ford from that hour.

And it was no unusual thing for kindly-disposed
Rachel Williams to close both her
ears and eyes, when by so doing she could
ward off punishment for trivial offences. How
else would it have been possible for the day-scholars
to smujrGfle in the buns and rolls 



famished Muriel and her companions gave
them the secret pence to buy ?

She had a gentle heart, and had been
tenderly nurtured, but her mother had long

been dead ; lier father, a naval officer, had
fallen in battle, and she was dependent on her
situation for support. Many were the indignities
she herself bore, and bore calmly, waiting
patiently for the day in the unknown
future Avhen her lover, a Lieutenant Griffiths,
in her late father's ship, should come and
claim her. Not that she was altogether friendless
; she had an aunt in Wales who would
have made a home for her, but self-respect
inclined her to turn her English education
to account, and to put up with minor evils
philosophically. She saw much in the
fashionable boarding-school which she was
powerless to remedy, but she had the consolation
of softening asperities, and even of
turning hardships to a Christian account.

Muriel soon learned to look to lier for
counsel and comfort. After carrying her
silver-clasped Bible to St. John's Church a
couple of Sundays, it was coolly transferred
to Miss Briscoe's hands, and not returned.
It is too costly for a child's use," she was
told. The girl felt as if a portion of her

heart had been torn away, set she could not
venture to expostulate. To Miss Williams she
went in an agony of grief, and laid bare all
her mother's wishes, and her own promises, as
bound up in that volume, and her dread lest
it was gone for ever, and the fulfilment of her
promise with it.

My dear Miss Danger," said the teacher
kindly, making the best of what she disapproved,
" do not be alarmed ! When you leave
the school, your Bible will be restored to you.
Xo doubt Miss Briscoe considered that the
parade of so costly a book before your schoolfellows
was calculated to arouse pride in
yourself, envy and other ill-feelings in them.
You would not wish to tempt others to evil.
Consider it as a temptation out of your way;
and remember that your promise to your good
mother was made as a means to build up a
Christian life. I will find you a plain Bible
and Prayer-book, which will serve that purpose
quite as well ; and I will give you what
help I can  a quiet half-hour now and then,
for reading, and explanation when any

difficulty arises, if 3011 will regard me as a
friend."

Muriel could but remember, as the explanation
so kindly put made itself felt, that she
had indeed been proud of her exclusive
possession, as if it conferred distinction on
herself; and she recalled too the upturned
noses of her schoolfellows ; their nods, and
looks, and sly lodgings as she had taken her
place in the file, book in hand ; to say nothing
of the whispers.

"Isn't Miss set up?" "Silver clasps indeed
! " " Vastly fine ! " and other sneers
which had reached her in passing, and being
open to conviction, she grew calmer as she
listened to Miss Williams' apology, if not
altogether reconciled to her loss.

It was soon buzzed about that Miss Briscoe
lead impounded the coveted volume, and then
the same young lips twitted her spitefully
with the "pride that had a fall," until Miss
Ford interposed between the passive Muriel
and their ill-nature.

She soon found that the teacher was as

o'ood as her word. Without the slightest
show of favouritism, Miss Williams made her
feel she had a friend beside her there ;
and truly a friend was needed to make the
strict routine endurable. Xot that it was
worse for Muriel than for others, only that
she was sensitive and susceptible.

So much time was given to study and needlework,
so little, so very little, to recreation;
unless the hour devoted every morning to
deportment was considered such. Muriel did
not think it very lively to bend her knees in
curtseys till they ached, or to be screwed up
in the stocks to turn out her feet, or to march
about the schoolroom with a leather collar
propping up her chin, and her arms pinioned
by a blackboard to improve her figure. She
would much rather have walked up and down
the kitchen at home with George in her arms,
or led a game of romps with her younger
sisters, and I am afraid was not over grateful
to her grandmother, whose motives had not
been confided to lier.

Yet it must not be forgotten that for

healthful exercise  and the parade of the
school  there was the weekly promenade
round the city Avails, with the favour of an
occasional detour into the Eows, when those
whose pocket-money had not already gone
in secret to the baker's, or openly to the
poor-box, might regale at the pastry-cook's,
and lucky did the girls think themselves
if now and then the Misses Briscoe delegated
their guardianship to Miss Williams and a
monitress.

Muriel would have considered herself fortunate
had it been so on that brisk December
day, when she had been ten weeks in the
school. Instead, Miss Briscoe, stiff as any
other martinet, marched at the head of the
(graduated file of osiris, whilst Miss Betty
brought up the rear. Miss Williams was a
prisoner to the schoolroom, keeping guard
over lesser prisoners then in disgrace.

It was a very staid and decorous but not
very animated procession. The keen air
sharpened appetites already sharp enough,
and the cold pinched fingers and toes already

in danger of chilblains. Muriel was well protected
from the weather. Other girls had
muffs, or cloaks, or gipsy bonnets of straw, but
her bonnet was a glossy black beaver, roughened
by every breeze, and worn in conjunction
with muff and cloak, the combination brought
her into trouble. They had not proceeded far
in their routine walk along the walls, when,
midway between the Wishing steps and the
Bridge-gate a young lieutenant of the Eoyal
Welsh FusiJiers, was observed lounging idly
against the parapet. He had a handsome face
under his black cheese-cutter hat ; and as his
scarlet coat and white spatterdash set off a
well-formed if slight figure, no wonder if more
than one stray glance went towards him.

All at once he cave a recognising: start,
ejaculated "Eed Eiding Hood, by all that's
wonderful ! " and, with a well-pleased smile
breaking over his face, darted forward and
offered his hand to Muriel, who took it,
nothing loth, and answered his " Miss
Danger, how glad I am to see you ! " with
And so am I, Mr. Arthur. But I did not

VOL. I. K

know you. I hope Mrs. Wynne is better,
sir."

Ah the hair-powder and uniform disguised
me, I suppose. Now it was your familiar
attire caught my eye ! Oh, thank you, my
mother is "

He got no farther. Miss Betty from the
rear, and Miss Briscoe from the van, had come
aghast to the rescue. Consternation sat on
every youthful brow but Muriel's, and she
wore a look of questioning perplexity. With
awful severity Miss Briscoe demanded, 

How dare you presume, sir, to accost
one of viy pupils without sanction ? Lying
in wait to arrest her progress during our
promenade ! It is monstrous ! "

Lieutenant Wynne bowed, offered a deferential
explanation and an apology ; but Miss
Briscoe was not to be mollified, or misled, as
she phrased it. "Your colonel will hear of
this matter, sir," was her final and decisive
blow.

Arthur Wynne raised his hat, bowed regretfully,
said to Muriel, " I hope, Miss Danger,

I have not plunged you into disgrace with my
precipitation," and stepped back, leaving the
way clear.

But the scandalized spinsters were so much
discomposed by the pouncing of this wolf in
uniform on one of their flock, that nothing
immediate return was possible. It was
only in the security of the haven in Queen
Street that they could deal with a matter of
so much moment. The very character of the
school was in peril.

As for Muriel, solitary confinement and
bread-and-water diet for the remainder of
the week was her portion. Her attempt at
explanation only made the matter worse.
Not known him a fortnight ! It was disgraceful
! "

Solitary confinement in a fireless room in
midwinter with such dietary would nowadays
rouse the indignation of parents, and
drive the educational professor into the Bankruptcy
Court. Then, it was a part of the
common system, and it was not for the pupil to
rebel or the parent to remonstrate. Alike in

K 2

our army, our navy, and our schools, discipline
was preserved rigorously.

If Muriel, catching at a word thrown outby
the young officer, whose commission was
little more than a month old, looked for the
appearance and intervention of Mrs. Wynne,
she was disappointed. That lady never came,
although her health was sufficiently re-established
for visiting.

'' The schoolmistress was quite right,
Arthur, and most discreet," she had said to
her son, "You certainly took a liberty'' 
Yes, gratitude is vastly proper, no doubt,
but it lias limits and degrees. Mine does not
prompt to a cultivation of an acquaintance
with a school-girl, or her trading relatives."

Captain Wynne must have thought somewhat
differently, since, before Miss Briscoe
could forward her complaint to the colonel at
head quarters, she had a visit from him. He
came less to tender an apology for his son
than to inquire for Miss Danger, and to
smooth away any misconception by the
remark that he and his were under considerable

obligations to the young lady and her
friends, and he desired to thank her in person.
Yet so little deference did he pay to Miss
Briscoe's dignity, and so little was she disposed
to admit precipitancy or mistake on her part,
that the captain was constrained to take leave
without seeing Muriel, and the message he left
was never delivered.

But such a Hitter had the officer's arrival
created, that the news went to Muriel as a
profound secret " along with her bread and
water.

For a moment it warmed up the chilly
atmosphere of lier dormitory ; but it passed,
and added only one more to the many
problems lier child-brain attempted to solve
during her fasting solitude. At first she had
flung herself down on the deeply recessed
window-seat, and coiling her pinafore round
her bare arms, looked down vacantly on backyards,
where garments from the Avast alone
enlivened the scene, and on the playground
where was never any play, wondering and
pondering the nature of her offence.

Oh, what would I not give for my cloak,
or my fur muff and tippet, from the robing-room
! " she murmured to herself, as the cold
seemed to freeze her blood ; " I dare not
wrap myself up in one of the quilts or they
would chastise me as they did Miss Sims.
It is very cruel ! I wonder if either Miss
Briscoe or Miss Betty was served so when
they went to school ! But what u it all
for?" And then she walked about the long
room to keep herself from freezing utterly ;
still turnings over and over in her mind the

o

injustice of lier punishment, the hardship of
her daily life, the stern discipline of the school,
her grandmother's motive for singling her out
for such an experience, the pain it would
cause her mother to know what she had to
endure, the wonder no letters came with home
news or inquiries, the aching fear lest she was
.forgotten; and then with the memory of the
Sunday evening sermon at the Octagon
Chapel, came the inner questioning if she
was expiating some unremembered sin; and
the preacher's category of " sins of omission,"

coupled with his fiery denunciations, filled
her with terror.

Unknown to all, Muriel passed through a
crisis of her life in those three solitary days.
There had been bitter moments when there
was danger that her soft and sensitive heart
would harden to stone under the sense of
neglect and cruelty. But on the eve of the
second day (the day on which Miss Ford, as
monitress of her class, brought up on a daintily
covered waiter, the bread and water for her
mid-day meal, and with it the secret of Captain
Wynne's visit), whilst the Misses Briscoe
where sipping their souchong in contentment,
Miss Williams, whose heart ached for the
innocent offender, carried her own tea up to
the bewildered pupil sitting alone in the cold
and dark, and with it, a downy angola-shawl
of her own ; determined to brave the censure
of her employers if it came to their knowledge.


Here, throw this over your shoulders,
my dear, and drink this tea, it may serve to
warm you," was all that she said, but it was

sufficient. Muriel knew instinctively that the
tea was her teacher's own, that she would herself
have to go without, and that simple act of
self-denying sympathy turned the whole current
of the tdrl's feelings. She burst into
tears. The teacher had to slip back hurriedly,
but she had time for a few words of healing,
and when she left the crisis was past. Muriel
sank on her knees and prayed. It was a
child's prayer ; but it went up to heaven on
the wings of faith and submissive humility.

The learning of a psalm lead been part of
her punishment ; the Bible left with her for
the purpose became an up-springing fountain
of consolation for her all the last day of her
penance, and for ever after ; and she gathered
strength from it as well as comfort and guidance.
That which had been intended by the
Misses Briscoe as a p?za/ for speaking to a
stranger, and which had called up a spirit
of rebellion long dormant, was, with God's
blessing and the kind teacher's instrumentality,
converted into a permanent benefit.
Whithersoever Miss Williams went, went

also the Three Christian Graces, and she had
introduced them to her sad Uttle friend.

All the school was ao-os: the following week.
Letters where to be written home. It was a
sad damper to the uninitiated to find they had
to be draughted on their slates, and to be submitted
to Miss Briscoe for revision and interpolation
before they could be transferred to
paper. Muriel's epistle had undergone wonderful
transformation in the process, and she felt
some compunction in setting her signature toit
when complete.

'' How am I to sign this ? It is not true,"
whispered Muriel across the double desk to
Miss Ford who sat opposite.

What you wrote was true. Leave the
alterations on Miss Briscoe's conscience," was
the cool reply, and after a little more hesitation
the letter was signed.

The answer came in a hamper just before
Christmas time, when the other pupils were
looking forward to home cheer and festivities.
Muriel did not see it opened ; but Miss Briscoe
reported among the contents three letters, 

one for herself and two for Iiiriel, two books,
and a larsre currant cake. This she was at
once allowed to cut up and distribute amongst
her companions. Then, and not before. Miss
Briscoe read out to her slowly and deliberately,
as if she were picking her way amongst the
words and sentences, that which had been
penned by her mother and grandmother for
the girl's own eye and heart, and to which
Muriel listened With clasped hands and eager
eyes.

They were just such letters as might be
expected to answer her fabulous epistle home.
She was congratulated on her health, her
happiness, pier attachment to her benign
teachers, and was told to be thankful for a
home so replete with comforts denied in other
schools which they could name. Then
flowed the home news, and this swallowed
up the advice with which the letters were
concluded.

She learned not only that her Uncle Sam was
gone to Waverham to be married to Lydia
Bradley, but that her little brother George

Lad been dead for more than six weeks,  the
brother she had nursed, who had learned to
walk by her hand.

After that Miss Briscoe's dry, hard tones fell
on deaf ears. Muriel sat on the form with
her hands still clasped, but as one crushed
and stunned. There were pitying glances
directed towards her, but she seemed neither
to hear nor see. At length Miss Williams
took her by the hand and led her to her own
room, where the sluices of grief might open
and relieve the bursting child-heart.

She did more. Under the conviction that
it would be cruel to leave the young thing
with those frigid spinsters in that great house,
alone with her new sorrow, she obtained permission
(granted readily enough on the calculation
that her board would be saved) to bear
Muriel away with her to Wrexham, where
she always spent her own holidays, at a large
farm about a mile beyond the town, with her
good-natured and hospitable Aunt Parry.

:\n?s. iiorj.Kv's postscript.

IXIA' tlirce weeks' holiday ! Yet what
'<J a boon and a refreshment it was,
alike to worn-out teacher and pupil. To
Muriel it was notliin less than a providential
change for which soul and body
were the better.

Fancy what she would have endured shut
up for those three weeks with the prim and
unbending spinsters in their formal back
sitting-room, without recreation or books calculated
to dissipate her new sorrow  the
library of which she had " the use " was scant
and heavy  or waking the echoes in the solitary
dreariness of the uncarpeted school-room
and dormitories ; to pass and re-pass servants
to whom she might not speak ; to shiver in
view of a fire she might not approach ; and to

sit in silence at a precise table where lier
portion of food was all too meagre.

And then contrast the untrammelled freedom
of the farm-house life, which she had
been so fearlessly invited to share, and where
a hospitable welcome met them in advance
with the farmer's cart at Wrexham, to be
repeated in every act and word of her kind
hostess. True, everyone there save Mrs.
Parry had a Welsh tongue, and her English
was none too fluent, but Miss Williams was a
ready interpreter, and in her absence a smiling
pantomime did duty for speech ; and it was
good fun for Muriel to pick up' words and
phrases in the Cymric vernacular. Then
there was the abundant and nutritious fare 
milk, eggs, poultry, apples, honey, without
stint, with the very sweetest of brown bread
and butter.

Muriel had learned to milk at the Stocks'
Farm. It was a renewed pleasure to pat the
sleek sides of the small Welsh cows, and try
her hand afresh at milking time. She could
help to feed the poultry, watch with interest

the processes of churning, butter and cheese-making,
and could share in the Christmas
merry-making, where the strange costume and
speech were part of her entertainment ; and if
she could not understand the Sunday services
at Wrexham's picturesque church, she could
comprehend her kind friend's translation and
comments during the drive back to the farm.

On one of these occasions the spring cart,
driven by Mrs. Parry's son, had to be drawn
aside to make wav for a passion carriage
drawn by two small native ponies ; and in
which reclined a lady muffled up in furs, and
accompanied by a portly gentleman.

In the former Muriel recognised Mrs.
Wynne, and with a sudden exclamation
clasped her hands elated ; but the lady made
no sign of recognition, and her companion was
a stranger. The sjirl's countenance fell.

Do you know that lady ? " inquired Miss
Williams.

"Yes, she is Mrs. Wynne, Captain Wynne's
wife, mother of the young officer  you
remember."

Yes ; Miss Williams remembered ; she lead
heard how Muriel chanced to know the young
lieutenant ; and she had an opinion that the
lady might have distinguished Muriel in the
cart, had she been so minded, but she only
added, after a few words in Welsh with Mrs.
Parry, "Mrs. Wynne is staying with the
captain's relatives at the Plan, we may meet
her again."

Meeting thus with Mrs. Wynne, sent Muriel's
thoughts off at a tangent to the Forest, to
wonder if the captain's servant was better,
and if the robbers had been put in prison ;
and if they were the men Mrs. Kingsley
fancied; and who that Maggy Blackburn was,
for she had kept her ears open though her
lips were closed. Then having landed at
Waverham with Maggy Blackburn, the
marvel of her Uncle Samuel's marriage filled
her mind with speculations what her new aunt
would be like, and when she would see her,
and where they were going to live ; and then
home her thoughts flew to her mother,
mourning for the loss of little George, and

she ]had not a very bright face when the cart
stopped at the farm-gate.

They did not meet with Mrs. Wynne again,
although they wrapped themselves up and
rambled over the mountains, making the most
of the fine crisp weather, day after day.
There is no question Muriel was disappointed,
but she did not let disappointment mar her
enjoyment. Indeed, she gathered a fund of
more than health in those excursions. For to
Eachel Williams 

Not a tree,
A ]slant, a leaf, a Blossom, but contained
A folio volume. She could read, and read.
And read again, and still find something new, 
Something to please and something to instruct, 
E'en in the noisome weed."

And though winter had stripped most of the
leaves from the book of Nature, she could
find

Sermons iu stone, books in the running brooks,
And good in everything."

And so she fed Muriel's receptive mind with
the purest thought, and led the girl to look
herself for good in everything, even though

the mountains wore no summer robes and the
air was keen and cold.

It was well ; for Muriel had gone to the
Misses Briscoes' school under a delusion, only
to experience a rough awakening. She went
back now, re-invigorated and strengthened, to
face evils of which she knew the worst, and
determined, with the help of her Heavenly
Father, to make the best of that which she
could not remedy, and which might not be
wholly evil.

It was well she went back to the chilly
rooms, scant fare, wearisome exercises, and
difficult tasks (not so much in books as needlework)
in so cheerful a spirit ; it served to
reconcile her somewhat to the severe
discipline, and brighten the monotonous
hardship of daily routine, not only for herself
but for those with idiom she came in contact :
as Eachel Williams had brightened it for her.

Young Misses of the present generation
have no conception what those hardships
were at the period when the birch for personal
castigation was considered an indispensable

VOL. I. L

adjunct of even a fashionable seminary; when
the set visits of music and dancing masters
alone broke the monotony; and a letter or
hamper from home put the whole school in a
flutter, even though the contents were doled
out, as it were, through a sieve.

It was quite an excitement when Miss
Briscoe announced, with some stateliness, the
arrival of '' an eminent artist to paint Miss
Ford's portrait " on white sink for the after
embroidery of draperies and accessories in
coloured silks by the favoured young lady ;
such portrait-taking being a sure indication
of a coming removal from the establishment,
and of friends willing to pay well lor the
distinction. Yet Muriel blurred a bright
carnation in her own embroidery with a tear
when she heard of the parting in store, for
she had learned to love Alice Ford.

Two years,  two years more of study and
privation,  and then Miss Danger herself
was invited " to have the honour of sitting to
the celebrated artist ; " but prior to that, her
grandmother (who came duly for the great

fairs, and brought just a few scraps of home
news for the girl's hungry heart, and always
a present for the Misses Briscoe) had carried
off in triumph an embroidered posy with
impossible stems adorned and tied With a
sprawling blue bow, all on a circular disc of
white satin, likewise a filigree basket and tea-caddy,
a set of fine linen shirts, and a muslin
apron of marvellously delicate Workmanship,
to be exhibited to the D'Anyers as a proof
of Muriel's proficiency and her own wisdom in
bearing' her off to Miss Briscoe's renowned

o

school.

She had no suspicion how many fines had
been paid, how many tears shed by aching
eyes over the " sixteen different openwork
stitches " in the embroidered apron border
which Miss Briscoe displayed with so much
pride as " a credit to the school," or how
often the rosebuds and forget-me-nots Iliad
bloomed and faded from the satin before
completion. And so far had Muriel accepted
the irremediable, that proud of her work and
the commendations she received, she was

L 2

too full of questions about those at home,
during the brief visits of her Grandmother
Bancroft or lier father at fair-time, to think
of complaining, had the opportunity been
allowed.

Indeed, so rigidly was the dogma enforced,
Obey those in authority over you," that
the complaint of a child or anyone riot in
authority, would have been disregarded, if
indeed it did not suggest insubordination,
and a more rigorous rule. And so long as
Muriel was no worse off than the rest she
would have felt ashamed to talk of hardship
or accuse either Miss Briscoe or Miss Betty
of inhumanity.

Consequently, when the Eev. Thomas Bancroft,
mindful of his promise, called to ascertain
how the young lady was progressing, he
carried away only favourable impressions,
setting down to youthful diffidence the hesitation
of Muriel to answer, in the presence of
Miss Briscoe, his questions, whether she
was happy and comfortable. Muriel gained
nothing bv his brief visits, but the suave

Misses Briscoe did. The good report of the
learned Head Master of the Grammar School
was not to be despised, and they gained that
by Muriel's uncomplaining silence.

Nay, she made no complaints during the
midsummer holidays spent at Forest House,
and if she looked thin, it was put down to
over growth and over-study.

She was too curious to ascertain what
became of Captain Wynne's servant, and if
the robbers had been caught, to say much
about herself, though it did transpire that she
had been punished because Arthur Wynne
spoke to her, and that she had not been
allowed to see the captain when he called.

Ah, 1 daresay it was against the rules,"
said Mrs. Kingsley, polishing and dusting an
oaken buffet or sideboard on which silver
drinking vessels disputed precedence with
china puncheons. One of the former she
took up and handed to Muriel, "See what the
captain sent to my good man, and read what
is on it, ' A token of a stranger's gratitude for
genuine kindness and hearty hospitality.'

It's a fine cup ; Kingsley's rare and proud of
it, I can tell you. And look here, I'm just as
proud of these." And she threw open a
panel-door of the buffet to display a china
tea-service over Which a modern aesthete
might rave.

I suppose Mrs. Wynne sent you that,"
suggested Muriel, when she had sufficiently
admired Loth.

"Not she! And if she had I should have
sent it back. She gave herself too many fine
airs to suit me. If the rest of the world
wasn't born to wait on her she thought so.
No, it came from the young man; the best of
the lot; the only sociable one of the three. I
daresay he had some of the family pride, but
he didn't show it here. Kincrslev and he i>-ot
on famously together ; and he looked well
after that man Norris."

I'm glad of that," said Muriel, " but you
did not tell me "

"Oh, I forgot. Aye, the thieves were
caught as sure as they ever will be, but there
were three or four folk, an ostler and a barmaid,

and one or two others that swore an
albi, and so they got off, more's the pity !
For, if there be two biifjer rogues in all
Cheshire than those Blackburnss, I never saw
an honest man. And that old mother of theirs
is quite as bad. I wonder how Lydia and

your Uncle " Mrs. Kingsley stopped short

suddenly, as if the vigorous rubbing of old
oak demanded all her breath and her
attention.

Muriel looked up  wondered  but she had
asked what was an alibi, and Mrs. Kingsley
launched into an explanation that it was a
proof an accused person was somewhere else
when a crime was committed ; and then into
compassion for Norris, who would be lame for
the rest of his life, his hip having been "put
out" ; and Muriel went back to school without,
hearing what Mrs. Kingsley had to say about.
Uncle Sam and her new aunt ; the aunt slie-
had not seen.

Back to school, fresher and brighter ; to
grow pale and thin again as the months went
on ; and there was acrain a dreary winter

holiday before her when all her schoolfellows
were gone. But her good friend Miss Williams
again came compassionately to the rescue, and
Muriel was quite content to leave the good
things in her Christmas-hamper for the Misses
Briscoe, so long as she was carried off to spend
another delightful vacation at Wrexham. The
last; for soon after, to Muriel's great grief,
she was called upon to part from her beloved
teacher : that governess on whom the Misses
Briscoe looked loftily down, yet to whom she,
and not she alone, could point in all her afterlife
as her exemplar; who had taught her
that patient endurance might be sublime, and
that self was a very small item in the sum of
duty.

The naval officer had come ashore on leave
and promotion. There was such a lovers'
meeting in the spinsters' reception-room as
ought to have brightened it up for ever.
Then followed a happy wedding at St. John's,
and a feast to all the boarders, over which the
Misses Briscoe graciously presided in their
best array, because they got all the credit

and had none of the cost ; then there was a
general presentation of girlish tributes of
esteem and affection.

And when at last the gallant Captain Griffiths
carried off his bride in a post-chaise
so many tears where shed for the loss of their
gentle teacher, that Miss Briscoe nodded her
head significantly and said in confidence to
lier sister, " It was time she went ; " to
which the echo responded, " So it was''

Thoughtful for others to the last, the newl}-
made wife contrived to make that a red-letter
day for Muriel as well as herself, by the
restoration of Deborah Massey's Bible, surrendered
by Miss Briscoe at her urgent entreaty ;
and the few impressive words of farewell
counsel which accompanied it were not likely
to be soon forgotten.

Her departure was a loss to the whole
school. Her successor was of another order.
She strained discipline to hide her own incompetence,
and made the girls' lives intolerable
with flies and punishments, intensifying instead
of softening the harsh rule of the principals.

But if the good teacher was lost, her
influence was not. In emulation of her
example, it became Muriel's aim to screen or
shield younger or more delicate girls from undeserved
penalties, to lend her aid in difficult
tasks, whether of book or work, and between
her cares for others and the embroidery which
was supposed to herald release, time passed
less drearily.

She was now a tall, thin, dark-haired, brown-eyed
maiden close upon fifteen, taking her
place as monitress in due rotation ; and,
besides coming in for frequent short-commons
in consequence, had many opportunities for
self-denial. Tien she had a child of eight in
her charge in school and dormitory; and that
which might have been a source of irritation
to others, proved a very safety-valve for her
pent-up affections. And surely never was one
school-girl so cared for by another as was
Polly Button.

Not only when lessons from Johnson's
School Dictionary or Murray's Grammar had
to be driven into a dull brain, but night after

night in the severe depth of winter did Muriel
sit up in bed, chafing the child's benumbed
feet in the dark, to alLay incipient chilblains
when her own were in far worse plight. And
who but she had the bravery to appeal to
Miss Briscoe's humanity against the weekly
promenade on the walls, and the double walk
to mornings service at St. John's and evening;
service at the Octagon Chapel on the Sunday,
when the snow lay deep upon the ground, and
every girl in the school had sore heels to be
excoriated by the friction of shoes and patterns 1

And what though Miss Ikiscoe stood aghast
at her audacity, and lifting her listened
hands, declared : 

It would bring ruin on the school ! So
loncf as Mr. Twemlow's youns gentlemen can
walk abroad for air and exercise, or to attend
Divine service, our young ladies must. A
single exception might be made ; but as a
body  impossible ! "

What mattered it, so long as Muriel obtained
immunity for the little one in her
charge and two others, and induced Miss

Betty to prepare a whey of alum-and-milk to
bailie affected feet ! She was herself reprimanded
; but she " had done some good," and
was therewith content.

The snow lay on the ground for weeks.
Miss Briscoe was inflexible. Through it the
limping girls must plod so long as Mr. Twem-
low's pupils went their wonted way. (They
might, or might not, be in like condition.)
Even Miss Betty ventured to expostulate she
had a slightly tender spot under the hard
crust) ; but she was put down with, " Betty, I
am surprised! We cannot afford to indulge
in foolish sentiment. We must maintain appearances
at any cost. The reputation of our
school depends upon it. What would bethought
if even half the girls were left at
home? It would be ruin, utter ruin!"

As if she had invoked it, ruin came after
the snow was gone, and of the general chilblains
only the scars remained.

An epidemic broke out in the school, which
was not to be concealed. Austrian parents
removed their children in alarm, and spread

the rumour to others further afield. True to
her creed, Miss Briscoe delayed communicating
with friends until Doctor Wilmslow
urged the necessity.

"But we shall lose all our pupils, sir,"
argued Miss Briscoe in dismay.

Ye  es, madam, so I am a  afraid ; buta
 I see no alternative. The healthy  a  
a  must be removed  a  a  for their own
safety." (The puffy little physician seemed to
draw inspiration from the gold-headed cane
which he tapped against his chin.) "Relatives
will  a  I doubt not  a  appreciate
your  a  thoughtful attention, and  a  a 
self-sacrifice. And  a  I fear, madam  you
would  a  be certain to lose them  a  otherwise."


You do not think there is any real danger
of the others, doctor, do you ? " and the lace
frill of her tall cap trembled as she spoke.

The doctor had a pecuniary interest in the
Misses Briscoes' pupils ; but he had also his
professional reputation at stake.

"Well  um  a not if they  a  have a

careful  a  attention, such  a  as Miss
D'Anver oivcs to Miss  a Dutton, and  a 
you have space to separate the  a cases."

Separate ! Why, sir, we have given up
one dormitory to the invalids already ! The
house is like a hospital ! "

Without hospital conveniences I " thought
the doctor, as he closed this lips with the
gold knob of his cane, and bowed himself
out.

And so thought Mrs. Bancroft when she
came upon the scene about a week later.

Manchester had only just set about lighting,
watching, and cleansing the town b}' Act of
Parliament ; it had not added a postman to its
list of officials in the spring of 1793. The
whole postal staff of the rich and thriving
manufacturing centre, consisted of Miss willet
the post-mistress, and two clerks! Had
not Sarah Bancroft, as a business woman, sent
<a trusty messenger to the small post-office in
St. Ann's Square, twice or thrice a week, as
did other merchants and traders, Miss Briscoe's
tardy communication might have waited with

its face to the window-pane until seen and
demanded.

It was a dreary, drizzling February day.
With a hood over her head to protect lier
cap, Mrs. Bancroft slipped her feet into patterns
and crossed the wet yard to a long, low, timber,
louvre-boarded shed, where her son stood to
superintend the nailing of raw or damp skins
fur downwards on dry boards, and the dusting
or rubbing of powdered quicklime on others
already stretched, such being at that time the
cleansing and purifying process.

She had two open letters in her hand.
"Ell! Sam, here's a pretty coil  read that,"
and she put Miss Briscoe's formal letter into
his hand, whilst her quick eye went over the
rows of skins set aside to dry, and those in
preparation, and her equally quick tongue
called out to a workman : '' Lightly, lad, with'
lime, do'st mean to eat through the skin
to th' fur ! Thai lays it on th' churchill as
thick as if 'twere bearskin."

Well," said Sam, " and Achates the coil ?
Wliat if Muriel be ill, doesn't Miss Briscoe say

there's no occasion for alarm, she will have
every care and attention ? "

At. ay, lad ! but read what Mrs. Hop ley
says, and then spell, and put together''

Mrs. Copley was a mantua-maker in Watergate
Street, Chester, patronized by the beautiful
Lady Grosvenor, to whom she had been
for many years own maid or housekeeper,
until, late in life, she married the butler and
speedily discovered that if she would have a
garment to wear herself, she must begin to
make garments for other people.

The buying of undressed skins (rabbits were
classed and killed as vermin) had taken Mrs.
Bancroft to Eaton Hall year by year, she had
thus become acquainted with both, and now
she supplied Mrs. Copley with prepared furs
for her aristocratic customers.

Mrs. Copley's epistle would have been a
mere order for court ermine for " my lady,"
with sable and mink in sets and for trimming
fcr other customers, given with businesslike
precision, but for an afterthought, which
found expression in a postcript.

''I think you have a Grandchild at Miss
Briscoe's. Of course you will send to remove
her without delay ; and if your messenger
brought the furs, it would save carriage.
What a direful calamity for Briscoe ! "

It was a characteristic addendum.

 Well' said Sam, scratching his chin,  that
means something. It's decidedly queer ! "

It means a journey to Chester for me, lad.
I shall be off by the morning packet-boat, to
catch the coach at Preston Brook ; so get the
furs sorted out and packed first thing. Whatever
s the matter 111 see into it. And see you
don't go to Dangers. and frighten Ellen.
And give that wife of yours a caution:
though Lydia looks as if she coidd hold
her tongue. Ill be back before the week's
out."

Ay, trust Lydia to keep a secret with any
woman alive ; " and a curious look came into
Sam's half-shut eyes.

I want no secret kept : I only recommend
caution for Ellen's sake. Secrecy, sin, and
sorrow begin wi' th' same letter : ay, and

VOL. I. M

selfishness too. Keep clear of secrets, my
lad ! "

She had turned so abruptly that the peculiar
expression of doubt and misgiving which suddenly
settled on the face of that thirty-three
years' " lad " was unseen. And if the clank
of her patterns echoed any misgivings in Sarah
Bancroft's own breast, they were not of her
son Sam, or of lier own unerring judgment,
but of the Misses Briscoe, so praised in her
grandchild's letters home. Mrs. Copley's
postcript pointed to something more than did
Miss Briscoe's guarded epistle. She was
bound to see into it."

And she did, but was not back before the
week was out.

A Proposal.

SHEN ushered into the prim ,
so rich in specimens oi
needlework and cahgraphy, and flattering
testimonials, Mrs. Bancroft found herself in
the midst of an excited group of strangers, to
whom a surgeon named Prestbury, engaged
by an anxious father, was enunciating his
very decided opinion that the outbreak of
disease in the school was mainly due to insufficient
dietary, warmth, and water supply ;
and, in short, much that is now summed upas
defective sanitation.

Infamous ! infamous ! " ran round the
room in a chorus. Guardians and relatives
rose in a body from their high-backed embroidered
chairs, and turned with one accord

and all degrees of exasperation towards the

M 2

two spinsters, who stood, with primly folded
arms and compressed lips, to confront accusations
and reproaches with dignified silence.

Denial was impossible, the condition of the
suffering girls, the scant bedding, the crowded
dormitories, needed little by way of evidence
from young: lips to confirm the sure-eon's
sorrowful testimony. Yet it was from young
lips Mrs. Bancroft learned that Muriel had
caught the infection whilst watching and
tending Polly Dutton and others in the
dormitory.

She was so kind, and I am so sorry," said
her little informant pitifully, adding, " And she
read to us out of lier beautiful Bible, and the
Pilgrim's Progress and ' Evenings at Home,'
and never seemed tired. Xo one reads to us
now."

But Muriel made no complaint, she only
said, 

"It was very well I was not taken ill at
first, or Polly would have had no one to nurse
her, and might not have got better so soon."
Getting better for any of them was not an

easy matter there yet not an hotel in the town
would open its doors to a patient from the
infected school.

It was the break-up of the important establishment.
By ones and twos the pupils were
removed as speedily as safety permitted. Only
the few who had escaped, and whose distant
friends were uninformed, remained until the
vacation, and of these not all returned.

It was in vain, by tardy attention to the
sick, that the Misses Briscoe strove to rehabilitate
themselves in public esteem and
maintain their ]position. Strict discipline was
allowable, but not starvation. The prestige of
the school was gone ; and after a struggle
against fate, in a year or two they announced
their " intention to retire."

Seeing no chance of her removal with the
<

disorder at its height, energetic Mrs. Bancroft
cooly took possession of Muriel's dormitory,
as if it had been a hospital ward, and she the
appointed nurse ; a hint taken by two other
pupils' feminine friends, whether to the
chagrin or the satisfaction of the sisters there

is no knowing. As for Mrs. Bancroft, she
engaged her own doctor, sent in supplies, and
took care that medicines and diet were duly
administered.

She set aside Miss Briscoe and Miss Betty at
the outset.

Look you," said she, " don't you go near
my grandchild with long faces and pitiful
words. as if you cared for her. All you care
for is money. The little creatures committed
to your charge have been no more to you
than so many oranges, out of which you
could squeeze the golden juice. And you've
squeezed them a trifle too close at last. Here
I am, and here I shall remain until there is a
change one way or other. And if Mr. Prest-bury's
orders are not carried out, and aught
happens to my dear child, if there's justice to
be had in the Prentice Court, you shall suffer
for it. ril see to that."

And there, sure enough, did the hard-featured
woman of business, whose soul was
supposed to be wrapped up in her business,
remain, watching night and day by Muriel's

bed with unwavering affection; her bustling
energy subdued to quiet, or expended on
obstructive in the regions of the kitchen, to
whom she soon laid down a law of her own.

Up and down stairs she went with the
activity of a younger woman ; indeed, if truth
were told, sitting still to watch the thin face
was like a penance to her.

At such times would her thoughts fly off
to the farrier, wondering how Sam would
manage without her ; if orders were executed
properly ; if certain furs had been dressed
satisfactorily; if wages and bills had been paid.
Then her mind would revert to Ellen Danger
and her probable anxiety ; and occasionally a
still small voice would whisper that she had
better have left the girl with her mother.
But the whisper made her uneasy, and she
resolutely closed her ears.

Then she blamed the Eev. Thomas Bancroft
for keeping her in the dark ; little thinking
how he had been blinded on the one or two
occasions he had made for seeing the girl, or
how much the good man was occupied with

his own concerns, this duties as clergyman,
schoolmaster, author, and the father of a family.

She had trusted so much to his supervision
when she brought Muriel to the Misses Briscoe ;
and noah she blamed herself for trusting to
anyone hut herself.

There was only one thing she liked less
than a silent watch ; and that began when
Muriel first showed sirens of amendment,
and expressed a desire that she would
read her Bible aloud to her. She could
not refuse ; but surely never had Deborah
Massey's Bible been opened less willingly.

Muriel's full eyes kindled at her favourite
passages, unwitting that many a one was a
searching probe to her grandmother's self-reliant
soul.

Before Muriel left her bed the task required
less effort, and by the time she was able to
walk downstairs, Sarah Bancroft had resolved
to renew her acquaintance with the large
family Bible, mounted on the oak bureau at
home.

Then followed a demand for Miss Danger's

bill, and a business-like docking of exorbitant
charges, never before disputed, ere Sarah Bancroft
opened her canvas money-bag and laid
her guineas down.

School-books and other beloncinos had
already been gathered together, not forgetting
the unfinished portrait, to be completed
at home. An ostler came from the Plume of
Feathers in Bridge Street for '' the young lady's
luggage." There was a tearful farewell to
the remaining fragments of the broken-up
school, poor motherless Polly Button sobbing
on Muriel's neck. There was a more ceremonious
and less affectionate leave-taking in
the worsted-work apartment (where Mrs.
Bancroft had spoken her mind pretty freely),
an exchange of elaborate courtesies, and
Muriel, who longed to say she was sorry for
their misfortune, went down the outer steps
for the last time ; her freedom anticipated by
fully three months.

She was not judged fit for a tedious journey;
but her grandmother (who never lost sight of
business, and so turned her involuntary

presence in Chester to account), invited Mrs.
Hoplev's company, hired a boat at the Bridge
Wharf, and the following day treated Muriel
to a breezy row up the river to Eaton Park,
the home of the Grosvenor. And it was
a treat to Muriel, who had only seen the
silvery Dee iron the walls, and previously
nothing wider than the fresh water Irwell and
Irk, and had never put foot in a boat before.

As they walked, after landing, along the
avenue of bare but stately trees, just swelling
into bud, to the imposing and solid, if heavy
mansion Sir John Vanbrugh had designed
(since superseded by a palace), and
Muriel's brown eyes, ranging over the park
(where indications that Spring was on the
alert made themselves felt, and seen, and
heard), were filled with silent delight, she was
startled out of her dreamy rapture by the
abrupt question of her grandmother, 

Did'st ever hear or see anything more of
that captain and his wife who had so narrow
an escape in Delamere Forest? "

Muriel flashed with shame as she answered,

not slime for herself, but that which she had
to tell of others.

Well, grandmother, mr. Arthur was on
the "Walls one day when the school went for
the weekly airing ; I scarcely knew him, for
he had on a fine uniform, and looked so handsome,
but he knew me, and came to shake
hands with me, and then  and then, Miss
Briscoes were angry, said he was ' rude ' and
impertinent,' threatened to write to somebody
about him, and perhaps they did, for
we never met him again  and I was reprimanded,
and was sent to the dormitory."

'for what?" was the mutual interrogation
of her companions.

"Why, it seems, I had broken the
rules in speaking to him."

Broken the fiddlestick ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Bancroft indignantly. ' I wish I'd known !
Then I suppose that was the last of
them."

'' Well, I was told, as a great secret, by one
of the monitors, that Captain Wynne called
the next day, and asked for me, but Miss

Briscoe sent no message to me, and lie never
came again."

"Eh! And didn't the lady you had waited
upon hand and foot come herself?"

I don't know, I was never told. But I've
seen her. I saw her the first time I was in
Wrexham  the Christmas little George died."

Ah," interrupted her grandmother, " and
when your Uncle Sam was married. Well ? "

Muriel went on, " We were on a narrow
road in Mrs. Parry's cart, and she met us in a
carriage  but she didn't see me," and a sigh
pointed the sentence.

Wouldn't, more like. I've no notion of
fine folk, who take your services as if they
lead a right to them, and are too proud to
know you afterwards ; but the lass has as good
blood in her veins as they have, I know.
Catch me putting myself out of the way for
such people again ! I hate ingratitude."

Nay, grandmother," pleaded Muriel, " I
don't think Mrs. Wynne ungrateful : you know
she gave me that beautiful locket ! and Ten
certain Mr. Arthur was glad to see me."

'' Well, well, child, have your own way ! "
was Mrs. Bancroft's conclusion of the argument.
" The lass has more charity than I
have," she whispered, aside to Mrs. Copley ;
adding aloud, " But here we are, and now,
Muriel, you can have a rest."

There was rest and a luncheon in the
housekeeper's room, along with the house-steward
and lady's maid, over which the
elders chatted pleasantly ; then Muriel, being-still
weak, was laid on a roomy sofa, whilst
Mrs. Copley had an interview with Lady
Grosvenor, and Mrs. Bancroft with the head
gamekeeper. Muriel was fatigued and
drowsy ; she was at length awaked from
slumber by the housekeeper's invitation to
show her the picture-gallery and other state
apartments.

It was all new and wonderful to Muriel ;
and when at length they returned to Chester,
she had forgotten all about the Wynness and
her grandmother's suggestion of ingratitude,
which had given her some unpleasant sensations.


She was left the next morning to explore
the city in which she had lived so long, and
of which she had seen so little, whilst her
grandmother made business calls on customers
in the Eows.

The afternoon was given to a formal tea
drinking at Mrs. Copley's, where Muriel was
treated with especial attention, not only as a
convalescent, but as Mrs. Bancroft's grandchild.


Indeed, Mrs. Copley  a little woman in a
plain black stuff dress, of no fashion but her
own  seemed to lay herself out to attract and
entertain her younger guest; now a tall, thin
girl of graceful bearing, and not untimely
face. Time had done wonders in the three
years and a half she had spent in Chester,
and if her flowing locks had been sacrificed in
her recent illness, the old marks on her skin
were rapidly disappearing.

There were hot wheat-cakes, and other
Cheshire delicacies on the table, of which she
was invited to partake freely. After tea she
was taken to the show-room where Lady Gros-tenor's

court dress, suspended on an upright
pole with cross-way pegs' for arms, and
inflated by a hoop, was displayed amongst
others, most attractively.

How do you like them, my dear? " questioned
Mrs. Copley graciously, after explaining
to Muriel that hoops were worn at court,
though out of fashion in private life; court-dress
being appointed at the beginning of a
reign, to be retained to the end ; and the little
plain woman in black gave a touch to a fold
here, and a turn to drapery there, so as to
catch the hglit and produce the best effect.

Oh ! very much ;  at least, all but that
purple velvet, I don't care for the way in
which it is trimmed," answered truth-telling
Muriel, whose instinctive taste was offended.

Mrs. Ilopley lifted her eyebrows, " How
would 3'ou have trimmed it ? " she said with
encouraging suavity.

Oh, I'm not a mantua-maker," Muriel
replied modestly, " but I think I should have
liked it better this way," and she proceeded
to a practical demonstration with some loose

paper, and pins from her own pocket pincushion.


My dear," cried Mrs. Copley, " your
admirable suggestion shall be carried out on
another robe. I wish I had a young lady in my
work-room with so much taste and discernment.
Talent of that kind is instinctive." A few
more questions were asked to draw Muriel
out, and Mrs. Copley,  who had made her
acquaintance before, when growth had necessitated
fresh garments,  exclaimed, " You
might have been a milliner ! What say you,
Mrs. Bancroft, to leaving her with me as an
apprentice. It's a thousand pities so much
natural taste should be wasted ; and if, as you
tell me, there is a large family of girls, she
would find a knowledge of dressmaking extremely
useful  supposing she did not work
for strangers," she added, observing the compression
of the furrier's closed lips.

She is going home with me tomorrow,
Mrs. Copley," was Sarah Bancroft's answer,
somewhat doggedly given.

Mrs. Copley returned to the charge. She

had seen Muriel's embroidery and tambour-work,*
and had long desired to get one of
Miss Briscoe's needlework pupils into her
Avork-roora, to replace one named Phoebe
Home who had been out of her time quite
two years, and was missed.

Yes, yes, of course ; I don't mean now 
but after a while" (she had said "leave her
With me). "You have known me long
enough to trust her in my care ; you know I
have children of my own."

Ay, ay, I know," was all the response.

Mrs. Ilopley turned to Muriel, " Would
you not like to be able to make and trim such
robes as this," and she laid her finger lightly
on a rich amber and black brocade.

Oh, yes, if "

Her "if" was cut short. "You hear, my
friend ? " and then after a pause 

It is worth considering. Neither mannor
woman should be without a trade, in
these uncertain times. Riches take wing,

So called from being worked on muslin or other material
stretched on a frame as tightly as a drum. The tambour-needle
resembles somewhat the modern crochet-hock.

VOL. I. N

and a livings at the finder-ends does not. And
/ have not found mantua-making at all derogatory.
/ maintain a good position," and
the little woman looked as if she knew her
own importance.

Well, well," said the furrier impatiently,
I'll see about it, I'll see about it," as if
desirous to turn the conversation.

'that's right, do! I'll make the premium
easy," persisted Mrs. Copley as a clenched,
and we might shorten the seven years to
five."

But no more was said, and the girl hoped
no more would be said ; she was not inclined
to take kindly to the proposal, but she stood
too much in awe of her grandmother to
venture an opinion of her own unasked.

To untravelled Muriel, the homeward
journey was something too exquisite for
speech. The early March winds were keen,
but Mrs. Bancroft declared, " I'd as lief be
shut up in a hayloft or a snuff-box as be stifled
inside a coach. Give me the breeze that
blows the cobwebs off a body ! " So they

were outside passengers, their places having
been taken and booked overnight ; and as
they were well wrapped up in warm woollen
and fur, neither she nor the convalescent
Muriel could take much harm.

She was not a talkative woman ; and no
sooner were the wheels in motion than her
thoughts travelled with them to the warehouse
and sheds left for more than three
weeks to the sole care of Sam.

Muriel's joyous anticipations outstripped
the horses ; but the face of nature was newer
to her ; and in the freshness of its budding
hopes was all in unison with her own, and from
her high seat she gazed on the shifting
panorama of meadow and upland, brook and
river, farm and village, with feelings and
emotions not to be put into words.

True, it was not the smiling month of sun
and shower ; but the trees had already sipped
the wine of spring, and felt it throbbing in
the furthest shoot. There was a ruddy flush
of flowering bloom on the wych-elm and
poplar, a tender green on meadow and hedges

2

row, where the lithe honeysuckle twined
among the hawthorn's opening fans ; and if
only a solitary snowdrop Angered here and
there, the crocus boldly lifted np its purple
cup, the unostentatious daffodil by the wayside
brook bent its head as it offered its
incense to the passing breeze, and the coltsfoot
had sent forth its golden stars to tell with
perfumed breath that its broad leaves were
comings by-and-bye. Xow and arain the
love-song of the missel-thrush was half
drowned in the rattle of the wheels ; but
Muriel felt as if she too must burst into
song, so glad, so hopeful, and withal so
thankful was she.

She was silent from excess of feeling ; but
even raptures do not last for hours, and
coaches in the last century did not race
with the wind.

A little child shivering by her side, to
whom she extended the benefit of her cloak
at Frodsham, helped to enliven the remainder
of the journey with his prattle; but when
they reached Preston Brook at eleven o'clock,

she was almost too stiff and tired to aliijht.
Her grandmother not more so.

The long, slow-going, ark-like packet-boat
seemed indeed an ark of refuse after the
shaking coach. The gliding motion was restful
; she sat at the cabin window, listened to
the ripple of the water, the occasional swish
of the rope and the tread of feet overhead,
watched the trees and houses on the canal
bank slip past as in a dream, the glory of all
being that she had left Miss liriscoe and
Chester for ever, and was going back to the
dear mother and sisters who must have missed
her so much. The dream was broken in
upon by a woman crushing past, who offered
Eccles cakes and nettle beer for sale, by way
of refreshment ; but Mrs. Bancroft had a
reticule basket well supplied, and there was
tea to be had on board. There had need to
be, for it was nearer seven than six o'clock
when they reached the Castle wharf at Knot
Mill (where Canute's castle is said to have
been), and there was neither Sam nor conveyance
to meet them.

They waited, the bustling passengers
dispersed, yet no one came. Mrs. Bancroft's
brows were knit, and her hips set over her
strong teeth, telling of disquiet or displeasure,
had there been light for Muriel to read the
record. And still they waited.

Do you think uncle received your letter ? "
asked Muriel at last, in some trepidation.
And what shall we do ? "

Eh ! I don't know, child ! " brusquely
answered the first question, the characteristic
"I'll see to it," the second.

There were as yet no hackney coaches,
there was no place at hand whereat to hire
a chaise. There were, however, sturdy men
upon the wharf, one of whom Mrs. Bancroft
found willing to act as porter, seeing there
was no alternative but to take the man's
honesty upon trust, and let him lead the way
through dark, narrow Alport Street, and Deans-gate,
with Muriel's small hair-trunk on his
shoulders, and Mrs. Bancroft's baof as a balance
in the other hand, and to take the chance
of meeting an empty sedan-chair by the way.

Neither Muriel nor Mrs. Bancroft cared to
show all the alarm she felt ; each had a dread
of something wrong at home, to say nothing
of the dangers of the streets or the two-mile
walk at the end of a day's journey, but the
man must have heard the tremor in Muriel's
voice as she asked her grandmother if she
thought the man could obtain one of the
lanterns then flitting about the wharf among
the shadows ; for he put down the luggage
with a civil, " Yoi, miss, aw then aw con ! "
and in a few minutes a horn lantern was in
Muriel's hand, the luggage once more
shouldered, and they, thus lit, following
closely on the man's heels with apprehension
in their hearts.

Eemember  for in this Chester was in
advance of Manchester  there were as yet
no public lamps, only private ones at a few
of the better-class houses ; that respectable
women were not supposed to go abroad
unattended after dusk ; that there was no
organized police, that drunkenness was a
fashionable vice ; that footpads drove a brisk

trade ; and that the wild young men of the
time thought it no shame to insult more
peaceable people, even to the drawing of
swords ; and you will perhaps better understand
the apprehension felt alike by the
strong minded woman, who had a nice-looking
young girl in her charge, and the
inexperienced young girl herself.

|?|0T until they had gained the stand in
 St. Ann's Square, where pairs had
begun their much-needed work, was an
empty sedan to be found, and then so many
more intrusive carousers had they met by the
way than sober home-going townsfolk, that
Sarah Bancroft was glad to put her grandchild
under the canopy of one, as much for
security as conveyance. She scorned the
extravagance of such a luxury for herself.

So the sturdy old dame trudged on by its
ide, glad of the extra lantern swung on one
of the forward poles of the sedan, as well as
of the additional protection of the two stout
chairmen. It was a late hour for reputable
females to be abroad unattended.

It was close upon eight by St. Ann's Church

clock, Avlien the prim rows of trees wliicli
sentinelled the aristocratic mansions in the
Square were left behind, Mrs. Bancroft congratulating
herself that the foul dark entry,
with its " Dangerous Corner," so recently the
only outlet from the Square to the Market
Place, was done away with, and, losing sight
of the narrowness of the New Exchange
Street, thought only how soon the Exchange
itself, with all its pillared facade, would be
only a memory  and such a memory ! Had
she not seen the heads of the Jacobite leaders
spiked atop? She supposed the queer old
market cross and the pillory they were passing
would be the next to go ; things changed so
fast since her young days. Her dreams of
the past were put to flight by the activities
of the present. The clock of the Collegiate
or Old Church, towards which their faces were
set, chimed the hour, and then the glorious
bells rang out the curfew with a resonant
dash.

In an off-street close to the shambles stood
a dingy old public-house, known as the

Punch House," and kept by John Shaw, atone
time a dragoon, where throughout the
day, and especially from four to eight in the
evening, might be found the chief merchants
and manufacturers discussing the news of the
day and the prices of goods over their sixpenny
or shilling jorums of punch, for which
the military landlord had a special and occult
receipt. But at the first stroke of eight did
John Shaw enter his bar-parlour with " Eight
o'clock, gentlemen ; you must clear out."
And out they went at the first bidding, for,
did anyone presume to linger, the martinet's
long-lashed whip cracked in their ears, or in
came Molly, his factotum, With mop and pail,
and flooded them out.

No one got drunk these. Some of the
least steady-going and more exuberant spirits
might, however, be primed for finishing the
night elsewhere.

The chairmen were jogging along with their
light burden under the shade of the overhanging
black and white gable-fronted old buildings,
not the less shadowy for the dim illumination

of casements from within, when, simultaneously
with the first clang of the bells,
John Shaw drove forth the members of his
club, six or eight of whom came on from the
narrow bye-way, right in front of Mrs. Bancroft's
party, one calling to another, " Who's
for the Cockpit?" "Who's for the Bull's
Head?" ' Who's for the play?" "I'm off
to the Blue Boar ! " and so forth, blocking
such pathway as there was. They where in the
very height of jollity and merriment, some of
them ripe for what they called fun.

I say, old dame, with the lantern and
basket, what treasure have you there you
guard so carefully ? " cried out one,  a tall,
elegant man, in a fashionable suit of blue
kerseymere, with shining buckles at his
breeches' knees,  and he took a step forward
as if to ascertain for himself. He stopped
short, arrested by a stern, hard voice he
knew well.

Your daughter, John Danger, who is
fortunate in having a more faithful guardian
than her father this nisdit."

In an instant the long back bent, the
Frenchified cylindrical hat was raised from
the gentleman's powdered hair with a graceful
flourish, not altogether due to John Shaw's
punch.

I  I beg pardon, Mrs. Bancroft ; you
have quite taken me by surprise. The imperfect
light must excuse the discourse of my
address. But how is it "

She interrupted him. " Now, sir, don't
make matters worse by excuses of that kind ;
nothing excuses rudeness to an old woman
whoever she may "

She broke off short. She had seen another
figure warily edging off into the background
as if to beat a retreat ; the stealthiness of the
action caused her to raise her lantern, and the
light fell on the broad buckled shoes, the grey
worsted stockings, the steel buckled brown
breeches, brown flap-pocketed waistcoat, wide
deep-skirted coat, falling white neckcloth and
disordered hair of her son Sam, with his three-cornered
hat somewhat awry,  steady-going
Sam !

Stop, sir ! " she cried imperatively, and he
thought best to obey. " Where art thai
sneaking off to ? What hast thai done that
thai cannot face me? Aye, thai may well be
ashamed of leaving thy old mother and a
young girl to come through the streets at
night as they best could, and at the risk
of insult. But I'll see into it. Move on,
chairmen."

John Danger was turning the handle of
the sedan door, which Muriel could not open
from within. She waved him back. "You
can see Muriel tomorrow. You were in no
such hurry to meet us on the quay."

John DAnyer's pride was easily touched.

As she nodded to the men to proceed, and
stepped forward herself, heedless of the jests
and laughter of the dispersing party from the
Punch House, leaving son and son-in-law to
follow, or not, as might suit them best, he
answered haughtily :

As a gentleman, madam, if not as a father,
I should have met you at the Quay had your
coming been notified. As you did not think

proper to acquaint me with your intended
return, and so think proper to refuse me a
word with my own daughter, I have no more
to say. Good-night to both."

His hat was again raised, but with the
sarcastic sweep of ultra ceremony, as if he
bowled their dismissal

Sam was a decided contrast to his brother-in-law,
in more than the old-fashioned homeliness
of his attire and manners. He professed
to have less pride ; he might have added that
he had more policy.

They had neither of them taken sufficient
punch to cloud their intellects, and, although
somewhat elevated, the first shock of the
unwelcome surprise had dispelled any
vapours from its fumes. John's wounded
pride led him to follow a couple of his companions
into the open jaws of the Blue Boar,
whose lair was a court off the other side
the Market Place, where he talked loftily to
his intimates of his character as a gentleman
being at stake, and treated the said gentleman
to so many soothing potations that he was

anything but a gentleman when his rat-tartan
on his door knocker roused the echoes of
Broom Street at midnight.

Wiser Sam stuck close by his mother ;
excused his presence at John Shaw's, and his
extra dose of punch, on the plea that a
little daughter having arrived that day, he
and John had "been merely wetting the
child's head." And the excuse Twas sufficiently
cogent, seeing that it was customary for a
newly-made father to stand treat under his
own roof, or in some bar-parlour to pay for
the " glasses round," in which the health and
lonfif life of the new-born child were toasted
and drunk.

She was barely satisfied, but she let
it pass.

On like grounds he excused his unpardonable
absence from Castle Quay. His extreme
agitation and anxiety for Lydia had driven
everything else out of his mind. He had forgotten
to send to the Post Office that morning.
Her letter of instruction would be lying there.

This was a much more heinous offence.

A business man forget the post ! " it sounded
incredible ! Hers niiglit not be the only
important missive lying neglected in Mrs.
Willet's Window ! She was not so easily
appeased. Yet Sam made his confession so
naturally, and with so many genuine expressions
of regret ; he had such a firm hold of
his mother's heart, and lie such a firm belief
in his integrity, that she softened at last,
and said : 

Well, Sam, lad, as it is thy first child, it
may be excusable, and as thai's come and
owned thy forgetfulness all straight up and
above board, I may overlook it this time ;
but, prithee, be careful in the future.
Punctuality and method are the hinges of
trade, and a business man has no business
to forget."

Sam's face was in deep shadow, so the
uneasy expression which crossed it during
the first portion of this speech was lost, and
her sharply emphasized rebuke of his untrades-
manlike foro-fulness micht account for his
temporary silence.

VOL. I. o

Presently, after a trade question or two,
she began to ask about Lydia and the newly-born
child, wished she had been a day earlier,
and said ; 

I'd rather it had been a lad than a lass,
for the first ; but we must take what comes."

Again Sam's brows contracted uneasily
and were not smoothed Avhen she bethought
herself to ask ;

Who's with Lydia ? "

Oh,  Maggy Blackburn," he answered,
but not readily.

"Magnify Blackburn!" exclaimed his
mother, in not too pleasant atone. "Was
there no one to be had nearer home ? "

Yea ; but Ljdia has known Maggy all
her life, and I thought, as you were away,
it was best to humour her, as she seems to
have such a hankering: after Waverham folk,"
he responded, as they stopped at his mother's
house, and his hand went up to the door-knocker
quite unnecessarily, seeing that the
door opened with a mere turn of the
handle.

Chairmen and porter were glad to exchange
their loads for hard cash and foaming
home-brewed ale, and, after spitting on the
coins for luck, departed.

Muriel, notwithstanding the unsuspected
tears shed when her father left her so
readily, had fallen asleep by the way, Having
as much to the motion of the vehicle as to
her fatigue ; and she was but half awake
when she followed her grandmother into
the large bright kitchen, where the stone
floor was scrubbed as clean as the deal
tables and dresser ; and where Margery had
put as bright a polish on the tall clock-case
and oaken-settle as on the brass and
copper utensils on walls and tall mantel-shelf.

On that same settle lay a boy about four
years old, in clothes of a countrified cut,
though they were good and respectable
enough. He was a rosy-cheeked chubby
fellow, and was fast asleep.

Whose lad's this ? " demanded Mrs. Bancroft,
as sharply and briskly as if her journey
and two mile walk were of no account.



Ell ? A nurse-clioilt Maggy Blackburn
brown vi her fro Waverliam. Hoo* said hoo
couldn't come bouts it. Master brown it
here to-day, to be out o' th' way," explained
Margery, all in a fluster with the unexpected
arrivals, and full of grief that there was "ne'er
a foire anywhere but i' th' kitchen, and nowt
but ham an' eggs for supper. Yo' night ha'
letter folks know."

Never mind, Margery. If grandmother's
as tired as I am, she won't care what she has
for supper, or where she sits," said Muriel,
dropping wearily to a seat on the settle
beside the sleeping boy, on whom Mrs.
Bancroft's keen glance was fixed.

Sup, oh, anywhere," said the latter somewhat
impatiently, as she left the kitchen to
meet Sam in the passage. To him she put the
same question she had put to Margery, to be
answered again :

A nurse-child of Maggy Blackburn's. She
couldn't leave it with those rough sons of hers,
so she brought him with her. She thought, as

She. t Without.

lie was but a little chap, we should not
mind."

"Maggy Blackburn all out ! " remarked the
old lady, seemingly satisfied with his explanation,
if not with Nurse Blackburn's easy
assurance ; and by the time their outer wraps
were removed, and the savoury supper
smoking on the board, her temporary irritation
had vanished.

Still, her eyes strayed from her plate to the
sleeping boy, as if there was something in his
form or face which puzzled her ; and Sam was
not sorry when she proposed that the child
should be carried to bed, saying it was " not
fit to take the little fellow through the night
air at that hour, whoever he belonged to."

Whew ! " he whistled to himself when
well clear of his mother's door, " that storm's
blown over ! If ever I neglect to send for
the letters again may I be hanged ! And how
she looked at the lad. I'd stand a guinea to
know what she thought, that I would ! Well
I may tell Lydia the danger's over now,
though it's been a close shave."

Thinking thus, and having escaped a
dreadful catastrophe, it was with lightened
feet and spirits he trod the uneven and winding
way down Red Bank and Long Mitigate,
under the shadow of gable-fronted cottages
(long since swept away), heedlessly stumbling
over outlying steps, and at last coming into
violent collision with one of the ncAvly-
appointed watchmen as he turned the sharp
corner abruptly into Toad Lane, where he lived
in one of his mother's houses ; a row of which
rose with the rising ground on the right-hand
trending towards Hyde's Cross.

New then, tha drunken soo' ! What dost
mean?" blurted out angrily the custodian of
the peace, steadying himself on the narrow
path.

Heiglio ! " cried Sam simultaneously and
prophetically, " I think tim might be called
'Dangerous Corner' with a vengeance ! " and he
gave himself a shake to restore his balance.

"A dangerous corner belike to thee, for
I've have a mind to tak' thee t' th' watch-hearse
t' gie an accent o' chisel' ; " and the

lantern went up into the disconcerted face of
Sam.

He lead to put his hand in his pocket to
find the heavily-coated man of lantern, rattle,
and many capes, a heal-all, and that sent him
home a little less elated, and the mollified
watchman contentedly on his way, bawling,
lustily, " Past ten o'clock, and a clear, dry
night ! "

Maggy Blackburn, a thin, lithe woman,
with cold, light grey eyes, and what had been
a ruddy face, dressed in a dark-blue linen bed-gown
(or loose jacket) and linsey petticoat,
with a white linen long-eared cap or mutch
to keep her straggling grey locks in order,
opened the door for him, and before he could
say, "How's Lydia? " began to ask " Cheer's
th' lad ? Their's no getting' tlioi wife to rest
till she knows he's safe in th' lease."

At his answer, the woman, for many
reasons a privileged individual in that household,
uplifted both hands and voice : " Thy
mother come back ! an' seen th' lad ! Eh !
]3ut I would stand i' thy shoes, Sam bancroft,

fur surnmai ! Tliy iiu::r-ins cVcs ::
see throng. a brick wa..

It was an ancient blac:-?.!: :- :::e tinil-er-
and-rubble house, with - rs. cheer

Avhere a light was burning on a snap-table,
Mr. Samuel had led the way, closing the door
before he had committed himself to answer ;
when he did it was with a sort of wink:

But what if dust be thrown in the eyes,
Maggy?" and he slapped his thigh as if well
pleased at his own dust-throwing ; the wisdom
of the punch-bowl in his self-satisfied half-shut
optics.

"Some folks' eyes won't hold dust long.
They may be blinded for a bit, but they see
non th' war afterwards. I'd non have
left Jem behind. Folk as have secrets donna
be too careful. But take thi shoon off an'
come gradely up the stairs, an tell Lydia ita'
rest. She'll happen believe yo. I don't."

And if Samuel Bancroft could have known
how the face of that sleeping boy haunted
the pillow of his mother, as a vague dream
of something remembered through the mist
of years, he would not have assured his
anxious wife so glibly that it was " all right."

His confidence, however, served to set poor
Lydia's aching heart at rest for the time, and

when lie kissed lier and the babe and said
'' good-night," and went off lo the spare bedroom,
she closed her eyelids and went to
sleep contentedly ; with none of the misgivings
that had troubled her mind for years,
and which somehow seemed transferred to
the brain of Sarah Bancroft.

Even with the many cares of her large
business on her mind  business which she was
no longer assured had been under vigilant
supervision in her long absence, and which
summoned her from sleep to work-rooms and
ware-rooms at five in the morning, when the
workmen entered the orate  she thought of
him ; nay, even in the midst of calculations
during her hasty breakfast, she could pause
to watch the boy eating ]his bowl of porridge
by the side of Muriel, and ask his name.

Jem," was the shy ]response.

"Jem what?"

Maggy's Jem."

And what besides ? "

"Mammy's Jem."

And who's your mammy ? "

The boy looked with wondering eyes from
Mrs. Bancroft to Muriel, but only replied,
Why, mammy's mammy."

He knew no more, and he could tell no
more.

6,0

6

Wet was well muriel had been schooled
 m self-control, for the morning passed,
noon came, dinner was despatched, and yet
Mrs. Bancroft, who had sent for the delayed
letters, could not spare time from Tier own
pressing concerns to accompany the girl
home, and lie had forbidden her to go
alone.

She took little Jem by the hand into the
shed and warehouse to show how furs were
dressed and prepared. The powdered lime,
the smells, and the fluff soon drove them
back. Tien, keeping him still with her, she
went for a stroll down Eager's Brow to see
her cousin Silly  or Millicent  Hargreaves,
whose father's dyeworks lay almost behind
Mrs. Bancroft's place, but close to the riverside,

his house adjoining the works. They
went through great gates, and a grassy croft
set with rows of stout posts that bristled with
spiky hooks, into a wet yard overlooked by
the buildings which covered in the dye-pits,
where men in coarse woollen overshot, and
thick clumsy leo-aino-s, With bare arms all red,
or brown, or blue, went clattering about
in clogs away from the carboys and dye
stuffs, hanging up dripping hanks of yarn or
pieces of cloth on the lines or tenter-hooks
to dry, and the boy stared on all with wondering
eyes.

When they had picked their way to the
house, Muriel was sorry to hear that Silly
was away, but Mrs. Hargreaves found them
some cake and promised that Silly should
soon come to see her in Broom Street ; and
as they went back through the yard they
were met by the dyer himself, as roagh-look-
inof with his clio's and leisfinijs and indisjo-
stained arms, as one of his own workpeople.

He shook hands heartily with Muriel,
leaving his mark on her palm, asked a

few questions, then, eyeing the boy askance,
patted him on the head, saying :

And what little chap's this ? He favours
thi Uncle Sam, I'll be hanged if he don't."

"He comes from Waverham. A woman
they call Maggy Blackburn brought him with
her. He says his name's Jem, and does not
seem to know any other."

Oh I " was all his acknowledgment of
Muriel's answer ; but when she went away,
disappointed at not seeing Silly, he looked
after them and crave a long: whistle.

The banks of the Irk were not then all
built upon. There were green spots here
and there. She gathered a bunch of wild
spring-flowers as they went back, for the
chattering little one ; then in the house again,
sat down to sing ballads and hymns, and to
play on the harpsichord, as much to still her
impatience as to amuse the child.

She had a marvellously musical voice, and
as its liquid notes floated through the rooms,
Margery put down her work to listen ; and,
putting her head in at the open door, said:

Ell ! but aw fair thowt it wur an cano-el
singing', aw did ! "

' I don't feel very like an angel, Margery,"
she said with a laugh. " My feet are tingling
with impatience to be off," and she rose to
consult the tall kitchen clock, as she had done
many times during the morning.

For not only was she most impatient to see
those from whom she had been so long parted,
but she feared to incur her father's displeasure
and excite her dearly-loved mother's anxiety
bv linserino- there, now that her return to
Manchester was known.

Yet it was close upon three o'clock before
Mrs. Bancroft looked into the front parlour,
where Muriel sat with little Jem in the window-seat,
showing the pictures in the big Family
Bible (which apart from order-book and
ledger constituted the family library), to keep
him quiet, and said : " Be sharp and put your
things on, and that lad's too. We may leave
him at your Aunt Lydia's as we go."

Be sure no second bidding was needed.
Up started Muriel, forgetting in her haste to

put back the big Bible in its place on the
bureau. It went no farther than the table,
and there Sarah Bancroft found it at night.
She was closing it with a mental reproof of
Muriel's carelessness, when lier eye was caught
by a word or two of the large type. She sat
down ; the resolve made in Chester by her
grandchild's bedside came freshly to mind.
The creat book which had lain so loner on the
bureau unopened, like so many a Family
Bible, as a sort of dumb guarantor of the
family Christianity, the silent custodian of
its religion, lay with the seventh chapter
of Matthew open before her, to strike, as it
were, a shaft into her soul :

"Judge not, that ye be not judged."
Was it Muriel who had been careless or
herself? Muriel had left the book open, she
had more carelessly left it closed.

She sat down, and read, and pondered ;
that woman whose faith was in herself, whose
soul was in her business, and as she read
began to wonder if she was buildiiifi: her
house on the rock, or on the sand?

Howsoever lie answered the question to
herself, she was more careful of the sacred
volume in the future. During the week she
was at business from early morning until late
at night, but every Sunday afternoon, when
she was alone, it came from its long resting-place
to be read and studied.

Xot too soon. There were disturbing influences
at work, and the woman who had
rested on herself so long, needed to find
the shadow of a great rock in a weary
land."

But we are hastening too fast through that
busy day. Muriel was well pleased to find
her grandmother in a hurry : her own young
feet had such a tendency to outstrip both
the younger and the older ones.

Curious as Muriel had been to know what
sort of a person was her Uncle Sam's wife,
the introduction to the new aunt and cousin
in the darkened room was soon over, and left
her not much the wiser. The face she saw on
the pillow had a sort of faded prettiness,
though there was an ingrained colour on her

VOL. I. P

cheeks, and the lips were close set when not
speaking. And she was surely more than
twenty-five, thought the niece, who had been
told her age. But she had no desire to linger ;
even the pink baby had no charm to hold her
that afternoon.

Indeed she thought her grandmother
wasted time asking the queer nurse unnecessary
questions about little Jem, and it was
with quiet satisfaction that she gave him a
kiss and wished him "good-bye," her face
radiant with hope and expectation.

Yet the questions Sarah Bancroft had put
to Maggy Blackburn had staggered the
Waver ham nurse, and her close set eyes
contracted under catechism. She was,
however, equal to any emergency, and
her answers were satisfactorily true to the
letter if not to the spirit. The catastrophe
was averted  for the time.

With head erect, as befitted Miss Briscoe's
pupil, Muriel tripped on lightly, glad that her
grandmother only nodded to people she met
in the crowded thoroughfare about Hyde's

Cross, instead of stopping to speak ; but when
at length the exclusive posts and chains of
Broom Street were gained, and she saw lier
father standing without hat on their own
doorstep, all Miss Briscoe's lessons in
deportment were forgotten.

Children even in their teens were kept at
formidable distances in those days, but human
nature is stronger than custom. Muriel set
off at a run to throw herself into his arms.
Had she been alone he might have closed
them round her in a fatherly embrace, for
there is no doubt he had missed her. But the
irritation of the previous night had not
passed away with the fumes of John Danger's
]potations. He had been called to order in the
open street before both his own friends and
common porters. He had been unwarrantably
taxed with gentlemanlike neglect, and anything
more galling to the great foible of the
fustian manufacturer was not possible. He
had gone in from the warehouse to the noontide
meal expecting to fid his long absent
daughter dutifully waiting to salute him with

r 2

filial respect and affection. Her absence he
had construed into a want of both, on her
part, and as an intentional affront on that
of Mrs. Bancroft. His amiable little ivife
had only made matters worse by suggesting
excuses.

Several matters had gone wrong in the
warehouse that afternoon pieces of fustian
had been spoiled in the cutting, and it did
not improve matters Avhen he came in the
house at four o'clock for his tea, and saw
no signs of Muriel. Instead of sitting down,
he walked impatiently to the front door,
and thus it was that the girl's open-armed
advance received a check.

I think, Miss, as you have been so long
in finding your way home, you might almost
as well go back where you came from."

father ! " exclaimed Muriel in a tone
of deep disappointment, as she clasped her
open hands together in pain, and stopped
short.

"She can do that, John Danger, if she be
not welcome here I " cried Mrs. Bancroft,

coming iij) in time to hear him. " And if
that's all the greeting thai has for the lass
who pined for the sight of you all, till she
could not eat her dinner, I think she's likely
to go back sooner than thai counts for."

But Muriel had seen another figure in the
hall, and flying past her father, who made
way for her, was locked in the embrace of
her dear mother, deaf and blind to all the
world besides.

Sisters too, just home from school, book-bag
and slate in hand, came rushing in
the back way to surround and overwhelm her
with kisses and questions, and drag her into
the back sitting-room, where the tea-table
was set, the toast and teapot being kept warm
on a brass stool in front of the fire.

Meanwhile John Danger, bowing stiffly to
his v/ife's mother, ushered her ceremoniously
into the front parlour before she spoke
another word.

Much less ceremonious, she began first 

See thi, John, I took that dear good
lass away because I saw there was no proper

place for her either on thy hearth or in tliy
heart. And if "

She was interrupted.

May I ask, madam, on what grounds you
thus heap insult on indignity? You profess
to have gauged my heart. I'm afraid you
have not gauged my patience, which is not
so long as to tolerate unfounded accusations
even from Mrs. Bancroft, no later than last
night."

It was her turn to interrupt.

Stay, John ; Sam was to blame for that.
I had written desiring iliee or him to be on
the quay to meet the packet. It was not
until we had parted in the Market Place that
I discovered tliah wert not in fault  that my
letter was still at the Post Office had not
been sent for, in fact  and I am sorry I spoke
so hastily. But I found what politeness an
unknown old woman was likely to have met
from thee and alii friends  and I found
Samuel amongst the restorers."

The listener bowed in acknowledgement of
the apology, reddened as he found the tables

turned upon him, but smiled covertly when
Sam Alas mentioned.

Ah, yes ! wetting the child's head in John
Shaw's punch ! "

Ay, and disturbing his own ! Now, John
Danger," and she laid her listened hand
upon his coat sleeve, " that's a strong head
and can stand carousing. Sam is not used toit.
He would not have o-one to the Punch

o

House but for thee. Don't thai lead him
into bad habits."

Astonishment, incredulity, scorn, sat on her
interlocutor's handsome visage. He waved,
his hand loftily.

*' Mr. Samuel Bancroft, madam, is not onto
be led. Leading strings are not for men of
his years and cool temperament. Mr. Samuel
may certainly be trusted to take care of
himself."

So I thought till last nitric." And Mrs.
Bancroft untied her bonnet strings, and sat
down meditatively.

But he said no more, not even that he-found
his brother-in-law at the Punch House

before him ; such admission being contrary
to his code of honour. And he scarcely
came down from his stilts all the evening,
though he did take Muriel in his arms at last,
did extol her growth and upright carriage,
and sent her to her sisters in a Hush of
delight. But he spoiled all by saying before
she was fairly out of hearing, "What a fright
that cropped head makes of the lass." He
had last seen her with her hair rippling in
waves below her waist.

'' Be thankful you've got the lass back safe,
crop or no crop," jerked out the old woman,
who had been talking to her daughter about
Lydia and just overheard him.

"Aye, mother'' assented the younger one,
as she poured out the tea, "we may be well
content to let her hair go, so that we have
her back safe and sound, seeing she has
been so ill."

"Tchut! What has that to do with the
lass being' a fright ? Would you have me
thankful for that ? Women have no sense ! "
Then having vented his explosive, John

Danger turned the conversation, " Did you
do any trade in Chester before you came
back?" And Mrs. Bancroft, launching into
her natural theme, lost her irritation.

This was not a very auspicious home-coming
for Muriel. She could not forget her glimpse
through the sedan window of her father and
his companions, or the fright she had before
he was recognized, and he, on his part, could
not forget that she had so seen him. The
want of cordiality in his first greeting was
followed by a restraint not observed towards
the others. He was conscious that his eldest
daughter had seen him at a disadvantage, had
seen him guilty of an act of discourtesy to
an elderly stranger in the street, and wounded
self-esteem suggested that her respect for him
and his authority would thereby be lessened.
In the clear eyes which said plainly enough,
Why am I not loved like the rest? " he read
only the glance of a searching spirit to probe
his soul, and not feeling comfortable himself,
he was not likely to set her at ease. Added
to that, the Reign of Terror in France, and

tic declaration of war with that country,
affected English commerce, and he began to
feel it. Annoyance on 'Change or in the warehouse
meant irritability at home, and polite
sarcasm on his own hearth, of which Ellen
had hitherto had the chief benefit. Xow,
Muriel, throwing herself, as it were, as a soft
cushion between them, came in for more thana
share of his ill-humours and suspicions, nay,
the very alacrity with which she ran to
anticipate his wishes only increased his
disfavour. " A pair of meek lackeys without
a grain of spirit," he styled them on one
occasion in his scornful cups ; and yet the
man could be generous and noble on occasion.
Nor were her sisters more amiable after the
first few days. They felt themselves superseded,
and began to be jealous of her superior
manner and accomplishments, as one after
another, aunts and cousins, came in and
noticed her and her needle-work with outspoken
admiration. Not so much the silken
nosegay on the wall, in its circular gold frame,
no prettily reflected in the circular convex

mirror opposite between the velvet curtained
windows, or the filioree-basket on the folded
card table beneath the mirror, or the pair of
tent-stitch footstools guarding the polished
steel fender ; as the embroidered portrait,
which she sat in the light of one window
to finish.

It was this, which being a novelty, eclipsed
the nosegay; and was pronounced far beyond
competition by the fingers of either cousin
or sister. It was a tangible evidence of her
superior endowments ; since such work was
only turned out of schools of high standing ;
and the minor matters of grammar, history,
geography and arithmetic were thereby
guaranteed.

Moreover, it was a well painted picture of
a comely girl in a white dress, crimson shoes
and sash, adorned with a gold-rimmed locket
set with pearls, and with a glorious mass of
brown hair flowing and rippling far below
her waist. Overruling trees and a background
of bushes threw out the graceful
figure, which seemed in motion as did the

fluttering canary on her linger, the ribbon
vhR'h seemed to hold it safe, the floating
ends of her sash, and the folds of her vhite
robe.

The artist had quite been equal to his
task, and the portraiture was faithful.

Marion and Anna envied the distinction.
T\'hat right had she to have her portrait
taken any more than they I And the feeling
oozed out one day when Silly Hargreaves
was present, admiring the picture, of which
the hair, flesh, and sky were as the painter
left them.

' It's well the painter put no marks on
the skin to spoil its beauty"' said Anna
spitefully.

Painters never do, even in large pictures,"
answered observant Silly. '* Didn't the
painter leave the wart off Cromwell's
face?"

Well, I'm sure Muriel's hair was never so
long or beautiful as that I " asserted Marion,
whose raven locks only rested on her
shoulders.

I dare say it was," struck in little Sara
chivalrously, seeing the crimson rising in
good-natured Muriel's cheeks ; " Didn't you
cry when they cut it all off? "

"No love, I was too ill' And Muriel
sighed.

"Never mind, Muriel. It is sure to grow
again," said Silly, reassuringly, as she noticed
the moisture ofatherincr in the mild brown
eyes.

I don't mind my hair, Wly  that is 
(she corrected herself) I should not mind,
but father does not like me without it ; " and
the moisture rounded to a tear.

That's a very pretty locket," said Silly,
still looking at the picture, with a kindly
desire to change the subject ; "Have you one
like it?" 

Yes, the lady whose chaise broke down
in Delamere Forest, gave it to me."

Gave it to you ? What for ? "

"You may well ask what for? " jerked out
Marion. "People are always giving her
things. What did mother give her the old

silver-clasped Bible for, I should like to
know?"

All, and grandmother gave lier a fur-muff
and tippet, but she didn't give us any ! "
added Anna, crossly.

Perhaps she will when you are older ; "
suggested Silly ; " but 1 should like to seethe
locket and hear all about it." And when
she did hear all about it, Silly, who was half
a year older and a bit of a sentimentalist,
went into ecstasies about the romantic adventure,
and the handsome young officer
connected therewith, running into a whole
chapter of possibilities and probabilities. At
which Miss Marion again turned up her long-nose.


From this it will be seen that kindliness
did not spring up in Muriel's path at
home.

Little Sara loved her, clung to her, slept
in her arms at night, followed her about in
the day, came to her hornbook in hand for
help up the first and hardest steps to knowledge,
or for a romp when work was over,

but Marion and Anna took the cue from
their father and in small indescribable ways
strove ' to bring the lady down a peg,"
especially Anna, who for some occult
reason was his favourite.

At the same time they did not hesitate to
take her gifts, or to tax her skill and obliging-nature
to the uttermost, and scarcely gave
thanks for the willing service.

Besides Sara the only appreciative being in
the household was her mother, and her smile
was Muriel's ample reward. Was John
Danger's fastidious palate to be catered for,
or baking, pickling, preserving, wine-making
about, Muriel's untiring activity might be
counted on ; but whence came her patience
and cheeriness under discouragement only
her good mother knew.

She, however, had not been at home quite
a fortnight, when her mother, whose stay-at-home
habits were proverbial, taking advantage
of her husband's absence on a business
journey, and of a line days said lie thought it
was about time she went to see Lydia, and

that if Muriel felt inclined she might bear
her company.

The April sunshine was not brighter than
the smile of Muriel as she tripped upstairs for
her hat and cloak, and she carried something
of the sunshine into the quaint old house and
the shaded chamber where sat Lydia in a big
easy-chair between the heavily draped four-post
bed and the fire. She was wrapped in a
blanket, had a pillow beneath lier feet, and
pillows behind her, all tokens of Maggy Blackburn's
good nursing. Little Jem seated on a
low stool by the fender had fallen fast asleep
with his head resting against her knee. Her
right hand lay caressingly on his head when
they opened the door, but it was calmly folded
in the other across her waist when they
had made the circuit of the bed, and stood
before her.

"How do you do. Aunt?" said Muriel ina
low voice, accompanied by a graceful
courtesy.

How do you fid [yourself by this time,
Lydia ? " was Mrs. Danger's first salutation,

as she held her hand to the fire to take the
chill off before offering it to her sister-in-law
; " your nurse says you are both doing
well."

Aye, pretty well. But I thought you had
forgotten me, Ellen," was the faint reply.

Nay, I had not. Rheumatism came with
the March winds, as usual, so I had to wait
for fine weather and less pain, or you Avould
have seen me sooner. So that's the little lad
your nurse brought with her," Mrs. Danger
exclaimed, as the boy's brown head caught
her attention. " I think she took a great
liberty. Don't you? "

Oh, no," answered Lydia, with the least
possible tremor in her voice, which her
hearers ascribed to weakness, " we knew she
could not come without him."

But what induced you to send so far fora
nurse so encumbered ? I could have recommended
a very trustworthy person close
at hand ; Mother tells me she comes
from Delamere, from the very heart of the
forest."

VOL. I. Q

Lydia shifted her head as if to change her
position, and shade her face from the fire
which had leapt into a bLaze. " Well, her
house is a goodish step from Waverham, but
I've known Maggy all my life, and thought
I should like her better than a strangers''
was answered wearily.

At that moment in came the said Macfo-y,
with cake and caudle on a tray for the visitors,
checking Mrs. Danger's next remark,
"Mother says she has a very queer  "
before the words " character from the
Kingsley's," could be spoken. But whether
Maggy overheard the speech or divined the
thought, both Muriel and her mother were
struck With the searching and anything but
pleasant gleam of her light grey eyes, which
seemed as though they would transfix the
arrested speaker, whilst she bent her long
back to wait upon them.

And Muriel thought the long ears of her
linen mutch flapped as if shaken, whilst she
interposed with the voice of one in authority,
"Yo' manna talk so much, Lydia, till you're

stronger  and maybe ma'am, as yo' seem to
be a mother you'll bear me out. I've not
over much, loikin' for early visitors myself',
they dun moore harm than good."

Hush, Maggy," feebly remonstrated Mrs.
Sam, " that lady is Mrs. Danger, my sister-inlaw
; and I have not been talking much."

Moore than yo' should' i've a notion,"
put in the woman with another strange look.

Mrs. Danger rose, there was small inducement
to prolong her visit. " Show us the
infant, nurse," she said, with some little dignity,
" and then we will retire."

The sleeping infant was lifted out of bed
for inspection, duly kissed and admired, and
then Muriel said : " I will come and nurse her
for you, if mother will allow me, aunt. I
used to nurse my poor brother George. How
I wish she was a boy. Don't you, aunt? "

The aunt's reply was inaudible.

You must not tease your aunt," said her
mother, putting a gratuity in the hand of
Maggy Blackburn, and then they departed.
Neither observed that there were tears on the

Q 2

lassies of Lydia's closed eyes, or that her hand
went back in a caress to the head of the still
sleeping boy against her knee, as they turned
away. Did she too wish that her firstborn
had been a boy ?

"- We may as well walk on to Eed Bank,
now I am out, as your father will not be
home until tomorrow, and after dinner you
can run and see your cousin Silly, Whilst I
have a quiet hour with your grandmother'*
said Mrs. Danger, turning down-hill towards
Long Mitigate, then a long, narrow and busy
thoroughfare, between houses of all shapes
and sizes, from the new red-brick mansion to
the rickety frame-built cottage of the working
man; some up steps some down steps,
with here and there a bay windowed shop,
where the licht struggled thrush small
panes set in thick frames. On the left, dark
entries and narrow alleys ran steeply down
the sand-stone bank to the very margin
of the river Irk and shut it out of sight.
Shut out of sight too if not of smell,
the tanneries and dye-houses also on its

margin, and the fair gardens and bleach-crofts
across the stream.

Two or three streets broke the Une on the
downward side ; and on both, more than one
painted sign intimated that there might be
had " good entertainment for man and
beast."

On the lowest and outside step of one of
these (the Queen Anne, whose painted Qgj
over the door was in good preservation)
stood James Hargreaves, with his sleeves
rolled np, his bare arms yellow with fustic,
his leather breeches and leggings displaying
samples of many dyes, just as rough-looking as
when at his own works, more than a quarter
of a mile away. He was, however, well
known, and appearances were nothing to him,
whatever they might be to his companion, a
bleacher named Walker, whose croft lay across
the unseen river, but whose attire showed
no such intimacy with his vats and bucking
heirs. Their two wives were closely related
and they had business connections likewise
to draw them too-ether.

Wliy, Ellen, is that thee ! the sight's good
for sore been ! What's brought thee so far ? "
and out went the great yellow hand to grip
hers heartily.

Before she could answer that she had " been
to see how Lydia was getting on," the
bleacher had also put forth a claim to notice ;
and James Hargreaves, chucking his niece
under the chin with a couple of yellow fingers,,
said in a tone of pleasant banter : " So, Muriel
lass, you've begun betimes ! Silly says you
picked up a sweetheart in the wilds of
Delamere : nothing less than a handsome
young officer ; and under the very nose of
your grandmother ! "

Muriel was abashed; her colour rose. She
could only say, " Oh, uncle I " in a tone of
remonstrance.

Her mother came to her aid . " Don't talk
such nonsense to the girl, James. And your
Silly ought to know better. Muriel was not
twelve years old when she met those people
in Delamere, and it is more than three years
since she saw one of them."

As if reminded by association With
Delamere, he remembered Lydia, and
remembered something else. " I say,
didn't thai see th' little lad from Waver-ham
at Sam's ? " he asked curiously.

"Yes, surely."

What dost a' think of him ? "

He was asleep, with his head against
Lydia's knee ; I did not see his face."

"Then Lydia take to th' lad? Oho!
Well look at him when thai goes again,
and tell us."

And with a nod, and a chuckle, and an
injunction that they should " go and see th'
old woman and Mill}" he turned into the
Queen Anne, after Mr. Walker, leaving both
Mrs. Danger and Muriel to wonder what
there was remarkable to see in the boy.

There was the tinkle of a Avorkyard bell, then
of another, and another, a clatter of clogs on
the stony pavement, of voices hailing one
another, and the roads were alive with men
and women, lads and lasses, and poor wee
children hurrying home from dye works,

bleach works, tanneries, factories, bearing all
some tokens of their various callings in dress
or person, the stains of some, the odour or
the fluff of others.

Poor little things," said Muriel, as two
barefooted and raixu'ed urchins of nine or ten
years ran against her at the corner, " how
hard it must be for them to get up at four in
the morning and work in a buzzing factory
all day, when the sun is shining in the sky
and there are buttercups in the meadows.
I never thought how much worse other
children were off than myself, when I was
at Miss Briscoe's."

"No, my dear, we are all naturally selfish,
and in our own sorrows are apt to forget the
greater ones of others ; perhaps because we
know and feel our own, and can only imagine
those of others. But we must make haste
or your grandmother will have sat down
to dinner before we get there."

In another minute they were on Soothed
Bridge ; there was another stoppage. Samuel
Bancroft hastening home to his dinner met them.

After ordinary greetings, Mrs. Danger
began :

Sam, whose boy is that at your house?
James Hargreaves has just asked me to look
at him and say "

Sam scowled. " Hang James Hargreaves ! "
he cried irritably. " Let him mind his own
business. What's Maggy Blackburn's nurse-child
to him, or to you either ? " he added
sharply, " that's Maggy's affair. / never asked
her."

Well, Sam, you need not get into a passion,
I only repeated Avliat "

Again Sam interrupted :

Yes, only repeated. That's the way mischief
is made. I reckon you're going up to Eed
Bank to 'only repeat' there. But I tell \o\\
what, Ellen, and you, Muriel, too, you'd best
not say anything you see or hear about my
house up tliere or you'll fid yourselves in
the Avrong box ; " and with a monitory nod
he stalked on.

He was not given to think aloud, or to
mutter as he went, but with his lips close

lOEBZi'i'Zy 10 mai:f:t.

set. his thoughts kept pace with his steps,

and thus they ran :

Hang it all ! This comes of giving way

to Lydia. A pretty coil there'll be if mother

gets hold of the clue. It was sure some imp

of mischief kept me from the Post Office that

day, and sent the poor little lad right in

mother s way. It's confoundedly awkward !

confoundedly ! " And whilst he meditated he

scratched his chin, and looked vacantly at

the ground as he went. Presently a cunning

gleam shot into his eyes : he had found a

cause for self-ejaculation. * Ir was lusts"
 

I met Ellen and Muriel. I've got to know
what's in the wind, and that's something.
And I think IVe frightened both of them
into silence Neither one or the other has
the courage of a mouse, and Pd lay odds
they say nothing to mother that's likely to
come back to me''

He was right so far, that nothing was said,
but whether from lack of courage, or from
lack of interest in the subject, or the pressure
of more interesting topics, is another matter.

Ellen Leander had certainly remarked to
Muriel :

Your Uncle Sam seems put out about that
boy. And no wonder. He's not overfond of
children, and I daresay he is savage at the
nurse bringing another person's child into his
house to be kept. Perhaps your grandmother
has been grumbling about it. I know she said
it warlike Maggy Blackburn's impudence
to bring it. So we had best say nothing
about it, we may only make mischief. Lydia
seems half afraid of the woman ; and it's not
safe to offend her, seeing how often your
father lias to cross the forest and the rough
character of her two sons. You know they
narrowly escaped the gallows over the attack
on that captain's servant."

Yes, Mrs. Kinsslev told me. She said
there had been some false swearing or they
would never have got off. Perhaps Aunt
Lydia only had her for a nurse, on account
of Uncle Sam's travelling."

However this might be. Uncle Sam's
courage led him to disturb his sick wife's

serenity that day by grumbling at the
presence of both Maggy and little Jem, and
to eat his dinner with no worse relish for
leaving her in tears.

And when Muriel went a few days later to
inquire after her Aunt Lydia, she found her
downstairs, weak and low spirited, with a fretful
child, and no nurse or attendant but a
rouo-h servant-lass not more than fourteen.

Sam had " bundled Maggy and the boy
both off," with little apparent regard either
for his wife's condition or her tears.

Lydia did not say this, she merely explained
that "Maggy Blackburn was obliged to go
back to Cheshire ; and I am very sorry, for I
cannot keep baby quiet."

Let me try," said Muriel, and walking
about the room with the velvet face nestled
to her own she lulled it to sleep after a time.
'Til en seeing that Lydia was making feeble
.attempts to " put the disordered room to
rights," she bade her sit down and she would
do it.

When Sam came in for his tea he saw

Muriel installed in the place of Maggy Blackburn,
with her mother's approval, she having
hurried home to obtain it.

"I found Aunt Lydia all alone, with the
baby crying on her lap, and her eyes were
red as if she was fretting over her own
inability to manage it," she had said, nothing
doubting her own accuracy.

Fretting, from whatever cause, is not conducive
to a patient's recovery, and quite
three more weeks elapsed before Lydia was
strong enough to take charge of her own
household affairs.

"You're born for a nurse, Muriel, in spite of
your grandmother," Sam had said before she
had been there many days ; Lydia had seemed to
appreciate the gentleness of her tone, manner,
and movements, and the unwonted daintiness
with which lier meals were served ; and both
were hearty and sincere in their thanks when
she left; but for all that she had a lurking
suspicion that they would feel her absence
a relief.

'' Tlierc's no place like home, mother dear,"

said she, as lie untied her bonnet-strings in
their own snug sitting-room ; "I did not feel
much like home at Uncle Sam's ; and I don't
think Aunt Lydia feels so either, she sighed
so heavily if I chanced to mention Delamere
or the Kingsleyss, or the Wynness ; I could
see she checked herself in speaking and shut
her mouth tight. She never seems free and
open, but always under some restraint,
especially when Uncle Sam is there ; and I
am afraid she is unhappy."

May be so, my dear, long courtships and
late marriages do not always ensure felicity,
whatever yow grandmother may think."

Nor did early and hasty ones, if her own
might be taken as a sample. Not that John
Danger did not estimate his wife in his best
moods. But he set so much larger an estimate
on himself, was so thoroughly imbued
with personal vanity, and his claim to gentility
though his own father was only a manufacturer
 had such extravagant ideas of his
supreme right as lord and master to worship
and obedience, and was so easily flattered out

of doors into excesses which sent him home in
his worst moods, that the poor little v/ife
might have been excused had she joined her
mother in deprecating early marriages.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE HOUSE OF BOXDxVGE .

JT has been intimated that Muriel's homecoming
had not been the unmixed joy
she had anticipated. The severe discipline
and hardships of her school-life had been
shared with others. In the school there was
no favouritism, and if she suffered more it was
from her greater sensibility and long isolation
from her kith and kin. Returning, she had
found that long absence had apparently
weakened the bonds of sisterhood, that the
accomplishments she had acquired so painfully
served only to mark her out for envy,
and that she was no nearer to the heart of
her father. Well was it that hers was not a

VOL. n. B

rebellious disposition. She had learned self-repression
almost from her cradle, so early
was the ban of ugliness set upon her, and the
doctrine, that " only goodness could atone for
her want of good looks," inculcated. Father,
aunts, uncles, all harped on the same string,
the latter adding jests and banter to their
admonitions. Only her mother refrained,
and to that mother lie clung as to a superior
being, whose amiability she could never hope
to equal.

And there she might be right, for Mrs.
Danger's amiability was not that of inane
Weakness, but of a self-subdued will, and
hourly self-sacrifice for the preservation of
domestic peace. There was some compensation
for Muriel in the regard of her
aged grandparents, the D'Anyers, and in the
clinging; affection of little Sara, and even in
the satisfaction with which Lydia hailed her
coming whenever baby Lyd was tedious,
because she " had such a winnings way with
the child," or in Silly Hargreaves' many
sentimental confidences. And it so happened

that handsome, spoiled, wayward Silly, having
no sisters of her own, had singled out Muriel
in their earliest childhood as the one cousin
to supply the want, and to be loved and
trusted above the rest. Certainly, whenever
Muriel stayed with her Grandmother Bancroft
there was Millicent to be found also ;  playmates
in infancy, companions as girlhood grew
and ripened.

Muriel was often at her Uncle Sam's. 'Not
that Lydia was particularly sociable, but she
fancied her aunt was isolated and desponding,
and that the baby wanted better nursing and
more fresh air. So with Sara by her side,
she Avould take the long-robed infant in her
arms and stroll up Eed Bank, or to the
Jorrocks in quest of Silly, bringing Sara
back with a store of summer posies gathered
by the way.

Of course, this soon came to John Danger's

ears. His pride took fire. He was " indignant

that A/.y daughter, who had not been suffered

to nurse her own brother, should have no

more pride or self respect than to turn

B 2

amateur nursemaid to anybody's child, least
of all that of his brother-in-law's countrified
wife ! " And in his indignation, he stigmatised
his wife and daughter, both to his informant
and to their faces, as " spiritless lackeys," a
term of opprobrium by no means ncAv, but
this time it travelled farther than he intended.


Mrs. Bancroft came iji one afternoon with
her tucked-up gown and black mode scarf,
and a set purpose in every line of her face.

She met Muriel in the passage.

Well, child, I hear that roses don't grow
without thorns in these parts," she said
meaningly.

Nor in any parts, grandmother ; but Miss
Williams taualit me how to blunt their
points."

Into the sittin2;'-room she marched.

"So, Ellen, I hear that you and Muriel area
pair of ' spiritless lackeys.' But I'll see
that Muriel plays lackey no more, either for
him or Lydia, or those lazybone sisters of
hers. She goes back to Chester at the fair."

Goes back there ! " and timid Mrs.
D'Aiiyer looked appalled.

Yes, Mrs. Copley offered to take lier as
an apprentice. I didn't see it then, but I do
now. Trade's bad, very bad, likely to be
worse ; food's rising in price. Ah, you may
well sigh, with so many mouths to feed, and
John making bad debts. It may be a good
thins!' if one of the irirls frets a trade in her
fino-hers. Not that Muriel will ever need it.
I'll see to that ; but it may be useful and
saving amongst a family of girls."

".'\nd what shall / do?" asked Ellen
ruefully, she had found in Muriel a companion
as Avell as a helper, such as the younger ones
could never be.

Do ! Why, set that lazy Marion and Anna
to work. There'll shed no tears for their
sister if they do for their 'lackey'" The
word must have called Sarah Bancroft,
she invade so much of it.

But, mother, Anna and Marion still goto
school, they have their lessons to lean
at home, they cannot help me ; besides,

Muriel is older  and  and  more thousclit-
liii.

Aye, much too thoughtful to my mind,
it seems as if she had the cares of the whole
family on her young shoulders. And she's
for helping Lydia with her's into the bargain ;
and small thanks she gets. But I'll put a
stop to it."

And what about Sara ? Muriel is teachings
her. The child would miss her dreadfully."

Teaching is she, and washing, and dressing,
and amusing, I suppose. Well, she shall
go where she will be learning instead of
teaching. Send Sara to school and keep
Anna at home if you want a helper* beside
the maids. Muriel plays general ' lackey ' no
longer here ! "

And though Ellen Danger sighed, and
John Danger's pride rebelled, Mrs. Bancroft's
strong will and plain speaking carried
the day. Muriel was but a leaf on the stream.
Her opinion was not asked, her wishes were
not consulted, her objections were over-ruled.
Indeed she ceased to object when her mother

said, "Don't thwart your grandmother, she
sees farther than we do, and it won't do to
offend her. Your father hooks to her for
means to help him over the present crisis ;
for between your uncles and aunts there is
nothing to be got out of the D'Anyers.
There are too many schemers around the
okl folk. So be a good lass and go quietly."

Ah ! mother dear, that is always your
maxim  ' quietly.' It is not always easy to
be quiet. But kiss me, mother, and I'll do
my best to be quiet too."

And she kept her word, not for a day, but
for a life.

When Sarah Bancroft, and John D'An3er
and Sam rode back from Chester Autumn
Fair, Muriel was left behind, bound hard and
fast by her indentures to Mrs. Ilopley for the
term of live years ; the remission of two years
Iron the customary seven having been made
a matter of extra premium. Mrs. Bancroft
had gone in search of the Eev. Thomas
Bancroft once more, hoping this time to
induce a little better supervision of the girl ;

and was disappointed to find that lie had
quitted Chester for a better living in Bolton,
nevertheless, she left her in her old friend's
charge with not a doubt of Mrs. Copley's
motherly care, and kissed the girl on leaving
with the fullest sense of having done her duty,
and her best for Muriel. How far her judgment
was rio-ht remains to be seen.

And let no one in these times be surprised
that the child and grandchild of well-to-do
manufacturers should be so apprenticed.
There was no such Gulf between the retail
and the wholesale trader as society now sets
up. Men (and women) of wealth, worked with
tlicir own hands amongst their own work-people
and thought it only right to do so.
There was no chance, no excuse for the men
idling dien the master was at work too ; and
when hands, and eyes, and brains, and capital
worked toijethcr, fortunes were made.

John Danger was wont to boast that he
had patrician blood in his veins, and it was
the pride of ancestry, not of the manufacturer,
which rebelled against his mother-in-law's

proposition. But Chester was far away
might come back improved in appearance,
or at all events more useful to those at
home ; he had his own reasons for keeping
terms With his decisive mother-in-law, and
after some demur he assented.

It was customary at that time to keep the
raw apprentice for a whole year running up
the seams of gown-skirts, and running errands.
It was not until the last year of her probation
that she was allowed to cut out and trim.

But Mrs. Ilopley had other views with
respect to Miss Danger ; views she had not
thought necessary to set before Mrs. Bancroft.

When she was gone and all settled, Muriel
Alas shown into an upstairs room, or rather
garret, with Whitewashed walls, where she
and three other apprentices had to sleep.
It contained two truckle beds, a small triangular
washstand, and a tiny looking-glass
suspended from a nail in the Window frame.
There Alas no dressing table but the AvindoAv
ledge, no chairs,  the girls' boxes might do
duty for seats.

What a wretched place ? " was Muriel's
involuntary ejaculation to her conductress, a
Miss Holmes, the daughter of the Northwich
doctor, as Muriel afterwards discovered.

 Half of Mrs. Copley's tribe of children are
similarly accommodated across the landing,
so we apprentices can have no grounds to
complain," and a shrug of the shoulder gave
significance to Miss Holmes' reply. .

There was no wardrobe, no chest of drawers.
Muriel's trunk was tightly packed. " Where
can I put my clothes ? " she asked.

Miss Holmes pointed to a row of pegs in
use. " You can have a couple of those, there
is your trunk for the rest ; and I would advise
you to lock it."

Muriel looked dismayed. " Why, this is
worse than Miss Briscoe's."

Miss Holmes smiled. " Children are apt
to be inquisitive, and to leave dirty finger-marks,
that is all I meant. Are you
ready ? "

They went down to the Avork-room on the
floor below. It had three windows and overlooked

the street. There was a large deal
table in the middle on which lay odds and
ends of tabinet, taffeta, mode, damask, velvet
and various other materials, paper patterns,
pincushion, piercers, pins, scissors, wax,
thread-papers and cotton-balls, in what
seemed to Muriel's unaccustomed eyes, dire
confusion. Six or seven young persons were
seated round it at work, and without looking
up or pausing for an instant, eyed her askance
as she entered.

Miss Danger, you can take that seat,"
said Mrs. Copley, a plain little woman, in as
plain a black gown, at the top of the table,
pointing to an unoccupied rush-bottomed
chair with a straight high back.

There is a green camlet petticoat on
which you can begin, for practice. Miss
Holmes, I will thank you to show Miss
Danger how I require the straight seams
to be run together. She must not attempt
the gores."

The camlet was hard and stiff, the needle
long, the work new ; she pricked her fingers,

knotted her thread ; at the end of the scam
found the upper breadth two aches short.
It was evidently puckered. She had to draw
out the thread, and commence afresh. She
managed better the next time. But she had
fastened off her threads, had swerved from
the straight Une. Ao-ain the thread had to
be withdrawn. The task she had thought so
simple did require practice. The third thine
she was more successful.

So beo-an Muriel's initiation into the art
of mantua-making. So began her five years
bond-service.

Is there nothing to be learned in those
five years of maidenhood but the mysteries
of thread and needle, silk and scissors ?
Will no romance break in on the dull
monotony of five years' stitches ?

Wait. Time does not open his budget
beforehand.

For some time after this Muriel might
have been seen installed at the great deal
table in the long, low-ceiled room, with the
seam of a skirt pinned to a large, heavy lead

pincushion before her ; whilst Mrs. Copley
or her foreman, sitting on raised seats at
either end, adjusted paper patterns on linen
linings, folded or pierced boundary lines in
the latter with a huo-e steel stiletto before
cutting into shape, composedly measured off
breadths of costly brocades, or taffetas, or
levantines, as of small account, or gave
materials and directions right and left to
apprentices and workwomen for this sleeve or
that bodice, this piping, that ruffle. And we,
looking back, might have watched her, as the
3'OUDgest apprentice running errands indoors
and out, cutting; hanks of thread and skeins
of silk into lengths, and plaiting up or
folding them in papers lengthwise for use, or
going to and from the long bags suspended
from nails in the walls to remove rags or paper-patterns,
or other odds and ends, or we might
have heard the call from either end of the
table, " Pins Avant ! Miss Danger, please
to pick up the pins ; " and have seen Muriel
go on her knees beneath the table, with the
pin-tray in her hand, to pick up the multitudinous

needles and pins with which the floor
was strewn, rejecting such as were headless
and useless, for pins at that period were apt
to lose their loose round knobby heads, made
of fine wire separately twisted round the pin
like a Turkish turban.

Three months later Mrs. Copley found it
convenient to call in one of her own youngsters
to pick up the pins, and to send another
apprentice on the outdoor errands, which had
previously been so beneficial to Muriel's
health. It was only on the Sunday that she
could breathe the fresh air, and then after
church she would take one or other of the
little Hopes by the hand, for a stroll by the
Dee, or across the river to Cambridge, sometimes
in company with Lucinda Holmes, but
she " did not care to have the children always
at her heels ; little pitchers had such
long; ears, and such honos tono-iies into the
bargain."

Ah, but they have affectionate little
hearts," replied Muriel, " and if our own
tongues do not was too fast, we need not

be afraid of theirs, so mother used to tell
Betty."

Nevertheless Miss Holmes preferred to take
the air without the said "little pitchers."

Mrs. Copley had found more profitable
employment for Muriel  profitable, that is,
for herself  which began With flowering (as
it was called) a white satin waistcoat for Lord
Grosvenor, with coloured silk, in what is now
designated crewel stitch.

Shortly before Muriel was placed with the
Misses Briscoe, British muslin had been first
manufactured. Previously, India had supplied
us with muslin  soft, and fine, and
filmy as a cobweb  the tax on which placed
it quite out of common reach ; but indeed, so
had Indian calicoes been taxed, and it was
not more than twenty years earlier that the
first piece of English calico had been made.

She had gone to Mrs. Copley when the
new production was in the early flush of
fashion ; and when Paisley was sending forth
muslins sprigged and spotted with cotton in
the tambour frame.

Mrs. Copley improved upon this for her
exclusive patronesses of Chester and North
Wales ; and if we had looked into her show-room
even some three years later we might
have seen where she had placed the Misses
Briscoe's pupil at one of the windows Avitli
a tambour-frame between herself and the
light, on which was stretched a breadth of
transparent white muslin. Through this the
skilful worker sent her rapid little tambour-needle
(or hook) darting with the celerity of
light, caught up the fine crewel worsted, and
so conjured a wreath of glowing roses into
being under her deft hand.

It was not a healthy occupation for a
frown"" cfirl; there was no mention of it in
her indentures  it formed no legitimate part
of the business she was there to learn ; yet
there she was seated from six in the morning*
until dusk, with her back to her companions,
and the breadth of the frame interposed
between her and a glimpse of the traffic in
the street far below. Nothing to see but
the muslin and the tightly-twisted rebels 

unless perchance a gabled roof or two, and
the sky  little or no conversation, no relaxation
except when the bell called all downstairs
into the kitchen for meals.

Even these were hurried, for May was
coming, and many were the robes, besides
the one in Muriel's tambour frame, which
must be finished and ready for the Wearers
before the race week.

And do not suppose that dusk put a stop to
Muriel's work, though daylight lingers long
to welcome the steps of May.

I should think you would be too Aweary
to besoin to sew after all the hours you have
been stuck at that frame," whispered her
friend, Miss Holmes, to her, as she stretched
herself upwards with the prolonged sigh of
exhaustion, before taking; her seat at the
table to join together strips of satin on the
bias into lengths for rouleaus or soft piping.

Yes, I am tired ; but the Avork has to be
done, and, after the tambour-frame, serving is
rather a relief," she answered pleasantly in
the same low tone.

VOL. II. c

Relief, do you call it ? Well, you are a
droll mortal. But, certainly, any change
must be a relief after stooping so long.
I wonder how you stand it day after
day!"

Why, Lucinda, I am rather glad to
be free to stoop. At Miss Briscoe's we wore
a stiff collar with a sharp point under our
chins when we sat at our embroidery, lest we
should stoop and spoil our figures. It is
quite satisfactory not to have a smart prick
every now and then ; " and Muriel put down
her sewing to thread her needle and snuff
the candles.

"Well," answered the other, pausing for
an instant in her amazement, " I never saw
your equal for making the best of things !
I wish / could. I get as savage at times asa
\ild Indian."

And so should I, if it would do any good.
I get weary enough. But whenever I feel
inclined to rebel, I think of the poor little
factory children, going barefooted to their
work, through the frost, and the snow, and the

rain at four o'clock in the morning, and that
stops my grumbling."

"Less chattering? at that end of the table 1
It interrupts work ; " and after the sound of
Mrs. Copley's business-like voice there was
silence, unbroken save for the busy click of
needles, the rustle of silk, the dropping of
pins or scissors, or of snuffers into a snuffer-tray.


The first break was at eight o'clock, when
the foreman rose, laid her work in order
for the morning, and with a simple "goodnight"
to Mrs. Ilopley, departed to her own
home, to be followed or preceded by the
rest of the outdoor workers.

There was another break at nine, when

Mrs. Ilopley herself stepped downstairs to

her hot supper, and sent upstairs a cup of

milk and a piece of bread to refresh each

weary worker before the servants went to

their press-bed in the kitchen. It was sent

to them, not to save weary limbs the stretch

up and down the stairs, but to save the

interruption of the journey to and fro ; for

c 2

in and out of seam or fold, rich brocade
or filmy muslin, must go the pitiless needles
until the stroke of midnight, in spite of aching
heads or eyes, or sleepy yawning, when
even the snufRnsf of the candles became a
change from the monotony of stitches.

Oh dear ! how o-lad I am to cct to
bed," said one of the skirts en reaching their
lon<] attic. " I am almost too tired to
undress ; " and she threw herself across the
bed as she was, and had to be roused from
sleep when her bed-fellow was undressed.

I was afraid she was going to keep us at
it all niofht ai:ain, the old screw ! " observed
Miss Holmes, with a yawn, as she hastily
doffed her clothes, leaving them in a 
the floor, and slipped into bed, crjang,
Gracious ! if that girl isn't down on her
knees as usual ! "

"Well!" she began again, when Muriel
rose to her feet, " I wonder you are not too
jaded to say your prayers. I forget mine
when I'm sleepy."

Ah ! " said Muriel, soberly, " I dare not

do that. I should be afraid, if I forgot
my prayers, God might forget me. And
where should I lind strength for my work
then? I never felt more need for prayer.
Good-niofht."

The good-night was spoken to closed
ears, and very shortly Muriel was asleep
also.

All the girls were looking forward with
anticipation to the race-week for rest and
relaxation, but before that came a week when
even the foreman and outdoor hands
were constrained to Avork an hour later in
the evenings  a week prefaced and ended
with a Sunday which was not a Sabbath
for the apprentices who had the misfortune
to be of Mrs. Copley's own household.

Did Mrs. Copley remain in the work-room
to sustain the weary girls by her presence
as a fellow worker ? Did she excuse by
any sophistry this compulsory breach of the
fourth commandment?

She just came into the work-room, appointed
each her special task, to be completed on her

return ; and whilst the bells were ringing
solemnly out, went calmly forth in a dress of
black lutestring, in the rear of her troop of
children, to Trinity Church, with Mr. Ilopley
in a sober suit of brown by her side.

Down went work as the street door was
heard to close. There was a general rush to
the windows.

There she goes in her silk own," cried
one, named Matilda Parkes, " with a face as
serene as if she hadn't the weight of so much
as a hank of thread on her conscience."

I don't think she has any conscience ! "
was the commentary of another, " or she
couldn't for shame go to church and leave us
slaving here for her profit."

"I wonder how the old hypocrite would
feel if I were to march up the aisle in the
middle of the sermon, and say, ' If you please,
Mrs. Copley, how am I to trim Lady Grosvenor's
sleeve ? ' " said Miss Holmes in a tone of
sarcastic mimicry, winding up with the quick
outburst, " I hate hypocrisy ! "

Hush ! " interposed Muriel, who had not

before spoken. " We are none of us justified,
in judging another. To lier own Master she
standeth or falleth. We have simply to do
our own duty here. My old teacher, Miss
Williams, impressed that very strongly on me
one day when I was judging Miss Briscoe
very harshly, in a spirit of rebellion against
discipline."

"Ah! there's another of your j'us folk!
It's enough to make one sick of relic-ion to
see what a cloak is made of it ! " jerked out
Matilda Parkes, with her elbows out on the
window-sill.

Nay," said Muriel, smiling, " we must
not find fault with the cloak because of the
rags it may chance to cover."

Then, I suppose, you would have us think
old. hypocrites like Mrs. Copley and the two
Miss liriscoes pay religion a compliment by
wearing it as a mantle ? " put in Miss Holmes,
with a shrug of the shoulders.

Muriel hesitated, and flushed. She had not
altogether forgotten her painful experience
at school, and every day made her more

sick and weary of her trammels in Watergate
Street, and led her to question her
grandmother's discernment, even if she
made no open complaint. But young
as she was, she had learned somehow,
not to confound systems with individuals ;
and her charity was large. She answered
slowly : 

I fear that hypocrites do bring religion
into discredit ; but we have no right to say
that either Miss Briscoe, or Miss Betty, or
Mrs. Copley are intentionally hypocrites.
Miss Williams said "

Oh, there now," interrupted Miss Parkes,
"we've had quite enough of Miss Williams
and her preaching, and yours too ! You'll
want to make out that the Briscoes and
Copley s are angels next ! "

I do think that Mrs. Copley 's customers
are almost as much to blame as she is ! "
And Muriel's needle flew swiftly through the
stitches she had resumed.

Of course she could neither decline the
work, nor get more helpers? And the

excellent mother must set an example to her
chicks ! "

A burst of approving laughter, very uncommon
in that room, greeted Miss Holmes's
ironical speech, of which Muriel took no
open notice. But \hen Miss Holmes came
back to her seat, and to the Grecian robe she
Alas trimming, she leaned towards her and
whispered : 

"Don't be too hard on Mrs. Copley.
Think what her cares must be with all that
family to rear, and so little help from her
husband. She would offend her best customers
if she refused work at the busy
seasons. I dare say we are no worse off than
other apprentices. Eemember that Mary
Clifford was beaten to death by her
mistress. And if she did leave us at work
whilst she took her children to church, it
was better than keeping them all at home,
or letting them go alone. Mind you, I don't
approve of sewing on a Sunday any more
than you do. I feel that I want rest, and
should work all the better in the week if

I had it ; and I've an impression that
what Mrs. Copley gains by our work on
the Sunday, she loses on the Monday, and
is no richer for it at the year's end."

That's very likely ! " was all the reply
from Miss Holmes this time. Muriel had sent
her thoughts into a new channel ; and when
Mrs. Copley came back, needles, not tongues,
were at work.

Not until the Monday night was the last
garment completed and sent home. On.
Tuesday there was a thorough clearing and
turn-out of the work-room and dormitories
for whitevvashinof and scrubbing;. And then,
when the girls were completely worn outwith
night and day work, there were four
days for themselves.

Four days when they were allowed to go
where they pleased, see whom they pleased,
do what they pleased, without let or hindrance.
The exemplary matron, the vigiLant
taskmasters, who indoors laid an embargo on
free speech and locomotion, suffering the
maidens in her charge to go forth without

guardian or supervision amongst the indiscriminate
throng drawn together by a great
horse-race. Wliat would Mrs. Bancroft or the
D'Anyers have thought had they known it.

Legislation has stepped iu to protect the
factory child and the milliner's assistant ; but
far into the present century girls were
worked to death before their apprenticeships
ran out. That is, when there was a fashionable
demand upon the establishment, and the head
of it had no scruples. In the last century
apprentice-law was excessively stringent, and
at all times there are those who will take
advantage of all the law allows and feel
themselves justified. As I have elsewhere
intimated, in our army, our navy, our public
schools, our private households. Discipline
was the dominant power, and people had a
notion that the world would not get on if
the despot Discipline was deposed. Feeling
was blunted by common consent.

We, in this our dav, looking back ask,
could such things be? But then they were,
and were too general to create surprise. But

even then there were masters and masters,
mistresses and mistresses, and Mrs. Bancroft
had made a mistake, not in the system, butin
regarding Mrs. Ilopley as one of its
mildest exponents.

Not the only mistake she had made.

A DAY OF SURPRISES.

lORTUNATELY for mvh so left to themselves,
at Chester the Rooted, or race-coarse,
lies in a bend of the river immediately
beneath its broad Walls on the south-west,
overlooked by the Castle, and had anyone
impeached Mrs. Copley's care for the young
Avoient committed to her charge, she would
most likely have pointed to the fashion and
respectability of Chester congregated on those
Walls to witness the race, and have asked,

Where could they be more secure ? "
And indeed there the best families of
Chester might be found, for there they could
see the show yet not be of it.

But what guarantee had Mrs. Copley that
they, cooped up week after week in a close
work-room, would keep to the comparatively

((

safe Walls, and not rush like unbroken colts
under the Watergate to the Eoodee itself,
with all its excitement and gaiety and 
danger ?

Such might have been the case year by
year had not Muriel shrank from mingling
with a promiscuous crowd, and refused to accompany
Matilda Parkes and her set on the
first occasion ! They had urged that her
mother would not know," and she lead
answered " God and my own conscience
would " ; and after some banter and ridicule
as a " egotistical baby," and " a stuck-up
miss," she was left to pursue her own
pati.

But she was not left alone. Miss Holmes,
the Northwich surgeon's daughter, her elder
by a couple of years, struck by the arguments
of a mere girl on the side of propriety, had
left the others to their own devices and borne
Muriel company.

They were of different temperaments and
training, but they were friends from that day
forth, to which friendship an unexpected

meeting with Dr. Holmes and a party of
Nortliwich friends no little contributed.

Three years had done their work and
Muriel was now eighteen, tall and slender,
too slender in fact, for her slight though
symmetrical figure suggested overgrowth and
overwork, too much sitting up, and too little
nourishment, as did the flitting colour on
her cheeks from which the disfiguring* red
marks of disease had disappeared, leaving
little besides a seam between the lower lip and
chin to tell what its ravages must have been
when her father could say her " beauty was
spoiled for ever."

Beautiful she was not ; but there was a
something in her face better than beauty.
She had a long, straight nose, good teeth, an
open forehead, a pleasant smile, a pair of
large brown eyes, clear and transparent as
the well of truth, and her nut-brown hair
had grown afresh sufficiently to curl all over
her head, and be the very height of Parisian
fashion, if it could no longer stray below her
waist. What the style is called in these days

of modern reproduction I know not. In
those terrible days of French Revolution it
was called a "Brutus." Any way it suited
Muriel, and so did the low-crowned straw hat
she wore tied over her ears with a sky-blue
ribbon in a bow beneath her chin. She

seemed to have a liking for the colour which
harmonized so well with her complexion ; for

pie small ruffles at the wrists of her tio-ht
sleeves were confined by narrow straps of the
same hue, whilst an azure waistband also

girdled her plain white muslin dress, as might
be seen when her scarf-tippet, also of muslin,
and crossed modestly over the bodice, wafted
aside.

The dress was plain and simple, without
frill or furbelow, was not so tight as to
impede locomotion, not so long as to sweep
up the dust, nor so short as to exhibit more
than the neat foot. But simple as it was,
both that and the corresponding dress of
Miss Holmes had been weeks in preparation,
an occasional quarter of an hour stolen from
sleep having been given to them, and so

much of the first day of their holiday as
exhausted nature had not compelled them
to spend on their pillows.

On the Thursday they were all up betimes.
There was quite a scramble which should
have prior use of the mean looking-glass ;
but even the dressing of damsels for an
unwonted holiday must come to an end,
and then they stole one by one into the
show-room to take a general survey in the
large mirror before they sallied forth, their
hearts in a flutter with the excitement of the
actual, the probable, and the possible.

You look a credit to the house," Mrs.
Copley condescended to say as they passed
lier on the stairs. " I hope your demeanour
will be equally creditable," at which Miss
Parkes gave her head a toss. Most likely
she felt the reminder as a home-thrust ; but
our story does not concern Matilda Parkes ;
it follows those who, as usual, separated
from her and her companions at the Watergate.


Pm glad to be well rid of them," said

VOL. ir. D

Miss Holmes, as she turned to the long*
flight of steps which led up to the Walls,
whilst the others, less scrupulous, passed
under the shadow of the wide arch on to the
open Eoode'j, where the velvet turf bore
traces of three days' trampling under foot.
"Their manners are anything but decorous.
I should be ashamed if anyone I knew saw
me with them. They have never been the
same osiris since tliev first went on that
course."

I'm sure I don't care to associate with
them, either in the house or out, though
there is little fear of meeting anyone I
know," said Muriel. " Still I am very
sorry they would not be advised. They
are sure to regret their giddiness in the
lonn run."

Not meet anyone in all this crowd !
Well, we shall see ! "

They were by this time on the Walls above
the Watergate. Looking back up the street,
they watched a well-known chariot with six
horses coming down at a rattle, closely

followed by a light curricle. By some
unknown impulse, Muriel hurried her companion
across to the opposite side, and,
standing with her hand to her chest,  for a
small matter took her breath,  looked over
the parapet, and saw  not only Lady
Grosvenor's chariot bowling through the
broad arch on to the Eoodee, with a troop
of gentlemen on horseback in attendance on
the beauty of the day  but the curricle, and
in it  she could not be mistaken  sat Mrs.
Wynne, elegantly and youthfully attired in
gauze and lace and feathers, and, yes ! it u:a.s-
Mr. Arthur Wynne there by his mother's
side. She might have doubted, for six years
had wrought a change in him as in herself:
but the clustering curls had all been drawn
back, pomatum and powdered in regulation
military style, so that the red scar on his
temple was visible.

Her heart gave a great bound. Yet wherefore
? Had not the Wynness passed out of her
life and her memory ? Her hand went up

instinctively to her neck, and closed upon the

D 2

5 FORBIDDEN TO MARRY.

lady's locket. How should she forget with
that memorial in wear? There was no
doubt an eager smile upon her face.

He looked up ; his glance took in the outlines
of two nice girls in straw hats and
muslin tippets. There was a temporary
stoppage. He lead an impression he had seen
those large brown eyes somewhere before.
The carriages rolled on again, the lady
oblivious, her son perplexed by a glimpse of
brown eyes, and Muriel feeling only  they

were gone !

Why, Miss Danger, I declare if that
piece of affectation is not the captain's wife
who was so rude to Mrs. Copley ! "

Eh ! " said Muriel, only half roused from
her reverie.

Don't you know ?  the lady who was so
anxious to have a dress made by Lady
Grosvenor's own milliner, and who, when her
ladyship sent Mrs. Copley to her, at the
Blossoms, was so uncivil. I fancy I see her
now ! You know I went with Mrs. Copley
that day to carry the measures and patterns,

and bring the stuff back. Up went her
ladyship's, or captainship's eyebrows with a
well-bred stare. She eyed little Mrs. Copley
from the pont of her toe to the tip of her
black bonnet, and superciliously lisped out,
Yoic cannot be Mrs. Copley ; there must be
some mistake.' 'Yes, madam, I am Mrs.
Copley. There is no mistake. I understood
from Lady Grosvenor that you desired me to
make a dress.' ' You ! ' drawled out the lady,
you ! an antiquated frump like you could
never make a dress for me ! ' ' Very well,
madam. Good-day ! ' and the Copley walked
out with as much dignity under her plain
black bombazine as if she had been a duchess
and not a dressmaker. I had much ado to
keep my countenance. But wasn't Mrs. Copley
in a rage, }' on surely remember? And see,
Muriel, the two carriages are drawings alongside
one another, and I could fancy the
captain's wife was telling Lady Grosvenor
that Mrs. Copley had declined to accept her
humble apology when she found out lier
mistake. I wonder if she will tell her how

8 FOE BIDDEN TO MARRY,

Mrs. Copley curtsied and said, ' Oh, no,
madam, an antiquated frnmp like me could
not make a dress for you ! ' "

"Who are you mimicking all this while?"
asked Muriel, recalled to herself. " Xot,
surely, Mrs. Wynne ? "

Yes, that's the name Mrs. Wynne ! "

Then perhaps you do not know she was
the lady your father attended at Eddisbury,
when her chaise upset ! "

You don't mean it ! That wax doll !
Why, if, as the song says of her ladyship, 

'She dyes her lips with the rose's hue,
And paints her veins with azure l)hie,'

I am sure it might be said of Mrs. Wynne.
I never saw such a piece of "

Stop, Lucinda ! You must 'not say that
of Mrs. Wynne. / never saw her paint, and
she was very polite to me."

And if tliafs the lady, she had reason to
be polite to you, I've heard father say. But
come alone*, and let's see who are on the
Walls before the races begin."

Muriel was not voluble ; Miss Holmes was.

Scarcely an individual passed in that saunter
amidst the gay and fashionable throng whom
she did not check off with some droll comment
on costume or characteristics.

Muriel was silent, glad all at once that Mr.
Arthur Wynne had escaped her companion's
observation, and to be spared the effort of
conversation. Why, she could scarcely have
told ; but the sight of that curricle and its
occupants had thrown her back into the
past,  to associations at once pleasant and
painful. She was never one to overrate her
own services. Now, she felt that no chance
service of her grandmother or herself could
bridge the gulf between the Manchester
traders and the associates of Lady Grosvenor.
Yet common sense would be heard, and it
said that if those people owed their lives to
her grandmother, they would be ungrateful
to forget it, whatsoever their rank. And
she could not think Mr. Arthur ungrateful.
Oh, how she wished Miss Briscoe had allowed
her to see the captain when he called !

As if conjured up by the thought, they

came abruptly upon the two prim sisters,
as stately as of old, although the elder now
rested for support on a crutched stick, and
there was an air of slightly faded gentility
about their Avell-worn brocades.

Muriel would fain have questioned them
respecting Captain Wynne, but her awe of
the grand preceptresses had not died out; she
answered their formal salutation with a profound
obeisance, as of old, and the opportunity
was lost, as they passed on.

A race was being won or lost ; horses
flashed past with the rapidity of lightning,
urged on by whip and spur, and the cries of an
excited throng ; but Muriel's eyes seemed
drawn by some strange fascination to a group
ot carriages, as if to single out one fioTire of
the many standing up and cheering the winner.

There was something in Muriel's breast that
was neither hope nor expectation, and yet
was vaguely akin to both, With a dash of
doubt thrown in. Should she ever meet the
young officer face to face again ? His rank
was to her unknown.

They had turned again to promenade, and
not more brightly did the sun flash in the
windings river, than the licht which shone in
Muriel's countenance as she encountered 
not a gay young officer  but Mrs. Parry, from
the Wrexham farm.

By this time, Muriel had picked up sufficient
Welsh, and Mrs. Parry had so far improved
her English, as to need no translator ; and
the former was soon in possession of the
intelligence that Captain Griffiths and her
niece were then in Portsmouth, that he was
about to join his ship, and that when he had
sailed, Mrs. Griffiths and her two children
would come to stay with her on the farm
in his absence.

Ant you had pest comes, too, my tear.
It will do you good, look you ! You pe too
like the lily and the willow ; you want the
fresh air ant the fresh milk, look you, to
make you pe strong."

Then the hospitable Welshwoman shook
hands, and they parted, not, however, before
she had put Mrs, Parry in possession of the

fact of her apprenticeship to Mrs. Copley,
and been in turn informed,  

"Your fine friends are again with Sir
Madoc at the PLis, look you ! " information
which accounted for their presence on the
racecourse.

With this meeting, the mercury in Muriel's
barometer had gone up.

IIow she rejoiced in the prospect of seeing
her gentle friend once again !  the one who
had added sympathy to precept, and taught
her, as her own mother had taught, that
which the Misses Briscoe did not see was
needed : forbearance and endurance.

It was indeed a day of surprises ; that
day on which Muriel did not expect to meet
anyone.

Towards the middle of the afternoon, a
voice hailed them from the Eoodee. It was
Dr. Holmes, his suit of professional black
almost as rusty with Aver as with the dust of
the road. There was a walk back towards the
Watergate, and then he took possession of them.

Almost his first salutation was a remark

that they had " no more colour than their
dresses," and a demand to know '.'wJiat have
you both been doing to look so limp and
wishy-washy ? "

"Doing? Working night and day, with
hardly time to know if the food we ate was
good or bad, and not too much of it."

He shook his head.

I suppose it would be no use remonstrating
with Mrs. Copley ? "

"Not a bit. She would only tell you as
she tells us Avhen we grumble, that ' we do
not know when we are well of", and there
are other mistresses who beat their apprentices
black and blue. She talks of Mrs.
Browning, of Fetter Lane, London, who
threw pails of water on her apprentices when
they swooned after correction, and beat one
girl to death, but she never adds that Mrs.
Brownrio-o; was hani2:ed for it, not she !' She
cannot see what we have to complain of,'
and," added the mimic, " I suppose we must
irwin and abide."

Ah, wel],Lucinda, your time is nearly up.

There you have the advantage of your friend
here."

She has one advantage I have not. She
is patient  I rebeL"

Something in this must have struck Mr.
Holmes. Turnings at a tangent, he said
abruptly, 

I have seen some old acquaintance of
yours, Miss Danger. Old patients of mine,
too. But I am sorry to see the lady suffers
from a more terrible affliction than I have
power to heal  loss of sight and memory."

Muriel was puzzled. The surgeon's tone
was doleful ; the twinkling of his optics unobserved.
She had noticed nothings wron<x
with Mrs. Wynne's eyes, still, hers had been
a distant vicar.

Blind ? " she exclaimed, incredulously.

His daughter broke into a merry hxugli,
as he answered with gravity, 

Well, not totally blind, my dear, but unable
to distinguish any object so small as a
country doctor." (A look of pain and disappointment
crossed Muriel's face.) " Ah, I

see you know the lady. What a contrast to
her noble son ! His memory needed no
iosfSfing. I should not have recognized him,
he is grown so fine a man. It was lie who
spoke to me  put oat his hand and shook
mine as heartily as if we had been old chums,
and pointed to the scar above this temple to
quicken my memory. Then he asked if I had
ever seen Red Eidinsf Hood since she rode
away on a pillion from the Forest House ; and
if you had not been a child at that time, I
should have thought you rode off with a bit
of his heart, Miss Danger, I should indeed."

Muriel now laughed merrily, but lie
blushed at the same time.

Not much fear of that, doctor."

Well, you should know best. But I can
assure you the message he sent when I said I
hoped to find you with my daughter looked
marvellously like it."

Message ! " echoed Muriel and Miss
Holmes together.

Yes, he begged me to convey to Miss
Danger his ' regret that his inadvertence had

caused unpleasantness between herself and
the old Griffin who unfortunately had charge
of her.' He ready called them Griffins, my
young lady, and he also desired me to
add that he was extremely sorry he should
have been ordered away', without any
opportunity being allowed either to the
captain or himself for apology or explanation.
And he ' hoped that the Utile girl would not
think him ungrateful.' "

"Little girl, indeed!" exclaimed Miss
Holmes. " He should see you now."

I was a little girl then, you know."

"And I suppose he forgets that little girls
grow," and Lucinda laughed heartily at her
own supposition.

What thought the fine young officer who
came up to them whilst the last race was
behoof run, as the red chased the white from
Muriel's animated face at his hearty recognition;
and the problem of the brown eyes,
which had haunted him all day, was solved.

He held Muriel's hand in his clasp as he
said with honest warmth not unmixed with

gratified surprise, " Can you forgive me, Miss
Danger, for failing to recognize you at a
glance. A pair of soft eyes seen above the
Watergate as we drove from under it, have
been reproaching my memory all the day.
I trust you will not reproach me for my
failure to identify little Eed Eiding Hood
with the tall sylphide whose eyes were alone
unchanged. Dr. Holmes will have told you
that I had expected time to stand still with you''

Easy enough was Muriel as she answered,
It is six years since you saw me, sir ;
but I do not think I am much changed 
except that I am taller  and older. " -

Xot changed ! by " the hasty and

expressive ejaculation was arrested by Dr.
Holmes, who taking hint from his daughter
introduced Lieutenant Wynne to her : and
with her, to lively chit-chat in which Muriel
bore her part with smiling satisfaction. He,
however, made an opportunity to inquire
after her grandmother and uncle, and the
hospitable Kingsleyss before they were
interrupted.

The race was over, the crowd dispersing.
There was quarrelling, and
ficfhtincf, and shouting on the course ;
horsemen and carriages were quitting the
scene.

A young lady and an elderly gentleman
were seated in the curricle with Mrs. Wynne,
and the latter looked around for her son, as
if unwilling to drive away without him.

It was with no small chagrin that she
discovered him in animated conversation
with the country doctor and " two creatures
in white muslin " on the Walls, close to
the Watergate, the wide arch of which the
vehicle was slowly approaching.

A servant, despatched with the message,
Mrs. AVynne is waiting, sir," bore back the
answer, "I am at Mrs. Wynne's service;"
but he did not hear the young lieutenant
express his hope that he shoukl see Miss
Danger again before he left the neighbourhood,
or observe the mutual looks of regret
as he took leave.

A SCENE IN A THEATRE.

p. HOLMES had put up his horse and
secured accommodation for himself at
the Falcon Inn, in Bridge Street, another
of the quaint old timbered buildings common
enough then, but now regarded by the antiquary
and historian as relics of the past ; by
the utilitarian and sectarian as decaying
rubbish, cumbering the ground. It was in
good preservation, and notwithstanding the
many inns in the city, was full to overflowing,
when the doctor led his daughter and Muriel
thither, and ordered tea with a good, substantial
joint to cut at, and a tankard of ale in
addition, for himself.

Eat away, my lasses," said he, " there's
neither griffin nor dragon here to stint you,
and the Falcon's a good provider ; " and

VOL. II. E

]ie ribbed this podgy hands together with
glee on finding how well they obeyed him.
And no wonder they found appetites, seeing
that a cake or two, bought from an itinerant
Tender, had served for their noontide meal,
:and that their early breakfast was neither too
plentiful, nor sumptuous.

Whilst knives and forks did their duty,
tongues were not silent ; father and daughter
had naturally much to ask and answer.
Amongst other matters came the question
from Lucinda Holmes,

*ris Asa Booth with you still.? "

Yes ; or I could not be sitting here so
comfortably. He's been with me so long,
the country patients take to him as naturally
as ducks to the water ; and I've no
desperate cases on hand. Ah ! he's a fine
fellow, is Asa ; cool and steady, feels a
pulse, or looks at a tongue with the gravity
of an old physician. There's more than one
farmer's daughter with a mind for Asa ; but
he says, ' he's no mind for them.' "

''I should think not, indeed," and Lucinda

gave her head a scornful toss, " unless he
meant to turn cow-doctor."

Aye, or set up an opposition to Maggy
Blackburn there in the Forest," and the suggestion
appeared to tickle the doctor, he
laughed so heartily at his own sally. Even
Lucinda seemed amused,

Muriel's curiosity was excited. " Who is
MaQ-ory Blackburn ? " she asked turnips to
the doctor with some interest.

Doctor Holmes had a merry eye, and it
twinkled knowingly,

Who is she ? Wasn't at her birth and

can't say  what she is would puzzle the black

gentleman with a tail to tell. It is more

than forty years since she set up in the

forest as nurse and distress ; for I was buta

little fellow at the time,  and sure she

has a knowledge of herbs and simples  aye

and of herbs that are not simples  that

many an apothecary has not. And she lias

known how to turn her skill to account. It

is not only ignorant country-folk that she

doctors. They say she is a witch and are half

E 2



 ILUNOJS

afraid of her ; but many a post-chaise, and
many a connected-coach has driven through
the forest to Maggy Blackburn's door ; and it
is said that more has been done under her roof
than has ever seen light. May be, there's no
knowing, those bad lads of hers have helped
to make an evil name for her, poachers are
never in good odour with foresters. Anyhow,
there are queer tales afloat, and "  here
he tapped the table with the blade of this
horn-handled knife, meditatively, dropping
his voice to be unheard beyond the range of
their own table  " a coach and six came on
a mysterious errand to the Forest House in
mistake for Maijo-y Blackburn's one nio-ht,
and let the Kingsleyss into the secret of
Maggy's doings. But there," and he pushed
his plate away, " these tales are not for
young lasses."

Muriel had listened, breathless.

Surely Uncle Sam and Aunt Lj'dia could
not know of any wickedness, or they would
never have had her in their house. I saw
her tending aunt ; and she brought a boy

with her they called Jem. One of my uncles
seemed curious about him. Do you know
who he is?" she asked.

Dr. Holmes began to fill a long clay pipe,
and the tobacco apparently required much
manipulation, he did it so deliberately.

We-11," said he, slowly, as he lit his pipe
at a wax taper set on the mantel-piece for
such service, " I may have my suspicions,
but no one cares to meddle with Maggy
Blackburn's business. Maggy nursed Lydia's
mother, and laid her out when she died,
and perhaps that's why your aunt takes to
her. But now, dears," and he pulled a bell-rope,
suspended in the middle of the room
with a brass acorn for weight and handle,
"Mrs. Adams or the chambermaid will show
you to a room where you may tittivate
yourselves a bit, for I mean to take you
to the play."

The play ! "

The exclamation was simultaneous, and
both black eyes and brown lighted up at the
word, but the intonation was different.

Lucinda had been to the theatre with her
father once or twice, and had visited the
shows on the Justing-field at Fair times with
the other girls, and had witnessed the
performance of a party of strolling plasters
in a barn before she left Northwich. Muriel
had only the remembrance of a pantomime
seen in her childhood, but she had heard her
father and relations talk of tragedies and
comedies, and had early made acquaintance
with Shakespeare in Theobald's edition from
her father's bookshelves, until she had a
strong desire to see an acted play. But there
had also been the counter influence of her
three years witli the-misses Briscoe, to whom
a theatre was but a sinoie remove from the
bottomless pit, the Chester ]playhouse
essentially so. Mrs. Ilopley too had strong-views
on the subject.

Muriel's quick " Oh, thank you ! " was
followed by, " Do you think it would be right
for us to go, sir ? Mrs. Copley "

Bother Mrs. Ilopley ! Let her say what
she likes," cried audacious Lucinda.

Her father smiled ; between the Whiffs of
his pipe lie said, " I'll make it all right With
the old lady, don't let that trouble jow ; "
and Muriel, not confident enough to make
a fuller explanation before strangers, followed
Lucinda and their conductress,
though, it must be confessed, somewhat
dubiously.

The history of the Cliester Theatre had
something to do with this, for though Muriel
was not puritanic she had the fullest
reverence for sacred things.

It so happened that its site was not
propitious. The ancient church of St.
Nicholas had at one time been transferred
to St. Oswald, but either the saints disagreed
or their representatives, and the sacred fane
was deserted for more than half-century.
It was then converted to secular uses as
the Common Hall of the City, and St.
Nicholas being the lawyers' patron saint,
there might be some pretence of fitness, but
that it should afterwards degenerate into a
mart for wool  a Wool Hall, and finally

become a play-house and a licensed Tlicatre-
Eoyal was not so fit.

These chan!:!;es had been wrought in the
course of centuries, and few who entered the
obscure building* under the shadow of the
Cathedral, ever thought of its original
use.

Mr. Holmes did not. lie led the two
white-robed damsels past the great doors of
a vaggoner's warehouse on the ground floor,
and up the staircase to the hall above, without
troubling himself about the ancient uses
of the edifice. lie had taken places for the
pit, and was more concerned in fnidhig good
seats for his companions than in aught else.

Not so Muriel. Miss Briscoe had so
impressed on her young mind in her
pompous orations that all who entered the
desecrated building were doomed to perdition,
that she could not shake off a feeling
of uneasiness ; and after a time ventured to
entrust Mr. Holmes with her doubts and
apprehensions.

"My good Miss Danger," said he, "don't

perplex your young brain with questions so
abstruse. The monks of St. WerburHi were not
SO scrupulous when they turned the building'
over to the citizens for common uses ; and
after centuries of leo-al wrano-lino- and of
mercantile chattering, there can be little of
holiness or sanctity left to the old walls.
Besides, the stage has been a great teacher;
it has its own code of morals ; and its sermons
are not to be despised. I always treat myself
to the play whenever I can afford a
holiday', though that is not often, and I take
the dice as I find it, without a thought what
it has been. Besides, did not the monks have
mystery-plays on this very spot ? Listen to
the music, child, and make your mind
easy."

She took his advice, listened to the music,
and glanced at the seats right and left called
the boxes, though they bore little resemblance
to the curtained boxes of modern theatres,
and soon became interested in her surroundings,
albeit not wholly convinced by
the doctor's arguments. The seats were

gradually filling, but oue box near the stage
remained unoccupied.

There was a tolerable orchestra, and the
music soon carried her out of herself. A
countryman, dressed in his best Sunday smock,
sat on her right, companion by a respectably
attired young woman whose rusticity seemed
to have long worn off. To this man everything
appeared strange, but he had an ear
for the music, and made his comments
audibly, regardless of his companion's
frequent " nudges " and hints to " be quiet,
Zack, do ! "

"Eh, that's fine!" cried he, "that's
grand! It's worth a' the brass to yer that,
by gum ! It's better nor th' music i' Beresford
Church ! Oi sings i' th' quire i' Beresford
Church, Miss," he vouchsafed, addressing
Muriel complacently.

Do you ? " said Muriel briefly.

Yoi," he answered  when further communication
was cut off by the ringing of the
prompter's bell and the rise of the green
curtain.

The play was The Jealous Wife. As the
curtain rose, "Mr. and Mrs. Oakley" entered
"wrangling, and came forward to the footlights
with a letter under excited discussion.
Barely had a sentence been uttered when the
countryman rose to his feet, gave a pluck
at his companion's sleeve and cried, " Coom
lass, it's time to goo, dunno thee see they're
talking business, it is na' mannerly to stop
an' hearken."

"Do sit still, Zack ; that's part of the play,"
whispered the young woman, pulling him
down to his seat. "Don't ye see all the other
folk sit still."

He looked round, scratched his shock
red head, and resumed his seat as bidden,
looking on and listening with open mouth ;
but preserving tolerable silence. At the end
of the first act he again rose to go, and was
again called to order. His pockets were
apparently filled with nuts, the remnants of
some winter store, for he amused himself
between the acts with cracking them betwixt
his teeth. All at once, as if inclined to be

extra civil and generous, lie offered a handful
of this nuts to Muriel, and when she quietly
declined, he became pressing.

Yea, do, Miss, fur they're so hard oi
donna crack 'em ! "

Again there was a pull at the man's sleeve.

IIusli, Zack, behave yourself'. Don't you
see you're annoying Miss." Then speaking
across him to Muriel, " Please, Miss, I hope as
you'll excuse Zack. lie's my cousin, but he's
never been to a play before."

The fellow stammered out something about
not meaning to offend ; Muriel, half inclined
to laugh, bent her head in assent to the
apologist, and after this " Zack " subsided,
much to the comfort of Muriel who had seen
a party enter the unoccupied " box," in Which
she recognized, besides Mrs. Wynne and her
son, the young lady and old gentleman whom
she had seen in the curricle on the Eoodee.

Mr. Holmes and Lucinda observed the
new arrivals also, as dio did not, for their
entrance disturbed "the house;" but the
trio in the pit remained unrecognized, even

when Mrs, "Wynne put her gold eyeglass upto
scan the opposite boxes, passing over the
pit with a glance too cursory to take in more
than its general aspect, as if its occupants
could be of no account to her, and were
beneath notice.

Their arrival certainly distracted Muriel's
attention no little. She found herself wondering
who the young lady sitting next to Arthur
Wynne could be. She was not long left in
doubt. Between the acts, Lucinda, who had
given them all a good stare, leaned across her
father and whispered :

I say, Muriel, that's Sir Madoc Wynne
and his daughter, and that other young fellow
at the back is Sir Jenkjn Jenkinson. He's
been abroad on the grand tour (she pronounced
it tower), and only came back last
year when his father, old Sir Jenkyn, died.
Matilda Parkes (the gossip of the work-room)
says he's over head and cars in love with
Miss Wynne, and follows lier like her shadow ;
though everyone knows she's as good as
promised to her cousin. It's a fie thing for

her to hive two strivings to her bow, and
never a l)eau at all for either you or me,
except my old father here."

"That's just what Asa wanted to know the
other day, whether Miss Lucinda had a beau.
I shall be able to answer him now," said Mr.
Holmes slyly.

'' I don't care if you do," replied Lucinda,
with a toss of the head ; and lust then the
curtain rose a'ain.

"So that is Sir Madoc of the Plan,"
thought Muriel, " he's a fine, hearty, old
gentleman, though he does take so much
snuff. And how his snuff-box sparkles, it
mio-lit be all diamonds. I like him better
than his daughter : there is something scornful
and imperious about her. I should not
think she would suit Mr. Arthur, though she
is so handsome; and that gold-llama dress does
set her off wonderfully, though it is far too
low in the neck, and the sleeves are much too
short, to my mind. That thin gauze scarf
is no coverings for her bare neck. I wonder
if those beads and bracelets are topazes or

amber? I should have thought Mrs. Wynne
would have told her to cover herself, but she
does not seem much better. Well, I know it's
the fashion ; but my mother would never expose
herself for fashion, I'm certain. I should
think Captain Wynne would not like it, or
Mr. Arthur either. How she looks up at
him, and what large black eyes she has !
What is lie whispering to him behind her
fan ? Dear me ! What business is it of
anie :

Still her eyes and fancies would stray to
the box on their left, in spite of her interest
in the performance, or her attempts to convince
herself that its occupants, their dress or
their coiners could be no affair of hers.

The curtain fell on the denouement of
the " Jealous Wife ; " and in a few minutes
rose on a forest scene and a comic singer.
But ere the singer could utter a note, up
started the countryman from his seat by
Muriel's side, pointed towards the scene, and
in a tone of unqualified amazement, heard
all over the house, exclaimed.

"Whoii! if tlieer ista' Gresforcl Wood!
How did they get Beresford Wood their?
Whoii, Miss," and he addressed himself to
Muriel once more, thus callings general attention
to her. " Whoii, Miss, oi goo through
yon wood every Sunday to church, oi do ! "

Sit down, will you, Zack, I tell you ! It's
only painted ; " and his better informed cousin
pulled him forcibly down,

"Painted! Is it? By gum! I thought it
wur the wood itself'' he exclaimed, still in
bewilderment.

Eare tribute that to the scene-painter.

It was anything but pleasant to Muriel,
whose innate delicacy shrank from general
observation ; to say nothing of the drop of
her father's family pride lurking in her blood.
Her gipsy-hat failed to conceal the crimson
flush of annoyance on her brow, when Lieutenant
Wynne, recognizing her presence,
bowed to her and to her friends from the
box.

It was meant as courtesy, but it only
served to make her more conspicuous and

uncomfortable. She saw a scornful gleam
in the questioning black e3es of Sir Madoc's
(laughter, and could almost imagine her
speech to Mrs. Wynne was, " Who are those
queer people in the pit ? "

Muriel heard little or nothing of the sono;
which seemed to delight Mr. Holmes so
mightily with its chorus of " Fol-de-rol, ,"
and Which he applauded to the echo.
All she could think was, how to get away
before the country fellow at her elbow again
made her a mark for all eyes, and claimed
association with her, in the sight of everybody.
Who everybody was she did not stop
to think.

No sooner was the song over than she
suggested, nay urged upon the good doctor
that Mrs. Copley would be angry if they
stayed for the farce. They " were never out
80 late without leave," she added ; and though
Lucius said ' Another ! " and was inclined
to brave Mrs. Copley's displeasure, her
father took Muriel's view of the subject ; and
rose to lead them forth.

VOL. n. F

There was a movement in the side-box.
As they readied the head of the stairs, they
were joined by the Lieutenant.

I am afraid that country bumpkin has
driven your fair charge away," said he,
addressing the doctor, adding: "If you will
conduct your daughter down this awkward
staircase, I will take care of Miss Danger,"
bowing gracefully and taking her hand ashe
spoke. A word or two he said about the
play  was sorry she lead been annoyed 
hoped she had been entertained, and that
they might shortly meet again -to all of
which she answered in a sort of bewildered
dream, and in little more than monosyllables
and then he shook hands and returned to
his party  to find his seat occupied by Sir
Jenkyn Jenkinson, Miss Wynne occupied
with Sir Jenkyn ; Sir Madoc taking a long-drawn
pinch of snuff, and Mrs. Wynne
fanning herself irritably.

MRS. VYXNE's mistake.

IJOULD that be the same Muriel who went

 back at night to the crowded attic,

as the one who had left it in the morning

with the weariness of Aveeks in her fait

and bearing? Her tranquil, patient eyes

had a new light. Her doubts had been

resolved. Arthur Wynne was neither

haughty nor ungrateful, Whatever his

patrician mother might be ; and she would

fain think Mr. Holmes and Lucinda both in

error respecting her, though her faith was

certainly shaken. The fresh air, the exercise,

the gay scene, the excellent repast provided

bv the good surgeon, had all tended to

refresh weary body and spirit ; but more

than all the pleasant surprises of the day,

the meeting with Mrs. Parry and Mr, Arthur

F 2

Wynne, had served to cheer and brighten
her.

It was not much the latter lead said, but
quite enough to show that she was
remembered gratefully, though as a child,
and that his surprise at finding lier a Avoman
was not an unpleasant one. Moreover, his
inquiries had embraced her grandmother,
and uncle, and the Kingsleyss. It was clear
he did not seek to ignore them all. And
nothing proved it so much as his open
recognition in the theatre when surrounded
by his own friends.

From the importance she attached to the
discovery, it would seem as if there had been
a doubt lingering in her mind and troubling
her. But in monotonous, uneventful lives,
small matters do assume undue importance.
Not that the retention or loss of a friend is a
small matter by any means. At all events,
she was blithe now the doubt was resolved.

Mr. Holmes called early in the morning.
He had an interview with Mrs. Copley,
durin(]f which the little mantua-maker took

lofty ground. She dwelt on the self-will and
discontent and indolence of the young women,
to whom she "considered she had been abnost
a mother, training them, as she said, for
future lives of industry and usefulness, by
judicious discipline. Nothing was to be done
without discipline in an establishment like
hers. She was bound to keep insubordination
down. And it was a difficult matter with
two girls like Matilda Parkes and Lucinda
Holmes under her roof ready at all times to
incite others to rebellion. The best she
could say for his daughter was that she had
selected a good companion. She had certainly
improved since Miss Danger came, but that
was not saying much, there was room for it ;
and if Miss Danger had taken to grumbling
she was of opinion that companionship with
Miss Holmes had not improved her'

This was not a pleasant hearing for a father
who had to take another's word for his
daughter's conduct, and who knew of old
that she had something of a spirit. It stirred
the easy man to say, "Miss Danger did net

grumble ; but a doctor can read faces and
appearances, and their faces spoke loudly
enough. They spoke of too much work, and
too little sleep, food, and fresh air. I should
prescribe all three, Madam. At all events,
Lucinda's insubordination will not trouble you
long, thank God I " And he walked away
quite in a fluster, leaving Mrs. Hoj)ley to
recover her composure at leisure. He was
however afraid he had not much mended
matters by his interference, and was glad to
get the two girls out of the house to share
a substantial breakfast with him at his inn,
before he started for Forthwith.

That he ought to be on the road betimes
he knew ; although Asa Booth, his young-assistant,
had come into his surgery when a
boy, as a pupil, and he could leave this ordinary
patients to his care, there were cases not
to be so left, and he was anxious to get back ;
but for some unexplained reason he lingered,
even after he had borne them company to the
rapidly filling Walls, and declared he could
not stay.

"lam sorry I must leave you both," he
said, as at length he was gong ; " not that
any harm is likely to come to you, if you go
home before the last race. When the vountr
bucks, Who have been drinking over their
losings and winnings, leave the Eoodee, your
safest place is the house, since you have no
protector. And, my dears, should Lieutenant
Wynne seek you out, and join your promenade
 though I have great respect for the
gentleman  endeavour to shorten your walk.
There is so wide a gap between the mantua-maker's
work-room and the Wynness' carriage,
that  that well  a girl who respects herself
will not care to be seen with the red-coats,
when there are no old folk on guard. Mind, I
have not a word to say against Lieutenant
Wynne  but it's best to be on the safe
side. So now, good-bye. Miss Danger,
good-bye, Lucinda ! Be good lasses ; and
take care of yourselves. I'll come or send
for you M'hen your time's up, Lu."

The surgeon had no doubt seen in Arthur
Wynne's face that his expressed desire to

meet MissD'Anyer again was something more
than mere compliment, and iiis word of advice
was kindly meant. Muriel had won his
approbation, as a child ; and he could not
forget that now she was the associate of this
daughter. That she was a good one he had
Mrs. Copley's grudging testimony, still the
little woman's remarks had made him uncomfortable.
And he shared the common belief
that red-coats and rakes were synonymous.
He rode home on a somewhat uneasy saddle
in consequence. He could but remember
that he had himself brought Lucinda into
contact with the officer ; aye, and her friend,
too ; for the lieutenant would not himself
have recognized Muriel, changed as she was.

Miss Holmes remembered it also.

Dear me, what a fuss father makes, to
be sure ! " she exclaimed as he went away.
If a mere red-coat makes a man more
dangerous than a black or a blue one, why
did he bring the lieutenant to us ? "

That puzzles me," responded Muriel, as
they strolled along in the direction of the

Dee, past the Nun's Garden, and the Castle,
meeting at every few yards familiar city
faces, lay and cleric. " Perhaps the lieutenant
asked him. You see, he knew me
long ago, before I went to Miss Briscoe's,
and I don't think he expected to find me
grown up, or has any idea that 1 am an
apprentice,"

She paused, and, as if on reflection,
added : 

Two of my cousins are military officers,
one in the artillery, and I come of o'ood
family ; but, for all that, I fancy your father
is quite right. And I know that, in any
case, young and unprotected girls like ourselves
cannot be too careful. Still "

She broke off; the doctor's caution had
set her thoughts Wandering in new tracks,
but the sun was in eclipse over all. Xot
until now had she confessed to herself that
she looked forward eagerly to the pleasure
of another meeting with Arthur Wynne. Not
until now had she seen that pleasure and
propriety were in antagonism.

'still ii'hnt?" her companion asked, after
a longer pause.

Muriel's straying thoughts were recalled.

Still  oh, I meant that \e might be
discreet without being discourteous, should
we chance to meet Lieutenant Wynne ; buta
 I don't think the likelihood very great."

Don't you ? " droned out Lucinda in a
tone of incredulity.

Just then their attention was drawn to
the animated scene on the racecourse below,
where the horses were being recalled after
a false start, and no more was said, on that
subject.

Presently Lucinda's sharp eyes descried
Mrs. Wynne's pony carriage; and she pointed
out  unnecessarily  that the same young
lady and elderly gentleman bore Mrs. Wynne
company, and that the gallant officer and Sir
Jenkyn where again in attendance on horseback.


Muriel drew back.

"Come away, Lucinda ; don't let tlieni see
us staring at them."

But the race was beinjT run, and Lucinda
was not inclined to budge ; and soon, whether
Muriel looked towards them or not, a cheese-cutter
hat was doffed in respectful salutation,
to which a touch on Muriel's elbow called
attention.

About half an hour later, when they had
changed their position, and Muriel, weary of
the shifting crowd, the cries, and the commotion,
was persuading her companion to quit
the scene and make the circuit of the city-walls
for a quiet change, a brisk, firm step
behind them stopped short, and in another
minute Arthur Wynne was shaking hands
with them. Not the slender youth with the
pale face Muriel had first seen in the forest,
but a fine, manly fellow nearly six feet high,
with a noble forehead from which the hair,
white with powder, was drawn back, thus
exposing the long-healed scar. His dark grey
eyes were set in well-moulded features, the
nose being large without undue prominence,
the lips at once tender and firm. " How
closely he resembles his handsome father ! "

was the swift thought of Muriel, as with a
smile he began :

It is quite a pleasure to meet you again.
I was afraid Mr. Holmes micht have
spirited you off with him to Eddisbury or
to Northwich this morning;. I was summoned
away yesterday so abruptly, before I had well
recovered my astonishment at the transformation
of Little Eed Eidincf Hood, and
my speech with 3T)u at the theatre was so
brief, that I had not presence of mind to ask
if your visit to Chester would be prolonged
through the race-weel."

This was not put as a question, yet Muriel
felt it to be one, and perceived that he
supposed her only a visitor ; and whether
she was moved by the caution of Mr.
Holmes, or by a touch of her father's pride,
she answered merely, " I am livings in Chester
at present, sir."

He was "delighted to hear it  thought it
was probable they might meet again before
he rejoined his regiment. He and Mrs.
Wynne were staying with relatives in the

neighbourhood of Wrexham, and were
frequently in the city. They were on their
way to visit the same relatives when they
had the good fortune to fall in with lied
Eiding Hood and her friends, during Captain
Wynne's sick leave," he said.

Yet he did not seem to be the bearer of any
message from his mother, and did not osier to
take Muriel to speak to the lady, although
the carriage was in sight and easily accessible ;
nor did Mrs. Wynne bow, or even seem to
recognize her, as she must surely have done
lead she known with whom her son had
been conversing the previous afternoon, or
had joined in the theatre,  or at least so
the simple-minded young person thought.

The fact was, there had been something
narrowly approaching an altercation between
the lady and her son overnight respecting
that very young person. He had so openly
expressed his gratification at a meeting
which gave an opportunity of explaining
apparent disrespect, and his surprise at the
change years had effected in Miss Danger,

that Mrs. Wynne's most active instincts were
aroused, and she once more declared, 

The slight obligation we were under to
those people years ago does not justify a
rencMal of the casual acquaintance. They
had no doubt forgotten us, and there is no
reason we should refresh their memories."

My father did not regard the obligation
as slight ; and I know he would be proud to
show respect to Miss Danger were he here."

Oh, I do not question his Quixotism fora
moment, but I cannot sanction anderson
of that class ; and I think, Arthur, that
you might see its inconvenience, especially
now we are staying at the Plan, and the
furrier's grandchild has grown to womanhood.
How you could bow to her and the
country apothecary she was with, and quit
our box to join such people is positively
astounding. It was exceedingly imprudent.
I saw Pauline did not like it."

Hancf Pauline ! " or something even
stronger had almost escaped him. A quick
compression of teeth and lips alone kept the

ejaculation inaudible. He was sufficiently
emphatic when he added deliberately"!
am not in leading-strings to my cousin yet,
and am not inclined to shape my course by
Pauline's fancies. She does not appear to be
shaping her course by mine. To my mind,
choice lies between right and wrong, civility
and incivility, gratitude and ingratitude.
The age or class of Miss Danger has
nothing to do with it. Were she a barefooted
beirirar-o-irl her claim on my
courtesy would be the same."

This conversation took place in Mrs.
Wynne's private apartment at the Plan, a
fine castellated stone mansion, the picturesque
mountain seat of Sir Madoc Wynne, where a
large party of guests lead been drawn together
by the Chester races, the ten or
twelve intervening miles of rough road being
of small account to the hard riders of those
days or to the native ponies harnessed to
Sir Madoc's carriage, itself built to suit
the roads, which certainly rendered running
footmen with torches a necessity after

nightfall, and not superfluities of ostentation
; indeed Sir Madoc was too hearty and
genial for the latter.

Making much of her exhaustion and fatigue
after the excitement of the play,
and the perilous drive home through the
midnight air, Mrs. Wynne had expressed
her intention to retire immediately, and required
the assistance of her son, to enable
her to surmount the stairs to her rooms.
And to this no one seemed to object,
not even Pauline.

Mrs. Wynne herself, with all lier languor
and delicacy, had a little match-making
on hand, it being her especial desire to secure
Sir Madoc's daughter and heiress for her
son. Sir Madoc and Captain Wynne were
next of kin ; the wide estates of the baronet
held stone for the quarrying above the
surface, coal for the hewing beneath it ; but
little besides the Plan itself would descend
with the title. Pauline Wynne, the sole
survivor of a large family of brothers and
sisters, was three or four months older than

Arthur; but his mother had planned their
union when the last brother died off ; and
neither the baronet nor his daughter seemed
averse, though hitherto only a tacit understanding
existed between the two most concerned.


That he should leave the side of Pauline
and be seen shaking hands demonstratively
with a strangle girl upon the Walls, and
assail in the theatre, was in Mrs. Wynne's
opinion a fatal mistake, only to be exceeded
by the evident satisfaction with which he
reported his first meeting with Miss Danger.
She kept her countenance at the time and
during the ride home, reserving her opinion
and counsel for a private interview. The
result had left her more than ever confounded.


Imagine her chagrin when her son once
more dismounted, and, With a bare word
of apology, quitted the carriage side and
his friends, to seek out the furrier's grandchild,
and a country surgeon's daughter,
in the very teeth of her prohibition. Arthur

VOL. n. G

must surely be insane, lie thought, or under
some strange infatuation.

I say, I say, there must be a powerful
magnet on the Walls to attract your cousin
assail," observed S'lv Madoc to his daughter
with a dip into his snuff-box.

Yes, gratitude'" said Pauline, with a
faint note of irony in her tone, and straightway
turned her smiling attention to Sir
Jcnkyn, who lingered near, proud to catch
the slightest token of her favour.

Ah, just as I feared ! " argued the
mother within herself. " He will lose the
substance whilst trifling with the shadow.
o doubt that cirl Avill do her best to
entangle him. Those low people are so
artful." But she openly defended her son
by a languid assent to that which Miss
Pauline had put forth so doubtfully. " Yes,
Pauline, Arthur feels constrained to be civil
to the o'irl. It is so hateful to be under
obligations to inferiors."

Yet could Mrs. Wynne have left her
visible body in the carriage to watch the

races, and in invisible spirit have followed
the lieutenant as he walked beside the two
young girls who seemed to have no other
protector, she might have convinced herself
that Muriel was spreading no lures for her
son, unless reserve and a sort of timid
constraint miiiht enchain him.

The caution of Mr, Holmes rang in her
cars, and gave her an uneasy feeling that it
was her duty to dismiss the young officer.
Yet he was so respectful, and so agreeable
withal both to Miss Holmes and herself, that
she knew not how to do it. And she was
curious enough to seek information, which
time had not brought voluntarily.

Yes," she was told in answer to her
inquiries, " Captain W5aine's arm was stout
and strong again. Miss Briscoe did not
write to the Colonel. The recovery of the
servant Norris had loner been doubtful. He
would be a cripple to the end of his days.
He remained in their service, in attendance
on Mrs. Wynne. No, the ruffians had not
been punished. Two men named Blackburn

G 2

had been apprehended on suspicion ; lout
Norris had been stunned by the first blow,
and couhl not positively swear to them.
Some people had come forward to swear an
alibi, and the men were dismissed ; as no
doubt Miss Danger had heard. A reward
had been offered for the capture of the
miscreants, but no other persons had been
apprehended, and he supposed the real
delinquents never would be known."

And all this while the polite lieutenant
marvelled that Mr. Holmes should leave his
daughter and her young friend to wander
there unattended. It was only in reply' to
a direct query that he was told the doctor
had gone back to Northwich ; and then he
lingered, loth, as he said, to leave them
unprotected. This, however, was not said
until Muriel had suggested that Mrs. W3nine
micht feel neglected if he remained long-er
away from her. And it was not until
Muriel had assured him more than once
that they " were perfectly safe  no one
would molest them whilst so n:iany of the

citizens remained on the Walls with
their wives and daughters," that he seemed
at all inclined to take the hint and depart.


Very courteous was his leave-taking, as
had been his manner throughout, and Miss
Holmes was in ecstasies when he was gone,
frequently breaking out in wonderment
whether the morrow would bring the handsome
young officer to beau them about again.

To her dismay, the morrow brought only
a persistent downpour of rain, which spoiled
the races and kept the feminine portion of
the community within doors.

Lucinda Holmes and the other girls
grumbled audibly. Muriel said it was
quite as Avell ; the country needed the
rain, and it would give her an opportunity
to write home, which she did; her meeting
wntli Lieutenant Wynne, and his politeness,
figuring largely in her budget of news
and inquiries.

He had gone back to his friends with
more reluctance than he had cared to admit.

He had found Muriel the woman as
charmingly unsophisticated as Muriel the
child, but hedged in by a degree of reserve
the child had not. displayed. And it
occurred to him that this reserve had
increased since the departure of the doctor.
No hint of her address had been vouchsafed,
although sought in all but direct
question ; and he must trust to chance
for meeting with lier again. The desirability
of such other meeting did not come under
consideration.

The brow of Mrs. Wynne was clouded
with displeasure on his return ; there was
a light of jealous fire in the sloe black eyes
of his cousin Pauline, and ]us uncle, between
his pinches of snuff, rallied him on his
devotion to the petticoats," his " enlistment
in the corps of Cupid," with more
of annoyance than of mirth in his tones.
Arthur, whom he looked upon as his future
son-in-law, was in especial favour with the
good gentleman, but this open neglect of
Pauline was, to say the least, disrespectful,

and irritating. It was not what he expected
from his nephew.

He found that no one but himself regarded
his prolonged promenade with the two
young ladies in white muslin as " a mere
act of courtesy."

Yet, really it was nothing more ; and had
not Mrs. Wynne again taken the young man
to task for his imprudent desertion of his
wealthy cousin, " parading to and fro with
strange young women, in the very face ol
Pauline, and driving her to retaliate in a
flirtation with that odious Sir Jenkyn," it
might never have been anything more. The
feather might have blown away, but she
weighted it with lead, and it went down
into her son's heart like a plummet.

He went to bed contrasting modest brown
eyes with haughty black ones, and waked
from a nightmare in which a black-eyed
wolf was about to pounce on a brown-eyed
Eed Eiding Hood.

ON THE WAY TO THE POST.

iJprLIRTATIOX is never a safe game for
fils man or woman. Not only can two
play at it, but its results are uncertain.
Very sure of a man had a woman need be
who resorts to it, whether in ]pique or
retaliation. Ie means taken to draw aie
as likely to repel, and what is won is
rarely worth the Winning.

Arthur Wynne had a sort of cousinly
affection for Miss Pauline of the Plan, and
might have drifted lightly enough into the
harbour of matrimony with hei. Indeed,
he had be<2:un to regard it as a net remote
possibility, when she made the mistake of
playing off soft-headed and soft-hearted
Sir Jenkyn Jenkinson against him. At first
she was in the hope of bringing her

military cousin more speedily to the point,
and, not succeeding in this, she continued
it in pique ; and perchance carried her
limitation a little farther than she had
originally intended, since the hopes of her
devoted slave rose to flood-tide, and only
a sudden chill stopped short an ardent
avowal of a very sincere passion.

Not that Pauline had thought seriously of
encouraging Sir Jenkyn, her latest display
Mas by way of jealous retaliation, and was of
all tliinofs most unwise with a man of Arthur's
temperament, if she wished to secure him.
She knew that her aunt desired the family
alliance, and that her father regarded it
complacently, but she could not say that
her cousin had made any special demonstration
of rciard during his occasional
sojourns at the Plan. He had seemed
rather to accept a position than to assume
it. The assumption was of the three and
not of the one.

Attentive and courteous he had been, as a
gentleman and a relative ; he had joined her

in duets, and listened with delight when she
took her Welsh harp in hand, and sang and
played the strains of their native bards.
He had turned over her music at a newer
instrument, at which she was not so
proficient,  the grand piano being but a
recent acquisition,  and he lead been a
complimentary critic. He had held lier
skeins of silk for winding, her basket
when she gathered flowers ; had baited
her hooks when they had a fishing party
on the lake, and all with right good will ;
but in this he was not exclusive. To
be a partner for life was another afhiir.
He had not yet given his heart wholly
into her keeping, and whatever chance
there Alas of its surrender vanished with
her latest freak of flirtation with Sir
Jenkyn.

There was always a dance at the Plan on
the Each Friday, and wiio was so distinguished
now as Sir Jenkyn, who of so small
account as the lieutenant ? It was Sir
Jenkyn with whom she danced a minuet ;

it was Sir Jenkyn who re-adjusted lier floating
scarf, who led her to her harp, and selected
her songs, and who was privileged to whisper
his enraptured thanks into her listening ear,
and to receive her smiling acknowledgements
; Sir Jenkyn who basked in the smiles
of the proud beauty until he was half beside
himself.

Pon honour, I think my mother was
right. Pauline is 11 ir ting desperately. The
battery of her black eyes has shot that soft
Sir Jenkyn's flowery waistcoat through and
through. The poor fellow seems desperately
in earnest too. Well, PU not baulk his
chance. If Pauline is playing with him to
punish me, she has no heart, and mine
is safest in my own keeping. So success to
your wooing, Sir Jenkyn ! "

Some such meditation sent Arthur Wj-nne
riding through the rain to Chester on the
Saturday afternoon, to keep, as he said, an
appointment with an old friend in the
garrison, of wliicli nothing had been heard
when the guests with sporting proclivities

livid set off to the races in the early morning,
promising a list of the winning horses for
the home sweepstake on their return.

Mrs. Wynne frowned, Sir Madoc looked
loftily displeased, Miss Wynne charmingly
reproachful, but he went, with not even his
man behind him to grumble at the rain.
There was to be a junket in the servants'
hall that night, for which the man was
good-humouredly set at liberty. Perchance
the master desired liberty as well as the
man.

A new element had unawares entered into
his being of which his mother's reproaches
had first made him dimly aware. He rode
forth with his head bent to the slant rain
with a restless longinus for something
shaped even to his own thought, free
to ponder and debate within himself, unobserved,
a problem she had left for him to
solve.

A soldier, the son of a soldier, early in
commission, having a handsome person and
easy manner, society had opened its arms to

him, and mothers, regarding his lieutenancy
as a step towards a captaincy, had all but
fkinGf their daughters at his feet. How was
it that despite all the charmers of all the
garrison towns he had known, notwithstanding;
the fascinations of his cousin
Pauline and her fortune to boot. Ins heart
was sound ?

This was the problem he set Himself to
solve in that cheerless twelve-mile ride.
The rain had almost ceased by the time he
reached Dee Bride's (which then long; and
narrow span of seven arches was the only
communication between Cliester and North
Wales), and when he paid his toll at the
Bridge-gate, after making his way through
a throng of mud-bespattered ponies and
frieze-coated Welshmen, some with pretty
Welshwomen mounted on pillions behind, he
had answered his own question by others.

Could it be that he had set up a mere
child he had lived Avitli a single week as his
ideal? Had he unconsciously brought
elegant women of fashion, wit, grace,

refinement into comparison with that
simple maiden who lead not even beauty to
commend lier? Nothing but a pair of soft
brown eyes and a voice like a seraph's song.

Nothing more? Yes, a slower of silken
curls, an agile form, a pair of tripping feet
matched with round white arms, teeth like
two rows of pearls  but expression was the
charm. There was no gainsaying it. He
had certainly shrine little Eed Riding Hood
in his memory, a memory of unselfish devotion
to utter strangers ; of unstudied gifts
and graces fresh from the mint of God. He
lead looked in lovely faces since, but they
bore the stamp of the Avorld, and had not
satisfied his soul.

He had rarely stood before a glass to
brush his hair, or sat there to have it dressed
and powdered by his man, but he, seeing the
scar, had remembered the pitying face that
bent over him, the gentle fingers that picked
out the broken glass and bound up his
wounded brow so tenderly. And now that
the child was o-one, and he a man, he had

touched that gentle hand anfain, lead looked
ori those soft brown eyes, on a face no longer
disfigured, and it mattered not to him whether
Pauline Wynne flirted with Sir Jenkjai or
John Jones.

Mrs. Wynne had lent him a key to his
own heart ; he had unlocked it and looked in.

He must have forgotten his appointment,
for he passed the end of Castle Street without
turning; his head, rode on utd Brido-e
Street, to the Plume of Feathers' Inn, and
gave his horse in charge to an ostler without
asking for any friend in waiting. Then walking
on to the i unction of Chester's four main
thoroughfares  where Cromwell found a fie
cross of stone, and left behind only its name
he turned sharply to his right up East-gate
Street, leaving the muddy roadway
for the uneven pebbly pavement, and having
passed under the sweeping arch of the East-gate,
turned up a narrow alley on the
immediate left of Foregate Street into Post
Office Yard, the location also of the Excise.
There he dropped into the postal box a

couple of letters, one bearing the address of
Captain Wynne, the depot at Chatham (the
main regiment was on service in St. Domingo),
and received from the postmaster m answer
to his enquiry a franked missive with a great
red seal, and two newspapers, the Times and
the Morning Post.

He left the cramped-up Post Office for the
open street, thrust the small newspapers into
his breeches' pocket, glanced over his brief
communication, and stood for a moment hesitating
whether he could, as a gentleman, ask
the Misses Briscoe for the address of Miss
Danger, seeing; that she herself had not
vouchsafed it. Had he gone he would have
found disappointment in the shape of a
sprawling " To Let " on a desolate house.

Turning to retrace his steps through the
unwonted bustle of Foregate Street, along
which crowds were hurrying singly and in
groups, on foot, on horseback, in vehicles,
in all stages of drink and excitement, pouring
out of the city at the close of the last
day's race, he saw a young woman in a

cloak and patterns waiting with a letter in
her hand as if for a favourable opportunity
to cross the road to the Post Office ; the hood
of her cloak well drawn over her bonnet as a
protection from the rain, which was not quite
over. Courtesy prompted him to hasten to
assist her, but ere he could do so, or recognize
her features, two drunken boors jostled her
from the narrow footpath into the roadway.
The insecurity of patten-rings on pebble-pavement
caused her to lose her footing,
and she fell in the very front of a
horse and vehicle advancing at a reckless
dace.

Another second, and the animal's hoofs
would have been down upon the prostrate
girl : but there was Arthur Wynne's strong-hand
at the horse's head to force and keep
]him back. It was at this own imminent
peril, for the horse, suddenly checked m a
mad race with another, started and plunged,
and swerved aside. People shouted ; the
driver vociferated angrily, yet pulled the
reins ; a passer-by helped the cloaked figure

VOL. II. H

to her feet ; she was again on the path and
out of danger.

The horse was released and on its way,
and then the brave young officer pressed forward
to assist the young person, who seemed
scarcely able to stand.

A startled exclamation burst from his
lips. "Miss Danger! You! Thank God
I was at hand ! I trust you are uninjured."
Yes, it was Muriel,  she who had been
in his thoughts all that day, of whom he
had dreamed in the night, whose whereabouts
he had been so desirous to learn,
leaning for support against a wall, faint and
pale with pain and fright, her bonnet crushed,
hands and cloak muddy, one patten on, the
other, with her letter, in the roadway,
crushed, as lie might have been, under
hoofs and wheels.

She heard the voice, and recognized it
with a sort of hazy thankfulness, a temporary
surrender to the sick and dizzy feeling
which made speech impossible. She had a
dim sense of a supporting arm, of the same

voice saying, " Brandy, someone, quick !
she is fainting ! " of a ejlass which some food
soul had already brought being offered to
her quivering lips, and then a brief oblivion.

The Ho2)-Pole Inn was close at band ;
but her supporter hesitated to carry lier
thither, seeing how its doors and windows
were occupied with fellows fresh from the
race-course in all stages of excess and
inebriation, filling the air with tobacco fumes
and blasphemy. He could not take Miss
Danger thither. Better the unpolluted
atmosphere of the open street, and the
compassionate crowd collected by the
accident. Her light weight was nothing to
him  the nameless thrill which ran through
every fibre of his being as he upheld her of
course did not count.

He had been wise, for the cool air playing

on her cheek revived her. He was glad to

see the closed eyelids open and recollection

return, though with it a faint carmine flushed

the sensitive cheek, and the head from

which the crushed bonnet had been with

2

drawn by a Avoman, was raised from this
breast.

As she slowly recovered from her brief
swoon, under the influence of fresh air and
brandy administered with a teaspoon,
recollection came of a rude thrust, a twisted
patten and ankle, a fall, a glimpse of a
monstrous horse, a dread of a crashing hoof,
a confusion of cries and sounds, the rush of
someone to the rescue, of a hand dragging
her up, of her own swift thankfulness.

It was like waking from a dream ; yet
there was her deliverer, and her ankle
pained her when she strove to stand alone.
Still she made the effort bravely, alarmed at
finding the daylight going, people around hera
woman tying on her bonnet, herself in
Arthur Wynne's clasp; though her gratitude
was too great for expression, and she felt
that his presence there was nothing less
than providential.

There was a conflict of feeling in her
breast, as she strove to support herself, desire
to get back to Watergate Street being uppermost

for the time. Then she remembered
her letter, only to be told that it was beaten
and trodden into the earth, at which a shade
passed over her face. She might not have
such another opportunity in a hurry.

Arthur Wynne misunderstood her look.
I hope sour letter was not important,
though I fear it must have been, or you
would never have ventured out alo?ie on such
an afternoon as this. The streets are
positively unsafe for ladies."

It was a letter to my mother, sir, and she
would think it of very small account against
the life you have saved. I know you have
earned her gratitude as well as mine."

She interrupted a low-voiced speech on her
prior claim to his gratitude, with the hurried
observation, " You are xerj kind ; but I am
better, thank you, and I must go home."

But going home alone was an impossibility,
though she left behind her remaining patten,
and made the attempt bravely.

Do, Miss Danger, lean on me and allow
me to support you to your home. But you

really are unfit to walk at all. Pray, permit
me to send someone for a chair."

Oh, no, thank you, sir. You are very
obliging, but oh, dear no ; I could not go
home in a sedan. I must indeed do my
best to walk." She had a vision of Mrs.
Copley's consternation at the arrival of one
of her apprentices in a sedan-chair, and she
under-rated the effort to walk.

Then you must certainly accept the
support of my arm. I should be a brute to
suffer you to proceed alone," he added,
drawing her hand to a firm rest as he
spoke.

However reluctantly, she was compelled by
pain to accept Lieutenant Wynne's proffer ;
and whether he was more pleased or sorry at
her refusal to go home in a sedan is scarcely
to be told : or Whether she was more thankful
for his support, or ashamed to take his arm
in her deplorable plight, is just as doubtful.

It was not that her scarlet cloth cloak was
muddy, or that her bonnet had suffered too,
though he would scarcely have cared to

meet acquaintance by the way,  made him
sLiiXjTest the chair. It was that he saw the
pain each step occasioned. And seeing it, he
wondered at her refusal. But the resolution
with which she made light of pain won his
admiration. And he concluded she had an
all-sufficient motive for rejecting his proposition,
with so much agony as an alternative,
and in all his intercourse with his cousin,
Pauline Wynne, he had never felt the touch
of her jewelled fingers as he felt whilst
Muriel's listened hand rested on his armor
gave an involuntary grip when an outside
pebble in the uneven pavement caused a
sharper twinge than before. Gladly woidd
lie have suffered in her stead, and he told her
so, and bade her lean upon him more
securely.

"You cannot think what a pleasure it is
to serve you, however slightly. Or how
proud I should be to escort you, were it not
that I feel jou are suffering at every step."

They had turned the corner of St. Peter's
Church at The Cross, and were almost at

the top of Watergate Street, when lie said
this, looking down into her face and stopping
to give her a moment's rest. Just
then a party of exhilarated horsemen from
the Eoodee came dashing up Watergate
Street and swept round the corner of Bridge
Street on their way to the Plan.

Halloo, Wynne ! What pretty gipsy
have you picked up ? " cried one, without
slackening speed.

Bravo, lieutenant ! " called out another
amid waving hats and a chorus of hurrahs ;
and the o-allant vouni? officer knew that
they were carrying to the Plan more news
than the promised " List of the Winners."

Muriel shrank within herself as these
elated gentry shouted and hooray, and
felt as if she in her disreputable appearance
had somehow compromised her brave and
generous protector in the sight of his
friends. She wished then she had thoughtless
of Mrs. Copley's indignation, and more
of consequences to her courteous companion.
Then the caution of Dr. Holmes came

back to lier with crushing; force. She,
sent away from home for reasons to her
inscrutable, overtasked and overworked, uncared
. for by the mistress to whom she
was bound, associating: with girls of a lower
grade, had felt as if a breath from Paradise
had wafted across her since Arthur Jiad
shaken hands with her again. He was so
kind, so gentlemanlike, so respectful ; and
now did she not owe her life to his bravery?
Yet she saw clearly, that for his sake not less
than her own, she must cut off' the right
hand of a friendship at once so pleasant and
so unsuitable.

There was but a simple name-plate on
Mrs. Ilopley's door ; nothing to indicate
the calling of those within ; but before they,
making slow progress under shelter of the
Eow, had reached it, her resolve was taken,
and there, leaning against the door-post, she
thanked him airain for the service he had
rendered, but apologized for her inability to
invite him within, on the ground that she
was but an apprentice to the mantua-maker

whose name was on the door ; though it
cost lier no small effort to make the admission.

If she had expected a recoil, she was undeceived.
Whatever might be his surprise 
and he was surprised  he did not show it.

You will, at least, permit me to inquire
after you. Miss Danger, before my leave
expires? The injury 3'ou have sustained
Avill keep me most uneasy until assured of
your recovery."

The moisture in her eyes was unseen in
the deepening twilight ; but he could feel
the hand tremble he held so hrmly in his
clasp, as she cut down the bridge of hope
with the words :

I feel your kindness, sir, and shall not
foro-et it. But I have no friends in Chester.
I am utterly alone and unprotected here,
and you really must not call. And now let
me thank you once more, and say ' good-bye,'
as we said it years ago in Delamere."

I respect your scruples," he replied,
and will not intrude. But I Avill say
'good night,' and not 'good-bye,' and trust

ill Providence to meet with you again," and
"with as graceful courtesy as if lie had been
a duchess, he raised her hand to this hips,
and with a bow departed.

With his departure night seemed to have
set in for MurieL She opened the door,
groped ]her way up the dark staircase,
leaving on every step, and hoping to find
a liirht in the work-room : but it was
deserted. There Alas a noise and a scuffle
in the nursery, as if the children Avere going
to bed. She opened the door softly. She
was a favourite there. The children, big and
little, dressed and undressed, came crowding
around her, with wondering questions and
alarm, to which her pale face, her crushed
bonnet, muddy cloak, and halting gait gave
rise.

Lie explained that lie had been knocked
down, nearly run over, had sprained her
ankle, and wanted a light ; but she did not
think it essential to name the gentleman
Alio had preserved her, or to say that he
had brought her to the door.

She said she was faint and weary, and
would go to bed ; and the servant-lass, seeing
how ill she appeared, offered to bathe the
injured ankle ; but no one suspected that
her heart was aching worse than the foot,
though she lay in bed all the morrow, her
only companion and comforter being her
mother's priceless gift, the little silver-clasped
Bible.

And surely she had need of her guide and
comforter. If she bore her daily burden
passively, it was not because she did not
know its weight, but that she never added toit
with useless murmuring

of the other girls q-ave vent to their
irritation, or indignation, or splenetic feeling
in divers ways. Snappish words, snapped
threads, a slip of scissors or needle in spiteful
inadvertence, the upset of a pin-tray, the
snuffing out of candles, the wilful mislaying of
card, or stiletto, or patterns, or the mysterious
misplacing of the bees-wax on Mrs. Copley's
chair to the detriment of her black 2:own.
And to them every holiday was a carnival.

She, differing in birth, in temperament, and in
training, had no such outlets for lier
emotions. Her nature and her conscience
restrained her. She could simply endure in
silence, and the streno-th to do it she found
under the black cover of the old book. The
others had ceased to jeer at her as a
Method " and " a milksop," since she never
obtruded her opinions unsought, and Lucinda
Holmes had in fact become her champion ;
but that was needless, Muriel was not weak,
she was only non-combative.

They had all gone to church in the morning
in their Sunday best, for the rain had
ceased the previous evening and the sun
shone gloriously, even lighting up the bare
attic where Muriel lay. True, Mrs. Copley's
youngest, a child some five or six sears old,
who had a grateful remembrance of one who,
when she bumped her head in falling downstairs,


Ran to cateli her as she fell,
And kissed the place to make it welland

who had helped to nurse her through

one or two childish ailments, with so much
patience and loving sympathy, and who told
such pretty tales when she was getting
better ; this little one came to her bedside
and prettily enough offered to " come and
stay with you, instead of going to church, if
mother will let me. Miss Danger. I'll tell
her how bad your foot is." But the little
one never came back upstairs, so Muriel
knew Mrs. Copley had been less gracious
than the little one, or had had a different
sense of duty.

Lucinda Holmes brought up Muriel's
dinner to the attic and reported, "There was
as much bother over my bringing up this
bit of cold meat to 5ou, as if it was a crime
for you to lie in bed for a day, ill or well.
Thank goodness ! I shall be soon out of the
skinny old beldame's reach ! I wish you
were."

"And so do I, Lucinda, but what can't be
cured must be endured, and ' grumbling never
lightened a pillow,' so my mother used to
say. It it not very pleasant to lie here in

pain, alone, but I have so much reason to be
thankful that I was not killed outright, that
I may well be content that bad is not worse''

"Well, Muriel, as you seem so content,
perhaps you won't mind if you are left
by yourself this afternoon. I had promised
to go to Shotwick for a walk, jou know Mrs.
Copley's old apprentice Pliable Home is
married and lives there, but if you think you
would feel lonely, I don't mind remaining
with you." Lucinda had her pretty gipsy-hat
half on as she spoke, and her eyes turned
from the shabby looking-glass to the outer
sunshine, and Muriel had not the heart to
keep her back.

Nay, nay, that would never do. It is
quite bad enough for one of us to be shut up
here. There is no reason why you should
be punished for my disaster. Go and enjoy'
the sunshine whilst you can ; there is a hard
week's Avork before us. Thank you for the
offer all the same."

"It was very kind of Lucinda," she
murmured to herself when the other was

ozone, "but I saw she was long-inn; to ho
off, and no wonder. It would have been
thoughtless to expect her to stay moping
m this dull room. And perhaps little
Missy will come during the afternoon."

But neither little Missy nor anyone else
came near her, not even to bring her tea.

If she wants tea she must come down
for it," Mrs. Ilopley had said, and so Muriel
went without. The sunshine had gone with
the hours, dusk crept on, the stars came
out, she was alone with her pain, and
her inner questionings of right and wrong.
She had lain there that day more troubled
about her lost letter, and her lost friend,
than about her swollen ankle, or her own
isolation.

It was a long letter, filling the square
sheet in every inner fold. She had given
the whole morning to its production ; it
contained many messages to Silly Hargreaves
as well as others, and she knew
her mother would expect it. She could not
count on such another opportunity to write

home ; she feared her mother would be
anxious. And she could not hope again
to meet Lieutenant Wynne as a friend ; she
had herself closed the door against him.
She was convinced she had done rio;lit,
but the conviction somehow did not bring
the consolation with it she misfht have
expected ; her friends at hand were .w
few.

At times she would check her murmurs
with a gleam of thankfulness for her escape,
and that again brought back the chivalry of
Arthur Wynne ; and she found herself comparing
him with the King Arthur, Sir John
Mallory had drawn. And so the day had
gone by with its alternations of light and
shade, until the book she had dipped into
from time to time had refreshed and tranquilized
her spirit, as the bed had rested her
limb. Lucinda brought home a sprig of
hawthorn and a bunch of daffodils, and they
brought sweetness and beauty with them 
and a sort of promise.

VOL. n. I

IN Contrast.

iPOETING squires in the last century
"" were not desirable society in the
withdrawing-room, either at the close of
a day's hunt, or a race-meeting ; and those
guests of Sir Madoc who had braved the rain
for the sake of the last day's race, liavinf
one or two considerable winners amongst
their number, and no heavy losers, rode back
to the Plan in most hilarious mood, to which
a stoppage at Wrexham to " bait " no doubt
contributed.

They rode into the courtyard of the Plan,
ripe for fun or mischief; and the return of
Lieutenant Wynne, about an hour later, was
the signal for uproarious merriment. He
was plied with questions about the " maiden
all forlorn ; " " Dorothy Draggletail " was

sung out ill full chorus, and " The pretty
gipsy maid " was toasted at table and jested
about afterwards, in such wise that had
Lieutenant Wynne been of his sire's temperament
he would have had more than one
duel on his hands before morning. But
something his mother's languor had
tempered his father's fiery spirit in him.
And he had never forgotten the innocent
horror of a certain little girl when told that
this father's arm was wounded in a duel.

That a stain darker than the brand of Cain
should rest upon the duellist was a daring
assumption, one not in accord with the
military code of honour, but he was then
at an impressionable age and the novel
theory of the unsophisticated child had
certainly impressed him. Possibly as enforcing
the creed of his old tutor, a man of
rare worth and excellence who was given to
think for himself.

At all events Muriel's remark had served

to restrain him many a time before ; it

served him in iood stead then. He left

I 2

the convivial and noisy party, with Sir Macloc
at their head, to their mirth and their wine,
simply saying that lie had a letter of importance
to answer ; and thono-h someone darted
after him to draw him back, he did not return.
In the morning when all were sober, he beircjed
that he might hear no more unseemly jests on
the subject, at the same time narrating just
so much of the accident he had witnessed and
of his interposition to prevent a fatality as
explained his companionship with the young-lady,
whose name he did not suffer to transpire.
He lost none of his own dignity, and
he did make some of the rude jesters a little
ashamed.

Something of his " absurd civility to a
bedrasfo-led damsel " reached the ears of Mrs.
Wynne and of Pauline, but the important
missive of which he Alas the bearer, filled
the mind of the former to the exclusion of
all minor matters.

Captain Wynne had obtained his Majority !
It was a quietly made announcement, accompanied
with regret for the death which

lead led to his own promotion, and also that
his son had not obtained his step at the same
time. But of these regrets Mrs. Wynne said
nothinfif when communicating' the main fact
to Sir Madoc and Miss Wynne over the 
that Sunday morning. She looked
as if a new honour had fallen on herself, yet
at the same time affected an air of easy
indifference which imposed on no one.

Her son made no secret of his satisfaction,
and Sir Madoc grew important. The newspapers
containing the official gazette were duly
circulated, and Major Wynne was the topic of
the hour. Xot until the ladies had retired to
dress for church had Sir Madoc an opportunity
to say in private to his nephew,

I say, Arthur, how is it you have not
stepped into your father's old shoes ? "

Perhaps, sir, they were considered too
large for me to fill," the young man answered
with a pleasant smile. " but jesting apart,
I could scarcely expect to take precedence
of our senior lieutenant ; and there would
have been stood reason for jealousy had

father and son both been promoted the
same day ; although I believe m} father
expected it ; some promise of the kind
was made to him last year."

Then, I say, I hope you are not disappointed,
look yon ? " And out came Sir
Madoc's snuff-box, to be offered mechanically
to Arthur, and declined with a bow.

Disappointed ! Certainly not. I am
young enough to wait. It would have been
an act of injustice to a gallant officer  one
with a wife and three fine children  had I
stepped over his head. I could scarcely
have worn my honours comfortably in such
a case. But here come the ladies."

Horses and carriages were at the door,
the gentlemen loitering the treat entrance-hall
hung with the spears and shields and
bows of bygone Welshmen, when Mrs.
Wynne (who had been unusually fastidious
over her toilet) descended the stairs followed
by one or two others, and the proud form
of Pauline, as fashionably faultless in her
attire as her elaborately arrayed aunt.

Sir Ma doc pressed forward gallantly, and
led forth this airy and juvenile sister-in-law
by the tips of her white and jewelled
fingers, which mittens left revealed ; expecting
Arthur to follow witli Pauline.

He approached her for the purpose, saying,
" I am at your service, Pauline ; " but
ignoring his graceful bow and extended
hand, she passed him with a haughty
inclination of the head ; smiled graciously,
said, " Sir Jenkyn, may I trouble you ? "
and placing the tips of her gloved fingers
in the ready palm of lier new esquire,
left her cousin standing, to bite his lip and
transfer his courtesy to a Miss Trevanion,
whom he escorted to her seat beside his
cousin with recovered composure.

He might be disconcerted, but only for
the moment, and he was not particularly
jealous. A week earlier he might have felt
and acted differently under such a slight.
That day he took the matter very coolly ;
and the amused smile on his countenance ashe
left the side of the carriage with a bow.

caused Miss Wynne to bite her lip, at once
perplexed and displeased.

He and Sir Jenkjai, and one or two other
men were mounted, but he did not hurry
his steed, and he saw the infatuated young
baronet ride on ahead to be ready at the
church to assist Miss Wynne to alight without
any of the jealous fluttering the young
lady might desire to provoke.

There were always servants in attendance,
or ostler from the inns hanojino- about to
take charge of horses during service, so
many of the congregation came from a distance
to Wrexham old church ; but when the
service was over that Sunday morning, one of
the horsemen of Sir Madoc's party turned the
head of his beast towards Chester, and left the
field open to his rival, for that day at least.

Whenever Sir Madoc was annoyed this snuffbox
was most in request, and he unconsciously
half emptied it that morning before
they reached the Plan. He had almost forgotten
his ordinary courtesy to this sister-in-law
on their stoppage, had not an amazed " Sir

Madoc ! " reminded him ; and no sooner were
they all out of the carriage, than he drew
Pauhne aside and demanded what she had
done to drive her cousin away. He had
observed Sir Jenkyn's assiduous attentions,
and his daughter's graciousness, and set
Arthur's unexpected desertion down to a fit of
jealous spleen.

Pauline made a like mistake.

"Oh, my dear sir, let the gallant lieutenant
gallop his jealousy down. If he
chooses to turn cavalier to betray-gled
damsels overnight, I may sure" select my
cavalier in the morning. I have read the
gentleman a lesson, that is all."

Well, well, my dear, but don't make a
mistake. Arthur has a high spirit, and, look
you, he won't be trifled with."

Nor will / be trifled with ; " and she
swept away leaving her sire to the solace
of his brilliant snuff-box.

He made but an indifferent host that
Sunday, and Mrs. Wynne, in the newness of
self-elation and importance, had so much to

say of " the Major," that she failed to observe
it, as she had failed to observe the bve-])lav
of Miss Pauline, or the absence of her son.

Major Wynne " was not, however, an
inexhaustible topic for conversation, nor
her audience illimitable, and when dinner
was served, she could not but observe
with dismay that no Arthur was there to
conduct Miss Wynne to the dining-room, and
that Sir Jenkyn was accepted as a substitute,
somewhat too graciously.

She and Sir Madoc exchanged enquiring
glances across the long table from time to
time, lout they did not brings back Arthur
Wjame, or prevent Pauline from smiling on
the beaming Sir Jenkyn.

Festivities did not end with the race-week.
Balls and routs, notably one at Eaton House,
were to follow. For this Mrs. Wynne was
in the dilemma of fashionable dames nearer
our own time, and vowed she had " nothing
to wear." Accompanying this avowal was
another, that she was " monstrously unlucky
in offending the queer-looking mantua-maker

! " And since Lady Grosvenor's assurance
that the quaint Uttle body was of a
verity the unrivalled fashioned of ladies'
gear, and kept a skilled embroidered on her
premises, there had been a sharp contest
between Mrs. Wynne's love of dress and
her pride, in which the former, being
backed by personal vanity, came off victor.

Monday forenoon witnessed the self-abasement
of Mrs. Wynne and the triumph of Mrs.
Copley. The Wynne's pony-phaeton stood
long at the door, whilst the lady employed
all her arts of apology and persuasion to
soften the offended Avielder of scissors and
measuring tape, beseeching the little woman,
with very unwonted humility, to undertake
a robe for her to wear at Lady Grosvenor's
ball.

Had she not adroitly made Lady Grosvenor's
introduction the lever, it is doubtful
whether she would have moved Mrs. Copley
with all her seeing. That shrewd calculator
knew it was not politic to offend her noble
patroness, any more than it was wise to drive

away a customer who avowed she was
' willing to pay any price " for lier wares ;
and the monetary consideration Jiad full
weioflit.

Playing with the lady's fears lest she should
have no befitting dress for the occasion,
just so long as to keep up her own dignity
and to pay back her debt of spleen, Mrs.
Copley at last consented to oblige Mrs.
Wynne, yet " solely out of respect to Lady
Grosvenor's recommendation."

So much conceded, materials were brought
forth, and a consultation ensued, in which
the lady's langour almost disappeared. Ignoring
her fortyfive years, her maidenhood,
and her constitutional delicacy, the beauty
of a bygone day rejected all suggestions of
brocade or taffeta as too old and heavy,
and would fain have a robe as diaphanous
and airy as a Parisian belle. A dress styled
a curricle and petticoat " was in vogue ; for
this azure gauze was selected, with satin for
the under-skirt. The upper-skirt, arranged
like a sort of classic drapery, crossed on the

left side, where it was so disposed as to reveal
the under one, and this upper curricle she
required bordering with a wreath of satin-stitch
embroidery in white silk ; a similar
wreath to encircle the low edge of the narrow
skirt.

It was in vain Mrs. Copley protested there
was not sufficient time for embroidery and
making both. She " had so many robes bespoke
for the same occasion." Mrs. Wynne's
diplomacy prevailed, and the embroidered
was summoned to take instructions.

As Mrs. Ilopley spoke to the show-room
assistant, " Bid Miss Danger come hither ! "
Mrs. Wynne started. Surely her ears had
deceived her ! She thought her eyes had
deceived her also, when, in a few minutes, a
tall, fragile girl, in a plain dress of striped
grey and white gingham, came into the
room, who evidently walked in pain, clinging
to the doorpost as she entered ; who, with a
quick smile irradiating her face, advanced
with extended hand, apparently misinterpreting
her summons into the show-room.

Oh, Mrs. Wynne, this is kind. I thought
you had forgotten me," she began.

Mrs. Copley looked bewildered. What
previous knowledge had Miss Danger of
the lady ? Mrs. Bancroft's questioning of
Muriel in Eaton Park, years before, had
scarcely made on her a momentary impression
and was not remembered now.

Mrs. Wynne was disconcerted ; but whilst
her own locket hung before her eyes on
Muriel's neck, there was no affecting
ignorance, no excuse for refusing the
proffered hand, which she took with
sufficient courtes', only to drop it hastily
as Muriel went on to say, 

I suppose Lieutenant Wynne told you of
mv accident. I should certainly have been
killed but for his bravery."

Mrs. Wynne froze on the instant. Her
fashionable eyeglass was raised to her cold
optics : then they travelled down to the
limping foot, and upwards to the astonished
eyes of the young girl, winch they fixed
with an icy stare, causing the blood to

rush to Muriel's face with a consciousness
of the sudden change and of some unknown
offence.

I heard that my son was seen with a
bearable female he had picked up out
of the mud  saved from being; mn over, or
something," was said, as from a lofty height.
And so you were the person. May I ask
if you had an appointment with my son,
as he happened to be so conveniently at
hand ? "

Mrs. Wynne ! " The tone of surprise
and pain in which this was ejaculated was
in itself a denial. Up to Muriel's brow
surged the crimson tide of injured delicacy.
"I was on my way to the Post Office, madam,
Avlien the accident occurred. I did not see
my preserver until I came to myself. I
believe I fainted."

I shall put my own construction on your
indirect answer to my question, Miss Danger.
My son himself spoke of an appointment
he lead made. It occurs to me you are
presuming on the little service your grandmother

rendered to us some few years back,
and tlirowiniT yourself in the way of
Lieutenant Wynne in a manner that is
neither delicate nor seemly  in your position
especially. Mrs. Copley will do well to
keep a stricter watch over her assistants in
future. It is not to Iter credit that they
should consort with youno- officers."

Muriel felt as if she should choke. All
this was so utterly unjust.

You are under a mistake, Mrs. AVynne.
I have neither sought your son, nor
encouraged him to seek me. I should
forfeit my own self-respect were I to do
either." And not another word did she say
either in self-defence or justification. Mrs.
Wynne stood revealed, before her, all that
Mr. Holmes and Lucinda had pourtrayed.
The locket, so long worn in remembrance,
was henceforth seen on Muriel's neck no
more.

Muriel's quiet disclaimer was lost in that of
Mrs. Copley, who professed to be shocked, at
the same time that she sought to uphold the

credit of her establishment. In her own
mind she was not sorry to see the discomposure
of the haughty Mrs. Wynne, though
she knew little what it was all about.

With a wave of her hand, Mrs. Wynne
dismissed the subject, and turned to the
discussion of embroidery as coolly as if the
young woman standing there  with infinite
pain, mental and physical  to take her orders
was simply the mantua-maker's assistant, and
had never held other relation to her.

She rode back to the Plan full of her
discovery, thinking to overwhelm her son
with it.

Lieutenant Wynne had again gone to
Chester, she was told. " Say I desire to see
him on his return," were her orders to
Norris ; and Arthur found her pacing the
raised terrace which ran along one side of
the mansion, all eager and impatient to tell
him that the Miss Danger whose relations
gave themselves such airs in Delamere was
nothing but a mantua-maker's apprentice,
a common embroidered about to work for

VOL. m K

her, and, as such, no associate for the son
of Major Wynne.

I am aware of Miss Danger's position,
madam," said lie with respectful calm, " but
I consider that she is altogether superior to
that position, and has excellences I have looked
for in vain amongst my ordinary acquaintance."


It was a surprise to find her son equally
well informed, and more than a surprise to
discover that he held Muriel to be "superior
to her position," and flamed up with indignation
at the bare suo-question that she was
laying a snare to entrap him "  was "luring
him from his allegiance to his cousin."

"You are aspersing the character of a
most noble girl," he cried hastily', " and I
should be unworthy to rank with gentlemen,
if I entered no protest against it."

He defended, not himself, but Muriel :
maintained that their meetings fortuitous
on her part on each occasion, that she had
only accepted his arm when unable to walk,
had herself informed him of her apprenticeship

: and he wound up by saying, " If
PauHne had but half Miss Danger's modest
reserve and delicacy, my so-called ' allegiance
to my cousin ' might have been a fact and nota
mere fancy of yours."

A mere fancy of mine ! Compare Pauline
Wynne of the Plan, With a mere milliner's
apprentice ! " and the lady tapped her fan
irritably on the stone balustrade of the
terrace, which overlooked a picturesque
garden scene. " You must have lost your
senses over the girl ! Surely, Arthur, jou
have not entangled yourself in any way with
such a plebeian ? "

For a moment Arthur Wynne pressed his

lips tightly together : then he answered with

deliberation :  " I have seen Miss Danger

but three times since she was a child  a

child, madam, to whom ice were greatly

indebted. I was providentially at hand to

rescue the young lady (he emphasized the

Avoid) from great peril. There can be no

possibility of ' entanglement,' with one so

pure and so reserved ; and, if I compared her

K 2

with Miss Wynne, to the disadvantage of the
latter,  look there ! "

He had drawn himself up to his full height,
as he spoke, in feature, manner, and bearing
the reflex of his handsome father, and now
he flung his left arm out above the balustrade,
as if to point his speech.

The fine afternoon had brou<T;ht the whole
party out of the house ; but there sauntering
along a shady walk by the border of the
lake, might be seen at intervals the fair
Pauline, evidently weaving snares for the
entanglement " of Sir Jenkyn, on whose
arm she was leaning, whilst she toyed with
her fan and answered his enamoured chances
with bewitching smiles, as if no question of
a cousin's attachment had ever arisen.

Pauline has herself dispelled the glamour
of her own eyes ; so heartless a coquette is
not the wife for me," he went on, " and I
must confess, I have seen no woman in our
circle who reaches the high standard of Miss
Danger. Until I do, I am likely to remain
a bachelor."

Without another word he turned away and
joined Sir Madoc then reading the limes
on a stone bench some paces off, dipping
into the old gentleman's snuff-box as preliminary
to a chat, for which the political
aspect of affairs and the newspapers Arthur
had brought from the Post Office on Saturday
furnished material.

Mrs. Wynne was aghast : all her schemes
were blown over. Sir Madoc was hale and
strong; the chance of her husband's succession
to the baronetcy small indeed, to say
nothing of the chances of war. As Pauline's
mother-in law, she had hoped to reign at the
Plan, where indeed she did spend more of her
time than Major Wynne might be supposed
to care for ; but '' Celia was delicate, and the
air among the Welsh mountains so pure, and
suited her so well, he could not find in
his heart to keep her in garrison with him."
At least that was the reason generally assigned
for her long periods of absence :
if it was not the whole reason, it concerned
no one but himself.

She had herself a belief, and had impressed
Sh' Madoc that she stayed there in part to
watch over Paidiiie, and bid her to Arthur 
and now lie repudiated his cousin. And what
had he set in her pLace ? A country manufacturer's
daughter, sewing; for her Vini?.
Oh, it was too horrible ! She must write to
the Major : Arthur must be recalled. ]3ut
she must sive no inkling; who was Pauline's
low-born rival  there was no trusting her
husband's Quixotism. And before another
day dawned the letter was written,  and
despatched. Ostensibly" it contained her congratulation
of her husband on his promotion.

Mrs. Ilopley had questioned Muriel with
some asperity ; but the explanation was so
clear and simple, the repudiation of Mrs.
Wynne's unfounded suspicions so decisive,
that it scarcely needed her own first experience
of Mrs. Wynne to convince her
of Muriel's truth. And Mrs. Copley, hard
and strict where her own interest was concerned,
did not much trouble herself with
matters beyond. She just advised Muriel

to keep out of the lieutenant's way  a
superfluous piece of advice, considering lier
inability to take a step without pain. She
moreover, found a liniment and a bandage
for the injured ankle, and said, "You need
not come downstairs to meals ; I will send
them up to you, so that you can rest your
foot and get on with the embroidery at the
same time ; for that will have to be done if
you sit up all night over it."

Muriel placed a footstool beneath her
frame as a rest for her foot ; but sitting in
the one position all that evening, through
all the next long day and seemingly longer
night, and far into the Wednesday, with only
brief intervals for food, or the shifting of the
gauze on the frame, was not such rest as a
sprained ankle requires ; and when Muriel
next went to bed, she was compelled to use
the ready arm of Lucinda Holmes as a
crutch.

There had been some calculation in Mrs.
Copley's sudden show of kindliness. " It's
best to prevent the girl from being wholly

disabled. I could not spare her, at this busy
season," she had argued with herself. And
her kindness was but short-lived.

The city of Chester contained an overplus
of old maids, poodles and parrots (of the
latter many fmniy anecdotes were told) ;
and it was the custom amongst the ancient
spinsters of genteel birth and small independence
to give periodic tea-parties, where gossip
was handed round with the cake and tea.

It so happened that at one of these
staid tea-parties in Abbey Square, the
Misses Briscoe heard a bit of gossip which
set their ancient ears a- tingling, and caused
them to uplift their skinny hands in horror.

Miss DAnyer, the pupil they had trained
so carefully and so piously, had been seen to
leave the Theatre Royal, and that too in
the company of a military" officer : and the
same officer had been seen loitering about
Watergate Street and the Eows more than
once since.

The very next morning  on the Tuesday
that is  the two spinsters laboured up Mrs.

Copley's staircase, bent on " doing their
duty to the misguided young woman ; " and
Miss Danger, still more laboriously, descended
from the work-room to be confronted with
them, and with Mrs. Copley, who professed
like horror of "so sinful a place as a playhouse,"
and who saw in the companionship of
the officer a confirmation of Mrs. Wynne's
accusation.

What is this I hear. Miss Danger ?
That you have been seen at the theatre in
company with a military man ? " she began
stiffly. " Do you mean to bring a scandal on
my establishment ? "

Have you forgotten the pious and
decorous training you received from us ? "
questioned Miss Briscoe severely, with her
hands folded across her waist.

No, Miss Briscoe, it was Dr. Holmes who
took his daughter and myself to the play.
Lieutenant Wynne only came and spoke tous
as we were leaving," answered Muriel in
self-defence, but with all the composure of
truth not doubting credence.

Mrs. Hople}, who kept her standing as
usual, without a thought save for the inquisition
which was to clear herself of all
knowledge of the presumed offence, caught at
the name. " Then it was Lieutenant Wynne ?
There was some truth in Mrs. Wynne's
allegations! And you dared to deny them ! "

1 could not deny seeing him at the
theatre ; Mrs. Wynne was present, and must
have known it. And she must have seen
that I was with Dr. Holmes, who was not a
stranger to her. I only denied an appointment
with the lieutenant, and I still
deny it."

Whoever this Dr. Holmes may be," put
in Miss Briscoe loftily, " he was unfit to be a
parent if he could take his own daughter, and
a young lady who had been trained in
virtuous and religious principles, into so vile
and corrupt a place. If I were to enter a
theatre I should expect the floor to sink, and
the roof to fall on me and carry me down to
the bottomless pit, as thirty human souls
were carried twenty years back, within almost

a stone's tliroAv of this spot, and seventy
more maimed or scarred for life."

In Puppet-show Alley," supplied Betty, as
commentator.

*eyes! Miss Danger, the people had gone
on the fifth of November to witness a puppet-show,
as thoughtlessly as you allowed yourself
to be taken to a theatre. It was a
blasphemous show  Dr. Faustus-and like a
judgment upon them all, eigbt-hundred-
Aveight of gunpowder stored in a room below
exploded and sent them headlong to perdition.
The city shook as with an earthquake,
the eruption was as that of a volcano,
the hery shower shot high into the air and
strewed the roads with Avrcckao-e and with
horrors, then flames arose, and all the populace
seemed o-atliered to extinguish them.
It was a direful calamity, an unparalleled
scene of terror and consternation. I and my
sister amongst the spectators of the dire
catastrophe could but think of the Cities
of the Plain, and hope the awful warning
would not be lost upon the multitude.

There was mourning in the city for the
lost. John Wesley, and other pious divines,
improved the occasion, and for a time
there was a talk of closing the Playhouse
doors. But a wicked cabal prevailed,
because, forsooth, centuries had gone by
since the ancient walls of St. Nicholas had
echoed prayer or praise, and desecration
was no new things. Women have no voice
in such matters, or ice should have entered
our protest. We could only, in our sphere,
do what Ave could to enlighten the minds
of our scholars, and lead them to shun
the spot. Yet we hud you. Miss Danger,
one of our most promising pupils, so regardless
of your own soul as to "

Muriel's patience had reached its limit.
She was in too much pain to listen longer to
Miss Briscoe's harangue. She interrupted her
with, " My mother is not regardless of her own
soul, or of mine ; she is a good woman, and
a good Christian, 3'et she and my father took
me to see a pantomime when I was quite
a little one. If she were here now she

would not disapprove of my going, I am
certain."

Miss Briscoe and Miss Betty uplifted their
hands and eyes.

Xor of meeting Lieutenant Wynne, I
suppose"' put in Mrs. Ilopley sharply.

Nor of speaking to Lieutenant Wynne,"
corrected Muriel quietly.

You are bold, Miss D'Anver," almost
gasped Miss Betty, in dismay at the reply to
her auifust sister, who had risen and stood
trembling with contending astonishment,
feebleness and irritation, leaning on her
silver-mounted stick for support.

Lieutenant Wynne ! " she ejaculated, " to
be sure! I remember that was the name of
the young man who had the impertinence
and audacity to accost you on the Walls
during our weekly promenade ! And he is still
following you about I hear ! Someone should
acquaint your grandmother. It is little to
your credit, Miss Danger, to encourage
such advances. And I consider it my duty
to warn you against the consequences of

permitting such freedom. It is a reflection
on the moral training you received from us,"

Muriel looked from one to the other.
The speech of Mrs. Copley was sharp, that
of Miss Briscoe deliberate and incisive, but
she had no opportunity to edge in a word.
At last even her quiet spirit was roused,

These are calumnies, and I decline further
reply," she said, her cheek flushing as she
spoke. Then turning her back, she limped
away, leaving them to say their worst, and
soon Alas bending over lier frame, in anguish
of mind and body Hardly to be borne.

Whatever Mrs. Ilopley thought she said
no more on the subject to Muriel, but she
looked stern, and there was no further compassion
for the sprained ankle, at least from
her.

However sorry the other girls might be
they had no leisure for anything but their
work, Lucinda Holmes, after helping her
upstairs that night, rubbed the swollen joint,
and replaced the bandage very cleverly, and
kindly, before they went to bed.

So, too, in the morning, and for many
nights and mornings to follow ; for unless
the chair nearest her own chanced to be
vacant for a brief space, Muriel could only
relieve the swollen and painful member by
lying in bed on the Sabbaths, which as often
as not meant the surrender of such meals
as her friend, Lucinda, was not at hand to
convey to their attic ; for after a frock
was greased in carrying a dinner upstairs,
Mrs. Copley would not suffer her own
children to wait on Muriel, or they would
have been willing enough. And surely their
food was neither so good nor so plentiful
as to leave a martin for fastens. Buttermilk
and potatoes Alas often enough their
only mid-day meal, and when the buttermilk
was not stale, Muriel preferred it to the
coarse beef which, during the summer
months, was generally tainted, or to the
cabbage and bacon boiled together, seeing
that the rustiness of the latter was apt to
flavour the former.
At her own home, food and cookery had

been of the first order, John Danger's
fastidious palate having to be catered for,
and not all her longs initiation at the Misses
Briscoe's had served to reconcile his daughter
to unwholesome diet. She cared not how
plain it might be so that it was fresh, and asa
matter of choice ate her bread dry to
avoid the rancid butter served to the apprentices.


To say that Muriel never protested, never
complained, never uttered a moan when her
foot throbbed and burned with pain, would
be to place her beyond the pale of humanity .
but as a rule she bore it bravely  said " complaining
will not cure," and submitted as to
the inevitable.

Weeks went by before she could get
another letter written home and posted ; and
then she had so much to tell of her meeting
with Arthur Wynne, of the accident in which
her former letter had been lost, and of her
rescue by him, that she said less of the
prolonged agony of the sprain than might
have been expected. For one thing, she

heard Mrs. Copley say with contempt, " Such
a fuss over a mere sprain," and she lead no
mind to make her mother uncomfortable over
what others thouf]ht a slight matter.

VOL. n.

jOrRS. WYNNE presented herself no more
< at Mrs. Copley's.

The airy blue dress was duly finished and
duly sent home, and Mrs. Wynne accepted
the sacrifice of the youno- embroidered
without a pang of remorse. She had been
told that the poor girl, who was evidently
in pain (and who had once ministered to her
repose), would be compelled to work day and
night to execute her order, jet she had not
abated a tittle of her demand. Not a leaf ora
flower of the elaborate wreath could be
omitted lest the design should appear defective.
She was not accustomed to consider
consequences to others,  and inferiors. Her
own requirements were paramount. The
dress was scanned critically through the

lady's eye-glass, and declared to be "positively
faultless ; " with an air of languid
satisfaction. Of aching hands, or eyes, or
chest, or foot, what thought or cared the
lady ? The dress was ordered and paid for,
its production had been Mrs. Copley's
concern not hers. She little deemed
what a robe of Nessus it would prove to
her.

Vanity was in the ascendant. Parisian
fashion declared that women should drape
themselves classically, not clothe ; and many a
silly life Alas sacrificed in the desire to "be
slim and genteel," even on this side the
channel.

Forty-five years had not brought Mrs.
Wynne wisdom. It was useless for more
sensible Owen to expostulate. An under
petticoat was dispensed with when an additional
one should rather have been worn ;
and in this, the lady only followed a very
common and silly practice.

I tell you, Owen, it is superfluous. You

might think I was an old woman to be

L 2

coddled. How could the robe cling gracefully
with so many garments beneath it."

Owen shook her head behind the lady's
back most ruefully, and expressively, but she
had the gift of silence.

There ! " said Mrs. Wynne, as she surveyed
herself in the long Venetian glass in
her dressing-room, when fully attired, " the
effect is charming. I protest I look almost as
young and captivating as Pauline. Yet the
dear girl is not without taste, I am proud to
say, for I have helped to form it."

Miss Wynne's taste was certainly better
than that of her aunt, and though her outer
robe of Avhite crape was almost as diaphanous
as the blue gauze, there was a trifle more of
sleeve and bodice, less clinging of the skirt,
and the natural flowers which looped the
trimmings here and there had kept no one
awake to grow them.

Yet of all the dresses at Lady Grosvenor's
ball Mrs. Wynne's bore off the palm of fashion.
She was flattered, admired, envied, and
scandalized. Beaux fluttered around her, displayed

their ivory teeth, their scented kerchiefs
and jewelled snuff-boxes and declared she
eclipsed all the beauties in the room ; and she,
trifling with her ivory-mounted fan, languished
sentimentally and believed them.

Once or twice she shivered, and her observant
son gravely suggested that she was too
thinly clad, and offered to procure a warm
wrap, but the lady said, " Xo ! my scarf is
sufficient," and though the scarf was little
more than a film, he knew of old it was no
avail to remonstrate.

There were caresses to cover curled and
powdered and frizzled head, and fur-lined
mantles to enfold bare shoulders, during the
long ride home through the raw morning air.
13ut the mischief was done.

The penalty had to be paid for vanity and
folly. A cold settled in the fine lady's limbs,
and kept her prisoner to her couch for
Aweary months, during which Pauline and Sir
Madoc both grew pretty well weary of her, so
many were her lamentations and her capricious
fancies.

Owen and Norris had a sorry time of
it ; and more than once were on the point of
throwing up their service, she was so difficult
to satisfy or to manage.

And, thanks to her own manoeuvre, her son,
recalled at her suggestion, was no longer by
her side to administer to her comfort or her
whims. Yet dien she came to say farewell
she blamed him for leaving her to suffer alone ;
and when he was gone could only console
herself with the reflection, that lie was
separated from that artful Miss Danger."

Long before Dr. Wilmslow, summoned
from Chester, had, after many consultations
with the local doctor, and with much
hummiuij and hahinoj, and much deliberation
over the gold head of his cane, counselled her
removal to the baths at Buxton, she had
learned to contrast the willing service and
gentle handling of little Muriel in the past
with that of her own maid or the hired nurse.
But she was not one whit softened towards
the Muriel of the present, the Muriel in whom
her son saw so many hidden charms ; and

had she known how that son had haunted
Watergate Street, and, failing to see Miss
Danger, had ventured to write to her on his
recall, her cup of bitterness would have runover.


The woman of fashion, cramped and drawn
with rheumatism, had no resource within herself.
A game at piquet by her bedside, a
sentimental novel monotonously read out by
her maid, was all she had to fill her intervals
of pain. The higher light of religion had not
dawned for her  and Muriel might have been
envied, not despised, for she had a solace of
which the other knew nothing.

She had, besides, the enviable faculty of
seeing the sunbeam where the other saw
only the motes ; and whilst Mrs. Wynne
blamed her niece and her attendants as
unsympathetic," " inattentive," " awkward,"
Muriel could sav, " I should never have
known how much goodness there was in
Lucinda, if I had not sprained my foot, or
how much Mrs. Ilopley's little ones cared
for me. They never were so kind to me

before," And I am not certain that lie did
not regard her accident with something
skins to complacence, if not altogether with
satisfaction, when she read over the letter
received from Lieutenant Wynne.

That letter was brought to Muriel in the
work-room, Avitli her breakfast, by one of
Mrs. Ilopley's youngsters, who exhibited a
shilling, and said, " An officer on horseback
gave it me, to bring the letter safe to you.
He had a soldier behind him on another
horse, and he asked me ever so many questions
about your bad foot, and he did seem
so sorry."

Muriel laid the letter down to be read
when the child was hone, conscious of rising
colour in her cheeks, and an unusual flutter
beneath her bodice. Mrs. Wynne's aspersions
were fresh in her mind ; could she
have said aught to call forth this communication?
With compressed lips she tore it
open and read, 

"My dear Miss D'Anyek,

I trust your goodness will pardon the

liberty I take in addressing you by letter.
I can only plead in extenuation that I am
unexpectedly recalled to join my regiment
in Chatham, and can therefore have no
other opportunity for expressing my deep-felt
sorrow for an accident which must
have caused you much suffering (though I
thank God you did not lose your life). 1
could not leave the neighbourhood without
a syllable of regret or farewell. Indeed, I
am troubled at going away without seeing
you again  going away with no assurance
from yourself either that your pain has
abated or that you are doing well. Never
came a recall to duty less opportunely ;
for I also have to leave my mother seriously
indisposed. But a soldier has no choice,
lie must obey orders ; and he has no
abiding-place, nor foreknowledge whether
his next 'route' may carry him to scenes
of peace or war. I however cherish a hope
that at some future time I may meet with
you again under more favourable auspices ;
but should I never have that happiness,

allow me to say that the remembrance of
our brief friendship will be ever with mean
ennobling and purifying influence.

Before closing this epistle, it is my
pleasing duty to convey to you the grateful
thanks of Major Wynne for your kind
offices in the past, which he has been denied
the opportunity to tender earlier. It is with
unspeakable regret that I am thus compelled
to take leave, but believe me, Miss
Danger, with every sentiment of gratitude
and esteem, and With heartfelt wishes for
your recovery and happiness,
"I remain,

Ever your true friend,
Arthur Wynne."

Twice had Muriel read the letter through
before she remembered her breakfast,
hungry as she had been ; and yet a third
time she was conning it, when ascending footsteps
warned her to put it away. But she
could not put away the emotions, the images,
the reflections, it had aroused from slumber.
And complex enough they were. She had

sacrificed friendship to propriety and duty
when she dismissed Arthur Wynne at Mrs.
Copley's door, and she had met Mrs.
Wynne's insinuations with a clear conscience
so far. But deep down in her heart she
had unwittingly embalmed his looks and
words ; and his kiss was fresh upon her
hand. She could not dismiss him from her
thoughts  and she did not try. Xot until
she read his letter had she known that
there lurked in her breast the contradictory
hope to meet him again somewhere. And
now, that hope was echoed by himself. He
did not shrink from her. His father
did not, else Why that message confided to
him. He had said farewell, but he had
said it as a friend., and a friend he must
ever be to her, even if they never did
meet ao-ain. It was clear he knew nothing
his mother's unkindness, and she was
glad of it.

Neither did she know anything of his unsatisfactory
leave-taking at the Plan, or of
his parting interview with this mother, or of

the many letters begun and destroyed in
the attempt to say no more to her than
circumstances warranted, though the very
need to say farewell had brought the conviction
that to say it as ?i, friend only required
an effort of self-control and self-abnegation
which put his manhood to the test.

She did not know how much manly love
had gone to the composition of a letter
which might satisfy the demands of friendship
without disturbing her serenity by any
premature expression of regard.

Muriel took it simply as she found it ;
but she pondered every word, noted his regret
and his hope, and altogether the letter
was a solace to her, and in thinking of it
and the writer  always as a friend  much
of her pain was deadened.

But somehow, as the weeks went by, she
seemed to grow thinner and more fragile.
Once or twice she fainted at her work ; a
window was opened, there was a rush for
water ; but no sooner had the faintness
passed than she had to take up her needle

and resume her stitches, the interruption
being commented on as " a nuisance " hj
the hard taskmasters ; whereupon Lucinda
Holmes muttered audibly and with sufficient
point, " There's many a worse nuisance than
that in this house,"

Indeed, about that time Miss Holmes let
her rebellious spirit loose more than once.
She boldly asserted at table that their " food
was neither wholesome nor sufficient, and
that she was thankful she was not fjoinix to
stay there to be killed by inches ! "

This was towards the end of June, when
she looked for the coming of her father
to see her indentures cancelled and to carry
her away, and was in a rebellious mood
accordingly. Her only regret was that she
should leave Muriel behind with no one
to take her part. She had learned to love
her, and from her example to think of
others as well as herself, though she did
say, "I don't know what you'll do when
I'm gone. You're so provokingly tame and
submissive. I wish I could leave you a bit of

my spirit, for you'll want it." But she had
a scheme in her head of which she said
nothing to anyone except her father when
lie came.

Very stiffly did Mrs. Copley decline to give
a day's holiday to Miss Danger when Dr.
Holmes solicited it " on the occasion," although
she could not well refuse him permission to
see the young lady, or to examine her foot
and prescribe for her as a medical man, when
he had seen her. But she could bridle up
at the sujfTjestion of '' a more generous diet,"
and ask "what lie meant by such an insinuation?"
and "if he thought, when food was
at famine prices, she could afford to keep Miss
Danger in idleness whilst she rested Lier
foot, forsooth ? "

Sad and lingering was the parting between
the two girls, dissimilar as they were, and
even though the one was regaining her
freedom, and Muriel felt that she ought to
rejoice with her; but she likewise felt that
she was losing a very genuine friend, and
Lucinda was sorry to leave her behind.

Never mind, Muriel, cheer up," she said,
as she saw the tears on the other's cheeks,
it's always darkest before the dawn, you
have told me many a time, and something
may turn up before long to serve the old
brute out."

Hush, Lucinda ! "

'I shan't hush. She is an old brute. I
daresay she'll crow over you when I'm
gone, and there's no one to stand np for
you ; but don't let her crow too soon, that's
all ! And now good-bye. We may see
each other again some day."

I hope so," said Muriel, " here or then"
and she pointed upwards.

Whereupon Lucinda ran off precipitately
to join her good father at the door below.


I wouldn't gratify the old thing by
shedding a tear, lest she should say I was
sorry to leave her, but I could have burst out
sobbing when Muriel said that, for she looks
to me more like going to Heaven than to
a home such as mine," she said to her father,

as they left the house, and he made no reply.
He had a like opinion.

Three days only had gone by when another
visitor came to see Miss Danger  came too
in Mrs. Copley's temporary absence, and,
through the open show-room door, beheld
Muriel descend the stairs painfully and
laboriously, grasping the balustrades to
lower herself from the stair on which she
was seated to the one below.

Mrs. Kingsley, for it was she, hurried to
her assistance, and surely never was good
woman more shocked at the change since
she had seen Muriel last.

Oh, my dear child," she cried, " how ill
you do look ! I would not credit Dr. Holmes
when he came and asked me to write to your
relatives about you. And now I have come
to satisfy myself. I see he did not say anything:
more than was true. Come and sit
down, and tell me how you are, and if you
have had the rest and nourishment the doctor
ordered ? "

"Nothing more than usual, Mrs. Kingsley,

and I really do feel excessively faint at
times,"

Likely, if you have not enough to eat ! "
burst from her visitor.

Well, yon see. the pain of my aisle
takes away my appetite, and I cannot eat
meat if it is at all tainted, or butter if it is
rancid, and dry bread chokes me ; so I am
afraid I do get less than the others, and 
Mrs. Copley gets very cross about my being
so dainty."

"Dainty, indeed! Well, Muriel, though
I did not believe all Mr. Holmes said, I took
care to brinfj a basket of things you mio-ht
like. I knew they would not go a-begging
if you could not eat them. Here are a
couple 01 nice boiled chickens and a bit of
ham, and some of our own eggs and butter,
and a small loaf of our own baking, and a
custard, and a bottle of elderberry wine ;
but mind, I bronii-ht them for you, and not
for Mrs. Ilopley ; so yon must get them
smuggled to sour own room. I've put a
knife and fork, and plate, and cup with them."

VOL. n. M

Muriel's eyes grew moist with tears.
Oh, Mrs. Kingsley, how good you are ! "
she said. " It was only' this morning I was
wishing for some of the Eddisbury bread
and butter. And for your kindness in
comines so far to see me, and brinino- these
niceties, I do not know how to thank you
sufficiently. I shall never forget it."

Mrs. Kingsley had been fumbling in one
of her pannier-like pockets for a corkscrew,
and now she insisted on Muriel trvin<T;
the elderberry Vine at once. Proceeding to
question her, she discovered amongst other
matters, that Muriel's last letter home was
unanswered, and that her grandmother did
not know low much she was overworked,
nor yet of her increasing debility.

You see I quite expected the sprain would
get better soon, and I said so. Mother would
have fretted so much if she thought I was
really ill," was Furies explanation.

" She shall know before we are many days
older," said Mrs. Kingsley, as she rose to
take leave, suspecting that Muriel would be

blamed if lie stayed, too long. " And here,
I'll carry the basket up this flight of stairs for
you," and she suited the action to the word.

Pray don't say anything that shall alarm
ray mother, whatever you do, Mrs. Kingsley,"
cried Muriel " I daresay I should be better
if my ankle would but let me go out."

Oh ! I'll not say a word more than I
should say," answered Mrs. Kingsley, as she
gave the girl a motherly kiss, and watched
her crawl upstairs on her hands and knees 
too feeble to do otherwise, even had she not
had a lame foot. The basket, placed midway
by Mrs. Kingsley, was with difficulty lifted
from step to step as she went higher.

In Watergate Row Mrs. Kingsley encountered
Mrs. Ilopley coming out of God's
Providence House with Mrs. Plover. She
had a hot temper of her own, had Mrs.
Kingsley, and she made Mrs. Ilopley feel it
before they parted.

I've been to see one of God's lambs that
has been committed to your care," she began.
How shall you answer to Him for the trust

M 2

you have abused ? You a mother ! and starve
and work other people's children to death
for your gain ! There's Miss Holmes brought
home all skin and bone, and as for that
poor Muriel ! Oh, it made my heart ache
to see her ! You needn't speak ; I've seen
for myself, and seeing's believing. But never
another stitch do you set for me, and never
another hare or haunch comes from Eddies
for your eating, Mrs. Ilopley, you may
take my word for it ! "

And without hearing a word in reply,
she stalked on, having; talked herself into a
fume that hot day. Certainly, neither tune,
nor words, nor sentiment were wasted in
the letter she dispatched to Mrs, Bancroft
before sittings down to her own comfortable
dinner at the Blue Posts. It ran thus : 

Dear Friend, 

If you want to see your grandchild
Muriel alive, you must lose no time.
Between a sprained ankle, starvation, and
slavery, she has hardly strength to crawl
up and down stairs on hands and knees.

Who's most to blame I'd be loth to say.
Some folk have hearts as hard as the nether
millstone. There's always a spare room at
Eddisbury.

Yours to command,

"M. Kingsley."

There ! " said she, as she handed it to
the good-natured forester, who had borne
her company, for him to fold and seal with
one of the great gold seals pendant from
the watch in his fob. " There ! It's no use
beating about the bush with Sarah Bancroft.
If she's hard enough to leave the poor lass
With strangers, and never come even at Fair
time to see how they used her, it would be
Avast of good ink to mince matters with
soft words. I could never make out why a
rich woman like her should set her grandchild
to mantua-ranking. It's my belief
that sly Sam's at the bottom of it. And
now be off with the letter. It's lucky the
post-boy goes this afternoon. I suppose you
know that Post-office Yard is just outside
the Eastgate. Muriel told me it was about

there she was knocked down and hurt, and,
strange to say, it was that captain's son, Mr.
Arthur Wynne, who picked her up and
saved her from beings run over ! How things
do come round, to be sure ! "

Aye, aye," said the forester, as he
stood in the doorway, letter in hand. " One
never does a good deed purely for God's
sake but God brings it round to ns some day
or other ; " and he was off on his good errand.

Lucinda Holmes had set the wheel in
motion.

She had induced her father, whose horse
had carried double in taking her home, to
stop at the Forest House by the way, and
the story of overwork and underfeeding, and
Muriel's condition, lost nothing by her telling.

Mrs. Kingsley was a woman of action, and
her natural kindliness needed no prompting
; she was soon on the alert as we have
seen, but she was mistaken in one of her
premises. Sam had no hand in placing
Muriel with either the Misses Briscoe or
Mrs. Copley. Indeed, he had remonstrated

with his mother on what he called " waste
of good money." She had acted solely out
of mistaken kindness to the girl ; it maybe
too credulously taking upon trust the
eulogium of proud parents displaying the
accomplishments of their daughters in the
one case ; in the other relying too much on
Lady Grosvenor's patronage of her whilom
faithful dependant, and her own business
knowledge of respectability and punctuality
through a lapse of years, to say nothing of
Mrs. Copley's own adroit plea of motherhood.
Briscoes and Hojleys stood well in the eyes
of the community ; how was she in her
flying visits to look farther,

Sam, however, had a hand in holding his
mother back from Chester. Since he had
brought his wife home to Manchester, he
had sedulously schemed to keep his mother
from Eddisbury and Waverham. If she had
taken her journey via Frodsham he would
not have cared ; but she would travel on
horseback as of old, and he knew a stoppage
at the Forest House, and a visit to Waverham

were inevitable, and every year made that
more risky.

lie had maintained with much truth and
apparent sincerity, that it was time she
had more rest ; the journey was too long
for a woman of her years ; that she had
so well trained him, the business would not
suffer in his hands, and that lie could call
on Muriel and carry messages on either side.
She was Availing to agree with him, iu part,
was gratified by his filial care for her ease
and praised him for it, still the old furrier
had no mind to be superseded, but it so
happened unaccountably that twice over
she was repaired at home at the very time
she should have started, and Sam went to
Eddisbury and Chester without her, taking
Lydia in her stead, whom he left at
Waverham on his way ; a convenient
arrangement in which Mrs. Bancroft at last
acquiesced, seeing only a good son's care
for his old mother, a brood husband's
attention to his wife, and a coot daughter's
desire to visit her old father.

And yet there were times when she had
strange doubts and misgivings concerning
Sam, and her laudations of her steady-going
business-like son were less frequent and
assured.

1

MRS. Bancroft BUSINESS

siam had certainly been as good as his

< word and called to see Muriel : had
taken her letters, messages, money and other
presents : her own father had choked down
his pride and condescended to ask for her at
the dressmaker's, but it was always at so busy
a time, the show-room was generally crowded,
there was no chance of privacy  or Mrs.
Copley did not make any  and they carried
back but vague impressions, which were
translated into favourable ones. "Very well,
though looking rather tired, as must needs
be at Fair time." Neither had seen in
her fatigue more than that of temporary
over work, and passing months wrought
changes.

At all events, Mrs. Kingsley's letter told

another tale. Stirred to the depths of her
nature, the stern woman, in her counting-house,
set her teeth together to hide her
agony and remorse. She knew not whether
Mrs. Kingsley inveighed against herself or
Mrs. Copley ; she only felt that she was
responsible to God and her own daughter
for the sacrifice of Muriel.

People were slow to move then, but she
had said, "I'll see to it : " and her prompt instructions
were fjiven in the warehouse, the
workshops, the house, to work people, to Sam
and to Margery ; lads were despatched with
messages hither and thither ; a valise was
packed with a change of raiment : and in less
than two hours Sarah Bancroft was in a
post-chaise, and with her Silly Hargreaves,
to be set down at Hyde's Cross, a messenger
charged to carry the miserable news to Broom
Street as carefully and gently as was possible.
Though it is certain the emotional girl, whose
sobs were audible, was ill-calculated for the
office, try as bravely as she might to hide and
subdue her own agitation.

There was a stoppage at Northwicli to
change horses, a rest for the night with the
good people at Eddisbnry, where Mrs. Bancroft
(looking considerably' older than when
we last saw her on the hearth of the Forest
House) heard all that Mrs. Kingsley had to
tell, and all that Lucinda Holmes  whom
she found there  could reveal by way of
supplement, and Lucinda was not likely to
paint with dim colours.

What the self-contained, self-sufficient
woman suffered in that solitary drive, of
self-reproach and upbraiding, would never
be known ; to say nothing of her other
anxieties. She had prided herself on a
wondrous stroke of policy in reversing
Muriel's position of " nurse " and " lackey "
in her own family, and it had ended in
depriving the mother of her chief comfort,
and in marinus the gentle, too obliging sir
a worse drudge to strangers, a bond-slave
even to the cates of death. She had taken
upon herself to control events, and was
learning in the bitterness of her heart that

the Lord's hand was stronger than lier own,
His will was not to be set aside by a human
will. It was the second check her self-sufficiency
lead had, and she bowed beneath it.
Man proposes, God disposes," was impressed
upon her brain, and there were lines on her
face when the chaise stopped at Mrs. Ilopley's
door wliicli were not there when she started
on ]her journey.

A small, light vehicle, just a better sort of
Welsh cart, moved away to let the chaise
draw to the door, which stood ajar.

lip the stairs marched Mrs. Bancroft with
a face rigid as a stone or her own purpose,
just as Mrs. Copley was blandly bowing out of
the show-room Mrs. Parry and her niece Mrs.
Griffiths, and saying apologetically, " Really I
am very sorry, but we are so very busy, and
Miss Danger has had so many visitors of late,
that I cannot permit her to be called from her
work for any friends not related to her."

"Won't you?" struck in Mrs. Bancroft;
then perhaps 3'ou will call her down forme.
But stay! I'll see about it myself;

maybe she's not able to come. I shall
have a reckoning with you, Mrs, Copley,
when / come clown. I know all about it."
And the words came back over her shoulder
as she trod the stairs with the determination
to see Muriel as she was, without any
glozinf{.

She did see her as she was in a deep
swoon, the window open, the tambour-frame
before her, the needle loose on her work, her
head on a girl's shoulder, another sprinkling
water on her face.

Mrs. Copley, who had followed close at
her heels to debar entrance, stood in white
wrath, as one defeated and detected, and
shuffled out something of " the overpowering
heat."

Overpowering cruehy ! " retorted Mrs.
Bancroft o-rimlv, as she took the fainting
iiirl in her own arms, and fanned with
her handkerchief; but not another word or
look did she bestow on Mrs, Copley. At
length consciousness and speech returning,
Muriel gasped, 

"Oh, grandmother, I am so thankful you
are here. Do not leave me."

Leave you ! no, my child, not I. You'll
have to go back home with me," was the
answer.

'' There will have to be two words to that,
Mrs. Bancroft," quoth little Mrs. Copley
stiffly ; " you can have no claim on my
apprentice."

As many words as you like, Mrs. Ilopley ;
and as for the rest, /'// see to that Avlien
Muriel here has seen her friends. I guess
one is Mrs. Parry, child, by her Welsh hat
and cap ; I think the other is your old
teacher."

Yes, sure enough, Mrs. Griffiths and Mrs.
Parry, arrested by Mrs. Bancroft's flying
speech, Avere still waiting in the slow-room
when, with a paint effort and the support of
her grandmother's arm, Muriel reached it.
But there was barely time for greetings and
introductions before Mrs. Copley, having
reduced the disorganized work-room to order,
came on the scene.

Then there were not merely many words
but high words between the two women
whose word was law each in her own domain,
and pacific Muriel listened trembling as she
sat between her Welsh friends, with a hand
clasped in that of Mrs. Griffiths.

Never had Mrs. Bancroft's affections been
so wounded, never her trust and confidence
so outraged, since the unhappy day when
Muriel's mother went off with John Danger,
and her indignation was proportionate.

Never had Mrs. Copley's citadel been so
invaded ; never had her authority been so set
aside. Mrs. Kingsley's insolent attack in the
open Eow was as nothing to it. She had
been made a cipher in her own work-room,
and the furtive exultation on the pale faces
there had stuns her. Not that her conscience
pricked her overmuch. Had not the
high price of food compelled the richest in
the land to economise its consumption? She
held that she had a right to make the most
out of her apprentices, and was prepared
to maintain it in the face of Mrs. Bancroft's

stern accusations and demand for Muriel's
release.

Stay, she took the ground of the injured ;
asserted, " Muriel has not been worth her
salt since the race-week. And her foot was
not injured in mj/ service. If she had not
gone gadding after a young officer she might
have been well now."

Muriel clasped her hands together and
cried piteously, " Oil, grandmother, that is not
true ! "

It is true ! His own mother, Mrs. Wynne,
accused you of it in this very room," retorted
Mrs. Copley, with the sharpness of a stab ;
"and did not Miss Briscoe call me to order
for allowing you to meet him at the theatre ?
and he's been sending letters to you since,
you can't deny it."

Muriel flushed and paled. This was
terrible. Her friends looked confounded.
Her grandmother turned towards her for
an explanation.

This was all the letter sent to me," said
Muriel with a weary sigh, dipping into her

VOL. u. N

pocket f(jr the housewife in wliicli it was
encased. " He had providentially saved ray
life. I have not seen him since. Mrs. Wynne
made a mistake, and so did Miss Briscoe. T
went to the play with Dr. Holmes, and
Lucinda."

Mrs. Copley's triumph was short-lived.
She had not expected the production of the
letter.

It is the letter of a gentleman, my lass,"
said her grandmother, after a glance over it.
"But if he had met thee or written to thee a
dozen times, that would be no excuse for
starvation and neo-let, or Avorkinsf thee to
death at that tambour-frame instead of teaching
thee thy business. Here, Mrs. Griffiths,
3'ou mind my lass, whilst I go for Dr.
Prestbury ; and then I'll see what a Justice of
the Peace has to say about it. Aye, and
what my Lady Grosvenor thinks of killing
the earls who trim her ijowns."

And before Mrs. Copley could remonstrate
or intercept her the energetic old woman was
half-way downstairs.

It Alas Mrs. Copley's turn to change colour.
She knew Mrs. Bancroft's resolute spirit, and
til at she had Lady Grosvenor's ear. Were
she to withdraw her patronage  and she
niio'lit  half her connection would follow.
And a case before a Justice ! She would
lose her respectability. She saw that
concession was safer than exposure, and
when Mrs. Bancroft returned with the
well-known surgeon she was ready to come
to terra.

But even then she let the kindly doctor
bend his long back, Iiis square shoulders and
grave face over Muriel's swollen foot and
inflamed ankle, and counsel immediate
attention, bed, and good nursing before she
tardily submitted. But there could be no
cancelling indentures. She would not
hear of a money equivalent. Muriel must
return on her recovery and serve out the last
year of her term. Mrs. Copley had a will as
Avell as Mrs. Bancroft, and was as keen and
calculation a business woman if not more
so.

N 2

Muriel cared not so long as she was free
to go home then. Her heart yearned for
home.

"My dear," said Mrs. Griffiths, "if the
doctor thinks you could be safely removed to
Wrexham, it would be a pleasure to give you
every care and attention at the farm. And
the pure air would set you up for the longer
journey home."

"Look you, doctor, would not that pe the
pest for her ! " suggested Mrs. Parry, " and
she would pe with friends."

The doctor shook his head. " The young
lady is no more ht to go to Wrexham than to
Manchester. This injury lias been neglected
too loft. Let your chaise take her to the
nearest inn, madam (to Mrs. Bancroft), there
must be no delay, or amputation may be
necessary. She must be taken to bed at once.
And her foot must not be put to the ground.
Come, you are a light Aveight, Miss, suppose I
carry you to the chaise," and the worthy man,
who remembered his old patient at the Misses
Briscoe's, bade one of the children hanging

iibout the door bring Miss D'Aiiyer's hat ;
and lifted her like a child. The children she
was leaving looked ruefully on.

The Yacht Inn was but a few doors
away ; the post-boy was told to drive slowly.
Mrs, Bancroft walked down the street with
the doctor, Mrs. Parry and Mrs. Griffiths
also following on foot, the former leading
her horse. She was her own driver. The
doctor lifted Muriel from the chaise himself,
saw her conveyed upstairs, and then
hurried away promising to be back immediately
with a cooling lotion and bandages.
*' Then we will see what a tonic and a i'ood
night's rest will do, with some kitchen physic
to back it. We must allay the inflammation
and bolster up the system before we decide
on a journey." All of which told how
serious he considered the case. He was a
prompt man at any time ; but he was more
so than ordinary, and Mrs. Bancroft saw it
with renewed anxiety.

I'liose were not times for anyone in
business to throw money away, however well-to-do.

Many a commercial house that lead
stood its ground in the panic of 1793, had yet
been shaken to its foundations, and had not
altogether recovered the shock ; and even
cautious traders like Sarah Bancroft had felt
a sense of public insecurity, and a need for
caution in trade, and economy in private,
never before called for. But had it been
otherwise, Sarah Bancroft was not the woman
to throw money away, or to spend recklessly'
that which she had acquired with so much
care and painstaking.

It spoke well for her heart that she did
not calculate the cost of the post-chaise, the
hire and keep of horses and postillion when
she undertook her journey in a hurry ; and
it said as much for her Jicad, that even in
her haste and distress she could call Sam's
attention to the fact that it was the fourth
of July, and that she could reach Chester
just in the nick of time for the July Fair
which began on the morrow (the 5th), and
that she niiirht " kill two birds with one
stone," if he packed up certain goods and

sent them after her as quickly as conveyance
would allow.

Sam had looked blank, and rubbed
his thighs irritably. " What about the
October Fair?" he asked. (That was
the great fair which they were wont to
attend. )

Never thee mind. I'll see to that before
October comes. Do just as I tell thee Jiow.''

But long before her solitary drive had
come to an end, she had (apart from her
trouble and her remorse concerning Muriel)
begun to calculate and reflect, and heavier
than her fears for the cost of her journey
were her misgivings and doubts of her
substitute at Eed Bank, and her fears for
the business left in his sole charge in such
a hurry. She might be troubling herself
unnecessarily, but she had not been satisfied
with Sam of late, she owned to herself. He
mixed up too much with politics, and with
the warlike volunteers, who were turning
Manchester into a huge barracks and parade-ground,
and though she confessed herself

loyal as most folk, still, business vas
business, and soldiering was soldiering

he had brought in a goodly order or
two for skins to make shakos and tablecloths,
but she did not care much for business which
took him so frequently away from his place
of business  and his home. And although
Lydia was close and never said a word in
his disfavour, she had her suspicions that all
was not rio-ht under his own roof; that he
kept later hours than in his bachelorhood.

It was not until the night she brought
Muriel from school, when she caui>iit Sam
slinking away from observation among the
other outpourings of John Shaw's Punch
House,, that she had the shadow of a doubt
of her well-beloved and much trusted son.

Had he not stuck close to business and
remained unmarried so long to please Iter, a
plain, steady-going tradesman, on whom she
had built her hopes of keeping up the old
name and connexion ; consorting' as he did
with his elders, and not with wild young
bucks and dandies ; and mari-king at last a

plain industrious farmer's daughter, instead of
a high-flown miss, who would spend money
faster than he could make it ? Sam had
indeed been a son after her own heart, fond
of a sly joke now and then, but obedient and
trustworthy, without a single vice ; she had
trained him well, and wis satisfied with the
results of her training. If her eyes were
opened that night, she vas ready to accept
his plausible excuse, though lie never quite
closed them aiain.

Little matters that had formerly escaped
her attention now arrested it, and there
certainly was something about Sam she could
not quite understand. Whatever change
there was had come on since he married, and
like other mothers-in-law she attributed the
change to his marriage.

There had always been a something about
Lydia she could never fathom, a sort of shrinking
reserve, a constraint of speech and manner
as if perpetually on guard over herself. At
first she set it down as the rustic awe of the
country bred young woman, but when time

brought her no nearer familiarity it became
a source of perplexity, and she was not fond
of enigmas. And she did not care to see
Mangy' Blackburn ruling her son's house as
if she were mistress, and briniiino- a lout of
a lad with her as she did when their oriel was
born. She wished that babe had been a lad.
Still Lydia made Sam a good wife, there
was no mistake about it, and still less that
his will was law. She was homely, motherly,
neat, industrious, kept her house in order
without a maid, and never went trading,
tokens both of thrift and domesticity to be
commended. But Mrs. Bancroft had an idea
she kept too closely indoors for one reared
in the country. The markets were close at
hand, and no one ever saw Mrs. Sam except
there, or at church, or in the queer but
orderly rooms of the old black-and-white house
in Toad Lane, hard at work of one sort or other.
Had she not even herself told Sam he ought
to take his wife out now and then to get the
fresh air and see his relations, he ought not
to have married to let her lose her fresh

country roses shut up in a box, as if he was
ashamed of her. He had answered : " Lydia's
shy of town-folk, she hasn't been used to
them or their ways," and for a long while
this had passed muster, Lydia did seem so
afraid of his relatives, especially her mother-in-law.
Well, she knew lie was hard and
brusque, and Lydia had not got used to her.
But when she had dropped in at unexpected,
far apart, times and seasons, either when
collecting her rents, or coming from church
or the D'Anyers, and invariably found her
alone, and more than once in tears over the
hose she was knitting, or the babe she was
nursing, with the place as bright and inviting
as hands could make it, she began to think
there might be someone to blame besides
Lydia ; and to wonder where Sam spent his
Sundays and his after-business hours. She
even forgave her for keeping Maggy Blackburn
about her so long, since her new home
must be dull after the farm, and Maggy could
bring her all the news of Waverham, and
it was this caused her to assent so readily

to Lyilia going with Sam, on the autumn
journey. Indeed she ]had more than once
taken him to task and said there was no
place for a married man like his own
hearth.

True, Sam had always an excuse or a
reason, and his reason was generally " business,"
whether he was with Holm Danger, or
with his military and volunteer friends, until
at last she had told him that his " professed
diligence in business was somewhat overdone,
she would like him to keep as close to the
workshops and the counting-house now he
was his own master as he had done before,
there was as much need."

Thus it was that her absence from Manchester
and the farrier, in those critical
times, was weighted with extra anxiety.
Her forebodings came on afresh when Mr.
Prestbury declared Muriel unlikely to leave
the bed hastily prepared for lier, for some
days, and in need of constant care and attention.
She began to think she had made a
miscalculation, and that all her trade previsions

would end in extra cost. She might
almost as well send back her furs unopened ;
there would be no leavings Muriel to the care
of the busy hostess or waiters at fair time ;
and when the fair was over, the chances of
trade would be over too.

She had her miso;ivino;s too about the
business at home left so hurriedly in the care
of her son and partner. Keen as was Sam at
a bargain, fond as he was of money, close ashe
had stuck to the workshops and counting-house
before his marriage, the chancre which
had come over him since recurred to her with
fresh force.

It added now to the anxiety with which she
contemplated her coming watch by Muriel's
side at the inn, instead of driving over to
Eddisbury at once and leaving her there in
charge of Mrs. Kingsley and Dr. Holmes
whilst she came back to buy and sell in
Chester ; as had been her intention.

Here was another thins; over which she had
no control, and it worried her. Yet she was
not the less ready to own that she had "just

come ill the nick of time," and accept it as a
Providential circumstance that the July Fair
had brono-ht Muriel's two Welsh friends to
Chester, and to Mrs. Copley's at the same
juncture.

It was a satisfaction to have met them so
opportunely, and for once in her life she was
content to have someone at hand to "see toit,"
in her stead, she felt so unstrung.

The tension upon iron nerves may be too
threat, and hers had been overstrained. She
did not faint, she had never fainted in her life,
but when she heard the doctor's decision, she
sank into a chair within an ace of it. Someone
brought her a glass of brandy-and-water,
someone who saw she had need of a
fillip. She could not be sure whether it was
Mrs. Griffiths or Mrs. Parry.

It was a tacit surrender of her own sufficiency
when she stood aside, or sat down
and watched strangers ]perform for Muriel
those offices lie would have felt called upon
to perform at any cost to herself, had they not
been present to proffer service.

It was Mrs. Griffiths who assisted Muriel
to the great four-post bed ; Mrs. Griffiths Who
waited upon Mr. Prestbury when he applied
his lotion and swathed the tender and
unsatisfactory member in wet bandages.

It was likewise the kind friend of her
girlhood, more matronly but otherwise
unchanged, Who stooped down over Muriel
when, pressing her white lips close, she
winced at his touch  and whispered to her
words of sustaining power and comfort, in
the language of the Book which had been
Muriel's treasury, whence she had drawn lier
patience and her Iiope, the Book Sarah
Bancroft had begun to study so late in life.
The words fell from Mrs. Griffiths' lips like
the cooling drops from a fountain of sweet
waters, and did much to soothe Muriel's pain,
and tranquilize her spirit, disturbed alike by
the accusation and the altercation about
herself at Mrs. Copley's ; and the suggested
possibility of amputation.

And when Sarah Bancroft's business cares
strove audibly with the necessity for nursing

lev debilitated grandchild, it was Earlier
Griffiths who relieved her dilemma, by
arranging for Mrs. Parry to go back to
Wrexham and her boys without her,
expressing her own intention to remain
Avitli her young friend in case Mr. Pi-estuary
should apply leeches to the ankle on the
morrow, as he feared might be necessary,
and in fact until she was fit for removal to
Wrexham or elsewhere. She had an impression
that the hard-featured woman would
rather irritate than soothe the sick girl, whose
mind needed rest as well as her bod3\

It was Mrs. Parry who, with many a "Look
you ! " and " Less my heart ! " revealed that
the dress Muriel had sat up night and day
to embroider for Mrs. Wynne (of which
Lucinda Holmes had given a full account),
lead indirectly been the means of laying Mrs.
Wynne herself up with rheumatic fever.

And it was serve her right, to dress like
a younsf mr, look you ! "

Oh, Mrs. Parry, you would not say so,"
expostulated Muriel from her pillow, " if

you knew what rlieiiinatism is. My mother
suffers from it dreadfully."

May pe, put if she threw off her warm
skirts, and did put on a thin gown, and did
pare all her arms and her neck at a pall,
then it would serve her right too, look
you ! "

My mother never did tliaf, I am sure. I
believe she got wet through one day. I
never was told how," answered Muriel
innocently. But her words sent a shaft of
pain through her grandmother's breast.
Was that wetting Ellen's fault or her own?
Was anyone "served rio'ht " in that case?
She was glad Muriel knew no more.

Best, lotion, bandages, nourishment and

friendly sympathy did as much for Muriel as

the doctor's anodyne. She slept long and

tranquilly. Though leeches were necessary,

there was no more said of amputation, Muriel

herself had settled that. The inflammation

subsided and she remained recumbent by

Mr. Prestbury's command. She was patient ;

Earlier Griffiths was all that a kind and gentle
VOL. n.

nurse should be. And there behig no
interdict on speech, there was much to hear
and tell on both sides. On Mrs. Griffiths'
part, of her husband, her boys, and the
years which might elapse before she and
the captain met again. But there was no
whining or complaint in lier tone. Whatever
she might feel, she submitted to the
absence of her husband as she had done to
that of her lover, or her father before him,
as to the inevitable, leaving' the future in
hands Divine. She made no parade of anxiety
or distress. And in the aftertime Muriel
remembered this.

I have said little of the war fever that
was raging through Europe, and had spread
its contraction to our own land ; but it Alas
on that epidemic Mrs. Bancroft had counted
for trade during the July Fair. The bom-bom
of the drum and toot-a-toot of the fife were
heard in every town and village where idlers
or patriots might be ready for enlistment.
Volunteer corps were enrolling and arming ;
Sheffield and Birmingham were noisily and

grimly at work on swords and muskets.
The wheels and looms of Yorkshire and
Wiltshire were hnmmino- and clackino- to
furnish cloth ; madder and indigo had
possession of the Lancashire dje-pits ; army
tailors and saddlers stitched and pressed their
work in hot haste, for even the women went
into uniform  at least the loyal ladies who
presented colours to the various new troops
wore military coatees over their short bodices.
And as the volunteers loyally equipped
themselves, the demand for mink, bearskin,
and sheepskin for shakos and housings was
brisk and general. Not alone on Chester,
but on the Welsh and Irish traders did Sarah
Bancroft rely. The presence of Mrs.
Griffiths set her at liberty, and as she had
calculated, the large bales of skins Sam had
duly despatched to the Manchester Hall were
exchanged for piles of flannel or linen, or
hard cash before the fair was over ; and the
old dame took credit to herself for the smart
way in which she had turned her unforeseen
journey to account.

o 2

She did not forget to thank Mrs. Griffiths
for the kind and Clmstian-iike devotion to
Muriel which had released her to more congenial
duties, and so helped to make a
fortunate hit of a misfortune ; and when
Mrs. Parry came for her niece on the Saturday,
the market-day and the last of the fair,
the little light cart carried off a load of toy
drums, trumpets, and swords, gingerbread
soldiers and sailors gloriously gilt, for the
boys, and rugs for winter use in the farm,
which she pressed on their acceptance
with a mino-lincr of grateful Good-will and
independence.

And Eachel Griffiths carried away with
her not only Muriel's grateful thanks for
true and womanly service in the present,
but the assurance that her precepts and her
example in the past had been set up by her
loving pupil as a lamp to light her on the
rough path she was treading. And if the
pair parted with tears, there was a rainbow
shining through them.

SEEN AND IIEAKD.

Wl HAVE said elsewhere that Muriel had
 been carried away like a leaf on a
stream, the stream of her grandmother's
strong Avill. But let it not be supposed
she was passive from the weakness of her
nature, but from its very strength. Shallow
waters chafe at every pebble, the deep and
strong glide on without a ripple on the
surface. There were unsuspected forces in
her breast with which she had wrestled
many a time and oft ; and but for the
softening influence of Each el Williams atone
crisis of her life, they night have overcome
all her own mother had taught of
cheerful obedience, and patient endurance.
She had found life at Mrs. Copley's hard
and uncompromising, but she looked hopefully

through the vista of sears for lier
release, and lead picked up some crumbs of
comfort by the way. She had saved Lucinda
Holmes from the reckless course Matilda
Parkes had taken towards destruction ; and
through all her life Lucinda would bless her
for it. She had won her way to the hearts
of Mrs. Copley's children ; dressed rag-dolls
for the girls, made balls and marble-bags
for the boys, watched by their sickbeds
through the hours of the nio-ht, carried
them with her into the fields and lanes, and
told them tales by the Away, on Sunday
afternoons in the slack season. Or she
had cheered up their dull and crowded attic
at bed-time with that marvellously sweet
voice of hers, and they had crowded round
her eacfer for " more." She had brio-tenet
her own life as she sweetened theirs, and she
had her reward in the love they bore lier.
Young heads of all sizes had peered
through or over the balustrades as she was
borne away ; sobbing " good-byes " were
called to her, and Muriel was sensible she

lead done something more at Mrs. Copley's
than make dresses or embroider robes, was
leaving some Uttle hearts that were sorry for
her, sorry to lose her, even for a time.

The fact was, one listener had carried the
word " amputation " to the others, and the
horror that Miss Danger's foot was to be '
cut off " was strong upon them, and not
to be overcome. They talked of it, cried
over it, dreamed of it.

The need not have been afraid. Muriel
had listened and decided within herself that
it should not be "cut off;" and so she
told Mr. Prcstbury when he at the inn
a second time adverted to the possible
necessity for using the knife ; as doctors
of the time were rather inclined to do.

Well, sir," she said emphatically, " if
I cannot go back to my father and mother
with all my limbs, I am willing to die.
They would get over the shock of my death,
I have been away from them so long ; but
my father would never recover the shock
of a maimed daughter stumping about the

house," and a loiio-drawn sion!! came from
the depths of memory.

She was right in her conclusions. Iter
cropped head had been an eyesore to her
father and she knew it. The knowledge
had been a irrief to her.

The doctor had possibly sounded a false
alarm partly to bring Mrs. Copley to reason,
partly to convince Mrs. Bancroft that immediate
removal was impossible, and it may be
to emphasize his own skill in curing without
so desperate a remedy He had however
faith in his own resources. And they
sufficed.

Indeed so successful had he been that
tliouGjli he shook his head and said it was
' hazardous " and " premature," he could
not on the Saturday morning which closed
the fair deny the feasibility of removing this
patient to Manchester if done with care,
easy travelling; and short stairs. Mrs. Bancroft
had not dismissed the post-chaise in
which she had travelled, when she sent the
JSTorthwich post-boy back with his horses ;

and she had no difficulty in finding other
post-horses. (When Arthur Wynne had
ridden away with this servant behind him it
was on post-horses to be changed at the next
posting-station.)

Muriel was glad to exchange the hot,
stifling, gloomy double-bedded room at the
Yacht, with its heavy hangings and small
ransome window, for a seat in the post-chaise,
though her foot had to be stretched
out on the seat before her. And lie was clad
to see four or five of the young Hopes
on the watch for her, boys and girls from
fourteen to six, and to exchange good-byes
and nod back to them as they waved their
hands to her. The windows were open, the
afternoon sun was shining, and she was going
home. Home ! the word seemed written in
sunbeams on every beam of every gable in
the ancient street, on the balustrades of the
rows as they were left behind. The fresh
clear air, the blue sk}-, seemed to be a part
of her gladness, and but for the children
there was not a creature she cared to leave

behind, not a soul to care for lier going.
She almost forgot lier still acliino; foot in
her gladness, and leaned back happy but
not talkative. If the reflection that she
was bound to return to her task-mistress
would obtrude, she thrust it into the background,
and left it behind when they were
once fairly out of AVaterijate Street, and
there was no fear of Mrs. Copley stopping
the chaise and demanding her stay there
and then.

It was a market as well as a Fair day ;
the streets were full of people, and the
recruiting sergeant had taken advantage of
the opportunity. At the Cross they passed
a party of soldiers with a file of rustics in
their charge who had closed their hands on
the king's shilling, and with gay cockades
and flying streamers followed the lure of
the fife and drum. The music disturbed
the horses, and the postillion had to urge
them past with whip and spur. Then they
set off with a rush so sudden that Muriel
was startled.

Looking out involuntarily through the
front windows of the chaise, she caught a
momentary glimpse of a face she knew above
the parapet of the wide Eastgate ; but before
she could tell her grandmother that she had
seen Arthur Wynne, the flying horses had
carried them beyond the Bars, and along
Foregate  scattering the people right and
left  only slackening speed Avhen Chester
was left behind, and they were far out on
the clearer highway beyond Boughton
milestone, between green hedges, where the
only streamers were those of the dog-rose
and the scented honeysuckle.

"Are you sure it was Lieutenant Wynne,"
the elder woman asked.

Quite. I could not mistake him ; and I
think those soldiers recruiting at the Cross
wore the same uniform, only they had tall
blue caps like mitres with the Prince of
Wales's feathers worked in front.'

Ah, the Welsh Fusiliers ! So they were,
my lass ! I wish I had seen him, or that we
had not gone flying past at such headlong-speed.

The horses had quite run away with
us, it is Avell there was no accident. They
have given my old bones a shaking, and will
not have done your foot any good. But I am
more sorry they took fright then, because I
would have liked to have a word or two
with the young gentleman."

And so," thought Muriel with a sigh,
' should I. But perhaps it is as well as it is,
one never knows," and she sighed ao'ain
unconsciously, lapsing into silence, in-which
thought and memory were busy with her
true friend, Arthur Wynne." Somehow she
was not quite so glad that she was hurrying
away since she had seen him. And she
wondered how lonfj he had been in Chester,
and if it was possible he had recognized
her.

Her grandmother, too, had sunk into
silence. It might be she was calculating her
gains during the fair, or it might be that the
jolting and rattling of the chaise (the best of
roads were bad) inclined more to meditation
than speech.

Suddenly she broke abruptly on Muriel's
reverie.

Do you mean to say jow never heard how
your mother got her wetting ? " and her voice
sounded strangely hard and stern.

Muriel looked wonderingly in her f\ice.

Never ! "

Then I'll tell you ; and let it serve as a
warning. Your mother was my youngest,
and my darling, the ]pride of my widowed
life, yet  T did it! When she was barely
sixteen, and I first heard of her clandestine
marriage through your father's blustering
demand for his wife, I drenched her with
the water in which she was washing lace, and
bade her ' begone.' Wet as she was, without
another word, he took her away. I never
saw her again until after you were born, 
you need not look so petrified, Muriel ! If
that wetting caused her pain in every limb,
her own secret and undutiful act stung; me
to wrath and brought it on herself."

o

And the dry, grinding tone in which this
was said sounded as if the old woman would

be ready to do the same again under like
provocation.

Poor mother ! " murmured Muriel behind
the hands in which her tearful face was
hid.

Poor mother ! " echoed Mrs. Bancroft,
angrily, " and what of me ? Was not I the
poor mother robbed of the child on whom I
had lavished coin like water. Treacherously
robbed, in cruel silence and secrecy. It
came on me like a thunderbolt, and the
storm fell on both. Was I to blame? I
trow not. Xo child has a rijT-ht to contract
marriage without a parent's sanction. What
do young folk know of character or habits.
They meet and fall in love  calf love, and if
no elders intervene marry and make fools of
themselves. Take care, girl, you nude no
such mistake ; I should never forgive you if
you did after this caution."

There is no fear of that, grandmother ; I
am not in love 3'et, and no one is in love with
me. I will let jou know when there is," and
Muriel's smile chased away her tears.

That's right, child, sec you do 1 " and the
wrinkled fingers of the listened brown hand
stroked caressingly the thin white one lying
on the outstretched knee.

I have set my face against premature
marriages," she went on. " The hottest love
is soonest cold, and those who have neither
patience nor constancy to wait, will belike
show little patience or constancy afterwards.
And the courtship that dare not ask the
blessing of father or mother, is a something
to be ashamed and afraid of. Thank God ! I
had one dutiful child Who stuck by his old
mother, and was not too wise to take her
advice and wait till he was old and sensible
enough to take charge of another's life and
happiness. There Alas nothing secret or
clandestine about Sans courtship ; though
I sometimes think I kept them waiting rather
longer than was any need. Lydia was a
steady lass, and makes him a notable, thrifty
wife ; and Sam's lost nothing by his obedience,
I can tell you. If he only keeps steady
and sticks to business, he's a made man."

Some of her recent misfrivino-s about her
son must have recurred to her, for lier brows
suddenly contracted and she fell into a brown
study. Muriel herself was so lost in wonder
at the drift of the conversation and her
grandmother's unwonted burst of confidence,
that she had no words for her entangled
thoughts, in which the rights and wrongs of
her mother and grandmother were inextricably
confused. Now and then she
shifted her position to ease her lame foot,
and made a casual remark as they passed
through town or village in their route, but
the wheels were more voluble than either of
their tongues. Indeed the rattle and shaking
of the vehicle made conversation a strain,
and induced fatigue.

They had left Tarvin behind but had not
reached Kelsall, and so were not yet within
the bounds of Delamere, and the dark greenwoods
of the Old Pale of Eddisburv looming
throstle twilight mists high above all
to promise rest and welcome, were only seen
in anticipation, when, as abruptly as if there

lead been no break in her own conimnnin2:s
or their colloquy, Mrs. Bancroft again laid
lier ao:ed hand on Muriel's with kind
impressiveness, and said :

I thought, my lass, yoii had maybe set
your fancy on that lieutenant, and it was best
to give you a bit of a caution ; for he's a
likely lad to catch a girl's fancy, and soldiers
are here to-day and gone tomorrow, and

Oh, grandmother, how could you think
? " interrupted Muriel like a gasp, the
colour mounting to her pale cheeks unseen
in the evening shade.

AVell, well, I hope I had no right to
think; for Arthur Wynne comes of a proud
stock, and that mother of his would consider
his blood defiled if he mated Avitli a tradesman's
child ; and not all the blood of the
Masses, and Stanley, and the Danger of
Cressy to boot  of which your father boasts
so much in his cups,  can do away with the
fact that he and his father got their living
and made their money in trade, though it's

VOL. II. p

little enough your father has made  worse
luck ; so you'd best not let your fancy go
astray, my lass, that's all."

Muriel murmured something of his beini:
only a friend."

Aye ; he may be, as you say, only a
friend, but friends of his class are best at
a distance. I'm oiad we left him behind."

Muriel had the clue now to her grandmother's
extraordinary tirade  the insure
seen for a brief moment above the Eastgate.
A clue had been supplied to something more
the unsuspected mystery of her own heart.
For a moment its pulses seemed to standstill,
then they went on beating, but to a new
tune for which she had not yet a name.
She had discovered that her " true friend,
Arthur Wynne," was more to her than a
mere friend ; and the discovery kept her
silent. She could not tell that to her grandmother.


Presently her grandmother broke out, as
abruptly as before, " Hast heard from thi
cousin Silly of late ? "

Not since Christmas, when she sent me
word of the grand doings at the Grange,"
answered Muriel, wondering why she asked.

"Aye," responded the questioner, "Thy
Aunt Bent's o'er fond of fooling money away
in dinners and dances ! And so many poor
folk starving too ! I've no patience. And
now that all the world is fighting mad, she
never has the redcoats out of the house.
It cost enou<::li for Will's commission and
uniform ; and now Joe has turned volunteer.
She mio-ht want to ire rid of all her sons.
As if a cotton-spinner's sons had not something
better before them."

Silly said that Bob would soon be out of
his articles ! " put in Muriel to change the
subject.

"Aye, and a pretty lawyer he'll make,
half his time dangling after Silly, and the
other half hunting or shooting?. And what
had Silly to say about him ? "

Oh, only that he danced a minuet With

her, and a new country dance called ' Haste

to the Wedding.' "

p 2

Humph ! Haste to the Wedding, indeed !
Lads and lasses are all ready to dance to that
tune, but most haste, less speed, Muriel. And
it's not the tune for either Silly or Bob for
many a year to come. I don't care to put my
fingers in other folk's hot pies, or I should bid
James Hargreaves look after Silly."

"Why, grandmother? " and Muriel opened
wide her lovely eyes.

Why?  well, because the lass is always
poring over rubbishy novels and Icrve-sick
romances, till she's as silly and sentimental
as any Amanda or Clarissa she finds in them ;
and your sister Marion's not a bit the better.
Ah ! you've something to thank your old
grandmother for, if oxAj keeping you clear
of such nonsense. I'm glad you are not one
of the silly girls who fall in love if a fine
fellow only looks at them. There's plenty
of time, Muriel, plan  tis of time !" and again
the old woman patted the young one's hand.

But the young one answered never a word
though her heart beat rapidly, and again
sent its crimson to lier brow.

They were at Salisbury. The chaise
stopped, lights Hashed to and fro, and m
the hearty greeting of the forester and his
wife Muriel's unwonted and rapidly fading
bloom escaped notice.

They were in the great hall, still in the
bustle of reception ; Mrs. Bancroft helping
Mr. Kingsley to place Muriel for rest
and ease, among cushions on the oaken settle
to which he had borne her, like a child, in
his brawny arms.

Mrs. Kingsley, do you want me ? " was
shouted from one of the side passages.

Mrs. Bancroft pricked up her ears.
Goodness ! That was our Sam's voice ! "

No ! no ! " cried Mrs. Kingsley, hurrying
down the passage on the left to keep
someone back.

Your Sam ? Why, we have not seen
him for months," said the forester. " It's
only a poor, neglected lad m} wife's taken
]pity on."

I could have sworn it was our Sam,"
replied the old furrier, but she did not ask

to see the lad ; and tlioiigli she gave Muriel
Sunday's rest and Monday's at Eddisbury,
whilst she made her purchases of skins from
the forester, and drove to Waverham to
collect her rents and inspect her property,
she went back to Eed Bank without seeing
him. Sarah Bancroft thought she had
made a discovery of Muriel's secret ; she
little thought how close she had been to the
discovery of a greater one, the dread of
which made two people in Manchester quake
in their shoes ; and put the good-natured
Kingsleyss in a quandary.

A figure seen on a city wall  an empty
voice in a dim passage !

There was of course a brief stoppage at
Northwich, where horses and post-boy had
to be exchanged, but the stoppage was at
the door of Dr. Holmes and not at the door
of the inn ; and inhere the exchange lead to be
made, for so Sarah Bancroft willed, and she
was too old and too regular a customer to
be offended. People who put up at an inn
once or twice a year in those untravelled days

were known and respected. Host and hostess
attended to the wants and comforts of their
customers, the inn-servants kept their places
until they were as well known as the swinging-sign,
and as attentive as master or mistress.
But the homeliness and home-welcome of the
old country posting-house is a thing of the far
past ; have been lost in the whiz and hzz of
steam. Railways are not unmitigated blessings.

At the doctor's there was rest, and a
luncheon of bread and cheese, gooseberry-pie,
and home-brewed ale, though the doctor
was out. Lucinda and her mother were at
their wits' end to entertain their impromptu
guests as they wished, and were quite in a
flurry of regret that they had no better fare
to set before them. " As if it matters,"
said Muriel, " when the hearty welcome is
here : and it is for us to apologise for taking
you by storm, but I thought you would not
mind it, and I could not have walked here
from the inn."

Mind it ! I'm delighted ! But now tellus
how you got away, and all about it."

Lucinda was in a state of great excitement
and rejoicing at the " triumph over old
Copley," tlioiigii lier joy was damped to hear
that Muriel was bound to return. And she
was most desirous that they should remain
until her father came. Jut he was ozone on
an uncertain errand, and Mrs. Bancroft was
eager to get home. So, it may be, as a
substitute for her father, Lucinda introduced
Ins assistant Asa Booth, a sober-looking
young fellow who brought with him the
flavour of the drugs he was compounding?
and who seemed glad to escape to his pestle
and mortar, somewhat as if he felt he lead
been " on view." And Lucinda's whispered
What do you think of him ? " to Muriel,
did seem to bear some such interpretation.


Mrs. Bancroft was fidget ty to be off.
The horses wei'e brought round from the
Unicorn, and Muriel leaning on Lucinda
limped to the door. A tall thin fellow with
sharp ferret eyes was busied putting the
horses in the chaise. As lie Raised his

neat from buckling a strap, Muriel had a
good view of him, and his face seemed
known to her.

"Who is that man?" she asked Lucinda, " I
have either seen him before or someone
resembling him."

Oh, that's one of Maggy Blackburn's
sons, and his brother's as like him as two
peas."

"Ah, that's it! I thought I had seen the
face somewhere. It was Maggy Blackburn's."

"Yes," added the other, under her breath,
as if afraid a whisper would reach his ears.
It's a face to remember, and not pleasantly.
If I were the landlord of the Unicorn, I'd
jive none of him hanging about the stables,
cleaning harness and conveyances, and
horsing them. If a inch-pin is loosened or a
strap cut half-through and blacked over, it
isn't found out maybe till the people are
far enough in the forest."

"Well! " and the listener caught her breath.

"Well! why, don't you knoAV that the highroad
to Chester goes round with a great

sweep ? Long legged fellows like that
running straight across can be ready to take
advantage of a break-down, and if one's left
behind to be sworn to, who's to be sure about
the other. That's the way Captain Wynne's
carriage had been served, father says."

Part of this conversation had been held
whilst Mrs. Bancroft disputed the man's
demand for brinniiiir the horses round, and
Lucinda settled her friend comfortably in the
chaise. Her closing remark being, "Don't
you be afraid ; you're going the other way,
and Asa is giving a sharp squint at everything.
He's very clever is Asa."

Muriel smiled : she had heard of Asa,
and his cleverness, many a time before.
Lucinda acknowledged the smile with a
laughing good-bye, and retreated to make
way for Mrs. Bancroft.

There was a fresh start, another set of
associations to occupy their minds and
conversation as they left milestones and
turnpike-gates behind. But through all, that
voice heard at the Forest House seemed to

come back to Sarah Bancroft's ear ; and that
figure seen above the Eastgate was more
vividly present to Muriel than her companion
imagined.

lliis time Muriel was taken direct to her
own home, and the chain across the end of
Broom Street Alas removed to allow the
passage of the chaise. John Danger himself
helped his daughter to alight, and lent
her his support to a seat. He left a kiss on
her ]prow, and said he was " o'lad to have her
home aiain," before he resided her to her
mother with moist eyes to mingle tears of
mutual thankfulness and affection. Sisters
and Betty all came round her Avitli their
greeting's, and Muriel felt once more she was
at comic."

John Danger had returned to the chaise,
more than usually courteous to his mother-in-law.
He thanked her for her care of Muriel,
offered to recoup the cost of her journey, and
begged she would alight there.

His attention and offers of repayment were
doubtless gratifying ; her prompt " I'll see

thai don't," was said with a smile ; but the old
woman went on in the vehicle to Hyde's Cross,
whence it came, and having; settled her honos
out of her long purse, with as long a
face, carried her hand-bag over to her son's
house just as Lydia was clearing away
her tea-things. Her little girl was playing
with a kitten on the home-made hearth-rug.


Where's Sam ? " was the first salutation.

Oh, Mrs. Bancroft ! " Lydia never said
mother  "How you made me jump! I
thought it was Sam comines in. He said I

O CD

had better not wait tea, he might be late
paying wages as you were away. I'll soon
have a cup ready for you  and how did you
leave all the folks at Waverham ? There was
a curiously anxious expression about Lydia's
mouth and eyes as she put the question ; but
her mother-in-law had lifted the little one
into her lap to be kissed and treated to gilt-gingerbread
cakes from those capacious
pannier-like pockets of hers.

Oh, they were all pretty hearty. The

war doesn't seem to be a bad tlihio; for
the farmers from all I hear. Your father
looks fat and jolly enough. He sent his love
to you, and a cheese, and some fruit. The
hamper's across the road. I thought Sam
mio'ht fetch it."

"Sam fetch it?" The ejaculation was
involuntary, and not to be recalled.

Sam fetch it ! " echoed the old woman
tartly, "Why not? It's an ill ass that
won't carry its own provender. If John
Danger's too proud to do a turn of the sort,
our Sam's not. Not he."

Lydia had been moving about preparing
tea for her mother-in-law. There had been
a wistful look in her face as she asked for
news from Waverham, but it had settled into
stolid impenetrability as she set the tea " to
draw," and buttered the brown bread for her
unexpected visitor.

She was filling up the small teapot from
the kettle on the bright bar, when Mrs. Bancroft
said with customary abruptness :

I got quite a start at Kingsley's, some lad

or other called out to Mrs. Kingsley from
the passage, and I could almost have sworn
it was Sam's voice!"

Somehow either the tea-pot or the kettle
slipped, and the boiling water splashing on
the bright fender sent the kitten squealing
away from the hearth, and brought an angry
cat flvino' into the room in maternal alarm.
The mischance and the snarl of the cat
diverted attention from Lydia's ashen face,
or the strange voice in which she asked,
*what lad? did you see him?"

No ! What are you doing ? It's well I
had the child on my lap or you would have
scalded her instead of the kitten. Poor
Pussy."

In the commotion the disturbing voice was
forgotten, and after tea, which comprehended
also a collop of hung beef, Sarah Bancroft
relieved Mrs, Sam of her presence.

When Sam came home about nine o'clock
in an ill-humour at having been detained to
<Z0 over the accounts with his mother before
he left Eed Bank, he found a hamper in the

kitchen and his wife with her head on the
round snap-table in tears.

"What's the matter now? " he cried, ashe
threw down his hat. " I suppose it was
with some of your confounded nonsense you
scalded the poor kitten, and set my mother
wondering what made you so start. And
now, you're blubbering as usual."

Oh, Sam, I could not help it ! I thought
your mother had found it all out ; and my
heart fair came in my mouth ! "

Came into jour mouth indeed ! I wish
it had stuck there," quoth her polite husband
rubbing his breeches knees irritably. You'll
let it out and spoil all one of these days if
you're not more careful."

Oh, Sam, I can't help it, I can't indeed !
Do tell your mother. I don't think she's so
very hard. And the secret is killing me. It
is Sam." She had come close to him, and
dropping on her knees laid her hands and
head upon his arm appealingly.

He shook her off with an oath  this excellent
son  this steady husband  " Do you

Forbidden TO MARRY.

want to brinsc us to ruin? Do you want
to be turned out of house and home ? If
you dare to breathe a syllable to a living
soul, by heaven  I'll kill you ! " and taking
up his hat again he went out of the house.

UNKNOWN ATTRACTIONS.

"3 URIEL tliouo-lit that time lead run faster

in Manchester than in Chester dnrino-
her long' absence. Her life lead been monotonous,
her growth from girlhood to womanhood
wearisome until the last grand leap.
At home all seemed chased. The chaise
rattled over paved roadways ; oil-lamps hung
suspended from the walls or were mounted on
wooden posts to light the streets when night
should come ; and those streets, she knew
them not : whole blocks of old houses had
vanished, new red-brick ones had sprung up,
and change was everywhere.

The whiteness of her father's head was
nothing new  it had been white at thirty,
but the hair must have retreated from the
temples, his lofty brow seemed so much

VOL. n. Q

loftier, and certainly there was a round spot
on the crown from which the hair had fallen
aUoo-ether ; it was but the size of a shillings
it was there  and he not forty. Yet lie
was erect and commanding of old, and
Muriel fancied he was more imperative and
exacting;. She fancied too that she saw a line
or two of silver under her mother's cap, and
surely her gentle face was growing thin and
angular at the cheek-bones like her Grandmother
Bancroft, of whose energy slip
certainly partook, though her will was
dominated bv a stronger one, and if she
rebelled it was kept within herself  never
shown. She noticed too that Mdiilst her
father's attire was jaunty and dandyish as
of yore, her mother's had toned down into
primitive simplicity. A white kerchief of
thin muslin in regular folds covered lier neck
with matronly modesty, whilst the slain half-high
bodice under Which lay the kerchief
corners was not the narrow strip worn by
fashionables like Mrs. Wynne, and the material
was of homely stuff.

Very different were the two stylish young
ladies who bent over her, and in whom Muriel
could scarcely realize the Anna and Marion
who had been so captious over the embroidered
portrait then confronting her upon
the wall ; for black-haired Marion in lier sixteenth
year had shot up taller than lignite
Anna in her seventeenth ;
and lovely little Sara was " little " no longer,
though she still wore a schoolcjirrs frock
and pinafore, from which Marion had only
been freed on account of lier premature
growth.

I can scarcely believe my eyes," lie
said, " you are all so grown, and cousin Silly
and  surely that is not Bob Bent with you,
Silly ? "

Yes, cousin Muriel, I'm Bob, come to
shake hands with you, to show I don't bear
malice. I daresay I was rouo-h and rude
when you came from that hne school with
a cropped head, but as Silly will tell 3'ou, I
don't bear malice. I've forgiven myself long

aijo  so shake hands on it."

Q 2

with our manufacturers ; and that something
new within Muriel's own breast made all the
warlike preparations, of which she heard so
much, of vital import to her.

The letter she had sent home with so much
difficulty had accounted for her accident and
her rescue ; and now she found two sisters
and cousin Silly alike eager to ply her with
feminine questions about the gallant young
officer, what he was like, Avhat he said Avhen
she saw him ; did he not call to see her ?
intermingled with others on that first meetings
in Delamere Forest when they were all
children, and comments on his romantic
reappearance, which showed that they had
indulged in a class of sentimental readings
which she had happily been excluded.

So long as Anna and Marion confined
their observations to the bravery of Arthur
Wynne, and his providential appearance at
a critical juncture, she was willing to assent ;
but no sooner did tliev branch off into the
probabilities of a mutual attachment, which
she slyly kept to herself, then she felt it time

to check their assumptions, the knowledge of
all that was in her own heart making"" it
the more imperative. Maidenly shame prohibited
the confession of a love unsought : a
love she dared scarcely avow to herself.

She still lay on the sofa, far from strong,
and unable to use her foot.

Hush, my dears ! What would mother
think if she heard you ? What would
Lieutenant Wynne think ? Encourage him
to call at Mrs. Copley's ! You forget that it
was not my father's house, and that I was
there only a mantua-maker's apprentice and
he the nephew of a baronet."

I hope you did not tell him so," cried
black-headed Marion, in whom all the father's
pride seemed to have centred.

Indeed I did. It was my duty to do so."

Indeed it was not. If Grandmother
Bancroft chose to disgrace us all with
binding you to that woman, there was no
reason to publish to strangers that John
D'Anver's daughter was stitching dresses
amongst common workwomen." And handsome

Marion drew her tall form up proudly,
and resentfully, as if she had felt Muriel's
avocation a disgrace.

Anna held her peace. She had her own
reasons ; she had friends Who Avere not
aristocratic, and of whom the family knew
nothing ; at least nothing more than in
relation to their work, for they were fustian-cutters
; for whose frame and knives, John
Danger himself found frequent occupation.

Muriel flushed. She had long felt her
bondage a double grievance, unable to
penetrate her grandmother's motives, or
her father's acquiescence ; but she was nota
grumbler. Her mother had early impressed
upon her that she was required todo
her duty in that state of life unto which
it pleased God to call her." Miss Williams
had enforced and exemplified the doctrine,
and she had been a faithful disciple. But
to say that she had been satisfied with her
position would be untrue. Marion's remark
brought her face to face with the subject
once more, and not pleasant l3\

Presently she answered: "If you think
it such a disgrace, there was all the more
reason Lieutenant Wynne should be informed.
But you cast a refection on
father when you say so, for I could not
have been apprenticed without his consent,"
and her head went back wearily on the
sofa cushion.

Well, for my part, I don't see the
disgrace," here interposed Anna, who was
often to be found in the warehouse, helping
the " putter-out," and, it may be for that
reason, her father's favourite. " There's no
disgrace in honest work. I think the
weaver's as good as his master, and I don't
think that lieutenant a bit better for beings
baronet's nephew. What good has father's
family pride done us ? "

Marion, quite eighteen months her juiiio]',
put up her hands, long and slender in accord
with her figure. " Oh, you revolutionist !
Where did you pick up such notions? You
had better not let father hear you ! "

Ellen Danger walked into the room.

The excited Hush on Muriel's face caiioht
her eye. She smoothed down the brown
hair, once more abundant, and saying,
"Come, girls, leave Muriel alone. You are
neo'lectino- your own Avork and disturbing;
her ; "' sent them before her, the one to help
the maid upstairs, the other to assist her
with cookery in the kitchen.

Mother," said Muriel from the sofa,
there is no reason vhy my hands should
be idle because my foot requires rest. I am
quite well enough now to use my needle.
Bring your work-bag and let me darn the
stockings. I can fancy it is lace. Let me
do something to help you. It is so long
since I did, and I think you need rest
more than I."

In truth she did. She was worn with
many anxieties, with sleepless nights, and
careful days. John Danger had felt the
commercial pressure, but the closer he was
pressed, the more difficult it was to meet
his payments to the hour, the more lavish
was his expenditure abroad. It was his

expedient to preserve his credit. His wife
saw this with pain ;' expostulation, lie knew
of old, was Averse than useless. Interference
only drove him to excess. His own father
had remonstrated, but the old and now feeble
man had only incensed his son, and there
was a coolness set up which told against
John in the long run. All Ellen could do
was to economise in the household. She
dismissed one maid, retaining only Betty,
and had told Sara to make the most of
school, for she would soon have to leave it.
Her days and nights were full of apprehensions,
Whether her husband was away on a
journey or at home ; in the former case she
Avent into the warehouse from time to time
to keep an eye on clerks and salesmen, and
altogether she had her hands full, though
she set her girls to work betimes, as was the
custom of the time, amongst people of
their class. Muriel had almost ceased to be
one of them ; she had. come home at last
only for a temporary rest. The homely offer
to " darn the stockings to help her," restored

the balance, and set Muriel in her old place.
Always ready to help where help was needed.
The mother would be sony when Muriel had
to go back adam.

There was, however, plenty of life and
laughter in the house, for the cares of the
nation, or of their elders, seldom press
heavily on young people ; and, whether it
Alas the attraction of Muriel's narrow escape,
or of her soft brown eyes and melodious
voice, the " army of cousins " were not slow
in following the footsteps of Silly Hargreaves
and Bob Bent, and when the sons and
daughters of John Danger's many married
sisters and brothers Avere gathered together
in that parlour in Broom Street to sing and
chat and try the mettle of the old harpsichord,
they made a nice little family ]party.
Not liner men or women to be found in
England, sir," was John DAnyer's boast,
a sentiment Which had many an echo.

It was change and refreshment for Muriel,
and though there was a retarding enemy in her
breast she was doing her best to dislodge, she

grew stronger as the days and weeks went

by.

The shaking journey home had not
improved ]her foot and she was long unable
to nse it, but she kept her fingers busy,
took Sara's education in hand, and her rest
on the sofa was anything but the rest of
indolence. And as her fingers flew, her voice
rose in song, the welling up of a cheerful
spirit gladdened by freedom and home
influences.

She had not been home a fortnight when
Sara  who had taken Muriel fully into her
loving 3oung heart  whispered one evening
in confidence to Joe Bent, at the close of a
song by Marion  who lead a voice of great
power and compass  "I like Muriel's singing-better
than Marion's, it may not be so full
nor so fine, but it is  it is  as sweet as a
bird's, and I like it best."

Say you so ; then we'll have a song
from the bird," he answered, witli a good-humoured
nod ; and after a little pressing,
the bird in the sofa-nest was warbling an old

ditty as simply and unaffectedly as if she had
been singing to Mrs. Copley's children,
instead of to an auditory of cousins, who
were, or thought themselves, men and
women.

"Who's that singing in the parlour?"
exclaimed John Danger. He was smoking
a long pipe in the back sitting-room with
James Hargreaves and talking over trade
matters, having a tankard of ale on the table
between them. His mother-in-law had just
walked in after business to see low Muriel
Alas getting on, and to bring a new specific
for Ellen's rheumatism.

Muriel," answered Mrs. Danger quietly
from the corner, where she sat out of the
draught of the open window.

Tchut, nonsense! Muriel never had a
musical pipe like tJiat. The notes are as clear
as a bell, and as sweet as  " (he seemed to
lack a comparison) " aye, as Marion's. It
can't be Muriel ! "

Nevertheless lie rose from this seat and
went, pipe in mouth, to the door of the other

room to satisfy liiraself. lie remained to
listen.

"Well, art tliali satisfied?" cried Mrs.
Bancroft on this return.

Egad ! it is Muriel after all ! I did not
think the lass had so much music in her."

Xo ! " jerked out Mrs. Bancroft, sharply,
thalia never didst see anything good in
Muriel, but wait till she can sit up and touch
the harpsichord ; though I daresay the poor
thing is out of practice now. There's more
in Muriel than thai dreams of, and so I told
thee years ao-o. I said I'd see her natural
gifts were not lost for want of cultivation,
and mark the result. Don't think those fine
nephews o' thine in th' next room were drawn
hither by Anna's pretty face, that thai thinks
so much of, or by Marion's black eyes and
raven hair, or even her fine voice, and shea
fine lass, I admit. How often did they
come bethink thee till Muriel came home?
Once in a month, belike. Other folk have
keener eyes and ears than thai hast, John ;
and mayhap thah'U find more beauty in the

lass some of these days than is to be found
in face or figure, and Muriel's none so ill-looking,
after all. And ma3be that'll
discover that some day through other folks'
eyes."

Bravo ! old dame, stick up for the lass !
My Milly'll back thee ! " cried James Hargreaves,
knocking the ashes from his pipe, byway
of emphasis.

John Danger had already discovered that
"Muriel was not so ill-looking after all," but
he had failed to see the attractions others
found in her, and was not disposed to set
her before his queenly Marion, or his fair-haired,
favourite Anna, or even the child-like
loveliness of Sara. She was a comely maiden,
he admitted, but that was all. And he argued
that Avhen the newness of her presence wore
off, the visitors would drop off too  sunless
there Avere other attractions.

Muriel had Wondered to see so many of
their relatives and others dropping in at
unexpected times and seasons, meeting in
groups that filled the parlour twice or

thrice <a week ; that old familiar parlour
where the dark mahogany chairs and tables
shone like ijlass with much rubbing and the
bright brass fender mocked the mirror with
its polish and where her own embroidery
adorned the walls, in company with the newly
painted portraits of father and mother.
There had been no such gatherings in the
old times, except at Christmas or Whitsuntide
and then by invitation. Perhaps it was
because her cousins and her sisters Avere
now grown up, and she by no means disparaged
the attractions of the latter. Of
herself as a magnet she had not the feeblest
perception. So keenly had she been made to
feel her own lack of beauty, at home and at
school, that if her looking-glass repeated,
You are not so ver' ill-looking after all,"
she took it apologetically only. She could
not compare her features with any of her
sisters, or with Silly Hargreaves ; and the
seam below her under lip was an antidote to
vanity. Of her symmetrical hands and arms,
she had quite a delusion, perhaps born in

VOL. II. E

the days when cliilblains nipped ill em. She
had neither come in contact with pictures or
statuary to correct her error, and was weak
enough to be sensitively ashamed of them.

One day, Lucinda Holmes, watching her
slender fingers busy at her frame, had
remarked casually, " What beautiful hands
3-0U have, Miss Danger ! "' and Muriel had
with a pang of pain dashed both hands
behind her out of sig-ht as if to hide their
ugliness, and the look with which she confronted
astonished Lucinda was strange on
lier face. It said plainly as words, "Do you
mean to insult me ? "

She had taken the remark for irony. Since
then, she had overmastered the painful consciousness
of utter plainness, but she had not
arrived at the consciousness that her charm
of expression supplied all that was wanting of
classic outline, or peachy skin.

It was only natural, she thought, that Anna
and Marion should be admired, and if she
had not had an interpreter in her own breast,
her grandmother had furnished the clue to

trio many " accidental " meetings of Robert
Bent and Silly Hargreaves in their pleasant
parlour. It did not take her long to
penetrate their secret, although they kept it
well concealed under their cousinship  or
fancied they did.

A warning glance had told Silly that she
was suspected, and the very next day saw herby
Muriel's side entreating secrecy.

Bob is so incautious, Muriel ! He says
he cannot help it, he is so passionately fond
of me ; and he is urging me to let him put
up the banns ; and oh, Muriel, I don't know
what to do, for I love him dearly  and  and
if father knew he would half kill me. He
has promised I shall marry old Stott the
carrier, and I  "

What, Stott the Yorkshire carrier ? His
waggons used to carry goods for father when
I was quite a little one."

Yes, that's him ! And I can't ; and I

won't ! He's old enough to be my father,

and he's as ugly as sin ! " cried Silly in a

passion of desperate earnestness.

R 2

Scarcely," said Muriel gravely, smoothing
Silly's hair as she spoke, for the girl was
still on lier knees, " scarcely so ugly as the
sin of deceiving your father. Speak plainly
to him, or let Eobert do it ; or wait until you
are older," and Muriel looked lovingly on the
handsome cousin beside her, whose lofty but
somewhat narrow brow was puckered with
perplexity.

"Eobert! Oh, that's just as bad. Aunt
Bent has set lier mind on his marrying Miss
Barber and it's all for money on both sides. I
declare it's enough to drive one mad ! I wish
there was no money ! "

We should get on very badly without it,
Silly. And suppose you and Eobert were to
get married, how would you live without it ?
Until his articles are out, and he is admitted
as an attorney, lie cannot practise for himself.
And unless you married Avitli the approval of
one side or the other, I see no chance of anything
more than a clerkship for him. Then
neither you nor Eobert have any experience
of narrow means, or the discomfort they

cause. I am very sorry for yon, Silly, and I
daresay yon love each other sincerely ;  betake
my advice, and do nothing clandestine
or you will be certain to repent one ways or
other."

Ah," said Silly, " it's all very line for
you, who never were in love, to talk this way.
You would think differently if a man you
loved with your whole heart came begging
and praying you to marry him, to make
certain of each other. It's easy to hold
down the latch when nobody pulls at the
string."

A change came over Muriel's face, a
change which extended to her voice as she
replied soberly, "You are right. Mill', I
have never been tried, and never expect to
be ; if I were, I hope I should have strength
to do my duty ; I hope so ; but as you say it
is easy to hold down the latch when nobody
pulls at the string. I have, however, seen
something of a secret marriage, and I still
advise you either to act openly, or to
wait."

AdcI nothing; more consolatory could Mill
extract from her cousin beyond a promise not
to betray her confidence ; a promise she knew
would be faithfully kept, and so she told
Eobert when she reported to him the advice
lie had received.

But Silly did not know when she burdened
Muriel with a secret what a weight it would
be to her, or how the revelation had made
her fear that Anna who shared her bed,
and muttered strangely in her sleep had a
secret too, a secret which was not confided
to her keeping.

FOR THE BENEFIT OF HER HEALTH.

August was on the wane. Muriel had
el berun to use her foot about the house
experimentally. Her mother, whose chronic
complaint was troubling lier, sat in her
easy chair in the back sitting-room, watching
her ht on Marion the body-lining of a
new dress, when the drop-handle was turned
from without, and whilst Marion rushed to
hide her disarray behind a curtain, Mrs. Bancroft
walked in. She took in the situation
at a glance, as Marion stopped short, curtain
in hand.

Oh, so th all's started dress-making
already. I should have thought tliah might
have waited till thai got back to Chester ;
and that'll have to go in October. Mrs.
Copley won't hear of a release, though I have

offered lier a good round ?um to obtain it ;
I think there's some spite about it, she's so
stiff. But she's a determined body when lie
is thwarted. It's not often she turns her
back on hard cash. So there's no help for
it, and thawed best not tax thi strength
beforehand."

Muriel looked blank, and Marion crusty.

"I am not taxing my strength, grandmother.
You would not have me sit idle,"
said the former.

Surely it won't hurt her to stand a few
minutes : I've waited long*" enoucli for a new
dress," was the continent of the other.

"And tliali would wait longer if I lead mv
will, Marion. Thalia thinks of no one ]put
thyself and thy own adornment," said
Mrs. Bancroft as she seated herself and
loosed her black bonnet strings, regardless of
the curl of Marion's k)ni>' nose, as the home-truth
fell from the old lips.

I've been thinking, Ellen," she began
again, ' after a pause, still keeping a keen
watch en her two tall irand-daucliters, " that

if you and Muriel went to Buxton for two
or three weeks, the baths would set both
of ye up." She raised her hand, seeing that
Mrs. Danger was about to speak. "Xow
don't thai make excuses, and say tliah can't
go. I'll bear the expense, and / say you
67m// go. I've seen John, and settled it
"with him."

Well, mother, it's extremely kind of you,
and if John's willing, I suppose I've no more
to say than ' thank you,' " said Ellen Danger,
adding with seme little hesitation, "I should
think Anna and Marion could manage for a
week or so without me ! "

She was pretty sharply taken up, " Manage
without thee, two great girls like thine !
Don't ever reflect how old thai wert, when
thai took on thyself to manage without me V

Opposition was silenced. Muriel's gratitude
shone in her eyes. She had heard
]buxton vaunted as a very Bethesda for the
cure of rheumatic patients, and she hoped
Tier mother would leave all her aches and
pains behind.

Marion did not take it pleasantly.
Grandmother Bancroft thinks of nobody
but you ; and what's to become of my
dress ? " she said to Muriel when her grandmother
was gone.

"Oh, I'll finish that;" and to keep her
sister in a good humour she sat up working in
their bedroom far into the night, when Marion
herself was fast asleep, with Sara by her side.

Marion was not the only one dissatisfied.
Two cousins, Ensign Fawcett of the 10th,
and Joe Bent, Corporal in the Eoyal Manchester
Volunteers, who were much more
cousinly with Muriel than with each other,
looked black at the announcement. Sam
Bancroft grumbled ;  said his mother was
always throwing her money away in that
quarter. But that did not affect Sarah Bancroft.
Her conscience was at work, she was
doings what she could to set it at rest. She
answered him, " Son, tlioic art ever with me
and all that I have is thine ; " but Sam only
rubbed his thighs and whistled. When had
his mother quoted Scripture before ?

Nevertheless he thought proper to bestir
himself to escort his sister and niece at
eicfht o'clock in the morning; to the Swan
coach-office, in Market-street Lane, where
inside places in the new Buxton coach had
been booked the day before, and their modest
trunk taken  a trunk at which your modern
green grocer's Avise contemplating a holiday
would turn up her nose in scorn. But
durability, not variety, Alas then the characteristic
of middle-class attire, and plain
narrow skirts took little room.

There's no depending on John Danger
to see them off at that hour, so don't you
fail, Sam," his mother had said : but she was
out in her reckoning.

It would have touched John Danger in
his weak point to have been supposed capable
of failing in " the courtesy of a gentleman."
Sam, who had. no such weakness,
dropped in at their early breakfast and found
his brother-in-law urbanely prepared to do
his duty as a gentleman," filling his own
pocket flask With home-made wine for the

travellers, and carving beef for their sandwiches
with quite an air of self-content at
his own dexterity and importance. He welcomed
Sam to partake of the good cheer
upon the table with courtly hospitality,
taking his brother-in-law's unwonted politeness
quite as a gentlemanlike compliment;
and Sam did not undeceive him.

Punctuality, too, was a part of John's
creed. " It will never do to keep the coach
waiting," said he, interrupting kisses and
good-byes ; " look at the clock ! '"

And precisely as the brazen fingers of the
timekeeper in the tall polished walnut-wood
case reached the quarter before eight, he
had the lobby-door open, and ushered his Avise
and daughter out with ceremonious politeness.


The distance was not great, there was no
haste. They were in good time, though
other passengers and their friends were
waiting, and the coachman stood whip in
hand, watching the piling of luggage on the
roof of the coach, whilst the clerk Within the

basement office made out the Away-bill for his
scrutiny. They were in time, for the frowsy
ostler had not yet brought the horses round
from the stables at the back, and the red-coated
o'uard had not finished his odass or his

o

flirtation with the smiling barmaid who
waited his leisure.

And there also were found the Ensign of
the crack regiment, and the Corporal of
Volunteers, both waiting to see their aunt and
cousin off, and looking as if each thou-lit the
other's presence an affront to be personally
resented.

There was, however, the freshness of
country air and his two-mile walk upon Joe
Bent, whose paternal abode lay outside the
town on the north-east, he came armed, not
with a sword, but a nosegay and a small
basket of grapes from the Grange, and he
had a triumphant smile as he presented his
early morning offering.

Ensign Fawcett who had strolled down
leisurely from Portland Place, and considered
his own superlative presence quite a sufficient

compliment, stroked his smooth chin and
endeavoured not to look dasforers.

Suddenly there was a bustle, the horses
were there, there was a noisy backing to
their places, a buckling of straps and harness.
The guard looked to the priming of his
blunderbuss, ladders were reared against the
coach for the outside passengers, nimble ones
mounted by the wheels, the "insides" were
seated,' coachman and guard in their places,
the whip cracked, the horn was blown, Join
Danger raised his hat, the last adieus were
waved to them as the four bounding steeds
bore them away from Swan Yard, round the
corner, up Market-street Lane, along Lever's
Eow and Piccadilly and the steep Bank Top
to Shooter's Brow, where the town seemed
to end and the country beoin, for the last
reeking lamp was left behind, and trees and
hedges faintly shadowed forth seemed to
glide past like ghosts in the mist of the
summer morn. There was a glimmer of
water as they crossed the gleaming Wedlock,
and passed the pond at Warwick Green, and

then the fresh air came in through the open
windows laden with flowery perfumes, and
they felt as if home was already a hundred
miles away, and they were driving on to
regions remote and unknown.

At least, so felt Ellen Danger, whose
journeyings had rarely extended beyond
church or market, or the homes of mother
and mother-inlaw, and to whom the leaving
home for a day was momentous. "John was
so uncertain, and travelling such a risk."

Muriel, who considered herself quite a
traveller, inhaled the fresh air without a .
" Don't fear, mother, all will q lyell
at home," she leaned forward to say; "I feel
as if there was a blessing the breeze, and
health and happiness in store for both of
us. And don't you remember what you used
to tell me, that we were safe if God's holy
angels had us in their keeping ? "

"Bless the cfirl! ives ! " was the astonished
answer, and no more was said. Indeed,
Muriel felt disinclined to converse before their
fellow passengers, an old man in a scratch

wig over wliicli a handkerchief was tied,
and a couple of men Avhose talk was ot
new fangled machines " of some kind or
other, which Avere apparently in no great
favour.

It was one o'clock when they alighted,
faint and Aweary, at the Grove Inn, Buxton,
and were shown into a room with a sanded
floor to wait until there was an ostler at
liberty to convey their luggage to their
destination and serve as a guide. And
Whether from overmuch business, or from a
lack of business, or from the natural sloth of
the animal, quite half an hour elapsed before
the man turned up With a straw in his
mouth and a horsey perfume about him, in
response to the red-faced landlord's repeated
call of "Tim, Tim, Avhere are you?" The
comines of the coach was an evident intrusion
on Tim's babyhood.

They had no Wearisome search for
lodsjino-s. Sarah Bancroft had " seen to
that'' A shopkeeper on the Hall Bank, Who
did business With her, had comfortable rooms

ill readiness for them, and a dinner in
preparation.

"Ah, mother's rather hard at times, bnt
lie's very thoughtful, bless her ! " murmured
Mrs. Danger, as she removed her cloak and
bonnet, glad to feel at rest. Their up-hill
and down-dale journey had pretty well
shaken appetite out of them. And rest was
all that either wanted just then.

Had either of them gone to a window and
looked down upon the level road between the
Bank and the Old Hall they might have
descried someone then driving past in a
luxurious open carriage pettishly making the
same complaint : " wanting rest and finding
none."

It was not four o'clock yet, the heat and
glare of the day had subsided, Avlien Mrs.
Danger and Muriel sauntered forth before
tea to see the town and search for the hot-baths
; the former with the aid of her
crutched stick, and Muriel's arm.

They were speedily found at the end of the

magnificent Crescent the Duke of Devonshire
VOL. n. s

had just built, and there something more was
found which set Muriel's blood in a tingle.

A sedan chair was leaving the baths, from
which a querulous feminine voice complained
of the chairman's roughness. " The clumsy
brutes have shaken me to pieces!"

The voice was that of Mrs. Wynne, and in
attendance Muriel recognized her stolid maid
Owen and  yes, Arthur Wynne himself.

Recognition was swift and mutual, but
not swifter than the illumination of both
countenances as Lieutenant Wynne, heedless
of his mother's sharp " Who's that ? " left
the bearers to pursue their course to the
aristocratic lodging-house in the Crescent,
and advanced with quick step and outstretched
hand to salute Miss Danger, joy and surprise
in every look and tone.

Their hands met, but not as when on
Chester's ancient walls ; since then the fillet
had been torn from the eyes of both, and no
affectation of composure could prevent the conscious
thrill which ran through nerves and brain.

Yet there was nothing of undue familiarity

in the manner of his approach, and though
he put forth his hand it was with a sort of
semi-apology, accompanied at the same time
by a respectful, if slight, inclination of the
head towards the elder lady,

'' Will you pardon me, Miss Danger, if I
venture to arrest your steps whilst I express
my surprise at meeting you here? I trust
that ill-health has not driven you hither to
recruit your strength ; " and Muriel saw that
the words were no idle compliment.

She had laid her soft palm in his, though
with scarcely the frank fearlessness of that
first meeting on the Walls of Chester, and
there was not the same unconscious steadiness
of voice.

Only in part, sir ; I am better than I
have been. It is my mother who seeks the
benefit of the Buxton waters," and looking
lovingly in the worn face of which her own
was a far off reflex, she said, " Mother, you
will be glad of this opportunity to thank
Lieutenant Wynne for the life of your child."

The Avave of doubt, and surmise whats

2

had just built, and there something more was
found which set Muriel's blood in a tingle.

A sedan chair was leaving the baths, from
which a querulous feminine voice complained
of the chairman's roughness. " The clumsy
brutes have shaken me to pieces!"

The voice was that of Mrs. Wynne, and in
attendance Muriel recognized her stolid maid
Owen and yes, Arthur Wynne himself.

Recognition was swift and mutual, but
not swifter than the illumination of both
countenances as Lieutenant Wynne, heedless
of his mother's sharp " Who's that ? " left
the bearers to pursue their course to the
aristocratic lodging-house in the Crescent,
and advanced with quick step and outstretched
hand to salute Miss Danger, joy and surprise
in every look and tone.

Their hands met, but not as when on
Chester's ancient walls ; since then the fillet
had been torn from the eyes of both, and no
affectation of composure could prevent the conscious
thrill which ran through nerves and brain.

Yet there was nothing of undue familiarity

in the manner of this approach, and though
he put forth his hand it was with a sort of
semi-apology, accompanied at the same time
by a respectful, if slight, inclination of the
head towards the elder lady.

'AYill you pardon me, Miss Danger, if I
"venture to arrest your steps whilst I express
my surprise at meeting you here ? I trust
that ill-health has not driven you hither to
recruit sour strength ; " and Muriel saw that
the words were no idle compliment.

She had laid her soft palm in his, though
with scarcely the frank fearlessness of that
first meeting on the Walls of Chester, and
there was not the same unconscious steadiness
of voice.

Only in part, sir ; I am better than I

have been. It is my mother who seeks the

benefit of the Buxton waters," and looking

lovingly in the worn face of which her own

was a far off reflex, she said, " Mother, you

will be glad of this opportunity to thank

Lieutenant Wynne for the life of your child."

The wave of doubt, and surmise whats

2

strange acquaintance Muriel had formed in
her long absence, swept away from Mrs.
Danger's brow ; her hand went forth to his
in perfect trust and satisfaction.

Indeed I shall," she said with feeling,
"you made me for ever your debtor, sir,
when you bravely threw yourself between my
beloved Muriel and the hoofs which else
would have trampled her to death. The
gratitude of all our family has gone with you
ever since," and the another's eyes were moist
with emotion as she spoke.

Nay, nay." interposed he, " I only did
what any man would have done under like
circumstances. It was for me to be thankful
I was at hand, and that the privilege of serving
Miss Danger did not fall to a stranger.
But I must not keep you standing. Allow
me, madam,"

Substituting his strong arm for the
crutched-stick on which Mrs. Danger
leaned, he assisted her up the steps to a
seat in the open vestibule where friends
waited for their friends, or bathers for their

baths ; and in so doing gained an opportunity
for longer conversation than could have been
held whilst standing in the open air.

Let us not ignore his politeness so far as
to say this was intentional ; but impulse waits
on thought and feeling, and both outrival
electricity in speed. He had seen nothing
of Muriel since he had left her at Mrs.
Copley's door, an object of the tenderest
compassion, the warmest admiration, the
deepest respect. She had dismissed him,
and forbidden his return or inquiry, at the
instigation of duty, not inclination ; and he
had respected her motives with a degree of
delicacy rare enough, and in so doing had
bound the broad fillet of " honour " round
impulse and emotion. It was that same
honour which had restrained his pen when
every other feeling; in his breast bade him
give his love and admiration words. Yet he
lead not gone forth intent on crushing the
rising passion in his breast as incompatible with
duty, but bent on moulding circumstances to
his will, and making love and honour one.

How he might have acted had Fie contemplated
Muriel's removal from Chester in
his absence there is no knowing ; there is a
weak spot in every hero's breastplate.

Certainly it was no slight shock when he
went back in charge of a recruiting party
to find that the imprisoned bird had flown,
and that no one was able or willing to
furnish other information. Mrs. Copley was
impenetrable as a stone. She regarded him
as the root of her annoyance. The youngster
who had reminiscences of a bright shillings
admitted that, " Some folk had bin and made
a row over her bad foot and carried her off
in a po-clay." But that was all he got in
exchange for a second silver portrait of
King; Georgic.

How many golden pictures of that
monarch would he not have given to know
that the "po-clay" had borne her nO'
farther than the Yacht Inn, and that she
was even then within the haven of its
antiquated Avails, preparing for a longer
flight. It is scarcely likely he would have

looked down unmoved from the parapet of
the Eastgate on the chaise tearing wildly
under its arch, had he known who were its
occupants, or that he had missed Muriel by
a day  only a day !

And he would have been other than he
was had he resigned himself to her disappearance
and dismissed her from his mind.
So far his love had met with opposition only,
lout in the obstinacy of manhood it reared its
crest the higher at each impediment. A
woman broods and broods over an unavowed
attachment until it permeates her whole
existence, especially if her lot be not an
active one. A inn has many distractions,
or he can make them, but no distractions
of the outer life could banish from the heart
of a man of Arthur Wynne's temperament
the impose of the mvl on whom he had once
set his affections. He had no leisure for the
indulgence of morbid melancholy, but he
found himself pondering the ways and means
of seeking the lost, and brinin2f his love
to a favourable issue, much more frequently

than was compatible with his peace
of mind.

And now, called from his military duties
to attend his invalid mother for a brief
period, his good fortune had brought him
face to face with the lost ! He might
disguise his delight beneath common conventional
courtesy, but it was too real to
permit another parting without some looking
forward to another meeting. He " would not
lose sight of her so hopelessly again ; that
he was determined"'

On the other hand, Muriel was no less
pleased to meet her " true friend " once
again, than to introduce her hero, her
Prince Arthur " to her beloved mother, and
the ribbons in her straw hat, the spots on
lier printed linen gown, or the sash which
fluttered below her silken scarf, were not
rosier than the face he looked down upon
with such a lio-ht of satisfaction in his own.

Every movement of the loved is of interest
to the lover. There was a gap to be filled
up for him since he left Muriel in so pitiable

a condition at Mrs. Copley's door. jN'o
wonder lie lingered in the hope of information
; and though she seemed strangely
tongue-tied, Mrs. D'Anver was not. So as he
stood there before them in his military
undress, in form, feature, bearing, the very
model of a man and a gentleman, the
conversational shuttlecock was kept in
motion, shyly at first by Muriel, to Avhom
her grandmother's warning recurred afresh,
till at length restraint had worn off, and he
had learned much with which the reader is
already acquainted, not excluding the causes
which had led to her removal from Mrs.
Copley's and her visit to Buxton.

He ground his teeth in a spirit of anything
but charity towards that queer priestess of
fashion ; but, as it dawned upon him that
the ball-dress casually named in reference
to ]couriers long hours and nifdit-work, when
her foot required rest, must be one and the
same with tJiat airy blue gauze which lead
draped with such fatal lightness round this
own mother's form, he recalled the scorn

and contempt with which Mrs. Wynne had
spoken of the sweet girl before him as the
mantua-maker's apprentice at work on her
own robe."

It was by no means a pleasant reminder,
whether he regarded the penalty his own
mother had paid for her devotion to fashion,
or her instrumentality in adding to the pain
of Muriel, or the hitter's legal subjection to
the unfeeling' old mantua-maker. And I am
not sure the last was the least discordant
note in the trio. A man may be deeply
in love, and sensitive regarding inequality
of rank at the same time, and in spite of
chivalry, love and pride will have a light
for the mastery.

Cruelty ! Barbarity ! " he had interjected
between the pauses of Mrs. DAnyer's
speech, but he listened with fresh interest
as she proceeded to say,

It Alas never With mv <zood-will that a
child of mine was removed from our own
hearth to be placed with strangers at a
distance. It was all mv mother's doings

I could never fully penetrate her
motives. She must certainly have been
misled in her estimate of Mrs. Copley, for I
know well she had Muriel's welfare at heart."

Oh, yes, I am certain of that," interrupted
Muriel, not sorry to have this explanation
made.

"I only marvel Mr. Danger gave his
consent, considering his own excessive pride
of birth," continued the mother more in
private rumination than for the listener's
ear, though she added as a climax, '* and tO'
think that she should be compelled to go back
to serve so hard a taskmasters for more
than another year almost breaks my heart ! "

"And mine" was the vibrating echo in
the breast of Arthur Wynne, who looked
in Muriel's face and wondered how she could
so calmly lay her hand on her mother's arm
and say, " Never mind, mother dear, things
may be better when I go back." But he
came to the just conclusion that the girl
was only hiding lier own disquiet, in order
allay that of her parent.

Shortly after that he took his departure,
]put not before he had made known that his
leave expired very shortly, having been
granted solely to permit his attendance on
Mrs. Wynne during her painful and tedious
journey from Wales. He had moreover
obtained permission to call on the ladies at
their lodoino-s on Hall Bank. That gained,
he strode forth into the open air, as if the
ground was firmer under his feet than it
had been an hour before.

Quite a gentlewoman, is Mrs. Danger,"
was his mental verdict as he crossed the arc
of the Crescent.

A very courteous and affable young
gentleman," remarked Mrs. Danger when
Muriel returned to her side after making
for their daily baths, and as
if revolving the question in her own mind ;
*' And so that lady in the chair was Mrs.
Wynne ! Do you think she recognized you?"

I think not, mother ! But if she did, she
would remember me only as Mrs, Copley's
.apprentice, and as such pass me by." The

admission was followed by a sigh, less for
Mrs. Wynne's peculiarities than for her own
grandmother's mistaken policy.

The son does not take after his mother,
then," resumed Mrs. Danger, as she bent her
slow steps homeward by the aid of her stick
and Muriel's arm.

Indeed he does not ! Both he and Major
Wynne are true gentlemen. Yet I am very
sorry for Mrs. Wynne. Mrs. Parry told us
she was quite a cripple. She must feel it
very keenly, to say nothing of the pain : for
she has been a great beauty and a leader of
fashion. She can go to no more balls and
races now."

Well, my dear, a woman at her time of
life should be thinking; of something"' more
serious than balls and entertainments. Mrs.
Wynne has spent her life in an unhealthy
round of fashionable frivolity, so Mrs. Parry
told your grandmother. The check may
prove as salutary as it Alas sudden."

It may," assented Muriel briefly, as they
began to ascend the Bank, and no more was

said, Muriel's thoughts having gone astray
after the noble young officer to the haughty
Mrs. Wynne, in wondering question what the
latter would have thought or said could she
have been present to see and hear the condescension
of her son. Then she dwelt on
words, and tones, and looks of his, and
perplexed herself with questionings whether
her heart was a true or false interpreter ;
and as she remembered her own blushes she
blushed arain to think lis must have observed
them. And then she took herself to task for
feeling tongue-tied in his presence as she had
never felt before. " He must have thought
me strange or stupid," she argued.

Whatever he did think it Alas not that.
He crossed the Crescent to the spot where
the sedan had entered the colonnade, more
than ever convinced that in spite of disparity
of rank, Muriel was the one woman
in the world for him, and he must so shape
circumstances as to make her his Avise. They
did need shaping he was conscious. He had
little beyond his pay, and the jay of a lieutenant

offered no temptation to matrimony
was his father so rich as to curtail his
own income willingly for a son who married
without his consent. And though his mother
was amply endowed, her fortune was settled
strictly upon herself, and he knew that she
was so bent on seeing him the husband of his
rich cousin, that unless Pauline ran off with
Sir Jenkyn,  of which he had some hope 
]ie could have no expectations in that quarter.
True, the bulk of this mother's property descended
to him on her demise, but he no more
took that contingency into his calculations,
than his succession to the Wynne baronetcy
The shaping of circumstances to his drill was
therefore not a simple matter.

Chapter r'AGK

I.  Explanations ]

II.  A Door for Escape 24

III.  Something Rash 55

IV.  Young Heads and Old Ones . 87

v. Silly's Secret Told 123

VI.  Another Secret Out 141

VII.  Justice 158

VIII. Separation 183

IX. Sarah Bancroft's AVill . . . .213

X.  How it Ended 248

CHAPTER I.

EXPLANATIONS.

I HOUGH even in the days of the Eomans
Buxton was a health resort, and though
it now flourishes amid foliage and verdure, one
of the gems of the earth, it was a small, dreary
town in a wide hollow amongst bleak and
barren moorlands, in the last century.
Drives, hanging woods, picturesque gardens
were not. Hucksters brought provisions into
the town : there was not even a market to
diversify the scene. The area within the
noble Crescent  which crescent a recent
enthusiast has dubbed " a symphony in
stone "  the semi-Gothic temple sheltering the
wondrous springs, hot and cold from the

VOL. m. B

same rock ; the " Stanecliff" above those
wells, where patients tested their own
strength ; the polygon Stables, with their
inner circus for equestrian exercise ; the Old
Hall and its garden ; the spar and curiosity
shops under the colonnade; the baths; the
one reading and coffee room ; the one
circulating library ; the one ancient little
church  were all confined within a limited
space, and visitors in quest of the
picturesque glories of the Peak had to
ramble farther afield, and mostly on foot.

It had certainly an assembly-room in the
principal hotel, and a theatre like a barn,
where during the season performances might
be enjoyed three times a week ; but otherwise
it had few compensations Within itself
for those who wanted neither to drink the
waters nor to bathe in them.

Sir Madoc did both in order to keep
incipient gout at bay, yet even he had to
seek the solace of his snuff-box and the
card-room ; but Pauline would have been
desperate had not Sir Jcnkyn followed in

their wake, and been at hand to ride, or
drive, or promenade and flirt With, or to
arrange parties for visiting the wonders of
the Peak. He, however, was an amazingly
companionable fellow, drew people together
without difficulty, had a spice of adventure
and enthusiasm, and by the time Muriel
encountered Arthur, had thrown the latter
considerably into the shade.

Not that the lieutenant raised any
objection, he seemed rather to enjoy it than
otherwise ; gave his invalid mother no cause
to complain of inattention, and professing no
ardour for exploration, whenever horses and
vehicles had to be abandoned for the
inspection of "Hole'' or "Cavern," or "Tor''
and there was climbing or scrambling to be
done, where a masculine hand or foot might
be called to the aid of a feminine, he was
driven to lai? behind and leave a clear field
to his rival. And as their infirmities detained
Sir Madoc and his sister-in-law in the waiting
carriages at a distance the natural readjustment
passed unobserved. It was a natural

B 2

readjustment ; the dash of assertive independence
in Pauline, and lier spirit of daring 
so distasteful to Arthur, had a wonderful
charm for Sir Jenkyn, the most reckless of
riders, the boldest of mountaineers.

Arthur Wynne himself, tied as he was
pretty much to a querulous invalid's side,
did not find Buxton attractive ; even
sympathy with his mother's condition was
so modified by a knowledge of its cause, that
he began to find his attendance irksome, and
to long for a return to his duties, and
freedom.

I shall be glad to escape from this
confoundedly dull place. It is enough to
give a man the horrors to encounter only
sufferings in his walks ; to have nothings
brighter to look out upon than a barren hill,
and the gossipping invalids round St. Ann's
Well," had been his hasty comment in the
ear of Sir Madoc that sunny morning in
Auo-ust, which Muriel had found so sultry
in the stasfe-coach.

I say, that's not complimentary to

((

Pauline," had been flung after him, as with a
Can't help it," and a stifled yawn the young
fellow had left his uncle to the solace of his
snuff-box, in the hands of Norris, who
numbered shaving and hairdressing among
his various duties, and was much more ready
to serve the hearty if hasty old gentleman,
than to attend his exacting mistress.

What a transformation a few hours had
effected. If the " place " had suddenly
blossomed like a rose, Arthur Wynne could
not have felt more exhilarated, or more
buoyantly have ascended the stairs to that
spacious drawing-room in the Crescent where
his mother, seated by a window, looked
drearily out on the StaneclifF, in all its bareness
and sterility, where nothing grew but a few
sparse bushes and gorse, and where nothing
had then been planted but post and rails to
mark boundaries where feet might tread, or to
assist them up the ascent, and where occupied
seats suggested how wearisome that ascent
micflit be.

Wearisome enough must the prospect have

been to Mrs. Wynne, who could take no part
in Buxton's few amusements. It was much as
if a brilliant butterfly with its wings crushed
and torn lay gasping on a Avail whilst the
sunshine lit a host of fluttering wind's that
flitted by unheeding. She had languished and
courted admiration at her last ball ;  she
would not consent to take her place with
antiquated spinsters and dowagers at the card-table."
When not driving out, or at the
bath, or taking the water at St. Ann's Wells,
her only refuge and resource was the window.
There, in a wheeled chair, luxuriously
cushioned to ease her contracted limbs, she
sat in rich attire, her hands, no longer slender
and jewelled, lying cramped and idly in her
lap, her weary eyes discontentedly watching
the people passing to and fro, or climbing
with slow steps the barren hill before her, or
crowding round the Gothic temple which
enshrined the waters of Hygeia, as they
gushed from the limestone into marble basins,
offering health to all who drank.

She was so seated, and alone, miserably

bewailing her lot, when her son entered with
a free, firm step the apartment over the
colonnade. It was draped and fitted with the
sombre and heavy taste of the period, a
chimney-glass and circular mirror with candelabra
alone giving lightness to the soberly
painted walls.

Turning her head slightly she said pettishly
Where have you been all this while,
Arthur? It was cruel to leave me to the
mercy of those horrid chairmen."

Owen was with you, madam," answered
he with deference.

Owen indeed ! As if Owen could be
expected to take the place of my son ! And
even Owen neglects me now my own kith and
kin desert me."

I am sorry, my dear mother, you should
think me remiss. I concluded Pauline would
be here with you."

"With me indeed!" she jerked out.
She is off with that odious Sir Jenkyn to the
play ; gone too without a chaperone ! It's
little she cares for me now-a-days, and it's all

your fault. She would never have looked at
Sir Jenkyn lead you done your duty. But all
are alike, no one consults my wishes. Even
Sir Madoc has gone to the coffee-room to seethe
Times. No one cares for my desolation,"
and the poor contracted fingers made an
effort to raise a perfumed handkerchief to
her eyes.

Arthur drew his chair to her side and
attempted to soothe her. Some new expression
on his countenance must have caught
her eye.

Who were those people you spoke to
near the Baths ? " asked she irritably.

Friends of mine I met on my travels,"
replied he with good-humour.

I should like to know the strange friends
Who could divert you from your duty ! " she
whined rather than exclaimed.

"Shall I introduce them?"

She turned her eyes full upon him as if she
would have looked him through.

Introduce them to me ? Decidedly not.
A soldier picks up acquaintances in his

travels not always suited for the society of
his mother."

"You are quite right, madam, he does," he
answered with some emphasis, and a meaning
all his own, adding lightly, and with a shrug
of his broad shoulders. " I only thought
you wished it." But he rose and paced the
room skins himself who would be suited
for the society of one so exacting and
discontented.

Do stop that monotonous tramp ! " she
whined presently. "And if you have no
news to amuse me with, pray ring for candles
and cards. We may manage to kill time
with them."

Unprepared for eternity and yet anxious to
kill time!

"Kill time? Islay mother, does not time
kiU us ? "

A sudden reminder of all that time had
killed in her and for her, smote the
worldling. She shuddered, became hysterical,
called for her maid and a vinaigrette, and
was not to be comforted.

Moi'e than three-quarters of an hour were
thus consumed, and then with many a sigh
she composed her nerves in a game of piquet
with her son, though it was an effort to hold
the cards together in her hands, and the
unwonted vivacity of her partner seemed to
annoy rather than enliven.

That night as Owen removed the paint
from the faded face, the too youthful robes
from the rheumatic shoulders, she was asked,

"Did you ascertain who those people
were r

"They were strangers, ma'am. No one
knew, but I'm sure I've seen the young lady's
eyes before, somewhere."

Eyes ? " questioned her mistress, " eyes ?
What colour were they?"

"Brown, ma'am, very soft and large and
mild."

Ah ! " And the eyes haunted the lady's
sleepless pillow. They lit up the dreams of
her son.

Why, Muriel dear, Buxton seems to agree
with you, I have not seen you so bright and

fresh since 5011 came home ! " cried Mrs.
Danger when Muriel carried an early breakfast
to her bedside the next morning.
Have you been up long ? I did not miss
you."

Up and out an hour ago ! " was the
ready answer. "I thought if I had my bath
before breakfast, I should be completely
at liberty to wait on you for yours. And
who do 3'ou think I met on the way back ?
Who but Lieutenant Wynne. He offered to
help me up the slope that faces the Crescent,
and told me that the efficacy of the waters
is tested in the ascent. People who hobble
beneath on crutches when they come,
mount to a higher level day by day as
they improve. He was extremely kind
when he discovered that it tried my foot
to ascend, and insisted on my using his arm
all the way back to the very door. I was
much obliged, for the water I drank at the
well seemed to flush my face and turn me
giddy. He said it was always so at first."

The flush still lingered, and her eyes were

lit with joyous excitement. All her grandmother's
cautions, all her own seemed to be
forgotten in a newer dawn.

In that case," said her mother gently,
as she sipped her coffee, " you had better
not so ao-ain to the baths, or the well until I
can accompany you ; ''" but whether she meant
as a precaution against the officer or the
mineral water did not appear.

She had her own bath in the forenoon,
her own draught from St. Ann's restorative
fountain, and discovering that they had a
like effect on herself, was not sorry to
accept the same strong arm on her way to
the shopkeeper's on the Hall Bank, and even
to the room above the shop. " It might be
only the water that had so flushed MuiieVs
face, and the lieutenant was certainly most
courteous to lend his arm to a middle-aged
woman and adapt his steps to hers." And
very polite it was of him to be so attentive
when they again met him by accident that
afternoon under the colonnade.

Mrs. Danger was not a woman of th

world, and she argued from very narrow
premises in this case. She had not been wont
to chaperone an attractive grown-up daughter.

But in fact the area of Buxton proper
was so circumscribed it was almost impossible
for the comparatively few visitors bathing,
or drinking the waters, to avoid meeting or
otherwise coming in contact, howsoever rank
or pride might hedge itself round with exclusiveness
; and where there was a desire to
meet, opportunity was not wanting.

Surely of these none met more frequently
than Lieutenant Wynne and Muriel, or
she fancied so. On her way alone from
her own early morning bath, or when in
attendance on her mother to hers, or to the
springs, or on the promenade, or mounting
the steep Stanecliff, he seemed ubiquitous.
And whether he was with others and only
touched his cap, or turned and walked by
her side, or lent his arm to sustain Mrs.
Danger's unequal steps to the door on
the Hall Bank, or sat with them for an
hour after candles were lit, his respect-fill

bearing underwent no change, though
as lie watched the affectionate care of the
girl for her parent, or listened to her when, as
fond mothers will, she unsuspiciously dilated
on the excellence of her child whenever
Muriel was out of hearing, his esteem
and admiration grew with every meeting,
and love spoke eloquently in every look and
tone.

As ever, love brought its own burden
of doubt, and worry, and anxiety. He could
not bow from the side of Mrs. Wynne's
wheeled-chair, or touch his cap when riding
with Sir Madoc and Pauline, or Sir Jenkyn
Jenkinson, or cross the promenade, or mount
the hill with the D'Aiiyers, and not arrest
the gaze of interested eyes.

A week had not passed before his mother
assailed him with reproaches of neglect,
and more. " You are bringing disgrace on
your family, by consorting With a mere
mantua-maker's apprentice and her plebeian
mother," she complained ; " I shall never survive
it. Flaunting jour acquaintance in my

very face. You could not do more if you
meant to marry her ! "

And I do mean to marry lier, if she will
have me, as soon as I can do so justifiably,"
he answered steadily. " Honour forbids my
marrying on a lieutenant's pay with so small
a supplement as is mine at present, and I
cannot involve the woman I love in the
misery of poor gentility."

You love ! you love ! This to me ! " she
almost shrieked. " I who would have given
you half my fortune on your marriage with
Pauhne. But not one penny of mine shall
pave the way for that common gentlewoman
to step into the place of Pauline, and call me
mother. And if honour forbids, so do forbid ! "

A common gentlewoman ! " he echoed.
Miss Danger is one of those rare women
whose price is above rubies ! You are my
mother, madam, and as such claim from mea
son's respect ; but there is a limit to forbearance,
and I am not of a race to brook
your scorn of so pure and sweet a girl.
There is a spirit of rebellion in the blood,

as well you know ! " and lie strode from her
presence only to encounter Sir Madoc in
the colonnade before that blood had
altogether cooled,

I say, I say, nephew Arthur, who's that
brown-eyed damsel you are dangling after at
all hours ? I don't suppose the old dame's
the attraction."

She is Miss Danger, sir, a young lady for
whom I have the very highest esteem," was
said loftily.

I say, that's rather strong, look you.
But Danger, Danger ! " and Sir Madoc, who
had the pedigrees of two or three counties at
his fingers' ends, tapped his snufF-box lid, and
rolled the word on his tongue, as if to try
its family flavour. " Any connection of the
Cheshire D'Anyers of Frodsham and Lyme 
the descendants of Thomas Danger, the hero
of Cressy, I mean ? "

The suggestion was enough for Arthur
Wynne. It recalled a conversation with Mrs.
Kingsley on Red Biding Hood's ancestral and
family associations with the county. " I

believe so," he said ; "I know her only as the
daughter of a Manchester manufacturer, but
there is true nobility in her every look and
word. She is a sweet, unselfish creature, a
gem of the purest water, one in herself fit to
adorn any rank, whatever her ancestry."

I say, I say, Arthur, that won't do.
What will Pauline say to your high-flown
admiration of the manufacturer's daughter,
look you ? "

She will echo what I said of her penchant
for Sir Jenkyn ; she was free to please herself,"
was the deliberate reply, over a pinch of
snuff from Sir Madoc's box.

"Please herself!  Sir Jenkyn! I say, I
say, what do you mean ? Are not you to
marry Pauline ? And what has Sir Jenkyn
or that Danger girl to do with it, look you?"
and Sir Madoc's cane went down on the
pavement, with an irritable stroke.

Have you been blind, uncle ; or am I the

first to tell you that Pauline would run off

with Sir Jenkyn tomorrow, rather than be

forced to marry me the day after ? "
VOL. ni. c

Nonsense, boy. Sir Jenkyn's no more to
Pauline than our old friend's son. It was
settled in your cradles that you and Pauline
should keep title and estates together for
generations of Wynness to come."

Settled/tT us, uncle, you mean, not by us."

I say, what do you mean, you young
rascal? Are you going to cry off, and
slander my daughter at the same time. I
understood you and Pauline were dying for
each other a year ago ! "

My dear sir, I am afraid you have misunderstood.
Pauline and I have been most
affectionate cousins, and probably might
have run our heads blindfold into the noose
prepared for us  a year ago, as you say.
But we have both cut our wisdom teeth since
then, and are not puppets. Pauline changed
her mind when Sir Jenkyn came on the scene,
and I  well, uncle. Sir Jenkyn is a good-natured
young fellow, rides well, shoots well,
rows well, boxes well, makes love like a
devotee, has a clear estate, a long pedigree,
and  what more would you have? Pauline

would prefer to take the leap with him rather
than with her lukewarm cousin, depend upon
it.

Sir Madoc Alas unbounded. His snuffbox
suffered for his loss of speech. Then he
spluttered out : 

"But, Arthur, I say, I say, I thought  I
was told  you  you  Celia  your mother

Leave my mother entirely out of the
question, sir," interrupted Arthur in a
changed tone, in which was some bitterness.
My mother has long known my sentiments
in the matter."

I wish I had."

Well, uncle, I was never asked. You

took too much for granted. But neither you,

sir, nor Pauline can accuse me of double

dealing, or breach of faith. I neither made

professions of attachment nor sought them.

My attentions have been those of a cousin,

not a lover. Sir Jenkyn came, and Pauline

found the difference. She is not to blame 

nor am I. Love comes at no man's bidding,

c 2

I have had a most unpleasant interview with
my mother respecting  but here come
Pauline and her cavalier, on their steeds.
Watch them  Am I not right ? "

Egad, boy, I think you are. But, I say,
I say, Arthur boy, you mean to marry
Pauline, don't you ? " and the tone in which
the question was put seemed to tremble
between the dolorous and the indignant.

An emphatic " iV(9, sir!" and Arthur
was gone.

A genial, kind-hearted, good-tempered
fellow was Sir Madoc, when not thwarted,
and not suffering from gout, the special
malady which, in an incipient stage, had
induced him at the last moment to bear
Major Wynne's wife company thither  but
he was somewhat obtuse, or heedless, and
given to let the world wag on its way so long
as his own little plans and arrangements
Avere not disturbed. Sir Jenkyn's devotion
to his daughter had not hitherto disturbed
him greatly, since it did not disturb Arthur.
It was Arthur's business, not his.

Arthur Wynne lead opened this eyes and
disturbed his equanimity with a vengeance.
Bubbling over, he sought Mrs. Wynne, and
had the matter out with her first. Then,
there was a stormy interview, with Pauhne,
and then with Sir Jenkyn ; and finding
that only he and Celia held together on the
marriage question, a letter went post-haste to
the major to request his intervention. But a
letter from his son already lay before the
major, and moderated his views materially.

He had married beauty, birth, fortune.
And to what end ? The beauty which had
enslaved him demanded more than one
man's homage, courted the admiration of
all eyes. His wife's money, chivalrously
settled on herself and her issue, had scarcely
sufficed for her thousand whims and caprices.
A flutterer among flutterers, she had left her
only son to the care of nurses and tutors 
perhaps well for him  whilst she gave her
waking hours to fashion and folly  a whirl
of pleasure which had undermined her
own health and involved him in a duel.

Yet he had idolized her until her own
selfishness and vanity had broken the charm.
He Alas not sorry to be rid of her vagaries
when, after a serious difference, she elected
to make the Plan her head-quarters. To the
early matrimonial compact for the young
people, he had given a negative assent ; and
so long as he was led to believe that his
son's heart was set on Pauline, he remained
quiescent, although he would have preferred
a daughter-in-law who had had a food
mother's training, and a less sophisticated
chaperon. Now that he learned the truth
for the first time, he was not minded that
Celia should spoil the life of their son as
she had spoiled his ; and in the epistle
which had come from honest, simple-hearted,
transparent Sir Madoc, he traced the diplomatic
finger of his wife. That influenced his
answers to both. Burt letters did not fly on
the wings of steam.

"When on the Saturday afternoon Arthur
Wynne the younger had gone through those
explanations, terminated with a decisive

No," he had marched straight away from
Sir Madoc to his own room, and on the
spur of the moment penned his confidential
epistle to the major, in which he had poured
forth not only his objections to a marriage
with his cousin Pauline but his love for
Muriel Danger, coupled as it was with
doubts whether honour did not forbid his
marriage, and consequently his proposing to
her, on the scant pay of a lieutenant, knowing
as he did that his good father could
only add to his allowance by personal sacrifice.


The letter was in the little post-ofhce
in time for the south mail at seven that
evening, and had thus been in Major Wynne's
hands, and was read and well digested,
before Sir Madoc's important missive offered
its vermilion seal and coat of arms to be
broken by authorized fingers.

A DOOR FOR ESCAPE.

|||IIE major was pretty correct in his
 judgment. If the penmanship of the
epistle was Sir Madoc's, the baronet's
impulsive diction had been checked and
curbed by hints and suggestions from Mrs.
Wynne. It had, in fact, been a joint concoction,
to which had been devoted the
morning; hours when Arthur and Pauline
would be " safely out of the way at church,"
as Mrs. Wynne expressed it.

She niio-ht have felt it otherwise than
"safely" had she reflected that Mrs. Danger
and her daughter were likely to be among
the worshippers in the little old, barn-like
church on the hi-side, or that Sir Jenkyn
might find his way thither, and supplant her
son even at the church door.

At all events, she was not too well pleased
when Miss Wynne, wearing a robe of canary
taffeta, trimmed with lilac satin rouleaux, a
lilac scarf across her shoulders, and a straw
hat in which nodded three lilac feathers, and
to whom the said Sir Jenkyn lead made his
bow at the door under shadow of the
colonnade, walked unattended into her
presence and, throwing down her large
parasol, complained of the " insufferable
heat."

"Where is Arthur?" she asked, to be
answered with scornful indifference, " Oh,
the owner of a Prayer-book with massive
silver clasps required a page to carry it,
and I presume he offered his services, since
I saw it in his hand,"

"Absurd!" ejaculated Mrs. Wynne.

Well, it was rather ; for had not the book
been fit for a countess, I miirht have taken
the owner for that dressmaking young
woman he has been so gallant to of late."

Mrs. Wynne's brow darkened. " Is it
possible that my son could so far forget

himself in the face of a whole congregation
? "

Oh, quite possible," With a shrug.

"Leave you io walk home unattended?"
and the enormity thereof was expressed in
look and tone.

"Well, no, not exactly. There was Sir
Jenkyn  and  a David, you know." David
was a foot-boy.

Miss Pauline had omitted to sav that Mrs.
Danger was with her daughter at the time,
or that Sir Jenkyn had previously superseded
Arthur in his attendance on herself; not
that it would have mattered much to Mrs.
Wynne, who felt as if her son's atrocious
conduct must be the common gossip of
Buxton society. She could only cite as an
excuse for him " the example of royal dukes
in seeking companions among their inferiors,
my dear," and " trust Pauline to hold him
excused, as it meant nothing."

It certainly meant nothing then to Miss
Wynne, whatever it might have done
previously to the advent of Sir Jenkyn in

Buxton. But prior to that the dark-eyed
belle had learned to dispense with much
of her cousin's attention ; and latterly had
avoided it.

To him it meant everything in the world.
It meant the rest which twilight affords after
the glare of the sun. It meant the hope of
a life-companion worthy of all his trust ; one
whose feet were on the ascent to the heavenly
city, not whirling downward in the path of
folly, towards the gates of destruction. And
if he carried Muriel's Bible, it was not to
note or value its silver clasps, but with
an shaped consciousness that she was
building up her life on its foundation. She
was " different from all the women with
whom he had come in contact," as he told
his father ; and he " should never rest until
he had her promise to be his wife."

So that his walk from the church gates
with Muriel and her mother to the lodiiino-s

CD O

over the closed shop, in the face of his Cousin
Pauline and of the fashionable church-goers
and aristocratic loungers, did mean something,

however Mrs. Wynne might seek to ignore
it.

Buxton really does seem to agree with
you, my dear," said Mrs. Danger to Muriel
the next day, as she came in from a morning
stroll with a flush on her cheek and a sparkle
in her eye, and laid a book from the library
on the small round table. " I wish / did
not feel so prostrate and drowsy after my
baths, and could take the air with you,
instead of lying here on a sofa, looking
through a window all the forenoon."

Oh, those are only the ordinary symptoms
when the baths are efficacious,
Lieutenant Wynne informed me just now.
He said his mother felt just the same for
the first week or ten days ; that was why
she was carried to and fro in a sedan ; but
now, as you know, she goes in her regular
wheel-chair. He hopes you may be able
to throw away your stick in a few days."

I hope so, too. And so you met
Lieutenant Wynne again ? "

"Well, not exactly. I was trying how

far I could mount up Stanecliff, when he
came behind me and offered his arm for the
ascent, though I told him that was scarcely
allowing a fair trial of my strength. He
had a gun on his shoulder, and was going,
With a party of friends I saw in front of the
old Hall, grouse-shooting on the moors."

You did not allow his politeness to keep
him from his friends, I trust ? "

"Oh, no, I I think not." But Muriel
felt her colour deepen as she bent down,
pressed a kiss on her mother's cheek, and
left the room hastily to remove her hat and
scarf. If to escape further comment on her
appearance, who shall say ?

She certainly had grown brighter, brisker,
and stronger ; but whether the society of the
young officer had not as much to do with
it as the Buxton air and waters, is a moot
point. Mrs. Wynne might slight and scorn
her, but she bore it calmly so long as he did
not despise her, and she knew that Major
Wynne did not ; and if she forgot all about
her grandmother's caution in the delicious

sensation of the hour, who could blame her ?
Her life had had few pleasures, least of all
the pleasure of feeling valued by someone
else ; courtesy and attention had not been
for her.

True, when she had last lain on the sofa
at home, two of her masculine cousins had
been more than commonly friendly, but their
familiar attention was something very different
from the respectful homage of Arthur
Wynne, and that had its full weight. Iso
wonder she put her memories of the dreary
work-room behind her, lest even its shadow
should cross the sunshine on her path and
mar her present felicity. She would not
even look forward, lest duty should extinguish
joy. At least she did not. If she had only
looked, the light upon her face would have
faded. Indeed, before that very day wore
out, she had a reminder that pleasure could
not last.

They had just risen from a plain dinner
of trout, fresh from the Wye, with a custard
for a supplement, when in walked Joe Bent

in his uniform, of which the volunteer corporal
seemed as proud as if he had been a
captain in the Guards. Indeed, I am not
sure that he did not consider the volunteers
superior to the regulars, in that they were
unpaid and so far free.

Be that as it may, preceded by a lumbering
step up the dark and narrow staircase,
he put in an appearance with a hamper in
his hands, and the exclamation, " Well,
aunt, you did not expect to see me ! But
here I am, and here is a basket of things
from the Grange  poultry, fruit, and I don't
know what. Mother said you would find
them useful, as there was no market, and the
jugglers Avere such extortioners. And there
are some of our early grapes at the top ; I
suppose you could not get those here at any
price," he added, having by this time got rid
of his burthen, and begun shaking Muriel's
hands as if he had taken possession of her.

And nothing would serve, as he had
already dined at the inn, but he should take
possession of his cousin and aunt for an

afternoon exploration of the village. Buxton
had not attained the dignity of a market-town.
The spar-shop under the Arcade was
included in the tour, and it so came about
that there was a handsome Blue-John vase
upon the table, a gift to his aunt, and a
necklace of satin-stone beads round Muriel's
throat, when, as it happened. Lieutenant
AVynne  who had somehow gained a familiar
footing there  presented himself in the e veiling
with a brace of grouse for the ladies,
undeterred by the rain which was then
falling fast.

Observing a stranger, he would have presented
his birds and retired had not Mrs.
Danger detained him, and introduced her
nephew, an introduction wliicli seemed to
give more pleasure to her than to the young
man, whose open face clouded.

Arthur Wynne's name was not unknown
to the corporal, and Joe eyed him dubiously.

On the other hand. Lieutenant Wynne, who
noted both the vase and the new necklace,
saw a possible rival in the very-mucli-at-home

cousin. But he was too Mell bred to display
the contempt affected by many of this brother
officers for the new volunteer service ; and
being[ desirous to ascertain on what footing
tall young relative stood with Muriel
and with society, he composedly took a seat
between the two windows, at which sat
respectively Mrs. Danger and her daughter,
and entering into conversation made himself
agreeable  even to Corporal Joseph Bent.

His chair was slightly in advance of Muriel,
then netting in the window-seat, for the
benefit of the waning light, but it required
no effort to watch her every movement in
the strip of looking-glass which adorned the
opposite wall, with a triplet of peacock
feathers atop, and in which was reflected not
only Muriel, but Joe Bent on the sofa,
leaning' well over the low arm in closer
proximity than he thought their cousinship
warranted.

Well, aunt, where's it to be ? Poole's
Hole, or Axe Edge, or Monsal Dale, or Castleton,
or Chatsworth, or where ? " cried Joe,

VOL. HI. D

resuming after a time an interrupted discussion.
" If you can't sit a horse yet, I'll hire
a roomy gig that'll hold us all three ; and
though I'm not counted such a whip as Bob,
I'll drive you anywhere there is room for a
pair of wheels. You see, lieutenant," he went
on, addressing the latter, " I knew aunt and
cousin would go nowhere by themselves, so
I set oft by the coach this morning to take
them about a bit."

I wonder if ' them ' means both, or only
Muriel ? " thought the said lieutenant, but
he only replied :

I am sorry to find myself forestalled. I
came hither this evening to place a chaise
and myself at the service of the ladies for the
morrow. But if "

Hang his impudence ! " thought Joe, ashe
interrupted him with, " I don't think they'd
see much mewed up in a chaise, thank you all
the same, lieutenant ; and Muriel Avants all
the fresh air she can get before she goes back
to be cooped up under Mrs. Copley's finger
and thumb."

"Goes back!" echoed Artliiir Wynne in
dismay. " Surely Miss Danger is not going
back to  to that unfeeling woman ! "

I have to fulfil the term of my apprenticeship,"
said Muriel quietly, unaware how
the last word jarred on the lieutenant's
nerves.

Yes, worse luck ! " put in blunt Joe
Bent.

M} good Mrs. Danger ! " the other broke
forth in a state of mental perturbation, " you
really should interfere to prevent such a
sacrifice. I had no suspicion Miss Danger
was about to return. Is it not possible to
rescue her from that  that  hardened brute
of a dressmaker ? " (Muriel shook her head.)
Surely there must be some means to save
your amiable daughter from such cruel
bondage." He had almost said drudgery.

"No, sir ; we have no alternative, I am
sorry to say. Her grandmother, who now
regrets placing her there, has made several
overtures to Mrs. Copley, but for some unknown
reason she rejects money, and will

D 2

not be paid off," answered Mrs, Danger
gravely. " There is, however, one thing
certain : she will not be allowed to starve
my dear daughter acjain. Mrs. Kino-slew and
a friend in Wrexham will watch over her,
and if needful, send in supplies by their
market carts."

Really, madam, the very precaution
proves how monstrous must be the case.
What does Mr. Danger think of it?"

The reply came from Joe Bent. " Oh, 1
forgot to tell you, aunt, there has been a
regular quarrel over it between uncle and
Mrs. Bancroft since you left ; and he went
to Bob's office to get at the law of the case,
with all the blood of all the D'Anyers since
Cressy flaming in his face."

Yes, so I have heard," was her quiet
rejoinder, as if to close the conversation.

All this was news to Muriel, dio listened
without speaking. A letter had come to her
mother, but its contents were only partially
known to her.

Arthur AVynne bent forward easterly.

And the lawyer pointed out how you might
circumvent the petticoated Shylock ? " was
rather a suggestion to Mrs. Danger than
an inquiry. In his recruiting experience
he had learned somewhat of apprentice-law.

Certainly," was the prompt reply of Joe.

But Mrs. Danger hesitated, her voice
dropped as though to reach no ears but the
questioner's, and she evidently spoke with
reluctance, "Yes, sir, but the door of escape
was not open to Muriel."

Joe must have had sharp ears, for he called
out from the sofa, " Don't say that, aunt ! " ina
tone which sent a spasm of something like
jealousy through Arthur Wynne's frame.

Muriel, silently intent on the conversation,
made a long stitch in her netting, while she
glanced at her mother over Arthur Wynne's
bent shoulders, and wondered what door of
escape was that of which she had never
heard and her mother seemed so loth to
speak.

And Arthur Wynne, for the moment
oblivious of those around him, wondered if

he might be allowed to open it. For her
sake, for his own, he could not permit her
sacrifice, as he considered it.  What was that
the beloved girl was saying so composedly ?

I think, mother, that as my grandmother
promised I should go back, I am bound to go,
whether we like it or not."

But, Miss Danger," remonstrated the
young Fusilier, " remember what you have
suffered ; imagine what may lie before you."

Yes, I know ; " and Muriel shook her
head, with a sigh Which Avent to his heart ;
but I was not treated worse than others,
and much of what I endured towards the
last was due to my accident, for which Mrs.
Copley was in no way accountable ; and I
must not cause my grandmother to break her
word, even if the law allows it,"

Joe chuckled comfortably to himself, as
much as to say, " We shall see ! " and " We
will see " was the inner thought of Arthur
Wynne, but he only "hoped something might
occur to set her free," which hope had a
double echo.

The question was then dropped, as candles
were brought in, and the white dimity
curtains drawn. That of the excursion was
then renewed, Avhen it was finally settled,
little to Corporal Bent's satisfaction, that
Lieutenant Wynne should join the party, on
the morrow, on horseback, and take charge
of Muriel, for whom he engaged to provide
one of the small, steady-going native horses
accustomed to the Derbyshire roads ; he
having; succeeded in convincing the volunteer
that no gig capable of holding three was to
be found in Buxton, seeing that the native
vehicles were constructed for narrow roads
and passes, and that if he wished to give
his aunt an airing he must be content with
her for his companion.

Then ensued another discussion on the
route to be taken, the lieutenant, who had
gained some experience during his stay,
intimating that only pack-horse roads and
bridges were to be found in certain directions,
and Poole's Hole, Clive Tor and Sherbrook
Dell, could not possibly be reached in any

vehicle. Fairfield, lie said, had an old church
worth seeing, and a fine view of Buxton
extending even to Axe Edge might be
obtained from the Barns  or racecourse 
by, provided no mist hid the mountain.
They might catch a glimpse of Ashford Dale,
he intimated, in crossing the Wye-bridge ;
and unless the ladies or Corporal Bent had
any other proposal to make, he would respectfully
suggest Fairfield as their destination,
since the distance Avould not be such as to
fatigue Mrs. DAnyer.

Joe's knowledge of Buxton and its surroundings
was all second-hand ; so, much
against his will, he was constrained to defer
to the lieutenant. Muriel and Mrs. Danger
were equally without an opinion or a wish
save for propitious weather.

It was with very different emotions the
two young men went to make their separate
arrangements for the morrow.

Confound his cool impudence ! " was
Joseph Bent's private ejaculation. " Why
should he thrust himself into our party with

his views and suggestions, and appropriate
Muriel all to himself? It's lucky I came ;
and just as lucky he can't stay. He seemed
mightily at home there. But pshaw !
soldiers in the line are here to day and
gone tomorrow ; I needn't be afraid of
him"'

It was well I carried those birds myself,"
ruminated Arthur Wynne on his way to the
stables, "and I was within an ace of sending
Norris. It's a most fortunate circumstance,
I mio;ht not otherwise have known how
the darling girl is circumstanced. And it
has thrown a marvellous opportunity in my
way. It will never do to let that cotton-spinner's
free-and-easy son forestall me. How
jaunty and how confident he was ! That
necklace and the vase were certainly his gifts.
How I envied his privilege of presentation.
I should have been afraid to presume. And
perhaps the fellow presumed on his cousinship
to clasp his beads around her neck ! "

There was a long drawn breath between
set teeth,  the sacrilege was not to be

thought of without a pang,  "I must do it,
I must. Now there is a prospect of
promotion, I can rescue the sweet girl without
danger of plunging her into the misery
of genteel poverty. I may lose her if I wait
my father's answer ; or I may be recalled
ere that arrives," ran the current of the

lieutenant's meditations, " and yet " His

arrival at the stables cut his reverie short
for the time beings

" prospect of promotion " had come to
him in a letter from Chatham which Mr.
Moore, the postmaster, had put in his hands
that afternoon  a long letter from his
father, the contents of which, being mainly
regimental, he had imparted to Sir Madoc and
Mrs. Wynne, to be widely disseminated in the
Assembly Rooms that night over their cards ;
the possession of so much news having overcome
the dread of the latter to sink to her
place amongst the elderly dowagers and
spinsters at the card and gossip tables.

There was more in the letter than was
laid bare to them, for the major wrote very

freely to his son, and what he wrote had
especial import to Arthur at that crisis.

It appeared that the 23rd Welsh Fusiliers,
of which only the customary contingent remained
in England, and which had won
so much distinction at Port au-Prince the
previous year, had come back from St.
Domingo to the depot at Chatham, the mere
skeleton of a regiment. The fiery climate
had made more havoc than steel or gunpowder.
Then followed personal comments
on privates or brother officers, who had been
left behind for ever in that island of dread,
where Yellow Jack was king, some whose
friendship he had valued and regretted.
Next came an exhortation from the major
to his son not to loiter in Buxton now that
Mrs. Wynne was settled in apartments, and
stronger, but to hold himself in readiness to
be up and doing as soon as the Adjutant
General's orders reached him. Recruiting
would have to be no child's play merely
to keep up the efficient strength of the regiment,
but earnest, thorough, to re-create

and form aneAv ; and he might have to beat
up North Wales once more. He was also
reminded that with so many gaps to be
filled up, the promotion of an active subaltern
was next to certain.

It was this missive that, in spite of regret
for friends whose hands might clasp his
nevermore, had sent him, with pulses beating
and cheeks in a glow, to Hall Bank through
the rain, carrying the birds he had shot.

A straw will turn a wavering; balance.
The major had thrown one straw into the
scale, Joe Bent had cast in another. Arthur
paced the colonnade that night long after
the blinking; Kijlits of Buxton had ijone out,
one by one, to think out by himself the
momentous question wherein his own future
lay ; and with his own that of a dearer
one. Whether he should risk all by an
immediate declaration, or bide the issue of
his father's decision. " Not for myself, not
for mjseif, but for her!" he debated. "A
false step might be ruinous to both. I cannot
have my father's answer until Thursday

  and before Thursday what might not 
well, I have no time to lose, the morrow
might recall me. I must speak, for her sake ;
aye, and for my own, for my heart is
bursting. I may lose her if I hesitate, and
she must not be sacrificed. My father would
never have named promotion, had it not been
certain. Yet, should he disapprove my
choice, would it be certain? Pshaw ! I
wrong my father's honour by such a doubt ;
he is neither prejudiced nor unjust; and
did not lie marry to please himself ? " That
last argument set its seal on doubt. " I
must, I must, if I would not resign her to
the rout-li wooing of that volunteer cousin,
who had no more decency than to make a
covert offer before my very face. No, no,
Mr. Corporal, Muriel is not for you. You
must pardon me if I use your own weapons
to fight against you."

The lieutenant stopped at the door to go
in, hast glancing up at the sky, where a
silvery moon was sailing among fleecy clouds,
and gave promise of a bright tomorrow. A

broad patch of moonlight slanting between
two pillars of the arcade, rested on his form,
lit up the doorway as he entered ; lie accepted
the augury with as radiant a smile,
Tuesday morning broke full of promise for
the day. The showers of the night had
only served to lay the dust and refresh the
wayside flowers and foliage. The Wye, not
then so far covered up from the light of day,
shone and sparkled, and danced along as
merrily as the current in a lover's veins 
here in sunshine, there in shadow  here
glassed like a mirror, there fretting in foam
over rocks and boulders, as a lover might
fret and chafe at impediments  or so thought
Arthur Wynne (to whom as yet no peremptory
recall had come). He and Muriel
having the start led the way along the
winding road, keeping well ahead of the gig,
a cramped, clumsy and heavy altar, not
likely to spin along too rapidly. But he
found Muriel such a novice in horsemanship,
he had so many hints to give, such
a careful watch to keep on her every movement,

and he so dreaded startling her with
an abrupt declaration of his feelings, that in
his impatience he felt the time slipping by,
and his opportunity with it.

Yet not wholly, for those very instructions
afforded opportunities for words, and
looks, and tones which needed no interpreter,
and he could not readjust the reins
without the irresistible temptation to press
and hold her hands if but for a moment.
And Muriel must have been less than a
woman if she had not seen, and felt, what
was impending. That he was not repulsed
spoke volumes.

Indeed Muriel was more self-possessed than
he  it may be she was on her guard, it maybe
she had her horse to guide, but though
she never looked up at him, she directed his
attention, now to the clearness of the water,
then to the beauty of rocks or foliage, and
as they were crossing the bridge on the
Fairfield road, where to the rio-ht the
beauties of Atwood Dale invited foot and
eye, with its tall limestone cliffs set like

ramparts to guard the little river winding
at their base, she reminded him that he was
neglecting the very scenery they had come
to admire.

Nay, Miss Danger, others might come to
view scenery ; I came for another purpose ;
and all I care to see, all the charm of the landscape,
all the world holds of good or beautiful
for me, is by my side  came with me."

The gig was far in the rear, and out of
sight. There was no one on the road. He
laid his hand on hers, as if to steady it,
and went on, " You were but a child and I
a boy, my dear Miss Danger, when these
gentle fingers closed the wound on my brow,
and I learned how kind, pitiful, and patient
was the little maid I called Eed Ridings Hood.
Years went by ; the wound that healed on
my brow had opened in my heart ; and, Muriel
may I not call you Muriel, my Muriel ? 
I found that only the same hand could heal it."

Muriel had miscalculated her strength, or
she was not prepared for this, she felt dizzy,
a mist seemed to come before her eyes, her

colour went. He saw the change, and ere
she knew how it occurred he was off his
horse, and had her in his supporting arms
under shelter of the tall cliff, imploring her
forgiveness for his precipitancy, the well-trained
animals standing still, and looking
on as if in sympathy.

"You will forgive me, Muriel, will you
not ? " She made no effort to release herself,
and he took silence for assent. " I
have so much to ask, so much to say, and if I
seem precipitate it is because I may be
recalled any hour." (Muriel started. Was
his recall so near?) "I could only use the
brief moments granted me to tell you how
sincerely, how devotedly, I love you, and to
ask if you would be my own dear wife ; "
and a second time he pressed her fingers
to his lips.

Hoof beats and wheels drew near ; she had
barely time to withdraw from his encircling
arms, when the gig came in sight, upon the
narrow bridge and there was a shout from
Joe : 

VOL. ni. E

Halloo, what's the matter? "

I went dizzy, that was all," said Muriel ;
I am better now," her colour coming and
going strangely as she spoke.

Humph ! you shouldn't ride so fast," from
Joe.

I hope your fainting are not going to
return," cried the mother anxiously. " You
see, she is not much accustomed to riding."
This by way of excuse. " Perhaps we had
better go back."

Muriel would not hear of this ; she declared
she was better, and ready to remount. But to
this Arthur Wynne put in his word, suggesting
that her cousin might drive on slowly,
whilst she rested a few minutes on a laro;e
stone hard by ; the gig would be soon overtaken
; to which, after some demur, she and
Joe both assented. It was this desire of hers
to go forward that disarmed Joe's suspicions.
Mrs. Danger had not conceived any.

A shrinking that was not timidity impelled
Muriel to remount, a glance of hopeless sadness
in her lover's eye impelled her to remain.

The horses were securely tethered before
the gig was gone, and the first low words she
heard were, " I was afraid you were leaving
me to despair. What answer am I to expect
from your stay ? " He saw she was pale,
and still, and grave, and his buoyant hopes
fell.

There was silence, unbroken save by the
song of birds. He stood before her, watching
her sobering face. "Miss Danger," he
asked, with quiet intenseness, " have I been
too presumptuous ? Can you riot love
me?"

Back came the crimson tide to cheek and
brow, and down went the tell-tale face into
the trembling hands, as if to hide the lips
from which burst the words, " Love you ! ah,
too well ! "

There was space on the rock for two, or
he made it. He imprisoned her hands, her
form. Lie loved him, and that alone was
ecstasy. The words where low and broken in
which he told his joy.

But she shrank from his clasp. " Don't,"

E 2



 Illinois

said she, " I cannot bear it ; I must not listen
to you. Let us go."

"Love me, and not listen to me?" he questioned
in amazement. " Wliat can this mean?"

It means," said she, summoning all her
strength, " that I cannot brintr disunion into
a family, and therefore cannot marry you.
Mrs. Wynne would scorn the mantua-maker's
apprentice, and you forget, sir, I am still
that, and am due at Mrs. Copley's in
October."

Forget it ! That I do not ! My beloved
Muriel, if you will only become mine, we
may set Mrs. Copley at defiance. She
cannot claim a married woman as an
apprentice."

A lijht broke on Muriel, This was the
door of escape the law opened to her. This
was the secret of this declaration. Had
Arthur Wynne lost sight of his integrity in
his desire to spare her another year's probation
? Was he braving the displeasure of
his family for that? Her grandmother's
caution came swooping down like a hawk

upon the fluttering joy-bird in her breast 
the bliss of being loved, and by hwi. She
must not, dared not cherish it.

She rose to her feet. Her agitation was
apparent through all her effort to seem calm.
1 thank you, sir, for the honour you would
do me, for  for the sacrifices you are willing
to make for me, but duty forbids that I
should purchase happiness at such a price.
Our union could only drag you down  cause
dissensions and difficulties, bring ultimate
misery to both. Your mother would never
consent  my grandmother would not. She
objects to hasty marriages. She has passed
her word for my return, and would not
break it for the world." The voice, momentarily
proud, dropped to sadness. " And
oh, Arthur Wynne, I thought you too noble
to take advantage of a legal quibble for
any end ! "

He too was on his feet. His heart gave a
great bound. Did ever his own name sound
so sadly sweet before? Was this the patient,
unresisting Muriel who had submitted to the

yoke of her hard task-mistress without
revolt ? This fragile creature firmly resisting
self, with a code of honour higher than his own.

He took her hands, and she released them.
"My friends will be uneasy; let us rejoin
them," said she.

Tell me first," he asked, " why you feel
bound to keep faith with a woman Who so
grossly broke faith with you ? "

"We are answerable to God for our own
actions, not for those of others. Mrs.
Copley's wrong-doing would not justify
mine. To her own Master she must stand or
fall." She spoke quietly, and with a movement
towards the horses, already showing
signs of impatience. He assisted her to her
saddle in silence ; yet, ere he left her side, he
said, in a subdued voice, " Muriel, you say you
love me, and in spite of this repulse I must
believe you, for the sake of my own peace.
If I wait for you until you are released
from bondage, will you be my wife then ? "

The answer came low, but clear : " If
your friends consent,  yes ! "

SOMETHING EASE.

she oig-horse had been allowed to take
its own leisurely pace, whilst Joe
Bent expounded his private views with relation
to Muriel, which were pretty much
those of Lieutenant Wynne ; namely, that he
should marry Muriel forthwith, and " laugh
at old Mother Copley," as he phrased it.

He had not brought his aunt out solely for
the benefit of the air, or the admiration of
scenery, and, not having Muriel b} his side,
endeavoured to turn the drive to account
and do a little courtship at second-hand,
contentedly assuming that his proposal was
one to be snapped at.

He had imagined his attentions to have
been all along so self-evident, that he was
astonished to hind he had taken his aunt
very much by surprise ; but it ended in his

being referred to Muriel herself, subject also
to the approval of the folk at the Grange,
and to her father and grandmother likewise.

He had thought it might be " settled right
off."

I've no fear for the old folk at the
Grange, not I,'' cried confident Joe, "Fatherly
be glad to see one of us settled down, and
as for mother I've heard her wish she'd a
daughter like Muriel, scores of times. And
I know you've only to put in a good word
for me. Aunt, and the business is done."

I think not, Joe," calmly answered Mrs.
Danger, " Muriel is easy and unselfish, but
she forms her own opinions, and is not to
be led in such a matter."

Self-satisfied Joe miu:ht have no fears about
the people at home, but he saw something
in the faces of Muriel and her companion,
dien they overtook the gig, that rather
puzzled him, still he chuckled inwardly with
the cain conviction that he would soon put
the intrusive lieutenant to the right-about,
and forestall his cousin Fawcett. Had he

not known Muriel all her life ? and had they
not been the very best of friends since her
return home ? He was confident she liked him.

Aye, so she did, but liking is not loving,
and he went back to Manchester by the
Wednesday evening coach a little wiser, and
somewhat less confident ; and if anyone had
been sent to the right-about it was certainly
not the lieutenant, though he too had a
confidential interview with Mrs. Danger,
and was referred back to the heads of
families on both sides.

She had never been in a dressmaker's
work-room, and the disparity in position
created by Muriel's apprenticeship did not
strike the little woman as it struck her
sensitive daughter.

The " marrying forthwith " had however
been expunged from the joung Fusilier's
programme by Muriel herself, and consequently
he awaited his father's answer to his
appeal with much more composure than did
Sir Madoc and Mrs. Wynne to theirs. lie
was secure of Muriel's affection, had no

doubts of her constancy or his own, and
could wait for the rest. They, on the
contrary, became the more irritable, as everyday
brought fresh proofs of Arthur's defection,
and of Miss Pauline's headstrong bias
for the dismissed Sir Jenkyn ; all the stronger
for the opposition it encountered.

Sir Madoc, who had mounted guard over
his daughter, and had been kept by that
damsel of spirit in a state of mental and
bodily activity, inimical to gouty proclivities,
absolutely pounced on the major's letter
when David carried it with his chocolate
to his bedside on the Thursday morning 
David having been charged to watch the
arrival of the mail, and obtain the expected
missive from the postmaster without delay.

It was laconic if not consolatory.

"Chatham, Sept., 1796.
Dear Madoc, 

My legal control over my son ceased
when he came of age.

Yours,

"A. Wynne."

li,

Indeed, then we must diplomatise," said
the spectre of vanity in the wheeled-chair
when it was shown to her. "Finesse may
win where coercion fails. Major Wynne
never did see his duty to his wife and son
in a proper light. I am scarcely surprised
at his apathy now."

What would she have said had she looked
over her son's shoulder as he read his answer
from the same pen by the same post ?

Chatham, aSjo., 1796.
"My dear Arthur, 

Your sentiments do you honour. I
am proud of you. Let Pauline marry whom
she will ; you are right, she is not the wife for
you. A wife's money is a shackle, unless you
can count guinea for guinea of your own.

If you live long enough, the Plan and all
the entailed estate will be yours without the
wife. Cousins should not intermarry.

"Touching Miss Danger, I don't say ' Aye '
and I don't say 'Nay'"

Though a child when I saw her, she gave

promise of future worth. She was not beautiful,
but I can allow for a lover's rhapsodies,
and see the beauty of the soul in a plain face.

Her present social position is a draw-back
not to be lightly regarded by a subaltern who
hopes to rise ; but if, as you say, Miss
Danger is cell connected, it is not insurmountable.


"But  a big but, Arthur  don't be in haste.
You seem conscious that a poor lieutenant has
no right to marry on his pay. Don't let Miss
Danger's many virtues run away with your
common sense.

Say nothing until you have seen me, and
do nothing rash. Commend me to your fair
one, and to your mother. I am glad to hear
she is somewhat better.

"Your affectionate Father,

"AiiTHUR Wynne."

Along with his father's letter had come
his official recall. As he glanced over that
sheet he said to himself, " Do nothing rash !
My dear father, I already had done something
very rash. I may thank my stars the

risfht-minded mrl did not take me altogether
at my word. Our marriage must have been
as precipitate as my offer, had she consented
to obtain release as I proposed. In the
year's probation what may I not achieve ?
my captaincy and my mother's consent  of
my father's I have no doubt." He was
taking the consent of all Muriel's friends for
granted, since Mrs. Danger had herself
seemed willing, much as Joe Bent had
done.

He had only two days to call his own.
He must spend the fleeting hours with
Muriel if possible, and yet his mother must
not have reason to complain of his neglect.
So many things had to be talked over
and settled. And he did not altogether forget
that Muriel's was only a provisional
accept ance after all.

He sjed across the open promenade, called
the Gravel, with all haste, hoping to find the
D'Anyers among the water-drinkers at St.
Ann's Well. He found them seated in one of
the arched niches outside the small building,

and taking a vacant seat beside Muriel, acquainted
them with his recall to Chatham.

I had been led to expect it any day, but
scarcely thought it would arrive so speedily.
And, never did the call of duty find me less
prepared," he said looking steadfastly at
Muriel, the roses which had bloomed on her
cheeks at his approach having joaled as
rapidly.

"I know not how I shall tear myself
away," he added in a whisper audible only to
the one Who could not trust her voice to
utter a syllable in reply. It seemed as if her
new-born happiness was being strangled, and
she with it.

Her mother came to the rescue with a
commonplace question or two.

"It is very sudden," the girl said at length,
under her breath, as if the suddenness had
taken her breath away. It Alas only three
days since he had asked her to be his wife
straightway, and now he was going to leave
her ; what could it all mean ? She heard him
explain to her mother, and she heard him

express a hope that he should be again
stationed at Chester for a time, and as she
listened she grew more composed. No one
was ordinarily more amenable to the call of
duty than herself. On the Monday she had
promptly set self aside at its bidding. Still
for three days she had given herself up to the
luxury of being loved and cared for, and this
was the result. She had no strength to face
the coming parting. The solid ground seemed
to have slid from beneath her feet, and left
her in a state of collapse.

It was the time for her mother's bath ; and
for once she had to be reminded. Lieutenant
Wynne accompanied them to the vestibule,
and then, whilst waiting on her mother, she
silently took herself to task for her weakness
and mistrust.

When an hour and a half later he called
for Muriel to take a ramble alone with him,
whilst Mrs. Danger rested on the sofa, he
found her composed and cheerful, much more
so than he was himself. Unconsciously they
bent their course to the banks of the rapid

and pellucid Wye, and having no gig to bind
them arbitrarily to the Fairfield road, they
passed the end of the bridge without crossing
it and rambled on by the river side through
the enchanting windings of Atwood Dale,
under precipices fringed with feathery ferns,
overhung with the mountain ash and rich
with the tints of autumn, until at leno-th
they stood beneath the tall, rugged, weatherbeaten
grey cliff known as the Lover's Leap,
and there they rested, nor cared to round
its base, though Sherbrook Dell mio-ht well
have invited them, could the sound of its
rushing waterfall have been heard.

It was scarcely an auspicious spot for the
exchange of lovers' vows, since the legends
of the hoarser precipice are sad ones, but
its name alone was known to them, and
Muriel had already taxed her weak ankle
as far as was prudent, and they sat together,
she with her bonnet off, her head upon his
breast, his arm around her, on the broken
limestone below the towering? cliff, forgetful
of the flight of time, and all but their

own absorbing emotions, and coming separation.


There, with no witness save a water-ousel
that hopped upon a stone and perked its
saucy head aside as if intent, then dipped
into the stream and ran alonj beneath well
pleased, she ratified her promise to be his
should he claim her when Mrs. Copley's
right expired ; but still she made the promise
conditional on the assent of friends, neither
argument nor persuasion causing her to
waver,

My father is a very proud man," she
said ; " he would never suffer me to enter
any family where I was unwelcome, and I
am afraid Grandmother Bancroft would
think me too young to marry, even a year
hence ; but I shall never marry anyone
else, for I can never love any other as I
love you, that is certain ; " and though the
answer did not content him, and he told
her she was " cold, and cruel," he could
obtain no other.

"I am not cruel," she maintained, "but I

VOL. ni. F

owe a duty to them, as you to your parents.
I cannot promise more than duty to them  -
and to you  will sanction."

But you will wear this for my sake,
darling, will you not, as a token of our
betrothal ? "

Yes," she whispered, as he placed upon
her finger an opal ring, in which a lambent
flame seemed to play as if it were a tongue
of fire. " Yes, and if you like, I will break
a sixpence with you here by this waterside,
and beneath this Lover's Rock, as a witness
between us, that though time, or distance,
or friends may divide us, we will still be
true one to the other."

True one to the other," he echoed, as
the thin white coin was snapped in twain,
but you harp on the one string. Why will
you only anticipate separation ? If you
remain constant, nothing can divide us,
nothing shall divide us," and he tightened his
clasp of her form as if to intensify his words.

Hush ! " she murmured fearfully, " "eve
may plan, but only God may control."

True," lie answered ; and as he still
held her to his heart, there Alas a solemn
and a reverent pause  emotion too full for
speech. Still he had a sanguine nature, and
chid her lovingly for her saddening want of
confidence in the future.

It was a tricolour for both of them.
They had stood as it were for a brief moment
on the threshold of felicity, only to see the
]portals barred against them and feel draa'o'ed

i O CO

asunder invisible hands ; and the kisses they
exchanged partook more of the solemnity
of parting than of love's impassioned
ecstacy.

On the Saturday Arthur Wynne was gone,
bearing with him a long silken purse of
Muriel's netting, in which the broken piece of
silver lav enshrined with a lock of her
brown hair ; and the sunshine seemed to
have gone with him, for the skies wept
as he went, and Muriel could not smile over
his departure, try as bravely as she might.

She endeavoured to buoy herself up with
the prospect of meeting him ere long in

 2

Chester ; but Mrs. Ilopley, and her workroom
would come into the picture, and chill
her With the fear that to meet him Avould be
almost as impracticable as unwise. She
would have to think not only of her own
good name, but of his. But however she
was torn with the conflict of emotion and
duty she kept a careful guard upon herself,
and Mrs. Danger little thought how deep
and strong was the current of feeling hidden
under the girl's serene countenance, and
cheerful demeanour. She said little about
her lover or she raiixht have broken down.
A crystal-locket containing a single dark
curl could have told how her heart beat and
fluttered at the mention of his name, and
the tongue of flame in the opal ring might
have spoken of secret glances and kisses
given to the senseless stone had either had a
voice.

Wonderful ! No sooner had her son taken
his departure than Mrs. Wynne condescended
to be gracious to Miss Danger, Was
it in deference to his farewell entreaty, think

you ? Kay, that would not have moved
her. Was it not rather a touch of her
diplomatic art.

She had rejoiced at Arthur's recall, and
had bade Sir Madoc rejoice too, as removing
Arthur from evil influence and leaving
her free " to diplomatise." But easy going
Sir Madoc was getting pretty well tired
of Mrs. Wynne's scheming and of keeping
watch and ward over self-willed Pauline,
and though he would naturally have preferred
to keep the plan for his daughter and
her heirs, he was of a free, frank nature,
and more inclined to sympathise with Arthur
and Pauline in their resolute determination
to choose for themselves, than with Celia
Wynne, whom he began to suspect of misleading
him.

He bore Sir Jenkyn no ill-will until he
suspected him of coming between Arthur
and Pauline. Indeed he had hitherto regarded
him as a downright good fellow,
worthy of his name and his long pedigree ;
and had been well pleased to greet him in

the hunting-field, or at his own board where
the young baronet's father had of old been
Avon't to take his place, as ready to hold
a long controversy over Willing as to propose
a toast, or troll out a Welshman's song
in the vernacular.

Whatever Sir Madoc mio:ht think with
regard to Sir Jenkyn, Mrs. Wynne had no
mind to have a mantua-raaker's apprentice
for a daughter-in-law ; and when after her
son's departure she condescendingly bent
her head and smiled at Muriel in passing,
at the baths, there was anything but friendliness
under the mask.

The following day she ordered Owen to
stop her chair as they approached Miss
Danger, and without a word of apology
for previous neglect, beyond an insinuation
that it was her son's fault, expressed a hope
that her health was improving, that she
enjoyed the change, and the air, and a few
like commonplaces, but this always when
Muriel was alone.

And so day by day until the strangeness

wore off, occasionally introducing the name
of her son ; and then bit by bit, in the most
natural Away possible, first dropping hints
and then speaking openly of his long engagement
to his cousin, Miss Wynne, of the Plan,
and their contemplated marriage the ensuing
spring, accompanied by the patronizing regret
that Miss Danger would not be in Chester
to embroider the bridal robes, and a hope
that Arthur would have sov/n his wild oats
before then.

But never, by any chance, did she by word
or look give a sign of knowledge of any
pretensions that son might have had to the
young girl whose heart she smote so ruthlessly.


These casual words were as the drops that
wear the stone ; but marble is not easily impressed,
and Muriel had a steadfast mind, a
clear perception, and a good memory. It
goes without telling, that these suggestive

to

insinuations that Lieutenant Wynne was
playing a double game, amusing himself at
her expense as a part of his wild-oat sowing,

coming from Lis own mother must have
disturbed and disquieted Muriel, but the
clear-eyed, truthful girl saw through the
scheming woman, and held fast to her
faith in the absent one.

Unveiled in that one painful interview in
Mrs. Copley's show-room, it was in vain for
Mrs. Wynne to wear a mask before her now.

Between Pauline, Sir Madoc, and Muriel,
the poor painted butterfly in the invalid chair
had her head and hands full ; to say nothing
of her sufferings from the presumption of
Owen, her maid, whom she had long decided
on dismissing  when she could replace her,
and, only half satisfied with her own cleverness
in convincing " that artful baggage of
a Danger girl," she contemplated the condescending
patronage of Mrs. Danger.
whose ears mio-ht be a trifle more accessible.

But she had the habit of talking to herself
in her dressing-room when alone, or with her .
maid, which was pretty much the same thing,
or she thought so ; and Owen, stolid as she
might seem, ha vine: a better heart than her

mistress, had more than once defeated her
schemes, quietly and unsuspectedly. Nay,
her "presumption " consisted in disapprobation
open or tacit.

Old servants who have private or family
affairs and secrets in their ken, are apt to
presume ; and the taciturn maid who held
the key to all Mrs. Wynne's little flirtations,
and could have thrown a light upon
the duel which might have left the lady
a widow, was sufficiently human to let
her silence be felt, and to turn it to good
uses. And however much Mrs. Wynne might
mutter and grumble, the maid kept her place,
and the mistress stood in some awe of her
stolid imperturbable maid.

Now Owen remembered kindly the little
maiden who had saved her own limbs in waiting
on her wearisome mistress at the Forest
House. She loved " Master Arthur," and
could not stand beside the wheeled chair
which Norris propelled, and hear him
slandered. She knew of no " wild oats,"

So one day she secretly slipped a scrap of

paper into Muriel's hand, on wliicli was
written, " Don't yon believe one word against
Master Arthur, he is good and true. Her
doesn't know what her's saying. Illness turns
some folk's heads. Don't let your mother
come anig;h she."

A grateful look of thanks went strain-lit
from the soft brown eyes to Owen's heart,
across the fantastic gauze bonnet on the
immovable head in the chair, and Muriel's
low ' I don't," murmured in the woman's ear
as she took leave, Alas answered with a
satisfied little nod unseen by the mistress,
who had no power to turn round.

Mrs. Danger had left her rheumatism
in the baths, and was contemplating a
return home in a couple of days, when the
Wynness, and all Buxton Avitli them, had a
sort of electric shock.

Diplomacy was defeated.

Sir Madoc was punctilious over his appearance
at the breakfast-table, when gout
or over-fatigue the previous day did not
confine him to his pillow Mrs. Wynne

always took lier coffee or chocolate in
bed.

On one occasion, Miss Wynne lazily intimated
overnight her intention to follow their
example the following morning, protesting,
that she Alas so fatigued, she thouslit she
should sleep till noon ; and was not to be
disturbed until she ran; her bell.

This was on the evening of a day on which
she had drawn her father, nothing loth, to
join the Derbyshire hunt, in spite of his years.
Whether he had counted on the possibility
or not, Sir Jenkyn was also in the field, a
very centaur on his high-mettled bay ; and
once amongst the scarlet-coated huntsmen
he had found it impossible to keep his spirited
daughter and her equally spirited admirer
apart.

They raced ahead keeping well together,
and leavings the heavier old gentleman to
follow with the stragglers ; and the old
sportsman more admired their daring and
spirit than resented it.

Indeed, as he lay resting his weary limbs

in bed the next morning, lie thought what a
fine-looking pair they would make, and how
much more pleasant it would be to have a
son-in-law within hail, than marching after
the fife and drum, and Seing sent to some
outlandish place to be carried off by yellow
fever or a bullet ; to say nothing of Pauline's
liking. He had really got tired of galloping
after her up hill and down dale, day after day
as she had kept him of late ; she positively
ought to have a husband to look after her.
He thought he should " call back the
banished Sir Jenkyn, and hand her over to
this guardianship, and a fig for Celia and
her schemes."

Elate and beaming"' with his benign
intention, clean-shaven Sir Madoc salted
from his chamber an hour before noon,
dressed with precision, not a speck on his
broad-tailed bottle-green coat ; his lace
cravat and ruffles in perfect order ; his shoe
and knee-buckles bright as his own eyes; his
Avis carefully powdered ; the broad brim of
his laced hat buttoned up into its three

cocks, and he fully equipped with snuff-box,
and ixold-monnted stick.

Mrs. Wynne had not yet made her
appearance, neither had Pauline ; at least
she was not in the drawings-room.

He had no particular desire to see the
former ; but his daughter, where was
she ?

Inquiry elicited from the housekeeper, that
Miss Wynne had taken breakfast at a very
early hour ui her own room, and afterwards
gone out in her riding; habit unattended.

Sir Madoc stood aghast. What freak was
this ?

Unattended, and in her riding-habit ! "
he exclaimed. " And at what hour? "

"Yes, Sir Matoc. Half-past seven, sir, or
it might pe eight ! " answered David.

Sir Madoc paced the room from end to
end, his perturbation growing With every
step, and having no counsellor at hand, took
counsel with this snuff-box ; but ten minutes,
twenty, half-an-hour went by, and still
Pauline did not return.

Norris was summoned and questioned,
and then Owen. No one knew more than
lie had been told already.

A message went to Mrs. Wynne, and put
lier in a terrible flutter ; then Sir Madoc
took a long and vain survey of Staneclift
from the windows ; then betook himself to
the public stables with a vague fear of that
which he would not shape into words even
to himself, lest his should wrong the proud
blood of the Wynness ; the blood which was
chafing and boiling in his own breast, at the
bare suo;o;estion of that which he dared not
name.

As he surmised, Sir Jenkyn's horse was
gone, and gone too was that of Pauline.
The question was  whither ?

All Sir Madoc's benignity Alas at an end ;
he fumed and spluttered, ordered out his
own mare intending to go in pursuit, countermanded
the order, and made himself a mark
for the sly shafts of grooms and underlings,
with his explosive questionings.

Had Mrs. Wynne been at his elbow she

would have said, " Don't make yourself
ridiculous, and Pauline generally conspicuous.
You want tact, Sir Madoc."

Something like it she did say when he
went back to the Crescent, with a doubtful
sort of hope that there he might fid the
absentee.

It is my daughter I want, madam ! Can
you tell me where I shall find Iter ! Don't
talk of tact and self-control to me, I say,
unless you can,"

Now, my dear Sir Madoc, pray be calm,
how can I tell where the dear girl has
flown ? You cannot think Pauline would do
anything rash ? " lulls expostulated, half
whimpered the tremulous creature, huddled
up in a rocquelaire, with her curls and cap ina
very unwonted state of disarray.

Pausing in his restless walk, and mechanically
dipping his linger and thumb into the
snuff-box he had nearly emptied in his
excitement, he confronted her with, " Cain,
madam, cain ; " he snapped down the lid of
the box and rapped it smartly with his

knuckles, " I say, how calm do you expect
a man to be, whose daughter has been so
rash as to run off with a man she might
have lead with her father's blessings if she
had but waited another day."

Sir Madoc ! You cannot mean it ! "

Yes ! I do mean it. But now, look you,
unless Pauline be here within the hour, I'll
cast her off, disinherit her ; she shall be no
child of mine."

But the hour struck, and another, and still
there was no sign of either Pauline or Sir
Jenny n .

Sir Madoc was again at the stables. His
previous excited enquiries had set tongues
Wagging. His reappearance was the signal
for fresh comments and suggestions, all pointing
to suspicions of a runaway match.

A hunting friend of Sir Jenkyn's suggested
Gretna Green," a groom interposed with a
grin, " Near, they might get th' job done
gradely nigher-hant than Gretna Green.
They ha' only to go to th' church i'th' Peak
Forest to diet wed without axis or owt."

A bystander confirmed this, " Aye, all
the runaways go to the Peak Forest Church
to be wed. You see, it's what they call extra-parochial,
and has some sort of law of its
own."

Then the keeper of the stables recollected
that Sir Jenkyn had been asking overnight
for a guide who knew the country well ; someone
else had seen him in conversation with
one of the lingers-on about the place, a fellow
named Blackburn, whose character was none
of the best-and the man was missing that
mornings.

There was no dearth of rouofh-ridinof
volunteers for the quest nov there was a clue,
or of guides, and Sir Madoc rode like one
possessed. All his kindly intentions had
turned to bitterness and exasperation ; and
his anger intensified with every mile of rough
road that shook him in his saddle.

Once at the little hamlet in the heart of the

Peak Forest, the simple parson did not need

much seeking. He was found in his shirt

sleeves tilling the patch of ground he called
VOL. ni. G

his garden. They soon knew all he or the
villagers had to tell.

Yes, Pauline Wynne, and Sir Jenkyn
Jenkinson, had been to the secluded church.
Had left it man and wife. There was an ill-looking
fellow with them who had held their
horses. They were going back to Buxton
thrush TideswelL their suite had told a lad.

Told to mislead. A woman they met where
the road branched off had seen them strike
northward, as if toward Eldon Hole. Two
miners had watched them a little beyond that
awful chasm with their faces set towards
Castleton, and had "wished them well through
the Winnats with that sow chap in company."


And here it should be told that the Winnats
or Windgates is a narrow, winding, and still
descending pass, which constitutes about the
last mile of road from Chapel-in-le-Frith
towards Castleton, the ancient stronghold of
the Severely. There the cramped up winds
rush and tear along with terrific violence only
such stony barriers could withstand ; and

there, with their heads shrouded in perpetual
fog, precipices a thousand feet high frown
at each other, and seem to lock the traveller
in. Only necessity or the familiarity of
common use could reconcile the lonely
traveller to such a route; even to the
adventurous tourist the horror of the place
made the first view of the vale of Castleton
a welcome relief from morbid oppression.

Yet, late in the afternoon, among the
windings of that craggy and repulsively
lonely pass of the Windgates, to the shuddering
dismay of the seekers, they were found,
the bridegroom and bride  despoiled of all
that was valuable, cut and bruised, left with
just enough life to fold each other in close
embrace and await death  or the miracle
of discovery.

A shout from the leaders had told Sir

Madoc they were found. The how drove the

old man speechless and aghast. There was

an effort made to keep him back but he

would press to the front. And then he was

frantic.

G 2

Brandy-flasks were ready, and handkerchiefs
to bind up wounds ; coats were freely
doffed to shield them from the evening breeze,
which there became a blast, for they had
been ruthlessly stripped of outer coverings ;
and horsemen sped on under the frowning
crags to spread the alarm and bring assistance.
Helpless and half-insensible, Pauline and
her husband were both lifted carefully by
strong hands to friendly saddles, and the
doubly burdened beasts picked their way
in the waning light down the steep and
rouQ-h descent to Castleton.

And, oh, the agony of that hour to good
Sir Madoc ! Wrath had given place to
anguish and reset, and loud as had been his
bitter denunciations of the headstrong pair,
his voice now sank into lamentation and
remorse, not chequered by execrations of
Celia Wynne's policy, to which he attributed
this catastrophe.

Had not she blinded me this would never
have been. Oh, Pauline, my child, my
child ! "

So lamenting the grey-haired old baronet
kept close beside the stout horseman who
had charge of his helpless daughter, ever
and anon stretching out his hand to grasp
hers and ascertain if warmth and pulsation
were there ; the hand from which even the
new wedding ring had disappeared.

In such wise did the sad procession seek
the open door of the humble inn atCastleton,
Avhere the motherly hostess was already
]prepared to receive them, with the village
doctor by her side.

They did not die ; though at the time the
D'Anyers left Buxton, life and death wavered
in the balance, and rumour said recovery was
impossible, they had been so woefully maltreated.
But even then Sir Jenkyn had
rallied to tell how they had followed their
guide without suspicion into the rocky pass,
until a comrade lying in wait had sprung
upon them unawares, and ere he could draw
a pistol had struck him with a bludgeon
from his seat. Of the after-struggle,
indicated by the stained and trampled

ground, he remembered nothing, nor did
his unhappy bride.

Highway robbery and horse-stealing were
hanging matters in those days, even when
murder was not attempted, and these two
had certainly been left for dead. Justice was
already on the track of the ruffians, stimulated
no less by the reward offered by Sir
Madoc Wynne, than by the blood-money paid
by the Crown to the thief-taker on conviction.

YOUNG HEADS AND OLD ONES.

1""-El' Buxton has made a new
Immi woman of thee, and of Muriel too ! "
was Mrs. Bancroft's opening salutation when
they paid the latter a visit on their return
home, Mrs. Danger almost as nimble as lier
daughter.

They had called on Lydia by the way,
and had so timed their arrival at Eed Bank
as not either to interrupt business, or
disconcert Margery by a needless re-arrangement
of the afternoon tea-table.

When alone, Sarah Bancroft had her tea
set on a small round snap-table in the big,
bright, best kitchen, winter and summer ;
but Margery knew well that visitors meant
privacy and tea in the sitting-room ; the
room so little occupied otherwise since

Samuel had made a home for himself elsewhere.
The best parlour, on the other side
the hall, was reserved for state occasions,
and it might be, to fid occupation for
Margery and her polishing brushes.

Their entrance was the signal for Margery
to bring a long brimstone-tipped match alight
into the room, and place it beneath the turf
and coal already in the bright grate, in order
to kindle up a fire, using her check apron asa
fan to expedite the process. But no sooner
had she carried her linsey petticoat, and blue
led-gown (a loose jacket) and white linen
mutch out of the apartment, and a faint 
sound was heard from the kitchen,
than Mrs. Bancroft, whose first greetings and

Co

liand-shakinfTs were over  kissing was not
universal then amongst women, and she was
not one to invite such familiarity even from
]her own near kin  and who sat down on her
high-backed arm-chair watching' her daughter

o o o

disrobe, began abruptly, to Muriel's alarm :

What's this I hear about Lieutenant

Wynne ? Joe Bent says he was hanging

about Muriel all the while he was with you,
and gave no one else a chance of edging ina
word. I hope, Ellen, thai has not been
encouraging the young officer to come after
Muriel, or Muriel either"'  and lie spoke
with some acerbity.

"And why not?" asked Mrs. Danger,
with half timid but very genuine surprise.

Why not ? Ask Muriel. She knows why
not. Are not we all tradespeople ? Such
as he don't mate with manufacturers," and
she pushed back her grey hair under her
mob-cap with an impatient gesture.

So I told him, grandmother ; but "

That's a sensible lass," interrupted the
old dame. " I'm glad thai remembered my
advice," and she patted the " sensible lass "
on the shoulder.

Yes ; but, grandmother," began Muriel
again, " he would not listen to me, and he is
going to write to you, and I have promised

Promised ! not to marry him, surely ? "
and again the furrowed brow clouded.

Not without your consent, and that of
his own friends."

Good lass ! good lass ! I wish all young
folk were as wise,"  a dab at Ellen Danger,
which drew forth a heavy sigh from that
quarter. " But I hope thy fine lover hasn't
made thee too proud to go back to Chester
with me next week. And I hope thai can
ride outside the coach through Frodsham
without fancying thalia's a right to every rood
of land we traverse, because it belonged to
the dead-antigone D'Anyers hundreds of
years back, like that silly father of thine.
We had a battle-royal over it the other week,
and I told him that Muriel's needle he was
so much ashamed of, Avould be like to do him
more service than the lance of the best of
the D'Anyers he was bragging about. Such
paltry pride ! "

Muriel, carrying off her mother's bonnet
and cloak, had escaped this latter ejaculation
with all its accompaniment of infinite scorn ;
and her mother having diverted conversation
to the terrible catastrophe which had fallen

on the Wynness, she re-entered the parlour, a
fresh-looking, comely maiden in a dark blue
figured-stuff gown, with lace frills to cover
elbows and neck, just as her grandmother
was saying, " Blackburn, Blackburn ! I wonder
if that's one of Maggy Blackburn's lads.
They're a bad lot ; not a bit too good for
aught. I only wonder Lydia likes to have
the woman about her, however good a nurse
she may be. They were suspected of mauling
the captain's servant, Norris, I remember.
I'll go and ask Sam what he thinks. He's
not left the counting-house yet. It's a busy
time with us, as thai knows."

Whatever Sam thought, he was evidently
startled ; but he put his change of colour
down to the " shocking affair," and set down
as " preposterous the notion that because
Maggy Blackburn's lads were a bit wild, and
did a little poaching now and then, they
should be suspected of anything worse." And
as poaching and smuggling were winked at,
and connived in by well-to-do and respectable
people, the excuse passed muster;

especially when backed by the query why the
Cheshire man should be found in Derbyshire
?

If it was anything more than an excuse
Sam diverted attention by closing the ledger
and hurrying out of the counting-house to
welcome and congratulate the visitors on
their good looks, and to heighten Muriel's
colour by jocular reference to the " fancy
sweetheart she had found." 

But though Margery had brought in besides
the mahogany tea board with its array of
blue-and-wliite china, a pile of those hot well-lettered
potato cakes in which his palate
delighted, he declined to take tea with them,,
said Lydia was not well, and would be expecting
him ; and he must be back before
the men had finished their begging.*

"Was Lydia ill?" asked his mother
(curiously, when he was gone, " I think you
said 3'ou had called there."

She did not say so," was Ellen Danger's

Baggin', the food a Lancashire operative carried with him
in a bag, for refreshment at certain breaks in the long hours of
labour.

response, " she looked low-spirited and weary,
but nothing more than usual."

Um ! " was all the comment of the
querist. Mrs. Danger went on, " I think
she works too hard. Go when you will
everything is in order, and so bright and
clean you might almost eat off the floors
and tables ; and no litter, not even the
child's doll about. She had just dressed
herself for the afternoon, and was making
a pinafore. I asked her why she did not
come and see us sometimes, and she told me
she could not leave the house, Sam would
not like it. There were so many rough
people hanging about Hyde's Cross, and the
market, they might be robbed. Then I
asked if she did not feel lonely, so much by
herself; and why she did not have a servant
woman. And I fancy she did not like my
questions, for she answered  what do you
think ? ' Hard work was the best cure for
loneliness ; she had not been brought up a
lady, and Sam could not afford to keep a
servant'' "

'' Sam not afford /" echoed the old woman
with a jerk which shook the frills of her cap.
Sam not afford V She was incredulous.

I don't think Aunt Lydia would say it if
Uncle Sara did not tell her so," put in Muriel.
When little Lydia was a baby I heard her
wish she had the farm dairy and gardens to goto,
everything cost so much to bny."

Hm ! She's a saving body is Lydia ;
would rather save her money than her bones.
She has none of the wants and ways of
gentility. And so long as Sam never takes
his own friends or customers into the house,
I suppose he lets ]her have her own way. I
don't blame her or him for being thrifty. It's
best for young beginners  some folk start
wrong end first ; (this was another dab at the
D'Anyers) but I'll ne'er believe Sam told her
he could not afford to keep a maid. It would
be a lie I "

And as if her set face and stern tone were
not sufficiently emphatic she struck the table
with a force which made the cups and
saucers rattle ; and caused Muriel to rise

disquieted, and say she would go to the
Hargrave' for half-an-hour, she wished to
see Silly.

Mrs. Danger, equally disconcerted,
willingly assented, and just to divert the
current of conversation gave Muriel a
message to deliver. But the train of her
OAvn thought was, " How soon mother fires
up if a word is said against Sam. True as
steel she thinks him ; and she would neither
thank me nor anyone else to show her the
rust on the blade."

She little imagined that her mother's very
vehemence was the outcome of shadowy
suspicions, against which she was fighting
and protesting with all the strength of
maternal idolatry.

She saw her turn her chair to front the
fire, now bright and glowing, and sit silent,
looking into it, and brooding, with set brows
and close mouth, running her hand mechanically
up and down the bright steel chain
by Which her keys were suspended from her
girdle, and whilst puzzling what had come

over her mother she was too timid to break
the silence.

Presently to her relief, in came Margery
for the tea-board, summoned, and said,
Missis, you're wanted i' th' warehouse."

The musical word broke the reverie and
called the business woman to her feet.
Aye, aye, Margery, I know I'm wanted.
These are not times to sit dawdling; by the
fire."

"Then I'll say good afternoon, mother,"
said Ellen, quick to take the hint, '' I'll go
round by the works to meet Muriel, as you
are busy."

Aye, aye, so thalia best. And see the
lass's things are packed betimes. Good
day."

Mrs. Danger met Muriel at the entrance
of the dyer's croft where long pieces of
blue and red calico liuns from tenter-hook
to tenter-hook by the self-edges to drain
and dry in a wavy succession of short lines
between post and post.

They were equally surprised to meet.

Why (lid you leave grandmother ? " asked
the one.

"Was not Silly at home? " questioned the
other.

Oh, mother was busy, and I thought I
Alas not wanted," Questions and answers
were simultaneous.

"Yes! Silly was at home but  " and
Muriel hesitated for she hardly knew how
to answer  " but we had a little difference
and I thought I had better come away before
it became a great one."

Quite right, my dear, always avoid
quarrelling if possible. But I should
scarcely have expected Silly to be disagreeable
with you. Her love for you has
been so earnest."

She was not exactly disagreeable, mother,
but we had a difference of opinion ; and

she wanted me well perhaps it was no

great matter after all, and she may forget
it by the morrow."

Ellen Danger asked no questions, and
the subject dropped. It occurred to her

VOL. III. H

that Silly had been intrusively inquisitive
about Joe Bent and Lieutenant Wynne, that
Muriel had not felt disposed to answer, and
that Silly had been petulant.

Iter surmise was correct in part, ]put
only in part. Mill} had welcomed Muriel
with more than ordinary effusion. She
had seen her coming and rushed to meet
her with open arms, clasped her in a
close embrace, laughed, yet seemed half
inclined to cry, and almost dragged her into
the house and up the stairs to her own
bedroom in her haste to have her all to
herself.

It was a pleasant room, overlooking the
croft, and the shining Irk, and the flowery
uplands beyond the river which her father
and his confraternity were doing their best
to spoil with refuse from the vats. Courtly
shepherds and shepherdesses made perpetual
love in bowers of marvellous exotics on the
printed linen curtains of her four-posted,
on which lay a snowy counterpane of her
dead mother's knitting ; so no wonder love-making

occupied the damsel's dreams by
day and by night.

Oh, Muriel I have so wanted you ! " she
cried, " I am so glad you have come.
Father's in the parlour shut up with old
Stott, with their pipes and ale, hatching
mischief I know. And now take off your
things, and tell me all the news." And she
laid hands on the clasp of her cousin's
cloak.

Muriel checked her. " No, Silly, I cannot
stay long. Mother is waiting for me at
Grandmother Bancroft's ! "

Oh, never mind them. They won't want
you. Let them have their talk, and we'll
have ours. I declare, you are looking
well ! I suppose that is due to your new
sweetheart more than to Buxton or its
springs. Ah ! I see it's all true by your
colour. Joe Bent came home in a fine taking.
I've not seen him, Bob told me." And now
it was not only Muriel avIio blushed.

Silly's colour seemed to deepen strangely.

I think Joe has made himself unneces-

n 2

warily communicative, and has said more than
lie lead any right to say  bnt perhaps I am
mistaken, what did Joe say ? "

It flashed across Muriel's mind that perhaps
Silly referred to Joe himself only, and she
seated herself quietly in a rush-bottomed
chair b} the dimity-draped dressing-table
whilst Silly leaned against it, her handsome
face reflected in the small shield-shaped
looking-glass thereon.

Oh, Joe said he found Lieutenant Wynne
dangling after you, keeping you all to himself,
and looking as if he would cut any other
fellow's throat who so much as looked at you.
Bob says it was all Joe's jealousy, and that if
the officer had not been in the way, Joe had
meant to make you an offer himself; and how
delightful that would have been ! ''

"Would it?" said Muriel abstractedly, her
thoughts flying from the problematic to the
actual " offer " made by Joe ; but seeing that
Joe had kept his own counsel, even from his
brother, she was not the one to betray it.
Indeed she knew that Joe possessed sterling

qualities under his blunt exterior, and she
held him in too much esteem to make his
honest proposal a subject for chit-chat,
however confidential, although she had been
compelled to reject him.

Her brief " Would it ? " appeared to
tantalize Silly, who seemed in a most excitable
mood, she answered so quickly, " Of
course it would. Don't you think it would
be pleasant to have you for a sister-in-law,
than have you carried off no one knows
where, to live in barracks, or camps, or all
sorts of horrible places. But you have not
told me anything about Lieutenant Wynne
5et. Where did you meet him ? What did
he say ? Is he in love with you ? Did he
ask you to have him ? " and she bent forward
eagerly huddling her questions one on
another, and catherine; half answers from
Muriel's chanirinfT countenance.

How provoking you are ! Do tell me
something, and then perhaps I'll tell you
something. I'm dying with curiosity ! "

Muriel laughed. " I think you will

survive ; but you take one's breath away,
and give one no chance to speaks. Besides
I fancy you have more to tell than I have 
as yet. What do you mean by sisters-in-law?
Has Eobert won his father and yours
over ? "

Hush-sh ! " Silly stole to the door on
tip-toe, opened it gently, listened at the
staircase head, then came in and closed
it mysteriously. " Hush ! " she whispered,
I don't want father to know ! "

Know what ? "

Well, Muriel, I am dying to tell you, for
I really do want your help and advice ; I've
no one to speak to but 3'ou ; and oh, I do
want a friend ! "

Muriel grew alarmed. " What is the matter,
Silly? anything your father ought to know?"

Oh, nothing's the matter, at least  Oh,
Muriel, you will promise not to mention it to
anyone but Bob, if I tell you a great secret ? "
and she looked as if bursting with some news
she longed to communicate.

I cannot promise that, Silly. I do not

care to have secrets. If it is anything I
ought to know and you tell me, trusting my
discretion to keep the secret, you can do so.
But I cannot make a blind promise and
burden my conscience with a secret I might
feel it my duty to reveal."

Oh, Muriel, Muriel, don't be so prim and
particular. It is nothing so very dreadful.
And you might make the promise. I know
you would be sure to keep it if you did," and
Silly dropped on her knees before her cousin
in earnest entreaty.

Muriel put her arms round her impulsive
cousin's neck.

My dear Silly," said she, " I would do
anything to promote your happiness, if I
saw how to do it clearly and fairly. But
if this secret be something your father
may not know, then I would rather not
know it ; and if it is anything concerning
]cob Bent, I think my uncle is the first person
to be told."

Silly rose to her feet in alarm. " You
won't tell father what I have said ? If you

do  " and she seemed to tremble with
apprehension.

Certainly not, Silly ; it would be a
breach of confidence. But pray do not ask
me to do more. It troubles me to see you
so agitated, for I feel as if there was something
afoot, in which your father ought
to be consulted ; seeing that you have no
mother to confide in. Robert is too much in
love to be a safe guide, at least about anything
that concerns you matrimonially. Don't
let him lead you away to do or say anything
you may repent. I'm afraid he is pressing
you to marry him. But, my dear, you are
both very young. Why not wait ? "

Wait, indeed ! and old Stott closeted with
father even now. It's not about carrying, I
know, unless it's carrying me off, and he's
twenty years older than I am, if he's a da3\
I hate the sight of him. He's had one wife,
and that might content him ; and if he wants
another, surely there are plenty of women in
Yorkshire without coming here for one.
And where he's not wanted.  But, oh,

Muriel, you might promise to keep my secret
if I told you."

Muriel was steadfast. She shook her
head. " I can't, Silly, I can't ! "

Can't, indeed ! You might if you would ! "
and Silly hired up, " it's easy to see what
your hollow friendship is worth. You're
growing as hard and as cold as your Grandmother
Bancroft, that you are ! But you
wouldn't be so particular and conscientious
if it was your own case, I know."

Muriel rose. She was not inclined to say
how nearly it had been her case, or how she
had answered an impulsive lover. She made
excuses for her cousin, even whilst she felt
the injustice of her reproaches. All she said
was, "You will think differently when you
are more composed, and reflect. And I hope
you will come and see me before I go back
to Chester ; " and opening the door, she left
Silly to cool down.

Ah," cried Silly, as she went, " Muriel
would riot be so calm if it were her case.
And she has gone without telling me one

word about the lieutenant. She surely would
have told me if he had said anything particular.
But there's no knowing those quiet
people ; they think so much more than they
say. Oh, dear, dear ; I wish she would have
promised."

Yes, the quiet person lead thought more
than was shown. During lier lone; probation
at school, and at Mrs. Copley's she had
learned to hide her emotions, nay as a very
child, when the pain of her father's visible
dislike was not to be told even to her mother.
And now she was full of distress as she left
the dye-works, and took her way between
the long; lines of swinijino- hanks of coloured
yarn, and flapping folds of ingrain calicoes.
She had never had a difference with her
cousin before, and now she thought " What
could have made Silly so curious and
excitable ? She said I was hard and cold as
Grandmother Bancroft ? But surely she has
never found me hard ; and I do not think my
grandmother is really hard, if we did but
know. She was tender enough to me when I

was ill at school. I suppose people always
seem hard when they think for themselves
and do not agree with others ; Silly could
not mean Avhat she said. She knows I love
her dearly", but she may be inclined to do
something foolish ; and I was afraid to make
so blind a promise. If there be anything she
really desires me to know she will be sure to
come and tell me, and then I can help her,
or advise as well as I am able. Poor
girl, she sadly wants a mother. I hope
Eobert has not tempted her to marry him in
secret. It would exasperate the old people I
am sure. I will ask her when she comes.
It was something about Robert, I am certain.
But hard  hard, does Arthur think me hard
now ? He said I was hard, when I was only
striving to do right. Perhaps he may, for I
could not express a tithe of my love for him,
and I did not dare with all so uncertain."
And here her mother came in sight across
the fallow fields.

Joe Bent did not show himself in Broom
Street, but Robert did, and so did Silly

Hargreaves. But Silly's manner was constrained.
To Muriel's anxious question if she
had been privately married to Bob she gave a
curt " No ! " but the great secret remained a
secret ; even from Muriel.

No letter from Lieutenant Wynne had
come to either Mrs. Bancroft or Mr. Danger
when Muriel went back to Chester, and
Muriel's friends were disposed to think him
a trifler. But when she was once more in the
work-room, and the fair was at its height.
Captain Arthur Wynne walked into the
Manchester Hall, where Mrs. Bancroft was
Buying, selling, and bartering her furry Avares
on a large scale ; and John Danger as erect
as if he too wore a military stock, was doing
the latter with fustians and small-wares to
shopkeepers and other dealers, Irish, Welsh,
and English too.

The young officer had already got his
company, and was then stationed in Chester
as a sub-district for active recruiting. And
there being no longer a question of his
freedom to marry he thought he might as

well reconnoitre, and ascertain what Muriel's
relations were like in their business hours
before he sought a private interview with
either ; not that there was the slightest doubt
or wavering in his mind with regard to her.

He did not overlook her position in Mrs.
Copley's work-room, was not blind to the
social drawback it might prove to Muriel
herself; but he loved lier with a fervour and
devotion which set all other considerations
aside, and was only eager to make her his
own as the supreme blessing of his life.
Perhaps he thought his wife would be carried
so far out of her own sphere, there was little
danger of clashing with her connections
afterwards.

With all his impatience and eagerness he
had forborne to intrude on his beloved, lest
he should do her an unintentional wrong ; and
before seeking the sanction of relatives,
thought it well to scan his o-round.

O O

A hue figure, looks every inch a gentleman,"
was his mental comment on Muriel's
white-headed father, as he strolled round the

central area of the hall, less conspicuous than
might have been, since so many peaceful
traders had donned the uniform of war.
He looks as lordly over the selling of his
goods, as if he were marshalling a troop of
soldiers. Fortune certainly made a blunder
when she set him amongst such merchandise.
And what a beau he is! All, and there is the
good owner of the silver whistle. What a
contrast ! As blunt and homely as he is
polished. She looks more than the eight
years older since we met in Delamere."
And so ran Arthur Wvnue's cogitations ashe
mingled amongst the busy stream of
buyers, a casual spectator only; unrecognized
because in the one case unknown, in the
other, forgotten.

He was glad to escape from that Hall of
Commerce, where the babel of tongues, the
jargon of trade, the mingled odours of
various merchandise fell all unpleasantly on
his senses. And it spoke well for his steadfast
devotion to Muriel, that his sentiments
and intentions underwent no change, so little

in unison with this preconceived ideas of
respectability Alas this bargaining and
cbafferinir over foods on a counter. He
saw piles of heavy broad goods, heaps of
small-wares papered up, but the cabalistic
technicalities of the mart were as strange to
him as military standing-orders would have
been to the merchants, and he could scarcely
draw the distinction between the sales
effected there with other dealers, and the
after retail trade over the shopkeeper's
counter.

Things are managed differently now, but
then there were no cotton-lords, nor many
merchant-princes, and the manufacturer did
not disdain to be this own salesman ; the gap
between the trading community and that
aristocratic section which officered our army,
was wide ; though innovation was slowly
creeping in, and the scions of noble houses
were being uncomfortably elbowed in the
mess-room and on parade by brother officers
whose commissions were purchased by money
made in trade.

Late' in the day the captain's servant
carried two notes into the Manchester Hall,
the result being, firstly an interview that
evening with Mr. Danger at the Plume of
Feathers, and another later with Mrs.
Bancroft at the Yacht Inn, though privacy
at fair-time was scarcely obtainable.

He had much less difficulty with the
father than with the grandmother, the
former being so thoroughly imbued, not
to say inflated, with his own renowned
ancestry as to see neither condescension
nor incongruity in Captain Wynne's overtures
for his daughter's hand, but only a
rightful recognition of her ancient lineage,
the little accident of her apprenticeship
notwithstanding.

Your discernment does you credit,
Captain," said he, as they discussed the
matter over a choice bottle of port. " ]goddaughter
comes of a good stock ; there are
fair lands in this county over which the
D'Anyers once held sway, and if Frodsham
and Lyme passed away lang syne through a

female branch, and Muriel will bring you no
rood of land, she will bring a heritage of
pure blood and unstained integrity. The
Wynness  fill your glass, Captain, no heel-taps
the Wynness may be proud to claim alliance
with so fair a specimen of the D'Anyers,
though her immediate progenitors be only
fustian and beggars-inkle* weavers," and the
manufacturer of beo-crars'-inkle drew himself
up as loftily as if he had worn a casque and
plume.

A smile flickered on the young man's lips ;
but he had noted the implied consent, and
taking no heed of the family pride, which at
another time mio-ht have amused him,
answered, ' I am not a rich man myself, sir ;
I have little beyond my pay ; what I may be
in the future, is not for me to think of;
valued lives, which I hope may be long ones,
come between me and natural inheritance,
and I seek neither lands nor wealth with
Miss Danger, but only her own rich self. I

Beggars-inkle was the commonest kind of tape, such as cooks
hound round fillets of veal and rounds of heed.

VOL. in. I

may have seen fairer, I have seen richer
women according to the world's estimate, but
I have seen none so fully endowed with the
graces and riches that will neither fade nor
flee ; and certainly no lovelier eyes, no
sweeter countenance ever beamed upon
mortal man. Her unsophisticated excellences
charmed me in the child, their development
has enthralled and enchained me in these
riper years."

John Danger filled his glass and drained
it ; he had never fully appreciated his eldest
girl. " Um, ah, yes," he said meditatively,
smacking his lips over the new flavour of
Muriel's praises, rather than the old flavour
of the vintage ; then launching out into
rhapsodies which outdid those of the lover,
though he had only discovered the value of
the family gem when Captain Wynne proposed
for it a new setting.

The young man listened, nothing loth, to
parental anecdotes and encomiums of his
beloved; but time was flying, he was no
wine-bibber, and Mrs. Bancroft had yet to

be seen. He took advantage of a momentary
pause over a re-filled glass to say, 

Then, Mr. Danger, as I presume I ]have
your consent, I would ask how soon I may
claim its ratification. It was my desire to
make Miss Danger my wife in time to free
her from bondage to that woman in Watergate
Street "  he never spoke over-respectfully
of Mrs. Copley  " but the dear girl
absolutely refused. I hope "

What he hoped was interrupted by John
Danger, who, pulling himself up to his full
height, exclaimed,  

And what could you expect, sir, but an

absolute refusal from my daughter ! If that

self-willed, hard-headed old grandmother of

hers, who fancies because she has a few

thousands to dispose of that the whole family

must be under her control, and fall down

and worship her,  if that foolish old woman,

who fancies herself wise, did carry off our

Muriel from her proper place in her own

home to serve a stranger, and coerced me

into acquiescence ; it shall never be said that

I 2

John D'Aiiyer connived at breaking a bargain
into which he has once entered, however bada
bargain he may find it. My honour, sir,"
and he struck his breast, "forbids me to
break my bond. Twelve months hence yoii
have my consent to claim my daughter, until
then she must remain where she is."

But, sir, "

But ! there is no ' but ' in the case,
Captain. If you are not inclined to bide the
conditions, I retract my consent. The man
who is not willing to wait for my daughter,
sir, is not worthy to possess my daughter,
sir. Good heavens ! you don't suppose you
are the only suitor for my daughter's hand ?
If you will not wait, there are others Medio
will, my "

Arthur Wj'nne hastened to assure him
that he accepted his terms, hard as they
were, rather than risk the withdrawal of his
favour ; and after a few more words of
conciliation to the man who had so suddenly
become aware of " my daughter's " worth,
he shook hands and took leave, in haste to

keep his other appointment. Not, it must be
confessed, without some inward quaint. It
was no easy task to assume composure whilst
in a state of feverish excitement ; and his remembrance
of the threatened rupture between
Muriel's grandmother and the Kingsleyss did
not suggest the fittest auditor of a love story.

I protest I could go into battle with
more nerve than meet this formidable old
dame," he murmured to himself, as he
shouldered his way into the Yacht, and
enquired for the furrier from the host.

Mrs. Bancroft had secured a quiet nook
for their conference, though it was little
larger than a closet. Conciliated by the
young man's deference to his elders, she
greeted him cordially, and inquired after the
Major and Mrs. Wynne, and so far put the
young captain at his ease. But he soon
found he had a strong and independent will
to deal with. She did not beat about the
bush, and she was much more practical than
her son-in-law.

And so you want to marry my granddaughter

Muriel ? "Well, I liked you when
you were a lad, and I don't dislike you now,
but I do dislike your trade. There have
been nothing but wars and rumours of wars
for years upon years, till my old head is
ready to split with the squeak of the fife
and the bang of the drum. Every lad in
Manchester that can handle a musket fitness
off his working gear to play at soldiering,
and poor women and children and peaceful
traders are the sufferers. And I don't like
unequal matches ; and however John
Danger may boast of his blue blood, and
his pedigree, the match would be unequal."

Oh, Mrs. Bancroft," he beg-an  she held
up her thin brown hand to silence him.

I say it would be unequal ; you are the heir
of the Wynness, and your lady-mother would
be sure to cast up to my grandchild that
Muriel had made dresses for herself and her
fine friends." Her keen eyes saw him wince.
"Aye, you know that is true,  aye, and
though I intend Muriel to have three hundred
a year from the day she marries, if she marries

to my liking, belike my lady would hold her
nose at the money because it came out of my
skin-sheds. And I'd rather Muriel had set her
mind on a plain tradesman's son, one not too
proud to take my share of the business off my
hands and go into partnership with my son
Sam, when I throw up the reins. But there's
no controlling young folks' likings, and I've a
notion the lass had set her mind on you long
before she knew it herself."

Arthur Wynne brightened : this seemed
more promising.

I know I loved Aer before 7 was conscious
of it," he put in, eagerly.

Without noting the interruption she went
on, " Now, I dare say you wonder why, being
able and willing to give Muriel a wedding
portion, I should bind her to Mrs. Copley.
Do you think I wanted to make a mantua-maker
of the lass ?  nought o' th' sort, though
where there are three or four lasses in a
family, a good gentlewoman comes handy. But
I brought her here to school, and bound her
'prentice, just because she was put upon at

home, was at everyone's beck and call, was
snubbed and kept in the background, and
neither her mother nor herself had the spirit
to stand against it, for where John Danger
sets down his foot, they are ready to kiss the
ground. She's good-looking enough now, and
lier eyes are clear as wells, and I dare say
John will be proud of hier now ; but then he
had taken a dislike to the child because illness
had half-blinded her and spoiled her beauty.
She came the first and was put last, and I
found that she was conscious it was on account
of her seamed face. Her sisters rode
rough-shod over her, even when they were
little ones, and John encouraged them. Many
a air would have rebelled, but Muriel was like
her mother, as soft as my pocket, and would
scarcely have cried out if they had knocked
her down and wiped their feet upon her.
But I'd no mind the willing horse should
do all the work, so I said I'd see about
it  and I did. I saw first that she had a
good education  and none can deny that
Miss Ih'iscoe was a good teacher -  and

then put lier, as I thought, with ca brotherly
woman who would treat lev kindly and
teach lier something useful." Then after
a pause, Sarah Bancroft was reluctant to
confess a failure  " I'm free to own I made
a mistake."

A great one," murmured Captain Wynne
under his breath, but her quick ears caught
the import.

Aye, and I'll see I don't make another.
I'll make the dear lass happy if I can, but I've
a notion her heart's too tender to be happy asa
soldier's wife in war-time. I suppose you
wouldn't like to sell out, if I "

He interrupted her  "Sell out  at such a
crisis ! My dear madam, I should be scouted
as a coward ! "

"Ah, well, so I suppose. But there's no
knowing what may happen before the year's
end, and there can be no marrying before that.
So come to me then either here, or at my
place on Eed Bank, Manchester, and I'll see
wdiat can be done then."

This was tantamount to consent, or he took it

as such, shaking hands with the old dame
very gratefully as he left the inn. But he did
not forget to say, " I presume there can be no
objection to my meeting Miss Danger occasionally
whilst stationed here ? The probation
would be unendurable otherwise."

And her answer was, "Well  a  I'll see
about it."

silly's secret told.

jjm WEEK is a long; time for an impatient
<Y lover to wait for a sight of his beloved
when she is close at hand, and only a hardhearted
door between himself and happiness,
but when that week is superadded to
several other weeks of absence, the delay is
irritating. It would have been more natural
and satisfactory for Arthur Wynne to rush off
to Muriel, and print on her lips the consent
he had won from her father and grandmother,
than to sit down to his desk in the barracks
and pour out his heart and his tidings on
paper, and long like some working-man for
the Sunday which would set his sweetheart
at liberty to meet him. But he had no
alternative.

He sent his letter by a messenger. The

answer came back verbally. The young
lady was engaged, was too busy to write.
Would be with her grandmother on Sunday.


He set his teeth and paced more impatiently
the Watergate Row in which he
lead awaited her answer. It was certainly a
mortification to his pride. And it was more
than that ; it told how close her bonds must
be, and set him longing more and more to
burst them.

Yet it was strange that he, a soldier, upholding
the necessity of army discipline,
should so chafe at the discipline Mrs. Copley
enforced.

Mrs. Bancroft had informed him that no
more Sunday work would be imposed on
Muriel; she having threatened the mantua-maker
with the pains and penalties of the
ecclesiastical court in such case ; and that
on those days Muriel might be seen. She had
driven Muriel over to Wrexham the previous
day to visit some old friends, and the following
Sunday the girl would spend with her

and her father. The captain could join them
if so inclined.

Meantime the energetic old dame betook
herself to Mrs. Copley's, and a somewhat stiff
interview was that between the pair. Mrs.
Bancroft's previous threat yet rankled in the
other's breast.

Alike careful of her grandchild's reputation,
and conscious that Captain Wynne was
not of the mettle to submit tamely to total
separation from the maiden he sought to
make his wife, she came with a proposal that
Mrs. Copley should open her doors to him
at convenient seasons, it " not benefiting
that her grandchild should meet her sweetheart
" (the old woman clung to the good old
word) " in the highways and byways."

They don't meet under this roof," was
Mrs. Copley's decided rebuff. " Mrs. Wynne
is a customer of mine and I don't choose to
sacrifice her patronage by countenancing
her son's courtship of my apprentice."

If all I hear be true, it's little patronage
you are likely to have again in that quarter.

There has been a quarrel between Sir Madoc
and Mrs. Wynne, and so long as he lives she
is not likely to cross the threshold of the Plan
ao-ain. lie blames her for all that has befallen
his daughter ; for her runaway wedding with
Sir Jenkyn Jenkinson, and all."

Mrs. Copley opened her eyes and her mouth
in sheer astonishment. " How did you hear
this ? Did the young captain tell you ? "

Not he ! He's too much a gentleman to
prate of his family affairs to strangers. Nay.
It's the common gossip of Buxton. Folk
don't quarrel in whispers be they gentle or
simple. The news came to me through a
customer of mine."

She did not think it needful to add that
Muriel had loosed in the house of that
customer, or that Arthur Wynne's visits
there had caused the shopkeeper to retail the
gossip.

Still Mrs. Copley did not seem inclined to
give in. She thought she had the whip hand
of Mrs. Bancroft and determined to show it.

Well, all that's no business of mine. My

respectability is. I'm not going to have
military gallants hanging about my place to
disgrace us. No Captain Wynne comes hereto
see an apprentice of mine, be she who
she may."

Suppose I give my consent to his marrying
her right off, as he wants to do ! Adhere
then would you be ? " put Mrs. Bancroft with
a decisive nod.

Mrs, Copley looked aghast. The whip had
changed hands.

Mrs. Bancroft continued, " I had passed my
word for her return, and the lass was too
good to make me break it, or she might have
been Mrs. Wynne now ;  and then where
would you have been ? "

"Indeed," replied the mistress of the
robes. " That alters the case. I was not
aware Miss Danger had been so conscientious.
In that case I think she may be
trusted to meet the captain  occasionally.
And  and  well, he can call for her, and
take her to church, and bring her back if
so disposed ; occasionally "

She was in reality glad of a ground on
which to make her reluctant and not very-liberal
concession, without compromise of
her own position since she saw in Sarah
Bancroft's manner a resolve to make her
words good ; and Muriel was far too
profitable an apprentice to be parted with,
even if she had not determined to keep her
in a spirit of bravado. It had dawned on
her that Sir Madoc was old, and that some
day Captain Wynne might reign at the Plan.
It was best to be obhoino-.

o o

Glad enough Alas Arthur Wynne for the
recognition of his suit implied in that
invitation to meet Muriel in the presence of
lier relatives ; but he was scarcely so grateful
to Mrs. Bancroft as he might have been
for making terms with the dressmaker for the
privilege of meeting his future bride. He
had the grace to thank the old dame nevertheless
for her good intentions, but he felt as
if there had been a blow dealt at his family
dignity. It was only when he looked at
Muriel that he forgot it.

That meeting in the ]presence of their elders
was embarrassing for both ; and mitrht have
been more so had not John Danger with
mingled courtesy and good feeling contrived
to set them at ease after the first 0Teetin2;s.

Wine and fruits were on the table and both
he and Mrs. Bancroft with old-fashioned
hospitality pressed their guest to partake ;
then John Danger introduced politics, and
the new volunteer service as topics of conversation
; then talked of the captain's own
duties in Chester, which appeared to be
neither few nor light ; there was the inspection,
attestation and enrolment of the batches
of recruits as they were brought in by the
sergeants. There was mustering, and drilling,
and clothing, and he was answerable for all
under his command.

Then either he or Mrs. Bancroft began to
speak of Buxton, and of the accidental meeting
of the young officer and Muriel, and from
her place on the window-seat Muriel put in a
few words now and again ; but Arthur, who
seemed to hang upon her Syllables, thought

VOL. ni. K

lie turned lier eyes anywhere but towards
him. Only once her glance encountered his,
and then the warm blood suffused her cheek,
and the brown eyes were lost to him
aiiam.

Presently, to his relief, John D'An3"er
expressed his intention to <io downstairs
and smoke a pipe with the landlord in the
bar ; and soon after Mrs. Bancroft was afraid
she had not packed everything in her
saddle-bass.

What a delicious half-hour was that in
which the lovers were alone for the first
time since he had gained the good-will of
her friends. The window seat was wide
enough for two, and, all the formality of
the time notwithstanding, the head which
the sunset brio-tenet like an aureola rested
against his manly breast, as if there was all
her world.

What to her was a year, what to her the
long hours of stitches, so long as he loved
her and was there to tell her so, and to tell
her too how proudly her father had spoken

of lier ; how willing his own father was
that he should make his own choice of a
wife ?

All her troubled past seemed to drift away
from her in the fulness of her joy, and she
silently thanked God for the true heart he
had given her, and for the promise of the
future.

Ah, that future, how bright was the
pencil with which Arthur pictured it ; his
own uniform had no richer hues. He was
so sanguine ; so over brimmed with love's
ecstatic bliss. And if he pressed his lips to
hers as though they were the lips of a saint ;
yet was the saint all his own.

Only half-an-hour, and so much yet
unsaid ! By whose ruthless orders was the
tea-board sent in to cut the precious moments
short, and bring back all the commonplace
realities of food and people?

No prouder lover ever parted from his

betrothed than Arthur Wynne when he left

Muriel at that door with the brass-plate,

where he had once before left her so differ

2

gently ; and he carried away with him the
sweetly-perfumed sprig of late jessamine she
had worn that day in her bosom, to be
kept as a memorial along with the spray
of eye-bright he had preserved as a relic
so long.

No happier girl than Muriel laid her
head upon a pillow that night, albeit only of
hard flock in a barely-furnished attic, where
was no privacy, even for prayer. How was it
that in the midst of her demo-lit she thought

CD O

SO much of Silly Hargreaves, and wondered
what her unrevealed secret could be, hoping too
that much happiness might be in store for
her f

It would have taken the bloom off her
own delicious satisfaction could she have
looked behind the love-making shepherds
and shepherdesses on Silly's curtains, and
seen the tear-stained face that tossed from
side to side among the soft pillows from
which rest was banished.

The day that had been so full of hope
and joy for Muriel and Arthur, had dashed

the cup of hoyle from the Ups of two
others equally as fond.

In the midst of the morning service at
the Manchester Collegiate Church that Sunday,
there might have been seen a movement
in two pews when the long string of banns
were read out, and two heads held up erect,
as if all ear. The one the head of a rough,
well-to-do individual whose Sunday suit
sat on him with an unaccustomed air, whilst
his hands bore testimony that the dyes he
used were " fast-colours ; " the other a man
of more gentlemanlike bearing; ; neither
members of the congregation.

The names of Silly Hargreaves and
Eobert Bent slipped over the rough tongue
of the eccentric chaplain, Joshua Brooks.

At once the two men rose from their seats
with the simultaneous cry, "I forbid the
banns," and all eyes were turned upon them,
for they-were well-known men in the town.

Yo' must come into th' vestry at th'
close of th' service, and there state yor
objections," proclaimed Joshua from the

pulpit, and went on through his list of
names, and the remainder of the service as
coolly as if two young hearts in the congregation
were not beating like muffled
drums.

The two fathers had the same plea : the
candidates for matrimony were " under age."

Well," said the parson, " they'll mend o'
that, if there be no other impediment."

I have other views for my son, and I
forbid these banns," said Charles Bent
stiffly.

And so have I for my Mill} so we're
quits, Mr. Bent. Though if your son had
come to me and bid fair for the lass, straightforward
and up-and-above-board, there's no
saying but what I might have been tempted
to listen, and lay down guinea for guinea
with you to set the young folk going. But
now, he shouldn't have her if every hair of
his head were taofo:cd with a diamond, the
mean, sneaking cur."

Hush ! hush ! Eemember where you are !
If you must quarrel, let it be outside the

cliiircli,"' interposed the clergyman ; but
Charles Bent, with a scornful curl of lip), and
a muttered something that sounded like
having " no mind to let Bob grope for guineas
in a dye vat," had already turned to depart,

Tak' care th' young limb o' th' law doesn't
grope for guineas in dirtier places," James
Hargreaves shouted after the blue-coated
gentleman across the churchyard, little caring
who heard him.

And so the two fathers separated and went
their way, well content with their morning's
work, although they had wrecked two young
lives.

Eobert Bent and Silly, there to hear the
banns from an obscure corner, had hurried
from the old church together ; scarcely
paused as they went past the Grammar School
and turned down Mill-brow over the wooden
bridge across the Irk, out of the way of the
curious throng. Owners of the garden-plots
which overlooked the river, smoking their
pipes at the doors of their little summerhouses,
or gathering sweet-scented posies, cast

their eyes on the discomposed pair, nodded
significantly to each other, or pointed with
their pipe-stems, bnt Silly and Eobert went
on, in too inch trouble to heed them. They
struck across the rising ground, known as
Walker's croft, now cut up by railway-lines
and stations, but then the home of the daisy
and the dandelion, and under a clump of
trees in the rear of that Caledonian colony
still y'clept Scotland, there was a passionate
parting of the cousins, who were never to
be more than cousins, thouo;li they vowed
fidelity and constancy to their lives' end.

There was an angry scene at the Jorrocks
when Silly stole into the house where her
father was waiting to taunt her with treachery
and duplicity ; and to speak that of lier
lover which sounded like treason in her ears.

lie was neither choice nor kind in this
language ; seemed to have no compassion for
the motherless girl who had rarely wiser
counsellor than her own will ; and wound up
with the declaration that she needed the
restraint of a husband old enough to look

after her, and that he meant her to have one
too, who would take her without a shilling;
not a chap dependent on his father, who was
not out of his articles. He bade her, with an
oath, put all romantic nonsense out of her
head, for he had promised her to John Stott,
and John Stott she must have, or she might
jo a besfEfino;, and try how that would suit
her ladyship.

At the name of John Stott, Silly put her
trembling hands up to her head as if to shut
out the hateful sound from her ears, and
with a passionate, despairing cry that she
would " drown herself," rushed out of the
house towards the river.

Quick as light her father was after her.
His strong hand gripped her gloved arm
like a vice, and brought her, struggling, back.

She was urged up the stairs before him to
her own room, and there he locked her into
throw herself upon the floor and wear her
strength away in hysterics  unheeded and
alone.

And so the mid-day passed, and the night.

The door was locked and James Ilaro-reaves
kept the key. No one came near with food
or light, and the morning dawned, and
another day reached its meridian before her
father thought proper to open the door and
ask if she had come to her senses.

Romantic, loving, weak, she was unable to
contend with the determined will of her
father ; she could answer only with sobs 
sobs for herself and the Eobert she knew
she had lost.

Her " great secret " was told to all the
town, and a sorrowful secret it was for
both of them.

Eobert Bent did not turn up either at the
office or the Grange for upwards of a week, a
week spent in reckless dissipation. And
then Joe, who had a sort of fellow-feeling for
his brother's disappointment, sought him out
and induced him to go home. There,
nothing was said to him one way or
other. But he was never the same Bob
Bent again.

It appeared that lie had counted on the

absence of his uncles and others from the Old
Church during Chester Fair to q-et the banns
published without observation. His uncle
James Hargreaves attended the new church
of St Michael not far from his own works.
Silly could easily make an excuse of a visit
to the D'Anyers to sit out the third reading.

But one of those busybodies whose ears
are always open, and who must thrust their
dirty fingers into other people's pies, had
taken care to be first with the news, and
congratulated " both the dyer and the
cotton-spinner on the coming bridal. At
least Eobert Bent denounced the informant
as a busybody.

Possibly, had Eobert gone to his father
and her father in the first instance, though
there might have been some demur, they
might have been won over in time, for Silly
was an only child, her father a man of means,
and the Bents were reputed rich. The rash
and premature act which took the grace of
choice from their elders, irritated, exasperated,
and shut out all hope of concession.

FORBIDDEN TO MARRY.

Silly looked blankly out on the future ;
Eobert, with an obstinate rebellious intention
to be the victor in the end. " Only wait
until I am of age," he said to himself, as he
had said to her.

Time does not travel empty handed, but he
rarely brings us what we expect or Avhat we
crave.

ANOTHER SECRET OUT.

iHE Monday morning that beheld Silly
Hargreaves tossing on a sleepless
pillow, saw Sarah Bancroft setting off from
the Yacht Inn comfortably and complacently ;
her business done satisfactorily, her favourite
grandchild in a fair way to a happy marriage
with the man of her choice ; a man who
would lift her up, not drag her down. She
had not felt so blithe for many years. There
had been a shsjht frost during the nitxht,
and the air was crisp and exhilarating.
There was no breath or shadow of any
trouble or scandal brooding over any of her
family connections however remote. She
was at ease with the world and with herself.

Business people with large sums of money

about them travelled in company for mutual
security when practicable. She was mounted
on horseback as usual, accompanied by the
warehouseman who attended her in the
absence of Samuel, an old servant named
Cutts, and made one of the Manchester
party travelling homewards, which also included
her brother-in-law Solomon, and John
Danger ; who beguiled the way with an
interchange of opinions on the threatened
invasion by the French, and its effects on
the commerce of the country, not unaccompanied
by denunciations of French goods,
even brandy, seeing that it was scarce and
dear ; and that empty flasks necessitated a
stoppage at the Kelsall roadside inn for
draughts of ale in lieu thereof.

How was it that that brief stoppage for
refreshments, which she did not hesitate to
partake, as they did, without quitting the
saddle, took all the buoyancy out of her?
Was it because the inn reminded her of the
serving-man Norris, who had been carried
there wounded so many years before ? or what?

The turnpike road was lively with groups
of mountebanks, showmen and their caravans,
and other horsemen and conveyances
at the break-up of the busy fair. She was
anything but a timid woman, and it could
not be fear of her own safety or that of
her cash that brought up to her mind with
recurring vitality from the moment she
entered Delamere her own commonplace
remark to Arthur Wynne, " There's no
knowing what may happen before the year
comes to an end."

She tried to shake it off, but it would not
be shaken off, though she talked business
to her man as she i offered aloof, nodded
to people as they passed, and exchanged
opinions on trade or war with her travelling
companions.

But Sarah Bancroft was not on the lookout
for presentiments, and if she brought
her silver whistle nearer to her hand when
they reached the spot where the by-road
branched off towards Eddisbury, near Hind's
Well, and she took leave of her home-going

friends, it was but a matter of customary
]precaution, not of fear that anything would
happen.

There was no need for the whistle,
Nothing crossed their path more formidable
than a scurrying hare or rabbit, nothing met
or overtook them but a turf-cutter with a
couple of laden donkeys, and a child with
a bundle of faggots. Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley
received her with open-landed hospitality
as of old ; Dr. Holmes and his daughter had
been invited to meet her ; his partner Asa
Booth, shortly to marry Lucinda Holmes,
was to join them later on, as an escort home
through the forest ; there was a savoury
dinner smoking on the board by the time
she had o-ot rid of her travelling gear
and the road-marks ; there was much to
ask and much to tell, for here was Miss
Holmes about to marry, and Muriel under
promise.

And beings comfortable, Mrs. Bancroft
settled herself down for an afternoon's enjoyment,
leaving business, contrary to custom,

for the morrow. Happen ! What should
happen ?

Dinner was over, Mrs. Bancroft was seated
in a cozy easy chair on one side of the
fragrant and popping wood fire, the two
men on the oak settle opposite were puffing
away at long clay pipes, with a couple of
tankards of home-brewed ale on a small
round table before them.

Mrs. Kingsley lead drawn a high-backed
chair of black oak close to her old friend.
Miss Holmes had placed herself in a window-seat,
and from a crimson leather reticule
produced some light needlework, and Mr.
Kingsley was jocularly asking if that was for
the wedding, when there was a sort of
scuffling noise outside, and in rushed a boy
about eio-ht or nine years old, in a roufrh suit
of corduroys, with thick closes, his hair in a
tangle, his face grimy and streaked with the
course of tears.

For an instant only he stood abashed by the
presence of strangers, then darted up to Mrs.
Kingsley, who had risen, and clung to her

VOL. in. L

skirts as he cried out, " Oh, Mrs. Kingsley,
what's to be done, what's to be done ? Constables
have bin an' taken Bill an' Miles
to jail, an' they've pulled 00 p th' floors an'
broken down tli' cliimble} an' they've found
o' sorts o' things ; an' Mammy Blackburn
shrieked, an' hoo's gone to Manchester to get
summit as they call bail, an' albi ;* and I'm
frightened ; an' oh, Mrs. Kingsley, where am
I to go, and what am I to do? " and his outburst
over, he broke down in childlike sobs.

At the first sound of his voice Mrs.
Bancroft had gripped the arms of her chair,
half rising, her keen eyes fixed upon his face,
as though she would trace its ever' line.
As he ended she stood upon her feet, erect
and stern, and in a voice hard and imperative
demanded, " What boy is that ? "

Mrs. Kingsley looked at her husband, but
no one answered.

The question was repeated : " Whose boy
is that, I ask ? "

Mrs. Kingsley had a spirit to match Sarah

Probably alibi.

Bancroft. She caught the boy by the hand,
and as if glad to throw off a burdensome
secret, marched him up to the old woman's
chair, with the words, " Well, Mrs. Bancroft,
it's quite time you knew who that boy is.
lie's your grandson ; your Sam's first-born !
Lydia and Sam were married full three years
before you thought they were."

Mrs. Bancroft had stood like one frozen to
stone whilst this was said.

Is this true ? " she asked after a while, ina
sort of chilled undertone.

True enough," struck in the forester, " I
saw them myself coming out of St. Slave's
Church, Chester, and I had the curiosity
to go in and see what took them there,
and to look at the register, though I had to
pay for the sight. And the book's there for
you to look at too, dame, if you're hard of
belief."

She took no note of the child, who still

clung to Mrs. Kingsley ; her only comment 

in the same dry, hard tone  was, " And

Farmer Bradley ? "

L 2

Farmer Bradley knew no more than you,
Mrs. Bancroft, till Mr. Samuel came at
Christmas to fetch his wife, and they had to
show the marriage lines, and there was a fine
rumpus."

But the boy  the farmer must have
known ? "

Poor lad, he was born at Maggy Blackburn's,
and there in the heart of the wood
Maggy nursed him, and there he's been ever
since, and she's behaved none too well to him,
though she's been well paid to keep the
secret. Very much better than she deserved.
And he's never seen mother nor father save
once in a while. Though I did hear that
Lydia was breaking her heart about him."

And you  you  my own old friends,
have let me come and go, and never warned
me against the treachery I was fostering ;
have let my grandson be reared among
wretches like the Blackburnss, and never
breathed a syllable to save him from contamination,"
and the old woman ground her
teeth in bitterness.

(.i

Stay, nay," quoth the forester ; " blame
your own son, not us. 'Twas his fault, and
his business, not ours. We're no .
My dame's done the best she could
for the lad ; he's lived here half his time.
He was only sent back yesterday for fear you
f-hould see him ! "

"For /kf?'. " she echoed scornfully. "Come
here, lad " (to the boy). " They say thai
belong to me, and there's that in thi
features and in thi voice that tells me it is
true. Go and wash thi face and come back
here. I am o-oinsf to take thee home with
me. Do you understand ? "

The boy understood vaguely, but her
aspect was not inviting. lie did not stir ;
he only stared and clung to Mrs. Kingsley.

She stooped and kissed the dirty face.
"" Jem, go to your grandmother ; she
will take you to see your mammy in Manchester."


Jem's eyes expanded. " Wull she ? " he
interrogated. " Then I'll go."

And without another word he clattered off

to return in a short time with a clean face,
and the hair which had resisted the tuo-o-ino;

Do O

of a comb plastered down with water.

But Sarah Bancroft was off. Gone to have
the horse saddled, and the man looked up
for a sharp gallop to Waverham. She had
business on hand of more moment than the
buying of skins. There could be no more
sleeping under a roof where Sam's deceit
had been hushed up, hidden from her ; nay,
for aught she knew, mayhap connived at.
Treachery, treachery, wherever she turned!
And Sam  Sam of all the world ! It wrunof
her heart to think of it all. But she'd see
to it!

Dr. Holes and Lucinda had held aloof
from this strange scene, but no sooner was
lie gone than tongues were loosened and the
probable consequences of this discovery
discussed very freely, all ajxreein that it Alas
a "good tliino- it had not been deferred until
the lad was older ; a good thing for him and
for his mother too. They were not so sure
about Mr. Sam. Then the boy himself was

told to count himself fortunate and to be a
good boy, and go with his grandmother like
a brave little man, and he should come back
and see them all some day.

An under-keeper had been despatched to
Waverham and Maggy's cottage for news,
but Sarah Bancroft was back before the man.
She was not communicative and she refused
to alight, but she gave the little fellow a
shilling as an inducement to quit the
Kingsley's and allow himself to be placed on
the saddle in front of her warehouseman.

I don't like the set of the old woman's
face," cried the forester dien she was finally
gone and the boy with her. " It bodes no
good to Mr. Samuel ; and serve him right,
for she's been a good mother to him, though
something hard in her ways. But liard as
lie looks, Sarah Bancroft has a soft place
in her heart."

I only wish she had let little Jem feel it,"
Alas the sharp commentary of his wife. " If
she'd given him a kiss instead of a shilling,
the little lad's heart Avould have opened, and

he'd have gone away without a whimper.
But it's my belief Sarah Bancroft keeps Iter
heart in her pocket."

Wherever she keeps it, wife, she's found
room there for the poor neglected little chap.
I've no mind he shall suffer for the sin of
his father,' she said to me before she went.
And whatever I do, I'll bring him up to
fear the Lord, and then perhaps he'll honour
this parents.' Think of that from her!"

Night had fallen, and rain was falling when
Sarah Bancroft and her escort left the forest
behind and neared Forthwith.

It Alas not possible to proceed that night.
Weary with more than her long ride or her
Aveight of years, the care-worn woman was
glad of an excuse to seek the privacy of her
solitary couch, even at an inn. Supper she
could not eat, though she saw that little Jem
was well fed before she consigned him for
the nifrht to the chaise of Cutts, herman.


She had warehouse business likewise with
a shopkeeper in Forthwith that kept her

for an hour or two in the morning; and
then she called upon Dr. Holmes to question
him concerning Maggy Blackburn ; but the
doctor could tell her no noire than she had
learned on the spot. Moneys and jewelry
had been found secreted under the floors,
numbers of little bones were said to have
been dug up in the garden ; and the woman
had disappeared to avoid capture on Tier
own score.

By this time there was a necessity for a
substantial luncheon, if not for herself, at
all events, for the others, and the delay
retarded their appearance in Manchester
until the lamp-lighter was going his round
with ladder and flaring oil-can, to the
wonder and delight of country-born Jem ;
and all that time his grandmother's grief
and indignation had been gathering force,
seething and fermenting in her silent
breast.

At Hyde's Cross she alighted. The man
was sent home with the horses and saddlebags.
They, with all the gold in them, were

as nothing to her now. She could not allow
lier purpose to cool.

Whatever that purpose was, her features
were so set and hard, that little Jem instinctively
shrank as she put forth her hand. He
had been used to blows, and looked for one ;
but it was not for a blow, it was only to close
upon his in a tightening clasp.

When Mrs. Bancroft turned the handle of
her son's door in Toad Lane, and sent the
boy's clogged and hatless as he was, into
the house before her, she only added to
a scene of previous commotion, and ina
sense brought relief both to Sam and
Lydia.

It has been already told that the house
was an old black-and-white timber-and-rubble
building, with overhanging stories, and the
door, from which ran an oaken screen, or
spear," opened into the main room or
house-place. At the end of this spear stood
Maggy Blackburn with lier arms akimbo, the
hood of her grey cloak thrown back, leaving
her sharp profile clearly defined against the

firelight, and adding by lier body to the
length of the screen.

There was no need of Mrs. Bancroft's grip)
on Jem's shoulder to draw him baclv ; the
sound of Maggy's uplifted voice sent him
shrinking closer into the shadow to clasp his
less formidable grandmother's hand for protection.
The opening of the door, their footsteps,
even Jem's clogs were unheard in the
altercation going on. " An' you dare tell me
yo wunna go bail or get up an alibi for
my lads again ! But if yo duenna, Sam
Bancroft, an' yo wunna swear they were
modes away from Darbysheer that night,
I'll go right away to Eed Bank an' let out
the secret I've kept so long o'er that lad
o' yours that Lydia's bin pining o'er so
long."

The stroke of the isjnotus is not more
paralysing than was the touch of Sarah Bancroft's
hand on the woman's sinewy arm, or
the sight of the boy, on whom Lydia flung
herself with a sobbing shriek.

Bold Maggy seemed to collapse and cower

as the other's wrathful voice was heard ; and
kfam stood aghast ; unbounded.

Thai vile wretch, how dare thai urge my
son to stain our honest name with perjury?
To go bail for murderous ruffians like thy
sons. It's time they had their deserts, and no
magistrate in the county would take bail fora
crime like theirs? Out of the house this
instant, before I send for a constable ! know
all the secret thalia's kept so long, and how
you have kept it, and more besides  I'm fresh
from Waverham, Maggy Blackburn." And
the little woman's keen eyes looked the other
through.

May be other folk's sons will get their
deserts afore long ! " hissed Maggy through
her set teeth, as she edged herself off behind
the spear, and darted off into the street without
another word. She knew the danger of
waiting for a constable.

Yes, Sam, other folk's sons will get their
deserts afore long. That boy is mine. Thou
hast repudiated him, left him to perish soul
and body. I shall provide for him. But I

have done Avitli thee. I shall dissolve the
partnership ; wind up the business. Thai
will have liv share, nothing; more. And
don't thee show thy face at th' works again,
or it'll be worse for thee. Come, Jem, weare
going home. Lydia, thai can see the
boy when thalia like."

And home she took him without further
parley, utterly refusing to listen to Sam's
blundering attempt at excuse, buying the lad
shoes and a cap by the way, and leaving Sam
to rub his thighs and reflect.

She too reflected, and remembered that the
woman had said "go bail again'' What
could that mean? Was lie so afraid of his
mother that rather than reveal his forbidden
marriage he had perjured his soul for
wretches like the Blackburnss ? Look at it as
she would the thoui>-lit stuffs like an adder.

JUSTICE,

ifUPlIAT month of October, 179G, was
" memorable not merely in the annals
of a family, but of the nation ; and pretty
much as the king; and his commons resented
the insult of France to his peace plenipotentiary
in more vigorous preparations for
war, so did Sarah Bancroft resent the secret
marriage and the double dealing of her son,
at all risks, at any cost.

She had set him upon a pinnacle as an
exemplar of filial obedience ; had cited his
deferred marriage as an instance of his
self-abnegation, extolled his steady, sober,
thrifty business habits as the result of her
careful training ; and done it with a concentration
of affection, admiration, and

reliance, little suspected in the keen, unsentimental
trader.

The first doubt of his impeccability had
struck her on the night of her unexpected
return from Chester with Muriel ; and, oneby
one, other flaws in her " perfect chrysolite
" had been dimly perceptible, but
she had either scouted her suspicions as
chimeras, or set the change in her son down
to the account of his wife, who from the
first had held aloof from Eed Bank in a
way most incomprehensible.

There's something; I can't fathom about
that Lydia ! " she had been wont to say to
herself. " She seems afraid to open her lips
or show her face !"

She had penetrated the mystery at last ;
had discovered how Lydia's lips had been
sealed ; who was the one at fault. The idol
had toppled down and been shattered in
the fall. Treacherous to his young sister,
treacherous to her, to the woman he had
married, to her father, even to his unoffending
boy, his only son ; treacherous to

the verge of cruelty  a living and breathless
deception where she had dreamed an
embodiment of truth and integrity.

She felt the shame and disgrace of his
dissimulation if he did not, and her mental
agony was not to be told. A stern front
might be kept to the world, but the mother's
wounded heart bled within.

Notwithstanding her overnight prohibition
Sam had the boldness to present himself
at the farrier in the morning as usual.

It was customary, when he entered at the
door on Eed Bank, for Margery to meet him
at the foot of the stairs with the keys of
yard and warehouse. No Margery was there.

He walked forward. Through the broad
kitchen window, in the front of which his
sister had stood washiu"' lace when the
secret of her stolen match came to lioht
nineteen years before, he saw the work-people
trooping into the yard with a clatter,
some turning into the sheds, others chiefly
women  mounting the outside stairs to the
warehouse.

Margery ! Alio unlocked the gate ? "
lie demanded sharply, as the woman came
in from the pump with the bright copper-kettle
in her hand.

Cutts, Mester Sam."

By whose orders ? "

Missus's."

Where's mv mother ? "

In the counting-house."

And where's Jem ? "

In bed, poor lad."

The counting-house lay behind the best
parlour just as the kitchen behind the sitting-room,
and its window overlooked the yard
and work people ; it had two entrances one
from the yard, the other from the lobby
of the house, close to the staircase foot.

If he had thought to find his mother in bed
after her long journey, and to be himself first
in the counting house, he was mistaken. His
brows contracted, there was perplexity in his
cunning eyes. lie stood a moment, then
grasping his smoothly-shaven chin between
his left thumb and forefinger as if to hold by

VOL. lU. M

something  if that something was only himself
 lie strode across the lobby to the
counting-houses.

The books lay on the desk, open. Cutts,
with an air of new importance, was leaving
by the opposite door, and Sarah Bancroft was
throwing after him her fnial instructions.
It must be seen to at once."

She turned sharply as she heard the step
of her son ; and stood With her back to the
hiiili desk, as if standing" sentry over it,

AVhat brings thee here ? " she asked
abruptly, confronting him with a stern, rigid
face, where the high cheek-bones and hard
mouth seemed to stand more prominently out,
and the ruddy veining of the healthy cheeks
to have grown purple against the grey hue
which had crept over her complexion so
newly.

"What brims nie here? Where should I
be if not in my own place ? " he answered
with affected coolness.

Thy place ? Aye, so long as I thought
thai wast treading i' thi father's footsteps it

was thy place. But dost thalia think thah'rt
fit to sit on the seat of a just and honest man,
to have thy name in a business he made and
left with an honest name ? Dost thai ? " and
with her hand on the hif-h-stool which had
seen so many years' service, she stood and
looked him searchingly in the face.

"Aye," was his unflinching answer. "I
do. If I've done wronf]f the fault lies at your
door, and Tve had all the blame and the
harass. Why did you set so many stumbling
blocks in my path, striving to keep me single
till my best days were gone ? I married a
decent lass, and if I didn't brings her home no
fault of mine. Had not you forbidden me
to marry before I was a partner ? and had
not you put off the partnership from time to
time as if you meant me to be a bachelor all
my life ? "

I Lavish it IlcuI been put of! for ever," she

said with deliberate incisiveness, "I'll see that

it U put off for ever, and that without delay.

Was it fault of mine that tliah winked at alii

young sister's secret marriage, and forbore to

M 2

inform me, before or after ? Was it fault of
mine that I find thee learned with common
robbers, to screen their crimes ? "

Sam visibly quailed before her ; still he
did his best to keep a bold front.

Aye, mother," answered he, " if you had
not been so stern and hard, Ellen might never
have gone off on the sly as she did ; nor I
been afraid to break the ice for hieland
if you hadn't driven Lydia and me to
extremities with your wdiinis about early
marriages, and kept one on tenter-hooks lest
our secret should leak out, we might never
have been in Maggy Blackburn's clutches, or
bound to do her bidding. I'm sure I've done
my honest best in the business here, and you
can't deny it, hard as you are! "

To Samuel's attempted justification she lead
listened, but the impression he made was
adverse only. In calling her " hard " he
smote her as with a stone.

Thai repeated alii sister's offence, without
thi sister's excuse. If I was hard,
Farmer Bradley was not. Was my wrath

more to be feared than the peril of thy own
son's soul amoncf robbers and worse ? Was I
hard to Ellen in the long run ? If I forgave
her, might I not have forgiven thee, if asked ?
Tied I ever a hint that thalia wanted to marry?
Thai never said one word to plead for the
sister I cast off. Thai mayst spare thi words
now. I have done with thee. I shall see if I
can make a better man of thy son. Let Lydia
come week by week for what cash thai
requires, but never do thai set foot on these
premises again at thy peril. I'll see no time
is lost in closing the business, and handing"'
over every shilling that is fairly thine. But
I shall deal with thee through my attorney.
And now go."

Sam, who had noticed that never once
during this colloquy had she addressed him
by his familiar name, made another attempt
to retain his position and insist on his rights
as a partner. He might better have
attempted to move a stone wall.

Then he tried an appeal to her motherly
feelings, and professed contrition. Had he

done so at first, had be come and made a
candid confession, late as it was, she might
have relented, but now she only looked at
him with gathering scorn, and bade him
Begone."

The man who thought so hardly of his own
mother that he could leave his lawful wife to
suffer all the pangs of shame, with no refuge
in her extremity but Maggy Blackburn's ;
could suffer his lawful son to be born and
hidden away like an unblest babe, and could
let that woman and her sons hang this secret
like a millstone round his neck rather than
risk the loss of hard cash dependent on a
laird mothers favour, deserves to find the
hard mother hard as he fancied her. Go !
I say, if thai would not have thy disgraceful
story told to every workman on the
premises ! "

Thus adjured, he slunk away; went back
through the house, so bitter against the
boy who was likely to supercede him, that
though he heard Jem talking to Margery of
the strange things he had seen on his journey,

he never set this foot in the kitchen, or called
the child to him for a father's embrace.

Fortunately for the boy he had fallen into
better hands. Hard as was Sarah Bancroft
to the outer world she was never hard to
the child. Her son's reproach had galled
and stuns her. To him lie was henceforth
hard as flint ; to her ill-used grandson she
was soft as down. A mutual affection sprang
up between the old heart and the joung one,
and no doubt kept that old one from
breaking.

Indeed, the boy was her first care. He
was respectably attired, sent to school,
openly acknowledged as her grandson, James
Bancroft  Jem no longer.

Her next was to seek her lawjcr, make a
fresh will, take measures for annulling the
partnership between herself and son, and for
winding up the business. Her first move
in that direction had been made when she
left Delamere without saying a single skin.

Her son Samuel had gone home like a
beaten cur, yet nursing his passion as he

went. Livid with suppressed fury he entered
his house, only to assail his wife as the
primary cause of all his misfortunes ; to curse
the day he had ever seen her face or been
deluded into making her his wife.

What could I see in your apple-checks to
make me forget the risk I ran? If you had
not entrapped me, lured me into marring
you then and there "

/ entrapped you, Sam ? " interrupted
Lydia in terrified amazement.

Aye, you, if you with your smiles and
your wiles had not fooled me, or mv
mother had been one a man could speak
his mind freely to, there would have been
no need to marr' in haste, only to ''

"In haste, Sam, why, we had been
courting five years," put in Lydia timidly,
with her handkerchief to her eyes.

"Better have courted ten years, than
have come to this pitch. But for our hasty
marriage and the coming; of that lad, there
Avould have been no need of that o-reedy old
hag. Curse her! and her sons too! and those

who brought me into her diabolical clutches !
Their hands were never out of my pocket! "

He gripped his hands and flung his arms
aloft so wildly, that sobbing Ljdia could
but cower in her chair and shrink from him
in terror. Yet amongst it all she could thank
God their little girl Alas safely out of the way
at school, and would hear nothing of this
outburst  hear nothing of the accusation
launched against herself, that she had lured
her husband to his ruin.

She knew it to be utterly untrue. Knew
how she had combated his pleadings fora
private marriage, begged him at least to
take her father into his confidence, both
before her marriage and after. Gone on her
knees to him not to leave their boy with the
Blackburnss, but to ask her father's care for
him, if he Alas afraid of the mother he
pronounced so harsh and hard.

He seemed to ignore all this, and as he
paced the floor of their household room,
spoke only of himself as the sport of fate,
the innocent victim of others' wiles and

wickedness. Not for one moment did he
blame his own duplicity and cunning, his own
want of manliness to break the meshes of
his own web.

Yet, coward that he was, and conscience-smitten
under all, he had not had courage to
assert his rights as a partner in the farrier
and brave his strong-willed mother, lest she
should carry out her threat and unveil him
then and there.

He loved money, and the closing of the
prosperous concern would shut him out from
making; or handling it. He had no fear of
his mother's strict justice; no fear that she
Avould deprive him of the means to live.

But  and this stung him worst of all  he
was only to receive it through Lydia  Lydia
would learn to despise him when she knew
how liberal had been his incoming compared
with his measure allowance to her.

Suddenly, as a new thought struck him,
he left Lydia rocking herself in her agony of
grief and trouble, and hurried out of the
house in search of John Danger ; hardly

lieedino- or seeing; the nods of passing; acquaintances,
as he went up Shudehill towards
Sugar Lane.

He found his brother-in-law in his warehouse,
directing the unpacking of the goods
the carrier had just brought in from Chester ;
shoots unsold and others taken in exchange.

James Hargreaves had just quitted the
warehouse, leaving behind his version of
Silly's disobedient act, and John Danger's
hearty concurrence in lier choice between
two suitors. She was wise, he said, Bob
Bent was a gentleman, Stott, with all his
money, never was and never would be. He
Alas quite compassionate towards the young-people,
and full of the subject. It was some
little time before Samuel could find an opening
for his plausible tale. That he was the
first to tell it he felt assured, from the
lightness of the other's manner, and the
ease of his reception.

Sam began with an appeal to his fellow-feeling
and sympathy as a man and a
gentleman. " He had fallen into disgrace with

this mother," he said, " and had come straight
to him for his counsel and intervention,
knowing well he could depend on him. He
need not tell him how averse his mother was
to his marrying, or what had made her so.
Well, he had fallen in love with Lydia, when
quite a young fellow, and had been courting
her so many sears that at last to prevent
someone else snapping her up (he said nothing
of Farmer Bradley's cash), he ventured to
marry her, hoping to win his mother over ina
month or two. That three years had gone
by before he had permission to bring home a
wife, and it was only by stealth he could see
either Lydia or the boy she had borne Inn,
all those years."

"A boy!" exclaimed Mr. Danger, "then
little Lyd was not your ' first.' " The
D'Anyers had lost three boys in their infancy

No, vorse luck," cried Sam, and ground
his teeth, " but for him our secret might have
lain hid till domesday. Mother came across
the lad, either at Waverham, or the Kingsleyss,
ferreted out proofs of our marriage somehow,

broiiMit Jem home with her ; and now is for
turiiiiifr me out of the business and winding;
it up. A pretty kettle-of-fish because a man
is honourable, and marries a woman instead
of keeping dangling after her for half-a-score
of years to please another woman's whim."

Where is the lad ? "

Oh, Jem's at mother's, she means to keep
him," she says, " and discard me."

Jem ! eh ? Ah, I beo-in to smell a
rat ! I think Ellen and Muriel made his
acquaintance some years ago. But, come
to the pont, Sam, wdiat do you want from
me :*

Well, mother's confoundedly savage, and
I want you to pacify her if you can. I know
she has the highest respect for you  and  
well, you see, if she overlooked Ellen's offence,
she may be induced to overlook mine. It all
depends on the mediator. I can trust you
as a qentleiiian to do your utmost for me and
Lydia."

Tcliut, tchut ! " said he, " you might fid
many a better ambassador. But come into the

house and let us talk it over Avitli Ellen during
dinner."

Sam had played on the other's " gentlemanly"
foible with success

John Danger, who knew only part of the
case and nothing of the Blackburn's, went to intercede
for his brother-in-law. " You forgave
us," he said, " don't be too hard upon Sam."

"And no thanks to him that I did ! He
has been hard upon Lydia, hard upon his
boy. I might have forgiven his marriage at
the time, I cannot forgive that now after his
ten years' deceit. My dealings have been
honest, upright, straightforward ; I am bound
to wind up the business lest Sam should bring
it into discredit. The man who is systematically
dishonest to his mother will not
be honest to the world. I'll see that he is
paid his fair share to the last penny, and then
he may go where he likes, do what he likes,
set up in what line he chooses ; but the books
of Sarah Bancroft and Son will be closed,
never to be re-opened. I'll see he deceives
me no more."

If this Lad been a prompt decision, it lead
not been made without a sharp struggle ;
and her face, harder, sterner, more deeply-heed,
betrayed it. But her motives for thus
abruptly calling in her accounts and closing
an old established business she did not reveal
to strangers, and when Pitt's reckless Withdrawal
of specie for war purposes and the
service of doubtful allies caused the Bank of
England to stop payment the following
February, amid a general commercial panic,
she was congratulated rio'ht and left on her
foresight.

It did not take Ion"' either to wind ud
the concern. Credit had not attained its
present formidable proportions. Much of
the Bancroftss' dealings, especially with Irish
and Welsh traders, had been either barter or
cash transactions ; and few, indeed, were her
outstanding debts when she presented herself
in the Manchester Hall at the next
October Fair, not to buy or sell, but to confirm
the fact that the furriers, Bancroft and
Son, would manufacture, buy, or sell, no more.

Wliat she had given up, the active,
energetic woman scarcely realized so long as
there was business of any kind to do. It
was not until the last cartload of skins had
left the warehouse, Avhen the clatter of clogs
had ceased, when the ledgers were closed
and carried from the office, when a great
"To Let "was chalked on the gate of the
deserted promises in the rear of the house
and silence succeeded bustle, that she felt the
full meaning; of her own act.

Her former customer in Buxton, in the belief
that she must have some interest in the
family of the young officer who had been so
intimate with Mrs. and Miss Danger, had
kept her as well informed of the progress of
Sir Madoc Wynne's daughter and son-in-law
towards recovery and of the trial of the two
blackburn as could be learned from the
sources available to them. Her informant
had no suspicion of any keener or closer
interest in the matter ; certainly Mrs. Bancroft's
steady-going son's connection with the
murdering horse-stealers was never dreamed of.

The stolen horses had been found at a
horse-fair so far away as Skipton in Craven,
the men themselves in Delamere.

It came out on the trial that as they rode
down from the Winnats, and through Castleton
at a hard pace, a blacksmith had called after
them that the black horse had a shoe loose,
had been answered with a gruff curse that
he " had best mind his own business," and
that the blacksmith standing? out in the road
had shouted after them alone the Sheffield
road that it was his business, but that if they
lamed the good beast it might hinder their
business, and his remarks to the loungers
around the smithy called attention to " the
queer customers who were so shy of being
customers."

The cast shoe had hindered their business
and kept them in Sheffield to have the horse
shod ; and there acrain the loncj figures and
short tempers of the men were observed,
and not altogether as strangers. There was
another stoppage at Huddersfield, and there
the men had parted with not only the horses

VOL. m. N

but the garments stolen from their victim?.
Sir Jenkyn's groom and another from the
Buxton stables were set on the trail of the
beasts ; and the clothes-dealer, being pounced
upon as a receiver of stolen goods, gave the
constables all the clue they needed.

Among the many rings and watches found
in Maggy's cottage was the watch of Norris,
another strand in the rope which was twisted
to hang her two sons. It was inscribed as
the gift of his master for faithful service,
bore names and dates, or it might long
before have been parted with. In those
days of blood-money, it was not safe to
trust "receivers'' with too much.

There was evidence to hang the men thrice
over.

Sir Jenkyn's was conclusive.

He had wanted a guide, the man Miles
Blackburn had volunteered, had led them
to the Chapel ; lead offered to show them
a more picturesque road back, had beguiled
them into a horrid mountain 2:)ass where
the other man lay in wait, and before

they had time to think the two were upon
them.

The blacksmith added his testimony, and a
woman who saw them ride sharply down the
descent from the Winnats, also recognized
them.

Had there been any doubt of the prisoners'
guilt, it would have been dispelled by a confession
made by the elder brother. Miles.
Not only had it been their intent, in conjunction
with the postboy, to rob Captain Wynne
years before, but disappointed of that they
had waylaid the first solitary traveller they
met, who happened to be the very captain's
servant. That a friend of their mother's had
found them a lawyer, and he had found means
to g-et them off. That on another occasion
he had himself robbed and murdered a gentleman
who had hired him as a guide, and
pitched the bod' into Eldon Hole, and if his
brother had met him there, and not made
a mistake, he had intended to have served
the new-married folk the same, and if they

had done so there would have been no tales

N 2

told. Eldon Hole kept its secrets close and
for ever. He had many more crimes on this
conscience he said, and he could not die
without liirhtenino; the load.

It was a relief to Sarah Bancroft to find
that in this confession  made in the cart
beneath the gallows, whilst the other felon
remained sullenly mute  :printed and circulated
by hawkers over the country, no mention
was made by name of the " friend " who
had found the lawyer years before. It was
sufficiently mortifying to think that her son
had consented to screen such wretches rather
than brave her anger ; and it did not serve
to alter her resolution one whit. She carried
out her plans to the end. She carried them
out, but there were thorns under the victor's
wreath. The old business was no more.
Wliat would life be to her Avhen her last
farewell was said to her many old customers
in the Manchester Hall which she had helped
to build?

Yet the journey to Chester put thought
aside for a time ; for her business was not

wholly unpleasant. She had gone to Waver-ham

by the way, and there arranged with

Farmer Bradley to take their grandson in two

or three years and make a farmer of him,

promising to leave the farm' to the boy.

And she anticipated the pleasure of freeing

Muriel.

With the Kingsleyss she made no stay.

She had not forgiven them for leaving her in

the dark so Xowi. whilst her little grander
o

child was being ill-used and neglected, if not
worse. She could not pass through the forest
without thought of all that had happened
within its bounds. Yet she hurried on with
a grim sense of satisfaction that justice had
been meted out on the wrong doers. Had lie
not been dealing retributive justice forth,
even to the wounding of her own heart?
She went forward to release Muriel and see
her indentures cancelled, with less of tenderness
towards the girl than of triumph
over Mrs. Copley.

I don't see what John and Ellen have
to grumble about ; they've had one less to

keep these hard times, and the discipline
has done the lass good. Taught her humility
and obedience to her elders. It's a pity her
stuck-up sisters had not been ground in the
same mill. They'd be none the worse for
it," she argued with herself; but she lost
sight entirely of the religious training of
the girl, the receptive soil, the seeds sown
early by the mother hand, the fostering and
Watering under Miss Williams' gentle care,
the companionship and influence of Deborah
Massey's old Bible! True, she herself had
taken to study the Great Book in her lonely
hours, but she read it not aright. She
read it rather to support her own views
and prejudices, than to undermine and re-fashion
them. And consciously or unconsciously
she felt empowered to hold in
her oAvn hand the balance of justice even,
and to cast what she would of reward or
penalty into the scales of the future.

SEPARATION.

'fEANWHILE the year had not brought
to Muriel Danger unmingled bliss,
although love had opened out new vistas of
deho-ht, and oiven to Hfe a fulness and
completeness all love's own. She saw not
much of Arthur, had no leisure to answer a
tithe of his many treasured billets ; but he
held unimpeached his place as the noble
Prince Arthur of her girlish dreams and
imaginings, growing nearer and dearer every
time they did meet. And no small part of
the honour in which she held him was due to
the chivalrous manner in which he recognized
her position with regard to himself. There
were no surreptitious meetings in out-of-the-way
places. If he could not always be at
liberty on her only free-day, Sunday ; when

he was he braved the eyes of the congregation
at the Cathedral with her by his side,
evidently as proud of his companion as if she
had been " born in the purple ; " and to prevent
any possible misinterpretation he introduced
her to more than one of his father's old
friends as " Miss Danger, my future wife."

Of course gossip made itself busy, and at
first he had to encounter no small amount of
raillery and banter from his brother officers
in the garrison, anent his " devotion to the
pretty young dressmaker ; " but the promptness
and decision with which he met a jest
with the emphatic declaration " That lad' is
to be my icife, sirs," soon put a stop to it,
without any attempt at bluster, Not that he
was proud of Muriel's occupation, he would
have been glad to obliterate the fact, but he
loved her apart from and in spite of it, and
it was a point of honour with him to place
their mutual relations on the best footing

that his association must either
elevate or degrade, he took care there should
be no mistake about the former.

All went well with the pair through the
winter and the spring, and Mrs. Copley,
with an esse to her own interest, was less
exacting than heretofore. But towards the
close of July her manner underwent a sudden
change, for which Muriel could in no way
account. She, however, contrived to make
matters indoors anything but pleasant for her
apprentice ; but the gii-1 set it down to
ill-humour consequent on bad trade, and the
cares of a large family; always willing to find
excuses for others. She was not given to
trouble Arthur with her " petty annoyances
and vexations," as she called them, or they
might have compared notes, for about the
same time he became conscious of a something
intangible in the social atmosphere
overshadowing their mutual association.

It was noteworthy, though neither noted
the coincidence, that in the month of July
Mrs. Wynne had again taken up her abode
at the Plan by Sir Madoc's invitation.

Lady Jenkinson had, of course, gone to her
husband's home a Httle farther south, and the

genial old man, finding the solitude of his
large rooms intolerable, stifled his resentment
and once more held out the hand of
amity to his sister-inlaw, decrepit though
she was. She had so far benefitted by
Buxton as to use her hands, and could
play a game of cards or backgammon
with him in the absence of guests.

Muriel had not been kept in ignorance
of the revelations and changes in the
Manchester family circle. Both from Mrs.
Kingsley and her own mother, he had heard
of her grandmother's discovery and consequent
resolve ; from the latter of her
grandfather Danger's decease, and his Avill,
from which her father was all but excluded.

From Silly Hargrave long, wild, incoherent
letters had come. Silly had sent
them by a carrier to ensure delivery, though
disguised as a parcel, to avoid and evade the
heavy post-office penalty for infringement of
right. But however conveyed, they brought
only distress to sensitive Muriel, who, in the
plenitude of her abundant love, could not

bear that another should be less happy than
herself. The last of these conveyed the
despairing intelligence that Eobert had been
coerced or deluded into marrying Ann
Barber, and that Silly did not care what
became of herself. Before Muriel was home
again no doubt her fate would be sealed, and
that she might be carried off into the Avilds
of Yorkshire, never to see anyone she loved
ao-ain.

Muriel did her best to console poor Mill}
though she had to sacrifice her night's rest to
answer her; and she grieved that the best she
could say would fall so meaningless on Silly's
ear.

It's well for you with a lover you adore
waiting to marry you to tell me to be
patient," Silly had written, and it made
reply more difficult, for Muriel felt its truth.

Thus for many reasons there were shadows
athwart the sunshine, and it was with a
beating heart Muriel awaited that last arrival
of lier grandmother, it meant so much for
her. She wondered how the old woman of

business would feel with no business on band
save to say farewell to people and places
she had known so long. It would be a sad
farewell, she was afraid.

Whatever her grandmother felt she kept it
well covered up. She never held out her
hand or voice for sympathy. She would
never show that it was needed. But the
twelve months had ploughed their way over
her face heavily, if their burden had not bent
her back. She still kept herself erect ; and
when she talked into Mrs. Copley's show-room
it was as one who might bend others
but never bent herself.

Mrs. Bancroft did not have everything her
own way. She went into Mrs. Copley's show-room
with quite an air of triumph ; she came
out of it with that rigid set of the face so
common to it of late.

Thalia will miss thi apt embroidered," she
had said, with exultation, when Muriel was
upstairs taking leave of her associates,

Nay," was the calm retort, " Miss
Danger has trained me a successor ; and,"

Mrs. Copley added in her loftiest manner, " I
consider her acquaintance with Captain
Wynne so discreditable, that I shall be glad
to have the reproach on my establishment
removed."

The old woman's brow contracted. " What
dost th' mean ? " she asked sternly.

The lofty composure of Mrs. Copley was
irritating. " I mean that Mrs. Wynne utterly
repudiates her son's connection with my
apprentice, and both she and Lady Jenkinson
have withdrawn their patronage so long as
Miss Danger remains under my roof. Her
removal, therefore, Avill be a gain to me, and
probably to herself, if she be content to enter
a family which will disown her."

I do not believe one word of it," said
Mrs. Bancroft, setting her teeth close.
Perhaps you will believe that'"
Tliat,'' was a perfumed but soiled billet
from Mrs. Wynne or an amanuensis, couched
in much the same language Mrs. Copley had
employed. Mrs. Wynne and Mrs. Copley
both had ignored the fact that Lady

a
a

Jenkinson's patronage could only be a possibility
of the future, had never been in the
past.

Mrs. Bancroft crushed the paper in her
hand, and, the indentures having already
been cancelled, turned without another word
to hurry Muriel and her trunk out of the
house, as if there was poison in its atmosphere.


To Muriel she said nothing, but was moody
and snappish the rest of the day, evidently
brooding over something in her own mind :
and to the n\v\ lon2;ino: for home news, and
for something' more, it was at once disturbing
and perplexing.

When, as had been expected. Captain
Wynne, full of hope, bent his tall and handsome
head to enter the small low room at the
Yacht Inn, Avhere Mrs. Bancroft waited to
receive him, with Muriel, trembling and
uneasy, by her side, he was struck alike with
the change in her aspect and demeanour.

Her old heartiness of manner was gone.
She shook hands with him, and bade him

be seated, but with stiff propriety ; and when
he raised Muriel's hand to his lips in salutation,
her brown eyes sought his appealingly,
as if half afraid of a rebuke.

It was not until the captain, still keeping
the little trembling fingers in his own, said
cheerily, 

"Well, my dear madam, the year of
probation is at an end, and now that all
impediments are removed, I trust I may
claim your promise and this priceless hand
with a good ffrace "  not until then that
Muriel knew the secret of her grandmother's
mood.

Xo, Captain Wynne," said the old woman
sternly. "I appreciate thy constancy and
freedom from prejudice fully ; but all impediments
are not removed. I and my
grandchild have received an insult to-day
which has raised up an insurmountable barrier.
Until that is removed Muriel does not
become thy wife with my consent. Head
that ! " and she fhmg his mother's crumpled
note across the table to him.

As his eyes rested on the paper, they
seemed to strike fire. He bit his lip, and
gripped his hands, crushing the scented
mischief-maker up much as she had done ;
but he waved back Muriel, who had risen
to scan it also.

]S[o, my love, this is not for you. It is,
indeed, an insult, madam,  doubly such
coming through Mrs. Copley to you. It is
for me to deal with it. But I do trust you
will not let the peevish irritability of a
querulous and disappointed invalid come
between me and Muriel. It is her happiness
I seek as much as my own. My father will
be proud to welcome her."

Aye," interrupted Mrs. Bancroft, " thy
father belike ! But it's the womenfolk of
a family that can sting a young wife like
"gnats if she be unwelcome. And meek as
Muriel may be, she is none of John Danger's
daughter if she be, as Mrs. Copley hinted,
content to enter a family that would disown
her.' "

Muriel's face alternately Hushed and paled,

her bosom rose and fell ; love and pride were
at war.

Muriel ? " questioned the lover, his warm,
tight clasp upon her hand.

A timid " Arthur ! " was all her low-voiced
reply.

What dost' say lass ? " put the grandmother
; adding plainly, " I've nought to say
agen th' captain ; but thou doesn't marry
him to be scorned by his folk, with my
consent."

We must wait God's good time," gasped
Muriel faintly. "Mrs. Wynne may change."

My love, you cannot mean it," implored
Arthur. " War may separate us,  send me
away to a foreign station "

All the more reason you should wait,
young sir. Would tliah drag Muriel into a
foreign land, and perhaps leave her there a
widow? No! thai hast clenched the nail.
You must wait."

Neither argument nor entreaty would move

Sarah Bancroft from the stand she had taken.

She left him in the room with Muriel for a
VOL. in. ' o

while, but it was only to seek and return
with John Danger, with his pride and wits
aflame, to echo her opinions with emphasis ;
and if Arthur Yynne had found the pride
of trade as strong as the pride of birth in the
old furrier, he found both united in her
haughty son-in-law.

There was a painful parting the next week ;
all the more painful because it was indefinite.
They had buoyed themselves up with the
prospect of an immediate marriage ; and it
is hard to say which felt the disappointment
keenest. Muriel, feeling herself of small
account at home, had hoped for a haven and
rest in a husband's love ; he for the pure
and loving companionship he had never
known. It was hard to bear. More than
once he Alas tempted to ask her to become
his without their consent, but lie feared to
risk her denial and disapproval.

Mrs. Copley was passed over as beneath
notice ; but there Alas an unpleasant
scene at the Plan with Mrs. Wynne,
which ended in the final estrangement

of mother and son ; and the lady had
little reason for elation over what she-called
her " triumph," when she refused
point blank to give him a ' written retraction
of her unjustifiable note," or a
sanction of their union under her own
hand, either ; since in that refusal she lost
her son.

Indeed, if she had no qualms of conscience,
Owen, her maid, soon gave her
cause to doubt her own policy.

"Look you, madam, you may pe glad to
have so good and kit a daughter py your
chair some days before longs. Suppose I
was to get married and leave you, madam,
look you ! what then ? "

You married, my good Owen? at your
aire ? Ridiculous ! "

But there was a peculiar smile on the face
at her back, as she saw it in the dressing-glass
before her, which made her feel as if
it were not so absurd as she supposed, and
she found herself speculating what she

would do, now Pauline was married and



gone, if Owen should leave her leave lier

CD '

alone in lier helplessness to strangers.

But she never once conceded that she had
done wrong to separate her son and " that
dressmaking girl," or that her note to Mrs.
Copley was, as he said, "unjustifiable."

Sarah Bancroft had, on the contrary, compunctious
visiting whenever she looked on
Muriel, whose serene eyes held depths of
sorrowful thought which yet moved no
complaining lips ; but the old woman never
dreamed of lowering her Hag, or surrendering
her grand-daughter to be scorned ; and
she was as mute as Muriel on all that
concerned the Wynness.

The return journey was a silent and
miserable one. There had been a promised
stoppage at Northwich to visit the newly-married
Mrs. Asa Booth, and the good
Doctor Holmes, but Sarah Bancroft was in
no mood for anything but to hurry over the
ground, and Muriel, who rode on a pillion
behind Cutts, had neither care nor spirit
to press the matter.

She too longed to be at home, to be her
mother's informant, to seek counsel and sympathy
from her ; but she saw that she had
her own burdens to bear, and would not add
to them the weight of her young sorrow
She spoke as cheerily as she could, and let
none know how her heart ached under her
smiling countenance, even the good mother
scarcely divined all. And there is no doubt
the effort to seem cheerful brought its own
calm. There could be no fretfulness with
reliance such as hers,

It is only waiting, mother," she said ;
I know Arthur will be true to me, and
please God, it will all come right in the
and."

I hope so, my girl, I hope so," and
Ellen Danger turned away with a sigh,
grieved at heart over the pride which held
the happiness of two young hearts of no
account, though she added, " and it is as
well you have come home for a while; you
have been away such a weary time."

And no doubt the mother had missed her,

for neither Anna nor Marion came as close
to her in thought and feeling. Neither of
them saw the loveliness of duty in the same
degree ; and neither was willing to make
the sacrifices demanded by the pressure of
the times, and circumstances, without open
resentment and grumbling". Neither had
the intuitive perception that the mother
overtaxed herself to spare them; that the
time Anna spent in gossip out of doors,
or Marion in personal adornment before
her looking-glass might have been better
employed, either to save her or save others.

Muriel came wonderfully to the relief of
all, in many ways ; and Silly Hargreaves
clung to her with wondering admiration and
sympathy. Only she fancied Muriel's love
for Arthur could not be as deep as her
own for Eobert  or her sorrow.

Their relatives were richer than themselves.
John Danger's sisters had all
married men who either had money, or
knew how to make it, and when the old manufacturer
had died, at the beginning of the

year, the eldest son took the business, and
Httle came to John's share. It was a sore
disappointment. There was suspicion of
chicanery, and much ill-feeing between the
brothers and brothers-in-law.

Disappointment with John Danger took
an ill-form. He gulped down liquor to
hide it, and then, in a spirit of bravado,
added his father's trade to his own, not to
be outdone. It caused a strain on his
capital Which he never wholly recovered,
and had not Sarah Bancroft secretly come
to his relief during the panic he must have
gone to the Avail.

Beside the commercial depression was the
general scarcity of provisions. Pies and
puddings had long been banished from the
tables of the wealthy in order to cheapen
flour for the poor, and a prohibition was
laid on the manufacture of white bread.

For the same reason a tax was laid on
hair-powder, and its use in the army
abolished.

The very month after Muriel's return,

there was a disposition to repeat the rioting
of the previous year, on account of the high
prices of food.

Everywhere there was an enrolling or
mustering of volunteers ; colours to be presented,
or balls in their honour ; and there
were always invitations for the handsome
Danger girls from their aunts or cousins
for these shows. Then came the contest
between the narrowed income and the desire
to dress as well as their richer cousins ; and I
am afraid tears and ill-temper marred enjoyment
when the new scarf or the new
hat had to be denied.

Muriel had been a worker ; and on one
of these occasions she said it did not require
three or four women besides a servant to
keep the house in order ; and she suggested
that work for the warehouse should be done
by herself and sisters, and that the money
so earned mio-ht serve for their wardrobes
and pocket-money ; and so save their father's
purse.

There was some demur at first, especially

from Marion, but vanity prevailed
over pride, and soon the three were
back-stitching the stamped-leather tab of
braces (or gallows, as they were then
called, or suspenders) in an upper-room,
though the two were terribly afraid lest
their useful occupation should get wind,
and it was some time before even Silly
Hargreaves was admitted to their secret.
She, poor girl, on the eve of marriage
with the undesirable John Stott, was loud
in lamentation that she had no trade in
her fingers whereby she could earn her own
living.

I only wish I had learned to make
bonnets, or dresses, or stitch braces, or anything
useful ; I would have run away from
home instead of marrying, if I could only
have kept myself. I'm sure I envy Muriel,
that I do," she said.

Her cousins, however, were not proud of
their gifts in that respect, unless it might be
Anna, who refused to see the advantage of
class distinctions, and was given to talk to

her father's fustian-cutters more than was
altogether necessary.

They always held themselves in readiness
to receive visitors downstairs, or to go
out for a promenade ; but they never
objected to leave Muriel behind at her
stitches, and when they had the materials
were glad enough to fall back on the dressmaking
abilities of which they were so much
ashamed. She appeared to take it all for
granted ; said to herself that '' work was a
remedy for a sore heart," that " people were
sent into the world to be useful to each
other," and was rather pleased than otherwise
to be left alone. And after Silly Hargreaves
was carried off into Yorkshire as the wife of
John Stott, bargained for as much as a bale
of goods on the Exchange, Muriel was very
much alone, Sara, on her inspiriting, having
becfun to relieve her over-tried mother in
household matters not in Betty's province.

Her aunts as well as her sisters seemed to
think that Muriel had been sent into the
world to play the part of "general utility,"

especially her aunt Bent, who, whether
regardless or regardful of her son Joe's
aspirations, wanted Muriel at the Grange at
all times and seasons, but more especially
when a room, or a dress, or a table needed
particular decoration ; she was " so obliging."
Too obliging," her grandmother said, with
the addendum, " thanks empty nobody's
purse."

But Muriel was always ready when Joe
came to drive her there in the gig  no, not
always. There were long letters coming from
time to time, and when these came she shut-herself
in her own room to answer them as
she best could, for her heart and her
obedience were at variance, and many were
her secret tears, many her secret prayers for
guidance and support, whilst her quill went
over lier paper. Tli rough all Arthur's letters
ran the one appeal, " Be my wife, Muriel ; I
am lonely without you," but she could never
say she had the consent of her elders, and " I
cannot make them unhappy by marrying
without it. We must wait," was in every reply.

The three sisters were hard at work
upstairs, iii the critical year '98, on some
spring goods for a London order, when a
knock at the street door announced a
stranger ; a friend would have turned the
handle to walk in.

It was a visitor for Miss Danger.

Down went needle, brace-web, leather ; off
went the great apron ; there was a momentary
adjustment of curls, and downstairs
went Muriel to be caught to the heart of
Arthur Wynne with all the rapture of a
lover long parted from the idol of his
adoration.

Her nerves were strung up to patient
resignation, but the unexpected joy overpowered
her, and she sobbed upon his bosom
in the very overflow of gladness. They were
not sad tears, however, and as he seemed
content to kiss them away, she was tranquilized
ere long, and ready to lend an ear
to all he had to say.

It was the old story. He longed to make
her his wife without delay ; but there was

now an addition of urgency to the well-known
plea.

The regiment, he said, were expecting
orders to embark for Holland or Delirium.
How long he might be away, how long the
campaign would last, he could not tell ; but
he could not leave her in uncertainty. He
praised lier to become his wife, and go with
him. The major, his father, would be a
double protection to her, and all possible
provision should be made for her comfort.
And he listened for her answer as if life
and death hung on her words.

He could scarcely have come with a worse
argument for the surrender of Muriel. Not
that she herself would demur, she was willing
to travel the world with him, and with her
head upon his breast she told him so. But
she was not of age and the decision did not
rest with herself. She could only refer him
to her elders, and fearful of their veto, she
was loth to break in upon the blissful dream
of the present, in which the light of his eyes,
the tones of his voice held her enthralled.

There had been no necessity to proclaim
throughout the house who Muriel's visitor
was ; his uniform Avould have told that, had
his features not been familiar even to Betty
through a miniature which had been substituted
in Chester for the crystal locket.
So that Avhen Muriel's first outburst of
emotion had subsided, and she was ready
to announce his presence to her mother and
father, and introduce him to her sisters, they
were all prepared to meet him.

And so long as he forbore to make his
errand known his reception was most cordial.
But with that came a general chill. No one
was willing to part with Muriel now. Even
John Danger had begun to realize the value
of his daughter. And with the war prospect
before them timid, gentle little Mrs. Danger,
who had formerly put in a word for the
lovers deprecatory of the pride which would
sacrifice their happiness to the satisfying of
a vain doll like Mrs. Wynne, even she ceased
to advocate the match, with the sights, and
sounds, and horrors of coming warfare in

view. She loved her child too well to
consign her to such perils.

In the midst of the discussion Mrs.
Bancroft came, and again the question was
put, and again the reasons given, and again
the captain's voice was drowned. The word
Holland " mio;ht have scared them.

A sea voyage in a troopship, a campaign
in that land of mud and dykes. It was not
to be thought of," said one and all  not
Muriel, she looked wistfully from one to the
other, and clung to him, and said if there
was dans-er she would elect to share it.

But down came Grandmother Bancroft's
foot, "I'll see thai do nothing so foolish.
You are both young enough to wait, and I
think, Captain Wynne, thai would be more
sensible, and show more real love for the lass,
by leaving her in comfort and safety with
her friends instead of dragging her into
danger. She don't go with my consent."

There was nothing either imposing or
impressive about the manufacturer's house in
Broom Street, and the captain must have

been woefully in earnest and devotedly in love
to stand the many rebuffs he met and remain
unchanged.

Muriel's heart bled for him as well as
for herself. The sun had been shining when
she had entered the parlour and found him
gazing on her embroidered portrait, on
which a sunbeam rested ; but clouds had
overcast the sky, and an atmosphere of
damp and discomfort had seemed to come
in with her Grandmother Bancroft.

Muriel turned her brown eyes pleadingly
towards her : though her trembling hand
never once left Arthur's clasp  and the look
must have disturbed the old woman, for
though she shook her head, and said, " No,
no, my lass, I can't suffer thee to go to be
killed, with either fright, or cold, or famine,
or sword, or bullet ! " she added, " Let the
captain sell out, or exchange and stay in
England, we're like to have fighting enough
here ere long and I'll not gainsay him ; he
may have thee and welcome ! "

And then, muttering something about

taking off her wet cloak she marched ofT
into the back room as a sort of hint for
the others to follow ; in truth uncomfortable
over the aspect of affairs, and even over
her own decision. But she did not change
it, and if any doubts of her own infallibility
were rising in her mind no one else
was the wiser.

Cellini? out or exchanging were out of the
question, and so Arthur said to Mr. Danger,
when, declining all proffers of refreshment,
he shook hands with them one by one as
they left the room, glad to be once more, for
however brief a space, alone with Muriel 
and with his disappointment.

He with all the untried British soldier's

confidence of success, made light of the

dangers to be encountered. "Do you think,

my darling, 1 could have been so selfish

and cruel as to drag you into danger and

discomfort. The wives of other officers and

men will accompany the troops. Think you

it would be allowed if they were not to be

cared and provided for. Oh, Muriel, my love,
VOL. ni. P

my love, you must not think me so selfishly
devoid of thought or care for you, Mrs. Bancroft
is mistaken. You would not wish me to
sell out at such a crisis, would you ? " and ashe
held her close he looked into her eyes for
her reply.

They fell before his own, her answer was
lonsf ni comines " I cannot think of war
without a shudder. That the passions of men
or nations should rise so high as to make
bloodshed patriotism is to me terrible. Yet
seeing that our country is threatened, and
that even peaceable tradesmen are arming in
its defence, what can I say to you who are a
soldier ? Being a soldier your first duty is to
your King and country. How could I ask
you to set that duty aside and bring the
stigma of cowardice on an honourable name,
only that you might make me your wife a
little earlier ? I did not love you because
you were a soldier, Arthur, but in spite of it ;
for all that was good and noble and chivalrous
in your conduct. Do you think I should
love you better if you sold out for my sake ?

Nay, I should think you had tarnished your
honour, and were no longer my Prince
Arthur."

These are brave words, my Muriel, and
with my whole heart I thank you for them.
They take some of the bitterness from
parting." And as he spoke, he looked down
into the clear brown eyes that once more
were raised to his, and pressed a kiss upon
her brow as much of homage as of affection.

Brave words were hers no doubt, but they
were not easy to say, and poor Muriel had
need of all her Christian fortitude, for she
found obedience hard, and very white were
the lips with which she bade him farewell,
and promised to be faithful whatever might
betide : though they little foresaw all that
would betide when he tore himself away.

I may be months, nay, years away, my
Muriel," he said, at last. " Can your constancy
endure the long separation ? "

It matters not months or years, Arthur.
True love does not measure time or distance
save in heart beats and anxiety. Fidelity

p 2

is not SO much a virtue as a necessity.
Change with me is impossible. You will
find me still the same," she whispered, looking
up tenderly through the tears which
had began to flow.

"But a soldier's life is uncertain, my
love. What if I never come back?"

Hush ! " and her lips blanched. " Do
not suggest such a terror. I shall never
marry until you do. You inst come back.
I will pray for you night and day."

Aye, do, my own, God bless you ! Muriel,
God bless you ! "

The straining clasp relaxed ; he was gone,
his last kiss on her pale and quivering lips ;
the skies wept over him, and she wept for him.

ars. Bancroft's experience inclined
her to suspect that the disappointed
Fusilier Captain might steal a march upon
them, and run off with Muriel when least
expected, so in order to guard against such
a contingency, she carried her off to Eed
Bank, and scarcely allowed the girl out of
lier sight.

She took care at the same time to let
lier know the great things she would do for
lier if she kept single a year or too, and
married with her approbation, whether Arthur
Wynne or someone else.

Since Sam had got into disgrace the three
hundred a-year promised to Muriel on lier
marriage had expanded into five ; and her
grandmother did not fail to tell her of it,

or that she would forfeit all if she married
against her wish, as Sam had done.

She need not have taken so many precautions.
Arthur Wynne was of too noble
a nature to suggest a runaway marriage to
the girl he loved, even though he exercised
the riixht of his manhood in the selection of
a wife ; and though at one time sorely
tempted, he had too much respect both for
her and himself to make such a proposal ;
indeed had he done so, Muriel's filial
obedience and affection would have taken
alarm and opposed him, and he knew it.
But he would have risked the loss of
marriage-portion could he have made her
his wife without it, although he was neither
so rich nor so simple as to despise the fortune
Muriel was likely to bring.

It was part of Sam's punishment to know
that a new will had been made, from which
he was excluded, and that Ellen and her
children were to have so much on which
he had reckoned as his own. That his own
boy James was provided for was no satisfaction

to him. His only satisfaction came
from the handling of the crisp bank notes
when the partnership closed, and he knew
that the thousands were his own.

The natural bent of the man then was
shown. He threw off the sober garb, the sober,
thrifty habits he had worn so long in the
eye of day and of his mother ; " determined
to cut a dash and enjoy himself."

Lydia could have told long before had
she been so minded, how he had commonly
cast off his business suit, and his business
manners with business hours, and to what
his frequent headaches might have been
attributed. But she had been warned to hold
her peace ; so she kept out of his mother's
way, and that of others, seldom going beyond
her own door-step save to the adjoining
church or market, lest she should let slip
some unlucky word or other. He had
burdened her life with secrets from the
first.

Few traces of the buxom country lass
were now to be found in Mrs. Samuel Bancroft

; she had sled too many tears over
her secret marriage and her unacknowledged
boy, and but for her Uttle girl her life would
have been dreary indeed. Sam took care it
was not much more cheerful for the visits
she paid to Eed Bank, Whether to receive his
money or to see her son.

In the newness of his exasperation (for
Sam considered and maintained he was the
injured individual, not his mother, whose
fortune he had helped to make), Lydia's
husband would have debarred her acceptance
of the privilege to see her boy ; but
he thought better of it, and ere long Lydia
and even little James became in his hands
innocent and unconscious spies on the mother
who had cast him off.

There is no doubt that casting off had
stung him almost as much as the loss it
involved, and every fresh token of favour
to the D'Anyers roused him to a pitch of
savage jealousy.

It was not long after Captain Wynne's
departure that he heard how much his

mother had settled on Muriel and on her
sisters, and he swore with many an oath
they should not have it.

Muriel was still with her grandmother ;
she had taken on herself the arduous task
to net a crimson scarf for her soldier lover
before he was called away, and late and early
the stitches grew upon her mesh, and her
netting needle flew until her fingers were
cut and sore with the running silk. It
was completed and despatched. The hasty
letter which acknowledged its receipt told
also that the route had come, and they
were to sail for Ostend on the morrow.
They would be on the sea dien it reached
her.

Muriel had carried the letter to her own
room to be kissed and wept over with none
to scan or rebuke; she had flung herself upon
her knees in incoherent prayer for her dear
one's safety, and was rising to her feet when
she fancied she heard a sound of scuffling
below, and then a fall.

There was a moment's wonder wdiat it

mio-ht mean, then a hurried rush downstairs,
a glimpse of a familiar figure flying through
the hall, a clash of the front door.

A moment more she was in the parlour
calling " Margery ! Margery ! " in a voice that
was like a shriek.

She had found her grandmother stretched
senseless on the floor, the semi-circular door
of the corner cupboard wide open, the old
ladA's bright steel girdle-chain danMinfr and
swinging from the bunch of keys in the lock ;
a clair overturned beneath the high cupboard.


Muriel was on her knees, with the hapless
white head of her grandmother resting on
her bosom, when Margery came darting in
fresh from the wash-tub, her arms all suds.

In, too, came James from school, crying ;
his breeches, cap, and books all muddy, his
slate broken.

He's knocked me down and broke "

The cry stopped and sank to an affrighted
whisper, as he sav his grandmother with
closed eyes and a white face being lifted from

the carpet to the sofa, and Muriel almost as
white.

Was father running; for a doctor when he
upset me ? " he asked.

Your father, James ? Was that your
father ran out of the house," cried Muriel
in a panic.

Aye," said the lad, in open-eyed wonder.

Muriel and Margery exchanged glances as
they laid their burden down, and began to
chafe the old hands, in one of which was a
white rag. Samuel Bancroft had been
forbidden to cross the threshold. What did
it all mean?

In the midst of her distress and their
unavailing efforts to restore consciousness,
this question kept recurring to Muriel's mind.
What does it all mean ? " The answer came
all too soon.

Someone ran for a doctor, though it was
not Sam. He was nowhere visible.

A neighbour to whom Jem had run in a
fright, had done their errand.

Sarah Bancroft's eyes had unclosed before

the doctor came ; but though they roved
around and rested on the corner cupboard
with a troubled expression, her lips remained
sealed.

Many were the questions asked and
answered, for the doctor himself could not
read the symptoms by intuition, and there
seemed to him nothing on the surface.

No, there was no accounting for her fall,
though there was a bruise on her shoulder,
and another on her wrist, and this, the doctor
said, was like the impression of a grasping
hand.

She was a hearty Avoman for her years."
Was not troubled with either vertigo or
syncope." " Never had an ailment within
knowledge." " Was not resting on the back
of her head." " Had not struck the furniture
in her fall." "Had not been sick." "Must
have been reading, for the big Bible was open
on the table, with her spectacles laid upon
it." "Might have fallen from the chair;
it lay overturned beneath the open cupboard,
as he might see."

The doctor was perplexed. His patient's
system lead sustained a shock ; but whether
the fall was the result of the shock, or the
shock the result of the fall, was more than he
could determine. His remedy was the same
blood-letting. It was no remedy for the
shock she had sustained. A shock more
mental than physical, but to this no one there
had a clue.

A messenger was despatched to Broom
Street, and soon Ellen Danger was there to
share with Muriel the anxious watch by the
bedside, where was never a hope to cheer,
never a token how the hale woman had come
by her disaster.

It was all a doubt, a question, and a
mystery.

The sufferer was alive, but made no sign of
understanding recognition. She took no
sustenance, seemed unable to swallow. Only
a feather dipped in diluted brandy was drawn
from time to time between her lips.

John Danger and other members of the
family came and went, and the doctor was

in and out, but nothing more could be done,
nothing more was known.

And nothing would induce Muriel to leave
the room even for an hour. A supernatural
power of existing without sleep seemed to
be hers.

I have been used to sitting up night
and day," she said, " and now I could
not sleep. Grandmother might wake and
need me."

Indeed, if she chanced to drop into a doze
in her chair, in five or ten minutes she was
awake ao'ain with all her faculties alert. " A
born nurse," Mrs. Kingsley had pronounced
her years before ; and here she was proving
it, in her care of the grandmother who had
so hastily resented the epithet as an imputation.
All that was past and forgotten ; and
if the white head retained any impression of
the past, or of the gentle ministrant to her
few needs, no one could tell.

A week, ten days went by ; the impassive
patient was evidently sinking.

Had we not better send for Uncle Sam ? "

suggested Muriel by her bedside, to her
mother.

A struggle seemed to convulse Sarah Bancroft's
frame, a spark of the old fire to light
up her sunken eyes. Some deep excitement
broke the seal upon her lips. " Sam ? No ! "
she jerked out emphatically. Then fainter,
whilst wondering and anxious eyes and ears
were alert, she went on,  " Sam  knocked 
old mother  down. Keys  stole  cupboard
 deeds " and then the voice trailed

off into indistinctness. Her lips were wetted
with brandy Her thin veiny hand went
wandering over the coverlet, as if in search of
something. "Muriel  better marry  young
captain  now. Ellen  Muriel  forgive 
sorry."

Again a pause. The hand again went
wandering.

Muriel  where are you ? " Muriel laid
her beautiful young hand under the old and
withered one. There was a feeble indication
of a clasp. Pray  pray for  grandmother 
Sam  forgive tress  God's will  be done ! "

Sarah Bancroft had surrendered her own
will at last, and her life with it.

Alien all was over Muriel might have
succumbed to the excessive strain on her
nerves and sensibilities, but for fresh demands
on her thought and energies.

Her father misfht make all arrangements for
the funeral, but there was a family of females
to be put into mourning, and who so fit to
undertake this, even if she did call her
sister's needles into requisition? The very
necessity to turn her thoughts into other
directions acted as a safety valve, and kept
her from brooding over the double loss of
lover and grandmother. Still, as her scissors
or her pins ran through bombazine, or crape,
or calico, she could but think of them both,
and of her grandmother's tardy consent to
the union now impossible, and again to
wonder if her Uncle Samuel had really been
the cause of his mother's death?

Aye, it was Sam's doing, that was certain.

James had seen him rush from the house.
There was the dying woman's own declaration.

In clearing the neglected parlour
for the funeral, the bit of white rag Margery
had removed from her clutch was found
under the sofa. It was a torn piece of
a man's falling neck tie. Margery knew it
well.

I saw it wur Mester Sam's as soon as I
clapped eyes on it ! " she said.

Sam's doing ! It was clear there had been
a quarrel and a struggle, but for what? And
where was Sam ?

He had "not been home for three days,"
Lydia said, when she went in great perturbation
to Eed Bank to look for him the very
day his mother died, unaware that the old
woman, who had been kind to her, was no
more. He " had come home in a great fluster
and a queer temper ten days before, and had
sworn at her when she noticed that his necktie
was torn ; and there had been something-mysterious
going on with him and their neighbour,
Mr. Garrett, the corn chandler, ever
since, and somehow she felt afraid."

She might well be, for neither she nor her
VOL. ni. Q

little ones ever saw Sam again. And erelong
she had no alternative but to break up
her home in Toad Lane and go back to her
father and the farm at Waverham.

Her anxious enquiry for her husband supplemented
the disjointed revelation of the
dying woman, and helped with other fragmentary
evidence to prove the main facts.

The struggle had evidently been for the old
woman's keys ; for the chain was broken, and
had been torn from her girdle, and a tin box
bad disappeared from the cupboard. It did
not contain Mrs. Bancroft's will, that was
found with other private papers in the old
bureau ; but it held the title-deeds of
valuable properties,  might have held all, but
for her belief in the old adage, " Never put
too many eggs in one basket ; " and its loss
was not discovered until after the reading
of the will, which disinherited Sam, and
left Ellen Bancroft sole executrix.

Then Muriel remembered that her eye had
been arrested by the vacant place on the
shelf,  had missed a familiar object; but in

the double anguish and perturbation of the
hour she had not given it a second thought.

With that box had gone all prospect of
wealth for the D'Anyers.

Sam had made good use of his time, if he
had not been preparing long beforehand to
clutch the property. He had sold not only
the freehold of the clump of houses in Toad
Lane and Fennel Street to the corn-chandler
Garrett for a mere song, but the Eed Bank
premises and other properties elsewhere, to
a stranger who had been in treaty With
Mrs. Bancroft herself for the deserted workshops.
Little remained but a cluster of
houses at Coats, the farm at Waverham,
her shares in the Manchester Hall, Chester,
and her balance in the New Manchester
Bank, the latter considerably reduced by
sums recently drawn out for investment of
which not a trace remained. Whether the
securities had been locked in the tin deed-box
could never be ascertained

Its effect was most disastrous on John
Danger.

Q 2

Not SO much in the loss of prospective
competence. He could be no worse off for
want of that which had never been his.
Not altogether for lack of the ready hand
when he had bills falling due and was likely
to be pressed for funds, for whatsoever Sarah
Bancroft lent he had been wont to repay to
the full. But for its moral bearing, in the
violence done to his family pride, to his
human instincts, as well as for his own
disappointment, and the rage it engendered.

In railing at his brother-in-law for the
outrage he had committed, and in seeking
vengeance on him he neglected his own
proper concerns, at a time when an Englishman's
business demanded his closest attention.

It was in vain that his wife and Muriel
reminded him, " Vengeance is iiiine saith the
Lord, / will repay." Remonstrance was
thrown away upon him.

He carried a pistol al)out with him and
vowed he would " shoot his thief of a
brother-in-law," and for two years that loaded
pistol was kept ready in his breast pocket.

He was saved the guilt of blood on his
soul, for Sam never came in his way.

Whether pursued by remorse, or fear of
detection, or simply from an eager longing to
escape with his prey, he had fled ; and that
before a full knowledge of all he had done
could have been more than a stinging
prescience to him. Yet he had left his white-haired
mother on the floor, and could not be
ignorant of the probable consequences.

The questioning of an acquaintance on
the strange occurrence, and his mother's
peculiar condition, must have aroused an
alarm in his breast. It was ascertained that
he, in haste to depart, leaving wife and
children behind, had bought a horse at
Hyde's Cross for fifty pounds, and sold it
with broken knees in Liverpool for ten,
the day after. And when, unknown to him,
his mother died and his sin was revealed, he
was on his way to America with his ill-gotten
gains. Whether they met with a French
cruiser or privateer by the way, or went to
the bottom in a storm, nothing sure was ever

heard of the ship hi which he sailed, or of
him.

Lydia wept over his departure, and met
his accusers and abusers with the conviction
that " he would have been another and a
better man but for his mother's constant
preaching that saving and money-making
were the end and aim of life, and that no
man had a right to marry until he had made
a fortune."

If instead of wedding on the sly as he
was almost forced to do by her queer notions,
he had married me openly and brought me
home, I might have helped him to save and
make the money he was so fond of, " she said
to John Danger. "What it cost to keep
them Blackburnss quiet, there's no telling ;
and he was like a ramping madman about
the house when he was let in for paying a
lawyer to tell lies for the rogues. No, Sam
was what his mother made him, dead and
gone though she be. And whether I ever

CD o

see him again, or I don't, I shall ever
say it.

So someone lead faith even in Sam, that he
was not all bad, and might have been better ;
and she, the one who had known him at his
best, and at his worst, and who had suffered
most through him and by him.

And in that faith let us leave her in her
uncertain widowhood, to train the children
he had left, and to work for them and her
old father with unflagging perseverance to
the end, a good wife and a good mother, and,
barring the one great error of her life, not a
bad daughter. Waverham knew nothings of
her husband's misdeeds, and she was careful
to keep the knowledge from his children.

Before she had fairly turned her back on
the home which had held so much misery
for her, John Danger had commenced
litigation for the recovery of the property.
The case went to trial ; and though there was
a clause in the will that "Ellen Danger's
receipt should be the discharge thereof," and
the holders could show but the receipt of
Samuel Bancroft, they held the original title-deeds,
and the property had otherwise been

legally transferred, and that before the death
of the testatrix had given finality to her will.

The conveyancer, a lawyer who had taken
fees on both sides, and had obtained under
false pretences the signature of Ellen Danger
to papers she should not have signed,
narrowly escaped being struck off the rolls,
the judge threatening him for his rascality in
court; and though he gave judgment for the
parties who had bought and paid for the
property, he also gave leave to move for a
new trial.

But law is a costly luxuriant these protracted
lawsuits had so impoverished the
D'Anyers that no further action was possible,
though many friends and advisers,  one a
young lawyer often to be seen in the Broom
Street parlour, named Jonathan Booth,
counselled otherwise, and prophesied
victory.

Amongst these were Bob and Joe Bent, the
former of whom was married, to the satisfaction
of father and mother if not to his
own, and in practice, with a fine estate in

prospect, on the demise of his life's father ;
the latter of whom, Joe, had exchanged into
the Light Horse Volunteers, and came on
his gaily caparisoned steed, leaping over the
guardian chains of Broom Street gentility,
as if to take the avenues to Muriel's heart
by storm also, with his new uniform and
higher rank. He was no longer a corporal
but a cornet, and "save much more time to
his regimental drill and parade than he did
to the factory and cotton-spinning.

Joe could not believe in a woman's love
outlasting years of absence and silence ;
and, when nothing was heard of Captain
Wynne, said to her, " Ah, Muriel, you had
better have put up with a plain Lancashire
lad like me ; " but he did not torment her.

If I bother her she's likely to send me
about my business as Anna sent her unfortunate
swain the other day," he argued
with himself, " she'll maybe think better of
it and change her mind before lon:."

But when he saw how anxiously and
Wistfully she listened to the various scraps

and driblets of war news brought into
the house, and watched the new expression
which deepened on her countenance, as the
months rolled by he began to think
differently. Still he was not disposed to give
up hope for himself in the end. " Never's a
long day, and patience is a winning horse, "
was his consolation, but patience did not
seem to bring him much nearer to the
winning post.

Sarah Bancroft's dying permission for
Muriel to marry Arthur Wynne had come
all too late. And well it had. His company
was one of the two companies of Fusiliers
Major-general Comte landed, with other
forces, to destroy the sluices in the canal at
Ostend ; and when Sarah Bancroft was being
carried to her grave in the Old Churchyard,
he and his father were beings marched to
Lisle with the remnant of their men as
prisoners of war; so soon had the campaign
come to an end for them.

Muriel knew it not. Defeats are not
trumpeted abroad ; they only are buzzed

about in whispers, and details are liard to
get at, or they were in the days when there
was neither steam, nor telegraphy, when the
post was uncertain, and the press in its
infancy.

Muriel had the sickening ache of uncertainty
at her heart ; but her hope and faith had
sure anchorage ; there was no feeble yielding
to despair on the first alarm ; and home
anxieties were so pressing she was afraid to
add to her mother's troubles by any visible
token of her own. Only on her knees could
she pour them forth into the ever open ear
of her Lord, and only from Him could
come the strength to bear them with composure,


Joe was chivalrous in his ways The serenity
with which she went about her household
duties, the celerity with which her
needle flashed, the calmness with which she
set self aside to secure any trifle of enjoyment
or adornment for his sisters, did not
deceive him. He saw that the silence of
Arthur AVynne lay heavy at her heart, and

set about gaining intelligence of his rival to
lighten it. Brave Joe !

He had lonsr been admitted to the arcana
of the private work-room, now more than
ever a necessity, and feeding his hopeless
flame the while, sat and read to his cousins,
whilst they stitched away far into the
candle-lit night. He had always brought
them driblets of news from without, of the
rebellion in Ireland, the Reign of Terror in
France, warlike activity at home ; and now
he never lost sight of the Welsh Fusiliers.
Now it was an exchange of the prisoners at
Lisle ; anon it was their removal to headquarters
in Guernsey ; again, after a lapse,
it was the expected return of the regiment
to England.

A letter from Arthur Wynne himself that
came like rain in the parched desert followed
this, and told of letters despatched
home and to her which must have miscarried,
of inability to leave even for a
day, and of the coming embarkation with
Sir Ralph Abercrombie's army for Holland.

She had at least thine for a reply and it
went, to be to her lover all his letter had
been to her. Joe brought word that the
trophies had left the Downs. This was in
August, 1799.

The next news was of a tedious and tempestuous
voyage ; of a difficult landing
effected in face of the enemy ; of a battle
fought with varying success, in which,
however, was no report of wound or scathe
to Major or Captain Wynne, and he made
the most of this.

Joe had next to tell the unpalatable news
of the withdrawal of the British troops from
Holland, and their removal with the women
and children in Dutch shuts to the English
line-of-battle ships lying fifteen miles off the
coast. But he did not tell that the Walk,
with part of those troops, was missing, since
two companies of the Welsh Fusiliers,
including Major and Captain Wynne, had
embarked in her.

It was some time after, Avlien suspicion had
become certainty, and the story of the very

few survivors was made known, that Joe,
with a delicacy born of his forlorn attachment,
called Muriel alone into the front
parlour, and broke to her gently the catastrophe
of the storm-tossed Valk, which,
after driving almost ashore on Yarmouth
sands, was beaten back to rocky Norway,
and finally went to pieces off the coast of
Wieland, flinging human lives like wrack
upon the waters. Nineteen out of the hundreds
on board had been cast ashore, but
neither Major Wynne nor this brave son
were of these.

Muriel had listened with eager questioning
in those big brown eyes of hers.

'' Lost, all, Arthur, lost'' she gasped, her face
white as ashes, and then it dropped on her
hands and the sofa-arm as if lio-htnino'-struck.

Joe went out and closed the door behind
him, then after a while sent her mother to
comfort her. In about an hour Muriel went
upstairs, and was seen no more that night.

She put on no mourning-robes. " My
sorrow needs no livery," she said, " and my

loss is not to be told in bombazine and
crape."

Nor did she give way to moaning or
lamentation ; and only that her face continued
white and sober, and her manner
more than ever subdued, none would have
guessed she had so deep a sorrow at her
heart. Indeed, had self-repression not been
part of her nature, her active desire to serve
others would have kept her from brooding
by finding occupation both for hands and
head. When Anna and Marion threw down
their work and needles, declaring they were
not going to be slaves for anbod}," she
kept quietly at her task. And both by
precept and example she stimulated little
Sara to be, as she called it, " Mother's right
hand in the kitchen," as she herself had long
been everywhere.

John Danger made no mistake in saying
that his daughters were a " fine set of girls,"
for Muriel now came in for her share of
the admiration that followed the sisters
whithersoever they went, and certainly her

voice had added some musical notes to their
hours of sono: : then, notwithstanding their
father's struggles against the great commercial
pressure, they -at least Anna and
Marion  dressed well, as the word is commonly
understood ; and not only their father,
but Aunt Bent encouraged them in this.

Tcliut ! Let them dress, it is necessary
to maintain our position, if I am but a
beggars' inkle weaver. To be poor and seem
poor is ruination ! " was his dictum.

If they earn gold let them wear gold,"
said Mrs. Bent to her husband, who,
knowing something; of his brother-in-law's
difficulties, had made a remark on their
attire during a ball at the Grange, given to
a number of volunteer officers, and others.
"I know I should not care to see John's
girls about me worse dressed than our other
nieces, and besides, they cost less than you
think,  all that embroidery was Muriel's
work, and the dressmaking too. They're
downright hard-workings lasses, and will make
good wives, if they are a bit dressy. And

as for Muriel, she's a treasure ! She was
helping cook all yesterday with cakes and
jellies, and trimmed my dress and my cap this
morning, and look at her now in that simple
white muslin, and not an ornament but that
everlasting locket-miniature ! I only wish she
would take to our Joe."

But she won't," said Charles Bent.
Muriel's heart is filled."

Ah ! so I'm afraid. She cares to eo
nowhere. I don't think she would have consented
to come into the room to-night if
Joe had not told her that we expected
Lieutenant Hill, and she hoped to get some
particulars of the wreck of the Dutch
ship, that sweetheart of hers went down
with. She cliffs to the belief that
Captain Wynne was not drowned with the
rest."

Then Joe was a fool for his pains. If
he wants the lass himself why should he help
to keep the old memory alive?" quoth her
husband.

Well, it's likely enough Joe expects to

VOL. m. R

convince her the captain has gone to the
bottom."

Hem, he'd best have let well alone !
Look how eagerly she is listening to all the
lieutenant has to say, with her lips parted
and white as her cheeks ; " and Mr. Bent
crossed the room to listen too.

Lieutenant Hill, one of the survivors of
the ill-fated Valk, was recounting, no doubt,
for the hundred-and-fiftieth time, the story
of his shipwreck and rescue, telling it too
like a well-worn tale to a group of attentive
listeners in the great bay window, until a
question put to him by a young lady with a
face as colourless as her own frock, who had
hitherto kept well within the shadow of the
heavy velvet curtain, aroused him to the
consciousness that one of his hearers had
a personal interest in his narrative.

He had gone at length through the transfer
from the schuyt to the frigate, the close
packing of the unwieldy old vessel with four
hundred and forty-six souls, men, women, and
children, the wounded and the sick, all

huddled together, ill provided with common
comforts for a quick passage across
of a few hours' duration ; and then the
miserable beating about for ttvelue days in
the fogs and storms of November, with
not a mention of the name for which her
ear was strained.

"Major Wynne and his son, Captain Wynne,
were on board, were they not ? " was uttered
anxiously, it may be, hopefully.

A quick, sharp glance at the questioner,
and then the narrator's voluble speech took
another turn and tone.

"Yes, young lady, but the major was unfortunately
wounded, he had lost a leg, and
lay in a blanket on the forecastle with others
in as sorry plight. The captain acted as
his deputy ; was here, there, and everywhere,
endeavouring to infuse hope and courage
into the sinking hearts of the men. Now
down in the hold with Lieutenant HoGfijart
and a file of men working at the pumps, then
with the crying women and children aft,

making arrangements for their safety in

R 2

case the frigate parted." " God bless him ! "
trembled on Muriel's pallid lips, in an undertone
audible only to Joe, close by lier side.
He was there when I saw him last. We
were then fast on the sand bank, the waves
beating against the frifjate's sides and over
her decks as if all Neptune's sea-horses were
riding over us to trample us down. All at
once there was a shock, a sound of tearing
and riving, and I knew the timbers of the
Valk were rending asunder. For my own
safety I rushed to the forecastle, as the vessel
tore in two and her mainmast fell crushing
and crashing; the lives out of shrieking
sailors and soldiers, their wives and little ones.
For a moment I had caught a glimpse of the
brave captain, as if about to spring across
the opening gulf to join his father ; then
the mast fell and the afterward of the ship
was gone  she and all its freight of lives were
lost in the boiling suroe."

Water," cried someone, " Miss Danger
has fainted."

Joe's ready shoulder supported her head,

this disengaged hand opened the casement,
drew the curtain before her for a screen, and
waved intruders back.

In a few moments she revived.

The interrupted narrative was being
finished farther away.

Joe," said she, with her hand on her
side, "I should like to ask Lieutenant Hill a
question or two, will you bring him hereafter
a while ? "

To be sure, if you think you won't faint
again." And Joe watched his opportunity.

Sir," said she, " I did not hear how you
were rescued. Was it not possible that
Major Wynne and his son were also saved ? "

I wish I could say otherwise, but indeed
it was not possible ! I had thrown myself
fiat on the forecastle, and saw with horror the
afterward break up, and the ill-fated crowd go
down shrieking and clinging to each other,
some swept away amongst rigging, some
struck dead by beams or bolts. I never saw
Captain Wynne again, he must have gone
down at first. As for the poor major !

What chance was there for a maimed man
in such a tumult of waters ? The forecastle
did not hold together long. I had barely
time to fasten myself to a portion of the
lighter woodwork, and on that I reached the
shore. Neither Captain nor Major Wynne
were amongst the fortunate few the o'ood-
natured Dutch fishermen found on that
barren island of Wieland, and there was
not a boat in sight to pick a straggler up. I
am sorry, young lady, to be the bearer of
no better news, since 1 perceive the two
gallant officers were your friends, but ' better
a finger aff than one aye wagging ; ' it's
always best to know the worst, to my mind.
Mrs. Wynne gave them ujd at once."

Gave them up." It was not until
Lieutenant Hill spoke as a survivor and an
ejQ witness, that Muriel knew how much she
had clung to Hope. His words seemed to
crush and stun her, but she did not faint
again ; and from that night no one heard
the name of Arthur Wynne from her lips.

Marion and Anna surrounded by fluttering

beaux at the other end of the long dancing-room
where a footman was handing wine
and jellies round on a silver salver, heard
nothing of this, being more congenially
engaged ; and when informed by their Uncle
Bent that Muriel had fainted, were not
particularly sympathetic.

She should have stayed at home," was
all they had to say.

And in future, she did. "

HOW IT ENDED.

ili goes without telling that these fine wells
dressed girls of Mr, Danger's had fully
their share of admirers ; as a natural consequence
they were liard to please, treating
their adorers somewhat cavalierly.

There was a rumour afloat that one of the
sisters had so driven a suitor to distraction,
that he put an end to his life and his despair
in his own fishpond. However this might
be Marion was ambitious, looked high for
an eligible offer, and thought the world
was at her feet. Anna had no such lofty
aspirations, but she seemed indifferent to
flattery and turned with scorn from a redcoat.
She was a puzzle to Muriel, who,
keeping all her agony and shattered hopes
to herself, smiled pleasantly on all alike

without affectation, and without a thought
of conquest.

But, ere the new century had got firm foothold,
the long delayed crash came. John
Danger was a bankrupt ! And oh ! the
shame and the disgrace to him !

The failure of a large London firm he had
credited too freely, and the stoppage by war
of his American trade brought it about.
His creditors met. The cause was apparent,
others were in like case, or might be any day ;
and such was their belief in his integrity
that he was permitted to receive all and
pay all himself, and time allowed to him for
the payment. But in spite of this, and
though he paid twenty shillings in the
pound, he never recovered the shock, or the
disgrace. Indeed, an attack of paralyse's
was the immediate consequence. From this
he rallied, but was never his old self.

And now he learned to value his eldest
girl, and she to estimate her grandmother's
forethought in tying down her bequests to
Ellen and her girls.

What Sam and the law had left to her in
cash was her own now she was of aise. This
she devoted to the clearing of her father's
liabilities.

"I could not put the money to more
honourable purpose," she said, " and my
father's good name is the breath of life to
him."

Then she took a house herself in Portland
Street (a wide thoroughfare only partially
built, with patches of verdure between the
blocks), and not far from her Aunt Fawcett's,
and bending to circumstances gave out to
the wealthy relatives who had so often taxed
her skill gratuitously, that she was about to
turn mantua-maker in earnest, and to train
her sisters as assistants.

The property at Coats," she said to
them, " will preserve mother and father from
feeling their dependence, and we must leave
no stone unturned to keep them in comfort.
I thank God now that grandmother did place
me with Mrs. Copley. I think she must
have foreseen this. And it is quite as well I

did not many and go away." But tliougli
they heard her sigh, they did not hear the
Alas, poor dear Arthur," which finished her
speech mentally.

So brave an effort met with the success it
merited ; and though Marion's pride revolted
at working for hire, for strangers as well as for
their own aunts and cousins, Anna and Sara
turned to with a will, and they soon were
hard at work, Muriel measuring, fitting,
cutting out, directing, and doing it so
cheerily it put spirit into the others.

It was a time of retrenchment even with
the rich ; dresses were made to last longer
than heretofore, and they had to sit
closely at work to make it pay ; though
Muriel had soon a brood and fashionable
connexion.

As may be supposed, their many admirers
had vanished with their altered position, and
Marion grumbled unceasingly. " If you are
content to be an old maid, I'm not," she said
snappishly to Muriel ; who simply answered,
Old maids have their uses ; they are

happier than unloved wives ; and God's willis
not our will."

But Marion was not destined to be an old
maid, or Anna either, and if Muriel would
have listened to Joe Bent she need not long
have been a spinster. He entreated her tolet
him save her from the task she had
undertaken. She only shook her head and
said, " Nay, Joe, you are a good fellow, but
marriage is not for me."

One of Marion's many admirers, a line
stalwart young trader named Wilson, who
had just begun business for himself, and
who poured forth his devotion in verse
(often on the window-panes, whilst she was
long at her looking-glass), still remained
true to his first love. She had shown him
little favour in the days when richer flutterers
abounded ; but his constancy had touched
her heart, he was accepted, and their early
marriage was looked for, and the house
furnished, when a discovery was made which
took them all by surprise, and made John
Danger furious.

Anna lead been for some months married
to one of her father s fustian cutters ! a man
of no family, who was self-taught, and
though a fustian cutter could make five
guineas a week when trade was brisk, at the
time the secret came out he could scarcely
obtain a piece of fustian for his frame and
long cutting-knife.

It turned out that Anna had gone on an
errand to a mercer's, and whilst Muriel was
waiting' for the trimmings she had been sent
to match, she had met the younsj man
Grosmith at the Old Church, and had come
back  a married woman, as if nothing had
delayed her but a dilatory shopkeeper.

Surely John DAnyer might have remembered
his own marriage, and been lenient ;
but no, he was prouder, if possible, since his
fall than before.

"Does the low-born vagabond think we
have sunk down to his level ! " he exclaimed
with an oath, and taking his favourite child
b} the shoulders he turned her out of the
house, saying, "Your j)hace is no longer at

a gentleman's table ; be off to your fustian-cutting
connections. I disown you," and no
intercession of either his wife or Muriel could
soften him.

Out of doors the fallen manufacturer was
twitted With " the great match his lovely
daughter had made," or as time went on told
in a different spirit that she and her husband
and new-born babe were on the verge of
starvation. And they might have starved
had it not been for Muriel, and her willing co-operator,
Joe Bent, who between them found
a post for Anna's husband, humble enough
but open to promotion. But neither he nor
Anna might tread the Portland Street floors,
so long as John DAnyer had his abode there.

This blow from his favourite daughter's
hand made the sensitive and proud man more
irritable and imperious than ever, and to
hide his poverty, as he thought, he became
more lavish in his expenditure abroad, more
exacting in his requirements at home, as if
oblivious of the strain on Muriel's energies to
supply his many wants. When other men of

greater means would call for a glass of ale, lie
would fling down this money for a bottle of
wine, and cry " Tcliut, bo d  d, do you think
I can't pay for it ! I'm a gentleman. I don't
drink ale."

He had a haughty belief in his own independence,
having condescended to travel
occasionally with samples for a brother-in-law,
though he spent all and more than his
commission, and was far from certain in his
movements.

He had left home one morning on this
business with horse and gig, and was not
expected back for three or four days. The
family went to bed earlier in consequence.

About one or two in the morning, Mrs.
Danger was startled out of sleep by a loud
and prolonged ran-tanta at the street-door.


Under the impression that it was her impatient
husband who had been drinking all
the day instead of leaving the town, as he
was apt to do, she sprang from the bed
hastily lest he should knock again and awake

the weary girls, and in the dark and her
haste caught her foot in the bed-clothes,
and fell with violence against the old oak
coffer  her mother's first wedding-gift.

There she lay half insensible, and numb
with cold, unable to extricate herself ; and
was not found until Muriel brought her a cup
of tea at seven o'clock the next morning,
as was her wont.

A distracted cry for help ran through the
house ; as Muriel's trembling fingers in vain
essayed to release and raise her. Sara rushed
up the stairs, and Betty, no longer young,
after her.

With some difficulty, the slightest movement
being followed by a moan, the dearly
loved mother was extricated from the entangling
mass of blankets and coverlet, and

DO '

laid upon the bed she was never to leave
again in life.

She had broken her collar-bone and
otherwise injured herself; and though Dr.
Percival was called to her aid, and she was
waited on and watched with the tenderest

affection, night and day, by Muriel and Sara,
\vitli such assistance as married Marion could
render, she died in a few weeks, the victim
of a senseless and mischievous frolic, mourned
by her husband and b}- her children, Muriel
most of all, not alone for the patient and
exemplary life Avhicli was so abruptly closed,
but for the loving touch of sympathy, of
kindred thought and principle which had
knit so closely the bond of union and affection
between the mother and her eldest born.
Her death seemed to re-open and deepen the
wound made in Muriel's sensitive heart
when Arthur Wynne was lost. But she was
not demonstrative, never exposed the wound,
what she felt was only shown in her greater
tenderness for others ; and it was lier lot to
act  not dream.

It was conjectured that some thoughtless
booby with that in his head, which was not
brains, must have plied the knocker for the
amusement of other drunken loggerheads
heedless of consequences. Her husband had
gone about his business steadily enough for

VOL. III. s

once, and lie vowed vengeance against the
restorers when he came home, but they were
never found, and ere hno- he himself had
another paralytic attack wliicli left him helpless
on his good daughter's hands.

Full indeed were they then, and full
indeed was her heart, but she sought help
and strength from on High, and worked on
bravely and cheerfully.

Her father was not merely helpless, having
lost the entire use of one side, but querulous,
fretful, and exacting, taxing the patience of
the " born nurse " to the uttermost. He had
always been dainty with his diet, but along
with this seizure was developed an enormous
appetite, amounting to inordinate gluttony,
save that gluttony is rarely nice or particular
; and his old sensitiveness regarding
his claim to gentility became almost a
mania.

Muriel was careful as she could be not to
wound his susceptibilities ; by rising early
and retiring late she contrived that his
garments should be speckless, his shirt, frill.

and ruffles of the finest lawn and purest
colour ; his pipe and tobacco-box always
filled and ready by his side ; and whatever
business was on hand, either she or Betty
would lend him a shoulder for an airing in
the adjacent Infirmary gardens whenever
there was a glimpse of sun.

Now and then he came back india-nant
that some old acquaintance had passed him
by unnoticed. " The upstarts ! the mushrooms
! " he would cry, " to pass a gentleman
without so much as a touch of the
hand or the raising of a hat." And then,
woe betide dinner and crockery if it were
served with the slightest Haw in its faultless
appointment. Up would go his stronger
foot, and over would go the tripod table on
which he had his meals ; and amid the smash
of amass and earthenware, the clatter of
spoons and cutlery, the attempt to rescue
the bird or joint prepared for his exclusive
consumption, he would rave, then cry like
a child that " even his own flesh and blood

had ceased to treat him as a gentlemans

2

He had another cry, and as the years
went by this became the more frequent and
the more painful. He would individually
demolish a joint and a pudding at a meal,
yet never sated, he insisted he was being
starved, " should die of starvation."

Now and aovain there were orleans of the
better man, and then Muriel was " an angel,"
the best daughter a man ever had," and
the words made music in her heart and
in her life.

One day in the autumn of 1804 (when
the brief and delusive peace won by the
treaty of Amiens was at an end, and war
was again rampant, with all its horrors and
its deprivations, and Portland Place was the
gay parade ground of volunteers and regulars)
the old gentleman had been especially trying
because the downpour of rain had prevented
him from witnessing the soldiers exercising,
according to his daily practice. Nothing
had been right, he had upset his dinner
because it was not flavoured to his mind.
His supper of steak and ale was "not

enough to sustain a fly, much less a gentleman,"
and then had come the pathetic cry,
I shall die of starvation," when a knock,
was heard at the front door, and presently
Muriel was told that a lady with a little
girl Alas in the show-room waiting to tee
her.

It was a late and unusual hour for a
customer, but she looked for no other, when
after a soothing word to her father, and a
little dabbing adjustment of her own hair
and attire, she walked into the show-room,
now cleared for the night.

Imagine her surprise when Silly Stott,
nervously pacing the dimly-lighted apartment,
fell at her feet and clasped her knees, sobbing-out,
" Oh, Muriel, Muriel, take pity on me,
and find us shelter here."

Shelter, Mary dear, shelter ; surely ! hut
what brings you here, and why should you
implore shelter so strangely? What has
happened?" and as she spoke she kissed the
tear-stained face, and raised lier cousin in
loving*' wonderment.

Ah ! Muriel dear, I have run away from
horae, and brought my child with me.  I was
desperate and hardly knew what I did. 
We have travelled all day in the rain.  My
father would shut his door in mv face if
I went there; but 3'ou Avill not turn us
out, will you, Muriel?" she said in broken
gasps, adding, " This is my little girl, another
Silly."

Turn them out ! It did not look like it.
She already had her arms round the hve-year-
old girl and was giving her the kiss of welcome,
when she realized that they were
drenched and weary. Whatever was wrong
and she saw that something uncommon
must have occurred  that was not the time
for questioning.

With the little one by the hand she led the
way to the back sitting-room where she had
left her father seated in his high-backed easy
chair, lamenting his lot by the fireside.

As they entered, Muriel carrying a candle
in her hand, he caught a glimpse of the child
and a female form in the shadow behind.

He called out, showing what was uppermost
in his mind :

I tell thee, Muriel, I'll not have Anna or
any of her unnatural brood here. Keep them
away."

It is not Anna, it is Silly Stott," put
forth Muriel, " and this is her pretty little
,gn-l.

Silly Stott," echoed Mr. DAnyer, " then
where is John Stott? He could come and seeme
when I had o-oods to be carried, like the
rest of the mercenaries ; hang him ! why
does he hold back now ? "

He is  I left him at home in Halifax,"
faltered Silly much disconcerted. Then
Muriel, who had been taking off the child's
hat and cloak, interposed to prevent further
question with her own unwonted bustle about
the change of wet garments, the preparations
for a warm supper, sleeping arrangements and
.so forth, in the midst of which he fell into a
doze.

She had said nothing to either Sara or
Betty of the reasons for this unexpected visit,

and it was not until her paralyzed father had
been settled comfortably for the night, and
the bewildered child was also cosily tucked
up in bed, that she troubled Silly for an
explanation.

Glad enough was Silly to relieve her own
feelings, and amid showers of tears to tell the
story of her marriage seven years before, and
the miserable life of restraint she had led
Avitli a man of uncongenial years and habits.

You know, Muriel," she said, looking into
the fire, " I should never have consented to
marry him, even though father threatened to
turn me out to starve, if I had not been told
that Bob had married Ann Barber and gone
to live in state at the Hall. Then I was reckless
and did not care what became of me.
Father was always preaching that I had
better be an old man's darlington a vouno-
one's cast away ; and T was mad enough to
try it. I have never had a day's happiness,
since," she sobbed out.

Poor Mill," cried Muriel, " my heart
ached for you Avlien I heard. It was hard

for a high-spirited girl to be tied for life to
a man lie did not care for. But did 3011
strive to conquer your disHke and do your
duty as you vowed at the alar? I hoped
that esteem might come with years, and
smooth your way."

'I tried it, MurieL I have your kind and
sensible letter still ; and many a time I have
read it when I needed counsel and solace.
And I tried to take your advice, and be a
good wife ; but I found it was of no use, and
I gave up."

"How was that? Was lie not kind to
you ? " and Muriel gently stroked the soft hand
lying within hers.

Well  a  at first he was kind enough
and I suppose was fond of me ; but he seemed
afraid to let me out of his sio;ht, or to eo
anywhere without him ; but I did not care to
have him with me wherever I went, I was
none so fond of him ; and I was not accustomed
to a gaoler ; " and here some of
the old lire burst forth.

My dear," said Muriel thoughtfully, ' I

hope you did not wilfully run comites to this
Aisles. He misfht feel that it \yas not safe
for this young and handsome wife to go
abroad without a protector."

I did not want his protection ! " sobbed
out Silly, " and I told him so."

Oh, Silly, Silly, how could you ? What
a blow it Avould be to his trust and affection !
A wife should be proud of her husband's
protection,"

Well, I was not proud of /lun. And
after that he took to watching me like a cat
watching a mouse, the jealous old miser."

"Jealous, and a miser! Ah, Silly dear,
this must be some of your old romance, and
exasperation. He cannot be a miser. It
was only last year, when the w\nr broke out
again, that I heard he offered not only a
arose number of horses and waosjons to the
goverment, but to pay the drivers himself;
so there is no knowdno- whether he or the
Pickfords were the most generous and
patriotic. You must know this. Joe Bent
told me."

Oh, yes, I know. I heard all about that,
but he kept me short enough. However, it
was not for that I ran away. It was because
because he was so monstrously suspicious
and jealous, and he  beat me."

Beat you ? " echoed Muriel, " beat you ?
"Was he so cruel and violent ? and without
cause t

He had no cause but his own fanc3\
You know his nephew lived With us, and kept
his books, and if I only spoke With Richard,
or smiled across the table at him, Stott
riot in a rao;e. The second time he beat
me Richard Norton took the whip out of his
hands and broke it over his own shoulders.
And then he turned his nephew out  and
I was afraid, and ran away here."

Muriel looked rave. She knew of old
how Silly's vivid imagination coloured all
she said or thought ; but here was something

more than romance run riot. The matter !

was too serious to be dealt with lightly.

My dear Silly," she said, " when you :

took the yoke of matrimony upon your

shoulders (most unequal in your case), it
needed all care to adjust it so that it should
not chafe your shoulders. With care and

ft/

Divine help your burden would have
lightened day by day. I fear somehow Mr.
Stott is not the only one to blame. He was
not a young man when you married him. I
suppose the nephew is younger. I hope you
never lao-lied and talked with Mr. Norton
with the intent to annoy your husband ? "

Silly hung her head. Muriel had an
uncomfortable way of reducing loose impressions
to hard fact. " I might have done
so sometimes, and if so he deserved it," she
mumbled out, not half so proud of herself as
she had been. And then again she burst
into tears, half drowning her pitiful protest,
I would not have done it if he had Ijcen
reasonable, and not suspicious."

This was a painful revelation to jVIuriel.
Here was a matter not to be dealt with
lightly or hastily.

Not for one moment did she suspect Silly
of aught but petulant wilfulness ; but her

fio-lit had widened a breach that shoidd
never have been made, and might never be
healed.

She lay awake that night (when Silly slept
b} her child resentfully), endeavouring to solve
an resolvable problem  the problem of reconciliation,
and the rebuilding of the house
of marriage on a surer basis. Yet how was
she to accomplish this? Or ought she to
attempt it, if John Stott was brutal and
inhuman? Could ]\Iillv have shaded him to
strike her.

At all events Silly Alas safe with her for
the present. Would John Stott demand the
return of his wife and child? If so, would
she not be powerless to retain them?

Mills," said she in the morning, when the
little one was gone to chat with the old
gentleman downstairs, " Does not your
husband love his child ? "

"Love her! She is the very apple of his
eye ? I taught him a lesson when I brought
her away ? " and Silly looked exultant.

I think you have a lesson to learn, Silly

Stott, and your child may teach it you before
you go back. I heard her crying for her
father this mornings.

Stott looked foolish, then defiant.
What if she did ? and I am not o-oing- back.
Not even if you turn us adrift"'

"I am not Likely to do that, but I cannot
shut my eyes to the great trouble you have
brought, not only on your own head, but on
that of your sweet little one, and on your
husband's, by sour rash precipitancy. You
should have been patient, and have borne with
your husband for the sake of your child."

Ah, it's all very well for you to preach
patience, that never had any troubles like
mine ; first Eobert was torn "

Something in Muriel's face arrested her.

Oh, Muriel, my dear, good, patient
Muriel, how could I be so thoughtless as to
say that. I would not have wounded you so
for the world." And she threw her arms
around her cousin in her penitence.

A wan smile broke on Muriel's lips.  " Yet
you would wound your husband by robbing

him of his child ! You have wounded him on
your own showing by hasty speech ; made
light of him to the nephew he had reared.
Think of it, Silly. Is not the old husband
likely to feel a taunt or sneer as acutely as a
young one ? You can feel for me, feel also
for him, and endeavour to forget his years.
Think of it well, and pray for strength and
wisdom to guide you."

Some weeks went by, weeks in which
Muriel's patient endurance of her father's
vagaries was not lost upon Silly ; weeks in
which Muriel saw wdtli satisfaction how close
a friendship had grown up between the
invalid and the little girl, who was always
ready to pick up his handkerchief, or give
him his pipe, and to listen to his wonderful
tales of fairies and o-enii. She taught the
child to call him " Grandpa," and though at
first he winced, he never forbade it.

She had not been idle. She had gone to
her Uncle Hargreaves, and urged upon him
the necessity to ascertain the facts of the
case ; and how far a reconciliation was

possible, or desirable. She wrote to Mr.
Stott to let him know that Silly and the
child were with her. As she expected, a
demand came for the restoration of the child,
and the mother refused to give it up.

On their mutual love for that child
Muriel contrived little by little to build up
an edifice not merely of reconciliation, but
of future trust and forbearance, and when
Mr, Stott came at the end of October to
fetch his Avise and child, a very different
Silly went back to him, to fid a different
husband, a happier home. She went back
to make the best of things and not the
worst. And the grip of John Stott's hard
hand at parting, told Muriel more than his
rouiili words of thanks, how grateful he
was to her.

With the little child a light seemed to have
gone out of the house ; and no one missed
it more than John DAnyer. He was heard
to wish Marion's lad was as big as little Silly ;
he missed his young companion.

Anna has a girl nearly as old," dropped

Muriel adroitly. But no word said her father.

The next day, a girl's winter frock was
being nicely made upstairs ; and a bonnet.

On the Sunday, Muriel came home from
church with a little girl by the hand. " I've
brought you another little handmaiden," said
she, taking off the child's cloak and bonnet
as she spoke. A new dark blue frock set
off the child's fair hair and skin.

Her father gave a start, and his face
twitched. She was afraid of her own experiment.


John Danger turned his eyes from the
child to Muriel, and back again, with never
a word.

There was a painful pause, the child
seemed half afraid and cluno- to Muriel's
hand.

What is your name, child ? " he asked
huskily.

Nelly, grandfather."

Do you know whose name it was first,
my lass ? "

It was grandmother's."

VOL. ni. T

"It was an angel's name, lass, an angel's
name  aye an angel unrecognized until she
took wini;-," he murmured to himself, adding-come
hither, Nelly, you are not afraid of me."

Oh, no, I am never afraid of a gentleman."


Nelly had unconsciously played on his
weakness. She had involuntarily recognized
his superiority to common men.

Muriel left them too-ether. When she
returned he was smoothing down the flaxen
curls of his grandchild, and telling her how
much she resembled her own mother.

Muriel knew then that reconciliation with
Anna was not far in the future. The child
went and came.

In a few weeks he asked, " Haven't we a
house empty, we could let Anna and her
husband have for a while rent free ? "

Muriel was only too glad to say "yes."
The loss of the rent was as nothing to the
healing of strife, the restoration of her sister
to her father's heart, and to something more of
comfort and respectability. Hitherto she had

only been able to see her or serve lier by
stealth. It was a bright day for her when Anna
Grosmith and lier husband sat down at their
tea-table, and no special solecism in good
manners offended the old gentleman's fastidious
eye.

On a bright spring morning about two
months after this, when the birds were twittering
among the Infirmary-garden trees, Muriel
was called to the door to see a customer ina
sedan-chair, an old lady in deep mourning,
who could not alight.

To her amazement she was accosted in the
voice of Mrs. Wynne ; but she would never
have recognized the bygone beauty in the
toothless, hollow-jawed, sunken-eyed woman
before her.

Nor would she have recognized the haughty
mother of her lost love in her address or her
errand.

She had come to crave Muriel's forgiveness,
she said ; to ask her, for the love lie had
borne her shipwrecked son, to come and be
to her a daughter.

Sir Madoc was dead. Lady Jenkinsoii
ruled at the Plan. Owen had married Norris
and deserted her years before. She was a
poor, forlorn, childless widow, and she sought
Muriel's forgiveness and pity. In her loneliness
she had turned to Muriel. She offered to
leave her all she possessed if she would but be
as a daughter to her.

Forgiveness and pity were ever in Muriel's
gift ; but she could only answer the lady that
she had a nearer and higher duty to perform,
in ministering her own stricken father,
watching over and guarding her younger
sister.

Mrs. Wynne would scarcely be gainsaid ;
but she was forced to admit that Muriel was
in the right, and retired, though reluctantly,
to her solitary apartments in Lever Street.
But Muriel did not leave her wholly alone,
and she saw she was not neglected.

All her past unkindness was forgotten in
the more potent fact that she was Arthur's
mother, alone and helpless. Poor in all save
coin.

John Danger was not so placable. The
sedan-chair came frequently to their door.
He would on no account visit the lady who
had presumed to flout and scorn his daughter.

Another and another year went by, years
in which Muriel often lausfhinojlv declared she
thought she " had better drop the dressmaking
and set up as a professional nurse,"
so many were the night and day demands on
her o'ood-nature and acknowledged value in the
sick-room, " Send for Muriel," said her aunts
Avhen illness invaded a household.

Go for Aunt Muriel ! " was the cry of her
sisters when the olive branch put forth a
fresh leaf. " Send for Muriel," was the first
thought when the shadows of death or
disaster were closing in.

The former were closing in on John
Danger. He had prophesied his own end as
clearly as did Eobert Nixon the Cheshire
prophet. His fell disorder gripped him by the
throat. His inordinate appetite remained ;
all power to swallow food was gone. It was
impossible to sustain life or to nourish him,

and to Muriel's intense grief, for she had
loved him better in his helplessness than in his
manliness, he did absolutely die of starvation.

He was laid by the side of his wife, and
then Muriel and Sara were alone ; and Sara
with her lovely complexion and flaxen hair
was pruning her wings for flight.

The year of mourning was at an end ; and
Mrs. Wynne who had gone out with it, had
been as good as her word. Muriel was rich,
richer than John Stott's rich widow, for she
had little but what she owned as the
custodian of his richer daughter.

Wedding garments were in preparation for
two brides : the last that were to be fashioned
under Muriel's direction. She was about to
turn over her business to an old apprentice.
Not that Muriel was contemplating matrimony
for herself.

Little nephews and nieces there were to
come in and out and be petted by Aunt Muriel,
but even Joe Bent had set Aunt Muriel down
as a confirmed old maid.

Silly Stott was about to link her fate with

Richard Norton, the carrier's nephew, and
her champion when a champion was needed.
And lovely Sara was about to wed a Cheshire
yeoman of good repute, and wide acres,
whose home was to be Muriel's also.

There was laughter and melody in the
work-room, needles were Hying briskly
through satin and lace, and Sara was sincrino-
blithely over her work.

If there was a shade of sadness in the
room it was deep down in Muriel's heart
where thoughts of Arthur Wynne and her
forbidden bridal would obtrude, and would
not be banished. Something like a tear fell
on the bodice she was trimming. " God is
good," she said to herself, " I must not repine,
had we been married I could not have saved
his life."

The unpretentious knocker in Portland
Street responded to a decided and vigorous
hand.

A little damsel opened it.

Is Miss Danger within ? " asked a tall
gentleman of the child.

Miss Danger doesn't live Ob, you

mean Aunt Muriel," recollected the child 
Anna's eldest girl, Nelly. " Aunt Muriel,
you are wanted ! " Miss Danger's very
identity was evidently lost in the more
familiar appellative. She was "Aunt Muriel"
to so many who were not even of kin.

Aunt Muriel composedly descended the
stairs ; the stranger advanced into the hall.

Muriel ! " said he.

Arthur ! " she screamed, and in another
moment she was clasped in his strong
embrace, her soft brown eyes looking into his,
as she murmured thankfully, " God has been
good to us. I have trusted Him and He has
not failed me. I have waited patiently for
the Lord, and He has given me the desire of
my heart."

Aye, my love ; my faithful, obedient,
patient, unselfish Muriel, I have heard all the
story of your goodness, your love and constancy,
and there is no one to forbid our
marrying noicT

Joe Bent had been the generous chronicler.

Years after, when he and Muriel had
taken possession of the Plan, and little ones
clustered round their knees, Sir Arthur
Wynne would talk over his miserable campaigns
in Holland, and tell them of that
terrible tempest in which the Valk was
driven and beaten about from coast to coast,
and the horror of seeing? his own dear
father' separated from him to go down afterwards
with the men, and their wives, and
little ones ; of his struggles to clutch a
drifting spar, and secure himself to it by
the scarf his dear Muriel. had netted. How
he owed to that scarf his merciful preservation,
and was picked up helpless by the
convoy of a Dutch outward-bound East
India trader, after drifting many hours, and
was, at the end of the voyage, landed on
the island of Java ; how the capture of
Batavia by the British set him free to join
the army in India, or return to England.
Of his longing for home and Muriel, and
his election to return in a homeward-bound

East Indiamen ; of its attack by a French

u

cruiser and surrender ; of his sufferings asa
prisoner of war, first in the horrible hold
of the cruiser, and then in the still more
horrible prison at Marseilles ; of his adventurous
escape after long years of privation
and suffering ; and his unspeakable
thankfulness to find, when he landed in England,
that Miss Danger had not lost her
identity in any name more formidable than
Aunt Muriel." And he never failed to tell
of his open-armed welcome, or of the broken
sixpence so carefully preserved. But most he
loved to dwell on his dear wife's many virtues,
the meekness and patience with which she had
borne lier lot ; and he was wont to point to
the old silver-clasped Bible as the bulwark of
her faith in God, and her shield from the
arrows of the world, her mother's best gift.

So too when the war was finally over, and
Captain Griffiths came (minus a limb) to the
Plan with his wife and sons ; and when the
Kingsleyss found their way thither from their
new home. The Forest House had long been
untenable, and soon after they abandoned

it, a terrible gale swept it utterly away. But
no gale swept away from the hearts of
Muriel and Arthur the remembrance of all
they had suffered when old heads legislated
for young hearts. And when, in course of
time, one of Captain Griffiths' sons came
wooing to Miss Muriel Wynne, and they
fancied she might have made a better match
they thought of their own young days,
and there was no forbidding to marry. It
may be added there was no clandestine
courtship.

