CHAPTER I.

The Dowager Lady Eockhurst was well known in her
day as a perfect woman of the world. She had seven
daughters, and had intended making seven good
matches for them ; but whilst she was plunged in the
intricate diplomacy of brilliantly marrying the second
in town, her third daughter, Elizabeth, whom she had
left in the country, fell in love with the Eev. Octaves
Lawlor, the handsome clever curate of Castleview.
This happened quite by accident, and much to Elizabeth's
own surprise, as she had always intended making
the best match of the family.

A poor curate," said Lady Eockhurst ; " an eighth
son, and only 2000 to his fortune! And Elizabeth
won't have more than three thousand, for there are
so many younger children. And I had always thought
Elizabeth as sensibly unromantic as I am myself !

Mr Lawlor is a man of family, or, notwithstanding his
cloth, I should have made my footman turn him out
of doors. He is a gentleman and is intellectually
clever, so I can trust Elizabeth to make a bishop of
him some day ; but in the meantime they will have
next to nothing to live upon. However, as Elizabeth
is no great beauty, if she is determined to do a
nasty romantic thing, let her do it quietly. There
shall be no persecution. My son shall certainly give
Mr Lawlor the living of Yellowmead when old Mr
Croft dies; it is worth exactly 500 a-year. When
Elizabeth has been married a twelvemonth, she can
be trusted to give her younger sisters the very best
advice. There is no way of developing a fine natural
capacity for worldly wisdom like making a thoroughly
unworldly match early in life. It opens your eyes
quickly and forces you to understand the immeasurable
value of money, a title, fine places and houses,
and men-servants and lady's-maids."

When Elizabeth was married and finally settled in
Yellowmead Rectory with her husband and child,
Lady Eockhurst considered her decidedly a good
companion for her sisters at those rare times when it
was convenient to invite her and Octavius and little
Clara to Castleview. Octavius was always invited,
but the invitation generally came when it was impossible
for him to leave his parish. Lady Eockhurst
only considered her own convenience, and naturally
did not think of his.

Fond as Elizabeth ever was of her husband, she

preferred leaving him at home and only taking little
Clara with her to Castleview. Lady Eockhurst took
much notice in her own dignified way of the pretty
little grandchild, who was a very, very white, fair-haired
wax doll, of singularly sedate behaviour  a
curiously quiet, unemotional infant from birth, apparently
untroubled by the lively feelings and passions
of ordinary childhood. Lady Eockhurst was almost
pleased with little Clara, and was once heard to say,
I think Clara is not unlike what I must have been
at her age."

The Dowager Lady Eockhurst had other grandchildren
: they were in mortal terror of her  Clara
alone was without fear. The virtue of Clara's good
conduct was certainly enhanced by her excellence in
being an only child. When praising her good behaviour,
Lady Eockhurst never failed to add, " And I
always thought Elizabeth would have at least twelve
children." It was Clara's fate in life often to get
credit for exemplary behaviour in which she had no
real part. From her cradle she had the knack of
wearing what was admirable in her surroundings, like
a pretty frock quite her own.

When the Bishop of Euxborough stayed at Castle-view
with little Clara in the house, he made a small
fuss about her, for she was just the sort of delicate-looking
white child that a kindly old Bishop would
think a little angel on earth. Clara was entirely
without shyness, and repeated hymns to the Bishop
very prettily.

Lady Eockhurst generally managed to have the
Bishop of Peterborough when Elizabeth came to Castle-view,
and this was the real reason Mrs Lawlor could
not help feeling it was just as well Octavius should
be obliged to stay at Yellowmead. Octavius was
worse than useless under the same roof with the
Bishop. He could not pay court to anybody,

Elizabeth did not mean Octavius to be always a
mere parish rector, for she knew he was clever, and
often said, " I never would have married a poor
clergyman who was simply good and handsome, for I
am quite aware a man must have brains if he has not
money."

As the Dowager had foreseen, Elizabeth meant
Octavius to be a bishop some day.

But whilst the Honble. Mrs Lawlor was awaiting
the bishopric, she made up her mind to begin with a
canonry in Euxborough Close. Stow it so happened
that the Bishop of Euxborough was first cousin to the
then Prime Minister's wife : this lady took his advice,
and the Prime Minister took hers, on many little
matters of Church preferment. Those were the good
old times, and very different from these. It was well
known in the diocese that the Bishop of Euxborough
was virtually allowed to appoint the canons of his
own cathedral.

In the year 1 8  , the aged Canon Beverly lay
dying in Euxborough Close. He was eighty ; yet he
took six months to die. Lady Eockhurst seemed to
think such lengthy dying quite a liberty on the poor

old man's part, and indeed it put her to the inconvenience
of making room for the Bishop and for
Elizabeth and little Clara twice over in the course of
those six months. Elizabeth made no secret of her
desire to live part of every year in Marlborough Close.
It was more to her taste to gain her end by open
audacity than by underhand intrigue.

Canon Beverly died at last. And in due time the
Eev. Octavius Lawlor was appointed to the vacant
stall in Euxborough Cathedral. Never, never was
there a clergyman so astonished at his own preferment
!

What have I done that I should be made a
canon ? " he said.

Your sermons are good, Octavius," replied his
wife.

But who has heard them except the farmers hereabout,
and Thomas Xewsham, whose absent mind
never really listens to anything ? "

All the same, Octavius, you are a canon. And
now you must show the world the appointment is a
good one. You must write a book."

A book, my dear ! "

You are far too modest, Octavius  far too modest.
You don't know your own powers, but I do.
You must write a book about St Paul."

St Paul ? "

Yes ; St Paul is your strong point. A few new
readings in any one epistle will be quite sufficient fora
mere canonry."

Elizabeth was delighted with her canonry, and
would not have exchanged it just then for any deanery
in the Church, because you could be a canon of
Euxborough and hold the living of Yellowmead at
the same time. Elizabeth had determined not to
leave Yellowmead till she had married Clara to the
squire of the parish, Thomas ISTewsham, owner of that
extremely handsome old place Eastcourt, and a man
of large property as well. Elizabeth intended to
marry Clara at sixteen. She was confident of success,
because Thomas Newsham had providentially
lost his mother.

The late Mrs Newsham .hed always said her excellent
Thomas was a man to be married and not to
marry. And she had taken good care not to let anyone
attempt to marry him until he was thirty. She
had then provided a very suitable engagement for
him with young Lady Fanny Devereux ; but Lady
Fanny had jilted Thomas  who really was the best of
men  and thrown him over for a racing, betting, lively
good-for-nothing about town, excusing herself by saying
Eastcourt was a dull place, and Thomas so provokingly
taken up in a misty sort of way with uninteresting
fads and good works of a tiresome sort, that
if she were married to him she knew she would runaway
from him, and so thought she had better runaway
before the wedding and not after it. Poor
Thomas had never even suspected he bored the lively
Lady Fanny, but Thomas's absent eyes and mind
were singularly blind. So the shock was a very great

one. It was said in Nossex that it had made a shy
man of Mr Newsham, and certainly, after his mother's
death no one in the county saw anything of Thomas
except the Lawyers who lived at his gate. His only
sister, Kate Crofton, happened to be in India with her
husband at the time.

Perhaps, in reality, it was merely that Thomas
forgot to go and see his county neighbours. He was
curiously forgetful. But it was impossible for him to
forget Mrs Lawlor, as he was perpetually seeing her ;
and he did not dislike meeting her, because she always
talked for him, and was not put out if he paid no
attention to her conversation.

He also, after his own hazy fashion, had a real
affection for the Canon. They were both truly good,
unworldly, simple - hearted men ; yet intellectually
they were very different. The Canon was extremely
clever; but there is really no knowing if .Thomas
were clever or not. Perhaps he might have been clever
if his own mind had clearly belonged to himself; but
the bits of it were rarely in one place, for they had a
way of straying loosely about the world, and whatever
bits there might be at home, would be fixed on
some engrossing fad. Thomas always had some fad
on hand.

Elizabeth was clever at inventing entertaining fads
for Thomas, and good works which could be performed
under her own eye, while Clara was rapidly approaching
sixteen. It would not be politic, she felt, to let
Mr Xewsham fall into the hands of other good people

with intentions of their own. Xow no one could
suspect her of any intentions, when Clara was still so
very small, and looked such a mere child in her short
petticoats  really not more than eleven or twelve
years old ! When asked Clara's age, Mrs Lawlor
would frequently say a year or two younger than she
was, and if corrected, would exclaim .quite naturally,
Is it possible ? But now really you are right ! How
time passes ! Yet Clara is quite a child still, and will
be a child till she is twenty."

It might, perhaps, be well to wait till Clara is
seventeen, as Mr Newsham is so very much older
than herself," thought Elizabeth. " But it would not
be safe. I had better do it at sixteen, for who knows
what may happen while we are in residence at Eux-borough.
I was frightened two years ago, and terrified
last year. Those underbred people round Slumby
are dreadfully forward when I am away, and poor
dear Mr Newsham is not aware those Thompson
nearly caught him last summer."

So Clara was married to Thomas Newsham at sixteen,
and Thomas was married to Clara. He was twenty
years older than her. To the day of his death he never
knew how he had got married, for he did not remember
ever having proposed. But he considered himself
the most fortunate man on earth, and tenderly loved
the exquisitely fair little angel who had so kindly
fallen in love with him. Clara was persuaded that she
herself had fallen in love with Thomas, and the good
Canon thought so too. Elizabeth found them all very

easy to manage. There were no romantic notions in
her daughter's head.

Living at the gates of Eastcourt, Clara thought the
fine old Elizabethan house and the large park and lake
the grandest in England ; and young as she was, the
prospect of being mistress of so handsome a place was
very pleasant to her. Thomas, too, was a nice kind
man, still good-looking. She had no dislike of him,
and was accustomed to dreamy men, for when the
Canon was much occupied with St Paul he was forgetful
and not interesting to talk to, unless you talked
about the Epistle to the Romans, which Clara, though
brought up in a rectory, thought a very dull subject.

The Honble. Mrs Lawlor was far from beings without
a sense of duty, and to do her justice, she would not
have made up this match unless she felt sure Clara
would be happy with Thomas. " Thomas has an affectionate
heart, and wants some one to love in that big
lonely house, and Clara will be quite satisfied with
Thomas. It is not in her nature to love passionately ;
the love that is given her she takes calmly as her due.
She is like me in many ways, but not in this ; nor in
this is she like her own father or mine ; but she is very
like my mother, who though loved by my father, never
seemed even to suspect what love might mean, yet was
a good wife. Social position, a fine place, and large
estates made her happy, and they will make Clara
happy too. All Thomas wants is a title, and that his
wife will get him some day. Thomas has made good
settlements on Clara ; and so if, being much older, he

dies first, Clara won't break her heart for him, as I
should break mine if Octavius died before me. What
might not have suited me will quite suit Clara."

Elizabeth said all this to herself. She was not a
hypocrite, and would have said it openly to the Canon,
only experience had taught her it really was no use to
talk what she called " common sense " to that " dear,
good, simple soul Octavius." He never understood it ;
it only seemed to bewilder him.

The Dowager Lady Eockhurst was on her death-bed
at the time of Clara's marriage. A fatal disease, suddenly
developed, was taking her very rapidly away
from Castleview  Castleview which had been left to her
for life instead of to her eldest son ! The Dowager was
loath to leave this pleasant world for one in which she
might not perhaps hold quite the same social position ;
though, indeed, she did seem to feel that Tier death
could not possibly be like that of a common person in
the eyes of Heaven, and that a lady of quality must
hold a certain rank beyond the grave.

Lady Eockhurst marked her approval of Elizabeth's
worldly wisdom in marrying Clara so young and so
well by adding a codicil to her will which gave Mrs
Lawlor 6000 instead of 3000 to her fortune.

If Elizabeth had had twelve children the Dowager
would not have left her this money.

CHAPTER 11.

Mamma," said Clara, when she had been married
some little time, " dear Thomas is so kind to me that
I feel just as if he were papa ; and he says the same
sort of good charitable things when he is not too
absent to talk. I am sure it is very nice to be married
to a really good man, only it is rather dull, because
Thomas has taken up the temperance fad, and has
thought it right to speak at all those meetings we have
been going to ; and he does not speak easily, for he
is apt to forget what he is going to say, so he writes
out what he calls notes beforehand, but I call them
speeches, and he reads them to me in the evening. I
think it would be much pleasant if we had more
people in the house. It was delightful at Castleview
when we went there  much livelier than in grand-mamma's
time ! but Thomas, unfortunately, thought
poor dear Eockhurst had what he would call a wild
set in the house, and he begged me not to have any of
them at Eastcourt, and I thought perhaps I had better
not, mamma, though I should have liked to ask them."
Quite right, Clara  quite right ! As you are so

very young, it would weaken your position in the
county and the world as a good man's wife if it were
thought you did not share your husband's views. The
Newshams of Eastcourt have been so long settled in
this county, that they and their views and their hobbies
are things of importance here. But, Clara, you may
have plenty of society if you only begin in the right
way. Entice Thomas carefully into the world. Have
the right sort of people for Thomas first ; and then, if
all goes well, you can end up with the Eockhurst set.
They will be glad to have you or go to you at anytime,
my dear, now you are well married. You have
married well, Clara, and that is the important point.
Everything comes easy after that."

But Thomas only likes dull people and dull things,"
sighed Clara.

Then begin with an elderly philanthropist, my dear,
a temperance enthusiast, or something of that sort, but
let him be a man of family and position. He ought to
be a benevolent peer. Don't on any account let Thomas
get amongst second-rate people, or the nice ones won't
come to you. Then you might have a bishop to meet
the peer ; or better still, Clara, have the Archbishop."

But, mamma, do you think an archbishop would
be pleasant to talk to ? because I always think the
old Bishop of Piuxborough talks as if he were preaching
a sermon."

Never mind, my dear ; it is the right way, and the
only way, to begin with Thomas. And, Clara, you can
talk to the Archbishop about St Paul and your papa's

clever little book; it will be good for your father's
prospects. If only read by the right people, St Paul
would make him a dean."

Well, mamma, I do think having the Archbishop
would be livelier than only having Thomas reading
out his speeches in the evening, and we should be
obliged to ask a large party to meet his Grace. Then,
too, it would be delightful if papa were made a dean.
But "  and young Mrs Xewsham hesitated  " but how
can I ask the Archbishop when I don't know him ? "

My dear Clara," replied her mother, " Thomas has
often said he would restore the tombs in the chancel
of that old church on the hill. "We will make him
do it immediately, but we will insist on this consulting
the Archbishop first."

Do you suppose one of the tombs can have belonged
to anybody connected with St Thomas-becket?
It would be lucky if it did, mamma."

The Archbishop will know, Clara ; and if he does
not, he will be interested all the same."

"I might take Thomas up to Lambeth," mused
Clara, " and make him call. And if he won't go," she
added, " why, mamma, you and I can."

And, indeed, this is what finally happened. The
Honble. Mrs Lawlor had brilliant powers of descriptive
eloquence, and the Archbishop was easily interested
in the restoration of the ancient tombs. His
Grace knew Mr Newsham of Eastcourt by reputation
he was the one gentleman of large fortune who
then supported the temperance cause in the archdiocese.

His Grace accepted an invitation to East-court
with much pleasure.

Octavius, my dear," said Mrs Lawlor, after calling
at Lambeth, and before the Archbishop's visit to East-court
 " Octavius, my dear, I do not think the family
prayers at Eastcourt as simple and Scriptural as they
might be. I have taken notes of the eloquent prayers
you have offered up from time to time in the schoolhouse,
and of one you used when poor old Polly Parker
died, and here they are. With a few more added, and
these ones properly arranged and adapted for everyday
use, they would make such a very nice present for you
to give dear Thomas on his birthday. They need not
be printed  there is not time ; but write them out
clearly, and I will make a cover for them, like one of
your sermon covers, only a smart one of blue velvet."

The Archbishop's visit proved a success in more
ways than one.

Clara invited all the nice people in and out of the
county to whose houses she thought she would like to
go in return. " For if they come here, whether he
wishes it or not Thomas will have to go to them."
Mr Newsham was so bewildered at finding his house
invaded to the very attics, that he never knew who
came and who did not.

Clara showed by her invitations that she had entirely
grasped the possibilities of the situation. Mrs
Lawlor was actually surprised, and exclaimed, " Clara,
you are astonishing ! But you were born a woman of
the world  you have the instinct of the thing by

nature ! and far, far more than I had at your age ;
yet you look like a white angel, Clara ! "

This was the wonderful thing about Clara ; she did
look like a white ancrel, or a Madonna of fair holiness,
especially at first sight and at a little distance. In
nine cases out of ten, the first impression you get of a
person is absolutely right; but the first impression
Clara made on most people was the wrong one.

The Archbishop himself was struck by the spiritual
beauty of Mrs Xewsham, and in kindly complimenting
Mr Xewsham on the bride he had wisely chosen, his
Grace spoke of her as having the " beauty of holiness."
Hazy as Thomas is, these words were remembered by
him for quite a long time. The "beauty of holiness"
was exactly his own impression of his young wife's
fair and coldly serene loveliness.

Her cold serenity of look, like her marble whiteness,
was that of a statue untouched by the moving
joys and sorrows of life, for it was only at rare times
that any emotion tinged her pale cheek with colour.
Her way was to grow paler, and not less pale, with
emotion. There was nothing warm about Clara. Her
light hair was cold in hue, and cast cold shadows on
her brow and neck; it had no touch of golden
warmth in its abundant tresses. Her grey-blue eyes
were just a little cold in colour too, although there
were times when they would seem to melt into their
softened whites, as the azure of the sky melts into
the summer haze ; they would look, when sleeping
thus wrapped in blue mystery, as if they might be

VOL. I. B

dreaming of heaven, with a soul attuned to all its
harmonies. But there were other times when the
sudden wakefulness of these eyes, come perhaps
quite close to you, could startle you. Usually, they
were veiled by their drooping eyelids. It was these
very full, drooping eyelids which more especially gave
Clara the Madonna look. The eyebrows and lashes
were marked in tender brown  some thought they
were not dark enough. But there was no want of
character in Clara's countenance and look. Her head
was perhaps a little large for the delicately cut features,
the top and sides and back having marked development
; yet it was a well-shaped head, and betokened
power of intellect, and especially a strength
of will which the thin, firmly closed lips did not belie.
There was much character (I had almost said obstinacy)
in that small, tightened, finely chiselled mouth.
But who looks with critical eye at a very white,
fair-haired woman in the heyday of her beauty ? In
youth she is the very emblem of innocent, heavenly
simplicity, far more than if she were dark-haired and
brown. Clara was slight of form, and of that height
which makes a man feel his strength and size were
given him for the protection of so fair and tender a
creature ; and tender she did look in youth to most
men's eyes. This air of fair tenderness increased the
resemblance her drooping eyelids gave her to one of
Raphael's Madonnas. But she was a Madonna who had
had the Dowager Lady Eockhurst for a grandmother.
It took a mother and a very remarkable grandmother

to invent Clara ; for, with all her talent  her
genius, I may call it  Clara could not quite have
invented herself. She was born with much hereditary
worldliness already in her constitution.

When the Archbishop was at Eastcourt, Mrs Law-lor
did not in the least intrude herself upon his
notice  rather the contrary. She could trust Clara
to mention St Paul, and to draw this Grace's attention
to the family prayers, with a tact enhanced by the
beauty of holiness.

At first the Canon avoided the Archbishop ; but
when his Grace singled out Mrs Newsham's father
for special kindly notice, and quoted a new reading
of a certain passage in the Epistle to the Romans, the
single-minded Octavius, never suspecting any one had
primed his Grace on the subject of St Paul, grew
warm, and proved conclusively to the Archbishop
that his new reading was wrong, and would bear an
interpretation favourable to agnosticism. The Ev.
Mr Lawlor was altogether so eloquent, so learned,
so enthusiastically in earnest, that whilst he himself
feared he had contradicted the Archbishop with a
flatness amounting to rudeness, he had really impressed
the good Archbishop strongly in his favour.

It was not the modest Canon, but Clara, who presented
a nicely bound copy of 'A Few New Pleadings
in the Epistles of St Paul ' to the Archbishop ; and it
was to Clara that his Grace expressed the wish that
her father's family prayers should be published, prefaced
by a dedication to himself.

CHAPTER III.

Canon Lawloe never became a dean, but in due time
he became a bishop.

And a very popular bishop he was, being a really
pious, unworldly, clever man, with a wife who, in her
own way, proved nearly as good a bishop as he. The
Honble. Mrs Lawlor undoubtedly did become most
popular in the diocese. The higher clergy liked her
because she was quite a lady, and the lower clergy liked
her for the same reason ; and then she was hospitable
and never unkindly. With all her worldly wisdom,
there was a soft spot in Elizabeth's heart. Besides,
Lord Eockhurst's daughter gave herself no airs, and,
unlike some Episcopal ladies, could see a curate's wife
as plainly as a dean's ; and if she met the curate
himself taking a holiday in town during the season,
could recognise him there just as easily as in the
country.

Mrs Lawlor was never supposed to interfere in
Church affairs. As a fact, she was consulted by the
Bishop on all difficult matters, and invariably gave
him excellent advice, advocating compromise in a

pleasant manner. She was neither " High " nor
Low " ; she held that extreme views were a mistake
in a bishop. Once or twice, when her Eight Reverend
husband's strong religious enthusiasm seemed to
be carrying him rather far, the calm moderation of her
views saved him from trouble. The Bishop never
regretted following her advice ; she was cleverly clear-sighted,
and of admirable tact. During her lifetime
nobody recognised her as a power in the diocese,
simply because the moderation of commonsense is
not easily traced to a woman's mind.

When Elizabeth attained the summit of her ambition
she ceased to be restless. " I have made Octavius
a bishop, and I am satisfied. I will not think of
Lambeth." Moderation was strangely joined to dash
in the character of this remarkable woman.

The quiet enjoyment of her bishopric softened
Elizabeth, and she was more j)oplar as an elderly
lady than she had been as a young one. She was a
kind, indulgent grandmother to Clara's many children,
and they were fonder of her than of their own mother.

Elizabeth had one great advantage over her daughter ;
she had married for love, and true love improves every
woman's heart. When Mrs Lawlor had intrigued, she
had done so for a man she loved and believed to be
good, and not for herself alone.

Now, when Clara laid down far-stretching plans,
like the lines of an underground railway, it was not
poor dear Thomas she cared to make a peer, but for
herself that she desired a coronet. Clara never loved

the kind, good, absent man she had married in early
youth. Perhaps her mother was right, and she was
not made really to love any one ; for though she
showed much imagination of the practical sort in the
clever contrivance of her underground lines, she never
seemed to have that other more spiritual kind of imagination
which craves to idealise some human being.

After her own fashion, Clara was quite happy in
her marriage, and, like her grandmother, Lady Eock-
hurst, made a good wife. She was much admired for
her pale, fair beauty ; yet, to her honour be it said,
she never flirted with any nobleman or gentleman or
useful dully more than was just necessary to make a
friend of him in her progress towards the peerage.

That quite, quite charming Mrs ISTewsham of East-court
was invariably spoken of as a model, ideal sort of
mother, and especially by Clara herself, for she had a
prettily tender way of doing the ideal mother, generally
when she was out in society and her children were not
by. But it must be allowed, the children showed to
great advantage on state occasions. They had good
manners, and were kept in admirable order. Clara
would have the best nurses and governesses ; and the
children were always well dressed. The six girls were
exceedingly pretty ; the eldest boy very handsome, and
the younger one not bad-looking.

Yet, admirable as Clara undoubtedly was in the
outward, visible maternal aspect, the divine passion of
the true mother's love found but little place in her
heart. You are thought a cynic if you seem to doubt

that upon every woman who is a mother a sort of holy
spirit does not come down direct from heaven. On
many, many souls, and rugged ones, it does descend,
and sometimes, like a solitary star amidst the clouds,
will shine where all else is coldly dark ; but it is a
beautiful delusion, most untrue, to think the divine
passion comes to all. Less rare than other kinds of
pure unselfishness, it still is rare.

However, it was not any distaste for the society of
her children which made Clara see so little of them
when they were young. She merely could not be
bothered with them, because she was too much occupied
in managing Thomas and Thomas's affairs to the
best advantage.

But you would be doing her clear-sighted mind the
grossest injustice if you imagined she did not begin, at
the very, very earliest opportunity, to think of her
children's worldly prospects. Her eldest daughter,
Adela, was barely thirteen when a certain idea first
entered the mother's head.

Sir Cuthbert Crofton is ill. If the illness should
prove to be what one of the doctors thinks it is, George
Crofton would be decidedly a good match for Adela.
I will sound his stepmother on the subject."

So Clara invited her sister-in-law, Kate Crofton, to
come and spend some time at Eastcourt. George was
invited too, and kindly enough, but only in the postscript.
It was dear Kate who was made to feel she
would be really welcome.

Kate was pleased, yet certainly surprised, to find

Clara so hospitable. She had never felt happy or at
home in her house before, though Thomas was always
intensely kind to his only sister. But a brother's
house is really a sister-in-law's. It was Clara's presence
you felt at Eastcourt, Clara's power. You seemed
to meet her at every turn, and it was in her house,
not in Thomas's, you dreaded staying too long.

Kate felt more at ease with Clara during this visit
than she had ever done in her life ; she almost felt
really at ease till quite, quite at the end of her visit,
when a curious change suddenly came over her sister-in-law.
All of an instant Mrs Newsham turned mysteriously
severe. Clara could be very severe in a
quiet, coldly silent way, and at such times not only
every child, but every grown person in the house,
would instinctively be cowed before her ; and even
Thomas, who never noticed anything, would seem to
feel uncomfortable, though certainly without clearly
knowing that he was so.

Clara appeared to give no orders ; but all was
altered in the twinkling of an eye, as if the grand
Inquisitor of ancient Spain had come in the night.
George, who had spent half his time in the schoolroom,
found the door locked against him. The children
had run more or less loose for the last fortnight ;
now they were kepfc strictly at lessons from morning
till night. George could not for the life of him
imagine what had occurred, hard as he tried to hit on
some explanation. The Newsham children were just
as much in the dark as he, but they accepted the

mystery in fear and trembling : they never dared to try
and understand their mother ; for, rightly or wrongly,
it was to her they attributed all that happened  they
felt her instinctively in everything. To George's
perplexed astonishment, without having been knowingly
naughty, they all seemed to feel in disgrace 
and particularly Adela.

When the schoolroom door opened for a short hour,
Adela no longer rushed off to play lawn-tennis, but
let herself be marshalled out by Miss Smith, the
governess, for a staid and proper walk, much like a
convict with her warder.

What has happened, Adela ? " cried George, running
up to her.

"Nothing has happened, Mr Crofton," said the
governess, who had called him " George " until then ;
nothing has happened, Mr Crofton. Adela is merely
taking a walk with me." As to Adela herself, she
did not even dare to speak.

The discomfort and the awkwardness of the mystery
were unbearable. George began to feel as if he
had been convicted of crime ; so did Kate. They
both settled to leave Eastcourt immediately. And
they went and packed up their things, giving some
excuse for instant departure.

George was secretly much afraid of Mrs Newsham.
But as he was going away, he managed to summon
just enough courage to say to her, "Why has that
Miss Smith suddenly turned into an awful dragon ?
And 1 say, Mrs Newsham, do you know, Adela has

got queer too; what on earth is the matter with
her?"

dana raised her drooping eyelids, and, coming near
to George, fixed upon him that penetrating glance
with which she can astound at dose quarters those
who haire only seen her eyes veiled in their nsnal
mystery. Poor George was confounded Whatever
had he done I for that look made him feel guilty.

Gaza was silent; so was the bewildered George.
When at last she did speak, it was in that tone of
repressive severity she can command at will  a voice
which startles yon away from her very beantj, and
makes yon feel yon can dread a fair, slight woman
nine than yon ever feared a man.

George," she said, " I cannot tell yon what is the
matter with Adela. Bnt upon reflection, I have come
to the contusion that it is my unpleasant duty to
have a few words of explanation with your stepmother
before she goes away. George, you do right
to leave this house immediately''

To her sister-in-law Oars whispered, " One word,
Kate, before you go ; but it must be in private. I
wm speak to you alone In here, in hero .' " And
dana took the alarmed Kate from a crowded hall
filled with children, and nurses, and servants, and
luggage, into her own boudoir dose by, and there
amazed her by saying in exactly the same voice which
had hakCTi George's nervous system so uncomfortably,
I am very sony, Kate, but I cannot ask George to
here again until he has sense and discretion.

He has lived in the schoolroom and has paid Adela
marked, yes, marked attention." 

-Adeiar gasped Kate Crofton; "Adela! Adela?
Whj, Adela is a child I  a child in short petticoats I
And George a boy at school ! George of all people I
George, the least impressionable of human beings 3
My dear Clara : "

The idea was so preposterous, so ont of all reason,
that its Indidonsness overcame every other fediog in
Kate's mind, and she burst ont laughing. Oaia felt
disposed to be angry, and, as nsnal when pnt ont, was
coldly silent

*soh, Clara'* laughed Kate, "this extraordinary
notion can't be yours. It inst, it inst be that
ridiculous Miss Smith's. Half the governesses have
their brains staffed with nonsense; bnt this is insanity
showing itself plainly where the history and
the globes and the grammar should bcL"

Until this moment Clara had not thought of putting
Miss Smith forward, but instantly the idea became
a new manoeuvre pleasing to her tactician's eye ;
so she then and there adopted the notion, marring use
of it just as far as appeared desirable. Quite recovering
her disturbed temper, she said with a sweet
sort of half-pitying smile, "Ah, poor Miss Smith!
poor dear creature I Well, I do think, Kate, you maybe
right, and Miss Smith may have been a little overanxious,
and just a little foolish perhaps." As a fact.
Miss Smith, poor dear creature, had never noticed
anything, but had been inexpressibly amazed by

Torquemada's grand discovery. In snubbing George
sbe had only obeyed Mrs Newsham's strict orders.

But Clara now came to the point, and said quite
affectionately, "All the same, my dear Kate, I did
think it was only right to give you a little word of
kindly warning for fear of future complications, as
George and Adela will not always be children. And
I well know, my dear Kate" the full eyelids were
uplifted, and that near glance of Clara's searched Mrs
Crofton's open mind  " I well know, my dear Kate,
you would be quite as much against this match as I
am. No fortune on either side, and only the vaguest,
most improbable expectations."

I am very glad you would be so much against it,
Clara," replied Kate, with perfect, simple trust, and
speaking now quite seriously. " And I shall never be
offended if you do not ask George here again. And if
you do ask him, I shall understand you are quite,
quite sure there is no danger in having him and
Adela together." Kate smiled a little,  " ISTot that I
think there is any danger now, except in that curious
Miss Smith's imagination." Then becoming grave
once more, she said, " Thank you, Clara, for having
warned me of the possible danger, because I know
you can only mean to be kind. And as you truly
say, George and Adela will not always be children.
Thank you, Clara, especially for understanding the
very, very delicate position in which I am placed."
Kate had a sensitive delicacy of nature which made
her blush as lie added, " You know what Cuthbert

would certainly feel if George were to think of marrying
young and without fortune, and above all, if he
were to think of marrying Adela." The blush deepened
 " Cuthbert would certainly feel I considered
my stepson's prospects made him a good match for
my niece. And George has no prospects  none !  if
Cuthbert gets well and marries, as I sincerely hope he
may, because he has been good,  oh ! Clara, Clara,
you cannot imagine how good and noble and generous
he has been to George and to me since poor Henry
lost his money in that bank and died, leaving us
with nothing in this world but my small fortune.
No widow, no fatherless child, ever had a kinder
friend than we have had in Cuthbert."

This was too much for Clara's patience. " I declare
you are quite ridiculous, Kate ! " she exclaimed,
irritably. " You immensely exaggerate what you owe
Sir Cuthbert ; and as to George, I really don't see
that he owes him anything."

George not owe Cuthbert anything ! " cried Kate,
aghast. " No one could owe his father more ! "

At this moment the door opened, and George rushed
excitedly in. The conversation had taken so entirely
the wrong turn, that Clara was glad of the interruption.

The carriage has been here this ever so long ! "
George called out, " and we shall be late for our
train. Come, mother, come ! Good-bye, Mrs New-sham,"
he added shortly, and literally dragged his
stepmother out of the room.

Poor George was in an agony for fear they would

miss the train, and have to return to Eastcourt. He
had been in a fever of discomfort in that mysterious
house, and was so anxious to get away that he forgot
to say good-bye to Adela, for she did not follow him
like the rest of the children to the doorstep, but stood
in the hall handcuffed, as it were, to Miss Smith.

Thanks to George's lively persecution of the coachman,
the horses were driven so fast that the Crofts
did catch their train.

"Awfully glad we've nicked it," said George.
What an awful sell it would have been if we had
had to go back to Eastcourt  awful 1 " After a short
silence, he continued, " I say, mother, do you think
Mrs Newsham good-looking ? Why, I heard a fellow
the other day speak of her as if she were a beauty."

And so she is, my dear George. She has the
most beautiful white complexion I ever saw."

Then I don't admire her one bit," said George,
decidedly. "Awfully disagreeable way of looking
through a fellow when she gets up close to him.
Looks at you and shuts you up just like Snorter, my
old form master. Awfully mysterious, too ! Snorter
was always mysterious when he meant to report you
to old Wisher. I hate people a fellow can't understand.
But I say, mother, j\Irs ISTewsham looked as
if she were blowing you up in that boudoir. Awful
shame ! " he cried, indignantly. " But what was she
jawing about ? "

Oh, my dear, dear George, what language 1 what
extraordinary language ! But do not be angry, dear

boy ; Clara was merely saying something a little unpleasant
to me. She thought it right to say it, George,
and she meant to be kind."

T don't believe it," interrupted the boy, with
much decision. " Just like Snorter, who always pretended
to be kind when he slanged you most. What
right has Mrs Newsham to slang you at all ? "

Oh, George, George 1 such curious expressions as
you do use ! And really, I can assure you, my dear,
Clara did not scold me in the least."

Looked awfully slangy, then. I'm sure she was
in a wax ! "

Kate Crof ton hesitated. She did not want to put
a certain notion into her young stepson's head, and
yet she had grown very anxious to discover if there
was any foundation, however slight, for Miss Smith's
hallucination. After a moment's reflection, she said
nervously, " Well, my dear George, perhaps you are a
little right in thinking "

I know I am right, mother."

Well, well, my dear, I daresay you are not altogether
quite wrong. I do think Clara was a little
yes, a very little  not much, my dear George, but
perhaps a little  annoyed."

Annoyed ? Bosh ! She was in a regular wax !
And it was something about Adela  tell me, what ? "

The directness of the question flustered the timid
Kate. " Oh, nothing, really nothing ! that is, my
dear George  I  I mean nothing in particular ; only
I think Clara thought  no ! it was Miss Smith

thought. Yes ; I forgot, George ! it was Miss Smith
thought "

"Awful duffer that Miss Smith! But I say,
mother, do be quick."

I think, my dear boy, Miss Smith thought you 
you played too much lawn-tennis with Adela."

E. 0. T ! " exclaimed George, emphatically.

Kate let the inelegant expression pass without
remark, for it gave her such relief that it was pleasantly
to her ear than the purest Addisonian English.

When Adela had been playing all day," she suggested,
" I daresay Miss Smith found her tired and
inattentive at her lessons, George."

I am sure I did not want to play with Adela. I
always played with Eockhurst till he and Tom were
sent away to stay with their grandmother. Eock-
hurst and I were awfully well matched. It was Mrs
Newsham, Mrs Newsham herself, who made me play
with Adela. Adela is an awfully bad shot  awfully !
I liked playing with Nellie best ; but Mrs Xewsham
said Nellie was not to play, because she was not strong
enough, though Nellie vowed that was all bosh. Adelaide
a shocking duffer ! Catch me ever playing with her
again ! And I say, mother, if Adela does not take
care she'll be just as queer as Mrs Newsham. She is
beginning to get mysterious like her." And the lad
repeated what he had said before  " I hate people
a fellow can't understand ! " adding this time, " By
Jove, I do ! I am awfully glad, mother, we've left
Eastcourt. We'll never ceo there again. When

Mrs Newshara asks us, we'll always go somewhere
else."

Kate Crofton was so perfectly, perfectly satisfied by
the unmistakable sincerity of George's words and
look and manner, that she never again troubled her
head about Miss Smith's hallucination.

VOL. I.

Chapter IV.

Foe excellent reasons of her own, Clara never mentioned
to Mrs Lawlor the little idea which had
entered her brain of a possible match between George
and Adela, until more than two years after that sudden
Grand Inquisitor's mystery at Eastcourt.

Elizabeth was staying with Clara  and as it happened,
for the last time in her life  when her daughter
said to her one day, " Do you know, mamma dear, that
Adela was fifteen her last birthday. She will soon be
sixteen ; and I was married at sixteen."

"Clara, will Adela really have only 2000?"
asked Mrs Lawlor, before making any further remark.

"She will have exactly 2500," replied Clara, decidedly.
" Two thousand five hundred to the six girls
makes 15,000. That will only give Tom 10,000
out of the 25,000 we intend to leave the younger
children. We cannot charge the property more highly,
because of the imperative necessity of making Eock-
hurst really an eldest son. This election, and all
the local philanthropy, and that temperance fad of
Thomas's, have cost arose sums ; and Thomas will

certainly not get a peerage unless it is known lie can
leave Eocldiurst at least 15,000 a-year clear at his
death. My jointure of 5000 a-year may not fall in
till Eockhurst is quite an old man."

Clara had no intention of becoming real ansrel
sooner than was absolutely necessary.

It is a pity you cannot leave the poor girls a little
more," urged the grandmother. " Clara, leave them
my 6000 and your father's 2000."

That has been settled on me," answered Clara, very
shortly. " I may want the ready money for other
purposes."

This was said with dropped eyelids and a tightening
of the small mouth  an expression of countenance
Elizabeth well understood. She pressed the matter
no more. When angry, Clara would generally be
expressively silent.

The pause of uncomfortable silence between the
mother and daughter was broken by Mrs Lawlor.
Well, my dear," she said, trying to speak pleasantly,
even with so little fortune, you will not have much
trouble in marrying Adela. She is so pi ok and white,
that some very young man of good prospects might
easily be brought to fancy her. There will not be
much difficulty with quite a young man  the trouble
will be with his parents. An orphan of position and
means is what you want, Clara ; six desirable orphans
for the six girls I But they will be hard to find 1 "

Yet, mamma," answered Mrs Newsham, recovering
her usually self-possessed temper, "when I married

I had no fortune whatever, and still I married Thomas
very easily ; and Thomas is rich, and has an extremely
fine place, and is undoubtedly in love with me."

Clara, Clara ! " cried out the Bishop's wife, " you
will ruin the girls' prospects if you start with the
notion of finding a Thomas for each or any of them !
Thomas was a most exceptional circumstance. I have
never known another like him."

But of whom shall I think for Adela ? " asked
Clara, as if she had never, never thought over the
subject before. " Let me see ; there's  there's James
Howard."

He'll never have a penny, Clara  never ! "

Then there's Frank Vincent."

"Not at all well off!"

Ah ! no, no, to be sure ! I forgot that  I was
only thinking how handsome Frank is. Victor Murray
is not half as good-looking, but shall I try him ? "

Those Murray are not a nice connection. I
don't like one of them," said Elizabeth.

stow Clara had never even thought of Victor Murray
before. He was not much of a catch. She did
not really think of him now, and had merely mentioned
him as she had done James Howard and Frank
Vincent, because she wished to lead up to George
Crofton quietly. She now said, " Ah yes, mamma !
you are right. Those Murray would not be a nice
connection." And then she went on very gently,
But, mamma  mamma dear, wdiat  what would you
say to George Crofton ? "

George Crofton ? Oh, Clara ! do you really
mean Kate's stepson George ? "

I do' said Clara firmly, her whole manner quite
changing.

Elizabeth was taken aback. She understood by
instinct this was no chance idea, but a well-considered
plan. " Clara, Clara ! " she exclaimed, " I implore you
not to think of malting up this match ! Kate Crofton
would intensely dislike it for her stepson  it would
place him in a position of painful awkwardness with Sir
Cuthbert, as it would certainly seem to Sir Cuthbert a
match made up on the speculation of his death ; and
George is a mere boy still ! Clara, it would not be right,
and above all, it would not be honourable, to do this
thing secretly against Kate's will ; and if she clearly
knew of it, she would not permit it. She is Thomas's
only sister  you owe her some consideration as such.
Thomas is very fond of her, and she is so fond of
him, that for his sake she will trust you, and even if
she has a misgiving, will put it far from her, and
think it wrong to doubt you. And then for years
Kate has been very good to you and to your children."

My first duty is to think of my daughter's prospects,
and not of my sister-in-law's sentimental over-delicacy,"
answered Clara, with a kind of soft doggedness
peculiarly her own. The daughter had faith in
her mother's worldliness, and so did not let the matter
drop, but said, " Perhaps you are not aware, mamma.
Sir Cuthbert is very seriously ill again. lie will
certainly not marry now, and George will have his

uncle's baronetcy and the fortune and Crofton
Place."

Sir Cuthbert may recover and marry ! Yes, Clara,
he may recover and marry ! " cried Elizabeth, feeling
this was a very strong argument.

If I thought Sir Cuthbert would get well "

mused Clara, slowly.

Settle on somebody else, my dear," urged Mrs
Lawlor ; " Adela will fall sufficiently in love with
any one you choose. It would be different with
Nellie. Let Nellie choose for herself. But you
will have no trouble with Adela. Try Eupert Tor-rings
 he will be really well-off ; or, "as Lord Harleigh
is already caught, try the Harchesters' second boy who
will have his mother's fortune."

There are difficulties you do not understand,"
replied Clara shortly. " Lady Barchester is a suspicious
scheming woman  a very scheming woman ! "
Mrs Newsham said this as if there was nothings
on earth she disapproved of so much as scheming
women. And it is quite true she did hate them ;
she liked simple, childlike people whom she could
manage as easily as Thomas.

Lady Barchester," continued Clara, " never seems
to forget a stupid speech Thomas made about her
model school the year after we were married. Besides,
George will be a better match than either Paper
Torrings or the Honble. Fred, and he is much easier to
get hold of. I shall be able to manage Kate perfectly,"
Clara said calmly ; " she will never realise anything."

At this Mrs Lawlor was really indignant, and exclaimed
warmly, " Poor Kate ! I cannot bear the idea
of your deceiving her ! and you must deceive her,
Clara, if you are to bring about this match."

Clara answered petulantly, " Things would be simpler
if Thomas were any other sort of man, but he
will never exert himself to find good matches for
the girls, or to invite the right people." And then
tenderly sighing, she added, '' Ah dear ! ah dear ! I
must leave the poor girls' prospects in the hands of
Providence."

Then you could not have a worse matchmaker 1 "
called out Mrs Lawlor. With all her shortcomings,
Elizabeth never canted, and heartily disliked cant in
others. She resented, as a Bishop's wife should,
having Providence mixed up with a purely worldly
calculation. " Providence rarely makes the good
matches with the good settlements," she said sharply.
Women of the world make them, Clara. Providence
would give you a poor curate for a son-in-law,
and no one of the girls is clever enough to
marry a curate  she could not make a bishop of
him as I did of her grandfather."

Clara was in no wise ruffled. " Quite true," she
said ; " none of my children are really clever. They
are all like poor dear Thomas  except perhaps Tom.
Tom is the least amiable of all my children. He
and Eleanour are unamiable."

That is cruel, Clara  cruel ! You wrong dear
Nellie ! indeed you do ! and poor Tom is not unamiable.

All the children are amiable  all ! " said the
grandmother ; " and they all have quiet tempers like
you, Clara. You have a very quiet one ; and yet, do
you know, Clara, your children seem afraid of you.
I can't conceive how you manage it ! You never
were afraid of me, and yet I am rather quick-tempered.
No, my dear, you never were afraid of me ! "

Elizabeth had tears in her eyes. " Ah, Clara,
Clara ! " she said, " with all your tender looks and
ways, you never were so fond of me as I am of you !
Nor will you ever be so fond of any child you have
as I of you. Poor things ! "

You are ill, dear," said Clara composedly ; " you
are ill, dear, or you would not talk like that."

Yes, I am ill ; I know that I am very ill  I am
dying. That is why I want you to love me more
than you have ever done before. But I will lie down
and rest now, for I am tired."

It was a strange sio'ht for those who had known
my lady bishop in the full vigour of her perpetual
energy, and a pitiful one, to see her now lie still for
hours overpowered by bodily weakness.

Clara was leaving the room when her mother lay
down on the sofa, and so pale and worn and overexcited
did Elizabeth look that Clara's heart smote
her just a little, and, turning round, she went back
and kissed her mother. Clara had a very pretty
clinging way of embracing. Her manner could be
more tender than her heart.

Mrs Lawlor did not stay much longer at Eastcourt.

Her illness increased alarmingly, and she wished to
be at home with her husband.

Poor Elizabeth had only enjoyed her bishopric
eight short years ! How short they seemed ! The
same rapidly-fatal disease which had seized Lady
Eockhurst long before the Dowager had any intention
of dying, now seized poor Elizabeth, and, like a grim
relentless executioner, dragged her suddenly face to
face with all the torturing uncertainties of death.

If I had been a curate's wife, it would now have
been the same," she said. " Clara, if I had to live
again, I would not be so worldly. But I am glad,
now that I am dying, that at least I never was a
hypocrite ; I never said it was God, and not I, who
made your father a bishop." Then again she said,
You look like a white angel, Clara : do not try to
make people think you are one."

When feverish, she annoyed Mrs Newsham by
repeating more than once, " Do not deceive people,
Clara." Her last words to her daughter were, " Be
loving to the children, Clara  be kind to ISTellie ; she
will want your love."

To the Bishop, Elizabeth said, " Octavius, I die
before you, and so am spared the greatest sorrow I
could have had on earth ; I am glad that I die first.
But, Octavius, when I am dead, do not praise me on
my tombstone or write a memoir of me making me
all a bishop's wife should be. I have not been as
unworldly or as really good as your kind, simple
soul has thought me."

Elizabeth died sincerely. It is well to be sincere
in death.

Now, had Clara died a bishop's wife with a whole
diocese by her bedside, there is no doubt she would
laye died more beautifully than her mother.

CHAPTEK V.

Poor mamma ! " thought Clara, when the first mourning
was really quite over, and she had got Adela a
very becoming light-grey dress ; " poor, dear mamma !
with all her talent, her very great talent, she certainly
was wrong-headed about George and Adela."

Now this is what had happened. Sir Cuthbert
Crofton's mysterious internal malady had taken a
decided turn for the better about the time of Mrs
Lawlor's death ; so as soon as ever Clara decently
could, she had invited Eupert Torrings to Eastcourt,
though he was by no means an orphan. He was
asked to come and stay " in the quietest manner possible."
However, before long, Mrs Newsham was
thoroughly disgusted with him. He never seemed
to see that Adela was virtually grown up, and he
actually told the young lady that he liked fair-haired
girls best; and Adela was just such a white, white
lily as her mother.

When Eupert Torrings went away, Clara much
desired to ask the Honble. Fred to come also " in the
quietest manner possible." You cannot have company

in deep affliction, but you can always have an
eligible young man. But Mrs Xewsliam could not
get hold of the Honble. Fred. His mother, Lady Har-chester,
proved a wily sentinel quite on the alert.
The truth is, Lady Barchester was one of those people
about whom Clara had been perhaps just a little too
clever. At the beginning of her career, before her
great talents were fully developed, Mrs Newsham was
at times undoubtedly rather too astute.

The Countess of Barchester was a cousin of the
Lady Fanny Devereux who had jilted Mr Newsham.
Clara, on her marriage, found a coolness existing
between Eastcourt and Barchester House, and a decided
disinclination on Thomas's part to go there or
let her go. " Thomas is quite ridiculous ; he avoids
Lady Barchester," thought Clara ; " yet no one can
be more useful to us in London when I make
Thomas take a house in town." Clara patronised all
Lady Barchester's pet charities, and bought largely
from her stall at the model-school bazaar. Clara
did not take Thomas to this bazaar, but she said
to Lady Barchester in her sweetest, most artless
manner, " My husband is so interested in your model
school, Lady Barchester, so very, very much interested !
and he would like to study it in detail, and personally
analyse its excellent management."

The coolness had been entirely on Mr Newsham's
side. Lady Barchester was glad to fix an early day
for the inspection of the school.

Pray tell Mr Xewsham, with my kindest regards,"

she said most graciously, " that I shall hope to meet
him at the school on Tuesday morning, and myself
do the honours of our new wing ; and you must both
come and lunch with me afterwards, Mrs Newsham."

When Clara got home, she praised the model school
to Thomas. He had never heard of it before, but he
was easily interested in any good work, and most
works seemed good to him. In due time, Clara said 

Lady Barchester knew you would be interested in
her school, Thomas, so she has kindly asked you and
me to meet her there on Tuesday morning, when she
will herself show us over the new wing ; and she has
also asked us to luncheon. This is really very civil
of Lady Barchester, considering how you have  well,
my dear Thomas, do you know I had almost said, how
you have cut her for the last few years ? Xow, now,
Thomas," Clara exclaimed in her very prettiest little
way  " now, my dear Thomas, you have, you know
you have been a little, just a little tiny bit, rude
to poor dear Lady Barchester. But bygones are
bygones ! so you must be particularly civil next
Tuesday."

Thomas always meant to be kind and civil to everybody,
but he was generally very absent-minded ; and
though he would often go to a place intending to
make a polite speech to the lady of the house, when
the right moment came he invariably forgot to do so.
Clara naturally never expected him to say anything
to Lady Barchester, nor would he have done so had
Lady Barchester not been intimately connected in his

mind with his ill-fated engagement to Lady Fanny.
The circumstances and people connected with the
bewildering shock of being jilted stood out in curious
relief to the usual dimness of Mr Newsham's mental
haze. He recollected distinctly the last time he had
seen Lady Barchester, and knew it was a long time
ago ; and when Clara told him he had been rude to
her, he did not forget he had purposely avoided her.

So it came to pass that when Thomas went over
the model school and met Lady Barchester again, his
mind was unnaturally clear, and he remembered to
make a little speech. He warmly praised the school,
for his kind heart was ever sincerely pleased with any
work intended for the help or reclamation of the
young, and he said, " I am surprised that, living in
the same county, I should never have heard of your
model school. Lady Barchester. No ! no ! never !
never until Clara gave me your invitation. It was
kind of you, yes ! yes ! Lady Barchester, it was kind
of you to wish to renew the acquaintance of past
years, interrupted by . . . by what was at the time a
a tragedy  yes ! yes ! yes 1 a tragedy to me, but
one in which I now fully recognise, as I should have
done at first, that you had no part."

The naive sincerity of this speech was as unmistakable
as its genuine emotion. The angel of fair white
beauty that Thomas JSTewsham had married, stood
revealed to the astute Lady Barchester as a born
little woman of the world, whose precocious talents
would be fully developed by the time her daughters

were beginning to grow up. Being herself a woman
of the world, Lady Barchester did not think much the
worse of Clara, and when the two ladies met, the
cordiality of her manner to Mrs Xewsham, and of ]airs
jSTewsham's to her, might easily have been mistaken
for warm affection. Yet my lady was on her guard.
She was always glad to let her girls go to Eastcourt.
Eockhurst Xewsham would be the best match in the
county, after her own son, Lord Marleigh. But Lady
Barchester managed to prevent, almost from infancy,
Lord Marleigh, who would have the earldom, and the
Honble. Fred, who was to have her fortune, from going
to Eastcourt. Clara was not blind to the fact, that
whereas the two elder boys were always " occupied
with their tutor," or " going out fishing or riding with
their father," the other children had no engagements.

It was in Mrs Newsham's nature to persevere where
she was thwarted. But when Rupert Torrings proved
a failure, and the undaunted Clara tried once more to
angle for the Honble. Red, she was forced, much against
her will, to recognise that the provoking, stupid speech
Thomas had made fully fifteen years before was still
unforgotten, and stood an impassable barrier between
the Harchesters' eligible second son and Adela. Owing
to the cleverness of his mother. Lord Marleigh was
already engaged to be married the day after he came
of age. The county was decidedly annoyed at this
premature engagement : there were but few good
matches in Nossex.

So when Adela was quite sixteen, indeed just

seventeen, and had gone into second mourning, Clara
calmly surveyed surrounding circumstances.

Sir Cuthbert is worse again, certainly worse than
he has ever been before. That Shropwich doctor must
be right. If so, George Crofton will be a better match
than any I could find in town, as Adela has virtually
no fortune. I will try George first, and save the
expenses of a season for another year. Then, if George
fails, Thomas shall take a house in town whether he
likes it or not. Jow that I have got Thomas into
Parliament, I have really carried this point."

Clara thought a little more : Yon Moltke thinks much
beforehand, and foresees the possibilities of a campaign.

I must begin  yes, I must begin immediately,
before George's prospects become visible to the world.
What I said to Kate nearly four years ago, will be just
enough to put her off her guard."

And then Clara once more exclaimed, " Poor, dear
mamma ! poor, dear mamma ! she certainly was wrongheaded
about George and Adela ! "
When Mrs Newsham had suggested to her mother
the idea of this match, she had not told her how she
had already sufficiently prepared matters to make the
boy and girl feel awkward together. This omission
was highly characteristic of Clara. In consulting you,
Clara weill not unfrequently tell you half the truth ;
sometimes she will tell you three-quarters of the truth,
bit it is only on the very rarest of rare occasions that
she tells you the whole truth.

It is always a little difficult consciously to manage

circumstances and force things to take place which
never would take place naturally, and yet at the same
time to make them all appear perfectly accidental.
But Clara had a remarkable talent for this kind of
diplomacy.

Admiral Crofton, Sir Cuthbert's uncle, had a small
cottage and shrubbery, and a big flagstaff and semaphore,
in that out-of-the-way little fishing village,
Bluehaven. When on shore, the Admiral spent the
summer vacation at Bluehaven, with his boy Charlie.
The Admiral's young wife, much younger than himself,
had died when Charlie was born. He had never
married again, so Kate Crofton, his niece by marriage,
used to come and keep house for him in the summer
at the cottage, and bring her stepson, George, as a
playmate for Charlie : the boys were about the
same age.

As a rule, navy men in domestic life are either
martinets to whom their home is a quarter-deck, or
else they are the most amiable, affectionate, and simple-hearted
of human beings. Such was that perfect
gentleman. Admiral Crofton, the dearest, the nicest of
all elderly men ! and quite charming to look at ! His
hair had turned very white when he was comparatively
young, so that you thought him older than he really
was ; but his figure was remarkably erect, and, unlike
many naval officers, he was extremely tall. He had
a bright, a very bright complexion, and the kindest
blue eyes ever seen. It was a handsome face, with
well-cut features  a high nose, a firm but sweet-vol.

I. D

tempered mouth, and a marked chin. He was strong,
and jet tender of nature ; clever, yet guileless as a
child ; and delightfully good-tempered, though, it is
true, there were a few subjects on which he was peppery
: uncourteous manners, especially towards ladies,
made him angry ; and there were two or three nautical
matters it was not quite safe to discuss with him.
He had his own ideas about ironclads and the education
of naval officers ; and he fired up dangerously
when told of the increase of the French navy.

It was keen sorrow to him that the prestige of
England in the world is not what it used to be, and
angry pain to him to feel that England is no more
what England was.

Whilst our people squabble in a public-louse on
shore, and our statesmen inflame the mean envies of
classes, by God ! " the Admiral would cry, " we impotently
lose the kingdom of the world." The Admiral's
love for England, his pride in her fame and in
the glorious honour* of that empire bequeathed to us
by the genius of our greater forefathers, was not the
cold abstraction, the apathy, that patriotism lias become
to most of us. It was a living passion within him, aswarm,
as real as the true love he had borne his wife
and bore his only son.

The decay of patriotism in England is like the
decay of an old man apathetically sinking into the
grave, and ceasing, before he actually dies, to be a
really living thing  so dim of sight, so indifferent to
all interests but the draught about his own chair, so

I

dead of energy, so ruled by mean dependants does he
become.

Strangers who heard the Admiral speak on this
sore subject, and knew no more of him, thought him a
violent-tempered man.

But as Clara's diplomacy had nothing to do with
the prestige or policy of Great Britain, she had no fear
of the Admiral, but looked upon him as a kind of
tractable ba-lamb whom she could lead about with
rose-coloured ribbons and hoodwink quite easily.
She knew the Admiral and Charlie and George
Crofton would certainly spend August and part of
September at Bluehaven ; but, before finally settling
her accidents, she determined to make quite sure Sir
Cuthbert was really so ill that Kate would be obliged
to stay on and nurse him at Crofton Place. So Clara
invited the Admiral to Eastcourt, and though not a
hospitable person, was very hospitable to him. At
convenient moments she cross-questioned him fully
about Sir Cuthbert and Kate. You might cross-examine
the Admiral for ever without his perceiving
you were doing so. Dear, guileless creature ! Clara
was actually fond of him ! and felt he suited her and
her plans to perfection. Clara never likes people who
do not fit quite easily and naturally into her numerous
arrangements  in fact, she has a tendency to hate them.

When quite satisfied on the most important point
at one side of the matter which she had at heart, Mrs
Xewsham turned her mind entirely to the other. She
quickly foresaw a pretext for going to Bluehaven, and

UBRARI

UNiVERSiTY or UIMM

for taking Thomas and Aclela there in the most natural
way possible.

This was extremely clever, because Bluehaven was
a most difficult place to go to by accident  being a sort
of end-of-the-world that could lead nowhere. Then,
also, Thomas hated leaving Eastcourt in the summer.

But Clara settled to go to Bluehaven from the best
and highest of motives  solely to restore her poor,
dear father's health !

A brilliant idea ! And it was quite true the good
Bishop was ill : he had never been well since the
shock of his wife's death.

Clara discovered that what the poor, dear Bishop
wanted was change of air  change of air and rest ;
and she said so to Dr Fozzle, who was the chief medical
" opinion " in the diocese. Dr Fozzle agreed with
her, but recommended a bracing inland air, like that of
Eastcourt.

One of Clara's most remarkable characteristics is
the power of persuasion she can exercise at will over
most medical men. The old-fashioned family doctor
purrs to her voice by instinct, like a soft - coated
fatherly tom-cat. Half the spell lies in her look
and in the tenderness of manner with which she
will discuss the " case." Her suggestions to the medical
faculty are so gently, so beautifully made, or
rather insinuated, that the doctor will feel as if they
were his own. Clara never contradicted a doctor :
she always began by agreeing with him.

Yes ; her dear father did want a bracing, a very

bracing air. Dr Fozzle was quite right : it was a
really dry, bracing air the jjoor dear Bishop required.
Clara perceived that Dr Fozzle understood the case
admirably ; and it was so very, very wise of him not to
recommend a relaxing place,  a relaxing air had never,
never agreed with the dear Bishop. Dr Fozzle was
undoubtedly correct in considering inland to be generally
more bracing than sea air. Mrs Newsham had
never known but one exception to this rule. Yet she
had known one ; but Dr Fozzle could never, never
have heard of Bluehaven. Nobody had ever heard of
Bluehaven. It was such a dull, out-of-the-way place.
But if only the great doctors knew of it, it would bethe
seaside place  the one only seaside place  they
would send their patients to. Clara called the air " a
breezy quinine, a nerve tonic, an ozone stimulant," and
said it was so exceptionally dry and bracing that it was
only people of exhausted nerve-power who could stand
the climate long  persons in the state the poor dear
Bishop was. Dr Fozzle was so very, very right, Clara
was sure, so perfectly, so unmistakably right in thinking
it was wear and tear of the nerve-tissues and exhaustion
of nerve-power which ailed the Bishop.

Finally, it was Dr Fozzle  Dr Fozzle himself  who
ordered the Bishop to Bluehaven.

Bluehaven is seven miles from a railway station,
and such an insignificant place, that at first sight it
seems to consist of Admiral Crofton's flagstaff and
semaphore ; you can see them miles off. When you
come near, you perceive his tiny cottage and his patch

of shrubbery ; and then in a cleft down below, nestling
like a sea-bird on the rock by the side of the
haven, are a little fishing village, rather a tumbledown
church with a low tower, a poor sort of rectory,
the surgeon-apothecary's house, about six trees, a very
small pier, and nothing else.

Clara had first to get rid of the rector and his
family ; and this required no little diplomacy, for the
rector decidedly wished to stay and preach to the
Bishop, and he proposed the surgeon-apothecary should
take a change of air. The surgery was a mile from
the Admiral's cottage, while the rectory was quite
near ; its one field crept over the hill-top to the flagstaff
and shrubbery, and touched the flint wall of the
semaphore.

Though Clara was rich, she was not naturally openhanded
; but she offered twelve guineas a-week for
the rectory house, and the clergyman's wife forced
her husband to accept the offer  pointing out to him
also that he might go by train every Sunday, walk the
fourteen miles, and perform the service and preach at
Bluehaven. Clara did not mind seeing the rector once
a-week ; but she was particularly glad to be completely
rid of his wife, as she thought this lady a
gossip.

So the Bishop, being ordered by Dr Fozzle to Blue-haven,
was very kindly taken there by Clara ; and
never was there a poor bishop squeezed into a smaller
or more uncomfortable house ! Luckily he was a
most amiable Eight Eeverend, for now, really, there

was hardly room for this apron, and no place whatever
for his chaplain !

Clara did not want the chaplain, as lie might have
flirted with Adela ; and it was for Adela she had taken
the rectory. She brought her second daughter Nellie
there too, so as not to make Adela conspicuous  indeed
she said it was Eleanour who required the sea-bathing,
and thus made Adela seem an accidental
circumstance  merely a companion for the sea-bathing
Nellie.

To the Bishop, Clara said  " But now, really, dear
papa, do you know it is as a special, particular pleasure
for yourself that the two girls are here ? as a
quite especial pleasure for dear grandpa ! " How
prettily Clara could say those kind of little things !

Thomas was also drao-o-ed to Bluehaven. " As to
Thomas," thought Clara, " he will be useful in many
ways, and he never sees anything. He will be with
my father, and do as well as the chaplain ; and he
need not take up any room, for he will sit in the study
with the Bishop. If Thomas wants to go home, I will
make him give a temperance lecture to the fishermen.
He is so slow in preparing a speech, that I can manage
it shall occupy him the whole month." Clara had
only taken the rectory for four weeks, having discovered
in her preliminary cross-examination of the
Admiral that George Crofton was to go up to a crammer
in London on the 1st of September.

Sir Cuthbert had become very ill, and Kate Crofton
was so engrossed nursing him, and so truly unhappy

about him, that she had neither heart nor leisure to
be surprised at hearing Dr Fozzle had ordered the
Bishop to Bluehaven ; for that is what she did hear.
It was even in the newspapers.

Clara wrote from the rectory to Kate : " How very
unfortunate it is, my dearest Kate, that the only year
we should ever have come to Bluehaven should be the
one, one summer you are not here ! My dear father
can stay away from his diocese just a month ! but, I
fear, no longer ! However, as the last accounts of poor
dear Sir Cuthbert are so much more favourable"
they were really no better  " are so much more favourable,
so hopeful ! I may say, I certainly do expect to
have the great pleasure of seeing you here before we
leave ! for you must come, my dear Kate  you must
come while we are here ! It would be too naughty if
you did not ! I am glad to say this air really does
agree wonderfully with my father. Dr Fozzle was
certainly right in sending him here, though it is such
a dull place ! But a gay place would not have suited
the dear Bishop ; he requires comme rest I And, as
Dr Fozzle wisely said, in cases of nervous exhaustion
it is most beneficial to be seven miles from a railway
station, and to have but one post in twenty-four hours ;
so we do not complain ! " There was a Pes. to the
letter : " The sea-bathing agrees quite wonderfully with
dear Nellie."

Kate would never have known Adela was at Blue-haven,
only George happened to write one of the rare
letters which a deep affection for his stepmother

squeezed out of him in the holidays ; and in it he
chanced to say : " It is an awful sell having Mrs
Newsham here, but I keep out of her way as much as
I can. I like Mr Newsham and the Bishop, and they
don't make a fellow feel as if they were always looking
through him. But Adela and Nellie are an awful
nuisance, particularly Adela, and they take possession
of the Dancer, and only go dodging about the bay, and
Charlie and I have had no sea-fishing."

Adela at Bluehaven ! Adela ! So Clara has actually
taken Adela where she knows the girl must be
all day long with George ! " And the remembrance
of Miss Smith's extraordinary notion flashed back
across Kate's mind, and for an instant she was astonished
; but the short surprise quickly melted into the
thought  " I am glad of this : it shows Clara has
quite got over that preposterous idea. After what
Clara said to me, I know she would think it dishonourable
to bring George and Adela together unless she
was quite sure there was no risk. I recollect distinctly
her saying she was against the match  yes, I
do." And Kate looked back mechanically at Clara's
letter. Her eye was caught by the words : " The last
accounts of poor dear Sir Cuthbert are so much more
favourable, so hopcfid! I may say."

Clara thinks he is better than he is, and will
recover." Then, for a moment, a slight instinct of
mistrust, like a summer cloud, overshadowed Kate's
pure mind. The transitory feeling, which passed as
quickly as it came, was painful. Though alone, Kate

reddened as we do when an ignoble thought has darkened
our mind. " I am hard on Clara, and she is
my only brother's wife. Dear Thomas loves her, so
she must be as truthful and good as her fair beauty
would make you think. I feel she does not warmly
care for me, and I should like Thomas's wife to love
me satisfactorily ; and no doubt that is why I am
unjust to Clara. I will not wrong her any more."
And Kate turned from the passing suspicion, and
afterwards forgot it. Sir Cuthbert would have no
nurse but her, and she had no time to think. Then,
too, it was a pleasure to Kate nobly to trust Thomas's
wife.

CHAPTER YI.

If Adela was an " awful nuisance " to George at Blue-haven,
George was an agonising discomfort to poor
Adela. Torquemada's sudden mystery four years ago
had never been clearly understood by Adela, but had
been felt by her with all the perplexity of unconscious
guilt. Miss Smith, without clearly telling her anything,
had made her feel as if she had committed a
crime.

It was from " mamma " she had discovered the horrid
puzzle was connected with George. She never would
have guessed it if left to her own slow imagination.
Mamma had spoken to her, and what mamma had said
sounded awful to the young girl's fluttering mind,
partly from Clara's severely alarming manner, and
partly because Adela, though only grasping a dim
sort of instinct rather than meaning from her words,
had yet been filled by them with a strange shyness
and a curious kind of vague shame. She was barely
thirteen at the time of the grand mystery, and had
the unimpressionable, slowly developing nature you
often see in a very blonde, stolidly placid girl. Nellie

was quite different : at thirteen she would have seized
the idea Adela could not rightly grasp.

To do her justice, Clara had felt a little ashamed of
putting notions into Adela's innocent young head ;
and so, when she had said to the child, " George has
been paying you marked attention, and, Adela, you
have dared to encourage him. I am very angry ; I
can never allow this thing," she had also made her
little daughter promise never to mention these words
or to speak of George to any one. And Adela had
kept the promise through fear of her mother, and also
because of the bewildering, awkward shame she felt in
even mentioning George's name. She would blush if
others mentioned it ; and it was really this discomfort
about George which had kept her from telling Nellie,
as a dead secret, the curious thing mamma had said.

However, when one whole year passed and George
did not come to Eastcourt, and a second long year
went by slowly, as years do when we are young, and
Adela did not meet him, and then a third year passed,
Clara saw the girl was forgetting her awkwardness,
and noticed she had even ceased to blush at the mention
of George's name. At first the judicious mother
made no remark, for she happened just then to bethinking
of inviting Eupert Torrings to her house, and
was trying to get hold of the Honble. Fred. But
when she found Eupert Torrings only liked black-haired
girls, and that Lady Barchester was a fortified
stronghold protecting the Honble. Fred, while Sir Cuthbert
Crofton's disease was so rapidly creating expectations

for George that Dr Fozzle had to order the

o

Bishop to that bracing place, Bhiehaven, Clara considered
the moment had come when it would be wise
to make Adela feel awkward again.

So, before leaving Eastcourt, she had warned Adela
to beware of George Crofton's attentions. This had
revived the old discomfort, and thrown the poor girl
into such a perplexity of shyness, that she had implored
her mother with tears to let her stay at
home.

jSTo, Adela,; you nuit go to Bluehaven," Clara
had said, in that voice of hers no child ever disobeyed.
And Adela was still a child in nature and character,
if not quite in years. " Xo, Adela ; if you stayed
away, George would think you had purposely avoided
him. And when a young lady  you are grown up,
quite grown up, Adela  when a young lady of your age
avoids a young gentleman, he thinks . do you
know what he thinks ? . he thinks . . . she is in
love with him 1 "

Oh, mamma, how dreadful ! " cried the young girl,
in an agony of shame.

You do well to blush, Adela ; that is what George
would think if you remained at Eastcourt. So I insist
upon your coming to Bluehaven, and behaving
perfectly naturally to him. Do you hear ? Perfectly
naturally. I shall watch you, Adela, and see you
neither avoid nor encourage him. You must be natural,
but you must also be distant in your manner to
him now, because you are grown up. He is grownup

too." And Clara had again repeated, " Remember,
Adela, I shall watch you ! "

Stolidly unimaginative and placid as Adela was,
the terrible feeling of being watched by " mamma "
was nervous torture to her.

When she arrived at Bluehaven, she would have
given all she possessed to have met George when
mamma was not by ; but mamma was by. The girl
was always feeling Clara's presence now. She felt it
intensely on meeting George for the first time, and
she shook hands with her old playmate in a state of
such painful, blushing trepidation, that he very naturally
exclaimed, " I say, Adela, what's the matter ?
you look awfully queer." At this the unfortunate
girl turned white, and thought she would faint ; and
the kind Admiral thought so too, and placed her on the
sofa, brought her water, and made quite a fuss about
her. From pallor she blushed into the deepest red.

Adela is a little overtired. We had a very hot
and dusty journey," said Clara calmly ; but Adela only
blushed the more, and George was suddenly made uncomfortable
by feeling Mrs Newsham's near glance
searching him.

Adela turned white again. She was thinking,
What will mamma say afterwards ? " She was
curiously afraid of that white angel her mother, and
she trembled all over.

Why, Mrs Newsham, the poor child has got the
ague ! " cried out the Admiral, who believed in the
acfue, and believed in no other disease, for it was his

own particular malady. " That's exactly the way an
attack comes on. AVhen I was off Vera Cruz, I was
seized with the shakes all of a sudden. Just like
this  shook from head to foot : never was more surprised
in my life. Such piping hot weather, and
there was I shivering; ! But I was cured in no time
by some quinine pills I have kept about me ever
since. I have some boxes of them now up at the
Lookout." The Admiral called his cottage " The Lookout."
'' Nothing like taking one of those pills intime,"
he said to Adela, " so I will go up to the Lookout
and send you one down by Charlie ; take it immediately,
my dear, and you will be quite well soon."

This is what Clara said to poor Adela afterwards :
Adela, did not I expressly tell you to be perfectly
natural with George ? " Adela began to cry.

Stop crying this moment, Adela, and answer me.
Did I not tell you to be natural with George ? "
But Adela really could not speak for sobbing. " How
dare you disobey me, Adela ? I told you to be perfectly
natural with George, instead of which you were
most remarkable, most extraordinary in your behaviour.
You made a regular scene. I am shocked
at you, Adela !  shocked ! You have no dignity, no
proper girlish sensitiveness of modesty, or you would
have been ashamed to attract George's attention, and
make him ask what was the matter with you. Your
manner betrayed what a young lady should never,
never betray ! And I could see from George's look
what idea it was crossed his mind."

At these words poor Adela felt as if she could die
of shame. Clara saw she had made the right impression,
so continued  " By letting George feel his presence
has the power to unnerve you, you are provoking
 yes, Adela, you are provoking attention on his
part. You are asking him to pay you marked attention.
Now listen to me "  Clara spoke in her most
repressive tone of voice  " now listen to me. I am
determined, firmly determined, you shall not encourage
him, Adela. You must never play more than two
games of lawn-tennis with him. You must refuse if
he asks you to play a third, but without giving any
reason. And if you go out boating with the Admiral,
and George is there, you must not be taking George's
hand and letting him help you in and out of the
Dancer. You can climb up from the punt or walk
along the gang board by yourself. It is quite different
for Eleanour; she may do as she likes, for she is not
yet grown up, but you are old enough to be married.
Now remember, Adela," were Clara's last words  " remember
I shall know if you obey me or not, for I
will keep my eye upon you ; and though I shall not
go out boating, as it makes me sea-sick, I will watch
you through the spy-glass from the Admiral's semaphore."


If Adela had not been naturally phlegmatic, she
would certainly have got a nervous fever. Notwithstanding
the quinine pills, she looked really ill ; so
the Admiral insisted on her taking them for ten days.
He himself had taken them for three weeks that

memorable time off Vera Cruz. But this kindly
meant doctoring only made Adela worse, for the
Admiral was always inquiring after her symptoms.

Had she a recurrence of that trembling ? Was she
still constantly turning white and red, and feeling hot
and cold ? " And one day the Admiral asked these
questions out boating, and George was sitting face to
face with her.

Adela answered with such blushing cheeks and such
a curious confusion of manner that both George and
Charlie exclaimed, in one breath, through sheer astonishment,
" I say, Adela, what a fool you are ! "

Even Nellie, who hardly ever made a disagreeable
remark, said, "Adela, you are queer! so queer ever
since you came to Bluehaven ! And it is all because
mamma tells you you are grown up. I know it is !
Alien I am grown up," she added, with a decision that
was quite unusual to her,  " when I am grown up, I
will be just what I am now. I won't change a bit.
No, I won't."

Nellie, you are a brick ! " exclaimed Charlie, warmly.
" I am sure you will never be a fool."

And though civil speeches were not in George's
line," he actually said, " You always had some sense,
Nellie. Even that ridiculous Miss Smith could not
make an ass of you." As he spoke he looked with the
utmost contempt at poor Delamere

was something in his look which made Clara's
agitating words, " George will think you are in love
VOL. L E

with bim' rush upon her mind, and the young girl
then and there burst into tears.

Oh, poor Adela ! poor Adela ! I am afraid she is
sea-sick," cried Nellie, sympathetically.

E.O.T ! " mumbled George, audibly.

Land her this instant, father," said Charlie, firmly
he was a young fellow of strong character.

But tears  a woman's tears  were infinitely distressing
to the kind Admiral's tender soul. He had
not reproved the boys for that first exclamation of
theirs, because, although he himself had not the heart
to chide Adela, he could not help thinking it was no
harm others should make her feel she was getting funnily
self-conscious in her ways. " It must be affectation,"
he had thought, " for the child was quite natural
at Eastcourt." Yet when tears were streaming; down
Adela's blushing cheeks, and were reddening her eyes
and distorting her pretty face, the Admiral suddenly
waxed indignant, and gave the boys a fine scolding ;
he was particularly severe upon George, because he
had seen the contemptuous look of dislike the lad had
given Adela.

George thought he was being unjustly " blown up,"
and got sulky and disagreeable, and wanted, rightly or
wrongly, to go out beyond the bar sea-fishing in the
rough water, and he muttered loud enough for the
Admiral to hear, " Serve the girls right if they are
sea-sick. Girls are a horrid bore in a boat."

The Admiral was incensed at such gallantry.
Come, come, sir ! no more of this, sir ! You ought to

be ashamed of yourself, sir." When the Admiral said
sir," it was a sign he was really angry. " In my day
a young man of eighteen  d n it, sir, just nineteen
 a man of nineteen was a gentleman, and had
the manners of a gentleman towards ladies. We should
have kicked him out of the service if he had behaved
like a booby schoolboy."

From the instant the Dancer's head would be turned
towards land, Adela's whole mind would be taken up
thinking how she could best jump into the punt and
ashore without a helping hand. So far she had contrived
to do this successfully and without attracting
attention.

But to-day the Admiral was on the alert. He was
a man who always did what he considered his duty ;
and on this occasion he thought it his bounden duty
to see the " vounc,sters " had food manners.

The Dancer wanted some little thing doing to her
that required her to be run up for an hour or two on
the sandy beach, instead of being left as usual at her
moorings off the pier.

Charles Crofton handed jSTellie down from the yacht
like a perfect Lord Chesterfield''

Xow, sir," said the Admiral, turning to George 
now, sir, give your hand to Adela. Behave like a
gentleman, sir. Help her out carefully, sir. Adelaide
your hand to George."

The startled Adela was obeying mechanically, for
the Admiral spoke sharply, and he was generally so
mild, when, with her hand almost touching George's,

and her foot on the gunwale, she suddenly remembered
that terrible spy-glass. She turned, drew back, looked
up at the cliff above, caught sight of the semaphore,
and in the flutter of the moment lost her footing, and
slipped down between the yacht and gang board. Fortunately
the tide was not full in, and the Admiral had
run the Dancer well up on the beach, so she was only
wet to the waist. But if she had been drowned by
George, the Admiral could hardly have been more indignant.
He reprimanded his nephew as he would
have done a midshipman who was a disgrace to her
Majesty's navy. George made matters worse by angrily
repeating that Adela was an awful duffer, and had fallen
into the water because she was a fool. This was more
than the Admiral could stand ; he actually raised his
right hand, in which he flourished a rope-end, exclaiming,
" How dare you, sir ? How dare you, sir ? "

At this Adela, all dripping, rushed forward and
caught his arm, and cried out, " George is right. It
was my fault, not his. I would not take his hand. I
would not . on purpose."

On purpose ! " stammered the astounded Admiral.

Because," cried Adela  " because ." Good
heavens ! she had almost said, " Because of mamma ;
she is looking through the spy-glass." But she stopped
short, glanced up nervously at the semaphore, seemed
to feel that awful near presence of Clara, just as if her
mother could hear as well as see her, and, blushing
scarlet, and with infinite embarrassment, said instead,
Because I  I  I am now grown up ! "

The Admiral reeled round in the intensity of his
astonished amusement at Adela's words and ridiculous
self-conscious look, like a shy highly proper white rat
dripping in the water; and he laughed, and laughed
as only an old tar or a young boy can. Charlie with
Eleanour came running back to know what the Admiral
was laughing at. Adela looked at him so piteously
that he did not tell them then ; but he laughed more
and more, and George, forgetting his ill-humour, began
to laugh to.

When George laughed  '' He is laughing because he
thinks I am in love with him ! "  the draggled Adela
wished she had really been drowned, so overpowered
with shame and vexation did she feel, and she sprang
from the waterside up the beach, and took to her heels
and ran towards home as quickly as she could.

I say, Adela has had a ducking," cried Charlie
cheerily, almost as if he were pleased.

And Adela hates even wetting her feet. And, oh
dear ! oh dear ! she has got her light-grey dress on !
What will mamma say ? " exclaimed ISTellie. " I think
I had better run after her, Charlie," she whispered ;
she will be so dreadfully afraid of mamma."

You are horrid cowards ! you all are ! " said
Charlie, scornfully ; but he ran after Nellie, who was
already off.

The Admiral found himself standing alone with
George. He took his hand and shook it warmly. " My
good fellow, I was hard on you. I am sorry I gave
it to you so hotly, George, for the child is a precious

little fool. Ha ! ha ! lia ! Such notions for a baby's
head ! "

Adela was so slim and tiny  she was shorter than
Nellie  and had such a very youthful pink and whiteface,
that the Admiral thought her much younger than
she was, and never in the slightest degree realised she
was just seventeen. She certainly had the look and
manner, and to a great extent the mind, of fourteen.

Chapter VII.

The horrid discomfort of George grew worse than ever
to Adela after that unlucky ducking.

Notwithstanding the ruin of the light-grey dress,
mamma " insisted on her going out boating every day ;
while, if only the girl had been allowed to remain on
shore, she would never have met George at all, because
he did not come down to the rectory in the evening.
The Admiral and Charlie came every night, but George
stayed up at the Lookout, and declared that he was
sapping " for the new crammer. He was never to be
seen in the morning, for he vowed lawn-tennis a bore,
and disappeared all by himself till luncheon-time, and
he lunched up at the Lookout. Oh, if only " mamma "
would have let Adela stay at home and not go out
boating !

The getting in and out of the Dancer was now
even more painfully awkward than before the unlucky
ducking. Charlie and Nellie were sure to laugh ; so
George must have told them everything. It was quite
clear he had, for he always looked towards them when
he said, " Now, Adela, the tide is full in. Come !

now is your time. Flop right clown into the water, for
you know you are grown up. By Jove, you do ! "

And the Admiral  the Admiral, who was generally
the kindest of men  would call out, " Clear the
2:anohoard ! Here comes Adela ! Stand back. Charlie
! Out of the way, George !  out of the way, sir,
or we all know what will happen ! " And the same
sort of banter would confuse her again, as she climbed
up the companion-ladder from the punt into the yacht ;
and Adela was sure that if she slipped then she would
be drowned  and she had a horror of being drowned.

When you have tickled an old tar's fancy, it is not
easy to make him forget the joke : it is rather as if he
had been accustomed to take a joke, like his ship, round
the world, and bring her back all spick and span to
port again. The Admiral seemed to Adela to be always
smiling now. She had no sense of the ridiculous
herself, and took her young life very seriously. It
was misery to her to look up and catch the Admiral's
amused glance, and see his lively blue eyes twinkling
with fun like a mischievous schoolboy's. Then Blue-haven
was such a very, very dull place, that even a
small joke was an event, and lasted longer there than
elsewhere. There were jokes in the little village which
had descended from father to son.

The Admiral believed implicitly in Clara. He
thought her exactly what she looked, and took it for
granted that any little story about " the children "
must be delightfully interesting to such a sympathetic
mother ; so before long he confided to Clara the amusing

little joke about Aclela. " And now, Mrs Stews
take care ! The child will soon be discovering
how pretty she is, and we shall have her wondering
if all the young fellows are in love with her. Ha !
ha! ha!"

For shame, Admiral I for shame ! " said Clara ;
but she smiled with much self-possession, though she
was really taken aback at his words.

How Adela will blush when that day comes ! "
continued the amused old sailor. " Ha ! ha ! " And
then he added, more seriously  for the ague was a
serious subject to him  " I expect this touch of ague
has upset the child's nerves. The ague does upset
the nerves, Mrs Newsham. I never felt so shaken in
my life as that time off Vera Cruz ; and I used to
turn white and red, till I had all the youngsters laughing
at me. Strange disease ! strangest disease under
the sun ! and the curious part of the matter is, that
hundreds of people have the ague, and think they have
something else. And it is an extraordinary complaint,
for one attack quite changes the constitution."

Clara was clad the Admiral had started off on the
ague, and so encouraged him. " Indeed ! How very
curious ! Now really, quite singular ! "

Yes ; it is a fact, an undoubted fact, that one bad
fit will change the whole constitution. My constitution
has never been the same since that first attack off Vera
Cruz. And do you know, Mrs Newsham, there's Adela
her whole nervous system has been changed ! When
I was at Eastcourt a month ago, she was like a piece

of white duck  hardly ever had a bit of red in her
cheeks ! I remarked her particularly, because Nellie
is always changing colour, and has a new face every
two minutes ; but Adela is quite altered now. And I
am rather surprised those pills have not set her right
by this ; though they will cure her in the end," he
said stanch, like a true believer,  " I never knew
them fail."

Take no notice of Adela, my dear Admiral," said
Clara softly, and she smiled again, as if pleasantly
interested ; but she did not like all this observing and
remarking. " You are quite right, my dear Admiral.
It is just what you say : Adela's nerves are a little
overdone, and this attack has certainly upset her.
But, my dear Admiral, just take no notice of her."

Take no notice of her ! Take no notice of her !
Wliy, I defy you not to notice the child, Mrs New-sham
! for there she goes blushing and blushing, just
as if the Dancer were her first admirer, and the ropes
and spars were paying her marked attention. Ha !
ha! ha!"

Clara hesitated. She did not know quite what to
say.

The Admiral grew serious again. '*' But joking
apart, Mrs Newsham," he said, '" I am getting rather
anxious about the child. Those pills ought to have
had more effect. I think Bluehaven is too relaxing
for her. It is a very relaxing place."

Relaxing ! My dear Admiral, Bluehaven is a very,
very bracing place. Dr Fozzle considers it an exceedingly

bracing place. That is why he sent the Bishop
here."

Dr Fozzle ! " cried the Admiral, with the sort of
look he would have cast upon an " old tub," for whose
seagoing capacity he had an unutterable contempt 
Dr Fozzle ! "

Dr Fozzle is the first opinion in the diocese. I
think very highly of him," said Clara, shortly.

But the Admiral was not easily suppressed on the
subject of doctors. He was in the habit of saying,
When the dosers find a cure for the yellow jack,
I'll believe in them ; but not till then." He himself
had enjoyed wonderfully good health, and had never
had any illness but the ague ; so he thoroughly believed
in the ague, and indeed thought that whoever was ill
must have the ague, and could have nothing else. But
it was no doctor cured him of the ague. Dr Colony,
of H.M.S. Crasher, was about as great an old quack
as you could find anywhere. Wliy, he could not even
cure his own sea-sickness ! He was the worst sailor
the Admiral had ever known ; and on the rare occasions
when he was not ill over the side, he was half-seas
over. Lord bless his soul ! it was not Colony
had cured him. It was those wonderful quinine pills
had pulled him through ! And the pills were a patent
medicine given him by a messmate, who had bought
them in New York, on the strength of a glowing advertisement.
This advertisement was wrapped round
every box, and being frequently read and re-read by
the Admiral, tended to confirm his own idea that the

pills which had cured him would cure the whole
world.

I am amazed, Mrs Newsham," said the Admiral,
indignantly  " I am amazed you can think highly of
a man who could send the Bishop to Bluehaven, and
call it a bracing place. Dr Fozzle ! arrant old humbug,
Mrs ISTewsham ! arrant old humbug ! Just like
the rest of them. Now I should like to meet Dr Nozzle,
and tell him how thoroughly this place disagrees
with the Bishop. I wonder you don't see it yourself,
Mrs Newsham ! The Bishop was looking comparatively
well when he came here, and we have all remarked
the change in him. All the children see it.
And I was only speaking to Newsham on the subject
yesterday ; and even he sees it, and strongly advises
an immediate change to Eastcourt. I intend speaking
to him again to-day ; for it is quite clear the Bishop
will be seriously ill if he stays on here. Dr Fozzle is
preparing a nice case for himself. Dr Fozzle indeed !
Best opinion in the diocese ! Calls Bluehaven a bracing
place ! Lord bless my soul ! "

A mutiny on board the Admiral's own ship could
never have astonished him more than the state of his
own mind now astonished Clara. The Admiral was
becoming a dangerous man ! And he had actually
meddled with Thomas. He had put notions into
Thomas's blind head, and intended to put more. And
no doubt he had called Dr Fozzle a humbug to the
Bishop !

But a moment's reflection brought an idea into

Clara's mind : it was not a bad one to find in a hurry.
Well, my dear Admiral," she said, thoughtfully 
and though very angry with him, she did manage to
smile quite prettily upon him  " well, my dear Admiral,
do you know, I too have been feeling just, justa
little anxious about the dear Bishop, and I am not
quite, quite certain Dr Fozzle has altogether perfectly
understood the case."

I am sure he has not," cried the believer in one,
and only one, sort of pill.

You see, my dear Admiral," continued Clara, " unfortunately,
most unfortunately, Dr Fozzle has no opinion
of tonics. He never seems to give quinine."

I should think not indeed ! would have no patients
if he did. Ha ! ha ! ha 1 "

Poor Dr Fozzle ! Poor, dear Dr Fozzle ! " And
Clara laughed with the Admiral ; and then Clara put on
such a prettily coaxing little manner, that the Admiral
could not help feeling she really was the most charming
of charming women. And Clara said what she had
intended to say for the last two minutes.

"Xow, my dear, dear Admiral, do you know  do
you know what I am going to propose to you ? You
are such a very dear kind man that I would ask you
to do quite an unpleasant thing  what I would not
think of asking anybody else in the whole world todo.
Now I know it is very difficult to get my dear
father to take anything he does not fancy, and he has
no faith at all in medicine, none whatever ! The dear
Bishop is really very, very naughty in that way. But

if only, if only, my clear Admiral, you could manage
to make him take just one little box of your quinine
pills, I am sure you would find Bluehaven would
agree quite well with him. And I should think you,
oh, my dear Admiral, I should think you such a very
clever man ! And so very, very kind ! "

The Admiral was delighted at the idea 1 quite delighted
! He instantly, without any delay whatever,
set to doctoring the Bishop.

In an incredibly short time he informed Mrs Xew-
sham that he no longer thought Bluehaven disagreed
with her Pdght Eeverend father, although he still considered
Dr Fozzle was entirely wrong in calling it a
bracing place.

However, there were drawbacks to the Admiral's
pill practice ; he took such an extraordinary interest
in his patients that he was perpetually visiting and
watching them. He insisted on doctoring Thomas
too. The consequence was, that unless he happened
to be out in the Dancer keenly watching Adela's
symptoms, he was sure to be in the rectory study
closeted with the Bishop and Thomas.

Clara thought the half-pay system a national misfortune,
as it stranded men accustomed to an active
life when their superabundant energy was still unpleasantly
vigorous ; and she wondered if her cousin.
Sir Cutlass Cutter, one of the sea lords, could not put
the Admiral on full pay and order him out of the
country. She began to wish him off the west coast
of Africa, for there was the Bishop taking a violent

saucy to him ! People would not unfrequently fall in
love with the Admiral.

Clara was getting thoroughly provoked with the
vigorous sailor. He spoke his mind so freely, told
the Bishop exactly what he thought of Dr Fozzle
and of Bluehaven, and then enlivened the Eight Reverend
grandpa with stories about the " children "
and their sayings and doings  just those little stories
which Clara would rather not have had repeated.
And he even enticed Thomas out for a sail in the
Dancer, so that Thomas might see all the fun. The
childlike innocence and openness of nature which
had once made Clara fond of the Admiral, were now
what she most disliked in him. It was this very
guilelessness and his perfect faith in herself which
threatened to endanger the success of her little plan.
Clara felt that the ba-lamb gambolling without cunning,
as instinct prompts its simple heart, is a decided
mistake in matters of intricate diplomacy. She
determined to Get rid of the Admiral.

She seized the first opportunity of doing so. It
would not have seemed a very promising one to anybody
but herself. The Admiral showed her a letter
he had got from Kate Crofton giving rather a better
account of Sir Cuthbert. And what did Clara do but
instantly persuade him, with a sort of melancholy tenderness
of manner infinitely disquieting to his apprehensive
kindliness, that from the supposed nature of
the disease it was really a worse one !

To my mind, the worst account we have yet had ;

for you see, my dear Admiral, Kate does not say poor
dear Sir Cuthbert's strength is keeping up. She does
not wish to make us too unhappy ! "

The Admiral was devotedly attached to his nephew
Cuthbert, who was like a second son to him; and
Clara worked upon his feelings to such a degree, that
he actually started that very afternoon for Crofton
Place ! though it went to his heart to leave Blue-haven
while the Dancer was " out." He only had
her " out for seven weeks of the year, during
Charlie's holidays. She had been built on his own
lines, and there never was so perfect a little nine-tonne
; she had a flying jib that was not exactly like
any other jib, and no vessel of her size ever sailed as
she did.

Clara accompanied the Admiral to the railway
station, being afraid he might change his mind and
get less unhappy about Sir Cuthbert if he took that
seven miles' drive alone without any one to depress
his spirits. Her last words to him were, " I am sure
poor dear Sir Cuthbert wants a tonic. Now, my dear
Admiral, I am sure he does ! "

If only," thought Clara, " the Admiral could persuade
himself Sir Cuthbert has the ague, he would
certainly stay away for the next ten days, and then
George would have gone to his crammer, and we
should all be leaving Bluehaven."

Clara was perfectly aware George kept out of her
way. " If I were not here, he would be a great deal
more with Adela than he is, for he would come down

from the Lookout with Charlie every evening. I can
see he is afraid of me, and perhaps thinks I am
against this match. I quite remember I told Kate
I was against it, that time four years ago, at Eastcourt.
Kate may have told him. I meant her to tell him."

So Clara, having got rid of the Admiral, proceeded
to get rid of herself. She said she really must  now
really she must  go home, just for a day or two, to
see how Rockhurst and Tom were getting on with the
tutor who was coaching them during the holidays.
This " coach " had been invented  to the boys' intense
disgust  by Clara entirely in order to keep them at
Eastcourt out of the way.

Clara went home " to look after the boys and their
tutor," and also to see Miss Smith and the younger
children. Clara has a particular talent for finding
plausible excuses, and invariably has the best reasons
for doing whatever she wishes to do.

The careful mother left Thomas at Bluehaven " as a
chaperon " to the two girls, but with no orders to look
after them ; she only gave him injunctions to read
certain excellent books aloud to the really spiritual-minded
Bishop. Though not a good reader, Thomas
read better than he talked, because he paid more
consecutive attention to his reading than to his conversation.


VOL.

CHAPTER Vii

When the Admiral went away, the Dancer had to be
left at her moorings : she was not safe for the boys to
handle alone. Indeed there were wiseacres down in
the village who shook their heads and declared she
was not over-safe for the Admiral in a breeze : these
were certain very knowing superannuated old salts,
who apparently passed their life on the tiny pier, perpetually
looking through a spyglass, usually at nothing.
Wet or dry, there they were 1 and they never wore a
coat  only trousers, a jersey, and a pair of braces.
They liked having the Dancer to look at, and would
follow her through the spy-glass for a whole afternoon.
They really took a pride in her, and were on cordial,
even affectionate, terms with the Admiral ; and yet,
after an oracular fashion peculiarly their own, they
were always damping the enthusiastic admiration the
Admiral felt for his nine-tonne. He had actually
risked the danger of taking the Dancer over to Cherbourg
in breezy weather, in order to show them what
sort of craft she was. Still, though secretly impressed
by this feat, they would never say so, but continued

to disparage her. Then they none of them liked that
new-fangled jib. Now the jib was the joy of the
Admiral's heart.

We'll miss the Dancer," said Tom Bracer, the old
salts' chief spokesman. " That we 'full. But Master
Charlie, he never could handle her ; and Master George,
he's no good. The likes of them couldn't manage that
'ere jib. That 'ere jib 'full sink her some day. Ay,
ay ! she's none too safe with the Admiral on board 
none too safe ! " And the other oracles chimed in as
was their wont, " That 'ere jib 'full do it ! "

The Admiral, on leaving, had given his son Charlie
the key of the boathouse, and had told him he might
make use of the punt or the gig. George only cared
for sea-fishing ; and that, he declared, was impossible in
the gig. So the day after Clara's departure for East-court,
when George felt he might once more be comfortable
on shore, he begged the kindly Thomas to let
him ride one of the carriage-horses, as nobody went
out driving now. He borrowed a saddle from the
surgeon-apothecary, and, to the disgust of Harper the
coachman, rode one horse in the morning and the
other in the afternoon. He was so well amused that
he got into very good humour, stopped " sapping " in
the evening, came down to the rectory, and as he had
not seen the girls all day, and Clara was not thereto
watch him, did not mind joining in a round
game so long as he had not Adela for a partner.
Whenever the Bishop could be enticed to play, Adela
was given to him, and George took Thomas. As for

Charlie and Nellie, they would only play with each
other.

Now that George was perpetually riding the carriage
horses on shore, Adela liked boating better than
she had ever done before, especially as she thought
Charlie would not dare to take the gig over the bar.
Charles Crofton and Nellie would have liked Adela to
stay at home ; but they did not say so  no, not even
to each other. Nellie would have been ashamed to
confess so unkindly a feeling, and she tried hard to
think she liked having Adela very much indeed ; yet
she could not help agreeing with Charlie, who had
cordially adopted George's opinion, that Adela was an
awful duffer."

I say, Nell, did you ever see such an awful duffer
as Adela ? She is always in a funk for fear she would
be drowned. By Jove, what a fuss she will make
tomorrow when I rig up the sail I've found at the
back of the boathouse ! And what a glorious lark we
shall have shaving those islands ! I can tell you, I
mean to astonish the men in the village and show
Tom Bracer and old Jack Hillock I know how to
steer ! "

Next day Charlie hoisted his sail, to Adela's horror.
The " glorious lark " of " shaving the islands " terrified
her. Her practical mind saw the great danger very
clearly. As a fact, they really did run a fearful risk.
For Charlie's sake, Nellie had thrown herself into his
grand ambition of showing Tom Bracer and Jack
EuUock he could steer, and, for the moment, it absorbed

her, like him, to the excision of all other
feelings.

o

Charlie was so immensely elated at having shaved
the islands successfully, that he proposed to go back
and shave them again.

Poor Adela loudly protested  " I don't want to be
drowned." This sent the other two into fits of
laughter.

"Adela, you always do think you are going to be
drowned ! " cried Nellie.

Adela, you are a duffer 1 You funk everything,"
cried Charlie.

But Adela said with much truth, " You know very
well, Charlie, that if you come to grief in the straits,
with those high rocks at each side, and deep water all
round, you'll save Nellie, and you won't save me, and
I can't swim."

Charlie was intensely amused at this idea, so
laughed the more.

I insist on your landing me," said Adela with
much decision.

Can't ! " said Charlie ; " we are too far from
shore. By the time we had gone in and come out
again, it would be too late for the straits. You can
only shave through at half tide."

But you must land me. I won't be drowned !
I won't ! " cried Adela piteously.

Nellie was moved to compassion by her frightened
look, and although she thought her fears ridiculous and
groundless, she pleaded for her with Charlie : " Do

land her ! do, Charlie ! Land her, as she is
frightened."

Charles Crofton had set the rudder straight for the
islands, and had not swerved an inch at Adela's
prayer, but at Nellie's voice a wavering look crossed
his firm countenance. Adela saw it.

Land me ! Land me anywhere ! Land me here,
Charlie  here, on Eocky Islet ! Stop I stop ! There's
time."

And there was time  just enough, but only just, to
lower the sail and stop the gig's way with an oar.
The oar caught a crab. Adela thought they were
over, and she gave such a jump out of the boat that
she landed half-way up the islet, and uttered such a
scream that Charlie and Nellie sailed away with
renewed merriment. Adela stood on the rock and
watched them gliding along, and their laughter came
back to her across the water.

Charlie was right ; half tide was the time for
shaving the islands. Later on the rush of water
made the small channel too dangerous. There was
more risk in going west towards Bluehaven than east,
as you entered the straits by the narrower end, where
they were but six feet wide ; and the current was
against you.

One of Charlie's chief reasons for wishing to " shave
the islands " again, was that as yet he had only done
so from the less dangerous side.

The breeze had freshened. The little gig flew
swiftly before the summer wind like a joyous bird on

the wing. They were almost upon the islands when
Charlie suddenly saw he had miscalculated the tide,
and saw his little craft could not stem the strong:
current of the risen water rushing through the narrow
opening between the rocks. Quick as thought
he put the rudder round, thrust the tiller into Nellie's
hand, crying out to her to hold it fast, and tried to
lower the madly flapping sail. For one full minute
it seemed as if the shivering boat must be caught by
the current and hurled against the rocks. There is a
long suspense in sixty seconds when suddenly they are
stopped like a wound-out watch, in the presence of death.

"We are safe," said Charles Crofton at last, with
a pale and deathly sort of calm ; and he quietly took
the tiller out of Nellie's shaking; hand.

She was trembling violently. The death-scare was
still in her face. " We were a long, long time in
awful danger," she said, and heaved a sigh of deep
relief. Charlie did not speak again. " I thought of
so many things," she said ; " some of them I had forgotten
years ago." He did not speak. " Charlie," she
whispered, " when you and I do really die, I hope we
shall die quickly. It was horrible to be so long." But
Charlie still was silent. His face was sternly set, and
his awestruck, absent look made Nellie grow silent too.

The gig sailed on towards Bluehaven, quite in safe
water now. The little waves, parted by the boat,
rippled loudly to Nellie's ear ; the small mast creaked,
and she heard the curlew cry : but these sounds only
seemed to mark the more intensely that silence which

overpowered lier and stayed the flow of words which
would have eased the strange emotion of renewed life.

At length it was Charlie and not she who broke
the long silence. He spoke as if awaking from a
dream, and unaware how long that dream had been.
Nell," he said eagerly, coming quite back to life 
oh, Nell ! you would have been drowned ! That
current must have sucked you down."

But you would have tried to save me, Charlie ;
I know you would ! "

I could not have saved you, Nell," he said in a
low voice. " But we should have died together."

Her large sweet eyes met his with a look of holy
trust, and her voice was very tender as she answered 

I knew you would have laid down your life in
trying to save mine. I knew you would have died to
save me. Ah, Charlie, I knew you would ! "

I am glad you knew it, Nell," said he simply,
and silence once more fell upon them, but this time
like a pleasant dream to both. It was unfelt by
Nellie.

How softly the hushed mind will sleep while we
sail onwards before the breeze upon a summer sea !
The gurgling wavelets which soon get so vaguely
monotonous of sound, the languor in the air, the
voices coming over the water like dreams from the
land, all lull to an unthinking rest.

The gig went straight before the wind, past Blue-haven
and down the creek beyond to the point where
that first bend of laud takes place, and there it became

necessary to tack, and the spell of unconscious silence
was broken. Dreamland vanished away.

We have forgotten Adela ! " said Charles Crofton
suddenly.

Adela ! " cried Nellie, aghast. She had never
once thought of her.

It will take some time to beat back to Eocky
Islet again," said Charlie, looking out anxiously over
the bay. Nellie's eyes followed his, and she realised
how far the scudding sail had carried the little ofisf.

The water never covers Eocky Islet  never,
Charlie ! " But there was a great fear in Nellie's
heart which her words in vain belied.

The stern, set look came over Charles Crofton's face
again. " It is covered during the spring tides," he
said hoarsely ; " but I do not know how much. We
have the spring tides now."

When Adela had seen the gig put back at the very
mouth of the island straits, her joy in being relieved
from a horrid certainty had been great ; but when she
saw it scudding before the breeze towards Bluehaven,
then passing the village, and still flying onwards down
the creek, her first feeling gave place to a growing
uneasiness. lvH

Nellie has forgotten me, and Charlie is glad to be
rid of me. Nellie forgets so quickly when she is
pleased, and she will enjoy running before the wind
with Charlie. She and Charlie like to be together.
It is not awkward for them, because Nellie is not
grown up, so Charlie can never think she is in love

with him ; and you can be so happy and comfortable
if people don't think that. I wish I were not grownup,"
sighed Adela ; and she whiled away two whole
minutes thinking how much she would dislike to
be sailing all alone with George as her sister sailed
with Charlie,  " though George," thought she, " would
not do the dreadful dangerous things Charlie is so
fond of."

But Adela had not the sort of mind which lives by
nature in the picture-land where every passing fancy
paints itself, and where your dreams stand out before
you in such vivid colours that, gazing, you beget fresh
thoughts and see new tints, and so turn to look once
more, then look again, and yet again, till the moment
of some rude awakening comes. Nellie could thus
dream hours away ; but Adela never stayed long in
dreamland  practical realities always stood too clearly
before hermind.

She now was wide awake, and saw the tide was
coming in, and had already covered the little strip of
sand which fringed the crescent-shaped hollow of the
rock. The islet was just like a horse-shoe, only one
end was round, and rose much higher out of the water
than the other, and at a distance looked like a big
ball forgotten accidentally upon the narrow ledge, as
if on some stormy day the waves had been at play,
and had left their rough ball behind them.

Adela was dreadfully bored sitting all alone and
with nothing to thhik of. It was not till after what
seemed to her an endless time of dreary waiting that

she saw the gig put round and begin to tack towards
her. " They have remembered me at last ! but they
have been a long time about it." And naturally
enough she was vexed, especially as the tide was running
in so quickly. " I shall wet my feet getting
into the boat when it does come' thought the practical
Adelaide

was seated on a level with the water, looking
out over the bar into the open sea beyond the haven's
mouth, and as the tide got higher it seemed as if the
whole sea were rising to flow in upon her, and one
wave bigger than the rest rushed up so far upon the
rock that it almost caught her feet. But Adela was
not frightened. She was sure that at the highest tide
the round projecting boulder never could be covered,
because grass grows on the flat top, and there is no
seaweed." With untroubled presence of mind, and
carefully picking her steps where there were pools on
the rocky ledge, she climbed up on to the small grass-grown
plateau, some five feet broad, and sat there
looking down upon the sea, which from that height
seemed calm enough. She quietly watched the gig
slowly tacking up the bay.

Adela was never tortured by imaginary fears. She
did not think, as many would, " To-day the tide may
come a little higher than it ever has before ; a large
wave may roll in, as waves have done upon a calm
sea when a storm was coming from the ocean, or an
earthquake had convulsed some foreign shore. Withall
her horror of being drowned, it was only of

what she considered sure danger that she was
afraid.

She little suspected the anguish Charlie and her
sister were suffering on her account. It surprised her
to see they had lowered the sail and were rowing
quickly towards her, and it greatly pleased her, for she
said to herself, " Perhaps Charlie will now allow I
have some common-sense. I told him he was sure to
be drowned if he went through the straits again, and
he would not believe me, but he had to turn back
after all. I told him the sail was dangerous, and now
he has lowered it of his own accord."

Adela liked to be thought very sensible. That
was the chief reason why the awkwardness about
George and the Admiral's little jokes had been so
painful to her. She had been made to feel silly, and
this hurt the pride she took in her own common-sense.
Adela had always felt she was sensible and Nellie
foolish ; but of late everybody and everything seemed
to have conspired to make her appear silly and Nellie
sensible. This cruel injustice had been very hard to
bear.

When Charlie and Eleanour at length came near
enough to be sure Adela was safe, Nellie was so overcome
by revulsion of feeling from terror to joy, that
she stopped rowing and sobbed aloud. Charlie, too,
was moved, though not to tears. They were like two
murderers reprieved, for they had felt like guilty murderers
all this long, long time, since first they remembered
Adela. Ages seemed to them to have passed

since then. " But what," they had thought over andover
again  "what must this horrible, dragged-out
suspense be to poor Adela ? "

For one minute  they now knew it could really
have taken them no longer to have lowered the sail,
unshipped the oars, and put round the gig at the
islands,  so for one minute, and only one, they
had been face to face with death this day, and yet
there had been a lifetime in those slowly passing
seconds. What then must the last long hour have
been to Adela ?

Fearing Adela might have lost her senses through
terror, Charlie, as he neared the rock, shouted out to
her, " Don't jump ! don't jump ! You will sink the
boat. For God's sake, Adela, don't jump ! "

I have not the very slightest intention of jumping,"
said Adela, in a self-possessed, piqued little
voice. " But I really beg you will bring the boat
near enough for me to get into it without wetting my
feet. I will stay where I am sooner than wet my
feet."

Ghosts unexpectedly come back amongst living
men have said startling things, but no speech of a
returned spirit ever surprised two people more than
these composed annoyed little words of Adela's now
astonished her sister and Charlie, They were dumb
with amazement; Adela astounded them. The only
emotion she seemed to feel was the fear of wetting
her feet !

She climbed down slowly and deliberately from the

round projecting rock ; but in getting into the boat
she did wet one foot, and for several minutes this
misfortune seemed to engross her whole attention.
I hate getting my feet wet," she said ; and she
scolded Charlie for not having held the boat-hook
steadier, and Nellie for having caught a crab just as
she was stepping into the gig. Her fretfulness about
her wet shoe and stocking sounded to her dazed companions
as the complaint of some one buried alive
might do, if the living corpse sat up in her coffin and
found fault with the people who had undone the lid
awkwardly in their hurry. " We nearly murdered
her, and she says nothing about it," thought the 
culprits.

Adela had all the talk to herself. She wondered
if it would be better to take off her stocking: or leave
it on ? She would take off the boot at any rate.
Then, after hesitating if she would not take off the
stocking too, she finally did take it off. To her surprise,
Charlie pulled off his flannel jacket, and insisted
on making a warm nest, and he wrapped up her little
foot in it quite tenderly.

How polite you are, Charlie ! You are not generally
so polite to me, but only to Nellie. How very
extraordinary ! " And Adela looked up in naive astonishment
at Charlie ; and then she looked at her sister.
Something has happened," she said ; " why, Nellie,
you have been crying ! "

Oh, Adela, Adela ! " exclaimed Nellie, passionately,
forgive me, forgive me ! I forgot you ; we both forgot

you. And we thought Eocky Islet was covered
at the spring tides, and we  we thought you would
be drowned ! "

Adela," said Charlie, looking at her with admiration
 yes, unmistakably with admiration,  " I will
never call you a duffer or a funk again. You have not
felt one bit afraid. You have not," he added, though
the avowal cost him a great deal  "you have not
been as much shaken by seeing death quite near as
Nellie and I were to-day."

Adela 's fair face flushed with pleasure. She forgot
the boredom and vexation of the last hour, so delighted
was she to be thought sensible once more ; but she
was perfectly truthful by nature, and never wished to
take more credit for anything than was exactly her
due. " I knew the rock was never quite covered at
high-water, or I should not have asked you to land
me there."

But in a storm," cried Nellie, " a big wave would
cover it."

There was no storm," said Adela, shortly.

But an earthquake's wave might have rolled in."
Nellie had thought of the earthquake possibility.

So like you, Nellie, to think of that ! " exclaimed
Adela, with an air of immense superiority to her
younger sister. " Earthquake ! ridiculous nonsense !
Now, Charlie, that is silly, is it not ? "

But dreadful possibilities had entered his head too,
and he repeated, " Adela, I am awfully sorry I ever
called you a duffer."

Adela felt just like her own sensible self again.
How delightful it was to be recognised as a person
who had no silly fanciful fears ! She began to improve
the occasion. " And now, Charlie," she said, " I
think for once you will allow I was right and you were
wrong. The island straits were really dangerous ? "

"Yes," said Charlie, humbly enough.

And it was quite sensible of me not to wish to be
drowned ? "

Certainly," said Charlie.

"All right," said Adela. "And now we'll row
home."

We had better sail," said Charlie ; " the wind is
in our favour, and Nellie is dead beat."

But Adela was strangely frightened at this proposal,
and protested loudly against it.

Well, Adela," cried Charlie, " you are odd. You
will face danger calmly one moment, and be terrified
the next when there is none. It is quite safe
sailing."

Oh yes ; to be sure, quite safe ! And it was
quite safe shaving those islands ! " said Adela, triumphantly.


At this the other two felt awkward, and Adela had
her own way about the sail. But Charlie and Eleanour
eased their burdened feelings by exclaiming, "Adela,
you are odd ! "

]Not odd at all," replied Adela ; " only sensible.
I am not afraid when there is no danger, and I am
when there is. I am always frightened going up the

Dinner's side, because if I slipped I should be drowned ;
and I knew the straits were dangerous before you both
had the sense to know it ; and I now know there will
be an accident with that sail, and then I should certainly
be drowned, for you would both forget me and
only save each other."

It was in vain her sister and Charlie vowed they
would never forget her again, and faithfully promised
always to remember her.

jSTo ; you will forget me all the same," said the
practical Adela ; " I know you will. You will forget,
just as you did to-day. I don't want to be drowned ;
so I am quite determined never to go out boating with
you again. When I was waiting for you on Eocky
Islet, I made up my mind on that point, and settled I
would stay at home in future, and ride that broken-winded
pony who has been eating his head off in the
rectory field ever since we came. If you don't make
a silly fuss, papa will never know I am not out boating,
or poor dear grandpa either  they never know
where we are or what we are doing."

Clare and Eleanour implored Adela to trust them
again. They felt in honour bound to beg her very
warmly not to stay on shore in future. But Adela
was firm. And if the real truth be told, they liked
her all the better for her stanch refusal.

No, no ; I'll never go out in the gig again," she
declared, and then suddenly changed colour and
added nervously, " not  not unless mamma should
come back unexpectedly, for then I know she would

VOL. I. G

make me go out boating  I know she would ; and
she would not let George ride the carriage-horses anymore."


But I say, Adela," said Charlie, somewhat maliciously,
" if George came out boating too, you would
be quite safe. He would save you."

No, he would not," replied the girl decidedly, and
then coloured violently.

You must not tease Adela, Charlie. You mustn't ! "
cried Nellie ; " we have been so cruel to her to-day.
Oh, it was very cruel to forget you, Adela 1 and I
don't know what made us forget you. I never forgot
you before."

From that day forth, for a whole week, Adela rode
the rector's broken - winded pony every afternoon.
George still continued to ride the carriage-horses, but
whilst he trotted off in one direction, Adela went the
opposite way. They managed so well, and had such
good sight, and saw each other such a long, long distance
off, that they never once met.

CHAPTER IX.

How full of happy chance is life to some ! Fate
seems by little kindly acts to woo them on to joy.
The very sun will shine for them, while the evil accident
of rain will part two others who might have
loved as well as they.

August so often ends in storm and wet, as if the
dying summer were in tears, and wept because its
pleasant days had passed away. But this year the
summer lingered smiling to the last. There was no
chill of coming autumn in the air.

The soft breeze which moved upon the blue sea by
day would fall to rest with the setting sun, and at
night would sleep with the moonlight on the water ;
but only to rise again next day and fill the white sails
that now for long hours would waft Charles Crofton
and the young girl he loved far away into a pleasant
world of their own. A change had come over Charlie.
He no longer attempted dangerous feats of adventure,
but seemed content to let the little gig drift quietly
before the light wind.

I am glad we are alone together," he would say.

We can speak when we wish, and be silent when weare
tired of talking. I often like to sail on in silence,
Nell."

And so do I, Charlie ; for then I listen to the
boat going through the water, and to the noise of the
little sail. And I love to hear the curlew crying
upon that distant bank or out at sea. It is all so
like a dream, that it is a pity to wake up and talk."

Yes ; it is like a dream ! "

But for him the dream was in her tender beauty,
and in the love which had stolen into his heart,
though he did not clearly know it. Silence was
pleasant to him, for he was gazing on Nellie, and
could not tire of gazing upon that tender, touching
face.

George Eliot has said there are faces which nature
charges with a meaning and a pathos not 
to the sino-le human soul that flutters beneath

o o o

them, but speaking the joys and sorrows of foregone
generations. And this is wonderfully true. We all
have seen that look which seems bequeathed to some
by the joys now pulseless, and the buried sorrows of
the people who have gone before us in this world :
a look bequeathed by the poor girl who loved one
man, and was forced to wed another ; by the mother's
rapturous joy over the child long since dead, as she is
dead ; but the anguish of the parted ones whose very
name no one on earth remembers now. For like the
lingering colours which tell us of a sun that is set,
there are lights upon some young faces, and shades in

the depths of touching eyes, not old enough as yet
to have wept the tears of hopeless grief. You will
sometimes see those lights and shadows of far-off
emotions on the faces of quite young children, and
will wonder at them.

Nellie was still almost a child, and her large beseeching
eyes spoke emotions that as yet she had not
felt ; but within her soul there was the power to feel
the joy and sorrow they could express, so they were
true eyes. They were not like Clara's.

Nellie had not her mother's firm, clear-cut features.
Her face was all soft expression ; it was full of the
power to feel, but with no look that told of the character
which can withstand strong feeling. There was
no strength anywhere. The pretty, cherry-coloured
little mouth was weak, and the round, dimpled chin
slightly receded. Her blue-grey eyes, deeper than
her mother's, were darkly set. They were her beauty;
they were her whole face ; they pleaded for the love
she needed. Her colouring was of tender fairness.
She had Clara's transparently white skin, but its
marble was not cold. Like Galatea, the statue Lived,
and the colour came and went, and came again, into
her cheek with all the warmth of a young life. There
was nothing cold about Nellie. Her auburn hair was
very warm in hue, and the little straying curls which
danced upon her forehead and her neck made soft
shadows there.

The young man, whose buoyant life and desire for
movement and for talk her presence stilled so strangely,

was a contrast to herself. His strongly marked
features were like his father's, only the high nose and
clearly defined chin seemed larger than the Admiral's,
perhaps because he was just at that age when the
roundness of the face, like that of the figure, has not yet
been fully moulded. Charlie's blue eyes were smaller
than his father's, but there was more fire in them.
He was a good-looking, fairish-haired, tall young Englishman.
His smile was a joyous one, but in repose
there was a marked expression of set purpose on his
face.

When Nellie, feeling his long, dreaming gaze upon
her, would, wondering, raise her sweet, pathetic eyes
to his, it was a calm and steadfast look she met  a
grave look, such as we see in the old paintings on the
faces of holy men who gaze with untroubled joy upon
the blessed Virgin.

Charlie," the young girl would say  it was she
who oftener broke the dreamlike silence  " Charlie,
what a pity it is that there will be no sea in heaven ! "
This regret came back to her two or three times. " It
is a sad, sad pity there will be no sea in heaven !
Some people think," she said, " there will not even be a
lake of clear, cool water ; and I love the water ! The
very sounds that come across it seem as if they really
did not come from land. And I love the pleasant coolness
of the air ! And when it is calm, as now it often
is in the evening, I do so like to see the low banks
near the bar, and the cliffs at the Lookout, and the
little pier, and the houses in the village, and those few

trees beyond, and the islands too, all looking down
into the bay as if each one had found a kind, kind
friend so like itself that it could whisper every little
secret of its heart and never feel afraid ! It is so
happy," she sighed, " never to feel afraid 1 '

Charlie woke from his dreams, and startled her by
saying earnestly, " Nellie, you will never be afraid of
me ? Promise you never will be afraid of me." And
she promised what he asked ; but in her inmost soul
she feared a little as she gave her word, yet knew not
why.

One day, towards the close of the pleasant week,
she said, " Charlie, do you think heaven will really
be as happy as this earth ? "

He hesitated a moment, from the sort of shyness
which makes a serious young Englishman chary of
touching upon a sacred subject ; and then he said, ina
low, grave voice, " There will be no parting in
heaven. The people who like to be together will
always be together."

Nellie was looking down into the water, and she
repeated, as if whispering to the rippling tide, " They
will always be together." And as she softly whispered,
she felt Charlie's strong gaze fixed upon lier.

But will they be alone together ? " cried the young
man suddenly, with passion in his voice. He was
quite near to Nellie in the stern of the little gig, and
she started, bewildered by some new sensation, and
by the changed eager look she saw in his face, and by
the strangeness of his voice. Frightened as much by

her own emotion as by his, she shrank away from
him.

He too drew back, and felt as if she had wounded
him. There had been other words upon his lips, but
they were chilled into silence now.

She looked again at him, but he no longer looked
at her. She thought his face was rather hardly set,
as if he were angry, and wondering much, and trembling
to her own surprise, she gently, for a moment,
but no more, put her little shaking hand on his, and
he felt her draw near to him again  yet not so near,
he thought, as she had been before.

Ah, Charlie ! " she said, " you startled me a little,
for your voice was strange." Then, as he said nothing,
she continued, rather sadly  " There will be so
many people in heaven whom we shall love, for
angels love everybody, that I do not think two angels

will ever be left quite quiet and alone together "

she was going to say, " as you and I have been." But
she gave a little sigh instead, then tried to say the
words, then could not say them, for Charlie was still
strange and absent, as he had been that day a week
before when they had both seen death so near. She
felt his silence once more painfully as she had felt it
then. They were sailing down the haven before the
wind as they had done that day, and, sailing onwards,
she wondered why he was so absent now, and thought
she would ask him, but could not, and then wondered
why she could not, and why she was growing just a
little shy with him, and could not ask him everything

quite easily. And she looked down over the boat's
side and watched the small waves running past like
the grasped thoughts through a sleeper's mind ; and
thus looking, she fell to vaguely dreaming to the sound
of the water as if it had been soft music.

Holloa, holloa ! Look out ! Wherever are you going ?
By Jove, you're into me, I say ! Look out ! look out,
will you ? " They had nearly swamped the punt with
Georoe Crofton in it. " Catch me comines out with
telegrams for either of you again ! I say, were you
both asleep ? By Jove, you're asleep still ! Throw
me that painter, can't you ? and I'll step on board
while you read the telegram, and we'll tow the punt.
Steady, steady there, Nellie ! "

She was making room for George by changing her
seat.

Why should you move ? " said Charlie, looking as
if she had wounded him again, and she stepped back
quickly to her place beside him, jostling George, who
was just getting into the gig, and nearly upsetting
them all in her hurry.

By Jove ! " cried George, " thought we were over.
Bad luck's in the air. Hope," he said, giving a telegram
to Charlie, and speaking with a kind of blunt
emotion,  " hope there's . . . there's no bad news ?
Uncle Cuthbert not dead ? "

Dead ! " exclaimed Nellie, turning pale, as if she
realised the full meaning of that dread word.

George sat quite still and looked away while Charles
Crofton read the telegram, but Nellie anxiously watched

Charlie's countenance : it fell as he read. He read
the lines twice over, then crumpled the paper absently
in his hand.

Show it to me," said Nellie. '"' He is not dead,"
she cried, on glancing over it ; " but oh, Charlie, Charlie,
must you go ? "

Her pained voice brought such joy into Charlie's
face that George, looking up, saw it, and mistaking
the reason of it, said warmly 

No bad news, I see. Awfully glad, my dear fellow
 awfully glad. Met the telegraph boy out riding
was awfully afraid something gone wrong. That's
why I came off in such a deuced hurry."

Charlie was sufficiently himself to answer  " Thanks
awfully ! "

But it is not good news," said Nellie. " The Admiral
won't come back here again, and he wants Charlie
to go to Crofton Place immediately  tomorrow ! "

Oh, I say ! " exclaimed George, " wait till Saturday.
I am going to that old fool of a crammer on Saturday."

But the Admiral thinks you are going there tomorrow,
George," said Nellie ; and she read the telegram
aloud 

o

Cuthbert better. Trying quinine pills. "Will lay
up Dancer. Come here rest holidays. George going
crammer tomorrow. Leave with him."

But I'm not going tomorrow," broke in George ;
I'm not going till the day after. I won't go till Saturday
morning. Mrs Xewsham is not coming back
till Saturday afternoon."

George spoke quite naturally, without reflecting
that what he said might sound odd to Mrs Xew-
sham's daughter ; but neither she nor Charlie
noticed this little slip of the tongue. They were
thinking  " Then we shall have another day together."


I say, Charlie," said George, " telegraph back to the
Admiral that you'll stay till Saturday. He won't
mind. The answer is prepaid, and the boy is waiting
for it up at the Lookout. You'd better make for
shore."

As they were sailing in, George exclaimed, " By
Jove ! but it is awfully jolly out here ! I say, does
Adela never come out now ? "

Not since the day we landed her on Eocky Islet,
and . . . forgot her ! We . we forgot her, though
the tide was coming in," said Nellie, blushing.

George burst out laughing. " Forgot Adela on
Eocky Islet ! Ha ! ha ! And the tide coming in !
By Jove, what an awful joke 1 Why did not you
tell me before ? "

George seemed delighted. " I say, that was a
joke ! Awful funk, I suppose ? Thought she was
drowning ? "

No ! she was not a bit afraid," said Eleanour.

Behaved like a brick, George," said Charlie, seriously.
" George, you are unfair to Adela. She is nota
duffer."

Adela not a duffer ? " stammered the astounded
George, slowly trying to grasp this amazing idea.

Aclela . . . Adela's an awful duffer ! " he exclaimed
mechanically, as if clinging desperately to the old
faith, because the new one was altogether too strange
for belief.

ISTo ! " said Charlie, decidedly ; and he again repeated
seriously, " she behaved like a brick."

Yes indeed, indeed she did, George ! " said Nellie ;
and the rock was all covered except just one end,
and if a big wave had rolled in . . . and a big wave
might have come, George ; you know it might ! But
Adela was not frightened, though she was quite an
hour in horrid danger,  one whole hour ! and one
minute seems such a long, long time, if you think you
are going to die ! Oh, George, George," she cried
with strong emotion, vividly remembering those sixty
seconds passed by her and Charlie between life
and death, and quite forgetting George knew nothing
of that dangerous adventure  " oh, George,
George, a minute is a long, long time to be near
death ! An instant would seem very long if you
were dying. It is horrible to be a long time dying.
Charlie and I felt how terrible it was. Even Charlie
turned very pale, and looked frightened."

This incoherent outpouring was naturally unintelligible
to George ; but he was not a young man who
bothered himself to understand very exactly everything
that everybody said. On most subjects unconnected
with cricket, or fishing, or hunting, a sort
of general impression quite satisfied his mental indolence.
His mind seized the words, " Charlie turned

pale, and looked frightened," and troubled about nothing
else.

I say, come now ! Charlie frightened and Adela
not ! Bosh ! " he exclaimed, contemptuously.

Charlie, like the Admiral, always tried to say or do
what he thought strictly honourable. " Nellie has
confused two sets of circumstances by the way she
has spoken of them. But that's no matter. It is
true, George," he said, " that once when Nellie and I
were in danger of beincr drowned, during what seemed
a long time, but what I now believe was only a short
minute, I thought it awful to be near death, and I
may have turned pale." Charlie spoke coolly enough.

But George, raw undeveloped lad as he was, divined
the confession cost him an effort. He was of a generous
nature, and if obtuse in most things, was not soin
all. He answered quickly, but addressing Nellie,
not Charlie,  " I am sure Charlie was awfully plucky
all the same, and did just the right thing at the
right moment."

Yes, George, he did ! He remembered everything,
and I should not have remembered what to do at all."

No ; girls never do," said George shortly, and then
added, in a tone of sharpness which surprised Nellie,
But I say, Nellie, you should never say a fellow
funked when he did not. Charlie never funked in
his life."

Charles's face flushed with pleasure, and George,
still speaking to Nellie, went on  " A fellow who has
sense knows when things are dangerous, and he does

uot like to die any more than a fool ; but he does not
lose his head, or run away, or funk, for all that. Girls,
who don't see half the danger, run away and funk."

This was a long speech on an abstract subject for
George, but he was indignant that the courage of one
he believed in like Charlie should be impugned.

But I say," he asked, " if Adela is so awfully
courageous, why is it she has funked boating ever since
the day she was so mighty plucky ? Odd, by Jove !"

In case of an accident, she wants some one to save
her from a ducking," said Charlie. " I say, George, she
wants you ! "

In case of an accident, bags I nellie ! " cried
George ; and he looked with open childlike pleasure
at the pretty young girl, as if he would be glad to
jump into the water for her sake.

Eemember, Nellie, I bag you," he repeated.
Charlie bags Adela ! "

George," said Charlie, testily, " you do talk slang !
Shocking bad form ! "

George did look surprised ! " By Jove ! why,
here's Charlie coming out all of a sudden as a
professor of the English language ! What an awful
joke ! " And he roared laughing. " But hang it ! "
he laughed, " slang or not slang, bags I Nellie ! "

George, in true schoolboy fashion, enjoyed his own
jokes immensely, no matter how small they were.
Then Nellie was laughing too. Most young girls
laugh at everything. George did not notice that
Charlie was looking seriously annoyed. But Nellie

turned her laughing face towards his, and seeing him
so grave, stopped laughing, as if there was no fun in
laughter in which he did not join.

George laughed on. " I say, bags I Nellie ! Incase
of shipwreck, Charlie bags Adela ! Hang it, if I
don't tell Adela you've bagged her, Charlie ! " He
looked at him now. " I'll die laughing if you're so
glum ! By Jove, I will ! Charlie bags Adela ! "
George did enjoy this joke ! He was enjoying himself
altogether. " I declare it is awfully jolly out here,"
he exclaimed. " Awfully jolly, and cool, and all that
sort of thing \ And I think three is just the right
number." He looked at JSTellie as if it were very
pleasant to see her and be with her. " Just the right
number," he repeated ; " much nicer than four. Don't
be afraid, old fellow : I was only joking," he said to
Charlie. " Catch me telling Adela anything I But, I
say, I know what I'll do I " he added joyfully. " Income
out sailing with you both tomorrow ! I had
better let the carriage-horses have a rest, as Mrs
Newsham is coming hodie on Saturday, and Harper
may tell tales. Besides, it will be awfully jolly out
here  awfully ! Only you and me, Nellie, and . . .
and just Charlie, and no one else ! "

There are happy people who always feel as if they
must be welcome everywhere, so long as they themselves
like to be with those whom they propose to join.
George was one of these smilingly unconscious ones.
He looked radiant, as if his proposal had undoubtedly
given his companions the satisfaction it gave himself.

His cousin and Nellie stole glances of dismay at
each other ; but as the gig was just inshore, their
absolute silence was covered by the interest of the
moment. There is always a certain little excitement
in running a boat properly on shore. George entered
into it heart and soul.

Well steered, Charlie ! Well steered ! I say, old
fellow, let me steer tomorrow. Awfully jolly little
gig ! No notion she was so jolly ! Much jollier than
the Dancer. And, by Jove, she's bigger than I
thought 1 On a calm day one might take her over
the bar; and 'there was I thinking she was too small!
Why, hang it, we might have had some sea-fishing
after all ! "

Jump ashore, Charlie," cried George, " and run
on ! run on ! ISTellie and I will see the sior safe into
the boathouse, and the punt too. I say, look sharp !
or you'll have that telegraph fellow swearing at you
for keeping him so long."

CHAPTEK X.

Next clay George was in a provokingly good humour.
There was no fjettincf rid of him.

Charlie said to him shortly, " I say, George, we
can't make Nellie sea-sick by taking her over the bar ;
and there's no fishing inside."

Awful bore ! " replied George  " awful ! but we'll
knock about the harbour instead."

George did feel so remarkably good-natured coming
out in this friendly sort of way with his cousin and
Nellie, and without any hope of fishing.

Nellie," said he, condescendingly, " Charlie says
you would be sea-sick if we crossed the bar, so I've
left all my tackle at home."

Nellie had to thank him as best she could. She
did not do so very warmly, because she was put out
he had not brought the tackle. She had arranged
such a nice little plan in her head. She had meant
to say, " George, do you know, I think you would
have excellent fishing from Eocky Islet. Adela
saw plenty of fish there the other day. Suppose
we land you there, and take a short sail, and come

VOL I. H

back." And she had quite settled George would jump
at the idea. So her disappointment was great.

Virtue is certainly its own reward. George felt so
perfectly satisfied with his own unselfishness, that he
was blinded by the glory of his own amiability, and
noticed nothing. He did not see that Charlie was
decidedly cross, or that Nellie was not at all in her
wonted spirits, and he kept on repeating with much
hearty enjoyment, " Awfully jolly out here ! sorry I
never came out with you before." It is true he was
steering at the moment ; and he went on steering fora
very long time. An endless time it seemed to
Eleanour ; for she was always hoping that when
Charlie began to steer, George would get bored, and
wish to be landed. George used to get dreadfully
bored out in the Dancer. He was a young man who
soon got bored if not actively occupied.

At length the moment did arrive when George became
aware he had been steering ever since they had
left shore. He changed places with Charlie ; and
soon after he ceased to exclaim, "Awfully jolly out
here ! " He began to cet restless and observant.

Holloa ! How silent you both are ! Sorry after
all I did not bring my tackle. Might perhaps have
hooked a stray herring in the bay. Would have
been something to do." He yawned ; and then he got
a regular fit of yawning.

All of a sudden he brightened up in the most surprising
way.

By Jove ! " he exclaimed, " if that's not young

Tom Bracer's fishing-smack out there near the bar,
waiting to come in with the flood. And, by Jove . . .
they're trawling ! I wonder what they can be trawling
for."

Quick as lightning Nellie said, " Oh, George,
wouldn't you like to go on board and have some fishing
? It is such a little way over the bar, and I
shouldn't be one bit ill  I am sure I should not ! "

Nellie, you're a brick ! Thanks awfully, awfully !
but " He looked at Charlie.

Charlie instantly said, " There is not half the sea
with an ebb tide there is with a flood. It is awfully
calm now. We could row out in ten minutes. I say,
George, we'll just lower the sail and row."

When George had actually hailed the fishing-smack,
and was almost in the act of boarding her, he got a
sudden fit of generosity, which sent a pang of fear
through Nellie's heart.

By Jove, but I'm an awfully selfish fellow ! "
cried he. " It's Charlie's last day, too, and Charlie
is awfully fond of fishing. I say, old fellow, you
go on board instead of me. I'll take Nellie home
all safe."

Charlie refused this kind invitation with a promptitude
which brought a blush into Nellie's fair cheek,
and certainly was a relief to George's mind. At eighteen
he loved fishing better than anything else on
earth, except hunting. He said, " Awfully sorry to
leave you both. Hope you don't think I'm awfully
rude, Nellie ; but you see it's my last day. Give you

my word of honour, if it wasn't my last day, wouldn't
think of leaving you. I shan't have any fishing at
that old fool of a crammer's ! "

It never, even in the faintest manner, struck the
excellent George that his companions were delighted
to get rid of him.

Now so glad, so very glad were they at being
once more alone together, that they actually felt a
little troubled by their joy, and were made a little
shy by it.

N'ellie was steering. Charlie was rowing quickly
back across the bar into the bay, and very quickly, for
fear by any chance his cousin might change his mind.
He and Eleanour sat face to face. Their eyes seemed
to be always meeting. She wished to speak, and so
did he. But for the first few minutes neither could
think of anything to say.

Then George shouted across the water after them,
We can't get in till half flood. If I don't turn up
at the rectory, say good-bye to Mr Newsham and the
Bishop." He shouted twice over, " Say good-bye to
Mr Newsham and the Bishop."

Nellie laughed at this. It was she who recovered
her self-possession soonest. " George will not
come to the rectory to-night," she said,  " you'll see he
won't. He will dislike saying good-bye to Adela, for
I really do think he is afraid of her ; and it is so very,
very funny ! "

It was a relief to Charlie to be able to speak
again, and here was a subject he could talk upon.

I never saw two people so disagreeable together as
George and Adela ! " he exclaimed. " They were a
horrid bore in the Dancer, and I used to feel quite
uncomfortable with them. Now I never minded my
father."

Ah, no indeed ! That would have been cruel ! "
said Nellie  "the dear old Admiral! I do love
him ! "

There was a moment's silence between them again.
Then Charlie stopped rowing, and leant forward upon
the crossed oars. He blushed because guilty of a
feeling he was ashamed to own, and yet not cowardly
enough to disown, and he said, " And yet, Nell, I
think it has been . . . happier since my father went
away and you and I have been so many days alone
together."

She blushed too. Charlie had given expression to
her own secret thought : she was ashamed to hear it
spoken aloud in words ; it was so cruel to the dear,
kind Admiral ! She did not know what to say, for
she could only say exactly the real truth to Charlie.

Nellie," he said, gravely, " I should like to go on
boating with you every summer ; not in the Dancer,
but in this little gig, sailing when there is wind
enough, and rowing when there is not, just we two
together. It has been pleasant, Nell, these last few
days. I wish it was the first of them and not the
last ! "

Another year we shall be at Eastcourt in the summer,"
said Nellie. " 1 will never care for Eastcourt

SO much again." And her voice was tender and sad.
I shall long for the sea and the fresh salt air. But
we shall not come to Bluehaven any more," she
sighed ; " no, never more ! It was only for grandpa
we came here now, and he will not be ill again. We
shall never come here any more ! "

Then this may be the last time we shall be alone
together," cried Charlie loudly, like one alarmed.
The last time, Nell ! And the sun is getting very
low, and we must soon go home."

Not yet, not yet ! " she said. " The sun is only
just set now, and the evening lights stay long upon
the water in these summer days. We do not dine
till late. We need not go in yet ! Put by the oars,
for we do not want them, as we are drifting towards
shore on the turning tide. We drift very quickly,"
she said pleadingly, " and there is no hurry, Charlie
there is none ! "

The young man shipped the oars, and came in
silence and sat by her side in the stern of the little
boat. She blushed as she made room for him, but
only said, " You could not see the sunset where you
were, but you can see it now." And at her prompting,
he looked across the shining water towards the
west.

The sun had just gone down behind the low bank
at the haven's mouth. The wet sand was full of
colours, and no waves disturbed the reflection of the
lazily drifting hooker near the bar. Soft and still
bright lights were lingering in the sky and on the

sea. It was a calm and wellnifh cloudless sinking
of the sun to rest, and was no gorgeous death with
heaped clouds, like glittering armies flaunting gaudy
colours in the sky. When the clouds have been very
brilliantly decked in crimson and gold, and then, hurriedly
casting off their colours, have closed in where
the sun has been, with dark unlawfulness of its past
light and life and joy, we feel as if that sun had died
indeed, so clean forgotten, like this earth's dead, does
it become ; but when the lights of the after-glory,
like brilliant hopes that will not die, linger in the
sky and upon the water, and even on the darker land,
until the moon is up and shining, we seem to feel the
sleeping sun will surely rise again, and much sadness
does not move our spirit. Yet in all beauty there is
some tender pathos which makes the feeling it stirs
within us akin to sorrow, like that joy in which are
tears.

The vague emotion of nature's pathos touched, for
the first time in their young life, the soul of the young
man and of the girl by his side. It was a saddening
dream that seemed to steal upon them, and blending
with it came the tender shadow of their near parting.
Charlie gently grasped Nellie's hand ; and thus, hand
in hand, they gazed silently upon the calm water, as
young souls gaze out on life and think it starless.

The evening was beautifully still, and there was no
roar of the open sea beyond the haven's mouth ; it
was as if the wide waters were being hushed to sleep
at sundown. The tide was far out, and no sound

upon the sand roughly caught the ear. The lovers
listened mechanically for the noise they missed. You
had to listen, or you did not hear that muffled moan
of the drowsy waves, like the sighing of a tired man
sinking to rest after the glare and labour and trouble
of the day are past; you had to bend in hushed silence
to hear the sleeper's breathing, so softly monotonous
and low was it ; and yet, while you listened,
your ear turned drowsy and forgot the very sound it
watched for, and heard quite distant voices more
clearly than that dreamy dull monotony.

There is a sea-bird's cry  if, indeed, a sea-bird's it
really is  and you hear it when the tide is out and
the sun so far set that the lowing cows on shore have
gone to rest, and all sounds except that breathing of
a calm sea upon the sand are hushed. From the
distance where it ever seems to be, that sadly thrilling
note will come, and other far-off cries will then awake
and answer to its plaintive voice.

The lovers, gently drifting on the turning tide,
heard that weird, melancholy note, and the answering
cries.

Those are the voices of the poor drowned people,"
said Nellie, in a dream-Uke tone, still gazing out to
sea with solemn, tearful eyes  '' the voices of the dead
men lost at sea, and never, never found again."

Charlie came back from dreamland when he heard
her speak.

"Yes, those are the voices of the drowned men
being with all their heart and soul not to be

forgotten at home. The dead," said he, indignantly,
sitting straight up  " the dead are so soon forgotten !
Why, when old Bullock's only son was lost at sea, the
girl he was engaged to in that village there '  he
dropped Belie's hand, and pointed angrily towards
Bluehaven  " that girl married another man before
the year was out ! "

1 hate that woman ! " cried Nellie, passion trembling
in her voice ; and her voice was like her eyes,
it moved your heart.

You would not forget me, even if I died ! " said
Charlie with strong emotion, bending over her. " You
will not forget me if I am a long time away ? And
to be a long, long time away, is just like death."

Their hands were clasped again.

It is like death," she said ; " but I will not forget
you, Charlie."

*' Say that again, dear Nell ; say it once more," he
whispered, gently pleading, and still bending low
to her.

I never will forget you, Charlie ! I never can forget
you ! You know I never can ! " Her trembling
voice was low like his, and seemed to speak her words
into the inmost sanctuary of his heart like a holy vow.

A silence which breathed with emotion, like the
calm sea breathing in the hushed twilight on the
shore, laid its soft spell upon them.

When the young man spoke again, his voice was
still low, as if he feared to scare away the sacred joy
he felt.

When I am old enough, dear Nell, you and I will
marry, and never part again. If I go to India, you
must come too ; and we will never part, except in
actual war ; and even then, wee need not part for long,
unless I am killed. The very day I get into the
army, the moment I see my name in the list of
passed, I will come and ask you before them all to
marry me. I will come even if my name is last on
the list, and everybody thinks I am a dunce  I will
come all the same, though I should like to come as the
first fellow out. But," looking at her very tenderly,
I know if others are ashamed of me, you will never
be. You won't care, Nellie ? you won't ? will you ? "

The answer came with a passionate warmth that
pleased him much.

I care ? Oh, Charlie ! if every one said unkind
things of you, and was ashamed of you, then I would
love you best ! " And she added, with a long-drawn
sigh, " If you were too clever, too good, I might be
afraid of you. I should feel you were like mamma."

The hand that was on hers was drawn away, and
the hushed voice grew loud.

And if you were afraid of me as you are of her,
you . . . JSTellie, you would not tell me the truth ! "

The truth I " she cried aloud, astounded ; " I never
tell a lie ! " and large tears filled her eyes.

Yet you all seem to me to act lies," said Charlie,
hardly. " When your mother asks you to do something
you dislike, and your father something you like,
you say Yes to her and JVo to him."

Eleanour blushed guiltily at this.

You have no mother, and you are not afraid of
the dear, kind Admiral," she said. " Charlie," she
pleaded, " you do not know, you cannot understand
"

Yes, I do. Fellows at school know it is often
difficult enough to tell the truth." He was still
softened. " I know what will happen," he exclaimed,
angrily. " When I come to ask you to be
my wife, you will look at your mother, and she will
look at you, and then you will say No."

Nellie turned pale.

Ask me when my father is by ; don't ask me
when she is there."

Charlie grew pale like her. He drew back from
her, and looked her full in the face. "Nellie," he
said, " you are a coward ! "

The voice in which he said this was terrible to her
ear. She trembled all over, and seizing his withdrawn
hand, cried out in great grief, " Have pity on
me, Charlie ! have pity on poor Nellie ! " and burst
into tears.

He was strangely moved to see her cry ; it was as
if for the first time in his life he had seen a woman
weep. In a voice of pained tenderness he said, drawing
near to her again, " Oh 1 don't cry, Nell ! don't
cry ! " But she only cried the more because his voice
was kind. " I was cruel, cruel to you, Nell ! Forgive
me, Nell ! " And he took his owen rather rough
handkerchief and dried her eyes, smiling at her, till

at last she smiled at him. Her hat had fallen back,
and for a moment the white brow, with the pretty
dark curls dancing on it, tempted the boy with a
wish to kiss it, as he used to do in simple childhood,
not so very long ago ; so he bent down towards her,
then quickly drew back again, with a cold look which
frightened her tears quite, quite away, because she did
not understand it.

He had said to himself, " No ; we are not children
any more. I am a man  a gentleman ; and a gentleman
does not kiss a lady until she is promised to him
before all the world as his wife." Charles Crofton had
exalted ideas of honour and of love.

Nellie, in puzzled dread, gave a meaning to his
sudden coldness which made her heart beat with a
new terror. " You are going away, Charlie ! " she
cried. " And at Eton you will be working and boating
or cricketing all day, and you will not have much
time to think of me ; and then later on you will be ina
fright about the examination, and you will have
no time at all to think of me, and I will be always
thinking of you." She turned white again through
fear. " Perhaps," she said, " you will forget me."

Then he swore to her, as she had sworn to him, that
he never, never would forget her ; and as he had made
her repeat the vow twice over, so she made him  not
because she distrusted Charlie, but because she liked
to hear him say the pleasant words again.

Nellie, the lights are fading quite away and the

moon is not yet risen. It is getting very dark near
shore ; we must row home."

We must ! " she sighed.

But near the shore he ceased to row, and said,
I will not go to the rectory this evening, Nell. I
should have to say good-bye to you, and I could not
bear to say good-bye with Adela and the Bishop and
your father standing round and watching us. You
would cry, Nellie." He paused, bent forward, and
added gently, "We need not say good-bye at all,
dear Nell,"  for he greatly feared her tears, " There
is no need to say good-bye, dear Nell."

No, no ! " she whispered back again, and tried to
smile ; yet her voice was like a sob, and thrilled him
painfully. " No, no ! We will not say good-bye, for
fear . . . for fear we should not meet again ! "

CHAPTER XL

One thing I know," said the man in the Gospel, the
darkness of whose eyes was turned into light by the
touch of the Divine hand  " one thing I know, that
whereas I was blind, now I see."

The dark, unmindful sleep which clings like blindness
to the heart and eyes of childhood and of youth,
when first divinely touched by a pure and holy love,
awakes to the sense of beauty as to a new world ; for
love is the great revealer of all beauty that can be
felt.

It is awaking love makes music to be full of touching
dreams ; and poetry no dead art of rhetoric, buta
real and living power stirring the rising spirit within
you, like a dead man from his grave ; and by its craving
need of perfect satisfaction, love brings into the
soul the longing for the ideal, and so makes you to
feel the ecstasy which has found expression in the
painter's art, and even has put life into cold marble.

But strangest mystery of unawakened sleep ! You
may have lived for years beneath the ever-changing
lights and cloudy shadows of the sky, and seen the

colour-giving sun each day, and the moon by night,
shining amidst the darkened trees or dreaming on the
water, and never, never once have felt in your cold
heart the pathos of this earth's loveliness, or seen with
your hard eyes its moving beauty.

Yet when the Divine hand does touch your soul,
having been blind from birth, you see.

The full awakening had come to Nellie while drift-ins
on the calm water, hand in hand with him she
loved. She had then felt the thrilling stillness of
the evening hour, and her opening, tearful eyes had
seen the lingering lights fading from the sea and land,
like tender spirits which part with fond regret, and
in her soul she had felt their beauty.

It was a shock to her to come back again into
ordinary, ideal life, as it ever is when, heaven-rapt,
we turn from gazing on the ideal and see quite close
to us some homely, common thing.

How long the dreary evening was ! How stupid
her grandfather the good Bishop looked dozing in an
arm-chair, whilst her excellent dull father read aloud
in a drowsy voice tiresome bits out of that humdrum
temperance lecture he seemed now to be eternally preparing
for the fishermen. And oh, how coldly dead
to passion and to sympathy the placid Adela appeared
as she calmly followed, stitch by stitch, a traced-out
pattern in crewel-work ! She never made a wrong
stitch ; her fingers always went exactly at the same
slow, steady pace. Relieved from George, she looked
quite happy.

Yet Eleanour liked better to see the Bishop doze and
to hear her father droning him into a real, sound sleep,
than she would have liked him to awake and wish to
play some game ; for then they must all  her grandfather,
Adela, and even her father  they must all
have discovered she had no mind, no memory, for
stupid cards and stupid counters, and they would have
wondered at her.

But why," thought she, with feverish remorse 
why were Charlie and I so foolish as to dread to
meet again  and merely because others might be
present ? We need not have said good-bye at all."
And then the thought came passionately to her. " It
would have been better even to have said good-bye,
and good-bye before all the world, than to have lost
these last few hours. And it may be so long before
we meet again  it may be so long ! Yet perhaps 
perhaps he will change his mind and come down to
the rectory, as he has done each night till now." So at
every little sound she gave a start, and thought it might
be his knock or his footstep that she heard ; but as
each throbbing hope turned cold and fell like lead from
her heart, the craving remorse within her grew apace.
The moon is shining brightly now. It is as light
as day. Adela," she said, " I will go out  I must go
out ! It is so close and stuffy here. Hush, hush,
Adela ! for grandpa is quite asleep, and my father
is dozing now. I will go out for a few short minutes,
only for a few,  just to breathe and to see the moonlight
on the water."

"Then I certainly won't go with you," said Delivery
decidedly. " I have no notion of catching cold
the night before mamma comes home. Mamma does
not like sick people, and she will be very angry with
you, Nellie, if you are ill."

But Nellie had already gone from the close little
study in which they were all sitting into the small
dining-room. She had opened the window, and Delacour
see her springing from the low window-sill to the
ground, and then disappearing in the bushes close by.

"Those bushes must be damp with dew," thought
Adela ; " but Nellie always was silly, and she always
will be silly ; and she never understands what makes
mamma angry, though she is so very, very much afraid
of her. And now I really do declare Nellie has left
that window open, and she could have shut it quite
easily from the outside ! But she has forgotten it ;
she is always forgetting everything now  not that she
ever had a good memory. Dear me, dear me, it really
is most provoking ! for there I must get up and shut
that window, or grandpa and papa and I myself will
certainly catch cold. Such a bother ! " she thought, as
she laid down her crewel-work on the table and carefully
placed each different coloured skein of wool by
itself. " Such a bother ! I do wish Nellie was as
sensible as I am ! And she will cry her eyes out
when mamma scolds her for catching cold."

The one field belonging to the rectory was only
separated from the few bushes and little enclosure
round the house by a ditch and grass bank. The

VOL. L I

open field climbed steeply up the hillside to the Lookout.
At its highest point it touched the wall of the
semaphore and cottage, and then fell suddenly downwards,
skirting that little narrow strip of sheltered
tamarisk-bushes under the lee side of the cliff and
semaphore, which the Admiral called his shrubbery.

The night air had been freshened by the evening's
dew ; it was cool and pleasant to a fevered brow.
And the stillness of the white unclouded moonlight
was calmly soothing.

I will climb the hill," thought Nellie, " until I seethe
moon upon the water. I cannot see it here."

And when she had gone some wy farther up  " I
can see it a little now, but if I climb still higher I
shall see the moon shining over the haven's mouth
and out to sea." On she went faster and faster.
Suddenly she stopped. She started at her own long
shadow, for it was so tall, it might have been a
man's.

I thought . . ." She stood quite still. Then in
terror asked herself, " Where am I really going ? . . .
I know. I did not know till this moment ; but I
know now. I know whom it is I hope to meet ! "

She ran a few steps down the hill ; then stopped
again ; then looked back at the cottage, which was
so near, its shadow almost touched her feet. " How
near, how near I am to Charlie ! Yes ; he is in
there. He is close by."

All sounds were sleeping in the moonlight, and so
still vas it that she could hear her own quick breathing

and the rustling of her dress. " I am very near to
him," she thought ; " and all is still  most strangely
still ! much stiller than by day. He . he could
hear me if I called." She went a few steps nearer.
"Yes, Charlie could hear  he could hear me if I
called ! And we might say good-bye  just one, one
short good-bye ! for we were cowards not to have
said a last good-bye ! And the time may be so long,
so long before we meet again 1 I feel that I now
could say good-bye to him without a tear ; and it was
my tears, it was only my weak tears he dreaded. If
he had not feared them, we might have said a last
good-bye."

She listened ; and when we listen in the nidit, the
stillness seems to deepen. " There is no sound, only
the moan of the far-off sea. Certainly he would hear
,me now . he would hear ! . . . Charlie ! " she cried
aloud with sudden, daring courage. And then she heard
her own voice echoing with terrifying clearness in the
silence of the night  that awful silence when all
seems dead but our own soul, which lives with an intensity
of life we never feel by day. Terror-struck,
she listened motionless, like a ghost, to a voice that
was too real, too human, to have been her own.

What was that sound ? There was a sound !
Where can I run to ? Where can I hide ? There
is no shadow in the open field but mine." And so,
like a frightened bird that flies into the danger
it would escape, she sought quick shelter in the
shadow of the cottage ; then felt afraid to be so near

to Charlie ; and listening, she thought she heard the
sound again ; and she crept with a beating heart over
the low bank where it was still in shade, and then
along the ditch under the wall of the semaphore, till
she found a gap leading into the Admiral's shrubbery.
She knew now where she would hide. At first she
had meant only to skirt the shrubbery, and then
follow the dry ditch under the grass bank, for it went
all round the field, and would soon have taken her
home. But now she thought she would go to the

o o

rustic seat which overlooked the cliff underneath the
semaphore and at the other side of the little grove :
she would have all the darkness of those bushes like
a black cloak between her and Charlie, and she would
wait there a little just to listen once again and know
if she had really heard a sound or not. If she waited
there a short time  it need only be a few minutes 
Charlie would have gone in again,  if he had come
out ! That is what she really wished to know  if he
had ever come out ! If he had, he would soon go
in when he could see no one ; and then she could
walk home across the open field, for she had felt
frightened in that dark ditch ; there might be someone
hidden there. A robber ! a murderer lying in
wait to do some horrid deed ! At this thought, she
felt afraid even of the tamarisk-bushes around her.
She looked ; she thought they moved ! and flew along
the short path to the small open space on the cliff-side
beyond. As she ran, she heard quick footsteps
running amongst the moving bushes, for indeed they

moved ! She stopped and turned cold in terror of
those footsteps that were behind her. She listened
eagerly. They too had stopped.

The footsteps must have been her own ; and yet
she was afraid to walk on again, though she was no
longer amongst the bushes, but out beyond them in
the open moonlight. At last she took heart, for she
felt, if only she could reach that seat, she might sit
quite quiet till all her courage came back to her
again, as the rustic bench was at least some ten yards
distant from the horrid darkness of the tamarisk
grove. So she walked a few steps forward ; then
stopped ; then walked again ; then stopped once more,
so as to make quite, quite sure there were no footsteps
in that wood and only hers beyond.

The black bushes were on her right side, and the
water and the moonlight on her left, as she went
those halting steps up the cliff. The moon, which
lighted the sky above and made the stars turn pale,
fell like a single silver streak upon the water ; and
Nellie saw a fishing-boat sail across the moonbeam,
like a spirit born out of the shade to live a little
while in light, and die into the shade again.

The moonlight lies only on one long ripple of the
water, and there is shadow at each side," thought
Nellie, for she had been in much blindness towards
nature until now. " I am looking up the full light
here, but when I get to the rustic bench, I shall look
into the shadow." Then, as she moved, she saw the
light move on the water ; she stopped, and it stopped

too ; and she was filled with awe, for it was as if the
eye of God were looking out of heaven across the
water to follow her own soul on earth  not every
man's and every woman's, but only her own soul.

Having reached the rustic seat, she sat very still in
the moonlight : it no longer moved, but rested calmly
before her across the haven and out on the distant
sea ; and the awe of the dread feeling was upon her
mind.

Oh how beautiful, how beautiful, like a still vision
of heaven, is the moonlight dreaming on the water !
Its dream is holy, and most touching in its peace !
The stillness is like placid death when the anguish of
the last farewell is past ; and so pale, so cold, so moving
to our soul is it, like death.

As ISTellie, wrapped in feeling more than thought,
sat gazing out to sea and up to heaven, a tall figure
stood where the path broke from the dark bushes
into the moonlight. The young man watched her.
He was irresolute ; he moved and seemed to go ; he
turned, and again he watched her ; he stood very still
and watched her. Then once more he turned to go,
and there was a slight rustling in the silence of the
night.

Eleanour started up with a loud cry, but, having
stared an anxious moment, exclaimed calmly enough,
Oh, George, how you did frighten me ! You frightened
me most dreadfully ! I never, never dreamt it
could be you." And she was coming towards him,
quietly picking her footsteps down the cliff, and thinking

as she came, " Perhaps the fishing-boat I saw sailing
over the moonbeam and out to sea had landed
George down in Bluehaven on the pier ; and now he
is going home by the short path up the cliff and
through the shrubbery, I will walk with him through
the darkness of the grove, for I am afraid to go alone."

She was getting very near to him, when she stopped
and called out in a trembling voice, " George, George,
don't stand in that half shadow ! Come quite out
into the light, or you will frighten me again, though
I know those are your coat and hat ! I know they

are not " The figure stood quite still. Suddenly

she started back and gave another-cry, " Charlie ! "

He walked rapidly forwards. They all but met.
Just touching her  and she had felt his touch  he
drew coldly back. " Oh, Nellie, Nellie ! " he said ;
and there was reproach in his voice.

Her heart stood still. It was as if she had met the
spirit of her lost love in the pale light beyond the
grave, and found him sad, unreal, and strange. It
seemed as if she could not be on earth, but must
have died and met him cold in death before her own
heart was as cold, as dead as his.

She bowed her head and clasped her hands. Then,
motionless, she looked, standing out in the moonlight
with the pale water beyond her, like a white statue
mourning on the cliff in tearless woe for the lovers
lost at sea.

Charlie kept far from her, and she had turned to
stone.

At last he whispered in an odd, changed voice,
and the whisper was heard in the great stillness,
You called me, Nellie."

It is said life comes back to the drowning man, not
as a pleasant joy, but like a rushing pain in every
vein, and such were these words to Nellie ; they made
her live to painful shame.

You heard me, Charlie ! " she said ; and it was
she who now turned away from him.

Once more he seemed irresolute whether to go or
stay. But she thought she heard his footsteps leaving
her, and suddenly she raised her head, looked round,
forgot all else, and, with outstretched hands, she cried,
I called you, Charlie, to say a last good-bye ; I can
say it now without a tear."

He came to meet her stretched-out hands, because
they moved him more than he could bear ; it was not
coldness kept him far from her, but a sort of fear.
When their hands had met, he gently said to her, as
if he thought he had been cruel, " Why, Nellie, it was
you who said, ' No, no, we will not say good-bye, for
fear we should not meet again.' You said this, Nell 
you did indeed, dear Nell ! and I felt that you were
right."

His kind voice thrilled her as his touch had done.
She could not speak, but trembling, stood before him
with a hand in each of his and downcast eyes. Her
silence moved him as if it had been touching speech.
Dear Nell, we shall soon meet again," he said.

The drooping lids still veiled her eyes, but her

voice came back to her with the sound of stifled tears
in it.

Often and often when people part," she said,
they never meet again." Then driving back her
tears with one great effort, cried, '- So good-bye,
Charlie, good-bye, good-bye ! " But the strain was
too much for her weakness, and a loud sob overmastered
her. Charlie was powerfully shaken by her
grief ; he was moved just as he had feared to be.

The sobbing Nellie could hardly stand, so he put
his arm around her to support her, and she, following
as she was ever wont to do, the stones feelings of the
moment and none other, laid her pretty head upon
his shoulder. Then he bent towards her, softly comforting
her and saying kind words more tender than
he had ever meant to say. The passion he felt within
her, and once had dreaded, was now arousing a like
passion in himself.

At last Nellie sobbed no more. She was quite
stilled by some new feeling, and he was stilled like
her. There was solemn silence all around them in
the moonlight. Nellie softly moved. She raised her
pathetic eyes to his with such a longing in them that
he yielded to the wish in her heart as if he had never
fought against the desire in his own. He bent a
little lower, and kissed her fair young forehead ; and
having kissed it once, he passionately kissed it twice
again.

Then hand in hand, without another word, they
walked through the shadow of the little wood.

When they came to the gap leading out into the
open field, Nellie suddenly remembered George, then
remembered Adela, and the servants who might be
watching her, and felt as if the very night were full of
eyes. She hastily drew her hand away from Charlie's.
He stood still and looked at her. " Nellie," he said,
and his changed voice was rather stern, " we have
walked hand in hand through the darkness of the wood,
and so we will walk in that same way in the light."

And he took her trembling hand in his. She did
not dare to say to him, " Let us go round in the shadow
of the ditch."

Charlie went boldly into the open field, where it
was as light as day. The whole world might see them.

They again walked on in silence. From time to
time she felt him look at her, and when he looked,
Nellie remembered it was that very day, only a few
hours ago, he had called her a coward.

There was a sort of remorse in Charlie's heart ashe
gazed at the beautiful young girl beside him. She
looked to him, in the weird pallor of the moonlight,
like an angel come down to earth ; and he was sorry
that his lips had ever touched what was to him a
holy thing not really his to touch. He felt wounded
by his own act, in that romantically high and chivalrous
sense of honour on which he prided himself.
Neither Charles Crofton nor his father were quite
like all other ordinary men ; there was a very holy
spirit in both their hearts.

Self-reproach made Charlie a little stern and even

cold when he said what was really the last good-bye
to Nellie. He frightened her ; she wished to heaven
they had parted in the tamarisk grove before he had
changed to her ; and never, never could she forget the
cold pang of that moment !

Charlie did not stand in the shade of the bushes
inside the rector's garden, but right out in the full
moonlight, and he said his cold good-bye and quickly
turned to go, then turned back again. Nellie's heart
leapt within her ; but he did not come near to her, and
only said in that altered voice of his, " Should they
ask you if you were alone, say that I was with you.
If they have seen me, but are not sure, say it was
really me they saw ; not George or anybody else, but
me." To this he added peremptorily, " Go in, Nellie ;
it is late  too late for you."

Chilled to the heart, and feeling vaguely guilty,
Nellie stood by the low window-sill, feebly trying to
lift the sash noiselessly, for she feared to wake
the stillness which was inside. Charlie stood on the
grass-bank and watched her. Suddenly, in one bound,
he was by her side. He threw up the window, and
Nellie turned faint at the loud creak it gave. Charles
Crofton went boldly in.

He awoke the good Bishop from a very sound
sleep, for the soft relaxing climate of Bluehaven, and
perhaps, too, the hazy atmosphere of the excellent
Thomas's mind, undoubtedly made the Bishop much
drowsier than he was wont to be in the more bracing
and controversially exciting air of his own diocese.

The dozing Thomas also returned, but after his own
dreamy fashion, to the doubtful realities of life. When
occupied with one of his temperance lectures, or with
the speech he intended to make in Parliament, Thomas
was apt to be very absent-minded indeed. He now
seemed quite unaware he had been dozing, and sitting
up, instantly began reading out from the manuscript
he still held in his hand. He was dimly conscious
of having missed a line or two, but not enough so to
stop and consider the matter.

Good-bye," said Charlie, and his voice interrupted
Mr Newsham. " I am off the first think; tomorrow
morning, long before any of you are up."

Ah ! Good-bye, my dear boy, good-bye," said the
kind old Bishop, waking up sufficiently to give him
a very cordial invitation to spend the Christmas holidays
at the palace. Then, as if waking up entirely
" I am afraid you had rather a dull evening of it,
Charlie ; for now I really do declare I have been fast
asleep ; " and he laughed at the astonishing discovery.
" And I wonder, Thomas," said he, slyly, " if
you have been dozing a little, too ? Eh ?  eh ? I
hardly think you can have been reading to me all
the time."

But Thomas evidently thought he had. " I have
nearly finished now," he answered, gravely ; and then
turning, in that curiously open-eyed, yet really sightless,
absent way of his, to Charlie, he said very seriously,
Charlie, as you have heard so much, I wish you would
just stay and hear the end. The end is the most impressive

part." He looked down rather less absently
at the written lecture. " Yes, yes, yes "  he often
said, Yes, yes, yes. " Yes, yes, yes ; I am quite right
yes, yes. The end is the most impressive part ; for
I have kept that story of the man who killed his six

children, and " He looked down again. " Yes,

yes, he did kill his wife too. I thought so ; but I
like to be quite accurate  quite accurate. He killed
her and the children and himself in a fit of delirium
tremens!'

It was perfectly clear that both Thomas and the
Bishop were under the impression Charlie had spent
the evening at the rectory just the same as usual.
Nellie took heart. She had slunk in behind Charlie
unobserved. Her absence had been quite unnoticed
by the two dozing old gentlemen. And as to Adela,
her whole mind now was taken up with the disagreeable
thought, " Is George coming? too ? " For she had
got a start when Charlie appeared at the window, still
wearing George's hat and coat.

Thomas, shaking his head, kept repeating absently,
Yes, yes, he did kill them all  yes, yes, yes."

The Bishop was yawning. Thomas seemed, of a
sudden, to be almost really awake. " Octavius," he
said. He frequently called his father-in-law by his
Christian name, especially when in an absent mood,
for he had done so in the intimacy of old days, when
the Canon was Pictor of Yellowmead and Clara still
seemed a young child. " Octavius, if you would only
follow my example, and join the total abstainers, your

sphere of usefulness would be much larger than mine.
A noble field ! Yes, yes, yes  a noble field of usefulness
! And," he added, getting much more lively,
" and if you took the pledge. Bishop, publicly in your
own cathedral  yes, yes, that would be the place  in
your own cathedral, right in the face, perhaps in the
teeth, of your whole diocese, you could insist on all
your clergy doing the same. You would have the
right to insist then  yes, you would have the right."
Thomas waxed eloquent. " All your clergy  yes, yes,
all would be forced to take the pledge. In every
parish you would have one total abstainer, and inmost
the curate and the whole rectory too. Your
clergy could not refuse  no, no, they could not  no,
no, no. What a glorious, glorious prospect for the
diocese. Bishop ! " Thomas was quite enthusiastic.
And you are such a very moderate man, Octavius,
that you might just as well take the pledge as not, for
you live almost as if you had taken it  yes, yes, you
do. And that is what provokes me ! " he exclaimed,
warmly  " that's what provokes me ! "

The Bishop always brightened to a discussion. He
gave Thomas some quiet, sensible reasons for not taking
the pledge himself in his own cathedral, and very
cogent ones for not insisting, like a tyrannical schoolmaster,
on all his clergy becoming total abstainers.
The great majority of the bishops of the Church of
England have not hitherto been wanting in commonsense.
It is to be hoped that, with advancing liturgies
and ideas, and new crosiers and new clothes, they

will not cast away common-sense as too vulgar and
too English for the road to Rome.

"And, Thomas," said the Bishop reverently, in a
lower tone  he pushed his chair nearer to his adversary's
 " and, Thomas, I cannot forget that the first
miracle performed on earth by my Lord and Master
was the turning of water into good wine  ay, and
when the guests had already partaken of some other
sort of wine. There was once a moment  I will allow
it  when horror of the wicked drinking there is
amongst a certain number  yet only a certain number
of English men and women made me wish to forget
this fact. But it is my duty to remember it  my
bounden, sacred duty to remember that, in moderation
that is the point  in moderation "  he laid great
stress on the word  " in moderation, wine has not
been forbidden to man. And who am I that I should
dare to call a sin what my Saviour made no sin ?
Who am I that I should stand forth at the marriage
feast and say to my Lord and Master, You did wrong
to turn the water into wine ? "

Thomas shook his head angrily and gave an irritable
wave of his hand. But the Bishop, dropping his
voice still lower, went on : " Thomas, it was not water,
it was wine the Lord consecrated with bread at the
Last Supper." Mr Newsham's nervous agitation of manner
increased, and he was going to speak. However,
the Bishop, as if a new idea were striking him, gave a
quiet sort of smile  it was really a very harmless
little one, and more like a soft ray of benevolence on

the good man's simple kindly face than a real smile,
yet somehow it irritated Thomas. The Bishop, slightly
raising his voice, said : " St Paul,"  now was it not
only natural that the divine who was always writing
so much and so ably about St Paul, should smile in a
kind of fatherly, loving way when he mentioned his
chosen apostle ?  '' if I mistake not "  as if the good
Bishop could be mistaken about St Paul !  " Thomas,
if I mistake not, St Paul, in his Epistle to Timothy,
actually went so far as to write, ' Drink no longer

water, but use a little wine ' "

The Bishop was not allowed to finish the quotation.
With a look of triumph in his large, now glittering
eyes, and a kind of eager, childlike delight, Thomas
exclaimed, as if clinching the argument for ever and forever,
" Yes, yes I Drink a little wine ! and why, why ?
For thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities.'
Yes, yes, yes ! ' for thy stomach's sake and thine often
infirmities,' " he repeated excitedly in a state of really
glorious elation. " And, Bishop, you never seem to be
aware that we, ice permit wine for infirmities and the
stomach's sake. Like St Paul, we can permit it for
the stomach's sake. If yoic had taken our pledge, and
taken it even in your own cathedral  yes, yes, yes !
in your own cathedral ! " How Thomas loved that
brilliant idea of his own invention ! " Wliy, Bishop,
if you had actually taken our pledge, and even taken
it openly before your whole diocese in your own
cathedral, you would still be allowed to take wine
for your stomach's sake." Thomas was very triumphant.

" We should permit a doctor to order you

wine if you were ill " he hesitated, and added,

"seriously ill, as Timothy must have been. I am
sure Timothy was very, very seriously ill. So if you
were seriously ill, any doctor might order you wine.
A doctor might even order me wine "  another pause
"though I wouldn't take it!" he avowed, for he
was a very truthful man. " But, Bishop, Dr Fozzle
could order you wine tomorrow if you had taken our
pledge. He could order it to you just as St Paul
ordered it to Timothy  for his infirmities. Mark
this ! for his often infirmities and his stomach's sake.
St Paul wrote that just as a doctor might write a prescription
to-day, and our pledge would not have stood
in St Paul's way. Xo, no, no ! it would not ; for St
Paul wrote as a doctor."

Yet," remarked the Bishop, " St Paul was no
physician like St Luke. I doubt," he added reflectively,
and speaking more to his own speculative theological
self than to Thomas  " I doubt if St Luke,
being a physician, would have ordered wine to the
sick in the exciting climate of the East." The Bishop
was very learned on the climate of the East, as it
must have been in the old days, and is now. "It
was not St Luke, but St Paul, and he was no physician,
who told Timothy to take wine."

But Thomas was getting very absent-minded again,
and not really listening at all. " Yes, yes, yes ! take
a little wine, Timothy, for thy stomach's sake," he
was repeating  " for thy stomach's sake and thine often

VOL. L K

infirmities. Exactly, exactly ! " He kept musing
aloud on the idea, "thy stomach's sake and thine
often  yes, yes, yes ! thine often infirmities."

Thomas was an enthusiast, absolutely without the
sense of the ridiculous. But the Bishop had a perception
of the humorous ; and Timothy's often infirmities
and his stomach's sake, his stomach's sake, which
was becoming quite an absent trick of repetition with
the excellent Thomas, struck the Eight Eeverend
mind as being uncomfortably funny. The Bishop
glanced quickly, nervously round the room. He
wished to be very grave, but felt as if he were going
to be seized with laughter then and there before the
young people, whose presence he had for a moment
forgotten, and vividly remembered now. They had
surely been listening to the discussion and had heard
the quotation of Holy Scripture, and the Bishop much
desired to set them an example of reverent demeanour.
For the first, and perhaps only, time in his life, he felt
relieved to see the congregation was paying no attention
whatever to him or his words. I say congregation
because I think a Bishop, and even a rector of a
certain standing, if he is talking wisely and two or
three people are in the room, does feel, from long
habit, that they must be a sort of congregation necessarily
hanging on his words.

Charlie was in the very act of going away. He
had one foot on the low sill of the window in the
adjoining room  the window by which he had entered.
Adela's hand was on his arm detaining him  she

appeared to be pressing him to take a woollen comforter,
which he seemed to be rather irritably refusing.

Eleanour was standing perfectly still in the low
archway dividing the two rooms  if, indeed, that could
be called a division which really was none.

Nellie alone, from her attitude, might have been
listening ; but her face, as the Bishop saw, was turned
away from him and not towards him, and when he
spoke she started round with a scared look. The
moonlight filled that room, and the Bishop thought it
was the pale moonlight which made her face seem
white and stony.

The Bishop's kind heart smote him  "Charlie," he
called out hastily, rising from his chair with outstretched
hand  " Charlie, you are off ! and whilst we
two elderly people have been arguing, we had almost
let you go without a word. But, my dear boy, must
you really start so very early tomorrow morning ?"
Charlie stepped down, but did not move to meet the
Bishop, who was coming across the room towards him.
He kept standing by the open window. Had he
walked even a few steps forward, he would have been
quite close to Nellie.

Harper says we must leave the very first thing in
the morning?, as soon as ever it is lislit," said Charlie
quietly, but to Nellie's ear he spoke in his hard and
altered voice. " Harper says one of the carriage springs
is half broken, and he has settled with the coachman
near the station to have it put right before Mrs Xew-
sham's train arrives. sirs Newsham is to come at

two o'clock, and Harper says she must not be kept a
minute waiting."

o

At the mention of his wife's name, Thomas looked
up, then looked about him, and by the time Charlie
had finished speaking, he was clearly returning from
Timothy's often infirmities to the realities of present
life. " Yes, yes, yes ! " he began ; and then getting
still more awake, said seriously, as if suddenly much
concerned, " Charlie, you must not keep her waiting,

and George George ? Why " looking about

again, " George ? George is not here. He is gone !"
And he seemed much surprised, then said anxiously,
But George won't keep her waiting ;" then coaxingly,
" Charlie, I can depend on you  yes, yes, yes !
I can depend on you to be in time ; and on George 
on George too ! Good boys ! good boys ! " he exclaimed
reflectively, beginning to get a little absent again.

George has not been here this evening," said the
Bishop, though, if the truth be told, what between
dozing and arguing, he had only just realised the fact.
But I am sure he will come down to say good-bye.
Why, here he is coming now, I declare ! " he said,
looking through the window up across the open field
towards the semaphore.

Adela did not even stop to look. In a moment she
was gone ! Her departure was unnoticed. JSTellie saw
no one but Charlie, and listened to no voice but his.
She was trying to bear, in tearless silence, the deadly
chill of the parting which at last had been so cold,
and was not really ended yet, for still while he stayed

the pain of the long parting lingered on. She felt an
oppressive suffocation of all joy, like the trance of
nightmare when the pleasant dream has Hed.

Charlie was looking out for George at the window
with the Bishop.

Thomas was getting up from his chair and coming
to look also. " George ? He must not keep Clara
waiting. No, no, no ! he must not keep her waiting."

But George is not there," said Charlie ; " and I
know he does not mean to come. He has been out
fishing with young Tom Bracer, and he is packing
now. He told me to say good-bye for him to you,
my lord, and to you, Mr jSTewsham."

The Bishop had rubbed his glasses and had put them
on. " Is . . . is it possible ?" he exclaimed. "Why, I
do believe it is the Admiral's flagstaff I have mistaken
for George ! " And the Bishop laughed much, but in
his own mild way, at this.

The joke had to be explained by Charlie to Mr
Newsham. When the hazy Thomas finally understood
it, he laughed with all his heart, and laughed and
laughed again. Thomas was like many worthy people
who have no constant sense of the ridiculous : if a
joke, even the very smallest one, did by accident get
inside him, it made a curious and a long commotion
there.

So it was in the midst of laughter that Charlie said
good-bye to the Bishop and Mr Newsham. He had
to walk a few steps forward in order to shake hands
with Thomas, who stood in one place and laughed.

He came very near to Nellie then. Her heart
stopped beating. As death is the outcome of a living
agony, so there is a deadly coldness following too much
intensity of life. 'No marble ever looked more cold
than Nellie. He just touched her hand ;  it was
like ice.

"I have been cold to her. I was first cold to her;
now she is cold to me." And Charlie went away with
a chilled heart.

Thomas and the Bishop, still laughing each after his
own fashion, went back to the two arm-chairs. Nellie
stood motionless in the low doorway and saw Charlie
oho, and saw him stand on the grass-bank and look
back. And then she saw him stop in the open field,
where she knew he could see into the house and see
her still ; and again he looked back, but she gave no
sion of life.

Perfect matchmaking requires experience and practice,
particularly practice. Great natural aptitude,
though absolutely necessary, is not alone sufficient for
so intricate an art. Clara was forced to acknowledge
this, and felt she had perhaps a little  just a little 
overdone her part of being against that match between
George and Adela.

Sir Cuthbert was very ill. His life was in danger.
Clara softened her tactics, and turned from the angry
mother into the sympathetic one forced against her will
to open Adela's young eyes. She ceased to scold her
daughter, and explained to her quite tenderly the real
meaning of George's odd behaviour. He was cold, she
said, because he feared to be too warm, for a very young
man is shy of betraying his love, and invariably seems
to avoid the girl he admires. Clara told Adela plainly
that George was in love with her. Plain-speaking was
necessary with Adela, because she really could not take
a hint.

' From what you tell me, Adela," said Clara, " George
avoided you in the most marked manner at Bluehaven.

o open attentions could have had a clearer meaning.
Had he paid you open attention, I should have thought
nothing of his conduct. I should have considered the
whole matter as a little silly boyish flirtation not worth a
moment's thought. But it is George's marked avoidance
of you, Adela, which shows conclusively that he is in
love with you. He liked you so much, my dear, that
he was afraid to speak to you ; and what proves it is
that he never avoided Nellie. Why should he not have
treated you exactly as he treated Nellie ? "

ISTellie is not grown up," promptly replied Adela.

Clara was rather taken aback by this answer. There
was a prompt decision about Adela which annoyed her
very much at times. As yet she had not found it the
very easy task she had expected to make Adela believe
George was in love with her at Bluehaven, " though
very likely without his knowing it," she had prudently
added. It was much easier to make Adela fancy she
must be in love with George than George with her,
because the poor child had been made to feel so awkward
and uncomfortable and unlike her stolid self in
George's presence, that the curious feeling did require
some explanation. But Adela's imagination was slow,
and Clara soon saw her heart could not be made to
take fire, as many a girl's has done, through the power
of the imagination.

However, little difficulties only brightened Mrs
Newsham's mind. This extremely clever woman was
by no means wanting in resource ; and so, finding
Adela's heart and imagination were torpid, she touched

her vanity. That chord, so sensitive in woman, vibrated
to her hand with a throbbing life startling in a
dull girl like Adela.

From that moment Clara felt she could do what she
liked with her daughter.

It was very pleasant to the young girl to be told
she was pretty  so pretty that it was from her fair
face the abashed George had run away, though it made
her blush to hear this, and even to think of it. When
quite alone with locked door, she shyly smiled back at
the smiling, blushing maiden she saw in the ,
and now liked to watch in more attitudes than
one. Adela had always been pleasantly satisfied with
her own appearance, just as she had been with everything
else belonging to her. She had always been sure
she was good and very sensible, and quite as clever as
any one need ever wish to be.

All Adela's talent was of the practical sort, and that
is the one kind which makes people happy, for it
easily brings them perfect satisfaction. A practical
housewife can be the best satisfied woman on earth.
And I can well imagine a carpenter  especially an
amateur carpenter, as he would feel cleverer than a
real one  absolutely content with life. A chest of
drawers is a finished work which can be perfect in its
way. You will nearly always see persons of practical
talent cheerfully well satisfied  the vanity within
them, as within us all, seems pleased, and they are
quite happily conceited. Intellectual talent, especially
the imaginative or artistic, has but meagre satisfaction

in it unless there be so little as scarcely to deserve the
name, or so much that it can reach .to the power and
full satisfaction of genius. But genius is a name men
take in vain ; it hardly does exist on earth ; so rare is
it that it should not be taken into account. I think ita
terribly sad fact that there is no satisfaction for the
soul  no sense of perfection, even touched afar with
outstretched hand, like the hem of the divine garment
grasped one instant in a lifetime  for those whose
talent is more than just a little, and yet not half, not
half enough ! For them there can be no abiding joy.

Practical persons undervalue, and, as a rule, dislike
the imaginative artistic ones ; and these, on their part,
are apt to underrate the practical people. But it is
they who are the least wise, for they are the least
happy. They should envy, not despise, the sort of
talent which can alone give solid restful satisfaction.

Adela was created to be a really happy woman :
fair to look upon ; untroubled by passionate desire of
heart or mind ; placid of temper, unless her feet were
wet, or she was unjustly made to feel silly, or else was
disturbed in the usual round of her orderly habits.
She took pleasure in small things, never seeing they
were not great. She loved method for its own sake,
just as she seemed to like the piano because she practised
on it regularly for two hours a-day. She was the
most conscientious of pianoforte players, and by dint of
perseverance could read quite tolerably at sight. Miss
Smith used to say it was never necessary to tell her to
practise her exercises. And indeed it was not ! It

irritated Nellie to hear her, just as it annoyed her
to hear Nellie play. She had snubbed Eleanour into
shyness about her music, for Adela could snub you asa
white fog can chill. She herself had not talent
enough either for music or art to know she had none.
Twice a-week  on "Wednesday and Saturday  she
drew for exactly one hour and a half, and was pleasantly
satisfied with her own copies of Miss Smith's
water-colour landscapes. Miss Smith liked them too,
though she did not consider them as good as the originals
; but she highly commended her pupil as " most
painstaking."

Adela had many excellent qualities. She was truthful
and honourable, and had a much keener sense of
right and wrong than poor Nellie  she could always
see quite clearly what was wrong. It was really surprising
what good principles she had. She must have
inherited them by instinct from her father ; but it could
only have been by instinct, because Thomas was so
hazy that even his virtues were absent-minded 
though, I will allow, it was wonderful how the good
in Thomas managed to come out as clearly as it did, for
undoubtedly the clearest thing about Thomas was that
he was really good and honourable and kind-hearted,
so he must have had excellent principles somewhere.

Clara had never been much with Adela until now,
for she had seen very little of her children. As yet
she was only feeling her way into her daughter's character,
and every now and then she would be nonplussed
by one of Adela's clear ideas of right and wrong.

The mother, rightly understanding her daughter to
be pre-eminently practical, did not pretend that, in
relenting towards this love-match between Adela and
George, she was promoting romance in a penniless
cottage. As roundabout hints were of no earthly use
with Adela, Clara told her plainly that George would
be very well off. She was quite right in thinking
Adela had no romantic notions of love and poverty,
and would have disliked the idea of marrying George
if she could not live in a nice house and place. Adela
always intended to live in a place like Eastcourt 
indeed, it had never struck her George could be poor
when he was quite grown up. She knew boys at
school were never rich.

AVhat is the name of George's place, mamma ? "
she asked. " I hope the grounds are large. And is
there a nice house like this one ? "

Adela, you don't understand," said Clara quickly.
Do not talk of George's ' place ' like that. People
would think it so odd if they heard you. George will
not get Crofton Place till his uncle Sir Cuthbert dies.
When Sir Cuthbert dies, George will inherit it and the
fortune."

Adela thought for a moment ; then she said slowly,
" If Sir Cuthbert did not die, would George be
poor ? "

Sir Cuthbert certainly will die," said Clara
shortly ; " he is dying now."

Dying now ? " repeated the young girl, turning
rather pale. " But, oh ! may not he get better ? "

No, no ! " cried Clara impatiently, rather misunderstanding
Adela's feeling.

Do you want him to die ? " said Adela suddenly,
with a look of horror. " That would be wicked."

How dare you speak to me like this, Adela ? How
dare you ? " exclaimed Clara, in that voice of hers
which made her children tremble, and always seemed
to put her in the right and them in the wrong. " You
know perfectly well, Adela, I wish nothing of the sort."

The girl was frightened at herself. How could she
ever have said what she had said ? She was awestruck
and silenced. And Clara quickly let the matter drop.

But with all its good qualities, Adela's nature was
not made to bring others the happiness it calmly brought
herself. What people, as they usually are in this world,
ask of you is sympathy with their ambition  often
their small ambition ! sympathy with their dissatisfaction,
their unrest ; fire for their passion, not a chill ;
joy for their joy, grief for their grief. Like beggars,
they are always asking and seldom give. Now it was
in vain you craved sympathy from Adela, for there
was no imagination in her mind or heart, although
her heart was not unkind  it was that she could
only feel what her two blue eyes saw quite clearly.

Nellie was longing for sympathy in the passion of
unrest and yearning and great fear which had filled
her heart since Charlie's last cold good-bye to her
in the moonlight at Bluehaven. Yet, excepting her
mother, Adela was the last person to whom she would
have told her love.

If Nellie's love had been all hope and joy, her passionate
young heart would still have craved sympathy
with the strange emotion and surprise of its first gladness
; but from the hour of that cold farewell, hope
and joy had seemed dead to the young girl. Her
thoughts were for ever dwelling on Charlie's sudden
coldness. She could intensely feel the chill of his
changed manner, just as if he still were standing
coldly unmoved before her ; and she could hear  she
was always hearing  that hard tone in his voice.
With much thinking, her imagination grew apace, as it
ever does when fascinated by one thought, like the
serpent's prey it sees but one terror on earth, and
sees no other. The more she thought, the keener was
the pang, for there was a feeling of guilty shame in it,
vaguely understood but keenly felt, and Nellie was
all feeling  she never tried to understand. She felt
that Charlie had turned cold to her when she had gone
to meet him. She remembered it was she had called
him and had wooed him to that passionate kiss.
Thinking of this, even in the dead of night, she
blushed, as if the whole world were alight and looking
at her. Then she would feel  and it was pain unspeakable
 that Charlie had repented with cold repulsion
of the warmth that she  yes ! she had wooed
from him ; and she would again live through the pang
of the last cold parting.

Tears, which soften so much sorrow in youth, could
not soften that. They brought her no relief at first,
because her heart was too much chilled, and hope

seemed dead. She felt that Charlie never could have
loved her as she loved him, and now he would never
care for her again ; he would never come to claim her
as his bride.

But hope cannot really die in youth ; it is the vivid
power of a young imagination which thinks it can.
But it can not ; and if for a moment it lies coldly still,
break not your heart, for it will surely breathe again.
Ah, youth ! if you but knew it, you are blessed even
in the sorrow you so passionately think you cannot
bear. Your very grief is but too full of life ; it is a
storm, and like a storm has sunshine ever near. It is
not the chill airless blight which falls upon the despair
of later years  that calm, that dumb despair,
broken of spirit, and so dead to hope, that it rebels no
more, but wears cold disappointment like a winding-sheet,
from which all heat and feel of ever having
wrapped a living thing are gone. Dead despair !
What is the living one to you ? Its very life can tire
it out. And thus it was with Nellie's ; but not at first.

At first, though she did not know it, much of the
very exaggerated despair which made hope seem dead,
and all the yearning unrest of her soul, came really
from this  that whereas she and Charlie had lived
together all day long for one whole month, and alone
together for one whole week, he now was gone away
from her and she from him. She was sick from the
desire to see his face and hear his voice again : it
seemed so long since they had parted. " To be a long,
long time away is just like death ! " Charlie had said.

VOL. L L

And it was like death to her  but to him ? If only
she could see him again and hear his voice, she would
be quite, quite sure he had changed to her for ever.
A few short moments would be enough, for if she saw
him and heard his voice, she would know at once.
She was quite sure he had changed to her, yet
longed to be surer still. Oh 1 if only she could see
him again and hear his voice. There had been a
lifetime in the week they had passed alone together,
and separation now seemed like the parting by death
of two joined lives. " To be a long, long time away,"
she would repeat, " is just like death ! " Yet if she
counted the days of separation, they were not many.
But there was silence, and it felt to her like the
silence of the grave, between her and Charlie. She
did not even dare to ask for him, nor dare to write
to him ; and she knew he would not write to her.
So if only she could hear his voice and see his face
just once, just once again !

This longing seemed unbearable to the young girl.
She passionately rebelled against the pain of it ; but
her passion was powerless, for the possibility of seeing
Charlie, or of hearing from him, was a hard reality,
like a tightly knotted burden which must be borne.
Never in her life had Nellie borne a galling load in
silence, nor had she until now ever had a sorrow
or a pain which did not quickly cease from aching.
Suffering was hateful to her. She had no courage for
it, and shrank from all pain like a coward. Poor
Nellie was of a shrinking, timorous, and yet passionate

nature : and she had no moral courage at all : she

1 o

was curiously without it. The fear she had of her
mother was intense : from infancy she had felt frightened
in her presence, and had instinctively avoided
her, for she was sensitive to any hardness of nature,
and requiring much sympathy, was strongly repelled
by the want of it. Clara had always felt that Eleanour
shrank from her, and, odd to say, resented it. Of her
six daughters Eleanour was the one she liked least,
although she intended, when the time came, to make
a good match for her.

Miss Smith, who was a very kindly sort of creature
when not awed out of her wits by Clara, never liked
to make any complaint of Nellie, knowing Mrs New-sham
would be hard to the girl. The governess had
naturally noticed Nellie's often tear-stained eyes and
low spirits, and sudden fevers of short excitement.
If a carriage drove up the avenue, or there was any unwonted
stir in the house, or if a door were opened suddenly,
Nellie would betray emotion. She seemed to be
always expecting some one who never came, or some
event which never happened. And this was so, although
the young girl had told herself she had no hope !

Nellie was in such an extraordinarily high-strung
nervous state, that even her mother could not have
failed to notice the curious change in her, had Clara
not been fully occupied with Adela and deeply interested
in the fine art of matchmaking. This fine art
was comparatively new to her ; and it was fast becoming
a very pleasant pastime to her mind.

Then, also, it was quite a novelty for Clara to be
much occupied with any of her children, and one at a
time was certainly enough. Clara was in the habit of
saying  " I can trust the dear children to Miss Smith
Miss Smith has excellent principles." And she
really had not the leisure to look after them herself.
When she had been visiting about for some time, or
consulting the doctors " up in town, she would come
home with her large correspondence much in arrears,
and Clara's correspondence is an important part of her
social diplomacy.

Mrs Newsham kept Miss Smith in great order, as
indeed she did everybody else. The governess was a
nervous sort of person, not clever, and Clara's power
of silent repression, and her constant near presence
everywhere when at home, and the cold fear of her
altogether, strongly affected Miss Smith's nervous
system.

The governess quickly guessed what ailed poor
Nellie, and without arousing any suspicion in Adela's
preoccupied mind, easily found out from her who it
was had been Nellie's hourly companion at Blue-haven.


Adela's two round blue eyes saw no change in
Nellie, for the girl, never quick of perception, was
now completely engrossed by the novel discomfort of
being so constantly with " mamma," and having
mamma " watching her, and " mamma " saying curious
things to her, which gave her such a very awkward
sort of feeling. Adela would wish " mamma "

had never told her she was in love with George, and
then would wonder if " mamma " really could be right
in saying George was in love with her.

Adela would go and reflect upon this in front of
her looking-glass. And she was so pretty, that if
George had been any one but himself, she would have
been quite sure he was in love with her. Gazing at
herself in the glass was a pleasant habit she had soon
fallen into. When not too sleepy, she would sit up
at night and try what was the most becoming way of
dressing her very fair hair ; then she would take out
her blue evening dress and her white one, to see which
best suited her complexion. After much trying on
for many nights, in divers charming attitudes, she did
think she looked prettiest in the blue gown, and yet
she was not quite, quite certain. So even by day,
when she was doing her crewel-work, she would think
over the blue dress and the white, and more than once
she made wrong stitches.

Clara considered this a very hopeful sign. " At
last," thought she,  " at last Adela is beginning to fall
in love with George ! She is getting absent-minded.
I do wish she would forget to play her scales some
morning ; I should then feel sure of her."

Whilst Adela, arrayed in the blue gown, and withall
the candles in her room lighted, would be smiling
at her own reflection in the looking-glass, Nellie would
be lying awake next door, weeping in darkness the
tears she had not dared to shed by day. Youthful
sorrow, unlike an older grief, can sob itself to sleep ;

but Nellie slept little now at night, for, feeling very-low
and nervous and weak, she would take as many
cups of her father's exceedingly strong coffee as she
could unobserved. The coffee steadied her overstrung
nerves, and did her good for the moment, but it kept
her awake most of the night.

Thomas was a teetotaller, with a sluggish pulse and
circulation, and a slow brain. He could stand any
amount of the very blackest coffee, and considered
it was not a stimulant. Dr Doseman declared it
was ; but Clara peremptorily forbade the doctor to
argue on the subject with Mr Newsham. No one
was allowed to remark how many cups of strong coffee
Thomas took after dinner ; and, doubtless feeling torpid
all over, he would drink off half-a-dozen, though he
would seem to think he had only taken one. " No,
no, no ! " he would say in his serious way, " one cup
is enough. Not any more, thank you, my dear Nellie ;
one cup is enough  yes, yes, yes ! quite enough " 
and he would have drunk six !

Clara gave particular orders that the strongest coffee
should be made for Mr Newsham. It enlivened him
visibly. And really Thomas had one of those minds
which you feel may any day go up altogether into the
moon, and stay there and never come down again.

Clara would not have liked Thomas to be too lively
and observant, and yet there were times when he provoked
her.

Thomas never understands anything," she would
say to herself. " That ridiculous teetotal fad of his

will make it so difficult to have the right sort of young
men at Eastcourt for the girls. That is another reason
why I am forced to settle on George ; he is accustomed
to Thomas and his temperance fad, and is content
to dine without a single glass of wine."

Nellie did not yet appear at late dinner, for she
was not " out " ; but when there was no company,
she would come down to the drawing-room for an
hour before going to bed. Absent as he was, it washer
father who always asked for her. Clara resented
this feat of memory. It is curious how often a mother
who has no real love for her child will yet be
provoked if there is love between that child and its
father. Then Clara was accustomed to be the first person
with everybody at Eastcourt, the one person to be
considered in all things, and she had never had a rival.

Nellie felt her father loved her  not that he took
much notice of her, but he would remark her absence,
and liked her to give him his coffee. But the happiness
of this feeling had its alloy in the increased
severity of her mother.

Hold up your head, Eleanour ! I never saw anyone
stoop like you." " What a figure you are ! Go
up-stairs this moment and have your sash properly
tied." " Eleanour ! do you hear ? Go to the piano
instantly and play the new piece you learnt last week,
and remember I shall be listening, and know how
many mistakes you make."

The evening hour in the drawing-room had become
a terror to poor Nellie. Miss Smith and the younger

children were not there to take off her mother's attention
 even Sylvia had gone to bed. Fortunately
Clara wrote many of her letters in the evening, when
there was not company. iSTellie always felt as if while
she wrote she watched her ; but this was nervous
imagination on the young girl's part. Mrs Newsham
invariably gave her undivided attention to her correspondence
; she rarely wrote a letter without a motive,
and her motives were numerous.

The dread of betraying her secret was an overpowering
one to poor Nellie when in her mother's
presence. All day long she would be trying to brace
herself for the evening trial. The strong coffee would
give her courage and nerve. Each night she seemed
to want it more and more, though she knew it kept
her awake, because once she had not taken it, and
had slept. But the momentary fillip to her nerves
was so pleasant that she never resisted taking it again.
There seemed to be no power of resistance in N'ellie's
nature. She would feel so terribly unstrung next
day after an almost sleepless night, that she would
vow never again to touch the strong coffee ; but when
the evening came, she would break the vow and take
it. And this went on for the whole month of September
and part of October.

There were times when the morning wretchedness
would be so great, and all hope so dead, that Nellie
would feel she could no longer keep the secret of her
unhappy love, but must have sympathy or die. She
was only sixteen !

Twice she was on the verge of telling all to Miss
Smith  she felt she could tell that kindly woman what
she never could breathe to her mother or Adela. But
Miss Smith nervously avoided the avowal. She dreaded
to be told Nellie's secret, for it might be her duty
to tell it to Mrs Xewsham, and she feared Clara's cold
hardness, and pitied Nellie's young love. Like most
governesses. Miss Smith cherished in her heart the
memory of a long-lost love, and her heart happened
to be a soft one, though her face was now red, and
her manner uninteresting, and you would never have
suspected her of romance. Such a contrast as she
was to Clara, who looked like a white angel of love,
yet did not really know what love meant.

Miss Smith had never been able to think Adela
was in love with George, although Mrs Newsham had
told her so, and she was in the habit of believing implicitly
what Clara said ; still she could not believe
this. But she did believe Nellie was in love, and with
a young gentleman who had no fortune, and was never
likely to have one. The governess was not clever
enough to understand Clara, yet she had grasped the
fact that Sir Cuthbert Crof ton's illness gave Mr George
the chance of a fine place and property.

And Sir Cuthbert seemed to be really and truly
dying during the whole month of September  yes,
really and truly dying ! So was it any wonder if
during that entire month, from beginning to end, Clara
felt justified in amusing herself at Eastcourt by making
Adela believe George was in love with her and

she with George, and that they had been both in love
at Bluehaven ?

On the whole Clara now found Adela very easy to
manage  almost as easy as Thomas  for the only thing
Clara could not manage about Thomas was his fads.
But with these she did not meddle. " Thomas will
have a fad, and if it is not one thing it will be another."
It must be allowed that, in managing people and things,
Clara knew what to let alone  she had the instinct
of the art ; then for many years she had been in the
regular habit of managing everybody who came near
her, and everything, even the most accidental circumstances
! In fact, accident of the entirely unexpected
sort was her strong point. As we all know, it was
accident had taken her and Thomas and Nellie and
Adela to Bluehaven  just the little accident of the
Bishop being ordered there by Dr Fozzle ! And it
was quite by accident she had first got rid of the
Admiral and then of herself, thus unexpectedly leaving
Adela in a position where it seemed impossible for
her not to be always with George.

But if accidents are your strong point, you naturally
feel indignant when by some unlucky chance they
threaten to take their own particular turn and not yours.
If you run smoothly on your own lines, you do not like
to be stopped just when you are coming out of the tunnel.

Sir Cuthbert had been steadily dying the whole
month of September; yet what should he do in
October but actually get better ! Now here was an
accident over which Clara had had no control.

A great specialist had been down to Crofton Place
from London, and had almost declared himself puzzled
by the case, though it was known this distinguished
personage never quite avowed he was puzzled by anything,
not even if a patient died just as he had pronounced
him out of danger. The Shropwich doctor,
really a very clever physician, in regular attendance at
Crofton Place, was also reported to be unable to state
certainly whether Sir Cuthbert intended to live or die.
Kate had written to Clara saying Dr Stumps seemed
puzzled. Perhaps it was the specialist had puzzled the
Shropwich doctor and not the patient, for that specialist
was such a very great man that he never entirely agreed
with anybody but himself. How Clara wished she could
only know what the Shropwich doctor really thought !
Then she could arrange her accidents accordingly.

Clara had often been hospitably entertained at
Crofton Place, and yet she now felt she had a right
to be annoyed with Sir Cuthbert. It never struck
her there was anything horrid in this. And yet she
could so easily have realised through the imagination
of her mind that it mio'ht be terrible to Sir Cuthbert
to die, for though Clara has no imagination in her
heart, she has a great deal in her powerful mind. It
is true she did not say to herself I am hoping Sir
Cuthbert will die. On the contrary, this is what she
said : " I am wishing Sir Cuthbert may get clearly and
hopelessly well, then I should be quite sure he would
marry, and I should give up George altogether, and
make Thomas take that house in town."

I must say if a man of fortune lias no child and
cannot take his good estates and name away with him
into the next world, he should clearly make up his
mind to live or else quickly die : it is his bounden
duty to be undoubtedly in good health, or to have
a well-known mortal disease. I think many near
relations  excellent people as they invariably are ! 
yes ! I think many near relations, and I know all
matchmaking mothers, will agree that Sir Cuthbert
Crofton's conduct in setting up an internal mystery of
his own was simply intolerable.

And no internal mystery was ever more provokingly
uncertain. Sir Cuthbert having once taken the turn
which no one expected him to take, perversely went
on getting better.

I really must be careful," thought Clara, " or I
may go too far, and make Adela fall so seriously in
love with George that she will never marry anybody
else, and Sir Cuthbert may get better and better, and
finally 2:et well."

So Clara had actually to stop matchmaking quite
suddenly towards the middle of October. She missed
the exciting pastime, and was dull without it. Her
fine art was becoming a second nature to her. She
soon got dreadfully bored at Eastcourt for want of her
little amusement, indeed so bored that she went away
to stay with her father the Bishop. Mrs Newsham
liked presiding at the Palace and doing my Lady
Bishop to the diocese, when she had nothing better
to do. She was popular with the Archdeacon and the

Canons, and above all with the Dean. It was the
simplicity of Clara's character, and her perfect unworldliness,
which so much attracted the devout Dean.
And then he found that charming Mrs Newsham held
exactly the same views as himself ! The Dean was
decidedly High Church, and Clara was " high," though
not too " high." She was just " high " enough to be
really fashionable.

Mrs Newsham took Thomas and the three younger
girls to Petersclose with her. Thomas went willingly,
because he still had very much at heart that grand
project of making the Bishop take the temperance
pledge in his own cathedral, before his whole diocese.

Decidedly," said Clara to herself ; " as I must goto
my father some time, it will be more convenient to
go now than later on, when things are a little more
settled, for if Sir Cuthbert continues to get better, I
will drop George and take Adela about everywhere.
At present, while the uncertainty remains, it is wisest
to let her quietly alone, and I should not like to have
company at Eastcourt for fear of complications. There
is really no very great hurry about Adela, as she is
not yet eighteen. That is the best of beginning very
young with a girl. You have plenty of time before
you. Besides," she added, 'every young men are so
much the easiest to manage."

When Clara left home, the household breathed
more freely, Sylvia alone excepted, for she always
said she " did not mind mamma," and she wanted to
go away with her and pay " grandpa " a visit ; but

Sylvia was fourteen, and such a real beauty that Clara
had already determined to make a great match for
her. The Palace swarmed with poor clergymen and
presumptuous curates. A very dangerous place indeed
for the elder girls ! Only fit for young children.

Miss Smith was always much happier when Mrs
Newsham went off visiting ; but she was far too discreet
to allow it.

Adela was ashamed to feel glad as her mother drove
away, yet felt very glad indeed. There had been a
perpetual strain in her constant companionship with
"mamma," and it was very pleasant to think she
would now be left quietly alone and not constantly
reminded of George, for there was really no necessity
to be always thinking of him, and being in love was
altogether such a very uncomfortable feeling. While
"mamma " was away, Adela intended not to think about
George, or about being in love at all.

Nellie stood on the doorstep and watched the carriage
drive away. At any other time she would have
been sorry to say good-bye to her father and the
children ; but the relief was too great for any thought
but just this one, " She is gone ! and I need not be in
fear and trembling all day long." With a deep-drawn
sigh of joy, like a prisoner suddenly breathing
the free air, and overcome by it, she turned and threw
herself on Miss Smith's neck, then burst into a flood
of tears.

I did not think you would be so sorry to see them
go ! " exclaimed the astonished Adela.

Oh, Nellie always cries at everything*" said Miss
Sylvia, contemptuously : she was a precocious young
lady, with a great opinion of her own wisdom. " But
come on, Adela, we will play lawn - tennis. The
grass is quite dry, and this may be our last
game."

"Don't cry, dear Nellie," said Miss Smith soothingly,
when the two girls had left them, and she led
Nellie from the hall door into one of the sitting-rooms,
where there were no staring servants. "Don't cry,
dear child ; I know you are sorry your father has gone
away. You are always sorry when he goes, dear. He
is very kind to you. He is kind to everybody."

Sorry ? " said Nellie, raising her head and brushing
away her tears. She ceased sobbing, and for a
moment was quite still; then with sudden passion,
and returning tears, " I am glad ! " she cried  " glad !
glad they are all gone ! Mamma would not have
gone alone, and I should have died if she had not
gone away ! "

Miss Smith was horror-struck : she was a most
proper-minded person, never said the wrong thing herself,
and had never heard a pupil speak like this in
all her life. She was too much confounded by the
shock even to reprove.

I could not tell mamma, but I must tell you, or my
heart will break. I think it is breaking now," cried
Nellie ; and before Miss Smith's scattered senses came
clearly back to her, Nellie had passionately poured
forth, with much incoherent contradiction, her tale of

love and hope, and fear and hope, and no more hope,
only certainty of disappointment and of sorrow. Miss
Smith could not understand the story at all. She only
understood that Nellie was desperately in love with
Charlie Crofton, and this was just what the kindly
creature did not want officially to know, for fear of
bringing ill-luck on the young girl's love  ill-luck had
come to her own love in the bygone years for ever
past. Nellie's vehement passion frightened the quiet
timorous woman, and all the ordinary commonplaces
of reproof and propriety, which were returning to her
memory, forsook her troubled mind again, for Nellie
threw her arms a second time around her, crying, " I
have told you what I could not tell mamma, though
concealing it was killing me by night and day. It
was killing me, because I could not ask for Charlie
or know about him or even hear of him ; but I can ask
you for him now, and sometimes hear of him, and
you won't be cruel to me !  never, never be cruel tome,
or I shall die ! I shall die ! "

Miss Smith was so carried away by alarm and sympathy
and feeling, that exactly the contrary of what
she meant to say slipped from her heart.

Dear child, dear child, compose yourself, and all
will yet be well. Mr Charles will never change to
you. He is a very good and nice young gentleman,
and will keep his promise, and come to claim you the
very day he gets into the army. To be sure he will,
dear child ! only compose yourself ! compose yourself
! "

Nellie abruptly disengaged herself from Miss Smith's
encircling arms, though the kind woman was soothing
and kissing her, and not scolding her at all, but only
repeating with a sort of tender fear, " Compose yourself,
dear child, dear child ! "

Nellie stepped away from her, then stopped and
stood still. She was no longer flushed but pale. The
torrent of her rushing words was stayed. Her passion
seemed to have spent itself, and she now spoke
slowly, as if the overmastering impulse to tell all
were past, and she were fearful of hastily saying
too much.

That evening on the water was not the last time
Charlie and I met at Bluehaven. I . . . " She hesitated.
" We . . . we met again." No ! she could
not tell this part of her story as it had really happened.
" I . . . he . . . when he said the last
good-bye to me, he was cold ! he was cold ! He had
changed to me, and never will care for me again !
All hope is gone, quite gone ! "

She clasped her hands and bent her head. Her
pale calmness reassured Miss Smith, who, like many
timorous people, only feared and understood the boisterous
passion which can speak  she thought NelHe
had taken her advice like a good girl, and had " composed
herself," and was now quite sensible again ; so
the governess was able to reflect comfortably and say
what she felt she ought to have said at first, and
which certainly was the right thing, and what Mrs
Newsham would undoubtedly wish her to say, and be

VOL. I. M

pleased with her for having said if ever she had to tell
the tale of Eleanor's love.

Well, my dear," she said, " I am so glad you are
composed and sensible, and like yourself again, because
everything is for the best." Miss Smith had been
telling her own heart this for so many years, that she
almost believed it. " Yes, everything that happens is
always for the best, and I am sure you will soon
see this quite clearly,  and indeed, my dear, you seem
to see it now, and considering Mr Charles's circumstances,
and . . . and Mrs iSTewsham's ideas . . . very
proper ideas  about the suitable establishment of her
daughters, it is really fortunate Mr Charles should have
changed his mind at the last, and not have allowed
you to leave Bluehaven thinking he would come and
ask you to be his wife as he had at first promised. It
was honourable and right of Mr Charles to let you see
he had changed his mind. Young men do change
their mind, my dear, and often two or three times
before they are quite grown-up, and Mr Charles is
young, very young."

Nellie's hands were still clasped, and she was standing
palely calm and seemingly unmoved; but while
Miss Smith was speaking, she had raised her head
and was gazing at her with a look of cold pain, like
the look the good Bishop had seen at Bluehaven, and
thought was the pallor of the moonlight upon her
young face.

She spoke at last, but very, very slowly. " You
said he would never change, and now you say he has

changed to me. I told myself all hope was dead, but
. . but I never thought you would think so too.
Hope must be dead . . . you think it dead . . . dead
. . quite dead ! " And she fainted at poor Miss
Smith's feet. The sleepless nights, the mental strain
had exhausted the young girl's strength.

CHAPTER 11.

Sir Cuthbert Cotton over - exerted himself on
Christmas-day, and became dangerously ill again.

Clara had left the Palace, and had come back to
Eastcourt, so she immediately felt justified in returning
to the pleasantness of pleasant occupations.

That was altogether a memorable Christmas-day,
for Adela had slipped in the snow on her way to
church, and had sat in her wet things all through the
long service, sooner than tell " mamma." The girl had
caught a very bad chill, but did not tell any one she
had a cold upon her until some four or five days afterwards
; then her sickness could no longer be concealed,
and old Dr Doseman had to be called in.

Old Doseman was the fatherly tom-cat who had
purred so pleasantly for years to Clara's voice. Clara,
too, was in the habit of purring very sweetly to the
old doctor. So they purred together over Adela, and
then went on purring for quite a long time.

Dr Eobert Doseman dearly loved being in regular
attendance at Eastcourt ; and a brilliant idea had
struck Clara. Brilliant ideas, like unexpected accidents,

were the powerful side of Clara's genius. When
first called in, old Doseman had said one of Dealings
was slightly affected  not that he would go sofar
as to declare it was actually touched ! He would
only say it was slightly affected. The affection might
pass away very quickly and leave no seed of future
disease ; it also might remain. The doctor did not say
it would remain ; but if it did remain it might be
serious. He did not apprehend serious consequences ;
yet serious consequences might possibly ensue.

Sir Cuthbert's internal mystery being in a very
bad way, and seeming clearly to show fatal symptoms
just then, it happened to strike Clara that a touched
lung and yearning love went very well together.
Lungs and love have for years, and will for ever,
produce a very pretty sort of consumption, invaluable
to the matchmaker ; and no one should blame Clara
for making use of one of the approved expedients of
her difficult art. Clara was quite within her prerogative
when, instead of a tubercle, she calmly determined
to fix George on Adela's lung.

And, ah ! what a sweet little scene there was
between her and old Doseman when first, with
smiling softness, she purred this little idea of a love-affair
upon the lung into the very heart  the really
kindly, tender heart  of the old family doctor !

Ahem ! ahem ! my dear Miss Adela ! " said Dr
Doseman to his patient, and he opened his chest ashe
always did when giving advice. He had a way of
vigorously throwing back his coat, sticking his two

thumbs into the arm-holes of his waistcoat, and clearing
his breathing with a cough, just to show how
sound his lungs were, and how necessary to health
it is to open well the chest. He did all this with
much effect, for he had a very portly figure. Though
rather short, he was altogether imposing in appearance.
The natural benevolence of his countenance
was solemnised by an air of quite mysterious pomposity.
Pompous mystery weighted his long upper
lip, and tightened his mouth, and seemed to double
his chin right down into his waistcoat. He had a
large and serious nose, which he blew sonorously,
as if it were his duty to set an example of how to
clear the head as well as of how to clear the chest.
He brushed his iron-grey hair into a horn at each
side of his head, and the two horns met in one over
the baldness at the top. This pointed top-knot added
height to his forehead, and made his brain-power
almost imposing. " Ahem ! ahem ! my dear Miss
Adela ! Come, come, now, my dear young lady ! " he
said ; " every cloud has a silver lining, and it is an
ill wind blows no one good, and a long lane that has
no turning ; so let us keep up our spirits, my dear
young lady, let us keep up our spirits, and all will
soon be well. The course of true love never did run
smooth ; but just let us keep up our little spirits, my
dear Miss Adela, and take our glass of port wine at
eleven, and our tonic after luncheon, and our port
wine again at four."

Old Doseman was indeed fond of ordering port

wine in Mr Newsham's house. It was a protest
against Mr Newsham's  impudence ?  arrogance ? 
insubordination ?  what shall I call it ?  in becoming
a total abstainer without consulting his old family-friend
and medical adviser. Old Doseman liked to be
called a " medical adviser " far better than a doctor,
and always spoke of himself as such.

While in attendance upon Adela, the medical
adviser met Nellie one day on the stairs, and thought
her looking pale and out of sorts, so he then and
there ordered her port wine too, just as he had done
Adelaide

worst of going too violently into any one
extreme is that you are apt to send everybody about
you headlong into the other. When a man is in the
habit of declaring with fanatical sincerity that everyone
who takes a glass of wine is virtually a drunkard
on the highroad to crime, the fallacy is so apparent
that those who would entirely agree with his temperance
views, if moderately held and moderately expressed,
are irritated into impatient enmity.

Now Clara did not in the least care for wine, and
hardly touched it; but Thomas's " teetotal fad " irritated
her, and so she ignored it whenever she could. She
would be quite pleased when Dr Doseman ordered
port wine in her house ; but as Thomas would make
a preposterous fuss if he knew of it, the port wine
was, by Clara's orders, always taken secretly. Secrecy
was not in itself naturally distasteful to Clara.

To do Dr Doseman justice, he wished the wine to

be drunk openly and at table, just as Thomas desired
to see the Bishop take the pledge openly in his own
cathedral.

Adela had not in the least understood the old
doctor's speech about keeping up our spirits my dear
young lady, and the cloud with the silver lining, and
the ill wind that blew no one good, and the long lane
that had no turning, and the course of true love
which never did run smooth. But her mother carefully
explained its meaning to her ; and then poor
Adela really did get ill.

She intensely dreaded old Doseman's visits. They
threw her into a fever, for she had such a horror of
what he might say next ! And mamma was always
present to hear  mamma, who thought she was in
love with George ! And Dr Doseman must certainly
think so too !

No wonder poor Adela's pulse was all in a flutter ;
and a young girl's fluttering pulse tells a soft tale very
plainly to a fatherly old tom-cat.

Yes, Mrs Newsham," said the doctor, after paying
I should be afraid to say how many visits,  " yes, Mrs
Newsham, most decidedly you are right  you are
right. You are always right, Mrs [N'ewsham. I have
never known you mistaken in a case. Never, my
dear madam ; never ! Yes ! you have perfectly
diagnosed the young lady's symptoms ; you have
thoroughly understood them, my dear madam. But
this little affair," continued the doctor, repeating
without knowing it what Clara had said more than

once to him,  " this little affair must be settled, Mrs
Newsham. It must not be permitted to drag on.
No, no ! Mrs Newsham, we must not permit it to
drag on ; for the consequences may be serious to
Miss Adela's health. I will not positively affirm
they will be serious ; but I say openly, quite
openly, they may be serious, my dear madam  very
serious indeed ! "

This was exactly what Clara had all along intended
Dr Doseman should finally say. And when he did
say it, she felt that George was firmly fixed on Adela's
lung.

I think most people prefer to tell the truth if they
conveniently can. The right-minded Clara was certainly
pleased to have a doctor's certificate for rapidly
sending Adela into just the sort of consumption which
best suited her little plans. She instantly made practical
use of the privilege, and quickly decided that her
eldest son Eockhurst must consult a London dentist
before he went back to school, and that in order todo
so he must spend at least one night at Kate
Crofton's house in town.

Eockhurst did not want to go to the dentist, and
vowed, but vowed in vain, he had never had the
toothache.

Clara knew better. And, like all her children
except Tom, Eockhurst was accustomed to yield her
implicit obedience. Clara often said to herself  for
since her mother's death she did not say those sort
of things aloud  but to herself she said, " Eockhurst

is, and always will be, as easy to manage as dear
Thomas."

The handsome, tractable Eockhiirst was a great favourite,
so, although he invariably ended by obeying his
mother, lie was allowed to make a few remarks first.

But I hate the dentist," he repeated ; " and I
have not got the toothache."

You will get it in some important examination
if your teeth are not properly attended to now. Besides,
my dear Eockhurst, you need only go to the
dentist once, and for quite a short time, the morning
after you arrive. I am sure George can take a day's
holiday, and it will be very pleasant for you to go
about town a little with him. Now, you know, Eock-
hurst, you will be very glad to see George again, and
you would not otherwise see him this vacation."

But why not ask him here for a day or two
instead, and then I could see him without going to
that beast of a dentist ? I know George could get a
few days' leave from old Butt, for except six days at
Christmas, he has had no vac; and he is quite in
the dumps at being left all alone in Chapel Street,
for you see Aunt Kate can't leave Sir Cuthbert. Ask
George to come here. I say, mother, just ask him."

In a moment Clara was all severe repression. Her
tightly drawn mouth, and her tone of voice, alarmed
her son. There is a severe tone in Clara's usually
soft voice which her children have feared from infancy,
and will fear for life.

No, Eockhurst ! I will not ask George to East-court

! George is not an honourable young man.
I am sorry to say he has behaved badly."

Neither respect nor fear could prevent Eockhurst
from exclaiming loudly, " I say, that's hard on George !
and, by Jove ! awfully untrue ! "

Eockhurst ! " said Mrs Newsham, in a voice
which silenced her son : she then paused. When she
spoke again, it was even more severely than before.
George," she repeated, with cutting emphasis, 
George is not an honourable young man. He has
behaved badly, very badly. He has almost killed
Adelaide

! killed Adela ! " gasped the astounded
Eockhurst. " George killed Adela ! good Lord,
mother I Adela is all right, only rather queer,
because she is silly and makes a fuss about being
grown-up. Ha, ha ! George has killed Adela ! Ha,
ha ! but, I say, what an awful joke ! " And
Eockhurst actually had the reckless temerity to
laugh. He could not help it. Clara was amazed.
But he did not laugh long.

Eockhurst ! " Her voice was enough to steady him
at once. " How dare you ? " she continued : Clara
often said. How dare you ? " How dare you treat a
very serious matter as a joke ? It is a very serious
matter when a young man has trifled with a young
girl's happiness, and without asking her parents' consent
; and George has dishonourably trifled with Adela's
affections. He has made Adela fall in love with him."
Adela fall in love ! "

Eockhurst ! ! "

There was a repressing pause. Then Clara went
on  " Adela is so much in love that she is threatened
with rapid decline. Dr Doseman is alarmed  greatly-alarmed.
He thinks the consequences may be very
serious indeed. Dr Doseman ascribes Adela's extremely
critical state entirely to George. He is
very angry with George, and says this sort of
trifling must not be allowed to go on."

Doseman is a confounded old fool ! " The fatal
words escaped Eockhurst's lips before he had time
to realise their audacity.

Eockhurst, you have insulted me, and insulted
one of our oldest family friends," said Clara, leaving
the room with majestic severity, and though small,
she can be majestic on great occasions. " Eock-
hurst, you have insulted me ! "

And the young fellow was left to his own reflections,
and puzzling ones * they were. Adela was in
love with George ! And he had imagined she hated
him! And she was going into a rapid decline, and
he had thought she only had a cold ; just the sort
of cold Thompson had caught last half, from sitting
in wet things. Eockhurst was not sorry he
had called Doseman a confounded old fool  because
old Doseman was a confounded fool  and he rather
suspected him of having advised that visit to the
dentist. He did not care a rap if he had insulted
old Doseman or not ; but he did mind very much if
he had insulted his mother, and for the life of him

he could not make out how he had done it. He
had certainly had no intention of insulting her.

It was awfully unpleasant to be in the same
house with mother when you had insulted her, even
by accident. He soon found it was a hanged uncomfortable
position for a fellow to be in ! You
could not keep out of her pervading presence ; you
were always meeting her everywhere, and from morning
till night she was making you feel you had insulted
her ; but she did not blow you up and have
done with the whole bother, which would have been
a relief,  " like being swished once for all," thought
Eockhurst. But no, her cold resentment was like a
long imposition always " on your bones," and every one
seemed to see you were in disgrace, even the servants
attending at table ; yet mother was wellnigh speechless.

Clara understood the power of silent wrath to
perfection, and well knew how especially powerful it
is with the young. She could act the coldly insulted
one quite admirably, and had not unfrequently
practised the art upon Thomas, though Thomas was
really too absent a man to be a satisfactory subject ; so
much was lost on Thomas ! He was apt to forget you
had not spoken to him.

Clara much preferred practising on Eockhurst. His
ill-concealed discomfort was very pleasant to her, for
she liked to feel the power she had over her son. He
was a piece of soft silk in her clever hand. She
could put any idea into his head, and even persuade
him into repentance when he had not sinned.

Clara soon had Eockhurst at her feet, and he
actually apologised for having insulted her when he
had not insulted her at all. No wonder Clara was
fond of this son. But she did not show her affection
weakly : she maintained the severity of her manner,
with all the proper dignity of an injured woman.

She received her son's apology coldly. Still
keeping him at arm's-length, she spoke to him very
seriously; and then, for the second time, proceeded
to inform him, with a calm solemnity severely impressive,
that Adela was in love with George, because
George had paid her marked attention. This time
her son entirely believed her, and felt no desire to
laugh ; indeed he wondered he had laughed before.

Clara carefully explained to Eockhurst that it
was not so much the open attention George had paid
Adela which was so very reprehensible, as the marked
manner in which he had avoided her, as if he had
liked her so much that he did not dare to speak to
her for fear of betraying his feelings to her parents.

"And now, Eockhurst," said Clara finally, and she
was so severe that the overgrown boy felt as if he
were somehow the culprit as well as George  " now,
Eockhurst, when you go up to Chapel Street next
Wednesday, you shall ask George his intentions "

Intentions ? " faintly murmured poor Eockhurst.

Clara cut him short by repeating  " Yes, Eock-
hurst, you shall ask George his intentions. I simply
insist upon it ! "

Chapter III.

EocKHUEST Newsham did go up to town on the following
Wednesday, to " consult the dentist."

Before he left home, Clara had told him he was
now a man. It is true he was past eighteen, yet in
reality he was a mere boy. All Clara's children,
except Nellie and Sylvia, were young for their age.
Eockhurst was as young as young could be : he did
not look seventeen, and he could not be lower down
at school than he was ; he had very nearly been
superannuated. In fact, so much of a boy was he,
that it seemed quite delightful to him to be called a
man ; and, above all, to be treated as such by his
mother ! for Clara had explained to him that although
it was a brother's duty to protect his sister's
happiness, she would never have allowed him to ask
what George's intentions were, unless she considered
Adela's brother quite a grown-up man. " Much as
you might wish it, being Adela's brother, I should not
permit you to do this thing, Eockhurst, unless I considered
you to have the sense and discretion of a man.
I entirely rely upon your discretion, Eockhurst."

As Clara had foreseen, the visit to the dentist was
a short one. The dentist did not say there was absolutely
nothing the matter with Eockhurst's teeth,
because no dentist could or would commit himself to
such a statement, but he did say  " There is not
much amiss with your teeth, Mr Newsham. 'No, not
much. Although I do see one or two little matters
it would be as well to settle quite satisfactorily while
we are about it. I shall not keep you long, Mr
Newsham. But you have done right, very right, to
have your teeth examined. It is well to have the
teeth examined at least once a-year. To most of my
patients, I recommend an examination every six
months ; for as I tell them, it is always wise to be on
the safe side  undoubtedly the safe side is the wise
one."

As Clara had also foreseen, George got a holiday.
He did not ask " old Butt " for it, but took it of his
own free will, saying quite grandly, " Confound that
old fool of a crammer ! "

Eockhurst was impressed by George's manner, and
could not help feeling there was a change in his
old friend. George had been nearly four months at
Butt's, and a crammer's establishment makes a very
independent man of you in no time.

When the short visit to the dentist was over,
George and Eockhurst and a great " chum " of George's,
that lively young swell Eattles, who lead also given
himself a holiday, " knocked about town " for the rest
of the day. Eattles talked, joked, and smoked incessantly.

He was dressed in the height of the fashion,
everything on him was new, and he " shot his linen "
in style, though, like George, he had only been four
months at Butt's. Eattles was far more advanced in
dazzling conversation, ideas, and cigars than George,
yet George talked more than Eockhurst had ever
thought he could have talked ; and though he had
not yet mastered the art of walking down St James's
Street solely by the aid of his shirt-cuffs, he smoked
in a way astonishing to Eockhurst, who could hardly
smoke at all.

At first Eockhurst felt rather shy with Eattles, and
was overpowered and silenced by him. But Eattles
was kindly condescending in manner : amiable condescension
was natural to Eattles. In passing the
War Office, still by the aid of his shirt-cuffs, he said
quite affably, "The Duke isn't such a bad fellow, I
can tell you, and the army would be very different if
he had his own way. Wouldn't go in for all this
competitive humbug. Knows right well what humbug
it is ! The Duke would like to get the best men,
and we get a confounded lot of undersized bookworms
now. Wliy, there was that wretched specimen Sapper
came out head of the list last time, and old Butt
nearly died of joy. But if the Duke sees Sapper, I'll
bet you a fiver he'll get a fit. Come, I'll even lay
you twenty to one, Newsham, that the mere sight of
Sapper wil be apoplexy to the Duke. But hang it !
what's the good of having a sensible fellow at the
head of affairs when you don't take his advice ?

VOL. I. N

The Government just kick H.E.H. over and take
the advice of some palavering fool of their own,
who doesn't know a private from a general. Awful
shame ! Wonder the Duke stands it. Hang me if
I would ! I'm all against these Cabinet duffers,
except on the short-service question ; on that I go the
whole hog with them  by George, I do ! for if they've
got a lot of undersized, weakly rabble in the ranks,
the sooner they get rid of them the better. By
George ! ought to have short service for the damned
crammed competitive blokes too ! "

Eockhurst was soon at home with Battles. That
young gentleman's good-humour and unceasing flow
of lively spirits attracted him, just as they had fascinated
George. As to George, he was the bidden slave
of Eattles. It was quite curious to see him. Eattles
was the sort of young fellow who is the terror of the
anxious mother and the delight of the well-brought
son.

But how could Eockhurst mention Adela's decline,
and ask George what his intentions were, while Eattles
was present ? . The thing was impossible.

The young men dined together at a fashionable
restaurant, where they paid a fabulous price for what
Eattles called a " confounded bad dinner and hanged
bad wine." Then Eattles proposed  it was he who
proposed everything  that they should go not to one
theatre, but to two : " I say now, I'U tel you what
we'll do. We'll just look in at the Frantic and see
Little Polly Prancer in the first act Of the new burlesque

; capital in the first act ! not worth seeing in
the second. Then we'll go on to the Eoyal Lacrimose,
and come in for the touching Laura's great scene,
when she finds the fellow doesn't want to marry her
whom she wants so awfully to marry, though she
hated him once. Laura looks wonderfully cut up,
they say. So awfully clever about her rouge. Puts
on lots of it in the first act, and then rubs it all off
for the great scene, but paints her eyes all through
and darkens them with increasing affliction. Laura
Lovelock is a first-rate hand at getting herself up,
I can tell you ; awfully well-dressed too ! No end of
diamonds, and dies in them all. Dies beautifully, they
say. Awfully interesting piece ! "

The notion of going to two theatres regardless of
expense, to hear the best parts of two pieces, was an
original idea of Eattles's. Eattles often had original
ideas, and they were generally regardless of expense.

Eockhurst had actually never been to the theatre,
except four times with Aunt Kate, and Aunt Kate
did not go to burlesques.

I am shocked to say the quiet Eockhurst was quite
carried away by the dancing and singing of pretty
Polly Prancer. Perhaps it was the novelty of the
thing, because Polly Prancer was certainly a vulgar
little person. George was also decidedly taken with
Miss Polly ; but Eattles said, " Polly isn't quite up to
the mark to-night  not in her usual form!" and
dragged his two unwilling slaves on to the Eoyal
Lacrimose. They just, but only just, arrived in time

for Laura Lovelock's great scene. As George and
Eockhurst had not seen the beginning of the play,
they did not quite grasp the situation at first. But
Battles somehow knew all about the plot, and,
rather to the disturbance of some of the audience,
kindly explained  "All through the first Act she
hated the fellow she is now going to be so awfully in
love with. Finds out he is awfully generous, and
all that sort of thing, and was awfully in love with
her when the play began ; but now he thinks she
hates him, just when she is beginning to fall in love
with him, knowing him to be so awfully generous.
You'll soon see how tremendously in love she really is.
But she is only beginning to know it now, and he
won't find it out till she rubs off all her rouge and
gets deadly pale. That's just when she is going to
die ; and it is an awful shame they make her die.
Awfully touching, too, they say. They might have
let her live on with one lung. Lots of women live
on with one lung. None of the really pretty girls
have two."

Eattles kindly continued to keep up a running
commentary on the plot. " Now look ! there she is
coming on again ! And this time she'll be awfully in
love with him. Hanged awkward position for a man
when a lady is in love with him and he is not in
love with her. But he is a lucky fellow not to have
two of them in love with him at once. By George,
lucky fellow ! " This was said as if Eattles had had
some curious experience of his own.

There ! she is going off again, for she is quite
heartbroken now. I say ! does it awfully well,
though ! Next time she will come on in white satin
and with all her diamonds ; and then she'll begin to
die."

The fact that the handsome actress died in all her
diamonds seemed to enhance in the eyes of the audience
the pathetic interest of the death-scene.

Eattles was more moved than he would have cared
to own ; and both George and Eockhurst would have
found it a relief to use a handkerchief, but were too
shy.

Eattles lodged in Bury Street, but he smoked and
talked and walked with his two friends all the way
to South Audley Street. He insisted on Eockhurst
having a cigar. " By George ! I say you . . . you don't
mean to tell me . . . impossible, by George ! so just
try this, and I'll be hanged, Xewsham, if you ever
smoked a better one."

Excellent as the cigar undoubtedly was, Eockhurst
did not care to have it perpetually in his mouth ; but
Eattles kept an attentive eye upon him. Eockhurst
was indeed glad when Eattles hailed the one hansom
left in South Audley Street and drove off to Belgravia.


He was feeling rather nauseously uncomfortable in
himself ; and then he had to ask George's intentions,
and tell him of Adela's rapid decline, and he might not
have time to do so in the morning ; besides, it would
be much easier to say the . . . well 1 it was the unpleasant

thing his mother had told him to say. There
was just time  just the right time, for there was not
enough to leave a long awkwardness dragging on at
the other end of his confidential communication. It
was characteristic of the unbounded influence Clara
had over her son, that the idea of disobeying his
mother's instructions never so much as entered Eock-
hurst's head. He looked down Chapel Street. Yes !
it was reassuringly short ; but it might prove too
short, unless he came directly to the point ; and
curiously enough, Eockhurst could not do this.

He began  " Awfully good death - scene at the
Lacrimose." He had stumbled on this more by accident
than intention.

George gave a whiff of his cigar, and answered
slowly, with much less emotion than he felt, " Not
bad. Dies welL"

Chapel Street was certainly very short. Eockhurst
threw his cigar into the road, and said quickly, " Awful
pity the fellow did not know she was so tremendously
in love with him."

How could he, when Eattles says she hated him
all through the first Act ? "

But I say, George," exclaimed Eockhurst, getting
desperate, " perhaps she only pretended to hate him,
and really liked him awfully. Half the girls do that
sort of thing, and then set to getting their lungs
wrong and dying of consumption, because they are
secretly so awfully in love."

But if they are such hanged fools, how the deuce,"

George  " how the deuce is a fellow to know
they are in love with him ? "

By their being so awfully rude and queer, and
all that sort of thing," said Eockhurst, nervously.

Hanged clever fellow then who guesses it ! " said
George, quite naturally ; " wouldn't strike most fellows,
by Jove ! Would never strike me a girl was tremendously
in love with me because she was awfully rude."

Now here was Eockhurst 's opportunity. Yet he
hesitated. A few steps more and it would be too late.
He was walking on. Suddenly that curious influence
which I call the near presence of Clara stopped him
short. " I say, George . . ." Dark as it was, Eock-
hurst could not look towards George, but turned away
his head as if he saw something interesting in the
murky dimness across the road. " I say, George . . .
Adela . . . Adela . . ." Then he blurted out, " She
is awfully in love with you ! "

George was too astounded for speech. His cigar
fell from his lips. He stood perfectly still as if shot.
His absolute silence confused poor Eockhurst, who
tried hard to say all he had been told to say, but
could only mumble, " Consumption . . . old Doseman
. . rude . . . queer . . . awfully in love . . .
mother says may die . . . mother awfully alarmed
. . awfully angry too."

At the mention of Clara's name, George moved
again like an automaton whose spring has been
touched. He bent down ; peered on the pavement ;
found his cigar ; picked it up ; blew it slowly into

life ; gave two deliberate whiffs, and at length spoke.
By Jove ! " was all he said.

He walked on. Eockhurst walked on also. George
was actually at his own door. It was very dark
there. The door lamp was out. Eockhurst took
desperate courage, and stepped in front of George.
I say, old fellow ! Adela so awfully ill . . . so awfully
. in love, and . . . and all that sort of
thing ! that mother told me to . to ask your intentions,
old fellow ! Though she is awfully against
this match; or rather," he added, remembering his
lesson more correctly  " or rather, mother was awfully
against it once, but she is not so much against it now."

George jumped back. Never was any one more
amazed than he. " Intentions ? By Jove ! intentions
? Good Lord, I've no intentions ! Tell Mrs
Newsham I have none. It is all bosh about Adela's
liking me. She hates me ! and she hated me at
Bluehaven ; and you may tell Mrs Newsham so, and
tell her we were awfully careful to avoid each other
from morning till night  and, by Jove, it was not
always as easy as it looked ! We hated being in the
boat together, and I had always to ride in one direction
because Adela always rode in the other. Got
dreadfully bored perpetually riding on one road!
Hang me if I ever paid Adela any attention ! and
Mrs Newsham knows that right well."

But look here, George, that is just what mother
says ! and that is why she is so awfully angry with
you. She says you made Adela so awfully remarkable

by avoiding her, as if you liked her so much
you were afraid to talk to her. Mother would not
have minded if you had paid Adela open attention,
but she is awfully angry at the marked manner in
which you avoided her. She says that is why Adela
has fallen so tremendously in love with you." Eock-
hurst had had this part of his lesson well impressed
upon him by Clara. He added, " Mother says most
girls are like Adela."

Then they are hanged fools 1 " exclaimed George,
angrily,  "like that woman in the play to-night.
And, by Jove, she was a fool ! Served her right
the fellow never guessed she was in love with him."

George walked forward, and managed, dark as it
was, to put his latch-key in the door. Just as he was
in the act of turning the key, he said hurriedly, " T
say, Eockhurst, no chance of Adela really dying ? "

Don't think so myself," answered Eockhurst truthfully
; " but mother and old Doseman do."

Then George exclaimed, as Eockhurst had done
before him, " Old Doseman is a confounded fool ! "
and went in.

The young men lighted their candles in silence.
But, on parting for the night, Eockhurst spoke, 
Awfully afraid must leave by the first train tomorrow,"
he said. " Don't you get up, George."

Xo, old fellow ; I won't."

They understood each other, and parted all the
better friends for doing so.

CHAPTER IV.

When George had distinctly declared he had " no intentions,"
almost any one but Clara would have decided
that Adela should instantly fall in love with some
other eligible young man. But Clara is no more like
ordinary people than Sir Cuthbert's internal mystery
was like most satisfactory diseases.

Mrs Newsham was in a state of trying indecision.
Would it be well to give up George, or would it not ?
Ah, if only, if only she could know what that Shops
doctor thought of Sir Cuthbert ! Kate had
written over and over again : " The one person who
seems to understand poor dear Cuthbert's singular
case is Dr Stumps, for his medicines alleviate the very
great suffering there is at times, while the medicines
of that great man from London made Cuthbert feel
much worse."

Indecision is very painful to those who are accustomed
to make up their mind rapidly and to manage
accidental circumstances with a high hand. Indecision
was becoming intolerable to Clara.

She bore it six weeks, and then she could bear it

no longer. In another three weeks George would be
going in for his examination, and if by any chance he
happened to pass, Clara felt he would no longer be a
bird in her hand  for, once in the army, he would be
going out regularly into society ; his eyes would open
widely, and in no time he would be falling in love of
his own accord  perhaps with a fortune.

So Clara took a great resolve : she determined to
consult that Shropwich doctor about her own health.
It was quite possible to go from Eastcourt to Shops
and back in one day.

Dr Stumps's practice was entirely provincial ; yet
it struck the good doctor that, even in the remotest
country parts, he had never met any one quite so
simple, and tenderly soft, and perfectly unaffected, as
this frail-looking fair lady, who had come such a long,
long distance in order to get his valued opinion. It
pleased Dr Stumps to find his reputation had reached
all the way to Nossex.

The doctor had never been purred at before, and
the sensation was agreeable. In an incredibly short
time he was quite in the humour to let this interesting
lady, whose complexion was so transparently white,
have any nice little malady she wished. Being a ruddy
man himself, he never quite believed in a very white,
transparent complexion, and he took Mrs Newsham's
hand, expecting to find the uneven throbs of a weakly,
palpitating heart : for a moment he was disconcerted
by her excellent pulse.

Clara saw this, felt her pulse herself, and exclaimed,

How strange ! Now that is strange, Dr Stumps !
But it is the effect of change of air. Change of air
always has a perfectly miraculous effect on my pulse.
The fact is, Eastcourt is a damp place, and I never
think it agrees with me for very long ; it certainly disagrees
with me in the spring and early summer. We
have a very, very large lake there, quite near the
house, and the mimic exhalations from all that water
are often extremely trying  especially after the spring
rains."

It was one, and only one, particular sort of illness
which Clara was determined to have when she consulted
a doctor. It was that malady so common
amongst ladies, for which there is but one known
cure  a house in town during the London season.

Dr Stumps soon took Mrs Newsham's view of her
own " case." It was a curious fact that, as yet, Clara
had never come across a doctor who did not take exactly
her own view of her case. So no wonder she
liked doctors.

The very last moment of a lengthy interview had
come, and Clara had already insisted on the doctor's
taking the two-guinea London consultation fee, and
she had all but left the room, when, turning back at
the door as if through an afterthought, she softly said 

Ah ! by the by, Dr Stumps, if I had not almost
forgotten to tell you it is the very high estimate my
sister-in-law, Mrs Crofton, has justly formed of your
abilities, which made me come all this long distance
for the sole purpose of consulting you about myself

I do assure you, Dr Stumps, my sister-in-law's confidence
in you is unbounded  quite unbounded ; for
she says you are the one person, the only person, who
has done poor dear Sir Cuthbert any real good. And
what a pleasure  what a very, very great pleasure 
it is, Dr Stumps, to think that at last, at last poor
dear Sir Cuthbert is really taking the right turn."
Clara's voice was low and sweet as she said this.

The right turn ! " exclaimed the doctor, quite
thrown off his guard. "Would to God, Mrs New-sham,
it could be the ricfht turn and not the wrong
one Sir Cuthbert will surely take ! "

Clara turned pale. " The wrong turn, Dr Stumps ?
And my sister-in-law seems full of hope ! "

Poor Mrs Crofton ! Is it possible she still deceives
that kind heart of hers ? Poor Mrs Crofton !
and I thought that at last she had opened her eyes to
the hopeless truth."

The hopeless truth ! " repeated Clara, with downcast
eyes and a tightening mouth.

Sad case, sad case," continued the doctor ; " never
knew of a much sadder one. For Sir Cuthbert should
be in the very prime of life. Fine career before him.
Devoted to his profession  devoted. And he was
sure of an Embassy with his fortune and great talents.
A clever, a very clever, clear-sighted man Sir Cuthbert.
Sad case, sad case ! The poor fellow may
struggle on a little, time longer, but can't recover.
No hope  none ! " Dr Stumps spoke with real
feeling.

Clara turned still paler than before. Cold as is
her nature, she was not unmoved. To hear certainly
that Sir Cuthbert Crofton was a doomed man when
she had wished him doomed, did for one instant 
but no more  yet for one instant did make her feel
as if it were her own strong desire that had killed
him. This ugly dart of unreflecting conscience quickly
glanced aside, and Clara could speak words of tender
sympathy for poor dear Sir Cuthbert's sad, sad state.
It is true her voice trembled a little at the first few
spoken words, as a murderer's might when the murdered's
name first rose upon his lips. The emotion of
the pale, fair woman with the downcast eyes seemed
very kindly sympathy to the worthy doctor, and he
thought it would be well if all fine ladies had as kind
a heart as this charmingly elegant and aristocratic-looking
Mrs Newsham of Eastcourt. To him Clara
seemed a very fine lady indeed, and he was pleased
to have her as a patient ; for he was not like Monsieur
Diafoirus  q.d aimait mieux micrometer Ic purple.

As Clara was passing through the hall, she heard
the doctor's waiting-room door open, but she had not
the curiosity to look round. Her mind was much
engrossed with what she had just heard.

A flight of steps took you down from the doctor's
hall door to a little paved path that led between four
flower-beds to a wire archway, from which a big
red lamp swung. The small gate under the archway
opened before Clara by some contrivance connected
with the hall door. She walked out, the gate

slammed behind her, and she heard the hall door slam
too. She looked up somewhat absently, being full of
thought ; she looked up, and found herself face to face
with  Sir Cuthbert Crofton !

Propped up amongst many cushions, he was lying
rather than sitting in an open carriage exactly in front
of her. His changed face looked drawn and wan, but
the bright eyes were undimmed. Clara quailed beneath
their keen, keen glance. Sir Cuthbert noticed
that she did so. Twenty-two years in the diplomatic
service had sharpened his natural power of instinctive
observation. He raised himself a little ; but it was
not much the poor man could now move without help.
Stni leaning back, he gave his unloved hand to Clara,
and she had to take it. It was a very white and
wasted hand  a sick man's hand, grown pale and thin
and blue-veined, like a weak woman's  a touching
hand to see. Even Clara felt it was a touching one,
and would fain have dropped it quickly ; but its grasp
was firmer than she had thought it could have been.

Sir Cuthbert said, "Ah, Mrs Newsham, so you
have been to inquire for me, and to know if I am to
get well again ? You are kind, very kind, Mrs iSTew-
sham." His voice had that pathetic sound in it which
a sick man's voice, robbed of its full-toned vigour, ever
has, even to a hardened ear.

Clara lost her presence of mind. "No, no," she
stammered  " not . . . not about you." Then quickly
recovering her self-possession, though with downcast
eyes, because she hated to meet Sir Cuthbert's keen

glance, she added, very plausibly, " I have been consulting
Dr Stumps about my own health, Sir Cuthbert,
for I never am very strong." She said this quite
prettily. " No, I am never very strong ; and I did
wish so very, very much to get the advice of a man
whose abilities I have heard so highly spoken of by
dear Kate ; for now, really, dear Kate never does tire
of praising Dr Stumps."

Kate is in there consulting him now, Mrs New-sham,"
said Sir Cuthbert. " But, unlike you," he continued,
speaking slowly  " unlike you, Mrs Newsham,
Kate is consulting Dr Stumps about me."

Clara looked up ; she could not help it. Her eyes
met Sir Cuthbert's penetrating gaze. It was as if she
saw the lie she had told standing there uncovered,
looking back at her. The colour which so rarely
tinges the marble of her fair cheek rose upon it now,
and she felt herself blush, and saw Sir Cuthbert smile
in a curious sort of way.

The whole scene was over in an instant ; and Clara,
having murmured something about trains not waiting
for any one, was walking rather hurriedly down the
High Street. Sir Cuthbert, with that smile still playing
round his wan lips, watched her as she went.

Elle ment et ne trompe pas" said the diplomatist,
in the words of Talleyrand. And from that hour he
called Clara " Metternich."

CHAPTER V.

I DO not think any one with the highest moral sense
was ever more sincerely put out at having told what
can only be called a downright lie than Clara ; for she
saw Sir Cuthbert had not in the least believed her.
It is not at all Clara's habit to tell real lies. A lady
engaged in the arrangement of accidents, and involved
in the complications of matrimony, cannot always get
on without a little verbal diplomacy of that intelligent
sort which suits itself instinctively to the accident or
the person it is necessary for the time being to manage.
But what Clara really likes is to leave you under a
false impression, and she greatly prefers to do this
by silence than by deliberate speech ; and indeed,
when she has to speak, she is quite fond of telling
you half the truth. Now half the truth can never be
called a lie, and yet it may produce exactly the same
effect.

Clara was dreadfully annoyed at having been surprised
into an unmistakable lie  dreadfully ! But
she was not merely angry with herself ; she was far
more angry with Sir Cuthbert, and she never again

VOL. I.

deceived herself into the idea that lie wished him to
get hopelessly well.

I know exactly the sort of man Sir Cuthbert is,"
she reflected, irritably  " an underhand, designing,
suspicious diplomatist. Diplomacy quite unfits you
for private life, for you are always suspecting everybody
of being as intriguing as yourself. I see clearly
what will happen. Sir Cuthbert will, say I went to
ask Dr Stumps how soon he is going to die. That is
just the sort of spiteful thing he would say. And he
will talk me all over quite openly with Kate, and put
notions into her dense head. And then there is that
dreadful, dangerous Admiral staying on at Crofton
Place ! I am sure he has been joking about George
and Adela, and talking in the most shocking, imprudent
manner possible. Just like him ! He is a dangerous
man, and capable of doing endless mischief. T
do wish Cutlass Cutter would send him out to the
West Coast, and be quick about it. At any rate, I
have no time to lose. If this match is to take place
at all, it must be settled immediately, before those
odiously suspicious Crofts think there can be time
for me to act. Sir Cuthbert is a regular man of the
world, and the instant George gets into the army he
will begin putting heiresses into his head. It certainly
is shocking to see a man carry his worldliness into the
grave like Sir Cuthbert ! I am sure I would give up
George altogether if I knew any one who would suit
Adela as well. But now, really, considering Adela's
prospects, I do not see she ever could do better than

George. It is a very fine old property, a beautiful
house, and just the sort of neighbourhood which would
be an advantage to Sylvia and the younger girls ; and
we have no neighbours of the right sort here at East-court
except that worldly, intriguing Lady Barchester.
I cannot help thinking, too, that George must be feeling
very nervous at the notion of sending Adela into
a rapid decline, especially as I have taken care the
idea should be kept alive in his mind."

Clara was right. George had never been quite
comfortable about Adela since Eockhurst's visit to
Chapel Street and the dentist ; and the uneasiness had
been kept up by rumours of Adela's touched lung
which had been reaching his ears, on and off, for the
last six weeks, from the most unexpected and widely
opposite quarters.

Then it must be understood George was no longer
the same boy he had been at Bluehaven. He had
got many new ideas from the men at " Butt's," and
his mind had been a good deal upset on most subjects
by Eattles : it was delightful to Eattles to upset young
Crofton's mind. So what George would have considered
actual " E.O.T. " in the month of August seemed
to him the right thing towards the end of the following
February. He had not been long at a crammer's
before he discovered it was quite the thing to be in
love ; or if not in love yourself, to have some one in
love with you. Eattles had two young ladies in love
with him. " Have to keep clear of them both," said
he confidentially to George. Eattles was very confidential,

and yet very outspoken, on the subject of his
love affairs. " Have to keep clear of them both, or I
might be asked my intentions."

As ill-luck would have it, George instantly told
Eattles he himself had already been asked his intentions.


Your intentions ! Yoic asked your intentions !
You ! By George, but you are precocious ! I say,
you are such an awfully grownup-looking sort of
fellow for your age ! " Eattles considered George a
perfect baby.

You see," said George, naively, " I naturally thought
she hated me, because she was so awfully rude and
queer ; but it seems she was only awfully in love with
me." And the story, as George gave it, did seem such
an " awful joke " to Eattles  the very best joke he
had heard for many a day. To do him justice, it
never once struck him it was anything else.

Whoever," thought Eattles, " could have guessed
that meek-looking JSTewsham was up to such a joke !
Hang me if I did not think he had nothing in him !
But this is a lark ! " So, instead of reassuring George
on the subject of Adela's lung, Eattles amused himself
by taking a very serious view of the lovelorn lung,
and by persuading George he had made a terrible mistake
in letting a girl fall so desperately in love with
him. " Now," said Eattles, " there is a certain point
at which I make my young ladies stop short."

Hardly a day went by without Eattles inquiring
confidentially for Miss Adela's health. He would even

pass up a bit of paper the whole length of the room
at Butt's with  " No bad news, I hope ? You look
rather down in the mouth," or words to that effect,
written on it.

Eattles took George to the Royal Lacrimose time
after time, " Just in your Ene, my good fellow," he
would say ; " she is so awfully in love with him without
his knowing it. Odd that no one asks him his
intentions ! First-rate play ! awfully moral too 1 teaches
a fellow not to trifle even by accident with a girl's
affections. Saw the moral of it awfully praised the
other day in the ' Times.' The ' Times ' always does
stick up for the moral of everything ! "

Whenever George had been to see Laura Lovelock's
great death-scene, he certainly did feel for some little
time afterwards that it was not impossible Adela
might really have fallen in love with him without his
knowing it.

Jack Eattles was not slow in noticing the effect the
piece invariably produced on his friend, for the amused
Jack kept his eyes wide open and noticed everything,
and at times quite pestered poor George with questions.
He was constantly asking, " I say, Crofton,
awfully good-looking, isn't she ? "

George never knew if Adela ought to be called
pretty or not. This uncertainty did seem to Eattles
such an " awful joke " 1 And that was why he kept
so constantly asking, " Awfully good - looking, isn't
she ? "

At last the long-suffering George got out of temper.

Hang it, Eattles ! don't bother me any more. If
you had seen Mrs ISTewsham, you would know exactly
what Adela is like ; awfully white and fair, and  all
that sort of thing ; only Adela does not look through
a fellow like her mother."

The mother looks through you, does she ? I say,
then, take my advice and keep clear of her."

Awfully difficult though," said George ; " she is
my stepmother's sister-in-law."

Good heavens ! " cried Jack Eattles ; " then you
are in a fix! She'll be like one of those dear relations
always on your bones, whom a fellow is so
awfully anxious to avoid ! She'll be cropping up
everywhere ; and look here, I say," he added, with infinite
glee, " it is she herself will be coming to your
house and asking your intentions next time. By
George ! you'll have her down upon you to a dead
certainty. But I say, Crofton, if ever she does swoop
down here, you just send for me. I'll be a match for
her ! " Prattles's self-confidence was sublime.

A match for Metternich Mr Eattles could never
have been ! But he might have proved a great inconvenience
to her, and he would undoubtedly have been
some little help to the ingenuous, defenceless George.
But George was an unlucky fellow, and Clara was a
very lucky woman, for it was only on rare occasions,
and with some wily old serpent like Sir Cuthbert, that
ill-luck befell her.

Her fortunate star was certainly shining in heaven
or somewhere else  when Eattles left town on a

ten days' visit to a friend  just to " keep himself going
for the grind," by a few runs at the end of the
season  exactly thirty-six hours before Clara appeared
in Chapel Street. For Clara did appear there within
a week of that memorable visit to Shropwich  and
she was accompanied by Adela.

Clara made her unexpected and purely accidental
visit seem quite natural by her usual expedient of
going up to " consult the doctors." She knew the
doctors would do well enough for George, and she
could think of no better excuse ; indeed, what better
one could she ever have found ?

Those London doctors ! Ah, those London doctors !
they are simply invaluable ! Many and many a lady
would never get up to town unless she came to
consult the doctors." A lady can always take her
daughter up to London solely to " consult the doctors."
She will even be able to drag the dullest husband out
of the dullest country place and bring him up to town
in the very height of the season, merely to " get an
opinion," as she will call it, not being quite altogether
perfectly satisfied with the state of " dear William's,"
or " dear Henry's," or " dear Thomas's " health.

Metternich, knowing Kate to be certainly at Crofton
Place, had written her a little letter addressed to
Chapel Street, saying : 

My dearest Kate,  Can you ? now can you give
nic a bed, just for one, one night ? I am going up to
town to consult Sir Jonathan Johnston, as I have not

been feeling quite the thing of late ! and I am also
taking up Adela, but merely for the day. I wish her
to see Dr Williams-Smith, the great lung authority, as,
I am sorry to say, and I am sure, my dear Kate, you
will be grieved to hear, that her health has been a
matter of very, I'cry serious anxiety to me during the
last few months."

Then Clara took good care to arrive in Chapel Street
almost with her letter, before there really could be
time to send it on to Crofton Place. She chanced the
accident.

George was eating his solitary luncheon when a cab
with luggage stopped at the door, and before he had
time to think there must be some mistake, to his
frightened amazement, to his disgust, out stepped Mrs
Newsham, followed, to his greater horror, by Adela !
And right upon him, straight into the dining-room,
they walked.

Clara came in with a sort of beautiful Madonna-like
composure ; but poor George thought Adela
looked as if she might faint or even die on the spot.
George was painfully bewildered, and lost his presence
of mind, and let himself be kissed by Mrs Newsham
as if he were still a mere child ; and then he nearly
kissed Adela himself by mistake ! though her manner
was cold to him. Her mother had told her to be
very cold.

But George's flustered surprise was nothing to the
unbounded astonishment expressed by Clara on discovering

what she already knew, that Kate was at
Crofton Place, and not in Chapel Street at all 1 " And,
I declare, here is my own letter lying on the mantelpiece
! " It was in the discovery of what she well
knew beforehand that Metternich was truly admirable.
The name suited her to perfection.

Clara read her own letter aloud before she burned
it, because it had really been written, not for Kate,
but for George. The unfortunate fellow winced painfully
when she came to the part about Adela's health.
He glanced at Adela. She gave him a frightened lookin
return, changed colour, and seemed very, very
much agitated.

Clara read out slowly and quite pathetically the
words, " I am sorry to say, and I am sure, my dear
Kate, you will be grieved to hear, that her health has
been a matter of very, very "  here she made a telling
pause  " of very serious anxiety to me during the last
few months."

George instinctively looked at Adela ; and when
she saw him looking again, she turned white, then
red, then looked towards her mother. But Clara appeared
to see nothing  she was quietly burning the
letter.

Oh, my dear George," she said, with much kindly
consideration  " my dear George, I do so hope I am
not putting you out in any way ! and naturally you
never, never could have expected me ! and Sir Jonathan
Johnston says he positively cannot see me until
past four o'clock ! So provoking ! for unless I spend

the night here, I must leave by the four train. So
now really, really, George, I must ask for a bed."

George was so taken aback he could not quickly
answer, and Clara went on in her gentlest voice, " Poor
dear Adela has an appointment with Dr Williams-smith
 the great chest opinion, you know. He is to
call here at a quarter to three '"'  and she added, with
tender softness, " I knew dearest Kate would not mind.
Dearest Kate is always so very, very thoughtful and
kind." Then continued, " I am sure, George, Dr
Williams-Smith will be punctual, so Adela and her
maid will be able to catch the four-o'clock train."

George was immensely relieved to find Adela was
not going to stay in his house as well as her mother.
He wondered if he could not get rid of Mrs Xewsham
too, but said, politely enough, he would ask Emma if
it were possible to get his mother's room ready for
the night.

He had great hopes, in fact he was almost certain,
Emma would refuse to do so, for she had made an
extraordinary fuss once about getting that room ready
for Eattles, one night when he had asked that agreeable
fellow to sleep in Chapel Street after a visit to
the Lacrimose. Clara proposed to ring for Emma and
speak to her herself; but George eagerly jumped at
an excuse for leaving the room.

He was alarmed to see Mrs Xewsham's luggage in
the hall, and to find the cabman had driven away.

But he still had hope, and said to the tyrant of
his household, " I say, Emma, Mrs Xewsham wants

to stay here to-night." The old servant looked glum,
and had George stopped then all might have been
well ; but he foolishly went on, " Emma, I don't
think you could have mother's room ready in time,
for you know you always say there is so much dust-ins
or something to be done." Poor George ! this was
an ill-judged remark. Emma fired up.

A body would think, Master George, I keep this
'ouse like a pigsty ! So you just go and tell Mrs
Newsham there's nothing to be done to that 'ere
room, and that's more than she could say for any
bedroom at Harcourt ; for it is I that knows the
bins and hours of that grand place. Grand place
indeed ! A pack of tossed-off girls for 'housemaids,
and not one of 'em as knows her business ! Master
George, you just tell Mrs Newsham there is a room for
her, and for Miss Adela too, and for her maid as well ! "

No, no, no ! " cried George ; '' no, no ! they are
not going to stay, Emma. Miss Adela and the maid
are going home by the four-o'clock train."

They've no need to, and you just tell 'em so,
Master George. I've a mind to tell 'em myself," said
Emma, stoutly.

Don't, don't 1 " implored poor George, for Emma
had been tyrant of the household as long as he could
remember anything ; " I beg you won't, Emma. Having
a lot of people in the house would interfere with
my cramming."

Cramming indeed ! " exclaimed the indignant
Emma ; " and much good they'll ever cram into your

head, Master George. They'll just cram you into a
'asylum, or a 'hospital, or a hicliot, with their newfangled
nonsense ! Young gentlemen are not young
gentlemen nowadays. You don't see one of 'em holding
up his 'eat straight and 'happy. They're a poor,
broken-hacked, spiritless lot. That they are ! Unless
it's one of them as will come to no good, like that

young Eattles " George had quite disappeared

down-stairs by this time, so old Emma added, " There's
that Miss Adela, as pretty and nice-spoken a young
lady as you might see anywhere, and Master George
a-saying she'd interfere with his cramming ! It's just
unnatural ! That it is 1 Like some sort of strange,
'eaten, young cannibal man ! "

George merely put his head in at the dining-room
door. " Emma says you can have a bed to-night, Mrs
Newsham. I'm off to Butt's. Very busy to-day.
Awful hurry ! " And off he was, out in the street
and across the road, before Clara could call him back.

He had not said good-bye to Adela ; not that he
had in the least forgotten to do so  he was merely in
mortal terror of paying her attention unawares.

But when he had got as far as Park Lane, it struck
him, to his dismay, that perhaps Mrs ISTewsham would
say his running away so abruptly was a marked avoidance
of her daughter more particular than any open
attention. George was indeed glad he had told Eock-
hurst clearly he had " no intentions," and he now felt
that had placed him in the right position. " As Mrs
Newsham knows I have no intentions," he reflected,

it really does not much matter how I behave ; " and
lie wished he had remembered this before. He would
then have said good-bye quite naturally to Adelaide
hoped Adela had not thought his abrupt departure
rude and snubbing, for he did not want to seem unkind
to a girl who had nearly gone into a consumption
for secret love of him. Yes ! he did believe
she was very ill, and he hoped the doctor would not
think there was any chance of her dying. She did
not cough much, and she could walk without help.
He had noticed that she had got out of the cab quite
easily ; but she was certainly a little thinner.

George had seen a great deal in those two furtive
glances, and, above all, he had seen that Adela was
really pretty. He wondered he had never seen this
before ; perhaps being in a sort of consumption made
Adela prettier than she used to be. He had often
heard Eattles say no really pretty girl ever had
two lungs. He felt he could now tell Eattles with
perfect truth that Adela was pretty.

Poor Adela ! " he said to himself, " she is ill ; and
I think I may have been rather hard on her and
down upon her long ago for being a duffer." He
remembered how deadly pale she had turned on first
coming into the dining-room after her mother. She
must secretly have felt seeing him again very much,
or she would not have got so white ; and then, though
her manner had seemed cold, her little hand had
trembled when it touched his in a way that was
moving to a very young man who had been living

entirely out of ladies' society and cramming hard for
the last six months.

George had started for Butt's a quarter of an hour
earlier than usual or than was necessary. Butt lived in
Brompton. George dawdled leisurely on by the empty
Eow ; and, strange to say, he began thinking of Adela
again. He had never before in his whole life thought

O CD

of her so much. The truth is, he had nothing to
think of just then that he cared about, for he was
not really interested in his work; it was only an
awful grind " to him. He missed Eattles dreadfully
; he never wanted to think of anything interesting
or not, when Eattles was with him. Eattles
had become a part of his existence, and he was dreadfully
bored without him. If this lively, agreeable
fellow had been in town, I don't think George would
have cast two thoughts upon Adela.

Well, at any rate, Eattles can't chaff me anymore,
for I'll tell him Adela is a long sight prettier
than either of his young ladies. He would admire
Adela's white skin. Hang me if I ever thought it
pretty before ! but I see it is the right thing now ; and
Eattles does go on so about a woman's complexion.
I'll bet a fiver he will fall in love with Adela. No
end of a pretty girl if a fellow was a marrying man !
But hang it, I'm not a marrying man 1 Awfully hard
up ! If I was flush of coin, I'd dine with Courtney
and go to the Frantic. Courtney is not such a bad
fellow when you can't get any one else. Anyhow,
I'll cut Mrs Newsham and the whole concern. I'll

be blowed if I dine with her alone ! Let's see "

He pulled out one shilling from his waistcoat-pocket
and looked at it ruefully. " Awfully hard up ! " he
repeated,  Eattles had certainly proved an expensive
friend,  " never was so hard up before ! "

He looked at the shilling again, then dived into all
his pockets, but only to find a solitary sixpence. After
as much thought as he would have given an examination
paper, he came across an idea. " Have it ! I'll
buy half-a-dozen buns, and stay on at Butt's till ten
o'clock, as if I were going in for an exam. ; and when
it is near dinner-time I'll send Mrs Newsham a telegram.
Deuced lucky I've got that shilling. Won't
turn up till late at night, and I'll be rid of her tomorrow.
Said in that letter she was only going to
stay one night. By Jove ! but I shall be awfully
hungry grinding for hours on a few buns, for I hadn't
half enough luncheon. Had to run away before I
had finished a single chop ! and I'll be hanged if
Emma will let me have any supper in my bedroom ! "

CHAPTER VL

Clara had a very unsatisfactory visit to Sir Jonathan
Johnston. He told her she really had nothing the
matter with her, gave her no prescription, and did not
advise her to call again.

Clara had never been insulted by a doctor before.
She was very angry. However, as no third person
had been present at the interview, Metternich felt she
could give her own account, if necessary, of Sir Jonathan
Johnston's " opinion."

Dr Williams-Smith's visit to Adela was far more
satisfactory.

Poor Adela was almost in a nervous fever, for her
mother had kept her in a state of agitation for a very
long time ; and it had never so much as entered her
innocent young soul, when Clara told her plainly she
was in love with George, and going into a rapid consumption,
that her mother, for whom she had unbounded
respect and fear, was telling her something
very like a complete untruth.

It was an agony of shame and awkwardness to the
poor young girl to be dragged up from the country

right into George's own house. Her instinctive sense
of honour had rebelled against it ; and she had had
the audacious courage to say to her mother, " If George
is in love with me, he can come to Eastcourt. Let
him come to me. I hate going to him."

Adela, I am ashamed of you ! How dare you
talk in that extraordinary manner ? " Clara had
silenced her by saying. " You are not going to
George. You are going up to town to consult Dr
Williams-Smith, and will merely lunch in your Aunt
Kate's house. I could not let you see the doctor
before luncheon, for fear he should take too gloomy
a view of your very, very serious case."

Poor Adela ! how this had frightened her. It had
frightened her out of her wits, for she had the most
healthy horror of dying.

Dread of Dr Williams Smith and his " opinion,"
even more than the uncomfortable awkwardness of
George, had prevented her from eating any luncheon.
She had awaited the doctor in the most highly strung
state of nervous agitation, fearing he would certainly
say she was going to die. She had been crying before
he came.

Mrs Newsham first saw the doctor alone in the small
inner drawing-room, with the two doors closed. Adela
sat trembling in the larger outer one, f>ivin< a short
nervous cough every few seconds, and feeling as if she
were going to break that dreaded blood-vessel then
and there.

When at last the double doors opened, Adela

VOL. I. p

turned deadly pale and felt faint ; and when she tried
to stand, her knees shook so that she had to sit down
again. She really felt alarmingly ill, and her pulse
was all in a flutter.

Dr Williams Smith was cheerful in manner. " That
is because he does not like to tell me I am going to
die," thought poor Adela ; " but he will tell mamma
afterwards in the back drawing-room."

The doctor stethoscope her. She had been stethoscope
before, but it always frightened her.

Draw a long breath. Ah ! thank you, thank you.
Not so very much wrong there, Mrs Newsham," said
the doctor.

Adela heard him say this, yet did not feel reassured
: it was only a part of his hypocritical cheerfulness.
All doctors were alike ; old Doseman had
been unnaturally cheerful too, and had never told
her she was dangerously ill, but he had certainly told
mamma. " And Dr Williams-Smith will tell mamma
I am dying, but he won't tell me."

The doctor tapped on her chest mysteriously, and
examined her thoroughly. Then Mrs Newsham looked
at the doctor, and the doctor looked at Mrs Newsham,
and Clara walked towards the back drawings-room. Dr
Williams Smith having shaken hands, I can only call
it affectionately, with Adela, followed Mrs Xewsham.

The awful mystery in the back drawing-room was
full of terror to poor Adela. The doctor left by the
side-door of the back room, and did not come in a
second time to see his trembling patient.

Dr Williams Smith says lie will call again the day
after tomorrow," said Clara, returning to her daughter
with a very grave face.

But oh, mamma ! oh ! I may go home to-day ? I
may go home to-day, mamma ? I can come back on
Wednesday. Do, do let me go home ! "

For the moment, the nervous terror of staying on
in George's house with George overcame the poor
child's fear of death. It was not till her mother said,
You will remain here, Adela, until Dr Williams-smith
has seen you again," and said it in that severely
determined manner which always cowed her
children, that poor Adela's terror of the awkwardness
about George was lost in the greater terror of
death.

Does the doctor think I am . . ." Adela's white
lips tried but could not say the hateful word dying.
Does he think I am . I am ill ? "

He will give his final opinion the next time he
sees you  or the time after," replied Metternich.
Lie down on the sofa, Adela, and rest yourself. Best
is very necessary for you." And she left the room.

To do Clara justice, it had never entered her head
that her daughter's imagination had been worked up
by herself into the certain expectation of a rapidly
consumptive death. She considered Adela devoid of
imagination, and altogether too stolidly healthy and
sensible for a girl of her age. " It is almost impossible
to get an idea into Adela's brain," she had often
reflected irritably.

But Clara was not aware that when you have once
managed to force a clearly defined conviction into an
unimaginative mind, it will stay there for ever unchanged.
Imagination has wings of its own, and flies
from impression to impression, forgetting the old one
in the new ; but the mind which does not invent,
will hold as an immovable fact the invention, perhaps
the passing invention, of another. When people only
tell the mere exact truth by accident, they get into
the habit of saying a great many little things very
useful at the moment, but which they afterwards
forget. Clara had been provoked at Adela's dulness
of perception and slowness in grasping the fact that
she had a lung, and that George was the disease upon
that lung, so she had frequently spoken to the girl ina
highly exaggerated manner about the delicacy of
her chest. And Adela had believed her all the more
easily because, from being constantly worried, she had
got low and nervous, and this was a strange alarming
feeling to her, as she was accustomed to enjoy perfectly
smooth, solid, good health.

Clara thought it very desirable Adela should think
herself ill enough to lie on the sofa, and feel nervous.
The girl was generally so healthily active ! It did
not suit Metternich's little plans to have Adela trotting
about town amusing herself, and getting a good
colour and a good appetite, just as if she were quite
well.

Adela was feeling so inexpressibly wretched lying
on the sofa for the whole afternoon, in perturbed expectation

alike of George and the breaking blood-vessel,
that when George's telegram to her mother
arrived, the relief of thinking that, at all events, she
would be delivered for the evening from the painful
discomfort of his presence, was so great that she got a
fit of hysterics. Like a true diplomatist, Metternich
reserved to herself the right of interpreting the meaning
of these tears in the manner best calculated to
promote the higher interests of her daughter in the
serious matter of matrimony.

George could not stay on at Butt's after half-past
ten, and he only managed to remain there so long by
craftily entangling old Butt himself in a discussion
about a very crabbed question in one of the official
examination papers on an expression of Chaucer's.
George maintained that a knowledge e of such 

o

way English was useless to an officer, and only puzzled
his spelling for life. Butt was a sure " draw " on this
subject ; Chaucer put at least five hundred a-year into
his pocket, and he always stuck up for him.

George dawdled about the streets till it was a quarter
to twelve, and he was dead tired. Luckily he had
his latch-key, so he could let himself in without encountering
Emma. He took off his boots, and crept
up-stairs like a guilty mouse. He was dreadfully
hungry, but rushed into bed, not daring to ask for anything
to eat, knowing well that Emma would insist
upon his having supper down-stairs in the diningroom,
and fearing the light, now in the drawing-room,
might descend upon him with Mrs Newsham.

George was ravenous next morning. Mrs Newsham
appeared at his early breakfast, but Adela stayed in
bed by her mother's advice.

Clara could not help being annoyed at George's
hearty appetite. He did not even inquire what Dr
Williams Smith had said of Adela, but ate on just as
if he had never been told the girl was going into a
rapid consumption, and all through secret love of
him.

Clara hemmed once or twice to attract George's
attention, but the provoking young man ate steadily.
He was very glad to be occupied, and not to look at
Mrs Newsham.

Clara's mouth tightened, and her face grew stern.
She said severely, " George, Dr Williams-Smith must
see Adela again before he gives a final opinion of her
very "  she laid marked emphasis on the word  " her
very serious case. Adela is not coming down to
breakfast ; she is too ill." As a fact, the lung-opinion
had not called the " case " a serious one at* all, and it
was Mrs Newsham herself had asked him to come
again.

At Adela's name, George had dropped the rather
large mouthful he held on his fork. He could not
help looking up. " Adela still here ? " he cried
aghast ; " I thought she was at Eastcourt ! "

Clara raised her downcast lids. She sat exactly
opposite George, and the table was a very small one.
She looked at him in the way he disliked so much.
'* Poor Adela ! " sighed Metternich, with her eyes on

George,  " poor Aclela ! but I knew dear Kate would
wish her to stay here as long as the doctor might
consider it necessary in her very critical state. Dear
Kate is always kind, and always, always hospitable."

George winced under these last words ; he did feel
so guilty inhospitable himself. Finding no ready
answer, he covered his silence by drinking off a whole
cup of tea, and he held the cup so that it came between
his eyes and that near glance of Clara's. When
at last he had to put the cup down again, Mrs Xew-
sham's drooping lids had fallen, and George felt more
at ease.

Clara was severely silent. The unpleasant silence
soon got so uncomfortable that George spoke, but in a
stammering, anxious sort of manner which did not
escape Metternich's notice. He said, " Did Sir . . .
Sir what's-his-name ? think . . . think you very ill also,
Mrs Newsham ? " He hesitated  then looking away,
added rapidly, " Did he say you must stay here a longtime
too ? " George was thinking  I'll cut the whole
concern and be off. But it will dish my exam. !

Clara perfectly understood George's transparent
anxiety ; but though secretly put out with him, she
smiled quite pleasantly, and said, " My dear, dear George,
what a way to speak of the celebrated Sir Jonathan
Johnston ! just as if you had never heard of him ; for
I suppose you do mean Sir Jonathan Johnston ? "

George nodded assent. " I mean your man, Mrs New-sham."
Then, astonishment momentarily overpowering
every other feeling, he exclaimed, " But I wonder.

though, why one doctor could not doctor you both,
especially when he is so awfully celebrated and
clever."

Metternich said quickly, " Because my case and
Adela's are very different. Adela's is much, much
more serious than mine. It is a case for a specialist,
and Sir Jonathan Johnston is a general practitioner.
I grieve to say, George, that poor dear Adela's case is
one of threatening decline "  Clara's near glance was
again upon the unfortunate young man  " I am sure,
George, you would like to ask, but "  very emphatically
 " but I would not like to tell you what has
brought poor Adela so very rapidly into this most,
most alarming state." Now, as Clara well knew, this
was of all questions the very last George would wish
to ask.

The poor fellow felt as if the Stenosis of murder
were upon him. He got up hastily from table. Clara
rose too. She had ventured to the extreme edge of
prudence ; so, laying her hand upon George's arm,
she gently detained him, and, looking at him quite
kindly, in order to reassure him, said, in the tenderly
sympathetic manner with which she invariably speaks
of her own health, " So kind of you, my dear George,
to have asked what Sir Jonathan Johnston thinks of
me ! Thank you so very much. I am glad to say
that, on the whole, Sir Jonathan's opinion of me
was rather more favourable than I had quite dared
to expect." And she sighed prettily.

But George was still frightened, and broke away

from Mrs Newsham, and hastily left the room and
house. He did not want to be told that Adela was
really dying. It was horrible to him to think that,
even by accident, he had killed the poor young girl,
especially now that he saw she was pretty.

Chapter VII.

If you can only make a very young man really believe
that a pretty girl is mortally in love with him, you
have caught that young man. This is the A B C of
the Mother's Fine Art. But it is recognised as such, so
the little elementary fiction  for fiction it generally is
can only be resorted to in the very simplest cases, uncomplicated
by clear-sighted parents or guardians, and
where the young man himself has had no experience
of life. A season in the world will open his eyes.
Ladies like Clara know this, and that is why they prefer
to begin so very, very early with the young men,
before others have realised they are at all grown-up.

There is usually no difficulty in managing the young
girl, but only the eligible young man. In nine cases
out of ten the young lady will fall quite sufficiently in
love for your matrimonial arrangements, with the first
nice-looking young gentleman who pays her any
attention ; and if he won't pay her any attention, why,
you can always persuade her, as Clara did Adela, that
he is secretly in love with her, and that it is admiration
of her beauty which makes him so shy.

Now secret love is very, very interesting. It is
certainly more interesting than much open devotion.
Even Adela, devoid as she was of imagination, could
not help feeling this. And then really, when she saw
George looking " quite nice," she did not wonder that
she, too, was secretly in love with him.

George was much improved in appearance these last
few months. He held himself better than he used todo,
and he was fast growing out of the awkward lad.
The marked improvement was also somewhat owing to
Eattles's excellent advice. Eattles had taken George
to Poole, and had given Poole carte-blanche as to his
friend's outfit. George had not yet paid the tailor's
bill, but he was wearing the new clothes, and Adela
had noticed how smart he looked and what a " nice "
figure he undoubtedly had. She had never thought
he had a good one before. He was decidedly above
the middle height, and she now saw he was " quite
nice-looking " too. Not that she had ever considered
him ugly, only uninteresting : he was not so uninteresting
now. His complexion was much less sunburnt
than it had been at Bluehaven, and his dark
hair looked " quite nice " on his almost white forehead,
and the hair was cut in exactly the right way. Adela
had particularly noticed this ; that was just the sort of
little thing she always did notice, and thought a great
deal of. She had fancied, too, that his hair was
darker than of old, and had blushed on thinking so,
iDCcause her mother had been careful to tell her that
dark-haired young men invariably fall in love with

very, very fair girls  in fact, George's dark hair and
deep-brown eyes alone seemed to prove he must be in
love with her fair beauty.

Adela had seen a great deal in those two furtive
glances at luncheon yesterday. It was curious how
much she had seen which had never struck her before.
In this she was just like George, for he had seen more
in his two glances than he had done all the years of
his life. Perhaps Adela's most important discovery
was that George had really " quite nice" eyes  " quite
nice " was her favourite expression, and she never felt
the desire to use a warmer or more enthusiastic one.

George's soft brown eyes had looked at her kindly,
and almost, she had thought, with a sort of tender fear;
and when her mother had read out that part about her
health in the letter to Aunt Kate, she had felt George
saw she was dying, and was sorry for her. He could
not have looked at her as he did if he were not very,
very sorry. And it was kind of him to be sorry 
yes, it was very kind.

As a rule, Adela required almost as little sympathy
as she ever gave ; but the growing terror of an early
death was more than she could bear alone, so she was
becoming sensitive to sympathy. She was glad to feel
George cared about her dying. It was so dreadful to
die young ! Oh ! must she indeed die soon ? was
there no help anywhere ? would no one give her hope?

It was then that one of the many curious things
mamma " had said of late, rushed back across her
mind. She remembered how her mother had told her

in a mysterious way that Dr Doseman thought she
would get well if George proposed to her. There was
hope in this, because she had lately been reading a
novel called ' He Knew it Not.' Her mother had given
it to her to read. In it the heroine, who had been
secretly in love during the first volume, and had
broken a blood-vessel and got a brain-fever in the
second, was left quite well at the end of the third,
simply through marrying the hero, a "magnificently
ugly man," though he had been a great deal queerer
to the poor girl, Adela reflected, than George had ever
been to her ; for so little did the magnificently ugly man
know he was in love with the young lady that he had
married  yes, actually married  quite another persona
handsome woman with curiously dark eyebrows,
and suspected of forgery, rightly as it turned out, for
she really had forged a codicil to her father's will.
This wife was killed in a railway accident, and the
proofs of the forgery were found in the pocket of her
under-petticoat ; and all this luckily happened just at
the time of the broken blood-vessel and the brain-fever,
so that the hero was at liberty to restore to
health and happiness the heroine who had never
forged or done anything but love him secretly, and
break her blood-vessel and get her brain-fever solely
for his sake. The wonderful effect of matrimony on
the broken blood-vessel much impressed Adela, unaccustomed
as she was to novel-reading, and therefore
ignorant of the beneficial effect of matrimony when it
comes quite at the end of the third volume.

Adela had a natural distaste for readings but she
did not dislike this book. She had read it attentively
and with interest, though slowly, because she always
did read very slowly. She had believed every word
of it, and was quite sure the people were certainly
alive, and had said and done in real life all they said
and did in the novel. To the unimaginative and commonplace,
there is everything in fiction but the fiction.
If they recognise a personal description at all like
any one they have ever known, or find a turn of speech
they have heard, or one or two traits of character they
have vaguely noticed, they will believe a real man or
woman has been taken bodily out of life and " put ina
book." They think this the easiest thing in the
world to do ! and they forthwith cap some one they
know with a forgery he is incapable of, or preposterous
things he has never said or done ; and though he maybe
the best of husbands, they will believe the author
thinks he is wicked enough to run away from his
wife, if the plot requires the man in the novel to bea
flirt. The idea that a character is like a many-storied
house built on quite a little piece of ground
cannot be grasped by them ; still less the fact
that it takes many hints from many persons, and
not merely little pickings from one, to make one
man or woman seem alive in a book. The lady who
caps herself with a character in fiction may be capping
on herself tit-bits from her mortal enemy, and
so may the man; but a man is rarely silly enough
to cap himself in real life with the picturesque bits

out of a dozen fools, mostly imaginary ones. He
leaves that sort of common-sense to his wife.

There are some to whom a novel seems to be
exactly like one of those Catch em-all-alivc-O ! fly-papers
 the author just simply sticks real people on
his pages, like living midges, blue-bottles, and wasps.
Kind friends will always kindly try to recognise the
wasps.

The heroine in 'He Knew it Not' had lightish
hair and a young gentleman secretly fixed upon one
lung. George could not be called a magnificently
ugly man, and yet what a very, very remarkable
coincidence this was ! The hair might have been
some shades lighter, and the eyes bluer, and there
ought to have been a description of a very pretty foot.
All the same, if Adela had known the author, or even
seen him once or twice in a morning visit, she would
have been quite, quite sure he had "put her in his
book." Now, as the heroine was not described as
absolutely faultless, and as she was made to say what
Adela was sure she never would have said, and to do
many things Adela never had done, and never, never
could have done, she would have felt the character,
though perfectly scandalously unlike her, was certainly
herself. And such was her mental calibre, that
she would have told everybody it was herself. It is
true Adela had not yet broken her blood-vessel, like
the girl in the novel, but Dr Doseman and Dr
Williams-Smith, and, above all, " mamma," knew she
would break it soon.

Metternich had done cleverly right in giving her
daughter this novel to read. She had really proved
herself a diplomatist of remarkable talent, for what with
one little clever device and what with another, she had
undoubtedly managed to create a sort of tender delusion
between two stolid young people whose very last
idea, if left to themselves, would have been to imagine
they were either of them in love.

George had found a few pence on his dressing-table,
but no more money anywhere, for with the kind help
of Eattles he had come quite to the end of his allowance.
He again bought some buns and lunched on
them, but felt he could not do without his dinner another
night. He had a headache, and was not up to
his usual " grind." The want of " tin " made it impossible
for him to leave town, and " cut the whole
concern."

So towards seven o'clock he came to the conclusion
that he might as well go home to dinner, and face
Mrs Newsham that night, as he would have to face
her the next and for many nights to come, as he now
expected she would certainly stay on till the end of
the week ; for though her " man " might not want to
keep her much longer in town, Adela's " man " evidently
meant to go on doctoring her, as he thought
her so alarmingly ill  quite as ill as old Doseman
had ever said she was. Perhaps old Doseman was
not such a fool after all. A horrid idea then entered
poor George's head : was Adela going to die  actually
to die in his house ?

He wished his stepmother would come home, and
lie thought he would write to her on Sunday. George
was very slow about letter - writing, and would go
through a great deal before he went to that trouble.
When he did write, it was always on a Sunday, because
he had nearly the whole day to write his letter in.

As George walked back to Chapel Street on that
memorable evening, he was wondering all the way if
he should have to dine alone with Mrs Newsham. If
he had had the money, he would have bought a large
plant to put in the middle of the uncomfortably
small dinner-table, for he had felt the want at breakfast
of some solid protection from Mrs Newsham's
near glance.

I don't mind if a person is always looking at you,"
thought George. " Why, there's Eattles, who can't say
two words without looking you straight in the face.
He invariably looks at you when you speak to him,
and it feels quite natural. But what I do mind is a
pair of awfully mysterious eyelids, dropped down as
if they had deep secrets behind them, and then when
a fellow is quite off his guard, going up suddenly, and
two eyes looking through him. Deuced unpleasant ! "
So George actually began to wish Adela might comedown
to dinner. He felt there would be less discomfort
in her presence than in a tetc-a-tete with her
mother. " Mrs Newsham could not say the sort of
things she said at breakfast if Adela were by."

As Adela was not yet in the very act of dying, she
did come down to dinner that night, and George

VOL. I. Q

thought her looking less mortally ill than he had expected.
This was some relief to the unfortunate young
man's horribly disturbed mind, though, on first meeting
Adela, he had thought he should have preferred after
all to be alone with Mrs Newsham, for Adela got
white and red, and her emotion made George colour
too, and there were Mrs Newsham's two eyes " awfully "
alive and watching them both.

Adela's manner to George at dinner was constrained
and cold, as if she were offended with him, and
thought he had been unkind to her. Feeling this,
George wished to be kind, and tried to speak to her.
He hoped she was better ?

Adela answered shortly, " Quite well, thank you,"
as if angry with him for speaking to her, then instantly
began to cry.

Clara did not seem to see these tears, and poor
George, not knowing what to say, remained silent;
but he was thinking, "Adela considers me a brute.
Perhaps I am a brute."

George did not speak any more to Adela at dinner,
and she never once spoke to him. The truth is, she
had again been told by Clara to be very, very cold to
George, and she was painfully aware her mother narrowly
watched her. She ate nothing. George could
not help eating, because he was so very hungry ; but
he did not eat half enough, for he felt Mrs New-sham's
near glance perpetually upon him, and she
seemed to see him eat with ill - concealed disgust.
There was no doubt she too considered him a brute.

and a brute with a heartless ferocious appetite.
Clara generally had a very good appetite herself ; indeed
her appetite, like her pulse, was surprising in so
fair and frail a creature, constantly obliged to consult
the doctors. But this evening she would hardly eat a
thing, though George pressed the dishes upon her with
anxious eagerness. He did feel such a savage, eating
hungrily when no one else had any appetite ! as a man
might if suddenly, still carnal and unchanged, he found
himself amongst the angels.

Mrs Newsham's whole time at table seemed to be
occupied in making George feel thoroughly uncomfortable
 at least the unfortunate young man thought so.
It is quite clear she is angry with me, and thinks I
have behaved badly to Adela. She was civil enough
to me at first ; but perhaps that doctor has been here
again this afternoon, and is now quite sure Adela is
going to die quickly." And he longed, but did not
dare, to ask if Dr Williams Smith had called again.
He could see, from Adela's tears, that she was very
much afraid of dying, and did not like the subject
mentioned. It was hard on Adela to die yoimg !
George was not usually sympathetic, but here was a
feeling into which he could enter ; he himself would
hate to die till he was quite old.

George did not intend to go up-stairs after dinner
and spend the evening in the drawing-room. He
meant to stay on in the dining-room all by himself,
with an examination paper on the table, and ' Jorrocks's
Hunt ' hidden in the big arm-chair. If Mrs

Newsliam should descend upon him, he had determined
to carry Jorrocks and that " Chaucer humbug
" up to his bedroom, though he knew Emma
would not let him have a fire there.

George had settled all this in his own mind during
second course ; but what he could not arrange to his
own satisfaction with any certainty beforehand was,
what it might please Mrs Newsham to do.

His secret anxiety was agreeably relieved when,
without sitting half as long at dessert as he had feared
she might, Mrs N"ewsham rose from table, and said,
with a return of that charm of manner for which she
is celebrated, " Now, my dear George, Adela and I will
leave you. And remember, we shall not afterwards
inquire if you have smoked a cigar."

Adela looked so surprised to see her mother really
good-humoured again, that George noticed the astonishment
in her face. "Adela did not think her
mother would go up-stairs so pleasantly or so soon,"
thought George.

The instant he found himself alone, he began clearing
the dessert dishes from the table, for he was
afraid, if he rang the bell, Emma might be upon him.
He arranged the pen, the ink, and the examination
paper before him ; then out came Jorrocks. But
just at that very moment Mrs Newsham's voice
sounded on the staircase calling him in dire alarm.
George fancied he heard the word " fire 1 " but he may
have been mistaken. He rushed up-stairs. Mrs
Xewsham was calling loudly from the back drawing-room.

But after all it was not the house that was on
fire ; it was only the wick of a lamp which had been
turned too high.

I told mamma she was turning it up too high,"
said Adela, who was standing calmly by.

Whereupon Clara ordered her sharply to go and lie
down upon the sofa in the outer room.

Adela knows nothing whatever about these lamps,"
said Mrs Newsham to George ; " and I know very little
either. All I do know is that mineral oils are quite
horribly dangerous, and quite frightfully inflammable !
My dear George, I was certain we were going to have
some fearful explosion. Paraffin is always a terror tome."
And Clara did seem much agitated. " My dear
George, my dear George, I am trembling all over !
I will run up-stairs and get my smelling-salts, and
take a few drops of sal-volatile, to recover myself before
I go in and sit with poor dear Adela." She
dropped her voice impressively,  " I dare not, I dare
not let her see I am agitated. She might faint dead !
or  or get a nervous seizure. She got a most serious
one yesterday when your telegram came : she was so
disappointed you were not coming home to dinner."

Poor George coloured at this. He was dismayed to
see Mrs Newsham was actually leaving the room.
He had such a horror of woman's faints and nerves !
They puzzled and distressed him, and were altogether
hateful to him. " I will ring for her maid and
Emma," he said, promptly.

Clara turned round, and ran back with surprising

agility, considering she was all of a tremble, and
wanted smelling-salts and sal volatile. She caught
George's hand just as it touched the bell. " Are you
mad ? " she asked, with mingled severity and indignation
 " are you mad, George ? " Then she said in an
impressively mysterious undertone, " Adela would think
she was dying if you rang for the maids, and the sudden
shock might be . . ."

In justice to Clara, it must be allowed she hesitated
before she said the word " fatal." But she did
say it, though in a very low voice  so low that I am
doubtful whether you ought to consider she told a
complete fib. I rather think it was only half a one ;
and I am sure she thought so herself.

Fatal ! " stammered poor George, repeating aloud
what had been breathed to him in a whisper.

Hush ! hush ! " murmured Mrs Newsham, glancing
ominously towards her daughter.

But it was evident Adela had heard the word
fatal." The deadly pallor of her face betrayed the
fact. The truth is, this second mystery in the back
drawing-room frightened poor Adela out of her wits
just as much as the first one ; for on catching the
word " fatal " she felt convinced mamma was telling
George what Dr Williams-Smith had told mamma in
private, but what mamma thought far too dreadful to
tell her.

Clara drew George behind the folding-door. Her
manner had changed to the softly maternal. " Now
you really, really must watch over poor dear Adela,

just for one, one short moment, while I am up-stairs."
And in quite a tender whisper she purred to him, just
as if he had been a doctor, " My dear George, my dear
George ! you must not be rough to the poor child.
You must be gentle  quite, quite gentle. And do
not, do not on any account, let her see you dislike her
to stay in your house for a day or two longer."

George blushed scarlet ; for he was very hospitable
by nature. Clara saw she was on the right tack, so
continued, still purring, " I rather do think poor dear
Adela does fancy, my dear George, that you do dislike
her being here. Eemember she is very ill ; and sick
people are always just a little sensitive. I fear it is
very, very painful to poor dear Adela even to imagine
she is trespassing on your hospitality, and perhaps
driving you again to dine out of your house, as you
did yesterday."

Then they knew my sapping on at Butt's was alla
sham ! " thought George. But before he could answer
Mrs Newsham was gone. And he found himself
left alone to take care of Adelaide

kindly young man had been stung to the quick
by the imputation cast upon his hospitality; for he
felt there was truth in it, and was ashamed to have
betrayed his secret feelings so clearly. And he had
thought himself so clever in concealing them ! It
went against his grain to act inhospitably to any one ;
but it was painful and humiliating to his feelings as a
gentleman to think he could have done so towards a
pretty young girl, whom he now believed was unfortunately

in love with him, and in love unto death !
What a fool he had been to avoid her in so marked a
manner at Bluehaven ! for his conscience did tell him
he had avoided her on purpose, and not by accident.
I ought to have treated her just like Nellie, and then
I should not have put myself so horribly in the wrong."
Owing to the genius of Metternich, George was at last
convinced he had put himself in the wrong.

George Crofton was shy by nature ; and it is
much more difficult for shy people to do the right
thing easily than for those happy beings like Eattles,
who do not know what shyness means. But George
was no coward at heart, and could do a disagreeable
thing courageously, if not gracefully. He felt he was
going to do what was very unpleasant, when he stalked
somewhat stiffly into the same room with Adela, and
sat down on a chair sufficiently far off from her not
to be uncomfortably near, and yet near enough for him
to say easily what he had made up his mind to say.

Adela was no longer lying down on the sofa. She
was sitting straight upright in the corner farthest away
from George. It was a Chesterfield sofa, with square
ends.

Adela looked stiff and white and cold ; but inwardly
she was in a state of highly strung nervous
agitation ; for she felt " mamma" had left her alone on
purpose that she might be proposed to by George.
She was sure of this. That was a painful moment to
the young girl. She looked down upon the floor, and
nervously held her breath.

Adela," said George, also looking down on the carpet,
" I hope you don't really think I . I dislike . . .
I mean I don't like having you here. I am awfully
sorry I . I didn't seem as glad as I ought to have
done  awfully 1 But I am an awkward fellow, Adelaide
said, penitently. " You . . . you shouldn't mind
me. If I had thought you would have been sorry, I
wouldn't have sent that telegram yesterday. But it
wasn't you I funked dining with, Adela, but only Mrs
Newsham. I . I thought you were at Eastcourt."

No sooner had these words escaped his lips than
Geordie felt he had stumbled on the wrench' thimj.
Heartily ashamed of his awkward bungling, he looked
up and saw the blush he felt all over his own face
mantling painfully on Adela's cheek. She looked up,
then quickly down again, and reddening more and
more, said hurriedly, " I did not go to Eastcourt, because
Dr Williams-Smith wanted to see me again.
Perhaps . . . perhaps I may go home tomorrow."

Xo, no ! " exclaimed George, very warmly ; for he
was disgusted with himself. " No, no ! Adela, you
shall not go ! I am not quite the brute you think
me."

He got up, walked a few hurried steps towards the
window, turned and stood still behind the sofa.

Adela, feeling him so near, instinctively moved a
little forward. George saw the motion, slight as it
was, and he was piqued by it. He had put one hand
upon the high-backed couch ; he withdrew it.

It is not kind of you to say you will go home,"

said he, quickly ; " as if I were an inhospitable brute,
and did not wish you to stay as long as the doctor
thinks you ought."

Repentance, which is so often sour in age, can be a
tenderly relenting kindness where the feelings have not
yet grown old, and to have been if only just a little
hard, will make some hearts too soft.

Adela ! " said George, losing in fresh feeling the
instinct which a minute before had made him drawback
his hand. He leant again upon the sofa, and
bending towards the young girl, added, in a voice
which she thought was very kind  " Believe me,
Adela  for it is hard not to believe a fellow when
he is telling the truth  believe me, I never meant to
be a brute. I am awfully sorry you are so very, very
ill  I am awfully sorry, Adelaide

first few kindly spoken words had been pleasant
to Adela, for they had sounded as if George were
forgiving her for having come uninvited to his house ;
but the last ones had thrilled her painfully, awakening,
as they did, the strongest feeling in her young
heart  the great fear of death. It gave her a shock
to hear from George's own lips that he believed she
was very, very ill ; everyone seemed to believe it, soit
must be true. She must indeed be dying, there
could be no doubt of it. Adela turned very, very pale ;
large tears filled her blue eyes, and rolled down her
cheeks. She was trembling very much.

Suddenly, with the overpowering impulse of a young
thing longing passionately for life, and hating death.

she turned roiiud, put her hand ou George's arm, and
clasping it as if it might be he could save her, cried 
Can no one save me from dying ? George, I don't
want to die." Her eyes grew big with terror. " I
hate to die ! I hate it ! You would hate it too,
George, if they told you you were dying ! "

Strong emotion makes people so very real  as
human as we ever feel ourselves to be. George forgot
he had once thought Adela a mere wax-doll.

Yes ; he would hate to die himself, so full of health
and life and hope was he ! His kind ingenuous eyes
looked down very sympathetically into poor Adela's
troubled ones ; and as he looked, he felt the sort of
emotion a man might feel if he had cruelly wounded
some tame white dove, or too fond creature that never
did him any harm, and only loved him. A wounded
creature we never thought could have a soul will
turn and look at us in terror or in death, and move
our very heart with a pained sympathy we did not
dream we ever could have felt. There had never
been so much expression in Adela's fair face before 
her eyes, so sadly full of that wistful longing to live,
were very touching, and they touched George. The
young girl's hand was still upon his arm, and George
placed his own free hand on that little, trembling,
clinging one.

Poor Adela ! " he said most gently, consoling her
tenderly, as big strong men who are kind will comfort
a child. " You must not die ; you must get well.
Dear Adela. you will not die ! You are too young,

younger than I am, and I feel I could not die while
I am young. If a doctor told me I was dying, I
would not believe him."

George spoke with strong conviction, for there is
no belief like that of a young man who feels within
himself the power to live till he is quite, quite old.

But Adela seemed heedless of the joyful hope in
his words, and only softly, shyly sensible of his tender
manner. The pale face, which had been gazing so
intently at him, was now turned away. George could
not be so very kind  he could not care so much about
her being ill and dying, more than any one else had ever
seemed to care  unless what " mamma " had said was
quite true, and he indeed did love her. The certainty
of his love had come to Adela with the kind touch of
his hand ; his voice, too, had moved her. It was then
a little true love stole, for the first time, into the young
girl's heart, as a wee fairy might steal at peep of day
into a flower first opening in the early morning dew
to life.

George bent still lower, so as to see the half-hidden
face. The blushes were bright roses on the cheek ;
the fair neck was blushing too.

Was it the enlightening power of Clara's genius
that had awakened the young man ? or was it some
instinct born within him which seemed to reveal to
him so clearly the real meaning of Adela 's blushes
and soft distress ?

For he understood them, or else thought he did,
and smiled as if well pleased to think he might bring

joy where as yet he had given xain. He did feel
very, very kindly towards Adela, and now that he
saw she was so pretty, her girlish beauty touched him
as her eyes had done.

Bending just a little lower over her, and smiling,
he whispered in her ear, much as if they were both
children again, and he were telling her some pretty
secret  " Adela, wee did not know we were in love at
Bluehaven ; but we were, and we know it now. It
was all so awfully new to us that we did not understand
it one bit ! " Then he added, very softly indeed,
for her trembling agitation moved him much  " Dear
Adela, I know, I know you love me ! "

Her heart was beating as it had never beat before,
and she murmured very tenderly in return  "Yes,
George, I know I love you. You are so kind, so
kind ! " And with the pretty secret still breathing in
her ear, she bent her little head to hide her deepening
blushes.

At that moment Clara entered the room.

CHAPTER Vii

Metternich found herself in the curious position of
a diplomatist embarrassed by her own success. Having
got George's proposal  as a proposal she treated it 
she had suddenly to face the idea that her conduct
might be viewed in two lights. She had not thought
of this before ; she thought deeply of it now, and
wondered at herself, and felt indignant she had not
sooner considered the misconstruction it might be
possible to place upon the scene and circumstances
of the proposal. It was then Clara learnt this valuable
lesson : when you are going to do a shady action,
take the most elaborate precautions with your surrounding
circumstances, and arrange them carefully
beforehand, so that they must place your action in a
favourable light. Never leave your surrounding circumstances
to an after-chance.

Clara now felt that George's proposal ought not to
have been made in George's own house when George
was there unprotected and alone, and she imagined
with unflinching courage the sort of opinion Sir Cuthbert
Crofton was likely to hold upon this subject if

ever the awkward fact should come to his knowledge,
for she allowed to herself it was an awkward fact.
She did not shrink from placing it in the cross light.
She was far too clever to be a coward.

So Metternich contemplated her own diplomacy at
a distance, and her mind stood like a dispassionate
stranger outside herself, and showed her the mistakes
she had made, then suggested new ideas of what she
might have done instead. One idea rose daringly to
the thought that Kate should have been at home in

CD

Chapel Street, and not away, and George have been
made to propose quite by accident in spite of her.
Kate, as a surrounding circumstance, would have
changed to the world the whole aspect of George's
entirely unexpected proposal. " There was a time,"
thought Clara, " when I could have managed matters
just as easily with Kate in the house as out of it;
but that was before she fell under the pernicious influence
of that hateful man. Sir Cuthbert." Mrs
Newsham hated Sir Cuthbert, not only for what she
knew he had divined, but for what she felt he might
and would divine.

Clara's mind, still standing critically outside her
past diplomacy, next imagined how, in default of Kate,
it would have done to have used Admiral Crofton asa
surrounding circumstance. '' No doubt he too has
been prejudiced by that intriguing Sir Cuthbert ; but
the Admiral is very soft-hearted, and I could make
him think me just as charming as ever in five
minutes ! " Clara smiled a sweetly pretty smile.

for she was a charming woman, and she knew it.
Any one can get round the Admiral ! He maybe
a little restive and troublesome at times, for he
is like a young child, and wants to be managed.
But now really I do think I might have had him
in the house ! He would have looked well to the
world, and I am sure I could have managed him.
The dear Admiral ! He is so very, very innocent ! "
And Clara's tenderness for the guileless sailor began
to revive, and her fertile mind forthwith imagined
five different schemes, by any one of which she
might have hoodwinked the dear old creature into
an invaluable surrounding circumstance. AMiat a fool
she had been ! She was disgusted with the naked
baldness of her own diplomacy.

But Clara was not the woman to lose precious time
in useless imagination and vain regret. She lost
none ; for it is incredible with what rapidity her
mind can work. Why, the five different ways in
which she could have hoodwinked the Admiral did
not occupy her imagination more than three-quarters
of an hour ! Metternich got through all her thinking
on the very night of George's proposal.

She was quite fresh next morning, rose early, and
was decidedly up to the mark in her interview with
George. She saw him alone.

She began by saying to him, in the kindest little
manner possible 

My dear George, my dear George ! you know I
never, never have flattered you ! but I must say I do

think Adela will have a husband who will be all in all
to her  everything that I could wish." Clara thought
George started a little at the word husband, as if he
had not perhaps quite realised his position. But she
went on, " And I will say too  yes, my dear George,
though I am her mother  I will say I do consider you
a very fortunate man in having secured the affections
of a sweet little loving; creature like dear Adela. Her
whole heart is yours ! solely and entirely yours ! and
indeed, indeed George, she will be a very devoted little
wife." Clara did say this very prettily.

But George seemed uneasy. His discomfort was
not lost upon Metternich.

And, thinking as I do," she said, " that there
never were two people so exactly made for each other
as you and Adela, you must indeed be at a loss to
imagine, my dear George, why I ever, ever was against
this match ; for I was much against it at one time."

Against the match ! " exclaimed George, and his
ingenuous eyes opened widely. " I "

Clara cut him short with the utmost rapidity.
Piockhurst told you I had been against it. You
know he did," she said.

George then remembered Eockhurst had said something
of the sort, but he could not recollect exactly
what.

Clara repeated, as if determined her question should
be answered, " You know I was against this match,
George ? Eockhurst told you so. You must remember
he told you so ? "

VOL. I. R

Well, I think I do," replied George, trying to be
quite truthful. " I recollect in a sort of way. But he
could not have said much about it, Mrs Newsham,
because I remember quite well what "

It was not necessary to say much about it, George,"
put in Clara very quickly. " The mere fact was sufficient.
But I will tell you plainly, George, I was
very much against this match ; and in one sense I am
so still, because I foresee such a very, very long engagement,
and as a rule I completely disapprove of long
engagements. Nothing  no ! nothing  would make
me consent to this ensjasjement but the conviction that
the disappointment would certainly kill poor Adela.
Now, my dear George "  Clara became extremely kind
again  " my dear George, you know very, very well
what a real affection I have for you, and how intensely
convinced I am that you will prove the best and kindest
of husbands ; but I do wish, my dear boy  I do
wish there was a little money somewhere ! Adela will
not have much fortune, and really, my dear George, I
cannot conscientiously say you have any real prospects
at all." Clara glanced curiously at George ; but it was
evident he had not consulted the Shropwich doctor,
and did not know his uncle was dying. " Yet, my dear
boy, people must have something to live on ; they
positively must ! "

George agreed to this with a readiness of apprehension
he had not shown before, and which Clara particularly
remarked. " Awfully true ! awf ulla' ! A fellow
can't live on nothing;. I've found that out since I've

been at Butt's. It takes lots of money to get on properly
 lots ! "

I am glad to see you so sensible, my dear George,"
cried Metternich effusively. " I am glad ! for I know
you will quite understand an engagement is the only
thing possible. And, really, you are both so young
that there can be no good reason for your settling down
quite immediately."

And I wouldn't like it ! " exclaimed George, with
much decision. The emotion he had felt a short moment
the day before had cooled considerably. " I
should dislike awfully to settle down till I have seen
the world and shot some big game. I mean to go to
India in my long leave, and to America ; and Eattles
says it does not cost much if you are a bachelor.
Eattles has advised me not to marry until I am a
colonel : he is not going to marry himself till he is a
colonel and has got a regiment, and can do the thing
in some sort of style, though there are two awfully
pretty girls in love with him."

Pray, who is this Eattles ? " asked Clara, stiffly.
She was decidedly displeased that George should have
an intimate adviser.

Eattles ? He is an awfully jolly fellow  that's who
he is," said George, warmly ; " he's my great chum. He
is out of town now, or I'd introduce him to you. And
I'm awfully cut up about him, for I heard this morning
he has had a fall and has broken two ribs and his collarbone,
and won't be back at Butt's for an awful longtime.
I am awfully sorry he is away, for you and he

would agree awfully well, Mrs Newsliain, because lie
has advised me over and over again not to marry till
I am a colonel. Not that I ever looked upon myself
as a marrying man. But Eattles always did. He bet
me fifty to one I'd get engaged somehow before I was
twenty-one, and he won't be a bit surprised to hear you
are here, Mrs Newsham. He was always chaffing me
about you and Adela, and so were all the fellows at
Butt's. They'll chaff me awfully to-day when I tell
them I've got engaged at last."

Metternich was so taken aback at this that she
turned quite white. It was her nature to pale with
emotion. But she did not lose her presence of mind.

I am astonished at you, George 1 " she said 
astonished ! I can hardly believe my ears ! Yet I
am forced to believe you actually had the intention of
announcing your engagement as a settled fact to all
the strange young men at your tutor's, when Adela's
father  one of the principal people concerned  her
own father  has not been consulted on the matter,
not so much as even asked to give his consent."

Mr Newsham ? By Jove, I forgot him ! " said the
astonished George, naively ; " but I say, Mrs Newsham,
he is sure to consent if you do ? "

Nothing of the sort 1 " exclaimed Clara, angrily ;
nothing of the sort. You have no fortune whatever,
and it is most unlikely he will consent at all. At
any rate, the least you can do, as a gentleman, is to
keep the whole matter a profound secret until his consent
has been asked and given. You do not seem

aware that an engagement once announced cannot be
broken off without casting an enduring slur upon the
young lady. Thomas is coming up to town in a day
or two to vote on the Dozen Drunkards Bill, and I
will speak to him then. But in the meantime I insist
I absolutely insist, George  that you promise me,
on your honour as a gentleman, not to mention the
matter to a single human beinor."

Naturally enough George promised faithfully what
Mrs Xewsham asked, and promised " on his honour asa
gentleman."

And then Clara added that, as Adela had apparently
been made the butt of a set of joking young men,
seemingly without the elements of gentlemanly feeling
or good taste," she was forced  positively forced 
for her daughter's sake, still further to insist that
George should tell no one  and she could make no
exception to the rule, but simply insist he should
tell no one that she and " poor " Adela had been
obliged, by a perfectly unforeseen accident, to ask
his hospitality for two nights. She ended by saying
very coldly she would trespass no longer on that
hospitality, and much regretted to have trespassed so
long.

The unfortunate George had then to say a great
many civil things he would not have said otherwise,
and, blundering from one polite speech into another,
committed himself to much more than he intended.
He never clearly knew how it was he came to promise
he would not breathe a word about his engagement to

his stepmother till Mr Newsham's consent had been
obtained.

Until then," Clara said, severely, " I do not consider
there is any engagement between you and Adela,"
but she was careful to add  " though I naturally
think you are undoubtedly bound to her in honour.
When a young man has engaged the affections of a girl,
and has said to her what you have said to Adela, he is
bound to her by the most sacred ties of honour."

Clara said these words so impressively that George
could not help thinking she had very exalted ideas of
honour. And so she had  in everybody, except perhaps
herself.

In the course of this conversation it had struck
Metternich that really after all nobody need ever know
she had taken her daughter uninvited into George's
house, and that George had proposed to Adela there.
She had rapidly settled she would immediately move
into the Alexandra Hotel, and be found consulting the
doctors there by all her acquaintance. No one yet
knew she was in town. In due time she would announce
the engagement from the Alexandra Hotel.
Then why need it ever transpire she and Adela had
first consulted the doctors in Chapel Street ?

In an incredibly short time Clara and Adela and the
maid and the luggage had migrated to the Alexandra
Hotel. The ladies had a good deal of luggage  indeed,
when you think Clara had only intended staying just
one night in town because Sir Jonathan Johnston could
not see her till late on that Monday afternoon, and that

Adela had not meant to remain there at all, but had
been quite, quite unexpectedly detained by Dr Williams-smith,
the amount of these ladies' luggage was certainly
a little surprising  that is, if the large trunks of lovely
woman can ever really surprise any one.

Next day there was a paragraph in the ' Morning
Post ' stating " that Mrs and ]\iiss jewsham had arrived
at the Alexandra Hotel from Eastcourt, Nossex."

I have often wondered if it was Clara herself put
that announcement in the paper, but have never been
able to find out.

CHAPTER IX.

Mrs Newsham and Aclela had spent nearly a fortnight
at the Alexandra Hotel before the Dozen
Drunkards Bill came on in the House. Clara had
had no difficulty in getting Thomas to pair on three
rather important occasions : he paired for the Government
against the Large Towns and Dockyards Defences
Bill ; also for the Government against the
Bill for the introduction of a Limited Number of
Full Grown Men into the Regular Army ; and
he was content to pair for the Government on
their Foreign Policy, although that policy had then
left this country without a single ally in Europe.
Thomas was a steady, trustworthy Liberal, but he
was also essentially a conscientious man. He never
did what he thought wrong, and he would have considered
it wrong to vote on so important a matter as
the Dozen Drunkards Bill without hearing and carefully
weighing all that might be said on both sides.
Thomas would have had the courage to have voted
against every member of his party on this vital question
; but luckily for Clara's ambition, there was no

chance of his having to vote dead against his coronet.
Though the Dozen Drunkards Bill was not quite made
a Cabinet question, as Thomas thought it ought to bethe
measure was the petted hobby of two distinguished
Ministers, who were both of opinion that if you can
only amuse the philanthropic constituent at home by
letting him interfere with somebody else's liberty,
property, or drink, you may bungle matters as you
like all over Europe and the world.

There were many excellent people, and Thomas
was one of them, who considered it of vital importance
to the Higher Interests of the British Empire,
that in whatever parish a dozen convictions for drunkenness
per thousand inhabitants were proved in a
year, all public-houses in that parish should be closed
between the hours of twelve and one, or of half-past
eleven and half-past one. The principle of the Dozen
Drunkards Bill was accepted by all its supporters as
unquestionably sound  they merely differed on the
so-called Greater Extension clause. Thomas inclined
to the half-past eleven and half-past one party, as
these hours would make it impossible for any workingman
to take his mid-day meal in a public - house.
Twelve to one would not cover all possibilities.

Mr Newsham meant to speak on the Greater Extension
clause. Stow Thomas was always extraordinarily
preoccupied even for his preoccupied self,
and very nervous when he was going to make a
speech. He would write most of it out beforehand,
and then be in perpetual terror of forgetting it.

Clara had the best of excuses for not telling Thomas
of Adela's engagement until after he had made his
speech. And George quite agreed with her that it
was useless to speak to Mr ewsham while he had
the Dozen Drunkards on his mind.

Metternich was anxious to put off the announcement
of her daughter's engagement as long as possible,
for she had conceived the brilliant idea of mains
Thomas himself the principal surrounding circumstance
of the proposal. She had now arranged the
proposal should appear to the world to be made at the
Alexandra Hotel quite accidentally m her oiun absence.
So she had settled to go down to Eastcourt for a few
days, "just to look after Miss Smith and the younger
girls," whilst Adela was left with her father in town
under " Dr Williams Smith.

Clara told Thomas it would not be absolutely necessary
for her to see Sir Jonathan Johnston till the end
of the following week, but that Adela must remain
under the care of Dr Williams-Smith,  " for I rejoice
to say dear x\dela is quite recovering her health under
the excellent treatment of Dr Williams-Smith." But
Thomas hardly seemed to grasp what Clara said, or
to realise Adela had been ill. Never were the finer
shades of diplomacy so lost upon a man. When
Clara spoke to him he only said, " Ah I " as if quite
absorbed in the pleased contemplation of his drunkards ;
and then added still more absently, " Yes, yes, yes ! "

Before leaving town Clara had a little tetc-a-tete
with George. She said to him, " My dear George, it

certainly is unfortunate I must go away and cannot
stay here just two days longer. The debate is likely
to be on Thursday, or on Friday at the latest, and I
do think Mr Newsham ought to be spoken to the very
moment his mind is disengaged. Do you know, my
dear George, I have been thinking very seriously, very
seriously indeed, what would be the most honourable,
straightforward, and really right way for you to act,
and I have quite come to the conclusion it is you,
and you alone, who should propose for Adela to Mr
Newsham. You should plead your own cause."

But I should do it awfully badly, awfully ! " cried
the ardent lover. " You would do it much better than
I could, for you would know what to say  I'm blowed
if I should ! Besides, I'm going in for my Exam, on
Monday, and Butt says I must keep my head awfully
clear and cool, and think of nothing; else, or I'll be
plucked to a dead certainty."

Then you must propose for Adela on Saturday,"
Clara said with much decision.

But you are not going away for long, Mrs New-sham,
and there can be no great hurry about Mr New-sham
; and I won't know the right thing to say to
him, and I'm awfully sure he won't know what to say
to me unless you are here  I'm awfully sure of that ! "

There was a dogged persistence in the otherwise
tractable George which Clara did not like. She began
to think there might be more character in him, if once
allowed to take the lead, than she had suspected at
first. And she repeated peremptorily, " George, you

will propose for Aclela on Saturday. Yoii will not
wait till Monday. I insist upon your proposing on
Saturday. The House won't be sitting on Saturday
afternoon, so you will speak to Mr jSTewsham then."

Hang it, I'd rather write ! " said George, irritably.

Clara reflected rapidly on this idea, and thought
it a good one.

But, I say ! " instantly exclaimed George, aghast,
'' I say, by Jove ! I'm an awfully bad letter-writer !
Awfully difficult sort of letter to write, too ! "

jSTot at all, my dear George ; not at all." And
the charming woman reappeared in Clara sweetly
smiling. " You need not say much, my dear George.
In fact, the shorter the better."

George brightened just a little at this, for at any
rate it was a relief to think the letter might be a
short one.

It is so very, very easy to write a few short
words," Clara continued. " Why, you really need
not say more than : ' My dear Mr Newsham,  I feel
it easier to write than to speak to you on a matter I
have warmly at heart. I wish to propose to you for
Adela, because I am very, very much in love with
her, and I dare to think she loves me a little
too ' "

But, I say, Mrs jSTewsham ! " interrupted George,
" I say, Adela is awfully in love with me ! You
know she is."

Quite, quite right. But, my dear George, my
dear George ! there is a small social etiquette indelicate

little matters of this kind. My dear boy "
Clara was very charming indeed  " my dear boy,
when you have been just a little more in the world,
you will know it is not considered quite, quite the
right thing for a gentleman to proclaim that a young
lady is very, very much in love with him, no matter
how madly in love she really may be. This is only
a little point of social etiquette, just like wearing a
white tie in the evening; and never in the mornings.
People must conform to the little rules of society if
they don't want to be laughed at ; so, my dear George,
I really should advise you never to say to anybody
that Adela was dying of love for you. It does not
make a young man ridiculous to say he is in love
with a girl, but it does make him so very, very funny
to proclaim the young lady is violently in love with
him ! Oh, my dear George, my dear George, how
very, very funny people would think you, to be
sure ! " And Clara was exceedingly merry over the
idea.

George was exactly at the age when a young man
is acutely sensitive to ridicule. It actually made him
blush to think any one might laugh at him. Mrs
Newsham's amused merriment made him most uncomfortable.
He certainly did not wish to say or do
anything silly ; and proposing was altogether such a
disagreeable bother and puzzle to him, that he was
determined to leave the matter entirely to j\Irs
Newsham ; so he said irritably, " Very well, very
well ; just as you think best "  but added, " Only I

wish to end up by saying quite clearly that I would
like the engagement to be a long one, as I mean to
go to India and America and shoot lots of tigers and
buffaloes before I settle down."

But, my dear George, if you write too long a
letter, you know poor dear Thomas will never read
it, never ! and we can explain little matters to him
so very, very easily afterwards, and make sure he is
listening to us. Besides, he will certainly not want
you to marry quickly  quite the contrary. As T told
you before, he is far, far more likely to refuse his
consent to the engagement altogether. So if I were
you, George, I should just merely say, ' I know I ama
very bad match for your daughter, so it is with the
deepest anxiety I await your consent to our engagement.'
"

Very well, very well ! " again exclaimed George,
but impatiently, for he did not seem happy in his
mind.

Clara wondered what was coming next.

I am grinding awfully hard, Mrs Newsham 
awfully ! I won't take a half-holiday on Saturday.
I shall be grinding all day. So, after all, I am sure
I shall never have time to write that letter."

Clara became severely indignant.

You must write that letter ! It never seems to
strike you, George, that it is not fair for poor little
Adela to be kept any longer in this trying, most trying
state of anxious, indeed I may truly say of racking
suspense ! "

No ; it never had struck him Adela was in a state
of anxiously racking suspense. However, he answered,
but very crossly 

All right ! all right, then ! But I tell you plainly,
Mrs Newsham, it is a thousand to one I'll forget what
to say, and say the wrong tiling ; and then you'll blow
me up afterwards."

George ! "

Yes, you will," he said, doggedly, for there was
an obstinate corner in George ; " you'll blow me up
afterwards. I tell you I am a shocking bad hand at
writing; and I shall have to write that awful essay
in the Exam. ; and Butt says I must keep my head cool,
and not bother about anything ; so if you insist on
my writing to Mr Newsham, you must write down
exactly what I'm to say, and then I'll be certain to
say the right thing. I am sure you have a pencil,
Mrs Newsham."

But if Clara had had six pencils in her pocket, she
was too clever to have found one of them.

"Choose your own words, George  choose your
own words," she exclaimed. " All I shall do is
merely to tell you the sort of letter I should write
if I were you ; and, as I said before, I should make
it short, and quite to the point, and just simply say
you feel it easier to write than to speak on a matter
you have warmly at heart ; that you wish to propose
for Adela, because you are very much in love with her,
and think she loves you a little too ; then I should
merely add, ' I know I am a very bad match for your

daiigliter, so it is with the deepest anxiety that I
await your consent to our engagement.' I should
think it quite unnecessary to say anything more.
But choose your own words, George  choose your
own words. I shall certainly not dictate to you in
any way." And Clara, seeing George had found a
pencil, very properly left the room.

She started for Eastcourt by the next train.

Thomas hardly realised she was gone, for he was
now permanently up in the moon with his dozen
drunkards. And interesting companions he seemed
to find them. At one moment there would be
Thomas's lips moving in earnest speech to them 
his head would be shaking, and his whole face looking
very grave ; while at another he would be smiling
at them very, very kindly. And if Adela spoke to him,
he would look at her most benignly, with that kind
smile still lingering in his glance, but she would feel
he did not see her, or see George either. The glassy
eyes gazed benevolently over the two young people
in Mr Newsham's immediate presence, at those quite
pleasant drunkards not so very far beyond. Any
amount of flirtation might have gone on beneath them
unobserved. But George and Adela really did not
flirt at all.

Adela was now quietly, and for the most part
silently, content with George. She liked to be silent,
for she had very little conversational power. George
liked to be silent also, as Adela was difficult to talk
to. They had both felt it necessary to converse a

good deal more than they cared for, in Clara's presence.
The constant small-talk had been a great effort, especially
to George, because it was he who always had to
start the topic, as nothing could originate with Adela.
But now, at last, George was comfortably at ease. He
could hold his tongue when he had nothing to say ;
and Adela was no longer queer or rude to him,
or nervously agitated in her manner. And then,
although still under Dr Williams-Smith, she really
seemed wonderfully well, not in the least as if she
were dying ; and her appetite had quite returned.

George had the proposal ready written in his desk,
so the anxiety of that literary composition was off his
mind. How he did hate writing;, to be sure ! He
would have been a much happier man if pens, ink,
and paper had never been invented,  " for then nobody
would expect a fellow to write unless he was a monk,"
he would say. " Deuced difficult to have got me into
a monastery. Xot in my line, by Jove ! "

George had written down exactly what Clara had
dictated  suCTcrested, I should have said. He had
written down what she had suggested. " She can't
blow me up now," he had remarked to himself, when
he was directing the envelope to Mr Newsham, " for
I've written the very words she used. I can swear
to them."

Now that the letter was written, George was getting
very anxious to have it unmistakably settled as soon
as possible that his engagement was to be a long one.
This was the point on which he felt most strongly, for

VOL. I. s

he had firmly made up his mind not to marry until he
had shot the big game. When George knew his own
mind clearly, there was no chance of his being weak.

The lover determined to leave his proposal at the
Alexandra Hotel early on that Saturday morning.
I can pass there going to Butt's, and I would give
the letter into Johnson's own hands."

Johnson was Mr Newsham's confidential butler and
valet. A letter given to Johnson was sure to be read
by Thomas. In Clara's absence it was also likely to
be read by Johnson as well. Metternich was aware
of this ; but she had no objection to Johnson's
knowing that George had proposed for Adela to Mr
Newsham at the Alexandra Hotel while she herself
was out of town at Eastcourt. Clara never undervalued
the importance of servants' gossip.

Johnson's mission in life was to remember what
his master forgot. If Thomas had not had an efficient
valet, half his letters would have been tossed into the
grate unopened by himself ; he would never have
been dressed like other people ; and he might even
have taken wine without knowing it when staying
away from home. It was part of Johnson's duty to
attend on Mr Newsham at table. Johnson was invaluable
in this respect, especially at the Palace, ashe
invariably took care to stop the Bishop's claret
just in time.

When George was giving his letter to Johnson, the
valet said, " Important letter, Mr George ? "

Well . . . yes . . . that is . . . rather important,

Johnson." George said this with a curious sort of
embarrassment, instantly noticed by the valet. George
had expected no questions.

I only hask, sir," continued Johnson, . confidentially,
" because the debate on Mr Newsham's Greater
Extension clause took place last night. I was in
the 'Ouse, sir, and heard Mr Xewsham's speech. He
remembered it quite wonderful, Mr George," and the
valet really did seem full of genuine admiration ;
quite wonderful ! But the 'Ouse was counted lout
as the gentlemen were going into the lobby. The
final decision on the bill won't take place till Monday.
And Mr Xewsham he's that occupied with the
anxiety ! His mind is quite taken hup, sir  quite
taken hup, sir. Mr Xewsham he wouldn't know, Mr
George," and the valet smiled a confidential smile,
and dropped his voice  " he would not know if he'd
got your letter or not. So with your leave, sir, I'll
just keep it by me till Tuesday morning. Wouldn't
do to give it to him on Monday night, sir. He'd still
be took up with that bill, sir. Let him 'ave a quiet
night, Mr George  let him 'ave a quiet night. And I'll
give him your letter first thing on Tuesday morning."

George was still in a state of awkward hesitation.
Johnson seeing this, cut short all further discussion
by saying, " You're thinking the date on your letter
won't do, Mr George. But Lor', sir ! Lor' ! Mr New-sham
he never looks at a date. Sometimes hi point
it specially lout to him, and so does Mrs Newsham.
But Mrs Newsham won't be back here, sir, till the

middle or lend of next week ; leastways I heard her
tell Mr Newsham twice hover as 'ow Sir Jonathan
Johnston wouldn't be wanting to see her before then."

The coldly unimpressionable woman who lives apart
from the emotions of others, will be quite as much
agitated by an anxiety touching her own interests and
moving to her individual self, as if the heart within
her where a warm and not a cold one. It is nearly
always a mistake to fancy the contrary ; just as it is
a mistake to think the anger of hot blood more to be
dreaded than the anger of cold.

10 woman full of sympathy and warm imagination
could have been more moved and angry than Clara
when Sunday's post came to Eastcourt and brought
her no letter, and Monday's two posts brought none,
and Tuesday's came and still there was no letter from
Thomas. She knew Adela's perplexed, astounded
father would write the moment he got George's proposal.
Clara was well aware Thomas had not in the
least perceived Adela was grown up, but looked upon
her still as a very young child ; so the proposal would
be a thunderclap sufficiently startling to arouse the
puzzled senses which it shook.

George has dared to disobey me ! He has not
done wdiat I told him to do,"

In order fully to understand the intensity of Clara's
Wrath at such insubordination, I think you yourself
must be a charming woman accustomed for years to the
omnipotent arrangement of accidents.

Perhaps it may seem odd that Clara never thought
of looking in the newspaper to see if the Dozen
Drunkards had come on in the House or not ; but
the fact is, she had forgotten having regretted so very
much that she was unfortunately unable to stay in
town just two days longer, when the debate would
certainly be over, and when Mr Newsham ought to be
told everything. The nicely turned little speech, or
rather speeches, being interpreted, had only meant 
George, you must not propose for Adela till I am at
least two clear days out of the way. I am starting on
Wednesday, so propose on Saturday.

The leading" idea which has suggested what Clara
has said, will remain definitely outlined in her mind ;
but, like many people who expand their diplomacy
in talking according to the passing little instinct
of the moment, there will be details on which she
may have laid much stress at the time, that she will
never think of again. Had Clara only been half as
much occupied with Thomas's drunkards as she had
pretended to be, she would have been saved severe
mental suffering.

But suffering is so often the mother of our greater
delight, and we will doubly prize the triumph she has
brought forth. On Wednesday morning, when at last,
at last ! Clara did get exactly the sort of letter from
Thomas which best suited her little plans, enclosing
George's proposal written in the very words suggested
by herself, she was elated by a victory gloriously yet
hardly won. Indeed the feeling of elation was nearly

carrying her beyond the prudent caution so necessary
in her principal fine art.

Clara has by instinct a very pretty talent for pickings
nice little fibs out of an inkstand, and rose-coloured
ink runs naturally off her facile pen. When she
settled George was to propose to Adela's father at the
Alexandra Hotel while Adela's mother was away in
Nossex, she had foreseen this arrangement would
enable her to write a judicious letter to Kate Crofton
from Eastcourt. The odious suspicions of that dreadful
Sir Cuthbert would be checkmated by a letter from
Eastcourt.

In the first moment of pleasant elation, Clara wrote
very prettily a charming note to her " dearest
Kate," in which she really did wonder if her dearest
Kate could be half, half as surprised as she herself was
at George's amazing little letter to Thomas !  " for
George has . oh, my dear, dear Kate ! you will
never, never guess what that naughty silly boy has
done, never ! He has actually proposed for Adela !
And poor dear Thomas, he does indeed seem to be
in a state of amazed perplexity ; and no wonder, no
wonder ! for George and Adela are quite, quite
children still." Clara felt she must go up to town
immediately I though it was so very, very inconvenient
for her to do so. She was so very, very much
wanted at Eastcourt. How she did wish her dearest
Kate could run away from Crofton Place just for one
day, and meet her in town ! They would then see
what they could both do with the two foolish young

people. Unless George and Adela were very, very
much attached, Clara certainly did think the silly
romantic little affair had better come to an end ! 
though, if George really was, as he himself declared,
very, very much in love," and she should discover
Adela's affections were unfortunately engaged,
it might not be wise, it might not even be quite, quite
right, to act too precipitately. But till Clara had seen
George, and spoken to Adela, how could she judge ?
Kate had such influence over her stepson ! She was
so judicious ! Clara had the utmost confidence in her tact
and judgment ; and she did think, as Sir Cuthbert was
so much better of late, she did think Kate certainly
might run up to town if only for the day, and talk
over this important matter with her and Thomas ;
and if by any chance it would be impossible for
dearest Kate to leave Crofton Place, could not the
Admiral come up for a few hours instead ? The
dear Admiral had such a Beneficial influence over
George ! His advice would be chute invaluable !
And some one mist advise Thomas ! It was perfectly
clear from his letter that poor dear Thomas
was completely at a loss to know what to say. And
who could be surprised ? for Clara herself felt the
responsibility of consenting to permit, or of absolutely
refusing to allow, any engagement between the two
young people, was really quite, quite too great for her.
Clara ended by describing the interesting state of
agitation into which the news had but too naturally
thrown her  '' and forgive me, my dearest Kate, if I

have written incoherently. I have only just, just
received these two letters ! and now really I am . . .
yes, I do think I am even more taken aback than
poor, dear Thomas. A daughter's first proposal is
always rather a shock to a mother ! for our children
never, never do seem at all grown up ! and then really
it is hard to believe Adela is nearly eighteen. Just
fancy, my dearest Kate, eighteen ! And George  how
old is George ? Older than Adela, I know  wonderful,
wonderful ! But now I really must write to
Thomas, so must say good-bye. Pray tell Sir Cuthbert,
with my kindest regards, that I am glad to hear
he has been feelings so much better and stronger of
late ; and believe, my dearest Kate, in the affection
and sympathy  for I do sympathise in the anxiety
you will feel about George ! just as I hTWW you
will sympathise in my great anxiety about dear little
Adela  so believe in the affectionate sympathy of
your loving sister "  not even sister-in-law, but 
loving sister, Clara Newsham."

Clara wrote off this letter with the greatest ease
imaginable. Too great a facility in composition can
have its little drawbacks. But Clara was far, far too
clever hastily to post the inspiration of the moment,
no matter how beautiful it might be. Her wisdom is
to be commended ; for there are letters like pistols,
fired off quickly through an inspiration which may not
perhaps outlive the bang. Not that there ever was a
bang in Clara's correspondence ! Discoloured ink

is not gunpowder. Clara's sweet notes were always
the quite too more than charming little letters of a
quite too more than charming little woman. The
danger in her case was, not the tendency to explode,
but the risk of appearing just perhaps a little too
much of that quite too more than charming woman
so very, cry innocent, you know !

The early post came to Eastcourt at seven o'clock
in the morning. Clara's letter to Kate was written
before breakfast. She was much pleased with it at
first. It is curious how fondly we will regard what
is just warm from our brain ; and afterwards be quite
surprised we ever liked it !

But even in the first moment of pleased satisfaction,
Metternich was true to her clever self, and determined
to put her letter aside and think over it till the afternoon.
She reflected much upon her written diplomacy.
She thought all round her letter, as it were, and in
thinking perceived the remote possibility of its being
shown by Kate to George. It was really most unlikely
this would ever happen, yet not quite improbable.


Until now Clara had thought but little of George.
Her inspiration had been to write beautifully for Kate
and Sir Cuthbert, particularly Sir Cuthbert.

So Metternich re-read her diplomatic note slowly
and carefully. It gave her a pang to think of sacrificing
all the nice little innocent astonishment of which
the letter was full. It was indeed hard for her to
abandon the sweetly pretty character of the ingenuous,

surprised Little Mother. That was the character in
which she liked best to appear before the world, for it
was her own little ideal of herself, and it is to our
ideal self we are ever the most attached.

But Clara was so clever ! She read her letter a
third and then a fourth time, and judged it quietly in
cold blood, as she had done her own conduct once
before, with her mind standing dispassionately outside
herself, even outside her ideal self. She came to the
conclusion that her very surprised Little Mother, so
quite too more than innocent, was a piece of poetry
not perhaps altogether suited to the intricacies of a
complicated fine art.

Yet Clara could not find it in her heart quite to do
away with the charming Little Mother ; but she obliterated
such parts of the ideal as might too easily be
destroyed by the sort of accident over which she perceived
she could have no control. She still thought
that her first instinct was in the main right, so did not
go to thee trouble of composing a fresh piece of diplomacy,
but just merely revised and chastened what she
had written a little too charmingly under the first
inspiration of pleasant success.

This was the letter Clara finally posted : 

"Eastcourt.
"My dearest Kate,  I do think you will be a
little surprised by the two letters I am sending you.

George has Oh ! my dear Kate, you will never

guess what that boy lias done  never ! He has proposed

for Adela ! And poor dear Thomas, he does
indeed appear to be in a state of amazed perplexity !
I feel that I iiwM go up to town immcdiatchj , though
it is so very, very inconvenient for me to do so  I am
so very, very much wanted at Eastcourt, and find it so
difficult to leave all the younger girls.

How I do wish, my dearest Kate, you could manage
to run up from Crofton Place just for one day, and
meet me in town. We could then talk the whole
little matter quietly over with Thomas, and decide
what is best for the two young people. As a rule, I
am strongly, very strongly against these early engagements
; but if George is recdly, as he says, ' very, very
much in love ' with Adela, and Adela is in love with
him, it might not perhaps be wise  it might not even
be quite, quite right  to act too precipitately. Xow,
my dearest Kate, I have the utmost confidence in your
tact and judgment, and you are so judicious with
George, that I do think, as Sir Cuthbert is so much
better of late, you certainly might leave him for a few
Iwurs ! Though, if by any chance this should be
quite, quite impossible, could not the Admiral come
up to town and see us instead ? The dear Admiral
has such a beneficial influence over George, and his
advice would be quite invaluable. And some one must
advise Thomas ! It is perfectly clear from his letter
that poor dear Thomas is completely at a loss to know
vjhat to say, and no wonder ; for I am sure I myself
feel the responsibility of consenting to permit, or of
absolutely refusing to allow, this engagement between

the two young people, as quite, quite too great to bear
alone !

And now forgive me, my dearest Kate, if I have
written incoherently ; but I have only just, y-its received
these two letters, and I must confess I am a little agitated.
I suppose it is always rather a shock to a
mother to realise that her daughter is quite, quite
grown up, for our children never, never do seem really
grown up. And I must say it is hard to believe Adelaide
almost quite eighteen ! Just fancy, my dearest

Kate, eighteen I And George how old is George ?

Older than Adela, I know." Clara was anxious to
preserve the seeming spontaneity of the letter ; so
again put, as at first  " Wonderful  wonderful ! "

But I must write to Thomas." She had already
written that comparatively easy letter, and had with
much facility adapted it to the certain perusal of
Johnson. " But I most write to Thomas, so must
really say good-bye ! Pray tell Sir Cuthbert, with
my kindest regards, that I am truly glad to hear he
has been feeling really better and stronger of late ;
and believe, dearest Kate, in the affection and sympathy
 for I do sympathise in the anxiety yo20 will
feel about George, just as I k7ioiu you will sympathise
in ony great anxiety about dear little Adela !  so
believe in the affectionate sympathy of your loving
sister, Clara Newsham.

Eastcouet, 2Qt7i March."
She thought it no harm to put " Eastcourt " twice

over ; it was such an important part of her diplomacy
!

As Clara was folding up George Crofton's letter
with Thomas's in her own to Kate, the date of George's
short note caught her eye. When she saw "21st
March," she knew George had obeyed her " suggestion "
exactly, and that Thomas ought to have got the letter
on Saturday. In wondering why on earth Thomas
had not written before, she remembered his dozen
drunkards.

Now it better suited the possible intricacies of the
Mother's Fine Art that George's letter should seem to
have been written nearly a week after Clara left the
Alexandra Hotel, than merely two days. So Metternich
was tempted to alter the date. She sat with the
letter spread open before her, calmly considering the
situation. It would not be easy to change 21 into 25,
but very easy to make 21 24. She hesitated.

The temptation was great. But prudence does not
yield weakly  it thinks too much. Clara resisted her
strong impulse, and did not change 1 into 4, but only
dropped a small blot of ink upon the 1, then watched
it dry ; and it dried into a very satisfactory little accident.
As to the scribble above the line, George had
scrawled it so illegibly that it really required no alteration
at all  not even another small blot.

CHAPTER X.

There are houses richly furnished with all that man
might ever seem to want, into which the tragic
realities of life will force their way like hated
bailiffs and take possession. And there are others
with such good locks on their park gates, that uninvited
guests seem quite shut out, and even death is
like a poor relation we sent off to the Colonies when
our father died : we comfortably forget him ; he is
so far away ! a mere insignificant undertaker quite
occupied in burying uninteresting people at the
Antipodes. Just such a pleasant place was East-court
! The sterner realities were tramps who as
yet had found no entrance there.

Metternich was singularly fortunate in the circumstances
of her life ; so she could give up her whole
mind to her profession.

But her letter, written in luxurious seclusion from
the sterner realities of this world, went from her own
sunny boudoir at Eastcourt, into the near and terribly
real presence of death ; for at Crofton Place death

was no poor relation pleasantly settled in the Colonies,
but the impatient heir, the rightful master of the
estate.

If letters were but living messengers from house to
house, what curious changes in the air they would feel
in a few short hours ! What sudden chills would kill
their liveliness ! How cruelly small would seem the
cleverness which seemed so great !

Clara's letter was brought to Kate in Sir Cuthbert's
sick-room. A sort of instinct made Kate thrust it
unopened into her pocket. It was not that she in the
least guessed the contents, or that in the sorrowful preoccupation
of her mind she so much as even remembered
Adela. But dien we are in grief, there are
people whom we instinctively shrink from. We have
a feeling that their presence, what they will say, their
voice, and even the very letters from their hand, will
jar upon us. Yet it is not the rough ones we always
dread the most : it is those whose sympathy never
feels to us quite real.

Sir Cuthbert had had terrible suffering of late. He
was very weak. His nerves were shaken by great
pain. And Kate had known him a strong man without
a nerve, and to whom all weakness seemed an
impossible shame. When he was full of health and
strength, and made much of by the greater world asa
rising diplomatist of remarkable talent, he never had
forgotten to be generous to his brother's widow, and
better, to be very kind,  though how many do forget
ever to be kind !

The sight of human suffering is strangely moving,
perhaps because that gaunt reality is so very real.

Kate, receiving Clara's letter as she did by Sir
Cuthbert's bedside, was exactly in the humour when
the fine arts are lost upon the mind and realities are
most real. There is an art in writing, just as there
are such things as grammar and well-turned sentences,
and you must be clever to excel in it ; yet it is wonderful
how little effect you may produce with all your
pains ! The other way of writing is, I think, wrongly
called an art, for it is only the power of real feeling
in yourself : if you are really and not falsely glad or
sorry, angry or amused, those who read what you have
truly written will, without effort on your part, be
moved.

Now Clara's Little Mother, so kind and innocent
you know ! was not a real person ; then how could
she write like one ? She was an artistic creation,
clever enough, no doubt, to have produced the desired
effect had Kate been in the rio-ht humour or the Little
Mother come to charm her at almost any other time,
for as a rule Kate Crofton was certainly one of the
most charitable and least censorious or suspicious of
sincerely sweet and rather dull women. It would
have been contrary to nature if Thomas's only sister
had been particularly brilliant.

So, quite by an unlucky accident, it happened that
all Metternich had thought most effective in her
diplomatic note, were artistic beauties completely
wasted upon her sister-in-law. When Kate read the

letter outside Sir Cuthbert's room, though still within
hearing of the sick man's changed voice, she had but
one feeling  the strong instinct of its unreality.
And at that moment unreality was intensely distasteful
to her. There are sugared cakes we can eat atone
time, which cloy upon our appetite at another, as
if they had sweet poison in them. When Kate came
to the words, " as Sir Cuthbert is so much better of
late," she stopped reading, then went on again. She
stopped a second time at the sentence, " Pray tell Sir
Cuthbert, with my kindest regards, that 1 am truly
glad to hear he has been feeling really better and
stronger of late." Her two hands, with the letter
held tightly between them, dropped down ; she raised
her head and stood like a person surprised to hear
a sound she suddenly remembers to have heard before.
In the summer, when Clara had written that very
charming letter from Bluehaven, a suspicion, as we
know, had rushed into Kate's mind ; but Kate had
thrust the hated thought aside, and so quickly that
she had actually forgotten it. But now the suspicion
came upon her again, and this time it was too real to
put aside.

This is untrue. Dr Stumps told Clara poor Cuthbert
is dying : he has said he did. So she knows
Cuthbert is dying. She does know it ! "

When Sir Cuthbert had nicknamed Thomas's white
angel " Metternich," Kate had been angry with him,
and had thought it a sad pity that hateful diplomacy
should have made a really kind-hearted man so satirical.

I. T

cal and suspicious. How Kate does detest the whole
diplomatic corps ! She is one of those good ladies
who consider our representatives at foreign Courts
should give everybody credit for being actuated by the
highest and most disinterested motives.

But now the nickname came back to her mind.
She said it to herself  " Metternich ! Cuthbert is
right. How horrid : " The letter fell from her hands.
Merely to touch it hurt her. She was filled with indignation,
and something very like hatred rushed into
her gentle soul. The shock of believing  she did believe
it  that Clara was calmly speculating on the
hopeless suffering of the poor sick man close by, made
that momentary hatred possible to Kate. It was as
if, with her heart full of human feeling for the last
terrible reality of life, she had looked up from the
slow agony on which her eyes and the pity of her
whole soul were bent, suddenly to see the wife of the
brother she loved  there was the sting of it  the
wife of the brother she loved, standing like a murderess
at heart, coldly calculating how long it must
take the sick man to die, and coming to the comfortable
conclusion it cannot take him long.

I do not say Kate's strong revulsion of feeling
against Clara was not exaggerated ; I merely tell what
she felt. This world is full of calm, pleased grave-diggers,
most excellent people, highly respectable, with
souls like the tearless statues in a cemetery. It is
well to learn how to bear with them and not hate
them too much, or it may be you will find yourself

hating some admirable person, irreproachable in conduct
and discretion, an old friend quite nearly connected
with yourself, and much given to accepting
your hospitality if your dinners and your company
are good.

Kate Crofton generally took some time to answer
a note. Her letters were usually affectionate, rather
long-winded, quite irreproachable, and certainly dull.
There was an amiable indecision about them mildly
pleasing to very nice people ; yet their kindly vagueness
would leave but little distinct impression even on
the mind of a quite nice ladylike person. There
were minds on which it left none, and Clara's had
hitherto been one of these.

But for once in her life Kate felt clearly, strongly,
almost passionately, and she wrote quickly as if she
had been some other person and not herself. The
sick man was lying close by in pain, and she was
within hearing of his voice when she wrote : 

My dear Clara,  I cannot consent to this engagement
between George and Adela. George is a
penniless boy, and cannot marry unless his uncle dies
and leaves him his fortune. Cuthbert is not better, as
you say he is in your letter. It is not true that he
is better. He is much worse. He is in terrible pain,
and his present state is very, very sad, for he is extremely
weak and low, and sometimes even cries,
though he never cried in his life till now, for he was
a strong: man and most courageous. But he can bear

no agitation now, and Dr Stumps says if we told
him anything which moved his feelings or his anger
much, it might kill him on the spot.

If I told him George had proposed for Adela, it
would seem to him as if his nephew had settled he is
to die, and so felt he could think of marrying quite
soon. I am sure my dear George has never, never
thought this, but it would look as if he had ; and poor
Cuthbert has been a kind father to him, when his own
father was dead.

I will not show Cuthbert your letter. I could
not show it to him. Nor can I bring myself to
tell him of George's proposal, when George has no
prospects if poor Cuthbert gets well and lives,
as I still pray with all my heart to God he may ;
because he has been very kind to me, Clara, and to
George, and kind when we were in trouble and very
poor.

I cannot go up to town, for Cuthbert is too dangerously
ill. But if I ask Uncle Charles, I am sure he
will go and see you as you wish, and speak to dear
Thomas for me, and to George. I strongly suspect
George is not very much in love with Adela, although
for the moment he may think he is. I do not consider
his letter to Thomas that of a very warm lover,
and I am sure George would have written to me and
told me of his love before he proposed if he had cared
long and much for Adela. I expect the young people
have found themselves thrown together, and dear
Adela has been looking very pretty some day, and

George has just thought he would propose, as boys
often do before they are grown up. I think you will
most likely find that Adela, too, hardly knows her
own mind. She is so very young ! You say you
are against these early engagements, but I think I
am even more against them than you,

With my very kindest love to dear Thomas and
to Adela, I remain, yours affectionately,

Kate Crofts."

In Clara's eyes this letter was unpardonable. The
clearness, the decision of it, so different from the amiable
ramble of Kate's usual style, felt like insubordination.
And insubordination to her will is what a
cold determined woman does not easily forgive, and
certainly not in that unnecessary sort of person, a
husband's sister. Those women of slow circulation,
apparently so calmly without strong desire, are the
most tenacious of their paramount will. There is no
determination like that of some pale fair women : not
that strong resolution is in all of them, for some are
white doves cooing in weakness. But if determination
does mix with a very white cold woman's blood, it is
like the worldliness of chilly veins, and becomes the
moving power of the whole nature ; it should not be
fought against with a light heart foolishly, for its very
coldness gives it strength, and, if worsted, the resentment
of defeat can last for ever.

The curious intensity of silent wrath that ever fills
Clara's soul when her firm will meets opposition, was

now deepened by the strong suspicion which forced
itself into her mind, that Kate had penetrated the unreality
of her letter, and had dared to see through her
plots and plans. Charming as Clara undoubtedly
can be, she could forgive you for not thinking her the
most charming of women with the fairest complexion
ever seen. And it is not every charming woman who
could do this ! But what she never can forgive is
that you should think her rather a designing sort of
angel, fond of making clever little plans, and not altogether
unoccupied by the complications of a difficult
fine art. I consider this peculiarity the weak side of
Clara's genius. It is mistaken policy not to be
courageously yourself, especially if you intend to
work on a grand scale. I have known quite wonderfully
plotting ladies who have carried the art of
matchmaking to a magnificent height, and who yet
have not been unpopular, for they gave themselves
out boldly as women of the world, and people were
forearmed and never felt deceived. Lady Barchester
is one of these : her genius, so inferior to Clara's in
imagination and the power entirely to invent, is superior
in courageous common-sense. I do not think
the Countess of Barchester is cordially disliked by
anybody except Clara. Clara, it is true, is her sincere
though silent enemy  but not because she sees
through Lady Barchester's arrangement of accidents :
it is because Lady Barchester has seen through hers.

I am sorry Metternich's mind should have this
weakness, for it is a weakness to resent the fact that

the whole world is not born blind. Clara having a
blind husband, as many a dear ingenuous creature has,
thought every one should be like Thomas. When I
have read of the blind people who of old received
their sight, and have followed them back in my
imagination to their dwelling-place, I have wondered
once or twice if all their relations were glad to see
them. I have doubted it ; for I have felt sure there
would be at least one quite charming woman who
would be very angry that long blindness had ended
in clear sight. Then, certainly, I was only thinking
of the Israelites and Jews !

Clara had hitherto looked upon Kate as a poor sort
of creature,  just the kind of uninteresting thing you
might expect Thomas's sister to be ! She made use
of her when convenient, and did not dislike her because
she was so comfortably blind. It was Clara
herself, with her own hand, who had opened Kate's
eyes : then, I ask, what right had she,  she of all
people,  to be angry if blindness through her own act
was forced to see ? And, after all, it was only what
was as clear as day that Kate did dare to see. In
this matter I have no sympathy whatever with Clara :
she was unjust, and was not even clever.

There was, however, one sentence in Kate's unpardonable
letter which Clara approved of. It was
the one promising that " Uncle Charles " should come
up to town. An interview with the Admiral was what
best suited Metternich, and what she had calculated
on from the first : never for a moment had she expected

Kate could leave Sir Cuthbert, for she knew
him to be really dying.

Kate gave Clara's letter to the Admiral. The artistic
diplomacy was by no means lost on him. The
dear, ingenuous Little Mother produced exactly the
desired effect.

I don't wonder, Kate, your charming sister-in-law
is in a state of bewildered surprise. Never was
so amazed in my whole life, never ! The idea of
George writing to Thomas that he is very, very much
in love with Adela ! In love ? Fiddlestick ! Why,
when he was at Bluehaven, I rated him soundly for
being rude to the child. Eemember doing so perfectly,
perfectly ! Lord bless my soul ! the boy must
have gone wrong in his head through all this newfangled
cramming ! Turns many a fine young fellow's
brain ! Poor Mrs Xewsham ! I can entirely enter
into her feelings ; and she must naturally be so much
against this match, for her daughter might marry anyone.
Adela is as pretty a little creature as you'd see
anywhere, and has quite the beautiful complexion of
her mother. I have been all over the world, and I
must say, Kate, I have never seen a complexion to
be compared for marble whiteness to Mrs JSTewsham's ;
and yet there never was a charming woman so unconscious
of her beauty and her charm as she is !
And I always admire her unworldliness, Kate. I
think her a very unworldly person indeed. To be
sure she is against this match ! to be sure she is ! and
quite right too ! And still, you see, strongly as she

disapproves of these early engagements, she actually

says Now, where is it ? Ah ! here ! " and the

Admiral read aloud from Clara's letter: "but if
George is really, as he says in his letter to Thomas,
very, very much in love with Adela, and Adela is in
love with him, it might not perhaps be wise, it might
not even be quite, quite right '  how I wish all
ladies thought as much of right and wrong as Mrs
Newsham ! "  and Admiral Crofton re-read admiringly
the words, " ' it might not even be quite, quite
right to act too precipitately.' Xow, can anything be
kinder than this ? Why, half the mothers would
have turned a young fellow like George straight out
of doors, and never have let him put his foot inside
their house again. Silly, penniless lad ! Most likely
doesn't know his own mind ! and has not got a prospect
on earth but the certainty, if his head is a little
touched, of being plucked in his examination."

Kate had allowed the Admiral to talk on without
interruption. She was sorry when he stopped, for
she hated saying what for George's protection she felt
it her duty to say. Kate was of a generous nature.
She liked the sort of mind which can think no evil.
It was very painful to her to see clearly with wide-open
eyes ; for it is a great mistake to suppose, as
some do, there is any pleasure in seeing people are
not what they pretend to be. The pleasure is when you
can believe with all your mind and heart. Those to
whom disillusion is anything but sorrow are few indeed.
Disillusion I believe to be the great grief of life.

Kate was a timid woman. At all times she disliked
saying an unpleasant thing. She hated it now,
and turned away her head like a shy child when she
began to speak. " Uncle Charles' she said, " if Cuthbert
dies, George would be his natural heir." Then
she suddenly turned round and looked straight at the
Admiral, and said, with the courage of indignation,
Dr Stumps told Clara that Cuthbert is dying."

"And far too clever a woman she is to believe
him ! " exclaimed the Admiral hotly, with an indignation
quite equal in its way to Kate's. " Mrs New-seam
is far too clever a woman," he repeated, " to
believe a word Stumps says. Stumps has quite got
round you, Kate. Wonder you have any faith in
him ! Wrong-headed humbugs, like all the rest of
them ! Why, Mrs Newsham would as soon believe
Stumps as she would that conceited fellow who had
the impudence to charge a hundred and fifty guineas
for his railway ticket from London and back. Specialist
indeed ! Special peculiarity of only agreeing
with himself. Still, wouldn't tie himself to any clear
opinion, and declined to discuss the case with those
who knew a great deal more about it than he did."
That meant, with the Admiral himself. " ]Never met
one of your dosers yet," he exclaimed, " who was anything
but a quack ! Cuthbert is no more dying than
I am. He is just going through a crisis. I have
been expecting his crisis all along, and if properly
treated, he would get through it in no time, and be
all the better afterwards. Why, when I had my

severe crisis off Vera Cruz, I was frightfully low at
the time, but picked' up finely afterwards, and felt
better than I had done for six weeks before."

Now the Admiral did not know it, for he knew
nothing about himself or his feelings, but it was really
the great love 'he bore his nephew which made him
so wrong-headed. He was one of those kind-hearted
and curiously constituted people who never seem able
to believe in the possible death of any one they love
till the corpse is in its coffin. " The dosers know
they can humbug you, Kate," he said, " but catch
them spinning any of their yarns to me ! "

An instinct of the real feeling which made the Admiral
so testy, prevented Kate from arguing with him.

I wonder if the innocent ba-lamb, to whom 1 have
already likened Admiral Crofton, is really just a little
more cunning than it looks ? Because, guileless as
the dear Admiral certainly is, he was on this occasion
one little bit more acute than he had seemed ; for he
had not been quite insensible to the real meaning of
Kate's words, though I do not say he had grasped it
fully. If you avoid the knife you are not actually cut.
He had winced from an innuendo which was like high
treason to him, as he loyally believed in the most
charming of charming women, and liked to believe in
her with all his soul. It is true he had heard Sir
Cuthbert joke about ' Metternich," but he thought the
joke in very bad taste, and it had produced no effect
upon him ; for there is no sting where there seems
to be no truth. " Metternich " was an unsuitable,

disagreeable nickname, the direct result of diplomatic
depravity on his sick nephew's mind ; for the Admiral's
feeling towards diplomacy and diplomatists
was exactly like Kate's. He considered " Metternich
" as pointless as he would the Great Napoleon,
or Genghiz Khan, or the Wily Serpent of the Sioux.
Where the Admiral had faith, he could believe through
thick and thin. He believed quite beautifully in the
ingenuous, agitated, surprised Little Mother, and had
more real faith in the actual existence of Clara's ideal
than Clara herself.

His faith was visible, and if Kate had been clever
she would have seen it ; but she was very blind.
When a truly charitable creature like Kate has
thought and said an unkind thins, her own daring
to her outrageous. For the first time in her
life she had openly imputed what she considered the
vilest of vile motives to another, and that other
Thomas's wife. Then, in all generous natures there
is a strong dislike to strike a second time when you
have just struck hard. Kate felt as if she had said
enough, more than enough. Uncle Charles had let
the imputation pass without comment,  " for naturally,"
thought she, " he would not care to discuss so
delicate a matter any more than I should." So ashe
did not contradict her, she took it for granted he
thought like her. Many people do this, and it is so
often a mistake.

Kate found the Admiral very sensible in his views
of matrimony  more sensible than she had expected.

for he was of a highly romantic turn. But he was
perfectly convinced the young people could not possibly
know their own minds. " Saw them at Blue-haven,
Kate. Know all about their feelings ! Xo
danger of breaking anybody's heart in this affair 
none whatever ! and that's always a comfort. It
enables one to put an end to the whole affair with
a firm hand and an easy conscience."

So the Admiral entirely agreed with Kate that an
engagement was completely out of the question : it
was settled he should say this very clearly to Thomas
and to George. " But as to Mrs Newsham," he exclaimed,
" I am quite sure she will say it to me."

Yet say it to her, Uncle Charles," replied Kate,
rather timidly, " say it to her all the same, and  quite
clearly." Kate then felt she had indeed put the
Admiral well on his guard, and that George's interests
were safe in his hands ; for had she not opened his
eyes to the worst possible view of Clara's character
and letter ?

I doubt if the most depraved of diplomatists would
ever have called Kate Crofton " Metternich."

The Admiral was quite right about Clara. The
very first words she said to him were, " My dear
Admiral, there can be no engagement between the
two foolish young people ! There can be none !
Now, my dear Admiral, my dear Admiral, I know
you are so very, very romantic ! but you and I must
have some common-sense. Xow positively we must !
It is so very, very unfortunate Thomas should have

had to go down to Eastcourt to speak at a temperance
meeting in Slumby on the very day you have come
up to town ! And there is George still in for his
examination ! and dear little Adela laid up with a
cold on her chest ! Oh ! it is nothing really serious,
my dear Admiral, only Dr Williams-Smith is so very,
very careful ! But, my dear Admiral, my dear Admiral,
I know your opinion of the faculty ! "

Mrs Newsham was quite charming ! She had never
been more charming, the Admiral thought. He felt
he could almost believe in the " dosers " if she believed
in them too ; but as he had told Kate, Mrs Newsham
was far, far too clever to believe in any one of them.
He found, as he had expected, that she had no faith
whatever in Dr Stumps ; and he only wished Kate
could have heard how entirely she disagreed with the
Shropwich doctor's bad opinion of Cuthbert's state,
and how completely she agreed with the very hopeful
view he himself took of the case. Mrs Newsham
seemed perfectly certain Sir Cuthbert would recover,
and rapidly, as the " crisis-must soon be over.

And Mrs Iewsham was as sensible as she was
charming ! The only point on which she did not
perhaps quite, quite agree with the Admiral, was in
thinking the two foolish young people  " Ah ! my
dear Admiral, such very, very foolish young people ! "
were just a little more in love than he suspected.
Clara gave the prettiest possible little reasons for this,
and they were little reasons not unmoving to the
Admiral's tender soul.

"Now, my dear Admiral;' she said  "my dear
Admiral . . ."

But no ! I cannot do justice to her genius ! In
this tete-astute with Admiral Crofton, Clara rose to
a height where I cannot follow her : besides, the
beauty of her complexion and the charm of her
manner cannot be felt through pen and ink, as they
undoubtedly were felt by the Admiral. So I only
dare to say that on this occasion Metternich was
admirable ! She was truly admirable !

When you intend to disagree with a person, begin
by entirely agreeing with him. This was the principle
on which Clara had for years practised her
Medical Fine Art. AYe know it was by entirely
agreeing with Dr Fozzle that she had got him to disagree
with himself and order the Bishop to Blue-haven
; and in those sweet little purring she and
old Doseman would have together, Clara would begin
by so completely, so completely agreeing with the
doctor, that, as we are all aware, old Doseman would
end by saying, of his own accord, exactly what Clara
wanted him to say.

Now in that interview with Admiral Crofton, when
Metternich's genius rose to such a remarkable height,
it was not merely upon the principles of her Mother's
Fine Art that she founded her brilliant diplomacy :
she made use of all her arts, of all and every one !
And not one of them was lost upon her dear, dear
Admiral ! Clara's old fondness for that guileless man

had more than revived. I thmk she never was quite
so fond of him before. The artist loves surpassingly
the work on which every touch of his has told. It
is the sense of power he loves,  that feeling of real
mastery which is the satisfaction given to genius, and
to genius alone.

The fashion is always to speak of genius as " transcendent,"
as if it were some far-off idol, very distant
from our natural selves ; a golden jewelled image on
a pedestal, and no living, simple, very human thing.
Xow I do not think real genius ever makes upon us
the impression of being clever at all, but seems something
so easy in its ways, so natural, so sympathetically
human, that we feel one with it  as if its
pleasant ease were ours, and we were moved like it,
Corregio's " lo anche son picture ! " was the perfect
expression of the effect of genius on a soul which
could feel what genius is.

Clara made no impression of cleverness upon the
Admiral's mind. When quite naturally, of his oiun
accord, just as if he had been a doctor, he came round
gently, imperceptibly from his first conviction that
there could be no engagement between the two young
people, to the idea that it might not perhaps be quite,
quite right to act too precipitately in this matter, and
that after all it might be better to consent to a sort of
indefinite engagement which would enable the two
foolish young people to see quite unconstrained a little
more of each other, and so quite, quite clearly to know
their own minds, and to feel what very, very foolish

young people they really were, and so finally to consent
of their own free will to a complete rupture of
the whole silly affair,  the Admiral was not even aware
he was ao-reeim? with Metternich : he felt as if he
were simply agreeing with himself, and saw clearly
with his own eyes that, under the circumstances, this
certainly was the best possible arrangement. It was
the " circumstances " which made the arrangement so
wise, because he had become convinced there was just
enough love between the two very foolish young
people to make violent opposition undesirable. Violent
opposition turns the short-lived, childish love
into the great life-enduring passion. Admiral Crofton
came to the conclusion that if George and Adela saw
a little more of each other in a perfectly natural, unconstrained
way, the youthful illusion would very,
very soon quite, quite melt away ! And he again felt
as if he were merely agreeing with himself. Such
is the power of genius !

The Admiral had intended writing immediately
to tell Kate, what he in his own mind thought best
and wisest for the two young people ; but he had
agreed with himself  and with Metternich too  that
as even an indefinite engagement could not be allowed
without Thomas's consent, he would not after all write
his letter from the Alexandra Hotel, but would wait
until he had spoken to Thomas, and then write from
Eastcourt. " Thomas's consent " seemed a very important
part of the matter to the Admiral, for he had
not the remotest suspicion that Mr Newsham did not

VOL. L U

rule his own household, just as he himself would rule
his own ship.

The Admiralty is not invariably wise, but it is wise
indeed in discouraging commanders, captains, and dear
admirals from sailing with a charming woman at
their helm.

George's examination finished on the evening: of
the same day that Admiral Crofton and Mrs Newsham
had their memorable interview at the Alexandra
Hotel.

The next morning metternich and her dear, dear
Admiral, and George and Adela  those very foolish
young people !  all went down together to Eastcourt
to consult or to be consulted about, with that man
of clear perception and iron will, the excellent
Thomas.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Blackwood AND SONS.

V

J

A

fi

llllllilllillllli

3 0112 088987802

BY THE AUTHOR OF

*MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. 11.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVII

All Rights reserved

Part II.

(continued.)

Chapter X.

When the Admiral came to Eastcourt, his coming was
a great agitation to Nellie  a surprise which for a
moment felt like hope. A question was always on
the young girl's lips, but always dying there. It
was especially difficult for her to ask Charlie's father
what she so passionately longed to ask, because her
mother seemed to be always standing by.

Clara took careful possession of the Admiral whilst
awaiting Thomas's return, for by some inexplicable
accident Mr Newsham was away from home when
the little party from the Alexandra Hotel arrived at
Eastcourt. The good man was quite safe lecturing to
some very wicked drunkards in a distant place, because
he had Johnson to take care of him.

Clara, for excellent reasons of her own, did not
wish the Admiral to be overmuch with the " two

foolish young people " ; so she drove him about in
her pony-carriage, and had the management of him
all day long. It amused her to manage him ! The
perpetual management of somebody, like the perpetual
arrangement of accidents, had become a necessity
to Clara. Unfortunately the art of managing Thomas
had grown so easy that there was no interest in it.
Thomas was a little accident of Mrs Newsham's existence,
which through long habit really arranged itself.
The proper management of a husband is often
a very difficult art, and Clara could have managed
any husband under the sun ! so it certainly was a
pity Thomas should be such simple division to a mind
that was suited to the higher mathematics. Indeed,
as Clara often felt, the arrangement of Thomas was
not a fine art at all.

Clara wished to be considered " so very nice, and so
very, very particular" about the dear girls. She thought
this would be not only a pretty, but a useful sort of
reputation for her to have. Her ideal Little Mother was
not even quite, quite sure the dear girls were to be allowed
to dance the fast dances when they regularly came
out and went to balls  if they ever did go to balls !

So Clara determined to be very nice and very, very
particular about dear little Adela, and she told Miss
Smith that George and Adela were not to be left too
conspicuously alone, and especially not when boating
on the lake. A great part of the lake was visible
from one of the avenues, and Lady Barchester was
sure to call when down from town at Easter, and

there was a good deal of the more insignificant sort
of gossip in Yellowmead. Though Mrs Newsham
despised Yellowmead, she well knew the gossip which
begins as a small breeze in a village may blow allover
a county. She intended telling everybody " in
the strictest confidence " all about the two foolish
young people as soon as Thomas had given his consent
to the quite indefinite engagement.

The Admiral, by bringing George down to East-court,
and staying on with him there, was, without
realising it, virtually of his own accord sanctioning
the match : at least his conduct would look like this
when the little matter was properly explained to
Xossex and the world. The fact is, the Admiral had
become Principal Surrounding Circumstance in that
silly, silly love-affair between George and Adela ; and
he looked far better to the world than Thomas. As
to Clara herself, she had now quite faded out of the
conspicuous position she had once held whilst consulting
the doctors in Chapel Street.

George was delighted to have done with that " horrid
grind " in London, so Eastcourt seemed pleasant
enough to him. Ashen Clara liked she could make
her house a very agreeable place for you to stay in,
just as she could make it a disagreeable one if she
wanted you to go away.

George did not trouble himself one way or the
other about Thomas's consent, for he was quite contented
in his mind now that Mrs Newsham had explicitly
told him he could only be engaged to her

daughter in a very indefinite sort of way. He felt
easy about the big game, and was sufficiently at home
with Adela to have no actual discomfort in her constant
presence, unless she happened to be too exacting.
It is true, when much alone with her he would be
bored by her ; so he did not dislike having a third
person out riding or out boating, as that third person
was not Mrs Newsham. On the contrary, he liked
to have JSTellie in the boat when he went out rowing
with Adela on the lake. Two people in a boat are so
completely cut off from all chance of interruption !
and to be interrupted is often a relief. Adela had
of late been one tiny bit exacting towards George.
When the young man was either " cramming " all day,
or being examined all day, he did not mind trying to
be sentimental for quite a short time ; but sentiment
had never been in George's " line," and if kept up for
long, it wearied him.

Since the wee fairy of awaking love had crept into
Adela's young heart, that fairy had never slept again ;
for when does a fairy really sleep ? Father dull and
placid as Adela still might seem, yet having that little
fairy nestled in one corner of her heart, she would have
liked George often to say tender things to her. The
murmur of the pretty secret he had once breathed into
her ear had never quite died there. It was Hke that
secret which must have been whispered over the trees in
Eden : you hear the pleasant sound of it still lingering
amongst the moving boughs in every wood on earth,
for there is a breath of joy which does not die away.

Though Adela would have liked best to be alone
with George, she minded having Nellie less than anyone
else. Sylvia's perpetual observation and curiosity
would have been intolerable. Adela was grateful to
Miss Smith for not letting Sylvia be much with her
and George. The truth is, the governess thought
Miss Sylvia quite capable of flirting with George on
her own account, right over Adela's head as it were ;
while knowing that Nellie was in love with Charles
Crofts, she considered it quite safe for her to be long
hours on the lake with George and Adela. And
Nellie was so fond of boating, it would have been hardin
any case to refuse her strong wish. She had been
so apathetic even towards all pleasure of late, seeming
to care for nothing, and liking best to be allowed to
stay quietly indoors when everybody else went out ;
and she looked so pale and listless, and in such low
spirits, that Miss Smith was getting rather alarmed,
and felt very glad to see her show some little eagerness
of desire about anything, no matter what.

It was no wonder Adela but little disliked having
Nellie in the boat, for there were times when she
would forget her presence. Nellie took no notice of
her or George ; she was ever in a dream of her own,
and seemed to be always silent now. Hers was the
unconscious silence of a mind absorbed in one idea ;
so different from the vacant silence which has merely
nothing to say, and finds the tedious hours long. To
live with one thought in close communion may seem
like silence because the sound of voices is not heard,

yet the soul may be full of moving speech, and hours
pass like too short dreams.

The lake at Eastcourt is very large and long, and is
winding at both ends, especially at the one farthest
from the house, where the big brook falls down into it
from the rising ground. The lake is very deep in
two or three places, and more than two generations of
Newshams have been in the habit of telling their
friends there is one part of the lake where a seventy-four
could ride at anchor and swing. The old sev-
envy-four has disappeared from the navy, but this
saying has survived it, and will do so for many a long
year, for the Newsham mind likes what it is accustomed
to, and does not easily invent. Eockhurst
speaks of the old seventy-four just as if that wonderful
three - decker really had sailed overland from
Portsmouth in his great-grandfather's time, and been
anchored by Nelson's orders on the Eastcourt lake.

I do not wonder the Xewshams are proud of their
lake ; it makes Eastcourt a beautiful place. The
house is a straggling, interesting old pile of two-storeys
red brick, a little uncertain in its style of architecture,
with mullions on one side and none on the
other. Thomas can even still at times mistake his
way about the passages, and Johnson has to warn him
not to fall headlong down little odd sets of steps.
The grounds at Eastcourt are large ; there is a nice
old garden with a curious way up to it of terraced yews,
and the old trees are fine ; but it is the lake which
every true-born Xewsham loves. Even Thomas sees

the lake and never forgets it is there ; and he likes
to walk beside it. If yoii are born where there is
water, the love of it grows up with yon and lives
within you till you die, and makes you feel a want
amongst the spreading trees, and the fields, and smiling
valleys, and the rising wooded hills  a loneliness
where there is no water. For water is the soul of
heaven on earth, and there is no soul where it is not.
The beauteous face of nature is blind, and you long
for the colour and the mind and the expression of the
eyes ; for the feeling soul lives in the eyes. The haven,
the river, the lake, and even the streamlet and humble
pond, change with every passing shade and colour of
the sky, with every fleeting thought of heaven  with
its wrath, its sorrow, and the soft tenderness of its joy.

The lake at Eastcourt was not dead and stagnant.
It was fed by a large stream and two smaller ones.
The big brook bounded into it over a stony bed : it
was like a bird which sang the whole year round ; its
voice was never silent. And to a heart which loves
the sound, is there music more full of feeling and of
thought than that of flowing water ?

Then I think, too, what gives such enduring love and
such a longing in far-off places for the haven or river
or lake of our youth is that, like the heart of a true
friend, we know, if we came back to it, it would bethe
same to us to-day as in the years gone by.

A soul has many moods ; yet with all the lights
and shadows which pass over it, the real soul alters
not. And so it is with a home where there is water.

We have been long years in a distant land ; the place
we did much love is changed ; the old familiar faces
have quite passed away ; the garden of our childhood
is spoiled, and its trees are now cut down. But the
strange, ruthless hand has left no trace upon the
vater  the dream of touching memories lies upon
it still. The sounds which come across it seem the
same ones as of old ; and as we listen, the running
water is like tears within our heart  rushing tears of
well-remembered joys, of yearning and regret.

No ; memories do not die upon the water. They
are like the clouds and lights of heaven there: we
come back to them after long years of absence to find
them all again  to feel the tender remembrance of
childhood and youth, and to be moved by the longing
love so overpowering in its fresh intensity  the sad,
sad love for the dear ones who were living in the old
days, but who now are dead.

Of all the people young and old at Eastcourt, I do
think Clara alone was untouched, nor ever had been
touched in any mood of mind, by the charm and
beauty of the lake  the big, wide, open lake, which
only hid itself at birth under overhanging brushwood,
or, winding round the wooded island, crept to die in
the still shadow of reflected trees.

It is true Clara had never gone so far as to startle
together the scattered senses of Thomas, by proposing
he should try and drain the lake and plant long shrubberies
in its bed. No place in Nossex, and but few
demesnes in England, have a lake like the one at

Eastcourt ; so Clara felt a kind of social distinction
in its possession, and she was keenly alive to every
feeling of that sort. She had also found the " mimic
exhalations "of so large a piece of water very
useful during the London season, and at other times
of the year as well. Ever since old Doseman, of his
own accord, first discovered those mimic exhalations,
he has been very conveniently alive to their pernicious
influence, and to the beneficial effect of change of air
upon a constitution like Mrs Xewsham's.

Clara is certainly strangely without romance. The
poetry which can be felt has no existence, and never
has had any, for her. Yet most of us, however prosaic
we may be, have had some hour in life when we have
been moved, if only dimly, by the hallowed joy or
vague pathetic sorrow there is in all things beautiful ;
for beauty has a touching music of its own  the music
of heaven, which can be felt on earth though no sound
of it be heard.

A dim consciousness of those poetic harmonies
would creep at times over Adela, and they would feel
to her like happiness in her heart.

It is with the fading lights and deepening shades
of evening that the rapt feeling steals oftener on the
mind. Few living things are quite insensible to the
stillness of that hour of hushed delight which lengthens
with the lengthening days, and is too short in spring.
That was the short hour when memory's softest note
would come over the lake to Nellie like a kind comforter
whispering tenderly of hope, and she would for-vol.

IL B

get all pain and fear, and dream of other sounds on
broader waters, and of the far-out sea breathing on a
distant shore, and she would hear quite close to her
the voice she longed to hear again, unchanged as it
once had been. And the spell of that remembered
voice was like the spell of a dream in deepest sleep.

On the face of a child where no single feature is
the same as the parents', you will yet often see a look
which will be the fleeting likeness of the father or
mother. Though Nellie and her father were not much
alike, the expression, as it were, of some of the vague
moods of Thomas's mind had fallen upon hers ; but
there was this great difference in their unconscious
absence of spirit from the realities around them 
Thomas would be entirely occupied with the absorbing
fad of the moment, while it was to strong feeling
Nellie would yield up her heart and soul. Then
Thomas was always more or less in a vague haze of
absent thought, and it was only at times Nellie fell to
dreaming ; but when the dream did come over her, it
would seem as if there was no power within her to
shake it off. Poor Nellie was weak, and resistance is
the courage of strong people.

Of late she had been weaker than ever before in
her short life ; and physically, too, she was much
changed these last six months  she had lost her
strength, and was always feeling low and often very
wretched. Her highly strung nerves were keenly sensitive
to any sort of pain, and the strain of weary
longing is a sickening pain. At those moments when

her seeming apathy would give way to excitement,
and she would remember to talk and would laugh, her
liveliness was not natural. It was then she would
almost feel the courage to ask George all she so passionately
desired to know about Charlie, and could not
ask the Admiral George had been a whole week at
Eastcourt, and she had not once found herself alone
with him ! Hard as she tried, she could not ask for
Charlie when Adela was by. Eeal, understanding
sympathy is very rare between sisters ; and where
it does not exist, there is great shyness. But the
shyness was all on jSTellie's side. Adela was not shy
before Nellie, because there was ready imagination,
which is sympathy, for her in Nellie's heart and mind.
It was Adela who could never feel with Nellie.

The words which die unspoken on the lips will go
back again into the heart, and be like restless spirits
there. Like a graveyard for ever opening to receive
dead hopes, Nellie's heart was soon filled with these
unspoken words ; for each silent word had been a hope
throbbing with her own young life, though she did not
know it tiU the hope had died and was come back
again into her inmost soul to feel like the restless
spirit of the dead.

George noticed these sudden excitements, like life
in a statue. Once when he was near Nellie in the
boat, she had turned towards him suddenly with such
a bright light darting into her expressive eyes, and
with such a look of coming speech in her whole face,
that he had asked, " What is it, Nellie ? " The question

on her lips had rushed like blushing shame into
her cheeks, and she had turned away her head in such
confusion, that Adelahad asked, "What is the matter ? "
though, it is true, Adela was not enough interested in
her sister to remember afterwards that she got no
answer.

But George did not quickly forget Nellie's curious
emotion, for he had noticed her long fits of dreamy
silence, and, wondering much, had watched her
dream.

George may at first have been as unmindful of
Nellie as Adela undoubtedly was; and perhaps if
Adela had not cared whether George spoke to her
or not, and had been content to let him fish quietly
in silence, and had not been a little huffy with him
if he did not pay her what seemed to him a very great
deal of attention, it is just possible he might have remained
unconscious of Nellie's silent presence to the
last. He was in a humour when he preferred to be
left quietly alone, and the more Adela claimed his
constant attention, the more this humour seemed to
grow upon him ; and soon he began to wish Adela
would sit silently dreaming like Nellie, if only merely
while out boating, for he had to talk to her all the
evening at dinner and in the drawing-room, because
Mrs Newsham showed clearly that she expected
him to do so, and the Admiral would rally him
openly if he were not perpetually talking. He had
not been three days at Eastcourt before his conversational
powers were painfully overtaxed ; it bothered

him not to be allowed to be silent when he had
nothing to say.

As George watched Nellie dreaming, yet never
bored to dream away the hours which seemed long
to him, although he would be fishing, and he liked
to fish, he thought it was only her quiet repose which
made her presence pleasant in the boat, for he never
felt her to be in the way. And indeed, as he soon
told himself, if she had not been there, Adela would
not have given him a moment's perfect rest. Each
day since he had come to Eastcourt, Adela had seemed
less placidly content than the day before. He was
surprised and slightly irritated by the change in her,
for there was a change no doubt.

It was not in George's " hne " to think if a girl
were pretty or not. As we all know, it was long before
he discovered Adela to be good-looking It is true
he knew quite well now she certainly was pretty, and
that people even considered her a real beauty, because
she had her mother's perfectly chiselled features and
transparently white complexion. He was also aware
Mrs Newsham had been, and still was, a beauty,
though he had never felt as if he admired her himself.
He admired Adela a great deal more  " At any
rate," he would say, " Adela does not look through a
fellow like her mother."

George had never heard anybody call Nellie beautiful.
Clara hardly went to the trouble of thinking
her passably good-looking ; for she thought as little
of Nellie's appearance as she did much of Adela's,

and above all of Sylvia's ; so no one at Eastcourt
said Nellie was pretty. Miss Smith thought it, but
did not say it. And that impression of soft loveliness,
like a touching dream a manly fellow does
not talk of when awake, was a secret in Charlie's
heart. He had never said to any one that Nellie was
beautiful.

You see, in some of the old paintings, faces before
which you stand enraptured by you know not what.
Perfect measured beauty may not be there. It is the
soul of the painter you feel  the soul of the artist so
moved by his own work, that the intensity of his rapt
joy still breathes. And so in some living faces it
would seem as if the divine emotion of the Creator
breathed there still. That is the sort of beauty which
you feel and do not merely see ; but all men do not
feel it. It is Venus perfect of feature and form,
pink-checked, rosy-lipped, flaunting her own charms
gaily, whose beauty the whole world can see at first
sight ; and such beauty has this great advantage,  you
see it so clearly, you are forewarned and can flee from
the danger while there is yet time. But where, as in
those old pictures, it is that something, you know not
what, in the expression of a face which moves you
and makes you look and look again, the spell of what
you have never even told yourself is beauty, may
come upon you unawares.

During those honos dreams which Nellie dreamt in
rapt silence on the lake, there would be a very tender
sort of pathos in her young face.

Neither the fairies nor the angels seem to care for
half the poor children born into this world. But every
now and then, I fancy an angel does look down from
heaven and is touched, I think, when a little child is
born into a world of sorrow. That sad gaze foreseeing
the awaiting griefs, and it may be, too, the sins of life,
cast upon the child from heaven at birth, will linger
for years like a soft shadow of tenderness upon its
brow and in the depths of its young eyes. I think
such an angel had looked down at birth upon poor
Nellie.

Chapter XI.

Adela's growing desire for George to be very kind
to her, and her constant anxiety to hear him say
the little things he might have said so often and
hardly said at all, did undoubtedly disturb the regular
method of her mind, and even the practice of her
scales. Clara rejoiced at this good symptom : " George
may not be so very madly in love with Adela, but
that does not in the least matter if Adela really falls
in love with him. George is pre-eminently a young
man to be married."

But Adela's mind was too well-ordered to be entirely
upset by her feelings ; so she still continued
with commendable assiduity to improve her accomplishments,
and to " finish " herself, and be " finished "
by Miss Smith.

Of all Adela's accomplishments, her drawing was
perhaps the one which most wanted this " finishing " ;
and more especially that branch of the art which she
and Miss Smith called " sketching from nature." This
sketching from nature " was an elaborate affair : it
consisted of a white umbrella-tent, stools and easels

of complicated contrivance, paint-boxes of quite a new
pattern, a great variety of paints, pencils, and brushes,
and, above all, plenty of india-rubber and very dry
bread. The rubbing out of the larger half of what
had been slowly drawn in, was always an essential part
of the ceremony. There was a good deal of a certain
kind of art in this sketching, but of nature there was
not much.

Miss Smith and Adela would take up an advantageous
position over a bit of landscape, establish a
sort of headquarters, and seriously, very seriously survey
the scene before them, usually that picturesque
corner of the lake near the wooded island. Miss
Smith would then draw something entirely out of her
own head, and Adela would copy on her lines. If
people did not afterwards quickly recognise the point
of view in the painted picture, they would say the
foreground had got a little mixed, as unfortunately
there was a swan who would not keep still enough
for them to do more than " indicate " his outline. The
sketches were coloured as cooks dress dishes  by
receipt. Miss Smith had received her artistic education
through the penny post. She had corresponded
with a "lady of the highest artistic acquirements,"
who " undertook to impart, in a course of six letters,
a thorough practical knowledge of the art of sketching
easily and successfully from nature in water-colours."
The six letters, bound by Miss Smith in brown holland,
were very useful as a receipt-book of reference, and
always formed part of the sketching paraphernalia.

If it happened to be a very brilliant day, and Miss
Smith and Adela were puzzled how to "mix their
atmosphere," it was certainly convenient to find the
receipt clearly given. " The feeling of atmosphere and
the brilliancy and transparency of sunlight, are easily
imitated by a wash of yellow ochre and light red.
Mix according to the greater or lesser warmth required,
and wash in your atmosphere before commencing
to colour your middle distance. Your horizon,
however, may be suggested from the first."

Adela," said Miss Smith on the first Wednesday
after George's arrival at Eastcourt, " this is our day
for sketching from nature, and last Wednesday afternoon
was wet. It is quite fine to-day, and sufficiently
dry for us to sit out near the end of the lake, and
take a sketch of the island. I am sure, Adela, if you
were to ask Mr George, he would be kind enough to
row us and our umbrella-tent, and our stools, and all
our materials across the lake. And then Sylvia could
come too. There would not be room for her if we
went in the donkey-chair. I feel quite justified in
leaving the other girls with nurse, but nurse has no
influence with Sylvia."

The nurse had just the same opinion of the governess
with respect to Miss Sylvia that the governess
had of her. It would not be natural if a nurse and
governess were on perfectly good terms while living
under the same roof.

This was the first time Miss Sylvia had gone out
in the boat, and having once got into it, there she

wished to stay. The conscientious Miss Smith had
reasons of her own for insisting upon her sketching
from nature instead. Miss Smith was not " finishing "
Sylvia in the art of water-colour painting ; she was
beginning " her, and had she only consulted her own
feeling and not her sense of duty, she would have
let her pupil remain on the lake, for it irritated Miss
Smith and Adela to have Sylvia sketching from nature
beside them. Syhda could draw outside the
tent as easily as inside. She drew quickly, and did
not " mix her atmosphere " or follow any rule but the
instinct of the moment, and yet afterwards people
would often recognise the whereabouts of her Toivjh
rude sketches.

I say, Nellie," exclaimed George, when they all
seemed to be getting out of the boat and leaving
him quite alone  " I say, ISTellie, don't you go too !
for I am dead sick of this perpetual fishing ; it is nota
bit like sea-fishing ! so I have got a sail, and I am
going to rig it up. You will like to have a sail,
Nellie ; I know you will. You were awfully fond of
it at Bluehaven, awfully ! Why, you and Charlie
sailed all day long that time after Uncle Charles went
away,"

Nellie was standing up in the stern of the boat as
if she meant to land. She was following the example
of the others absently, indifferently. But she heard
what George said, and his words moved her strangely.
It is a curious emotion at any time to hear a real,
living voice say aloud, quite fearlessly, the thought or

name you cannot speak yourself. You feel as if the
secret of your mind were suddenly betrayed, seen by
all, known to every one who looks at you.

The shock awakened Nellie to intense self-consciousness,
for she had indeed been dreaming of Charlie and
Bluehaven to the sound of the oars as the boat was
rowed across the lake. This dream had become an
overmastering habit, like the pleasant sleep which falls
upon us when we are sad and weary, and soothes us
so that we fain would never wake again.

Nellie's first awakened instinct was to turn in terror
to see if Adela had heard Charlie's name : had Adela
remarked how much she had sailed and had loved to
sail with Charlie at Bluehaven ? No ! Adela was
paying no attention to her ; she had already landed
with her paint-box and drawing-block, and was quite
occupied in talking from the shore to George. Her
thin little voice was raised querulously, and there was
a tremulous note in it as if she might possibly be
going to cry.

Now really, George, I don't suppose you would
even have thought of offering to carry our tent and
stools up to the little knoll, unless Miss Smith had
asked you. You hardly remember anything, George,
hardly anything ! "

Miss Smith having forced Sylvia to land, was exercising
her authority with some vigour in order to prevent
her from jumping back into the boat again.

But why should not Nellie sketch too ? She is
going to stay in the boat." And then suddenly Sylvia

cried out, with unfeigned astonishment, " But I say,
Nellie, how queer you do look 1 Miss Smith, she does
look queer ! "

With much presence of mind the governess reproved
her pupil for making use of that slang expression
" I say." Miss Smith had heard what George
said to Nellie, and understood the girl's emotion. She
felt for her ; she pitied her. The disappointment of
her own youth had made her kind, not hard. She
had often wished she might give poor Nellie tidings of
Mr Charles," but she considered it would be inconsistent
with her duty to do so. However, she now
thought, " If Nellie is alone with Mr George, she may
hear of Mr Charles, and learn where he is and what
he is doing. It would be cruel to prevent her hearing
what she longs to hear. It would be cruel, for she is
much changed of late. I wonder Mrs Newsham does
not see it. The secret grieving has made poor Nellie
iU ; it does make people ill ! "

Miss Smith resisted her impulse to look at Nellie,
and with her hand tightened on Miss Sylvia's arm,
began walking towards the little knob. She did not
even cast a glance behind, but as she deliberately
walked on, she sighed. Her heart was as soft and
romantic as any young girl's ; unfortunately her 
face was red. Sylvia looked keenly at her,
and stopped short, pulling her up as a jailer would be
pulled up by the prisoner who is handcuffed to him.

"Good gracious, Miss Smith! what on earth are
you sighing about ? You are getting queer too, like

Nellie ! and you do look funny when you sigh ! Oh,
so funny, Miss Smith ! "

And the naughty Sylvia laughed. The excellent Miss
Smith had no sense of the ridiculous herself, so she
got very angry, and was quickly in full command of that
most seriously displeased and most properly shocked
vocabulary of reproof which long practice makes easy
to a " highly accomplished " lady, accustomed for years
to the exclusive tuition of " the daughters of noblemen
and gentlemen in all branches of a refined education
French (acquired in Paris), German, first-rate music,
superior drawing and sketching from nature in watercolours."


Miss Smith went on seriously reproving Sylvia, till
she arrived at the spot where she intended to indicate
her foreground, wash in her middle distance,
mix her atmosphere, give the " right touch " to trees
all of one shape, and colour impossible shrubs as if
they were spinach and eggs.

George pitched the umbrella-tent and arranged the
elaborate headquarters civilly enough, though hastily.
What lots of things you have, Adela ! " said he impatiently
 " such an awful lot ! By Jove, shall we
never get to the end of them ? "

We have nothing," whined Adela, in an afflicted
sort of way ; " nothing  now have we. Miss Smith ? 
nothing that we do not absolutely want. And last
time we only brought the india-rubber, and quite forgot
the dry bread."

Well, I do think, Miss Smith," said Adela tearfully,

when George went back to the boat  " I do
think George might learn to sketch too. It is quite
easy, if you only do exactly what they tell you in
those letters and are a little particular about your
atmosphere, and indicate your foreground clearly, and
don't mix up your middle distance with the pure
cobalt of your horizon. You have certainly to be very
careful about your middle distance, for the middle distance
is the most difficult part, but I am quite sure
George would soon learn if he would only let me teach
him. It was very unkind of him to say ' Bosh ! ' when
I begged him to try. It really was unkind. Miss
Smith." And tears crept down Adela's cheeks.

Don't cry, my dear Adela ! " said Miss Smith,
comforting her kindly ; " I daresay Mr George feels
he has no talent for drawing; and believe me, my dear
child, you must have just a little, little natural genius
for Art if you are to excel in Art ; even mere talent
is hardly enough. There must be just that small
spark of genius. Feature must contribute her mite,
for Art is only the perfecting of nature : it does not
create the instinct. Nature creates the instinct, and
Art has only the high privilege of bringing it to perfection."
Miss Smith smiled pleasantly. " Genius,"
she continued, " is always slightly conscious of its own
existence. Mr George would know quite well if he
had any ! But now, my dear Adela, do let us begin
our sketch. I am so very anxious to render the gossamer
I perceive in the air, and there is a peculiar transparency
in the water at this moment which I should

like to indicate by a few rapidly suggestive touches.
We will begin, Adela, as usual, with that corner of the
island; but remember to leave room enough at the
left-hand side for the indication of a figure. A figure
gives life to landscape, so we will again introduce the
old man we put in our last sketch. We might vary
him this time by a bundle of sticks."

But he was a sort of Italian or bright-coloured
Frenchman," cried the irrepressible Sylvia. " You and
Adela always do put such odd poor people into your
pictures,  regular red and blue foreigners ! "

Miss Sylvia had not a pleasant time of it after this.
She was forced to sit in the tent and " draw properly."
Miss Smith was decidedly cross, and Adela was in a
queer temper. They both scolded Sylvia, and Miss
Smith used india-rubber and very dry bread indignantly
over her impudently rapid sketch. Sylvia was
soon in tears. " You are very, very cross, both of
you ! " she said, " and I do wish I were out sailing
with Nellie and George."

Sailing ? Adela had been so occupied taking elaborate
measurements of her foreground and middle
distance with one eye completely shut, that she had
not seen the sail which George had hoisted. The boat
was now far away on the lake.

Sailing ! " screamed Adela, and she upset her
easel and her drawing-block in the agitation of the
moment. " Oh, George will be drowned ! he will be
drowned ! George will be drowned ! " And Adela
sobbed outright.

Miss Smith was crying too, because Sylvia had
insulted " her, and a governess always cries when
she feels " insulted."

So there were three women in tears sketching from
nature under an umbrella-tent hardly big enough for
their pocket-handkerchiefs ! Had Miss Smith's parti-coloured
peasant passed by just then, I think he would
have been surprised at the sight. Not that there was
much chance of that brilliant bit of foreground walking
about anywhere, for his were not the legs of an
ordinary man.

A curious shyness had overwhelmed Nellie. It is
strange how the opportunity we have longed for will
make us shy when at last it is within our grasp. Like
a spirit risen at our ardent wish, it can scare us face
to face. It has come. We see it there before us !
Yet we may lose it in our fright.

Nellie had longed to find herself alone with George
so that she might ask for Charlie, and she had
thought it would be very easy to ask quite naturally
where he was, what he was doing, and if he had been
in London, and had gone up for the same examination
as George. She had heard George say he himself
would know in six weeks' time if he had passed ; and
if Charlie had been in for the same examination, his
name would appear in the same list, and could be
seen in all the newspapers. She would look and see
it there. And then if Charlie meant to come, he
would come. The torture of uncertainty would then
be at an end, and she would know quite surely then

VOL. 11. G

if he loved or hated and despised her. Yes, she
would know that he despised her ! Poor Nellie still
told herself that hope was, as at first, quite dead in
her young heart ; but it was not. The dream which
had so often stolen over her of late, with the pleasant
sounds and lights and shades, and soothing breezes
upon the lake, had been all of those happy days she
and Charlie had passed together on the water at Blue-haven.
But once, and only once, had the nightmare
of the cold parting at Bluehaven chilled her soul.
The long silent dream which George had watched her
dreaming day by day was not of parting, but of meeting
tenderly again  so tenderly, that tears would fill her
eyes. The week she and Charlie had spent together at
Bluehaven seemed her lifetime, and there was so much
to remember in it and to think about ; it was a thought
she never tired of. If Nellie lives to be old, quite
old, that memory will still seem to her a lifetime.

There are men and women who, having spent long
years upon this earth, turn at the last and look back
over the long weariness. In all the dim dissatisfaction
of the past perhaps there is one year  but a year
is long for joy  perhaps there is one month, one week
it may be, or only one short hour, in which they feel
that they have lived. Decay, the reigning sovereign
of this world who reigns so tragically over men, can
cruelly kill all else, but not that one, one memory.
When the old man's mind is wandering, he still will
remember the hour when he once tasted the joy there
is for some in life, and, forgetting long years, will

speak of that short hour, and of it alone. And the
poor old woman, despised in her dotage, will repeat
aloud again and yet again the words which thrilled
her some . . . ah, yes, some sixty years ago ! And
there will be laughter at her madness. I think there
should be tears, for that hour alone remains to her
unbarred of her whole life.

George had waited to hoist the sail until the boat
was safely hidden behind the wooded island. " Adelaide
sure to make an awful fuss about this sail," he had
said, " if we are near enough for her to interfere ; but
we shall be well under way before she can catch
sight of us from that tent."

Wlien George had put up the sail, he came to sit
by Nellie in the stern, as he was going to steer.
George was not particularly knowing about boats, and
for this reason, perhaps, was always much pleased withall
his own nautical arrangements. However, it happened
to be an exceptionally safe day for sailing on
the lake ; there was a gentle, steady breeze which did
not come, as it often did, in gusts over the water.

Awfully jolly ! " exclaimed George, " awfully jolly !
I had got dead sick of fishing, though for the life of
me I can't tell why. But this is jolly ! Reminds me
awfully of Bluehaven. I say, Nellie, that was a jolly
sail we had that last day at Bluehaven ! I remember
it awfully well  only you and I in the gig . . . and
Charlie Crofton," he added, as if he had forgotten him
at first.

Nellie's head was turned away. She was looking

down into the water. She trembled a little at Charlie's
name ; the moment she had longed for was come, but
the feeling it had come unnerved her. She raised her
head ; no ! it was easier to ask the question gazing
down into the lake. She took heart, and the words
were on her lips  but it was too late ! George was
speaking again ; she would have to interrupt him.
The question which might have been so easy a short
second ago now seemed to her very difficult, although
George was still talking of Bluehaven. He was saying
 " I wished awfully I had gone out sailing with
you before, because T had got considerably bored riding
these carriage-horses. You see I was afraid to
jump them, for Harper kept a pretty close eye upon
me, and I was sure he would tell Mrs Xewsham, and
I did not want to have a row with her just then, and
did not want to have her writing to ask me why I had
been riding the carriage-horses." And George talked
on ; he always could talk easily to leslie, and somehow
never felt as if she were connected with Mrs
Newsham. He never quite forgot Adela was Mrs
ISTewsham's daughter, but he was always in danger
of forgetting it too much with Nellie.

However, Nellie was only just aware he was talking
about himself and not about Charlie, for she was
trying hard to get her whole courage back again into
her heart, so that at the first pause she might ask
quite naturally for Charlie. She was settling in her
own mind what she would say, and she had repeated
to herself two or three times the very natural, simple

words  " Cliarlie went in for the examination with
you, George  did not he ? " She began to feel it was
really very easy to say them, and that she might ask
the question if George were not speaking of Charlie,
but of something quite different. Nellie was no longer
dreaming  she was anxiously awake.

George stopped talking. Now was her time ; but
again the words died on her lips. The feeling that
she could not speak made her very nervous ; yet the
longing to ask the question grew more and more intense.
She passionately longed to ask it ; she would

ask it  "' Charlie " Down came the sail with a

run, and she was silenced.

George had some difficulty in hoisting that sail
acjain, and no sooner had he hoisted it to his satisfaction
than he had to lower it and go on another
tack : it went flapping all the wrong way, and George's
attention was quite taken up. They had run very
easily before the breeze, but the tacking back was a
more difficult matter. For some time Nellie was perpetually
changing her seat from starboard to port and
port to starboard. " I say, ISTellie, starboard if you
please  starboard ; '"' or, " I say, Nellie, port ! port ! "
George had perhaps a greater natural aptitude for
nautical expressions than for nautical ways, though it
is true he sometimes said starboard when he meant
port. Such little mistakes, trivial as they were, complicated
the navigation, and kept Nellie unceasingly
on the move.

At last George did manage to get the boat on a

longish tack. " We did that in grand style," he said,
" grand ! But I say, Nellie, we are getting awfully
near Adela  awfully ! She will be in no end of a
huff if we do not haul down our sail and land.
Nellie," asked the young fellow confidentially, " what
has come over Adela of late ? She is awfully changed
awfully ! " Nellie's astonishment was indeed great.

Changed, George  changed ? I don't think Adelaide
changed at all. What a funny idea ! Adela is
exactly the same as she always was  exactly ! " The
whole world may change while we are dreaming, and
we may never know it.

But I say ! " cried George, hotly, " if they are not
all three down by the lake-side watching us  all three
of them ! And there's Adela waving her handkerchief
like mad. I wish I had not seen her," he said in
disgust. " She will be asking me if I saw her, and I
can't say no ; so we must go in now. No help for
it, or I shall have a scene with her. Awfully unpleasant
! She will begin crying at dinner or in the
drawing-room to-night before Mrs Newsham, and there
will be no end of a fuss !  and Uncle Charles will be
down upon me too  makes a fellow awfully uncomfortable
having a whole set of people watching him !
But I will sail again tomorrow," he added, doggedly,
whether Adela disapproves or not ; Adela can stay on
shore. Awfully hard lines on a fellow if he is never
to do anything he likes once he is engaged to a girl.
Hang me if I'll stand such tyranny ! And I will just
tell Adela so."

But Nellie did not realise what George was saying ;
she only knew they were making quickly for shore,
and that the minutes left her now were flying past
with terrifying haste. There is a courage in great
fear. She looked straight before her ; George was by
her side : then desperately, in a voice that was cold
for her, as if suddenly she had turned hard of nature,
she said slowly, without apparent emotion  " Charlie
went in for the same examination as you, George ? "

George did not answer immediately,  at least it
seemed a long time to Nellie before he spoke.

Beg pardon ! what . . . what's that you said,
Nellie ? I was thinking of Adela."

In the old beheading days, if the first blow failed,
how much longer to come, how much more terrible
the second must have seemed. It was the first failure
and the second trial of her faint heart which unnerved
poor Nellie. Her coldness melted quite away. She
felt her face and very neck and hands blushing painfully.
She quickly turned her head aside, and could
not speak again in her first confusion. And there
was George, thinking she was annoyed with him, and
profusely apologising ! And it was not his way to
apologise at all.

I am awfully sorry I was not listening, Nellie 
awfully ! Do say it again."

Oh, it was nothing  nothing," said she, foolishly.

"But it was something  I can see it was  and
something very particular."

No, no, no ! " cried Nellie, from sheer fright ; then

felt how very untruthful she was. " Yes, I did . . .
that is to say . . . No, George, it really was nothing
so very . it . it was only "  her voice nearly
melted away  " only . . . did . . . Charlie."

Did whom ? I could not hear the name. Now
don't be angry with me, Nellie ! I know I'm rather
an awkward sort of fellow, rather slow about hearing
nice sort of voices ; rather rough," he said meekly, as
if very sorry, " and . . . and all that sort of thing."

I asked . . ." murmured Nellie, " for Charles . . ."

What Charles ? " asked George.

Oh, only . . . only Charlie Crofton," said Nellie,
as carelessly as she could. " Did . . . did Charlie go
in for the same examination as you, George ? "

By Jove ! " cried George, " did you never hear
Charlie was plucked in the Prelim. ? You must
have heard it, Nellie, but you have forgotten. Adela
must have told you. I remember perfectly telling
Adela all about it ; and I recollect it so awfully well
because she and I had a sort of row, for Adela didn't
seem to care one straw, and said Charlie was not in
the least clever ; and he is awfully clever, and only got
plucked by a mere fluke. He had not looked up his
arithmetic ! It was an awful shame of Adela to say
that, and not a bit true."

The shock of disappointment had nearly been too
much for Nellie ; but anger came to her rescue. In
strong emotion there is no better friend than anger ;
it can drive back the mastering tears, and speak when
sorrow would be silent,

It was a shame of Adela ! " cried Nellie passionately,
with flashing eyes. " It was hard  it was cruel
of her ! it was very cruel, when it must have been
such humiliation and such pain, such pain to Charlie
to have failed ! "

George looked at Nellie. There are faces in which
emotion kindles all latent beauty, making us feel, too,
how real that beauty is  how human, like ourselves ;
no cold abstraction, beyond our close and ardent sympathy,
as perfection in another wil often seem ; buta
power within us, like the best part of our own soul
transfigured  a power moving us, it may be, overmuch.


You are not hard, Nellie ! you are not cold ! "
cried George, and there was passion in his voice, as
there was passion in the suddenly awakened beauty of
the young girl beside him. " You would not be down
upon a fellow cruelly if he failed. You would not be
hard upon a man if people despised him. Even if he
had done wrong, and they were ashamed of him and cut
him, you would be kind, Nellie. I know you would.
A fellow might go to you ; you would be kind."

Nellie was so moved herself that she did not notice
the unwonted, the very strange emotion there was in
George's voice and words, for George was not emotional
by nature  far from it. Nellie had only one
thought. " He is not despised," she said, turning
almost fiercely upon George. " He has not done
wrong. No one has a right to cut him. How dare
they be ashamed of him ! how dare they ! " She

started backwards, and asked very quickly, " Yoio have
not cut him, George ? "

This brought the astounded George to his senses ;
common-sense never left him for long, and he saw to
what a height of exaggeration they had both risen.
This struck him as curious, but not at all as funny,
which, indeed, it might have done. He said, with a
kind of serious surprise, " I don't quite know how we
have both managed it, Nellie, but we have exaggerated
awfully  awfully  the importance of being plucked
in the Prelim. I'd lay ten to one Charlie does not
care a fig about it. I'm awfully sure he doesn't."

Nellie got very white. She looked full into
George's face with a slow, wistful gaze, and said
hoarsely, " Charlie does not care ? "

George was confused by her full glance. It
troubled him. He looked down, and not much thinking
of his words, answered, " No ; why should he ?
He'll just brush up his arithmetic, and go in for the
next Prelim., and come out no end of a swell in the
final, most likely about this time next year." George
forgot Charlie was only a month younger than himself.
Keep him back a year, that's all. But Charlie won't
care ! not he ! "

A year ? " said Nellie, staring right before her with
wide-open eyes, as if despair had risen up there in
front of her, and she gazed hopelessly on that cold,
cold horror, terrible as death.

But George had not heard her speak, for he had
suddenly realised, not a minute too soon, that they

were just inshore, and jumping up, had barely time
to lower the sail. The boat was stranded almost at
full speed, and its timbers creaked and shivered from
the shock.

George, George ! you will spring a leak if you
drive her ashore like that ; and the sail is so dreadfully
dangerous ! I have been in such a dreadful,
dreadful fright ! Oh, George, George, I did think you
would be drowned ! " And there was Adela meeting
George in tears, as if she had never expected to see
him again drowned on earth.

Happily Miss Smith and Sylvia had dried their eyes
by this time. They were not yet on speaking terms,
but they had got past the tearful stage of " insult," so
George was spared the curious sight of aU three of
them crying together.

I am sorry to say Adela's tears did not move
George as they ought to have done. They irritated
him, and made him none the less but the more obstinately
determined he would sail if he liked it, and
would sail tomorrow, and would leave Adela at home
if she wished to make a fool of herself. I pity poor
Adela ; for I think George was hard to her, and she
longed for a little kindness from him. Yet she found
no disillusion in his want of tenderness. Since the
day he had breathed the pretty secret into her ear,
she had believed in his true love with all her heart.
The longing she would feel for him to be very kind to
her was not akin to doubt. Strange to say, the less
kind he was, the more did she seem really to be falling

in love. There is a love which does not feed on
placid satisfaction, but on the want of it.

Adela had again repeated with tears, " I did, did
think you would be drowned, George ! Oh, I did
think you would be drowned ! "

I wish you would not be such a fool, Adela," was
all George said. Still the only effect his crossness
had upon her, was to make her dry her eyes more
quickly than she would otherwise have done, for in
order to cry properly she required the tender encouragement
of sympathy.

As a boy, George had been easy to lead if you had
the knack of leading him, and hard to drive, for he
was apt to be sulky when you tried to drive him.
Even now he was not quite enough of a man to have
outgrown all his boyish ways. He lowered the mast
in a bad temper. " I would not put it down," he
said quite unnecessarily to Adela, " only there would
not be room for the three of you with that cart-load of
sketching things, if I kept the sail up. But I am
going to sail ag-ain tomorrow, for I will sail if I like."

Miss Smith was puzzled because Nellie betrayed no
agitation, but looked calmly cold, and was quite silent.
There was a time when silence would have appeared
strange in Nellie, but for long now it had become her
second nature.

When the boat had been suddenly driven ashore,
Nellie had been thrown forward ; but George, being
taken up with the sail, had not seen this. She was
not hurt, and did not seem to care enough about the

matter even to express surprise. The momentary
astonishment was of no enduring interest to her.

Sylvia looked hard at Nellie while they were crossing
the lake ; and looked aiain, and aain, and acain,
as if there was some fascination in the pale, set face,
from which she could not keep her young eyes away.
Nellie generally felt painfully uncomfortable under
Sylvia's penetrating gaze, but she now seemed unconscious
of it. Luckily for Nellie, Sylvia was still on
such " strained " terms with Miss Smith and Adela,
that she did not dare to make a remark to either of
them. Adela never so much as looked at Nellie.

Neither did George, but he knew he did not look
at her. The fascination which Sylvia felt, he felt too.
From the moment passionate emotion had transfigured
Nellie's pathetic face, so that it had seemed beautiful
to George, he had feared to look much at her ; yet did
not clearly know he feared it, for instinct may not
know itself.

Nellie's cold self-command will appear strange to
many, because it was her nature to give way and to be
weak. But weak women, poor nervous cowards as
they have seemed, have at times astonished the world
by even dying well. The awful history of the guillotine
has curious tales upon its pages of that sort of
courage which I might call the cold stillness of
despair. It is not a kind of courage which can last
long, and it was well for many who had to die that
the shock of sentence was followed in a few short
hours by death, for the reaction of that cold stillness

can unnerve the strong and quite break down the
weak.

When Nellie saw despair stand right before her like
a very real and sickening kind of death, the sudden
horror of the sight stilled the quick life in her and
made her cold. I can fancy frozen courage, icy intensity
of stillness in the presence of death, just till
the moment when the pulled rope or glancing steel
would thrill into one agony the life so terribly strong
and real within us to the last.

It was fortunate for Nellie she was not forced to
speak, and could sit coldly still. Speech forced upon
our silence can be a very rough awakener, a keen
reality, like the knife upon our flesh.

The instant the boat touched shore. Miss Smith
made Sylvia land. " I will send one of the servants
for all the sketching things, Mr George," said the
governess, and marched Miss Sylvia off to the house
in a way which made that young lady vow vengeance.

Nellie had stood up mechanically when the others
where standing up and getting out of the boat ; but she
had remained in one place, not seeming to realise all
were on shore except herself.

"Nellie !" said George very gently, holding out one
hand to her, while, bending down, he steadied the boat
with the other, and he looked up at Nellie. There
are faces in which the fixed stillness of enduring
pallor is a great surprise. George was startled by
the absence of the warmly tinted, changing life, the
passion-inspired beauty which had moved his soul.

and he gazed astonished, forgetting one short moment
that he was not alone with Nellie, as he had been
that afternoon.

Adela's high voice speaking very sharply made him
start, and Nellie started too.

Why don't you land, Nellie, instead of keeping us
all waiting ? I declare you are staring like a madwoman,
and you look just as absent as papa; but,"
added Adela, her voice rising still higher with growing
annoyance  " but you are not absent at all, Nellie,
only silly ! and you get sillier every day. Why don't
you land, instead of keeping George dangling after you
in that ridiculous way ? Why don't you land ? "

I . I forgot ! " said Nellie, speaking slowly,
with painful effort, as if the strain of returning to a
sort of consciousness were great. The consciousness
did not seem very clear at first, for she did not instantly
move, and her cheeks and lips were still cold
and white. There certainly was some of that absent
glitter in her wide-open eyes, which Thomas's children
knew so well, and Adela had been quite right in saying
Nellie looked absent " like papa."

But Nellie's feeble " I . I forgot ! " was lost in
the loud anger of George's voice. George was standing
upright. He had turned and was facing Adela.
You are horribly cross, Adela ! " he cried,  " horribly
cross and disagreeable ! You can go on home ; nobody
wants you to wait." And then turning back
again, he said with a sudden softening of the hard
voice  and it had been very hard, it had been cruel

" Come, Nellie ; but take care  take care, or you
may fall!"

I have seen a sleeper in deepest dream turn at the
sound of soft music, as if it moved him more to waking
thought than the rougher noises which had gone before.
A sudden lull can awake us, like coming into the
calm water from the rough. The change in George's
voice was very sudden. A pink blush, like the first
dawn of a warm emotion returning to life, came over
Nellie's pale cheek and tinged her parting lips ; but a
dream was still in her large eyes as they met George's
strong gaze, or perhaps they would have quailed beneath
it, seeing it was strange and quickly turned aside.

Adela was silent. George was silent. And Nellie,
even yet but half awakened, slowly, without waiting
for any one, not knowing, it may be, that she went
alone, walked on.

The silence between George and Adela was first
broken by the young man. He was twisting a rope
round the sail, and had his back turned to Adela. He
did not speak unkindly, only rather hoarsely, as one is
apt to do when one feels a little awkward. It is always
somewhat difficult to speak quite naturally towards
a person to whom you have just spoken in anger.

Your father must have arrived by this time," said
George. " He was expected at five, and it is quite
late now ; but he will have gone by the other avenue,
as it is the shorter way from the station. So run on
and see him." A strong desire to be alone had
taken possession of him. " Adela, run on  now do

run on," lie pleaded, not ungently, but he did not look
at her. " Do run on ; I'll follow in two minutes."

Tact was an instinct Adela had not, even at the best
of times. Tact will keep you out of quarrels and stay
a growing breach better than all the charity of religion.
But it was only natural Adela should feel very sore just
then, and so have less perception than usual, if that
were possible, of anybody's state of mind but her own.
The habitually stolid and placid people, when by chance
they do feel, will often prove less docile than the more
impressionable, passionate ones. To feel at all is a
great surprise to them, and the puzzle of surprise can
be harder to contain than anger. Then, too, those
downright, stolid natures are always obstinate.

No ! I won't go on. I expect you to walk home
with me, George. I will wait," said Adela, in her
clearest, most determined, highest-pitched voice. There
was apparently no emotion in it, but a sound that recalled
a certain ringing tone George had heard once
or twice in Clara's,  for Clara has two voices, and the
one is quite distinct from the other. It was not well
for Adela that her voice should at that moment recall
one of Clara's to George's ear.

How you do tyrannise over a fellow ! You can
never let a fellow do what he likes ! But I won't
stand it any longer, I won't ! You may stay here till
tomorrow if you wish, for I will go home by myself 1"
And before poor Adela could recover from the stun of
a great astonishment, George had reached the old-fashioned
red-brick house.

VOL. II. D

CHAPTEK XII.

Anything that is in the least clear will surprise you
in a very absent man, and people were apt to forget
that after all Thomas was a human being, and so might
naturally have little bits of clear human feeling peeping
out through him every now and then, as the clear
sky looks through the clouds ; for fog or no fog, the
blue sky is always somewhere, if only you could see
it ! Thomas's good, kind heart was always somewhere
too, and very often you could find it, for even when
his mind would be off on a long journey, he had a way
of leaving his heart at home, though, like everything
else belonging to him, it was wrapped up in a sort of
whitey-brown paper, and so you could only see odd
corners of it peeping out; but it was a real human
heart all the same, though naturally puzzling to most
people, like the rest of Thomas,  for the whole of
Thomas was a puzzle to a clear-sighted mind, the
outside of him as well as the inside ! The very glitter
of his absent eyes nonplussed you, for what were his
eyes looking at ? Whatever were they looking at ?
Indeed I myself would say a great deal more about

Thomas, and explain him a little clearly, only he
puzzles me too. I cannot imagine how he ever was
made, or being made, how he kept together, for the
bits of him were rarely in one place at a time. No,
no, no ! now really they were not ! They had a way
of taking the pledge, each one off in its own cathedral,
right in the midst of its own big diocese, while just
one odd bit of him perhaps stayed at home.

When you had not seen Thomas for some little time,
he was sure to be rather a surprise, and you would
either think him more absent than ever, or else would
be astonished he had brought a clear bit of himself
back home.

Could Clara have written to him while he was away,
telling him he need not trouble his mind in the least
about George and Adela,  that everything was settling
itself quite comfortably, and that Adela was still but a
child. I cannot say if she had written such a letter
or not. Johnson would know.

At any rate, when Mr Xewsham returned to East-court
he did not show the slightest surprise on finding
George there ; but that may only have been because
he did not very clearly realise just at first who George
actually was. On shaking hands with him, he said
most benignly  and the excellent Thomas was a very
benign man  " Good boy ! good boy ! glad to see you !"
and soon after addressed him as " Charlie." Yet it
did not at all follow that if Mr Newsham called you
by the wrong name, he took you for the wrong person.
When much engrossed with his drunkards, he constantly

called people and places by the wrong name.
Clara never felt as if this much mattered, and the
children would have been scolded by her, very properly
no doubt, for setting their father right : not that they
ever showed the slightest inclination to do so, as it
always seemed so very, very natural to them that
papa should be up in the moon.

Had the Admiral been present when Mr Newsham
said " Charlie," he would certainly have corrected this
slip of the tongue ; but the Admiral was dressing for
dinner at the time.

Johnson had dressed Mr Newsham immediately on
his arrival, before Thomas could begin to talk on the
temperance question to Mrs Newsham. Johnson disliked
having to dress his master in a hurry, and so
had a way of dressing him when he most conveniently
could; and you would sometimes see Thomas going
about in a white tie and evening clothes an hour
before the first gong rang ; but as to Thomas himself,
he never clearly knew if he were dressed for dinner
or not, and if by accident he heard the gong, he had
to look in a mirror to see.

Clara encouraged dear Thomas quite prettily to tell
her all about the great temperance speech he had
been making. Thomas could talk with a facility that
was surprising, when you think what his conversation
generally was, on the subject which, for the time
being, engrossed his memory and his mind. Nothing
fixes a matter so clearly on the vagueness of a mind
as having had to make a great effort to grasp it. The

effort of composition was a tremendous one to Thomas
tremendous ! for it meant the clear understanding
of his subject. Thomas certainly had a mind somewhere,
and when he did exert it, he was no fool. Had
he always exerted it, I actually think he might have
been almost clever ; for what bored you in his speeches
was not so much the matter as his deplorably bad,
nervous manner. I have known other M.p's with
as bad a style of delivery, it is true, but I have never
known one with a worse.

Clara was at first much pleased with Thomas, for
she saw he was exactly in the state of mind which
best suited her plans. She had heard him call George
Charlie," and quite approved of the little mistake,
for Thomas's absence of mind seldom ruffled his wife's
excellent temper : he more often provoked her by
unexpectedly remembering than by quite forgetting.
And this is exactly what he took into his head todo
now.

When all were assembled in the drawing-room
awaiting dinner, Mr Newsham suddenly looked round
with eyes which almost seemed to see. An absent
man collecting his far-off senses will appear astonished
at making any sort of discovery. "Nellie ? " said Thomas,
turning to Clara with a look of surprise. " Where . . .
where is Nellie ? I . no, no, no ! I have not
seen Nellie  not Nellie."

Eleanour does not dine down. You know that
very well, Thomas," said Clara shortly, in that silencing
voice of hers which invariably repressed Thomas,

and could repress everybody, except, indeed, that irrepressible
Admiral ! So there was the Admiral
instantly to the fore. " And, my dear Mrs New-sham,"
he exclaimed, " why not break through a cruel
hard - and - fast rule ? We hardly see anything of
Nellie. I am just like you, ISTewsham, I miss the
child's pretty face. And I am quite sure nobody
misses it as much as you do, Mrs Newsham ! But
you are too good a mother, and not sufficiently indulgent
to your own tender feelings." How the Admiral
did believe in the infinite tenderness of Clara ! She
wished him to go on believing in that sweetly-pretty
ideal of herself, so she restrained the annoyance she
undoubtedly felt, and smiled one of what I might call
her downcast smiles, which the Admiral took for the
sweetest consent. The gallant sailor was off in a
moment, before she could raise her eyes again and see
he was sone. Clara had that Madonna's smile where
the full eyelids droop, as if the aureole around her
head were casting too dazzling a light for her opened
eyes to bear.

The Admiral went up-stairs like a boy. What a
light step those old sailors have ! He knew his way
to the schoolroom, for he had often and often been
there during his last visit to Eastcourt, though not
once this time, because Clara had watched him too
well.

Admiral Crofton had that kind of fatherly, or rather
I should call it grandfather, heart, which would have
liked all the children to be always dining down, so

that it might have had the deep satisfaction of constantly
giving them no end of cream and jam tart.

'mien the Admiral, looking with his curiously
white hair just like an ideal old gentleman out of a
picture, appeared in the schoolroom, he courteously
bowed to Miss Smith and the youthful company, and
then invited Nellie to dinner, quite as if he were
asking a princess to a banquet. Nellie was still so
benumbed in mind and feeling that she did not
quickly answer him ; so Sylvia, ever on the alert,
jumped forward, crying out, " I am dressed and Nellie
is not. Nellie ought to have dressed before tea, but
she forgot. So take me. Admiral ; I do so love dining
down ! "

Miss Smith ejaculated an awful " Sylvia I ! " which
her pupil appeared not to hear. They were still on
strained " terms ; but a serious tiff with the governess,
instead of depressing, sometimes enlivened Miss Syhaa,
and she had that feeling, so natural to most of us, that
it is as well to be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. I
myself think it is actually better, as little delinquencies
are so teasingly small.

The Admiral certainly did look as if he would like
very much indeed to take Sylvia away too, and all the
children  yes, all ! He said in quite a grieved voice,
Ah ! my dears, my dears ! I should like to invite you
all. It would be so much pleasant if all of you
always dined down. I  I wonder . . . "  a bright expression
lighted up his ingenuous face  " but I wonder
now if you might all come ? Just for once ! " And

he looked at Miss Smith ; but the proposal was so
astounding, so out of all rule and regulation, that the
estimable woman was struck dumb by it, while the
three little girls exclaimed in one awed breath, " What
would mamma say ? " Sylvia alone rose to the magnificent
audacity of the occasion : " Mamma would let
me dine," cried she ; " I know she would ! and I have
put on my best blue sash, and all in honour of you.
Admiral, all in honour of you ; because mamma said I
might go down-stairs after dinner on purpose to see
you, you dear, kind thing ! Look at me, look at me,
Admiral ! See how nicely I am dressed ! "

The rather precociously coquettish Miss Sylvia was
lovely, and she knew it. Her brilliant brown eyes
danced in her head, for she had not blue or grey eyes
like Clara's other children, but magnificent brown ones,
and the richest brown hair, and the most brilliant
complexion ; and she liked the look of herself all the
more because she was different from her sisters : she
felt this to be a great distinction. Had she been
twenty-five instead of barely fifteen, she could not
have understood the Admiral's nature better : she
knew by instinct that a lovely young creature would
appear to him as fascinating as the lovely young
creature really was.

The Admiral did look at Sylvia, and he did think
her very, very charming indeed, and Miss Sylvia saw
his little thoughts. " Ah, you dear, dear Admiral,
you dear sweet angel ! you will invite me whether
the others may come down or not," she pleaded, not

in the least heeding an appalled groan from Miss
Smith. And Sylvia took the Admiral's arm  I might
say she took his heart  and clasped her two hands
round it. " And I am quite grown up," she said ; " if
only they would believe it ! and," she added, smiling
in the most bewitching way, " . and . I am
very charming too ! "

Sylvia, oh ! . . . Sylvia 1 " gasped Miss Smith,
too faint to rise.

Sylvia held the Admiral's arm just one little bit
tighter when Miss Smith spoke, but went on as
eagerly as before  " Come, come. Admiral, we are
beautifully matched, for I like tall people, as I am
tall myself, and I'll go in to dinner with you. So
come, come! We'll run downstairs together, and
then we'll dance  yes ! we'll dance into the drawing-room
and surprise them all, just as if we were dancing
a minuet ! and we'll look quite, quite lovely ! for you
are exactly the dear old gentleman for a minuet, and
you don't want any powder, as you have such very
white hair."

Miss Sylvia disengaged her hands, and danced a
few steps very charmingly. And . . . and the Admiral !
. . the Admiral was dancing too ! And a very pretty
sort of little minuet, if not quite a real one, they
danced between them ! I do think the Admiral's face
and figure were in their own way just as charming as
the young girl's, for there was a kind of fascination, a
courteous old-world grace about him, which was very,
very pleasant to see.

Library

uNivERsnnf OF wlihiob

The children clapped their hands ; and as to Miss
Smith ! why, she felt, when the Admiral danced like a
boy of sixteen, as if her pupils and the whole world
had got for ever and for ever beyond her wise control.

Sylvia having performed the prettiest little figure
you could well see anywhere, quickly, with a kind
of rapid Sir Eager de Coverley step, danced the Admiral
out of the room. But he called back, " Nellie !
Nellie ! "  for he did not easily forget Nellie. She
might have been his own daughter, so tender was his
feeling for "the pretty child," as he would call her.
Those whom Nellie's soft beauty touched, would be
moved by it as by a sort of sympathetic kindness.
There is a kindness which makes others kind, as there
is a pathos which can move.

There was a pathetic look in Nellie's still pale face
that touched Miss Smith, and fluttered the romance
which nestled in that good woman's inmost soul, as a
pretty wounded bird might nestle in some dull ugly
cage. " She has heard bad news of Mr Charles,"
thought Miss Smith, " or else has heard no news at
all, and that is worse, I think. Dear child ! dear
chid ! "

Nellie rose when the Admiral called. Miss Smith
got uD also, and took her hand, as if to lead her
gently, but said  " Dear child, you are not dressed for
dinner, so perhaps you need not go."

Ah," said Nellie, slowly and sleepily as it were.
No ! I . . . I am not dressed." And she stood still.
But ." speaking as if more awake  " mamma ? . . .

she . . . she may come to see why I do not go  she
may come." This thought seemed to bring her to a
clearer sort of life, and she followed the Admiral and
Sylvia quite quickly, in frightened haste.

Clara was pleased to see it was Sylvia, and not
Eleanour, who came dancing into the drawing-room
with the Admiral. Sylvia was her favourite daughter,
as Eockhurst was her favourite son. It had given
something very like a stab to her maternal heart to
hear Thomas, who never asked for any .one, ask for
Nellie,  a stab of jealousy. I do not think a woman
ever grows so cold as to be quite, quite indifferent to
her own child. Cold as Clara was, her coldness had
not come to that, and in the place within her heart
where there should have been a mother's love for
Nellie, there was jealousy.

Clara was not a bit shocked to see the Admiral
come dancing into the room in such a very youthful,
frolicsome way. On the contrary, she was delighted,
for he looked so innocent, as if you might do anything
you liked with him. So she smiled very
pleasantly.

As. to Adela, she was still out of temper, and not at
all in the mood to be amused ; besides, at no time
would Adela have been amused or pleased to see the
Admiral dance into the room so merrily. When people
had white hair, they were old, and such antics were
quite silly," and she only liked what was " quite
sensible,"  as sensible as she always felt herself
to be.

When Sylvia danced in with the Admiral, and
George saw she really, really was Sylvia and not
Nellie, his whole face changed, and he looked as if he
would never care to laugh again ; but Adela was
thinking too much of her own ill-humour to observe
the lighter and darker shades of his.

Why, you are not a bit amused, " all of you ! Nota
bit ! " cried Miss Sylvia, stopping short in her dance,
and speaking angrily. " No one even smiles but
mamma ! And there's papa ! He is not even looking.
Papa, papa ! why don't you look at us ? Why
don't you look at us ? " Sylvia always took a malicious
little pleasure in startling the whole of Thomas
together, and in showing publicly what a very absent
sort of father he was.

It must be confessed Thomas had got a little absent
again, and the small bits of him came slowly
together, but very benignantly, like friendly wanderers
out of a mist, glad to come home. The straying
bits of Thomas were always glad to meet again,
and met kindly  you could see how kindly by the
pleased soft look which would creep over Thomas's
guileless and really handsome face. His hair was
now grey enough to make his dark eyebrows and dark
eyelashes a sort of marked presence round his far-off
eyes  like something real calling your attention to a
spirit which you should clearly see, yet often found
had fled.

Yes, yes, yes ! " said the whole of Thomas, coming
home at last with a gentle sigh, and his large eyes

really seemed to see. " Sylvia ? Yes, yes ! I . . .
did see you, my child. But . . . but Nellie ? Won't
Nellie come ? " Then suddenly turning round to Clara
in a way which startled her and everybody, for it was
startling to see Thomas quite awake  " Is Nellie ill?"
he asked; and there was fear like real life in his
eyes.

How ridiculous you are, Thomas ! " said Clara
very sharply, in that tone which ever came like a
great surprise upon your ear. It surprised the Admiral,
and stopped him short just as he was beginning
to speak.

At that moment Nellie entered the room. Thomas
saw her, and his face changed from fear to joy, and
he went with clear, rapid gladness to meet her. He
did not forget and stop half-way, but recollected till
he came up to her and kissed her. It was a kind,
long kiss ; and he quite remembered he had not seen
her before. " Nellie ! " he said, stroking her pretty
curling hair : " I knew I had not seen Nellie." And
he turned her face towards him, as if he would look,
now he was awake, into her sweet eyes. But it was a
sorely troubled face he saw ; for his kind voice, remembering
so wonderfully, and his kiss, and the tender
touch of his hand, had moved poor Nellie to the
very heart.

There is a state in which kindness, even a little
kindness, is more to be dreaded than much cold cruelty,
which only chills, and so keeps you calm and cold,
and does not bring back life within you quite suddenly

in all its terrible intensity of warmth and feeling
 for that intensity is terrible, and the sudden pain
of it is great.

Nellie sobbed as if her heart would break. Her
tears were a tribulation overwhelming in strange puzzle
to her father, and a soft concern very moving to the
kind Admiral. But Clara pushed both gentlemen
aside, and said imperiously 

You shall not spoil Eleanour. I know perfectly
well why she is crying : she is ashamed of herself.
She has not changed her morning frock, although it is
my particular order that she is always to dress before
the schoolroom tea; but Eleanour is the only disobedient
child I have. Leave the room this moment,
Eleanour ; and don't dare to come down again."

Nellie did not stay to be told this twice over, but
went quickly, very quickly, as if her life depended on
getting far away from the cold terror of her mother's
presence.

How silly Nellie is ! " said Adela to George  " so
silly ! Always crying about silly things ! And such
a figure ! Quite a tumbled fright ! "

Fright ? " repeated George. He was standing very
still. He did not speak in a loud voice, but he spoke
*8o fiercely that Adela felt afraid. " Fright ? By God,
she's beautiful ! It's no matter what she wears." The
words had hardly escaped his lips when he was startled
by them. And, recovering his self-possession, he added
quickly, " You are all beautiful all, all of you ! It is
no matter what you wear."

Nothing quells ill-humour like Adela's so rapidly as
fear. Yet the girl could not understand her own fear,
or give herself a reason for it : the clear idea which
would have struck another mind, did not strike her
dense unimaginative one. She was profoundly conscious
of her own superiority to Nellie in every way,
especially in sense and good-looks ; and she also still
believed  yes, implicitly believed  George was certainly
in love with her.

So when George, laughing the matter off, and saying,
" "We men are not so particular about a girl's dress
as you ladies are : what would strike you and Mrs
Newsham in a moment, would not strike me in an
hour,"  and offered her his arm to go in to dinner, Adela
meekly took it, and did not first refuse it.

Then George became most gallant. Adela had
never known him so gallant before. " George has
been cross all day. He was very cross just now ; but
he won't be cross any more," thought she.

Though a fellow does not always see if a girl is
quite exactly properly dressed, he can always tell
when she has a pretty gown on," said George, looking
down at her  and it always did move Adela when
George looked at her, because he looked so seldom.
I say, Adela, that's an awfully pretty blue gown you
have on to-night, and awfully becoming too ! "

Instead of remaining sullenly silent, Adela answered,
and only just, just a little reproachfully : " George !
George I you have often seen me wear this dress before.
You . . . you ought to know it quite, quite well."

Ahem ! Oh, to be sure ! to be sure, Adcla ! Awfully
well ; I do know it awfully well."

But . . . but, George," continued Adela, rather
timidly, after a pause long enough for George to have
felt he ought to be talking, and to wonder what he
could say  " but, George, which . . . which do you
think the most be  . . . the nicer  this dress or
my white one ? "

George did not in the least remember the white
one, and before he had spoken the words which he
regretted, would not have concealed the fact ; but he
did so now, and said, with an amount of tact wonderful
for him : " I like this blue one best, Adela, because
you see it's so . so awfully becoming ! "

Adela blushed with pleasure.

That sort of . . . of . . ."

Of turquoise blue, George."

Ah ! by Jove, yes ! turquoise blue ! That sort of
turquoise blue is awfully becoming to . to an
awfully fair sort of person like you, Adela."

With the best intentions, George's compliments
were apt to be poor efforts of genius ; but Adela was
quite satisfied, and she drank her soup with an air of
placid content. George took his with a feeling of relief
at not having to talk for some few minutes ; and
he was longer in emptying his plate than any one at
table.

George," said Adela, reflecting seriously  and she
had been reflecting even while drinking her soup so
quietly  " George, you really, now really and truly, do

think this blue dress much, much nicer than my white
one, because "  this was said very confidentially 
because my white one fits me better. It certainly
does, George  much, much better ! "

Ah ! " said George  " ah ! " Then giving his full
attention, "And that is awfully important too. By
Jove, awfully important ! "

Yes, it is everything ! " said Adela, with warmth.
The cut of a gown is everything ! And it is only
the very, very best dressmakers who can really cut. I
don't consider this blue dress is really cut at all ! and
that is what makes it often so very, very difficult forme
to know which to wear ; for this is the most . . ."
she hesitated and blushed  " the most dressy, but
the other has certainly the best cut. You see it was
made by Madame Celeste  Madame Celeste Jones.
She is the right one to go to, and not that Madame
Matilda, who has no cut at all  none whatever ! "

This was one of the very, very few subjects on
which Adela could talk. People with the least conversational
talent will often be the most pleased to
hear themselves talk ; and as George took the trouble
of seeming to listen so kindly and so attentively, Adela
actually spent the pleasantness evening she had passed
since her ardent lover came to Eastcourt.

Clara's downcast eyes, which had a way of appearing
to be absorbed in their own mystery, really saw
everything. They quickly noticed how much more
attentive than usual George was to Adela.

Can it be," Clara asked herself, with unfeigned

VOL. II. E

surprise and excited interest  " can, can it be that
George is actually, actually falling in love with
Adela ? What a very, very long time he has been
about it ! "

Even the Admiral, dear blind creature as he was,
could not help observing the remarkable civility of
George's behaviour. Thomas was the only person
who saw nothing.

Lord bless my soul ! " said the Admiral to Mrs
Newsham, " is it . . . is it possible those two foolish
young people are going to take the matter seriously
after all ? Whatever shall we do if they should want
to have a definite engagement instead of the very
indefinite one we had settled upon ? Bless my soul ! "
he repeated ; " but I must write to Kate the very first
thing tomorrow morning, and tell her exactly how
matters stand. She will be wondering she has not
heard from me before, so I'll write the very first thing
without fail."

The rapidity with which Clara's mind could work
was always admirable. She immediately replied, " Yet
not the very, very first thing, my dear Admiral ! but
have your letter ready for the evening post, because I
do think  yes ! I do think  you ought to write the
very moment we have consulted Thomas." Then with
a seriousness that was truly impressive, " Eemember,"
she said, " we have not yet consulted Thomas."

Lord bless my soul ! " cried the Admiral, " I had
actually forgotten that 1 "

Clara seemed to think ; then added, " Perhaps, my

dear Admiral, it would be better for you to see Thomas
first alone. Thomas never can attend to two people
at once. I should only be in the way  now really I
should ! But Thomas has unfortunately made an appointment
to give a lecture tomorrow at Slumby, and
he cannot be told anything until that is over. It
would not be of the slightest use to speak to him
before  he would forget everything you said. But
I will tell you what I'll do  now, my dear Admiral,
I will drive you to Slumby in the pony-carriage
after luncheon, and you and Thomas can walk
home together. Johnson won't be wanted, for you
will bring Thomas safely home, and you'll tell him
everything, my dear Admiral ! everything about those
two exceedingly  yes 1 exceedingly  foolish young
people ! One is usually so apt to be interrupted
speaking to Thomas, as Johnson is always everywhere ;
and it is so very, very important to have Thomas
quite, quite alone to yourself, for then he hears and
understands."

The Admiral was going to answer, but stopped short
and interrupted himself  he had suddenly remembered
what he had till then forgotten. I wonder how many
little things Ulysses did forget when Calypso was very
kind to him ?

Most extraordinary ! " he exclaimed  " most extraordinary
! but I've never heard from Kate ! and
they would certainly have immediately forwarded any
letters from the Alexandra Hotel."

Clara smiled one of her gentle downcast smiles that

always seemed to say " Yes " to you, and Admiral
Crofton thought she entirely agreed with him ; but as
Clara said nothing, we have no right to consider she
was guilty of untruth.

There were two very anxious letters from poor Kate
for the Admiral lying in the manager's room at the
Alexandra Hotel, and they would certainly have been
sent on to Eastcourt if Mrs ISTewsham had not given
the most particular orders that no letters of any sort
were to be forwarded.

I will tell Mr ISTewsham to call himself for letters
when passing through town' Clara had said, well
knowing Thomas would forget all about calling, even
if she told him to do so.

CHAPTER XIII.

Thomas started for Slimy as early next morning as
Johnson found it convenient to have him ready  that
was about twelve o'clock. Johnson objected to very
early hours.

It was a fresh breezy sjmng day, and not too
showery to prevent Clara from driving the Admiral
over to Slumby after luncheon. She drove him there,
as she had promised, in her own pony-carriage, and
she made William, the groom, walk up all the hills,
for it was while going very slowly up those hills that
she " suggested " to the Admiral exactly what he had
best say to Thomas about George and Adela. The
Admiral, as usual, felt as if Clara's suggestions were
his own, and as if he were just merely agreeing with
himself. The position of Principal Surrounding Circumstance
had imperceptibly become a second nature
to him, and, owing to Metternich's genius, a very pleasant
one too, for he had such a kindly yet sensible
fatherly sort of feeling towards those two very, very
foolish young people.

The fear which had troubled him the previous evening,

that perhaps after all those young people might not
be content with an indefinite engagement, arranged to
be broken off before long by themselves of their own
accord, had been comfortably allayed, for George had
unmistakably resumed his usual inattentive manner
towards Adela.

AATiy, bless my soul, Mrs Xewsham ! it all meant
nothing last night. George was quite his ordinary
self again this morning, and indeed I did not think
him attentive or civil enough. His manners want
brushing up. But they'll get it in the army. The
army will do George no end of good. Requires something
of the sort ! He is not sufficiently courteous to
ladies  indeed, I heard him quite rude to Adela just
as we were starting. She was begging him not to sail
this afternoon, as it is rather breezy on the lake, and
poor Adela ! she is never very happy in a boat. Ha !
ha ! ha ! can't forget her at Bluehaven ! I daresay
George did think her rather silly, or perhaps they had
had some tiff."

Ah, those young people, my dear Admiral ! those
young people ! they are always having little tiffs ! But
it is wisest not to notice them."

I defy you not to have noticed George's manner to
Adela. I was taken aback, and I told him so. He had
no right to speak to Adela so roughly, for he did not
speak roughly to Nellie, who was standing by. But
when he was rude enough to tell Adela she might stay
at home, you would have been surprised, Mrs New-sham,
how the girl's spirit rose  it rose at once. Now,

mark my words, Mrs Xewsham, there is a great deal
more spirit in Adela than you and I have any idea of
a great deal more ! She astounded me ! and she
said if George went out sailing, she would go too, for
she would not be left at home. I never thought so
decided a not could have come out of her little mouth !
But she has a great deal more spirit in her now than
she had at Bluehaven  a great deal more ! and she
seems to have quite got over her ague. Well, Mrs
Newsham, I have had great experience in those quinine
pills, and never once  no ! never once  have I known
them fail ! They were perfectly successful with Adela.
Indeed I thought the cure so successful, that I went
to the trouble of describing all her symptoms to Dr
Stumps ; but he is just like the rest of the dosers, a
pig-headed fellow  never believes in any doctoring but
his own ! And what do you suppose he said to me,
Mrs iSTewsham ? "

My dear Admiral," purred Clara softly, " pray, pray
do not bother your head about Dr Stumps  I am sure
whatever he did say was quite foolish, and not in the
least worth remembering."

But you'll never guess what the fellow had the
impudence to say  never ! I must tell you, for what
he did say was, ' Perhaps, Admiral Crofton, you have
mistaken a young lady's love-affair for an old tar's
ague, and been treating her emotions with quinine ? '
Good Lord ! but I gave it to Stumps pretty hotly, I
can tell you ; and poor Cuthbert heard me, and there
he was laughing in his bed, and whenever he is a little

better lie jokes me about Adela and the quinine. I am
sure Cuthbert will recover, Mrs ISTewsliam, for lie loves
a joke still. Has not a notion of dying ! not he ! "

I quite, quite agree with you, my dear Admiral,
quite ! " said Clara ; " Sir Cuthbert will certainly
get well."

His mind is as bright as ever, but his nerves are
weak, poor fellow ! very, very weak ! It . it breaks
one's heart to see him." The Admiral hated lingering
on a painful subject, so went on  " But his mind is as
clear and sarcastic as ever. I declare it is too sarcastic !
but being a little too sarcastic was the only fault poor
Cuthbert ever had, and it is a good sign  an excellent
sign  of him not to change in the least. He is just
exactly the same as ever ! and what do you think he
said to me about Adela ?  and he said it quite in his
old style,  ' Is it George you have been treating in Miss
Adela's constitution, uncle ? Eh ? ' You know the
way Cuthbert says Eh 1 ' Eh ? dosing a promising
young lover with quinine ? ' And then Cuthbert said
something about George's prospects if he should die ;
but I never will let the poor fellow talk of dying, and
he knows how entirely I disagree with Stumps's view
of his case. He says I am the only person who has
the audacity to disagree with the doctors ; but when I
go back to Crofton Place I will tell him I know another
person, Mrs Newsham, who disagrees with Stumps as
heartily as I do. I'll tell him what you think."

No ! no ! no ! " cried Clara, terrified ; " no ! no !
my dear Admiral, my dear Admiral ! I forbid you 

I simply forbid you to trouble Sir Cuthbert with my
opinion of his case. Pray don't mention my name at
all in the matter. I forbid you to mention it ! I
have no right either to agree or to disagree with Dr
Stumps. None whatever."

The Admiral was solemn. He was very mysterious,
like a young boy with a portentous secret on his mind.
My dear Mrs Newsham," he said, " I must beg leave
to disobey you." Mystery made him almost pompous.
I have my reasons, Mrs Newsham," said he, darkly,
I have my reasons for doing so." As a saint might
remember blasphemy against the Holy Virgin, so the
Admiral had recalled to mind that shocking name,
Metternich ; " and, elderly as he was, he blushed at
the remembrance. He became embarrassed in his
manner, and even more mysterious than before. " I
must . I must tell Cuthbert . I . I have
reasons . . . unfortunately . . . good . . . painfully
good reasons. But, Mrs Newsham/' he added, nervously,
" don't ask me what they are. Cuthbert must
know, he shall know you entirely disagree with Dr
Stumps's view of his case."

Rapid as are the clever instincts of Clara's mind,
their quickness was for the moment paralysed by a
sort of shock ; but the Admiral's own embarrassment
was such that he did not notice Mrs Newsham 's ; and
as good luck would have it  how lucky Clara generally
was !  before there was almost time to speak
again, she had very nearly driven right over Thomas
at a turn in the road !

Mr Newsham, ma'am ! Mr Newsham ! " the groom
had called out just in time, for the Admiral was
thinking " Metternich," and Metternich was thinking
of that odious man Sir Cuthbert, and neither of
them was thinking in the least of Thomas, who certainly
had no right to be walking off the footpath, and
exactly in the middle of the road.

Clara had dawdled so long upon all the hills, big
and little, between Eastcourt, Yellowmead, and Slumby,
that Thomas had finished his temperance lecture, and
had had time enough to realise his audience was gone,
and that all the proceedings were over ; and so he had
mooned through Slumby, and, not having Johnson with
him, was now mooning down the middle of the highroad
which led towards Yellowmead, although he had
intended going home the shorter way by the fields 
that is to say, Clara had clearly explained to him
before he left Eastcourt in the morning that he was
to walk home with the Admiral across the fields.

Good Lord ! " cried the Admiral, for Thomas might
have been killed.

Oh ! Thomas ! Thomas ! " cried Clara. '' AVliat-
ever possesses you to walk in the middle of the
road ? "

I don't think Thomas had the slightest idea what
possessed him to do that, or anything else ; at any
rate, he gave no clear answer. But as they had not
killed him, he appeared glad to see them, and smiled
with the mildly benignant sort of surprise he generally
seemed to feel at meeting any one, just as if it were

rather a remarkable circumstance ever to see anybody
you knew in this world, and yet not actually astounding,
only mildly wonderful and gently pleasing.

Wliy, you have come too far, Newsham," said the
Admiral, jumping out of the pony-carriage  " much
too far. We must go back to that first turning out
of Slumby, for we shall have to walk by the fields if
we are to get home before dark. This Yellowmead
road is at least three miles round."

Indeed ! indeed ! " said Thomas, as if surprised to
hear it. Then he turned round with the Admiral,
and they both walked off quickly in the direction of
that first turning out of Slumby.

Thomas ! Thomas ! " Clara cried out, when the
gentlemen had gone some little way. But it was not
Thomas who heard her, it was the Admiral.

Do, please, ask Thomas," Clara called out to him,
if he has got the key of the Home Park gate. I told
Johnson to put it in the pocket of his coat." And
Mrs Newsham sent the groom running back to help
ill the search of Mr Newsham's pockets.

But no key was found, and for the best of all
reasons,  Thomas had changed the key into the pocket
of another coat, and had then left that other coat in
the curricle when it was going home to Eastcourt.

It suddenly struck Clara, Thomas might perhaps
offer to sit with the groom in the back seat of the
pony-carriage, and not walk home with the Admiral
after all ; so before there was time for this idea to come
even hazily out of Thomas, she had rapidly settled to

drop the groom by the old church on the hill at East-court,
and let him run down the short way by the
graveyard to the house, get the key out of Mr New-sham's
coat, and run over with it through the garden
to the Home Park gate. " And William shall be there
before you," she cried, " for I will go home at a very
quick pace." And she was off.

This time it was the Admiral who called after her.
But she would not stop. She greatly feared that
dreadfully dangerous man might be going to propose
what she least wanted him to suggest, for she had got
to feel the Admiral had surprises in him, like sharp
eye-teeth in a very young child.

However, Admiral Crofton kept on shouting between
his two half-closed hands, and so loudly that Clara
heard him quite plainly. " Wind freshening  stiff
breeze," she heard. " Go by lake : sail not over safe 
tell George put it down." And as she drove on, she
heard him still shouting, " Sail not safe 1 " She waved
back her hand to him to show she had heard.

It is exactly five miles by the road from Slumby to
the old church on the hill at Eastcourt, but it seemed
no distance to Clara, so full was she of her own
thoughts. It was not often she had such admirable
ones. A bishop at variance with his clergy might
have been proud of them, for they were all about
Christian charity.

Clara knew Sir Cuthbert's opinion of lier very
nearly as well as if the Admiral had actually told
her what he had so nervously begged her not to ask.

The one tliin she did not know was, that Sir
Cuthbert always called her " Metternich." I don't
think we ever perhaps quite grasp the full extent of
the bad opinion people who think ill of us really
entertain. If you doubt this fact, quarrel with some
even of your quite near and very dear relations, and
then practise your mind boldly in fancying what they
are saying and thinking of you. Nothing promotes
humility more ; and such imaginations are really just
as good as any penitential religious exercise. I think
they are better.

I once knew a person who, feeling a very severe
religious exercise was exceedingly good for him, let
his little imagination take a pretty extensive flight of
this kind entirely amongst near and dear relations ;
but he afterwards discovered it never went quite far
enough. And yet there was one of those exemplary
people who did say he  no ! it was a she  who did
say she had tried to take the very, very most favourable
view possible of his character and conduct ! while
he had been trying with all his might to imagine the
very, very worst opinion he had thought it possible
that dear relation could ever invent ! Still hers was
so very much lower than his ! Curious ! was not it ?
But not an uncommon experience, I believe.

Clara had much power of imagination, and Sir
Cuthbert was no relation, only a kind of connection ;
so it was easier to guess at the full extent of his bad
opinion than if he had been an uncle or  an uncle's
wife !  or a cousin, especially some dear Maria, or

quite beloved Grace,  for the ladies are no doubt far
more severe upon you than the men. And still,
though it was comparatively easy to conceive the
height and depth and length and breadth of Sir Cuthbert's
scandalous opinion  no ! infamous treason 1 for it
was treason ever to doubt Clara !  yet Mrs Newsham's
imagination never went so far as to be anywhere near
the confines of " Metternich." It is true, she had
once seen a lie of her own speaking looking back at
her from out of Sir Cuthbert's keen eyes ; but " elle
ment et ne trompe pas" said as a deliberate opinion, in
actual words, had a clear crudeness of perfect insight
about it, to which Clara's thoughts could neither rise
nor fall. They only went far enough to make her
feel again, what she had felt before, that she really
hated Sir Cuthbert ; and yet her thoughts about him
were quite beautiful, for they were all of Christian
charity.

As the bishop at variance with his clergy might
deplore the absence of that great obligatory virtue
from his diocese, so Clara now deplored the want of
Christian charity,  but not on her own side, solely
on Sir Cuthbert's. It was very natural she should
do this, because we all do it.

Christian charity, as generally understood, and certainly
as generally practised, is so beautifully onesided
1 Can this be one reason why it is so much
lauded, far beyond all other virtues, both in and out
of the pulpit ?

It may be blasphemous, but I think it possible, if

not allowable, to suppose that even St Paul had felt
the want in St Barnabas of the charity which is not
puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, which
seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, and
thicket no evil.

What Clara deplored in Sir Cuthbert was the want
of the charity which thicket no evil,  the Christian
charity which could not imagine Clara to have the
feelings, the ideas, and the motives which Clara in her
own heart knew she had. Was Sir Cuthbert wrong
in seeing Clara as she really saw herself ? Was he
wrong in seeing what he could not have helped seeing,
unless he had been born blind ? A man like Admiral
Crofton is born under a special dispensation of Providence,
and sent into the world on purpose, it would
seem, that all quite charming women intriguing deeply
but prettily should not appear to him to be intriguing
at all. But this mission of beautiful delusion, like all
missions, must be heaven-born, for it is a blindness
which will not even come by prayer and fasting. It
was no ordinary clergyman, but an eminent bishop,
who said  " We must love all men, yet need not
always like them." I am glad it was a bishop who
said that, and not I !

Oh, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, vipers ! who
devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long
prayers ! " Were there people in Jerusalem who
said this was not charity ? There were the scribes,
Pharisees, and hypocrites who did devour widows'
houses, and did for a pretence make long prayers. I

am sure they said this was not charity. What was it
then to them ? Could it have been the crime which
they in their inmost heart swore should be punished
by death ?

I do not think Clara personally was in any way
wanting in Christian charity towards those who un-doubtingly
believed in that ideal part of her own
character, conduct, and motives in which she did not
believe herself. And if people were guilty of the unpardonable
treason of seeing her much as she saw
herself, even then it should not be said she was deficient
in Christian charity  it was they who were
wanting in charity towards her ; so she had a right to
be indignant. There is such a thing  such a virtue
we ever feel it to be  as righteous indignation.

As the whole world is not born blind, there always
were a certain number of people with whom Clara had
excellent reasons for being angry. Her indignation
now slipped onwards, quite naturally, from Sir Cuthbert
to Kate ; for Kate's insubordination was by no
means forgiven. Unquestioning tractability and absolute
obedience are the whole duty of a sister-in-law
 at any rate they were Kate's whole duty towards
Clara. At this price, and this price alone,
Clara could forgive the existence of so uninteresting
and so unnecessary a sort of person as Thomas's sister,
especially as Kate's house and Kate herself were often
very useful to her.

Clara drove her ponies quite composedly, and if she
used the whip, did so merely to guide them. Had you

seen her face, you never would have dreamt she
was very angry. Her pale skin and thin lips were
perhaps just a shade whiter than usual, yet she
would have seemed to you unmoved, for her anger
was not passionate but cold. As I have said before,
that anger of a cold woman is more to be dreaded
than the heated wrath of a warm one, for the cold
anger does not pass away  it lives long, and dies
hard, if it ever dies at all.

There always is some kind of growth in continuous
steady life ; and though to Clara's knowledge Kate
had written nothing, and done nothing, since that one
act of insubordination, Clara did not dislike her less
but more than when she had first read her letter. I
think some of this silently increasing wrath came from
the feeling that she had certainly deceived Kate ; and
it was not in Clara's nature to forgive those whom she
had deceived, unless convinced they were blind to the
deception.

Not only to Clara, but to most people, I would say,
never deceive, unless it be your wish or your interest
afterwards to hate. Those whom you have deceived
may, it is true, forgive you, but you will never forgive
them, because you will never feel sure they did not
see quite clearly through you.

I think even if Clara had not for years wished, from
the very highest worldly motives, for a match between
George and Adela, she would have done so now, from
the feeling  perhaps unknown to herself, yet strongly
present in her heart  that this marriage would be a

VOL. II. F

sort of defeat to Kate, placing her in a painful position
with Sir Cuthbert. A defeat to Kate, and so a victory
for herself.

As Clara drove on, she fell to thinking how pleasant
it would be in future years for her to have supreme
power over George  for she would, and she knew she
could, reign over Adela's husband if she liked. And
she would like to have that power, not because she
cared for George, but because Kate's influence with
her stepson would then be overshadowed by her own.
Kate should have no influence with George in the
years to come. He was not Kate's son, but only her
stepson. What a difference this seemed to make !
George was only Kate's stepson ! And really a
mother-in-law would have as much right to his affection
and perfect allegiance as a mere stepmother 
she would have more right ! How well it is to feel
we have right on our side ! Cold women like Clara
are always in the right, and the righteous hatred
which will calmly grow within them is pitiless, like
their hard anger. Therefore, unlike some warmer
hatreds, theirs never can be melted or moved backwards
towards love.

So engrossing and so full of satisfaction were Mrs
Newsham's thoughts, that the groom had to remind
her to drop him at the old church on the hill.

Having done this, and still thinking, thinking much,
Clara drove on through the lodge-gate which leads into
the Eastcourt demesne from the county road, and not
from the Yellowmead lane  that avenue does not

take you by the lake, for Clara had forgotten the
Admirers last words. However, when she came up
out of the hollow which lies close inside the park
paling, the wind was so loud amongst the big trees
on the rising ground that she remembered what
Admiral Crofton had shouted to her. Yes, it was
blowing  no doubt of it. Clara had not noticed the
freshening breeze till now. Perhaps it would be
well to make sure the young people were doing nothing
foolish ? Xot that either George or Adela was
usually of an adventurous, reckless nature, and Clara
was certain they had lowered that sail long ago, if
indeed they had ever put it up. There was really
no necessity for her to look after them,  she did not
feel in the least anxious about them ; and if she had
been bored by her own company, I think she would
have gone straight home. But as her thoughts were
interesting, and she liked pursuing them, she did
not care to shorten her drive, but rather wished it
lengthened.

And so she turned round the ponies' heads, and
took that grass-road which leads back through the
large plantation underneath the knoll where the old
church stands, and which falls down rather suddenly
in one place towards the shore of the lake. There is
no view whatever of the lake until you come to that
sharp turn downwards.

The least thoughtful person can have thoughts for
two, when quite alone ; and Clara's had taken such
firm hold of her in solitude, that she no longer heard

the wind, and even forgot to be as careful in her driving
as she generally was.

The stumbling of one pony, just by the awkward
turn above the lake, recalled her to the full possession
of her clear mind. She immediately recovered
a firm grasp of the reins, and was in the act of
rounding that dangerous corner, when she came face
to face with a sight at which she stopped the ponies
short.

Not ten yards down below, in the middle of the
grass-drive, lay what looked like Nellie's stiff, dead
body. George, dripping wet, with his back partly
turned towards Clara, was bending down over it, and
so engrossed did he seem by terror that he was deaf
to the sound of the approaching carriage.

What had seemed a dead hand, moved. And Clara
saw George suddenly bend still lower, and seize and
kiss it madly.

At that instant, rising above all other sounds of
rustling wind, there came a piercing, piercing cry from
down below  " George ! George ! "

Clara turned sick with horror, for she looked, and
she saw Adela struggling in the water some sixty feet
from shore.

George had started at the piercing cry ; he had
sprung to his feet, and was in the water.

And now there was a terrible time for Clara.
Adela had sunk from sight. George might dive where
she had been. She could not yet be dead ! But before

George had swum three parts of the way, he
sank.

William, the groom, was swimming towards him
from a place higher up on the lake, for William had
seen the boat drifting bottom uppermost.

George rose again. William was getting very near
when George once more sank ; but one hand was still
above water.

Then it seemed as if William must be drowned
too, for the hand had life enough to clutch him
down when he got close to it. But William came
up again, and he had seized George by the hair of
his head.

No year of Clara's life had been so long as the long
suspense which followed.

George was at lenc,th brought to shore. He was
insensible.

But he was not dead.

Poor Adela was dead !

That evening, and all night long, they dragged the
lake, under the Admiral's supervision, for her body.

Soon after dawn, when the spring morning was just
awake, and all the birds were singing as if it were the
opening of a wedding-day they hailed with joy, the
fair young girl was found,  a blurred and changed
corpse  a thing it were best not to have seen.

No sight had ever moved the Admiral's fatherly

heart more than that tragic one of the poor child's
changed corpse. His arms received the dead body
from the water.

Clara stood, too, in the early dawn upon the shore,
and with great courage she looked on her dead
daughter. I admire her fine courage. There are
times when I cannot help admiring Clara.

Thomas also saw the awful touching sight ; and he
understood it.

By a curious coincidence, poor Sir Cuthbert Crofton
ended his lengthy dying within twenty-four hours of
Adela's death, just when Clara would have most liked
her daughter to be alive, and ready to be married very
quickly to Sir George !

Sir Cuthbert's will made Clara very angry ; for by
a codicil, dated not long after that memorable meeting
outside the Shropwich doctor's house, some of the provisions
of a former will were revoked, and Admiral
Crofton was left 25,000 and the lease of a house in
Pont Street. Kate was given 1000 a-year; while
Crofton Place and the rest of the large property were
left to George, subject to the proviso that, if he should
marry without his stepmother's full written consent,
the place and fortune were to go to the Admiral.

What a position for that quite unnecessary, amiably
contemptible person Kate to be placed in ! Clara felt
this codicil to be an insult to herself ; and from that
hour she hated Sir Cuthbert with two hatreds, the old
one and the new. That hatred which can hate the
dead is the coldest marble monument ever raised upon

a grave  pitiless, without a single human tear, it stands
unmoved. Its unrelenting callousness is awful in the
churchyard, because there never is a grave in which
some human anguish does not lie buried with the
corpse  the dead man's own anguish of love, or disillusion,
or ambition, or sorrow, or remorse, or fear, if
not the yearning grief of others.

Sir Cuthbert's real, unmistakable death was a great
shock to the Admiral. It was from a telegram sent
on chance to Eastcourt by Kate to Thomas, announcing
the actual death, that he first heard his nephew had
seriously taken to dying. Had the two anxious letters
from Kate and the telegram, which were lying at the
Alexandra Hotel, been forwarded to the Admiral, he
would have known many days before Sir Cuthbert
died that he was really dying. It will be a lifelong
sorrow to Admiral Crofton that he did not get those
letters and that telegram in time. He bitterly regrets
he was not at Crofton Place during the extreme
crisis," as he is unalterably convinced he would have
saved his nephew's life with the quinine pills, just as
his own was saved when he himself tried to die of the
ague off Vera Cruz.

For the only time in his life, the Admiral completely
lost his temper with Thomas. He could not forgive
him for having forgotten to call at the Alexandra
Hotel while passing through town on his way home to
Eastcourt. It was in vain the unfortunate Thomas
declared he had never been told to call at the hotel
for letters. This only aggravated his offence, because

Admiral Crofton was sure lie had been told to go
there. And yet Thomas was so much less absent
than he had been for years, that the Admiral might
really have believed what he said.

For days after Thomas had spent that long night on
the shore of the lake watching for poor Adela's dead
body to be found, he was a changed and an awakened
man ; and he had been a little changed ever since.
He could see all his children clearly, for it was not
only Nellie's absence he would notice now. He would
look round with seeing eyes, and become aware of any
empty chair at luncheon, and he would know who was
the missing one, and ask anxiously why the child was
not there. He had remembered to write to Eockhurst
at cohere and to Tom at school.

And as to Nellie, the kind man had awakened to
very clear anxiety about her abiding weakness, and her
illness which seemed to have no name. When she
was up-stairs in her room, he would not forget to go
and see her there, and even went two or three times
a-day, and without any reminder from Johnson ; and
when she was able to come down again, he would
notice if she looked tired, and place her on the sofa
tenderly, in a way that made Clara quite angry, for it
was ridiculous fussing in that provoking way over the
girl. And yet she might well have been alarmed herself
about her daughter.

It was no mere chill in the water, nor even the
great horror of Adela's death, that had broken down
poor Nellie, and had made her so weak, but all the

mental anxiety which had gone before. So few girls
can bear mental strain, especially the secret grieving
of it, and few grown-up women either, only they bear
it much longer  for years instead of months ; but
when at length it takes to killing them, no doctor
ever does them any good ; some, like old Doseman,
do them harm. Hope has the only medicine which
can cure them ; but it is the death of hope has made
them ill. One is apt to feel very sick after a funeral ;
and the burial of hope is never quickly done. That
grave can be a long, long time in digging ; but when
the dead is lowered at the last, there is a desolation
left behind no doctor's drug can cure.

Old Doseman's method of " keeping up the system "
with port wine might undoubtedly put " the system "
for a few hours every day into tolerably good spirits,
but the depression afterwards would be the greater.
There were times when this after-depression would be
wellnigh unbearable.

That despair which Nellie had felt at first after
the cold good-bye to Charlie in the moonlight at Blue-haven,
had now again taken hold of her young imagination
like a cruel fiend. The imagination can be
so vivid in youth ! and Nellie was exactly in the high-strung
state when its power may become terrible. I
think imagination is often terrible in youth, because
it has an infinite capacity for exaggeration ; and time
seems endless to it ! A year is far, far, far too long
for hope ! .

When I have spoken of Nellie's " despair " at having

parted coldly from Charlie, and of the sickening
sorrow she felt at times, many will have thought my
language foolishly, ridiculously strong. But they are
those who have not had much imagination in their
early years, or else who have forgotten, as many do,
their youth. An imaginative youth can be a real
tragedy for the mind. If youth has been unhappy,
the imagination has not been less but more unhappy
than it, feeling twice over all the desolation there
may have been. There are some who, if offered back
their youth, would refuse it with terror, so dreadful
did that intensity of young life, for which fate seemed
to be always decreeing there should be no abiding
hope, no satisfaction, only grief and disillusion, feel to
them in the old days. But I think the people who
would refuse their painful youth are those who have
found some happiness later on. If they were unhappy
still, they would regret the young life they once
had felt to be so terrible, for there was change in that
intensity of life like night and day ; and there were
lights and dark shades for them then on earth. Not
shadow only  a dull, colourless sort of shadow, like
that of some leaden world in which there would be
neither sun nor wind, and where Death himself would
be slow in his ways and very lazy, not caring in the
least to kill quickly such a stupid person, quite uninteresting
to everybody as you would feel. In that
leaden world the unhappy will not even catch the
plague, for that kills quickly. Bullies don't easily die.
Though hope is the only cure for the heart sickness,

a little human kindness can be very soothing
to the pain of it. Nellie was in the state when a
mother can make an ardent friend of a daughter, or
else chill her into a cold estrangement which will last
for life.

To some it may seem strange that Adela's death,
and the real, the deep grief felt by Clara, did not immediately
soften her heart towards her second daughter
; but the common idea that people are changed by
sorrow is a fallacy. Joy will alter us more than
grief, because our own happiness can transfigure the
world before us, and even transfigure ourselves ; but
heartfelt grief is the one thing on earth which makes
us absolutely real. People who seem changed to you
by sorrow are those you never truly knew before.
Death is not the creator of an angel in the heart
which is bowed down in sorrow when he passes by,
though he sometimes is the awakener of an angel
which has slept disguised. Eeal angels always are
disguised on earth  I never knew a real one that had
wings. It is true I have seen white shining wings
most picturesquely spread by very charming people
here below, and at a distance you would have thought
heaven had sent its special messenger on earth; but
the illusion melted if you came too near.

When death passed by so tragically at Eastcourt,
Clara became terribly real in that intensely real presence.
She asked herself, " Why had not Eleanour died
instead of Adela ? " And this thought, this passion
I might call it, took possession of her, and made

her more unjust than ever to the daughter who had
lived.

A mother is either the person who best knows her
own child, or the one who knows it least. That complete
ignorance of the real nature of the son or
daughter you have brought into the world is a wonder
surpassing many great wonders, yet it is to be
seen every day, and even in clever people.

Nellie was really a very ordinary young girl in her
nature. Soft, tender, loving easily, weak, high-strung
in nerves and imagination, thinking little, feeling
much ; not clever ; timid, unless strong feeling overpowered
her, as it sometimes did, but quite without
abiding courage ; no real strength anywhere ! Idealised,
as many and many a young girl has been before,
by a pathetic sort of beauty, warmly coloured, and
softly touching by reason of its large sweet eyes, tender
with the unspoilt feelings so strangely moving of
early youth. She was a little dreamy and absent inspirit
at times, but there was nothing odd in that, for
when do we dream if not in youth ? Wlien early
morning first awakes, it dreams upon this earth all
the sweet dreams of its livelong day, and there are no
more fair illusions of light and shade until that last
still hour of the setting sun, when heaven with the
night seems near.

Then I am sure it was only natural for Thomas's
daughter to sit still and dream. Even Clara thought
this, though it did not increase her fondness for
Eleanour to see she was a little like her father, for

she would have wished her and Thomas to be dissimilar
beyond sympathy.

The foolish way Thomas went on about Eleanour,
noticing her as he had never done poor Adela, undoubtedly
helped with other feelings to distort Clara's
vision, so that it became possible for her clever eyes
to see all wrong.

You might have fancied any one could see at a
glance there could be neither plot nor plan in a mind
and nature like Nellie's, for she was quite without
worldly talent. And yet it is a fact that Clara's feelings
did over-persuade her usual cleverness and blind
her natural power of insight, and actually bring her
to believe Eleanour capable of deep design : she became
convinced the child had knowingly and purposely
set herself to captivate George and cruelly steal
his allegiance from Adela, and had done so entirely
from worldly motives, fully understanding George was
a very good match. It is true this is a thing of
which Metternich herself might possibly have been
capable at sixteen, but her worldly genius has ever
been unique.

Clara's injustice went even further than this cruel
thought. And though it may be exaggeration to say
that she came to look upon poor Nellie as a kind of
murderess, I think, in her sorrow for Adela's death
and her anger at the destruction of her long-laid plan,
she grew to feel as if her child were one.

Cold and silent as Clara's anger generally is, the baffled
passions within her were so worrying, because they

could not bring to life the dead and set right what
had gone wrong, that her deep rage spoke at last.

Clara was not accustomed to impotent anger. The
anger which is all-powerful, as her calm intensity of
silent wrath usually felt itself to be, has no need of
speech, for it is secretly satisfied by action.

There was one other person at Eastcourt besides
Thomas who had been really kind to poor ISTellie, and
that was the red-faced, unromantic-looking governess.
The father's kindness was rather like that of the faithful
dog, who lays his head in your lap and looks sadly
at you because he sees you are sad. But Miss Smith's
tenderness had been full of the sympathy which can
only come from knowing your real pain, and feeling
with you in your secret grief. The good woman's
love had been iSTellie's best comfort.

At first Clara did not mind Miss Smith's kindness
to Eleanour, for some one must look after the girl
and see she was properly nursed, and Clara was glad
enough for the governess to do what she certainly
would not have cared to do herself. But when the
powerlessness of her anger became intolerable. Miss
Smith's too visible anxiety about Nellie, and tender
love for her, grew to be an insufferable annoyance.

As a rule  and there are but few exceptions to it
when a mother does not care for one of her own
children, she likes no one else to be kind to that
child.

The jealousy of a mother towards the man, or, above
all, the woman, who has been kind to the child she

VOL. IL G

would not love, is bitter indeed, and is perhaps the
most untruthful jealousy there is on earth. It is this
which so often makes the lot of an unloved child a
terrible one, for people who know the world are afraid
to be very kind to it, foreseeing that their love will
bring much cruel sorrow on themselves, and almost
certainly the grief of the child's ingratitude as well,
because gratitude for great, great kindness, and long
years of it, hardly does exist on earth  only gratitude
for small civilities like invitations to smart parties.
Let a man live in your house and he will cut you ;
ask him to dinner, and have the right people to meet
him, and he will thank you.

"Miss Smith," said Clara, very sharply, when at
length her powerless anger became unbearable  " I
must request you to stop croaking Eleanour as you
have been doing for the last three months, ever since
poor Adela's death. What Eleanour wants is plenty
of exercise and proper discipline." Clara's harder
voice always flurried Miss Smith ; she never could get
accustomed to it.

"Nellie is . . . is very weak, Mrs Xewsham," she
stammered uneasily.

"Weak ? to be sure she is weak ! and it is your
injudicious management of her makes her weak.
You let her loll half the day on the sofa. It is all
your fault, Miss Smith, for the moment I come into
the room, I see her start up and walk about quite
briskly. There is no reason on earth why she should
not be in as good health and spirits as Sylvia."

Sylvia did not see the . . . the very terrible sight
poor Nellie saw," said Miss Smith, with a sort of shrinking
courage. " Sylvia was not out in the boat that
dreadful day, Mrs Newsham."

Xo indeed ! and it is well she was not ! " cried
Clara, too angry just then for any softer emotion.
It is well she was not ! for sie would not have
recovered the shock. The horrid surprise of finding
George Crofton had saved her life before he saved
poor Adela's, would have killed an honourable girl
like Sylvia ; but it was no surprise to Eleanour. A
girl does not fall in love and craftily steal a man's
affections from her sister, without knowing very well
what she is doing."

Oh, Mrs Xewsham ! Mrs Newsham ! " groaned
Miss Smith ; and she no longer trembled, but was
still with horror.

"When a carl falls in love and steals a man's
affections from her own sister, she knows quite well
what she is doing," repeated Clara, and her firm lips
tightened.

Nellie never was in love with Sir George ! never,
never with him ! " exclaimed the governess, carried
beyond herself by indignation. She rarely in her life
had felt as indignant as she did then ; and she looked
at Clara with roused eyes, though she hardly ever had
the courage to look her straight in the face.

Clara returned her glance steadily, very steadily.
She came quite close to Miss Smith ; and considering
her attentively, she asked calmly, coldly, without any

of her warmer anger, " With whom, then, is Eleanour
in love ? "

I . I did not say ." stammered the poor
governess  " I . I never said Nellie was in love
with any one."

No, you did not ; perhaps because it would have
been your duty to do so, Miss Smith. And I promise
distinctly to remember, and never to forget, you did
not tell me Eleanour was in love. No ; you have
not told me the truth. Miss Smith  but, you have
betrayed it."

Betrayed it ? " gasped the poor woman.
There was a moment's silence.

Have pity, Mrs Newsham ! " suddenly exclaimed
Miss Smith, with a daring which astounded Clara,
" have pity on poor Nellie ! "

There is a mother's instinct and a mother's love in
many a solitary, childless woman's heart ; and it is
very cruel this should be so, for that love has no right
but one  the right to create jealousy. It is a feeling
destined to no enduring satisfaction ; an impertinence
and nothing more in a lone woman's heart. But Miss
Smith's warm love for Nellie was more than an impertinence
to Clara, it was a reproach. Yet Mrs New-sham's
anger was quite calm, for she knew she had
unbounded power to satisfy her wrath as far as the
governess was concerned ; and as to Eleanour, what
power could she have against her mother, or her
mother's wishes ? All power was on Clara's side ;
so she said very quietly, with that sort of self-command

so often called admirable, because it is supposed
to be the outward sign of a really good temper,
But, first of all, you must kindly tell me, Miss Smith,
with whom you have reason, and no doubt good reason,
to believe Eleanour is in love ? " Mrs Newsham's
manner was quite polite, even more polite than usual
to the governess, for Miss Smith was a stranger to
that quite too more than charming manner so fascinating
to many of Mrs Newsham's acquaintances.
Clara has more than one manner, just as she has more
than one voice.

I . I believe, or . . . or rather I . I
know ."

Yes, Miss Smith, you do know," said Clara, but
softly  " you do know with whom Eleanour is in
love. She is in love with . . . ? " Miss Smith's distress
was so great, that the idea crossed Mrs New-sham's
mind, could Eleanour be in love with one of
the governess's own relations ? So she added haughtily,
But, at least, I trust the entanglement is not with
any one beneath her in station ? "

No ! " cried Miss Smith, eagerly. " No, Mrs New-sham
; though Mr Charles Crofton is poor, he is not
beneath Nellie in station."

Charlie Crofton ! " cried Clara, all excitement.
Charlie Crofton ! " she called out, in a tone of rinfjinor

surprise. " Has the Admiral ? has that . . ."

But she stopped herself, and did not say that dreadful,
dangerous man! for her rapid genius drove away the
first suspicion of her anger, and understood the Admiral

never could have deceived her, or played her own game
against herself. She was absolutely certain he knew
nothing of this awkward complication  a very awkward
complication Clara felt it to be. A romantic knight-errant
like the Admiral could be brought to consent to
any sort of unworldly nonsense ; besides, the unpractical,
ridiculous creature would look upon himself as a
rich man, now he had been left a thousand a-year by
Sir Cuthbert, and be quite capable of giving it all upto
his son. A thousand a-year ! "What was that ? It
was twenty thousand a-year Clara was set upon ! For
if you have five daughters, and want all of them to
make good matches, take care the first one goes off with
Mat. I need hardly say it was no love for poor Nellie,
but a clear insight into the fundamental principles of
the Mother's Fine Art, which had made Metternich, in
the midst of mourning and very real affliction, settle
upon the reversion to her second daughter of Sir George
and his twenty thousand a-year.

Charlie Crofton ! " she again repeated. " And
pray, Miss Smith, how did this complication ever
come about ? Charlie Crofton has not been here
for years." As Clara was actually speaking, that
rapid genius of hers, which is like some sudden illumination
all round her mind, lighted up, amongst
other thoughts, one she had never known before.

If George had been drowned with Adela, the
Admiral would now be the owner of Crofton Place,
with the 20,000 a-year, and Charlie would be his
only son. Clara remembered how nearly George had

been drowned that day three months ago, and the
whole scene was there before her again. She again saw
him struggling in the water, and saw him so clearly,
that for a moment she did not follow what Miss
Smith was saying. Though she recovered herself
quickly, for she has a remarkable power of quick
recovery, she was yet obliged to ask Miss Smith to
repeat her words a second time. She astonished the
governess by saying, " What were you telling me
about Bluehaven ? Pray tell it me over again." Eor
Clara is a person who hears everything and sees
everything.

It flurried Miss Smith to have to repeat the story
of nellie's love, now that Mrs Xewsham was all severe
attention to every word ; and Clara's hard denial of
sympathy had undoubtedly the effect of making her
tell the tale not less but more softly, and a great deal
more confusedly, than she might otherwise have done.
But with coldly self-possessed patience, Clara calmly
picked the governess's brains until she had the whole
matter quite clear in her own mind, and saw there
was nothing more left in Miss Smith's.

She came to the conclusion it was not much of a
love-affair after all, and might easily be managed by a
mother of talent. She was glad to find there was a
promising if unintelligible misunderstanding of some
sort already well established, and instantly settled to
her own satisfaction that Eleanour should be engaged
to George before Charlie passed that examination, after
which he was to come and claim her as his bride.

This childlike arrangement would have amused Clara,
if she had been in a humour to be amused by anything.
But she was far too angry; for as Miss Smith had
not been at Bluehaven, she could not cast the blame of
the " complication " upon her, and she had to acknowledge
it was all an accident brought about by her own
arrangement of quite another accident at Bluehaven.
She had never dreamt of this one, and for a very good
reason. Nellie was younger than Adela, and Clara
was perfectly aware that although she herself had
done everything a clever, matrimonially imaginative
mother could which might make Adela fall in love,
even to warning her against doing so, Adela was not
in love with George at Bluehaven at all. She ascribed
this slow apathy of the feelings to her youth ; and so
whenever she cast a thought upon Eleanour, which
was not often, she looked forward to having much
the same trouble with her. If Adela had fallen in
love with George of her own accord, Clara would
have been quite on the alert about Nellie. It is
true Clara herself had been married at sixteen ; but
she felt the idea of falling" in love with Thomas 
which was so very like that of falling in love with
the moon the naughty child cried for  did not
originate unaided in her own mind, and she had
always understood that she owed at least half the
demesne at Eastcourt to the distinguished talents of
her own mother.

It galled Clara not to have a really good case
against Miss Smith; for she had rapidly settled she

would get rid of her, and so desired to send her away
in open disgrace  secret disgrace seemed poor revenge !
The blame which some may think Mrs Newsham
was entitled to lay upon the governess for having
concealed Eleanour's secret so long from Eleanour's
mother was wretched, petty satisfaction, and did not
in the least appease the strong anger Clara felt,  for
nothing makes you so angry with another person as
being angry with yourself ; and Clara was in great
wrath with herself  she had proved less clever than
she ouo'ht to have done, and knew it.

Clara is a very clever woman, and thinks herself
quite as clever as she is  perhaps a little cleverer I
And she invariably feels clever all over. Now most
of us are content to have merely one clever bit in
our inside, and the rest of us does not much resent
humiliation or defeat. But when, like Clara, you feel
clever all over, the ground you hold on which your
vanity can be beaten is of great extent. For years
all the many clever bits of Clara had been accustomed
to unopposed success, and the habit of being paramount
in all things big and little is like that of victory
: it does not brook defeat.

When the dumb ass spoke, it spoke strongly, and I
am sure it felt pleased with itself, and for the moment
forgot the risk it ran of future blows. When the
silent, accustomed to a passive stolidity of obedience
which has secretly felt to them like a very galling bit,
break out at last, the pleasure of snapping the rein
will make them forget all fear. It is a moving joy

to the stifled to breathe unbridled. Wlien Miss Smith,
inspired to courage by strong love for Nellie, pleaded
that she might be tenderly treated, and that if possible
her love might be allowed to turn into a lifelong
joy, and not become to her a long unhealed sorrow,
she forgot for a few minutes that cold fear of Clara
which had oppressed her so painfully all the ten
years she had been at Eastcourt.

It was with amazed intensity of anger Mrs New-sham
saw she had forgotten to fear her ; but, incensed
as she might be, never was Metternich's composure
seemingly less ruffled. In fact, the first shiver of returning
fear came to Miss Smith from her extreme
politeness : it was hardly natural.

However, the quite courteous interview ended without
Miss Smith having the very slightest idea that
Mrs jSTewsham had already made up her rapid mind
to send her away at short notice.

Remarkable, most remarkable indeed is the curious
rapidity of that mind ! I think it is the most remarkable
thing about Clara.

Within an hour of her conversation with Miss
Smith, Mrs Newsham had made up her mind exactly
how she meant to act, and had settled even her smaller
accidents quite clearly.

CHAPTEK 11.

The good Bishop had caused a white marble cross to
be placed at the head of his grandchild's grave. And
he was coming to Eastcourt to unveil the cross.

Clara wrote to George, and asked him to be present
at this unveiling of the cross in the churchyard on
the hill. She wrote her letter twice over, for she
tore up the first one, because an emotion she could
not quickly master made her hate the thought of
seeing George standing like a murderer, with joy in
his soul, by her daughter's grave.

He would stand there," she thought, " old at
heart that Adela died and Eleanour lived."

But, with a strong effort of her powerful will, she
had overcome this feelings and had written the second
letter.

George refused her invitation. It was fortunate
for poor Nellie he did not come, because as he was
not there, her mother did not force her to be present
at the ceremony in the churchyard. She dreaded,
with a kind of awestruck terror, to visit her sister's
grave.

Clara, having seen what she did see on the shore of
the lake that terrible day three months before, was
surprised at George's refusal, but instinctively attributed
it to the right cause. As she had settled he
was to marry Eleanour, she was angry with him.
Can he," she asked herself,  " can he be one of
those preposterous young men who, having proposed
for one sister, would shrink from acknowledging
openly before the world at her death it was not that
one he had loved ? George ought to be given time,
I fear." And time she would have given him, had
she not learnt Eleanour's secret from Miss Smith. It
was that discovery which made the waiting game
seem to her an impossibility, and prompt action an
immediate necessity.

No sooner had Clara perceived rapid action to be
advisable, than the desire for it, as an end in itself,
took possession of her, and the longing to be actively
matchmaking again grew powerfully within her. It
really was for the occupation of her principal fine
art that her remarkable faculties hungered. Many
will think it a monstrous want of feeling in Clara to
have begun again eagerly with her fine art so soon
after poor Adela's death ; but, strange as it may seem,
it was far more a proof of feeling in her than of its
absence. It was because she, who had been unused
to the pain and irritation of much feeling, acutely felt
the blow, and the disappointment and the sorrow of her
daughter's death, that the wish for some engrossing
interest in her daily life became so strong in her

heart and mind. Real sorrow was strange, very
strange, to her I To sit still with that burden and to
have the thought, " Why did not Eleanour die instead
of Adela ? " grew to be intolerable. Clara was quite
untrained to the bearing of a distasteful weight. Her
whole nature rebelled against the yoke. When you
have been used to success as to a natural habit, there
is such a powerful spring of instinctive energy within
you, that you are too much alive quietly to brook
deadening grief and failure. It is the long habit of
sorrowful disappointment, like sickness upon sickness,
yoke upon yoke, leaden disillusion upon leaden
disillusion, making the crushing past as well as the
present heaviness seem terribly real, which gives that
broken spirit of bowed-down grief you see in many
women, and in men too, when life has been hard to
them. To sit still with sorrow bound to it, as if to a
half-wit, by a heavy chain we can loose neither day nor
night, is such bruising suffering ! It makes the
weary heart so sick. Clara had never drunk of that
long slow poison of spiritless disillusion and grief, calming
it may be, but which saps the natural life within us
and quite kills our old Adam. Theologians consider
this such an excellent thing 1 But when our old
Adam is really dead, I think we always regret him :
it is his " go " we miss so much.

But Clara's old Adam, or rather her far more ingenious
Eve, was still wonderfully alive and inventive
within her, and so naturally hankered after her old
profession.

We must be just, then, to Clara. It is wrong to be
unjust. When people think they have good right to
be severe upon a woman as a whole, they are apt to
cry out about the little details which really may only
prove her not to have been an accomplished hypocrite
all round. Clara had a cold heart : she did not act as
if she had a warm one, because she is not a complete
hypocrite, only an occasional one, just when the
management of some rather important accident makes
a very charming sort of hypocrisy an artistic necessity
of her diplomacy. She is not one of those permanent
hypocrites to whom a very beautiful kind of
hypocrisy becomes a second nature : it never was more
than a third nature to her, like an outlying fort very
useful at times when a higher policy required Metternich
to parley diplomatically under a flag of truce.
But Clara is essentially a real person, not a false one.
There are times when her individuality can be even
terribly real.

"VYhen lier letter of overture to Sir George Crofton
proved a diplomatic failure, Mrs Newsham wrote to
the Admiral one of those nice, feeling little notes she
can pen so charmingly. She owed him a pretty letter
of congratulation, because he had written to her in
great delight,  " well knowing," as he said, " what
kindly interest she took in all that concerned him," 
to tell her he had been promised the North American
station, and expected every day to be appointed to
succeed Vice-Admiral Heavyboom off Bermuda.

There were people who declared Admiral Crofton

owed the promise of this appointment to Sir Cutlass
Cutter ; but others  and they were those who knew
him best  said he got it through his own merits.
The truth is, Admiral Crofton was a distinguished
officer, highly thought of in the navy. I have shown
one side of his character, but not any of the other ;
and it was entirely at the other side that his real
talents and all the manly strength of his nature 
his high courage and decision and firmness  lay. If
I have made it in any way liard to believe he was at
heart a manly man, and had the stronger qualities
men should have, and the higher talent not in a
less but in a greater degree for being without the
pettier kind, I have done him a cruel injustice It
would grieve me to have been unjust to him, and
pain me to the heart if, by dwelling overmuch upon
the simpler, tender, very innocent side of him, I had
given the impression he had none other. Half a man
may easily seem a whole fool ; for nothing is so misleading
as half a man  especially half a gentleman.
The chivalrous side of a gentleman is not rough ; yet
many people seem unable to dissociate strength from
roughness, and particularly, it would seem, in naval
men.

The vigorous Blowhard, speaking with a loud voice,
a sort of stop-her-back-her tongue,  a sincere good
fellow, it is true, but not polite, a Blowhard at home
as well as on the quarterdeck, and one essentially
with a strong hand keeping his wife like a well-reefed
mainsail, and his children like reefed topsails,  is, I

think, not far from the popular idea of such officers
in her Majesty's navy as have been posted ; for the
peremptory Blowhard is not considered perfectly developed
till after he is a post-captain. I fear it will
always be rather hard to get the public mind to
believe the captain or admiral who is not a Blowhard
is really distinguished in his profession, unless he has
the luck to gain a naval victory. Then the British
nation would let him be as polite on shore as any other
gentleman, and talk quite naturally, and not keep his
wife like a reefed mainsail. As a fact, it is generally
the wife who reefs him on shore, and the children too,
even if he is a real old Blowhard. In nine cases out
of ten, take even the popular Blowhard from his hurries
and you have the most easily managed
of all domestic men, and certainly the one who least
suspects his wife is turning him round her little
finger. The fact is, Blowhard may be a retired
admiral before he has seen enough of his wife to
have any idea what she is really made of, and, what
is still more important, before he has had time to get
in the least tired of her. The intimate daily society
of the ladies can be a very pleasant novelty to many
a naval officer. This it never is to your military man ;
and so the lady who would not command a regiment
might be backed to command a man-of-war. The
Admiralty is very wise in discouraging the ladies.
Just fancy what an angel like Clara might be onboard
ship, and nowhere to land her ! So you could
only drown her ! Yet how could her dear admiral

ever bring himself to throw that charming woman
overboard ?

But I will say for Admiral Crofton that he would
have been more likely to see clearly through Clara onboard
his own ship than on shore, because she would
sooner or later have clashed with his duty ; and where
his sense of duty or honour or justice was concerned,
he could be clear-sighted. The truthful simplicity of
his own character was such, that had he ceased to
believe absolutely in Clara, she would have had no
influence over him  not even on shore. In this
necessity of perfect belief, he was just like a child ;
and you can have no moral influence over any child
who does not implicitly believe in you, but only
physical power. Xow, Clara's influence over the
Admiral was wholly moral ; it was a sort of beautiful,
fascinating, moral power, a little heightened, it might
be, by the charm of a soft manner and the transparency
of an exquisitely fair complexion. But these
attractions were only part of the angel's aureole, and
the Admiral was strong enough to have shut his
eyes to the aureole had he ceased to believe in the
angel.

Clara's rose-coloured ink did full justice in the
prettiest way to everything complimentary that could
by any possibility be said about the Admiral's very
charming appointment. The nicely-turned little sentences
really did read as if they were sincere, and for
the very best of all reasons, because they were sincere.
Mrs Newsham was remarkably glad the Ad-vol.

II. II

moral would soon be off to America, for she thought
it would be much safer to have him going through a
crisis off Bermuda, or navigating amongst icebergs,
than to have him at home doing the impulsively-romantic
father to Charlie and Eleanour, and it
might be even getting a fit of uncontrollable foolishness
after Eleanour was actually engaged to George ;
for Clara was convinced Charlie would tell his father
everything, though she was equally sure he had not
confided in him yet.

Metternich, having settled on an immediate engagement
with George, was only waiting for Eleanour to
be ordered up to town by Dr Doseman, until she
knew for certain that Charlie was not in London.
She was aware he had been in Germany since he had
left Eton and had failed in the Sandhurst preliminary;
but she had happened to see in the paper that another
army examination for a very limited number of vacancies
had just taken place, and sooner, it was stated,
than had been intended, for some reason or other,
which she had forgotten, because she had paid no
real attention to the paragraph till Miss Smith had
told her the story of Nellie's love. When the governess
was telling it, Clara had suddenly been struck
with the idea that Charlie might have gone in for that
examination. If so, he would know his fate in about
five weeks' time, or even sooner; and then, if he
had passed, he might be coming to propose openly for
Eleanour, and perhaps to Thomas I

As Mrs ISTewsham kept the newspapers in her own

boudoir, she was sure the paragraph had not been
seen either by her daughter or Miss Smith. She had
discovered from the governess that Eleanour had no
hope Charlie would pass, or come to claim her as his
bride for nearly another whole year ; and she quite
understood how interminably long, how hopelessly
endless, a year might seem at Eleanour's age.

So, after having finished all the preliminary little
compliments at the beginning of her letter, Clara
ended up by saying : " And now, my dear Admiral,
I do so much, so very much, want to know a little personal
news about yourself ! How are you ? Quite
well, I hope. And how is Charlie ? By the by,
where is Charlie ? It is quite a centum since I have
even heard of him ! and you never mentioned him in
your letter ! What a very, very unnatural father you
are becoming ! and you used to be suevi an adoring
idolater to that boy. The idea of your forgetting
even to mention his name ! But of course he is away
in Germany, and did not go in for the examination
which has just taken place, or which indeed, for all I
know, may still be going on. You must write almost
immediately to tell me when you expect to be really
on the move ; for now, my dear Admiral, you must
pay Thomas and me a little visit before you start off
for that dreadful, distant place  now positively you
must ! "

Clara had no intention whatever of having the
Admiral at Eastcourt, for she thought he might bean
awkward complication amongst her accidents ; but

she quite intended to send him a very nicely-worded
little invitation when she had clearly discovered what
was exactly the very time he could not possibly accept
it. The cordial invitation, not intended to be accepted,
is one of Clara's lesser fine arts.

Having said all she wanted about Charlie, Metternich
ended up her letter by sending the " very kindest
congratulations from dear Thomas ; " for she had an
extremely pretty way of bringing Thomas into her
correspondence.

As may easily be imagined, Mrs Newsham got an
answer from her dear Admiral by return of post.
Her kindly interest in Charlie, and her inquiries about
him, had touched the very softest spot in that dear
Admiral's heart, and one that Clara had not touched
before ; for the only manner in which the most charming
of charming women had ever given the Admiral
the slightest, vaguest feeling of disappointment had
been through a sort of instinct he had about her, that
the tender devoted mother of so large a family did
not take the absorbing interest in his son she certainly
would have done had she had no children of her own.
But Clara's letter proved unmistakably what a very,
very great interest she really did take in Charlie, and
in Charlie's examination: and such kindly interest
seemed quite beautiful in Clara. But it was perhaps
well for the fair illusion that Charlie had gone back
to Germany the day before the Admiral got Metternich's
letter, because the Admiral would certainly have
shown it to his son, and Charlie would have pronounced

it all humbug, and would have spoken his
mind very freely about Mrs Newsham, for he did not
like her. He had never liked her. He had a strong
feeling of distrust towards her, and he invariably knew
his own mind about people and things with a clearness
that was remarkable in such a very young man.
The mother who died when he was born must have
been a lady of strong character. It is said she had
unbounded influence over the Admiral.

If Charlie knew he disliked Clara, she was even
more certain that she disliked him. She had disliked
his open fearless ways from infancy. AVhen she
had looked through him, meaning to cow him after
that fashion of hers George hated so much, he would
open the big eyes of childhood and look through her.
Young as he still was, she feared him a little, and
never by any chance humbugged her dear, dear Admiral
in his presence. Perhaps this instinctive dislike
was the reason why Clara's mind had not dwelt a
second time on the thought of George's narrow escape
from drowning  for it had not done so.

Mrs Xewsham got the Admiral's answer, saying
Charlie had gone back to Germany for a month, by
the early post which arrives at Eastcourt before breakfast.


By lunch-time Dr Doseman had ordered Nellie upto
town immediately, " for further advice." He said
to Mrs Newsham  " Miss Eleanour is better, my dear
madam ; she is certainly better and stronger than she
has been since poor Miss Adela's lamentable death.

for she can walk a little now, and there is decided
improvement in every way, so I do not say that further
advice is absolutely necessary, but I do say it is
on the whole desirable ; and if Miss Eleanour does go
up to town, she ought to go immediately, Mrs New-sham
 immediately, before the hot weather begins."
He also told Clara a change would be good for her.
' Indeed, my dear madam, a change is most necessary
for you  most necessary. And I should wish you to
see Sir Jonathan Johnston yourself, or Dr Williams-smith
; but on the whole I should prefer to have Sir
Jonathan's opinion of your case."

But, Dr Doseman," Clara very nicely replied, " I
have such perfect, perfect confidence in you ! I have
more confidence in your treatment than in Sir Jonathan
Johnston's  indeed, indeed I have ! for, believe
me, no one, no one understands my constitution as
well as you do, Dr Doseman ! "

And this was Clara's sincere conviction. She is
always sincere and truthful when it is quite pleasant
and convenient to be so.

It was therefore solely to consult Dr Williams-smith
about Eleanour that Mrs Newsham went up to
town.

Thomas quite willingly accompanied his wife and
daughter to London, because in the clearest bit of his
heart he felt anxious to know Dr Williams-Smith's
opinion of his dear Nellie, and also because Sir Hereward
Foreman's annual No Option Bill was to come
on in the House soon after Whitsuntide.

As Clara was well aware, Kate Crofton and George
were in Chapel Street. Kate, being George's guardian,
had a great deal of business with the lawyers, and
George, having been plucked in his former examination,
was cramming for his " final try " with Mr Butt
in Brompton.

CHAPTER III.

That exalted feeling of duty and honour which is
common amongst real gentlemen in England was very
strong in George Crofton. It was as strong within
him as the power to love. For instance, he was not
one of those men who could have married a woman
whom he despised morally, and did not respect.
Shame and dishonour of all kinds were intolerable
to him.

The thought of Adela's death, and of the way he
had forgotten her in his overpowering eagerness to
save her sister, stung him with shame, for he had
forgotten the poor girl who considered herself engaged
to him, and beloved by him, until Nellie had shown
some sign of life. He was in honour bound to have
remembered her before it was all too late, even if he
had thought first of Nellie. He told himself there

o

would have been time to save her too, had he but
gone a little quicker to the rescue. The pain there
is in the sting of remorseful shame can be intense in
youth  intense at every age to those who feel that
sting  and only a mere nothing to those who cannot

feel at all. It is very true there are people who have
no real feeling anywhere, either in their heart or their
mind, except when their vanity is publicly touched.
But vanity had nothing to say to George's sorrow,
because he thought his secret absolutely his own, and
had not the most remote suspicion Clara had been an
eyewitness of the truth. He had not seen her before
he jumped into the water, and was unconscious when
at last he was brought back to shore by William the
groom.

Poor Adela's last piercing cry haunted George.
Had she called him before, and had he not heard ?
Had she seen him loiter lovingly over ISTellie ? And
amidst all the terrors of death  he knew how horribly
she had ever feared to be drowned  had she at the
last understood he had no love for her ? understood
when sinking to die that he loved Nellie ? He was
sure in his heart she had.

There had been anguish in her death-cry, and he
heard it still. He was for ever hearing it. That
awful sound, ringing in his ear like loud - voiced
guilt, had changed him from a boy into a serious
man.

His loving stepmother had noticed with anxious
wonder the change in him. It had struck her that
perhaps she had been mistaken in thinking he did not
love Adela, for she had certainly thought so, and had
been quite at a loss to understand how he ever could
have proposed for her to Thomas even if Clara had
wished him to do so ; but poor Adela's tragic death

had closed her lips on the subject of that strange
proposal.

The young gni's death was so terrible to her, and
so terrible to the Admiral who had seen the poor
child's dead body, that it is a fact neither of them
had so much as mentioned Adela's name during those
few days they were together at Crofton Place with Sir
Cuthbert lying dead in the house.

He who has been in the same house with death
knows how that awful presence can seal our lips, and
make so much we midst otherwise have said feel
unworthy to be spoken. It therefore happened that
the intimate conversation and comparing of notes between
the Admiral and Kate, which might have put
Clara's conduct in a very clear light, never took place.
So the compromising accidents of Metternich's first
little matrimonial intrigue had been virtually drowned
with poor Adela in the Eastcourt lake.

Kate could not bring herself to talk of the poor
o-irl to George, for he winced at the mere mention of
her name, and betrayed painful emotion.

In his moments of deepest regret George would yet
keenly know he was passionately glad to have saved
Nellie's life. He would be frightened to know he was so
shad  shocked as some murderer misht be to feel there
had been joy, intensity of joy, in his crime. The remembrance
of that hour when he had thought jSTellie dead,
then found she lived, still thrilled him with a great
delight, for those instants of suspense just after he
had saved her from the water seemed to him an hour.

He imagined he had delayed infinitely longer in going
to Adela's rescue than he really had. Yet there had
been time enough for her to drown.

It was this feeling of secret joy, so cruelly wronging
to the dead, which had made George refuse Mrs New-sham's
invitation to the unveiling the marble cross.
He had a horror of meeting;* Nellie ao'ain for the first
time at Adela's grave, where all eyes would be turned
upon him as chief mourner, and where he would
perhaps be overcome by feelings not really connected
with the dead, because Nellie, he had thought, would
be there beside him. And he had never even seen
her since he had saved her life and let her sister die,
for when he had been well enough to start off at the
last moment to Sir Cuthbert's funeral, Nellie was still
too ill to see any one. He had not been to Eastcourt
since then.

The very evening Clara arrived in town she sent a
little note over from the Alexandra Hotel to Chapel
Street, beciing dearest Kate would come and see her
early next day : she only asked Kate, she did not ask
George.

Kate went, and with a beatings heart. There is so
much we bury in a grave I Sometimes it is all that
is soft and human and forgiving in us, but oftener it
is our harder self  our juster one it may be, but, like
justice, hard. In every grave, I think, there are two
coffins, even in that of a young girl like Adela.

Adela's death stood between Kate and Clara like
the forgiving angel, whose wings are spread to shade

the past from glaring light and make it dim. The
pity of the poor child's young death stifled doubts as
if they had been sins in Kate's mind, and scared away
just suspicion like the shame of an unworthy meanness.
Had poor Adela really loved George as George
now seemed to love her ? Did she know Aunt
Kate had said she could not consent to the engagement,
and had she felt this to be cruel ? Kate made
herself unhappy with this thought.

It is a curious fact, I have often noticed it, that
much of the repentant regret in this world is felt by
the wrong people  sympathetic souls easily swayed
by the tenderness of pity, regretting to have seemed
even a little hard ; while very hard, cruel, intensely
selfish people can be serenely comfortable.

It had ever given Kate acute pain to doubt
Thomas's wife even a little. She could not for years
bring herself clearly to acknowledge that Clara was not
particularly kind to her, and was exceedingly inhospitable.
It seemed wrong to think Clara had no
real affection for her, only the instinct to make use
of her when she could be of use. The charity of not
seeing people as they really are brings cruel unhappiness,
unless you are quite incapable of disillusion ; for
few, very few, can go on for ever believing in the
unreal against their experience, their knowledge, and
their very senses. It is certainly happier to have the
power from the first of clearly grasping your relations
as they really are, and then you make the best of the
actual human beings, and have no disillusion, and

don't mind their being unsatisfactory. People who
can do this are always on good terms with everybody.
But that putting aside of fair illusion, where we wish
to love and care so much for love, is one of the
hardest efforts of clear sight, and very, very painful.
Yet it is the sensible way of living. Unfortunately,
I think everything that is quite sensible in life is
very painful too. Experience, the great sense-giver
to most of us, is usually extremely disagreeable. It
is like passing through the chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina,
and whooping-cough  at last you are left with
a sensible constitution that has had its little diseases.
But then you did not at all enjoy being constantly laid
up, and having common-sense for your nurse, with
nauseous medicine in one hand and blisters in the
other, keeping you quiet and oppressively dull at
home, instead of letting you and your imagination
run brilliantly over the world, merry with the great
delight of joyous illusion. For how full of touching
joy is fair illusion !

But as there are constitutions which quickly forget
their first measles and scarlatina, and have to go
through them twice over, so there are people on
whom the former sickness of experience and disillusion
can be lost, and they will believe again almost as
if they had never doubted. This oblivion comes
oftener through sorrowful pity, for the forgetfulness
of pity is great.

Wlien Kate saw Clara for the first time after
Adela's death, she met her shyly, as if she had

wronged lier ; and it is very true that all the regretful
feeling was entirely on her side.

Clara was quite calm. She felt no compunction
whatever for the past, only cold wrath at what had
gone amiss. Yet it was she who had forced her dead
child to be enojased to a man she well knew did not
love her  a man who let her die because he could
not even remember her danger till it was too late to
save her. Had Clara buried no wrong of her own
doing in her daughter's grave ? Had she not greatly
wronged poor George too ?

Kate did not know the real circumstances of Adela's
death. ISTo one knew them except George and Clara ;
for William the groom was not in the secret  he had
seen Sir George try to save Miss Adela's life, but had
seen nothing more.

Clara was kind in her manner to Thomas's sister,
and was pleased, and not displeased, at her visible
emotion, because, grieving in her own heart for Adela's
death, she liked others to feel the pity of it, and to be
sorry the young girl had died ; and also  for Clara
was a complex being  because affectionate, melting
weakness was very easy to manage, and insubordination
alone was the unpardonable offence in a sister-in-law.


So for the moment Clara overlooked the personal
insult of that codicil to Sir Cuthbert's will ; but it
would not be true to say she forgave Kate the influential
position in which it placed her. Clara never
really forgives what she has once resented as an insult

to her ]x)wer or herself. However, Kate felt just
then so soft and pliable to her clever touch, that she
was content for the present to look upon her as an
accident of Sir George's existence which might be
easily arranged.

As Mrs Newsham had the knack of bringing
Thomas very prettily into her correspondence, so
there were occasions, if rare ones, when she would
use him diplomatically with nice effect. We all
know how cleverly she had once contrived to make
him look like the principal surrounding circumstance
in a love-affair, and now she made use of him for the
still further softening of Kate's heart. She allowed
the brother and sister to be much more together than
she generally did, but, it is true, always under her own
careful supervision ; for though she intended Kate's
consent to George's marriage with Eleanour should be
asked and obtained by her husband rather than by
herself, she did not mean the preliminary intimacy
and affection should give Kate an influence over
Thomas. Clara allowed no one to influence that
excellent man but herself. Kate understood this,
and had done so for years.

Metternich was a perfect type of the exclusive
brother's wife so common in England, and with whom
no sister-in-law ever feels really at home, any more
than she would with a sentry perpetually standing at
arms. There is much petty mental strain, and even
physical discomfort, in the unceasing qui vive ; and it is
generally all about nothing. The want of repose is

fatiguing unpleasant : and I think this is the reason
you will sometimes see sisters-in-law quite as amiable
as Kate rather avoiding dear Henry's, or dear Thomas's,
or dear Charles's wife. They will not do it from
actual dislike, but because the strain of being much
with the exclusive brother's wife is so very tiring.
Her society will be quite unsatisfactory, for she will
let them have no pleasure in it. And ten to one, if
she has children, she will be just as peculiar and
jealous and uncomfortable about them as she is about
her Henry, or her Charles, or her very dear Thomas.
Her children's constitutions will surely be singular ;
and if they get the measles, there will be no infection
at the end of a week, while your children would be
infectious to hers for three months. Then, it is true,
her children never catch any disease of their own
accord, though they do so very easily from yours ; just
as they certainly have good manners by nature, and
only get bad ones from naughty cousins. I think it
is often as unsatisfactory to be much thrown with the
belongings of the exclusive brother's wife as with
that uncomfortable relation herself.

However, to do Clara justice, I must say that fate,
having arranged Thomas was quite unnecessarily to
have a sister, she liked the sister he had better on
the whole than she would any other, for Kate's blind
enduring love for Thomas was satisfied with very
little, did not take offence, and was altogether quite
subservient : besides, Clara did give Kate credit for
being only one, just as her own grandmother Eock-

liiirst had tlioudit it a virtue iu herself to have no
sisters.

The why and wherefore of strong family affectionis
sometimes a little puzzling to outsiders. It had
ever puzzled Clara much to conceive why on earth
Kate was so deeply attached to Thomas, when Thomas
spent most of his life seemingly quite forgetting her
up in his own moon. Clara did not understand how
Thomas could inspire any one with romantic affection,
though she quite acknowledged that when you were
under the same roof with him, the bits of him which
happened to be together were most kind and amiable,
and of a very easy temper. She knew there was
not an unkind bit of Thomas straying about anywhere
; and she herself liked her husband almost
cordially, for she always felt no other man in the
world could have suited her and her little accidents
half as well ; and from the time she had successfully
inveigled him out, through an Archbishop, into
pleasant mixed society, she had not once regretted
her early marriage, or ever wished any one else had
fallen in love with tier. If Thomas should die before
her, leaving her a coronet and otherwise well provided
for, she will certainly not care to marry again.

As I have said once before, Mr Iewsham was nearly
always a surprise to those who had not seen him for
some time. He would surprise you if, on meeting him,
his spirit had gone hunting afar like Baal, because it
was not easy to remember, when you had been away
from him, how very, very absent he really was. Yet the

VOL. n. I

surprise would certainly be greater if you found the
principal bits of him clearly at home.

Kate was startled to see Thomas an awakened man,
quite aware of poor Adela's tragic death, and nervously
anxious Dr Williams-Smith might think well of " my
dear child Nellie," as he called Eleanour to his sister.
ISTellie's look, and her fits of feverish excitement and
low-spirited distress, alarmed Kate's kind heart, and
she felt deep sympathy with Thomas's fear. The
change, too, in her brother touched her much, for even
physically he was altered : he had grown very thin
and yellow, and was altogether out of sorts.

With a good deal of timorous roundabout, Kate
told her sister-in-law she thought Thomas looking ill,
and suggested that perhaps it might be no harm, if he
did not soon look better, for Clara to consult Sir Jonathan
Johnston about him, as she believed Clara thought
very highly of Sir Jonathan.

The exclusive brother's wife did not snub her, as
she had fully expected, because the novel idea had
struck Metternich as one that might be made good use
of on future occasions. Clara rapidly foresaw the day
might come when it might be very convenient to take
a house in town solely for Thomas to consult the
doctors.

CHAPTER IV.

Mrs Newsiiam had been five days at the Alexandra
Hotel, and had not even so much as seen Sir George
Crofton. Nor had Thomas either ; but then it never
did matter in the least whom Thomas saw or did not
see,  Clara was the important person. She was getting
very angry because George had not called, and
she was sure he hid himself on purpose. On two
successive evenings she had stayed very late in Chapel
Street visiting dear Kate with Thomas, and George
had not appeared, although she was certain she had
heard the hall-door open and shut. Such conduct was
extremely irritating, because, you see, Clara's time was
short. In another month Charlie might be expected
back upon the scene, and in that case she would have
to take Nellie instantly away from town,  and perhaps
disengaged.

Clara had perceived how eagerly excited Eleanour
seemed when out driving, and had noticed her
awakened, anxious eyes looking in all directions in
the Park and streets, as if expecting to see some one

they did not see. She knew Eleanour did not know
Charlie Crofton was in Germany.

There is a shop in Brompton, almost opposite the
main entrance to Mr Butt's well - known cramming
establishment, where Clara, on the fourth day of her
stay in town, had bought a yard of black ribbon, on
the fifth three pairs of black gloves, and where she
went upon the sixth day to make purchases during
fully three-quarters of an hour. She left Eleanour all
that time waiting in an open carriage at the shop door.

But the time did not seem long to Nellie. It was
a great relief to be alone, unnoticed, when she was
watching so eagerly for Charlie to pass by. She must
see him soon. It seemed a miracle she had not seen
him yet.

Nellie had hardly ever been in London  only twice
as a young child, and then merely for a few days with
Aunt Kate. In the country you get accustomed to
see everybody who is there quite easily. Nellie did
not realise she might be months and months in London,
and Charlie be there too, and yet never once
happen to see him by mere accident in the street.
She did not tire of looking hopefully from side to side
of the road at all who went by, for each strange face
seemed only to make it the more certain that strange
faces could not be passing for ever. So sure was she
of this, that she was in nowise overwhelmed by that
solitude which is like a great awe that can be felt in
the crowded streets of London, as if it were some
dreadful power crushing us out of communion with the

livings. The strange endless crowd seems alive, but
you feel unknown to all those men and women, unseen
by them, as if you yourself were dead. I think when
this feeling of solitude in a crowd comes to us, it is
one of the most overpowering there is on earth. The
cold melancholy of it takes our heart aback. There is
no place where you will long more for satisfying
human sympathy and love than in huge London. The
annihilation of the awful solitude which may be felt
there amongst those millions of uncaring people is
appalling to the living heart.

But Nellie did not feel alone as yet in the great
crowd, because she thought Charlie must be somewhere
very near to her. The next face would be his, and if
not that one, why certainly the next again. So the
forty minutes passed quickly.

Suddenly, just at the last, she saw George, standing
quite still on a doorstep at the other side of the road
nearly opposite to her. To see him seemed for an
instant almost like seeing Charlie, so connected were
the two cousins in her mind together. She felt as if
Charlie must indeed be very near. She was agitated,
delighted, and her pale cheek flushed with the joy of
returning life, for Nellie had got very pale of late, and
was much changed. She had grown thin, and looked
as if she were all eyes  sad, yearning eyes that had
no smile in them.

George lifted his hat, and walked on, but not towards
her ; then suddenly turned round, and came
very quickly across the road.

He hesitated to come' thought Nellie, " for I
have not seen him since he saved poor Adela and me
from drowning ; but she died of the cold and shock.
It is I who live. And George did not love me,  he
loved poor Adela ; so he must have wished me to die,
not her. And it must move him very much to see me
again, and to remember all that happened on that
dreadful, dreadful day. Poor George ! poor George ! "

Ah, George ! " she said aloud, when he came near,
stretching out her two hands and warmly clasping his
one timid one, and holding it in both of hers as she
spoke,  " Ah, George, we have not met since ."
She paused, feeling as if the same vivid remembrance
that was in her own mind were in his also. " And
you saved my life that day, and I have never thanked
you ; but I have so longed to thank you, George  so
longed ! and to tell you how . . . how . . ." She
was going to say, "how terrible I feel it was for you
to save me and not poor Adela," but she stopped
short, overcome by the silencing shyness we so often
feel in the presence of great emotion, especially if it is
the emotion of a strong, rather stolid man, whom we
never thought to see in pale agitation, trembling perceptibly,
and seemingly afraid to speak for fear his
voice should betray the feeling he is trying hard to
stifle. Nothing is more nervously agitating to a sensitive,
highly strung woman than to see that great
effort of self-command in a strong man, and to feel one
word more from her might break down the fortitude
she admires with a sort of fear.

So Nellie trembled too, and was silent  as silent as
George. Her touching eyes grew very big with tears.
It is not always easy to tell at a glance if great emotion
is of joy or grief ; and it was no wonder Nellie
mistook for grief what really was too great a rush of
joy in George's heart. There was deep joy for him in
her warm thanks, and in her trembling agitation at
this their first meeting since he had saved her life.

As in that awful hour three months before he had
forgotten all else in the world but her, so now for a
moment he forgot remorse and shame, and only remembered
with throbbing joy that he had saved her life.
He had quickly seen the change in her  she had
turned very white and wan again ; but he only loved
her more, not less, for the sadness in her eyes, and for
all the sorrow and feeling which he thought had paled
her girlish bloom.

Clara came out of the shop while George was 
over the carriage towards Nellie with that look of
intense emotion in his face. Clara stopped. For an
instant all that was most human, most like a real
mother in her, felt a wound. Here was the . . . the
murderer of her dead child  the child she had cared
for  making very evident love to the sister he had
treacherously saved. Clara had meant this should be
so,  she had arranged this deliberately in cold blood of
her own accord ; but it was the first time she saw the
reality with her actual eyes. There was something in
the sight which made her pause.

But, recovering, she walked forward. She had mastered

herself, though not so completely as she was
wont to do.

On seeing her, George started, and stepped back.
He awakened to the painful memory he had forgotten.
Her keen glance seemed to him as if it knew his guilt.
And there was a warmth, a sort of half-roused passion,
in her look which struck him much in one generally
so cold. He was ashamed before her, and he felt his
guilt. And yet, I think, he liked Clara better then
than he had often done before. She seemed more
human to him, more akin in nature to his own, for the
anger he felt in her was the kind of anger he might
feel in himself. Such wrath was natural and right in
poor Adela's mother; and just  only just.

It was George who first spoke. Still standing back,
he said kindly, in that broken voice of deep feeling
which regretful sorrow gives, " I am grieved for you,
Mrs Newsham  I understand  I had meant you should
not see me again  or not for long years to come."

There was a short struggle in Clara, but only a
short one. The feeling, the curious softness betrayed
by the usually dense and dogged George, tempted
Clara overpowering to pursue her preconceived plan.
She felt she could now do what she liked with George ;
so she would do what in cooler, wiser moments she
had settled upon. Yes ; she would.

Metternich had recovered her full presence of mind.
I should never have forgiven you, George," she said,
taking his hand ; she had not yet shaken hands with
him. " I should never have forgiven you, George, if

you had avoided me even for one day more. And,"
she added, but as if it were a slight effort to say the
words, " Nellie would not have forgiven you either.
She has been very anxious to thank you for having
saved her life."

At this George's whole face flushed with strong
emotion. And Nellie, who had been looking down
since her mother came near, looked up wdtli tender,
wistful eyes, still tearful with the agitation, as George
thought, " of our first meeting."

Metternich instinctively felt the moment to be her
own. " George," she said, very gently, " you will come
and see us soon  very soon  immediately. You will
come and dine with us to-night."

And, carried out of himself by the sight and near
presence of Nellie, George forgot every vow he had ever
made, and eagerly said he would. But it was at
Nellie, not at Clara, that he looked. He did not even
see Mrs Newsham was getting hastily into the carriage,
and required his hand. The carriage was off before
he realised what he had said. Clara looked back at
him ; she saw him still standing where they had left
him. But when he saw her looking, he walked on,
and quickly.

Clara felt agreeably elated, as a general who has
been in retirement and returns to active war might
feel at his first small success. But the sensation was
short-lived. It did not last five minutes. It almost
disappeared with the sight of George. For Clara had
not been long alone with Nellie when ai:ain that consciousness

of having received a wound came back to
her unawares, and drove all other thoughts away.
She looked at Nellie. The girl quailed, as she always
did, beneath her glance. " What attraction was therein
that wretchedly weak face, which had not a single
well-cut feature ? " thought Clara. " What was its
beauty compared to poor Adela's ? It had no beauty
none ! " Clara was jealous that the dead daughter,
whom she had admired, had not been loved by George
with the strong love it was only too clear he had for
Nellie. What right had Eleanour to inspire such love
in the man who was to have been her sister's husband ?
She felt bitterly towards the poor girl.

Eleanour," said she, hardly, " I hope George will
pass into the army well next time. I think he is
very wise to continue studying with his former tutor,
instead of rushing off to Germany for months with
that wild young Eattles, as Charlie Crofton has
done."

Charlie ? " said the young girl, in a voice that
would have moved the pity of most people, but did not
move Clara's. Nellie started and touched her mother's
hand, as if her instinct were to grasp it for help ; but
she recoiled at her own touch. " In Germany ! " she
murmured ; " not here ! not here ! "

Clara looked straight at her again, with cold searching
eyes. " What is the matter, Eleanour ? " she said ;
you are faint." And Mrs Newsham told the coachman
to drive home to the hotel.

There is a kind of courage in great fear, like the

intensity of life we sometimes feel in a moment of
great danger. The passionate dread of betraying to
her mother the love she felt for a man who certainly
must despise her, and, it might be, even hated her,
kept Nellie from actual fainting. Fortunately they
were quite near home.

When they drove up to the hotel, Johnson and the
maid were standing at the door. They helped Nellie
out of the carriage. As Clara could leave her in safe
hands, she did not go in with her, but continued to
drive alone. There were times when she much liked
to be alone.

But no sooner did Nellie see her mother drive away,
than all her little strength of mind and body seemed
to leave her, and she fainted in the hall. She was
still too faint that evening to appear at dinner.

George did not fully realise with what anxious joy he
had come to meet her so soon again, until he felt the
intense disappointment of her absence. Yet he knew
he loved her ; he had known it from the hour he had
saved her life and let her sister die.

Thomas was so kind in manner, so very kind to
George, that the young man was painfully touched,
and felt like a traitor, and wished he had refused Mrs
Newsham's invitation.

Not long after Adela's funeral, Mr Newsham had
written to George, thanking him for having saved one
dear child from death, and done his utmost to save the
other. It was not an absent letter, but a fully understanding,
feeling one. It said how deeply Thomas

sympathised in the sore grief and disappointment he
knew George would feel at Adela's death. Thomas
had actually written this letter without consulting
Clara ; and when George's rather constrained answer
came, and Clara saw it, she wondered with much
anxiety what on earth Thomas could have said !
Clara kept an attentive eye on her husband's correspondence.


Mr ISTewsham was visibly moved on first meeting
George. And George remembered the letter and all
that was in it. Adela's father seemed to know him so
very clearly. The spirit of Thomas's eyes was present
beneath his still dark brows, for it was only his hair
which had whitened so much of late. Thomas had a
very pleasant face to see when the kind, feeling bits of
him were at home ; and even when they were away on
distant journeys, he had a countenance which pleased.
It was a little like that of some mystic saint, for there
was nothing hard or worldly in his ever kindly face.
You might laugh, and yet you would feel attracted by
his look even when he was smiling in his far-off way
at some very wicked drunkards.

But memory was startlingly present in his face
when Thomas first met George again. The young
man was much struck by the change in him. He
seemed changed altogether, and appeared to be remembering
every sort of thing, even remarking to his wife
that he thought Johnson had been out of sorts that
day; and he quite frightened George by his alarm
about Nellie, and by all the clear questions he asked.

But Clara allayed George's fear. " My dear George,"
she gently whispered to him, " it is only the emotion
of meeting you for the first time since you saved her
life which has agitated dear Nellie." Clara said this
with some return of the old lively pleasure she used
to feel in the practice of her principal fine art.

CHAPTER V.

There are artists who have the power, when moved in
their soul, to paint their own passion in another's face.
We think we stand enraptured by the mere woman's
beauty we see, and it is the power of the painter we
feel.

It was the moving power of another love  not his
own  George felt like some touching beauty in Nellie
when he saw her acjaiu. He had regretted the night
before to have accepted Mrs Newsham's invitation, and
yet he came next day unasked late in the afternoon.

There was a pale pathos in the young girl's crushed
look which made his manner very tender to her ; and
he had been rather an unpolished rough young fellow
until now.

Nellie had been low and weak before Clara told her
Charlie was not in town, and she was not in a state to
bear bad news without feeling weaker still. Then, too,
Dr "Williams-smith was treating her on his new system,
which happened to be exactly the contrary of Dr Dose-man's
old one, and the sudden change from several
glasses of strong wine a- day to none at all naturally

produced a reaction, and made her feel more nervous
and depressed than usual. Also it must be remembered
she had her mother's constant presence on her
nerves. Till now she had hardly ever been alone with
Clara for more than a few minutes at a time, and she
felt so uncomfortable with her, and so dreadfully afraid
of her. From the moment Charlie's name had been
mentioned between them, the cold fear of her mother
was not merely a great strain to Nellie, but a perpetual
alarm of something dreadful going to happen,
which would seem a terror quite close to her when Clara
was near. So what a relief it was when her mother
went out of the room and left her with George.

It was very pleasant to Nellie to be alone with
George, because he was so quiet in his kindness, and
she had no need to watch herself before him or think
about herself at all. There was no more agitation for
her with him, only repose. And he did not trouble
her by too much talking.

For a day or two Clara took Thomas to see dear
Kate in Chapel Street, just at the hour George was
most likely to call. Unfortunately, as Clara thought,
there was only a matter of foreign policy being discussed
just then in the House  a question, it is true,
bearing upon the maintenance of our empire in the
East, but not of the vital interest and importance to
her husband of any local temperance bill.

Thomas had noticed nothing as yet in George's manner
to Nellie ; but he was so curiously awake in his
mind, that he required rapier troublesome watching.

Clara felt as if he were Erecting altogether a little out

o o o

of hand, for he had actually asked Kate to dinner one
night, as well as George, without consulting her ! This
was alarming. But Thomas had given the invitation
in her presence, so, not wishing in the critical state of
affairs to snub Kate, Clara had to seem delighted.
Kate was touched, and said to herself, " Clara is indeed
much softened by poor Adela's death. She is quite
kind ! Perhaps she always meant to be kinder than
she used to seem." And Kate came to dine at the
Alexandra Hotel with her two eyes beautifully closed
by the blindness of that true forgiveness which wishes
never to have an unkind thought or any sort of clear
sight again. Clara saw her state of mind, took useful
advantage of it, and did not think her sister-in-law
dangerous. All Metternich's anxiety was therefore
concentrated upon Thomas.

On the morning of the tenth day after the Xew-
shams' arrival in town, Thomas remarked to his wife
with slow amazement, as if all his senses were gathering
in surprise together, " Johnson was absent-minded
this morning, Clara. Yes, yes ; he was."

Oh, my dear Thomas ! my dear Thomas ! " cried
she, smiling at the idea that anybody could be absent
but Thomas himself. " What a funny notion ! "

'' Yes ! " mused Thomas ; " yes, yes, yes ! he was
absent ! he certainly was. And I think he has dressed
me all wrong, Clara, for my pockets are not in the
same place as usual No, no, they are not ! "

And Thomas stood up and looked down at himself.

Clara looked too, and instantly saw he had got his
evening coat on ; but she thought he had changed the
morning one himself after breakfast. She never argued
with him about his absent ways, for what he did in an
absent fit made no impression upon his mind, and he
would sincerely deny his own actions. So Clara said
nothing, and Thomas remarked 

I don't think Johnson is well, Clara. No, no ! I
don't ! "

She asked, " Why so ? "

Because he is absent-minded, Clara."

Oh, Thomas, Thomas ! " she exclaimed, and smiled

Curious, curious ! " said Thomas, reflectively. " Perhaps
Johnson has a cold, Clara  a cold in his head !
and it bothers him. It has made him quite bothered.
Yes, yes, it has ! "

Very likely," said Clara, meaning to dismiss the
whole subject, and she went on with the letter she had
been writing to Lady Barchester.

But Thomas had not done with Johnson yet. He
shook his head, as if thinking deeply. " Yes, yes, yes,"
said he ; and then continued, " But I know what I
will do. Good idea  good idea ! I will take Johnson
down to Eastcourt for a few days' change of air,
Clara ; set him up, set him up ! And I will see the
children, too  see they are all safe and well. I am
anxious about the children, Clara."

Metternich's rapid mind instantaneously seized the
advantages of this arrangement. " Capital idea, Thomas !

VOL. IL K

you could not have a better ! " she cried, briskly.
Change of air will quite cure Johnson ; and as you
say, you will see the children. But if you are going,
I advise you to go to-day, so as to be back in plenty
of time to see the No Option Bill through the House,
and you know it is to come on next week. I should
go by the two o'clock train to-day if I were you,
Thomas."

Whenever you wanted Thomas to make up his mind
certainly to do anything, the best way was to settle a
definite time of action for him. He was like a child
in this, and Clara knew it. " Yes, Thomas, tell Johnson
you will start by the two o'clock train ; but mind,"
she added, " to make him take off your evening coat
first."

I will remember to change it myself," said Thomas,
gravely. And though Clara hardly ever laughs except
on purpose, she did laugh then.

Thomas and Johnson were not ready for the fast
two o'clock train, but they really did start by the slow
one which leaves at three. Clara drove Thomas to
the station, and waited there till she saw him off.
Johnson came with the luggage in a cab, but Mrs
Newsham never noticed him. She herself put Thomas
into a carriage full of people, where it would not be
easy for any one to murder even the most absent of
men. Clara was certainly a dutiful and careful wife ;
and to do Thomas justice, he always thought himself
a most fortunate man.

So Metternich was happily delivered from what

she was beginning to feel midst be the serious inconvenience
of her husband's presence.

Nellie was very sorry when her father went away.
She would have liked to go home with him ; and
George was startled, agitated, to hear her beg her
father, with tears, to take her home. Thomas had
seemed very willing ; it was Mrs Newsham who would
not hear of such a thing.

Nonsense, Thomas  nonsense ! Eleanour must
remain some time longer under Dr Williams-Smith."

But Nellie is better  yes, yes, she is. You are
feeling stronger, Nellie, dear ? " he had asked anxiously,
and he was so kind that Nellie had cried in bidding
him good-bye.

Nellie's tears, and her desire to go home, " away
from where I am," thought George, plunged the poor
lover into the deepest anxiety. His silent depression
became visible even to Nellie : she noticed it the very
day her father went away. George still looked very
kindly at her, but with such sorrow in his soft brown
eyes that she was grieved for him. " He is wishing
I were poor Adela." And though she lilted to be in
the presence of his tender kindness, and away from
the cold mother she intensely dreaded, it made her
very sad to see poor George such a changed sort of
man. Charlie had always been rather grave except at
those rare times when his whole countenance would
light up with joy, and be transformed by it. But
George used to have such an ordinary boy's face, full
of broad good-humour or broad ill-humour, and never

a thoughtful or a sad grave one, as Nellie saw he
had now.

George's dumb depression did not last twelve hours :
it gave place to a fever of unrest. " I cannot bear to
see her any more unless I know if she will hate or
love me when she hears the truth. Hatred or love !
which will it be when she is told how Adela died ?
She may think me a murderer, and hate the sight of
me for life. But I should be an awfully dishonourable
fellow if I did not tell her the truth  awfully ! And
yet the horror of thinking Adela was cruelly left to
die may kill her, for she is so ill and weak. Her
look frightens me to death at times."

Before George proposed to Adela, he used to feel
very uncomfortable in the same room with Clara. He
was invariably far more conscious of her presence than
of Adela's. But now he was hardly conscious of it at
all  only of Nellie's. It was she alone he saw and
heard.

Clara, on the contrary, was always keenly observing
George, but he had ceased to be sensitive to her glance.
When of old he used to be angry with her for " looking
through a fellow," as he called it, she had not in
reality looked through him and read him as she did
now. There are times when you can feel a man's
thoughts are laid bare before you. It is not illusion,
or vain imagination on your part, but a real fact. You
know you read aright, and you are not mistaken.

Clara saw into George's very heart. " He is madly
in love with Eleanour  madly ! Just as if she were

good-looking ! " Clara had mastered her first repugnance,
and was now accustomed to the sight of George's
ill-concealed passion. She bore it calmly, as we bear
the soreness left by a pain which was once acute. It
made her very, very cold to Nellie  that was all.

George is wondering if Eleanour will love or hate
him when she knows the secret he has on his conscience.
He is just the kind of young man to tell her
everything himself, and ridiculously overstate his guilt.
If Eleanour were not in love with another man, she
would not hate but love George. She would fall in
love with him then and there. All girls are vain, and
it would flatter her vanity to think he loved her so
much that he let her sister die. And well might she
be vain of it ! for she cannot think she has any of
poor Adela's beauty. But the uninteresting girls are
twice as vain as the really pretty ones, and half the
women marry through satisfied vanity, and think it is
love. If . if only Eleanour were not in love with
another man ! I shall never forgive Charles Crofton
as long as I live  never ! And now I must take
care, or there will be a catastrophe, and I shall have
George and Eleanour confessing to each other like two
fools ! I used to think George a bit of dead wood.
There seemed to be no making any impression on such
a stick of a boy ; but he is quite changed of late, and
the smallest match would set him aflame. And
Eleanour . I could not trust Eleanour if she were
carried away by emotion. She never had any self-command
whatever. She would tell him everything

everything ! and perhaps forget afterwards she had
told him anything at all. Just like Thomas ! "

Metternich thought deeply. In a few minutes she
had made up her mind.

George shall speak first to me, and not to Eleanour,"
was what she had rapidly settled. " George shall confess
the secret he thinks I do not know to me. He
shall propose to me for Eleanour." Clara thought
again. "After all," she reflected, "Eleanour need
never know that secret. George could easily be made
to take it for granted I had told it to her when I had
not. There would be great risk in telling Eleanour,
and it is so necessary some sort of engagement should
take place immediately. I can see Eleanour is in
despair about Charlie Crofton, and does not expect
him to come soon."

That very afternoon Clara went out for a little walk
alone, and happened to meet George, much to his surprise,
and apparently to her own. But she had known
exactly where to find him, for he had told Eleanour,
in her hearing, more than once, what he considered
undoubtedly the shortest cut from Butt's house to the
Alexandra Hotel. There was no chance of his taking
the longer way.

Sir George was striding along, engrossed in his own
thoughts. He would have passed Clara without seeing
her, had she not stopped him. " My dear George !
my dear George I You were going to cut me. Shocking
! quite shocking, I declare ! " cried she, in that tone
of light agreeability she can command at will.

Never saw jou, Mrs ISTewsham."

Then, my dear George, whatever, whatever were
you thinking of, to be so blind ? But where are
you rushing at such a great rate ? I was just on
the point of turning round when I met you ; and
perhaps, if you did not go quite so fast, we might
walk together."

I . . .1 was o-oinsj to the Alexandra Hotel."

Ah ! going to pay me a little visit ! So kind of
you, George ! so kind ! But I will come with you,
and leave cards on myself if I am not at home."

The playful Clara was a person who invariably had
a silencing effect upon George. He never knew what
to say to her, for she felt to him like a stranger.
There are people to whom you are constantly feeling
you ought to be reintroduced. You will meet an old
friend in one of them in the afternoon, and a totally
new acquaintance that night : some seem to change
their manner even with their company and their coat.
But Clara was far too much of a lady ever to do
that. It was solely from her little accidents that she
took her special colouring : she was charming or repressive,
beautifully soft or coldly severe, according
to what her arrangement of unforeseen circumstances
happened for the moment to be.

Clara walked on in silence, waiting for George to
speak. He seemed to have turned quite shy. But
when at length he did speak again, she was so occupied
settling some small thing which had gone wrong
with the spring of her parasol, that he spoke almost

easily. She heard him ask, with but little embarrassment,
" How is . . . Nellie to-day, Mrs Newsham ? "

Ah ! thank you, George, thank you ! Poor Nellie
is pretty well ; but not strong, not strong ! " she said,
very softly, and looked still at the parasol, and not at
him. She then sighed audibly to herself, and not in
the least to George. " We cannot, cannot expect poor
Nellie to get strong quite immediately after that dreadful,
dreadful shock ! "

But she does not know the truth ! " cried George,
suddenly, speaking very rapidly ; " the shock might
kill her if she knew the truth. The truth is horrible !
But she must know it. It is right for her to know it,
and . . . and for you ! I will tell you all, Mrs New-sham
; and now, now, immediately ! " He stopped
and touched Clara's arm, so as to call her attention to
his words, for she was still fiddling with the parasol.
He walked on, turned his head away, and said hoarsely,
in a low voice, " I could have saved Adela's life,
but . . . but I forgot her till it was too late. I . . .
I only remembered Nellie."

Clara did not quickly answer. George looked
round anxiously, expecting to see horror on her
face ; but it was the calm countenance of the madonna,
with the full drooping eyelids and the downcast
eyes, he saw. He was astounded. He stood
still a moment. Clara was walking calmly on. When
he was by her side again, she said, or rather whispered
to him, very gently, " George, I was present
that day, though you did not know it. I was close

by the lake. I saw everything with my own eyes.
I know what happened, and did not happen. I
saw all; I know all, better, far better than you do
yourself."

"You know I could have saved her life, but let
her die ? " said poor George.

You tried to save her ; you all but saved her !
You tried nobly, at the risk of your own life. Only
for William, you would have died with her, George ! "

George stared at Clara. A quick flush of pleasure
crossed his face, but merely for a moment : it gave
place to a look of great pain ; yet he spoke firmly,
I forgot her till it was too late. I forgot her a loncf,
long time. I saved Nellie first, and left her to die. It
is awfully true I left her to die. I heard her death-cry,
and remembered her then. I could have saved
her, if I had remembered her sooner." His voice was
thick with sorrow, as if each word pained him in the
utterance. " iSTellie must be told I could have saved
Adela : she must be told I forgot her a long; time. It
was a long time, Mrs Newsham."

It was not ! " cried Clara suddenly, quite loud ;
and she looked him straight in the face. "I tell you,
George, I was present, and know all. Nellie was
nearest the shore : you landed her first. It would
have been murder not to land her, when she was insensible,
and near shore, and Adela was quite alive.
You then went immediately to Adela's rescue. I saw
you, George. The whole thing was short, quite short ;
not long at all. But you were so quickly unconscious,

and half-drowned yourself, that yon do not know what
really happened. There is a short moment of interest
anxiety which can seem an hour, a day. But I
know what happened. You do not." Clara dropped
her voice. " No one knows but I what really happened.
Only you and I were by "

William ? " asked George.

William saw nothing. He could see nothing, for
he started swimming far higher up the lake, near the
boat-house."

The temptation was terrible to George. It had
come so suddenly. He stood an instant breathless
in the street. He looked blankly at Clara. She
steadily met his gaze. He need not say a word, need
merely acquiesce in Mrs Newsham's false but doubtless
sincere impression of what really did occur, and
Nellie, thought he, would surely be his.

Nellie," said Metternich, calmly walking on  for
she had stopped when George stopped  " Nellie would
not believe the story your fevered brain imagined when
recovering from long insensibility."

Nellie ! " murmured George. Clara heard him.
Nellie ! "

He was much moved. He seemed sorely tempted.
Clara eyed him curiously. It was strange to her to
see him hesitate at all. But suddenly he made her
jump, so startled was she by his look and words.

I would not gain the girl I love through a lie!  a
shameful lie, Mrs Newsham ! " he cried, indignantly.
She had thought him vanquished, and he was springing

up like a wounded man, who still can shoot you
dead. Clara was very angry.

Nellie shall know the truth,  what I believe to
be the truth. She shall not accept me through what
would feel to me like a dishonourable lie ! " Nothing
gives a man so much real courage  courage against
his own interests  as that fine sense of honour which
used to be considered the birthright of an English
gentleman.

There are some who, though far from truthful themselves,
are yet moved to sympathy and admiration by
the courage of honourable truth in another ; but Metternich
was only extremely angry with George. However,
she did not lose her self-command. Her cold
wrath was quite composed. " Very well, George," she
said, just as if she were not in the least angry, merely
rather unsympathetic. " Very well. You are under a
false impression ; but never mind : Nellie can be told
your story as well as mine. I can tell her both."

You, Mrs Newsham ? " Then George added,
eagerly, " Will you ? . . . but . . . but she may think
me a coward ! " he exclaimed. " It is awfully true I
shrink from telling her. I dread the very thought of
it. But I would not be a coward ! " he repeated.
No ! " he said, decidedly ; " I will tell her myself."

That you certainly shall not ! " replied Clara, in
her most determined voice  the voice George had so
often obeyed ; " you certainly shall not. And if I am
not assured you will do nothing of the kind, I will
send Eleanour away from town this very day, and I

won't even tell you where I send her. Your excited
manner, your violent language, the sensational way in
which you would bring up all that terrible death-scene
again before her unstrung mind and too highly wrought
imagination would give her a brain fever. The story
must at least be told quietly. I will speak to Eleanour
myself  and this very day, if you wish ; for she is
pretty well to-day "  Metternich's voice fell from high
penetrating severity into a soft low key, and with her
eyes cast down, she said, " But, George . . . George,
I will also tell Nellie you wish to marry her. I will
tell her of your love, your great love for her."

She will hate me ! " he exclaimed.

Ah ! my dear George, it may, it may be so ; or
. . "  Clara murmured very gently  "or it may
not."

When will you tell her ? When shall I know ?
Tell her instantly, Mrs Newsham. Now, when you
go in ! "

They were standing on the steps of the hotel. " If
she hates me, let me know it this very evening," said
George. " I will never see her again ! I could not
bear to see her if she hated me. I will not come
again until you write to me ! But send the letter by
hand, and . I could get it this evening. I must
know quickly  good-bye," he added abruptly, and
shook hands.

He wallace down the steps ; Clara was going up.
He turned round, went after her, and stopped her. " You
will tell Nellie what I believe to be the real exact

truth ? " he said excitedly  " the whole dreadful truth ?
You will tell her the entire truth, Mrs Newsham ? "

Years have gone by since then, but to this day
George will swear Clara solemnly promised to tell
Nellie the whole, complete truth.

In reality, the fair madonna only raised her eyes to
his  those eyes it was so easy to believe in when
wrapped in their mystic tenderness, for you would
forget they could have any other sort of glance.
There were times when Clara could look like an angel
if she liked ; and she did so now. She pressed
George's hand. No suspicion of her imperfect sincerity
crossed his mind. He only thought her so
much, much kinder than usual.

But all Clara really said with her two lips was 
You feel that you can trust me, my dear George ! "
She looked the rest. George thought she said a great
deal more. He obstinately thinks so still, but he is
mistaken.

CHAPTER YL

Clara walked straight up to the room where her
daughter was. Nellie heard her footstep at the door,
and trembled. The cold fear of her mother was an
illness which had taken such strong hold of her shattered
nerves, that she was powerless to resist its terror.
Always weak, her weakness was pitiable now, for she
seemed to have no strength of resistance of any kind
left in her. She was much weaker, not stronger, since
she had come to town, and especially the last few days.
The dread of hearing her mother say Charlie's name
again, of being asked some terrifying question suddenly
face to face, immensely increased her great fear
of Clara. " And George is not with her ! I thought he
would come ! " There was such protection for poor
Nellie in George's kind presence, that it frightened
her twice over to see her mother enter alone.

Clara saw the girl's trembling alarm, and felt her
own power over the weak creature was absolute. She
was so full just then of the strong desire rapidly to
carry out a prospering plan, that this sense of supreme
power gave her unalloyed satisfaction, and she was

not piqued her own child should have no feeling towards
herself but cold fear, without a spark of illusion
or love of any kind in it, though often before she had
been offended by Nellie's too visible unmixed dread,
and had disliked her all the more because there was
no daring in her craven docility. But this was a
special occasion, and Clara did not resent the fear
which so admirably suited her own arrangements.

Eleanour," she said, " I met George near Tatter-sail's,
and he has walked home with me."

Ah ! " sighed Nellie, as if she were sighing with
relief. " George is coming ? "

No ; he is not. He has gone straight home."

Nellie looked anxiously at her mother, and asked
quickly, " Is Aunt Kate ill ? Oh, what has happened
? Tell me, tell me!"

How ridiculously nervous you are, Eleanour ! always
imagining people are ill, or accidents taking
place. You ought to control yourself. I have no
patience with you 1 What has happened, Eleanour, is
that I think you have very much offended George, and
I am exceedingly angry with you."

George ! offended George ! " Nellie trembled
very much, not because she felt guilty, but because
she never had the smallest hope of being able to disprove
anything her mother might say.

George is very fond of you  a great deal fonder
of you than you deserve ; and . . . "  Clara broke off
abruptly  " so there is no excuse for you, Eleanour."

I . I never meant to be unkind to him," said

Nellie, tremulously, " for he is kind, very kind tome."


He is an excellent, true-hearted, affectionate young
man, deeply attached to us all," said Clara.

I am very fond of him," meekly pleaded Nellie.
He must know I am very fond of him."

He knows nothing of the kind, Eleanour ; for you
never do exert yourself to be civil to any one, but sit
moping all day long as if you were deaf and blind
to everybody and everything near you. From your
look at times, any one would think you had a secret
to conceal. Hush, Eleanour ! you need not answer.
Hold your tongue. I know you have no secret. But
if I did not know it, I should think you had ; and
never would I speak to you again ! never ! or let your
father speak to you either ! I never would forgive
the daughter who dared to conceal anything from
me." Clara was terrible when she said this.

Nellie had been standing since her mother entered
the room, but she had now fallen upon the sofa, as if
she were fainting. Had Clara not known her daughter
had a secret on her conscience, she would have
guessed it then.

As the colour returned to poor Nellie's face, she
gazed imploringly at her mother. Her lips moved.
For a moment Clara was frightened, thinking she was
song to confess, and this was of all accidents the one
least suited to her present plan. So she said rapidly,
" You have hurt George deeply, deeply, Eleanour.
I can see quite plainly you have made him feel you

think it was his fault poor Adela was drowned, and
you know very well he all but lost his own life in
rescuing her. It was a mere accident you did not die
when you were unconscious, and poor Adela did.
George imagines you blame him for Adela's death.
How dare you do such a thing ? How dare you,
Eleanour ? "

I don't, I don't," sobbed Nellie.

Oh, indeed ! nobody can tell what you do, or don't
do ! And I am sure your conduct to George is strange
beyond conception. You encourage him one moment,
and you disco-age him another. I have been watching
you, Eleanour ; you have played fast and loose
with his feelings. The most accomplished of flirts
never flirted more selfishly. You are no fool, Eleanor,
and you have seen quite clearly George has fallen
in love with you since he saved your life."

In love ? In love ? " cried out Nellie, in a voice
of terror, and she sprang to her feet. " Not with me !
with Adela ! not with me ! "

Poor Adela is dead, and cannot be brought to life
again," said Clara, slowly. " George is deeply attached
to us all, and most unfortunately he has fallen in love
with you, Eleanour  just lately, just lately ! I am
very sorry, because I do not consider you deserve his
great affection. However, I hope some day you may
become worthy of it. But I think you the most
fortunate of girls, Eleanour, and I have accepted
George's proposal."

Nellie gave a cry and fell upon her knees. Clara

VOL. IL L

did not seem to notice this, but coldly added, in that
voice no child of hers ever yet had disobeyed,
Eleanour, the engagement shall take place immediately."


A year, a year I not for a year ! give me a year ! "
cried Nellie, clasping her hands, as if imploring pity
and mercy from her mother. But Clara had no pity
in her heart, for there are women who have none,
just as there are men. It is a mistake to think the
contrary.

No," said Clara, hardly. " The engagement shall
take place immediately. I have for some time made
up my mind, Eleanour, to accept the very first person
who proposed for you, because there is nothing on
earth the matter with you but having no one to think
of but yourself. If you were married, you would have
to exert yourself and think of another person and of
something else besides your nerves, I can tell you !
If you are not engaged to George immediately, I shall
insist on your being engaged to another man, someone
perhaps whom you may not like half as well as
George. I have the right to choose your husband,
Eleanour, and I will choose the man I like." She
looked steadily at Nellie. Her eyes struck terror into
the poor girl, and her words were horrible. A strange
man ! George would have pity ; even at the altar he
would have pity if Charlie came at the last, last moment,
and she told George the truth. A stranger !
What intensity of fear was in that thought ! How
awful to be in the power of a cruel stranger ! and he

would surely be a friend of her mother's, and would
implicitly obey and believe in her mother, and have
no mercy upon her. Nellie could not speak.

"You cannot pretend to dislike George' continued
Clara. "You have just said you were very fond of
him. Do you dare to deny you said you were fond
of him, Eleanour ? " Nellie only bent her head, and
sobbed over her clasped hands. " Get up, Eleanour,
this moment ! and don't make a fool of yourself ! "
said Clara, sharply.

Nellie obeyed her mechanically. This instinctive
obedience was not lost upon Clara. There were words
she eagerly desired to say lying on the very tip of her
tongue. She almost had said them, but was stopped
by sudden hesitation. To know a secret and wish
others to think you do not know it, can be an encumbrance
in diplomacy as often as an advantage. It
curbs your daring. The feeling of her own absolute
power over Eleanour, the girl's quick obedience and
the sight of her abject fear, prompted Metternich to
cow and frighten her daughter now to the very utmost,
and to make her in her terror deny the truth.
She felt tempted to say. If you refuse George, I
shall think you secretly love some one else, and someone,
it may be, who hates and scorns you, and
never will propose. She longed to dare, yet dared
not ! So she said instead, " I will have no more
discussion with you, Eleanour. There is nothing
more to discuss ! because I have accepted George,
and there is an end of it. The engagement shall

take place immediately." And Clara rapidly crossed
the room.

But with her hand on the door, she was taken with
violent regret  not sorrow for having dared so much,
but anger to have dared so little. There was strong
courage in Clara, and it was not accustomed to be
balked.

She looked round. She saw the wretched girl still
standing terror-struck, her head bowed down, her two
hands clasped, tearless, dumb, as if frozen dead into
one immovable position. The temptation of such
speechless terror was too much. Clara walked up to
Nellie  near enough to make the statue tremble at
her close presence. She spoke. Her voice was low,
but, like a stealthy knife, it cut. A voice has curious
power over high-strung nerves ; and there is a nerve
around a beating timorous heart whose faint courage
a tone of cold cruelty can quite paralyse.

If you refuse George," said Clara, deliberately, " I
shall think there is some ground for dreadful suspicion.
I shall seriously think you have dared ."
She paused and repeated, " Dared secretly to love someone
else." Nellie no longer trembled, but was still
and cold as ice again. Clara went calmly on, "And
some one who will hate and scorn you, and never will
propose for you, because a gentleman scorns and
quickly hates the girl who has solicited in any way
his love, or who has even been too eager for his
love."

Clara looked steadily at Nellie. She did not move.

No blush tinged the deadly pallor of her face ; her lips
were ashy white.

But I know there is no feeling of the kind on
your part, Eleanour. I know you have not been guilty
of the most dreadful, unpardonable of all offences towards
your father and me ; of the one unpardonable
offence a daughter can commit  wicked deception !
You have not deceived us, Eleanour ? "

The warm blood rushed back into poor Nellie's face ;
her very hands seemed to blush, and they were clasped
more tightly than before, as if some courage might be
found in their desperate grasp. She raised her head.
She gazed blankly at her mother, face to face. Her
lips did move, yet they gave no sound.

I am quite satisfied, Eleanour," said Metternich,
very rapidly ; " you are free, quite free ! You have
virtually told me you were free."

And she was gone !

Nellie ran forward. The door was shut. Her
mother was really gone 1 She fell upon her knees
and sobbed aloud, " Too late ! too late ! She thinks I
am free. Oh, Charlie, Charlie ! come quickly, quickly !
or I shall die ! "

CHAPTER Il

Clara walked into lier bedroom; found her maid
there ; dismissed her, but told her to put on her bonnet
and come back, as she would want her to take a
message in half an hour. Then she locked the door,
and sat down to write instantly to George. She
wrote :  

My dear George,  I have spoken to dear Nellie
for you as you wished ! and without a moment's delay !

She docs not hate yon, my dear George ! she does
not ! She did not say if it were a surprise to her to
hear of your great love. I told her how great it is,
and how ardently you desire to make her your wife !
but she did confess to me, George, though timidly as
you may well suppose ! she did confess that she is
very fond of you. 'I am very fond of him. He must
know I am very fond of him.' These were her own,
oivn words !

I know, my dear George, that you intensely feel
whatever awkwardness there may be in your present
position, and although the engagement between you

and my poor, poor dear Adela was quite an indefinite
sort of one, yet Nellie seems to have thought it more
real than it ever actually was. It is only three months
since poor Adela died, just three months and a few
days ! but I think it seems to Nellie as if it were only
yesterday ! So I have gathered from her that under the
circumstances, all the circumstances, my dear George,
she would not like to be engaged to you for a year.
She says 'a year,' yet doubtless, as she is 'so very
fond of you,' her present wish will change into quite
another soon. But just for the moment, it might be
better, George, not to press her unduly in any way,
and if you love her as much as you say you do, deal
very gently with her ! do not press her to say too much
at first, and for a little quietly abide her ovm time !
Her feeling about poor dear Adela is one into which
I can enter only too fully ! and I am sure, my dear
George, no one will do so more deeply than you ! It
is a feeling very, very agitating to dear Nellie ! and I
almost think it might be wiser to bury the sad, too
sad ! most tragic past, quietly in silence between you
and her, at any rate for the present.

I fear you will find dear Nellie much, much agitated
! and also intensely shy about your love ! You
know how very, very shy she is by nature ! But you
have my full consent to come and see her when you
receive this, and even immediately, if you like ! Only
just do not let the first interview be too emotional, my
dear George ! Be very, very careful, or poor Nellie
may be quite too much overcome ! She is weak and

ill, and so alarmingly nervous that I am naturally very,
veri anxious on her account.

I expect Thomas in a day or two, and I will then
tell him cell ; but as there cn be no immediate engagement,
there is no great hurry. I well know what
Thomas's feelings towards you really are, my dear
George, and how gladly he would welcome you as a
son ! I think it is better not to write to him, as I
should not like to do so unless I wrote fully about you
and Nellie, and I hardly dare do this, as Thomas is
quite too careless about his letters, and I sometimes
do suspect Johnson reads them.  I remain, my dear
George, yours ever affectionately,

Clara Newsham.

Pes.  Mind you do not agitate dear NelHe too
much ! "

Clara was quite pleased with her own letter. And
indeed it is only just to acknowledge that under the
circumstances, all the circumstances, as she herself
would say, it was wonderfully truthful. I think it
really was its substantial truthfulness Mrs Newsham
liked.

It would be very difficult, wellnigh impossible,
clearly to prove any one downright untruth in the
diplomacy Metternich carried on with her pen. Notwithstanding
a certain accidental innocence and graceful
spontaneity of style, she is really a very careful
writer, and, as I have said once before, is not at all in

the habit of dashing off her letters thoughtlessly under
the passing impulse of the moment. As men-of-war
are built upon deeply-considered mathematical lines,
so her letters were invariably composed in strict accordance
with the complications of the higher trigonometry
of her abstruse fine art. You will see the
captain's cabin done up quite prettily on board the
man-of-war ; and there would be a sort of dainty
pink calico and plenty of light lace shillings in Metternich's
correspondence, when her real purpose was
serious destruction.

The nice little diplomatic note was ready for the
maid to take across to Chapel Street at the end of the
half hour, and the reason why Clara dashed it off so
much quicker than usual was, that she had laid down
all her lines most thoughtfully beforehand. The diplomacy
was ready built  it was launched  and her
rapid mind had merely to add the lace frilling.

But there was one bit of very effective frilling I
give Clara credit, the greatest credit, for keeping out
of her correspondence, and that was the beautifully
religious sort.

Once, quite at the beginning of her career, she had
thought of mixing up Providence with her matchmaking,
but she had never forgotten her mother's
indignation ; and, to her honour be it said, she had
resisted that great temptation ever since. She had
her reward in being one degree less disliked by those
whom she deceived than she would have been had she
wrapped up the deception in a kind of altar-cloth

embroidered with texts of Scripture. And Clara cotild
have used Providence with magnificent effect ! I
respect her for not doing so. I have known such
very, very worldly people write as if they were intriguing
D.G. in the Kingdom of Heaven ; and I have
hated their letters  far more than I do Clara's.

Mrs JS'ewsham well knew that George, having her
full consent to come and see Nellie, and immediately,
if he liked, certainly would like to come immediately.

She did not send for Nellie to await him in the
sitting-room, but waited for him there herself.

Rapid success, which unduly excites some minds,
only composed Clara's. She took success quietly ; it
was unaccustomed failure that excited her. So, when
the door opened and Sir George Crofton walked in,
the fair madonna calmly rose to meet him. Again
she raised her full speaking eyes to his, and seemed
to tell him all he passionately longed to know of
Nellie's great, forgiving love for him. If you swore
to him now that Clara's actual spoken words were
few, very few, he would not believe you.

She does not hate you, George ! She does not
hate you ! And I give you joy ! " This she did
say.

It would be impossible for George or for Clara to
give the slightest idea of what he himself answered
or did not answer, so great was his emotion and the
confusion of his joy.

The madonna spoke once more. This time her
full eyelids dropped. " Be very gentle with dear

Nellie, George, for . . . she is very fond of you ! "
She took his hand, and slightly pressed it, as if again
to give him joy. " I will send her to you, George,"
she murmured, in that low soft tone she can make
thrilling at her own sweet will. And she went away
to fetch the poor girl herself.

She found the door of Nellie's room locked, and she
had to wait a full minute before it was opened to her.
The wonder was, not that terror did not make Nellie
unlock it sooner, but that her awful fear of Clara had
not taken all power of motion from her.

What a fright you are, Eleanour ! " said Clara,
entering the room. " A ghost with scarlet eyes !
Bathe your eyes this moment, and follow me. George
is here. He wants to see you."

Nellie started ; a faint blush rose upon her pallid
cheek, and she tried to speak, yet could not quite at
first. But suddenly a trembling sort of courage came
to her, and she said eagerly, " I will go to George ! "
and quickly opened the door her mother had shut.

Clara rapidly stepped forward and stopped her.
Such eagerness was puzzling, therefore alarming, to
Metternich. " Bathe your eyes as I told you, Eleanour,"
she repeated. She was practical above all things, and
in all emergencies ; and she did not wish Eleanour to
look too much of a fright.

Nellie obeyed her mechanically, and bathed her hot
eyes, then again turned quickly to go. Once more
Clara stopped her.

Eleanour," she said, in her sternest voice  the

poor child trembled pitiably  " Eleanour, you remember
I told you George thinks you dare to reproach
him with poor Adela's death ? "

I never reproached him !  never ! " gasped poor
Nellie, in desperate hopelessness of making her mother
believe her.

"Well, then, listen to me. Do you hear, Eleanour?
Do you hear ? " Clara's hard voice almost took Nellie's
breath away. "Answer me, Eleanour 1 answer me this
instant ! "

And Nellie did manage to murmur a tremulous
Yes."

Then listen to me. I am sure Georoe will be

o

quite nervous for fear you should hark upon the tragic
circumstances of poor Adela's death. If he alludes to
them, you must immediately stop him. Acknowledge
to him you know all. Tell him I have told you all,
but don't speak another word on the subject or let
him discuss it either. If he tries to do so, simply
say, ' You and I must bury the past. I have buried
it for ever.' Do you hear, Eleanour ? "

"Ye . . es."

But you must say it nicely, kindly, in an affectionate
manner, so as quite to wipe away the painful
impression I know George has of your feeling towards
him about Adela. And now, Eleanour," added Metternich,
as a grand finale, " and now, Eleanour, I
expect you to obey me implicitly  implicitly ! And
I will cross-examine you afterwards to know if you
have done so." This threat was terrible to Nellie.

Then Clara reopened the door she had shut again,
and pushing Nellie aside, walked first, saying, " Follow
me, Eleanour ; come exactly behind me ; we will go
into the room together."

Notwithstanding the awful fear she had of disobeying
her mother, poor Nellie could hardly drag herself
as far as the sitting-room ; her limbs seemed to fail
her. She had thought she was to go alone to George.
It was dreadful to find her mother would be there
too, and speak for her  not let her speak ! Her
mother might tell George she would be engaged to
him, and . . . marry him ! and now, immediately !
without delay ! for did not her mother think she
was free ?

With a great effort, which seemed to make her feel
weaker, not stronger, Nellie tried to nerve her wretched,
beating heart into a. little courage  desperate courage
for the sake of the strong love she bore Charlie, a love
it would be death to bar for ever with her own hand,
or turn traitor to with her own voice. But so weak
was the girl that she intensely feared to hear her own
voice give, like a treacherous coward, what would
seem to be consent. It is horrible to doubt your own
courage and your own self, as poor weak Nellie did.

Whatever pretty words the Ideal Mother may have
said on entering the room matter not, for no one heard
them but Clara herself, and Clara is not deceived by
the charm of her own manner.

George only saw Nellie. Hers was the one presence
in the room, the sole feelings for him, the one overwhelming

agitation. He was moved as lie lead never
been before to see her stand speechless, white, and
still, with heavy eyes just dried from weeping, and
without gesture or faintest sign of joy.

George did not go to her, but stood still as she was
still, and gazed at her blankly in silence.

I have seen a statue cold to touch, and deadly
white, which yet could move you with the strong power
you would think might only belong to warmth and
vivid colour ; and it was because the passion of real
life was there, stilled in the marble, but not dead.
That life had been taken breathing by genius in the
days of old ; and so you can feel it even now, although
it breathes no more.

In her moments of greatest emotion Nellie, so warm
at other times, would grow cold, and be like a statue ;
yet the passionate life was in that marble, stilled,
intensely stilled there, but not dead.

Metternich took a sudden resolution. That power
of sudden resolve was at times very like the instinct
of genius in Clara. She would feel a situation, and
would throw with courage risky dice. She now risked
success or complete failure, for, acting on the instinct
of the moment, she walked out of the room, and left
George and Eleanour alone together. She shut the
door loudly.

Nellie started, and looked round ; but returning
life came to her rather slowly, like awaking hope,
which dreams a little ere it quite believes.

It was she who first moved towards George, not he

towards lier. As she drew near to him, he saw her
whole face change. A light passed over it like a
gleam of joy ; and her parting lips seemed as if they
breathed with rushing words of hope too quickly come
for instantaneous speech. George started forward to
meet her, and felt as if he could have fallen down
and worshipped her, for the look which came across
the sadness of her tear-stained eyes was to him like
true love shining there.

She took his outstretched hands eagerly in hers,
and said, in a voice which moved him all too much,
because it had that sound in it of pent-up passion breaking
forth, " George, have kind mercy upon me ! for you
are good. You have been kind,  so kind to me !  
kinder even than my dear father or bliss Smith 1 
more kind to me than any one else in the whole
world, when I have been sick with sorrow, sick to
death ! "

There will be joy, dear Nellie,  joy, joy for us ! "
but he was so moved he hardly seemed to know what
he was saying. Then he said, more collectedly, " There
has been pain for both of us, and grief and remorse
for "

Nellie called out, as if she did not hear that he was
speaking, " Oh, George ! promise ! promise ! Give mea
year !  one full year from now !  from now,
George ! " she pleaded ; " not from the day of Adela's
death, but from now ! beginning at this very hour !
Count it from to-day ! not sooner ! not from three
months ago, when poor Adela died ! I cannot be engaged

to you for one full year ! I cannot ! I cannot,
George ! "

Poor George dropped her hauds, and thought he only
understood too well the terrible reason of this request.
Fond as she may be of me, she must have time to
forget, to forgive, the circumstances of her sister's
death. My crime stands between her love and me,"
he thought, but was silent, feeling her justice and his
guilt like a stifling pain.

Nellie glanced nervously at the door, saw it was
quite shut, and took more courage. She said firmly,
with flashing eyes, which made him quail as if they
flashed upon his guilt, " There shall be no engagement
between us for a year. I must have a year, George !
I will have a whole year ! "

But when the year is out, you will love me, Nellie ?
you will ? " he pleaded with fear. All the courage
was on her side now. " When the long year is gone,
you will be mine, Nellie ?  you will be mine ? "

She drew back from him, and said coldly, " When
the year is really past and gone, then you may speak
to me, but not till then ! And never to my mother 
never again to her ! " she cried, with sudden warmth.
Then starting at the sound of her own words, she looked
towards the door as if she had thought it moved.
Sinking her voice, she went on, " When the whole
year has passed, if I am not dead, as I may be, then
you may come to me and speak. But ." she added,
even more coldly than before,  " but you will come asa
stranger, George, as if your love were new to me ;

for remember, remember George "  she spoke almost
fiercely  " remember till then I am not bound, but
free ! "

Free to hate me 1 " said the young man, bitterly 
so bitterly that Nellie was startled by his voice and
look. Seeing grief in his kind face, she forgot herself
in pity for his pain. Her soft heart was troubled, it
was sorry for him, and sorry that any words of hers
should make him think that she might ever hate him
when he had been kind, so kind to her !  never cruel
like others ; never even hard ! And he had risked his
own life to save hers, though he did not love her at
the time, but only just of late. Then, too, she thought,
and for the first time, " It is kind of him to love me !
it is he who might have hated me for living when poor
Adela died ! "

Forgive me, George," she said, and there were
tears in her pathetic eyes,  " forgive me the pain I
grieve to have made you feel ; but you mistake me !
I see you have mistaken me quite, for I have kindly
feelings to you, George, and never have reproached or
hated you, and never will ! I could not hate you,
George."

It was as if that angel whose weeping pity blots out
our sins in heaven had come to George. But even in
the sudden rush of joy and hope and love, still greater
than the love he had felt before, he was true to his
own most honourable self ; and moved as he was by
the passionate desire not to lose her, but to gain her
for his wife, he yet asked firmly, nobly, " Nellie,

VOL. IL M

do you know all ? Has Mrs Newsham told you
all ? "

Yes ; I know all, all ! " cried Nellie, very, very
nervously, in so excited a manner that there was no
room or reason for George to doubt. " She has told
me all ! But say no more, George  never, never again !
We must never speak of that dreadful day again ! "

Nellie had been trying to remember Clara's exact
words. She had recollected them now, and so would
say them before she could forget them. She ought to
have said them sooner. Her mother might return
before they were uttered !

George was speaking again ; but jSTellie did not
hear what he was saying, for she exclaimed hurriedly,
with an agitation of manner he entirely misunderstood,
George, you and I must bury the past. I have buried
it for ever ; yes, for ever."

Nellie ! Nellie ! " he cried ; and she thought he
would have clasped her in his arms.

She started back, and said in a changed voice
rapidly, " But you promise, George ? you promise mea
year ? "

"I . . ."

By a perfectly unaccountable accident, Metternich
at that very instant opened the door quite wide, and
walked into the middle of the room.

CHAPTER Viii.

There are poor actors conceived to play always one
sort of part even in different pieces, just as there are
people who appear to be sent into this world with only
one mission in life, the same one ever, though under
varying circumstances. It really seemed as if poor
George were fated to be always an unhappy lover
placed in a false position.

He was of a quiet, somewhat stolid nature ; and
yet, during his engagement to Adela, he had been an
uneasy, uncomfortable lover, nervously anxious not to
be married till he had shot the big game, and certainly
rather cross in his temper at times. And here he was
now in quite a different play, with quite a different
plot, again bearing the part of the uneasy lover. He
made Metternich anxious and very angry by actually
looking more unhappy than he had done when indefinitely
engaged to her poor dear Adela.

Clara said to him, " My dear George, my dear
George, I do beg, now I do beg, you won't make yourself
anxious. This ridiculous promise of no engagement
for a whole year is quite too preposterous, and really

not in the least binding upon you ! for poor Nellie has
been in such a curiously hysterical state, that what she
asks one day she wishes unasked the next. I will just
speak to her myself."

George turned fiercely upon Clara, as if with sudden
suspicion. He remembered Nellie had implored him
not to speak to her mother again. " Never again ! "
she had said, with a look and in a manner he did not
forget. So he spoke sternly, like a master, to Mrs
Newsham, as if he had robbed her of her own commander's
tone. She was frightened.

No ! you shall not speak to Nellie. I forbid you
to do so."

Clara's pale cheek flushed all over. Fancy the
sound of " I forbid " to one accustomed to forbidding
much to others, but never to be forbidden aught herself
!

You shall not speak ! The promise I have
given ."

But so great was Metternich's power of self-command,
that she had even then sufficient possession of
herself to put in, " But did you really, really promise,
George ? You are sure, quite sure, there was a promise
given ? "

Clara did not quickly forget the look George gave
her. She felt what she had said to be a mistake, for
never had she seen George's soft, rather stupid brown
eyes with so searching a glance in them.

I meant to give the promise ; and if by any chance
I did not say the actual words, Nellie knew I meant to

give it. And the promise she thought I gave I will
not break, or . . . let any one else break for me, Mrs
Newsham."

The one obstinate corner Clara had always disliked
in George seemed to have become the whole man. It
was an insult to be rebelled against and spoken to like
this. Clara grew quite pale again with powerless
wrath  the sort of cano-er which could move her most.
And yet this remarkable woman outwardly kept her
temper.

There was a short silence between her and George,
because in stifling down her anger for a moment Clara
felt as if she had stifled her voice. But when George
spoke again she could answer him without effort.

With the keen awakened look still in his eyes, he
eagerly asked, in a broken tone, as if his very heart
were in his words, " Nellie said that she was fond of
me ? Is it true, quite true she said that she was very
fond of me ? "

It was the passionless madonna, with the still grey
eyes, who spoke in reply what sounded like calm truth
itself, " They were Nellie's own words, George. I
repeated them to you just as they were said ; but
I will repeat them to you once more  ' I am very
fond of George. He knows that I am very fond of
him.' "

The young man turned away abruptly from Clara, as
if ashamed of the doubt he felt was searching her from
his eyes. He walked over to the fireplace, and stood
with his back to Mrs Newsham. Looking: down into

the grate, he said slowly, painfully, " Nellie is . is
cold to me at times  much colder than before I spoke
to her. She . . . she seems afraid of me." Then he
added in a louder voice, warmly, " I do not understand
her ! "

Oh, my dear, dear George ! " cried Metternich, in
quite her most natural, pleasantness manner,  " my dear
George ! what man ever did understand a hysterical
young girl ? "

George was silent for an instant. He did not look
round. Suddenly he said very quickly, " Perhaps she
never really liked me, Mrs Newsham, and has found
it out." He turned, and startled Metternich by an
unexpected glance, then turned back and looked down
again. " If she had been older," he continued, sinking
his voice, " and . . . and had been out at all, or . . .
or knew any other fellows, I should think she might
be ." he raised his head and looked straight at
Clara,  " in love with another man 1 "

Clara tried to smile ; she did smile ; she actually
laughed ! " My dear George ! " she exclaimed,  " my
dear George ! why Nellie has never, never been anywhere
! " And she held up her hands in amazement
at him. " Oh, my dear boy, but you are funny ! you
are funny ! " She laughed again, and so naturally ! then
grew serious. " But, for goodness sake, George," she
said, " don't kill Nellie by suggesting such an idea to
her. Poor child ! what would she think of you ? "

I never would have said to her what I have said
to you ! " he cried out hotly. " And you know that

very well, Mrs Newsham. But I thought it right to
speak to you ; I have spoken to you on purpose. And
I am satisfied now ! " he exclaimed, decidedly, " for I
trust to your honour. I will believe Nellie is fond of
me, of me alone, though she is frightened with me since
I spoke to her, and is at times quite . . . cold,"

Clara came up very near to George, and looked at
him as an angel straight from heaven might. She
understood the power of a sweet whisper, as indeed so
many very charming women do.

"Ah! George, George!" she murmured gently,
how little  how little can a young man understand
the shyness of a very timid, sensitive, young girl,
which will seem cold solely because it fears to be too
warm !"

George blushed. Clara did not blush, but added,
in a voice she made quite thrilling, " What you fancy
to be coldness may be a sort of solemn awe at finding
herself half enlarged to "

o o

There is no engagement ! " broke in George. But
Metternich was a match for him.

Where there is love," she said, " two people never
are quite free I But, George," she went on, speaking
very gravely, and laying her soft hand upon his sleeve,
you know I never have reproached you, never ! Yet
. . yet you must remember that what you your own
self believe to be a crime stands between you and
poor young Nellie, like "

Like a murderer ! " called out George.

There was a moment's pause. Then he continued

passionately, in a thickened voice  " She told me she
did not hate me ; but when I come near her I feel as
if she did. At times I think, if she had the courage,
she would tell me she hates the man who let her
sister die."

Clara reflected rapidly. This was the safest notion
George could have, and she would leave it with him
as his best deceiver. So she said, " Well, well, it maybe
 it may be a little as you think, George ; not
much ! but just a little : though JSTellie did tell me
she did not hate you, but was very fond of you !
Give her quiet time, George ; a little quiet time.
That is all she wants, I am sure. Time foro-sets completely
! and can warm what now seems cold. It
makes so many things come right. Patience and
hope, dear George ! patience and hope ! Those are
my last, last words to you ! "

And Clara was going away. George stepped forward
 " Thank you, Mrs Xewsham," he said ; " I
ought not to have doubted you."

Then indeed Clara was admirable ! Secretly she
was taken aback at his words and very angry, for was
it not heinous treason to doubt her ? But George only
saw the ideal madonna looking that calm forgiveness
at him which we ever imagine belongs solely to those
who have no reason for self-reproach, like saints and
holy virgins.

When George was left alone, he thought he never
in his life again would doubt Mrs Newsham.

Chapter IX.

Some of the cold wretchedness which troubled and
perplexed poor George so much in Nellie came from
her perpetual grieving at the thought, " My mother
thinks I am free, and George, he thinks so too 1 I
cannot tell the truth to him, for Charlie may now hate
me and never mean to come. I could not tell George
I love a man who may say he does not love me. But
it might be different with my mother, if she were less
terrible and less cold. There was one moment  yes !
there was one, when I mifht have told her. To let
her think I am quite free feels like a lie to me.
When she said, ' I know you are free,' I was a coward,
I was a liar, not to answer. No ! That was my
chance. I shall not have that chance again." There
was torment in this thought, and in the feeling that it
had become a thousand times more difficult to tell the
truth now than it was then. " I did not speak, but it
was just as if I had spoken and had told a lie. I feel
as if I had denied you, Charlie !"

To be a traitor to the person you most love ! what
sorrow is much greater than that ? To be a coward.

a liar, towards the one iu the whole world whose
honour, respect, and high opinion is to you as the
breath of life ! In the olden time, when a strong man
denied his Lord and Master, he wept bitterly with
grief. That was an anguish and remorse which in
after years no doubt made martyrdom itself a joy,
because the suffering of an awful death would surely
wipe away the record of the cowardly denial. Cowardice
can be the longest, saddest, most bitter pain on
earth. To fail in courage and in honour towards
those you really love, I believe to be the sin in which
perhaps of all sins there is the longest suffering and
remorse. Why is it, then, that the Almighty has
made so many women weak, and men too, when there
can be such grievous pain in weakness ?

Poor Nellie ! she was very weak ! I do not excuse
her, for I never feel as if great cowardice could be
excused ; but I do pity her. There should be kind
pity for her ! And Clara had been coldly hard, she
had been cruel to her.

Oh, Charlie ! " the young girl would think with
tears, for she could not bear the whole burden of
her own cowardice without casting some blame, and I
must say deserved blame, upon another, " Oh, Charlie,
Charlie ! why did you part from me as if we never
were to meet again ? ly did you not give me the
right to tell the whole world you loved me ? And I
would have had courage, and never would have been
so weak  so weak that, if you knew the truth, you
would hate me, if you do not hate me now !"

Clara had spot a fright that time when she had felt
Eleanour come so close to full confession ; and though
she believed she had frightened her daughter into
silence, it made her nervous even to think she had run
a near risk of being told what she was determined not
to be supposed to know. It fidgeted her to be alone
with Eleanour, and she could not help being a great
deal more alone with her than she considered advisable,
so an idea struck her, and quite suddenly. It came
to her two days after George's proposal, one morning
before breakfast, while her maid was plaiting her back
hair. At first it was actually repugnant to her feelings,
but the rapid imagination of her seeing mind
took hold of it, and brought her round to it in spite of
herself.

By two o'clock that very same day, Dr Williams-smith
had given it as his decided opinion that Miss
Newsham would be much benefited if she went out
into society, her illness being entirely on her nerves.

Clara would have preferred not to go to balls and
parties quite so soon after Adela's death, because it is
a fact that the thought of seeing girls of her dead
daughter's age dancing and enjoying their young life
was painful to her. But the quick imagination of her
mind had seen the advantage of distracting Nellie
from the one thought of Charlie, also of deliverance
from those perpetually recurring tete-a-tetes ; and,
above all, it had perceived the possibility of great
opportunities for showing off Sir George Crofton in
society as a virtually engaged man. Clara was sure

it would not be difficult to make George go where
Nellie went. She instantly invented half-a-dozen
ways of doing this quite easily, and then dwelt with
satisfaction upon these ingenious little accidents. Soin
no time there was Metternich looking forward with
pleasure to telling a very pretty little love-tale about
George and Nellie, as a " dead, dead " secret to quite
a large number of ladies, every one of whom she knew
for a certainty would repeat it in deader, deadest confidence
over and over again. Before Nellie in the
least realised her position, her mother intended she
should find herself irrevocably engaged to George in
the eyes of the world. Charlie, Clara thought, would
not dare to claim her then. But the powerful
imagination in Mrs Newsham's mind  perhaps all
the stronger in her mind because there is none in her
heart  did not stop at a mere engagement, it married
Eleanour to Sir George in less than a month.

Clara went off immediately to her dressmaker. She
went alone and ordered four new evening dresses for
Eleanour and two for herself. No one of Eleanour's
gowns was to be black. She herself had at first
intended remaining in deep mourning, but Madame
Celeste Jones elaborately, reverentially, and I may
truly say affectionately, recommended to her a shade
of subdued violet, a new teint cUgradd called le Printers
Mort, and advised her to have the satin merveilleux
draped eii pan che jesuits retroiiss.

This printing mort," said Madame Celeste, "draped
in pain de Jesuit recrossed over plessis a la Duchess

of the printing mort, lined a view with this quite,
quite exquisite shade of naked pearl-grey, would be a
striking combination of richness of material, elegance
of design, and perfect, perfect haut tone. It would
be an evening robe suitable for the most dressy-occasions,
and one singularly becoming, Mrs Newsham,
to the style of your figure, and to the . . . pray,
allow me to say it, Mrs Xewsham, excoosez ! excoosez !
to the quite exquisite transparency of your
marvellous complexion. This printing mort is one
of our newest, most di stingy colours ; it is tres-bing
party, and the naked grey gives it lightness and eclat,
and makes it also bing, bing habillay. I should not
recommend the introduction of the naked-grey reeve
de coquil into the arrangement of the corsage, if the
figure were not one of the slightest and most elegantly
proportioned, nor should I consider it suitable to any
complexion not transparently delicate." Madame
Celeste Jones was just as charming a person in her
way as Clara was in hers.

Two of Madame's " young ladies " stood by, smiling
the sweetest approval at the irrintemijs mort and the gris
nacre a reflets de eel, ;rc7?ii?' rev cVune coqidlle loerle,
as it was called in the letterpress of the fashion book
which lay on the table. The young ladies showed off
the silky satins in one light and another, then stuffed
them up into a kind of pyramid, and pinching them
artistically at the top, left them to stand by themselves
on the table, while they went to a little distance,
and first admired, then grieved with Madame

Celeste over the lateness of the season, which made it
perhaps a little undesirable to wear any longer the
new sort of plush, the material of all materials, in
which printing mort is absolute perfection. It was a
plush that cost a guinea a yard, the mere mention of
which sent Madame Celeste Jones into ecstasies of
Parisian French. She quickly produced some from a
privileged cupboard with her own august hands, and
the plush was displayed before Clara in all the most
attractive lights of temptation,  " but merely," as
Madame said, " that Mrs ISTewsham might look at it."

I fear it would be too hot," said Clara, reflectively,
in a voice that had a great deal of natural feminine
desire in it. " Plush is too hot for June. Yes, it
certainly is, Madame Celeste," she added, almost decidedly.


Then the young ladies went back to the silky satins
and pinched them up again, and Madame admired the
softness and lightness of the texture, and soon praised
printing mort in satin merveilleux with as much
Parisian eloquence as she had just praised it in
plush.

Clara was irresolute. Yes ; she was. However
strong-minded and determined, even terribly determined
in nature a woman may be, there are times
when she will waver in a milliner's shop.

Kate would be scandalised if both my new dresses
were not black," said Clara to herself, and this was
quite true of Thomas's sister, as Kate was undoubtedly
one of those softly sad women who take a very

tender sort of pleasure in showing their feelings in
their clothes. But it was curious for Clara so much
as even to think of Kate. She certainly was not in
the habit of troubling herself about her sister-in-law's
possible opinions. She must have been very anxious
to propitiate her just then, or Kate could not have
come into her head ; however, she did not remember
her long.

But what finally decided Clara against the printing
mort gown was no thought of Kate,  it was the secret
conviction, come to after much indecision in front of
a mirror in a o-as-lio-hted closet, that the new tint
cUgracU was not really becoming to her complexion.
She knew she looked best in black, so she made up
her mind to remain in complete mourning. Yet, as
women go, it would be a mistake to call Clara personally
vain.

Mrs Newsham was hours in the Salon de Modes of
Madame Celeste Jones I dare not call it a shop, as
Madame might bring an action for libel against me.

It was quite late in the evening when Clara returned
to the Alexandra Hotel. She found a telegram
awaiting her there from old Doseman, of all people !
for she had never suggested to him to send her a
telegram of his own accord ; so she was indeed surprised.
This was the telegram : " Come early tomorrow.
Johnson ill, Mr Xewsham alarmingly
upset." It was given to Clara by the porter, and
she sat down to think over it for a few minutes in
the hall.

Eleanor must remain in town under Dr Williams-smith,
with . . . with Kate ? " The daring of actually
sending Nellie to George's own house was in
itself a temptation to a mind like Clara's ; but she
resisted it, because she instantaneously saw all round
the idea. " No ; this would never do. Kate's weakly,
sympathetic ways would have a fatal effect upon
Eleanour. In three days Eleanour would have confessed
everything to her Aunt Kate. Besides, I know
George told Kate the day before yesterday the truth
about Adela's death ; and also that he loved Eleanour,
but feared she never could get over his having let her
sister die. He does not seem to have told very much,
and certainly not the true story of his proposal to
Adela ; still he has told more than was wise, and I
have not seen Kate since. George can twist her round
his finger, and she would consent to anything he really
wished  and he wishes with all his heart to marry
Eleanour ; it was quite different with poor dear Adelaide
danger in this case would be entirely on Eleanour's
side. Kate would expect Eleanour to be as violently
in love with her stepson as she is herself. I never
saw so romantically foolish and doting a stepmother.
It is perfectly ridiculous ! " Clara sat quite still, and
reflected deeply. " Kate is dangerous  extremely
dangerous ! I wil take her down with me to East-court.
Yes ; I will." Mrs Xewsham got up, walked
across the hall, and told the porter to call a hansom.
It was whilst waiting on the doorstep for the cab that
she settled what she would do with Nellie. " I will

leave her with old Lady Blinffollde, who will take
her out everywhere, and for six nights in the week.
Nothing Lady Blinffollde likes so much as a good
excuse for going to balls ! "

Clara drove off to Chapel Street, with Dr Doseman's
telegram in her hand.

When the tender-hearted, infinitely sympathetic
Kate saw Clara walk into her drawing-room, holding a
telegram and looking very pale  for Clara was always
very pale when deeply excited  that quite unnecessary
person Thomas's sister became just the sort of sister-in-law
Metternich least disliked.

Without a word Clara handed her the telegram.
Thomas alarmingly upset ! " cried Kate, trembling.
' Something dreadful must have happened to poor
Johnson ! And Dr Doseman must think Thomas
quite in danger. Oh, Clara, are you going to-night ? "

Impossible ! " replied Clara. " There is no proper
train. Besides, I have only this instant got the telegram,
and I must make arrangements about Nellie.
I am going to leave her with old Lady Blinffollde, as
it is absolutely necessary for her to remain at least
another three weeks under the treatment of Dr Williams-smith.
It would be madness to take her to East-court
with illness in the house ; and very likely Johnson
has got some infectious disease, for I am sure I
don't know if he has ever had the measles or scarlatina,
or, even if he has, he may have got the small-pox."

Now it is not everybody who, meaning to invite
even quite an unnecessary relation to her house, would

VOL. IL N

say this to her. Your sister-in-law does not often pay
you a compliment ; but without in the least intending
it, I think Clara was paying Kate a very great
compliment indeed when she added to the infectious
diseases a remarkably cordial invitation to run the
immediate chance of getting them. "Now, do comedown
to Eastcourt with me tomorrow ! Now, my
dear, dear Kate, you really must come ! I will take no
excuse. Dr Doseman would not say alarming unless
there was something very wrong ; so perhaps Thomas
has caught whatever is the matter with Johnson.
Those sort of things are so very infectious, and Thomas
may really be quite dangerously ill. You know, Kate,
how very, very glad poor dear Thomas would be to
see you ! "

Kate blushed like a young girl with emotion, and
it was all an emotion of joy. What years since Clara
had been so kind ! How softened she was by poor
Adela's tragic death ! What a very real, cordial invitation
this was for her to give ! The measles, scarlatina,
and small-pox part of it only made it sound so
truly sincere. An invitation to a perfectly pleasant
house, merely for her own enjoyment, would not have
been natural in Clara, and Kate could not possibly
have believed in its sincerity ; for many of Clara's
invitations to Kate had been just a little queer. The
greater part of them had not been to Eastcourt at
all, but were invitations to other people's houses. On
occasions when there had been entertainments at East-court,
Kate had been hospitably invited by Clara to

houses in the neighbourhood. This was one of the
invitations Kate had received from her about a year
and a half before : " Xow, my dear Kate, I do know
'how intensely you would enjoy the Harchesters' concert !
They are going to have all the great amateurs down
from town, who all have promised to sing together 
even those who are not on speaking terms. Mr
Reginald Melted can now sing with every one of the
sopranos, for he is such a very good-tempered man !
And I hear Mrs Picardy - Freestone is in quite
admirable voice, so the concert is sure to be a grand
success ! And I really am so very, very sorry, my
dearest Kate, that this house will be quite full. But
you might easily go to the rectory for a few nights."
Then again, not long afterwards, Clara had written :
My dearest Kate, the hounds are to meet here on
the 26 th. It will be a very pretty sight ! We are
going to have a large party staying in the house, and
will not have a siwjle spare room ! But I am sure
dear Lady Barchester will be only too delighted to
take you in, and will drive you over to the breakfast
and the meet. She is coming with the younger girls,
and the eldest is to ride over with her father ; so
Lady Barchester will certainly have 'jlcnty of room
in her carriage for you."

Kate had never quite liked to accept these invitations
 not because they were not very hospitable on
Clara's part, for indeed they were most kind, but
because she had received no special invitation from
Lady Barchester or from the rector's poor crippled wife.

There certainly are invitations and invitations in
this world ! I think the very cordial one which painful
experience has shown you is not in the least intended
to be accepted, unless it be at the house of
another person, is of all manifestations of quite kindly
affection perhaps the least endearing.

Nicely worded as Clara's invitations usually were,
they yet could irritate, for they would place you
essentially in a false position.

But the possible measles, scarlatina, and small-pox,
the certain illness of Johnson, and the alarming state
of Thomas, brought a conviction of sincerity to Kate's
mind she had not felt for years and years about any
invitation of Clara's. So she accepted this hospitable
one, and it was rapidly settled by Clara she was to
start with her the following morning by the seven
o'clock train for Eastcourt.

This little matter arranged, Mrs Newsham went
quickly off to the Dowager Lady Blindfold's house
in Eaton Place.

It was highly characteristic of Clara to have announced
that Eleanour was going to stay on in town
with Lady Blinffollde before Lady Blinffollde had
so much as even been asked to take her in ! But the
successful practice of any art gives pleasant confidence
to the artist, and the fine art of invitation to
other people's houses came as naturally to Clara as
rather a different sort of hospitality did to the ancient
patriarchs.

In all her numerous fine arts, Clara was ever lio-ht

of hand, and showed that higher instinct the French
call le sentiment de Part. Though daring in conception,
she invariably preferred the delicately suggestive
to the coarser method of startling effects. She did
not know Italian, but there were two Italian proverbs
which, having once heard, her memory ever after retained
: one was Chi va piano va sand, and the other
Se 7wn e vero, e hen trovato. It must be allowed that,
in the practice of her fine arts, Clara in going 'piano
was always as delicately suggestive in her hen trovatos
as the successful management of unforeseen accidents
would possibly permit. Her inclination was undoubtedly
to be delicately suggestive whenever she could.

Now the charmingly  quite accidentally  hospitably
suggestive, was the very foundation of her fine
art of cordial invitation. And so intensely had she
the sentiment de Part in this, that she could impress,
invisibly as it were, the instinct of her own kindly
hospitality upon the mind of another ; and it would
really be of their own accord that her chosen inviters
would ask her own invited to their house. It is a
fact that old Blindfold had not the most remote suspicion
it was not solely her own hospitable, quite
unaided imagination which originated the idea of asking
Mrs Newsham's pretty little delicate daughter to
her house, just till the girl's charming, sadly anxious
mother could come back acain to town.

Lady Blindfold had instantly and warmly entered
into the feeling of its being a real sin, if you have
come up to town solely to consult the doctors, to go

away before you have given their " treatment " of your
"case" a proper chance. The Dowager was herself
very partial to the doctors, and was much, much interested
in what Clara told her about Dr Williams-smith
and his opinion of Nellie. Then it is true
Clara could talk charmingly about a doctor ! oh !
charmingly ! I have heard her ; and she was wonderful,
for she could throw a beautifully sympathetic
glamour over the subject, and tenderly discuss a
case." And you would feel, as old Lady Blinffollde
did, how very, very interested she was in your particular,
quite singular constitution ! As to her own,
she surrounded it with a halo which was like the
aureole that encircled her ideal self.

Lady Blinffollde happened just then to be thinking
of changing her doctor. " My dear Mrs Newsham,"
she said, " I will tell you in confidence that I am not
altogether perfectly satisfied with Sir Jonathan Johnston
; and as to his manner, I quite dislike it ! He
seems to think he knows if you are well or ill better
than you do yourself."

Clara did not endorse this opinion, so fatal to the
reputation of a fashionable physician, as strongly as
one might have thought she would; but Metternich
never, never had allowed to anybody that Sir Jonathan
Johnston had not thought her ill ! She was not
to be caught confessing her secret vexation now ; but
she was extremely glad to speak strongly in favour of
Dr Williams Smith.

Mrs Newsham and the Dowager talked doctors, as

ladies will, for a very, very long time, long after her
ladyship's usual dinner-home For a wonder Lady
Blinffollde was not dining out that night, but only
going to three at homes. Finally, the Dowager quite,
quite decided to consult Dr Williams-Smith,  "because,
my dear Mrs Newsham, I do think very highly
of his common-sense in ordering your daughter to go
out into society. Pleasant society is so much better
than medicine, and I think Dr Williams-Smith so
very right in this, that I have quite made up my
mind to consult him about myself, and never to go
near that Sir Jonathan Johnston again."

It really seemed as if the Dowager wanted to be
ordered to go out into the gay world even more than
she already did. But however clear an insight into
the tastes, which are not unfrequently the constitution,
of his patients, a doctor might have, it yet would have
been very difficult for him to have ordered Lady
Blinffollde more evening parties than she was in the
habit of taking like reviving draughts all night long.

It puzzled many people to conceive why old Lady
Blinffollde liked going out so much, just as it puzzled
them to imagine why on earth she liked wearing a
very low gown. Lady Blinffollde bored herself in a
very amiable sort of way, and never was happy unless
just a little boring other people too, but in the
kindest manner possible ! She was a really kind
woman. To the easy, genial kindness, which makes
you feel it is sincerely kind, how much can be forgiven !
Lady Blinffollde is popular even with the people she

bores, for if their mind is a little pained, their heart
is at ease and their nerves are never blown crooked
by any sudden shock. Now there are good, eminently
sensible, clever ladies, whom you respect and like
in theory ; yet when you come face to face with them
in practice, they give you an electric shock, and even
yards off : you feel them all round in the air ! and
you can't bring yourself to go up to them, because
you dread that near shock. In the concussion
of the first moment they may be civil, but they maybe
uncomfortably rude ; when their manner is short,
it is of the shortest : like a chipper on a chipping-block,
it can shiver you to atoms and really give you
physical pain. It is true that if, by a miracle, one of
these ladies steps magnificently up to you of her own
accord, your nervous system feels her less, for she
won't then be quite so chippy on her chipping-block ;
but it would take you six full minutes to get in the
least at home with her, and she never talks to you
so lonsf !

No one was afraid to walk straight up to Lady
Blinffollde and speak to her quite naturally, so she
would have been pleasant to talk to, if only she had
not been rather painfully dull ! But a clever woman
would not have suited the fine art of Metternich.
Clara, like the great Napoleon, invariably chose her
generals well.

Lady Blinffollde was in the habit of " taking out "
a great-niece after Easter, and it was for her sake she
wore a low-cut body and went to balls ; but the

usual great-niece was just engaged to be married, and
the Dowager had not yet got another one. Clara
knew this. She always acted upon facts known beforehand,
and never went plotting and planning, like
some people, loosely in the air. It was because
Clara knew old Lady Blinffollde had not her usual
great - niece, and wanted an excuse for perpetually
wearing that youthful low body she was so curiously
fond of, that she had felt quite safe in saying Eleanour
was going to stay with her, before she had even begun
the delicately suggestive process of the fine art of
useful invitation.

Not unfrequently the pith of Metternich's higher
diplomacy was to be found in that orig last word,
quite a last, last word ! spoken by her after she had
risen from her chair, and between that chair and the
door-handle. Sometimes it was a short word, and
sometimes it was a long one, just according to surrounding
circumstances.

Clara had risen from her chair; she had spoken
feelingly, really for the last time, of her anxiety about
Johnson and poor, poor dear Thomas ; she had bade
dear, dear Lady Blinffollde a loving good-bye, but had
not quite loosened her tender grasp of the Dowager's
hand, when she said, with drooping eyelids and a sort
of sanctified sweetness, as if her words were the beautiful
afterthought of an angel 

There is one, one little thing I do think,  yes ! I
do think I ought to tell you about dear Nellie. It is
it is a little love-tale. Lady Blinffollde ! "

Now a real little love-tale was quite delightful to
the kindly Dowager : her heart was as youthful as
the body of her evening gown, and far more romantic
than that ugly thing. It is the fashion to laugh very
much at old ladies who keep one soft romantic little
corner in their heart, on, on till the very hour when
they trip down into the grave and are no more seen at
evening parties. Flirting over a tombstone on your
own account is not a pretty sight  it is a ghastly
one ! But to be sympathetically youthful about the
most sensitive feelings, hopes, pleasures, or sorrows of
the young is, I think, very kind in old people. So
many, as their years pass on, do quite forget their
youth, just as if that time had never been ! That great
forgetfulness, like winter come unnaturally to chill
the spring, may be a tragedy to the young who are
around you.

Funny as old Lady Blinffollde was in many ways,
I should hate to laugh at her for her power of sympathy
with the young : even when the romance was
just a little high-flown, perhaps too high-flown quite
to suit her face and figure, it was so kind ! so kind !
There was imagination in it, and nothing hard or
cold. And for its sake you could forgive the gay
Dowager much, even that low body she so loved to
wear.

Lady Blinffollde felt as if Clara were just as kind
and soft-hearted as herself,  indeed more so ! Was
there ever a more tenderly sympathetic mother than
this quite charming Mrs Newsham ? " And there are

siicli cold mothers in London ! " thought Lady Blindfold
; " but here is one like my own dear good old-fashioned
one ! "

Ah ! and I must allow, it was a pretty story Clara
told. And she told it as the angels tell the touching
love-tales of this earth in heaven ! For quite apart
from considerations of higher diplomacy, it gave Clara
real pleasure to appear thus, with a very beautiful sort
of tenderness, in her favourite character of the Ideal
Mother.

Lady Blinffollde was much moved by the sad love-tale,
 was it not most tragically sad ? She felt warm
sympathy with Sir George Crofton. A very young
man, to a great extent in love with a pretty girl,
and determined, quite determined to be engaged to her.
The intimacy of the engagement he has so unwisely
insisted upon throws him very much with the younger
sister, and unknown to her, unknown to himself until
the tragic moment of a terrible decision comes, he is
overtaken by the great, the real passion of his life.
Obeying instinct, he saves the girl he has madly
learned to love, then tries with all his might to save
the one to whom his love is j)l edged, but she has
sunk for ever into a watery grave ! Kind Lady Blindfold
felt deeply for Adela. Were her eyes only
opened just at the very last, last moment ? Or had
the cruel disillusion come to her before ? It must
have been anguish greater than the anguish of death
to know her once ardent lover had forgotten her, and
to see him save her sister. Clara answered these and

many other questions very beautifully, according to
the suggestion of her imagination.

It only seemed the most natural of all natural
things to Lady Blinffollde that Nellie should not like
to be openly engaged to Sir George, quite, quite too
soon after her sister's death. " Though the sweet girl
looks so tenderly, so pathetically soft-hearted, that she
must, she must ! love Sir George ; for does not love
beget kind love in others ? " Old Lady Blinffollde
pitied Nellie very much. Her sister's death was an
awful ghost to come between the young man's passionate
love for her and hers for him ! How wise, how
very wise Dr Williams-Smith was in ordering her to
go out into society and distract her mind ! " And a
sad little love-tale like this will make Nellie so very,
very interesting to everybody everywhere I take her,"
said Lady Blinfibllde, characteristically. " The story is
as touching as the girl's own pathetic beauty ; and
that is so curiously pathetic, Mrs Newsham."

But Clara explained she had been telling Lady
Blinffollde a dead secret !  quite unknown to Dr 
 not known to anybody. " My dear, dear
Lady Blinffollde, I do assure you it is quite a dead,
dead secret ! " So of course, of course Lady Blinffollde
perfectly understood she was only to repeat it as a
dead, dead secret to all her bosom friends.

But what Clara really did impress upon the Dowager
to full conviction, was that all would be ruined 
all !  if ever, ever dear Lady Blinffollde so much as
even alluded to the sad tale, or to any sort of remotely

possible engagement between the two shyest of shy-young
people to those two shyest young people themselves.
If dear Lady Blinffollde was so very, very
kind as sometimes to ask George to her house, or
even to let the poor adoring fellow go to some of
the balls and parties Nellie went to, because he was so
painfully wretched if he did not see Nellie constantly,
if he were not always seeing her 1  Clara would
indeed think Lady Blinffollde inexpressibly good and
dear and nice ! But she made her give a solemn promise
 a real one  that the Dowager understood to be
real, never to breathe a word of the secret she had
told her to Nellie or to George. " And do not even
let them confide in you, my dear Lady Blinfifollde, just,
just till you and I meet again !  for each one would
think the other had told you the secret which makes
them so shy, and both would be shy before you then,
which would be a thousand, thousand pities ! "

And with another most loving good-bye, this time
quite near the door-handle, Clara's last little word to
her dear, dear Lady Blinffollde really did come to an
end.

Chapter X.

Thomas was indeed alarmingly upset. He had an
attack of the jaundice, and the action of his heart was
in a far from satisfactory state. Poor Thomas was
suffering from the effects of a terrible shock  a shock
which, coming so soon after Adela's death, was altogether
too much for him. This second awakening to
an intensely clear consciousness, like a second earthquake,
had shattered and scattered all the quiet, pleasantly
absent ways natural to his constitution. He was
so feverishly wide-awake, so shaken in mind, so sick
in body, that old Doseman had the delightful right of
doctoring him vigorously, and the intense pleasure of
being absolutely obliged to come to Eastcourt twice a-
day. Just at first he came three times, and stayed
all night, but that was to keep an eye on Johnson
rather than to doctor Thomas,  for Mr Newsham did
not clearly get his jaundice till Johnson had been
removed from the house.

Johnson had neither measles, scarlatina, nor smallpox.
He was suffering from a violent attack of . . .
delirium tremens !

And Johnson was the delicately conscientious " abstainer
" who had so often saved Mr Xewsham from
the deadly sin of drinking the Bishop's weak claret
unawares !

I cannot entirely acquit Dr Doseman of having,
though quite unintentionally, helped poor Thomas into
that serious fit of the jaundice. Considering the not
very cordial terms of total abstinence from sympathy
with cold water which had for years characterised Dr
Eobert Doseman's intercourse with the owner of East-court,
it was perhaps only natural the doctor should
have felt agreeable satisfaction, not to say triumph,
when that paragon of a teetotaller, Johnson, unmistakably
got delirium tremens in Mr Xewsham's own
well-ordered house. It was so natural, that I don't
find fault with the doctor; but I do reproach him for
having shown his feelings too clearly, and for having
told Thomas the shocking? truth in the most downright
way, without in the least preparing him for the greatest
shock he ever got on earth. Johnson's D. T. was
a greater shock to him than Adela's awful death. It
is a fact it really was, for it shocked every bit of poor
Thomas all over, and then sent him into a rage as
well.

The anger of people who hardly ever get angry is a
terrible disturbance to the constitution. Those who
are always letting off gunpowder in big guns or small
pop-guns, have constitutions suited to the perpetual
vehemence of their temperament. I never yet saw a
really choleric man or woman who was a bit the

worse for getting into a passion. On the contrary, it
invariably agreed with her or with him. But it is
quite different when the gunpowder, which, I suppose,
lies somewhere in all of us, only blows up perhaps
once in five years, or it may be once in ten. Very
rare anger is a painful explosion, and shakes yourself,
and others too, just twice as much as the quite natural
passion of a person who has the easy  shall I call it
the agreeable ?  habit of being constantly in a rage. It
certainly is not unfrequently an agreeable habit to a
man himself, and, oddly enough, very often does not
give him the reputation for uncontrolled temper which
one or two unexpected explosions in a lifetime may
gain for the ordinarily long-suffering, easy-going, and
quite mild man.

From the moment Thomas flew into a passion about
Johnson's D. T., Dr Doseman considered him one of
the most violent-tempered people he knew,  quite a
dangerous man to meddle with, and only seemingly,
only hypocritically, mild. He pitied that very charming
and really sweet lady Mrs Newsham, for she had
a good temper indeed.

Now it is a fact that old Bob Doseman was himself
extremely quick-tempered, and he had often and often
been far more angry than Thomas ; but he never had
strange, isolated fits of passion : he only got naturally
and easily angry, or rather righteously indignant,
whenever things and patients went a little wrong.
He really was now more angry with Thomas than
Thomas with him, but he felt his own anger much

less, and it did not in the least disturb his constitution,
while Mr Newsham was made seriously ill.

And then old Doseman did indeed feel that if ever
a doctor had reason to be righteously indignant, he
certainly had, for when he had bluntly and clearly
given it as his decided opinion that Johnson's illness was
delirium tremens, Mr Newsham had not only flown
into that inexcusable passion, but had violently refused
to believe him ! and  insult of insults !  had then insisted
upon a consultation with Dr Sloper of Slumby.
No one who has not lived in Nossex can form the
remotest idea of the enormity of wickedness which lies
in consulting any one but a Doseman if you or a
member of your household are ill. There are five
doctors of the name of Doseman, all relations, dotted
over Nossex. They do not think highly of each other
as individuals, but are convinced of their united infallibility.
They alone had the divine right to kill
the nobility and gentry of Nossex until Dr Sloper
treasonably established himself unasked in Slumby.
For years, when any one was dying in one of the great
houses, Dr Eobert Doseman had been invariably called
in to say he was being killed in the most enlightened
way. But of late Dr Sloper had been consulted instead,
and on two important occasions.

Slumby was proud of giving a doctor to Iossex,
and some one had expressed its feelings in doggerel
verse, which had made a sensation in the county out
of all proportion to the not very original or brilliant
wit of the lines. The ladies belonging to Drs John,

VOL. IL

Thomas, William, Edward, and Eobert Doseman had
wished to institute legal proceedings for libel against
some person or persons unknown. They thought the
person or persons must be discovered if the lawsuit
were begun. Here is some of the doggerel which had
maddened the Doseman faction : 

Tom Doseman treats you for the brain ;
Jack Doseman for the stomach kills ;
Bill thinks the liver gives all pain ;

While Ned he slays you as he wills,
And never gives his reason why.
Bob is called in to certify
Not of a Doseman you did die,
But of some other malady."

Scathing as this terrific satire seemed, it did not personally
and eternally insult the Doseman ladies like
the following : 

Lord Barchester he got a chill 
My lady quickly sent for Bill ;
Bill sent for Tom and Jack and Ned,
Who put Lord Barchester to bed.
Bob was called in ; and he was by
To see his lordship rightly die.
Lord Barchester he had a will, 
Lord Barchester he said to Bill :
Begone with Bob, Jack, Tom, and Ned !
Five Dosemen shall not kill me dead ! '
My lady pleads  * My lord, don't, don't ! '
He swears  'My lady, die I won't ! '

You'd better die of Bob and Bill,
Tom, Jack, and Ned, than of your chill.'
Damn it ! but I'll send for Sloper.'

What ! the Slumby interloper ? '

The Earl was proud,

The Earl spoke loud ;
But he dar'd not call in Sloper,
The new Slumby interloper !

Lord Barchester he stay'd in bed 
Doctored the cold in his own head ;
His lordship sneezed full frequently,
And, damn it, swore he would not die !
Lord Barchester he has a will ;
He lives in spite of Ned and Bill,
Jack, Tom, and Bob, and his own chill !

The Earl is proud,

The Earl speaks loud 
'Disease shall stifle my last breath !
Five Dosemen shall not be my death ! ' "

Both these terrible satires were ascribed to one hand,
and I think the internal evidence of metre and style
was strongly in favour of there being one satirical
person, and not many satirical persons, unknown in
Nossex. At first the whole clan of Dosewomen had
loudly proclaimed the lines to be written by Lady
Barchester herself. Ever since the Countess had published
her three-volume novel, it was incredible how
much queer literature Xossex had ascribed to her pen.
But when her ladyship indignantly exclaimed to a
bosom friend that she was incapable of condescending
to write doggerel on the doctoring Dosemen, she
offended all the Dosewomen far more than if she
had actually written the verses.

If the lines had been really brilliant, I do not think
Lady Barchester would have felt as angry about them
as she undoubtedly did; but nothing incensed her
ladyship more than the trash Nossex was perpetually
fastening on to her pen. It was unnecessary for Lady
Barchester to be so touchy ; but there is always one
touchy fool inside every author, and a few inside whom
there are two.

But the whole world is full of touchy, huffy
people ! and I was going to say I fancy doctors
beat all the others : but I do not think this is
really true of the doctors themselves, only of their
wives, daughters, and female belongings generally.
These ladies are touchy from top to toe, beginning
with their own social position, and excitedly culminating
in the " treatment " and admirable " system "
of the medical infallible to whom they happen to
belong. I am secretly of opinion it was the medical
ladies themselves who, on the one side, first
rhymed " Slumby's Sloper " with " Interloper," and,
on the other, gave unlimited circulation to the saying
 " There are five Dosing men in Xossex and one
doctor in Slumby."

Thomas, like many another excellent person, was
totally without a sense of the ridiculous. Nothing
that was funny, even a little funny, made any impression
on him. He had often heard the doggerel on
the Dosemen, but he had quite forgotten it, just as he
had forgotten it was an unpardonable insult for Dr
Eobert Doseman to be asked to consult with Dr
Sloper of Slumby, though Clara had over and over
again explained this to him.

There are unlucky people who have the knack of
sinning yet more grievously on the top of original
sin. If Eve on coming out of the garden of Eden
had wished for a second opinion amongst the sons of
men on the subject of the apple which certainly had
disagreed with her, her own doctor would undoubtedly

have considered her second offence even worse
than her terrible first. But it was Mr Newsham's
fate to sin three times : he sinned when he disbelieved
in Johnson's D. T. ; he sinned yet more
in proposing the consultation with Sloper ; and most
grievously of all when he no longer doubted but
believed in the reality of the delirium tremens.
And, poor Thomas, he did sin so naively ! without
the slightest perception of his own wickedness ! He
said to old Doseman, " I did not believe you ; no,
no ! I did not. But Dr Sloper says the same thing.
Yes, yes, yes ! he does. If he agrees, quite agrees,
why you must be right. Yes, yes ! you must ! "
And it was the next day Thomas got his jaundice.
But so different is the effect of anger on the constitution,
that Dr Doseman's lively wrath proved a
pick-me-up to his, and, notwithstanding the outrageous
insult of that consultation with the interloper,
he was able thoroughly to enjoy what certainly was
a triumph. Had he not solemnly warned Mr New-sham,
when Mr Newsham had again and again refused
the smallest subscription to his port wine fund, that
Mr Newsham had better take care and remember it
had often been said, and by people who knew what
they were saying, that the two places where most
raw spirit was drunk were a teetotaller's house and
a public-house. It was because Thomas had never
lost his temper at sayings like this that Dr Dose-man
now considered him such a very violent man.
Perhaps Thomas had not been in the habit of really

listening to the doctor, for he would often puff out,
Yes, yes, yes ! " when he meant, " No, no, no ! "

Poor Mr ISTewsham's present silently humble, crestfallen
state only deepened old Doseman's conviction of
the badness of his temper, for all really bad-tempered
people are silent and sullen between " the fits." If
you are always banging away in a lively manner, it is
merely the natural exuberance of a hearty nature 
your passion is a " mere nothing, quickly over," as the
good doctor ever felt his own to be. There invariably
is righteous satisfaction for a vigorously hearty nature
in punishing those who are quite in the wrong ; and it
was with heartfelt pleasure that old Doseman cleared
his lungs, opened his broad chest, stuck his two thumbs
in the arm-holes of his waistcoat, and explained to the
sullenly silent Thomas that Eastcourt was the easiest
place in the whole county for a man to get drunk in
every night of his life. In a house where a glass of
beer taken openly is a glass of visible fermented sin,
the servants are sure to smuggle in their own stimulants,
and smuggled stimulants are never of the weaker
sort. Old Doseman gave it heartily and emphatically
as his opinion that Johnson must have drunk half . . .
ahem, ahem ! a whole bottle of spirits every night of
his life in his own room after he had put Mr Newsham
to bed. Johnson was always putting Thomas very
early to bed.

Poor Thomas groaned so terribly at this awful idea,
and looked so very, very yellow, that the doctor almost
recovered his temper in the completeness of his revenge,

and being really a very kind-hearted man, entered
into no further explanations just then of the
special facilities there are of getting secretly drunk in
the house of a total abstainer.

It may not have been kind to tell poor Thomas the
truth, yet after all it only was the truth Dr Doseman
did tell him, though he miiht have done so less triumphantly
; but it must be allowed there was a wrong-headedness
about the excellent Thomas which had the
knack of exasperating those who came in close contact
with any one of his fads. It irritated the doctor
excessively to think even Mrs ]!ewsham herself, and
poor Miss Adela, and Miss Nellie, had never been able
to take openly at table the port wine he had ordered
their constitutions. To do him justice, he had always
been very much against their taking it on the sly,
though Clara had managed to purr him into a sort
of acquiescence.

But was there anything on earth into which that
charming woman could not have purred old Dose-man
?

Clara had not been twenty-four hours back at
Eastcourt before she had purred the old doctor into
good-humour again, by making him feel in quite a
touching manner that Dr Sloper would never, never
have been called in by her to consult over Johnson.
And then Dr Doseman always did find Mrs New-sham's
little suggestions were so really useful to
him in the management of a case ; and never was
there so pleasant a person to consult with. He certainly

liked consulting with lier over a patient far
better than with any of his own medical relations ; for
though they could all be counted upon as he could
himself, publicly to certify not of a Doseman you did
die, they yet had nasty little tricks of whispering unpalatable
truths into his private ear, and he never had
the slightest inclination to say to one of them what he
invariably felt impelled to say to Clara, " My dear
madam, you are always in the right, always ! Your
suggestions and your opinion are invaluable to me."

The fact is, Clara did understand Thomas's constitution.
She understood every bit of him admirably
well ; and the remedy which intimate knowledge of
him made her suggest to the doctor, really did
Thomas more good than all the pills and powders.

Clara had been thinking to herself, " It will take
Thomas some little time to recover from the shock
Johnson's D. T. has given his teetotal fad. He
will forget it all soon, and take up his drunkards
affectionately again ; but just at present the subject
turns him as yellow as a guinea, and he can feel
no pleasure in his favourite temperance tracts. The
murder and suicide he used to enjoy upset him now,
and it is quite impossible to amuse him. His sort of
mind must have some kind of preposterous fad. I
have never known Thomas without one ! So I know
what I'll do. I will get old Doseman to inoculate
him with his own pet literary hobby about Shakespeare
being Bacon or Bacon Shakespeare. It is
just the sort of queer stuff to suit Thomas, and

quite harmless ! for it can have no practical effect
whatever. Besides, if Thomas once took to bothering
over it, he might bother on for ever."

But this is what Clara said aloud to the doctor :
Ah, my dear Dr Doseman ! you and I, yes !  you
and I, we must find some subject of real engrossing
importance for poor dear Thomas to take an interest in.
Some literary subject would be best, for Thomas is
quite, quite fond of reading. Xow, do you know I do
think,  yes, I do think if you would kindly, most
kindly lend Mr Newsham that very, very interesting
work I have so often heard you mention about Shakespeare
not being himself, but being . . ."

She could not finish her sentence, so eager was the
old doctor to explain it was not Shakespeare who was
Bacon, but Bacon who certainly was Shakespeare.
Clara did not say, Oh, it is all the same thing !
but only exclaimed, with the gentle sigh which in
her always seemed to be the breathing of intensely
deep attention, " How very, very, very interesting ! "

It was delightful to Dr Doseman to foist his own
pet fad on to his now docile patient. It was the
next best thing to foisting his port wine. And
vv Thomas took up the idea of Shakespeare not being
Shakespeare with the most surprising quickness and
eagerness. It suited him admirably, just as if he
himself had invented it ! Indeed I think he was
actually surprised he had not done so himself, for
he did say to the doctor  " Bacon certainly was
Shakespeare. Yes, yes, yes, he certainly was ! Curious

it never struck me before !  very curious, very !
Yes, yes, very ! "

The truth is, it seemed the most natural thing in
the whole world to a mind like Mr Newsham's that
any one person should be anybody else. It was a
person being altogether clearly himself which would
not have appeared natural to Thomas. I daresay he
did feel, in a hazy sort of way, that if he had lived in
Shakespeare's time he could have strayed into Shakespeare
quite easily, or into Bacon, or into anybody
who was not just his own clear self.

Friendship can climb up behind on a hobbyhorse
and ride third, where it would be kicked off any ordinary
saddle. So Dr Doseman and Mr [N'ewsham actually
became friends again over Shakespeare when they
agreed he was not Shakespeare at all. If Bacon had
been merely Bacon, or Shakespeare just simply himself,
the coolness must have lasted for life.

Thomas now liked Dr Eobert Doseman to come
twice a-day ; and the doctor came, though Mr New-sham
was not getting yellower, but was growing quite
pink. Mrs Newsham encouraged him, in the most
flattering manner, to call constantly. He could talk
to Thomas enthusiastically, and could listen to him
too. And Clara had jot dead, dead sick of Bacon
being Shakespeare. The sort of arguments which
would fascinate all the bits of Thomas, fidgeted her :
besides, if Thomas concentrated most of himself on
any one point, he would read out the paragraphs bearing
on it, in his slow, absent way, three or four times

a-clay. Thomas always seemed afraid, if he did not
read them out often enough, that he or Clara or Kate
might forget them. Now Kate was as long-suffering
about Bacon being Shakespeare as she was about everything
else, and then she really and truly did think it
an interesting idea. There was some argument about
the flowers Bacon had in his garden which she did
think very, very interesting indeed ! and if only she
had been allowed to be a little more alone with her
dear Thomas, she would soon have been quite sufficiently
convinced Shakespeare never was himself. Her
amiably sympathetic conviction would have been a
real pleasure to Thomas, and Clara ought to have
allowed his disordered constitution the benefit of this
satisfaction. But, as usual, she was secretly jealous
of Kate and " Kate's influence "; and the more Thomas
liked having his sister with him, the less Clara liked
it. Yet Clara found Kate very useful in many ways.
She could find Thomas's handkerchiefs when they
seemed lost for ever, and spy out his slippers peeping
from under the bedclothes, when Thomas was sure he
had laid them on the floor by his bedside. This perpetual
losing and searching, and spying and hunting,
maddened Clara, who had a clear mind, and always
knew, even better than her maid, where her own
things were.

Indeed it was very worrying and quite unceasing ;
for now that Thomas had lost Johnson, he had lost the
only part of himself which ever remembered anything,
or knew where anything was. Luckily, he was still

half his time in bed, and so did not yet want elaborate
dressing ; and Clara was, little by little, insisting
on the upper footman being allowed to attend upon
him.

Thomas had declared he would never have a valet
again. Clara said the footman could not be called a
valet ; but Thomas said he had no confidence in the
footman, and could not have any until he had seen
him, with his own eyes, take the pledge ; for he had
not seen poor Johnson actually take it. No, no, no !
he had not ! And he greatly afflicted his soul with
this rather odd bit of remorse. Clara said James the
footman could take the pledge that very day in
Thomas's presence, and that she would send for the
rector to administer it, for fear Thomas should make
a mistake. But Mr Newsham had set his heart on a
real solemnity, and he wanted the Bishop to be sent for
from his diocese, for the rector did not seem to him
enough. He wished to have an imposing ceremony
performed before the whole household. But Dr Dose-man
said Mr Newsham would have a relapse, and
advised quite an unexciting private one. As Thomas
was not permitted a public function, he would not
have any, and so naturally went on having no confidence
in the footman, which was a terrible bother to
every one about him.

Thomas, most unfortunately, had one ring  a
hereditary Newsham signet-ring  given to him so
solemnly by his father on his death-bed that he never
quite forgot he had it. It was a very important ring,

the most important thing belonging to Thomas ; and
since Johnson's catastrophe, every person who came
near Mr Newsham was kept hunting for it, while all
the time it would be on Thomas's own finger. Johnson
never used to tell him it was on his own finger,
but always knew it was there ; and Thomas had such
confidence in Johnson, that it was enough for the valet
to say he would find it.

As a mere ring-hunter all over the bedroom and
sitting-room attached, Kate might have been extremely
useful to Clara until Thomas could feel real confidence
in the footman ; and yet the exclusive brother's wife
was so strong in Clara that she would hardly let Kate
search for the signet-ring, though she hated looking for
it herself.

As usual, Kate felt curiously unhappy at Eastcourt.
She seemed to be always in the way, doing the wrong
thing in the wrong place ; and she would have liked
to go back home, only her sister-in-law managed to
make her feel Thomas would be huffy and irritated if
she went away, and perhaps get his jaundice again,
and that then Clara would be very properly annoyed.
But poor Kate did feel so miserable, and quite disillusioned
once more with Thomas's wife. She felt as if
she were perpetually taking some sort of liberty in this
uncomfortable relation's house. It was even a liberty
to venture on agreeing with Thomas that Bacon might
indeed very well be Shakespeare if Shakespeare were
not himself. " For you must be somebody  yes, yes !
you must ! " Thomas had said in a brilliant moment.

And this was au argument which had its weight with
dear amiable Kate.

Clara was firmly determined Kate should not go
back to town till she went there herself ; so Kate
stayed on at Eastcourt. She stayed there altogether
three wrecks, which was the longest time she had spent
there since Thomas's wedding-day.

It was no anxiety about George and Nellie which
made Kate anxious to leave sooner. George had not
mentioned Lady Blinffollde or N'ellie in the two rather
short letters he had written to his stepmother ; so, as
Lady Blinffollde was not an acquaintance of her own
or of his, Kate naturally thought George h-ad not called
at her house. Besides, George had said most emphatically
there was no sort of engagement between him
and Nellie. He merely liked ISTellie, and that was all.

It was clear nothing' had been said to Thomas, for
once he had spoken of George pityingly as of poor
Adela's bereaved and sorrowing lover. Clara was by
at the time, and Kate had had the courage to look at
her. She was as composed as a block of white stone,
and had never after even remotely alluded to George
or Adela or Nellie : Kate had not dared to say a word
or ask a question. There are people who can rule you
invisibly, and Clara's repressive power was of this intangible
nature  you felt it in the air. So quiet washer
iron rule, that she could keep you bound, without
fuss or stir, against your will ; or else could get rid of
you without the slightest noise, as if she had an
oubliette somewhere in her jurisdiction.

Kate was immensely surprised, and so were all the
children, to find one day that Miss Smith was no
longer in the house. Clara said to Kate, " Oh, did
not you know Miss Smith was going this morning ?
She left early, at five o'clock. One of her relations is
ill." But Clara did not say the governess was never
to come back again. Miss Smith did not know it
herself.

In a few days Clara wrote and told her she was
never to return. The governess had been ten years at
Eastcourt, so she wrote two most piteous letters,
begging to know why she was sent away. But as
Clara never mentioned these letters, or showed them
to anybody. Miss Smith was supposed to have left
quite of her own accord, but only for a time. Even
the French governess Mrs Newsham immediately engaged
was told to consider her engagement a temporary
one.

While Kate did not see half as much as she would
have liked of Thomas, Clara saw just twice too much.
She had never seen so much of him in her life before,
and he acutely bored her. Xow the sort of boredom
Thomas generally produced on people was passive, not
active ; but then he had had complete confidence in
Johnson for twenty-one years,  Johnson had been in
his confidence when Clara had married her husband,
so she had never known Thomas with every single
thing belonging to him confusedly gone astray.

Clara was at last out of all patience, so she took
the upper footman off to the rectory, and brought him

back again with a total abstainer's pledge in his hand,
signed by the rector, and witnessed by herself. She
expected Thomas to be nearly as much upset as if her
father the Bishop had taken the pledge on the sly out
of his own cathedral ; but so completely had all the
straying bits of Thomas concentrated themselves by
this time on Shakespeare not being himself, that he
absently forgot to be angry, and smiled at the signed
pledge, and smiled at the footman just as if he were
smiling in his own kind way at his dozen drunkards,
and he said, Yes, yes, yes I he was satisfied now ; yes,
yes ! he was ;  and instantly made a remark about
Bacon. When he remembered he ought to have been
angry, he had already begun to have confidence in the
footman, and therefore was relieved to be told, for the
nineteenth time, that Clara herself, with her own ears,
had heard James take the pledge. Having once begun
to have confidence in the footman, he went on in an
absent sort of way, forgetting not to have confidence
in him, till quite imperceptibly his confidence was becoming
complete, and the footman was allowed to be
perpetually finding the signet-ring which never was
lost.

So Clara settled to leave Eastcourt before the end of
that week. She was extremely anxious to get away
and be in town again, as she felt there was cause for
serious uneasiness about George and Eleanour.

Lady Blinffollde had written Clara several very long
letters. She was one of those old ladies who like
writing a good many letters every day, and she was

always glad to have something to write about, as
otherwise she wrote about nothing : not that lie ever
quite realised she did so; but she would smile and
shake her head more approvingly over a letter that
had some sort of news in it, than over one that had
none. She had the large flowing style of a lady who
writes so easily that there hardly seems to be a
comma for her mind between any two subjects under
the sun, and never a full stop. Like that Egyptian
serpent who always held his tail in his mouth, the end
of any one little matter could be to her the fresh beginning
of it too, and there were subjects that went
round and round in Lady Blinffollde's head like the
circles round a pebble dropped into a pool. A very
visible puzzle, displeasing, alarming, to Clara seemed
to be quite a clear pebble in the midst of the ever
widening confusion of her ladyship's diffuse style.
It was this one clear little bit that annoyed Clara  it
generally was a clear-cut corner in any mind but her
own which did annoy her. She was quite angry with
the Dowager for not being stone-blind, but she was
careful not to show her anger in her letters.

Now most people cannot write without betraying in
some way the real, if passing, feeling of the moment :
it is as if their pens were themselves twice over. But
Clara was remarkable in this respect, for her real self
hardly ever wrote her owen letters. On any occasion
in the least important, they would be written quite
beautifully by a third person. Her correspondence
with Lady Blinffollde was a very important surround-vol.

II. P

hug circumstance to Clara, so all her letters were
most charmingly written by lier quite ingenuous
Ideal Little Mother. Xow this dear creature was
not even Clara's second self, but altogether a third
person.

The Ideal Little Mother wrote in a style positively
fascinating to old Lady Blinffollde. The letters were
admirably suited to her kind of mind, and they were
so delightfully long ! The Dowager resented getting
a mere page or two ; she liked all letters to be as long
and diftusely affectionate as her own. " And how few
people ever do write letters at all nowadays ! " she
would often exclaim ; " only abrupt little notes ! and
they inquire for your health shortly, quite rudely !
as if they would like to kill you off' quickly."

I need hardly say that the Ideal Little ]either,
amidst all her maternal tenderness, never did forget
to inquire most sympathetically for dear Lady
Blinffollde's health ; and the Dowager did think
this so very, very nice of her, and so very, very
thoughtful, and now really dear j\Irs Newsham might
have forgotten to inquire for her so kindly when dear
Mrs Newsham must be so very anxious about her own
dear Nellie, and was so very, very anxious about her !
Lady Blinffollde was not surprised by this great
anxiety, only much astonished dear Mrs Newsham
was not very, very anxious on the subject of Sir
George Crofton as well  it was Sir George Lady
Blinffollde considered the more unsatisfactory of the
two strangely shy lovers ! and she had said this to

dear Mrs Newsham over aud over again in every one
of her letters. She had told her, with diffusing circles
of surprise, how very, very much puzzled she was by
Sir George's conduct ! and even more puzzled than by
Nellie's 1 though Nellie's, she had confessed, was very,
very puzzling too !

However, when Lady Blinffollde read the charming
letters Clara wrote in reply, they had somehow the
power of making her feel, for the time being at least,
that everything really was quite, quite right between
the two very shy young people, and only just a little
puzzling to one who did not know them both quite,
quite as well as dear Mrs Newsham herself.

So complete would be the conviction produced by
the Ideal Mother's exquisite facility in rose-coloured
penmanship, that Lady Blinffollde would again and
again be blinded by a kind of beautiful faith to Sir
George's too frequent state of uneasy irritation, and to
Nellie's very curious apathy towards her lover by day,
and excitement after a ball or late party, when her
manner to him would certainly be quite different, but
only to change on the morrow.

But the day would come again when Lady Blinffollde
would begin puzzling once more about the shy lovers,
and what invariably puzzled her most was that Sir
George had not made a confidant, even quite against
her will, of her own sympathetic self. Just at first,
she had twice had the little excitement of thinking he
was going to confide unreservedly in her. He was
actually speaking of Nellie on both these occasions,

when, by an ill-luck which seemed almost diabolical,
a visitor had been announced.

But the Dowager had not taken out Sir George to
half-a-dozen parties with herself and ISTellie, before a
great change came over him. He became morosely
silent. It even seemed as if he shrank into himself
with fear at any question suddenly addressed to him
about iSTellie. Lady Blinffollde was far too much of a
lady, and far too really kind, to let her inquisitiveness
get the better of her ; but as may be imagined, the
self-repression was almost more than she could bear.
At last the Dowager's curiosity was stimulated into
painful intensity by the fact  if it were a fact  that
Nellie seemed as unaware of what really was wrong
between her and Sir George as Lady Blinfibllde herself.


More than once, when Nellie and the Dowager had
been coming home in the early morning alone together
in the brougham, the girl had excitedly complained
of George, but had never given what seemed
to the romantically interested Lady Blinffollde any
good reason for her anger. She had complained with
much irritation of manner of his being exacting and
ordering and interfering. " But, my dear child, that is
quite the right thing under . . . the circumstances,"
Lady Blinffollde had said.

But the " circumstances " did not produce the
slightest effect on Nellie !  she did not even blush !
which was most extraordinary for such a very, very
shy girl ; and she had merely replied most unpoetically,

" Wliy, he won't even let me eat and drink what
T like."

Oh ! my dear, my dear, how very ridiculous !
But you may be sure it is about your partners he
is really put out." And Lady Blinffollde anxiously
inquired, " Now, my dear, which of them does he
most dislike ? " But Nellie had only gazed at her
in surprise.

And on the Dowager repeating the question, she
had said without any emotion, as if quite truthfully,
George does not dislike anybody. He never dislikes
people."

Then it must be some one she dislikes," thought
her ladyship ; " can she be jealous of some pretty
rival ? " Here was a puzzle 1 And it was made still
more of one by Nellie's apparent forgetfulness of her
anger next day. Yet anger it really had been ! although
anger was so strange in a quiet-tempered,
apathetic, low-spirited, docile sort of led lamb such as
Nellie usually seemed.

I think these constantly recurring puzzles about Sir
George Crofton, and that pretty, interesting young
Eleanour Newsham, did more to enliven old Lady Blindfold's
constitution than all the " advice " of Dr
Williams Smith ; but the Dowager ascribed the improvement
she certainly did feel in her spirits to the
doctor. " He is a really clever man," she would say ;
for he perfectly understands my constitution, which
Sir Jonathan Johnston never did. And I like his
manner so much better than Sir Jonathan's : it is

sympathetic and deferential at the same time ; and
then he never pretends to know more about you than
you know about yourself." I am sure Dr Williams-smith
will have the final killing of the Dowager.

While Clara was getting ready to leave Eastcourt
immediately, and was preparing her mind by deep
reflection for the rapid arrangement of some brilliantly
successful accident which should happen quite unexpectedly
instantly on her return to town, she got a
letter from Admiral Crofton, written from Plymouth,
to inquire after Thomas's jaundice. The Admiral
wrote in great spirits. Vice Admiral Heavyboom was
coming home immediately, and the Admiral's appointment
to the North American station might be gazetted
any day. So Charlie was to return instantly
from Germany ; he was to come straight to Plymouth,
as Admiral Crofton wanted to stay on there a little
long-er, beings much interested in the trial of a new
ironclad just commissioned by his friend Captain
Vincent. He added that the result of Charlie's examination
could not be expected to appear in the
paper for the next ten days.

So Charlie was rapidly getting into the air, like a
bad storm prophesied from the Continent ! A coup
(V6tat suddenly became a necessity of Clara's political
situation.

The Admiral's letter happened to arrive at East-court
by the very early post. Whilst reading it,
Metternich perceived a diplomatic possibility. So she
instantly sat down in her dressing-gown and wrote to

the Admiral. Instinct told her that if she could only
catch the early post, which left Yellowmead at half-past
nine, she could write as if she had never heard
from her dear Admiral at all. He would certainly
take it quite naturally for granted his own letter
had not arrived till the mid-day post.

There are diplomatists who can never free themselves
from their own admirable rules and infallible
red-tape. Of all the wise rules Clara ever made for
herself, that one of never posting a letter until she had
thought deeply all round it, and most likely written
it over again, was the wisest, considering what the
nature of her correspondence generally is. She had
had reason on so many important occasions profoundly
to approve of its excellence, that she could not have
brought herself to break her own law, had she been a
diplomatist of the second rank. The rules laid down
by the wisdom of another may bind tightly, but they
are not the padlocked iron chain those made by our
own infinite wisdom are so apt to be. You must have
genius to dare to be cleverer at times than your
cleverest self. The infallible who can never rise
beyond his own successful infallibility has not the
first-class mind ; he would fight Austerlitz as if it
were Marengo.

The letter Clara had seemingly dashed off to George
in half an hour from the Alexandra Hotel was no real
exception to her general rule, because it was composed
on tactical lines, quite sufficiently considered
beforehand.

But the Admiral's letter had not been expected in
advance, and Charlie's immediate return was no accident
of Metternich's own arrangement. So, for the
first time in her life, Clara allowed her third person
to write and post, without previous or after reflection,
the instinct of a moment.

The third person rose well to the risky occasion,
and wrote admirably. It was the cleverest letter the
Ideal Mother ever penned for Clara. It gave as
wrong an impression as a complete lie, yet was so
astoundingly truthful, that you could not have proved
there was a single fib in the whole of it.

But though simply charming and beautifully ingenuous,
it did not produce perhaps quite the impression
of impulsive spontaneity which was so fascinating
in the Ideal Mother's usual style. This was strange,
because for once the letter really was a spontaneous
composition. But quite, quite unlike the letters of
all other people I have known, Clara's were invariably
more natural, impulsive, and unstudied when written
for the second or third time than when written for
the first.

Yet from the miraculously truthful manner in
which this letter gave a completely false impression,
I consider it the most perfect bit of Metternich's written
diplomacy, and I should like to copy it in full, so I
am very sorry to say it met with an accident and was
destroyed. This is the more to be regretted, because
I feel no ordinary imagination will quite do its cleverness
justice, for it was not merely written in a hurry

for the Admiral, but was especially composed for-charlie,
though his name was not even alluded to. By
writing as if before she had received his father's letter,
Clara could silently take it for granted Charlie was
still at Stuttgart. The third person had wished to
mention Charlie, as if she believed he were actually in
Germany ; but Clara had rapidly perceived there might
be danger in too much cleverness, for she was afraid of
Charlie  afraid of being too clever for him ! Her
instinct as to his clear sight made her dislike him
even more deeply than she herself was aware of,
though she knew she did not like him. This feeling
of something stronger than mere dislike added keen
personal satisfaction to her diplomacy and zest to her
determination never to have Charles Crofton for a
son-in-law. She was very glad George was, of all
wealthy young baronets, the one who seemed to have
the least natural taste for consumption or tendency
towards any sort of dying.

I think I need hardly say it was poor George's
and dear little ISTellie's sadly sweet and quite, quite
romantic love-tale, which the Ideal Mother adapted so
beautifully to the nature of the Admiral, and arranged
with such a charming sort of genius for the utter
destruction of any hope Charlie might still have of
the girl he loved.

Lord bless my soul ! " exclaimed the amazed
Admiral to himself when he got Mrs Newsham's letter.
He had to reflect to himself, for Charlie was not to
arrive in Plymouth till that evening. " Lord bless my

soul ! I am astounded ! Never was so astounded in
my life ! Odd fellow, George ! But I can well
understand why he has not written to me himself.
Shy about it ! Shy about it ! Guesses what I'll
think of all this chopping and changing. Never
knew his own mind about that poor little Adela,
though she was as nice and as pretty a little thing
as you could see anywhere, and her complexion had
much of the transparency of her mother's. But I
never thought he knew his own mind about her, 
never ! Foolish affair ! foolish affair ! And how
wonderfully right Mrs Newsham was about it all 1 So
perfectly right in not permitting any definite engagement
between those two foolish young people ! Good
Lord ! But I hope the poor little girl does not know
in the next world that George is going to console himself
in this one by immediately marrying her sister !
Unnatural ! unnatural ! " muttered the Admiral, and
he looked again at Clara's letter. " Ah ! I see I'm mistaken.
Wedding-day not fixed yet ! Glad of it ! glad
of it ! Still it is clear the thing is to take place pretty
soon. Lord bless my soul ! " he thought indignantly ;
but what right have those two children to think of
marrying for the next ten years ? If George were my
son, I should just send him back to school to get well
flogged till he is grown-up ! I'd have all the precocious
nonsense and love-making flogged out of him.
What right has a mere boy like that to dare to befalling
in love with a sweet child like Nellie ? The
sweetest, prettiest little child I ever saw. I could not

be fonder of her if she were my own daughter.
Lucky for George lie is not ! Remarkably lucky, I
can tell him ! Would not I just give it to him
smartly for daring to put ideas into that child's head
which she ought not to have either for the next ten
years ! But George is a very different sort of boy
from Charlie ! Always was ! always was ! sever
had Charlie's ballast, and never will ! Don't wonder
poor Mrs Newsham seems anxious and agitated 1 She
must disapprove of the whole affair as cordially as I
do. But she is such a tender indulgent mother, she
can't say No. Never saw a mother quite like her !
or a more admirable wife ! Lucky man Newsham !
Fortunate fellow to have married a woman like that!"

CHAPTER XL

There are parents to whom nephews and nieces area
source of perpetual satisfaction, because they seem
to be always doing foolish things, thus clearly proving
that all the sense which certainly is in the family lies
in their own children's heads.

Admiral Crofton was almost as fond of Georoe as if

o

he had been his own son, but between almost and quite
there is a ditch you must jump, for it is larger than it
looks. With all his very real affection for his great-nephew,
I think the Admiral was less displeased than
you might have imagined to find George was quite a
foolish sort of boy compared to Charlie. Young boys
he considered them both ! This would have seemed
strange to some officers in her Majesty's navy who
had sailed as midshipmen with the Admiral, for he
had always appeared surprised they had not the proper
sense of a man's responsibility at nineteen years of age
and, as a fact, he had considered them grown-up.

But George and Charlie were quite boys to him,
and especially Charlie : although he was as old as
George, the Admiral certainly thought him younger.

This sort of illusion is not uncommon in a father or
mother. There are parents to whom their nephews
and nieces will appear grown-up, while their own
children of the same age will seem to be babies  and
they can go on thinking them babies for ever ! This
delusion can be more complete perhaps in a mother
than a father, for there are mothers whose daughters
are in short frocks and socks their whole life long.
It is happier to be considered quite grown up at sixteen
than to be tied to the nursery-table with other
elderly infants at thirty-six. The elderly infant is of
all poor swaddled things the most deplorably weak
and useless, or the most miserable  often both. Now
no elderly infant, if he is a man and not born deficient,
can go on wearing his baby-clothes all through
life, and get buried in them finally with a rattle in his
hand, as many a poor child-woman does. A father is
sure to discover some day his son is nearly grown-up,
and the earlier he gets this awakening shock the happier
for both of them, unless the son is a fool.

It ought always to be taken for granted a human
being is fundamentally just like other human beings,
till you have clearly discovered the contrary. Providence
is not at all given to special dispensations ; and
though the top-storey differs in different skulls, there
is nearly always plenty of ordinary human nature
somewhere  not exactly in the same place, but
somewhere inside everybody. It would be an odd
house that had its foundation-stone upon its roof, and
a queer church where the whole congregation sat in

the spire. If your son or your daughter has a visible
top-storey, that should be a reason for thinking the
foundation-stone lower down is broader, and not less
broad, than in a two-roomed cottage. Besides, a parent
will see the superior intellect and common-sense of
Charles or Charlotte, perched like the cock on the top
of a high spire, where other people won't see a bit of
his child on the cathedral at all. But suppose, by a
miracle, your child where the cock on the small point
of a very high spire, would he be the happier for
being chained there by a nature different from the
nature of other human beings ? Might he not be
infinitely more unhappy if, seeing a far-stretching
world, he were tied for ever on a pinnacle by the
leg ? The cock, who is happy stuck up on a solitary
spire, is made of lead  he never was alive ! He had
no eager wings to spread at morn, nor did he long to
crow with great delight when first he saw the young
day awaking as if it never had awakened on this
earth before.

But the illusion of a father or mother has always
its touching side, and we should not be hard upon it.
Too often it is like one of those ingenious spider's
webs which catch the raindrops and the weeping dew
a glistening veil across the real way of life that
seems as if it were wrought all of tears.

It would be cruel to be too severe, or severe in anyway,
upon the simple, innocent-minded Admiral, if in
that secret heart of his, which he wore rather openly
for a secret on his sleeve, he did think his only son

much cleverer, infinitely more sensible, and not merely
altogether superior but quite different in every respect
from all other young people. What was unadvisable,
yet certainly not unnatural, in George, would be a
monstrous impossibility in Charlie. He could have
none of the silly tendencies boys sometimes had. The
Admiral was as sure of this as of the truth of his own
religion, and his had ever been a faith untroubled by
doubt.

Now Charlie Crofton really was cleverer than most
young men, though he had been plucked in the
Prelim," and this was the one small twig of reality
from which the whole illusion had been spun.

He had grown tall early, and to everybody except
his father looked older, and not younger, than he was,
because of the staid expression of strong determination
there was in the marked lines of his countenance
whenever his face was in repose. He had had a
strength of character at seventeen many men have not
at twenty-seven. His development altogether had
been early, and not late. In mind he was years
older than George. I do not think Charlie had ever
felt as if he were merely a young boy ; and now he
was calmly, but not conceitedly, conscious of being a
grown-up man.

Early development of character and mind does not
always make a young man precocious in every one of
his feelings, but it often will do so ; and Charlie was
as precocious by nature as George was instinctively
apathetic and slow. George would not have thought

for the next five years of falling in love with any one,
not even with Nellie, if Clara had simply let him
alone ! It was the stirring promptings of her fine
art which had persuaded him he must be in love
with a girl when he was not : then finding himself engaged
to one who bored him, and whose kind of prettiness
he did not really admire, the lover's thoughts,
so elaborately awakened in his mind, idealised the
touching sort of beauty that was instinctively sympathetic
to his eye and own unprompted soul. But we
see and feel and know, when roused, many and many
a thing we should not even dream of had we been
allowed to sleep on quietly and take our natural rest.

Charlie arrived at Plymouth on the same day as
Clara's letter. The Admiral went five times to the
railway station to meet possible and impossible trains,
and yet somehow missed his son, whom he afterwards
found awaiting him on board H.M.S. Apollo. Charlie
and the Admiral dined on board with Captain Vincent,
and so never were a moment alone together till they
where walking up by moonlight to their hotel from the
landing-place in Plymouth.

The Admiral thought Charlie had " filled out " a
little during the month he had spent in Germany.
This may have been imagination, but whatever it was,
it pleased the Admiral. The young fellow had been
very nice to his father, and his father was delighted
with him, and admired him with all his heart and
soul. He liked his having grown of late just a little
taller than himself. He was proud of his height and

of his distinguished air. The father and son were
much alike, especially in appearance ; and yet they
were very different too. Charlie's rather undemonstrative
gravity was a contrast to the Admiral's gaily
overflowing geniality : not that Charlie was exactly
ungenial, but he was naturally self-contained. I
think, though most of us secretly feel the inconveniences
of our own particular nature, impulsive,
very genial people feel them much more than those
whose instinct it is to remain quietly undisturbed
within themselves, except on quite remarkable occasions.
You will often see a very genial, lively person
respectfully admire another, simply because he will
think him of a different, and therefore superior, nature
to himself. It is so easy for the warmly sympathetic
to feel they are in the wrong, and to know
they are deficient of some talent or are wanting in
some high virtue they revere with awe, for there is a
sort of genial imagination of heart and mind which
can make a man very modest. The Admiral's real
opinion of himself was a curiously modest one ; and
he thought his son immeasurably his own superior.
He was proud of the astuteness  it felt to him like
miraculous cunning  with which he considered that
he hid from Charlie how clever and steady and
sensible he thought him, and how much he respected
him. But I am not quite sure this concealment of
his feelings was as impenetrable as he undoubtedly
imagined it to be. He had often been heard to exclaim,
rather to the amusement of other people, " I

VOL. II. Q

would not spoil that boy for all the world. The
Lord forgive me if I am too hard upon him ! but I
think it my duty to be severe at times. All young
people require discipline, and I am a great stickler for
proper discipline ! Every boy wants a good tight
hand over him, and it is a remarkably tight one I
keep over my son, I can tell you."

Charlie was perfectly aware his father greatly admired
and even respected him, and he thought him
singularly right in doing so. He had no mortal sins
on his conscience ; he always tried to act honourably
and truthfully, and was of that healthy type of young
Englishman who thinks himself no wickeder than he
really is, and does not fidget his mind with imagining
he could be guilty of a whole set of wretched pettifogging
little sins.

Nothing weakens the strength of the moral nature,
as a whole, more than to be perpetually bothering
over nasty silly little sins you would never even think
of if you let yourself alone ; or over some wretched
little virtue of no real importance to anybody unless
the punctuality of its recurring excellence should
prove a teasing sort of goody irritation. Your little
virtues can be more irritating than your quite small
sins, for you will take a pride in being just a little
good, which you won't in being just a little naughty ;
and vanity about the infinitely little destroys the perception
of the really great. People always are curiously
vain of their small virtues ! and so anxious to
force them upon others ! Very small virtues can

breed big tragedies, and women who excel in them
can ruin the human lives within their power as surely
with them as if they were sins, for the infallibly
little is apt to be remarkably wrong-headed. But
though I think our narrow little virtues are worse for
those around us than our quite small sins, I believe
the continual bothering over the little sins to be the
worst for ourselves. This habit is more deadening to
the larger moral sense than being vain about nothing,
because people who fuss perpetually over their small
sins, like repenting of them so much better than of
their big; ones. There were saints even who did this.
Give plenty of pennies to all the little sweepers, and
you will feel so charitable that you need never give a
sovereign to anybody.

Nothing in the history of the world is more astounding
at first sight than the appalling lies which
have been told, and the great crimes which undoubtedly
have been committed  and, far worse, instigated
by devout members of religious orders. Humbly
confess sins which are not real sins at all, kneel and
do public penance for some trivial breach of rule, and
you may rise from your knees a justified Jesuit, ready
to dare some horribly wicked lie, to condone crime
and murder, and to bear real black sin upon your
conscience, with the airy lightness only possible to
a hardened saint.

The habit of feeling good by constantly giving
pennies to all the footy little sleepers within you
can be a dangerous one, because it may easily blind

you to the fact that there are sins which should be
paid for with a five-pound note.

A healthy young Englishman educated at a public
school is rarely morbid in mind or conscience ; and if
he should ignore, perhaps even a wee bit too much,
the existence of all his little sweepers, he will at any
rate understand quite clearly about the five-pound
note.

So as Charlie did not feel really a bit wicked, or in
the least stupid, he accepted quite simply the very
high opinion his father transparently held of him.
The high opinion of those they care for is rarely hurtful
to the young : it gives them the confidence and
courage they often are sadly, it can be tragically, in
want of,  for it is tragic to lose all the best years of
life through lack of confidence in your own power, todo
anything worth doing, and it is hard to believe in
yourself when no one you love believes in you ! Very
hard to keep a faith you niust hold with painful shyness,
in secret, quite alone ; for though you may feel
as if you were right, you will be sure to think you
are wrong,  and thinking is so much more important
to us than feeling, because we know it is the sensible
part of us that thinks, and so often only the hopeful,
ever-imaginative poor fool within us who feels,
and we have got quite early to distrust our own too
pleasant fool ! Yet it is best for the young to be
allowed to believe a little in the agreeably dashing
fool within them, because of his joyful buoyancy,
his confidence if encouraged, and his power magnificently

to dare. It is Letter to dare and fail than
never to dare at all, and infinitely happier to dare
young, for failure in youth can rebound into hope
again, while failure later on has the taste in it of
bitter death.

Though Charlie did quite simply accept his father's
high opinion of him mentally and morally, it did not
spoil him to do so, but as a fact rather abashed him,
for he was so very sensitive to that good opinion that
he would fear ever to prove unworthy of it. There
was a kind of particular deference towards him at
times in his father's ever courteous manner, which he
would feel quite keenly.

The Admiral had his mind full of Mrs Newsham's
matrimonial news, and so, immediately on landing, he
naturally began, without the slightest hesitation, upon
the subject to his son.

Charlie, whatever do you think that silly boy
George is up to now ? "

Spending lots of money, now he has got it," said
Charlie, with much decision, as if he had certainly
guessed right. " But I say. Guv, why do you call him
a silly boy, when he is no more a boy than I am ? "

His father smiled in the pleased, amused kind of
way a man smiles at a child who has just put on a
jacket and trousers. " I will call him an old greybeard
then," said he ; " but it is not his money George
is foolish about. Greybeard has set his heart on being
silly in the very silliest possible way."

Holloa ! " cried Charlie ; " but I say ! then he

really is going to cut the whole concern, and start
off to the jungles or the Cockles ? Eattles has been
prophesying ever since Cuthbert's death that he would
be off after the big game. Eattles has been awfully
surprised he has stuck to the grind so long. Never
thought he would ! By Jove ! but won't Eattles be
glad ! He thinks he is sure to get spun himself, and
he would like awfully to go round the world with
George."

The Admiral was smiling still, and with pure
satisfaction. It was delightful to him to hear Charlie
speak like this. Just what he had expected : for did
not he know his son to be incapable of even guessing
at the sort of silliness which came naturally to
George ? At that moment he looked in some ways as
young as Charlie. It is true his hair was white, but
his slim taU figure was as erect as his son's, and he
was stepping along with jaunty vigour. There was
fresh colour in his cheeks and hips, which the moonlight
could not quite kill, and his kind eyes were
very bright. He had that look of innocent joy, the
radiant joy of the heart, which you so rarely see except
in early youth.

The Admiral always dashed straight on with a subject
to the end ; slow roundabout ways were distasteful
to him. " Nowhere near the mark, Charlie ! " he
exclaimed ; " but I defy you to guess, my boy, so I will
tell you. Do you remember that pretty little child
Nellie Newsham ? You can't have forgotten her.
She was at Bluehaven last summer."

Charlie stopped in the street. Having just turned
a corner, he and his father were in deep shade.

Ha, ha ! you have guessed now, Charlie. Sure
you have. Xo wonder you are surprised. Mere
child, mere child ! ought not to think of marrying for
the next ten years. Would not if George had not
put the idea into her head. Hope he knows his own
mind this time, for it is clear that they are to be
married quite soon."

Who told you this ? " asked Charlie, very quietly.

Nellie's own mother, Mrs Newsham herself, or I
should not have believed it, Charlie ; should not have
believed George capable of it unless I had it under
Mrs Newsham's own hand. Here's her letter."

Charlie stood quite still, and did not put out his
hand. " Father," he said, slowly, " I do not believe
Mrs Xewsham."

Knew you would not ! knew you would not ! "
cried out the Admiral, exuberantly. "Could not believe
my own eyes at first, but it is quite true, quite
true ; you will see it is when you read this. There,
there ! take it, take it ! " and he pushed the letter
into Charlie's hand. " Too dark to read it here, but
we'll turn back a few steps. Plenty of bright moonlight
round the corner."

The Admiral rapidly took this own advice, turned
round, and was walking briskly back into the moonlight,
when he realised Charlie had not moved.
Holloa, Charlie, whatever are you standing there for ?
Come alone, come along."

I will read it indoors," called out his son ; " weare
not twenty yards from our hotel."

The Admiral walked back quickly, but not quickly
enough to overtake his son, and when he got to the
hotel he found Charlie had already gone up-stairs.
Now if that young man had been any one but himself,
his father, who was somewhat of a stickler for etiquette,
would have thought his conduct uncourteous and
strange  so strange that he might have had a suspicion
of the truth ; but he had none, and he did not even
think his son uncivil, for what Charlie did could but
seldom strike him in an unfavourable light. Besides,
he was now quite taken up chuckling to himself at
the thought of Charlie being so different from George,
that he could not even believe in the precocious love-making
which came naturally to that foolish lad.

When courteous, kindly people are pleased, they are
so genial to everybody that no one will let them go
by with a mere word. Very short-mannered persons
ought to have plenty of leisure, and be able to do
everything quickly. It took the Admiral quite a longtime
to get up to his room. When he inquired in the
hall if his son had yet come in, the boots answered
him at length, the landlady came out of her private
den, and the chambermaid appeared at the top of the
staircase. He had spent some ten days at the hotel,
and was popular there.

Lor ! but that pleasant-spoken, affable Admiral,
he does look affable to-night ! " thought the landlady;
and she would get his candle herself, and would

light it herself, while she indulged even more fully
than usual in a discursive description of her own rheumatics
and her husband's rheumatics, and the rheumatics
so prevalent in Plymouth. The chambermaid
came down-stairs on purpose to walk up again with
the candle in her hand. She lighted all the other
candles in the Admiral's room, and talked in a pleased
manner about guttering wicks and really hot water, as
distinct from merely tepid water. The boots followed,
to inquire at what hour next morning the Admiral
wished to be called ; and though generally a silent
man, proved communicative on the subject of gentlemen's
shoe-leather and the wrong sort of blacking.

Charlie had read Clara's letter twice over when his
father walked into his room.

The moonlight filled the room. No other light was
there. Charlie, with the letter crumpled in his hand,
was standing by the window, looking out over roofs
and chimneys towards a distant glimpse of water.

The world no longer believes in fairies, hardly in
angels. And yet what spirit of the unseen has
power more supernatural than that magic given on
earth to memory ? We think it were impossible in
fairyland for quite dowdy old clothes to be changed
into glorious raiment, and for the wish of our heart to
take us in one short instant where it could taste and
see and feel the great delight it dreamt of ; but what
are those fairy wonders to the sudden spell of memory?
Though we be made of clay and lead, and have no
imagination in our soul, there still have been moments

in our life when, touched by a mere nothing smaller
than a fairy's wand, memory has set us dreaming, and
the dream has been so vivid that it felt to us quite real.

Charlie was no dreamer by nature, but, like many
people of a clearly determined mind, was habitually
dead to the unreal, and acutely sensitive to actual fact.
And yet that silvered streak of water, seen by him
beyond chimneys and ugly roofs of houses, was magic
as wonderful as fairy cap or whisper of unseen spirit,
for it brought back the past to him, and made him live
asjain through his meeting; on the cliff, in the moonlight,
that night nine months before, with Nellie.

Where a squalid foreground really was, he saw a
rising cliff, as if it were actually there in front of him,
and he gazed on quite another moonlight scene. He
met the real living Nellie ; he felt her trembling passion
once again, and he held her on his arm. There
seemed to be no illusion in this intense reality.

AVe all have known the power, the strange suddenness
of belief, there can be in the real presence of those
we love, or ever have loved even a little. The well-remembered
voice, the trusted eyes, the kind touch of
hand, can kill in one short instant our hardest doubt.

In reading Metternich's clever letter, Charlie had
felt one pang of doubt. But with that feeling of the
actual presence of his love, the old faith rushed back
again into his heart, and like the warm blood of life
a moment stayed, throbbed there more strongly than
before. And by nature he abhorred distrust : it maddened
him.

Nellie was always thinking of Charlie. Many will
tell you that by much thinking of one you love, your
spirit will surely come near to his. This can be a
falsehood cruelly sad ; for like that long thinking of
the dead, who lie so coldly deaf and blind, far, faraway
from us in awful silence, your thoughts may bethe
unknown tears which fall upon a quite still grave.
Yet if the fair illusion does come true, it is when the
one you love thinks always too of you.

The Admiral entered the room, saying exuberantly,
Head the letter ! read the letter, Charlie ! But, Lord
bless my soul I" he cried, " you've no light here but
the moon. Nearly broke my leg over that stool ! "
And he sat down, struck a match, and lighted a candle,
repeating as he did so, " Head the letter ! read the letter
! Eh ? eh ? Charlie, read the letter ! Worse than
going off tiger-hunting to India ? Silly boy ! silly boy !
But, at any rate, it is to be hoped he knows his own
mind this time, and does not intend chopping and
changing about again. I have no patience with him.
Well, he is not my son, or I can tell him he would
find me a very different sort of customer from Mrs
Newsham. Never saw such a temper as Mrs New-sham's
! never ! But she must feel this dreadfully,
for it does look like a slight on her poor little Adela.
But she will bear it like an angel  for she is an angel,
if ever there was one ! " he exclaimed, enthusiastically.
Never met a woman quite like her. Now, Charlie,
is not that a charming letter ? "

Charlie walked from the window up to the table at

which his father was sitting, pulled the candle towards
him, and deliberately set fire to the piece of
crumpled paper he held in his hand,  then flung the
paper into the grate, and stood close by to see it burn.

The Admiral stared at his son in speechless amazement.
" Good Lord ! " he muttered ; " the boy is odd
in his head." Then a suspicion of what that crumpled
thing Charlie had burnt really was, flashed across his
mind : he had had none at first. There is an audacity
beyond quick belief. The Admiral jumped up. " Sir !
what have you burnt, sir ? Tell me what you have
burnt, sir ? "

Charlie walked straight up to his father. " I
have burnt," he began calmly, then exclaimed, with
quick passion, " a damnable lie ! " The Admiral
started back as if shot by a gun. " George is not
engaged to Nellie ! " cried his son. " That is a damnable
lie !  one of Mrs Newsham's lies. Nellie is
engaged to me ! "

Admiral Crofton was as still as death. The shock
had stunned him. He and Charlie stood face to face
in what might have seemed to a stranger quite passionless
silence.

The continuing silence did become passionless to
Charlie, like the long-drawn breath which often follows
quick anger, and seems to stifle it.

The rare outburst of a habitually self-contained
nature is always the most one-ideaed sort of wrath.
Charlie noticed no sign of unusual emotion in his
father, because his own thoughts were fixed solely upon

Nellie. From childhood he had instinctively distrusted
Mrs Newsham ; and when he branded her letter as a
damnable lie," his own violent words calmed him,
for the suspicion of years had broken forth in them
into certainty ; and this certainty of Clara's falsehood
felt to him like absolute faith in Nellie.

Horrible as Charlie's unnaturally strong language
sounded to his father's ear  and Charlie was not given
to strong language  the appalled amazement and indignation
the Admiral felt on Mrs Newsham's account
was lost, forgotten in the shock of those concluding
words, " Nellie is enchained to me ! "

And yet, when the Admiral found breath at last, it
was not in anger but in sorrow that he spoke. The
soreness of his sorrow overcame his wrath.

A true-born martinet never thinks he is at all severe,
while a very indulgent man will easily reproach himself
with ill-judged severity. The Admiral was really
convinced he had kept a remarkably tight hand over
that boy of his ; for the exercise of his own authority
or the slightest correction of his son had been more
keenly felt by himself than by Charlie.

Self-reproach came now like sudden grief upon him,
and overpowered every other feeling, even the intense
disappointment of finding his son no wiser than George,
and not a bit different from any ordinary foolish young
fellow.

Have I been so hard to you, Charlie ? " he asked,
sorrowfully, almost as if he were craving forgiveness
from his son,  " have I been so hard that you dreaded

to tell me of this thing, and therefore kept it secret
from your own father ? "

Hard ? " repeated his astounded son ; " you hard,
Guv ? " Charlie smiled. " You never were hard tome
in your life  not even a little severe, though sometimes
you have tried to be so. You could not be hard
to any one ! " he said, affectionately.

A really indulgent parent rarely likes to be told he
is not a disciplinarian ; only those like it who pretend
to be very indulgent when they are not. The Admiral
got quite angry ; but some of this anger came as warmth
does after a chill : it was the natural reaction from
deeper to lighter feeling.

Then how dared you fall in love, sir, without telling
me ? " he asked so testily that his son stood staring
at the rapid change in him. But Charlie was not a
bit afraid of his father.

I did not fall in love," he answered, simply. " I
think I have always had the same feeling towards
Nellie that I have now." However, he was mistaken
in this. He continued, " As long as I can remember,
whenever I have thought of marrying, I have always
thought of Nellie "

As . as long as you . . . you can remember
. . whenever you . . . you have thought of . . .
of marrying ! " stuttered the Admiral. " Lord bless
my soul ! " he cried  " Lord bless my soul ! " and he
looked aghast.

There was nothing really new to tell you, father,"
said Charlie, calmly ; " only just one thing, and I am

sorry now I did not tell you that sooner. I never
thought of telling it to any one, because . . . "  his
voice dropped  " because I have never spoken to
anybody of Nellie. But there's time enough to tell
you still, Guv, for the list won't be out for another
ten days. I settled with Nellie that, on the very
day I see my name in the list of passed, I will go and
claim her before her mother and the whole world as
my engaged wife "

Your engaged fiddlestick, sir ! Stuff and nonsense,
sir ! stuff and nonsense ! But pray, sir, perhaps
I may be permitted to ask the question, sir ? pray, sir,
for how long have you considered yourself engaged to
your . . . your wife ? His wife ! good Lord ! his wife ! "

I have felt my whole life long," said Charlie,
very gravely, " as if I were engaged to Nellie and she
to me."

Your . . . whole . . . life . . . long ! " gasped
the poor Admiral ; then added quickly,  " and. pray,
how old are you now, sir ? "

Nearly twenty," said Charlie.

You are no such thing, sir ! " cried his father, in a
rage ; " no such thing ! You are a mere boy still, and
you ought to be well flogged, sir ! flogged till all the
precocious nonsense is flogged out of you."

Charlie was just a little nettled at this, but not
much  and it is very easy to keep your temper when
you are not really angry. So he answered his father
gently, though with considerable dignity of manner 
with more dignity than he might have thought it

necessary to assume had he been some few years older
"I shall be twenty on the 18th of August," he
said. " A fellow is not a boy, father, when he is
twenty  he is a man ! "

Admiral Crofton looked at his son. Charlie was
certainly taller than himself ; but he had realised that
before. " Tall stripling," he had been wont to think.
Yet it had never seriously struck him Charlie was even
nearly grown-up. It did so now for the first time.
There was pain and irritation in the discovery rather
than pleasure. The age of comparative independence
feels like that of estrangement  nay, even of rebellion
to many a parent, and that is why there are some
who, to their dying day, can be offended to think their
son or daughter is grown-up. It was that look of
strongly decided character, respectfully yet boldly confronting
him in his son's face, like some calm power
quite equal to his own, which brought conviction to
the father's mind.

By God ! Charlie," he muttered, " you are right ! "
And then, in the quick, short-breathed voice, which is
as often that of emotion as of temper, said, " You have
cruelly disappointed me, Charlie ! I had always thought
when at last you were grown up you would be different,
very different, from the ordinary run of young men."

Different ? In what way, father ? " asked Charlie,
anxiously.

The Admiral hesitated ; he did not immediately find
a ready answer.

In what way did you think I would be unlike

other fellows ? " inquired Charlie again, and as anxiously
as before. " Why did you think I would be different ?
Why should I be different from other fellows, Guv ? "

Because . . . "  the answer even now was not so
easily found  " because . . . for a very good reason,
sir, a very good reason ! You were quite differently
brought up."

How so ? " said Charlie, much astonished. " I
have done the same sort of thing as other fellows.
Had just the same kind of education. Been to Eton.
And as to my going to Stuttgart, that's nothing out of
the way, for half the fellows who get plucked in their
first try bolt straight off to Germany."

You know very well what I mean," replied Admiral
Crofton, waxing all the more angry from feeling rather
confused. " You are right well aware, sir, that you
have been brought up from your earliest years with
good principles and a clear knowledge of right and
wrong  brought up in an atmosphere . . . ahem !
an atmosphere of . of honourable feeling.
And your conduct has been disgraceful, sir ! disgraceful
to a gentleman ! "

Disgraceful ? " repeated Charlie, slowly, and he
turned red.

Yes, sir ! disgraceful to a gentleman, sir ! How
dare you look me in the face, sir ? " It was really
the Admiral who glared at Charlie. " You ought to
be ashamed of yourself, sir ! ashamed of having secretly
engaged the affections of a mere child. If you considered
the child grown-up and yourself engaged to

VOL. IL R

her, you ought to have behaved like a man of honour,
and have told your own father. I should instantly
have done the right and proper thing  I should have
told Mrs Newsham. You ought to have spoken to
Mrs Newsham yourself, sir."

Charlie was hard hit. It must be remarkably unpleasant
to feel a bullet go suddenly through you, but
I doubt if the sensation can be much more painful
than to be quite unexpectedly shot by a new idea justin
the spot where it had never struck you you were
vulnerable. A totally new idea of your own conduct
is rarely an agreeable one, for you will surely have
taken the most favourable view possible of your own
actions, and new light can lay bare little holes which
the glamour of your own eyesight veiled.

Of a sudden Charlie saw his conduct placed before
him in a startling new light. Only to see it could be
viewed thus by any one on earth  above all by his
father  took him aback. Until now he had felt quite
blameless. The mere doubt of his perfect blamelessness
towards Nellie angered him against himself. His
love for her was of that kind which must feel itself
above all reproach. It was horrid pain to him to have
even one faint doubt.

And as nothing makes you get angry with others
so quickly as being angry with yourself, Charlie rapidly
lost his temper.

I have not behaved dishonourably towards Nellie ! "
he called out violently  " I have not ! and you have
no right to say so. It is not true ! It is a shame of

you to say it, father." And then, in a lower but very
audible voice, he added, " A confounded shame 1 "

When Admiral Crofton overheard quite clearly the
words, " It is not true  confounded shame," he considered
he had a perfect right to feel unpardonably
insulted, and yet it is a fact that he was far less angry
with his son than he had been an instant before. If a
warm genial soul is justly irritated, cool composure
feels to it abominably unsympathetic. This is preeminently
the case with a justly irritated parent  and
what parent doubts that his wrath is certainly just ?
A justly irritated father likes to be met by an unjustly
irritated son. The Admiral was beginning to feel a
little uncomfortable at having all the anger to himself,
when Charlie thus opportunely lost his temper. However,
the instinct of discipline, and the desire still to
keep that very tight hand over his son, no matter
what his age might be, made him answer as if his
wrath had increased and not decreased.

Sir ! you have insulted me, sir ! But unpardonably
insulting as your language has been towards me, sir, I
am comparatively unaffected by it on my own account.
It is the language you have used this night about Mrs
Newsham . . . "  the Admiral had remembered the
damnable lie, which he had forgotten in stronger feelings
until then  '' the language you have used towards
a lady for whom I have the highest respect, and for
whom you, in the position in which you have wilfully
dared to place yourself, sir, should have still more unbounded
respect and every sort of generous, honourable

consideration as well. It is the inexcusable expression
disgraceful  yes, sir ! disgraceful to a gentleman 
that you have made use of in regard to Mrs New-sham's
letter which I call upon you to withdraw."

That letter is what I called it' said Charlie,
fiercely,  " a lie which might have separated me for
life from Nellie. A damnable lie ! "

Apologise this instant, sir ! Apologise for those
words this instant, sir."

Charlie paused before speaking. This pause had its
effect on his father.

No," said Charlie at last, quite calmly, " I won't !
They are true."

You . . . you believe that, Charlie ? " said the
Admiral, with a sudden change of tone, falling back
dismayed.

Charlie turned round upon his father and asked
passionately, "Do you want me to think Nellie false ?
Do you want me to distrust her solemn word and
believe that letter ?  believe she loves another man ?
You, you, father, of all people in the world ? do you
want me to distrust poor Nellie ? Nellie, of whom you
are so fond ! I have often heard you say you loved
her as if she were your own child."

Ahem ! " coughed the Admiral uneasily, for such
pleading from his son told upon him powerfully.

Poor Nellie, she is weak," said Charlie, tenderly,
but she is true. Tell me, father," he added, imploringly,
his anger having quite melted away, " tell me you
believe she is true, and never could be false to me ! "

My dear boy ." began Admiral Crofton, then
stopped himself. " Xo, no, Charlie ! I must not give iQ
to this sort of nonsense ! I must not give in ! "

But Charlie pleaded, with a kind of grave smile in
his eyes, and he laid his hand affectionately on his
father's arm. " You believe in Nellie, just as I do.
Guv. You know she never would throw me over for
another fellow."

The Admiral looked admiringly at his son, and did
think it quite impossible.

Ahem ! ahem ! " he coughed again.

You believe, father, you believe in Nellie ? " pleaded
Charlie once more.

I don't believe in foolish young people at all ! "
replied the Admirals stoutly. " Xow, now, Charlie, I
don't. But, my dear boy, I . I quite understand I "
And he grasped his son's hand warmly. " Painful letter
for you to read, Charlie  very painful ! But . . .
you'll think differently of Mrs Xewsham soon, Charlie."
It was he who was the pleader now. " You were justa
little hot, Charlie. Trying moment for you  ought
not to have given you that letter so suddenly. But
we'll let the hasty words pass, Charlie. We'll say no
more about them."

Father," said Charlie, slowly, " I apologise for anything
offensive or hurtful I may have said to you."
Then quickly, " You know I did not mean to be insulting
to you."

Before the Admiral knew what he was saying he
had blurted out, " Pray, pray don't, Charlie ! Why, my

dear boy, there is absolutely nothing for you to apologise
to me about."

Charlie was a little surprised at this.

Admiral Crofton was one of those truly courteous
people who instinctively shrink from putting others
uncomfortably in the wrong. But no sooner had he
spoken than he remembered what a strict disciplinarian
he really was. " Ahem, quite right, Charlie ! quite
right ! I accept your apology," he exclaimed, hastily.
But we'll say good night. Long past twelve ! We'll
talk over the whole thing tomorrow, my boy ! See . . .
see what can be done. I only wish you to act in every
way like an honourable man." And he scuttled out of
the room in no time, but not before he had shaken
hands very warmly with his son.

The Admiral never felt more affectionately towards
Charlie than at that moment. I fear this will seem
odd to all those  they are many !  who never can
understand that no ill feeling need remain between
two people who have been sympathetically angry
together. There are two kinds of anger, as there are
two sorts of quarrels  the sympathetic and the unsympathetic.
There is a quarrel all made up of
icicles and full stops, very decorous, but everlasting;
and there is the more human sort, in which there can
be unexpected little accidents of sympathy.

Where there is any power of imagination, a man
may be overtaken suddenly by sympathy for the very
person he does not want to sympathise with. But
the position of feeling sympathetically towards what a

moment before was your mortal enemy, is such a
very awkward one that, naturally enough, nobody
ever hears much about it. Yet I believe this accident
occurs more frequently than is supposed. The
Admiral would have been quite capable of feeling
sympathetically with his mortal enemy  though, sir,
he would have been very angry with him, sir ! Then
how fearfully easy was it for the poor man, even in
the midst of all his disappointment and wrath with
Charlie, suddenly to feel sympathy for his son's truelove
 a love so firm with fond belief that, sooner
than distrust Nellie just a little, it could doubt Mrs
Newsham ! It is true Admiral Crofton was by nature
romantically inclined, though he did not know it himself,
and would have been seriously angry had you
told him so.

But he had become aware that what felt like a
traitor was beginning to move him in his own heart ;
and it really was from the most awkward of all false
positions in which a stern parent was ever threatened
to be placed, that he had run so precipitately away.
He wished to reflect quietly before he was carried too
far  perhaps beyond what was right and honourable.

When his father was gone, Charlie did not go to
bed, but sat up thinking. He sat on thinking till the
candle had died out, and broad daylight filled the
room.

It was in the Admiral's last words  " I only wish
you to act like an honourable man "  that he found
such long thinking. He was exquisitely sensitive to

his father's high opinion of him. I do not think
any father ever had more real influence over his son ;
it was quite as great as Charlie's influence over the
Admiral 1 The young man was absolutely convinced
his father always took the most favourable view of
him, mentally and morally, and of everything he said
and did. He had discovered this by finding other
people so different. With those other people he felt
quite an ordinary sort of mortal ; this he never did
with his father. I can imagine a prophet, powerless
over whole races of men, but believed in implicitly by
one man, remaining unshaken in his own infallibility
until that one worshipper gave sign of doubt.

But self-reproach takes odd little turns in human
nature ! And in lovers its ways are stranger than in
other men and women, though in all of us they are
strange. With the best intentions possible to any
young man doubting for the moment his own infallibility,
Charles Crofton reviewed his whole conduct towards
Nellie, and clearly came to the conclusion he had
been in the wrong. But what do you suppose was
the one point on which he concentrated all his self-reproach
? What was the mistake, nay, the sin, he
clearly saw should be paid for with the five-pound
note ? Why, the coldness of his last parting from
Nellie ! And this was the one part of the whole
matter which would certainly have been commended
as infallibly right by Mrs Newsham and his father 
his father, to whom he owed the very idea of regretting
anything in his conduct at all.

But it was more than mere regret Charlie felt  it
was remorse.

And the longer he thought of the coldness of that
parting  the cruel coldness of it  the more painfully
did he repent of it, and intensely realise what a false
position of horrid doubt it had possibly placed poor
Nellie in. He had never thought of this before. Had
his coldness chilled her love ? Could his seeming
hardness have filled her mind with doubt ? Had
Nellie doubted him ? This idea had never even
struck him until then. And he felt passionately how
wrong, how inexcusably wrong, he had been not to
have gone back again at the very last, last moment,
and let her know he had not changed to her. And
there had been time. He remembered how much time
now. He remembered how he had paused on that
first uprising of the meadow just outside the rectory
windows at Bluehaven. He had looked back and seen
Nellie standing quite still, as if waiting for one word
of kindness to undo the cold cruelty which had turned
her into stone. One word from him, one, only one !
would have been enough. He said that word to himself
again and again, and cursed himself for hasting left
it unsaid at the right moment. The past, like an
executioner before whom we are suddenly bound, can
come up behind us, and quickly strangle our present
hopeful faith, and in one instant the living may be
dead.

There is no truth in that horrible letter ! There
is no truth in it ! Yet, if . if Nellie did misunderstand

." And the past stood with that
ready rope behind him, and cruel doubt fell upon him
and bound him down.

Could Metternich have known his thoughts just
then, she would have felt triumphant. Charlie had
called her letter a " damnable lie " ! and yet he believed
it now, and with that terrible intensity of faith which
only comes in its full might to crush us after we have
first disbelieved with our whole soul.

But he did not blame Nellie; he blamed himself.
I had repulsed her  I was cold. She thought I had
changed, and cared no longer for her ; and so she has
accepted the love of another man. She was not
faithless to me until I had made her believe I did not
love her any more."

Then Charlie remembered George was a very good
match, and he himself a poor one. It was characteristic
of his love that he should not have thought of
this before. He reddened at what seemed to him a
low suspicion, and all his better nature rebelled against
so mean a thought of Nellie. He put it away from
him. But to do so brought him no return of hope ;
for he only believed the more implicitly in Mrs New-sham's
worldliness,  in her wish for this match, and
her power to have made it.

As may easily be imagined. Jack Battles had not
been quite silent at Stuttgart on the subject of George
and Mrs Newsham. He had said more than once,
and with but 'trifling variations of expression, " I
have never seen that Mrs Newsham any more than I

have seen a man-eating tiger in its own jungle ; but I
say, by Jove ! she must be a remarkably 'cute manager
in her own way, and if I were a catch, and had
a fortune, hang me if I would not keep clear of her
lair." He had joked pretty often about the " manager."
Like most " chaffy " young fellows, Eattles
had a whole set of standard jokes, and this was one of
them, for he had been immensely tickled at George
having been asked his intentions about Miss Adela 
and I give you my word of honour, Crofton, he did
not even know if she were good-looking or not ! Never
knew such a joke in my life. By Jove ! it was a
farce ! He did not care one half straw for the girl,
but he lived in mortal terror of the man-eater ! Quite
clear the " man-eater " thought him a likely spec. 
uncle dying, and all that sort of thing ! "

After the fashion of a very young man, Charlie
judged others entirely by himself, so thought it quite
impossible any fellow on earth could have been in
love with a girl like Adela. When a young man is
deeply in love with one girl, he can think another ten
times as dull and uninteresting as she really is. Soit
was only too easy for him to believe George was in
love with Nellie. Yet he was generous to his rival :
even jealousy could not make him quickly doubt his
closest friend and chosen companion, for to doubt George
seemed to him mean infamy.

George would not have let himself love Nellie if
he had known I loved her. And if I were to tell
him now . . . even now . . . But how dare I tell

him I love the girl he loves, when she, by my own
fault, must have changed to me ? It would not be
honourable to Nellie. And my father is right  I
should act like an honourable man." Then he painfully
reflected, " George can be a more agreeable
fellow than I often am. I may have been too silent,
too coldly reserved. I think Nellie was a little afraid
of me. And no one could be afraid of George. I
know I am rather a forbidding sort of chap at times,"
thought poor Charlie ; " fellows have often told
me so."

The Admiral sat up very late too. In one room
there was Charlie convincing himself he had for ever
lost the girl he loved, and solemnly vowing he would
never marry as long as he lived  thus proving he
really did possess to a certain degree that curious
superiority over the rest of marrying mankind which
his father had expected of him as a matter of course.

And there was the sternly wise Admiral four doors
off, minutely arranging during two whole hours how
his boy's silly, improvident marriage with the mere
child he had the unpardonable foolishness to love
could be . . . prevented ? No ; could possibly be
brought about !

As to money," thought the Admiral, " why. Lord
bless my soul ! there need be no difficulty about that :
a couple of hundred at the outside would be sufficient
for an old fellow like me. They might have the
rest. That would give them the clear thousand a-year
poor Cuthbert so generously left me. And there's

that house in Pont Street ." A vision rose before
the Admiral's mind, and charmed him as only a fair
vision can.

There are people born into this world husbands
and wives, and fathers and mothers,  but those are
the very ones who too often will be denied the satisfaction
of their strong affections. The Admiral had
been born an adoring husband and father. It was
the greatest pity his wife had died, for he could have
gone on worshipping her for ever as a sort of goddess
infinitely this own superior  although it is said by
those who knew her that she never really was worthy
to be compared to his own genial, loving, courteous,
sympathetic, and quite agreeable self.

The born husbands hardly ever marry again, though
to the last they will nobly idealise women and touchingly
believe in their goodness, even when they are
not good. They will be their chivalrous admirers for
life  I might call them their attendant saints. We
all have seen pictures of the Madonna seated upon
a throne, and on the lower steps have stood, rapt in
calm and noble worship, the figures of believing men
who have believed unto martyrdom and death. The
Admiral had a soul which could worship in the spirit
of these saints. Charlie had this same holy spirit in
him too ; but he was a man of more restricted belief
than his father.

Providence had been kind to the Admiral in
giving him a son. I am glad he was not left on
earth without one human beinr whom he had a ritrht

to love enough to give satisfaction to his kind heart ;
for it is true that strong affections, when quite unsatisfied,
can be a kind of consuming sickness full of
suffering for the soul. The Admiral's love for his son
was infinite, and his satisfaction in loving him unreservedly
with perfect unselfishness was boundless.

But this born father had a very large heart  he
could have loved many children as he loved Charlie.
I know but few people will believe this, for there is
nothing so little understood as largeness of heart.
Most men and women have a sort of iron safe inside
them not many inches wide, and it has but one key,
or rarely two. That is what makes the world so
lonely for those who have no special key. There is
solitude amongst the iron safes, as there is poverty ina
bank where other people's gold is double-locked in
strong chests all round you  you may stand a beggar
amidst thousands of pounds !

But there was no iron-bound safe, no complication
of padlocks, inside the kind Admiral, and he thought
now of nellie with a true father's love. Her sweet
pathetic face, her gentle loving ways, were very dear
to him : she was just the daughter he would have
chosen for himself had he been given two children,
and not only one.

In imagination he now gave up, besides his fortune,
his own house to her and Charlie, that they might live
there happily together, " if Charlie is quartered near
London. And when I am on shore and up in town,
I know Nellie will be glad to have the old man with

her." He liked the thought. It pleased him much to
feel he might be a welcome guest in the house he had
given up to his children. That Nellie would always
be a loving daughter to him, was a certainty which
admitted of no doubt.

That idealised sion of the future, oh, how beautiful
it can be 1 None of the disillusion is there which
terrible reality so often brings ; for that which, seen
from afar, has seemed like a dream of heaven, can be
horrible when it has come quite near. Reality has a
cold finger on its left hand, whose touch can feel to us
like that of death.

If the imagination is pleased, it straightway changes
every fact we look upon. The Admiral had been
angry with his son for saying he had felt his whole
life long as if he were engaged to Nellie and she to
him. Yet he now remembered these very words with
approbation. " Quite right, Charge  quite right !
That's the kind of love which grows to be a man's
whole soul. No chopping and changing in that sort !
No thinking you are in love with one girl while you
are falling in love with another ! I am sorry for that
poor young Adela  sorry George has not been faithful
to her memory a little longer ; and I'U tell him so
when next I see him. But I expect he wil be proposing
for Sylvia in another ten days. One thing is
certain  he is quite unworthy of Nellie."

As it is hard, very hard, to refuse his strong desire
to one you love, so is it a moving joy to grant him the
wish of his heart. If once you give way to this

pleasure, you will go on till the impossible itself
has vanished. His son's marriage with Nellie soon
seemed to the Admiral a simple matter, very easy of
accomplishment ; and he finally went to bed, having
all but fixed the wedding-day.

Nothing is stranger than the startling difference
there can be between the thoughts we have closed our
eyes upon and those to which we awake on the following
morning. Common-sense is a very sleepy fellow,
and he is in bed half his time by eleven, and so sound
asleep that he forgets us and we quite forget him :
our meeting with him next day is apt to be singularly
unpleasant.

When the Admiral awoke the following morning,
he felt as if he were awaking in a wet blanket. The
sensation was supremely disagreeable. Before he had
even time to get up, he had asked himself, " Am I
a romantic old fool ? Can Nellie have changed her
mind ? Her acceptance of George looks like it. And
Mrs Newsham is a mother who is only too likely to
know her daughter's real feelings. If Nellie should
have changed her mind, would it be right  would it
be honourable  for Charlie to come forward ? George
is a much better match than he can ever be." The
Admiral actually perceived this by daylight. " I will
ask Charlie if he has reason to suppose there can have
been any change of feeling or any misunderstanding
on Nellie's part."

The Admiral always did what he thought his
duty as quickly as possible. It was a habit he had

got. So the very first moment he saw Charlie, he
asked him the question point-blank.

Charlie told him the truth, and stated a strong case
against himself.

The son had the father's same direct way of doing
what he considered his duty. He had come to the
conclusion it was his duty to convince his father that
he was bound in honour to give Nellie up, just as the
Admiral had come to the conclusion it was his duty
to convince Charlie he ought to give her up. But
when a man is convincing himself against his will
that what is acutely painful to him is yet the right
thing to be done, he is apt to be much put out if you
agree with him too readily.

Admiral Crofton would have liked his son's case to
be so strong that he might have consented, after all,
to grant him his heart's desire ; and without being in
the least aware of it, this is what he had secretly
hoped for. So he was disappointed, irritated, to be
convinced straight off of his own most distasteful
conviction.

Yes, sir," he said, quite angrily ; " you must give
her up. You must have nothing more to say to her.
You are right in thinking that, as a man of honour,
you are bound to give her up  for bound to give her
up you undoubtedly are, sir ! "

His father's words were a shock to poor Charlie ; he
too had secretly hoped for contradiction. He fired up.

I promised to claim her as my wife ! " he exclaimed,
passionately; "and I will do what I said."

VOL. IL s

You will do no such thing, sir ! " cried the Admiral,
in a rage ; " and if you dare to disobey me, I
will cut you off to a shilling I Yes, sir, I will ! I'll
cut you off to a shilling, sir ! "

Charlie stared, astounded at his father. " Should a
man of honour ever break his promise ? " he asked.

Most certainly, sir ! if it is a promise a man of
honour had no right to make."

You . you think this, father ? "
Good God, sir ! Would I say so, sir . . . ? "
Exactly at this moment Captain Vincent was announced.
There are times when a visitor can walk
into a room like a visible dispensation of Providence.

Chapter XII.

Old Lady Blinffollcle always breakfasted in bed ; and
so now did Nellie.

The girl never seemed really awake until after
luncheon. She would begin to revive about three
o'clock in the afternoon.

Lady Blinffollde ordered her carriage every day at
half-past three, but she was never dressed till a quarter
to four.

It was whilst waiting for her ladyship's bonnet to
be properly tied on by her maid Pickering, that Nellie
would read the newspaper. She had not latterly felt
in a humour for any sort of reading, and she thought
she really had not time for it, but she never missed
glancing over the ' Morning Post.'

Each day she looked for the same thing, and each
day as she laid down the paper she felt sick at heart,
just as if she really had expected to find what she
believed there was not the slightest chance of her
seeing; for she thought Charlie could not be going
in for his examination before the winter at soonest.

Nellie had been exactly three weeks to the day

with Lady BlinffoUcle, and the carriage was waiting as
usual from half-past three to a quarter to four at the
Dowager's door, when, feeling almost awake, she took
up the ' Morning Post,' and searched as attentively as
if she were full of hope for that list of successful army
candidates.

She found it  to find it was a shock of such intense
delight that for a moment she could not see from
agitation.

It was the feeling " his name cannot be there "
which steadied her excessive joy, so that she could
look again and read. She glanced instinctively at the
top of the list. There was Charlie's name ! He had
passed out third.

Nellie sat so still in the carriage, and was so
absolutely silent, that Lady Blinffollde at last became
aware she was not listening ; and her ladyship actually
stopped talking ! Yet Nellie did not notice this,
though it was the most extraordinary of all extraordinary
things for the Dowager to stop talking.

Though Lady Blinffollde was piqued to see the girl
did not even perceive she had ceased speaking, she was
not more surprised than she had often been before at the
far-off, absent, odd look of her, for Nellie had frequently
of late been curiously strange in look and manner.

Nellie went that night with Lady Blinffollde to a
ball. George was there. Although the girl he loved
had grown very cold to him, he still went everywhere
he was likely to meet her.

Of late George would stand watching Nellie,

perhaps for quite a long time, before he spoke to her.
He would only go up and speak to her when quite
convinced she was not coming first to speak to him.

But on that evening it was she who walked up to
him. There was some change in her he instantly felt.
Yet though she had sought him, she stood before him
as if unable to speak. Her look moved him horribly.
The sight of her was for a moment a terrible agitation
to him. He scanned her countenance with eager
pain  then seemed reassured, and reddened as if the
first thought he had had of her were shameful misery
to his soul. A base thought of one you love, come
suddenly on your mind, can sear it with agony. His
thought of her had been to him a dreadful one.

He looked down as if in shame, and said to her in a
voice of pained kindness, for she remained speechless,
Sit down a little here with me, ISrellie, for I think
you are tired to-night."

They had hardly sat down together, when George,
speaking more cheerfully to her than he had done for
many days, exclaimed, " Did you see the good news,
Nellie ? Charlie Crofton has passed in third."

She was as white as her white ball-dress. She did
not speak. George would have thought her strange
indeed had she not so often been strange to him of late.
He continued  " And Charlie has known his luck for
thirty-six hours now. Butt telegraphed the good news
to Plymouth yesterday."

Is . he . at . Plymouth ? " The question
was asked very slowly, with difficult utterance.

and she had turned her head aside ; but so accustomed
was George to her queer shy ways with him, that he
hardly noticed this.

Yes' he said, glad she had spoken at last ; " he has
been at Plymouth since Tuesday, I hear. I had a letter
from Uncle Charles last week about some business, and
he said he was expecting Charlie back from Germany
immediately. And, by the by, Nellie, Uncle Charles
told me to give you his love if I saw you, for he had
heard from young Seymour, who is on board the Apollo,
that you are staying in town with Lady Blinffollde."

Then he knows I am with Lady BHnffollde," said
Nellie, in a very low voice, still looking away from
George.

At this moment, that rather elderly beau Lord
Damper came up to Nellie, and asked if he might
have the pleasure of taking her down-stairs for some
refreshment. She rose quickly, and was taking his
proffered arm, when George sprung up and said
resolutely, " Excuse me. Lord Damper, but I am sorry
to tell you you are taking my partner from me." But
before Lord Damper could answer, Nellie was saying
quite loudly, " This waltz is quite over, so I will go
down with you. Lord Damper." And she accepted his
arm and walked away without once looking back at
poor George. George's whole face flushed violently
with very angry sorrow. Was the young fellow jealous
of every man who spoke to her ?

He heard Lord Damper say, " May I be permitted,
Miss Newsham, to ask if that extremely young gentleman

has any very particular right to consider you his
partner for the whole evening ? " And he distinctly
heard Nellie reply, with a loud decision that was startling
in her because so unusual, " He has no right
whatever. He has none ! "

Eleanour Xewsham did not lie in bed next day, but
got up very early, and came down and sat in the
drawing-room quite alone, the whole livelong morning.
She was glad to be alone, for every passing sound was
an emotion to her she could not control.

The minutes of painful watching grew into hours ;
and Charlie did not come ! The hours dragged on into
what felt to her like a lifetime of long years. And at
last those seeming years sickened slowly into despair,
as long years do into old age. That long, long morning
made poor Nellie feel quite old.

Why, my dear creature ! " cried Lady Blindfold,
when she appeared just before luncheon,  " why, my
poor dear creature ! whatever is the matter ? You look
as if you had been up aU night ! " And the Dowager
was certain the match had just been broken off.
How unfortunate it was she had not come down a
little sooner ! She might have been consulted by the
shy young people, if only she had happened to be on
the spot !

But to make quite sure she had good reason for
her belief, out of the room she went : and she almost
ran down-stairs, so great was her hurry, to ask the
butler if Sir George Crofton had called. "When she
found he had not, she made up her mind the match

had been broken off the night before. " Nellie was
strange, most strange last night,  stranger if possible
than ever ! and Sir George seemed beside himself ! "

Nellie would eat no luncheon. She only took a
glass of sherry, and tried, but failed, to eat a biscuit.
Lady Blinffollde, on the contrary, ate more than
usual, for the puzzle of this lover's mystery agreed
admirably with her constitution ; but she said  " I do
wonder, my dear NelHe, that Dr Williams Smith does
not give you the same tonic he gives me, for it really
has a very wonderful effect upon the appetite."

The Dowager was taking a second cutlet when the
footman brought in a telegram. It was for Nellie.
At sight of it the poor girl all but fainted, so Lady
Blinffollde felt justified in opening it. It was from
Mrs Newsham :  " Going up to Alexandra Hotel tonight.
Meet me there to-night. Have engaged room
for you."

Nothing dreadful ! nothing dreadful, my poor, poor
dear ! only from your mother  I'll read it to you."

Her mother's name did more to bring Nellie back
to clear consciousness than the second glass of sherry
which Lady Blinffollde instantly poured out and gave
her.

CHAPTER XIII.

Why was Clara coming up to town so suddenly ?
Why by such a very late train ? Why had she
not come by a morning one ?

This is what had happened at Eastcourt. The
day before, Thomas had been allowed down-stairs for
the first time since his jaundice, and the remembrance
of Johnson had come upon him so clearly
when he found himself back again in his " study," that
he could feel no confidence whatever in the upper
footman, and quite forgot he had had confidence in
him now for several days. The consequence was that
Mr Newsham set everything astray. He would open
the post-bag himself, for he felt he could not trust anyone
to do it properly but himself ; yet in taking out
the letters he mistook the newspapers for advertisements,
and two temperance tracts for the papers.

No newspapers could be found in the house, though
Clara insisted on looking in all Thomas's pockets for
them. James, the footman, spent most of the day
searching about, and, when he did not find the
papers, Thomas naturally felt justified in having no

confidence in such a man, for, as lie said to Clara,
Poor Johnson would have found them immediately.
Yes, yes, he would ! Johnson always found everything,
Clara."

Clara was perfectly sure Thomas had thrown the
papers into the fire, for the grate was full of floating
grey ashes. But she did not argue the matter. She
never argued with Thomas.

Next day Kate got a newspaper from George by the
second post, with big crosses inside marking a particular
place ! It was Charlie's name in the Sandhurst
list of passed.

Clara heard Kate read Charlie's name aloud to
Thomas. Kate was so amiably delighted, not only for
Charlie's sake but for " dear, kind Uncle Charles's too,"
that she did not notice any emotion on her sister-in-law's
part, though Clara betrayed more than you would
have imagined  any such news was unexpected by her
for another ten days. But perfect self-command never
leaves her long, and when she rose to quit the room,
saying she had forgotten an unfinished letter up-stairs,
there was nothing in her manner to make you doubt
she was merely going to look for it. In reality she
went off herself to the stable - yard. Five minutes
afterwards a man had started on horseback for Slumby
with two telegrams  one to the Alexandra Hotel and
the other to Eleanour.

As Mrs Newsham was walking back into the house,
she wondered what excuse she could give for rushing
off to town that very afternoon. She was so accustomed,

whenever she went up to London suddenly, to
go there in order to consult the doctors, that this
excuse had become a second nature to her, and was
like a dead - weight upon her imagination,  the doctors,
and only the doctors, would now come into her
head. But she did not want to consult them about
Thomas, being quite determined to leave him at East-court,
and it was really impossible for herself or for
one of the children to get seriously ill during the next
two hours, and yet be able to travel. She then remembered
how on one memorable occasion she had
sent Rockhurst up to town to consult the dentist ;
but Sylvia was the only person in the house who had
latterly suffered from toothache, and Sylvia was so
clever and alarmingly wide-awake, that it would be
highly dangerous to take her into the midst of what was
likely to be a complication of matrimonial accidents.

So Clara had suddenly to be seized with bad toothache
herself ! And very effectively she got it. And
dreadful were the stories she told of the wrong teeth
drawn, and the jaws broken by " the man in Slumby."
The amiably sympathetic Kate was horrified by these
tales, and did think poor Clara ought indeed to go upto
town immediately, and quite understood that if
Clara went by the seven o'clock train that evening,
she could see the dentist the very first thing the following
morning. The fact is, Kate was so delighted
at the prospect of going home herself, and getting away
from the repression and constraint of her sister-in-law's
house, that she simply required no excuse at all !

And so unsuspicious was she by nature, that it
seemed quite natural to her for Clara's toothache to go
away soon after they got into the train. She remembered
having often heard of people who were suffering
tortures being cured by merely putting their foot
inside a dentist's door ; and this very thing had once
happened to Kate herself. She was one of those
nervous people who get violent attacks of neuralgia
from time to time. Clara had always seemed coldly
superior to this, as to every other physical weakness.
A very strong woman is sure to be extremely hard towards
the pain and illness of other women  far harder
than the strongest man. Kate would suffer agonies of
neuralgia in secret sooner than tell Clara. But she
sympathised much with Clara's toothache ; it seemed to
make her more like an ordinary woman, and Thomas's
wife did not always feel quite human to Kate.

Mrs Newsham dropped her sister-in-law in Chapel
Street, and went on alone to the Alexandra Hotel.
She had purposely left her maid at Eastcourt, just as
she had purposely sent Nellie to Lady Blindfold's
without any attentively listening, observing person,
sure to talk quite unreservedly to Pickering.

Pickering's intimacy with the Dowager was greater
than some people may believe  far greater than either
maid or mistress was herself aware of, for Lady Blindfold
thought she kept Pickering at a very great
distance, and really never talked to her in the least.

Pickering was a " treasure." She awaited Mrs
JSTewsham in the rooms pre-engaged by telegram at the

Alexandra Hotel. She had brought Miss Eleanour's
luggage from Eaton Place, and had unpacked her
carpet-bag, and put out her " night things." Pickering
informed Mrs Newsham that Miss Eleanour had
dined out with Lady Blinffollde, and was now at an
evening party, but that her ladyship had told her
to tell Mrs Newsham Miss Eleanour would certainly
not arrive at the hotel later than twelve o'clock.

Lady Blinffollde had not concealed from Pickering
her great anxiety to know what on earth had brought
Mrs Newsham so suddenly up to town. She had not
said to the confidential maid, " It must be the 
of this match between her daughter and Sir
George ; " but Pickering herself considered  and so
did the whole servants' hall  that it undoubtedly
was the breaking-off of the match with Sir George
Crofton which had brought Mrs Newsham to town.
The maid would have been much pleased to carry
back some little word from Mrs Newsham that night
which would have relieved her lady's intense curiosity ;
but she instantly felt that extraordinary repressive
chill in Mrs Newsham's presence, which can make
Clara quite unapproachable, like the ice round the
north pole. So Pickering took quick leave.

And Clara waited for Eleanour alone. She read
neither book nor paper. She sat very still with her
own thoughts. The idea had come to her, " Have
Charlie Crofton and Eleanour met this day ? Does
Lady Blinffollde now know all ? Does . . . does
George know all ? " And she remembered how she

had laughed a falsehood to George when he had asked
if Nellie loved another man. She felt she could hate
George if he dared to doubt her, just as she had
hated Sir Cuthbert when his keen glance saw a lie
on her lips and in her eyes. Women like Clara
are not ashamed if discovered in an untruth. Their
feeling is solely one of angry hatred. That is why
they are such dangerous people.

Clara did not expect Eleanour till after one o'clock.
Lady Blinffollde was usually an hour behind time.

But about twelve she heard footsteps in the passage.
They stopped at the door  she paled with emotion.
Was that George ? was . . . was that Charlie ?

The door opened, and Eleanour walked in triumphantly
as it were'  not trembling, not halting, as washer
wont, in shrinking fear before her mother.

Clara rose, stared at her, fell back a step, and was a
moment speechless.

The door was still open. Was Charles Crofton
there ? But Nellie turned quickly round, and shut
the door with a bang which resounded loudly at that
hour of night.

Alone ? You are alone, Eleanour ? " said Clara,
speaking at last.

Her mother's voice usually paralysed the girl, but
not now.

George has gone home ; I have got rid of him ! "
she cried out. " He has dogged me the whole evening.
He has never let me be a moment out of his
sight. I could not get away from him : I tried,  I

could not. He would not let me wait for Lady
Blinffollde. He would bring me away. He said he
had something to say to me. I had to come, and he
would come too. And I hate him for the thing he
has said to me  I hate him ! I told him to leave meat
the door here, but he would come up-stairs. He
would come to the very end of this passage ; but I
waited to see him go before I came in. And he has
gone now ; he has gone, and I will never, never see
him again  never ! He knows that I hate him ! I
hate him with all my heart ! "

Nellie's face was flushed with passion; her large
eyes were all aflame. She stood courageously defying
the mother before whom she had been a craven coward
her whole life long. " I hate him ! " she cried again.

Her look of fevered passion had something that was
terrible in it. Her daring frightened Clara. This is
true  it frightened her. Roused anger was so strange,
so wondrously, so impossibly strange in Eleanour !
Clara instinctively fell back another step. She gazed
astounded; and as she stared her breath was taken
away as if by a great shock. Her presence of mind
left her; she could not speak.

Her appalled silence was not lost on Nellie, She,
too, stepped back, for she was very near her mother.
As she shrank away from Clara, a look of returning
fear came over her face. Having once come, it
stayed ; her mouth, her eyes opened with it ; and soon
the whole countenance was full of that growing terror
a paling terror, calming as intensity of terror will.

Clara then stepped forward. An idea had taken
awful possession of her. It made her deadly white.
Sit there ! " she said, pushing Eleanor with a
strong arm into a chair. Her arm was a very strong
one for a woman's. " Sit there ; do not dare to move
till I return ! You hear me ? Don't dare ! "

She took up a candle and walked to the door  then
stood there, looking round. The open-mouthed, open-eyed
white terror of suddenly sobered passion was
still upon Nellie.

Clara went out, and her daughter heard her lock
the door. Nellie was so much herself again that she
realised her mother had locked it, and heard her try
the door to be quite sure it was well locked before she
walked away.

Mrs Newsham went very quickly down-stairs.
George Crofton had gone down slowly, for a breaking
heart is a heavy burden, and grief is slow of foot,
and will make a young man walk like an old one.

George was crossing the hall when Clara, holding a
candle above her head, appeared on the last flight of
stairs. He hesitated, then stood motionless on the
spot from whence he had first seen her.

It was she who walked up to him. She had recovered
her complete presence of mind, and he instantly
felt her to be in full possession of her coldest self  a
woman to whom you might say anything, however
hard or true, just as if she were a strong - nerved
man.

I wish to speak to this gentleman for a few

minutes. Show us into some vacant sitting-room hereon
the ground-floor," said Clara to the night-porter on
duty in the hall.

George followed Mrs Newsham ; and he walked
resolutely, for he was now clearly and firmly determined
in his own mind.

That midnight interview between Clara and George
was short. It was not stormy, but cold. Few words
were spoken  few were quite enough. They brought
intensity of conviction to Clara. She understood that
the match she had so nearly made was absolutely
broken off. She believed George would never, never
marry any daughter of hers ; and she felt powerless
to force him in this matter against his will. She
does not attempt what she feels she has no power todo.
The great daring which is usual to her springs
always from a sense of power.

But Clara, who is so dead by nature to delicate honour
and to shame, was ashamed then before George.
What he said to her stung her pride as it never had
been stung until that hour. And shame, dien it does
come to Clara, feels to her like an intolerable insult.

VOL. TL

Chapter XIV.

Mrs Newsham said dreadful words to her daughter.
She was terrible in her anger. Yet just anger I do
allow it to have been.

Her wretched child's craven terror and wellnigh
distraught misery were awful to see. But Clara had
no pity.

She took Nellie away from London the following
morning, paying no visit to the dentist, but starting
for Eastcourt by the earliest train. She did not wish
to see Lady Blinffollde before she left : she preferred
writing to her.

Clara had feared Eleanour would have to be carried
out of the hotel, and she wished, above all things, to
avoid a public scene. The girl had fainted on first
hearing she was to leave town immediately ; but she
rallied at the last, through sheer terror of her mother.
She. had fainted because, although she had told herself
the day before, during her long torture of anxious
watching for Charlie, that he would never, never come
to claim her in this world, yet, when she heard that
she must go and wait no more, it was as if there

had been hope in her heart which had not died till
then.

There were other people in the railway carriage
with Mrs Newsham and her daughter. The young
girl's white terror, her look of distracted grief, caught
their attention, Clara thought, and she fancied they
gazed at Eleanour with pity. Pity ! Eleanour deserved
no pity. And it is a fact  a very curious one
that this notion made Clara angry. She changed
with her daughter at the next station into an empty
compartment, and bribed the guard to let no one in.

It was awful to poor Nellie to be alone with her
mother : she would have liked to stay in the carriage
with those other people. The dreadful words said to
her had crushed down her very soul, and she horribly
feared they were true. She seemed to believe in their
truth, and yet her strangely dazed mind could not
recollect clearly enough to be quite, quite absolutely
sure. There is a sort of excitement whose passion
leaves no clear remembrance on the mind. And then,
with exert other craven fear, there was the torture
for Nellie of not knowing certainly if Charlie's name
had or had not escaped her lips the night before.
What had she really said to George ?  what had she
really told her mother ? She knew she had told her
that she hated George. This she did remember clearly,
for she hated him still. She felt her hatred for him
as if it were some living thing breathing so passionately
within her that it could not for one moment be
forgotten.

Mrs Kewsliam sat at one end of the compartment
and Eleanour at the other. There was a certain distance
between them, and noise too, whilst they were
still in the train.

It was the long drive home from the station  they
two alone, in awful silence, actually touching each
other  which JSTellie ever after remembered with
horror. The silence was breathless to her, breathless
for five long miles, because every instant she expected
the next moment to hear her mother speak.

They had entered the gates of the lower avenue at
Eastcourt where the broad lake first comes in sight,
when Nellie moved. She had been deadly still. Clara
looked round at her. Her hands were tightly clasped ;
she trembled like a wind-shaken leaf ; her large eyes
were straining in eager search, as if for some terrible
sight !

She is thinking; of Adela's death," thought Clara.
It was Adela who should have lived ; she would not
have brought me to shame ! "

Clara was right. Nellie was thinking of Adela's
death. She was thinking  " Oh, that I had been
drowned there instead of her 1 " She gazed with passionate
longing on the calm water. It was not cold
or dreary, for the sunlight was upon it, like joy upon
a happy life.

The far-reaching lake, whose holy stillness mirrored
every passing light of heaven, had a touching beauty
which from childhood had moved poor ISTellie; and
now, when she saw it again, it touched her once more,

for it looked to her like the face of a friend ; and she
was so lonely in her distraught misery and terror !

Her head bent forward, and with a loud sob her
long-controlled tears burst forth into a passion of weeping.
It was a hysterical passion of pent-up tears and
of overstrained nerves breaking down after too great
tension, borne too long, and even the cold terror of her
mother could not still it.

It enraged Clara to find she was powerless against
this flood of weeping, and must contain the wrath she
felt ; for the first rough anger with which she tried to
quell the girl's convulsive sobbing only increased it.

Metternich was keenly alive to the undesirableness
of arriving at home with Eleanour in hysterics and
herself in a state of visible anger ; and so, with a great
effort, she regained her self - command, and rapidly
settled in her own mind what it would be best for her
to say. She was perfectly calm when the carriage
stopped at the house-door. This calmness had more
effect on Nellie than her wrath ; but the girl was
crying still.

Mrs Newsham motioned the footman aside, and herself
helped Eleanour out of the carriage. She walked
slowly into the hall with Nellie trembling on her arm,
and she instantly saw Thomas was not present. This
simplified the situation. Everything was easy without
Thomas. She stopped Sylvia's exclamation of surprise
by saying to her and the younger children, " Hush !
Nellie has been crying because, when we drove past
the lake, she remembered how poor Adela was drowned

there. This thought overcame her quite. Take her
with you, Mademoiselle ; she will soon recover. Go,
Eleanour," she added, speaking very low, but in a voice
which made nellie able for a moment to stand alone.
The girl stood staring at the new French governess,
but did not move.

Sylvia called out, " That's Mademoiselle ! Don't you
know Miss Smith has gone away ! "

For . for ever ? " cried Nellie ; but before
she heard the answer, she had fainted quite away.

And the very best thing she could do ! " thought
Clara ; " for she must now go to bed, and can stay
there till she has recovered her self-command."

Having seen Eleanour carried up-stairs, and having
ordered precisely what was and was not to be given
her, for she now knew exactly how these hysterical
faints ought to be treated, Clara went off to Thomas's
study." But she did not tell him she had brought
Nellie home, and she had told the governess and children
and James the footman not to do so either. She
meant to tell Thomas about lunch-time next day, and
had already settled she would say that as Eleanour
arrived with a headache and had had to go straight to
bed, she had feared Thomas might get a chill on his
jaundice if he walked through the draughty wing to
see her, for Thomas had not yet been out of doors.

Heaven only knows," thought Clara, " what Eleanour
might say to her father in her present state. He
is always so ridiculously sympathetic to her. She won't
dare to say anything to the new governess or Sylvia."

The following morning Nellie was very weak, very
shaky ; but her mother insisted, and I think rightly,
that she should get up and come down to breakfast.
The breakfast was not early, for Clara had been writing
to Lady BliuffoUde a letter which her third person
had carefully composed the night before. Thomas
was not yet down-stairs. So, when the servants went
away, Nellie was left alone in the big dining-room
with her mother. She could not eat a morsel.

Clara actually hurried her own breakfast, and giving
some excuse went quickly away, hoping Eleanour
would eat then. Strange as it may seem, she was
afraid to bully her daughter any more ; she was almost
afraid to speak to her  for her white terror, puzzling
to the very children, placed Metternich in a remarkably
awkward position. During all the girl's illness
after Adela's death, she had never looked as she did
now, or been at all in the same sort of state.

When Clara left the room, Nellie sat on trembling,
thinking her mother was surely coming back again.
She did not dare to move. She did not eat. She
sat quite a long time thus. At first she listened for
the returning footsteps with all the little power of
mind now left to her, but the tension of listening
tired her soon, and when Clara did not come quickly,
her thoughts wandered.

She had been much awake in the night and early
morning, and all her thoughts had been of Adela's
death. Then she had remembered her own sensations
in the water and her quick unconsciousness. " How

soon I forgot everything that day ! how soon I forgot
the coldness of the water 1 " Several times during
those hours of sleeplessness she had repeated, " How
soon I forgot the coldness of the water ! " And when
at last sleep had fallen upon her, she had dreamt of
the lake  dreamt of its stillness. That great stillness
took hold of her imagination. When trembling from
the reaction of too much feeling or passion, the idea
of some great stillness, like the calm of death, can have
a fascination for us, haunting us and enticing us to
think of it again and again. There is a state in which
the night thoughts dream on, as if we never had
awakened, but were walking about in the broad daylight
yet asleep. Nellie was in that state.

The real lake now lay before her, not twenty yards
from the wide-open window out of which she gazed
from across the table, so dreamily. The great stillness
this morning was like some hushed awe upon
the water. It was a grey, dead stillness. And so
sultry and so heavy was the summer atmosphere, that
the voice of the distant falling brook was like a
funeral note in the muffled closeness of the air. That
one sound made the stillness feel the more intensely
still,  as the passing bell will make the speechless
dead seem to us more silent, cold, and motionless than
if no sound were heard at all.

"Nellie! Nellie!"

Oh ! what a scream poor Nellie gave as she sprang
to her feet. Sylvia walked in through the open
window, carrying a basket of flowers on her arm.

Good gracious, Nellie ! How ridiculously frightened
you are ! what on earth is the matter with you ? you
hardly seem to know me ! And I am sure it is I who
ought to be frightened at the look of you, and not you
at the look of me, for you are exactly like a ghost in
that white cotton gown. Oh ! " screamed Miss Sylvia,
imitating Nellie's cry. " Oh ! oh ! "

A shrill " Venez, venez done, mesdemoiselles !
nous sommes fort en retard ! " resounded from the
outside.

"That's Mademoiselle calling. You had better
come instantly, Nellie. Mamma said you were to come
with us, because she does not think papa will be upto
seeing you till the afternoon."

Venez tout de suite, mesdemoiselles ! ou je n'irais
pas."

She won't come any way," said Sylvia ; " she'll
stop half-way up the hill and say it is too late for
her to climb to the top. She always goes on like this,
for she does hate that churchyard."

Churchyard ? " repeated Nellie.

Oh yes ! don't you know ? we always go there on
Wednesday and on Saturday to put fresh flowers on
. . "  she hesitated, then added in a whisper  " on
poor Adela's grave."

Adela's grave ! " said Nellie again at last, but
speaking, as it seemed, more to herself than to her
sister. " I never have been there. Never ! never ! "

There was something in Nellie's look and voice
which awed the usually boisterous Sylvia, and touched

her a little too. "Do not come, Nellie, unless you like,"
she said, quite kindly. "Mamma has no right to
make you. You look frightened, and it "  her
voice dropped  "it is very . . . still up there."

Kindness ever moved poor Nellie. She raised her
great pathetic eyes to her sister's with such mournful
thankfulness in them that Syhda pitied her, though
the girl was not naturally given to soft feeling.
Nellie's eyes were still red and dimmed and lustreless
from the weeping of the day before, and her eyelids
were much swollen. They were heavy, like some pall
of mourning weighted as it were with grief,

Don't come, Nellie," said Sylvia, softly ; and she
took her hand as if to lead her to a chair. " Stay
here. I will tell mamma I made you stay. You need
not come. You . . . you will be frightened."
Her young voice fell to a solemn whisper, and she
said again, " It is so still up there ! "

I will go with you, Sylvia," said Nellie, slowly,
and she gratefully pressed her sister's hand  " I will
go." Sylvia hesitated. " Great stillness does not
frighten me," said Nellie, calmly. " I like the stillness
of the lake, and it is as still as if it were something
that is dead. I like what is quite still," she
sighed ; " it rests me very much ! "

CHAPTER XV.

Madame est bien fine ! bien plus fine qu'on ne le
pense ! " was Mademoiselle Philippon's opinion of Clara.
Les pleurs, Imagination nerves, I'evanouissement de
la pauvre petite, tout rea c'est une affaire de coeur. Je
m'y connais moi ! Une affaire de coeur bien marquee !
Madame a beau faire I'ingnue, elle e'en a pas moins
fait une grande scene a sa file hier. La pauvre petite
est gentille ; et tout a fait jolie ! jolie comme un
ange ! Mais c'est un ange du vrai type Anglais qui
n'aura jamais de Esprit et qui se laissera mourir tout
doucement d'un amour malheureux ; et il y en a de
malheureux dans ce pays-ci ! Bon Dieu ! bon Dieu !
Du reste, mieux vaut avoir un amour malheureux
que de e'en avoir pas du tout ! " Mademoiselle felt
strongly on this point. " Ciel ! quel pays ! Je m'y
meurs ! Ce grand lac silenced oii cette pauvre jeune
fille fut noye, me donne la migraine. La campagne
est d'une tristesse enjoyable ! Les enfants se delassent
au cimetiere. Anglais aime son tombeau ! II dent
au monde un petit mort tout fait. Ces enfants-ci vont
de bon gre au cimetiere ! et il n'y a que la petite

Clara qui en a vraiment peur. Je m'tonne que
Madame envoie cette pauvre petite au cimetiere !
Mais Madame est incapable de comprendre qu'il est
possible dey avoir peur."

When Mademoiselle Pliilippon got no answer to
her shrill, twice-repeated, " Venez ! venez ! " she had
taken it for granted that Syhda had already started
for " son debasement au cimetiere," and she and little
Clara had begun mounting the path, a public one
through the park, which led up to the old church on
the hill. The two other girls had run on before her
with their gathered flowers. " Elles vont garment au
cimetiere ! " thought Mademoiselle. " Bon Dieu ! quel
pays!"

The governess went slowly on, and little Clara
stuck closely to her. Of all the children, little Clara
was most like Nellie. Her large eyes had some of
the same pathetic sadness in them, and she carried
the wreath of white roses she had made very solemnly.
The tender feeling of the child's grave look was touching.


Elle me fait mal au coeur ! " said Mademoiselle to
herself ; but she did not offer to carry the wreath, for
she had a superstitious dread of handling it.

The child stopped before they had gone far. " Let
us wait a little," she said ; " we are going very quickly;
we are getting very near ! " And she and Mademoiselle
sat down to rest by the way on the fallen branch of a
tree.

The child soon jumped up excitedly. "There is

Sylvia coming round that corner, Mademoiselle !  and
there is Nellie too ! They are quite close, and I will
go up with them to the churchyard, and  and not
alone," she added, looking wistfully at the governess.

Pauvre petite ! Tu n'y iras pas du tout ! " warmly
exclaimed the sympathising Frenchwoman.

Mademoiselle Philippon quite forgot to scold Sylvia
for not having answered her, or let her know she was
still down below near the house, and she forgot it
through what she herself termed " un vrai saisissement
religieux," which came over her at sight of Nellie.

Nellie was walking slowly, rather weakly, but yet
with the sort of measured tread of one who goes still
in a dream. She was as white as her white dress, and
her pale beauty would have touched most hearts, because
of the heavy sadness of her eyes, and of a certain
weariness of look, as if her young spirit had
already stayed too long on earth, and were tired of
this world's disillusion and its grief.

Bon Dieu ! Elle n'est pas de ce monde ! On dirait
qu'elle monte au cimetiere y nettle des fleurs sur son
propre tombeau ! " And Mademoiselle had her " sais
religieux."

Nellie did not speak.

Sylvia said  " AVe are going up to the churchyard
now. Will little Clara come with us ? "

Non ! non ! non ! " cried Mademoiselle ; " elle reste
avec moi, et je n'y vais pas. II est trop tard."

The child looked down at the wreath in her hand,
and hesitated. Then she looked up at Nellie ; and

with wide-open eyes, as if she saw a spirit and were
afraid, she said in a low voice of awe  " You have no
wreath, JSTellie, only those loose flowers to put upon
the grave. Will God make a white cross for you ?
and will you find it on the big flat stone inside the
churchyard gate ? "

Mademoiselle exclaimed at this ; Sylvia looked
frightened ; but Nellie did not seem to hear, and only
seemed to see the wreath the child was holding uplifted
in her hands. She took the wreath from her
absently, without thanks or emotion, as if not quite
aware she were taking it, and walked slowly on.

Mon Dieu I Elle a I'air d'une personne qui va
benton mourir ! " cried Mademoiselle Philippon, thereby
making Sylvia quite nervous.

When Sylvia and Nellie got nearly to the top of
the hill, they met their two younger sisters coming
down from the graveyard. " It is very silent up there
to-day," whispered one of them ; " and so gloomy and
close."

Sylvia walked bravely on. She was brave, for she
did feel nervous at the thought of the graveyard  more
nervous than she had ever done before. She opened
the churchyard gate, and led the way to the grave
that was marked by the very new white marble cross.
She laid the flowers she had brought in her basket
upon the green sod, and turned to go, and motioned to
her sister to put down her wreath, and come away too.

But Nellie shook her head. " It is so quiet here,"
she said ; and she knelt down by the grave.

The silence was so motionless all around amongst
the still tombstones that her voice startled Sylvia ;
and her strangely dreamy, absent look frightened
her.

There is a low wall at one side of the graveyard,
and the path by which the girls had come up from
the house runs beside it. This path is a short cut
down from the highroad through the park.

Sylvia heard a noise. It was only the footstep of
a country-woman going down with eggs to the house.
But so nervous was Sylvia that a sudden panic seized
her, and she fled at the sound, crying out, " Come,
Nellie ! come ! "

Nellie rose quickly from her knees  so quickly,
that her hat fell off. She saw Sylvia running, saw
her disappear through the open gate, and then saw
nothing else, for Sylvia did not go by the path which
skirts the wall, but ran down another way through
the trees.

Then all was quite silent again. How silent are
the dead ! Nellie stood a few moments watching,
listening. And so still was the churchyard, that while
thus standing, she began once more to dream. But
she was weak and tired from her walk, and soon,
though unconsciously, she sat down upon her sister's
grave to rest there. The wreath of white roses was
still in her hand. She seemed to have forgotten what
it really was, and she dreamily placed it upon her own
head, doubtless thinking  if dreamers do think  that
she was putting her hat on again.

She sat upon the grave dreaming a long, silent
dream.

A child came up by the public path, and stopped
and climbed on the wall to look at her; but Nellie
neither heard nor saw.

A man went by, and he, too, stopped ; she was still
blind and deaf.

That man and child had gone upon their way, and
another man was passing down. He stopped, as they
had done before, on seeing that white-robed figure,
white wreathed, sitting beneath the new white marble
cross like the ghost of some dead bride mourning at
her own grave, because she had not found the mourner
there whom she had thought, on rising from the dead,
to find.

He stood as if entranced by the strange sight ;
then sprang over the low wall on to the noiseless sod,
and went quickly across the graves towards her, staring
at her all the time as if she were a vision that
would melt away.

Nellie ! "

She turned ; she saw him.

When the dead bride awakes at the last day, will
it be to a voice that will sound like the one which
had thrilled her on earth ? To come from death to
life again is a still emotion too deep for words. It
never can be passionately wonderful to live again,
for surely the surprise was death,  that we who have
such beating hearts within us could ever have been
dead.

Nellie gave no cry, nor spoke a single word. With
one hand upon the marble cross, she rose up from the
grave slowly, calmly gazing with wide-open eyes at
the man who had called her by her name ; and she
looked indeed as if she were a crowned bride rising
from the tomb.

It is I ! It is Charlie ! "

He stepped forward and grasped her cold hand in
his. It was as cold as when he and she had parted at
Bluehaven. He had remembered its chill touch ever
since. He shivered at it again, for this coldness felt
to him like an icy gulf between him and her. He
dropped her hand ; she let it hang down as he had let
it go.

She stood intensely still ; and there was awful
silence over all the graves, as if no lovers who had
ever breathed the real breath of living joy lay in that
churchyard.

At length he spoke again. He had stepped back
away from her.

You are engaged to another man," he said. " You
have promised to marry another man."

The colour rushed into her face and hands ; she
moved ; she went forward towards Charlie  " I hate
that man ! " she cried.

The change in her was no greater than the sudden
change in him.

George ? " he exclaimed, with loud-voiced eagerness
; " you hate him, Nellie ? "  and he moved forward
too.

VOL. IL U

I hate that man ! " she said once more.

Forgive me that I ever doubted you ! Forgive me,
Nell ! " he cried out passionately. " It was a crimea
horrid crime, to doubt you, Nell ! "

In the moonlight at Bluehaven she it was who had
wooed Charlie. But now with sudden passion he
clasped her in his arms. And it was she who was
frightened then. She trembled, as the living who is
alive to-day might tremble at tomorrow's certain
death.

Charlie ! Charlie ! " she cried, " marry me to-day !
to-day ! We must be married to-day."

To-day ? "

He looked frightened, as if he thought her strange.

Your  your  mother ? You have forgotten her,
Nell."

She will kill me," said Nellie, with slow deliberation.


He started back from her. All colour rushed from
her face, and her lips turned ashy white. She felt as
if lifelong separation had come again between her and
him.

For a moment he looked at her with a sort of
terror. She stood like a statue, quite cold and still,
with clasped hands and downcast eyes.

But when Charlie spoke it was not hardly but with
sad tenderness, as if grieved to the heart for her.
You are ill, dear Nell," he said, going near to her
again and bending down over her. " Our sudden meeting
has been too much for you."

Nellie looked up, for he was kind. " She will kill
me, Charlie," she repeated slowly, " she will hate me
so that she will kill me." But she saw such a scared
look in his face that she was frightened by it, and
frightened at her own words. " I am mad," she cried ;
long waiting for you, Charlie, has made me mad."
And she burst into tears.

He was powerfully moved by her tears. " Dear
Nell, dear Nell ! " he said, very tenderly, comforting
her and drawing her close to him. " The waiting has
been very long,  too long for you ; nearly a whole
long year. But all the long weary days are over
now ; they will not come again, never again, dear
Nell ! never, never again !" He smiled. " We shall
be happy now," and this whole face lighted up with
that sure hope and certainty of joy which only can
be felt in youth.

Nellie looked at him through her tears and saw the
strong faith of sure happiness there was in his countenance.
And suddenly she felt inspired by his gladness
as if it were her own  as if it were a power in
herself which made her strong as he was strong ; and
every doubt within melted quite away, and she believed
like him with her whole soul in sure happiness hereon
earth. She smiled to his smile.

We have long life before us, Nell," he said ; " a
long, long life ! "

We have," she echoed ; " we have a long, long
life ! " And there was rapture in her uplifted
face.

Yet it was in a graveyard where they stood and
spoke !

She gazed with unabashed joy at him and he at her.
The one feeling in their two hearts was so strong it
killed all others.

When he had gazed what seemed a long time,
wellnigh as long as the weary months just passed,
Charlie saw, as if for the first time, so completely had
he forgotten seeing it before, the white wreath that
Nellie still wore. " Take off that thing ! it is a burial
wreath ! " he cried, and took it off roughly himself, and
moving on quickly with her, flung it backwards  upon
the wrong grave.

But heedless, arm in arm, he bending over her, they
walked onwards to the gate of the churchyard, not
looking back, not caring where the wreath had fallen ;
for the living, when they really Ive, forget the dead.
By the side of their very tombstone, the living can
forget the dead.

O Death ! is this unknown to thee ? This great
forgetfulness unfelt ?

During much of that morning Clara sat alone. Her
letter to Lady Bhnffollde had been posted, and she sat
forsaken, as it were, by all occupation. She was
without clear plot or plan, for what had happened had
not only been a great defeat but also a great shock
to her.

Sitting thus with her hands before her, her many
other letters unwritten, her work fallen to the floor,

Clara looked up. The bow window of her boudoir was
wide open.

She saw two figures with arms entwined coming-down
by the path which leads through the park from
the old church on the hill. She looked steadfastly.
Yes, Eleanour ! it was Eleanour ! she knew her by her
white dress. Eleanour with . . . with whom ? She
and he walking as only lovers walk together.

Yet not for one instant did Clara imagine the
gentleman to be Sir George Crofton. She did accept
what George had said to her in that midnight interview
as absolutely final, hopelessly irrevocable. She
understood and believed with all her mind that it was
George himself, and no one else,  George himself,
of his own accord,  who had broken off' the match
for ever.

Charlie ! This man was Charlie. Clara had recognised
him.

Sudden violent anger, like a sort of madness urging
her to rebel, took hold of her at sight of the man, the
enemy she had meant to outwit and beat  for this
was what she felt Charlie to be. For a moment her
anger threatened to deprive her of her wonderful
presence of mind.

But the lovers came slowly. The nearer they approached,
the more slowly they came. She had time.
She recovered the self-mastery usual to her.

And so complete was her quick re-command of
her faculties, that it was she who went out to meet
the two lovers. She did not wait for them.

Eleanour," said Metternich to her trembling
daughter, " is this why you broke off your engagement
with George ? Is this why you never seemed
really to care for him ? You should have told me
of this, Eleanour. You should have told me about
Charlie."

CHAPTER XVI.

The Countess of Barchester cannot to this day understand
how such an extremely worldly woman as Mrs
Newsham ever consented to that extraordinarily unworldly
match between her very pretty daughter and
that ridiculously young man Charles Crofton. Lady
Barchester is still sensitive on the subject, and still
annoyed with Clara for having appeared before the
world as a perfectly unworldly woman.

Lord Barchester, upon whom the charm of Clara's
manner and the transparency of her complexion had
never been as entirely without effect as upon his wife,
was pleased to have seen Mrs Newsham come out in
so beautifully unworldly a light. " I have frequently
told you"  my lord teased my lady by repeating
much oftener than was advisable  " I have frequently
told you that I consider you mistaken in thinking
Mrs Newsham such a complete woman of the world,
and in keeping Fred away from Eastcourt, simply
because he is to have a fortune. You know very
well Mrs Newsham mio-ht have had Sir George Crofton
and his 20,000 a-year and his fine old place for her

daughter, had she wished it; for it was you  you
yourself, Mary  told me that romantic story about
Sir George having saved the younger sister from
drowning because he was in love with her."

"That story may have been true," replied Lady
Barchester, " or it may have been a complete invention
of Clara Newsham's, for she can tell pretty little stories
of her own invention very, very prettily indeed.
Nothing can exceed the dramatic charm of the love-tale
she is telling everybody now. Eon antic secret
attachment quite unknown to herself ; young man and
maiden madly in love ; lover's promise to come and
claim lady-love as his betrothed, the day his name is
in the Sandhurst list ; day the magic name appears,
lover at sea with his father for the trial trip of a
naval friend's ship ; lover, on landing again, sees his
name in the paper; lover persuades the Admiral a
promise once given must be kept ; rushes up to
London ; arrives there at four in the morning ; goes
straight to Lady Blinfibllde's house ; old lady only just
gone to bed, or he might perhaps in mad frenzy have
proposed for her by mistake ; rushes off to hotel ;
finds lady-love and mother had left day before;
comes down to Nossex by morning train ; too impatient
to drive round by the avenue at Eastcourt ;
dismisses his fly on the county road above the old
church ; takes the short cut down to the house ; meets
lady-love ; charming woodland scene ; all arranged ;
and indulgent, loving mother beautifully  ah, dear !
ah, dear ! so beautifully consents ! "

She did consent' said Lord Barchester, speaking
rather loudly. " She did consent, although she
could hardly have consented to a more unworldly
match."

Not so unworldly, perhaps, as it seemed," retorted
her ladyship. " At any rate, the Admiral gave his son
a thousand a-year and that house in Pont Street ; and
you know, as it is always wise to foresee an officer
may be killed, Clara Newsham had the thousand a-
year and the house settled upon her daughter in case
of the husband's death. Xot bad, when you consider
the girl is only to have about two thousand pounds of
her own." It was merely irritation made Lady Har-chester
say this, because she really did not think much
of a thousand a-year. Lord Barchester did not mend
matters by remarking that this paltry fortune was
nothing to Sir George's 20,000 a-year. "If Mrs
Newsham had caught Sir George," said her ladyship,
hotly, " I doubt if the settlements would have
been one bit better, or, indeed, as good ; for you know
they do say it was Clara Newsham herself drew up
the settlements, and got that most unsuspecting, gullible
Admiral Crofton to sign them at the very last moment
without reading them."

Come, come, now, Mary ; this is going just a little
too far."

But you know quite well they do say so. You
know it perfectly well, Barchester."

People say a great many libellous things they
can't prove."

But you must allow the settlements were signed
in a very remarkable hurry."

For the same reason that the wedding took place
in a hurry, because the Admiral was under orders for
North America."

Well, I do declare," exclaimed Lady Barchester,
indignantly, " I do declare you believe every word that
Clara Newsham says ! And still you know you were
told, on the very best authority, that the Admiral said
the young people were mere children, and did not want
them to be married for the next three or four years. I
am certain that was true, but I am equally certain
Clara Newsham did not tell you so. She told you her
own pretty story, and was quite too more than charming,
I am sure  oh, quite, quite too more ! And if I
had only let her catch Fred, as she had meant to do,
how exquisitely she would have talked of that little
love-match ! as if two angels had met quite accidentally
in heaven without her ever being aware of it ! Fred's
large fortune, and her own numerous invitations to
him, would have been beautifully  quite beautifully
overlooked ! "

Lord Barchester was angry. " At all events," said
he, " the match her daughter has made is not the sort
of one foretold by you, Mary."

There is some mystery in the affair I can't at present
understand, yet I am right about Clara Newsham
all the same," said my lady, sharply. " She was and
she is a scheming, worldly woman ! "

Prove it ! " cried my lord ; " and till you do so, I

shall certainly continue to think Mrs Newsham a
singularly charming and unworldly person."

Clara was perfectly aware what a very great puzzle
lier dear little Nellie's most unworldly love-match with
Charles Crofton had been to Lady Barchester.

Though Mrs Newsham had insisted on an immediate
wedding, as if delighted with the marriage, and had
felt sincerely relieved to have got Eleanour off her
hands with settlements which made her independent
for life, she yet, as we know, cordially disliked this
match, and cordially disliked Charlie. Her high spirit
rebelled against the fear she had of him, as if it were
an insulting tyranny on his part to make her afraid.

The first thing that at all reconciled Metternich to
the marriage was the beautifully unworldly light in
which she soon perceived herself to be appearing before
the world. She then realised there are only two
strongly marked situations which are suitable to the
matchmaker of genius ; one is the magnificently successful,
the other is the beautifully unworldly.

Her quick eye saw the advantage of being able to
appear before eligible young men and suspicious parents
as beyond doubt a quite foolishly unworldly mother ;
and so, though she would infinitely have preferred the
magnificently-accidentally-successful situation, she filled
the one in which circumstances she had failed to control
had placed her very prettily and with much poetic
talent. And before long she had true satisfaction in
doing so ; for indeed of all situations she had ever been
in, this was really by far, by far, the best suited to the

simple, romantic ingenuousness of her own Ideal Little
Mother ! That poetic creation of her imagination
found many opportunities for talking very, very nicely
about the two quite touchingly loving young people,
and to the very persons whom Clara knew right well
had thought her till then a remarkably scheming
woman. How she did enjoy their evident discomfiture
! And how prettily she would speak of Nellie as
the " little child-wife " ! As to her description of that
cottage amongst the fir-trees near Sandhurst, in which
Nellie spent the first year of lier young married life,
and where her little son was born, why it was a masterpiece
in its way !

Charlie was married so young that his marriage was
really like that of a boy at school, for what else is
Sandhurst but a school ? The authorities did not like
his being married. They thought beginning so young
in the married line a bad example for the other young
men, and there was one of these officers who was so
indignant that on meeting Mrs Newsham at a dinner-party
in London, he told her his opinion brusquely
enough. But Clara was not offended  not one bit !
And before the second course was half over, she had
converted the crusty major to quite a softened view of
the sadly foolish but most romantic little love-affair.
At any rate," the disarmed disciplinarian had finally
said, " though I do not excuse him, I can understand,
since I have had the pleasure of making your acquaintance,
Mrs Newsham, that young Crofton might well
have felt a little over-anxious to secure for life the

daughter of so charming and so unworldly a mother."
Clara had many little successes of this kind.

But T think she enjoyed the visible discomfiture of
Lady Barchester most of all ; and she felt Lord Har-chester
to be completely on her side.

The child-wife, and that silly young boy still, still
at school, and the exquisite halo of ethereal romance
cast over the sweet cottage amongst the fir-trees, irritated
her ladyship very much.

A cottage ! " said Lady Barchester one day, when
Clara's Ideal Little Mother had been talking quite
beautifully. " A cottage !  merely a cottage ! You
do surprise me, Mrs Newsham ! I had thought it was
a dovecot, and had imagined the two very sweet young
creatures certainly had wings ! "

Clara did not like this ; but she never did like that
dear Lady Barchester, to whom she wrote so many
charming letters, and whom she was perpetually going
to see.

It is only right to be just to Clara, and only just to
say she was pleased her Ideal Mother's poetry should
be substantially founded on truth, because, as I have
said before, Clara prefers telling the truth whenever
she conveniently can. And it was quite true
her daughter and Charlie were very happy together ;
and the cottage amongst the fir-trees and the heather,
with its distant view of tenderly melting shades of
blue reaching far, far away, like endless joy, was really
very much as Clara described it. People naturally
took it for granted she had seen it, but she had not !

She did not care to go there, for she did not take any
interest in it, or in Charlie, or in Eleanour either. Nor
did she take the slightest interest in her little grandson
when he came into the world, or care to see him, though
she would speak very prettily to people about " my tiny
grandchild," and playfully call herself " quite an old,
old grand mamma ! " It seemed as if her interest in
Eleanour, and all that concerned her or belonged to her,
was over for life. This might not perhaps have been
so completely the case if Nellie had had great worldly
prospects before her. Clara might then have thought
it worth the trouble  a trouble it woukl have been 
to have secretly managed Charlie. But as it was, she
really let the young people alone  really and truly, and
not apparently, as is so often the way. The consequence
was, that Charlie very soon forgot actively to dislike her.
There is only one sort of mother-in-law a high-minded
honourable main like Charlie really dislikes,
and that is the woman who secretly  not openly, but
secretly  governs his wife,  governs her mind, her
actions, and her affections. The hot-tempered, visibly
faulty, openly-managing person you see in every farce
on the stage may irritate a man, but not beyond easy
forgiveness, for that sort of woman does not really
govern his wife. It is Gotama-Buddha in female
form, sitting immovably immaculate under the domestic
tree during the complex winds her own divine
influence has raised, whose secret power it is a hard
fate to live with. The Incarnation of Perfection, who
must be worshipped as such, is a trial indeed, even if

she seems to keep at a distance under her own peepul-tree,
for the spirit of Buddha can be where the real
presence of Catania is not.

Charlie would have much resented having to live perpetually
in his own house with that curious influence
I have called the near presence of Clara  a presence
which undoubtedly could be where Clara was not.

But the truth is, Clara, Metternich, and the Third
Person were just then going about the gay world
closely knit together, and quite absorbed in their own
affairs,  for never was the whole of Mrs Newsham
more occupied than during the year immediately following
Eleanour's marriage. Though coming events
can cast their shadows before them, Sylvia was not yet
quite sixteen ; so Mrs Newsham felt she might never
have as much spare time on her hands again. And it
happened that the spare time came at exactly the
right moment ; for that steady progress towards the
peerage which had been going on calmly and persistently
for years, had been just a little neglected by
Metternich during the more pressing complications of
her principal fine art.

Now was the right time to make Thomas a peer !
Clara rather suddenly realised it must be now or
never. Thomas was twenty years older than herself,
and she had seen a great change in him of late. Old
Doseman had shaken his head very, very seriously
over the " lowness " of Thomas's constitution and its
want of " tone." The doctor had said over and over
again to Clara, " My dear madam, there is no tone in

Mr Newsham's constitution. As I tell Mr Newsliam,
we want tone. Yes, my dear sir, I say to him, we
want tone in our constitution ; and tone, my dear sir,
we must have ! "

Thomas had never been a strong man, and it was
plain that another shock like Adela's death, or violent
emotion like Johnson's D. T., or another bad fit of the
jaundice, or even a really heavy cold on his chest,
might make him die quite easily ; or what, as far
as the peerage was concerned, was much the same
thing, might oblige him to give up his seat in Parliament
during a Conservative Government. Since Johnson's
delirium tremens Thomas was getting much disillusioned
with politics  for politics and the teetotal
fad were one and the same thing to him.

Mr Newsham had a strong claim on the Prime
Minister then in office, because for years he had voted
straight with the Radicals. The Radicals always had
some fad on hand so captivating to Thomas's mind
and conscience, that he swallowed quite naturally all
the more important destructive measures of his party,
without really perceiving they were important at all.
As to the Irish question, then in the stage of successive
Land Bills, it was a very, very easy one to him ! for
he was convinced the reason Irish peasants are so
fond of strong drink, and spend what might pay their
rent upon it, is because eighty, a hundred, two hundred,
and very likely three hundred years ago, Irish
landlords drank too freely. It was of no use to tell
him Irish gentlemen are as sober as other gentlemen

now, and do not deserve to be ruined, because he
would say it did not in the least matter what people
are now. He would explain that the important point
in all political questions of the present day is what
people's ancestors were centuries ago ; and he would
declare, perhaps wrongly, that Mr Gladstone had said
so. Xow Thomas had unbounded confidence in Mr
Gladstone  he had exactly the same sort of confidence
in him he used to have in Johnson. The excellent
Thomas was firmly persuaded that a very eloquent
speech he had heard from Mr Gladstone sounded to
mean that Ireland ought not now to be governed like
any other civilised country in the world, because it
was not justly governed one hundred, two hundred,
three hundred, or, worse still, four hundred years ago.
And that is why," Thomas frequently explained to
Clara  " that is why murder is not so wicked in Ireland
as in England, because, Clara, Ireland was not as
justly governed as England two, three, and four hundred
years acfo. Xo, no, no ! it was not ! And that
is the important point ! The important point in all
practical politics nowadays is what happened two
or three hundred years ago. Yes, yes, yes ! it certainly
is ! And what happened four hundred years
ago is really more important, Clara, than what happened
during the last century." When Thomas spoke
in this manner, Clara would invariably answer, " Quite
right, Thomas ! quite right ! " for she was particularly
anxious he should continue to vote very straight with
the Radical party.

VOL. II. X

Clara, as a consistent, high-minded, deeply convinced
Gladstone, was an unselfishly patriotic character,
charmingly fascinating to the distinguished politicians
who had the honour of her acquaintance. And she was
clever enough really to enjoy political society for itself.
But it was not merely to distinguished people she was
civil ; it was wonderful how many dull men, with
dull hobbies she did not in the slightest degree
care for, she thought it wise to captivate and entertain,
and get others .to entertain, during her progress
towards the peerage !

That progress had been an interesting one for the
last fifteen years, and it was more interesting now
than ever. Volumes might be filled with the little
things Clara said and did not say, and did and did not
do, but got other people to say or do. But Clara is
a person about whom you might write on for ever.
The difficulty is to stop, because she is admirable and
inexhaustible in all her fine arts, and not merely an
adept in one. I see no end to her ! She ought to
have unlimited space to move in like the sun, and I
know I have not done justice to the genius I feel
within her. This grieves me much, for genius she
has. Indeed, I think all will allow it was genius, and
genius alone, that could have made Thomas a peer.

Never was there a man so puzzled by a peerage as
Thomas ! He was exactly in the position Bacon
would have been in if Bacon in his lifetime had been
called Shakespeare, and he never really knew himself
by his new name. When addressed as Lord East-court,

he would be seen looking round the room for
my lord ; and when rather sharply reminded by his
wife that his lordship was himself, he would say,
Yes, yes, yes ! to be sure, Clara ! I forgot ! " But
he would go and forget his new self in no time again.

Clara made Thomas a peer in little more than a year
after Eleanour's marriage. The child-wife and the
quite foolish young schoolboy were then leaving Sandhurst.
They went up to town and stayed at the
Admiral's house in Pont Street, while Charlie was
waiting for the commission he soon got in the 46 th
Lancers. The regiment was quartered at Hounslow,
but as it was under orders for India, the Crofts did
not take a house out there. Nellie remained in Pont
Street.

There always seems to be some drawback to the
perfect happiness we will think we have come so near
to ; and during the first two years of his married life
Charlie never felt as if he saw half enough of this
wife. Yet had he seen more of her, his happiness
might not have been greater, but less, than it actually
was. He might have discovered what a very weak
woman poor Nellie really was,  how far removed from
the ideal perfection his holy love imagined her to be ;
for with all her loving ways and sweet pathetic beauty,
Nellie was certainly rather a poor sort of creature.
But seeing only a little of her  very little at Sandhurst,
and not much more at Hounslow  Charlie kept
undimmed the full illusion of his love. And the illusion
'of the present hour gave that illusion to the

future without which there is no happiness on earth.
The future is a cloud we ever see before us  it can
be all of light, as if life's sun must surely run its
course and set for us in the glory of a summer sky.
Or else it can be a dark, chill cloud casting a cold
shadow, like cold terror on the present hour, killing
its pleasant colour by a leaden death, as you may see
a thundercloud chase the Green trees that were so
brightly green into a heavy dulness of black foliage
which has no life in it, and where the very birds are
stilled, as if by coming sorrow, into forgetfulness of
their blithe songs. The black cloud loner gatherings
does not pass away till the storm  that storm maybe
our life  is spent and gone. It is the bright
clouds, like birds all made of air and light, which
have wings and fly away across the sky while we
stand with such hopeful hearts looking up at them.
Yet it is happy thus to stand and gaze into a heaven
so full of sunlight that we feel the warmth and brightness
like a real living joy now here with us on earth.
That is what lovers do 1 That is how lovers gaze into
the future I' That is how Charlie saw the brightness
of the life which lay before him. But happiness can
be like a sunbeam on the path of life : we chase it
from day to day and year to year as children a woodland
sunbeam from tree to tree, and we grasp it 
when, lo ! it is sone !

As the time of Charles Crofton's departure for India
drew very near, a great sorrow came to Nellie  her
father died. Poor Thomas ! he was not long a peer 

only eleven months ! Lady Eastcourt had gone off to
the Scotch moors with Sylvia and Eockhurst, and was
much occupied there. Lord Eastcourt was left mooning
at home.

Though Thomas had full confidence in the footman,
who was now promoted to be valet and butler, James
had never got his master and all his master's possible
little peculiarities by heart in the way that was so wonderful
in Johnson. Johnson knew Thomas exactly as
if he had once lived inside him  he seemed always to
know what he intended to do, and even for years to
come, and he would miraculously foresee every kind of
accident that might befall him. Now Johnson had
always felt sure Thomas would walk into the lake some
day at a certain spot where the path takes with the
water a sudden turn to the right, and he used to make
it his business to see with his own eyes there was a
stone bench permanently placed in that spot, so that
Thomas might walk straight on to the seat and be
stopped by it, which Thomas had done over and over
ao-ain, because he never did realise the bench was there
till he had knocked his shins against it. This seat
had remained where Johnson had had it placed for two
years after the invaluable valet had left Eastcourt.

Clara, just before starting for Scotland, had changed
the head gardener. The new man had a curious
passion for uprooting, altering, or moving every blessed
thing the late gardener had arranged, planted, or put
in any one place. He had not been three weeks at
Eastcourt before he had removed the stone bench by

the lake some twenty yards farther down, merely for
the love of changing. Unfortunately nobody happened
to know it was Johnson himself who had had the seat
placed at that particular turn of the path.

It was natural enough that the very first time
Thomas took Lord Eastcourt out for a walk by the
lake after the bench had been removed, he should
plunge his lordship into the water. He did not drown
him, because the water was not sufficiently deep just
there, but he wet him above his knees, then actually
began mooning again, and soon forgot his lordship had
been wet at all : Thomas did not think of changing
his clothes till reminded by James to dress for dinner
hours after the wetting ' And by that thine he had
given Lord Eastcourt a fatal chill.

His lordship died very quickly of congestion of the
lungs. And Lady Eastcourt did not arrive at home
till he was dead.

But Nellie was with her father; and so was the
kind old Bishop, though he was himself very ill at the
time, and left his bed to come to Thomas.

Poor Thomas's death was a very peaceful, placid
one. He died with the sort of far-off smile on his
face he had so often had in life. It seemed as if in
becoming gradually unconscious his usual day-dreaming
were only sinking into a long and happy sleep.

Death, dreaming with a smile upon its lips, a long
still dream, did not seem unnatural in Thomas, for the
spirit of the kind man had so often strayed far, faraway
in life.

The Bishop did not long survive his son-in-law.
Nellie had the grief of losing her dear grandfather
very soon after her father. He died the very week
Charlie started for India.

His death was a great misfortune to Nellie. He
would often have had her with him had he lived ; and
he would always have been good to her. And he
might have made Clara remember and not quite forget
her in Charlie's absence.

The Bishop had been in failing health for sometime
; but I am glad to say he had the pleasure before
he died of putting the last touches to his learned work
upon St Paul. The original little book suggested by
Elizabeth, and entitled ' A Few New Readings in the
Epistles of St Paul had been expanded into a life of
the apostle in six volumes. The manuscript, which
was all in the Bishop's own handwriting, was dedicated


TO THE

Secret Mtaox

OF

HER

WHO, WITH THE SPIRITUAL INSIGHT OF A MIND AND HEART

GIVEN WHOLLY TO THE THINGS WHICH ARE NOT

OF THIS WORLD, HAD MADE THE

AUTHOR

FEEL AS HE NEVER COULD HAVE FELT

UNAIDED

THE DEEP SIGNIFICANCE TO THE INNER CHRISTIAN LIFE
OF THE MISSION AND WRITINGS OF

SAINT PAUL.

The good Bishop thoroughly believed all this. He
had always felt aggrieved because his yife forbade him
on her death-bed to put a glowing epitaph upon her
tombstone.

Clara, with the help of the Dean of Petersclose, or
rather the Dean with the sympathetic sanction of the
widowed Lady Eastcourt, edited and published the
Bishop's MSS. And Clara wrote a very nicely worded
dedication to the memory of the Bishop on the second
fly-leaf.

Then the Dean recognised, also in the most beautifully
chosen terms, the invaluable assistance in his arduous
work of Lady Eastcourt. This was on the third fly-leaf.
Then there was a rather long-winded " Introduction
" by the Dean, partly about the Bishop, and partly
about St Paul, ending with a carefully worded sentence
which seemed to mean he would write the Bishop's life
some day.

The Dean read this " Introduction " more than once
to Lady Eastcourt, and the pleasure he felt in doing
so made him quite anxious to begin immediately upon
the Life." Iow there was really nothing in particular
to say about the Bishop, except that he had been a goodman,
much occupied with St Paul. You could not tell
the most curious thing about him, which was that he
had certainly been made a Bishop by a clever worldly
wife. Clara herself perceived the paucity of interesting
cr incident, and hinted this very delicately to the
Dean. But the Dean had read a great many more
religious biographies than Clara, so he knew that the

life of a bishop can always be written in two folio
volumes, even when there is absolutely nothing to say
about him except that he was learned, preached
sermons, wrote letters, and was a good man. You
give most of this letters, and a great part of In's
sermons, even if they happen to have been already
published ; you discuss his new readings of the
epistles, and differ from him for a chapter or two, and
agree with him for a few more ; and then you explain,
in between the letters and the sermons and the
epistles, what a very faultless man he was, and how
very faultless and' unworldly his wife and children
were, and what really sound views they all held ; and
you may do this at any length you like, so long as you
do it in Biblical language, and say just what good
people have said about other good people before. Instead
of stopping at the end of a second volume, you
may easily go on for three, because the sort of people
who read those sort of books Sunday after Sunday do
not in the least mind if they ever come to the end of
them or not, but will patiently sanctify their knees
with the same bishop for fifty-two Sabbaths in the
year. Indeed I think the longer they are wading
through a good man's uneventful life, the better
and certainly the sounder they will feel Jim to have
been.

Perhaps it is a wicked thing to say, but much as
the good Dean liked the idea of writing a full and
exhaustive biography of the Bishop, I think he would
still more have enjoyed the spiritual refreshment  this

VOL. II. Y

is what he would have felt it to be  of doing justice
in choice language to the Christian beauty and
simplicity of Lady Eastcourt's character ; for it was
by its beauty and simplicity that he was so deeply
impressed.

Once when Clara had said to him that now really
it was very, very desirable the commandments should
not always be read at the morning service, but rather
at the afternoon one, when the servants and poor
people went principally to church, he had felt that if
all members of a morning congregation were like Lady
Eastcourt, it might not indeed be necessary to remind
them every Sunday that they should have no gods but
one, and should not steal, or envy, or bear false witness,
or commit murder.

Clara is not the only person I have known who
thought the ten commandments best suited to the
afternoon service, which she never attended herself.

Though she only once spoke to the Dean on this
subject, lie "used constantly to think,  " Now really
it is certainly quite, quite preposterous always lengthening
out the morning service with all those ten commandments
! for I am sure people in our rank of life
do not need to be told every single Sunday morning
that they are not to steal or kill."

Printer BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SUNS.

Nellie

H>''

; %' W V ? T? V -* V W *? ** V ** W ** V W %? %t %? %* W V V W W %* W W W %? *t? ** W %? W ** V *? W ?? W ?? ?? %?

i DAY'S LIBRARY I

I Advertiser. I

i4 S*4 ii i'd i*   yji yj- yji yj* yj* * ' ' ' y* * yj yji yji yji yj4 yji yji yji yj yj* yj yj * y V i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i i'i y'i

"PATRIOTISM & CONTENT

go hand in hand when selecting a useful Dress from the
materials manufactured by Messrs. HENRY PEASE
& Co's SUCCESSORS, which meet all the requirements
of fastidious buyers as well as of economically inclined
ones. THU DARLINGTON CROSS WARP SERGES
iJS All-Wool Foules and Gold Medal Cashmeres

(always in favour, and NEVER AS YET
SUPERSEDED as a WOOLLEN FABRIC)
have justly a world-wide reputation, which
they fully maintain in their New Patterns,
the colourings being after the latest modes,
and exceedingly artistic. But a line to

i.Messrs. H. PEASE & Co's Success.,

will bring a TEMPTING BOX OF PATTERNS, when the contents
can be discussed and studied in a far more satisfactory
manner than is conveyed in a mere verbal description"

TU " Queen."

ST. MARY'S HOSPITAL, W.

Supported entirely hy Voluntary Contributions.

The Governors make an Earnest appeal for further Assistance, to enable
them to meet the urgent claims marie upon them by the sick poor of the
neighbourhood.

St. Mary's is the only General Hospital in this district of London, and it
believes over Twenty Eight thousand patients every year.

Annual Subscriptions are earnestly solicited, as these form the staple
of Hospital Income. Donations and Subscriptions will be THANKFULLY
received by the Bankers, SiR Samuel Scott, Bart., & Co., 1, Cavendish
Square, or by the Secretary, at the HospitaL Pietro Mitchell, Secretary .

MORTON & SON,

ei

um%

5, CONDUIT STREET,

REGENT STREET, W.

Ladies' Costumes, Ulsters, &c.

Estimates for repairs, on town
or country examinations, furnished
free.

3





o

 cm



-inoA-Bj no QSBifOjnd jo noT!do



|3Q(3o. rotherham Veterinary

Surgeon and Canine Pathologist by Special Appointment
to Hem. the Queen and Royal Family, may be consulted
from 2.0 until 5.30 daily (saturdays and Sundays excepted;
upon those days by appointment). Fee, 2s, 6d.,
or, by letter, 3s. 6d.

The ROYAL CANINE SURGERY,

55, SOUTH MOLTON STREET, BOND STREET, W.
The Hospital, most healthily situated near ,
has well appointed and spacious Kennels for
large dogs, and every home comfort for pet dogs. The
exercising ground covers fifty acres of grass land.

J. ANDREWS,

BUILDER AND DECORATOR.
10- MOUNT STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

Speciality-SANATORY WORKS, AS CARRIED OUT
UNDER THE LEADING PROFESSORS OF HYGIENE.

Established 1824.

CHRISTOPHER S EWE LL,(Late shepherd)

4, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE, W.

vftTCiEH: .AnsriD clock: nvEAKiEii,

Practical Goldsmith and Jeweller.

MOURNING AND BRIDAL GIFTS TO ORDER.

Watches, Clocks, Musical Boxes, Cleaned, Repaired, and adjusted by Experienced
Workmen, under personal supervision.

CLOCKS WOUND BY CONTRACT.

Old Gold, Silver, and Precious Stones Exchanged or Purchased to any amount.

THE PRINCE'S PORT,

50 YEARS IN WOOD.

PALE COLOR. SOFT. DELICATE.

Eminent authorities recommend this Port well
matured in Wood, not only for general consumption,
hut especially for the use of those suffering from gout.

In Portugal, where gout is unknown, this style of
Port is always used.

BERRY BROS. & Cos,

SO?. G'JIiEISS Street,
LONDON, sw.

ESTABLISHED 200 YEARS.

A detailed price-list of Wines, Spirits, and Liqueurs on application

a

i

TIME-saying PUBLICATIONS.

J. DAY & SON,

PUBLISHERS & BOOKSELLERS,
16, MOUNT STREET, W.

H



It

g

H



immsi

LADIES' A: GENTLEMEN'S

HUNTING, SHOOTING, & WALKING
BOOT MAKER,

52, SOUTH MOLTON ST., BOND ST., W.

Manufacturer of the Celebrated Edinburgh Boot Varnish Blaclciwj,
and Waterproof Leather Dressing.

MILITARY BOOTS.

Boots and Shoes to match Costumes.

Russia Leather Boots.

Waterproof Patent

Hunting Boots.

Improved Flexure Boots

Mountain Boots.

Skating Boots.

Brown Hide Boots for
Polo or the Colonies.

Racing Boots.

Lawn Tennis Shoes.

Slippers to any style.

LADIES' RIDIM AND HUNTING BOOTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.

Ic Shape of the Feet taken and Lasts Modelled on the most approved
anatomical p)ri'>eiplcs, and kept exclusively for each customer.

W. Faulkner begs most respectfully to call the attention of Ladies and Gentlemen
to the BOOT TREE Branch. Boot Trees assist to keep the boots in proper
shape, preventing them from wrinkling and shrinking after they have been worn
in the wet; they can be cleaned better, and do not require so much blacking,
thereby preventing the deleterious effect produced by its frequent application.

Lasts & Boot Trees of every description Manufactured on the
Premises, at Most Reasonable Prices for Cash.

Ladies residing in the Country can have Boots or Boot Trees sent their exact
size by forwarding an Old Boot by Post.

173, NEW BOND STREET, W.,

ICES for BALLS, DINNER and GARDEN PARTIES,

IN NOVEL FRENCH STYLES,
PACKED TO TRAVEL 30 MILES.

CHOCOLATE & C Offer IN PERFECT CONDITION.
DESSERTS AND FRENCH NOVELTIES

IN CONSTANT VARIETY.

W. p. LILLIGRAPP & Co,

BY SPECIAL jf/?''R- APPOINTMENT

TO H R.H. THE  y'''&ii4h PRINCE OF WALES.

SEAL SKIN JACKET,

iixx Cloak, fct, Si fat anttfacinrm,

AND

GENERAL Fullers,
27, DAVIES STREET, BERKELEY SQUARE.

SKINS DRESSED AND MOUNTED.

FURS Exchanged AMD TAICEK CARE OF.

HEAVENS,

HUNTING, RACING, AND STEEPLECHASE
28, SOUTH MOLTON ST., OXFORD ST.

RACING CAP AND JACKET MAKER. EXPORT SADDLER.

WITH SELF-FITTING ENDS

are made in sizes, 4, 6, 8, or 12 to lb., packed in 12 lb. wood cases, or in 3 lb. boxes.

PRICE 9d. PER LB.

MARCHANT & SON,

Wax Chandlers and Oil Merchants,

59, Burners STREET, LONDON, W,

And at 160, NORTH Street, BRIGHTON.

Paul's Fish Culture,  177, Euston Rd, N.W.

Trade Catalogue of the J* World's Fishes, Reptiles,
Amphibious, Press ""iw Opinions, etc., Stamp.

lOO GREEN TREE FROGS door teach
lOO GOLD FISH 30 - or 6d. EACH.

Patent Fish Kettle, extra Plants, Snails, Shingle Free, sent to any
part of the Kingdom. loo Carp, Tench, Dace, Roach, &c., &c., 15/-.

PAUL'S AQUARIA MANAGEMENT,

Without changing the water. Description of Fish, Plants, Snails, &.C.,

impost free.

PAUL'S FISH LIFE PRESERVER.

Prepared Fish Food; invigorates the Fish, makes them grow, keeps
them healthy, full of fire and go. Packets, i '-, post paid.

6d. PAUL'S FISH CULTURE. ed.

A Monthly Illustrated Journal, published to raise the neglected state
of Fish Culture to its earlier, Standard, to re-populate the rivers, ponds,
lakes, &c. Every farmer, land or water owner, should study aqua-culture.
This journal gives valuable information how ;400 PER YEAR
may be made out of one acre of Water.

GEO. Davies & SON,

IJnulital j)ivt ante alhxx Palus,

HOSIERS AND Outriders,
29, NORTH AUDLEY ST., GROSVENOR SQ., W.

Factory AT Shepherd's BUSH, W.

OR NOURISHING MEAT & MALT WINE.

Highly recommenced thy the MEDICAL FACULTY as an exceedingly
nourishing, digestive and Restorative compound.

DOSE Iron Half to a Wineglassful 3 times a day.

Prepared HOOPER & COMY-.

55, Grosvenor. STREET, w. , LABORATORY,

And at 7, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON. J MITCHAM, SURREY.

In BOTTLES 2/6, 5/- & 7/6.

To ie obtained of all Chemists, Wine Merchants and Grocers, throughout the

United Kingdom.

J. DAY & SON'S

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER

SUITABLE FOR WRITING WITH QUILL OR STEEL PENS.
SAMPLES POST FREE.

JOHN DAY & SON,

LONDON. W.

BURKE'S LANDED GENTRY

A Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed

Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland.

v>\

Sir Bernard Burke, C.B., LL!D.,

Ulster King-of- Anne.

Being a record of the Lineage, &.C., of about 4.500 Families, with a description of
their Arms, Crests, &c. Thoroughly Revised throughout. This edition of the
Landed Gentry has been compiled from communications made by the chiefs and
heads of Families from their private papers, traditions and genealogies. The great
aim has been to arrive at accuracy, and in order to attain this end, every available
source of ins 01 nation has been exhausted, and a correspondence carried on which
has secured many thousands of communications from those most competent to
improve and correct the work. Apocryphal statements, which had crept into
former editions, have been expunged, erroneous particulars and incorrect descents
discovered and omitted, and some memoirs excluded as being no longer associated
with the possession of landed property.

Two Vols., Super Royal svo. Cloth gilt, price  3s.

Burke's Peerage, Baronetage, Knightage, &c.

FOR 1887,

One Vol., Super Royal 8vo. Cloth gilt, price i ipsa

LARGE DISCOUNT FOR CASH OFF THE ABOVE WORKS.

SOLD BY

JOHN DAY & SON,

16, DVEOXJlSrT STItEET, "VT"

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

SWEDISH NOTE PAPER,
SWEDISH NOTE PAPER.

Samples may be had post free on application.

vJOEcnsr jdjit & point,

16, MOUNT Street, W,

CAUTION TO LADIES.

Crystal Palace Bond's G-old Medal
Marking Ink.

Prepared by the Daughter, is the genuine, ask for and see you get it. In Her

Majesty's High Court of Justice another action, costs and damages against the

wrong-doers, for selling colourable imitations. Greatest Marking Ink Maker of

the World, larger sale than all others combined, 20 gold, other medals, and Eoyal

appointments to Crystal Palace Bond's.

CAUTION We have no relations soliciting Orders.

CAUTION John BOND'S EBONITE Making INK must not be heated
in the cloth. Especially adapted to Crystal Palace John Bond's india
rubber stamps, metal-bodied type, <kc. Cheapest house in Europe. Trade only.
Works, 75, Southgateroad, London, N,

JOHN DAY & SON, Agents,

16, MOUNT STREET, GROSVENOR SQUARE, W.

DE LA RUE'S
DIARIES FOR 1887.

SOLD BY

J. DAY & SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

Pettish's & BLACKWOOD'S

DIARIES FOR 1887.

SOLD BY

J. DAY &, SON, 16, Mount Street, W.

New and Second-hand

   BAGATELLE

In all Sizes and at all Prices.
Cloths Chalks CUES, TIPS,

And all other Billiard Requisites.
WHOLESALE, RETAIL, cj- FOR EXPORTATION.

OLD BALLS ADJUSTED OR EXCHANGED,

AND

TABLES RE-CUSHIONED and RE-COVERED,

Adjusted, Removed, Bought, Sold, or Warehoused,

And every kind of Billiard Work executed with dispatch & at moderate charges.

Piece Lists, Cloth cid OusJiion Rubber Samples, Post Free.

When writing for Samples of the latter, please state for what kind of Table

they are wanted.

HENNIG BROS., X

0)"Q BILLIARD TABLE MAKERS, 'f

H, HIGH ST., LONDON, W.C-

(Opposite St. Giles's Church.)
ESTABLISHED 1862

Mr. JOHN D. WOOD,

Agent for
West-end HOUSES,

COUNTRY HOUSES,

SUMMER and RIVERSIDE HOUSES,
SHOOTINGS and FISHINGS,
HUNTING BOXES,

YACHTING HOUSES.
Officesl, MOUNT ST., LONDON. W.

CAMBRIC
POCKET Handkerchiefs

IRISH

DAMASK
TABLE
LINEN,

Fish Napkins, 2/11 per
doz. Dinner Napkins,
5 6 per dozen. Table
Cloths, 2 yds. square,
2/11 ; 21 yds. by 3 yds.
5/11 each. Kitchen
Table Cloths, lld.
each. Strong Huckaback
Towels, 4/6 per
doz. Monograms,
Crests, Coats of Arms,
Initials, &c., Woven and
Embroidered. Samples
and Illustrated price
lists post free to any
part of the World.

ROBINSON & CLEAVER, by Special Appointments to Hem. the
Queen and Hei. k K.H. the Crown Princess of Germany, BELFAST.

TO H O TJ S E-VsTI "VE S-

22 Pages (Illustrated) post free. See Pages 6 to lo for

HOW TO MAKE BLANC MANGE,

Baked Custard, Farola Cream. Faroia Cai<e, Grantly Porridge, Grantly
Puddings, Milk Porridge, Children's or Family Pudding. Baked Pudding,
Steamed Pudding, French Pudding, Italian Polenta, Semolina Soup,
Pastry, Scones and Sweet Cakes, and Semolina Cake, with economyand
taste together with the opinions of the i5r///iV/ I\lcdical Journal, I.aiicct, &.c.,
&c. Post Free from Messrs. J. &T. Marshall, Glasgow, and 15, New Broad
Street, London. Neb.  Everyone is much pleased with this little work.
Send your address (naming this publication) by post card or letter, and
it will be sent you free of charge.

Send your Name and Address, and mention Day's Advertiser, and receive, per
return, post free, sample and particulars of

Smith's COLCHESTER

IL-ile

X-0 3?G5- CA.Nr33 1fcr,

THE BEST DIGESTIVE.

No household should be without this valuable and Palatable Stimulant, so
highly spoken of by the great Duke of Wellington. A small piece thicken after a
meal is an effectual Preventative against Indigestion, heaviness or burning on
the Chest, and fulness after meals ; or, taken at bed-time, by its warmth-giving and
Stomachic properties, Pko-motes Sleep. A small piece dissolved in the mouth
when exposed to damp and cold Warms the Chest, and prevents those injuries
which arise from Chills. It is invaluable to Sportsmen, and is recommended by
the Duchess of Beaufort, the Marquis of Waterford, &c., &c., &c. Price i/ij-, 2/9,
and 4/6 ; of all Chemists. Be careful to buy only Spirits-CoLCHESTER Live-Long
Candy, creaked hy Whetstone (Late Smith, and Whetstone),
CHEMIST, COLCHESTER, as, in consequence of its popularity, and the
commonness of the name (Smith), imitations are rife. Per Post, 1/4, sand 5/- ;
or, sample, face .

BY THE AUTHOR OF

:IY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

Edinburgh AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVll

7*79 /

V.2

Part IT

Chapter I.

Charlie Crofton had to go out to India with his
regiment in the hot season. It was thought better,
on account of the child, that Nellie should wait
behind in England until the cooler one. But when
the time came for her and the little boy to start,
there were rumours of gathering troubles on the
north-west frontier, and the 46 th Lancers received
orders to hold themselves in readiness for active
service ; yet, for some reason or other, the regiment
was not sent up to the Punjab till the following
year, November 1878. It was in September 1879
that the news arrived of the massacre of Sir Louis
Cavagnari.

On the 2d October 1879, a squadron of the
46th Lancers started with Sir Frederick Roberts
from Kushi for Cabal, and then later on took part

in the great general's famous march from Cabal to
Kandahar.

There was a time of silence when Nellie had no
news of her husband. For some months she did not
know if he were alive or dead.

But no harm befell him in Afghanistan. It was
nearly five years since Captain Crofton had left England,
when he wrote in great delight to tell his wife
the 46 th was ordered down to Bombay, and he begged
her to come out immediately and meet him there, ashe
did not like to apply for leave instantly on getting
his promotion, and when so many fellows had been
invalided from his regiment. He said he himself had
been laid up with a touch of fever since his return to
India, but did not speak as if he had been seriously ill.
With what intensity of pleasure had he written this
letter to his wife ! He had felt in writing it the
delight he was sure she would feel at the thought
of SO near a meeting. He told her to bring out
Miss Smith and the boy with her, just that he
might see the child. If the doctors thought the
child too old to stay in India, he might go back by
the next steamer.

Nellie missed a mail before she answered this letter;
but she was always unsatisfactory about catching the
mails, and, of late especially, her letters had come very
irregularly. The letter she finally did write would,
I think, have seemed rather a disappointing one to
most husbands with a heart as full of warm love
as Charlie's was for her.

So little changed was he by those five long years of
absence and some time of danger, that it seemed to
him as if it were only yesterday that he had been
with his wife, and heard her voice, and seen her
sweet face ; only yesterday he had said good-bye to
her, and felt so moved by her beauty that to think
of it moved him still,  for her pathetic beauty had
touched him more in tears and sorrow even than in
joy. He remembered her pain at parting from him,
her wish to go with him, as we remember that which
is very near to the present hour. The love she had
shown him, surpassing far her love for her child, had
stilled the grief of parting to him, and made what was
deep sorrow at the moment feel afterwards like a sort
of rapt and sacred joy.

There is one kind of love which has a very
holy spirit in it. Like a guardian angel of all that
is noblest in the soul, that holiness can go with a
man unchanged, unspotted over the whole world.

That holy spirit is full of trusting faith,  it cannot
dream of evil.

Poor iell 1 " thought Charlie, when he read her
unsatisfactory letter ; " but I am an inconsiderate
fellow ! How inconsiderate I must have seemed to
you, wanting to hurry you so much ! A pity I cannot
go home and bring you out myself, and save
you all this bother ! And you were not made for
rough and ready managing ! What do you know of
business ? What can you know of it, my poor dear
love ? It is hard for you, dear Nell, very hard not to

have me by your side to help you. But your money
cannot really have run short. There must be some
mistake. I will write to my father. Perhaps you
have not liked to trouble him with your affairs.
Kindest of all kind men, they would be no trouble
to him ! I know him well ! "

Nellie had said nothing about the child in her
letter. This had not seemed strange to her husband,
because the letter was all taken up with explanations
of the impossibility of her packing in a hurry, the
impossibility of her finding money in a hurry, the
impossibility of her letting the house in a hurry.

Letting the house ? " said Charlie, when he read
her letter a second time ; " what can she mean ? I
must write and tell her not to think of letting the
house over my father's head. By George ! " he added,
what a stupid fellow I am ! My father must be coming
out with nellie." This idea was a great joy to him.

But his wife's next letter really was a disappointment,
a keen disappointment. She said she could not
bring the boy  he was now six years old, and it was
impossible to take a child out to India at that age,
and she did not know with whom to leave him. Her
mother would certainly not be bothered with him, and
indeed her mother was so perpetually going about
everywhere that it would be really impossible for her
to look after him ; besides Nellie said she had seen so
very, very little of her mother of late years, that she
did not feel she could even ask her to have the boy.
She then said she could not leave the child with some

complete stranger about whom she knew nothing,
" and I am just parting with Miss Smith, who has
lately given herself habits of interference in my household
and affairs which I am determined not to put up
with any longer. And as to your father," she had
added, " I simply refuse to leave little Charlie with
him. He ruins the child, and it is extremely bad for
the boy to be with him."

Poor father ! Perhaps he is getting a little old.
But he could not hurt any one. Such kindness as his
could not harm the boy. Nellie, ]Nellie ! can it be
possible you do not understand him ? And he has
always shown a father's love for you, as if you were
his own child." The whole tone of this letter surprised
and grieved Charlie very much. It was a sort
of shock to him  a greater one than he dared acknowledge
to himself.

But the next mail brought him a letter which
destroyed to some extent the uneasy impression
made by that last one. Nellie said, " My health is
not strong now, and I was overdone and over-worried
when I wrote to you, and everybody was giving me
contradictory advice. I do not quite remember what
I said, or if I said anything about George and Miss
Smith." She had never mentioned George. " I was
angry with them both at the time, so do not mind
anything I may have written, for I really was doing
my utmost to arrange everything as I think best. The
money is the chief difficulty now, but the Admiral
says that can be got over."

Charlie knew that George had been back in England
from the Eocky Mountains for nearly a year.
George's kind stepmother had died. She had never
been strong,  indeed Clara had always had a very
proper contempt for her constitution. But no one
had thought her in danger till she was really dying.

George had arrived in time to be with her at the
last. N'ellie had told her husband she had seen
him in Chapel Street the day Aunt Kate died, but
she had never mentioned his name since !

George is unwise," thought Charlie, " to give her
any advice about her affairs, because she dislikes
him so much. She abhors him ! But I wish in the
years to come she could get to like him just enough
for me to have him sometimes at my house, for I
should hate to feel there was to be a lifelong; coolness
between us, and solely because that mother-in-law of
mine set stories about his intentions when it is a
thousand to one he had no intentions at all. I daresay
my lady proposed to him herself for Nellie, just
as Rattles declared she virtually proposed to George
for Adela. Eattles says she is capable of anything in
the matchmaking line, and he knows more about her
than I do. Poor old George ! he is an awfully good
fellow, awfully ! and he has been like a brother tome,
 the only brother I ever had ! "

Charlie was not a bit jealous of George. Nellie
hated him so much !

The only part of his wife's letter which disturbed
Charlie, and kept on some of the uncomfortable impression

made by the former one upon his mind, was
the postscript : " Fas.  Never again write to your
father about my affairs. He does not know a bit
more about business than I do, and he bothers me
to death."

For a long time ISTellie had never mentioned the
Admiral, but Charlie had thought nothing of this,
because she was not a ready writer.

With all his love for her, he did not think she
wrote good letters. In fact, she was at all times a
most unsatisfactory correspondent. If many people
are human beings twice over when they take up a
pen, there are others who really are not human in
the least, and not even a bit like themselves. The
first time you read one of their ordinary letters you
are startled, for you feel as if you were making a new
acquaintance with some dull person you never met
before. Except a few underlined expressions of affection,
and a little story now and then about the doings
and sayings of the child, Nellie's usual letters to her
husband had next to nothing in them. It was perfectly
wonderful how little she found to say.

However, the effect of that postscript was softened
by a very kind letter which arrived by the same mail
from the Admiral. Charlie had feared some sort of
coolness had arisen between his wife and father, doubtless
about the boy and the doating grandfather's tendency
to spoil him. The mere thought of any coolness
between the two people he loved best on earth, had
been an anxious grief to him.

But there was nothing in the Admiral's letter which
could lead him to suppose his father was offended with
Nellie. He wrote most kindly about her, only saying
he did not think her strong, and wishing Charlie could
come home and fetch her himself.

That journey to India is a long one for ISTellie to
take alone, and she says she does not wish to carry me
so far from the Admiralty, as I may have a chance of
getting something. But I myself think I am on that
confounded shelf for ever, for they have just filled up
Hardsmouth, and my last hope is gone." He pressed
Charlie to come home.

There was a great deal about the boy in this letter,
and from the way in which the Admiral wrote of him,
it was easy to imagine the grandfather might be too
fond of the child quite to carry out all the precepts of
Solomon. Being in love with ISTellie, it seemed to
Charles Crofton so much more likely his father should
be a little in the wrong than his wife, though the love
and respect he had for his father were unbounded of
their kind. And yet he did not really think his wife
either clever or particularly sensible !

Charlie wrote immediately to Nellie, saying he had
applied for leave, and saw a chance of getting home
soon.

By the very next mail he got a hastily written note
from her, telling him not to come home on any account,
as she was starting for India by the P. & 0. which
was to leave Southampton on the following Thursday.
She told him to meet the steamer on the quay at

Bombay, as she would certainly be in it. She was not
bringing the child. She did not say with whom she
was leaving him. It was rather an incoherent letter.

Charlie was at Bombay and went to meet that
steamer. He stood on the landing-stage watching it
almost from the moment it had come in sight. Many
other people were awaiting the vessel too ; they were
mostly very merry. But he did not laugh and talk
his joy at the thought of meeting his wife was too
deep for words.

As the steamer was being made fast to the quay,
his eyes scanned the crowded deck, but could not see
Nellie there I

He went on board : no one could tell him where
her cabin was ; no one knew her name ! The steward
declared no such person had sailed from Southampton.
Captain Crofton said she must have missed the ship
at Southampton, and gone on and joined it at Brindisi.
But her name was nowhere on the ship's books. He
had to believe his own eyes at last ; believe her name
was not there ; believe she had never left England !

He was stunned by the overwhelming disappointment.
What first brought him back to his clear senses
was the incredulous manner of the steward, captain,
and other ship's officers. He instinctively became
aware they took it for granted his wife ' had deceived
him, and that if she had ever meant to leave England
it was to meet some other person, on quite another line
of steamers. Strong indignation made Captain Crofton
recover himself more quickly than he might otherwise

have done ; but never for a moment did a doubt of
N'ellie cross his mind. His first thought was, " At the
last hour my father has got her a passage in a troop-ship
with some friend of his."

He went on shore and instantly telegraphed to the
Admiral, " Is Nellie still at home ? "

The answer was, "ISTellie at home. Has written.
Starts soon."

No letter had come by that mail  doubtless it was
coming by the next. But that very evening Captain
Crofton got the leave he had applied for six weeks
before. Early next morning he telegraphed to Nellie,
I sail for England tomorrow in Malabar."

Chapter IL

The Malabar arrived at Portsmouth forty-eight hours
sooner than her usual time. Only once before had she
made so quick a passage.

In his secret heart Charlie had expected to see his
wife and father awaiting him on the quay. He was
angry with himself when they were not there  angry
he had thought it possible for them to come. " How
could they know the ship would arrive forty-eight
hours too soon ? They could not know it. I am a
fool ! "

Of all those who landed from the troopship, I daresay
you would have singled out the tall, self-contained,
rather stern-looking officer, whom no friend had come
to meet, as the man who seemed the least excited by
what is a very powerful emotion to most men  that
first home-coming[ to Pendant after an absence of long;
years.

Captain Crofton sat quite silent in the train which
took him up to London.

Shyness is not unfrequently spoken of as if it belonged
exclusively to weak women ; but I think few

women shrink with greater shyness from powerful emotion
than some strong Englishmen.

Charlie almost dreaded his first meeting with his
wife. There is a kind of joy that fills the soul with
awe. Saintly men were stilled of old by a joy in
which was fear when they drew near to the Holy of
Holies.

As I have said before, Cliarlie had a very holy love
for his wife. The fair remembrance of her was sacred
to him ; and, like all sacred thoughts, on which we
have long dwelt with holy feeling, that memory had
become idealised in his mind.

The fashion is to speak hardly of the love that
absence has turned a little cold; yet it is not always
well for a man to think of a woman as he has imagined
in his loneliness she seemed to him when he parted
from her long years before.

The memory which is a little dulled, the love which
distance has a little chilled, can wake again at the
sound of the voice that was heard in the bygone days,
at the kind touch of the hand, at the old familiar look,
like the smile of the old affection lingering still round
the speaking lips and eyes. So little can bring back
the old love ! A few kind words, a kindly act returning
to our memory unawares, will often be enough.
Even in heaven it may only be by some slight token
of a once-forgotten past, that many who meet there
will find again the recollection of a love they had long
lost on earth ; that many of those who meet in heaven,
in the vast, strange land, will so much as even know

each other. If it be not that forgotten kindness can
be felt again, the son might not there know the father
from whom he was estranged for years on earth ; the
child might not remember its own mother ; the husband
might never know again the wife whose sin had
separated her since youth from him  yet in that last
repentance which brought her to heaven she has so
longed to meet him there ! How can she know him
or he know her ? so changed are they since their youth
on earth ! So changed was he by sorrow and just
hatred of her before he died ! He could not remember
the wife of his youth,  he would pass her by like a cold
stranger, if the love forgotten, betrayed on earth, could
not be found again when memory is awakened from
long sleep and death in heaven.

And so on earth : often when it seems to have
grown cold, and sleeps as if in death, at the sound it
may be only of a voice, the kind remembrance of the
old affection can be touched and wake and live again.

But that holy love, that sacred feeling idealising her
beauty, her purity, her motherhood, her whole soul and
mind, which Charlie brought home for his wife after
he had been long years away, was, in its exceeding
goodness, almost a terrible kind of love, I think, for a
man's heart to be filled with when he was comings
quite near again to such a very weak woman as poor
Nellie.

It was ten o'clock at night when Captain Crofton
drove up to the house in Pont Street, where five years
before he and his wife had been glad and happy together.

The man-servant thought him somewhat
strange in voice and look and manner. He asked 

Is my wife at home ? "

"Mrs Crofton, sir?" The servant hesitated. "Yes
. . yes, sir. To you, sir, as you are Captain Crofton,
sir."

Is . . . is she well ? " asked Charlie. The man
did not answer very quickly : by the time he was beginning
to speak, the Captain had brushed past him,
saying brusquely, " I will go up alone."

As Charlie entered the drawing-room, his wife was
walking towards the door. She had come about halfway
across the room. She stopped short and gave a
scream when she saw him. There was flushed terror
on her face, as if the sight of him were so unexpected
as to be dreadful to her.

He was going to meet her with outstretched arms ;
but when he came near to her, he too stood still.
There was some terrible change in Nellie. This was
not the wife from idiom he had parted five years
before. Why, this woman was not glad to see him 1
She stood staring at him with a look almost of hatred
in her altered face. This woman was not glad to see
him !

Charles Crofton was a very courageous man, and had
fought bravely, but his heart fainted within him then
as if he were some vile coward.

It was Nellie who first recovered herself and moved
forward. She said irritably, " Why did you come so
suddenly, Charlie, when I did not expect you ? You

startled me, and I hate to be startled. I hate it !
You are like the boy, who is always jumping out upon
me, unless I keep him in the nursery." Her voice
was strange. It was not the voice Charlie had known
of old. This changed voice shocked his ear. " You
look at me so queerly ! " cried she, and stepped quickly
back, for she had come quite close to him. She still
seemed frightened, and angry too. " I suppose," she
said, " you are annoyed with me because I did not
go in that ship ? But it was not my fault." Her
anger increased. " They would not let me go ! " Then
she looked at him full in the face with flashing eyes.
Did they tell you I was ill ? Did they dare to tell
you I was ill ? too ill to start ? That is what they
told your father, and it was a scandalous untruth ? I
was quite v\ell." There was no suggestion of illness
in her appearance : she was rather stout and ruddy.

I have been told nothing," said poor Charlie, speaking
with painful difficulty. " I have seen no one."

Then why are you angry with me ? " she asked,
sharply.

I am not angry with you, Nellie," he said, sadly.

Then what's the matter with you ? You look so
odd, Charlie. Just as if you might be going to cry !
quite funny ! and so ridiculously solemn ! " And she
laughed loudly.

Her laugh was almost too much for him ; that nearly
broke him down. However, he was able to speak,
though his voice trembled as a nerve will vitiate when
we are in pain. He said slowly, " When people have

VOL. in. B

been long years parted, it is a solemn moment when they
meet again. I have been a long time away, Nellie."

Oh ! not so very long, Charlie ! not so very
long ! " she said, irritably. He was silent. Had she
looked at him then, she would have seen that he was
deadly pale.

But at that moment the butler came in to ask if
Captain Crofton would not require some dinner.

Oh yes," said Mrs Crofton ; " you will want some
dinner, Charlie. I forgot that ! " She turned to the
servant,  " Long, tell the cook we'll have dinner immediately."


Nothing for me," said Captain Crofton ; " I could
not eat." Strong man as he was, he felt sick and
rather faint.

Very well then," said his wife ; " you may tell
the cook. Long, that we shan't want any dinner."

But after the man had gone away, Charlie said, " I
think I will take a glass of wine. I feel . . . tired."

There is no wine in the house, Charlie," Nellie
answered quickly, but added afterwards, " Oh yes !
I remember ! There is some claret."

Claret will do," he said, and rang the bell.

When Captain Crofton told the servant to bring up
some claret, the man exclaimed, " Claret, sir ? There
is only one bottle of claret, sir, and it has been open
some time. Can't be good, sir."

Good enough for me," was the careless reply.

I never take wine now," said Nellie, speaking immediately
the door was shut. " Though I used to

take it loncj aso. Dr Doseman told me to take it.
I am sure you remember, Charlie, it was Dr Doseman
ordered me to take dort wine long ago, before you
went away. And," she asked, " how . . . how long
is it really, Charlie, since you did go away ? "

He looked at her. She had taken a chair at some
distance from where he stood. He did not answer
Quickly. But at last he said, " It is five years since
you have seen me."

Give years ? " she repeated. " Dear me ! But
now, really, I did not think it was so long."

He looked at her again. His lip quivered, and he
said suddenly, with passion, " You are not glad to seeme,
Nellie ! "

She screamed at the sound of his loud changed
voice, and starting up in her chair she stared at him,
just as she had done when he first came into the
room. At her cry of fear, he had instinctively moved
towards her. " Keep away ! keep away 1 " she called
out, putting up her two hands as if to shield herself
from the sight of him. " Don't come too near me ! "

But when he stood quite still, and she was sure he
did not move, she put down her hands again, and said
petulantly, "I should feel much more glad to see
you, Charlie, if you were not so altered. You are
altered in every way." She looked at him with actual
dislike. " You have grown so yellow and old and
thin. You used to be so much better lookiniir than
George, and you are not half as good-looking now."

George ? " repeated Charlie, hoarsely.

The butler entered with the wine. He placed the
salver on a small table near Captain Crofton, and
went out again.

Charlie poured out a glass quickly, but with a
trembling hand, so that he spilt some of the wine.

How careless you are ! " said his wife, very crossly.

Charlie raised the wine to his lips ; but though
feverishly thirsty, the instant he tasted it he put it
down again. " Pah ! " he said ; " what awful stuff !
Why, that wine has been decanted months." And he
went to the door and called back Long. " Take that
claret away. It's undrinkable."

Have some sherry, sir ? " said the butler. " There's
plenty of sherry, sir."

Oh yes ! " said Nellie, quickly. " I forgot,
Charlie. There is some. I remember now ; I got it
for Miss Smith."

The servant left the room.

How insultingly that man looked at you," said
Captain Crofton very angrily to his wife. He was
fast o-ettino' into the state when grief must vent itself
in some way. " Does that man often look at
you like that ? "

Nellie trembled. " Don't mind him ! Don't mind
him, Charlie. I have meant for some time to send
him away."

You ought not to have kept an insolent fellow
like that an hour in your house. My father ought to
have sent him away. But . . . but where is my
father ? " he exclaimed with sudden terror, getting

very pale again. The feeling lie had had a short half
hour ago that certain joy awaited him at home, had
turned into a presentiment of some awful sorrow.
Is my father . . . dead ? " he asked.

Dead ? " cried Nellie, and then laughed quite uproariously.
" A\Tiat a ridiculous notion ! quite, quite
ridiculous, Charlie ! " That silly hysterical laugh was
like a horrid pain to him again.

Why is not my father here to-night ? " he asked, so
sternly that he stopped her laugh. " Moliere is he ? "

At his lodgings, or else at his club talking to some
other silly old men, I suppose," she said crossly.

At his lodgings or his club ? " repeated Charlie,
very slowly ; " his lodgings or his club ? Then my
father does not live here now ? He does not live in
his own house ! "

I could not let him live here, Charlie," she answered,
very angrily ; " because he is so silly, he ruins
the child. I think he is quite doting at times ! He
is a troublesome, disagreeable, interfering old man ! "

my God ! my God ! " groaned poor Charlie, and
he sank into the nearest chair.

The door opened, and Long walked in with the
sherry, put it beside Captain Crofton's chair, and was
gone in a moment, knowing right well, as he told
them all down-stairs, there was some sort of a row
going on between the Captain and " her." He usually
spoke of his mistress as " her " or " she," accompanying
the pronoun with a jerk of his right thumb, as if
pointing to " her " over his shoulder.

Charlie sat up, and immediately drank off a glass
of wine. He tossed it off at a gulp. " Good heavens ! "
he called out, jumping up. " It is like fire ! like
burning vitriol ! It has spirit enough to blow a man's
head off! I wonder that poison did not kill Miss
Smith."

Nellie stood up. She trembled a little, but she
came nearer to Charlie, and said in a confidential sort
of whisper, " That . . . that was why I sent away
Miss Smith. She . . . she drank, Charlie ! "

For how long did you know that she drank before
you sent her away ? " he asked, sternly.

Oh ! . for a . a long time ! a . a very
long time, Charlie," she said, nervously.

He walked right up to his wife and said to her
savagely, "You separated my son from my own
father, and you kept a woman about him you knew
was given to drink ! You had a woman with him
who might have taught him to drink,  who might
have given him the most horrible vice any man or
woman can have ! "

Nellie shrank away in terror from her awful husband
and fell upon a sofa, and, burying her head in the
cushions, burst into tears, crying out, " You are cruel tome,
Charlie ! you are cruel ! I thought you would be
horrid and cruel when you came home, and that is why
I never wanted you to come ! "

She never wanted me to come," he repeated ; and
he stood coldly immovable in one place, as if he were
no longer really alive.

With lier head still buried down, Nellie went on-crying
till her weeping spent itself in lengthening
sobs.

There was a long pause of silence between the husband
and wife. He broke it at last. " Moliere is the
child ? " he asked ; " has he gone too ? "

'Nellie sat up at this. " How nastily you speak tome,"
she whimpered, " as if I were unkind to the boy !
The boy is very fond of me when his disagreeable old
grandfather keeps out of the way. You had better
go up-stairs and see him yourself, and then you will
believe I have not sent him away. He is asleep in the
nursery ; so go ! go ! "

She did not offer to go with him and show him his
boy. And he went up alone.

No one was in the nursery but the sleeping child.
There was a shaded candle on a table not far from
little Charlie's cot. The father took up the light and
held it so that he could see the boy. His son had been
a baby still in arms when he went away, and now he
was nearly six years old. It was as if Charlie saw
him for the first time. The child was not fair or like
himself, but had dark auburn hair clustering in curls,
like Nellie's, on a very white forehead ; and he had
long dark lashes, which lay sleeping on a softly rounded
pink cheek. He was so startlingly like the Nellie
Charles Crofton had loved with all his soul in those
years which now seemed such long ages ago, that the
contrast between that face of sweet innocence, dreaming
with a smile on the parted lips as if of heaven.

and the changed wife who had met him so strangely,
so coldly, so . so horribly down-stairs, seemed
quite terrible to him. It was like the contrast between
the Nellie who once had been and . . . that woman
below ! That woman who was not glad to see him !
who wished he had never come home ' He turned
away from the little cot.

But he came back asjain and attain, and looked at
the boy. The holy sleep of childhood can touch most
hearts. It touched poor Charlie's then.

AVhen the nurse returned some minutes afterwards,
she found the tall officer on his knees by the side of
the child's little bed. She thought he was praying.
He did not see her, and she went quickly away abashed
and frightened, as servants so often are at any sight
which seems strange to them.

Charlie must have been altogether nearly a quarter
of an hour up-stairs.

The sherry had been removed when he came down
again, but the horrid smell of it was still strong in the
room.

Charlie was less stern, less savage now, and his wife

CI '

seemed to have lost her fear of him.

Come and sit near me, Charlie dear ! " she said to
him, pointing to a chair beside her own, for she no
longer lay on the sofa. " Come and sit by me," she
repeated, because he was not coming, but was standing
motionless with surprise. " Ah ! Charlie, Charlie dear !
my dear, dear Charlie, let us talk affectionately, quite
affectionately together."

Nellie ! " he said, looking frightened,  " Nellie ! "
But he took the chair.

She put her hand caressingly upon his arm. " Kiss
me, Charlie. My own darling Charlie, kiss me ! "

ISTellie ! " he said again, but hesitated to kiss her.

Then she said, in a coaxing sort of way, and with
that hysterical laugh which had hurt him so much
before, " Kiss me like a lover, my own darling Charlie !
I like lovers' kisses ! They are much kinder  ha !
ha ! ha ! " she laughed  " so much, much kinder than
cold husbands' kisses."

The coarseness of these odious words, and the horrid
way she said them, stifled with disgust any returning
softness there may have been in Charlie's heart. He
recoiled from her, and brushing away her clinging hand,
got up and stood at a distance.

She trembled when he started away from her. She
trembled so much that she had to hold by the arms of
the chair when she sat up, in order to still that great
trembling a little. She stared at her husband with intensity
of fear as he recoiled from her. Her flaming
eyes looked almost distraught with terror.

You . . . you hate me, Charlie ! " she cried out, ina
choking, thickening voice. " They have told you lies
about me ! they have told you lies ! George has told
you a wicked story, and it is a lie I You believe it, and
you won't forgive me ! you won't forgive me, Charlie ! "

And she sank back into the chair again with a
craven, cowering fear of him that was awful to him,
because it was like the terror of conscious ijuilt.

Still staring at him with that dreadful abhorrent
look in her eyes, she said, quivering all over, and
speaking as if her tongue were getting paralysed by
her own words, " Why did not you stay away ? Why
have you come home to hate me ? to hate me so cruelly,
so . . . so horribly, Charlie ? "

There is an intensity of passion which will seem
passionless.

'' What story is this you speak of and have spoken
of before ? I must know it," said Charles Crofton,
slowly, but with unmoved, quite cold composure.

It is not true ! " gasped Nellie, starting up and
breathing very hard. Her nervous trembling was so
great she had to hold by the chair when she first stood
up. " It is not true ! I was not ill ! I was quite well !
I wanted to go in that ship, but George would not let
me. He met me in the street the evening before I was
to start, and he came again next morning and would
not let me so. It was he who would not let me sro.
He ! he and Miss Smith ! They were in a horrid league
together ! And they kept me ! George kept me ! "

Why did he keep you ? " asked Charlie, coldly.

Her whole face changed. The terror left it, and she
smiled, then gave that imbecile laugh. Bending forward,
though still holding by the back of the chair, she
whispered across the room, as if she were telling Charlie
a secret, " George always was in love with me. He
never was in love with Adela  only with me ! only
with me ! " She stood without support. She stretched
out her hands towards her husband. " Kiss, kiss me,

Charlie ! " she said, in that changed voice which made
his heart stand still  " kiss me, Charlie, and I . . . "
she laughed again  " and I will think you are George ! "

He started back from her in an agony of horror.
She slipped and fell flat on the floor.

When at last he went to raise her, he found she was
in a very dead sort of faint.

It seemed terribly natural to him that a woman
should faint  nay ! that she should drop down dead 
when she told her husband what his . . . his wife
had told him.

CHAPTER III.

It was at an early hour next morning that Captain
Crofton rang the drawings-room bell for the butler.

Charlie had spent the long night feverishly walking
about the room where he had had that first terrible
meeting with the wife from whom he had been parted
for years  with the woman who was not glad to see
him because . . . because she loved and was loved
by another man. Her horrible words and the awful
change in her had nearly set him mad. He could take
no rest. Those dreadful words kept repeating themselves
over and over again in his brain. He could not
for an instant lose consciousness of her spoken infamy,
and the way she had told him the horrible truth had
been so revolting him, that the look  the degraded
look  of her haunted him as if he had met her when
he and she were fiends in hell.

She has no shame ! She is dead even to the contempt
a man like that fellow down-stairs shows openly
for her. She does not feel the insult of his low laughing
scorn. His vile insolence did not sting her into
horror-struck shame ! "

The remembrance of the insulting; look that man
had. given his wife the night before infuriated Charlie
Crofton in his already maddened state. He saw the
fellow look at her again, and understood, he thought,
the reason of his intolerable insolence.

Whatever my . . . my wife may be, that fellow
shall not insult her by his looks," he had said, and
rung that early bell. " When I go out to-day I will
not leave that fellow in the house. No one shall dare
to insult my wife in my own house."

Long was not an early riser, and Captain Crofton
had to ring several times before he appeared. This
delay was fortunate for Charlie. His having to ring
four times over was just one of those trivial little
actions which will sometimes bring a man down from
the height of passion to the realities of life. Charlie
was a disciplined soldier, and had habits of self-command
; and he was a gentleman, so he behaved as such
when he found himself face to face with the servant.

He said quietly, " I have rung for you because I
wish to tell you that I intend immediately making
changes in my establishment, and shall no longer require
your services."

Civilly as this may have been said, it was none the
less astounding to Long. To be called up early in
the morning in order to be told a thing like this was
certainly enough to upset the dignified equilibrium of
any butler. The truth is, the night hours had seemed
so long to Charlie that he was not in the least aware
how early in the morning it really was.

The astonished butler turned red with surprise and
rage. It made him far more angry to be told this at
six o'clock than it would to have been told it after
breakfast at ten. He felt it an insult to be called up
out of bed on purpose to be given undeserved warning.

Then she has been telling you stories about me,
sir, and it's a shame of her," he exclaimed in hot anger,
and used that gesture of the thumb pointing to the
ceiling. In the agitated astonishment of the moment
he really forgot he was not speaking to his usual
audience down-stairs, and the pronoun and the gesture
were an ordinary habit to him.

She ? . . . " repeated Captain Crofton, in a white
rage.

Mrs Crofton, sir. Beg pardon, I meant Mrs
Crofton, sir."

Charlie stood back. He was afraid of assaulting
this man.

It was a slip of the tongue, sir  no offence meant,
sir."

No . . . offence. You leave my house this very
hour," said Captain Crofton. " I give you an hour to
pack up, not a second more."

I'm entitled to my month's wages and my board
wages, and I'll get 'em too, or I'll have the law of
you," growled the man, growing insolent.

You shall have what you are entitled to, but you
shall leave my house. Now, leave the room."

You just tell Mrs Crofton, then, from me that if she
don't give me a must-rate character I'll carry her into

court, and if she dares to take away my character
there I'll take away hers. Tell her I'll take away her
character right out in public, and just tell 'em all what
her little ways are like."

The awful meaning poor Charlie heard in these
words, the agony of shame he felt  as if the shame
were all his own  was such that the very intensity of
this shame paralysed his hand a moment and kept
him from striking down this man.

That first horror just stayed his hand long enough
to let the man escape, for the butler, being now
frightened, went quickly away.

It was some time before Charlie could recover himself
enouf]rh to dare to run the risk of seeing that man
again. He was sufficiently conscious of his own terrible
anger to make him fear to see him. There is no
anger more dangerous than that which comes from
the feeling of intolerable shame. So he was afraid to
leave the room for fear he might meet him again too
soon.

An hour passed, and Charlie was still pacing the
room he had paced all night, when he chanced to catch
conscious sisfht of himself in a mirror. He stood still
and looked at the gaunt unwashed man he saw there,
as if it had been at some haggard stranger. The sight
of this strange . . . madman, whom he knew to be
himself, sobered his senses. His first thought was,
My boy will be afraid of me if he first sees me thus.
I hear his voice ; he must not see me thus, or . . .
he will hate me too ! "

This fear made a man of him. He went up stairs and
washed and re-dressed himself, and for the moment became
as it were sane again.

He went out of the dressing-room where he had been,
and called to the child to come down to him, and went
in again, for he heard the nurse talking in the nursery
and knew her voice, and shrank from seeing her in broad
daylight, for this woman was Mrs Crof ton's maid as well
as the child's nurse, and it was with her Captain Crofton
had left his wife the niojht before. He dreaded she
might ask the reason of her mistress's long dead
faint.

But the child did not come down alone after all.
Maria came with him, and came talking, for she was as
talkative as so doubly confidential a person as a nurse
and lady's-maid has a right to be.

Come along, come along, Master Charles, and now
don't you be afraid of your papa. Your papa won't
eat you, and j)'raps he'll show you his sword and his
long lance, that has killed hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of black-faced men."

Maria was not aware Captain Crofton had no lance.
You'd like to see the sword and the lance, Master
Charles."

But I don't want to see my papa. I don't want
to see a horrid strange man. I don't like horrid strange
men."

There seemed to be a slight scuffle on the stairs.
Now, Master Charles, don't you run away, or you
won't see the real sword and the bio* lance that killed

all those black-faced men, and you know you want to
see them very bad indeed."

Ask him for them, Maria. He'll lend them to you,
and then you can show them to me in the nursery."

You are a coward, Master Charles ; that's what
you are ! You're a regular young coward, and you're
afraid of your papa."

I'm not a coward ! I'm not a coward ! " cried out
the young voice angrily, " and I'll kill you with the big
sword, Maria, when I get it, and I won't be one bit
frightened to see all your blood trickling out."

Oh Lor' ! " replied Maria ; " and you'd just faint
down dead. But if you're not a coward. Master Charles,
come along of me and see your papa, and don't
make a noise, or you'll wake up your mamma, sound
as she sleeps."

A door opened, and Captain Crofton's taU figure stood
in the doorway. Maria screamed, and so did the poor
child.

The little man will not be afraid of me. He
will come to me and kiss me and be kind to me"'
said Charlie, softly and very tenderly, and he tried to
force a smile. He held out his hands to the boy.

Oh Lor' ! sir," said Maria, " but you did give us a
fright,"  and she put her hand to her heart, as if she
thought it must be beating violently.

But little Charlie stood very still, and looked at his
father with his large wistful grey eyes wide open.
That gaze made his father tremble. It was so like
a memory of the past.

VOL. III. C

"I am too tall," said Charlie, trying to smile
again ; " I am too tall for us to kiss like men," and he
knelt down on one knee. " The little man will come
and kiss the big man now," he said, very gently.

Go along with you, Master Charles, and don't you
be afraid of your papa," whispered Maria, but quite
loudly.

I am not afraid of him," cried the child, turning
to her indignantly, and freeing himself from the grasp
she had taken of his shoulders. " I am a boy, and it
is only girls and women are afraid of big men," and he
walked proudly towards his father.

Charlie gave him the long kiss of deep love he had
brought home for his mother. The child was a little
awed by the solemn feeling of this kiss ; and with his
small hand on his father's bent knee, he stood very
still and looked up at him steadfastly. " You are like
grandpa," he said ; " so I will not be really afraid
of you."

"Why should the little man be afraid of his own
father ? " said Charlie, fondling the child, and with
that forced smile still on his sad face. " Why should
he be afraid of his father, who will be very kind to
him, and show him his big: sword ? "

Because," said his little son, " mamma is afraid of
you, and did not want you to come home."

Shame on you ! shame on you, Master Charles ! "
cried out Maria, rushing forward.

Captain Crofton had sprung to his feet. He was
seized with a panic of horror, for fear his wife might

be incriminated from the lips of lier own cliilcl, and
before this listening woman. He shrank away from
his boy in terror and went quickly down-stairs, and
with such a look on his face that poor little Charlie
was much frightened, and began to cry, and sobbed
to the scolding Maria, " I'll be good  I'll be good !
Don't let that man punish me ! He'll kill me with
his big sword ! "

Charlie heard the child crying, and stopped on the
stairs ; but he had not the courage to go back again
and comfort him, though he felt bitterly, "My boy
will hate me too ! " That his little son's own lips
should have told him of ISTellie's fear and dislike was
awful to him ! He hated to feel like a coward ; but
he had become an abject one through dread of what
the child might tell him next.

Charles Crofton had never been so unmanned in his
life as he was then. Soothing unmans even the strongest
heart and brain so surely as sudden revulsion of
feeling. There is hardly any trouble or grief or cruel
pain of disappointment we cannot bear with outward
calm, if only we are given time  if the great anguish
steals on us slowly, and does not fall quite unawares
upon us when our heart is beating full of buoyant joy.
Even despair can be a chill, slow poison, benumbing
as it kills ; and we can drink of it in silence, coldly,
with seeming calmness. But there is mad passion,
blind and senseless, and the panic of sudden fear, in
strong living joy turned into a quick agony of grief
and shame.

It would be unjust and false to think that Charlie
was not usually a man of moral courage, and of a
self-command greater and not less than that of most
young men.

Even now he soon recovered his self - possession
sufficiently to make him no longer afraid that he
could not contain his wrath at sight of the servant
who had looked insultingly at his wife and spoken
insolently of her.

Before he went out, he felt able to see Long ; and
he paid him his wages, and dismissed him with stern
command of temper. It is true the man was frightened
and civil now. There was that about Captain
Crofton's look and manner which awed him.

This duty done, Charlie went quickly out of the
house, and without waiting for breakfast, so greatly
did he dread the child might find him and speak of
its mother again.

He went to his father's lodgings in Bury Street.
Long had given him the address ; but he found the
Admiral had started half an hour before for Portsmouth
 " to meet the Malabar, sir," he was told,
which they expect to - morrow, but might chance
come in to - day, the Hadmiral said, sir. And the
Hadmiral has gone to the Hadmiralty 'Ouse in the
dockyard, sir. I know as 'ow he was going there, sir :
a telegram would find him there. Excuse me, sir ;
but if you're Captain Crofton, the Hadmiral will be that
vexed, sir, he did not meet the ship when she came in.
The Hadmiral made sure he'd be a day too soon, sir."

People always take a kindly interest in my father,
and know where he is, and all about him ; but . . .
but not in his own house," thought Charlie ; and with
a fresh pain in his sore heart, he turned to cross the
road on his way to the nearest post-office.

As he turned, he saw George Crofton at the opposite
side of the narrow street. He stopped.

Sir George saw him. " Hallo, Charlie ! Why, I
was going to tell Uncle Charles I had just seen
the arrival of the Malabar; and here you are yourself,
old fellow ! " And George came quickly across
the road with outstretched hand. "Awfully glad
to . "

But his cousin stepped back, and would not touch
his hand.

Good heavens ! " exclaimed George.

You prevented my wife from coming out to me in
the Sultan," said Charlie, with a sort of cold, halting,
short - breathed passion. His lips were ashy pale.
You met my wife in the street the evening before
she was to sail, and you advised her not to
go."

George looked at Charlie straight in the face, but
gave no answer.

Did you come to my house early the following
morning, and with the help of that woman Miss
Smith, did you or did you not keep my wife from
starting, and against her will ? Against her will ? "
repeated Charlie, with growing lire. " Was it against
her will or not ? "

Not SO loud, my dear fellow  not so loud ! " said
George. "Don't let us have a row in the street.
We'll walk on and talk quietly. Come, come now,
Charlie ." and he was slipping his arm inside
his cousin's, when Charlie hit down his hand with
a strong blow. This made George angry ; he was
not angry before.

Your wife was not fit to start," he said ; " she
was . . . ill, and she was starting off alone. She
would take no maid. No one was going with her.
She was going quite alone."

She was not ill. That is a lie ! She was
well," said Charlie. " And," he added, in a fierce
rage, " it was better for her to be going off alone than
to be staying with you  better for her reputation, at
least ! "

Good God ! " cried George, turning very red.
And this insult is from you ?  from you of all men,
Charlie ! "

But Captain Crofton had walked on, and Sir
George was standing alone in the street. George
looked after the man he had loved like a brother his
whole life long till then. " An insult like this cannot
be forgiven," thought he. " He and I cannot befriends
again. Never, by God! never!" But there
was sorrow in his wrath. " What has that Wretched
woman told him ? She cannot have told him the
truth. Women like her never tell the truth. But he
had no right to doubt and to insult me. He, of all
men, had no right 1 "

The first day after poor Charlie's return to home
and friends was indeed a wretched one for him. It
is true he was too fiercely angry with George to care
whether he had made an enemy of him or not ; but
everybody he met that day felt to him like an
enemy. He avoided old friends, and if he saw them
in the street, crossed over to the other side. He was
glad to see no one, madly fearing to be asked some
question about his wife. He turned several warm
friends into very cool acquaintances that day. '' That
fellow cut me," said one ; " he certainly did. He
saw me quite plainly and cut me." " I'll be hanged
if I speak to Crofton again ! He was deuced cool ! "
said another ; and so on, and so on.

It was a long day for Charlie. He roamed about
the streets, and went to shop after shop, but time
dragged terribly. He did not like to go to his club 
not even to dine there ; and he went and dined alone
at some place where he thought he would see no one
he knew. And he saw no one there. But on coming
out, by one of those unlucky accidents which seldom
occur in a vast town like London, he came, for the
second time that day, face to face with George. They
met under the full glare of a gas-lamp, and George was
arm-in-arm with a man whom Charlie knew. This
common friend stopped to speak to Charlie. For the
sake of the old friendship, and also, from the instinctive
dislike a true gentleman has of parading a
family quarrel before the world. Sir George raised his
hat ; but Charlie looked him full in the face and cut

him dead. It did not pain him then thus insultingly
to cut the friend of his boyhood and youth.

Charlie had telegraphed to his father that he would
go to his lodgings that night at eleven. His father
would think he had dined at home. He need not tell
him he had not. He would have to tell his father
everything soon, but he would not, he could not, on
their first meeting. He would make that meeting
short ; and that was one reason why he had named so
late an hour, for the afternoon train from Portsmouth
would bring the Admiral to town comparatively
early.

Admiral Crofton and his only son met with that
composure, that one grasp of the hand, that seeming
coolness of affection which so often accompanies deep
feeling in Englishmen.

There was silence between them at first.

It is seven years since we have seen each other,
Charlie. I was two years afloat before you left," said
the Admiral gravely, at last. " It has been a longtime,
Charlie ; and an anxious one. We heard no news
of you for months. But you are well, my boy, well ? "
And he looked anxiously at his son.

Yes, yes, father, quite well," said Charlie, hastily.

But that was a glorious march to Kandahar ' I am
glad you were there. I don't care for the anxiety
now. Roberts did the thing well. He did it
splendidly. He is a great man, Charlie  the greatest
man we have got  and I am glad you where with him.
It was an honour to serve under him. And you

are well, Charlie ? " he repeated anxiously again.
"Don't tell me you are well if you are not."

And Charlie assured his father once more that he
was  well. Then he was silent again. He found it
much harder to speak than he had deemed possible.

The Admiral was not satisfied ; but he looked away
from his son, as if courteous instinct had told him his
anxious gaze gave pain. " Nellie has been unkind and
cold to him. She has changed to him too," thought
the father, and for the first time he felt bitterly
towards her whom he had once loved as his own
daughter. Her changed manner to himself; her unmistakable
wish that he should leave the house to
which he had come home five years before from
America without a doubt of warm welcome ; her cold
neglect of him ; and, above all, her seeming jealousy
about the boy, and cruel conduct in keeping that child,
who was the delight of his life, away from him, had
grieved him much and made him very sad at heart:
yet there had been no bitterness, only sorrow, in his
disappointment and his pain. But now he felt bitterly
towards Nellie.

He had been greatly touched at sight of the son
who was far dearer to him than life : and it moved
him all too much to think Nellie had been cold to
him on his home-coming, after war and danger and
long years of absence  an absence which had felt
like weary loneliness to the Admiral, especially of late
years, since he had been on shore and found Nellie
changed.

Charlie saw gathering tears in his father's still
bright blue eyes. The kind eyes had not been tearful
of old. He thought this a sign of increased age in his
father, and it touched him. The Admiral seemed
nervously aware of the weakness himself, and when he
spoke again he affected a cheeriness of manner which
his voice at first belied. " I say, Charlie, you're
delighted with the little fellow, now aren't you ? Fine
boy, isn't he ? Eh ? eh ? And wonderfully intelligent ?
I declare, Charlie, I am not sure you were quite as
clever at six years old as he is, though you were a
wide-awake little chap, I can tell you. But this child's
questions are amazing. You will be surprised at that
boy, Charlie ; he is far beyond his years. There is
nothing he does not see and hear ! And still, with all
his cleverness, he is the very best child I ever knew.
Not that he hasn't a spirit of his own ! Why, Lord
bless my soul ! he is full of dash and go ! and the
very last day we met in the Park, what should he do
but come up behind me and squirt me all over with
water from the Serpentine. ' What are you up to now,
little rascal ? ' said I. ' I am a torpedo. Admiral,' said
he. He always calls me ' Admiral ' when he is playing
his pranks. ' I am a torpedo, Admiral,' said he ;
and you're just blown sky-high at sea, and that's why
you are wet ! ' Torpedo ! I was amazed ; good Lord !
wherever did he get that word ! But it is astounding
what that boy picks up ! and sky-high was not a bad
expression for him either. ' I am a torpedo. Admiral,
and you're just blown sky-high at sea, and that's why

you are wet ! ' And wet I was ! But what could I
do to the little rascal after that ? Still I keep a tight
hand over him, Charlie," added the grandfather quite
seriously,  " a remarkably tight hand, I can tell
you."

And a kind one, father," said his son, laying his
own hand on his father's,  " a very kind one too."
But Charlie did not smile.

The poor Admiral felt painfully touched. His son's
grave sad manner moved him as deeply as his affectionate
words. There was a great change in Charlie, as if
he were no longer a young man : he had an aged look of
weary sorrow. The Admiral could not speak quickly
again. It was his son spoke first. " I was grieved
not to find you in your own house, father. It is lonely
for you here," he said.

Bitter as were the Admiral's feelings towards Nellie,
he could be a chivalrous gentleman still.

Lonely, my boy ? Why, I am almost next door to
my club. I can do what I like, and I am as lively as a
cricket," he answered, with forced cheerfulness. " The
old fellow does not want a nurse yet, Charlie ; he has
spunk in him still. Never was more comfortable in
my life, my boy ! The people who keep this house are
quite kind to me, quite kind ! I am often surprised
at their kindness ! I can assure you I live like a
prince. And," he added, " you are not so very far off
in Pont Street, Charlie, so you will come and see me
every day. And ." he hesitated a little, " . you'll
sometimes brings the little fellow too."

It was wicked of her to keep the child from you ! "
cried Charlie, getting quickly up. He stood at his full
height, and turning very pale, repeated, " It was wicked
of her to keep him from you, father ! "

Don't speak like that, my boy," said the Admiral,
gravely, rising too. " You must not wrong Nellie. It
is natural that a mother should feel a little . a
little jealous of her one child's lave. The old man
had no right to come between her and her boy's whole
love."

Charlie put his hand on his father's shoulder, and
looked into his face, as if he would read the real truth
there.

The only thing that has a little hurt me, Charlie,"
the grandfather confessed, " is that Nellie says I am
too indulgent to the boy ; and I really keep a remarkably
tight hand over him,  just as tight a one as I
used to keep in old times over you, Charlie ; and you
know what an exceedingly tight one that was. Lord
bless my soul ! why I flogged you once ! You must
remember, Charlie," anxiously pleaded the simpleminded
man,  " you must remember that I flogged
you once ? "

But his son did not laugh, nor even smile a little, at
this  which, however, was just as well, for the Admiral
was seriously in earnest.

You shall see my son as often as you like," said
Charlie, with a kind of fierce determination. " The
boy will be safe with you  safer and better and happier
than with his own father."

His son's stern look alarmed the Admiral's kind and
courteous spirit. " You will be gentle to N'ellie, my
boy," he said, gravely and very kindly ; " you will be
gentle to her. I . I sometimes think she is ill."

111 ? not ill ! " said Charlie, bitterly. " But goodnight,
father ; good-night ! " And with one grasp of
the hand, just as they had met, the two men parted.

CHAPTER lY.

Charles Cotton walked slowly homewards. He
would not get to Pont Street till some time after midnight,
and his wife would surely have gone up-stairs
then. " For," he thought, " she will certainly wish to
avoid me as much as I do her. She must dread to
see me with the same horror that I dread to see her.
It was at horror of her own words she fainted. She
fainted dead, so they must have been horrible to her !
Dead ? . . . and if really I had found her dead ! . . ."
And he wished to God that she had died indeed before
their awful meeting, or that he himself had been killed
in Afghanistan, and so never had seen England again.
Then I should have died thinking of her as she was
when we parted long ago ! Not as she is now ! As
she was ! Oh, Nellie, as you once were 1 "

In the midst of his sore anguish, his shame and
rage, the old love for the Nellie of the days gone by 
the tender remembrance of the happy, sacred past 
was still, even still, so strong in his heart, that when
his fevered brain could think, it was not of how to
blacken her before the world he thought. He would

fain, if it were possible, protect her fair fame. Her
shame would feel to him like his own ; her disgrace
would sting him like his own ; so he wished for no
revenge. His sorrow would have felt to him less
maddening could he have eased it by the strong desire
for revenge  for vengeance can suck grief drv : its
thirst can drink all passion save its own from out of a
man's heart. But even the idea that he might be

o

forced to bring open dishonour on the woman who
now hated him, was terrible to Charlie, because of the
holy past.

He had no latch-key, so he rang at his own door.
The door was opened by Maria. Captain Crofton
would have passed her quickly, but she managed to
bar his way through the hall. She had something to
say which he must hear.

Beg pardon, sir ; but Mr Long is gone, sir."

And what of that ? " said Captain Crofton, very
shortly. His manner frightened the woman so much
that she rather lost her head.

I can't carry her up alone, sir. I've been waiting
for you, sir, for I'm not used to carry her alone. I'm
used to have Long help me, sir."

You are not used to carry . . . whom ? " asked
Captain Crofton.

Mrs Crofton, sir. Who else, sir ? I'm not used
to carry her up alone."

Does . . . does Mrs Crofton often faint like
this ? "

Well, sir . . ." The woman hesitated. " I mean

no ! no, sir ! no, sir ! only . . . only when she has got
the fit on her, sir."

Fit ? " cried Charlie ; " does Mrs Crofton now get
. . fits?"

"Faint/sir! faint! not fit, sir!" exclaimed Maria,
hastily.

I thought you said fit," replied he, brushing resolutely
past her.

Maria had said " fit," but she was frightened, so now
had said " faint." She followed Captain Crofton upstairs
to the drawing-room.

As he opened the door, he exclaimed, " Why, the
room reeks with sherry ! " He quickly shut the door
again, and faced Maria on the landing, and terrified
her by asking, " Who has been drinking sherry in that
room to-night ? "

Her confusion was so great she could not speak.

"Who has been drinking sherry in that room tonight
? " he repeated, with awful sternness. " Answer
me. I am determined to know. What visitors has
Mrs Crofton had this evening ? "

Vi . . . visitors ? Oh, no, sir ! no, no, sir ! ISTo
visitors, sir."

How dare you prevaricate to me in my own
house ? " said Captain Crofton, furiously. " Mrs
Crofton has had visitors this evening, and they
have been taking sherry. I know she has had
visitors, for she told me herself she never now took
wine."

Oh ! . . . oh Lor' ! sir," exclaimed Maria, thrown

off her guard by sudden, overpowering astonishment.
Lor' ! sir, but did she actually say that ? "

Captain Crofton started back and stared at Maria.
An awful suspicion, then a horrible certainty, had
come upon his mind.

Go down-stairs ; go down ! " he said to the maid.
Don't dare to follow me ! " And he turned and
went into the room.

Nellie lay upon the sofa. She did not hear his
step. The room was well lighted ; but she did not
see him, for her eyes, which had looked at him so
hatefully the night before, were shut. She breathed
heavily. He went close up to her, and he stood still
and looked at her. His whole soul was violently
moved with horror and hatred of her hideous sleep.
He loathed her ! He loathed this vile, degraded
woman ; for she was . he said the awful word to
himself  she was . . . drunk !

Nellie moved in her stupor and put out her hand.
It touched him. He struck it violently, and left a
large red mark on her wrist.

She groaned loudly, and mumbled something in a
thick choked voice, yet did not awake. But she raised
herself on the sofa. She had been much sunk down.
And the light of a lamp fell full upon her face  her
altered, horrid face ! All beauty gone from it ! The
swollen, inflamed features were blurred and soiled, by
what her outraged husband felt to be the lowest sort
of degradation in a woman.

VOL. in. D

That was not a face to touch a man's heart, lout one
to madden hin.

Charlie raised the clenched hand which had already
struck her . . . then suddenly, by the inspiration of
God, knew what was in his own mind, and knew it intime
! and drew back from her ; then farther, farther,
still farther back from her  and his hand fell down.

The thought had come to him to strike that vile
woman dead. He had thought to kill her in his
loathing rage.

He was taken with great fear of himself ; he terribly
dreaded even still to kill her. And though his
awful anger knew itself, he did not dare to go near
her, but kept away at the other side of the room.
There was a big chair just by where he stood, and he
put his hand on the back of it, and held tightly to it,
through an instinctive feeling that if he let go he
would surely know he had done so, and thus, if he
moved forward unawares, he would become conscious he
was walking towards that woman he so terribly feared
to kill  the woman whom he had already struck.

He remembered now he had J already struck her 
in the glare of the lamp, where her hand as well asher
face was lying, he could plainly see the red mark on
her wrist. That mark became a powerful reality to
him. And as he looked at it  looked steadily and
long  that vivid bruise which his own hand had
given, brought him back to himself.

And it has already come to this with me ? T have
struck her ! "

Again lie moved in her deep sleep, and in moving-spoke
; and though thick - tongued still, she spoke
more clearly than before  " ISTell, dear Nell ! " she
said. He listened ; she went on  " Long life ! long
life ! '' He walked a few steps forward listening, for
she was speaking still. " Long life, dear Nell ! " he
heard her say once more. And, sighing, she sank
speechless again into the deadly stupor.

Those were his own words, spoken when he met herat
her sister's grave : he remembered them well.

The very voice in which she said them now  so
changed, so horrible to his ear !  brought the past
back to him in awful contrast to the present hour,
and gave those words a tragic pathos which moved
him to the heart.

And he went a few steps nearer ; and as he went,
he thought, " She dreams of the old love there was
once between us. When she spoke about George,
perhaps . . . perhaps she did not know what she was
saying."

But when he came quite close to her, the hideous
sleep revolted him once more ; and again he stepped
back from her. But he no longer feared to kill her.

He stood and slowly marked the changes in her
well-remembered beauty. Oh, the pity of the fearful
change ! the overwhelming pity of her debased
state !

And as he gazed with awful sorrow, as if upon the
changed dead, pity stronger than loathing  pity, that
mighty power which can move us as if the very hand

of God had touched our inmost soul  carried him like
sudden passion towards his wife again.

Oh, Nellie ! Nellie ! fallen so low ! so vilely low ! "
he sobbed, and he fell down on his knees beside her,
and cried as a man cries when the strong heart within
him has broken quite. He had not wept since early
youth, and there is agony in a strong man's tears.

But she was as insensible to his agony as she was
to her own shame.

CHAPTER V.

An awful silence, like the silence which we feel at
dead of night, weighs upon half the misery there is
on earth. ISTo cry is heard. The anguish is not
spoken to the world. The tragedies that have knives
which kill, or voices which can speak aloud and claim
a little pity, are those of which men only take account.

It is often said that at the judgment day the
most terrible punishment of men will be to hear the
secrets of their own life on earth spoken for the first
time aloud. Yet there are men and women to whom
that trumpet-tone proclaiming their secret agony at
last, at last ! will feel like the bursting of iron bands
around the heart and mind, where the throbbing passion
of unspoken misery has for years and years been
bound.

What makes the drinking; woman's sin so terrible,
if she be a lady, and the man who once loved her bea
gentleman, is that the weight of his sorrow  and
there is no sorrow on this sad earth heavier that his 
will surely be borne by him in silence, far apart from
all human sympathy, because his wife's degradation

will be an unspeakable shame to him, an infamy his
lips can never name.

Charles Crofton conch not even speak to his own
father of what had happened on that awful night.
He tried to do so ; but he tried in vain.

There is no consolation anywhere for the husband
of a wife who is what poor ISTellie had become ; because,
if he tries to save her from the most dreadful
fate which can befall a woman, she will surely hate
him. She will hate him because he is so wondrously
ejood and kind, he tries to save her. For the love he
once bore her, he goes to the horrid trouble of trying
to save her. He stays with her and watches her all
day and night, though it is no pleasure, only pain and
grief and never-ceasing irritation, and awful disillusion,
and intensity of disgust, for him now to be with her.
He stoops to what he feels to be the revolting ignominy
of spying out her ways, and watching her as if
she were a common thief. And she hates him for
this with her whole soul. That whole soul is overmastered,
to the exclusion of every natural feeling, by
one hideous craving. It is as if she were insanely in
love with the devil, and her self-surrender is complete.
There is no surrender so abject as hers to her horrid
sin.

The mastery of that sin is absolute  more absolute
than if she were a man ; and so her sin is greater than
if she were a man. I know it makes one most unpopular
to uphold the old belief that there are sins
worse for a woman than a man, for many seem to

claim as chief amongst women's rights the right to be
wicked exactly like a wicked man. They tell yon that,
no matter what the consequences may be, the sin is
exactly the same in the sight of God. But how do
they know this ? How can they tell that to the eye
of God the sight of a woman destroyed in mind and
body, and lost in soul to every sense of duty, to every
holy thought or good desire or sacred love, is not one
of the most awful on earth ? If a man were as much
ruined in mind, body, and soul, and as incapable of all
real repentance as that woman is, he would doubtless
be as wicked before God. But it is a fact known to
every doctor that a woman who drinks at all becomes
far more rapidly a drunkard than a man ; and that once
a drunkard, there is no hope for her. Her brain, her
nerves, are weaker than a man's. You cannot save
her, when you still might save a man. The time to
repent which the devil gives the poor woman who
drinks is short indeed.

There is no tragedy on earth more awful than that
of the drinking woman ; and the acme of the tragedy
is this  that she will hate all who have pity on her !
Here is a terrible thing  to hate all those who through
loving mercy would fain save her  those who are so
good they still can find it in their heart to love her ;
and yet she is no longer a creature to love. She is
uncertain of temper, and no more pleasant to see.

But there is something more awful than nervous
and physical degeneration awaiting the woman who
drinks, and that is the horrid mind she will surely

have. Thoughts which, merely to dream of even, once
would have killed her with shame, will be the tyrants
of her mind, and will be spoken openly by her lips.

The ladies who run away from husband, home, and
children, and go mad in their imagination with an
unnatural sort of love, have in nine cases out of ten
learned to drink. For this terrible tragic vice is not
the unknown horror amongst the upper classes in
England which it should be. It is awful to say this,
but it is true. If a lady takes five or six glasses
of strong wine a-day she has learned to drink : and
though she may call her failing by some other name,
it is much the same thing if, instead of sherry, port, or
champagne, she takes chloral or any other drug or
stimulant.

The dead body does breed worms, and so does the
dead soul. The worms which breed in a woman's soul
which has been killed by drink are loathsome, for they
are vile thoughts, and have power to devour all that
was once refined and beautiful and holy there.

What I have ever pitied most in the poor, mad
people, is that they should so often have horrid
thoughts. But the madness of drink makes your
whole mind horrid ; or, truer still, makes many horrid
minds within you, and gives to each mind its horrid
thoughts, and to each thought its own imagination.
Every inflamed passion becomes, as it were, a separate
mind in your awful madness. Jealousy, which will
surely take the place of all holy love in you, will
breed a loathsome mind of its own ; and the terrible

thoughts that will take strong life in it will have
each one an imagination all-powerful, unceasingly and
lyingly to invent. The many horrid minds which
have sprung to life with passions that were dead
while you were sane, will make a very hell within
you. Those rude paintings of many forked flames, like
many fiery minds with maddening thoughts, burning
one soul in hell, are pictures of your real and living
doom.

Poor Nellie's tragically altered state was awful to
her husband. Her moral deadness pained and repelled
him beyond all words  her deadness, above all, to the
sense of truth. His own straightforward, chivalrously
truthful, honourable nature was infinitely shocked by
the lie she had deliberately told him that first night,
and by others which she told him afterwards ; and
yet poor Nellie had been truthful long ago !

But there was something more appalling to Charlie
in his wife's moral degradation even than her deadness
to truth, as if having gone deep in hell, a still deeper
abyss opened down below. This deeper hell was the
horrid mind she now had got. Any one she hated she
could have wicked thoughts about. She hated George,
because she thought he knew her sin ; and the passion
of hatred within her had bred its own dreadful mind
and odious thoughts vilely imaginative of evil.

There was no truth in her horrid insinuation to her
husband about George  no truth except that, having
accidentally met her in the street, and understood her
state, he had, with the help of Miss Smith, prevented

her from starting alone when she was not really . . .
sober. She had determined to travel alone, from the
mad desire to escape all restraint.

George had saved her from open disgrace. If a
man has once truly loved a woman, he will ever feel
as if he had the right to save her and hers from public
insult. And George had felt this, though the real
Nellie he had loved  still loved, I think  was dead
for him. She had died for him seven years before,
when he broke off what Clara called his engagement,
through horror at seeing her take too much champagne
when he went out with her to parties. He had never
quite got over the shock and sorrow of the first great
disillusion he had found in life ; and he was still unmarried.


George had left town a few days after Charlie had
so painfully insulted him. Charlie heard from the
Admiral that he was gone.

There is nothing in which people differ so much on
earth as in their feelings towards those whom they
have injured. As Clara never in her heart forgave
any person whom she had visibly deceived, so there
are many who intensely, and for all time, dislike
those whom they have deeply injured either by word
or deed. These are the happier people  they can kill
a friend, then hate him because he died, and so never
grieve for him at all. But there are others who will
be taken with a sort of sorrowful liking', a regretful
soft-heartiness, for the man or woman they have
wronged. Nothing is more painful at any time than

to be taken with love, or even with much pity, or with
any sort of kindness, for an enemy. People who tell you
with charming placidity that they love their enemies,
really hate them quite satisfactorily, or they would not
be so beautifully composed.

It was not a calm serenity of happiness to Charlie,
but an extremely irritating pain, to love in his heart
and not to hate the man he had insultingly injured
and made his enemy as he felt for life. Yet how-could
he tell him the truth if they two met again ?
How could his own lips ever speak aloud the truth
about Nellie ? Could he write to George, and put
down in black and white, past recall, how and why
he had been driven to doubt his honour ? Perhaps 
and Charlie clung to this hope with quite wrongheaded
tenacity  perhaps George did not know the
real, the awful truth about N'ellie.

When George acknowledged having prevented her
from starting that time for India, he had said she
was ill, and Charlie had been too fiercely angry himself
to notice George's awkward hesitation in saying so.

The more Charlie thought over this, the more-likely
it seemed to him George might really have considered
ISTellie ill, and only ill ; and Nellie now declared she
had been ill, very ill, at the time, although on that
first terrible night of her husband's return she had
angrily said she was not ill ; but did she know what
she was saying that night ? She had absolutely lied
in one matter, then why not in more than one ? It
was not possible to come to any distinct certainty by

questioning her. She had solemnly declared with
much weeping to Charlie that she had never said to
him what she really had said about George. And
yet it was impossible to be much with her and not
see her awful mind was in fact possessed with the idea
that George was wickedly in love with her.

At times Charlie disbelieved all she said, at others
he would believe a little, because of her own evident
belief ; but he never could believe for long. It was
fierce anger and shame to him to believe even a little,
and sorrow not to believe at all but to feel every prejudice
against George melt away. It is painful to be
quite unprejudiced towards any one you have wronged,
and to think of him only with regretful love. There
are some who, in Charlie's position, could have kept
on for ever a feeling of prejudice against the man
they had injured. But he had a mind too just and
honourable for this.

A straightforward nature abhors incessant mystery,
and is galled beyond expression by a false position.
Charlie now found himself in a painfully false position,
not only with George but with every friend he had.
Like the kind Admiral, he was a hospitable man. He
could not bear to meet an old friend and not ask him
to his house, but he dared to ask no one for fear . .
that fear haunted him.

He avoided everybody he knew, and was queer to
those he accidentally met. He even shrunk from
asking men to dine at his club, dreading they would
think it odd he did not ask them to his house. I

don't say Charlie was wise in all this  perhaps he was
foolish  for this naturally strong-minded young fellow
had become as sensitive as a woman. His whole
nature seemed rapidly to have altered. His temper
had changed, and he was a soured man.

I know many excellent persons  I think they are
selfish ones too  hold the very comfortable theory
that evil is in reality a disguised blessing in the world,
because it enables others to do good. This is like
saying that a terrible disease, causing great agony, is a
blessing, because it gives the doctors what is to them
an interesting, not unpleasing, operation to perform.

But there are two ways of doing and of being good.
One is quite agreeable, often very ornamental, and you
only do such virtuous acts as are not really painful ;
but the other way of being good is very different. It
lies in doing those things which are an anguish to the
heart and it may be to the mind, a cruel kill-joy, a
perpetual anxious pain, an obscure, ignoble worry.
There is no beauty, no romance, no fair illusion, only
ugly pain and sorrow in that kind of goodness. It
is intensely disagreeable to be really good.

Those who speak lightly of being really good and
quite sweetly of complete self-sacrifice, as if it were a
very pretty easy sort of pastime in which there could
be neither irritation nor pain, are the people who sacrifice,
with admirable Christian cheerfulness, the lives
of others. Duty is never unpleasant to them.

But real self-sacrifice, the silent giving up of all a
man or woman cares for in life, will ever feel to him

or her as if it were a tragedy. And what makes it
one is this  the man or woman for whom join lay
down the joy, the satisfaction, and every dear delight
of life, will never, never thank you. " Greater love
hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life
for his friends." And why ? Because, as He who
said these words felt with anguish in His own soul,
there is no gratitude in those for whom you die and
give your life to save.

Poor Charlie was but human. Therefore it was only
natural he should have been embittered by keen suffering
when he made up his mind that it was his
duty to give up the profession he was passionately
attached to, the brilliant career there seemed to be
before him, so that he might be the hated keeper
of an irritable, unworthy, selfish woman, whom it
was impossible for him any longer to love. Poor
Nellie had become profoundly selfish. There is no
selfishness greater than that of the man or woman
who drinks.

But what soured poor Charlie to the very heart
was the grievous discovery that his wife's hatred was
fiercely increased when she realised he meant to give
up his whole life, and all he most cared for in the
world, so that he mio-ht save her from a terrible
fate.

I do not say that Charlie ought to have been
soured by troubles which he felt with an intensity
and an agony of disillusion only possible to a man
of very deep feeling, because I suppose a perfect saint

ought never to be soured by anything. But he was
not a saint from heaven  he was only an ordinary man ;
yet one who, unlike many ordinary, quite amiable
men, was sacrificing his whole life in trvino: to do his
duty, and to be really good. And I say again, it is
intensely disagreeable to be really good. The intensely
disagreeable is apt to irritate a man's temper.

At best, the increasing hatred Charlie felt in his
wife was a bitter, gloomy grief to him ; at worst, it
was an almost savage irritation. And Nellie, whose
whole fault it was that her husband's life had become
a maddening misery to him, could not now brook the
slightest ill-temper on his part without a hysterical
outburst of temper on hers.

At times there would be very painful scenes between
this husband and this wife, who once were so
tenderly loving.

She would seem to foret them afterwards. Her
memory was no longer good. But he would remember
them with soreness and grief ; and a kind of remorse,
which tried to make excuses for her, would take
hold of him then. But what excuse was there really
for her ? Here is a curious thing : it is not the
people who have most excuse who take as a rule
to evil ways. Quite half the sin in the world comes
merely because weak people weakly slip into some
easy habit of self-indulgence not in the least disgusting
at first. Without ever o-oino- to the trouble of
thinking  for to think is a hard effort  the idle,
pleasure - loving woman can just slip down gently,

quite agreeably, into the sin which comes most easily
to her.

All that weakness ever wants is the easy opportunity
to be weak.

This unpoetic, quite unromantic, undramatic fact, is
the real explanation of much that would otherwise be
inexplicable. Poor Nellie had had for many years the
very easy opportunity to be weak.

The impossibility of finding sufficient excuse for
his wife's fall to so low a depth of degradation added
to Charlie's galling grief and irritation. If once you
have really loved a person, it is heart-breaking not to
be able to find some kind of food excuse for that
person's worst sins ; and it takes the last, last illusion
of the old love quite absolutely away. The tragedy
in which there can be no illusion is the worst. And
life felt a very terrible tragedy to poor Charlie then.

That is an awful time when we do believe and feel
with all our heart, that life is indeed a tragedy. And
that time comes to most of us  to all but the happy
few. Then it is we discover there is a power to feel
and suffer within us which is infinite. Whatever else
is finite in us, that is infinite.

It is that infinite power of feeling in the poor
human heart which makes me believe in the easy
possibility of hell. The fashion is now not to believe
in hell ; to have no faith in a worm, a grief, a disillusion,
which cannot die. But unless it be quite
true that the heart and soul shall lie dead in the grave
with the dead body, heU need only be to many and

many a one desolation and misery like their present
misery of heart and pain of mind, begun anew beyond
the grave, far away from the love of God, and
without the hope of death. We are apt to forget how
much is made bearable here by the hope, or rather
by the certainty, of death  for that is the one certainty
on earth  so those can believe in it who have
lost, with awful disillusion, all confidence in earthly
hope. A change like that of life to death will, by
the very greatness of the change, ever feel to the imagination
of man like a possible deliverance from
present woe. The desolate pain and grief, and the
disillusion of hell, need only be quite changeless, and
the certainty of death no more. But the same heart
and mind within us now, unaltered, have the power
to feel an intensity of sorrow, desolation, pain, and
disillusion, than which there need be no greater in the
changeless hell.

VOL. in.

CHAPTER VI.

Even Charlie's great love for his father had turned
into a sort of pain, and a pain in which, as in all else
now, there was shame for the poor fellow. Xo man
was ever less fitted to bear shame than he. Yet his
life's tragedy was full of shame. Like a wound that
bleeds a man to death, it bled with shame.

Not only had his wife ceased to be kind in feeling
and in conduct to the Admiral, but Charlie also
found that during all the years his father had been
on shore he had had nothing except his half-pay to
live upon, and not even really that, because though
Nellie had the house in Pont Street, and the clear
thousand a-year Sir Cuthbert had left to the Admiral
all for her own use and spending, her affairs were
in such confusion that the Admiral had had oftener
than once to lend her money, which Charlie discovered
had never been repaid. Poor Charlie was
very much ashamed of this. He also discovered, by
a mere accident, that his father was in actual difficulties,
and living very abstemiously with the greatest
self-denial. It was the Admiral's excessive desire to

hide all this from his son which betrayed the truth.
We know the dear Admiral was not clever at deep
deception ! The kind man had a delicacy about money
matters which amounted to a sort of shyness, for he
was the most generous of meno



It was perfectly impossible to make out how Nellie
had spent so much, for she did not appear to have gone
anywhere or done anything. She did not in the least
know herself what had become of her money. Parts
of her mind, like her income, seemed to have melted
away.

Wet or dry, Captain Crofton went to see his father
every day. But he did not often take the child with
him, because Nellie could not bear the boy to be with
his grandfather. A fear of what the child might say
of her, and a sort of jealousy of him, had become a
mania with her, and Charlie, much against his will, was
forced to think it happier for his little son that this
passion should not be excited over-much, for Nellie
would even be cjueer to her own child. He himself
had to be very careful too. She could not endure to
see him and the boy together ; and this worried and
grieved Charlie very much. Though his wife no
longer seemed to love him, but only to fear and hate
him, she was jealous of his loving any one else.

So Charlie and his father were oftener to be seen
walking without the boy, in solitary places, alone
together ; and usually they were silent. There is a
love which does not need to speak. It can live in
silent feeling between two people, and to the one it

will seem as if the thought in his own mind were the
abiding thought in the mind of the other. But yet in
this, as in all fair illusions, there can be deception.
And though it is true both the heart of the young man
and the old were heavy with sorrow because of one
woman, there yet was a great misunderstanding between
them.

The son, seeing his father had lost the buoyant
spirits he had had of old, and finding that no matter
how often or how long they two would be together,
the Admiral never of his own accord would mention
Nellie, not unnaturally took it for granted he knew
the awful truth, and that like himself he was unable
to speak of it. Men do not always think it necessary
to speak of everything like most women ; and there
was no pressing necessity for going into painful
details. Charlie knew how unutterably shameful, how
horrible, Nellie's degradation would be to a man like
his father ; so he told himself he only understood too
well his silence. Like that pall of silence some wrap
around their dead, it was as if Nellie were dead to the
kind man who had once loved her as his own daughter.

But Charlie Crofton was quite wrong. The Admiral
did not know the truth.

Charlie's false impression was turned into what
seemed a certainty by Nellie herself. She was
always saying little things to her husband, which
showed she was sure his father knew the truth ; for
she thought the Admiral did know it. That was why
she hated him. But the horrid idea had never even

crossed his mind. He had seen very little of Nellie
for many years. But I think he might have seen
much and yet been blind. The imagination of so
appalling a degradation in any one who belonged to
him, nay, in any lady, would have been impossible
to him. The symptoms he would have recognised
in an ordinary seaman on board ship, he could not
have understood in Nellie.

The reason she thought he understood what he did
not, was that during those few short months he had
lived in Pont Street dien first he came ashore, he had
said to her more than once, quite unsuspectingly,
Now, T do beg you will leave off old Doseman's port
wine and every one of his nostrums, and just take those
quinine pills of mine instead. You would find yourself
a different creature in no time." Whilst afloat,
the Admiral had been dosing his whole ship's company
to his heart's content, and he had no one to dose but
himself on shore ! But with the sensitive preoccupation
about her own failing which is one of the well-known
peculiarities of all people who are as she had
become, Nellie had been sure the Admiral knew her
secret, and had never forgiven him. And though she
forgot nearly everything at times, she had not forgotten
one of his remarks.

Like most very warm-hearted people, the Admiral
had feelings that were delicately sensitive to the want
of affection in those he loved. Nellie had wounded
him profoundly. Yet he had borne her seeming dislike
and cold neglect, and, hardest of all, her conduct

about the child, with dignity and much kindness.
But when his dear son came home, and he saw with
pain unspeakable how sorrowful and changed he was
how miserable he seemed with his wife, and how
heart-broken altogether was his grievous sadness  he
was filled with a bitter indignation against his daughter-in-law
you would have thought impossible in a man
of so kindly a nature. Yet he delicately kept silence,
because he feared in speaking to make matters worse
between the husband and wife. But he grieved for
his son's grief till all his own blithe spirits left him, as
they had never quite done before.

Charlie noticed the great change in his father, and
was much touched by it. He could not bear to give
him further pain, and therefore shrank in quite a
cowardly way from telling him he had made up his
mind to leave the army. He knew this would bea
hard, a cruel blow  for the one unclouded joy which
still remained to the Admiral seemed to be that his
son was getting on well in his profession, and had
been made a captain young. He was constantly saying,
" Lord bless my soul ! Charlie, I do believe you
are the youngest captain in the army 1 "

As Captain Crofton had got a year's leave, there was
no necessity for him to send in his resignation immediately.
Had he done so, he must have told his real
reasons to his father, and there would have been a
clear explanation between them : the silence about
Nellie would have been broken then.

During the long years of Charlie's absence in India,
there was one person who could have made the very
easy opportunity poor Nellie had to be weak, a difficult
one: and that person was Clara; for she had unbounded
power over her daughter. She was aware of Eleanour's
fatal tendency, and well knew it was her nature to
yield to temptation, and never to resist it. If Clara
did not know with what awful rapidity the terrible
disease had grown upon her unhappy daughter, and
did not know it had taken a hold upon her like the
grip of madness, that was because she was so entirely
engrossed by her own affairs. She never troubled
her head to inquire about Eleanour. Why should she
bother ? There was that ridiculously devoted Miss
Smith, who, through romantic love of Eleanour, had
come to live with her, and had actually made herself a
sort of servant and care-taker in her house. And then
there was the Admiral. " He will think it his duty to
be looking after her from morning till night. And it
really is his duty. He has nothing else to do." Clara
understood what was the Admiral's duty, and she paid

him the compliment  I think it was one  of taking
it for granted he would certainly do it, no matter how
thankless or how painful it might be. And so with
quite a light heart Lady Eastcourt would pleasantly
turn away her thoughts from Eleanour, and would
really and truly forget her.

It is easy to forget what has not troubled our imagination
or deeply touched our heart. Yet it was
strange that Clara could have kept the imagination
she certainly had in her powerful mind from realising,
even against her will, the pain and sorrow a kind
man like the Admiral would surely feel if he knew
the truth about Nellie, and gave up his life to save
her from ruin. And knowing as she did the great
love Charlie Crofton had for his wife, it was strange
too that the thought of what his home-coming might
be did not seize upon her mind and touch her unawares.
But it did not ! So she had no pity for poor Charlie
she had none ! She forgot him just as she forgot
Eleanour and her defenceless young child.

The truth is, Clara, Metternich, and the third person
were so completely and agreeably occupied, that
they never had a moment to spare.

While Lady Eastcourt was still in weeds for " poor
dear Thomas," she had settled that Eockhurst's college
friend. Lord Presteign, was to marry Sylvia, and she
had made Eockhurst ask him a great many times to
Eastcourt.

Though Lord Presteign and Sylvia had been much
thrown together by a series of accidents it is unnec-

POOR NELLIE. 73

essay to detail, and though Clara had repeatedly
warned Sylvia against allowing herself to become too
fond of him, his lordship did not propose, so Clara
made up her mind he must be attached to some other
young lady. She accordingly gave out everywhere that
he was in love with her daughter.

Now Lord Presteign was attached  very much attached
 to another young lady, but his father had put
difficulties in his way. Metternich soon discovered who
the young lady was, and felt quite pleased to find the
girl was her own cousin  her cousin Tom Eockhurst's
daughter. It is generally easy enough for a lady like
Clara to manage her own relations, and she was one of
those mothers who feel no compunction whatever in
sacrificing the happiness or ruining the life of a cousin
or a niece. It is a curious and painful fact that there
are relations who will do to you, without the slightest
remorse, far more cruel things than they would ever
do to a stranger ; and yet you have trusted them more
than other people, and have believed in their kindness
and honour.

Clara was particularly glad Janie Eockhurst was not
her elder cousin, Lord Eockhurst's daughter, for Lady
Eockhurst was a complete woman of the world, and
she had to be very careful in her dealings with her ;
whereas Tom and his wife were blindly unworldly
people  just the sort of people she really liked ! So it
was quite easy for her to be affectionate to them again.
She had seen very little of them of late years, but lie
soon saw a good deal, and in next to no time there

was a very pretty friendship between dear little Janie
and dear Sylvia, and dear little Janie was most kindly
invited to Eastcourt. She stayed there a fortnight.
The day before she was leaving, Clara said to her
daughter, " Now, my dear Sylvia, you know how
very, very particular I am about your girl friends,
and with how very, very few girls I like you to be
intimate; but I do think dear little Janie is really,
recdly nice, and you may be quite, quite unreserved
with her. You may . . . now, my dear Sylvia, you may
. . yes ! you may even tell Janie who gave you that
pretty silver-mounted riding whip ; and . and you
may ask her to be your bridesmaid when Lord Pres-reign
comes back from his little trip to America."

Sylvia blushed with conscious joy, but she said,
You know, mamma, he only gave me the riding-whip
because he lost my own, and you had seemed so put
out at his losing mine, as poor papa had given it tome.
That was why he got one made just like it in
Slumby. But I don't think he meant anything, not
anything really, mamma, when he gave me the whip."

Oh, Sylvia ! Sylvia ! Sylvia ! " cried Clara, in her
most playful manner. " Now, run away, and don't be
silly ! You know quite, quite well in your own heart
that Lord Presteign is deeply in love with you, and
you must just make up your mind to accept him
when he comes back from America. I have good
reason to believe his father will not object to his marrying
then." Sylvia did run away.

Clara called her back. " But mind, Sylvia, if you

do ask Janie to be your bridesmaid, whatever you do
tell her must be told in the strictest confidence. It
must be a dead secret between you and her, and she
must promise on her honour not to tell a human being
not even her own mother. Now, mind you make
her promise first."

Sylvia did not know Lord Presteign had ever paid
poor Janie attention. Clara had omitted to mention
that fact. So Janie was told the " dead secret." Now
Janie was a very shy girl, with an extremely low
opinion of herself and her attractions, and she instantly
believed, with shame and pain unspeakable, that she
had been horribly mistaken. It seemed so natural
to her that the brilliant Sylvia should be preferred
before her.

Janie went home, and shortly afterwards accepted a
Captain Grahame, who proposed to her quite unexpectedly
at a ball. Captain Grahame was under
orders for Malta, and she was married quickly, before
Lord Presteign's return from America. Lord Pres-reign
heard of her engagement and marriage at the
same time. There was an unexpected delay in the
Grahame' departure for Malta, and by a remarkably
unlucky accident Lord Presteign and Janie met,
whereupon there was an explanation between them
which proved fatal to Lady Eastcourt's little arrangements.


I think Metternich was to be pitied in this, for tactics
like hers are nearly always successful,  I hardly
ever knew them fail.

But Clara is clever enough to stick to a sound
principle even in the hour of defeat, and so she
continues in steadfast belief that there are few better
ways of keeping two people apart than by telling the
young lady in strictest confidence that the gentleman
is in love with another girl.

It is a thousand to one the unlucky accident which
undid all hope of a match between Lord Presteign and
Miss Sylvia will ever happen again, for Metternich has
managed all subsequent little manoeuvres of the kind
with such consummate art that no single one of the
reports really set by herself about her daughter or her
son, or about other people's sons or daughters, has
ever been brought home to Lady Eastcourt. Those
ladies who dislike and distrust her feel sure she has
deceived them, but can't in the least prove it  they
would dislike her less if they could.

The number of the little reports I have alluded to
was remarkable ; but what really was more remarkable
still, was that each one of them had some small particle
of truth in it, just as it was quite true Lord
Presteign had given Sylvia a silver-mounted riding-whip.
It was also true that the handsome, dashing
Sylvia had a good many admirers, although the actual
admirers were not always the people who were
reported to be in love.

Many will wonder, and naturally enough, how on
earth a girl like Sylvia, with every advantage of
beauty and position, going about perpetually and
always with matrimonial intentions, had not just

been simply and easily married. But those quite
simple easy matches are not always the best, and
but rarely give scope for the exercise of matrimonial
genius. The love of the mother's fine art had
grown upon Lady Eastcourt to such a degree, that I
greatly doubt if she would have cared for Sylvia to
marry any one under a marquess, unless the accident
were of her own arranging. The imagination of
Clara's mind had expanded, too, of late, and her ambition
had risen high  far, far above baronets ! Notwithstanding
his large fortune, Sir George Crofton
would only have been kept in the reserves for Miss
Sylvia.

The Earl of Presteign was the Marquess of Lake-lands'
son and heir, and Lady Eastcourt had settled on
him quite from the beginning of Sylvia's career of
eligible flirtation. He was the first person she had
put into her daughter's head, and the only one for
certainly two years and a half ; and had it not been
for that unlucky meeting between his lordship and
dear little Janie, I think the match would have taken
place, for Lord Presteign was not a bit in love with
the lady whom he married in pique, and of whose
attractions Clara now speaks so prettily. Lady East-court
invariably makes it a point to talk very, very
nicely to the world of the people she dislikes. She
praises Lord Presteign in a way that would surprise
you, and it is amazing to hear her speak of Lady
Barchester !

Though Sylvia had not 1)een exactly in love with

Lord Presteign, she had been the very next thing toit,
 perhaps as nearly in love as it was in her nature
ever to be, for she was her mother's own child, though
I think just a little more soft-hearted to begin with
than Clara ever had been. So when Lord Presteign's
engagement was announced, Lady Eastcourt was taken
aback to find her daughter was not instantly willing to
accept the very eligible paiti she had ready for her in
the front rank of her first line of reserves. Clara was
extremely angry with Sylvia for refusing the Honourable
Augustus Melton-Mowbray ; but not for long !
In an incredibly short time her anger turned into
exceeding joy, for she had perceived a matrimonial
possibility which excited her beyond measure, and the
very thought of which felt to her like triumph, and
triumph over the one person on earth over whom it
would be the most delightful for her to triumph  her
dear Lady Barchester !

Lord Marleigh, the Harchesters' eldest son, unexpectedly
became a widower. Clara immediately settled
he was to marry Sylvia ; and she passionately desired
to make up this match. Passion may seem a word
unsuited to Clara's cold nature, yet her character has
been but little understood if it is hard for any one to
believe that the idea of victory over a dear friend
towards whom for years she had secretly felt like an
enemy, had not passion in it of its own kind for Clara.

A widower whose wife hardly seems quite buried
yet, is not an attractive idea to a young girl. But
Metternich behaved with admirable tact. First of all

she let Sylvia, who was a born flirt, get thoroughly well
bored at Eastcourt. She kept her there for four months
without a single admirer of any kind or description,
and it so happened that she had an excellent excuse for
doing this, because " poor dear Kate Crofton " had died
within a week of Lady Marleigh. It would have been
impossible for that quite unnecessary person Thomas's
sister to have died more opportunely !

Sylvia was really grieved at Aunt Kate's death, for
Kate had always been kind and loving to her brother's
children. But Clara was not sorry at all. She strongly
suspected Kate had guessed that Eleanour's mother
knew her daughter to be in love with Charlie Crofton at
the very moment she was persuading George the girl
was " fond, very fond " of him. This was a second unpardonable
offence on Kate's part. And there was yet
another Clara was ever fearing she would commit 
she was afraid Kate would discover the real truth
about Eleanour, although she had made George promise,
on the memorable night when he broke off his engagement,
that he would not tell his stepmother why he
had done so. If Kate ever discovered the truth, Clara
thought she would bother her very much about
Eleanour ; and she wished to forget her daughter.

There is much in Clara's cold nature which repels
me, but nothing I hate in her like her power of being
a pleased grave digger. She was a pleased gravedigger
to poor Sir Cuthbert Crofton ; and when kind old
Blindfold caught a fatal chill from wearing her low
body in mid-winter, she was her pleased gravedigger

too, because the Dowager had seemed to disbelieve
a little in that perfect sincerity of character in which
Clara disbelieves her own self. The pleased grave-digger
is coldly horrible to me, and repels me from
Clara with awe.

But that power to be unmoved by the sad dying and
suffering, or by the sins and sorrows of others, is the
secret of perpetual youth  for people grow old with
grieving more quickly than with years. No wonder
Lady Eastcourt was one of the very youngest looking
women ever seen for her age I no wonder her spirits
were delightfully good ! This charm of seeming youth,
and these wonderful spirits, are some of the many
attractions which make Clara so popular in the gay
world, for Lady Eastcourt is now a great social
success.

Once more I deeply regret I have not space to do
justice to Clara. Her social career, like her progress
towards the peerage, deserves to be given at length ;
and there was the same political genius in both of
them.

Genius can stoop to the little as well as soar to the
great, and in none of her fine arts, progresses, or careers
did Clara neglect those smaller details so often foolishly
disdained by inferior minds. There was one small
matter, so small half the smart people would entirely
ignore it, which nevertheless contributed to Lady
Eastcourt 's social success  she had extremely good
manners, and she invariably acted as if you might be
somebody, till she was quite sure you were nobody.

She also had the power of instinctively feeling her
atmosphere. Xo two houses, even in the same set, ever
have quite the same one. This fine instinct of atmosphere
is essential to social success, and Clara had it
to a most remarkable degree. Indeed, her instinctive
tact was altogether remarkable. There was nothing
in which she showed it more clearly than in the admirable
management of her matrimonial reserves.
These reserves are one of the most important later developments
of her mother's fine art. There are several
young men of fortune in them, and they are all beautifully
under her own control. Two have already
actually proposed for Sylvia. One, Clara knows,
would propose any moment she might wish : and another
is being encouraged to fall imperceptibly in love.
There are three more, it is true ; but they are so much
under age that Metternich is really only nursing them
for the younger girls. There is a gap between Sylvia
and those younger girls  Tom, and two other boys who
died of measles in infancy, having come into the world
between them. But the eldest of the younger girls is
rapidly approaching sixteen.

The quite eligible parti who proposed for Sylvia on
Lord Presteign's marriage had proposed once before ;
and he will step forward from the reserves and propose
again if Clara thinks proper. She has consoled
him the second time as she consoled him the first, by
making him feel sweetly and tenderly that Sylvia does
not yet know her own mind, but that her mother
knows it for her.

VOL. II L F

These proposals are useful to Lady Eastcourt. Lord
Marleigh will very soon hear from some perfectly independent
source that Miss Sylvia ISewsham is refusing
everybody for him. And there is good reason to
believe he will then understand his own feelings, and
immediately propose. He is at last really forgetting
his first wife, for he has just begun to fall in love with
Sylvia; and she would now accept him. She has
made up her mind to do so ; although, often as Clara
has warned her against letting herself become too
much attached to him. Sylvia has never been able to
fall in love with him. I don't know why. But she
will marry him all the same, for she likes his fortune
and title. Nothing develops natural hereditary worldliness
so much as the sort of disappointment Sylvia
had had. It hardened her, for she never knew the
truth about Janie. And as Lord Preston had mary



red a lady of higher rank than her own and five times
her fortune, she thought he lead done so only from
worldly motives. So she is now flirting with Lord
Marleigh, to the full and complete satisfaction of
Clara.

Lady Eastcourt feels as if the game were at last in
her own hands, especially as Lord Barchester is not in
the least against the match. In fact. Lady Barchester
has accused him of encouraging it. In this she is a
little unfair, for his lordship has never encouraged
anything or anybody ; it really is he himself who has
quite imperceptibly been encouraged by Clara.

The Eastcourt and Barchester estates adjoin ; so

there are constantly little matters about which Lady
Eastcourt is obliged to consult Lord Barchester,  for,
as she says herself, now that poor dear Thomas is
dead, she really has no one to help her. And Clara
has much business to transact. When Lord Eastcourt
died, Lady Eastcourt found herself mistress not only of
Eastcourt, and of the house she had just made Thomas
take in town, and of her own jointure, but also of the
whole fortune and estates, which everybody had expected
would be entailed upon the title, and which, in
fact, some people thought they had heard Lady East-court
herself say were settled on the peerage.

Thomas had left a very nicely worded will. The
will was just as nicely worded in its own way as was
the Bishop's dedication to Elizabeth of the six volumes
about St Paul. It expressed the unbounded trust and
confidence Thomas had in his wife, and left everything
absolutely in her power.

Clara does not intend to be mean to her eldest son.
Just at first she even thought she would be very generous
to him, and would give him up Eastcourt and
half the fortune. But she lias not done so yet.

In speaking of Lady Eastcourt's social popularity, I
think I ought to have mentioned the brilliant position
in which Thomas's will has placed her, for the large
fortune she absolutely commands enables her to entertain
the right sort of people really well.

Life is indeed full of varied interest to Clara, and
she has Kockhurst perpetually on the tccpis as well as
Sylvia. It is true she has secretly settled her eldest

son is to many an American heiress with whom she
has become very intimate. The young lady had
steamed over from America with the avowed intention
of marrying an English lord. Eockhurst does not
much care for American ladies ; he is a shy young
man, and they frighten him. But he is certain to do
what his mother wishes, for her influence over him is
unbounded, and he has never disobeyed her in his
life. He has always been Clara's favourite child, and
she likes him even a little bit better than Sylvia.
She has shown more affection to him than to any one
else in the world, and he is really fond of her, though
afraid of her still. Eockhurst is not absent in mind,
but he is yet very like Thomas in nature, and he believes
implicitly in his mother, just as his father did
before him. And Clara is so clever that he obeys her
without knowing it.

As yet no one is aware his charming mother means
young Lord Eastcourt to marry this American heiress.
Indeed, it is a fact that Lady Barchester is actually
persuaded Lord Eastcourt is falling in love with her
third daughter. Lady Cornelia.

But there are several mothers besides Lady Har-chester
who are quite sure Eockhurst means to marry
their daughter. This widespread illusion is entirely
owins to the genius of Clara. Eockhurst and his title
and his prospects are so matrimonially invaluable to
Metternich, that she won't even let her son marry that
heiress in a hurry, for it is principally by means of
Lord Eastcourt that she manages the mothers of such

young men in her reserves who have not the inestimable
privilege of being orphans. The way Clara
can play off Eockhurst upon mothers who would be
glad if their daughter married Lady Eastcourt's eldest
son, but who don't want their son to marry Lady
Eastcourt's daughter, is admirable, and quite beyond
the conception of ordinary dull-brained people. The
management of Eockhurst is a fine art in itself.

It was solely through Eockhurst that Clara, for the
first time in her life, found herself more than a match
for the Countess of Barchester.

Lady Barchester strongly suspects that Lady East-court
is bent on catching Lord Marleigh, and she hates
the idea of Clara becoming managing mother-in-law to
her eldest son. And yet . . . and yet that does not
prevent her from desiring Lord Eastcourt should
marry her daughter Cornelia !

But whatever Lady Barchester doest she does honourably,
openly, so she is no match for Metternich.
There are times when she keenly feels this herself,
and the feeling makes her irritable, and then she says
satirical things of Clara, though Clara continues invariably
to speak most charmingly of her.

When Lady Barchester feels particularly angry
with Clara, the person of all others who annoys her
most is the Dean of Petersclose. Not very long ago,
he was praising, in her presence, the Christian simplicity
of Lady Eastcourt's character ; and he went
so far as to say, with a sigh,  as if he really thought
Lady Eastcourt too good to live much longer in this

wicked world,  " Of such, Lady Barchester, is the
kingdom of heaven ! "

The kingdom of heaven ? " her ladyship exclaimed;
heaven ? Why, my dear Dean, that is of all places
the least suited to Lady Eastcourt, for Scripture expressly
tells us that in heaven there will be neither
marrying nor giving in marriage, and Lady Eastcourt
will certainly never remain anywhere she cannot be
matchmaking for all eternity."

Charlie's first three months at home were to him
like three long years, for sorrow has weights of lead
which can make each minute in a day seem long.
He never grew even a little accustomed to the awful
tragedy of his wife's changed state, or became less
sensitive to the pain and grief and stinging shame of
it, but seemed each day to feel it more and more.
As weeks had dragged slowly on, he had realised
Nellie's fear and hatred of him with an intensity and
a vividness and a crudeness of disillusion which
frightened him. Yes ! frightened him, strong resolute
man as he was ; for these feelings would beget an
intemperance of sorrow and a passion within him
to which his self-possessed nature was a stranger.
Passionate people rarely fear themselves, but it can
be terrible to a man accustomed to complete command
of himself to feel he is losing his own power
of self-mastery. Charlie did feel this at times; and
he would be afraid of himself then, as he had been
on that horrible night when he first understood the
awful truth, and dreaded he might kill his wife.

And yet, on that night of supreme agony, Nellie
had not hated him as she had done since. Even in
her awful sleep, she had remembered the love which
had been once between them, and she had repeated
his own words, spoken seven years before, as if they
could touch her still.

But from that night, for three long weary months,
never had she once shown a single tender memory of
the past  of the past which was holy to poor Charlie.
It was as if she had forgotten they two had ever
been glad and happy in this world together.

But when at length  at lonsj, loner leno-th  those
three quite endless months, which were like years, had
passed away  as weary life itself must pass at last 
there was a change in Nellie ; she began to remember
a little  then remembered a great deal.

She became a little kind to Charlie ; then kinder
still ; and then much of the old love seemed to come
back into her heart again. But had it come as so
much in this sad world will come  too late ?

The joy which might have thrilled us with a great
delight will come when we are dead alike to sorrow
and to joy ; love when we can no more be touched
by it ; riches when there is no use for money in the
grave ; and even fame, of which men speak as if it
were real happiness, what is it to most of those to
whom it comes after long years of passionate unrest
and lonely struggle ? and the struggle may have
been terrible in its loneliness. Fame is too often the
ghost which stands upon a man's tombstone. And

what does the dead man care for his ghost ? The
heart, to which a little human sympathy would have
been a rapturous joy, has ceased to beat. Too late !
too late I that is the passing-bell which sounds so often
on this earth.

Had Nellie's love awakened now too late ? Could
her horrible dislike, her unnatural unkindness, ever be
forgiven ?

Certainly not at first  that is, quite at first  but
soon, curiously soon, Charlie did begin a little to forgive.
Changed as his wife still might be, it did move
him to feel the Nellie of the bygone days was not
quite, quite dead ; and as he had never been able to
grow hardly callous to her cruel hatred, so now he
could not long remain quite untouched by her returning
love. Besides, when he saw her coming back
day by day very much to her own self, he thought
that she had given up her evil habits for ever and forever
; that her repentance was complete, and that his
prayers had been heard, his hateful watchfulness rewarded,
and that she was now saved from her terrible
sin. There was joy and hope in this conviction  the
first hope and joy he had had since that night of unspeakable
horror. And the life which he saw before
him seemed less dreadful. It is only those who have
looked forward with cold horror to the years before
them who can understand how terrible is the power of
the future upon the present hour.

Charlie's growing forgiveness was not reproachful ;
it was nobly silent ; it was kind.

And Nellie bad become kind again to the Admiral.
Sbe asked bim several times to ber bouse of ber own
accord, and allowed bim to be more with the boy than
be had ever been before.

Tbe Admiral bad gone four times to the Serpentine
with little Charlie, and three of these times be and the
small miracle of sense and cleverness were alone. It
was delightful to the kind man to be quite alone with
the child, because then they could both do exactly as
they liked. Tbe child's behaviour on these occasions
filled the grandfather with naive admiration, and be
would say afterwards to bis son, with unfeigned surprise,
Do you know, Charlie, I really don't think you were
quite as sensible and obedient at bis age as that boy
is. I never saw a child of six like bim. He is never
naughty  certainly never with me. Perhaps it is the
feeling that I would be down upon him in an instant
which keeps him in such order. He knows what a
tight hand I keep over him, for children do feel that
sort of thing  they are just like a ship's company, dio
know right well when they are sailing with a strict
disciplinarian."

Nellie's reviving kindness towards bis father
softened Charlie very much. And as to the Admiral
himself, his kind heart began to soften too, when be
saw his son was a little happier and less sad ; and then,
though he might have liked to stand upon his dignity
with Nellie, and hard as he tried to do so at first, he
could not resist the pleasure of going constantly to
Charlie's house, and of being with his little grandson,

he was essentially a grandfather ; he had been born
one, just as he was born a father.

The Admiral easily forgave Nellie's conduct towards
himself. Indeed he blamed himself for many little
things ; thought it was only natural the old man
should have been in her way ; and even thought he
had perhaps wanted tact in showing too openly his love
for the child. It was the grief and misery he had seen
so unmistakably in his son on this first home-coming and
afterwards, which he found wellnigh impossible to forgive
Nellie. And yet, when she became kind again, it
pained him not to forgive her a little, because he was
very forgiving by nature, and was one of those warmly
affectionate people who hate to feel coldly estranged
from any one they have once loved ; and the kind man
had loved Nellie in the old days as his own daughter.

Now, just when the Admiral was beginning to soften
a little towards his son's wife, almost against his will,
and much against his sterner sense of justice and of
right, circumstances occurred which filled him with
such overflowing delight that he had no room left in
his head for any real ill-feeling. There are grown-up
people  the Admiral was one of them  like children,
who must make everybody a partaker in their own
joy, and can hardly leave even an actual enemy out in
the cold. The Admiral had got his K.C.B. and the
command at Hardsmouth, and he had despaired of
getting either one or the other ! He had thought he
was going to lie on the shelf for ever.

I do wish there were double the number of good

appointments there now are for the elderly admirals,
for most of them have such genial freshness of delight
in any honours they may get, and, above all, in feeling
as if they were once more on a sort of active
service again, and off that horrid shelf. Our particular
Admiral had still plenty of life and energy in him,
and he had bitterly felt the melancholy of doing
nothing. And then it was a great honour to get
Hardsmouth. " Best thing in the service, Charlie ! "
he told his son over and over again.

It gladdened Charlie to see his father getting once
more into his old cheerful spirits. The Admiral told
good stories, made little jokes, and held himself very
erectly  he had begun to stoop a little of late, but now
seemed to walk upon air. He had a perpetual smile
in his kind eyes, because everybody he knew was congratulating
him upon his appointment, and the cordiality
of his friends was a real pleasure to him  so
real that he invited them all to visit him at Hards-mouth.
Some people were even a little amused by
the delighted look of the new K.C.B. He showed
his pleasure so openly ! and was as radiant with
naive satisfaction as a child who has got the wish of
its heart. Indeed his eyes were so lively, and his
colour had brightened so freshly, and his tall figure
was held so jauntily upright, that notwithstanding his
very white hair, it was difficult just then to believe
he was not really a young man. His beautiful white
hair  it was very beautiful !  seemed a mere accident.
The very best thing in the service, Charlie ! The

very best thing ! And I shall be obliged to entertain
whether I like it or not, I must entertain." And
nothing was more delightful to the Admiral than this
necessity, for he was the most hospitable of men, and,
like nearly every very hospitable person I have ever
known, really had no money to be hospitable with.
He had been in such difficulties the last two years on
account of his kindness to Nellie, that it had been impossible
for him to be constantly asking his old messmates
to dinner. He had felt this very much. But
the Admiralty House at Hardsmouth was quite a big
one, and so the people he had not been able to ask to
dinner he would now have staying with him. He
would be kind to everybody he had ever known.

The Admiral, rather shyly, it is true, asked Nellie
to come and stay with him in his new home. " And
perhaps you will be kind enough to do the honours
for me, my dear," he had said most courteously, as
if asking a great favour. " And you will bring Charlie,
too, and . . . the boy," he had added, still more shyly.
Nellie had accepted these invitations, seemingly with
pleasure, and the Admiral was actually grateful to her.
You would have thought all the kindness was on her
side.

Captain Crofton had not yet told his father of his
intention to leave the army. It is hard, if you are
fond of a man, to tell him bad news when he is sad
and sorry ; but I doubt if it be really easier to do so
when he is glad. Charlie was touched to see his
father joyous again, and he hated the idea of bringing

disappointment upon him. He thought the Admiral
would bear the blow better if told when full of occupation,
and after all it was only putting off the evil day
a very short time longer, because Sir Charles was to
go down immediately to take up the command at
Hardsmouth. It was through the unexpected death
of his predecessor that he had got the appointment.

Whilst Charlie was thus hesitating, the air was suddenly
filled with rumours of war from Egypt. Resignation
was out of the question.

Arabs Pasha was to be put down immediately.
Captain Crofton received notice that the 46tli Lancers
were to leave India for Egypt. He got his orders . to
join the regiment at Alexandria without delay.

CHAPTEK IX.

It was at Hardsmonth that Charlie parted from his
wife. She had at first wished him to leave her in
London, but he would not leave her there alone.
Yet she had not gone unwillingly to his father's
house, or really appeared to dislike being left with
her boy under the Admiral's roof and in his care.

Nellie had seemed to realise it was in the face
of danger, and perhaps of death, that she and her
husband were parting now, and she was kind to him
with the old kindness, and tender with much of the
tenderness of the old love.

On the eve of his departure, Charlie's heart melted
completely to her : he believed undoubting in her
repentance, and he forgave her quite. Forgiveness is
very easy to those who have once been glad and
happy together, for it only feels to them like the old
love Town warm acain within their hearts. There is
no pain in that sort of forgiveness. It is not like
that other, commoner, coarser kind, which too often
feels to him who forgives, as to the one forgiven, like
satisfied vengeance in disguise.

The pain of parting so soon again from his dear
son was made less poignant to the Admiral by Nellie's
kindness to Charlie, and her unmistakable grief. " She
ought never to have been cold to him, but she is fond
of him again. The change has not come too late, and
he does not carry the heavy heart he had a short time
since away with him from England, perhaps to death.
Thank God for this ! "

Perhaps to death ! " That thought was present
to the Admiral's mind and heart. Yet the parting
of the father and son, like their first meetings, misbehave
seemed cold to some. Their emotion was well-nigh
speechless. The countenance of the old man
was one of stern determination and not of soft regret.
He had that hard, resolute look on his face with
which some men face death. And he was very
silent. His son was silent too. They drove alone
together to the station at Hardsmouth, and neither
spoke. But when the last moment came, quite the
last, Charlie said, " Thank you for being kind to
Nellie," then added, in a thickening voice, " She will
be no trouble to you now, dear father," and he thought
his father understood. " If I should not come back
again, you will be good to her  always good ; and you
will be a father to my son. I give him to you."

A promise, felt to be more binding than an oath,
was given by the Admiral in one long last pressure of
the hand. The Admiral dared not speak, for a presentiment
that he would never see his son acrain had

o

taken awful hold of him. He would have scorned

himself as a coward if his voice had broken into
tears, and he had helped in any way to shake his
son's fortitude. So they seemed to part unmoved.

No life is a real tragedy if the tragedy be only a
one-act play. It is the cruel recurrence of sorrow, of
disillusion upon disillusion, the perpetual stifling of
reviving hope, the relentlessness of sin  for its relentlessness
is terrible ! -which make the tragedy.

Captain Crofton had packed up all his kit in Pont
Street before he had taken his wife down to Hards-mouth.
He had not meant to go to the house again,
but had only left himself time in town to drive comfortably
from one station to the other. His servant
was to meet him with his baGoraoje at Charing Cross,
but when he got there he found the man had brought
a small hand - valise which was to have been left
behind in a box-room, and had left what he ought to
have brought. Fearing another mistake, he rushed
off to Pont Street himself. The little portmanteau he
wanted was not in the box-room, and he had to look
all over the house before he found it. During that
search he made a discovery which convinced him
beyond all possibility of doubt that Nellie had been
deceiving him of late, horribly deceiving him.

He found it was brandy she now took !

Grief so intense that it killed anger, anguish like
the anguish with which his heart lead broken that
awful night four months before, came upon him then
with overwhelming power.

VOL. Il G

He was so shaken, so unmanned, when he got to the
station, that many who saw him thought here was
an officer who surely had been drinking to drown the
grief of parting from his home.

The last train by which he could catch the transport
at Sheerness started five minutes after Captain
Crofton arrived at Charing Cross. The platform was
crowded with friends of departing soldiers and
officers.

There are moments in life when, no matter how
reserved and proudly self-contained by nature a man
may be, he yet will intensely feel the isolation of
solitary grief, and desire with passion human kindness
from a friend  ay! even from an enemy.

Charlie saw George standing on the platform with
his back to him three yards off. The cousins had
never met since that first terrible day of Charlie's
home-coming.

An impulse, which pride and shame would have
kept him from obeying at any other time, mastered
Charlie then, and he walked up in front of George,
and laying his hand heavily on his shoulder, looked
down, for he was much the taller, into his face.

George had really seen him from the first, and
had purposely turned away, not wishing to cut him,
as he once had been cut by him, face to face. It is
not everyone who can, by instantaneous divination of
another's feelings, change in a short moment his own.
George started back and freed himself from the hand
of the only man in the world who had ever insulted

him or doubted his honour, and yet perhaps it was
more in surprise than in pardoning wrath he did so.

Charlie turned from him as if he had been stabbed.

In another second the train was off. As it moved
there was an outburst of cheering to bid the soldiers
God-speed. Cheering is a far more terrible sound fora
bursting heart to hear than weeping and wailing, for
there is a sort of would-be joy in it. But it did not
move poor Charlie then  he was not conscious that
he heard it.

George stood on the platform looking after the
train. It had been lost to sight some minutes when
yet he still stood looking after it.

The troopship in which Captain Crofton sailed was
to touch at Plymouth. Charlie wrote two letters, intending
to have them posted there. The first one was
to his father  for his first thought, his first anguish,
was now for him. A horrible dread had seized Charlie
it was the fear that his wife would bring disgrace
upon the kind man whom he loved and reverenced
with his whole soul. The idea of her receiving his
father's company and presiding at his table was a
terror to him.

And then he wrote to Nellie. There is a grief so
deep that anger drowns there, a sorrow like death
which can upbraid no more. It was in that deadly
sorrow, as in a deep-dug tomb where warm passion
lies quite still as if the marble were all cold despair,
that Charlie, without a hope left in his heart, wrote to
his wife. But the grief was not for himself. He wrote

almost as one who has ceased to live : the great
sorrow was all for her and his father  anguish for
fear she might bring open disgrace upon herself or
him, and shame upon her child.

But the ship never touched at Plymouth. It was
signalled down Channel not to touch there. It went
straight on to Malta.

CHAPTER X.

There are people who are always just a little mean
even in their noblest actions. Their kindness has its
reservations, their generosity boundaries like stonewalls,
their forgiveness its clear hard memory of the
past. But there are others to whom these miserly
reservations are like a kind of wretched stinting
poverty, keeping them ever hungry and unsatisfied at
heart. Half friendship can be worse to them than
enmity, because they feel it to be so uncomfortably
cold, and its narrow limitations gall them. It was
actually painful to a man like the Admiral to be half
a friend and not a whole one,  to forgive a little and
not quite.

So when he saw that Nellie grieved with real
grief to see his son go away, he forgave her all and
everything, and took her back to his warm heart like
the daughter she once had seemed. He was glad to
forgive her quite. Such full forgiveness felt to him
like relief from a pain. Many will consider Sir
Charles Crofton very weak, and think that only a
weak man would thus have forgiven Nellie. They

are mistaken. Eeal forgiveness is hardly to be found
amongst weak people. It belongs to strong hearts
and minds.

It made the Admiral happy to be very kind to
Nellie, for he was by nature as open-handed with his
kindness as with his money.

Nellie seemed pleased but not surprised by his great
kindness. He was grateful to her for being pleased.

There was another person too  a. small but an important
one  whom it gave the Admiral unspeakable
joy to have under his own roof and just a little bit
to spoil with indulgent affection. But I must be discreetly
silent on this subject, for the grandfather was
convinced his exceeding love and naive admiration for
little Charlie, like his constant companionship with
him, were secrets unknown and unobserved. As he
persuaded himself the child felt that his grandfather
ruled him with a rod of iron, so he was convinced no
one except Edwardes, his flag-lieutenant, had noticed
how much he and the boy were together. The Admiral
was certainly a little deceitful about this intimacy.
But he still feared to reawaken Nellie's
jealousy, because he thought the sad estrangement
now past had all come from maternal jealousy.

The grandfather considered it wiser not to invite
the boy to come to his dressing-room and study at all
hours ; but then it is true little Cliarlie was perpetually
slipping down the backstairs from the nursery
without invitation. The Admiral never took the boy
out for a walk unless Nellie had first asked him to do

SO ; yet it was curious how often the tall grandfather
and the little grandson would be seen watkins hand
in hand about those parts of the dockyard likely to
prove most interesting to a miraculously intelligent
child. Maria, the maid, would be left sitting alone
for a long hour at a time, but she made no complaints.
Like most servants, she understood completely the ins
and outs of the family in which she lived ; and she
had the kindest feeling for that perfect gentleman, Sir
Charles, and strongly took his part in her own mind
against her mistress. The Admiral had a way of
making nearly everybody who came near him fond of
him, and fond, too, with respect. But the respect
Maria had hitherto felt for Sir Charles was much increased
when she came to Hardsmouth, and saw him,
for the first time, in his uniform. " He does hold his
head well hup. Master Charles, and becomes his clothes,
as a gentleman and officer should, and as I hope you
will some day. Why, Master Charles, your grand-papa
is a king down here, and everybody salutes him.
It is an honour for you to walk about with him. I
should have been proud indeed to walk about with
such a grandpa when I was a child. You are fortunate
and honoured, Master Charles ! "

And little Charlie would rise with a kind of rapt
and serious joy to the glory of walking about the
dockyard with the Admiral, and would gravely return
all the salutes meant for his grandfather. Little
Charlie never failed to do this, and did it in a way and
with an air which his grandfather considered quite

admirable. " The little fellow is born to command,"
thought the Admiral, proudly, and felt certain that,
whatever profession that boy went into, he would rise
to the very top of it. He determined it would not be
his fault if that profession were any other but the navy.
The Admiral had always regretted Charlie had preferred
the army, but blamed himself for this, and not
his son. He had often confessed to himself, " That
was all my fault. I was on half-pay on shore, when
Charlie was a boy between eleven and thirteen, and
he was perpetually hearing me say the service had
gone to the dogs. The little fellow won't hear me
say that now. I'll tell him what a fine profession it
really is." And Sir Charles Crofton did naively think
the navy a very fine profession since he had got his
K.C.B. and Hardsmouth. " Why, the little rascal will
make one of the smartest officers in the service. Lord
bless my soul ! he will." And he confided this conviction
more than once to that capital good fellow
Edwardes, his flag - lieutenant. Mr Edwardes lived
at the Admiralty House ; and the Admiral was on
terms of genial cordiality, or rather of warm affection,
with him. He was the son of a very old friend, and
the Admiral felt he could say anything to him.

I declare, Edwardes," he would tell him in confidence,
" do you know that boy surprises me. He
does not mind that infernal hammering  not he ! for
he is so interested in any bit of machinery or shipbuilding,
that I don't believe he hears it. He is always
dragging me into the midst of it. Why, Lord

bless me ! I've to go about with wads of cotton-wool
ready in my pocket for my two ears. It is curious,
Edwardes, now, is not it ? to see such a wonderful taste
for ship-building and steam-cranes and machinery of
all sorts, in so young a child  because in years he is
only a child, and quite a young child still. One is
apt to forget that, and to think him nine years old at
least. It is his wonderful little manners that deceive
one. They are wonderful, Edwardes ! far beyond his
age ! And now, really," he exclaimed, " I don't see
any reason why Charlie should not come down to our
next luncheon-party. Eh, Edwardes, eh ? " He was
not quite sure Mr Edwardes would agree with him ; so
he added, apologetically, " You see, I don't quite like
to have the little fellow turned out of the room, for he
has confided to me that he wishes to dine down ; and
I can see, Edwardes, it hurts his feelings to be sent
up to the nursery."

We'll smuggle him in next time," said Mr Edwardes,
who was a very good-natured young man ;
never fear, we'll smuggle him in  give him a place
next you, sir. Indeed I don't see why we should not
always have two admirals at table instead of one ; and
the smaller one commanding-inches. Ha ! ha ! ha ! "
and he laughed cheerily.

The Admiral laughed too, and heartily at first.
"Good joke, good joke, Edwardes ! " but then he said, a
little anxiously, " but a joke just between you and me.
I quite understand it, quite ! But . . . but I am not
so sure the boy's mother would. She might take it

seriously, Edwardes, and fancy perhaps that you thought
I didn't keep a sufficiently tight hand over the child."

At this allusion to Mrs Crofton, Mr Edwardes's
whole look and manner changed. Returning abruptly
to what had been said before, he remarked very
decidedly, " But you need not give any more luncheon-parties
at present, sir."

Lord bless my soul ! Edwardes," cried the Admiral,
forgetting all else in his astonishment. " Whatever
has come over you of late ? Why, when first you and
I kept house here together, you were perpetually telling
me of this person and that person whom I ought
to invite."

You told me to do so, sir," said the officer,
shortly.

Quite right, Edwardes, quite right," replied the
Admiral, looking much surprised at his good-humoured
Flag's unusual shortness of manner. " But what
I can't understand, Edwardes, is why you have
stopped telling me about them now, for you must
know I have not asked half the people I am bound
to entertain. I ought certainly to give a dinner-party
next week."

No necessity, no necessity," said the flag-lieutenant,
quickly.

No necessity ? " repeated the Admiral. " Good
Lord ! Edwardes, how odd you are ! "

I . I think I should wait a little, Admiral,"
said Mr Edwardes, with much confusion of manner.
Better . . . better not . . . not to have everybody

together at once. Besides," lie added quickly,
that inspection may last longer than you think,
sir."

Not it ! not it ! " said the Admiral, testily.
If I go tomorrow, I shall be back on Friday."

Time enough to settle about the dinner-party
then, sir."

No, Edwardes ; there won't be time enough,  we
ought to settle about it now. And I think we had
better go up-stairs at once and consult Mrs Crofton."

Mr Edwardes's embarrassment was extreme, but he
was a courageous man, with a high sense of duty and
honour. And he was warmly attached to the Admiral.
I again advise you," he said gravely, " to wait a little
before you give another party. I . . . "  he looked
fixedly at the Admiral  " I did not think your last
dinner a success, sir."

"Well, no," said the Admiral, simply and very kindly,
it was not, Edwardes. It is right of you to tell me
the truth  especially," he continued, with that courtesy
which gained him so many friends  " especially when
it is rather an unpleasant one to tell. Thank you, Edwardes."
But the young officer's confusion increased
so painfully that the Admiral, wishing to cover it,
went on speaking, " I know it was not a success, but
that was solely because poor Nellie was not well that
night, and the ladies would break up the party and go
away when she fainted in the drawing-room. I was
quite put out with them when we came up-stairs.
They would hardly wait to say good-bye to me in their

hurry. As to Lady Totality, she was really rude, and
she carried off the General by main force against his
will. All the fellows would have stayed if their wives
had let them."

I don't think, sir," said Mr Edwardes, turning his
head away, " that . . . that Mrs Crofton seems very
strong."

Upset at poor Charlie's going away ! " exclaimed
the Admiral. " Very much upset, Edwardes. Been
upset ever since he left."

And therefore is not at present equal to doing the
honours of a dinner-party, sir," said the flag-lieutenant,
with a short, decided manner.

If you really think so, Edwardes, and think she
might not feel up to coming down, and sitting through
a long dinner in a hot room next week, we'll certainly
put off the party till the week after that again. Nellie
does the honours so charmingly that we could not possibly
get on without her."

The younger officer bit his lip, and rather abruptly
left the room. '* Good God ! " he thought, " I shall
have to tell him the truth straight out some day. I
would sooner cut off my right hand ! "

The Admiral started on that inspection next morning.
Mr Edwardes went with him.

When the Admiral had first come to Hardsmouth
he had given over the management of his household,
table, and cellar into his flag-lieutenant's hands, knowing
well, as he said, that if Edwardes were kind
enough to undertake the trouble, Edwardes would

prove as good a manager as he himself would a bad
one. There had been no change in this arrangement
since Mrs Crofton came to the house, because the
Admiral did not know whether she would live with
him all the time he was at Hardsmouth, or only pay
a short visit ; and as yet he had felt a delicacy about
questioning her on the subject. So all the keys were
in the flag-lieutenant's keeping.

Before leaving that morning, Mr Edwardes took
certain precautions which he had satisfied himself were
necessary. He secretly denuded the cellaret in the
dining-room of everything except three bottles of light
claret, and he went away for those five days with the
key of the cellar in his pocket. He also said a sharp
word to Maria, which he saw she understood. It was
horribly unpleasant to him to do this, but Mrs Crofton
was fast becoming a terror to poor Edwardes. Friday
was the earliest day fixed for the Admiral's return to
Hardsmouth. But it so happened that a Russian
Grand Duke was paying a flying visit to this country
at that moment, or rather to its dockyards, arsenals,
and fortifications. And His Imperial Highness signified
to the Admiralty, late on Wednesday evening, his
desire to visit the dockyard at Hardsmouth, between
the hours of twelve and three, the following day.
An intimation to this effect reached Sir Charles
Crofton on Thursday morning at half-past six. " Not
incog.  will lunch at Admiralty, and inspect troops
and fortifications with general afterwards "  was
added to the official telegram by a friend.

An eight o'clock train would get the Admiral by
land to Hardsmouth at eleven.

Luncheon for twenty-five was ordered by telegram, 
for Mr Edwardes agreed with the Admiral that it was
necessary to ask certain dockyard and military officials,
and the commanding officers of the ships in harbour,
to meet a Grand Duke who was not coming incognito.
Part of the Channel fleet was lying off Hardsmouth
just then, as the ship on which its admiral's flag was
hoisted had been damaged by the bursting of a gain,
and had put in for repairs.

Lieutenant Edwardes sent some fifteen telegrams.
The Admiral had said, " I will telegraph to Nellie
myself ; " but the train was actually starting when he
got to the station, and he had to wait till it stopped
at the next one, which delayed the despatch of the
telegram for an hour and a half. He was much put
out with himself. " I ought to have let you telegraph,
Edwardes. The first telegram of all should have been
sent to Nellie."

It will arrive soon enough, sir, soon enough ! we
shall not lunch before half-past two, or maybe a quarter
to three." As usual, Edwardes was short in manner
and unsympathetic about Mrs Crofton.

This annoyed the Admiral ; but he had noticed that
Nellie appeared to dislike Edwardes, for she had objected
to be taken down to dinner by him. So Sir
Charles supposed there was some kind of coolness
between them, perhaps about the boy, as the boy was
devoted to Edwardes. " And I fear Nellie does not

understand' he had thought more than once. " A
blunt sort of honest fellow  Edwardes is blunt at
tones."

The flag-lieutenant found it hard to keep his temper
when the Admiral spoke of N'ellie, for he was screwing
up his courage to a resolve intensely painful to him.
With much secret irritation of feeling, he had determined,
in case he did not find Mrs Crofton in a state
he considered absolutely satisfactory, to tell the
Admiral the truth point-blank, and prevent her from
appearing. For this reason he had refused to allow any
ladies to be invited. " No room, sir, no room  can
only have gentlemen  not room enough even for them."

When Sir Charles Crofton and Mr Edwardes arrived
at the Admiralty House in Hardsmouth dockyard, Sir
Charles found his telegram to Nellie lying unopened
on the hall table.

The butler said Mrs Crofton had gone out early, a
few minutes before he and the cook had received their
telegram from Mr Edwardes ; he said he believed Mrs
Crofton had gone with Master Charles and Maria on a
steamboat excursion across the harbour. Mrs Crofton
had not said if she intended coming back to luncheon
or not, but Master Charles had told the butler he was
going to dine and spend the day with Captain Hervey's
children, and so the butler took it for granted Mrs
Crofton would lunch there too. Mrs Crofton had
certainly gone down to the steamboat pier with Master
Charles and Maria. But it was possible, the day being
exceedingly calm and fine, that she might merely have

gone across the harbour for the trip ; in that case she
would return by the boat which arrives at a quarter
past one, and so be in time for luncheon.

The flag-lieutenant went with the Admiral to the
railway station, where there was an official reception,
by the naval and military authorities, of the Grand
Duke. But after that he was no more wanted, and
so returned to the Admiralty House. The imperial
luncheon was no easy matter to arrange at short
notice.

When half-past one came, then a quarter to two,
then two o'clock, and Mrs Crofton did not appear, he
was almost relieved from an anxiety that was intolerable
to him. Mrs Crofton was clearly spending the
day with the Hervey, and the next steamboat did not
arrive till half-past four. Though the luncheon was
not to be until a quarter to three, the military inspection
was to begin precisely at four. So all would be
quite over before Mrs Crofton could possibly arrive.
Edwardes had convinced himself of this, and yet he
was still so nervous that he gave stringent orders to the
butler to beg Mrs Crofton, in case she returned, to
have her luncheon in the library, as the Admiral was
having a gentleman's party in the dining-room. "And
if she does not quite . . . quite understand, send
instantly for me, Jones," he had added.

The Admiral was as sorry Nellie had not come
home in time to receive his guests as Mr Edwardes
was glad, and he went about to everyone explaining
her absence and apologising for it. He struck terror

into his flag-lieutenant by giving out loud the most
particular orders to Jones that if Mrs Crofton did by
accident return during luncheon, she was to be asked
to come immediately into the dining-room.

So naively sorry was the Admiral for Nellie's absence,
that the Grand Duke was moved to make a little
speech of very courteous regret on the subject; and
the rest of the company followed suit. The General
alone was silent ; and yet Sir Henry was a gallant man,
for it was Lady Mighty who kept up the severe social
discipline for which Government House was celebrated.

The General's carriage and other carriages and a
troop of cavalry were waiting outside the Admiralty
House, and a crowd of dockyard people had assembled
to see the Grand Duke drive away ; so there were
constant noises. Every motion, every sound, made
Edwardes nervous. He could hardly conceal his
agitation.

Never was there a man more devoutly thankful than
he to get rid of a Grand Duke. He expected the
whole party to break up completely when His Imperial
Highness and the General and other military guests
went away. And so it would have done, only
Admiral Lord Shirley, commanding the Channel fleet,
and his officers, and the chief dockyard officials, were
all to be present at the Grand Duke's departure from
the station. It was to be a full-dress affair like the
arrival.

The imperial departure was not to take place till
half-past six.

VOL III. H

Mr Edwardes was again in terror. At last Lord
Shirley proposed a visit to the club in the interval of
waiting; and this was seconded all round.

Sir Charles Crofton and his flag-lieutenant, with the
other admiral and naval officers, strolled down to the
dockyard gate. Sir Charles, having fallen by the way
into an interesting conversation with Lord Shirley
about the ignorance of practical seamanship too prevalent
amongst the new race of naval officers, walked on
through the gate, and stood outside in the street still
discussing this very serious matter. The two admirals
were standing together at a little distance from the
other officers. They had both waxed hot against the
present system of naval education, and were so
engrossed by their own indignation, that they did not
perceive there was some sort of row going on a little
higher up across the street. Indeed they had their
backs turned to it. But Mr Edwardes and the other
officers had immediately noticed the commotion. The
crowd was large, and seemed to be almost entirely
made up of the scum of the town, and there is no
scum lower than that of a seaport town.

The crowd moved in a circle, as if round some one
object of interest, and came nearer. The circle opened
for a moment, then shut again. There was a loud
peal of that sort of coarse laughter which offends like
a personal insult those who hear it.

A drunken row," said Sir Charles, Sflancincj round
with a look of angry disgust. " Those rows are a
disgrace to the town."

There was another shout of that odious laughter,
and a voice cried out, " She has slapped the chap's
face because he wanted to kiss her ! "

A woman ! " exclaimed Lord Shirley.

Revolting ! " said Admiral Crofton, with a shudder,
not looking back. " I hate these sights, Shirley.
We'll just step inside the gate till this rabble has
gone by." They were not two yards from the gate.

Lord Shirley was looking back. The moving crowd
opened.

Good God ! " he cried, " she looks like a lady, and
she can't walk straight. She is reeling, by God ! "

Admiral Crofton turned ; he looked ; he saw. Asa
whole lifetime will flash in a moment across the
mind of a drowning man, so now a hundred little
things, half noticed then forgotten, came with sudden
vivid remembrance, and flashed in one instant conviction,
like a dagger, into his soul. He staggered, then
recovered himself. Mr Edwardes's firm hand was on
his arm.

For God's sake ! go inside quietly, quietly," he
whispered. " I will look after her. Go in, sir  no
disgrace then ! "

The Admiral moved. Edwardes tightened his firm
grasp.

Let me, sir  me ! " he implored, with strong
emotion.

The Admiral looked at him as a man might on one
who had offered to die a shameful death that he
micdit live.

Not you, Edwardes," he said gently, " not you."
And he motioned him aside. Not an instant's temptation
to waver did he feel. The thought of disowning
Nellie in shame and infamy, and of leaving her to the
mercy of this low rabble, could not come to a noble
soul like his. He made his way through the jeering,
hooting crowd. It had closed in again, for Nellie
had slipped and fallen down. He made his way ;
he got close up to her, and he lifted her in his
arms. She was half-stunned by her fall, yet just
knew him well enough to throw one arm round his
neck.

A voice shouted out, '' She'll kiss him soon enough,
though she would not kiss t'other cove ! "

It's the uniform as does it  the gold lace and
togs ! " cried a woman.

Eight for you, Sal ! "

And there, was a roar of coarse laughter, but not
from those quite near the Admiral. Some new feeling
silenced them. Perhaps it may only have been astonishment
to see this venerable looking officer in full
uniform act so strangely.

With the woman they had been hooting clasped
in his left arm, the Admiral stood upright, a head
and shoulders above them all. With his riojht hand
lifted up, as if to heaven where there is pity, he said,
in a clear ringing voice, " Stand off ! She is my
daughter ! " And the crowd fell back.

The coarse woman's voice which had spoken before
cried out, " Nice daughter for a gentleman and officer

like you to have ! Ye must ha' been a bad un in
your day ! "

A loud and indignant " Hush ! " silenced her. Then
a deeper " Hush ! " was heard all round, as if awe had
fallen on the rough crowd.

It was the noble bearing and the look of the fine
old man which touched them, and moved them to
respect. He had that pale look of still grief, the
grief which has no tears  a holy look, as if sorrow
were divine. His hat had fallen off when he had
stooped to raise poor Nellie, and he stood bareheaded
before them, beautiful with dignity, as if the honour
of his long life were as unsullied as his snow-white
hair.

The contrast between his dignity and noble beauty
godlike in that hour of shame  and the awful look
of the unconscious woman he proclaimed aloud to be
his daughter, was terrible. There are tragedies which
can be understood of all.

Once more the Admiral said aloud, louder even
than before, as if he felt he could, by saying it, protect
Nellie in her shame  " She is my daughter ! " All
heard him then.

Lord Shirley, the flag-lieutenant, and the other
officers had formed a line to the gate of the dockyard ;
but it was not necessary to keep back the crowd ; it
held back of its own accord.

Still nobly erect, and as if inspired with strength
beyond his usual strength, the old man carried his sad
burden, without a single faltering step, under the gaze

of many of the leading men in the profession he loved,
the honour of whose officers, he had ever thought,
should be upheld without stain. Then he carried it
on through the staring crowd there was still in the
dockyard, and let no one be shamed by it but he himself,
till he came to the steps of his own door. The
door was open : there were servants standing on the
steps and in the hall. Little Charlie came running
out ; then suddenly the child stood still, and screamed
aloud in terror  " How horrid mamma looks ! how
horrid 1 Her hair is undone, and she is like the horrid
woman who ran after me yesterday near the barracks ! "

Mr Edwardes, who had followed the Admiral closely,
rushed forward. Sir Charles Crofton had slipped.

The Admiral is fainting ! " he called out. " He
has fainted dead ! "

CHAPTER XL

The vigour of an old man is like that of a tree which
one night's hard frost can kill. It was in spite of the
entreaties of those who loved the Admiral, and wished
to see his life long spared, that he would go up to
London with Nellie by the midnight train on that
terrible Thursday.

He made some excuse of pressing business suddenly
to take her up to Pont Street  for she had not
realised as yet what had happened.

The moment the Admiral had recovered consciousness
after his long faint, and had clearly remembered
how it had come to pass that, for the first time in his
life, he had fainted, he had asked for a pen and paper,
and had written a letter, sending in his resignation to
the Admiralty. He wrote it with so shaky a hand
that his flag-lieutenant persuaded him not to have it
posted ; so he consented to wait a little till this hand
recovered strength.

But it was in vain Mr Edwardes implored him to
reconsider his decision. The Admiral now understood
everything  not only what had happened that very

day, but all that had occurred at his own table and in
his own drawing-room before. The Queen's service
and the Queen's uniform had been disgraced in Hards-mouth.
Sir Charles Crofton had exalted ideas of dignity
and unstained reputation in high official positions,
and held fast with loyal chivalrous faith to the old-fashioned
belief that the honour of her Majesty's navy
is the honour of the Queen herself.

Before he left the Admiralty House that night he
had written his letter over again, and with a firm hand.

He travelled up to town by that midnight train
alone with Nellie  for little Charlie had been sent on
with Maria before. The Admiral dreaded seeing the
boy again, just as if it were he himself who had been
dishonoured before him. Nellie's disgrace felt to the
old man what his son Charlie's would have been  his
own.

The Admiral stayed on for the remainder of that
night, or rather for the early morning hours, in Pont
Street. But he could take no sleep. He had to go
back before mid-day to Hardsmouth, to face, possibly
for three weeks or a month, until a new appointment
could be made, the shame which was like death to him.

Do not be hard upon the old man  he had aged in
twelve hours twelve years  do not be hard upon him if
his courage failed him then, and if he felt he could not
say with his own lips to Nellie what he ought to say
and had meant fearlessly to say ; if he could not tell
her of the grievous shame she had brought upon herself,
her husband, her child, and him ; if he could not

tell her with his own lips of his own resignation and
retirement from the service, in what he felt to be disgrace.


He left the house while it was still early morning,
and while his little grandson was still asleep ; but
though he had not spoken to Nellie before he went
away, he had written her a letter, every word of which
had given him agony.

When the Admiral arrived at Hardsmouth, he found
some unexpected business awaiting him. He was able
to attend to it, and to go about all day apparently without
fatigue ; but that evening he was taken again with
sudden faintness, and was for many days afterwards so
shaken, so weak, so ill, that they dared not even give
him his letters to read. He could not leave his room.

When he came down-stairs again, the letter his son
had written to him on leaving Sheerness was lying
upon his study table. But there was not a single line
from Nellie !

The Admiral had a relapse of faintness after reading
his son's letter. He understood Charlie's grievous
sorrow now. For five days he was too ill to undertake
any sort of journey. Then his strength returned
a little, and he went up immediately to town, for his
anxiety about Nellie was getting terrible. He did not
know how to interpret her silence.

He let Mr Edwardes go up to London with him,
but he left him at the station, and went on alone to
Pont Street. He dismissed his cab in Sloane Street,
and walked slowly towards his son's house, or rather

his own house  for it was his own. The Admiral
looked forward to the coming interview with pain unspeakable,
and also with a sensitive shyness. He had
been thinking over this, his first meeting with Nellie
since the day of her public disgrace, all the way up in
the train, and he had told himself it was the shame
she felt, the bitter anguish of her own repentance,
which had kept her silent.

If you have ever loved as a father can love his
child, as the Admiral had loved Nellie, you would
dread to look upon the humiliation of her you had
loved, and would shrink from taunting by your presence
her shame : her repentance would be sacred to you
beyond reproach. Those who feel a sort of triumph, a
justified vengeance for their own disgrace, in the repentant
shame, the ignoble humiliation, of another,
have had hatred in their heart, not love.

It was the feeling that poor Nellie would be bowed
down with repentant shame before him,  that his presence
would be, like her horrible disgrace, taunting her
with vivid remembrance face to face,  which made a
shy coward of the kind, the generous, and noble-hearted
man.

The Admiral walked feebly, leaning on a stick, and
he went very slowly, for he had not really recovered
his strength. At length he came to the house. He
stopped at the door. Then he passed it almost quickly,
and walked on down the street. But he returned
again. Then he stood some ten yards from the house,
feebly bent as if much tired, yet still irresolute.

As lie was thus standing, lost to every thought but
one, he was suddenly leaped upon from behind, and
embraced round the neck with violently-enthusiastic
joy by his little grandson.

Come at last ! come at last ! I thought you were
never, never coming again, grandpa ! I want to go
back with you to Hardsmouth, and to live with you
always."

The Admiral was so weak, and the salutation had
been so roughly joyous, that for a moment he had to
hold by some railings near.

Why, grandpa ! " called out the child, staring
in frightened astonishment, " you look funny ; you've
grown so very, very, very old ! "

For shame. Master Charles, for shame ! " cried
Maria, seizing the boy.

The Admiral waved her aside. " He is Tight,
Maria. You are right, Charlie," he said ; " I have
grown very old." He bent down to the child  " But
do not be frightened at the old man, Charlie ; kiss
him once again."

Are . are you going to die ? " asked the boy ina
voice of awe, when he had kissed him, and he held
his grandfather's hand tightly. " Don't die. I don't
want you to die."

It is happy to die," said the old man. " You must
not be sorry for me when I die, my child."

But they will take you away, quite away, when
you die," said the boy. " Tell me where they will
take you, and I will go with you, grandpa. I won't

stay behind  I won't ! You won't leave me alone
with mamma," he said imploringly ; then whispered,
I am afraid of her ! " The Admiral was struck
dumb. The child looked up into his face. " You
and I," he said, with loving cheerfulness, smiling up
at him in sweet confidence  " you and I will die on
the same day : I will die in the morning, and you at

God forbid ! God forbid ! " said his grandfather,
with a shudder, and clasped him in his trembling
arms ; for the Admiral was so broken that any strong
emotion made him tremble now.

Come in," said little Charlie, leading his grandfather
to the door ; " you must come in with me."
And, led by the boy's small hand, the Admiral, with
bowed head, went into the house.

CHAPTER XII.

When H.M.S. Icarus, the transport in which Captain
Crofton had sailed, arrived at Malta, there were fresh
orders awaiting her. A company of the Eoyal Wessex
Regiment was to be taken on immediately from Malta
to Alexandria, and room was to be made on board by
landing any officers or men belonging to Indian
regiments under orders for Egypt, but not yet arrived
there.

Captain Crofton was a fortnight on shore at Malta.
Though still the hot season, there was a great deal
going on there, and the place was full ; but he went
nowhere and accepted no invitations, except one official
one he could not refuse. He had become a taciturn,
lonely, forbidding sort of man  gloomily brooding and
absent-minded in society. His very appearance had
changed. It is true he was as erect as ever  more
so, perhaps, for his carriage was almost defiant in
its unbending stiffness. It was the expression of
the face which had hardened so much of late, that to
those who had known it before, it would have seemed
the face of some other man. No smile ever lighted

it now : the muscles of the mouth and eyes had
stiffened ; the resolute look there had always been
had become one of almost terrible sternness. Charlie
held his head high, as if he were too proud to bend
before sorrow, dishonour, or any kind of shame. Had
anybody suspected he was in grief, no one would have
dared to show him sympathy. But nobody on board
the Icarus had troubled his head one way or the other
about him, except to think him a sullen, stern, unsociable
fellow  a fellow best left alone.

It was on the 10th September that Captain
Crofton left Malta for Alexandria in H.M.S. Jupiter.
When he looked round the table that night at the
officers' mess, he was glad to see there was no one
present whom he knew, or any one dio knew him.
His state of mind was pitiable. The home mails
had arrived a few hours before the Jupiter got under
weigh, and there were no letters for him. This was
the second mail which had brought him no letter,
yet Nellie must have received the one he had written
to her on leaving Sheerness ; and so must his father
the letter he wrote him. Coldly, sullenly calm as
Charlie looked, his anxiety was secretly maddening
him.

Everyone at table was so full of the last news from
Egypt and the news from home, that Captain Crofton's
silence was unnoticed, his presence almost unperceived.


Next day any questions that were asked him were
so shortly answered, any attempt at conversation so

unsociable received, that lie was soon left alone, and
lie felt lie could live the same solitary life on board
which he had been leading the last fortnight on shore.
So he sat thinking without ceasing of his wretched
wife ; and that deep silence which frightened men
away from him, was full of prayer for her. He
thought of his father with anguish, and of his child.
Thus thinking, he would forget he was not really
alone. Even at table he would stow unconscious of

o

the presence of those around him.

The second night he appeared at mess on board
the Jupiter, all who were near him remarked the
gloomy, silent man. Half the dishes passed by him
untasted. He did not touch wine ; but this was an
act of memory on his part, and not of forgetfulness.

Colonel Mackenzie, commaiidino- the Mid-Lothian
Fusiliers,  a genial, peppery, rather roughly sociable
man,  sat opposite Captain Crofton at table. The
Colonel cordially disliked a sour-faced teetotaller. He
could only forgive a man the unsociability of taking
no wine on condition of his being a jovial good
fellow. So he felt annoyed with Charlie. He was
not a man of much refinement or of polished manners,
but essentially what is called a rough diamond. Addressing
Captain Crofton, though he did not know his
name, he said quite irritably, " You're feeling squeamish,
I see, so take, ray advice and have a brandy and
soda. That will give you your sea-legs."

Captain Crofton just thanked him and said no
more. But there were other teetotallers at table

besides Charlie, and there had been a great deal of
chaffing going on all the way out to Malta between
them and Colonel Mackenzie. The chaff, which had
been suspended the night before on account of the
Egyptian news and home news, now began again with
much liveliness all round, just as if none of the jokes
had ever done duty till then.

Charlie was not listening at first : but before long
his ear was caught, his attention riveted. Some one
had said, " It is the ladies, I can tell you, who are the
real topers nowadays." And immediately there were
stories told all round to prove there really was truth in
this dreadful assertion. Some tales were received with
disgust, some with laughter. All laughter is sad to
the heavy heart, but this was more than sad to
Charlie  it was horrible 1 His extreme pallor gave
place to a blush of shame : man as he was, he blushed
to the roots of his hair.

Colonel Mackenzie, strange to say, had more stories
to tell than any one else about the ladies who are
fond of champagne. He avowed that he would like
to see every woman a teetotaller. " So that the other
sex might take two glasses where it now takes one 
eh, Colonel ? " And he was a good deal chaffed on
the subject; but he still declared himself firmly convinced
that " the ladies are different from us men :
once under weigh, they can't stop. They never can
draw up at a glass or two." Then, in a loudly
confidential whisper, more clearly impressive than any
other mode of speech, he said to the Captain commanding

the ship, who sat next him, " Heard of the
dreadful scandal at Hardsmouth, Captain, two days
before we sailed ? " The Captain, who was a very
gentlemanly man, gave a deprecatory wave of his
hand, which would have stopped most people; but
Colonel Mackenzie, like many another choleric person,
was exceedingly intolerant of any sort of interruption.
No secret ! no secret ! " he continued. " Talk of the
whole place ! Perfectly notorious scandal  no secret
whatever." Then, in a slightly lower voice, he went
on, " New Admiral just come to Hardsmouth, and his
daughter  did not hear her name  been entertaining
for him. Took too much champagne at the Admiral's
own table. Everybody was aghast ! Ladies all insulted
; flag-lieutenant in a fever, but the Admiral
himself as blind as any old bat. Had his eyes opened
with a vengeance at last !  gave a big luncheon to
some foreign prince ; all the great swells there, naval
and military. And the Admiral walked down with a
lot of them to the dockyard gate, and just outside,
reeling in the public street, surrounded by the lowest
rabble, who should he see but his own daughter !
That very evening he sent in his resignation to the
Admiralty, and they say the shock has killed the old
fellow ; indeed, there was a report as we were getting
under weigh that he had dropped down dead. Perfectly
true ! " exclaimed Colonel Mackenzie to the
Captain, who was motioning him anxiously to silence,
Give you my word of honour, it's all gospel truth."
Charlie had risen from table. He was deadly pale.
VOL. L I

You lie ! you lie vilely ! horribly ! " he called out to
the Colonel, and his hand felt for the sword he did
not wear. " By God ! you lie ! The old man is alive
and well. He never was disgraced ! "

The officers who had been sitting at each side of
Captain Crofton had pinioned him. He looked insane.
They thought him so.

The insulted Colonel was on his feet. " D  n you,
sir ! The Captain shall put you under arrest this
moment, sir ! 'No apology ! no apology ! Bring you
to a court-martial ! Have you court-martialled, sir,
and turned out of the service with dish-race ! "

Chapter XIII.

When Colonel Mackenzie discovered the name of the
officer who had told him he lied, and understood
the reason of the young fellow's agony and rage, he
was filled with remorse for his inconsiderate words,
and immediately had the whole affair hushed up.
In this he was backed by the Captain in command,
and every one who had been present when the
painful scene occurred.

But Charles Crofton was one of those resolute,
uncompromising, high-minded men who are by nature
disciplinarians to themselves as well as towards others.
He found it hard to excuse himself ; and he took the
matter deeply to heart. It is the dire fatality of a
woman like Nellie to madden with shame for her
those who love her ; and so to bring them through
their madness into humiliation and suffering of every
kind. The extreme foolishness, too, of his own rage
gave Charlie horrid remorse. " I have made them
remember that story for ever." He himself now
believed what had been said of Nellie, as if he knew it

to be absolutely true. He bad no hope that it was
false.

When he again appeared at mess, he felt that the
awful story was vividly remembered by all. But he
bore Nellie's shame and his own, as he would the pain
of a cruel wound, with great courage. He was a very
courageous man. Courageous people hate the cowardice
of shirking what is unpleasant. This hatred
would alone have prevented him from avoiding the
public gaze, and from keeping to himself in his cabin
during the last day and evening of the passage to
Egypt.

But no one is so brave as he who can forget himself
in dread or sorrow for another. There was a terrible
grief in Charlie's heart, which was fast deadening him
to his own dishonour, and was lifting him above himself
into forgetfulness of all personal humiliation and
pain, and that was the growing passion within him of
horrible anxiety about his father, and of anguish
unspeakable for his disgrace. Strong as his other
feelings were, this one got mastery of them all ; and
he was filled with fierce rage against his wife. " I
never will forgive her this last infamy. I will die
without forgiving her, because she has brought public
dishonour upon my father." And he wrote to
Nellie, and he told her so.

When the Jupiter arrived at Alexandria, Captain
Crofton found his regiment had already landed from
India, and had gone on to the front.

He had to join without an hour's delay, and had
not time to wait in Alexandria for the answer to the
telegram he had sent Mr Edwardes, asking if his
father were alive or dead. Never did a man start
for the front more willing to meet death than Captain
Crofton.

CHAPTEK XIV.

Sir Charles Crofton, as we know, had not dropped
down dead on that day of awful shame and grief
at Hardsmouth. People do not die till they have
drunk to its dregs the sorrow there is for them on
earth. And so the Admiral had lived, because there
was untasted suffering for him in this world still.

A terrible experience had quite rent his heart, that
day when, led by his little grandson, he had gone with
a soul full of compassion to see Nellie for the first
time since her and his own public disgrace, for he had
found her . . . not sober. She had met him as if
there was no memory of horrible shame between them.
She was not even awkward in her manner. His letter
had made so little impression on her that she seemed
to have forgotten it quite, though in that letter he had
especially dwelt upon the grief and agony of shame
Charlie would feel when he came to hear, as he must,
some day, of her public disgrace. And yet this idea,
so terrible to him, had not been terrible to her, or she
would have repented at the thought, for ever and forever,
of her awful sin.

Her deadness to repentance appalled the Admiral.
It gave him the greatest moral shock he had ever
got in his life. Indignation took possession of him.
His weakness left him then, and gave place to the just
answer of a strong man.

For his anger was just, and he said to Nellie wdiat
it was right and his duty to her, to her child, and to
his son, for him to say. She made his anger easy to
him, for she denied the truth with vehemence. There
was a violent scene between them.

And when the Admiral was going away, Nellie told
him never to come to her house again. She said, " I
will not go any more to yours, and I mean, as long as
I live, never to see your face again." These last words
were said with a sort of excited joy, and not in sorrow
as if they were sad words to say to one who had been
kind for years. And it was thus they had parted.

Nothing for the time gives life like anger. Even
the dying man can find a moment's life and strength
in anger.

Sir Charles Crofton seemed to have grown young
and strong whilst still moved by his indignation. He
went to his club, before he left London, and wrote a
long letter to Lady Eastcourt.

The Admiral imagined that he believed just as he
had done of old in Clara. For some years he had
seen very little of her, but whenever lie did meet her
it was always the charming sympathetic woman of
past years he met again. And yet there were times
when he would catch himself wondering why she

never seemed to have Nellie at Eastcourt now. Then
he would wonder if Ilellie could have turned against
lier mother as she had done against him ? He chivalrously
gave Clara the benefit of every doubt ; and
when he discovered the awful truth, it was a point of
honour with him to feel sure Nellie's terrible failing
was unknown to her.

He wrote very kindly now to Lady Eastcourt, for
he persuaded himself that his letter would give her
the same cruel pain to read which it gave him to
write. He implored her to come to her daughter the
very instant she received his letter ; and he was
absolutely certain she would be terrified , by what
he told her, and start off' immediately for Pont Street.
He told her the horrid story of what had happened at
Hardsmouth, and the whole truth about her daughter's
present state  that is, the truth as far as he understood
it, for in reality he did not understand it at all.
He would have been very angry if any one had told
him that poor Nellie was now suffering from what
ought to be treated as a disease, because, in fact, it
had become one, and that all she did and did not
do were symptoms only too well known to doctors.
But no one on earth could have persuaded him to
take this view of the case.

The Admiral had the clearest cut idea of right and
wrong, and his low opinion of the doctors was not
solely caused by their inability to find a cure for the
Yellow Jack. They had destroyed all confidence in
him, chiefly by their habit of " making out," as he

would say, " that you should never punish a man for
any wrong act except by a soothing syrup or a strait-waistcoat.
You may try ' moral persuasion ' while
you are waiting for the strait - waistcoat, but you
may not flog the fellow in the mean time. Every
wicked man is mad to the dosers. A drunkard has
an interesting illness, a murderer is irresponsible, and
a thief is a kleptomaniac. Kleptomaniac ! Lord bless
my soul ! "

Kleptomaniac was a word the Admiral could not
stand. It put him in a passion. Yet, as we know,
he was indulgent and forgiving beyond the indulgence
and forgiveness of an ordinary man to those who did
wrong. But what he could not do was to think they had
not done wrong or were irresponsible in any way for
their own wrong-doing. God and the devil, right and
wrong, were the two sides of his mind ; they were as
clearly defined as starboard and port. That is why
the fine old sailor had steered his own ship so blamelessly
through life. It is not often well for a man
himself to hold subtle theories of irresponsible
wrong.

When the Admiral finished his letter to Lady East-court,
agitated as he had been by writing it, he still
did not feel overdone. His excitement and strength
continued for many hours, and he walked from the
station at Ilardsmouth to the Admiralty House and
did not feel tired that night. But next morning when
lie tried to get up he fell back on his bed, and his
state of exhaustion and yet of excitement was such,

that the doctor, called in surreptitiously by Mr
Edwardes, feared a threatening of paralysis.

It was the very day after the Admiral's heartrending:
visit to ISTellie that the news of the battle of
Tel-el-Kebir reached England.

Within twenty-four hours there was a list published
of some of the killed and wounded. Captain Crofton's
name was amongst those of the killed. It was almost
impossible to keep this fact from the Admiral. But,
for fear of a seizure before his nervous strength should
have a little returned, it was kept from him for two
whole days. There then was a reason wdiy it could
be hidden from him no longer.

CHAPTEK XV.

The "War Office had sent Mrs Crofton notification of
her husband's death, so timed that she might get it
before the list of killed could appear in the papers ;
but the letter had been directed to Hardsmouth,
because Captain Crofton had given that address on
leaving England.

JS'ellie first heard the news of the battle cried out
in the street.

She had been sitting alone all day. It was the
time of year when there is hardly a soul in town.
But she had liked to be alone, for she had sat brooding
with a kind of awaking consciousness on ceram
words which had been said to her by the Admiral the
day before. She had forgotten her own words to him,
yet somehow remembered many of his. His anger
had made an impression on her. It was long since
anything had made so strong a one. She recollected
nothing since her husband went away so clearly as
that startling anger. For the first time in her life,
she had seen the kind man roused to powerful wrath,
and so perhaps it was the surprise of his violent passion

which could not quite be forgotten. His anger had
left words on her brain which had repeated themselves
in the waking hours of the past night, like voices that
would not be hushed. And all the long morning they
had been speaking to her mind. The repetition of one
thing the Admiral had said had come so often, so often
round and round again, giving pain by constant repetition,
that she had made an effort to get rid of the
words, but in so doing had grasped a kind of feeling
of their sense  she had almost understood their meaning
 and for a moment had trembled with horror.
It was as if she had had a nightmare, and touched on
half awaking some token which made her feel the
terror was not all a dream. The suspicion of reality
was horrible  and it had come to her for a short
instant twice that day. Then it had passed away
again into the confusion of her brain.

As the day wore on and evening came, that confusion
like a sleep when every thought is soothed into a dream
and nothing real remains to trouble memory, was
deepening into the unresisting apathy which had become
of late a second nature to poor Nellie. The
repetition of words whose sense required grasping by
a painful effort of the mind had ceased.

Then suddenly there came that cry in the street,
and with it the distracting words, the flash of understanding,
the trembling horror, rushed back like
awakening fiends on Nellie.

Yet, perhaps, the strange forgetfulness of her
weakened brain might again have stilled in dull

apathy her startled terror, had the cry sounded only
once. But she heard it again and again, and yet
again ; and each time the voice was nearer and louder
than before. The crier stopped under her very
windows.

She had risen from the sofa, where physical lethargy
would now keep her half her time. She stood with
steady strength, listening feverishly.

Had Charlie been in this battle ? " But where is
Charlie ? " she asked herself suddenly. " Where . . .
where is my husband ? " She had forgotten ! she
realised she had forgotten !

She tried with all her might, as she had never done
before, to awaken her dulled memory  it was like trying
to quicken the dead. But the tremendous exertion
the effort cost her brought her still more to her
senses, and she was taken by a great fear  fear of her
own blank mind. Yet had its vacuity been quite
absolute, as it was till the day before, the terror of that
blank would have appalled her less. But, like a white
hand on which there is one startling stain, there was
one horror, one stain, as if a crime, upon her mind 
and that one horror was the remembrance, where no
other memory at all remained, of what the Admiral
had said to her in his wrath. His words stood out
where all else was blank, like the writing on the
wall.

Maria brought in a paper. The news of the battle
was printed in large letters.

Where is the Captain, ma'am ? " asked the maid

with bated breath  and then was frightened at-her
own question, so abject was her mistress's look of fear.
Nellie fell down again in trembling agitation on the
sofa ; but half her terror came from dread lest Maria
should discover she did not remember where her
husband was. She feared to betray the blank of her
mind, as the half mad do their insanity. She motioned
Maria to leave the room. There was nothing strange
in this to the maid, as there were times when, for days
together, Mrs Crofton would let no one stay in the
room with her, and would say she could bear no noise,
and would not even see her child.

When Maria came back two hours afterwards,
instead of finding her mistress lying on the sofa in a
torpid state, she found her walking up and down the
drawing-room excitedly, with a flush on her cheek, and
light in her usually dull eye.

Maria," said Nellie, " there has been a battle. I
was going up to tell you there has been a battle."

Oh Lor' 1 ma'am  Lor' 1 " cried the maid ; " and you
forget it was I, my own self, brought you up the paper
with the news ! "

Forget ! " said Mrs Crofton, very sharply. " How
dare you say I forget ? I never forget anything. I
remember now it is time to go to bed. You need not
remind me of it ; I remember quite well." And then,
turning angrily on the woman, she said again, " How
dare you say I forget ? " But without waiting for an
answer, she walked out of the room and went upstairs.


Maria and little Charlie slept on the storey above
that on which was Mrs Crofton's bedroom. Nellie
hardly ever went up there, not even by day, for she
disliked the exertion of walking up inane stairs. Yet
twice during this night she went to the nursery.
Maria was awakened by her, and each time she said
almost exactly the same words. She spoke them
hurriedly, as if anxious to tell her news quickly.
There has been a battle, Maria," she said. " Men
have been calling it in the street, under my windows.
They call so loudly, I cannot sleep."

After the first start of seeing the white figure by
her bedside, Maria was not frightened by her mistress,
because, though Mrs Crofton had been stupid rather
than excited at night of late, there had been times
when her nights were very restless, and when she
would walk about in what seemed to be vivid wakens
dreams. She had done this very much after her husband
first came home from India.

She has just got a start about that 'ere battle, and
it has roused her up a bit. Good job too ! " thought
Maria. " I've no patience with her ! And if the Captain
has got killed, she richly deserves it. He was
too good to her. Happy for himself if he is dead,
poor gentleman ! for he did take on about her dreadful
at times  dreadful ! But I would be sorry if he's
really killed, because of Sir Charles. I'd be sorry
indeed for Sir Charles. Never was there a more perfect
gentleman in this world, and such a grandfather
to Master Charles ! The dear boy would miss him

dreadful ! He cried as if his little heart 'ud break
when he found his grandpa had gone away yesterday
without saying good-bye. And the Hadmiral he's that
wrapped up in the Captain that he'd never survive
him. He's sadly broken down, Sir Charles is, and it's
Mrs Crofton has done it. If the Captain is killed,
he'll die quite. It is to his funeral we shall all be
going, and Mrs Crofton, as likely as not, standing by
his grave, and forgetting he's dead ! The idea of her
saying she never forgets ! Lor' ! but what stories she
does tell ! I'd not stay an hour in the place if it was
not for Master Charles. Master Charles is 'headstrong,
very 'headstrong ! but he's as straight and well made
and as nice a child as you'd see anywhere, and says
pretty things to you, and has ways about him like Sir
Charles ; and I hope I may live to see him a admiral,
for he'd become his uniform just like his fine old
grandpa. But as to her, I am that disgusted with
her I'd walk straight out of the house, and leave her
without a soul to look after her, if it was not for that
blessed boy ! Why, we might as well be camping out
amongst the Need Indians for any establishment
we've got. Just cook and that 'ere girl cook gets in,
that's more bother than use. The Captain sent away
James and Sarah, for he meant Mrs Crofton to live
with Sir Charles while he was away, and I am sure
she's not fit to take up any respectable man's character.
I'm that disgusted with her I can't keep my temper
at times. It's a good rousing she wants."

I grieve to say Maria had quite lost all respect and

kindly feeling for her mistress. I do not blame the
woman. It was Nellie's own fault that she had done
so, but this did not make the fact less sad, only infinitely
sadder.

No one on earth wants the kind care and watchfulness
of love so much as she who is enslaved, as poor
Nellie was, by the most terrible of sins. Yet that sin
is the one of all sins which most surely brings friendless
isolation, because of its own hatred for all those
who through love would restrain its fatal craving.

It had been Nellie's overwhelming, passionate desire
to be left alone with her sin.

She had sent away Miss Smith, who had served her
with great love, and who, though not a servant, had
virtually become one in order to watch over her, because
she felt her to be a restraint. Maria, on the
contrary, cared so little for her mistress that she
contented herself with despising and disliking her,
but did not try to control her in the least. She did
what Nellie wished  she left her alone with her sin.
But it was an awful tragedy that, at a time like this,
poor Nellie should thus be alone. The tragedies of
our own making are not the least, but the most terrible
there are on earth. Unfortunately, too, Maria was
quite an ignorant woman, and of that nature which is
slow to understand, and does not easily learn. She
was inexperienced as well. Perhaps, if she had had
a little more experience, she might have been frightened
about Mrs Crofton.

While the maid was thinking with hard disgust and
VOL. in. K

contempt of her mistress, poor Nellie, in the room
below, was trying to resist the terrible desire she never
had resisted of her own accord before. She could not
sleep without that which soothed to rest the nerves
which were now all pain and starting, trembling life.
Resistance was horrible suffering. There is no pain
on earth so maddening as that one.

Several times, when her husband was at home, she
had taken chloral at night ; and she had done so at
Hardsmouth, because Mr Edwardes jealously kept all
keys in his own possession. But since her return to
Pont Street she had taken something else to make her
sleep, and so had no chloral in her bedroom now.

But she did not want to sleep. Her strength to
bear the agony of resistance to her desire  it was
agony  came from the thought which kept irritating
her excited brain. " I must remember where Charlie
is, for they are calling out that battle. I must be
awake and listen. They may call his name next time.
They are coming nearer, nearer, nearer, nearer ! I will
not take that thing and go to sleep. I must remember
! I must remember ! "

As the night hours dragged on the fever of her brain
increased : and though still the recollection of where
Charlie was remained a blank, one memory grew as
vivid in her mind as if no cloud had ever dulled her
vision of the past.

Disgrace ! disgrace ! Seen by everyone ! Public
disgrace in the open street ! The Admiral said so.
He did say those cruel, cruel words. But I have not

brought disgrace upon Charlie and his father and my
child ! I have not done this thing 1 " But no clear
consciousness this was not so reassured her awful
dread. Yet she strove hard to doubt. " I always
lock the door. I do not go out into the street. I always
lock the door, and no one knows. The door is
locked now." She walked to the door, and tried it.
Locked, quite locked ! No one could come in. No
one would know now if . . . if . . ."

With her doubt, terrible temptation came again.
But her hand was stayed, for the vivid memory flashed
back across her mind  she could not turn aside for
more than one short instant from it. " Disgrace ! he
said disgrace in the open street ! quite open ! where
everyone could see. I . I remember a little. I
remember that confectioner's  the . . . the first one
the second. And I remember a third one too ; and
. . and . . . and I remember no more. I did not
lock the door of that shop. There . . . there was no
door ! It is all true ! All true ! " But she did not
weep. Her fevered anguish had no tears : it was too
full of terror. She had been speaking loud  so loud
Maria in the room above had heard the sound of her
voice. But now she whispered to herself in awful
fear, " Does . . . does Charlie know ? Where was
Charlie then ? Was he far away ? was . . . was he
near ? Could he see me in the street ? Did Charlie seeme
in the street ? " She buried her face in her hands,
as if she could see Charlie watching her in the street.
The fancied sight and the thought of him would have

driven her there and then insane. Only the crier's
voice that nicest had so startled her shattered nerves,
that she could not long cease from hearing the battle
cried out under her windows. She imagined that she
heard it now, and jumped up as if she heard it for the
first time, and the change of thought brought sudden
relief to the tension of her brain.

Towards morning, when real sounds awoke again allover
the big city, every noise she heard became to her
that voice of the crier, crying out the battle. At last
the cry would not cease a moment in her mind. It killed
all other memories, and gave her back her doubt. It
was to still that cry  the news of the battle, in which
it might be her husband had died!  that at last she
yielded to the desire of her agonised nerves. Then
sleep fell upon her, and the crier's voice ceased.

But Nellie awoke to consciousness and not to dead
apathy next day. Even in yielding to temptation at
the last she had not yielded fully. She was more
alive in mind than if she had resisted quite. She had
taken enough stimulant to clear her brain, but neither
so little nor so much as to deaden it. And the fever
too of the night was still on her. It gave her strength.
She got up in the morning, and, to the surprise of
Maria, came down-stairs comparatively early.

There was a letter for her. It was that one poor
Charlie, on hearing Colonel Mackenzie's horrible
story, had written to her in anguish and shame
such as may perhaps be found in hell, but are not
often felt by living men on earth. And in this

letter he had said : " Remember if I should die that
I shall have died without forgiving you, because you
have brought disgrace upon my father. Remember,
for you can remember when you like, that I shall
die without forgiveness, and almost with hatred for you
in my heart, where once there was immeasurable love.
I might perhaps have forgiven you your own disgrace,
unspeakably horrible as it is to me, but I cannot forgive
the vile dishonour, the infamous shame, you have
by your own act brought upon my father in his old age."

The former letter which Charlie had written to his
wife, on leaving Sheerness, had never been read by her.
It had come one day when she was so overpowered by
mental lethargy, so lost in oblivious apathy, that having
instinctively put it aside to read when she should
feel up to the mental effort, she had forgotten it quite,
just as if she had never received it. It still lay
unopened in a drawer. But she was now in a very
different frame of mind. She was awake. There are
terrible awakenings in this world, but none more
fraught with fear and awful doubt and presentiment
of crime and unknown horror than the awakening
from that drugged sleep of soul and mind which
had so long enthralled poor Nellie.

She eagerly, without a moment's hesitation, broke
open her husband's letter. She read it. And she
understood it.

It was at that terrible moment Nellie again heard
a man crying out news in the street. She stood

quite absolutely still and listened. The voice was
calling out, " List of the killed and wounded."

As marble which has no heart, no mind to feel,
Nellie, with the letter lying open at her feet, stood
coldly unmoved.

Some minutes afterwards, Maria found her standing
thus motionless. The maid had brought in a newspaper.
But Mrs Crofton did not stir. She did not
even raise her hand to take the paper. Puzzled astonishment
at first silenced Maria.

At last Nellie spoke. " Show me his name," she
said ; but still stood motionless.

Oh Lor' ! ma'am'' broke forth Maria, now withholding
the paper. " They often make mistakes, and
get the wrong name, and perhaps . . . perhaps the
Captain is not killed at all, ma'am."

Show me his name," repeated Nellie. Maria
obeyed. The widowed woman looked at the name
coldly and calmly for a full minute before she raised
her hand to take the paper. She then walked deliberately
across the room and sat down quietly in a chair.
She betrayed no emotion. It angered Maria to see
her so calm. " She's like a flint, she is," thought
the maid.

Her mistress motioned her away. As the maid
was leaving the room, Nellie suddenly said excitedly,
with the only feeling of any sort she had yet shown,
Keep the child away from me ! Keep him away ! "

These words increased Maria's wrathful disgust.

Some three hours passed, and Maria did not so

much as even think it necessary to look in once
upon her mistress. She would have left her still
longer alone, had she not been strongly convinced
that, whether a widow feels or does not feel her
husband's death, she ought all the same most decidedly
to have her meals up-stairs, and sit in a room
with the blinds pulled down. Maria had pulled down
the blinds in every room of the house, except in the
drawing-room where Mrs Crofton was. She meant to
take up a luncheon-tray and pull down the drawing-room
blinds at the same time.

When at length the maid entered the drawing-room,
carrying the tray, she found Mrs Crofton sitting in the
same chair, in the same position, just as she had left
her. It was as if Nellie had never moved for all
those long hours. She held the newspaper and an
open letter in her hand, and was staring at these
fixedly. She seemed to be muttering words to herself,
for her lips were moving. She did not look up when
Maria came in. She did not even appear to notice she
was there.

Maria put down the tray on a table close by Mrs
Crofton's chair. " Am I to decant a second bottle
of sherry, ma'am ? " she said, almost brutally.

Nellie awakened to her presence with a cry and
start. She drew back from her, with a look of terror.
Take it away, away, quite away ! " she said, trembling,
and drawing farther and farther back at each word.

Maria raised the tray, but left the decanter of wine
and a glass upon the table. Nellie put out her hand

as if to push the wine aside. Then she drew back her
hand; and sitting quite upright, with wide-open eyes,
watched Maria leave the room ; listened, and heard her
shut the door ; listened, and heard her go down-stairs 
was sure she had gone down. Then she bent towards
the table ; raised the decanter with a slinking hand,  so
shaking a one that she had to put the bottle down and
steady it on the table before she could pour out the
wine. She poured it out. She took the wine-glass in
both hands, so that one hand might help to steady
the other. She carried the glass to her lips,  then
stopped, and suddenly dashed it from her. She rose
up, and, flinging down the decanter, broke it into
atoms on the floor.

Oh, Charlie ! " she screamed, " I have not drunk
it ! I have not ! " For she saw her husband standing
there before her, some three yards off. " Why did
you come all bloody," she cried out, " to see me drink
and hate me, when I have repented ? I have repented,
Charlie ! I have repented of my sin. Go away !
away ! away ! " and she now screamed again so loudly,
that Maria heard her down-stairs and rushed up.

She found her mistress cowering down in a chair,
with her hands clasped over her eyes.

At Maria's loud exclamation, Nellie uncovered her
eyes, and stared a moment vacantly ; then memory
returned into her look. " He is o-one ! " she said.
Maria's amazed countenance seemed to alter her
thoughts, for she exclaimed quickly  " It was a mistake
! a mistake ! There was no one here, Maria, no

one !  only . . . "  a change came over her face, and
she pointed under a chair  " only that long worm,
Maria ; there 1 there !  take it away, take it away !
Its crawling teases me, for it goes on crawling, crawling,
crawling ! It never stops, and it teases me, it
teases me ! " she said irritably, and got np quickly.
Of a sudden she went forward, and put her hand on
the speechless Maria's arm, and whispered mysteriously
into her ear  " I will tell you a secret, Maria ; the
worm has come from his grave ! He is dead  he is
bloody, for he was killed. They called out the battle
in which he was killed, to tell me he was bloody and
dead. I heard them calling," she whispered ; " no
one heard them but me. You did not hear them,
Maria, because . . . "  her voice sank still lower 
because the voices were worms, and they crawled in
my ear."

Mrs Crofton had spilt the sherry on her dress. The
smell of strong wine pervaded the whole room. Maria
had but one idea  it was a very natural one under
the circumstances, especially in an inexperienced,
ignorant woman. With a motion of angry disgust,
she pushed her mistress roughly from her, and vehemently
spoke out her mind. It was really all that
was best in the woman which was roused to indigo



nation.

It is horrible, and turns me all giddy and sick,
ma'am, to see you like this when you are a widow
new made, and your child is fatherless, and likely
enough poor Sir Charles, too, lying dead with grief,

for it has wanted but little to kill him since you
shamed him to the world and broke his heart, as you
had broken the poor Captain's before  for any one
could see as looked the poor Captain in the face,
he'd a broken heart like a curse on him, and would
die by the first shot  and well for you, ma'am, it was
not by his own hand he died, through mad grieving
for your shameful ways, because shameful they are !
They'd be shameful ways in a poor, fallen, starving,
wretched woman on the street, though maybe she'd
have many an excuse, and you've never had one,
ma'am  only every comfort about you, and everybody
loving you, and breaking their heart over you,
and you a byword and a disgrace to them all ! And
Mr Long and Mr James, and every butler you've had,
ashamed to let in visitors of an afternoon; and Mr
Jones at the Admiralty a-saying to me ten times a
day you was a disgrace to Sir Charles, and a-telling
me I should take you away or stop your drinking, 
for it is a drunkard you are, ma'am." She called
out coarsely, " It is a drunkard you are, though you
don't believe it, and it is repentance and the help of
God you're in want of. But there is no God for you !
no God in heaven for you, ma'am, or you'd have repented
long ago, and never have brought shame on
the Hadmiral, or broken the poor Captain's heart. And
you'd repent now, if you was a woman with a natural
heart and soul. But you're a drunkard ! " she repeated
with gross violence ; " you're a drunkard ! and that's
a brute beast 1 "

During the whole of this hard coarse speech, so
roughly spoken, poor Nellie had never stirred, but,
with bent head and clasped hands, stood coldly as a
statue of shame whom insult has no power to move.
Her icy dumbness was a curious surprise to Maria.
During the nine months she had been in Mrs Crofton's
service, the maid had found her mistress touchy and
tyrannical, uncertain of temper, very prone to take
offence, and the more ignominious her state, the more
tenacious had she been of submissive respect.

Maria stood amazed  overcome by the intensity of
her astonishment. Then suddenly an idea she had
never had before came into her head. " She's a tyrant
if you let her rule, and a coward if you rule her,"
thought the maid. " Lor' ! I do believe now she's
afraid of a loud voice, and feels a firm hand. I'll try
if I can't get the whip-hand of her. Better do it
now, before she burns down the house at night over
our heads."

Maria went close up to Mrs Crofton, and said to
her peremptorily, " You've had enough wine, ma'am,
to-day, and I'm not a-going to let you 'ave any more,
so just give me the keys. You always 'ave 'em in
your pocket  you 'ave, ma'am, you know you 'ave."

iSTellie slowly raised her head. Staring at Maria,
she drew back from her as if in great fear. Her lips
moved twice before they spoke intelligibly  " Xo, no
I haven't them," she said.

You 'ave, ma'am ! " exclaimed the servant indignantly
; " and if you won't give them to me, I'll just

take 'em from you. It's no good telling stories to me,
ma'am ; I don't believe you."

Poor Nellie trembled all over. Her eyes opened
widely ; her mouth opened too. She slowly moved
her hand ; she put it into her pocket, and took out a
small bunch of keys. With that look of abject fear
still staring in her face, she gave the keys to Maria,
saying in a shaking, hollow voice, " You . . . you know
I am a liar ! " And she drew back still farther and
farther from her. " You know all, all, Maria ! " she
cried, " though I locked the door always, even when it
was dark night."

But you weren't behind a locked door," gibed the
maid, " when you brought disgrace in broad daylight
on Sir Charles, and on the poor Captain, who is
dead ! "

Dead ? " repeated Nellie, trembling violently.
And I had disgraced him in the open street ! It is
true ! it is true ! He knew it ! " Then suddenly she
fell upon her knees at her servant's feet, and cowering
in agonised shame before her, cried out, " But I have
repented, Maria ; I have repented of my sin ! "

There was a certain sense of emboldened triumph
for the maid,  of anger, and contempt, and vengeance
righteously satisfied at last, in this abject humiliation
of her mistress at her feet.

The finer human nature differs in nothing so much
from the coarser one as in its quick mercy for the
crushed and debased.

Maria was a ojood enough sort of woman in her

own way  not unnaturally bard, and it was the best
part of ber which had been and was still roused ; but
there are good people in all ranks of life who can be
very cruel. Maria knew that she herself had never
felt tempted to her ruin by the failing which had
Drought scandalous shame upon her mistress. Those
conscious of their own goodness so often have a very
keen satisfaction in making sinners feel their sin to
the utmost. They love to punish. It is the first instinct
of their heart,  for pity and mercy never come
to the coarser nature quite at first.

So Maria said bitterly, gibing, almost as if she
enjoyed the degradation of the once haughty lady at
her feet, " And much good your repentance will do
the poor Captain now ! much good, indeed ! It 'ud
been a deal better for you to have repented before you
disgraced them as cared for you, by reeling in the
public street ! I've no patience with you, ma'am,
bringing disgrace on people first, and repenting when
it is a deal too late ! For much good your repentance
will do the poor Captain, now he's dead ! "

Dead ! " said poor Nellie once again, and bent low
her head, and said no more.

Maria went away and left her on her knees,
mourning thus in silence, like still despair, for the
dead to whom lier repentance could now bring no
good or joy.

Repentance in this world too often is but a mourner
in a graveyard. Its sorrow, its shame, its anguish of
remorse, are unknown to the cold, cold dead! An

awful silence meets its grief, for it has come too
late!

Lord ! have mercy upon those who feel, in
mourning for the dead, that repentance has come to
them too late.

CHAPTER XVI.

Poor Nellie neither ate nor drank that whole clay
long.

Towards evening her still despair  for hours it had
continued immovably still  gave place to a kind of
low-muttering dream of horror and of woe. Her look
was dream-like ; no tear was in her absent, far-fixed
eye, but only a vision, now ever abiding to her sight,
of the dead man with blood upon his head and hand,
staring at her always to see she did not drink, and
hating her, not pitying her, for the agony of the
terrible, unsatisfied desire which craved within her.

So wrapt in the fascination of the awful vision was
she, that when, towards eight o'clock in the evening,
Maria came into the room and spoke to her, she gave
no answer, nor even turned round her head as if she
had heard a voice. The servant imagined this was
merely because her mistress had felt insulted by the
strong language she had used towards her, and accordingly
showed her anger by refusing either to look at
her or speak to her again. She thought, too, that
Nellie's muttering lips were moving in prayer. She

was glad of this ; and considering it right Mrs Crofton
should say her prayers quite undisturbed, she quietly
left her alone. She had put little Charlie to bed half
an hour before, so with a tranquil mind she went
down-stairs to take her supper with the cook.

Now little Charlie had only pretended to be asleep,
for fear Maria should scold him if she knew he was
awake. He was far too excited by the dread mystery
of the strange day just passed to fall easily asleep.
It had been a day of great and fearful mystery and
of curiosity that was intense to him. The darkened
house had awed his imagination, and Maria had cried
over him several times ; and the cook had cried when
he went into the kitchen, and had given him brown
sugar; and Maria, when she was crying, had given
him jam, and had told him his great tall father, whom
he remembered very distinctly, had been killed by a
black soldier in battle. He had asked if the sword
which had killed his father had had blood on it ? and
Maria had screamed at the question in a way which
had startled him horribly, so he had not liked to ask
about the sword or the blood on it any more ; but he
had thought a great deal about the sword, and bad felt
sure it was because his father had been killed by a
black man with a sword which had blood on it, that
the blinds were pulled down, and the whole house was
so terrifying and dark. He was very glad when the
candles were lighted at last, for he felt brave enough
then to speak aloud. It was after the candles and
the gas were well lighted that curiosity grew to be the

Strongest feeling in his mind, and really became unbearable,
for he had heard the cook remark to Maria
that his mother would now wear weeds. " What sort
of weeds ? " he had asked. In reply, he had been
sharply told little boys must not ask silly questions ;
but that had only increased his very natural curiosity,
and soon he had quite settled in his own mind it was
thistles, very long thistles, his mother would wear, and
no doubt, if he could but see her, was wearing now.
Captain Hervey's children had taken him to see a
small field near their house, which was full of very
tall thistles.

Little Charlie's intense desire to see his mother
dressed in thistles, overpowered every fear and every
other thought and feeling in him. So when he was
sure his nurse had gone down to her supper in the
kitchen, he got out of bed and crept down-stairs in his
night shirt, barefooted, just merely to peep into the
drawing-room and get one glimpse of the dress all
made of thistles. He was certain he could do so
unobserved, for he never felt as if his mother took
much notice of him.

The little fellow did peep into the room without
being heard or seen ; but when he caught sight of his
mother dressed exactly the same as usual, he was so
surprised by disappointment, that he forgot he was a
naughty little boy running about in his night-shirt, and
exclaimed out loud, " Why, you have no kind of weeds
on at all, mamma ! cook told a fib ! " Then instantly
he was terrified at the consequences of his own act.

VOL. in. L

His mother bad sprung to her feet with a loud
scream. She had stared at him madly ; then had
looked round as if she thought some one else was in
the room, and had muttered some words he could not
clearly hear to the person he could not see, and then
had pointed her finger as if to something she saw
upon his own head. She was coming very quickly
towards him when he had fled, banging the door
behind him.

The words not understood by the child, which Nellie
had muttered to the person he could not see, were
these, " You see my sin upon his head. The sins of
the parents are upon the children. You want me to
kill him when I kill myself."

From the moment her child's voice had suddenly
startled Nellie, the vision before her fixed eyes
changed. The same man paled by death, with bloody
head and hand, was still there, but her child was there
too, and the awful eyes were staring now at him as if
they saw her own sin like a red stain upon his young
head. There was another change too in that dream,
which was no dream to her, but a vivid reality  it
had life in it and moved. The man and the child
would come with a crawling motion towards her, and
come nearer and nearer when she stood still. But if
she moved herself, they would stop the horrid crawling
which irritated her so much, and move at her own
pace, going slowly if she went slowly, and keeping atone
unvarying distance from her. So she began slowly
to pace up and down the room.

When little Charlie appeared suddenly in the
kitchen, Maria and the cook were whispering together
of the horrible way in which black men invariably kill
their enemies, and of the dreadful death they were
sure the unhappy Captain had died ; and so the poor
child was greeted by startling screams as loud as the
scream which had terrified him up-stairs. He himself
was seized, through sheer terror, with a fit of crying
and screaming. When he sobbed out to the maids
that he had been screamed at by his mother in the
drawing-room, they thought it the most natural thing
possible, and both of them cried out, " Law ! Master
Charles ! she took you for a little prowling ghost in
your white night-dress, and you just frightened her to
death as you've frightened us."

It was near twelve o'clock that night before poor
little Charlie was in a sleep deep enough for Maria to
dare to leave him in the nursery a few moments alone-mrs
Crofton had then gone up-stairs. She was in
her bedroom, but not in bed, or even undressed. She
was walking slowly up and down the room.

AVhen Maria went in and bestowed her to undress
and go to bed, she stopped in her walk. Her lips
ceased moving. For a moment she looked coldly at
Maria, then walked on. But again this offended
silence seemed natural to the maid. So she did not
feel in the least frightened by it, for there was no
apparent excitement, only sad dull lassitude in poor
Nellie's weary walk. And her lips, which now moved
again, moved Maria once more thought in prayer.

Nellie was still sane enough to say no word aloud
which should betray to Maria that the vision whose
steps kept time with hers had now a voice ; for Nellie
was only repeating perpetually to herself what the man
with red blood upon his head and hand kept on saying
continually to her.

Though she had managed by a great effort to seem
quiet during the few short minutes Maria had stood
watching her, she had secretly hated to be watched.
It agitated her, because she feared by accident to speak
aloud, and could not keep her lips from that constant
repetition of the words she never ceased for an instant
to hear.

When Maria came down some two hours later in
the night to see if her mistress slept, Nellie had locked
her door. She had locked it, for the vision would no
longer whisper to her, but spoke aloud ; and she feared
Maria would hear that voice if she let her come into
the room.

The maid thought Mrs Crofton had locked the door,
as she had done scores of times before, " because though
she pretended to give me all the keys, no doubt there
is one key she has kept back."

In the chill grey hour of early dawn, which is like
a shudder of the new day first awaking to some
heavy grief that had been soothed by the stillness of
night  in that cold hour when death so often comes
to dying men, and when fever will go mad and turn
to crime, Maria heard a bell ringing. It was the bell
of Mrs Crofton's room.

She ran quickly down-stairs, and found Nellie standing
on the landing in the dim twilight, still dressed.
She had her hand on the door of her bedroom, as if
anxious to keep it safely shut. She started on seeing
Maria. She trembled greatly. She seemed unable
to utter for a moment, as if too much frightened
to speak. When she did speak, her voice was strange.
Hush ! " she whispered, looking terrified ; " you must
not awaken the child."

He is in too deep a sleep, ma'am," said Maria, " to
hear almost any noise."

Deep sleep ! " repeated Nellie, musingly, and became
silent.

Why did you ring, ma'am, at this hour of the
morning ? " at length asked Maria sharply, breaking
the silence.

Nellie started. Then staring at Maria, as if some
horrid fear had seized her again, she said in a whisper,
Go, Maria, quickly ! quickly ! "

Where, ma'am ? "

I told you where," answered Mrs Crofton, irritably.

No, indeed, you didn't, ma'am ; you certainly didn't.
You've . . . you've been . . . dreaming." She had
nearly said another word. " But where am I to go,
ma'am ? " she repeated, with a loud sharpness which
seemed to startle and quite awake her mistress.

To the chemist's," said Nellie, trembling again.
Get me some chloral, and go quickly, quickly ! I
cannot wait till it is light." And, turning round, she
went back into her room, and shut and locked the door.

This was not the first time Maria had been sent out
in the early morning hours to buy her mistress chloral,
though she had not bought her any of late.

The maid dressed hastily, and the gloom of early
London daylight was still so dark when she went
down-stairs, that she did not notice, as she passed Mrs
Crofton's room, that the door which had been locked
was now ajar.

Nellie was listening behind that door, and she listened
till she heard Maria's footsteps reach the floor
below, and then go down and down into the hall.

When she heard them reach the tiled hall, she went
out upon the landing and listened there. She heard
Maria undoing the lock and chain of the door. Then
she heard the door shut. She listened a long minute
to be sure, quite sure, she heard nothing more. No
one moved in the house. Her bell had only awakened
Maria, for the cook slept down-stairs.

No one anywhere ! no one I " she said ; and slowly,
with cool deliberation, and no longer trembling, she
walked up the staircase which led to the nursery
above. She paused outside the door of the room
where her little son lay sleeping ; and again she listened
to the great stillness around her. " Asleep,"
she muttered, and slowly opened the door and went
into the room.

She had a knife in her hand.

Chapter XVII.

It is well for those who bear a heavy grief if they can
be very angry. The strong indignant anger which
Nellie, by her denial of the truth and her deadness to
repentance, had aroused in the Admiral's God-fearing
soul, gave him, after the first reaction of weakness
immediately following the violent agitation, a life and
a nervous power which saved him from the stroke the
doctor consulted by the flag-lieutenant had feared he
would get. " To-morrow," said the doctor to Mr Edwardes,
" you may tell him of the battle and of his
son's death. He will sleep well to-night."

And the Admiral slept profoundly in his bed at
Hardsmouth during the whole of that awful night
when madness came upon poor Nellie. No horrid
dream disturbed his rest in the cold hour of early
dawn, when his dead son's wife was prompted, by the
vision of her insane brain, to cut her child's throat
and her own.

With the news of the battle and of Captain Crof ton's
death, Mr Edwardes had also the news of the horrid
murder to tell the Admiral. A messenger had comedown

to Hardsmouth by the early train with a letter
to the flag-lieutenant from a doctor whom Maria had
called in the moment she discovered the murder.
Maria had told the doctor not to write to poor Sir
Charles.

The Admiral had awakened that morning to renewed
strength. He got up and came down to breakfast.
It was ten o'clock, and Edwardes was not down. This
astonished the Admiral, for he had never known his
flag-lieutenant to be late before.

He breakfasted alone, and asked for the morning
paper, which was not on the table as usual. The
papers of the last two days had been read aloud to
him ; but, as we know, Mr Edwardes had not read out
the only important news.

The Admiral had barely glanced over the paper
when he discovered there had been a battle and a
victory which had ended the war. " Edwardes never
told me of this." And instantly he understood his
silence and his absence.

A few minutes afterwards Mr Edwardes came into
the room. Sir Charles Crofton was leaning heavily
forward on the table. He did not look up ; he was
deadly still. The lieutenant went close to him,
and heard him breathe aloud the words, " Is he
wounded or dead ? " Edwardes bent down over him,
and clasped one of his hands. " Not wounded, sir,"
he said.

The Admiral did not move ; and for many minutes
so profound was his deep silence, that it seemed as if

he never more would speak  it might be, never more
would breathe again.

At length Edwardes said, " He was amongst the
first who fell. He never rose again. He was shot
dead through the heart."

Yet the Admiral neither spoke nor moved. His
grief was intensely still. And he sat on a long time
thus, quite speechless, in that one unchanged attitude,
leaning heavily forward, and with his head and eyes
bent down. Edwardes was silent too.

But at last the Admiral lifted his white head, so
long bowed down by overwhelming sorrow, as if by a
deadly blow. His first weakness seemed to be giving
place to returning strength. The colour came back
into his face. And then a look so full of life, the
life might have been joy, slowly lighted his whole
countenance.

And he rose up and stood at his full height ; and
looking upwards, like one of those martyrs who in
their tortured anguish gazed towards heaven with joy,
he said in a strong voice, " I am glad he is dead ! for
he has died before he could know of her public disgrace.
He has died without knowing it, Edwardes.
I am glad!"

But either because the strength to feel joy for his
son's death was not given to the aged man long, or else
because the vivid remembrance of Nellie's shame coming
to him at a moment like this one proved too much
for him, the Admiral, with the very words, " I am
glad ! " upon his lips, suddenly broke down quite, and

falling on Mr Eclwardes's neck as if Edwardes were
his son  his son still living and not dead  wept ashe
had not wept for a long lifetime.

No stone could have seemed more coldly unmoved
than Mr Edwardes. He appeared to have no human
feeling whatever, for the horror of that which he must
tell the Admiral now, immediately, had frozen him as
if to death. It was horrible almost beyond the power
of speech to say what he was bound to say, and should
say quickly. His voice was so hard, so hoarsely
strange, when at last he did speak, that it startled the
Admiral into sudden control of his grief.

It is well your son is dead," he said, " and I wish
to God you too were dead, sir ; for Mrs Crofton has
brought a fearful sorrow upon you  more terrible far
than her public disgrace ! "

Good God ! " cried the Admiral, and he staggered
backwards. Mr Edwardes only just saved
him from falling. He helped him into a chair.
The Admiral grasped his arm, saying  " Quickly I
quickly ! "

The words he should speak quickly choked poor
Edwardes; but at length he uttered them  "Mrs
Crofton has tried to kill herself and lier child ! "

For an instant Edwardes thought the Admiral had
fainted ; but soon the old man lifted his fallen eyelids,
and said, " The . . . the boy . . ." He raised himself
in his chair as if to breathe ; his eyes opened wide.
He stared at Edwardes's blanched face, and seemed to
read the murder there.

Murdered ! " lie cried, and fell back breathless.
And for some few moments he lay unconscious.

Edwardes thought he was dead. He prayed God
he might be dead, really dead. But the Admiral could
not die thus easily. Life came back to him, for there
was anguish more terrible than any he had yet known
on earth awaiting him now.

With revived consciousness he again leant forward,
and said, with returning breath, in a tone that was terrible
to hear because of the agony in it, " isTellie . . .
is dead ? Dead ? " he repeated. Then horror, as if it
had been youth and joy, gave him back his strength.
He stood strongly upright. " Oh, my God ! my God ! "
he cried, " she is not alive ! she is dead ! Tell me she
is dead ! Edwardes ! Edwardes ! " he implored, " say
she is dead ! "

But silence met his agony. Mr Edwardes could
not tell him she was dead.

CHAPTER Xvii.

Though young Lord Eastcourt was Clara's son, he did
not in the least realise, or indeed so much as even
perceive, there are designing women of the world to
be met in the world. As I have said before, he had
inherited a good deal of Thomas's simplicity of character;
and most of his ideas  certainly all his ideas
about society and the people he met there  were
completely managed for him by his remarkably clever
mother.

Before his younger brother Tom went out to Manitoba,
he had said to Clara more than once, " I don't
know how it is, mother, but Tom never seems quite
to hit it off with the ladies, certainly not with the
dowagers. The Down are awfully civil and hospitable
to me. They are never half as civil to Tom."

And Clara had each time answered very prettily,
How very, very curious, Kockhurst 1 But I fear that
poor dear warm-hearted Tom "  Tom was not really a
favourite, and that is why he was sent to Manitoba
" poor dear warm-hearted Tom must be just, just a
little wanting in tact."

It was extremely rare ever to hear Clara say a
word which would lead you to imagine she herself
even suspected the existence in the world of designing-women
of the world. On the contrary, when at her
own table, or out in society, remarks were made in
her presence showing that other people believed such
ladies were occasionally to be met with. Lady East-court
would droop her eyelids, and say, or rather sigh,
Ah dear ! ah dear ! " She did this with a pretty
sort of tender incredulity, as if sadly surprised and
really grieved to find anybody could think a worldly
designing woman might exist.

There was no intentional hypocrisy on Clara's part
when she thus sighed "Ah dear! ah dear!" instead
of agreeing out loud that worldly women do undoubtedly
exist. She sighed " Ah dear ! " by instinct,
just as it is by instinct she praises in society those
whom she most dislikes.

Now Lady Harch ester was curiously different from
Lady Eastcourt ; and whereas it was quite possible for
Clara's children not even to know there is such a
thing in the world as intriguing worldliness, to have
lived in the house with Lady Barchester was in itself
a liberal education in the ways of worldly people.
The Countess is warmly, in fact at times imprudently,
outspoken. But Clara is never imprudent, never !
except when she is too prudent. Once or twice in her
life, it is true, she has tried through excessive prudence
to make her accidents appear just a little more natural
than it is quite possible for those sort of accidents to

seem. But each time her genius has afterwards felt
it had dared too much, and carried extreme prudence
too far.

Since early youth, Lord Marleigh, from living under
the same roof as his mother, had known quite well
there are plenty of worldly women in the world, so
a worldly woman was no monstrosity to him, but quite
a natural bit of creation. For years he had known his
mother's real opinion of Lady Eastcourt. It is true
that the more intimate he became with Clara, the less
worldly he thought her himself  indeed latterly she
had not seemed to him a worldly woman at all ; on
the contrary, her unworldliness had piqued him considerably,
for she had certainly been encouraging the
attentions quite a penniless impudent young fellow
was paying Miss Sylvia.

Yet supposing that Lord Marleigh had discovered
Lady Eastcourt to be a perfect woman of the world, it
would have been no shock to him.

But it was a very great shock to the single-minded
Eockhurst when Clara, as if she were initiating him
into some sort of terrible sacred mystery, only just
penetrated with horror for the first time in her life by
herself, whispered to him in perfect, perfect confidence
that there is such a person in the world as a worldly
woman, and . . . oh ! how dreadful ! a worldly woman
who is a designing matchmaker too ! and that this
one designing matchmaker  this one, one worldly
woman in the whole world, was most undoubtedly . . .
Lady Barchester ! ! How sorry, how very, very sorry

Clara was to feel it her duty to tell Eockliurst this !
but it was her bounden duty to warn him that Lady
Barchester was . ah dear ! ah dear ! how shocking
! . . . was bent upon catching him for Lady
Cornelia.

Now, my dear Rockhurst, my dear Rockhurst,"
said Clara, "tell me nothing ! for I know 'your feelings
towards Cornelia better, far better than you do yourself.
I know you think her exactly what she is  a
not unamiable, but extremely uninteresting, plain girl ;
quite unattractive in every way, and so little clever
that she would be completely under her mother's
thumb for life, and say the very words her mother says,
and even think what her mother thinks ; and if Lady
Barchester did contrive to make up this match for you
and catch you unawares, you would find you had
married a worldly managing mother-in-law as well asa
plain uninteresting wife."

It was because Clara had latterly thought Lord
Eastcourt did not consider Lady Cornelia quite uninteresting
or quite plain that she laid so much stress
on this particular point.

Rockhurst was accustomed, and Clara knew it, to
take his opinion, even of people's good looks, from her.
Yet it did seem now as if he were going to speak and
dare to differ from her ; but she silenced him before
he had recovered from his first surprise and confusion,
and in next to no time all Lady Barchester's manoeuvres
to catch a man of title and fortune were laid
so clearly, and in mere honesty I must add so truthfully,

before him, that his mind was opened, and he
was completely convinced. We must remember, it is
true that Lady Barchester really is a perfect woman
of the world, and a celebrated matchmaker.

With the insight of genius, Clara had seized exactly
the right moment for speaking to her son. She had
not waited till he was really in love, as he soon would
have been, with Lady Cornelia, but had taken him
aback before he was absolutely certain whether Cornelia
was plain or almost nice-looking, though even
now it surprised him his mother should be so very
sure she was uninteresting. But when it was forcibly
put before him by Clara that no man should permit
any one but himself to arrange his own marriage for
him, and that of all a man's actions in life marriage
is the most solemn and important, because of the
irremediable unhappiness it may bring you for your
lifetime, he readily agreed with his mother. She also
explained to him that before a man thought of
marrying, he ought to be absolutely sure in his mind
that he is really and truly  " And oh, Eockhurst ! "
cried Clara, " I had almost said the word madly,  yes !
I do say it, madly  in love with the lady he means to
make his wife. You know, my dear Eockhurst, there
is no one, however poor, provided she were a lady,
whom I would not advise you to marry if I were
quite, quite sure of two things  firstly, that you were
acting entirely of your own free will and accord, without
any pressure whatever of any sort or kind having
been put upon you ; and secondly, that love  deep,

strong, unmistakable, passionate love  was your one,
one motive. Ah ! my dear Eockhurst ! my dear Eock-
hurst ! you do not yet know, you have not so much as
even distantly perceived, what real love is 1 the love
which can alone make marriage the sacred happiness
it ever should be ! So now, Eockhurst, though you
are not in the slightest, the very slightest, degree entangled
as yet in Lady Harch ester's deeply laid net,
whether you like it or not you may find yourself
awkwardly entangled in it before long. So take my
advice and go for a short little trip out to Manitoba,
just to see dear Tom. Tom weill be so very, very
delighted to see you ! and you will go a free man,
my dear Eockhurst, and you'll come back a free man ;
and being then quite, quite unblessed, you can makeup
your own mind for yourself, completely and entirely
by yourself. My only wish, Eockhurst, is that
your own mind should be made up solely by yourself."

I think I was not wrong in saying that the management
of Eockhurst was one of Clara's fine arts.

Without any fuss, or saying any ridiculous good-byes
to anybody  for good-byes are not in the least
necessary when you are only going to Manitoba for a
little trip of six weeks or two months  Lord Eastcourt
went off to America. Clara herself saw him safely
on board at Liverpool. He did not go alone, for his
mother had provided him with a travelling companion
out of the front rank of her second line of reserves 
the reserves that were awaiting the younger girls.
This extremely young gentleman was rather a foolish

VOL. in. M

young fellow, and Clara was taking great care of him
just then.

There are people who may think it strange Lady
Eastcourt did not wish her son to marry the Earl of
Barchester's daughter, especially as she thought Eock-
hurst was beginning really to like Lady Cornelia.
But it was not to Lord Barchester's daughter Clara
objected, it was to Lady Barchester's.

Metternich was determined, with that firm determination
so peculiarly her own, that Lady Barchester
should not be managing mother-in-law to her eldest
son ; indeed she had made up her mind Eockhurst
should never have a managing mother-in-law at all.
She intended to manage him herself, and his wife too,
until she entered her ninety-ninth year. The disease
which so rapidly killed her mother and grandmother
is not to kill her. There never was anybody, certainly
never any angel, who had as little intention of dying
as Clara, and some of the elaboration with which she
arranges her accidents is due to the feeling that she is
arranging them for the next sixty years.

Now the American heiress is most suitably circumstanced.
She is an orphan, and seems to have only
one rather remotely attached relation, supposed to bea
chaperon, but who remains entirely in the background,
and Clara feels she can twist this subservient
old aunt round her finger, and even keep her in
America at will. The other reason why Lady East-court
has settled to marry her son to the American
heiress is because Miss Van Stump has 15,000 a-

year. It is to look after this 15,000 a-year that
the young lady has gone back for a short time to
America. Clara most kindly sent her own man of
business out with her, and this gentleman has duly
reported to Lady Eastcourt that the 15,000 a-
year really does exist.

When Thomas in very nicely chosen language gave
his wife by will absolute power over his estate and
fortune, and, just with the exception of a wretched
small pittance each, left every one of his children at
her mercy, Clara fully intended to be generous to her
eldest son, although she is not generous by nature. I
never yet knew a cold woman dio was.

But Clara did not immediately begin to be generous
to Eockhurst  she waited till he should have married
according to her wishes, and in the meantime kept a
tight hand over the purse-strings. At first she had
settled in her mind to allow him and the title 5000
a-year. Lady Eastcourt considered that she herself
had got the title for the family, and so she had
a strong feeling it ought not to be penniless. But
time for consideration so often chills the impulse to
give, and Clara had latterly thought 3000 a-year
enough, in fact 2000 would be enough, if young
Lord Eastcourt married 15,000 a-year. "Miss Van
Stump won't be particular about settlements," thought
Clara, " for she will consider Rockhurst's title a fortune
in itself." And then quite, quite at first she had added
to her conscience  "The other 3000 a-year will be
acceptable to the younger children."

I do not suppose even a miser does a mean action
without saying some little thing to himself which
makes it seem just at first less mean than it is. But
Clara is not a miser. It is not the actual, visible
money, it is the power of the money she likes.

She will never give her younger children that
3000 a-year, nor will she ever make "poor dear
warm-hearted Tom," or any of them, a good allowance
; but she will give them sums of money from
time to time, and they will feel her power to give
or to withhold. It may be, so strange is human
nature, that they will be more grateful to her than
if she bound herself regularly to give them allowances
and kept but little money for her own amusement and
use. She tells herself this  she thinks it ; and her
talent no one can deny. Long ago  before Thomas
made that nicely worded will  she told herself her
children would never thank her if she allowed their
father to leave them comfortably independent of her
kindness and power.

It is doubtful whether Lord Eastcourt will ever get
as far as Manitoba, for Miss Van Stump will meet him
on the quay at New York. Clara has written to hera
letter which she will receive four days before Rock-hurst's
steamer is due.

Lady Eastcourt wrote another letter also, and very
charmingly in her rose-coloured ink : it was to her
dear Lady Barchester, to tell her that Rockhurst had
started off to America quite, quite unexpectedly, and
quite, quite suddenly  but only just merely to pay a

little flying visit to poor dear Tom, " who is so lonely
out in Manitoba, and does so long to get even one little
glimpse of some of us ! "

But Lady Harch ester does not in the least believe
in poor dear lonely Tom or Manitoba. She believes
in New York and Miss Van Stump, for Lord Eastcourt
had once innocently made a remark to Lady Cornelia
about American heiresses and Miss Van Stump, which
had been rightly interpreted by Lady Cornelia's
mother. The only difficulty Clara ever has in her
otherwise curiously easy fine art of managing Eock-
hurst, is in preventing him from letting little cats,
whose existence he is unaware of, out of small bags
he has not the eyesight to see. But Clara always
had this same difficulty with his excellent father.

Lady Barchester understands perfectly who it was
packed Lord Eastcourt " quite, quite unexpectedly and
quite, quite suddenly off to America " ; and she knows
the exact reason of Clara Eastcourt's determination to
place the Atlantic Ocean between Eockhurst and Cornelia.


Twenty-four hours before Lady Barchester received
Clara's affectionate and prettily worded letter, Lord
Marleigh had left Barchester House for Scotland,
where Clara and Sylvia now were. Clara invariably
calculates the postal delivery to a nicety, and leaves
a safe margin of time for accidents not her own.

Lady Barchester knows why her son has gone to
Scotland, and she has said to herself, " Clara East-court
has gained the day  I am nowhere."

Much as Lady Barchester is against this match,
and sincerely convinced as she is that Sylvia will not
be the right sort of mother for her son to give his little
girl, and also intensely as she hates, and I think rightly
hates, the idea of havens Clara as managing mother-in-law
for life to the Barchester title, family, and
estates, she has honourably refrained from all untruthful
or even unfair depreciation of Sylvia Xewsham to
her son.

But Lady Barchester would be glad beyond ordinary
gladness to have some really good reason to give
openly against this match  some reason so good, that
her husband would be convinced by it, and her son
made to hesitate before it is too late.

CHAPTEK XIX.

A COLD unimaginative heart can give, even to those
who have the strongest mind and clearest memory, a
power to forget which would seem strange in a half-wit.
And, as we know, Clara had forgotten Eleanour.
This deadness to all anxious remembrance of her, and
of her tragic sin, is hard to believe in. Yet the forgetfulness
is a fact.

When Clara received that letter written to her,
as if with the life-blood of his heart, by the poor
Admiral, she was very angry indeed. Much of her
anger was just. The story of Eleanour 's public
disgrace in the street at Hardsmouth was not one
to which she could be callous, and the strongest feelings
in her nature were excited by it to wrath ; for
she could keenly feel all the shame and the social
ignominy of a degradation, the publicity of which
would make it to a great degree her own. But with
this first feeling that Eleanour's public shame might
have to be borne at least in part by her, there came
the strong determination to disown her and cast her
off for ever. Clara was incensed against the Admiral,

and thought him an arrant fool for having accepted
Eleanour's disgrace as his own. " If he had just
quietly walked past her in the street and taken no
notice of her, the police would have locked her up,
and then he might have sent some one secretly to
bring her home from the police-station. His name
need not even have appeared in the matter, and the
whole thing could then easily have been hushed up.
But the Admiral never had, and never will have, a
single grain of common-sense. As to this resignation
of his, it is idiocy itself ! I am out of all patience
with him."

We must acknowledge Clara was to a great extent
right. It would have been wiser for the Admiral to
have passed poor Nellie on the street, as if she had
been a stranger,  far wiser for himself, and indeed for
her, if he had ignored her in her shame. Metternich's
true instinct of worldly wisdom is not often wrong.

The more Clara thought over the Admiral's conduct
the more angry did she become, and the less excuse
could she make for him. " I have no patience with
him," she repeated. " The idea of his never noticing all
these years that Eleanour was in the habit of taking
too much wine, but waiting to discover it until he
actually sees her in that shameful state in the street !
It is perfectly clear the shock was so unexpected that it
sent him then and there off his head. And he will be
off his head for the rest of his life ! Now that he has
made the extraordinary discovery that Eleanour undoubtedly
takes too much wine, he will be perpetually

thinking she is on the immediate verge of delirium
tremens. I can see he is alarmed already, and it is
quite clear he thinks I will certainly start off by that
two o'clock express from Perth, and be in Pont Street tomorrow
morning. But I shall do nothing of the kind."

It is only fair to Clara to say she would not have
been quite as angry as she was with the Admiral, if his
letter had but come at a less inconvenient moment.
Most people resent being reminded of wdiat they like
to forget, but to be reminded at the time of all others
you wish to be left quietly untroubled, is an aggravation
of the offence. Sir Charles Crofton's letter came
exactly twelve hours before Lord Marleigh's expected
arrival. Clara was determined not to telegraph and
put off his lordship till she knew for certain he had
started.

Had Lady Eastcourt left for London, as the Admiral
implored her to do, immediately she got his letter, she
would have arrived in Pont Street on the morning
following the night when Nellie heard the news of the
battle of Tel-el-Kebir called out in the street. Clara
would have been with her daughter when the unhappy
creature first heard of her husband's death. She would
have been in time to save her from the murder of
her child, for Lady Eastcourt was not an ignorant
woman like Maria  lie would have understood the
madness of poor Nellie's state, and known the imminent
danger there is for a brain accustomed to much
stimulant if that stimulant is too suddenly stopped.

Whilst awaiting Lord Marleigh's arrival, Clara began

to write the extremely nice letter which, angry as she
was, she yet meant to compose quite prettily for the
Admiral. But never in her life had she tried to write
so difficult a one. Any correspondence she had hitherto
had with her dear Admiral had been conducted entirely
by her Ideal Mother. Now, what Clara meant
to say to Sir Charles Crofton very nicely, but at the
same time clearly and firmly, was singularly unsuited
to the spontaneous gush, the intensity of maternal interest
and maternal love, characteristic of that ingenuous
Ideal Mother.

I wonder," thought Clara, " if it is really necessary
to write to that troublesome Admiral at all ? Our
Scotch posts do sometimes miscarry, and nobody knows
I ever got this letter but just I myself. I always unlock
the post-bag with my own hand."

But Metternich could not instantly come to a
definite decision ; so she settled to think a little longer
over the possibility of never having received the
Admiral's letter, before she made up her mind she
need not answer it because she had not got it. Yet
it would be a mistake to think real indecision is possible
to Clara. The undecided in her mind is only
the decided searching for a plausible excuse.

However, of a sudden, the Admiral's letter was sent
out of her head, for she got a great fright, and immediately
her whole intellect was occupied with anxious
and ingenious conjecture on quite a new subject.
Lord Marleigh had not arrived at the expected time !
During twelve long hours, Clara's mind teemed with

fertile invention of plots, plans, and schemes of a
variety that was almost miraculous. Metternich
ascribed his lordship's non-appearance to a series of
the most surprising ingenious intrigues it were possible
to conceive on Lady Barchester's part  that is, possible
for Clara's own genius to conceive ! because there is a

o

point beyond which the imagination of any ordinary
arranger of unforeseen accidents would not, could not,
go. Clara passed over that boundary. The imagination
of her mind is powerful indeed.

But at last this brilliant mental career of inexhaustible
invention was brought to an abrupt close by
the appearance of Lord Marleigh himself. And it was
only a railway accident  no accident of Lady Har-chester's
! but just simply one train running quite
naturally into another, as trains so often do  which had
delayed him twelve hours. He was not hurt. The
only man killed, he said, was a post-office clerk, for
the mail-van had been smashed up, and half the letters
destroyed by steam and water from the engine. When
Lady Eastcourt heard Lord Marleigh say this, her mind
instantaneously reverted to the Admiral's letter, and
she decided then and there it should be lost in the
railway accident. Though perfectly aware the accident
had come a day too late, she foresaw that a
woman as charming as herself could easily get over a
little discrepancy of that sort, and persuade the dear
Admiral his letter must have been mislaid in the sorting
for the earlier post.

While Clara's rapid mind was thus satisfactorily

losing the Admiral's letter in the railway accident,
Lord Marleigh was speaking to her again. " By the
by, Lady Eastcourt, I have brought you out a telegram.
A fellow ran after the dog-cart, as we were
driving off from the station, and gave it to me. And
I am awfully glad I have remembered it, for I have
one of the worst memories going."

Clara always had so many arrangements of every
sort and description on hand, that telegrams were a
second nature to her ; she did not suspect them like
letters. At this moment she was expecting a telegram
from Madame Celeste in London, about a new dress
of Sylvia's.

The telegram is about your gown, Sylvia," said
Clara ; " so open it and write your answer immediately,
and it can go by the post-boy now. Pray excuse
me. Lord Marleigh; but I must just run away for
one half-second myself, to see an important letter of
mine is not forgotten."

Clara always had some very important letter it was
advisable she should put in the post-bag herself. But
before Lady Eastcourt could cross the room, a penetrating
scream from Sylvia stopped her short.

Lord Marleigh had rushed to Sylvia, and was looking
at the telegram she was holding up to him. Sylvia
was white with horror, and she screamed out to her
mother : " Charlie Crofton is killed, and Nellie has
gone out of her mind, and has tried to kill herself and
little Charlie ! The telegram is from the maid Maria.
She wants you to start instantly."

Chapter XX.

Clara insisted upon travelling up to London from
Scotland alone. Her determination to go alone was
absolute, immovable. She refused even to take a
maid with her. She wanted no witness of the horrible
reality some instinct within her had divined.
From the moment Sylvia had screamed aloud the
words of the telegram, Clara had had a presentiment
of the awful truth untold. Like the panic of a terror
we are sure is real, the idea that her daughter would
be living and the child have died, had seized upon her
mind. In all her life she had never known a thought
so moving as this one  Eleanour living to be tried for
murder ! It throbbed like passion in her mind, and
it made that cold heart of hers beat as if it too could
feel the horror and the anger of her mind. Clara's
anger was ever accustomed to quick satisfaction.
Such wrath, when confronted with its own powerlessness,
is a passion whose intensity can be terrible
indeed.

Yet Lady Eastcourt betrayed no trembling emotion ;
the awful dread which seemed a certainty, kept silence

within lier. Her rage, when it is really rage and
blanches one degree paler the still whiteness of her
cheek, is always speechless. And speechless it was
now.

neither Sylvia nor Lord Marleigh could prevail
upon her to waver for an instant in her fixed determination
to go up to London alone. But so strong of
nerve was she, so clear of mind, remembering even
that letter of importance, and giving detailed instructions
to the German governess to act as chaperon to
Sylvia and Lord Marleigh in her absence, and herself
making all necessary arrangements for her journey  in
short, so calmly self-possessed did she appear, in lookin
voice, and manner, that Lord Marleigh and Sylvia
felt no uneasiness in quietly acquiescing in her unalterable
determination.

Strong as Sylvia is, her nerves were much shaken
by the shock of the dreadful news, although no suspicion
of anything more horrible than what was actually
in the telegram had crossed her mind  nor had it
crossed Lord Marleigh's. Clara, who would have kept
the contents of the telegram to herself if she had been
the first to read it, and would have gone to London on
some excuse other than the real reason, perceived this
absence of suspicion on Lord Marleigh's part, and was
glad. It may seem strange that at such a moment,
and with so great a terror on her mind. Lady Eastcourt
could notice a small matter of this sort, and be able to
be glad about it. But even in an hour like this. Lord
]harleigh's state of mind was not a small matter to

Clara. Besides, her powerful faculties were cleared to
keenest perception of every thing and person about her,
and not dulled by the intensity of her fear and anger.

Her mind was acutely, painfully awake, and it saw
with a vividness that was awful. In sorrow or great
fear it is terrible to have a seeing mind.
Before starting from Perth, Clara herself telegraphed
to Maria : " Are they both alive ? " The expected
answer awaited her at Edinburgh. When it was
handed to her, she took it without apparent emotion,
for so intensely sure was her certainty that she had
no hope. She knew what she would read there, and
when she did read the expected words, there was no
surprise or novelty in them to shock or thrill. " Mrs
Crofton lives ; the child is dead." She noticed this
telegram came from a doctor, whose name was unknown
to her, and not from Maria.

This man," thought Clara, " will be like an ever-present
jailer, who watches the murderer awaiting
trial."

Eleanour tried for the murder of her child ! It was
this Clara saw with such awful vividness. Her whole
mind saw it, and in every hideous detail. The details
were hideous to Clara, and she beheld herself covered
publicly with reproach and degraded with loathsome
shame as the mother of a murderess, and . . . and
drunkard ; for the true ignoble reason of her daughter's
horrid crime would then be proclaimed to the world 
it would be the defence, the explanation of Eleanour's
vile madness.

Clara saw her own position with appalling clearness
just as Lady Barchester would see it  and her
pride was stung to frenzy like her powerless rage.
She felt herself defeated in worldly ambition  checkmated
in social success  disgraced ; and . by
whom ? By the daughter she had determined to castoff
for ever.

But your children are like your sins : you cannot
cast them off from you easily with a light heart into
dark forgetfulness ; for they will surely come back to
you disgraced from the devil, to stand in judgment on
you before the world. Clara felt this now. And suddenly
her mind was illumined, and saw it would
have been more worldly wise to have anxiously remembered
Eleanour, and Eleanour's tiresome, unprofitable
vice, during the five long years of Charlie's
absence abroad, than to have troubled so much about
plots and plans which were checkmated now, in the
very hour of success, by this oversight, this great mistake
of callous, forgetful carelessness. Lady Eastcourt
saw clearly it had been a great mistake, and a stupid
one too  one unworthy of the talent, the penetration,
and the worldly foresight she prided herself upon.

Clara has but rarely in the course of her life acknowledged
even to herself she was or could be in the wrong.
I have known people who grew to be quite old, and
who yet apparently had never in their long life sincerely
believed they were in the wrong : they had only
believed in the prejudice of others. But though they
looked clever, they were not so. A woman, however

conceited, with a mind like Clara's, knows when she
has made a real mistake. It is only the half-clever
who cannot be in the wrong.

But it galled Lady Eastcourt beyond endurance to
know she had been fatally in the wrong. This knowledge
brought no remorse : it only increased that dangerous
intense anger, which was like some living thing
within her whose throbbing life stirred still more
her seeing mind. The vivid eyes of that mind again
saw horrors.

And yet in the foreseen public tragedy of Eleanour's
vile vice and crime, and awful trial for the murder of
her child, it was the insufferable defeat and shame all
this would bring upon her own self which most moved
Clara. There was deex3 passion here for her,  passion
intolerable by reason of its impotence fierce with
strong desire. And the desires of Clara's silent pitiless
wrath were accustomed to quick satisfaction.

But never once did she think of what her daughter
might suffer when the madness of delirium tremens
should have passed away like a nightmare, and she
should have come back to her senses to find she had
long been a drunkard, and was now the murderess of
her child ! Of the horror of her crime, of the shame
of her vile vice proclaimed aloud, of the abject terror
a wretchedly weak woman like poor Nellie would feel
before the law when she found herself a criminal
guilty to death, of her unavailing remorse,  of all
that agony of soul Clara never thought.

The vivid eyes which saw with such terrible .
in. N

ness in her mind, had glanced more than once already
on an appalling possibility. Clara had shuddered at
it ; for it was the possibility of her being left quite
alone with Eleanour. " But that doctor, who will belike
a spy in the house, will never leave me alone
with her. I need not fear. I never shall be alone
with Eleanour." And yet as she said these very
words to herself, the possibility, like an entrancing
horror right before her, would enthral the vision of
her daring mind, and be as terribly real as that anger
which was a breathing, living thing within her. Her
fascinated mind would suddenly teem, in the wonderful
way natural to it, with fertile invention. Clara would
see herself  she could not help seeing herself  alone
with Eleanour ; and many ways of quietly letting the
dying die for want of help, if the wound should bleed
again, in sleep perhaps, or it might be merely by the
loose binding of some bandage, would vividly be seen
by her. She would cease to shudder then, and feel as
if the great, the passionately craved deliverance could
be brought about without guilt of crime.

Chapter XXL

The thought which did not come to Lady Eastcourt
the vision of the agony of soul awaiting Nellie, with
a felon's trial and death, if she should outlive her
madness  was the supreme anguish in the poor
Admiral's broken heart. All other sorrow, like all
anger, was lost in the immensity of his grief for her
and for her terrible ghastly position.

Yet her crime as a crime, apart from all its tragic
consequences, was infinitely more awful to this God-fearing
man than to Clara  just as the sin which had
led to the crime was horrible as a sin to him.

Mr Edwardes, carried away by a love of the
Admiral that was like the love of a son, and through
anxiety to spare him suffering which would be as
the death-agony of the old man, had implored him not
to go immediately to Mrs Crofton, and into the house
where the child he had loved lay dead.

At mention of the murdered child the poor grandfather
had shuddered, and had betrayed a moment's
hesitation  yet only a moment's ; for his answer was
" No, Edwardes, no ! I will go. She was my poor

boy's wife, and he is dead. He is not here to have
pity and mercy on her now."

And he went. A short hour after he received the
awful news, he had the strength to go, for all faintness
and weakness seemed to have passed away. The
physical power, the strong courage, the revived heart,
which are so often divinely given to men and women
in the great and solemn and the terrible hours of life,
where given to the Admiral then, and he was strong
once more,  so strong he travelled up to town alone.
It happened to be impossible for both the Admiral
and flag-lieutenant to leave Hardsmouth suddenly,
without permission or notice, that day. Though Sir
Charles's successor had been appointed, he was not
to take up the command till the end of the week.

Mr Edwardes was very loath to let the Admiral go
alone, especially as he could not persuade him to take
a servant with him. " My servants are strangers," the
Admiral said ; " I have not known them six weeks.
I could not take a stranger to Nellie's house at a time
like this. But I shall not be alone there. Lady East-court
will be awaiting me."

When Mr Edwardes heard this, he was almost content
to let Sir Charles go alone.

But the Admiral was mistaken ; he arrived in Pont
Street some sixteen or seventeen hours before Clara.
When he came to the door of the house and rano- no
one answered the bell. He rang again ; and again
there was no answer. It seemed as if the whole
household lay dead.

There are feelings which will take strong possession
of us, in defiance of our reason, like the false
hope of a dying man. " It may be," thought the
Admiral, "that ISTellie is dead too." And the unanswered
bell, the stillness which reigned inside those
drawn-down blinds, like the stillness of the grave,
was an emotion so powerful to the Admiral, that he
had to steady himself against the pillared porch, for
the great stillness felt to him like hope.

It was some moments before he had courage to
ring again. But the bell did not awaken the silence,
and so, with less fear, he rang a fourth time and a fifth.
And then the door was opened by a terror-stricken
young girl of fifteen  a kitchen scrub he had never
seen before. " Mrs Crofton is dead ? " said the Admiral
to her almost fiercely, breathing hard.

Mrs Crofton ? No, sir ! not Mrs Crofton, sir ! "
gasped the frightened girl. " It's poor Master Charlie
that's dead, and they don't know for certain as Mrs
Crofton will die at all, for the blood-vessel she cut is
all o' one side of her throat, and won't kill her, if it
does not begin bleeding again, and that's why the
inquest is waiting to be held. I beg pardon, sir !
I'm very sorry, sir," said the trembling young maid,
with increasing fear, mistaking the sickened hope and
horror in the Admiral's face for anger. " I beg pardon,
I beg pardon, sir ! I would have opened the door
at the first ring, but I thought as 'ow you was the
undertaker's man come to put poor Master Charlie
in his little coffin." And the girl burst into tears.

The Admiral stepped back in horror. " Good God !
good God ! " he groaned, and vividly remembered how
he had last crossed that threshold led by the hand of
the child whose little coffin it had been thought he
was now come to bring.

If you are Sir Charles Crofton, as Maria says was
such a kind grandfather to poor Master Charlie,"
sobbed the girl, with her head half buried in her
apron ; " if you are Sir Charles, you'd like to see the
dear child now, for Mrs James, th cook, sir, as is gone
away  she covered up his wound with real lace off a
little frock he wore when he was a baby, and she laid
him out beautiful in the small boudoir off the stairs
behind the drawing-room, for she said as 'ow she'd doit
through love of Master Charlie afore she went away,
but after that she wouldn't stay an hour longer in the
house nor go near Mrs Crofton, because she said to see
a murderer is oftentimes a curse ! But you'd like to
see poor Master Charlie, sir," she sobbed ; " you'd like to
see him, and best now before they put him in his coffin."

Hush ! " said the Admiral ; and there was that in
his voice which gave the girl a solemn thrill of awe ;
and ceasing to sob, she raised her head.

The old man's hands had fallen, and his head had
fallen too, and his eyes were bent down, and he stood
before her with a countenance white as the murdered
child's, the thought of whose wound, and of whose
loved young face, which might be disturbed with the
last terror still, was a cold agony to his soul, like the
cold sweat of death.

And yet the Admiral had often seen dead men who
had died a violent death. Never had he been a
coward before death till now.

For some moments he stood speechless and still.
Then slowly getting back the power to move, with
bowed down head he walked forward. " I will so
to Mrs Crofton," he said ; " show me to the room
where she lies."

But at this the young maid fell down upon her
knees in the hall, and trembling with great terror,
implored Sir Charles, for God's sake, not to ask her
to go up-stairs.

I'd die if I caught sight of her,  I'd die, sir !
and though they have moved her down from the
nursery, where she killed poor Master Charlie, her
own room, where she is, lies under the other, and
it might be the blood has soaked down from above,
and I'd see it on the ceiling. I'm not wanted upstairs,
I'm not wanted, sir ! for Maria is there, and
the doctor is only just gone out, and will be back
again soon. So don't ask me to go up-stairs, sir !
don't ask me, don't ask me, for God's sake ! for
I've never been farther nor the drawing-room floor,
and only once there with Mrs James holding me, just
to see poor Master Charlie lying dead in the little
room."

With that instinctive consideration for the feelings
of others which made for him friends in every rank of
life, even in this moment of awful grief and horrid
tension of feeling, the Admiral was courteous and

humane. He spoke with compassion to the poor
terrified girl. And he went up alone.

The maid lingered a few instants in the hall, and
listened to hear if Sir Charles would go into the room
where the dead child was. She heard his footsteps
stop outside the door. It was a full minute before
she heard them again, going on heavily and very slowly
up-stairs. But no door had opened,  the Admiral
had not entered that room.

Although Nellie was alive, and had trembled from
time to time as if with great fear, and had muttered
often, she had not said a single word which showed
she knew what she had done. She had lain all
the loft morning hours  and it was now afternoon

O o

seemingly in great weakness, with closed eyes,
not moving except when the trembling fit came on
her, and twice when she had raised her hand, and with
more strength than the doctor or Maria had imagined
her to have, had felt as if with curious touch the bandage
which was tightly bound round her neck. But
she had asked no question.

When the Admiral's knock was heard at her door
she did not open her eyes or start in any way, or even
stir. She very likely thought the doctor had come
back again and knocked.

But at Maria's loud exclamation she quickly raised
her eyelids, then stared with wide-open eyes at the
tall bent figure in the doorway, and at the wan face
where pale anguish, as if it had been coming death,

was written. Clear remembrance, like strong madness,
seemed to seize upon her then, and she raised herself
up with sudden strength and cried out, " Charlie knew
of my disgrace, and he died hating me ! and you
know now I have killed the child, and you too hate
me so that you have come to take me to jail, where
they will hang me. Keep away !  away ! I will
die now ! " And she tore the bandage from her
neck  then fainted in her blood.

CHAPTER XXII.

Ox arriving in town, Lady Eastcoiirt drove to a hotel
and left her luooaae there. She did not 'o to her
own house in Grosvenor Place, because she feared the
gossip of the servants who were in it. She dismissed
her cab in Sloane Street. An overpowering instinct
made her desire to arrive quite alone at her daughter's
house.

She walked down Pont Street with a firm step,
though in reality the emotion she felt thrilled her whole
being as emotion had never done in her life before.
It was the possibility which had entranced her seeing
mind, the opportunity fraught alike with terror and
with daring, maddening hope, to which she might becoming
very near, that moved her inmost soul. Still
her nerve was admirable. Her cheek was not more
than a shade paler than usual. Her strongly marked
chin was firmly set, and her resolute mouth was
tightly closed. There was great courage in her look,
and great life, as if the natural keenness of every
faculty were intensified.

And yet there was fear, like strong passion, in

Clara's soul : fear of herself ; fear of the opportunity,
which might be so nearly in her grasp, fear of its
great temptation to perilous daring, its intensity of
danger; but again, with all this fear, there was the
deep, the overwhelming desire to hold the awful
opportunity like a slave in her power. As she
walked on, she thought how loud would be the
sound of the bell she would have to ring in a short
moment now. She seemed to hear that bell rousing
the whole house. " The strange doctor will hear it,"
she thought. " That spy, who will never leave me
alone with Eleanour, will hear the bell."

But when she came to her daughter's house she
found the hall-door open. She stopped, and she stood
still in sudden terror. It was as if the certainty of
the terrible opportunity faced her. For an instant
the thought came to her to turn and fly.

But she mastered her first impulse. Yet she could
not immediately walk on again, so powerful was her
emotion. She had come to a jail, and she found the
locks and bars undone ! There is no emotion stronger
than that of finding the first difficulty in an enterprise
your maddest daring has conceived, suddenly gone,
absolutely of no existence before you, because this will
feel to you, even if the impediment had been a small
one, like the presentiment of your certain success.
It was this sure presentiment meeting her on the
threshold of her daughter's house which took Clara
aback and made her stand still.

And yet the circumstance which so strongly moved

Lacey Eastcourt, and would have moved you or me had
we a mind filled with the same thought as Clara's, was
quite a trivial one  the door was merely open because
the young kitchen-maid, miserable in her terror without
active work to do, was mopping the hall and had
been mopping the doorsteps.

At sight of the girl, Clara recovered possession of
herself. She walked into the house; then had the
rapid presence of mind to turn and close the door
behind her gently,  so gently it made no noise.

I am Lady Eastcourt," said Clara to the girl, speaking
in a low but steady voice. " I am Mrs Crofton's
mother."

And they'd almost given you up, my lady," replied
the girl, also speaking low ; " that is, the doctor had
given you up, my lady, and he said as 'ow you'd not
come till evening, as you wasn't here an hour ago."

He does not expect me now," thought Clara, and
again the presentiment was an intense emotion to her.
But her manner was apparently unmoved, and in that
quiet low voice of hers she calmly cross-questioned
the young maid, gathering from her exactly the information
about her daughter's state, and about the
whole household, which she wanted.

Lady Eastcourt discovered that Maria had broken
down completely, and had got hysterics during the
past night, and that she was now sleeping below in
the departed cook's room, under the influence of a
draught given her by the doctor. Clara found there
was no strange nurse as yet in the house,  " because,"

the young kitchen-maid explained, " Maria said Sir
Charles had prevented the doctor from getting a nurse
till your ladyship arrived. Maria said Sir Charles
said you'd be sure and bring your own maid with you,
my lady, and that Maria and your ladyship's maid,
and your ladyship, would attend on Mrs Crofton, and
so there would be no need to be C'ettinsj a strange
woman into the house. Maria said as 'ow Sir Charles
couldn't bear the idea of a strange woman being about
Mrs Crofton."

Then," said Clara, very quietly, " there is no one
with Mrs Crofton now but the doctor and the
Admiral ? "

Xot Sir Charles, my lady  not Sir Charles," whispered
the girl. " Mrs Crofton near killed herself at
sight of him, and the doctor won't let him stay in the
room with her, so he sits by himself in the drawing-room
alone. It's there your ladyship will find him,
and your ladyship will find the doctor in Mrs Crofton's
room above."

That man will be with Eleanour," thought Clara.
She hesitated. The momentary hesitation passed : she
walked firmly on.

When she had gone up the first step of the stairs
she turned round, and asked, with more emotion than
she had yet shown, " Where have they laid the dead
child ? " But before she got an answer, she added 
and there was a sound almost like pity in her voice 
Not in the room where the Admiral is ? "

The girl told her where poor Master Charlie lay ;

but having been frightened by the effect of her former
words on Sir Charles, did not press or even ask Lady
Eastconrt to go in and see the dead boy. She only
said, with fast-gathering tears, " They have put him in
his little coffin now."

I will go in and see the child," said Clara. " I
will go in there now."

At this, dire panic seemed to seize the nervous
young maid ; it was the terror of being asked to go
too. She had a horror of seeing the child in his coffin.
She snatched up her pail and mop, and in a moment
she had fled down-stairs.

Clara watched her run away ; then she walked on
up-stairs. .

Had Lady Eastcourt meant to go first into the room
where the murdered boy was ? Had she meant to do
this really, or not ? She stopped outside the door
where the dead child's poor grandfather had stopped
before.

But as she stood there, it may have been with hesitation
in her mind, she heard her own name spoken by
a voice which was strange to her ear. " That man has
come down from Eleanour's room," she thought. She
listened. The Admiral's well-known voice answered
that other one. Both voices came from the drawings



room close by. The door of the drawing-room was
not quite shut.

Again Lady Eastcourt's name was mentioned. The
doctor (it only could be he) was urging Sir Charles tolet
him get a nurse for Mrs Crofton. " Lady Eastcourt

must have broken her journey at Edinburgh, and will
not be here until evening, and that unfortunate maid's
nerves are entirely shattered."

Let me go to Nellie and watch over her with you
till Lady Eastcourt comes," pleaded the Admiral.
Nellie is unconscious still ; she will not know me.
Why should a stranger be brought in to hear her last
words, if she should speak again, and to see her die ? "

There was silence. Clara stepped backward, and
stretched out her hand as if to open the door of the
chamber of death. But no one came out upon the
landing'.

And the silence in the drawing-room was broken
again. Clara heard these words spoken : " Sir Charles,
I told you yesterday, when Mrs Crofton tore the bandage
from her wound, that she would die. I thought
so then ; but I find now the bleeding was stanched
in time. The wound will not be fatal unless the
bandage is loosened and it bleeds again. When she
awakes, as she will some few hours hence, from this
deep sleep, she . . . she will live."

There was a groan and a heavy thud upon the floor,
and the strange voice said, " Good Lord ! he has fainted
like a child ! "

Clara heard a window quickly thrown open in the
drawing-room. The opening of the window shut the
door.

She waited a moment, standing very still. " Unless
the bandage is loosened," she repeated to herself.
The possibility she had foreseen was an actual reality

within her grasp. " That man cannot leave the
Admiral now," she rapidly thought. " He must
stay with him some time."

And with a strong step she went quickly up the
carpeted stairs.

Four minutes afterwards she came down again.
The drawing-room door was still fast shut, and there
was a noise inside as of chairs being moved. Lady
Eastcourt passed by, and went on into the room where
the dead child lay.

Clara will never know how lomb: was the time she
spent in there. She gazed at the pale boy in his coffin
without tremor, without sorrow, seemingly without
knowing that he was dead. She was past all feeling
but one. One terror was upon her  only one.

Clara at last heard a noise. She heard footsteps
she knew were not the Admiral's coming down the
stairs from her daughter's room. They passed the
drawing - room. She took a sudden resolve. She
opened the door. She met the doctor face to face.

Short of stature, but with an air of height, and
with strong courage in her eyes and in her firmly
closed mouth and on her countenance, which was as
marble sternly set, and with her head thrown back.
Lady Eastcourt, like pale defiant Death unmoved by
its own secret terror, stood in the doorway of the
room where the murdered boy lay in his coffin.

The doctor started back.

I have seen the dead child," said Lady Eastcoiirt,
coldly, ' but where is my daughter ? I know she still
lives, and I must see her,"

God forbid ! " cried the doctor. " The sight is
horrible. Mrs Crofton lies dead in her blood. She
must have half awakened to some remembrance in her
sleep, and she has loosened the bandage round her
neck. She has had the strength to do it once again
as she did yesterday, and she is dead, quite dead."

Dead ! " repeated Clara's bloodless lips.

You must not see her, Lady Eastcourt ; it can dono
good," said the doctor. " It is enough, too much,
for you to have seen the murdered child."

Clara recovered herself. " I have the courage to go
and see her," she said. And she firmly led the way
up-stairs.

But when she came to the threshold of her daughter's
room, although she had never swooned in her life,
Lady Eastcourt's strong heart ceased to beat, and she
swooned there.

VOL. in.

CHAPTER XXIII.

The inquest was held that afternoon, in the same
house where the mother and child had died.

Clara had recovered her consciousness, but not her
nerve. She left the house before the coroner and
jury arrived. She was not wanted at the inquest.
What evidence had she to give ? She had been no
witness of the child's murder, and it was known she
had not seen her daughter alive, nor had she looked
upon her dead. She had not been able to bring herself
to look at her lying dead.

But before Lady Eastcourt went away, she saw the
Admiral. It was her own wish to see him. Yet,
when she came into his presence, she  even she whose
heart is hard  would fain have been spared the sight
of the broken-down, the altered, the strangely aged
man, grown suddenly, since she had seen him last,
quite old with grief.

As the awful rigidity of death fixes the tearless
eyes, and draws into solemn stillness the smiling,
speaking lips, so had the sorrow which was fast killing
the Admiral changed into set immobility his

features and his eyes, never stern till then. Deadly
grief seemed to have frozen all feeling like all warmth
in him, as if by the same icy coldness that had
blanched into a corpse-like pallor the once bright
colour of his cheek.

Nellie was dead. But the great relief of her death,
the sudden cessation of the violent tension of heart
and brain, had chilled and weakened, not strengthened,
the waning life of the Admiral.

He rose up slowly and feebly to meet Lady East-court
when she entered the room where he sat alone
with his grief. But though he seemed feeble, and
his tall figure, once so jauntily erect, was bent down,
there was no trembling weakness, no emotion whatever,
in the solemn, the stern stillness of his silence
and deathly look.

No sorrow in another ever had moved Clara like
this tearless, icy one. And it was strangely unnatural
in a warm-hearted genial man like the Admiral.

The thought had come to Clara  " He knows I got
his letter. He thinks I might have saved my daughter
from her crime, and the child from his horrid
death." And yet she stood in silence. She made no
excuse ; she told no lie.

She took the Admiral's bloodless hand in hers. It
chilled her own.

The heart-broken, deathlike look of the man who
had borne grief unspeakable, and, above all, infamous
shame for her daughter, was a pain  this is true 
it was a pain to Clara. She had borne no public

shame as yet for lier own child ; but there was that
within her still which could be moved by any sort
of courage, as by a kind of daring in another.

Her own nerve had been shaken for ever that day ;
there had been terror in her soul, and the cold blood
in her veins had been moved to a warmer life ; the
act she had been driven to commit had, in the very
intensity of its awful emotion, made her more human
than it was her wont to be. So, cold as is her heart,
it smote her then.

Still holding the frigid hand that chilled her own,
she gazed with real human sorrow at the poor Admiral
; and suddenly she said, " Is there anything I
can do to help or comfort you ? "

But he was unmoved, and except a sad slow shake
of his bowed head, which seemed to say, " There is
nothing now," gave no sign of hearing or of life.

After a full minute of deep silence, Clara spoke
again. " I am grieved for your son's death. I
would, with all my soul, he had been spared to

you."

Then the Admiral seemed to understand and feel.
He withdrew his hand, and turned slowly away from
Lady Eastcourt, and she heard him say, "He lived
too long. He knew of her public disgrace. She
said that he knew of it."

And the old man sank down into his chair, as if
again he wished to be left alone with his grief.

Clara took one long last look at him, like a last
farewell; and once more she felt sore pain.

For life she will remember and see the Admiral as
she saw him then. She would now fain not have
seen him that last time, for this remembrance will not
die. She cannot kill it ; and it moves her almost as
if it were remorse. She hates to be moved thus
strongly against her will.

But there is another far more horrible remembrance,
whose awful vividness has destroyed Lady
Eastcourt's wonderful nerve ; and she hates this undying
memory with a passion of powerless hatred
the vision of her daughter's death lives before her
seeing mind.

However great was the terrible worldly selfishness
which made her callous for years to her daughter's
tragic vice, and to the misery it must surely bring on
others, Clara's punishment is as great as, if not greater
than, the cold cruelty of her selfishness. That she
who was so serenely far above all common hot-headed
temptation, so calmly possessed of her own supreme
cleverness, that such a one as she should ever have
been driven to do that which she had done, a sudden
act made necessary solely through her own fault, careless
neglect, is in itself alone, even without the horror
of the ever-present vision, suffering and humiliation
unutterable to this proud woman, intensely conscious
of her own far-sighted wisdom and brilliantly successful
genius.

Then what. What at the time had only seemed a
dangerously daring deliverance from intolerable defeat
and loud-voiced public shame, has felt to her, ever

since lier own hand gently  quite, quite gently 
loosened that bandage around her deeply sleeping
daughter's neck, like murder. Clara tells herself the
great deliverance was not murder, but gentle mercy.
Yet she who has so often lied with magnificent success
to others, lies now in vain to her own soul.

CHAPTER XXIV.

The coroner's verdict was one of murder and suicide
during temporary insanity, and it was accompanied by
an expression of the jury's strong condemnation of the
practice of calling out sensational war news and the
lists of the killed and wounded in the streets. The
real cause of Mrs Crofton's madness was not made
public. Lady Barchester did not know the truth
until after Lord Marleigh had married Sylvia.

The double funeral took place at the Brompton
Cemetery very early the following morning. The
Admiral had said to the doctor, " Let it be then : my
strength may fail me before the day is far gone."

Mr Edwardes was still detained by pressing business
at Hardsmouth. Sir Charles refused to let him
be telegraphed for. " Edwardes will come to me the
first moment he can."

One hearse, in which the two coffins were placed,
one mourning-coach, one mourner, went on that grey
dull autumn morning to the cemetery, where the grave
had been dug overnight.

It was not want of feeling kept Lady Eastcourt

away from the funeral. For the first time in her
life she felt too much. This is a fact,  she felt too
much ! She also dreaded to lose her shaken nerve,
and it might be to swoon again at her daughter's grave,
and there to speak aloud in half consciousness words
which would betray a secret known to none.

In this great city, so crowded with people, the
chaplain of the cemetery had yet often buried the
solitary dead. But these lone friendless ones, forsaken
in death as they had been in life, were ever
laid in a pauper's grave.

The clergyman who read the burial-service now,
wondered much at this funeral of the mother and
child, to which only one mourner had come. For the
solitary mourner had a noble air. He was no common
man.

A little more strength than he had had the day
before was given to the Admiral. Tearless and unmoved,
he heard the service for the dead read in
the chapel, and he walked without help to the grave.

The appalling wilderness around of crowded dead
was deserted at this early hour, except by one wretched
woman from the cheerless street, who had followed,
with a child in her arms, the funeral through the open
gate. She stood a little distance off, spellbound, as it
were, by envy of the open grave, where misery may
at last lie still.

Except for this poor ragged woman and her babe,
and the grave diggers and undertaker's men, there was
solemn solitude in the awful cemetery.

The Admiral stood bareheaded at the grave. And
they lowered down poor Nellie.

They took up the child's coffin to bury it in the
same grave. The old man knelt down then. He
bowed his white head and covered his face with his
hands when they lowered the little coffin.

The service had been finished many minutes ; but
the one mourner still knelt at the grave.

At length the chaplain went up to him and said,
All is quite over now." Sir Charles Crofton slowly
rose, but in rising fell.

The clergyman raised him once more, and soon he
recovered a little strength. Leaning heavily on this
stranger's arm, and with a feeble, drasfginoj gait, the
Admiral at last turned from the grave, and went
slowly, very slowly, away.

There were two grave diggers, and they stayed
their spades and watched him go. One of them said,
The old man has not long to live." Then they both
bent down, and went on with the work of filling
in the grave.

